 CAP CENTER CORONA CENTER
SO UTH 0 10241 Commercial Avenue 1175 Central Avenue. 2
Chicago. IlEinois 50617 University Park. 60468

PARENTS FRI EN DS 773-734-2222 708235-0345

DEVELOPING 0PTIONS. CREATING OPPORTUNITIES 773-734-2850 7082350355

SCPF-INC. ORG

SSA 5 Regular Commission Meeting Minutes

March 22, 2018

PRESENT ABSENT
Dorothy Hudson Bonnie Dinell-Dimond
Alex Alemis

Angela Hurlock
Robert Loncar

SERVICE 
Tom Schell

Dave Price
Diane Abbott

Meeting was called to order at 2:15 pm.

1. Approval of Agenda

A motion to approve the agenda was made by Robert Loncar, seconded by Alex
Alemis. Motion carried.

2. Approval of the Minutes

The minutes of the February 28, 2018, meeting were reviewed. There being no
corrections or deletion to the minutes, a motion to approve the February 28, 2018,
meeting minutes was made by Alex Alemis, seconded by Robert Loncar. Motion
carried.

South Chicago Parents and Friends. Inc. is accredited by the Commission for Accreditation of Rehabilitation Facilities (CARF).

MINUTES OF A REGULARL MEETING
OF THE COMMISIONERS OF SSA 5 March 22, 2018

3. Financial Report

Financial Reports for the month ending February 28, 2018, were reviewed and
discussed. Mr. Schell reviewed the revenues and expenses for the month of
February. After further discussion regarding the Financial Reports, a motion to
accept the February Financial Reports was made by Alex Alemis, seconded by
Dorothy Hudson. Motion carried.

4. Cash Flow I Receivables

Mr. Schell provided the commissioners with a copy of the February, 2018 bank
reconciliation. After discussion, a motion to accept the February bank reconciliation
was made by Dorothy Hudson, seconded by Robert Loncar. Motion carried.

Mr. Schell reported that as of the date of the meeting, cash in the bank totaled
$235,743. Mr. Schell stated that $205,944 will be coming in the next two weeks (TIF
Rebate).

5. Items for Approval

Mr. Schell presented the February and March invoices for payment approval. After
a brief discussion regarding the invoices, a motion to approve the February and
March invoices was made by Dorothy Hudson, seconded by Robert Loncar. Motion
carried.

6. Program Manager Report

Mr. Price presented the Strategy Deployment Review using the SD Matrix SSA #5
handout. Mr. Price stated the goals were to increase occupancy with engaged
residents and increase security/decrease incidents within the SSA. According to the
matrix, the February incidents were 1.50 mainly due to the snow storm. This is a
significant decrease.

Mr. Price presented an update regarding the Facade Rebate Program. Mr. Price
stated that no business owners are interested yet but there are property owners
interested. Mr. Price said that once the applications are ready, he will review the
application and then have the applicant present at the SSA meeting for a vote. Mr.
Price stated that 2 businesses went through the Scale Up Program.

South Chicago Parents and Friends, Inc. is accredited by the Commission for Accreditation of Rehabilitation Facilities (CARF).

MINUTES OF A REGULAR MEETING
OF THE COMMISIONERS OF SSA 5 March 22, 2018

Mr. Price shared the SSA 5 Facebook page: Commercial Avenue
SSA@sweethomesouthchicago. Mr. Price projected the Facebook page for all to
view. Mr. Price also projected the work that has been completed thus far on the SSA
5 website. Mr. Price presented a proposal to have a drone video of the south
Chicago SSA 5, and some of the key locations featured. The commissioners
encouraged Mr. Price to complete this task.

Mr. Price informed that he has not received permission from any of the potential
locations for the Drive By Art. All the owners he was able to contact, declined to
have the art on their buildings. Mr. Price will approach the Family Dollar location to
see he if can gain permission to proceed with the Drive By Art project. The
commissioners agreed that without permission, the Drive By Art cannot be
accomplished.

Mr. Price proposed the development of working committees to ensure that some of
the objectives can be met. Mr. Price stated the Security Committee is already in
place and meeting in April to focus on gaining security cameras for the SSA 5
neighborhood. Mr. Price stated the other two committees needed are a Marketing
Committee and a Planning Development Committee. The commissioners stated
that they would prefer Mr. Price develop these committees, work within these
committees and then present any items needing approval to the commissioners.

Mr. Price presented ideas for tree planting along Commercial Avenue and/or
landscaping. Mr. Price discussed the Traffic Calming Bump Outs as another way to
help beautify the Commercial Avenue street. It was requested that Mr. Price try to
locate a map of where any remaining vaulted sidewalks are located in order to try to
have conformity in the planting and potential planters or Bump Outs.

7. Items for Discussion

Mr. Schell stated that (12) have been sent out to auditing firms in the month
of January. Mr. Schell stated that this audit will only cover a four month period of
time.

8. Adjournment

There being no additional business, a motion to adjourn the meeting at 4:05 pm.
was made by Alex Alemis, seconded by Dorothy Hudson. Motion carried.

Next Regular Scheduled Meeting April 26, 2018 at 2:00 pm.

South Chicago Parents and Friends, Inc. is accredited by the Commission for Accreditation of Rehabilitation Facilities (CARF).

South Chicago Parents and Friends. Inc. is accredited by the Commission for Accreditation of Rehabilitation Facilities (CARP).

