STATE

S T R E E T C O MM I S S I O N

State Street Commission Meeting
Tuesday, January 16, 2018
2:00 PM
ABC7
190 North State Street
10th Floor Conference Room
MINUTES
ATTENDANCE

I.

AFFILIATION

Commission Members Present
Commissioner Greg Cameron
Commissioner Mark Davids
Commissioner John Idler
Commissioner Ryan Segal
Commissioner Anne Voshel
Commissioner Jennifer Williams

Joffrey Ballet
AmTrust Corp.
ABC7
Acadia
AVA Consultants
Macy’s

Commission Members Absent
Commissioner Paul Fitzpatrick
Commissioner Scott David Greenberg
Commissioner Mark Kelly
Commissioner Dean Lane
Commissioner David Reifman
Commissioner Rebekah Scheinfeld
Commissioner John Tully

11 East Partners LLC
the Wit/ECD
DCASE
Palmer House
Department of Planning & Development (DPD)
Chicago Department of Transportation (CDOT)
Department of Streets & Sanitation

Others Present
Gerald Alder
Michelle Carnes
Alex Christenson
Michael Edwards
Judie Green
Melena Hessel
Dwayne Hightower
Steve Hillard
Sgt. Joel Holler
Laura Jones
Robert Kearney
Commander Robert Klich
Howard Learner
Jamey Lundblad
Tanesheba Marshall
Lou Raizin
Paul Reise
Abel Rodriguez
Mark Roschen
Jeffrey Wilson

CTA
Chicago Public Library - HWLC
Mid-America Real Estate
Chicago Loop Alliance (CLA)
Auditorium Theatre
Environmental Law & Policy Center
Department of Streets & Sanitation
Streetplus
1st District Chicago Police Department
Chicago Loop Alliance (CLA)
42nd Ward
1st District Chicago Police Department
Environmental Law & Policy Center
DCASE
Chicago Department of Transportation (CDOT)
Broadway in Chicago
Department of Planning & Development (DPD)
Chicago Loop Alliance (CLA)
Department of Planning & Development (DPD)
CTA

Call to Order - SSA#1 - 2015 Chair Anne Voshel

SSA#1-2015 Chair Anne Voshel called the meeting to order at 2:00 PM. Introductions were made around the
room.

 II.

Public Comment

No comments were made by the public.
III.

Approval of Minutes

A motion to approve the minutes from the Tuesday, November 21, 2017, State Street Commission meeting
was made by Commissioner Idler and seconded by Commissioner Davids. There was no discussion and the
motion passed unanimously.
IV.
Overview of the Pedway Project
Howard Learner of the Environmental Law and Policy Center (ELPC) introduced his colleague, Melena
Hessel. They have been working with the Chicago Loop Alliance, Broadway in Chicago, many merchants
and retailers, the Alderman’s office and the City of Chicago to try to revitalize the main stem of the pedway.
The main stem is defined as the area between Metra’s Millennium Station and Millennium Park, across to the
Thompson Center, and then over to 203 North LaSalle. A packet of materials containing maps, illustrations,
and information was passed around the room.
The reason this area is the focus is because it is where the greatest number of people use the pedway. The
pedway is an underutilized asset of Chicago, especially during the winter months. If people today said let’s
create a pedway system under the city, how would you ever find hundreds of millions of dollars to do it? You
couldn’t. It would be too costly. But it is something that has already been created over the years, it exists. In
terms of the funding for it, we are already 98% of the way; construction is done. The opportunity is how do
we make it better in terms of navigation, how do we make it better in terms of coordination (a standard set of
hours it is open, lighting, consistency), how do we activate the space? In many places around the world and
in the United States, underground space has been utilized for arts, music, theatre, and other cultural activities.
This helps attract people and make our city a more exciting place to be.
ELPC has been working with Block 37, the Heritage Shops, Metra, the CTA, Macy’s and the Cultural Center.
They are coming to the State Street Commission to get Commissioners engaged in very specific ways:
• You should be part of the revitalization planning. The pedway is central to State Street.
• When it comes to governance, there may be a role for the SSA to play.
• The Chicago Loop Alliance will be doing a lot of work to start activating the pedway in February.
ELPC would like the State Street Commission to help financially, and as a partner with CLA, the
Environmental Law & Policy Center, and Broadway in Chicago to do some placemaking and make the
pedway more exciting, easier to find and at an enhanced level on the map.
Chair Voshel asked who the team in place was right now. Learner said there have been three teams in place
and they are listed in the document he passed out. One of them worked for ELPC regarding the overall
planning work, a second team did a real estate study, and the third team is a group working with CLA to do
the activation.
Michael Edwards thanked Learner for his presentation, and said that under CLA’s placemaking initiative, the
idea of experimenting and activating the pedway has been embraced. CLA has put $20,000 toward the
activation beginning in February and continuing for 3 months or longer to see if we can identify the pedway
as a destination, if people use it, and how they will use it. Port Urbanism is putting together the project for us;
images are contained in the back of the packet that was distributed. There are 3 major components:
• Identifications at the street-level entrances at Daley Plaza and two points on State Street so you know
where the pedway is. This will bring people to State Street and increase State Street’s visibility as a
destination.

 •
•

Once you’re in the pedway, there’s a series of “break-crumbs” that lead you along the main stem that
Howard outlined.
Within the stem, there will be surprises. Nothing has been decided yet, but there could be something
like renderings when you look up the walls to the ceiling which might indicate the buildings that are
above you.

Edwards said the total cost of this is $37,000 so the consideration asked of the Commission is to contribute
$17,000 towards the project.
Lou Raizin added that there were two points that Learner made which should sit at the table in a big way. First,
is the need for an intergovernmental or property agreement with all the owners that allows the pedway to
function as one unit as far as hours it is open and maintenance responsibilities. If it’s going to be a public way,
we should think of it as a public way. Second, who takes ultimate responsibility for it? Who wakes up in the
morning thinking pedway? How do we make it really good? How do we make it great? Do we look at
extending CLA’s presence into the pedway? Do they become the service provider for the pedway? It needs to
be someone. That’s how we’ll make a difference. Raizin put the topic on the table for discussion.
Commissioner Cameron asked if this investment was temporary. Michael Edwards replied that it is temporary
in the sense that no one really knows if this will work. It’s an experiment. We’re thinking about a solution and
measuring the possible effects. The idea is to bring the visibility of the pedway up to the street to see if more
people use it and traffic increases. If it does, everything else becomes more possible. It’s exciting. It could
stay up longer than 3 months. But CLA has not agreed to do anything more than a pilot program.
There was additional discussion about Macy’s, about existing pedestrian counts, about the need to paint the
pedway, about the role of ELPC, and about how the money might be better spent on an app than using it for
signage. Chair Voshel concluded that it sounded like there is a lot of work to be done. She asked Michael
Edwards if he was looking for a motion today. Edwards replied, if possible. It would be a budget modification
of $17,000 moving that amount out of the rent allocation because CLA won’t be moving as quickly this year
as previously thought.
Commissioner Cameron made a motion to make the modification to fund the pedway project in the amount of
$17,000. The motion was seconded by Commissioner Davids. It passed unanimously.
Howard Learner thanked the Commission for allowing ELPC to join them and make the presentation. Lou
Raizin said there was one more item that he would like to bring up. He has reached out to the Chicago Loop
Alliance and other civic groups regarding the Skyline Project. He would like to get the Commission’s thoughts
on the project at a future meeting. No money is being requested. Chair Voshel said that we would put a
discussion of the project on the March agenda.
V.

Financial Statements/Metrics as of December 31, 2017

Abel Rodriguez pointed out a copy of a letter from the Department of Planning & Development in Commission
meeting packets which stated there were no issues with the 2016 audit. Mark Roschen offered his
congratulations on that achievement, saying SSA#1-2015 was one of only 10 SSAs in the city that didn’t have
issues.
Attention was turned to the 2017 SSA#1-2015 Budget Summary. This is an unaudited statement which could
change once the auditor comes in for review. All Commissioners were emailed this summary along with the
2017 metrics for their review in advance of the meeting. Almost all the line items were completed, except for
the Geocentric new website line item which still has $46,000 in it. However, the work is contractually
committed so it will be carried over. Also, the Lightscape Programming and Maintenance under Streetscape
Elements has another $43,000 that we did not complete. Of that amount, $20,000 is committed to software

 development to bring programming in-house. Finally, under Safety Programs, about $20,000 remains which
we had anticipated using for off-duty officers during the holidays. In total, approximately $185,000 will be
carried over. When we created the 2018 budget, we allocated $190,000 in carry over, so we do not have to
amend the budget. There were no questions from the Commission on the financial documents.
Documents detailing the 2017 4th Quarter Metrics & Expenses and the 2017 YTD Metrics & Expenses were
contained in meeting packets. Having reviewed them in advance, Commissioners had no questions. A motion
to accept the financial statements was made by Commissioner Idler and seconded by Commissioner Davids.
It passed unanimously.
A final motion was needed to approve the Contractor Affidavit, which is, simply put, that the Commissioners
agree that the Chicago Loop Alliance did what it said it was going to do in 2017. Said motion was made by
Commissioner Segal and seconded by Commissioner Idler. It passed unanimously.
VI.

Update on Off-Duty Police Contract

Steve Hillard gave some background on the continuing search for a security firm that would provide off-duty
officers to work with the Street Team. Last summer, the team noticed a definite increase in mental illness,
aggressive behavior from those on the street, an increase in potential physical and verbal violence to the team
and pedestrians on the street, and an increase in minor crimes in the stores. The idea was that we needed a way
to have an immediate response dedicated to the Street Team so that when they came across these situations
that they were able to deal with them in a timely fashion to deter these individuals from acting up. We tried to
put together a program to see if this would make a difference during the holidays. The problem was with the
first attempt was that we only had one company respond to the RFP, and we discovered it was run by a city
employee. The RFP specifically said they could not be employed by the city, so the company was disqualified.
We re-issued the RFP in January and received confirmation that 6 companies were interested – but we received
just 3 written responses back. Those companies were interviewed; all came in at $45 to $50 an hour. Of the
3, we recommend hiring HLSA Security, headed by Janice Dillon. This company complies with the City of
Chicago requirements of the RFP, and already does work in SSAs #7 and #18 along having contracts with Laz
parking. They also can staff the split shifts that we wanted, and all their references check out. Hillard asked
for comments or questions from the group:
• Harold Washington Library Center said they were having a problem with the demographic Hillard
illustrated. They asked for confirmation that 2 officers would be working the shifts. (Yes, after talking
to the commander previously, it was felt that one officer working alone was not safe enough. Dillon is
also confident she can staff the shifts with District 1 officers who are familiar with the area)
• Chair Voshel asked why it appeared that we were starting with more shifts and then rolling back.
Hillard said yes, because after looking at our stats over the last 3 years, the January/February/March
metrics showed a lot of petty theft earlier in the day on Thursdays, but during the summer we wanted
to shift time to a longer Saturday8-hour shift because that was our biggest peak time for crimes and
mental illness. Shifts can be adjusted. This is a one-year pilot program extending to December 31st,
which will not exceed $50,000 in cost as outlined today. Officers will be given radios and cell phones
with published numbers, but as always, businesses should call 911 if they need a 911 response. Officers
will be proactively patrolling, not waiting for someone to call. They are not in police uniform. This is
an enhancement to the State Street program and we will develop a communications piece.
• Commander Klich confirmed that if there is emergency police action regarding a 911 situation, per
City of Chicago ordinance, if needed our off-duty officers must assist. Otherwise, their work is
dedicated to assisting the Street Team.
• The officers will not be in police uniform, but they will be visible in a security uniform designed by
us. They will not be in our Street Team Ambassador uniforms because Streetplus is not a licensed
security company in the State of Illinois, we are a hospitality company. The off-duty officers are armed;
weapons are not concealed.

 •

What is their role as opposed to the Street Teams? They will be visible and proactive on State Street
and they will provide an immediate response to the issues, especially mental illness and aggressive
behavior, the street team ambassadors have experienced for the last 3 ½ years.

Chair Voshel asked for a motion to approve this contract, which was made by Commissioner Davids and
seconded by Commissioner Cameron. The motion passed unanimously.
VII.

Status Reports/Outstanding Issues

Security: Commander Klich addressed the ABC7 news story on the robberies at Zumiez at State and
Madison. He said he’d like to make one thing clear: since January 1st of last year there have been 69 calls for
service in that location, including one actual robbery and 1 traffic accident, but Zumiez has not been relating
most of the incidents cited in the news interview to the Chicago Police Department. As for response time on
calls, sometimes other incidents take priority despite their best efforts. The 1st District has been promised
additional officers later this year. Recent police academy graduates are being sent to the south and west sides
first.
There have been spikes in robberies in both the 1st and the 18th Districts, including in cell phone stores and on
the red line, so a special task force has been assigned by Area Central to work on this issue. The police have
had some success, apprehending the offender who was using a knife on the red line.
DCASE: In the absence of Commissioner Kelly, Jamey Lundblad gave the DCASE report. The
Biennial, a recent new tradition, was a big success, featuring 140 architects from 20 different countries and
garnering over 550,000 visitors from across the USA. The core sites (the Cultural Center, city galleries and
Water Tower) received 291,000 visitors. DCASE was thrilled with the results and happy to work with so
many cultural institutions and partners.
The McCormick Tribune Skating Rink is now open through March 4th. The skating is free, and there are free
lessons on Fridays, Saturdays, and Sundays. Rental pricing is the same as last year, $12 - $14 depending on
the day.
2017 was our Year of Public Art, placing art all over the city including the Loop. 2018 has now been
designated the year of Creative Youth. You’ll be hearing a lot from us this year on that initiative.
Sole Service Provider: Michael Edwards pointed out two documents in meeting packets, the
President’s Report and the master calendar of key SSA dates and deadlines. He then asked the Commission if
they would consider helping to fund the America’s Urban Campus (AUC) Economic Impact Study. In the
past, CLA generated their own studies on the economic impact of Loop Universities. However, there was a
desire by the city and Choose Chicago to figure out the economic impact of universities in the city, thus AUC
was formed. They did their first broad study in 2014, and CLA paid them to do a “cut-out” of the information
which only looked at the schools in the Loop. Their proposal is to do the same thing again with the same
methodology. They do all the work and the cost would be $24,000.
Concern was expressed on several fronts. CLA had been doing their study about every 5 years, and this was
a year earlier than the previous pattern. CLA Chair Green said that she felt it was an important study, but that
the news was not going to be good: enrollment numbers are down. Commissioner Cameron said the Arts and
Culture Study CLA was currently working on was more important. It seems like a lot of money would be
spent doing the two studies concurrently, and CLA will look like an organization that only does studies instead
of acting. Commissioner Idler concluded that we should turn down AUC’s proposal; all concurred. The
discussion ended.

 Updating the current work developing the Arts & Culture Study, the goal was to have 2,000 surveys returned,
but we have received an amazing !2,000 completed surveys. Preliminary results indicate that people come
downtown for arts and culture at least 5 times a year and they often bundle their trips – taking in not just dinner
and a show but adding a visit to Millennium Park or a museum. The consultants are putting a dollar figure to
that and crunching the numbers. They have created great maps of all our organizational assets and cultural
institutions which can reside on our website. There is great momentum with this study, which should be
completed at the end of February. A press conference will be scheduled at the Gene Siskel Film Center in
March to announce the results.
Streets & Sanitation: Commissioner Williams retired, and is being replaced by John Tully. Dwayne
Hightower, who was appointed by Mayor Emanuel as First Deputy Commissioner, delivered the Streets and
Sanitation report. Chair Voshel asked for an update on the Big Bellies and snow/salt status. . Hightower
responded that there is a meeting about the Big Bellies next week. To date since last year, we’ve had a total
of 8” of snow and 6 snow events. Everything is going well. Residential streets are now being cleared after
last weekend’s snow event.
CTA: Jeff Wilson said there was nothing major to report, except that the CTA will be doing a subway
deep cleaning during the second week of February.
VIII. Other Business
New Commissioners were reminded to attend one of two required training sessions on March 14th.
The next SSA #1-2015 State Street Commission meeting will be held on Tuesday, March 20, 2018 at 2:00 PM
at ABC7.
IX.

Adjournment

The meeting was adjourned at 2:54 PM by Chair Voshel.
Respectfully Submitted,
Greg Cameron
Secretary

 