 CAP CENTER I CORONA CENTER

.J
SOUTH CHICAGO 10241 Commercnal Avenue 11 75 Central Avenue. 2

Chicago, illinOlS 80817 University Park, Illinms 50486
PARENTS EN DS 773-734-2222 708-235-0345
DEVELOPING OPTIONS. CREATING DPPURTUNITIES 773-734-2850 708 235-0355

W. SCPF-INC. ORG

SSA 5 Regular Commission Meeting Minutes

August 23, 2018

PRESENT ABSENT

Bonnie DineII-Dimond Dorothy Hudson
Alex J. Alemis

Angela Hurlock

Robert Loncar

SERVICE PROVIDER
Tom Schell

Dave Price
Diane Abbott

Meeting was called to order at 2:10 pm.

1. Approval of Agenda

Dave Price requested to add September 16th Mexican Independence Day to the
agenda. A motion to approve the agenda with the addition to the agenda was made
by Angela Hurlock, seconded by Alex J. Alemis. Motion carried.

2. Approval of the Minutes

The minutes of the June 28, 2018, meeting were reviewed. There being no
corrections or additions to the minutes, a motion to approve the June 28, 2018,
meeting minutes was made by Angela Hurlock, seconded by Alex J. Alemis. Motion
carried.

South Chicago Parents and Friends, Inc. is accredited by the Commission for Accreditation of Rehabilitation Facilities (CARF).

MINUTES OF A REGULARL MEETING
OF THE COMMISIONERS OF SSA 5 August 23, 2018

The minutes of the July 12, 2018, meeting were reviewed. Robert Loncar requested
a change to the July 12, 2018 minutes. He requested that the minutes be changed
to state: The email stated that a SSA Commissioner must resign if they become a
candidate for elected office. With the correction made, a motion to approve the July
12, 2018 meeting minutes was made by Robert Loncar, seconded by Alex J. Alemis.
Angela Hurlock abstained. Motion carried.

3. Financial Report

Financial Reports for the month ending June 30, 2018, were reviewed and
discussed. Mr. Schell reviewed the revenues and expenses for the month of June.
After further discussion regarding the Financial Reports, a motion to accept the June
Financial Reports was made by Angela Hurlock, seconded by Robert Loncar. Motion
carried.

Financial Reports for the month ending July 31, 2018, were reviewed and discussed.
Mr. Schell reviewed the revenues and expenses for the month of July. After further
discussion regarding the Financial Reports, a motion to accept the July Financial
Reports was made by Angela Hurlock, seconded by Alex J. Alemis. Motion carried.

4. Cash Flow] Receivables

Mr. Schell provided the commissioners with a copy of the June, 2018 bank
reconciliation. After discussion, a motion to accept the June bank reconciliation was
made by Alex J. Alemis. seconded by Angela Hurlock. Motion carried.

Mr. Schell provided the commissioners with a copy of the July, 2018 bank
reconciliation. After discussion, a motion to accept the July bank reconciliation was
made by Angela Hurlock, seconded by Alex J. Alemis. Motion carried.

Mr. Schell reported that as of the date of the meeting, cash in the bank totaled
$320,141.55.

5. Items for Approval

Mr. Schell presented the June and July invoices for payment approval. After a brief
discussion regarding the invoices, a motion to approve the June and July invoices
was made by Angela Hurlock, seconded by Alex J. Alemis. Motion carried.

South Chicago Parents and Friends, Inc. is accredited by the Commission for Accreditation of Rehabilitation Facilities (CARF).

MINUTES OF A REGULAR MEETING
OF THE COMMISIONERS OF SSA 5 August 23, 2018

6. Program Manager Report

Dave Price presented the TTI Bowling Chart and the target areas to improve with
the goals to improve them. The number of incidents for the security firm were
discussed and that the numbers have increased since the summer weather is here.
Dave Price suggested that the areas in the red have efforts made to change from
red to green but not yet completed.

Dave Price identified two potential new commissioners for the SSA 5. The
individuals are Laurentino Ramirez, Spanish Coalition for Housing and Carlos
Gonzalez, Dulce?s Caf?. The commissioners requested to meet the two and proceed
fonNard. Dave Price will invite both candidates to attend the next meeting and assist
each in the application process.

Dave Price updated on the Adopt-a-Lot progress. Dave Price stated nine of sixteen
vacant lots have had initial prep work by local contractors. Dave Price reported on
the volunteer event that was held on August The work was strenuous and had
11 volunteers attend. Since everything was not completed, another date was added
to finish the work. Next event date is September Dave Price stated that a
contractor will get the lots ready for the September 8th event to finish.

Dave Price discussed the Security Committee update. Illinois Security Professionals
began patrols on August 13. Illinois Security Professionals have included 3 officers
in the rotation as opposed to the 6 originally proposed. Dave Price hopes to help
security firm identify a reporting method similar to the last security firm?s method of
daily reports. Dave Price will investigate the cloud based service ?Silver Track? to
determine if the SSA 5 can provide the security firm with the cloud based sen/ice.
Dave Price will determine the cost of Silver Track and a tablet if needed.

Dave Price reported that he met with Vanessa lrizarry, Coordinating Planner at
DOT. Vanessa informed Dave Price that the original site selected for a People Plaza
was determined to be unsuitable. This goal may not be feasible at this time.

Dave Price discussed the Mexican Independence Day Parade scheduled for
September 16, 2018 and the possibility of the SSA 5 donating to assist in this event.
A motion to donate $1,000.00 towards the Mexican Independence Parade was
made by Robert Loncar, seconded by Alex J. Alemis. Motion carried.

7. Old New Business

Review and Approve Facade Rebate Application. This application was approved
and work stared. Once the work began, it was established further repairs would
need to be made. A revision of the application was presented.

South Chicago Parents and Friends, Inc. is accredited by the Commission for Accreditation of Rehabilitation Facilities (CARF).

MINUTES OF A REGULAR MEETING
OF THE COMMISIONERS OF SSA 5 August 23, 2018

Applicant: Jackson Hewitt Franchise

Property Owner: Realty for Katarina LLC

Project: Replace existing bubble style awning, tuck point facade and window
replacement.

Cost: $15,250.00

A motion to vote on the approval of application from Jackson Hewitt Franchise was
made by Robert Loncar, seconded by Angela Hurlock. Alex J. Alemis abstained.
Motion carried. Applicant was approved.

8. Adjournment
There being no additional time to discuss business, a motion to adjourn the meeting

at 4:10 pm. was made by Robert Loncar, seconded by Alex J. Alemis. Motion
carried.

Next Regular Scheduled Meeting September 27, 2018 at 2:00 pm.

South Chicago Parents and Friends, Inc. is accredited by the Commission for Accreditation of Rehabilitation Facilities (CARF).

