. I CODE EDC 17432?024276
Economic Development Corporotlon of the City of Detrort

 

OF MINUTES OF JANUARY 10, 2017 MEETING

RESOLVED, that the minutes of the Regular meeting of January 10, 2017 are
hereby approved and all actions taken by the Directors present at such meeting, as set
forth in such minutes. are hereby in all respects ratified and approved as actions of the
Economic Development Corporation.

February 14, 2017

500 Griswold,Sulte 2200 Detroit,Michlgon 48226 (313) 963-2940

ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
BOARD OF REGULAR MEETING
TUESDAY, JANUARY 10, 2017 - 8:30 AM.

BOARD MEMBERS PRESENT: Marsha Bruhn

BOARD MEMBERS ABSENT:

SPECIAL DIRECTORS
PRESENT:

SPECIAL DIRECTORS
ABSENT:

OTHERS PRESENT:

Monique Claiborne
Kimberly Clayson
Linda Forte

Chris Jackson
Matthew Rollng
Thomas Stallworth

Maurice Cox (Ex?Officio)
Jonathan Quarles

John Naglick (Ex?Officio)
William Ritsema

None

Raebum King (Springwells Industrial Park Project)
Lisa Randon (Tiger Stadium Property Redevelopment)

Michael Forsyih 
Gay Hilger 
Malinda Jensen 
Jennifer Kanalos 
Glen Long, Jr. 
Rebecca Navin 
Orza Robertson 
Will Tamminga 
Adrienne Zeigler 

MINUTES OF THE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
BOARD OF DIRECTORS REGULAR MEETING

TUESDAY, January 10, 2017

DETROIT ECONOMIC GROWTH CORPORATION

500 GRISWOLD, SUITE 2200 - 8:30 AM.

CALL TO ORDER

Noting that a quorum was present, Chairman Forte calied the Regular meeting of the
Economic Deveiopment Corporation Board of Directors to order at 8:34 am.

GENERAL

Approval of Minutes

Ms. Forte asked if there were any additions, deletions or corrections to the minutes of the
October 25, 2016 Regular Board meeting. Hearing none, the Board took the foiiowing
action:

On a motion by Mr. seconded by Mr. Roling, Resotution Code EDC t7~
01432-275 was unanimously approved.

Ms. Forte advised that she was going to skip ahead to the Projects section of the agenda,
start with the Motor City Match items, and then go back to the Treasurer?s Report and the
other project items.

PROJECTS
Motor City Match Recommendation for Round 6 Business Awards

Mr. explained that on September 1, 2016, the Motor City Match program
began accepting applications for Round 6 of the Business Owner Application Track. The
Business Owner Application Track is for businesses from Detroit and around the world
that are looking to start or expand in Detroit. The table below describes the levels of award
and qualifications.

 

 

 

Awards Awardees must have:
BUSINESS 0 Up to 50 Winners - A great Idea
5 ?23 PLAN 0 Free business planning class
a 0 Up to 25 winners each round 0 A great idea
SPACE - Match making with top reai estate - A great business plan
Financiai planning assistance

 

 

 

 

 

 

January 10, 2016

 

 

 

 

 

FINANCIAL
ASSISTANCE

 

 

- Up to 7 winners each round - A great idea

- Design/build assistance A great business plan
DESIGN Priority permitting Space secured

- Financiai planning assistance

it Up to 10 winners each round a A great idea

0 Up to $100,000 matching grant per winner a A great business plan

0 Grants match your cash doilar~for-dollar. 0 Space secured

CASH - $500,000 in grants per round for building and A plan for build?out

business owners
0 Funds ready to

- Pitch to lending partners for financing investment

 

 

 

When applications closed on October 1, the EDC had received over 260 business
applications (?Application?). Motor City Match had previously received over 1800
applications for Rounds 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 business appiications.

The memorandum and resolution contained in the Board book focuses on the selection
and recommendation of awardees for:

?Business Plan? award track receiving business planning assistance
(formerly ?Get Ready" award track)

?Space? award track receiving site selection assistance (formerly ?Make a
Match? award track)

?Design? award track receiving architectural design, permitting and bidding
assistance for pre~development (formeriy ?Make a Pian? award track)

?Cash? award track receiving grants and financing assistance (formerly
?Match your Cash" award track)

First, staff verified business eiigibility based on seif~reported data submitted in the
application for the following five criteria.

1.

The business is incorporated and has a registered EIN and DUNS prior to
receiving a grant award

The business wishes to locate in Detroit for at least two years

The business is majority-owned by a person who is at least 18 years or
older

The business and all owners are in good standing with the City of Detroit,
State of Michigan and IRS, and

January 10, 2016

 

5. The business is not part of a franchise.

Second, staff sorted applications into various award tracks and reviewed eligible business
applications. Applicants were evaluated by staff as follows:

a ?Business Plan? applicants have great business ideas but haven't formulated
a business plan yet or need help strengthening their business plans before
pursuing space. in total, ninety-five (95) Business Plan applications were
evaluated by staff and juror review.

0 ?Space? applicants are actively looking for space. These business applicants
are either new business ventures that have a solid business plan or they are
existing businesses with a track record of success and a plan to grow it. in
total, fifty-six (56) Space applications were evaluated by staff and juror review.

- ?Design? applicants have great business plans and have secured a space but
need heip planning for renovations. In some cases, these businesses are
tenants; in other cases, these businesses own the building they plan to open
their business in. in total, twenty?nine (29) Design applications were evaluated
by staff, from which fourteen (14) were seiected as finalists for juror review.

- ?Cash? applicants have a location secured, a plan for build~out and strong
understanding of the money needed to start their business and complete
renovations at the space. In total, eighty?three (83) Cash applications were
evaluated by staff, from which thirty-seven (37) were seiected as finalists for
juror review.

Third, a team of outside jurors evaluated finalist applications based on five criteria.
?Business Plan? applications were initially reviewed by a team of business planning service
providers, as well as members of the Motor City Match staff. ?Space? ?naiists were
reviewed by a team of community stakeholders from across various parts of the city and
?Design? and ?Cash? finaiists were reviewed by a team of tenders. ?Business Plan"
applications were oniy scored using the thumbs up/thumbs down voting technique after
reviewing the five criteria. ?Space?, ?Design?, and ?Cash? applications were scored on a
scale of 14 00. Each of the five criteria is worth 20 points to contribute to the iOO?point
score. Seiection criteria are as follows:

Vision and plan
Experience

Market support
Community support
Leverage

inri-?WNT"

Finally, ?Cash? finalists were required to submit supplemental information as follows:

?Cash? finalists submitted comprehensive financial information, including a standard loan
appiication and personal financial statement. Motor City Match staff compiled this
supplemental information to determine the financiai need, equity investment and ?financial
gap? for each business. Next, Motor City Match staff met with a team of six local

January 10, 2016

Community Development Financial institution lending partners on December 21,
2016 to determine grant and loan investment required to fill the ?financial gap? on each
project. partners include Invest Detroit, Detroit Development Fund, Capital impact
Partners, LISC, Michigan Women?s Foundation and Detroit Micro-Enterprise Fund. 
partners made commitments to explore lending the balance of the financial gap based on
recommended grant investment from Motor City Match. Motor City Match staff used lender
interest, participant scores, supplemental information and readiness to accept additional
investment to determine ?Cash? awardees and associated grant investment.

Finally, staff compiled juror scores to identify top ranking candidates for awards.
EDC staff recommended:

0 Fifty (50) ?Business Plan? awardees for business planning, as presented in
Exhibit A.

Twenty-Six (26) ?Space? awardees for site selection, as presented in Exhibit B.
Eight (8) "Design" awardees, as presented in Exhibit C.

0 Fifteen (15) ?Cash? awardees to receive a total of $600,000 in grant investment,
as described on Exhibit 

EDC staff anticipates contracting with independent business planning service providers to
deliver business planning training. EDC anticipates that Build institute and LifeLine will
provide business planning training for up to 50 Round 6 Motor City Match ?Business Plan?
awardees.

EDC staff will facilitate one?on-one match making between top ranking businesses and
building owners recognized as ?Space? awardees. Match making services will include
open houses and networking sessions between business owners and building owners. in
addition, technical assistance will include expert guidance on leasing, financial planning
and assessing market opportunities.

EDC staff will hire contractual professional architecture, engineering and construction
providers to deliver design-build assistance to eight (8) Round 6 Motor City Match ?Design?
awardees.

The EDC will enter into grant agreements with Round 6 Motor City Match ?Cash? awardees
and facilitate introductions to lending partners to pursue gap financing through these
independent sources.

A resolution approving the staff?s recommendation of ?Business Plan?, ?Space? "Design"
and ?Cash? awardees was contained in the Board material for consideration.

Mr. added that he would like to disclose two conflicts of interest that were
discovered during the due diligence process for the ?Cash? awardees. Teresa Singleton
of Tiki?s Treasures is an employee of the City of Detroit Fire Department, and Ron Scott,

 

I Motor City Match aims to award $500,000 in grants every quarter. In Round 5, Motor City Match awarded
only $300,000. Therefore, additional grant funds are available to support a total of $600,000 in grants for
Round 6.

January 10, 2015

a shareholder in SavahhahBlue, is a Board member. Further due diligence
be done to determine whether or not the Program Guidelines need to be amended.

Subsequent to a discussion, the Board took the following action:

On a motion by Mr. Staliworth, seconded by Mr. Jackson, Resolution Code EDC
17-01-9160 was unanimously approved.

Motor City Match Recommendation for Rognd 6 Building Awards

Mr. advised that on September 1, 2016, the Motor City Match program
began accepting applications from interested building owners for Round 6 of the Building
Application Track (?Round The Building Application Track is for Detroit property
owners with a vacant space iooking for quality new tenants. Awards include pre~
development assistance, marketing and tenant recruiting. Properties that are matched
with businesses are considered for grants, financing and priority permitting. The table
below describes the levels of award and qualifications.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Awards Awardees must:

8 0 Listed as an available property viewable by 0 Be current and compliant
hundreds of Business Competition candidates. a Judged most feasible for
a Top 25 scoring buildings wiil be marketed as a business
9 SPACE . . . 
a, top destination for new busmess
- Pre~development buiiding assessment
.4 1: Matchmaking with top businesses
5 0 Up to 7 awardees each round across both the - Be current and compiiant
2 building and business tracks Judged most feasible for
5 DESIGN - Design/buiid assistance business
a 0 Priority permitting Have a tenant secured

- Financiai planning assistance

0 Up to 10 awardees each round across both the 0 Be current and compiiant
to building and business tracks Judged most feasible for
- Up to $100,000 matching grant per winner business
0 a $500,000 in grants per round for buiiding and 0 Have a tenant secured
in CASH . . .
st 9 busmess owners - Have a plan for 
- Pitch to lending partners for ?nancing renovations

4 0 Have funds ready for
investment

 

 

 

 

When applications ciosed on October 1, 2016, the EDC had received 58 appiications
(?Application?) for spaces all across the city of Detroit. An Application refers only to a single
tenantable space within a property. One property may have submitted multiple
Applications and the properties may have previously matched but have lease~able space.

Staff compieted the following due diligence and evaluation process:

0 Verified that the space referenced in the Application is current and compliant on
property taxes, tickets, and water bills.

January 10, 2016



Conducted a professional building assessment.

Each Application was evaluated and scored on a scale of 1-100 as follows:

Each of the following factors contributed up to 20 points: (1) Building
characteristics and vision; (2) Building conditions; (3) Community and market
support; (4) Leverage; and (5) Compliance.

Evaluations were conducted both by EDC staff and a community review panel
organized by City Council district.

EDC staff and community panel scores were averaged together to achieve the final
score for building characteristics and vision, community and market support, and
leverage.

The score for building conditions was derived directly from the professional
building assessment conducted by PSI as well as self?reported data from the
property owner.

The score for compliance was derived based on the payment of taxes, water bills,
and tickets.

The results of the due diligence and evaluation process are the following:

Of the fifty~eight (58) applications considered for Round 6, thirty (30) applications
were deemed ineligible because of condition or compliance. In total, twenty-eight
(28) eligible Building Applications were considered for Round 6 awards.

Twenty-two (22) building applications indicated they had space available for lease.
These building owners are recommended to receive ?Space? awards to assist with
marketing their property and recruiting tenants.

The remaining eligible applicants had been awarded in a previous round or
indicated that they had a tenant secured and no additional space to lease. This
makes these applicants eligible for consideration for ?Design? or ?Cash? awards in
partnership with their tenants.

Based on eligible applications and review of scores, EDC staff recommends the
following Round 6 Building Owner Awards:

0 Space awards. Twenty~two (22) properties are recommended to receive
Space awards as presented in Exhibit A, which includes marketing, a
professional building assessment, real estate tours and other matchmaking
activities with top Motor City Match business applicants. These top scoring
buildings are recommended to receive ?Top Property? designation to assist
with marketing and tenant recruiting.

0 Design Awards. Eight (8) properties are recommended to receive ?Design?
awards in partnership with their tenants presented in Exhibit B, which

January 10, 2016

includes architectural technical assistance for tenant buiid~out and building
renovations. The Motor City Match Committee of the Economic
Development Corporation is recommended to approve these eight awards
to businesses?

EDC staff requested that the EDC Board of Directors accept the current results of the
Round 6 Building Application evaluation process, confirming the Applications that have
been awarded ?Space? and "Design" awards.

A resolution was included in the Board material for consideration.
Subsequent to a discussion, the Board took the following action:

On a motion by Mr. Staliworth, seconded by Mr. Jackson, Resolution Code EDC
17-01-91-31 was unanimously approved.

Small Business and Commercial Corridor Revitalization Program: Community
Development Block Grant Consultant Services

Mr. advised that the Economic Development Corporation (EDC) of the City of
Detroit currently administers programs to revitalize Detroit?s commerciai corridors and
grow neighborhood business investment using Community Development Block Grant
funds from the City of Detroit. The EDC entered into a subrecipient agreement
with the City (Contract #2899173) to manage and implement these programs for a term
ending December 31, 2017.

The first part of this initiative is Motor City Match, which connects new or expanding
businesses with Detroit?s vacant commercial real estate. The program provides
competitive grants, loans and counseling to both building owners and business owners
through a quarterly application process.

in 2017, the EDC anticipates launching a new facade improvement program to grow and
retain Detroit?s existing businesses while improving the physical condition of commercial
corridors. The EDC anticipates that the new program will follow a format similar to Motor
City Match.

The EDC solicited bid proposals on November 21, 2016 for CDBG consultant services for
the small business development and commercial corridor revitalization programs. The
basis for EDC contract awards were based on federal procurement policies set forth in 24
CFR 85.36. More specifically, this solicitation was made pursuant the ?small purchase
procedure? method of procurement per 24 CFR 

EDC staff received four (4) proposals to the solicitation.

 

2 The ?Design? award provides construction drawings for building improvements needed to accommodate
the business (whether that business owns or leases the property). Therefore, this award is issued to the
business. In the event that the landlord is contributing to tenant improvements, building owners may also
bene?t from ?Design? award architectural services, therefore they are listed here for EDC Motor City Match
Committee consideration.

January 10, 2016

Staff reviewed all proposals and recommended Hennessey Engineers, inc. to provide the
Work, as the most responsive bidder. Hennessey Engineers brings over 40 years of
experience and knowledge of municipal federal program management. Highlights include
Hennessey?s leadership role in managing Wayne County?s CDBG program for 34
communities and 5 non?profits. They managed over 200 projects yearly from eligibility to
reporting and administered the program for 50% of the allowed administrative cost
while increasing spending by 50%. Hennessey is currently working with the City of Detroit
to form the new Office of Grants Management, which involves creating centraiized
management, monitoring and reporting of all the City?s grants to increase transparency
and efficiency of spending. Hennessey?s blended hour rate for the project was calculated
at $112.00. Overall, Hennessey offered the best combination of approach, experience and
price.

The EDC staff requested authorization from the Board to enter into a Professional
Services Agreement between Firm and EDC in an amount that will not?to?exceed the
?smali purchase procedure? cap of One Hundred Fifty Thousand and 00/100
per 24 CFR to provide the proposed Work in accordance with the
Request for Proposal dated November 21, 2016. Work performed will include 1)
advise program design and feasibility within the CDBG framework and 2) design and
execute CDBG reporting protocols.

A resolution was included in the Board material for review and approval.
Subsequent to a discussion, the Board took the following action:

On a motion by Mr. Roling, seconded by Ms. Clayson, Resoiution Code EDC 17?
01-91?32 was unanimously approved.

Small Business and Commercial Corridor Revitalization Program: Legal Services

Mr. advised that as part of the new facade improvement program previously
mentioned, the EDC solicited bid proposais on November 21, 2016 for legal advisory and
review services for small business development and commerciai corridor revitalization
programs. The basis for EDC contract awards were based on federal procurement policies
set forth in 24 CFR 85.36. More specifically, this solicitation was made pursuant the ?smali
purchase procedure? method of procurement per 24 CFR 

EDC staff received three (3) proposals.

Staff reviewed all proposals and recommended Ciark Hiil to provide the Work, as the most
responsive bidder. Clark Hiil is a full-service law firm headquartered in Detroit that serves
clients in at! areas of business legal services, government and public affairs and personal
legai services. Clark Hill is experienced in the appiications of Community Development
Biock Grant funds both for the City of Detroit and for sub~recipients of the City of Detroit.
For the City of Detroit, Clark worked with HUD and City officials to address technical
assistance needs and special grant conditions for City of Detroit HUD-based programs.
Ciark Hill has also assisted several sub?recipients of City CDBG funds on issues such as
real estate development, real property acquisition, compliance and reimbursement. Clark
Hili bid a blended hour rate of $300.00. Overall, Clark Hiil offered the best combination of
approach, experience and price.

January 10, 2016

The EDC staff requested authorization from the Board to enter into a Professional
Services Agreement between Firm and EDC in an amount that will not-to-exceed the
?small purchase procedure? cap of One Hundred Fifty Thousand and 00/100
per 24 CFR to provide the proposed Work in accordance with the
Request for Proposal dated November 21, 2016. Work performed will include 1)
program process review and counsel and 2) review, revision and development of legal
documents.

The resolution was included in the Board material for review and approval.
Subsequent to a discussion, the Board took the following action:

On a motion by Ms. Clayson, seconded by Mr. Jackson, Resolution Code EDC
17?01?91?33 was unanimously approved.

Small Business and Commercial Corridor Revitaiiggtion Program: B?ignding and
Website Development Services

Mr. stated that the EDC solicited bid proposals on November 21, 2016 for branding
and website development services for the small business development and commercial
corridor revitalization programs. This includes branding and website development for the
new facade improvement program, as well as maintenance of the Motor City Match brand
and website assets. The basis for EDC contract awards were based on federal
procurement policies set forth in 24 CFR 85.36. More specifically, this solicitation was
made pursuant the ?small purchase procedure? method of procurement per 24 CFR


EDC staff received five (5) proposals. Staff has reviewed all proposals and recommends
Media Genesis, inc. to provide the work as the most responsive bidder. Media Genesis
brings over 18 years of experience providing branding, website and multimedia strategy
services for clients that range from a few of the Fortune 10 to burgeoning startups.
Highlights of their previous work include website design and website development for the
Detroit Orchestra, branding, website development and collateral design for
Data Driven Detroit, and design and development of the United Nations Business Call to
Action website, just to name a few. Media Genesis offered the best combination of
technical expertise, experience and price. Media Genesis proposed a lump sum fee of
$74,410, along with one of the most competitive blended hour rates of $97.40.

The EDC staff requests authorization from the Board to enter into a Professional Services
Agreement between Media Genesis, Inc. (?Firm?) and EDC for a base contract amount
not?to-exceed Seventy-Four Thousand Four Hundred Ten and 00/100 ($74,410) to
provide the proposed Work in accordance with the Request for Proposal dated
November 21, 2016. Work performed will include:

1. Brand development, creative discovery and fact??nding

2. Creative asset development (program name, logo and style)

3. Collateral development

January 10, 2016

4. Website and social media development
5. Updates and maintenance to the existing Motor City Match website and brand.
A resolution was included in the Board material for review and approval.

Ms. Navin disclosed to the Board that a family member is a principal in the company and
that she did not participate in the review of the proposals or selection process.

Subsequent to a discussion, the Board took the following action:

On a motion by Mr. Staliworth, seconded by Ms. Claiborne, Resolution Code
EDC was unanimously approved.

Smail Business and Commercial Corridor Revitalization Program: Business
Planning and Technical Assistance

Mr. advised that the EDC solicited bid proposals on November 21, 2016, for
business and financial pianning services as the basis for ?Business Plan ?awards for Motor
City Match. Business and financial planning may also be provided as a technical
assistance service for the new facade improvement program. The basis for EDC contract
awards were based on federal procurement policies set forth in 24 CFR 85.36. More
specifically, this solicitation was made pursuant the ?small purchase procedure? method
of procurement per 24 CFR 

EDC staff received three (3) proposals to the RF solicited on November 21, 2016.
Respondents included Build institute, ProsperUS, and LifeLine Business
Consulting Services, LLC. Staff determined that all respondents were responsive
to the RFP. Staff desires to contract with all business planning service providers
to provide program participants with the best choice in business and financial
planning education and meet the need of educating up to two hundred fifty (250)
entrepreneurs per year on the basics of both developing a business plan and
financial planning services.

The EDC staff requested authorization from the Board to enter into a Professional
Services Agreement with LifeLine Business Consulting Services LLC (?Firm?) in an
amount not-to-exceed One Hundred Two Thousand and 00/100 to provide
business planning classes and one-on?one financial advising in 2017.

The Firm will provide four (4) business planning courses for up to Eighty (80) business
awardees at a total cost of Forty Thousand and 00/100 in 2017. Classes will
be offered quarterly for up to Twenty (20) business awardees per quarter. Firm will also
provide one-on?one financial planning assistance for up to One Hundred Sixty (160)
business awardees per year at a total cost not?to-exceed Seventy-Two Thousand and
00/100 in 2017. Financiai pianning assistance will be bilied at an hourly rate
of Seventy-Five and 00/100 ($75.00) per hour. A notice to proceed will be issued at the
beginning of each round to ensure that sufficient demand exists for the courses and
resources are adequately managed.

January 10, 2016

A resolution was included with the Board material for review and approval.
Subsequent to a discussion, the Board took the foilowing action:

On a motion by Mr. Roiing, seconded by Ms. Clayson, Resolution Code EDC 17~
01?91-35 was unanimously approved.

Small Business and Commercial Corridor Revitalization Program: Bgsiness
Pianninct ang Technical Assistance

Mr. advised that the EDC solicited bid proposals on November 21, 2016, for
business and financial planning services as the basis of the ?Business Plan? awards for
Motor City Match. Business and financial planning may also be provided as a technical
assistance service for the new facade improvement program. The basis for EDC contract
awards were based on federal procurement policies set forth in 24 CFR 85.36. More
specificaily, this solicitation was made pursuant the "small purchase procedure" method
of procurement per 24 CFR 

EDC staff received three (3) proposals to the RFP solicited on November 21, 2016.
Reapondents included Build Institute, ProsperUS, and LifeLine Business
Consulting Services. Staff determined that ail respondents were responsive to the
RF P. Staff desires to contract with all business planning service providers to
provide program participants with choice in business planning education and meet
the need of educating up to two hundred fifty (250) entrepreneurs per year on the
basics of both developing a business pian and financial planning services.

The EDC staff requested authorization from the Board to enter into a Professional
Services Agreement with the Downtown Detroit Partnership, the fiduciary of Build institute
in an amount not?to-exceed Eighty Thousand and 00/100 to provide
business planning courses for four (4) additional rounds of Motor City Match in 2017. Firm
will provide two (2) business planning courses for up to forty (40) students per quarter for
a cost of Twenty Thousand and 00/100 per quarter for a total annual not-to-
exceed amount of Eighty Thousand and 00/100 in 2017. A notice to proceed
will be issued at the beginning of each round to ensure that suf?cient demand exists for
the courses and resources are adequately managed.

A resoiution was included with the Board material for review and approvai.
Subsequent to a discussion, the Board took the following action:

On a motion by Mr. Roling, seconded by Ms. Clayson, Resolution Code EDC 17-
01?91?36 was unanimously approved.

Motor City Match: Persona! Services Contract Amendment for James Feagin 2017
Outreach Services

Mr. reported that to date Motor City Match has generated over 2,500 applications
through six rounds of the program including 620 building owner applications and over
1,880 business owner appiications. The tremendous interest in the program is due in large
part to a robust outreach and engagement strategy.

January 10, 2016

in 2017, the EDC anticipates launching a new facade improvement program to grow and
retain Detroit?s existing businesses while improving the physical condition of commercial
corridors. The EDC anticipates that the new program will follow a format similar to Motor
City Match and foresees significant outreach and engagement to sustain the success of
both programs. EDC Staff seeks to continue the outreach and engagement services
provided by James Feagin for 2017.

On February 16, 2015 the EDC entered into a Personal Service Agreement with
James Feagin to lead outreach and engagement services. The PSA provided a contract
value of Forty-Eight Thousand Seven Hundred Fifty 00/ 100 for a total of 650
hours at an hourly rate of $75.00lhour.

On November 24, 2015, the EDC approved an amendment of the PSA with James Feagin
to provide for an additional 540 hours at the existing hourly rate of $75.00/hr for a total
contract value not?to-exceed Eighty?Four Thousand Nine Hundred Fifty?Six 00/100
The increase in contract was due to unforeseen workload requirements to
execute multiple aspects of the first round of the program including but not limited to
outreach, selection and event planning, along with additional needs for Round 2 execution
and Round 3 launch.

On January 25, 2016, the EDC approved a second amendment of the PSA with James
Feagin to continue 2016 outreach and engagement activities for an additional 736 hours
at the hourly rate of $75.00/hr for an additional Fifty-?Five Thousand Two Hundred and
00/100 in 2016. The total amended contract value to date is One Hundred
Forty Thousand One Hundred Fifty-Six 00/100 

EDC staff recommended a third amendment of the PSA with James Feagin to continue
2017 outreach and engagement activities that will provide for an additional 750 hours at
new hourly rate of $100.00/hr for an additional Seventy-?Five Thousand and 00/100
in 2017. The total amended contract value is not to exceed Two Hundred
Fifteen Thousand One Hundred Fifty~Six 00/100 The revised draft PSA
and amended scope of work was included in the Board material. EDC Staff will report
outreach and engagement outcomes to the EDC Board of Directors on a quarterly basis
to closely monitor the allocation of outreach resources and investment.

A resolution was included with the Board material for review and approval.
Subsequent to a discussion, the Board took the following action:

On a motion by Mr. Roling, seconded by Mr. Jackson, Resolution Code EDC 17~
0191-37 was unanimously approved.

Motor Citv Match: Personal Services Contract for Andrew Lucco 2017 Motor City
Match Services

Mr. advised that the EDC anticipates that the new technical assistance program
will require technical assistance support and business engagement to sustain success.
EDC staff recommended entering into a Personal Services Agreement with Andrew Lucco
to provide matchmaking, technical assistance support and business engagement activities
for One Thousand Nine Hundred Fifty (1,950) hours at an hourly rate of Twenty-Eight

January 10, 2016

00/100 ($28.00) per hour for a total contract value not-to-exceed FiftyaFour Thousand Six
Hundred and 00/100 

A resoiution was included for review and approval.
Subsequent to a discussion, the Board took the foliowing action:

On a motion by Mr. Staliworth, seconded by Mr. Roling, Resoiution Code EDC
17?01n91-38 was unanimously approved.

Mr. Stailworth requested a copy of the calendar and that the Board be notified of the
matchmaking events.

GENERAL
Receipt of Treasurer?s Regort

Mr. Long reviewed the Treasurer?s Reports of Receipts and Disbursements for the months
of October and November, 2016 for the benefit of the Board and responded to questions.

Subsequent to the discussion, the Board took the foilowing action:

On a motion by Mr. Jackson, seconded by Mr. Roling, Resolution Codes EDC 17?
01-03 208 and 17?01?03 209 were unanimously approved.

PROJECTS

Springwells Industrial Park Protect - Proposed Memorandum of Understandinq
Between EDC and Honeywell Corporation Re: Springwells Seawall, Dredge
Proieciggnd Land Recon?guratjgg

Mr. Tamminga reported that the Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit
(the  and Honeyweii international lnc. (the have been in discussions
regarding the Rouge River Dredge and Seawall project related to the EDC Springwells
subdivision and owned iot #7 at Springwells.

The primary project requires Honeywell, in cooperation with the EPA and ail the impacted
adjacent property owners on the Rouge River, to dredge off impacted river sediments and
to stabilize shorelines and seawall systems as required so as to not impact the integrity of
the shorelines. This project engineering is mostly compiete. The petition for a partial
vacation has been assembled by Honeywell?s engineers and submitted to Detroit City
Council for review and approval. The project seawall improvements are meant to be
conducted in 2017, with the dredging work expected to be compieted no later than 2018.

The EDC also owns lots 3, 7, 9, 10, 12. The project also entails the possible re?platting
or lot splits and combinations around tot 7, the partial vacationing of Springwelis Court
right of way, the absorption of lot 11 (owned by HON but expected to be conveyed to EDC)
and several other iot configuration changes (the ?Project?). Based on these discussions,
representatives from the EDC, and HON have negotiated a proposed non-binding

January 10, 2018

Memorandum of Understanding, a copy of which was included with the Board material as
Exhibit A (the setting forth preliminary terms and conditions pursuant to which
the EDC and HON will pursue the Project.

A summary of the material terms and conditions of the MOU is as follows:

1. Replatting or Land Splits and Combinations. The EDC outside counsel,
Williams Acosta PLLC will perform all the Complaints, services, and documentation
necessary to revise lot configurations, and to validate the partial vacationing of Springwells
Ct. Road. The lots impacted by the changes include:

a) New Bridge parcel

b) Residual and remainder - lot 12

c) Springwells Ct. Road

d) Lot 11 absorption into adjacent lots

e) Combination of lots 9 and 10

f) Expansion of lot 7 out of the partially vacated Springwells Ct. land
g) Modifications result of the Bridge parcel.

Honeywell is expected to pay for the legal and other services related to its primary activity
of dredging, seawail installation and partial road closure around lot 7.

These parcels were described in Exhibit included with the Board material.
2. The MOU also reggires Honeywell to provide the following:

a) Reimburse the EDC for legal fees and costs of EDC's outside counsel up to
$20,000 related to the vacationing, and replatting of the public road and lot 

b) HON shall provide all of its own legal services and pay for those expenses and
the costs of providing all the engineering services and work product related to
the changes in lot 7, and the partially vacated Springwells Court.

0) Quit claim all of lot 11 to the EDC.

d) Restoring the Springwells Ct. Road to its former condition, if the re plat or split
and combination effort is not successful at the City level or through the Court
system.

EDC staff recommended approval of and execution of the MOU substantially in the form
which was attached and approval of the activities and services contemplated by the MOU.

A resolution was included for Board?s consideration.
Subsequent to a discussion, the Board took the following action:

On a motion by Mr. Stallworth, seconded by Ms. Claiborne, Resolution Code EDC
was unanimously approved.

January 10, 2016

Sgringwells Industrial Subdivision Project? Approval and Authorization to Enter
into a Professional Services Agreement Survey with Nowak Fraus Eggineers

Mr. Robertson stated that in connection with the responsibility to manage its
property and the EDC's ongoing subdivision development responsibilities related to the
EDC Springwells Project, Springwells industrial Subdivision is bounded by West
Jefferson, Zug Island Road to the west and the Detroit River to the south. EDC staff has
been interacting with the Honeywell Corporation, the EPA and their engineers, and the
City of Detroit in contemplation of the proposal by EPA and Honeywell to install a seawall
on lot and to dredge the Rouge River of contaminated materiais. in addition to
the seawall project, the State of Michigan is interested in acquiring a section of property
for the purpose of installing the Gordie Howe Bridge through Springweils that impacts
multiple parcels, some owned by other developers. in coordination with Honeywell, it has
been determined that the changes to the subdivision tots are significant, and a re-platting,
or lot splitting and combination effort must be performed.

The EDC has identified services in the area to account for new lot designations, provide
lot splits, partial road vacations, combinations and new lots, and modifying lot surveys as
required if they are impacted by the Gordie Howe Bridge parcel. The work product includes
graphic surveys, field staking, easement descriptions, property legal descriptions, lot splits
and or combinations and possible replatting efforts, and other related services as
described in the Scope of Work.

On September 7, 2016, EDC Staff solicited proposals for qualified Surveying Firms.
Tuesday November 29, 2016EDC staff received (3) proposais from qualified professional
surveying firms. Of the (3) EDC staff determined the proposal of Nowak and Fraus
Engineers to be the most responsive. Nowak Fraus Engineers is a Detroit based
contractor with experience in performing professional surveying services. Nowak Fraus
proposed a not to exceed amount of Thirty Thousand One Hundred Sixty and 00/100
Dollars.

EDC staff requested Board approval of the seiection of Nowak Fraus Engineers and
authorization to negotiate the terms and enter into an Agreement (the ??Agreement?) with
Nowak raus for the requested services for the not exceed price of $30,160.00.

EDC staff also recommended that an owners contingency of approximately ten percent
of the contract value or $3,160.00 be established to be dispersed upon
authorization of any two Officers, or any one of the Officers and any one of the Authorized
Agents of the EDC, or any two Authorized Agents. A resolution was included for
consideration.

Subsequent to a discussion, the Board took the following action:

On a motion by Mr. Stallworth, seconded by Mr. Jackson, Resolution Code EDC
17-01-69-08 was unanimously approved.

January 10, 2016

'_l'_i_ger Stadium Property Redevelopment Project: Amendment to Development
Agreement with Pal

Ms. Nevin reported that in December 2014 (EDC Resolution The Economic
Development Corporation of the City of Detroit (the approved the Detroit Police
Athletic League?s development plan pursuant to which PAL will redevelop a portion
of the former Tiger Stadium (the ?Site") into administrative offices, recreational facilities,
and a banquet facility for programs promoting youth athletics (the ?Project?). In
March, 2016 (EDC Resolution 16-03-76-159), Board approved certain modi?cations to the
development agreement, as described in that certain Amended and Restated
Development Agreement (the ?Development Agreement").

Pursuant to the Development Agreement, PAL was to establish a $1,000,000 operating
reserve fund (the ?Reserve Fund?) prior to Project completion or certain rights of reverter
would apply. Specifically, the Reserve Fund was to be funded in the amount of $500,000
as of the end of 2016, with the balance to be funded prior to Project completion.

Since commencing construction of the Project in June, 2016, PAL encountered
unexpected soil conditions at the Site. In particular, buried debris and difficulties with soil
compaction led to increased excavation and site preparation costs.

in light of the increased costs, PAL has requested a modification of the schedule for
funding the Reserve Fund as follows: $250,000 by 2/28/17; additional $250,000 by
5/31/17 and remaining balance ($500,000) by Project completion (the "Modified
Schedule?).

EDC staff requested authorization to enter into an amendment to the Development
Agreement incorporating the Modified Schedule. A resolution was included for
consideration.

Subsequent to a discussion, the Board took the following action:

On a motion by Mr. Jackson, seconded by Ms. Clayson, Resolution Code EDC
17-01-76-21 was approved, with Mr. Stallworth abstaining.

OTHER MATTERS
PUBLIC COMMENT
ADJOURNMENT

With there being no other business to come before the Board, Ms. Forte adjourned the
Regular meeting at 9:35 am.

January 10, 2016

 

. CODE EDC 17~01-02-275
Economic Development Corporation of the City of 

APPROVAL. OF MINUTES OF OCTOBER 25 2016 MEETING

 

RESOLVED, that the minutes of the Regular meeting of October 25, 2016 are
hereby approved and all actions taken by the Directors present at such meeting, as set
forth in such minutes, are hereby in a?-respects ratified and approved as actions of the
Economic Development Corporation.

January 10, 2017

500 Griswold,Suite 2200 Detroii,Michigon 48226 (313) 9639940

 

EDC 17-01-91-30
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Deiroliai

MOTOR CITY MATCH: ROUND 6 BUSINESS AWARDS

WHEREAS, EDC staff has completed due diligence and evaluation for applications
(Applications) in the sixth round (?Round of the Motor City Match Business Application
Track; and

WHEREAS, the EDC staff has provided recommendations to the EDC Board of
Directors to receive technical assistance in the ?Business Plan,? ?Space? and ?Design?
award categories; and

WHEREAS, the EDC staff has provided recommendations to the Board of
Directors, to receive grant investment for the ?Cash? awards; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Directors determined that the staff recommendation is
reasonable and consistent with the Motor City Match program; and

NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the EDC Board of Directors, accepts
the current results of the Round 6 Business Application evaluation process, and approves
the Applications that have been recommended for ?Business Plan" awards, attached
hereto as Exhibit A.

BE lT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the EDC Board of Directors, accepts the
current results of the Round 6 Business Application evaluation process, and approves the
Applications that have been recommended for ?Space? awards, attached hereto as Exhibit
B.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the EDC Board of Directors, accepts the
current results of the Round 6 Business Application evaluation process, and approves the
Applications that have been recommended for ?Design? awards, attached hereto as
Exhibit C.

BE tT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the EDC Board of Directors, accepts the
current results of the Round 6 Business Application evaluation process, and approves the
Applications that have been recommended for ?Cash? awards, attached hereto as Exhibit
D.

BE lT FINALLY RESOLVED, that all of the acts and transactions of any Of?cer or
Authorized Agent of the EDC, in the name and on behan of the EDC, relating to matters
contemplated by the foregoing resolutions, which acts would have been approved by the
foregoing resolutions, except that such acts were taken prior to the execution of these
resolutions, are hereby in all respects confirmed, approved and rati?ed.

January 10, 2017

500 Griswold,8uite 2200 - DeiroitMiChigCin 48226 (313) 963-2940

Exhibit A
Recommended ?Business Plan? Awardees

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1 3 Queens Children Fun Center
2 A Piece of Detroit Memorabilia Store Focused on Detroit
3 AG interiors and Design Learning and Activity Community Center
4 Bellviso Global Spa Day Spa and Salon
5 Breathe Swim School indoor Water Education Facility
6 Brown Eyez Beauty Supply, LLC Health 8: Beauty Supply
Merchandising/Manufacturing of Promotional
7 BUTTONS AND CHANGE Materials
8 Cockadoodle Scalable, Premium Smoked-Chicken Brand
9 Cody Bryant Holdings Clothing Store and Design Studio
10 Crepe City A Mobile Creperie Catering Company
11 Cup of Morningside Entertainment Caf?
12 Dark Features Small Community Boutique
13 Delta City Chamos A Blatino Fusion Restaurant
14 Detroit Ballet Dance Company Ballet Dance Company
15 Detroit Native Apparel Clothing Inspired by Detroit Culture
16 Develop ARCHITECTURE Architecture Firm
17 Dr. Octek IT Services and Support IT inspired: Learn, Teach, Grow
18 Exquise Fire Safety Fire/Safety Protection Commercial, Residential
19 Friends of Fathers, LLC Helping Fathers with Life issues
Geothermal Renewable Energy Training and
20 Geo NetZero, L3C (GNZ) installing
21 Health Food Cafe and Catering Health Food Restaurant Cafe and Catering
22 Heirs Creative Company Urban Art Clothing Design
23 Inc. (it's All About Fun) Family Entertainment and Educational Center
24 LLC Natural Hair Care Product
25 Level Up Upscale Shirt Depot Retail Store with Casual Shirts
Linking Everyday Extraordinary People, Education, Wellness, Entertainment, incubator
26 inc. and Co?Op
27 Literacy Intervention Tutoring, LLC Testing and Reading instruction Provider
28 Metro Strategies, inc. Construction utilizing unmanned aerial vehicles
29 Michigan Expedited Logistics Freight Brokering Firm
3O MotiCoach LLC Motivational Fitness and Nutrition App
31 Nefertiti's Gourmet Food Truck Entrepreneur
32 Orchard Community Orchard Supplying Fresh Fruit
33 Perception Essence Hair Product Company
34 PrimLuxe Creations Banquet Hall and Event Planning
35 Recyclinx Community Recycling Services Environmental Services Company
36 Robot House STEM Education Grades 6?12
37 Royal Rebellious Clothing Retailer, Seamstress and Tailor

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

38 Rush Fitness Cafe Healthy Foods Fitness Cafe

39 Universal LLC Online Graphic T~shirt Company
40 Skinny Mika Healthy Eating Clean Eating Food Service

41 SPINNERS Premier Cycle Studio Premier lndoor Cycle Studio

42 Squish&$crub Consumer Product Goods for Pets
43 Star Manufacturing Company Clothing Manufacturing Company
44 Stewart Spirit and Beverage Group indie Spirits and Energy Producer
45 Tasty Treats Parlor Ice Cream Parlor

46 Thee Fashion District Retail Apparel Manufacturing/ Print company
47 Timeless Fashions Resale Timeless Resale at its BEST

48 Uptown Girl Trends Women?s Fashion Boutique

 

49

Wild Strawberries Indoor Playground

indoor Playground for Children

 

 

50

 

ZoeMya Learning Academy

 

Childcare and Daycare Facility

 

 

Exhibit 

Recommended ?Space? Awardees

 

A Mother's Love Child Care 11

Child Day Care

 

Tattoos, Piercings and Industry

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2 Artistic Flesh Tattoo Supply Supplies
3 Baskin Tax Service Tax Preparation and Financial Services
Bella Body Fitness (Detroit) Health Wellness
4 Group A Health and Fitness Studio
5 Blessed and Highly Favored Juice Bar Healthy Food and juice Bar 
6 Dapper Diamond Body Care LLC Body Care Product Lines
Community Food Hub for
7 Detroit S.0.A.R. Entrepreneurs
8 Detroit Soccer District Multi?Sport Facility
9 Drizzle Dreams Chocolate-Covered Fruit and Snacks
10 First Class Committee Fashion Retail
11 Funny Girl Coffee, LLC Coffee Shop and Comedy House
Manufacturing Custom-made Chess
12 innovative Game Designs Boards
13 Kaleidoscope Baked Goods Late Night Bakery, Lounge and Cafe
Indoor Playground, Paint 8: Party
14 Little Big World, INC Gallery
15 Mocco Bar Kitchen A Full~service Fusion Restaurant
16 Nauti Novelties Intimate Apparel
17 P?Lacio?s Inc Latin American Street?food Restaurant
18 RAMP. Detroit Athletic Recovery Lounge
19 Red Triangle Pizzeria Napoletana Neapolitan Style Wood Fired Pizzeria
Specializing in Smoked meats, Soups
20 Rosielee's Restaurant, Concessions Catering Co. and saiads
21 SEGWAE LLC Day Camp
Folkloric Dance/ Fitness Music 
22 Tabcat Detroit Health Art
23 Teena Cathay Lifestyle LLC Fitness and Lifestyle brand
24 The Improv Advantage LLC Entertainment, Training and Education
25 The Kitchen Crew Cooking Ciasses for Kids

 

 

26

 

The Standard Detroit

 

Detroit's New Standard for Fashion

 

 

Exhibit 

Recommended ?Design? Awardees

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1 Cabresto Imports Corp Owner and importer of Award Winning Spirits
Children's Art Galiery 8a
2 Workspace Enhancement Program for Children
3 Detroit Mushroom Factory Open Source Sustainable Mushroom Farm
Manufacturer and Retailer of Gourmet Roasted
4 Old World Style Almonds, Inc. Nuts
5- Giive Seed, LLC - . Corporate and Community Wellness Provider
6 Pause Detroit, LLC Coffeehouse 8: Wine Cafe
7 Playground Detroit LLC Arts Creative Sector
8 Textures by Nefertiti Full Service Natural Hair Saion

 

 

Exhibit 
Recommended ?Cash? Awardees

1. Tiki?s Treasures. Recommended investment grant of $75,000.

Tiki?s Treasures is a quality consignment shop located in the New Center area across the
street from Motown Museum at 2641 West Grand Blvd. Tiki?s goal is to provide upscale
retail options at bargain prices for the surrounding community of low to moderate income
residents where none currently exist. The business will be one of two commercial tenants
in the historic home currently undergoing a rehab into mixed?use with retail on the first
floor and housing units upstairs. A Letter of Intent has been secured for-the second tcnant,
who is a past Motor City Match Business Plan awardee and strong candidate for a future
Cash Award. Business owner Teresa Singleton, a long?time Detroit resident with deep
roots in the immediate neighborhood, owns the building as well. She has previously
received a Business Plan, Space and Design award from Motor City Match.

Total investment for the project is $332,110. The owners have invested approximately
$50,000 in equity, leaving a gap of $282,110. A recommended grant of $75,000 will be
used for major renovations to bring the space to white-box condition. The business is
pursuing financing in partnership with Motor City Match lending partners in the amount of
approximately $207,110. The grant award is contingent upon securing the necessary
funding for the project and completion of all due diligence requirements necessary for
building and business compliance.

2. Detroit Artist?s Test Lab. Recommended investment grant of $65,000.

Detroit Artist?s Test Lab is an artist incubator, co?working space and resource center on
the far East side at 14616 Mack Ave. Owners Kira Kessler 8i Glenn Urquhart, previoust
Motor City Match Design awardees, own and reside in the building on the second floor.
The business will be located on the first floor with a gift shop, pop-up gallery and event
area, outdoor patio, twelve (12) offices, as well as smaller, inexpensive and more flexible
working spaces for up to twenty (20) tenants. They have one tenant secured, Craft Cafe,
a walk-in crafting store. The owners have already begun generating interest engaging their
neighbors with an outdoor beach party and are working to form strategic partnerships with
Mash Detroit and another property owner on the block who is seeking to open a similar
style co-working space.

Total investment for this project is $247,100. The owners have invested approximately
$129,300 in equity, leaving a gap of $117,800. A recommended grant of $65,000 will be
used to execute construction, interior finishes, equipment and marketing. The business is
pursuing financing in partnership with Motor City Match lending partners in the amount of
approximately $52,800. The grant award is contingent upon securing the necessary
funding for the project and completion of all due diligence requirements necessary for
building and business compliance.

3. Montgomery Services, PLLC. Recommended investment
grant of $55,000.

Montgomery Services is a behavioral health youth empowerment center
presently located in Farmington Hills. Their mission is to offer youth an opportunity for a
better quality of life and assist them in becoming contributing members of society by

providing assessments to identify their weaknesses, and emotional issues that
can be addressed through therapy in an effort to turn their talents into a career. Owner
Edith Montgomery, a long?time Detroit resident, is expanding her practice with a location
in Southwest Detroit at 2835 Bagley, to focus on serving inner city youth and young adults.
Montgomery is a previous Motor City Match Business Plan and Space awardee.

Total investment for this project is $134,000. The owners have invested approximately
$24,000 in equity, leaving a gap of $110,000. A recommended grant of $55,000 will be
used for finishing interior build out, office equipment and installing certain features for
building and practice code compliance. The business is pursuing financing in partnership
with fuiOtOf?Sii}? 'iv?iatch lending partners inthe amount of approximately $55,000. The grant
award is contingent upon securing the necessary funding for the project and completion
of ail due diligence requirements necessary for building and business compliance.

4. SavannahBiue. Recommended investment grant of $50,000.

SavannahBlue is a dinner-only southern inspired restaurant and lounge located
Downtown on the 2nd floor of 1427 Times Square that opened in February 2016. They
are expanding their business into space on the first floor including an outdoor patio and
will offer breakfast and lunch service as well as deliveries and private event space.
SavannahBlue?s features fresh and local ingredients that capture the soul and spirit of
Detroit while paying tribute to its southern roots. With a focus on first class service and
unmatched hospitality they are also committed to employing and developing local youth.

Total investment for this project is $145,000. The owners have invested approximately
$45,000 in equity, leaving a gap of $100,000. A recommended grant of $50,000 will be
used to complete construction, build out the outdoor patio and garden and secure
additional equipment. The business is pursuing ?nancing in partnership with Motor City
Match lending partners in the amount of approximately $50,000. The grant award is
contingent upon securing the necessary funding for the project and completion of all due
diligence requirements necessary for building and business compliance.

5. Rocco?s Deli. Recommended investment grant of $50,000.

Rocco?s Deli is a full service Italian deli offering an inspiring selection of cured meats,
cheeses and specialty items, prepared foods and sandwiches and a selection of beer and
wine. Opening in Midtown at 3627 Cass, they seek to deliver a high quality product and
experience that is new, different and entirely affordable, adding to Detroit's food offerings
and bolstering its ethnic diversity. Even without a physical location, Rocco?s has tested
their product and proven business success through sold~out pop?ups, media attention and
competing as a finalist in Comerica?s Hatch Detroit competition.

Total investment for this project is $230,000. The owners have invested approximately
$130,000 in equity, leaving a gap of $100,000. A recommended grant of $50,000 will be
used to obtain a liquor license as well as equipment and completing their build?out. The
business is pursuing financing in partnership with Motor City Match lending partners in the
amount of approximately $50,000. The grant award is contingent upon securing the
necessary funding for the project and completion of all due diligence requirements
necessary for building and business compliance.

6. Narrow Way Cafe, LLC. Recommended investment grant of $45,000.

Narrow Way Cafe is a family?owned restaurant style coffee shop, specializing in premium
coffee and baked goods opening on the Avenue of Fashion at 19331 Livernois. Although
a new business, owners Andrew, Jonathan, and David Merritt have tested their model and
gained experience operating a pop?up in Straight Gate Church where David and Jonathan
serve as clergy. The business has secured a contract to offer Zingerman?s Coffee and
Bakehouse products well known for their global variety and superior quality.

Total investment for this project is $130,000. The owners have invested approximately
- $13,000in equity, icaving aigap of $117,000. A recommended grant of $45,000 will be
used for leasehold improvements, inventory and equipment. The business is pursuing
?nancing in partnership with Motor City Match lending partners in the amount of
approximately $72,000. The grant award is contingent upon securing the necessary
funding for the project and completion of all due diligence requirements necessary for
building and business compliance.

7. Nicks Detroit. Recommended investment grant of $40,000.

Nicks Detroit is a family?operated, neighborhood restaurant and sports bar located at
16807 Warren. Rozi Berishaj purchased the bar four years ago from its previous owner
of twenty years to continue its legacy as a staple of the Warrendale neighborhood. Her
husband Leon Berishai is the restaurant's chef. With a strong regular clientele and current
demand often exceeding their capacity, they purchased the space next door to offer more
seating, expand their kitchen and menu offerings, as well as a patio that will help beautify
their space.

Total investment for this project is $150,000. The owners have invested approximateiy
$75,000 in equity, leaving a gap of $75,000. A recommended grant of $40,000 will be used
to execute construction as well as fixtures, kitchen equipment, and patio build-out. The
business is pursuing financing in partnership with Motor City Match lending partners in the
amount of approximately $35,000. The grant award is contingent upon securing the
necessary funding for the project and completion of all due diligence requirements
necessary for building and business compliance.

8. Eastern Market Brewing Company. Recommended investment grant of
$40,000.

Eastern Market Brewing Company is a community centered microbrewery and taproom
with a focus on sustainable, socially conscious business locating at 2515-2519 Riopelle
Street. In addition to providing great craft beer, they plan to source local ingredients
wherever possible, hire and develop local talent and sell only in the Eastern Market
neighborhood focusing on local sales instead of distribution.

Total investment for this project is $449,531. The owners have invested approximately
$300,00 in equity, leaving a gap of $149,055. A recommended grant of $40,000 will be
used to complete construction, purchase inventory and equipment. The business is
pursuing ?nancing in partnership with Motor City Match lending partners in the amount of
approximately $109,056. The grant award is contingent upon securing the necessary
funding for the project and completion of all due diligence requirements necessary for
building and business compliance.

9. Mutual Adoration. Recommended investment grant of $35,000.

Mutual Adoration makes custom, handcrafted furniture, frames and housewares using
locally sourced reclaimed wood primarily from homes and buildings being deconstructed
or renovated in Detroit. Founded in 2013, the business sells retail and wholesale through
multiple online platforms. Owners Clare Fox and Wayne Maki have outgrown their current
space in New Center and are looking to expand their operation to 14500 Kercheval in the
Jefferson Chalmers neighborhood. In addition to their manufacturing workspace, their new
location will include a retail space with opportunity to sublet additional maker businesses
and space to feature workshop classes for the local community?-W 

Total investment for this project is $93,519. The owners have invested approximately
$30,000 in equity, leaving a gap of $63,519. A recommended grant of $35,000 will be used
to build-out the retail storefront and workshop space in addition to security and electrical
work. The business is pursuing financing in partnership with Motor City Match lending
partners in the amount of approximately $28,519. The grant award is contingent upon
securing the necessary funding for the project and completion of all due diligence
requirements necessary for building and business compliance.

10. Casting De LLC. Recommended investment grant of
$35,000.

Casting de meaning ?to make into gold," is an experiential boutique
manufacturing and design house specializing in precious and semi-precious metal jewelry,
hand-bags and fragrances. Owner and Detroit native Karissma Pringle started the
business three years ago in an effort to bring her invaluable experience from curating
showrooms with other global brands in Paris to her hometown. With an established
following of local and international consumers, her new location at 4719 16th Street will
expand the business to include precious metal manufacturing, becoming one of two
businesses in the region to provide this service and the only business in Detroit to provide
jewelry manufacturing services to the public. The space is a live?work studio in an artist
community being developed just down the street from Round 5 Motor City Match Awardee
the N?namdi Center, adding to the developing of an arts gallery district along the Grand
River corridor.

Total investment for this project is $99,932. The owners have invested approximately
$24,638 in equity, leaving a gap of $74,144. A recommended grant of $35,000 will be used
for inventory, equipment, marketing and other business start-up costs. The business is
pursuing financing in partnership with Motor City Match lending partners in the amount of
approximately $39,144. The grant award is contingent upon securing the necessary
funding for the project and completion of all due diligence requirements necessary for
building and business compliance.

11. Loose Massage Therapy Plus LLC. Recommended investment grant of
$30,000.

Loose Massage Therapy is a community focused massage therapy business that
educates clients on the importance of personal and preventative care in addition to
providing high quality, affordable services. Owner J?nai Porter, a licensed massage
therapist in business for over 13 years, is seeking to expand her business on the Avenue

of Fashion at 19485 Livernois. J?nai will continue to grow her client base while promoting
awareness and healthy choices for reaching Detroit?s underserved population.

Total investment for this project is $90,000. The owner has invested approximately
$30,000 in equity, leaving a gap of $60,000. A recommended grant of $30,000 will be used
for interior buildout, furniture, marketing, and supplies. The business is pursuing financing
in partnership with Motor City Match lending partners in the amount of $30,000. The grant
award is contingent upon securing the necessary funding for the project and completion
of all due diligence requirements necessary for building and business compliance.

  "wt-2: it -- LoveLifeSwagger.- Recommended investment grant of $30,000.

LoveLifeSwagger is a premium streetwear brand offering high quality clothing with in-
house design and light manufacturing. The brand is sold in retail outlets nationally as well
as at the storefront in Downtown Detroit. The business is expanding from the current suite
to a new space in the same building, 277 Gratiot, to improve visibility and increase foot
traffic. Owner Trellis Mercer is also a previous Motor City Match Business Plan and Space
awardee.

Total investment for this project is $78,000. The owner has invested approximately
$20,000 in equity, leaving a gap of $58,000. A recommended grant of $30,000 will be
used for interior construction, electrical updates, signage, equipment and inventory. The
business is pursuing financing in partnership with Motor City Match lending partners in the
amount of $28,000. The grant award is contingent upon securing the necessary funding
for the project and completion of all due diligence requirements necessary for building and
business compliance.

13. Cake Ambition. Recommended investment grant of $25,000.

Cake Ambition is a bakery specializing in custom wedding and sculpture cakes in addition
to coffee, pastries, old fashioned candy and a proprietary cake sundae bar. The business
has been located at Traffic Jam and Snug for six years, but has outgrown the current
space. In addition to increased space, the business will be opening a retail storefront at
4154 Third Street in Midtown.

Total investment for this project is $96,216. The owner has raised approximately $70,700
in equity, leaving a gap of about $25,000. A recommended grant of $25,000 will be used
for flooring, kitchen cooling and storage equipment, baking equipment and working capital.
The business has already secured financing in partnership with Motor City Match lending
partners in the amount of $65,700. The grant award is contingent upon completion of all
due diligence requirements necessary for building and business compliance.

14. Truth Bookstore. Recommended investment grant of $15,000.

Truth Bookstore is a book retailer and gift shop that also provides information and
resources to enrich, empower and educate the community at-large. Owners Jelani and
Nefertiti Steward operated at Northland Mail for 20 years until the center closed where
they built a very strong following and dedicated client base. After two years of searching
for a new space, they are now relocating to 16180 Meyers Rd in near the Marygrove
neighborhood. Truth is a previous Motor City Match Space and Design awardee.

Totai investment for this project is $29,000. The owners have invested approximately
$14,000 in equity, leaving a gap of $15,000. A recommended grant of $15,000 will be used
for interior construction, book shelving, computers, furniture and inventory. With this grant,
the project will be fully funded, so the business will not have to pursue financing with Motor
City Match lending partners. The grant award is contingent upon completion of all due
diligence requirements necessary for building and business compliance.

15. People Skate Shop. Recommended investment grant of $10,000.

People Skate Shop is a family-owned and operated skateboard, snowboard and apparel
retailer currently located in Keego HarborgThe?business? hasbeen?operated by oWners
Ben and Jessica Clark since 2010 and will now be expanding to a second location at 2000
Michigan Ave in Corktown. With skateboarding being the fastest growing youth sport in
the nation, the business seeks to accommodate growing demand as their target customer
base is migrating into Detroit. They seek to fill a need for more moderately priced apparel
retailers and specifically fill the gap for a Detroit skateboard shop. In addition to
complementing Corktown?s burgeoning commercial corridor, People?s works closely with
iocal nonprofit, Community Push, to help develop iocai skate parks and donate used
equipment to local youth.

Total investment for this project is $46,000. The owners have invested approximately
$26,000 in equity, leaving a gap of $20,000. A recommended grant of $10,000 will be used
for flooring, lighting, materials, supplies, signage and a security system. The business is
pursuing financing in partnership with Motor City Match lending partners in the amount of
$10,000. The grant award is contingent upon securing the necessary funding for the
project and completion of all due diligence requirements necessary for building and
business compliance.

 

EDC 17-01-91-31
Economic Development Corporation of the City of De?rorEt 

MOTOR CITY MATCH RECOMMENDATION FOR ROUND 6 BUILDING AWARDS

WHEREAS, EDC staff has completed extensive due diligence and evaluation for
applications (?Applications) for the sixth round (?Round of the Motor City Match Building
Application Track; and 

WHEREAS, the EDC staff has provided recommendations to the EDC Board of
Directors, to receive technical assistance in the ?Space,? and ?Design? Building Owner
award categories; and

WHEREAS, the EDC Board of Directors determined that the staff recommendation
is reasonable and consistent with the Motor City Match program; and

NOW, THEREFORE BE lT RESOLVED, the EDC Board of Directors accepts the
current results of the Round 6 Building Application evaluation process, and approves the
Applications that have been recommended for ?Space? awards, attached hereto as
Exhibit A.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, the EDC Board of Directors accepts the current
results of the Round 6 Building Application evaluation process, and approves the
Applications that have been recommended for ?Design? awards, attached hereto as
Exhibit B.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that any two Officers, or any one of the Of?cers and
any one of the Authorized Agents or any two of the Authorized Agents shall
hereafter have the authority to negotiate and execute all documents, contracts, or other
papers and to take such actions as are necessary or appropriate to implement the
provisions and intent of this resolution.

BE IT FINALLY RESOLVED, that all of the acts and transactions of any Officer or
Authorized Agent of the EDC, in the name and on behalf of the EDC, relating to matters
contemplated by the foregoing resolutions, which acts would have been approved by the
foregoing resolutions, except that such acts were taken prior to the execution of these
resolutions, are hereby in alt respects confirmed, approved and ratified.

January 10, 2017

500 Griswold,Suite 2200 Detroit,Michigon 48226 (313) 963-2940

Exhibit A
Motor City Match: Round Six
Recommended ?Space? Awardees Top Property Designation

January 10, 2017

 

 

 

Available    . . 
Property Street Address   $30.12;: Sign:  ($21233; 
10605 Mack Other 35090 No Good
?il354?l5?xtef  Commercial 10000 Yes. Fair
12330 Chalmers Commercial 3000 No Fair
14000 W. Seven Mile Commercial 6000 No Good
14003 Rosa Parks Commercial 8000 Yes Fair
15715 Warren Commercial 5000 Yes Fair
1741 Atkinson Commercial 5200 Yes Fair
1825 215t Warehouse 13000 No Fair
1899949011 Livernois Commercial 7500 Yes Good
19458 Livemois Commercial 1400 No Great
2448 Riopelle Commercial 2300 Yes Great
2515 Riopelle Commercial 5200 No Fair
3301 Junction Commercial 3200 Yes Good
3439 Livernois (to-working 22000 Yes Good
4032 Toledo Commercial 12000 Yes Good
4400-4426 Vernor Hwy Commercial 4300 Yes Fair
5157 Stanton Warehouse 3000 Yes Fair
5249 McClellan Commercial 3000 No Good
6301 Michigan Of?ce 3000 Yes Good
6330 Jefferson Commercial 4068 Yes Good
7400 Interval Commercial 100000 No Fair
9215 Jefferson Commercial 1700 Yes Fair

Exhibit 
Motor City Match: Round Six
Recommended ?Design? Awardees
January 10, 2017

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Business Name Property Address Disposition
Cabresto imports Corp 3301 Junction lease
Children's- Art Gallery Workspace  14801'E?oe?efson?w lease?

Detroit Mushroom Factory  13832 Joseph Campau owner occupied
Old World Style Almonds, inc.  17129 Rockdale lease

Olive Seed, LLC 269 Walker lease

Pause Detroit, LLC 736 Lothrop owner occupied
Playground Detroit, LLC 2845 Gratiot lease

Textures by Nefertiti 6525 Woodward lease

 

 

 

 CODE EDC 17-01-81-132
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit

 

SMALL BUSINESS AND CORRIDOR REVITALIZATION PROGRAM:
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANT CONSULTANT SERVICES

WHEREAS, The Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit
has developed a small business and commercial corridor revitalization program
 the request of the City of Detroit (the ?City?) Mayor?s Of?ce.

WHEREAS, the EDC entered into a subrecipient agreement with the City (Contract
#2899173) to manage administer and implement the Program for a term ending December
31,2017;and

WHEREAS, the EDC solicited bid proposals on November 21, 2016 for services
necessary to advise CDBG program design and to develop CDBG compliance and
reporting systems; and

WHEREAS, EDC staff received four (4) proposals to the Request for Proposals.
Staff has reviewed all proposals and recommends Hennessey Engineers, Inc. (the ?Firm?)
to provide the Work, as the most responsive bidder; and

WHEREAS, the EDC Board of Directors has determined that Staff's
recommendation is appropriate and within the best interests of the Program.

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the EDC Board of Directors hereby
authorizes the negotiation and execution of a professional services contract with the Firm
to provide the requested services for the not-to-exceed amount of One Hundred Fifty
Thousand and 00/100 per the ?small purchase procedureFURTHER RESOLVED, that any two Of?cers, or any one of the Officers
and any one of the Authorized Agents or any two of the Authorized Agents shall
hereafter have the authority to negotiate and execute all documents, contracts, or other
papers and to take such actions as are necessary to implement the provisions and intent
of this resolution.

BE IT FINALLY RESOLVED, that all of the acts and transactions of any Of?cer or
Authorized Agent of the EDC, in the name and on behalf of the EDC, relating to matters
contemplated by the foregoing resolutions, which acts would have been approved by the
foregoing resolutions except that such acts were taken prior to execution of these
resolutions, are hereby in all respects confirmed, approved and rati?ed.

January 10, 2017

500 Griswold,Suite 2200 - Detroit, Michigan 48226 - (3i3) 963-2940

. CODE EDC 17-01-91-34
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit

 

SMALL BUSINESS AND COMMERCIAL connrgon REVITALIZATION 
AND wegsng DEVELQPMENT SERVICES

WHEREAS, The Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit
has developed a small business and commercial corridor revitalization program

 at?t?ne request of the City of Detroit (the ?City?) Mayor?s Of?ce-

WHEREAS, the EDC entered into a subrecipient agreement with the City (Contract
#2899173) to administer and implement the Program for a term ending December 31,
2017;and

WHEREAS, the EDC solicited bid proposals on November 21, 2016, for services
necessary to provide branding and website development services for the Program

WHEREAS, EDC staff received five (5) proposals. Staff has reviewed all proposals
and recommends Media Genesis, Inc. (the "Firm?) to provide the Work, as the most
responsive bidder; and

WHEREAS, the EDC Board of Directors has determined that Staff?s
recommendation is appropriate and within the best interests of the Program.

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the EDC Board of Directors hereby
authorizes the negotiation and execution of a professional services contract with the Firm
to provide the requested services for the not-to?exceed amount Seventy-Four Thousand
Four Hundred Ten and 00/100 

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that any two Officers, or any one of the Officers
and any one of the Authorized Agents or any two of the E008 Authorized Agents Shall
hereafter have the authority to negotiate and execute all documents, contracts, or other
papers and to take such actions as are necessary to implement the provisions and intent
of this resolution.

BE lT FINALLY RESOLVED, that all of the acts and transactions of any Officer or
Authorized Agent of the EDC, in the name and on behalf of the EDC, relating to matters
contemplated by the foregoing resolutions, which acts would have been approved by the
foregoing resolutions except that such acts were taken prior to execution of these
resolutions, are hereby in all respects confirmed, approved and ratified.

January 10, 2017

500 Griswold,8uite 2200 I Detroit,MiChigon 48226 (313) 963-2940

. CODE EDC 17-01-91-35
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroi

 

SMALL BUSINESS AND COMMERCIAL: CORRIDOR REVITALIZATION PROGRAM:
PLANNING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE

WHEREAS, The Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit
has developed a small business and commercial corridor revitalization program
(the "Program") at the request of the City oiDe-troit (tirae?t?Ci-tyi?) Mayor?s Office; and 

WHEREAS, the EDC entered into a subrecipient agreement with the City (Contract
#2899173) to administer and implement the Program for a term ending December 31,
2017; and

WHEREAS, the EDC solicited bid proposals on November 21, 2016, for business
and financial planning services for the Program. Staff has reviewed all proposals and
determined LifeLine Business Consulting Services, LLC (the ?Firm?) to provide the Work,
as a responsive bidder; and

WHEREAS, EDC staff requests authorization from the Board to enter into a
Professional Services Agreement between Firm and EDC to provide business and
financial planning services to business awardees in 2017;

WHEREAS, the EDC Board of Directors has determined that Staff?s
recommendation is appropriate and within the best interests of the Program.

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the EDC Board of Directors hereby
authorizes the negotiation and execution of a professional services contract with the Firm
for the not?to-exceed amount of One Hundred Two Thousand and 00/100 

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that any two Officers, or any one of the Of?cers
and any one of the Authorized Agents or any two of the Authorized Agents shall
hereafter have the authority to negotiate and execute all documents, contracts, or other
papers and to take such actions as are necessary to implement the provisions and intent
of this resolution.

BE IT FINALLY RESOLVED, that all of the acts and transactions of any Of?cer or
Authorized Agent of the EDC, in the name and on behalf of the EDC, relating to matters
contemplated by the foregoing resolutions, which acts would have been approved by the
foregoing resolutions except that such acts were taken prior to execution of these
resolutions, are hereby in all respects confirmed, approved and ratified.

January 10, 2017

500 Griswold,Suite 2200 I Detroit, Michigan 48226 (313) 963?2940

 

. . EDC 17-01-91-36
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Better 

SMALL BUSINESS AND COMMERCIAL CORRIDOR REVITALIZATION PROGRAM:
BUSINESS PLANNING AND TECHNICAL. ASSISTANCE

WHEREAS, The Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit
has developed a small business and commercial corridor revitalization program
 (the ?Program?) at the request of the City of Detroit (the ?City?) Mayor?s Of?ce.

WHEREAS, the EDC entered into a subrecipient agreement with the City (Contract
#2899173) to administer and implement the Program for a term ending December 31,
2017gand

WHEREAS, the EDC solicited bid proposals on November 21, 2016, for business
and financial planning services for the Program. Staff has reviewed all proposals and
determined Downtown Detroit Partnership, the fiduciary of Build Institute (the ?Firm?) to
provide the Work, as a responsive bidder; and;

WHEREAS, EDC staff requests authorization from the Board to enter into a
Professional Services Agreement between Firm and EDC to provide business and
?nancial planning services to business awardees in 2017;

WHEREAS, the EDC Board of Directors has determined that Staff?s
recommendation is appropriate and within the best interests of the Program.

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the EDC Board of Directors hereby
authorizes the negotiation and execution of a professional services contract with the Firm
for the not-to-exceed amount of Eighty Thousand and 00/100 

BE lT FURTHER RESOLVED, that any two Of?cers, or any one of the Of?cers
and any one of the Authorized Agents or any two of the Authorized Agents shall
hereafter have the authority to negotiate and execute all documents, contracts, or other
papers and to take such actions as are necessary to implement the provisions and intent
of this resolution.

BE IT FINALLY RESOLVED, that all of the acts and transactions of any Of?cer or
Authorized Agent of the EDC, in the name and on behalf of the EDC, relating to matters
contemplated by the foregoing resolutions, which acts would have been approved by the
foregoing resolutions except that such acts were taken prior to execution of these
resolutions, are hereby in all respects confirmed, approved and rati?ed.

January 10, 2017

500 Griswold,Suite 2200 Detroit,Michigon 48226 - (313) 963-2940

 

. . 1_3
Economic Development Corporation of the City of  MD 17 01 9 7

MOTOR CITY MATCH: PERSONAL SERVICES CONTRACT AMENDMENT FOR
JAMES FEAGIN

WHEREAS, The Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit
has developed a small business and commercial corridor revitalization program
(the ?Program?) at the request of the Cityct Detroit (the ?City?) Mayor?s Of?ce.

WHEREAS, the EDC entered into a subrecipient agreement with the City (Contract
#2899173) to manage administer and implement the Program for a term ending
December 31, 2017 pursuant to EDC Board approval on October 14, 2014 (Resolution 
14-10-91-01); and

WHEREAS, the EDC entered into a Personal Service Agreement with
James Feagin to provide outreach and engagement services on February 16, 2015 with
a contract value of Forty-Eight Thousand Seven Hundred Fifty 00/100 for a
total of 650 hours at an hourly rate of $75.00/hour.

WHEREAS, the EDC entered into a Personal Service Agreement with
James Feagin to provide outreach and engagement services on February 16, 2015 with
a contract value of Forty-Eight Thousand Seven Hundred Fifty 00/100 for a
total of 650 hours at an hourly rate of $75.00/hour.

WHEREAS, On November 24, 2015, the EDC approved an amendment of the
PSA with James Feagin to provide for an additional 540 hours at the existing hourly rate
of $75.00/hr for a total contract value not-to?exceed Eighty-Four Thousand Nine Hundred
Fifty-Six 00/100 due to unforeseen workload requirements to execute
multiple aspects of the Program.

WHEREAS, On January 25, 2016, the EDC approved a second amendment of the
PSA with James Feagin to provide for an additional 736 hours for 2016 outreach services
at the hourly rate of $75.00/hr for a total contract value not-to?exceed One Hundred Forty
Thousand One Hundred Fifty-Six 001100 

WHEREAS, EDC staff recommends a third amendment of the PSA with James
Feagin to continue 201? outreach and engagement activities that will provide for 750 hours
at new hourly rate of $100.00lhr for an additional Seventy-Five Thousand and 00/100
in 2017. The total amended contract value would not-to-exceed Two
Hundred Fifteen Thousand One Hundred Fifty-Six 00/100 and

WHEREAS, EDC staff will report outreach and engagement outcomes to the EDC
Board of Directors on a quarterly basis to closely monitor the allocation of outreach
resources and investment.

WHEREAS, the EDC Board of Directors has determined that Staff?s
recommendation is appropriate and within the best interests of the Program.

500 Griswold,3uite 2200 - Detroit,Michigon 48226 - (313)963?2940

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the EDC Board of Directors hereby
authorizes the negotiation and execution of an amended PSA with James Feagin to
provide the requested services for the notmto-exoeed amount Two Hundred Fifteen
Thousand One Hundred Fifty-Six 00/100 

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that any two Officers, or any one of the Officers
and any one of the Authorized Agents or any two of the EDC's Authorized Agents shall
hereafter have the authority to negotiate and execute all documents, contracts, or other
papers and to take such actions as are necessary to implement the provisions and intent
of this resolution.

BE IT FINALLY RESOLVED, that all of the acts and transactions of any Officer or
Authorized Agent of the EDC, in the name and on behalf of the EDC, relating to matters
contemplated by the foregoing resolutions, which acts would have been approved by the
foregoing resolutions except that such acts were taken prior to execution of these
resolutions, are hereby in all respects confirmed, approved and ratified.

January 10, 2017

 . CODE EDC 17-01-91-33
conomic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit

 

SMALL BUSINESS AND COMMERCIMORRIDOR REVITALIZATION PROGRAM:
LEGAL SERVICES

 

WHEREAS, The Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit
has developed a small business and commercial corridor revitalization program
(the ?Program?) at the request of the City of Detroit (the ?City?) Mayor?s Of?ce.

WHEREAS, The EDC entered into a subrecipient agreement with the City
(Contract #2899173) to administer and implement the Program for a term ending
December 31, 2017; and

WHEREAS, The EDC solicited bid proposals on November 21, 2016 for legal
services necessary to advise CDBG program design and execution; and

WHEREAS, EDC staff received three (3) proposals. Staff has reviewed all
proposals and recommends Clark Hill (the ?Firm") to provide the Work, as the most
responsive bidder; and

WHEREAS, the EDC Board of Directors has determined that Staff's
recommendation is appropriate and within the best interests of the Program.

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the EDC Board of Directors hereby
authorizes the negotiation and execution of a professional services contract with the Firm
to provide the requested services for the not-toexceed amount of One Hundred Fifty
Thousand and 00/100 per the ?small purchase procedureFURTHER RESOLVED, that any two Officers, or any one of the Officers
and any one of the Authorized Agents or any two of the Authorized Agents shall
hereafter have the authority to negotiate and execute all documents, contracts, or other
papers and to take such actions as are necessary to implement the provisions and intent
of this resolution.

BE IT FINALLY RESOLVED, that all of the acts and transactions of any Of?cer or
Authorized Agent of the EDC, in the name and on behalf of the EDC, relating to matters
contemplated by the foregoing resolutions, which acts would have been approved by the
foregoing resolutions except that such acts were taken prior to execution of these
resolutions, are hereby in all respects confirmed, approved and ratified.

January 10, 2017

500 Griswold,8uite 2200 Detroit, Michigan 48226 (313) 963-2940

. CODE EDC 17-01-91-38
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit

 

MOTOR CITY MATCH: PERSONAL SERVICES CONTRACT AMENDMENT FOR
ANDREW LUCCO

WHEREAS, The Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit
has developed a small business and commercial corridor revitalization program
(the ?Program") at the request of the City of Detroit (the ?City?) Mayor's Of?ce. 

WHEREAS, the EDC entered into a subrecipient agreement with the City (Contract
#2899173) to administer and implement the Program for a term ending December 31,
2017;and

WHEREAS, EDC staff recommends entering into a Personal Service Agreement
with Andrew Lucco to provide matchmaking, technical assistance support and
business engagement activities that will provide for One Thousand Nine Hundred Fifty
(1 ,950) hours at an hourly rate of Twenty~Eight 00/100 ($28.00) per hour for a not-to?
exceed contract value of Fifty-four Thousand Six Hundred 00/100 and

WHEREAS, the EDC Board of Directors has determined that Staff's
recommendation is appropriate and within the best interests of the Program.

NOW THEREFORE BE lT RESOLVED, that the EDC Board of Directors hereby
authorizes the negotiation and execution of an SA with Andrew Lucco to provide the
requested services for the not-to-exceed amount Fifty~four Thousand Six Hundred 00/100


BE iT FURTHER RESOLVED, that any two Of?cers, or any one of the Officers
and any one of the Authorized Agents or any two of the Authorized Agents shall
hereafter have the authority to negotiate and execute all documents, contracts, or other
papers and to take such actions as are necessary to implement the provisions and intent
of this resolution.

BE lT FINALLY RESOLVED, that all of the acts and transactions of any Officer or
Authorized Agent of the EDC, in the name and on behalf of the EDC, relating to matters
contemplated by the foregoing resolutions, which acts would have been approved by the
foregoing resolutions except that such acts were taken prior to execution of these
resolutions, are hereby in all respects con?rmed, approved and ratified.

January 10, 2017

500 Griswold,8uite 2200 Detroit, Michigan 48226 - (313)963-2940

 

. . CODE EDC 17-01-03-203
Economic DevelopmemL of The CW of 

ACCEPTANCE OF REPORT FOR OCTOBER 2016

RESOLVED, that the Treasurer?s Report of Receipts and Disbursements for the
period ending October 2016, as presented at this meetiog. is hereby in all respects
accepted as action of the Economic Development Corporation.

January 10, 2017

500 Griswold?uife 2200 De?citMichigon 48226 (313) 963?2940

 

. DC 17-01-63-20
Economic Development Corporation of the CETY ofgyeqro? 9

ACCEPTANCE OF REPORT FOR NOVEMBER 2016

RESOLVED, that the Treasurer's Report of Receipts and Disbursements for the
period ending November'30, 20?? 6, as presented at this meeting, is hereby in ali respects
accepted as action of the Economic Development Corporation.

January 10, 2017

500 Griswoid?ui?re 2200 - Deiroii,Michigon 48226 - (313) 963-2940

. CODE EDC 17-01-69-07
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detrorr

 

SPRINGWELLS INDUSTRJAL PARK PROJECT - PROPOSED MEMORANDUM OF
UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN EDC ANQ HONEYWELL CORPORATION - RE:
SEAWALL. DREDGE PROJECT, AND LAND RECONFIGURATION

WHEREAS, the Economic Development Corporation of the-CityofDetroit-(the 
and the Honeywell Corporation (the have been in discussions regarding
the Rouge River Dredge and Seawall project related to the EDC Springwells subdivision
and E008 owned lot #7 at Springwells; and

WHEREAS, the primary project requires Honeywell, in cooperation with the EPA
and all the impacted adjacent property owners on the Rouge River, to dredge off impacted
river sediments and to stabilize shorelines and seawall systems as required so as to not
impact the integrity of the shorelines; and

WHEREAS, this project engineering is mostly complete. The petition for a partial
vacation has been assembled by Honeywell?s engineers and submitted to Detroit City
Council for review and approval; and

WHEREAS, the project seawall improvements are meant to conducted in 2017,
with the dredging work expected to be completed no later than 2018; and

WHEREAS, the project also entails the possible re-platting or lot splits and
combinations around lot 7, the partial vacationing of Springwells Court right of way, the
absorption of lot 11 and several other lot con?guration changes (the ?Project?); and

WHEREAS, based on these discussions, representatives from the EDC, and HON
have negotiated a proposed non-binding Memorandum of Understanding, a copy of which
is attached hereto as Exhibit A (the setting forth preliminary terms and conditions
pursuant to which the EDC and HON will pursue the Project; and

WHEREAS, a summary of the material terms and conditions of the MOU is as
follows:

1. Replatting or Land Splits and Combinations. The EDC outside counsel, Williams
Acosta PLLC will perform all the Complaints, services, and documentation
necessary to revise lot configurations, and to validate the partial vacationing of
Springwells Ct. Road. Honeywell is expected to pay for the legal and other services
related to its primary activity of dredging, seawall installation and partial road
closure around lot 7.

2. The MOU also requires Honeywell to provide the following:
a) Reimburse the EDC for legal fees and costs of outside counsel up to

$20,000 related to the vacationing, and replatting of the public road and lot 
b) HON shall provide all of its own legal services and pay for those expenses and

500 Griswold,8uite 2200 - Detroit,Michigon 48226 - (313) 9632940

the costs of providing all the engineering services and work product related to
the changes in let 7, and the partially vacated Springwells Court.

c) Quit claim all of lot 11 to the EDC.

d) Restoring the Springwells Ct Road to its former condition, if the re plat or split
and combination effort is not successful at the City level or through the Court
system.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE lT, RESOLVED, that the MOU is hereby approved
substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit A, together with such changes that
are necessary or appropriate due to minor inaccuracies contained in the MOU, unforeseen
events or circumstances, or technical matters; as determined by the Officers and/or
Authorized Agents executing the MOU, provided that such changes do not alter the
material substance of the MOU.

BE iT FURTHER RESOLVED, that any two Officers, or any one of the Officers and
any one of the Authorized Agents or any two of the Authorized Agents, shall
hereafter have the authority to execute and implement the MOU, and negotiate and
execute all other documents, contracts, or papers, and take all actions, necessary or
appropriate to implement the provisions and intent of this resolution on behalf of the EDC.

BE IT FINALLY RESOLVED, that all of the acts and transactions of any Officer or
Authorized Agent of the EDC, in the name and on behalf of the EDC, relating to matters
contemplated by the foregoing resolutions, which acts would have been approved by the
foregoing resolutions except that such acts were taken prior to execution of these
resolutions, are hereby in all respects con?rmed, approved and ratified.

January 10, 2017

. CODE EDC 17-01-69-08
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detrortm

 

SPRINGWELLS INDUSTRJAL SUBDIVISION APPROVAL AND AUTHORIZATION
TO ENTER INTO A PROFESSIONAL SERVICES AGREEMENT WITH NOWAK 
FRAUS ENGINEERS

- the Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit (the
staff has been interacting with the Honeywell Corporation, the EPA and their
engineers, and the City of Detroit in contemplation of the proposal by EPA and Honeywell
to install a seawall on lot and to dredge the Rouge River of contaminated
materials; and

WHEREAS, in addition to the seawall project, the State of Michigan is interested
in acquiring a section of property for the purpose of installing the Gordie Howe Bridge
through Springwells that impacts multiple parcels, some owned by other developers; and

WHEREAS, in coordination with Honeywell, it has been determined that the
changes to the subdivision lots are signi?cant, and a respiatting, or lot splitting and
combination effort must be performed; and

WHEREAS, the EDC has identi?ed services in the area to account for new tot
designations, provide lot splits, combinations and new lots. Reconciling or modifying lot
surveys as required as being impacted by the Gordie Howe Bridge parcel and its impact
to adjacent lots and other desired changes. The work product includes graphic surveys,
field staking, easement descriptions, property legal descriptions and other related
documents; and

WHEREAS, EDC staff determined that it is necessary to obtain Professional
Survey Contractor for the Project to perform the scope of work; and

WHEREAS, on September 7, 2016 the EDC staff issued a Request for Proposals
(RFP) for a Professional Survey Contractor to perform the services; and

WHEREAS, EDC staff received bids November 29, 2016, reviewed the bid results,
and has recommended Nowak Fraus Engineers for the project; and

WHEREAS, the EDC Board determined that the staff recommendation is
reasonable and consistent with the scope of work for the Project.

NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the EDC Board of Directors hereby
authorizes the negotiation and execution of an Agreement with Nowak Fraus Engineers
to perform the Professional Surveying services for the Springwells Industrial Subdivision
in a manner consistent with the RFP for a contract not to exceed value of Thirty Thousand
One Hundred Sixty and 00/100 Dollars.

BE lT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the EDC Board of Directors hereby approves
establishment of an owners contingency of $3,160.00 to address requirements for

500 Griswold,Suite 2200 Detroit, Michigan 48226 (313) 963-2940

unforeseen conditions, to be expended at the direction of any two Officers or any one of
the Officers and any of the Authorized Agents of the EDC.

BE IT FINALLY RESOLVED, that all of the acts and transactions of any Officer or
Authorized Agent of the EDC. in the name and on behalf of the EDC, relating to matters
contemplated by the foregoing resolutions, which acts would have been approved by the
foregoing resolutions, except that such acts were taken prior to the execution of these
resolutions, are hereby in all respects confirmed, approved and ratified.

January 10, 2017

. OD EDC 17-01-76-21
Economic Development Corporation of the City of etrc?t?w

 

TIGER STADIUM PROEERTY REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT: AMENDMENT TO
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT WITH PAL

WHEREAS, in December 2014 (EDC Resolution 14-12-7647), The Economic
DeveIOpment Corporation of the City of Detroit (the approved the Detroit Police
Att?iietic- deveiopment'plan pursuant to which the PAL proposed the
redevelopment of that portion of the former Tiger Stadium (the ?Site") into administrative
offices, recreational facilities, and a banquet facility for programs promoting youth
athletics (the ??Project?); and

WHEREAS, in March, 2016 (EDC Resolution Board approved
certain modi?cations to the development agreement, as described in that certain Amended
and Restated Development Agreement (the ?Development Agreement?); and

WHEREAS, pursuant to the Development Agreement, PAL was to establish a
$1,000,000 operating reserve fund (the ?Reserve Fund?) prior to Project completion on the
following schedule: $500,000 as of the end of 2016, with the balance to be funded prior to
Project completion; and

WHEREAS, since commencing construction of the Project in June, 2016, PAL
encountered unexpected soil conditions at the Site resulting in increased excavation and
site preparation costs; and

WHEREAS, in light of the increased costs, PAL has requested a modification of
the schedule for funding the Reserve Fund as follows: $250,000 by 2/28/17; additional
$250,000 by 5/31/17 and remaining balance ($500,000) by Project completion (the
?Modified Schedule?).

WHEREAS, the Board has reviewed the proposed Modified Schedule, determined
that it is consistent with the intent of the Development Agreement and the overall
goal of redeveloping the Tiger Stadium Site and is otherwise appropriate and consistent
with the statutory purposes.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT, RESOLVED, that an amendment to the Development
Agreement incorporating the Modi?ed Schedule is hereby approved.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that any two Of?cers, or any one of the Officers
and any one of the Authorized Agents or any two of the Authorized Agents, shall
hereafter have the authority to negotiate and execute an amendment to the Development
Agreement upon the terms and conditions consistent with this resolution, together with
such other terms and conditions that are determined by such Authorized Agents and/or
Officers to be customary or appropriate and not inconsistent with this resolution, and to
negotiate and execute all other documents, contracts, or papers, and take all actions,
necessary or appropriate to implement the provisions and intent of this resolution on behalf
of the E00.

500 Griswold,3uite 2200 - Detroit, Michigan 48226 - (313) 963?2940

BE lT FINALLY RESOLVED, that all of the acts and transactions of any of?cer or
authorized agent of the EDC, in the name and on behalf of the EDC, relating to matters
contemplated by the foregoing resolutions, which acts would have been approved by the
foregoing resolutions except that such acts were taken prior to execution of these
resolutions, are hereby in all respects confirmed, approved and ratified.

January 10, 2017

