 CODE EDC 18-05-02-298
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit

 

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF APRIL 24, 2018 REGULAR MEETING

RESOLVED, that the minutes of the Regular meeting of April 24, 2018 are hereby
approved and all actions taken by the Directors present at such meeting, as set forth in
such minutes, are hereby in all respects ratified and approved as actions of the Economic
Development Corporation.

May 22, 2018

500 Griswold, Suite 2200 - 48226 - (3l3) 963-2940

ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
BOARD OF DIRECTORS REGULAR MEETING
TUESDAY, APRIL 24, 2018 8:30 A.M.

BOARD MEMBERS PRESENT: Marsha Bruhn

BOARD MEMBERS ABSENT:

SPECIAL DIRECTORS
PRESENT:

SPECIAL DIRECTORS
ABSENT:

OTHERS PRESENT:

Linda Forte
Jonathan Quarles
Matthew Roiing
Thomas Staliworth

Kimberly Clayson

Maurice Cox (Ex-Officio)

Chris Jackson

John Naglick (Ex-?Officio)

Vacancy (due to William Ritsema?s resignation)
Vacancy (due to Monique Claiborne's resignation)

Timothy Schacht (NDC Project No. 1)

Emily Black (l~94 Industrial Park Project)

Melwood Brown (NDC Project No. 1)

Patrick Dozier (Mt. Elliott-Wight Project)

Jon Newton (Waterfront East Development Project)
Dominic Pangbom (Mt. Eiliott-Wight Project)

Frank Taylor (Waterfront East Development Project)
Marvin Thomas (l?94 industrial Park Project)

Anthony Askew 
Cora Capier 
Gay Hilger 
Malinda Jensen 
Damon Jordan 
Jennifer Kanalos 
Glen Long 

Chris McClain (Citizen Detroit)
Rebecca Nevin 
Mariangela Pledl 
Orza Robertson 
Keily Shovan 



Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit

MINUTES OF THE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
BOARD OF DIRECTORS REGULAR MEETING

TUESDAY, APRIL 24, 2018

DETROIT ECONOMIC GROWTH CORPORATION

500 GRISWOLD, SUITE 2200 - 8:30 A.M.

CALL TO ORDER

Noting that a quorum was present, Chair Forte called the Regular meeting of the Economic
Development Corporation Board of Directors to order at 8:34 am.

GENERAL
Approval of Minutes

Ms. Forte asked if there were any additions, deletions or corrections to the minutes ofthe
April 10, 2018 Regular Board meeting. With there being no response, the Board took the
following action:

On a motion by Ms. Bruhn, seconded by Mr. Quarles, Resolution Code EDC 18?
04-02-296 was unanimously approved.

Acceptance of Treasurer?s Report

Ms. Shovan reviewed the Treasurer?s Report of Receipts and Disbursements for the
month of March 2018 for the benefit of the Board. With there being no questions, the
Board took the following action:

On a motion by Mr. Stallworth, seconded by Mr. Roling, Resolution Code EDC 18?
04-03-225 was unanimously approved.

PROJ ECTS

Waterfront East Development Project; NDC Project No. 1 Jefferson Village Project;
and Mt. Elliott-Wight Development Project: Landscape Services Contract with
Grace Management Services, Inc.

Mr. Robertson reported that as part of the East Riverfront, Jefferson Village and Mt. Elliott
Projects, the EDC provides landscape maintenance services for various areas within the
Project. The boundaries of the East Riverfront Project Area are Woodbridge (north),
Atwater (south), Jos Campau (east), and Riopelle (west). Jefferson Village Project the
boundaries are Jefferson (north), St. Clair (east), Freud (south) and St. Jean (east). Light
House Depot the project is located on Mt. Elliott (south) of Jefferson (the ?ProjectArea").

April 24, 2018

500 Griswold,Suite 2200 - Detroit,Michigon 48226 - (313)963-2940

To prepare for the required landscape maintenance, the EDC staff publiciy advertised and
issued a Request for Proposal in March 2018 for the performance of area
iandscape maintenance and vegetation control services in the Project Area. The work
entaiis trash debris removal, mowing vacant lots, weed control, minor fertilization for the
Project Area 

Upon reviewing the responses to the RFP (3) proposals were submitted;

JE Jordan Landscaping Services $26,615 Detroit HQ
Payne Landscaping $28,520 Detroit HQ
Grace Management Services $24,079 Southfield

The EDC staff determined that Grace Management Services, lnc. (the ??Contractor') was
the most qualified, responsive bidder with a total bid amount of $24,079.00 for the three
(3) Project Areas. The contract is for a one (1) year term, starting May 2018 through
November 30, 2018, with the contract value allocated as foilows:

East Riverfront 1,085.00
Jefferson Village $22,194.00
Light House Depot 800.00
Total $24,079.00

EDC staff therefore recommended that the Board authorize EDC staff to negotiate and
enter into an agreement with the Grace Management Services for performance of the
Work (the ?Agreement") in an amount not-to-exceed Twenty~Four Thousand Seventy-Nine
and 00/100 Dollars 

Finally, the EDC staff recommended an owner?s contingency of $2,407.90 to manage
unforeseen conditions or additional work for the season.

A resolution, which inciudes Work for the Waterfront East, Mt. Eliiott-Wight, and NDC #1
Jefferson Viliage, was inciuded for the Board?s consideration.

Subsequent to a discussion, the Board took the following action:

On a motion by Ms. Bruhn, seconded by Mr. Roling, Resolution Codes EDC 18-
04?70-67; 18?04-684 1; and 18-04?13-97 were unanimously approved.

Motor City Match Recommendation for Round 11 Business Awards

Mr. Askew distributed a map identifying the locations of the proposed Round 11 Cash
Awardees for the Board?s information.

Mr. Askew advised that on December 1, 2017, the E003 Motor City Match program began
accepting applications for Round 11 of the Business Owner Application Track. The
Business Owner Application Track is for businesses from Detroit and around the world
that are looking to start or expand in Detroit. The table beiow describes the levels of award
and qualifications.

April 24, 2018

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Awards Awardees must have:
BUSINESS . Up to 50 winners . A great idea
PLAN - Free business planning class
. Up to 25 winners each round . Be current and ccmpiiant
SPACE - Match making with top real 0 Judged most feasible for
4 8 estate busrness
2 a Financial planning assistance
5 . Up to 7 winners each round . Be current and compliant
2 DESIGN . Design/build assistance 0 Judged most feasible for
a a Priority permitting business
. Financial planning assistance - Have a tenant secured
- Up to 10 winners each round . Be current and
. Up to $100,000 matching grant compliant
per winner . Judged most feasible for
0 $500,000 in grants per round for business
2 CASH building and business owners - Have a tenant secured
. Pitch to lending partners for - Have a plan for building
a financing renovations
a) . Have funds ready for
u" investment

 

When applications closed on January 8, 2018, the EDC had received over 262 business
applications 

This focuses on the selection and recommendation of awardees for:

. "Business Pian" award track receiving business planning assistance

. ?Space? award track receiving site selection assistance
. ?Design? award track receiving architectural design, permitting and bidding
assistance for pie-development

. ?Cash? award track receiving grants and financing assistance

First, staff verified business eligibility based on self-reported data submitted in the
application for the foilowing five criteria:

1.

2.
3.
4. The business and all owners are in good standing with the City of Detroit, State of

The business is incorporated and has a registered and DUNS priorto receiving

a grant award

The business wishes to locate in Detroit for at least two years
The business is majority-owned by a person who is at least 18 years or older

Michigan and and
The business is not part of a franchise.

April 24, 2018

 

Second, staff sorted applications into various award tracks and reviewed eligible business
applications to determine finalists. The awards were selected using the tOO?point scale
detailed below. Finalist applicants were identified as follows:

. "Business Plan? applicants have great business ideas but haven?t formulated
a business plan yet or need help strengthening their business plans before
pursuing space. in total, sixty (60) Business Plan finalists were selected.

- ?Space? applicants are actively looking for space. These business applicants
are either new business ventures that have a solid business plan or they are
existing businesses with a track record of success and a plan to grow it.
Twenty-four (24) space awardees were selected.

. ?Design" applicants have great business plans and have secured a space but
need help planning for renovations. in some cases, these businesses are
tenants; in other cases, these businesses own the building they plan to open
their business in. in total, seven (7) Design finalists were selected.

0 ?Cash? applicants have a location secured, a plan for build-out and strong
understanding of the money needed to start their business and complete
renovations at their space. in total, thirty?five (35) Cash finalists were selected.

Third, a team of outside jurors evaluated finalist applications based on five criteria.
?Business Plan? applications were initially reviewed by a team of business planning service
providers, as well as members of the Motor City Match staff. ?Space? finalists were
reviewed by a team of community stakeholders from across various parts of the city and
?Design? and ?Cash? finalists were reviewed by a team of business leaders and lenders.
?Business Plan?, ?Space?, ?Design", and ?Cash" applications were scored on a scale of 1a
100. Each of the five criteria is worth 20 points to contribute to the iOO-point score.
Selection criteria are as follows:

Vision and plan
Experience

Market support
Community support
Leverage



?Cash" finalists were required to submit supplemental information. ?Cash? finalists
submitted comprehensive financial information, including a standard loan application and
personal financial statement. Motor City Match staff compiled this supplemental
information to determine the financial need, equity investment and ?financial gap? for each
business. Next, Motor City Match staff met with a team of six local Community
Development Financial institution lending partners on March 29, 20i8, to
determine grant and loan investment required to fill the financial gap on each project. 
partners include Invest Detroit, Detroit Development Fund, Capital impact Partners, 
Michigan Women's Foundation and Detroit Micro?Enterprise Fund. partners made
commitments to explore lending the balance of the financial gap based on recommended
grant investment from Motor City Match. Motor City Match staff used lender interest,

April 24, 2018

participant scores, supplemental information and readiness to accept additional
investment to determine ?Cash" awardees and associated grant investment.

Finally, staff compiled juror scores to identify top ranking candidates for awards.
EDC staff recommends:

Forty-nine (49) ?Business Plan" awardees for business planning are presented in
Exhibit A.
Twenty-four (24) ?Space" awardees for site selection are presented in Exhibit B.
. Seven (7) ?Design" awardees are presented in Exhibit C.
Twelve (12) ?Cash? awardees to receive a total of $500,000 in grant investment,
as described on Exhibit D.

EDC staff wilt contract with independent business planning service providers to deliver
services to ?Business Plan? awardees. EDC anticipates that Build institute and LifeLine
will provide business planning training for up to 49 Round 11 Motor City Match ?Business
Plan" awardees.

EDC staff will facilitate one~on?one match making between top ranking businesses and
building owners recognized as ?Space" awardees. Match making services will include
open houses and networking sessions between business owners and building owners. in
addition, technical assistance will include expert guidance on leasing, financial planning
and assessing market opportunities.

EDC staff will hire contractual professional architect, engineering and construction
providers to deliver design-build assistance to "Design" awardees with design?build
independent contractors to provide pre-development design services for the seven (7)
Round 11 Motor City Match ?Design? awardees.

The EDC will enter into grant agreements with Round 11 Motor City Match ?Cash"
awardees and facilitate introductions to lending partners to pursue gap financing through
these independent sources.

Mr. Askew reviewed the list of cash awardees, giving descriptions and locations of the
businesses, and responded to Board members? questions.

Ms. Forte asked if Mr. Askew could provide via email the breakdown of total investment.

Ms. Bruhn requested a status report on the Motor City Match awardees from previous
rounds.

A discussion took place regarding the two businesses that had previously received grants
that had closed, and what could be done by staff in the future to monitor the businesses
and reach out to them with advice/help to sustain their business and prevent closure. The
Board also suggested staff take a look at what considerations in the future could be added
to the process, like demand for services in the area, adequate parking, etc, and report
back.

April 24, 2018

3? 

A resolution approving the staff?s recommendation of ?Business Plan, Space" and
?Design? awardees and recommending to the Board staff?s recommendation of ?Cash?
awardees was included with the memorandum for the Board?s consideration.

Ms. Bruhn informed that she is on the Board of the Grandmont Rosedale Development
Corporation and deferred to counsel regarding voting. Ms. Navin recommended that she
abstain from voting on just the GRDC grant.

Subsequent to the discussion, the Board took the foliowing action:

On a motion by Mr. Stallworth, seconded by Mr. Queries, Resolution Code E00
18-04?9163 was approved, with Ms. Bruhn abstaining on the Grandmont
Rosedale Development Corporation grant.

Motor City Match Recommendation for Round 11 Building Awards

Mr. Askew reported that on December 1, 2017, the Motor City Match program
began accepting applications from interested buiiding owners for Round 11 of the Building
Application Track (?Round The Building Application Track is for Detroit property
owners with a vacant space looking for quaiity new tenants. Awards include pre?
development assistance, marketing and tenant recruiting. Properties that are matched
with businesses are considered for grants, financing and priority permitting. The tabie
below describes the levels of award and qualifications.

 

 

 

Awards Awardees must:
. Listed as an availabie property . Be current and compliant
viewable by hundreds of Business . Judged most feasible for
Competition candidates business
. Top 25 scoring buitdings will be
SPACE marketed as a ?top destination for

new business"

Pre-development building
assessment

Match making with top businesses

 

- Up to 7 awardees each round Be current and compliant
across both the building and Judged most feasible for
business tracks business
Design/build assistance Have a tenant secured

0 Priority permitting

. Financial planning assistance

0

DESIGN

 

 

 

 

TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE

 

 

April 24, 2018

 

 

 

- Up to to awardees each round . Be current and compliant
across both the building and - Judged most feasible for
business tracks business

.1 0 Up to $100,000 matching grant per a Have a tenant secured
CASH Winner . Have a plan for building
0 . $500,000 in grants per round for renovations

a building and business owners . Have funds ready for
a: - Pitch to lending partners for investment

4 financing

 

 

 

 

When applications closed on January 8, 2018, the EDC had received twenty~three (23)
applications (?Application") for spaces all across the city of Detroit. An Application typically
refers to a single tenantable space within a property. One property may have submitted
multiple Applications and the properties may have previously matched but have lease?
able space.

Staff completed the foilowing due diligence and evaluation process:

. Verified that the space referenced in the Application is current and compiiant on
property taxes, tickets, and water bills.

Each Application was evaluated and scored on a scale of 1?100 as follows:

. Each of the following factors contributed up to 20 points: Buiiding
characteristics and vision; (2) Building conditions; (3) Community and market
support; (4) Leverage; and (5) Compliance.

. Evaluations were conducted by EDC staff.

. EDC staff scores were averaged together to achieve the final score for building
characteristics and vision, community and market support, and ieverage.

- The score for building conditions was derived from the professional buiiding
assessment conducted by PSI as weil as self?reported data from the property
owner.

. The score for compiiance was derived based on the payment of taxes, water bills,
and tickets.

The results of the due diligence and evaluation process are the following:

. Of the twenty-three (23) applications considered for Round 11, three (3)
applications were deemed ineiigible because of condition or compliance. Four (4)
properties had been previously awarded, leaving sixteen (16) eligible Building
Appiications to be considered for Round 11 awards.

0 Fourteen (14) eligible Round 11 buiiding applications indicated they had space

available for lease. These building owners are recommended to receive ?Space"
awards to assist with marketing their property and recruiting tenants.

April 24, 2018

The remaining two (2) eligible applicants indicated that they had a tenant secured
and no additional space to lease. This makes these applicants eligible for
consideration for ?Design? or ?Cash? awards in partnership with their tenants.

0 One (1) property from Round 7 applications fulfilled the eligibility requirements and
is recommended to be included in the Round 11 "Space" awards.

. Based on eligible applications and review of scores, EDC staff recommended the
following Round 11 Building Owner Awards:

0 Space awards. Fifteen (15) properties are recommended to receive Space
awards as presented in Exhibit A, which includes marketing, a professional
building assessment, real estate tours and other matchmaking activities
with top Motor City Match business applicants. These top scoring buildings
are recommended to receive ?Top Property? designation to assist with
marketing and tenant recruiting.

0 Design Awards. Seven (7) properties are recommended to receive
?Design? awards in partnership with their tenants presented in Exhibit B,
which includes architectural technical assistance for tenant build?out and
building renovations.

EDC staff requested that the Board accept the current results of the Round 11 Building
Application evaluation process and confirm the Applications that have been awarded
?Space? and ?Design? awards.

Mr. Stallworth suggested when staff is evaluating the properties that they identify what is
the ?best use? for the properties.

A resolution was included for the Board?s consideration.
Subsequent to a discussion, the Board took the following action:

On a motion by Mr. Quarles, seconded by Mr. Roling, Resolution Code EDC 18-
04-91-64 was unanimously approved.

l-94 industrial Park?Lease to Enterprises inc.

Mr. Jordan advised that Enterprise, LLC. a local automotive repair,
sales, towing and mobile container rental company has an existing operation located near
the l-94 Industrial Park at 6380 Marcus, as shown on Exhibit A included in the Board
material. The EDC owns the 5.98 acres of land shown in Exhibit A (the Land?).

The Lease will allow the EDC to collect substantial revenue until a permanent user or
developer is identified for the land.

will use the 5.98 acres to store and operate its mobile container business. An
example of the product was shown in Exhibit in the Board material.

April 24, 2018

Representatives from the EDC and have negotiated the terms of a Lease
Agreement in a Term Sheet included in the Board material as Exhibit C, pursuant to which
the EDC will lease the EDC land to LIJBS. LIJBS will accept the land on an as-is, where-
is basis, and, sign a lease agreement.

Staff requested the Board?s approval to execute and consummate a Lease Agreement.
A resotution was included for the Board?s consideration.

Subsequent to a discussion, the Board took the following action:

On a motion by Mr. Staltworth, seconded by Mr. Roling, Resolution Code EDC
18-04?12?49 was unantmousty approved.

ADMINISTRATION
OTHER MATTERS
PUBLIC COMMENT
ADJOURNMENT

With there being no further business to come before the Board, Ms. Forte adjourned the
meeting at 9:25 am.

April 24, 2018

 CODE EDC 18-04-02-297
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit

 

APPROVAL, OF MINUTES OF APRIL 10. 2018 REGULAR MEETING

RESOLVED, that the minutes of the Regular meeting of April 10, 2018 are hereby
approved and all actions taken by the Directors present at such meeting, as set forth in
such minutes, are hereby in all respects ratified and approved as actions of the Economic
Development Corporation.

April 24, 2018

500 Griswold?uite 2200 Detroit, Michigan 48226 (3l3) 9634940

 

ELEDC 18-04-03-225
Economic Development Corporation of the Crty of {Se to?

ACCEPTANCE OF REPORT FOR MARCH 2018

RESOLVED, that the Treasurer?s Report of Receipts and Disbursements for the
period March 31, 2018, as presented at this meeting, is hereby in all respects
accepted as action of the Economic Development Corporation.

April 24, 2018

500 Griswold,Suite 2200 - Detroit, Michigan 48226 - (313) 963-2940

 . CODE EDC 18?04-70-67; 18-04-6841; and 18-04-13-97
conomlc Development Corporation of the City of Detroit

 

WATERFRONT EAST DEVELOPMENT MT. ELLIOTT-WIGHT
DEVELOPMENT AND NDC PROJECT NO. 
VILLAGE: LANDSCAPE SERVICE CONTRACT WITH GRACE MANAGEMENT
SERVICE, INC.

WHEREAS, the EDC provides certain summer landscape services as part of the
Waterfront East Development Project; and

WHEREAS, the EDC publicly advertised and issued a Request For Proposal
in March 2018 for the performance of the landscape maintenance services more
particularly described in the scope of work attached as Exhibit A the ?Work?); and

WHEREAS, upon reviewing the responses to the RFP, the EDC staff determined
that Grace Management Services lnc. (the ?Contractor") was the most qualified,
responsive bidder with a total bid amount of $24,079.00 for the three (3) Project Areas;
and

WHEREAS, EDC staff recommends the Board to authorize EDC staff to negotiate
and enter into an agreement with Grace Management Services, Inc. for performance of
the Work for the Waterfront East, EDC Mt. Elliott?Wight, and NBC #1 - Jefferson Village
(the ?Agreement?) in an amount not?to?exceed Twenty?Four Thousand Seventy?Nine and
00/100 Dollars and

WHEREAS, the Agreement is for a one (1) year term, starting May 2018 through
November 30, 2018; and

WHEREAS, EDC staff also recommends an owner's contingency of $2,407.90 to
manage unforeseen conditions or additional work for the season.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE lT RESOLVED, the EDC Board of Directors hereby
authorizes EDC staff to negotiate and execute the Agreement upon the above-described
terms, in an amount not to exceed $24,079.00. 

BE lT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the EDC Board of Directors hereby authorizes
an owner?s contingency of $2,407.90 to manage unforeseen conditions or additional work
for the season.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the EDC Board of Directors hereby authorizes
any two Officers, or any one of the Of?cers and any of the Authorized Agents, or any two
Authorized Agents of the EDC to negotiate and execute the Agreement and any and all
other documents necessary or appropriate to implement the provisions and intent of this
resolution, including but not limited to change Orders for use of owner?s contingency funds.

500 Griswold,Suite 2200 - Detroit,Michigon 48226 - (313) 963-2940

BE IT FINALLY RESOLVED that that all of the acts and transactions of any Of?cer
or Authorized Agent of the EDC, in the name and on behalf of the EDC, relating to matters
contemplated by the foregoing resolutions, which acts would have been approved by the
foregoing resolutions except that such acts were taken prior to execution of these
resolutions, are hereby in all respects confirmed, approved and ratified.

April 24, 2018

. . CODE EDC 18-04-91-63
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detrort

 

MOTOR CITY MATCH: ROUND 11 BUSINESS AWARDS

WHEREAS, EDC staff has completed due diligence and evaluation for applications
(Applications) in the eleventh round (?Round 11?) of the Motor City Match Business
Application Track; and

WHEREAS, the EDC staff has provided recommendations to the Board to receive
technical assistance for the ?Business Plan? awards, "Space? awards, and ?Design?
awards and cash grant investment for the ?Cash" award categories; and

WHEREAS, the EDC Board has determined that the staff recommendation is
reasonable and consistent with the Motor City Match program; and

NOW, THEREFORE BE lT RESOLVED that the EDC Board of Directors, accepts
the current results of the Round 11 Business Application evaluation process, and
approves the Applications that have been recommended for ?Business Plan? awards,
attached hereto as Exhibit A.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the EDC Board of Directors, accepts the
current results of the Round 11 Business Application evaluation process, and approves
the Applications that have been recommended for ?Space" awards, attached hereto as
Exhibit B.

BE lT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the EDC Board of Directors, accepts the
current results of the Round 11 Business Application evaluation process, and approves
the Applications that have been recommended for ?Design" awards, attached hereto as
Exhibit C.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the EDC Board of Directors, recommends to
the EDC Board of Directors the approval of the ?Cash" grant awards that were
recommended by Staff pursuant to the Round 11 Business Application evaluation process,
attached hereto as Exhibit D.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the EDC Board of Directors, recommends that
grant amounts not fully allocated each round the remaining funds when quarterly
?Cash? awards total less than $500,000) be repurposed and distributed in future rounds.
In such cases, Staff would have the authority to recommend more than $500,000 in ?Cash?
awards in future rounds, subject to the approval of the Board.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that any two Officers, or any one of the Of?cers and
any one of the Authorized Agents or any two of the EDC's Authorized Agents shall
hereafter have the authority to negotiate and execute all documents, contracts, or other
papers and to take such actions as are necessary or appropriate to implement the
provisions and intent of this resolution.

500 Griswold,3uite 2200 Detroit, Michigan 48226 (313) 963?2940

BE IT FINALLY RESOLVED, that all of the acts and transactions of any Officer or
Authorized Agent of the EDC, in the name and on behalf of the EDC, relating to matters
contemplated by the foregoing resolutions, which acts would have been approved by the
foregoing resolutions, except that such acts were taken prior to the execution of these
resolutions, are hereby in all respects confirmed, approved and ratified.

April 24, 2018

Exhibit A

Recommended ?Business Plan? Awardees

 

. #Brag on GOD

Vendor venue for small businesses

 

Alexandrea's Social Cafe

Social learning and tutoring cafe

 

Amaysin Fitness

Group fitness for all ages

 

At Your Service Enterprise

Home care and cleaning company

 

Better Bad Decisions

Brewery and winery

 

Black Kloth Kiothing

A consciously aware clothing line

 

Blue Orchid Alternative Wellness

Alternative wellness center for
those with disabilities

 

Burbank Community Daycare

Child care and latchkey program

 

C. Turner Properties LLC

Detroit investment group

 

10.

Carson's Comedy Clubhouse

Comedy club

 

 

 

11. Cedrics Auto Repair, Inc. Auto Repair and used car saies
Neighborhood?based health center
12. City Juice and juicery
Arts education and academic
13. Ciass in Session support

 

14.

Crowd Freak LLC

Entertainment business for
upcoming musicians

 

15.

Bands italian Beets

Chicago-style take out restaurant

 

16.

Detroit Tough Landscapes

Green infrastructure design and
installation

 

17.

Detroit Voltage LLC

Electrical contracting firm

 

18.

Detroit's Royal House of Design

Retail fabric store

 

19.

Diamonds Pearls Special Events LLC

Event planning

 

20.

Dominican Restaurant

Fast?casual Dominican fare

 

 

21.

Elevate infinite Library Cafe

 

A library cafe

 

 

 

22.

First Class Mobile Phlebotomy

Mobile phlebotomist

 

23.

Fruit of the Spirit, LLC

Baked goods and holistic products

 

24.

God Speed Transportation

Non-emergency transportation
service

 

25.

Just 4 Kids ll Childcare Learning
Center

Childcare center

 

26.

Kinks Curls Beauty Bar

Beauty supply store

 

27.

Land Trust Renewal Corporation

Urban housing land reconstruction
corporation

 

28.

Lina's Learning Center

Vocational education: Improving
reading and writing skills

 

29.

Lovin' Touch Learning Center LLC

Hands?on learning center for
children

 

Aquaculture business growing

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

30. Motor City Sea Farm, LLC shrimp indoors
31. No Shame Fitness Health and fitness
Manufacturing and selling newly
32. Oiempians invented product
Fast-food restaurant thriving on
33. On The Go Ribs Soul Bistro Lounge customer service
Document management and paper
34. Orion shredding Inc. shredding
35. Peachy Keen The chipotle of peach cobbler
Sustainable household and body
36. Pink Elephant Products and Events L30 products
Customizing activewear to your
37. Rare Breed Apparel LLC personai style
38. Reggie the Computer Tech Computer and video game repair
39. A by LMT LLC Fitness apparel brand
40. Savored Goods Detroit for~profit social enterprise
Confectionery business making
41. Sweet Thoughts LLC gourmet chocolates
42. Teaching from the Heart Chiid care center
43. The Corban Coliection Online children's boutique
44. Turning Headz Beauty Bar Beauty suppty store and salon

 

 

 

45. Vegan

Vegan restaurant with vegetarian
op?ons

 

46. VanderWhite Catering

Food truck, catering and summer
feeding program

 

47. Visionary Learners Academy

Early childhood education

 

48. Williams Healthcare Training

Detroit-based healthcare training
center

 

 

49. Yom Dream LLC

 

Wholesaler of eyewear

 

 

Exhibit 8
Recommended ?Space? Awardees

 

1. The Theater Place

Theater group

 

2. Urban Salon Suites, inc

Furnished individual Salon Suites

 

3. Artoms Autobody Coilision

Artoms Autobody Concepts, Coilison 
Motorsports

 



. Social Tykes

Children?s play based facility

 

5. Colman and Pope Bakery

Bakery

 

 

 

6. The Collection Detroit, LLC Retaii incubator for Detroit businesses
Retail sneaker store! Print embroidery!
7. Bobs Classic Kicks Sneaker restoration
Health, Life, Retirement insurance
8. Hathorn Agency, LLC Sales

 

9. MS. E?Vee?s LLC

Soul Food Carry-out Restaurant

 

10. JD Madison investments 

Medical Massage, Therapeutic
Massage

 

11. A Natural Twist

Natural hair care beauty boutique

 

12. The Honey House

Florist shop boutique

 

13. The Beam Creativity Lounge (Formerly
Books and Spice)

indie bookstore cafe meeting space

 

14. Zarkpa's LLC

Urban upscale African retail

 

15. University Pharmacy

Health and wellness with pharmacy

 

 

16. 44 Burrito, LLC

 

Mexican w/taste of soul restaurant

 

 

 

17. PLUS Skateboarding

Skateboard shop and skateboard camp

 

18. LLC

Engineering, prototypes, machining and
fabrication

 

19. A Carter Investments D.B.A Carris
Home Care

Home healthcare agency

 

20. Nail-Rite Construction

Construction company proving drywail
services

 

21. MyAaiiyah LLC

Cordiess flat irons and accessories.

 

22. Motor City S.T.E.A.M

Science and art education program

 

23. Tech-On Detroit, LLC Career
Management and Training Agency

Career management and training
agency

 

 

24. Sweet Repeats

 

Vintage clothing and coliectabies store

 

 

Exhibit 
Recommended ?Design? Awardees

 

1. 30 Sports Academy Physical health educational sports

 

 

 

center
2. Brut Detroit Wine barand Catering
3. Cutters Bar and Grill Bar and Grill
4. Entertainment Musician Institute Music school, with performances

 

5. NOIS (Neighborhood Office and incubator Coworking space with retail store and
Space) coffee shop

 

6. Uptown Hospitality Group Uptown

Toast WineBar and Detroit House of Comedy Wmebar W'th kitchen and comedy 

 

 

7. Us Food Market Full service grocery store

 

 

 

Exhibit 

Recommended ?Cash? Awardees
1. Paramita Sound
Grant: $15,000
Owner: Andrey Douthard
Location: 1515 Broadway, Detroit, Ml 48226, Downtown (District 6)
Description: Paramita Sound is a record shop and bar locating Downtown in the Siren
Hotei next to Motor City Match cash awardee Social Grooming Club. The business has
built a solid following in their previous location in the West Village and is currently popping
up Downtown at Detroit is the New Biack building their brand Downtown. The business is

minority owned.

Total expected investment: $61,000

2. Ochre Bakery

Grant: $30,000

Owner: Daisuke Hughes

Location: 4884 Grand River, Unit to, Detroit, MI 48208, Woodbridge (District 6)
Description: Ochre Bakery is a bakery, cafe and coffee roaster. The owners currently
operate a coffee shop, Astro Coffee in Corktown. This will be their second location,
expanding their revenue model to include coffee roasting and distribution as well as
opportunities for growth for their current employees. Ochre Bakery will be located across
from the True North project on Grand River, in the same building as Motor City Match
awardee Casting de The business is minority, woman, and resident owned.

Total expected investment: $450,000

3. The Millionairess

Grant: $30,000

Owner: Arnita Parham

Location: 19434 Livernois, Detroit, MI 48221, Avenue of Fashion (District 2)
Description: The Miliionairess is a fashion retailer with beauty salon services locating in

the heart of the Avenue of Fashion. Owner Arnita Parham has years of retail experience
and has already launched her fashion brand online. She is locating in a Motor City Match

building and was a previous Motor City Match Design awardee. The business is a minority,
woman, and resident owned business.

Total expected investment: $70,000

4. Hustlers Wife

Grant: $30,000

Owners: Jamie Williams

Location: 15715 Warren Ave, Detroit, Ml 48224, East English Viilage (District 4)
Description: Hustler?s Wife is a women?s retail clothing boutique locating on the East side
of Detroit. The business owner owns her building and has been building her brand through
social media sales. The business is a Motor City Match Business Plan and Design

awardee. The business is woman and minority owned.

Total expected investment: $95,000

5. Elite Detroit Leadership

Grant: $40,000

Owners: Ryan Foster

Location: 11840 McNichois, Detroit MI 48205, Osborn (District 4)

Description: Elite Detroit Leadership is a youth entrepreneurship training center and co?
working space on the northeast side. Managed by a husband and wife team, the couple
are Detroit natives and purchased the former Big Boy office building. The business is

minority and woman owned.

Total expected investment: $122,000

6. The Upperow

Grant: $40,000

Owner: Anthony Thompson ll LaToya Thompson
Location: 5734 Woodward, Detroit Ml 48202, Midtown (District 5)

Description: The Upperow is a Detroit Luxury Lifestyle Clothing Brand opening in the
Midtown neighborhood next to Round 10 awardee Grit and Glamour, also a retail boutique.
Owned by a husband and wife team, they have experience in business and event
production, as well as connections to fashion designers both locally and abroad, and have
launched their initial spring line on their website. Their product offering will complement

Grit and Glamour?s activating a currently vacant storefront block, extending the retail
activity a few blocks north from the Park Shelton?s established retail spaces and filling a
gap for mid?range priced men?s and women?s apparel offering in Detroit?s retail market.
The business is minority, women, and resident owned and was a previous Motor City
Match awardee.

Total expected investment: $233,000

7. Spot Lite

Grant: $40,000

Owners: Roula David

Location: 2905 Beaufait Street Detroit, Ml 48207, Villages (District 5)

Description: Spot Lite is a performance venue celebrating art culture in the lslandview
Greater Villages neighborhood. The business will co-locate in a multintenant building with
a contractor shop and established art printing business 1x Run. Owned and managed by
two women entrepreneurs who have decades of experience in the arts, performance and
bar management industries including organizing Detroit?s Murals in the Market, launching
and managing Red Bull House of Art as well as Inner State Gallery in Eastern Market, the
business will create a destination to enjoy cocktails in an art gallery. Located in a
burgeoning neighborhood with several other maker and arts spaces including round 7
awardee Coyote Hawk Design Center and round 11 awardee Brewery Faisan, the
business provides the opportunity to serve as a hub unifying the creative entrepreneur
movement in the area. The business will also provide a destination along the city?s planned
Joseph Campeau greenway attracting solid foot traffic and connecting residents, visitors
and other users to the neighborhood. The business is minority, woman, and resident
owned.

Total expected investment: $250,000

8. Petty Cash Kitchen Cocktail Bar

Grant: $50,000

Owner: Ronald Barteli, Robert Turner, Kelly Pickett, Art Hicks

Location: 20050 Livernois Ave, Detroit, Ml 48221, Avenue of Fashion (District 2)

Description: Petty Cash is an upscale restaurant and cocktail bar concept opening in the
Livernois corridor targeting young professionals. The business will complement a number
of other Motor City Match businesses including Mac Galleries, Shears and Shaving, 
Cuisine, Narrow Way Cafe, Skin Bar VII and Loose Massage Therapy. There is also
demonstrated demand for more food and beverage establishments along the corridor as
supported by the retail market study DEGC recently had completed. The owners include
a team of entrepreneurs with solid industry experience including launching the successful

Kuzzos Chicken and Waffles on Livernois, and have identified a well-known local
management consultant team for their bar concept. The business is minority owned.

Total expected investment: $502,500

9. Chene Street Grocers

Grant: $50,000

Owner: Vanessa Cronan

Location: 5200 Chene Street, Detroit, MI 48211, Eastern Market (District 5)
Description: Chene Street Grocers is a grocery store, restaurant and commerciai kitchen
locating in the Ghana Ferry neighborhood just north of Eastern Market across from
Detroit's oldest live blue?s bar, Raven?s Lounge. The business will have multiple revenue
streams but also connect residents and visitors passing through aiong the well?travelied
bus route with access to fresh and healthy foods. The commercial kitchen will also be
rented to other food entrepreneurs. Chene Street is 3 Motor City Match design awardee

and a woman, resident owned business.

Total expected investment: $173,500

10. Brewery Faisan

Grant: $60,000

Owner: Rachel Paul Szlaga

Location: 1087 Beaufait Street, Detroit, MI 48207, Villages (District 5)

Description: Brewery Faisan is a production oriented microbrewery and taproom locating
in the Islandview Greater Villages neighborhood. Owned and operated by a husband and
wife team, the couple has gained business management experience working at another
iocal Detroit food establishment and has already begun making and testing their product
at craft brewery contests around the state, winning several awards. The business is a
previous Motor City Match space and design awardee and is women and resident owned.

Total expected investment: $1,318,000

11. Dymond Designs Beauty School
Grant: $65,000
Owners: Marlene Brooks

Location: 3300 E. Jefferson Suite 400, Detroit, MI 48207, East Riverfront (District 5)

Description: Dymond Designs is a cosmetology school providing certification and job
placement to existing and aspiring beauticians. Owner Marlene Brooks has experience
running an established saion in the same shopping plaza on East Riverfront and already
has a waiting list demonstrating interest and demand for this type of school in Detroit. She
has begun outreach to salons in Royal Oak and Birmingham and secured partnerships for
job placement and plans to do specific outreach to Detroit salons to help existing workers
get certified it" they are not already. The business is a Motor City Match space and design
awardee and is minority, woman and resident owned.

Total expected investment: $300,000

12. Grandmont Rosedale Development Corporation

Grant: $50,000

Owner: Grandmont Rosedale Development Corporation

Location: 19566 Grand River, Detroit Ml 48223, Grandmont Rosedaie (District 1)

Description: Grandmont Rosedale Development Corporation is a building awardee for
property 19566 Grand River. The property has been a Motor City Match top property and
will now be home to Motor City Match space and design awardee Brut Detroit, a
neighborhood wine bar. Located along a priority retail commercial corridor as identified
through the work of the city?s planning efforts and retail market study, there is
also demonstrated unmet demand for additional food and beverage establishments in the
neighborhood. The funds will help GRDC with the cost of white?boxing the space for a
Motor City Match tenant as well as cover some of the cost for a commercial kitchen which
will alleviate some of the burden for the business.

Total expected investment: $150,000

.. CODE EDC 18~04-91-64
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit

 

MOTOR CITY MATCH RECOMMENDATION FOR ROUND 11 BUILDING AWARDS

WHEREAS, EDC staff has completed extensive due diligence and evaluation for
applications (??Applications) for the tenth round (?Round 11") of the Motor City Match
Building Application Track; and

WHEREAS, the EDC staff has provided recommendations to the EDC Board of
Directors, to receive technical assistance in the ?Space," and ?Design? Building Owner
award categories; and

WHEREAS, the Board determined that the staff recommendation is reasonable
and consistent with the Motor City Match program; and

NOW, THEREFORE BE lT RESOLVED, that the EDC Board of Directors accepts
the current results of the Round 11 Building Application evaluation process, and approves
the Applications that have been recommended for ?Space? awards, attached hereto as
Exhibit A.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the EDC Board of Directors accepts the current
results of the Round 11 Building Application evaluation process, and approves the
Applications that have been recommended for ?Design? awards, attached hereto as
Exhibit B.

BE lT FURTHER RESOLVED, that any two Officers, or any one of the Of?cers and
any one of the Authorized Agents or any two of the EDC's Authorized Agents shall
hereafter have the authority to negotiate and execute all documents, contracts, or other
papers and to take such actions as are necessary or appropriate to implement the
provisions and intent of this resolution.

BE lT FINALLY RESOLVED, that ali of the acts and transactions of any Officer or
Authorized Agent of the EDC, in the name and on behalf of the EDC, relating to matters
contemplated by the foregoing resolutions, which acts would have been approved by the
foregoing resolutions, except that such acts were taken prior to the execution of these
resolutions, are hereby in all respects confirmed, approved and ratified.

April 24, 2018

500 Griswold,Suite 2200 - Detroit, Michigan 48226 - (3l3) 963-2940

Exhibit A

Motor City Match: Round 11

Recommended ?Space? Awardees .. Top Property Designation

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

April 24, 2018
"y are; 3333?? 93.33.th $223353"
Footage 

10090 Chicago Commercial 16691 No Poor
11475 East Outer Drive Other 15000 Yes Great
11720 Brush Commercial 1000 Yes Fair
12600 McNichols Commercial 983 No Good
13401 Fenkell Commercial 6600 Yes Poor
19031 Livemols Other 32683 Yes Poor
19467 Livernois Commercial 3200 No Good
2785 8 Fort Commercial 2300 Yes Fair
$238533}: Grand Other 2595 Yes Fair
8523?8529 Vernor Hwy Other 2254 Yes Good
8535 Vernor Hwy Other 2850 No Good
8631 Vernor Hwy Commercial 4792 Yes Poor
8646 Kercheval Commercial 8500 Yes Poor
9101 Grand River Commercial 7000 No Good
9201 Jefferson Commercial 4000 Yes Fair

 

 

 

 

 

 

Exhibit 

Motor City Match: Round 11
Recommended ?Design? Awardees
Aprit 24, 2018

 

Business Name

Description ..

Bron-perty?ddress 

 

 

so Sports Academy

Brut Detroit

Cutters Bar Grill

Entertainment Musician 

lnsitute

Physical Health

2 Educational Sports
Center ?7

Wine Bar Catering

Bar Grill

Music school, with
performances

 

 

(Neighborhood Of?ce and
incubator Space)

Uptown/Hospitality Group
Uptown Toast
WineBar Detroit House of

Coworrcgo?oae? arr: 
3439 Livernois

CoffeeShoo ..

Retail Store and

Winebar with Kitchen
Comedy Club

 

Comedy

Us Food Market

 

Full Service Grocery
Store

 

8500 8 Mile

Disposition 

tenant

 

7811 Gratiot

19566 Grand River

17131 Warren

3 11019 Grand River

f. 19400l19410
Livernois

tenant

tenant

tenant

tenant

tenant

 

 

tenant

 

EDC 1 8?04-12-49

 

. 
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detior

I-94 INDUSTRIAL PARK LEASE T0 L.I.J.B.S ENTERPRISES INC.

WHEREAS, Enterprises, LLC has an existing automotive
repair, sales, towing and container rental operation near the project area at 6380 Marcus,
as shown on Exhibit A hereto; and

WHERAS, the EDC owns the land that LIJBS proposes to lease as shown in
Exhibit A (the Land?); and

WHEREAS, LIJBS will use the 5.98 acres to store and operate its mobile container
business shown in Exhibit B.

WHEREAS, representatives from the EDC and LIJBS have negotiated the terms
of a Lease Agreement, the primary terms of which are set forth in a Term Sheet attached
hereto as Exhibit C, pursuant to which, among other things, the EDC will lease the
EDC Land to LIJBS, (ii) LIJBS will accept the land on an as-is, where?is basis; LIJBS
will maintain the minimum setback of 10 feet from the at Mt.Eliiott, Huber and
Marcus Streets.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE lT RESOLVED that the Board of Directors of the EDC
hereby authorizes the execution of a Lease Agreement, upon the terms and conditions
set forth in herein, together with such terms and conditions deemed reasonable by 
counsel and Authorized Agents.

BE lT FURTHER RESOLVED that the EDC Board of Directors hereby authorizes
any two of the Officers or any two of the designated Authorized Agents or any combination
thereof to execute any and all documents and take any and all actions necessary or
appropriate to implement the provisions and intent of this resolution.

BE IT FINALLY RESOVLED that all of the acts and transactions of any of?cer or
authorized agent of the EDC, in the name of the EDC and on behalf of the EDC, relating
to matters contemplated by the foregoing resolutions, which acts would have been
approved by the foregoing resolutions except that such acts were taken prior to execution
of these resolutions, are hereby in all respects confirmed, approved and ratified.

April 24, 2018

500 Griswold,3uite 2200 - Detroif,Michigon 48226 - (3i3) 963-2940

Motor City Match

Round 11 Cash Awardees

9 All items
3n

Inia

Garden City

The Upperow 9 9 


Franklin
Beverly Hills
Berkley
Royal Oak Madison
Heights
Southfield
021k3en1Cash7KiLchenz+ 
THE MILLIONAIRESS LLC
9 Grandmont Rosedale 
Highland Park

Charter 
Ochre Bakery (Astro 9
Dearborn
Heights

Dearborn





Melvindale
River Rouge

Allen Park

Chene Street Grocers

Paramita Sound 9

 

Windsor

Warren

St Clair Shores

Center Line

Eastpointe

Grosse Pointe
Woods

Harper Woods
Elite Detrort 

Gmsse
9 

Hamtramck
Grosse Pointe

Grosse
Pointe Park

8 Brewery?Faisan

Detroir 

li?l ii
'l'ecumseh
Windsor

International
Airport



Map data ?2018 Google

