HUMAN RESOURCES COMMITTEE AGENDA
Date Issued: October 11, 2018
The Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System
(CCHHS) will meet on Thursday, October 18, 2018 at the hour of 8:30 A.M. at 1900 W. Polk Street, in the Second
Floor Conference Room, Chicago, Illinois, to consider the following:
Time/Presenter
(times are approximate)
I.

Attendance/Call to Order

8:30/Chair Richardson-Lowry

II.

Public Speakers

8:30-8:40

III.

Action Items

A. Minutes of the Human Resources Committee Meeting of August 23, 2018

8:40-8:40/Chair Richardson-Lowry

B. Any items listed under Sections III and V

IV.

*Report from Interim Chief Human Resources Officer

8:40-9:30/Barbara Pryor

V.

Closed Meeting Items

9:30-10:15

A. Report from Interim Chief of Human Resources
B. Proposed Collective Bargaining Agreements with:
• Service Employees International Union, Local 1 (SEIU Local 1),
representing Fireman & Oilers
• Service Employees International Union, Local 73, CTW/CLC (SEIU
Local 73) representing Service and Maintenance Employees
• Service Employees International Union, Local 73, CTW/CLC (SEIU
Local 73) representing Technicians
• Service Employees International Union, Local 73, CTW/CLC (SEIU
Local 73) representing Technologists
• Service Employees International Union, Local 73, CTW/CLC (SEIU
Local 73) representing Health Care Professionals
• Teamsters Local 700 Stroger representing Hospital Sergeants
• Fraternal Order of Police, Labor Council Lodge 238, representing Police
Officers located at CCHHS
• National Nurses Organizing Committee (NNOC) representing Nurses at
CCHHS
C. Proposed amendments to CCHHS Personnel Rules
D. Discussion of personnel matters
E. Update on labor negotiations
F. Discussion of litigation matters

* Also included as a potential Closed Meeting Item/Discussion under Section V.

 AGENDA
Thursday, October 18, 2018 Meeting
of the Human Resources Committee
Page 2

V.

Closed Meeting Items (continued)
Closed Meeting
Motion to recess the open meeting and convene into a closed meeting, pursuant to the following exceptions to the Open
Meetings Act:
5 ILCS 120/2(c)(1), regarding “the appointment, employment, compensation, discipline, performance, or dismissal of
specific employees of the public body or legal counsel for the public body, including hearing testimony on a complaint
lodged against an employee of the public body or against legal counsel for the public body to determine its validity,”
5 ILCS 120/2(c)(2), regarding “collective negotiating matters between the public body and its employees or their
representatives, or deliberations concerning salary schedules for one or more classes of employees,” and
5 ILCS 120/2(c)(11), regarding “litigation, when an action against, affecting or on behalf of the particular body has
been filed and is pending before a court or administrative tribunal, or when the public body finds that an action is
probable or imminent, in which case the basis for the finding shall be recorded and entered into the minutes of the
closed meeting.”

VI.

Adjourn

Committee Members:
Chairman: Richardson-Lowry
Members:
Board Chairman Hammock (Ex-Officio) and Directors Driscoll and Thomas

 