Minutes of the meeting of the Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health
and Hospitals System (CCHHS) held Thursday, August 23, 2018 at the hour of 8:30 A.M. at 1900 W. Polk Street, in
the Second Floor Conference Room, Chicago, Illinois.
I.

Attendance/Call to Order
Chair Richardson-Lowry called the meeting to order.
Present:

Chair Mary B. Richardson-Lowry and Directors David Ernesto Munar (Substitute Member) and
Sidney A. Thomas, MSW (2)

Directors Ada Mary Gugenheim and Emilie N. Junge
Present
Telephonically: Board Chair M. Hill Hammock (ex-officio)
Absent:

Director Mary Driscoll, RN, MPH (1)

Additional attendees and/or presenters were:
Orlando Brown – Cook County Bureau of Human
Resources
Douglas Elwell – Deputy CEO, Finance and
Strategy
Sharon Goss – Cook County Bureau of Human
Resources
Jeff McCutchan –General Counsel

Carrie Pramuk-Volk – CCHHS Employment Plan
Officer
Barbara Pryor – Interim Chief Human Resources
Officer
Deborah Santana – Secretary to the Board
John Jay Shannon, MD – Chief Executive Officer

The next meeting of the Committee will be held on Thursday, October 18, 2018 at 8:30 A.M.

II.

Public Speakers
Chair Richardson-Lowry asked the Secretary to call upon the registered public speakers.
The Secretary responded that there were none present.

III.

Action Items

A. Minutes of the Human Resources Committee Meeting of June 21, 2018
Director Munar, seconded by Chair Richardson-Lowry, moved to accept the minutes of the
meeting of the Human Resources Committee of June 21, 2018. THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.
B. Any items listed under Sections III and V

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Human Resources Committee
Thursday, August 23, 2018
Page 2

IV.

Report from Interim Chief Human Resources Officer (Attachment #1)
Barbara Pryor, Interim Chief Human Resources Officer, reviewed her report, which included information on the
following subjects:
Impact 2020 – CCHHS HR Strategies
Focus Area 4 – Invest in Resources
Tactic 4.2 Recruit, hire and retain the best employees, who are committed to the CCHHS mission
Tactic 4.3 Strengthen CCHHS workforce
Measurement/Milestones: Reduce time to hire by 15% for non-credentialed positions; achieve substantial
compliance on the Employment Plan
• Healthcare/Focused Recruitment
• Define and track each step in the hiring process
• Enhance position tracking/reporting and analysis
During the discussion of the subject of healthcare/focused recruitment, Chair Richardson-Lowry inquired whether
the organization has a relationship with Chicago State University (CSU). Ms. Pryor responded in the affirmative;
CCHHS jobs are posted at CSU. She added that she can provide more information on that subject. Dr. John Jay
Shannon, Chief Executive Officer, noted that the City Colleges of Chicago strategically focuses different
concentrations at the different sites; that strategy has resulted in most of the healthcare-related professions being
focused at Malcolm X College. He added that the organization’s strongest relationship has been with Malcolm X
College, because of that strategic concentration. Chair Richardson-Lowry stated that CSU’s new President, Z.
Scott, is working to build out the programmatic direction, and this might be a good opportunity to collaborate.
Ms. Pryor agreed; she stated that she has been in contact with President Scott and will continue that dialogue.

Metrics - HR Activity Report:
• Improve / Reduce Average Time to Hire
• HR Activity Report – Open Vacancies
• Hiring Snapshot
• Licensed Nurses Hiring Snapshot
• Revenue Cycle Hiring Snapshot
During the discussion of the metrics on Average Time to Hire, Ms. Pryor stated that the administration is working
to develop more flexibility with the Employment Plan by considering some options to do some things differently.
They are currently in discussions to talk about what those ideas are; at some point she would like to come back to
the Committee to share that information.
Director Thomas inquired whether the nurses in the Licensed Nurses Hiring Snapshot are primarily hospital or
ambulatory-based. Ms. Pryor responded that she will provide that information.

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Human Resources Committee
Thursday, August 23, 2018
Page 3

IV.

Report from Interim Chief of Human Resources (continued)
Carrie Pramuk-Volk, CCHHS Employment Plan Officer, provided an overview of the Employment Plan Office 8th
Semi-Annual Report, which included information on the following subjects:
•
•
•
•

Reporting Period – 1/16/18 through 7/16/18
Monitoring Process – Hiring and Discipline
Investigations of Non-Compliance
Substantial Compliance

The 8th Semi-Annual Report is available upon request at the Office of the CCHHS Secretary to the Board. The
presentation slides regarding this matter are included in Attachment #1 – Report from the Interim Chief Human
Resources Officer.

V.

Closed Meeting Items
A.
B.
C.
D.
E.

Report from Interim Chief Human Resources Officer
Proposed Collective Bargaining Agreement with Teamsters Local 743
Discussion of personnel matters
Update on labor negotiations
Discussion of litigation matters
Director Thomas, seconded by Chair Richardson-Lowry, moved to recess the open
meeting and convene into a closed meeting, pursuant to the following exceptions to the
Illinois Open Meetings Act: 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(1), regarding “the appointment,
employment, compensation, discipline, performance, or dismissal of specific
employees of the public body or legal counsel for the public body, including hearing
testimony on a complaint lodged against an employee of the public body or against
legal counsel for the public body to determine its validity,” 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(2),
regarding “collective negotiating matters between the public body and its employees or
their representatives, or deliberations concerning salary schedules for one or more
classes of employees,” and 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(11), regarding “litigation, when an action
against, affecting or on behalf of the particular body has been filed and is pending
before a court or administrative tribunal, or when the public body finds that an action
is probable or imminent, in which case the basis for the finding shall be recorded and
entered into the minutes of the closed meeting.”
On the motion to recess the open meeting and convene into a closed meeting, a roll call
was taken, the votes of yeas and nays being as follows:
Yeas:

Chair Richardson-Lowry and Director Thomas (2)

Nays:

None (0)

Absent: Director Driscoll (1)
THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY and the Committee recessed into a
closed meeting.

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Human Resources Committee
Thursday, August 23, 2018
Page 4

V.

Closed Meeting Items (continued)
Chair Richardson-Lowry declared that the closed meeting was adjourned. The Committee
reconvened into the open meeting.
Director Thomas, seconded by Chair Richardson-Lowry, moved to approve the proposed
Collective Bargaining Agreement with Teamsters Local 743. THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.

VI.

Adjourn
As the agenda was exhausted, Chair Richardson-Lowry declared the meeting
ADJOURNED.
Respectfully submitted,
Human Resources Committee of the
Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Mary B. Richardson-Lowry, Chair

Attest:

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Deborah Santana, Secretary

Requests/Follow-up:
Follow-up: Request for information on whether the nurses in the Licensed Nurses Hiring Snapshot are primarily
hospital or ambulatory-based. Page 2

 