DETROIT LAND BANK AUTHORITY

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
GUARDIAN BUILDING
500 Griswold St, Suite 1200 0 Detroit, Michigan
(Belle Isle Conference Room)

Tuesday, February 28, 2017
1:00 PM
MINUTES

 

Present: Erica Ward Gerson
Richard Hosey
Patricia Pernell-Shelton
Rasul Raheem

Absent: Larry Lipa
Others Present: Detroit Land Bank Authority (DLBA) staff; General Public
CALL TO ORDER

Chairperson Ward Gerson called the February 28, 2017 meeting to order at 1:09 pm.

ROLL CALL
Member Lipa?s absence was excused. 4 out of 5 members were present and a quorum was met.

ADOPTION OF THE AGENDA
Chairperson Ward Gerson called for the adoption of the agenda. Motion by Member Hosey to adopt
the agenda. Supported by Member Parnell-Shelton. MOTION APPROVED.

REVIEW AND APPROVAL OF MINUTES

Chairperson Ward Gerson called for the approval of the minutes. Motion by Member Hosey for
Approval of the January 17th and January 24th Board of Directors meeting minutes. Supported by
Member Pernell-Shelton. MOTION APPROVED.

PUBLIC COMMENT

Chairperson Ward Gerson opened the floor to public comment. Joanne Warwick, Detroit resident, raised
concerns about properties in DLBA Inventory that are not being maintained and asked whether
neighborhood groups could be involved as part of approach to property maintenance. Ms.
Warwick commented she was pleased with the approval of Michigan Urban Farming Initiative (MUFI) as
a Community Partner (CP) and inquired about Vanguard CDC as a CP. Andy Chae, owner of Fish Head
Farms, inquired about a CP proposal he previously submitted. Reginald Scott, Disposition Director, will
assist Mr. Chai. Mr. Daniel Murray from Detroit Eviction Defense inquired about demolition of homes
that could possibly be saved and how to engage the community. Mr. Scott will meet Mr. Murray to
discuss his concerns.

EXECUTIVE DIRECT REPORT
The Executive Team provided their own department updates in Carrie Lewand?Monroe?s absence.

Public Affairs
Craig Fahle, Public Affairs Director, reported that the DLBA advertising campaign continues with very

favorable results and provided details for the month of February 2017: web sessions: 81,996 39%
increase over the same period in 2016 (58,875); average visit duration: 10:13 up 41% from same
period in 2016; DLBA users: 32,886 - 13% increase over same period in 2016 (29,140); page views:
765,330 86% increase over same period in 2016 (411,407). Mr. Fahle also reported that DLBA currently
has 18,195 registered users, including that DLBA averages 150 new users per week, an increase from
averaging 50 new users per week last year. Social media users also increased in February, with 7371
followers on Facebook, 1729 on Twitter.

Mr. Fahle reported that Client Services? hold and call times have increased in the month of
February, averaging at 1:28 and 3:30, respectively. The increase is a result of training two new team
members and implementing a new phone system. Public Affairs also developed a Client Issue Resolution
System to track responsiveness to customer issues. Every complaint filed at the DLBA will receive
a unique complaint number and will be assigned to an appropriate staff member. Managers will receive
weekly reports on outstanding complaints not yet resolved. The team is in the process of training
managers on the process and receiving feedback to ensure the system works.

The DLBA continues to have regular meetings with representatives from City Council
member?s offices to inform them of DLBA programs, upcoming events, and to help with constituent
issues. The Community Relations team is ramping up their community and block club meeting schedule
as the spring approaches, in addition to the work already in progress to partner with Detroit City Council
members as they host their annual district meetings. Mr. Fahle reported a plan is being devised to also
host DLBA-specific meetings per district, to begin after the side lot fairs conclude in April. Finally, Mr.
Fahle reported that there will be a launch party on March 24, 2017 for This Old House and will send
details to Board Members.

Demolition

Rebecca Camargo, Demolition Director, reported that under HHF4, DLBA has executed 10 contracts with
308 properties and have 12 additional contracts pending with 413 properties. Mrs. Camargo also
reported HHF2 spend?down is at $3,257,805; HHF3 spenddown is at $14,307,924; HHF5 will open next
week and is $88,153,425. Mrs. Camargo also reported that all HHF3 properties are under contract or
complete.

Inventory

Darnell Adams, Inventory Director, reported a recent deployment of additional Own It Now listings on
the website, bringing the total to 1300, 78% of which were requested by citizens. Mr. Adams stated that
in addition to increasing the Own It New listings, the Inventory Department has also been coordinating
with the District Managers regarding sales listings and preparing for the March Board of Reviews.

Disposition

Reginald Scott, Disposition Director, reported that the Side Lot team surpassed 6,000 sales the past
month. Additionally, Mr. Scott confirmed the Side Lot Fairs are scheduled, with Districts 1,2,6, and 7
being held on March 25th at Voyageur Academy and Districts 3, 4 and 5 being held on April 8"h at
Heilman Activities Center. Mr. Scott provided an update on the progress ofthe Your Neighborhood Your
Lot program. Mr. Scott reported the following metrics: OIN sales have increased significantly, 67 in
January; OIN sales for February to date is 64; Auction sales for the week were 13; 6095 Side Lots sold.

Legal
Michael Brady, General Counsel, reported that Dave Szymanski, Legal Programs Director, joined the
Legal Department.

STANDING COMMITTEE REPORTS

Finance and Audit.

Member Hosey provided an update, reporting that the Committee reviewed the budget and worked
with Experis to discuss, fine tune and document processes, especially as it related to involving the
Finance Department in all business processes.

Project Review.
Member PerneIl-Shelton noted the Project Review Committee did not meet this month.

Community Engagement.

Member Parnell-Shelton provided an update, reporting that the Committee reviewed upcoming projects
and met with members of the public to discuss the projects. Mrs. Parnell-Shelton commented that she
was happy to have input from the public and the Committee has decided to extend the public comment
portion in the next Community Engagement Committee meeting.

REPORT

Irene Tucker, Chief Financial Officer, introduced Yolonda Gaines, Procurement Manager, to the team.
Mrs. Tucker reviewed the metrics report, abbreviated budget and discussion ensued. Member Raheem
requested the total outside legal spend. Mrs. Tucker will provide information to Mr. Raheem. Member
Raheem also inquired about the percentage of demolition vendors that were African American. Mrs.
Camargo will provide information to Mr. Raheem.

OLD BUSINESS
Chairperson Ward Gerson opened the floor for any Old Business, noting there was none.

NEW BUSINESS
Resolutions.

02-01-2017 Resolution Authorizing the Executive Director to sign an agreement on behalf of the Detroit
Land Bank Authority with the Michigan Homeowner Nonprofit Housing Corporation for Demolition
funding under the Help For The Hardest Hit Blight Program. Motion by Member Raheem to approve
resolution. Supported by Member Pernell?Shelton. MOTION APPROVED.

02-02-2017 Resolution Adopting the Your Neighborhood Your Lot Program Guidelines. Charity Dean
provided background on the program and discussion ensued. Motion by Member Hosey to approve
resolution. Supported by Member Raheem. MOTION APPROVED.

02-03-2017 Resolution to approve FY 2018 Operating Budget. Motion by Member Hosey to approve
resolution. Supported by Member Raheem. MOTION APPROVED.

02-04?2017 Resolution authorizing the Executive Director to enter into a services agreement on behalf
of the Detroit Land Bank Authority with the fraud and compliance hotline services vendor selected
through the Request for Proposal process. Jake Donnelly and Lauren Szczesney-Pumarada of Navex
Global and Andy Bronstein of Lighthouse Services, Inc. were invited to join the meeting via conference
call. Members asked specific questions regarding the proposals submitted and discussion ensued. Navex
Global did not have clarity on the scope of services and will resubmit their bid to the Board. Chairperson
Ward Gerson tabled the resolution to allow members time to further review proposals and check
references for both vendors. Mrs. Gaines will organize list of references and distribute to members of
the Board and Executive Team.

Motion by Member Hosey to enter into Closed Session. Supported by Member Raheem. MOTION
APPROVED. Member Raheem called roll for each Board Member to go into Closed Session. Unanimously
approved. Chairperson Ward Gerson dismissed for Closed Session at 2:41 pm.

CLOSED SESSION

in accordance with the State of Michigan?s Open Meetings Act, Section 8, Closed Sessions are permitted.
The conditions of such a Closed Session includes the following: 1) The Session must be for a ?limited
purpose,? 2) the Session must be conducted during the course of an open meeting and 3) per Section 9(1)
of the OMA, the minutes of the open meeting must include the purpose for which a closed session is held.

It is noted that the purpose of the Closed Session was called for a permitted purpose as described within
OMA, Section ?to consult with its attorney regarding trial or settlement strategy in connection with
specific pending litigation,? as well as a permitted purpose as described within OMA, Section ?to
consider material exempt from discussion or disclosure by state or federal statute,? specrfically, Section
13(1)(g) of Michigan?s Freedom of information Act, which protects the attorney-client privilege.

Chairperson Ward Gerson adjourned Closed Session and re-Opened the public meeting at 3:37 pm.

ADJOURNMENT
There being no further business, Chairperson Ward Gerson adjourned the meeting at 3:45 pm.

