MARQUETTE PARK SSA#14
OPEN COMMISSIONERS MEETING
November 18, 2015
MINUTES
Location: Lithuanian Human Services Council Hall
2711-15 W. 71st Street
Chicago, IL 60629
In attendance: Commissioners

Patricia Nelson
Cynthia Young,
Dolorine Lopez
Stephanie Sherman-Ratliff

Absent:

Jonas Miglinas
Brenda Justice

Commissioners

Also in attendance:

Joe Polikaitis, LHS Executive Director
Ina Stankeviciene, SSA#14 Program Manager
Narvell Darling, IHS Director of Operations
Guests:

Derrick Curtis, Alderman, 18th Ward
Mark Roschen, Assistant Commissioner, City of Chicago
Department of Planning and Development
Patrick Brutus, Coordinator of Economic Development,
Department of Planning and Development

Opening Remarks
The meeting was called to order at 7:15 PM by the Chair Patricia Nelson, who welcomed
residents and community guests and thanked them for attending.
Approval of 08/19/2015 Minutes
Joe Polikaitis read a summarized version of the minutes from the previous SSA #14
meeting of August 19th, 2015. A copy of the detailed minutes was mailed to the Commissioners
prior to the meeting. The August 19th, 2015, minutes were unanimously approved by the
commissioners: Cynthia Young offered the motion to accept the minutes and it was seconded by
Patricia Nelson. All meetings are being recorded and saved for future documentation. Once
approved, these minutes will be loaded onto the Marquette Park SSA#14 web site (www.mpsecurity.org).
Incident Report
Incident report was read by Ina Stankeviciene. It covered the three months of August,
September, and October of 2015. During this period, the Illinois Homeland Security addressed
778 security events of varied nature. The same three zones (3, 4, and 5) always require the

 greatest amount of effort, with zone 3 being the highest with 187 incidents for the past three
months. Zone 4 – 173, and zone 5 – 114. All other zones experienced an average of 10-15
incidents per month during this period.
These monthly criminal activity data reports, with area location, date of the event, and
type of activity, are already posted on the Marquette Park security website. Copies of incident
reports, zone maps and monthly criminal activity data reports were distributed to all attendees.
Financial Report as of 11/18/2015
Financial report was presented by Joe Polikaitis. As of 11/15/2015 there was $21,469.94
in a Checking account and $103,057.06 in the Money Market account. Joe explained that we
need approximately $ 35,000.00 to cover security expenses by the end of the year. In addition we
need to allocate approximately $10,000.00 for surveillance cameras, $20,000.00 for mailing
expenses and general use. To maintain the program into the next year, we need to save and carryover about $45,000.00 to cover first two months of next year’s expenses before the tax revenue
starts to come in (late February).
Review of Patrol Hours
Joe Polikaitis explained that at the end of the year we will have approximately $10,000
that can be allocated to increase patrol hours during the Holiday season. He asked if Community
wants to expand patrol hours to 24/7 or something similar. Narvell Darling answered the
question that patrol hours right now are 9:00 am to 1:00 am Monday to Thursday, and until 2:00
am Friday to Sunday. Recommendation will be – a second car for day time hours starting with
Thanksgiving and continuing throughout the Holiday season. Joe agreed that the second car with
additional 30 hours a week will fit into our budget. Commissioners decided to add the second
patrol car for Holiday season.
Surveillance Cameras
Surveillance camera was replaced with high resolution camera on Nativity BMV School
(6820 S. Washtenaw Avenue).
Camera on 68th Street and Artesian Ave corner is not functioning and we were unable to
get into the building for long time because the property was sold and we could not reach the new
owners. Finally, we were able to contact the new owner.
71st Street and California Ave. intersection needs a camera since there is always some
type of illegal activity there. We need to move surveillance camera from another location. Now,
we have 12 cameras. N. Darling was talking to the gas station owner to receive permission to
install the last surveillance camera. Not everyone permits to put a camera on their property.
We have a camera on 69th Street and Western Ave. but there are tall trees and we do not
have a good wireless signal. For the future, we need a higher antenna to pick up better wireless
signal. All other cameras are working well and do identify offenders. Cameras are monitored on
a regular basis and data is recorded and kept for the future use, if needed.
Question was raised how much a camera costs. One camera costs about $3,000.00.
Presence of IPR (Illinois Police Reserve) in the Area
The officers from IPR (Illinois Police Reserve) were offered to volunteer their time to
patrol on weekdays and weekends. IPR offered to regulate traffic by schools, to assists senior

 citizens, just be there, and be present and visible. IPR’s phone # 708-572-4771 (or 708-572IPR1). Everyone agreed that the more security officers in the area the safer the area will be.
Comments by Mark Roschen, Assistant Commissioner, City of Chicago Department of
Planning and Development
Mark Roshen introduced himself and took this opportunity to provide insight as to how
the Special Service Areas work in the City of Chicago. He explained that city is doing financial
monitoring to help them understand how SSA and sole service providers work, who the decision
makers are, how community is informed about events in the area and what is the role of
commissioners. Marquette Park Security SSA#14 is the largest SSA in the city, and it is unique
because it is a residential security program. It is a challenge to run it.
Question was raised about the budget. Basic budget sheet was available to all attendees.
Mark Roschen explained that the budget is available on the website, and the detailed budget is
available to everyone. SSA’s budget is part of the Freedom of Information Act. Request needs to
be made to the P&D department. The City reviews the requests and the City makes decision as to
what information is to be released.
Comments by Derrick Curtis, Alderman, 18th Ward
Alderman Derrick Curtis suggested that if we want to bring the community up even with
public safety, we have to provide economic development that will run the crime out of the area.
The more businesses comes, the more vibrant the community gets, and less crime will be present
in the area.
Community Input
The residents expressed their views on incidents and activities in the neighborhood.
Question was raised how much residents pay for this service. It was explained that it is listed on
each individual tax bill.
Tentative Meeting Schedule for 2016
February 24th
April 27th
August 17th
November 16th
Next Governing Commissioners Meeting
Next meeting is tentatively scheduled for February 24, 2016.
Meeting closed at 9:00 pm.

Respectfully submitted by Ina Stankeviciene

 