September 12th, 2018 Chicago Transit Board Regular Meeting Minutes.
Noticed for 10:00 AM; Commenced at 10:05 AM.

AGENDA: The posted agenda for the meeting is available at www.transitchicago.com
, “Chicago Transit
Board”, “Meeting Notices, Agendas, and Minutes”, (09/12/2018)(Regular Board Meeting),”Agenda

ROLL CALL: Directors Terry Peterson (Chairman), Arabel Alva Rosales (Vice-Chairman), Alejandro S
Kevin Irvine, Johnny Miller, Andre Youngblood, Robert Patterson.
PUBLIC COMMENT: O’Keema Lewis, Kenneth Franklin, Keith Hill.
MINUTES: Chairman Peterson deferred the Board Minutes of August 15, 2018.

EXECUTIVE SESSION:
Chairman Peterson asked for a motion to approve Board Agenda It
settlement recommendation of $6,000,000.00, for the settlement of Circuit Court of Cook County
No. 2015 L 005787, Elaine Wilson Stern, as independent executor of the estate of Aimee Marie Co
Chicago Transit Authority and Donald Barnes. After being moved and seconded, the motio
approved with seven yes votes.

BOARD MATTERS: Chairman Peterson asked for a motion to approve Board agenda item 5
ordinance fixing the salary of Reverend Robert Patterson as a temporary member of the Chicago T
Board. After being moved and seconded, the motion was approved with six yes votes an
(Patterson) abstention.

Chairman Peterson next asked for a motion to approve Board agenda item 5-B, an ordinance appo
members and chairs to certain standing committees of the Chicago Transit Board. After being mo
and seconded, the motion was approved with seven yes votes.

COMMITTEE OF STRATEGIC PLANNING AND SERVICE DELIVERY: Committee Chairman Irvine presen
the report. The committee approved thethJuly
, 2018
11 committee meeting minutes. Mr. Irvine also
statedthat the committeehad reviewedand recommended
for Board approval,an ordinance
st
authorizing a sixth experiment for bus route
. The
#31committee
31
placed the ordinance on the
omnibus, recommended for Board approval. Mr. Irvine concluded his report.

COMMITTEE ON FINANCE, AUDIT, AND BUDGET: Committee Chairman Alejandro Silva presented t
report. The committee reviewed the monthly (September) report on Finance, and approved the A
2018 committee meeting minutes. Mr. Silva also stated that all other Committee agenda items,
on the Committee Agenda, were presented, reviewed, discussed, placed on the omnibus, and
recommended for Board approval. Mr. Silva concluded his report.

Chairman Peterson asked for a motion to approve the omnibus as stated by Directors Irvine and S
After being moved and seconded, the motion was approved with seven yes votes.

1

 All approved September 2018 Board ordinances are available on-line, at www.transitchicago.com
,
“Chicago Transit Board”, “Board Ordinances”, Ordinance Numbers 018-75 through 018-83.

CONSTRUCTION REPORT: Chief Infrastructure Officer Carole Morey presented the Construction Re
The report is available on-line at www.transitchicago.com
, “Chicago Transit Board”, “Presentations
made to the Chicago Transit Board”, (September 2018), “Construction Report”.
NEW BUSINESS: None

MOTION TO ADJOURN: Chairman Peterson asked for a motion to adjourn the September 12th, 20
Chicago Transit Board meeting. That motion was moved and approved by unanimous voice vote.

2

 