MINUTES OF MEETING
WAYNE COUNTY ELECTION COMMISSION
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 2017 – 12:30 P.M.
COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL BUILDING - ROOM 700A
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

Call to Order:

The meeting was called to order at 12:30 p.m., Tuesday, February 28,
2017.

Members present: Honorable Freddie G. Burton, Jr., Chief Judge, Probate Court
Honorable Eric Sabree, Member – Wayne County Treasurer
Members absent: Honorable Cathy M. Garrett, Secretary- Wayne County Clerk
Excused

Also present:

Janet Anderson-Davis, Assistant Corporation Counsel
Delphine G. Oden, Consultant, Wayne County Elections
Jennifer Redmond, Acting Assistant Director
Jina Sawani
Rendell Wooden

Agenda item:

Consideration of Agenda approval.
Board action on agenda item: Chair Burton requested a motion
to approve the agenda. Member Sabree, duly supported by Chair
Burton, moved to adopt the agenda as submitted. The motion was
adopted unanimously by a voice vote.

Agenda item:

Approval of Minutes of September 13, 2016
Board action on agenda item: Chair Burton requested a motion
to approve the minutes of the meeting held on September 13, 2016.
Member Sabree, duly supported by Chair Burton, moved to
approve the minutes of the meeting held on September 13, 2016.
The motion was adopted unanimously by a voice vote.

Agenda item:

Consideration of Request for Temporary Precinct
Consolidation, Submitted by: Allen Park City Clerk, Michael I.
Mizzi and Melvindale City Clerk Diana Zarazua regarding the
Melvindale – N. Allen Park School District Election May 2, 2017
Board action on agenda item: Chair Burton requested a motion
to approve the request for Temporary Precinct Consolidation for the

 City of Allen Park. Member Sabree, duly supported by Chair
Burton, moved to approve the request for Temporary Precinct
Consolidation for the City of Allen Park. The motion was adopted
unanimously by a voice vote.
Board action on agenda item: Chair Burton requested a motion
to approve the request for Precinct Consolidation for the City of
Melvindale. Member Sabree, duly supported by Chair Burton,
moved to approve the request for Precinct Consolidation for the
City of Melvindale. The motion was adopted unanimously by a
voice vote.
Agenda item:

Approval of Ballot Printing for May 2, 2017 Special Election
Board action on agenda item: Chair Burton requested a motion
for Approval of Ballot Printing for the May 2, 2017 Special Election.
Member Sabree, duly supported by Chair Burton, moved to
approve the request for Approval of Ballot Printing. The motion
was adopted unanimously by a voice vote.
Chair Burton inquired about the budget for the Wayne County
Election Commission as it relates to budgeting for odd year
elections. Delphine G. Oden stated that she will have to obtain
more information regarding the commissions’ budget.

Agenda item:

New Business
Board action on agenda item: Chair Burton asked if there was
any new business. Assistant Corporation Counsel Anderson-Davis
provided the commission with an update on court cases including
Davis V. Garrett.

Agenda item:

Public Comment. None

Agenda item:

Adjournment. Chair Burton requested a motion to adjourn the
meeting, Member Sabree, duly supported by Chair Burton, moved
to approve the request to adjourn the meeting. The motion was
adopted unanimously by a voice vote.
Meeting adjourned at 12:40 p.m.

 