ORDINANCES

JULY 25, 2018 BOARD AGENDA

 

COMMISSIONERS

18-1126 WAS DEFERRED TO THE LEGISLATION AND INTERGOVERNMENTAL
RELATIONS COMMITTEE AT THE JULY 25, 2018 BOARD MEETING
18-1126
Sponsored by: PETER N. SILVESTRI, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
ESTABLISHING THE COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 38, HEALTH AND
HUMAN SERVICES, ARTICLE V, COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM,
SECTION 38-80 of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as Follows:
Sec. 38-80. General powers of the System Board.
Subject to the Mission of the CCHHS and consistent with this article, the System Board shall have the
following powers and responsibilities:
(a) To appoint the Chief Executive Officer of the CCHHS ("CEO") or interim CEO, if necessary,
as set forth in Section 38-81 hereinafter, to hire such employees and to contract with such agents, and
professional and business advisers as may from time to time be necessary in the System Board's judgment
to accomplish the CCHHS' Mission and the purpose and intent of this article; to fix the compensation of
such CEO, employees, agents, and advisers; and, to establish the powers and duties of all such agents,
employees, and other persons contracting with the System Board;
(b) To exercise oversight of the CEO;
(c) To develop measures to evaluate the CEO's performance and to report to the President and the
County Board at six-month intervals regarding the CEO's performance;
(d) To authorize the CEO to enter into contracts, execute all instruments, and do all things necessary
or convenient in the exercise of the System Board's powers and responsibilities;
(e) To determine the scope and distribution of clinical services; provided, however, if the System
Board determines that it is in the best interest of the CCHHS to close entirely one of the three two CCHHS
hospitals, such closure will require County Board approval; provided further, however, that if the System
Board determines it is in the best interest of the CCHHS to purchase additional hospitals, or to add or reduce
healthcare-licensed, risk-bearing entities in CountyCare, the CCHHS shall, 15 calendar days before final
approval, provide notice to the President and the Cook County Board of Commissioners, informing such
persons as to the basic nature of any such transaction and shall offer to meet with such persons to brief them
in more detail on specifics relating to such a transaction;
(f) To provide for the organization and management of the CCHHS, including, but not limited to,
the System Board's rights and powers to approve all personnel policies, consistent with existing state laws,
collective bargaining agreements, and court orders;
(g) To submit budgets for the CCHHS operations and capital planning and development, which
promote sound financial management and assure the continued operation of the CCHHS, subject to
approval by the County Board;

 (h) To accept any gifts, grants, property, or any other aid in any form from the federal government,
the state, any state agency, or any other source, or any combination thereof, and to comply with the terms
and conditions thereof;
(i) To purchase, lease, trade, exchange, or otherwise acquire, maintain, hold, improve, repair, sell,
and dispose of personal property, whether tangible or intangible, and any interest therein;
(j) In the name of the County, to purchase, lease, trade, exchange, or otherwise acquire, real
property or any interest therein, and to maintain, hold, improve, repair, mortgage, lease, and otherwise
transfer such real property, so long as such transactions do not interfere with the Mission of the CCHHS;
provided, however, that transactions involving real property valued at $100,000.00 or greater shall require
express approval from the County Board;
(k) To acquire space, equipment, supplies, and services, including, but not limited to, services of
consultants for rendering professional and technical assistance and advice on matters within the System
Board's powers;
(l) To make rules and regulations governing the use of property and facilities within the CCHHS,
subject to agreements with or for the benefit of holders of the County Board's obligations;
(m) To adopt, and from time to time amend or repeal bylaws and rules and regulations consistent
with the provisions of this article;
(n) To encourage the formation of a not-for-profit corporation to raise funds to assist in carrying
out the Mission of the CCHHS;
(o) To engage in joint ventures, or to participate in alliances, purchasing consortia, or other
cooperative arrangements, with any public or private entity, consistent with state law;
(p) To have and exercise all rights and powers necessary, convenient, incidental to, or implied from
the specific powers granted in this article, which specific powers shall not be considered as a limitation
upon any power necessary or appropriate to carry out the CCHHS' Mission and the purposes and intent of
this article;
(q) To perform, through the Cook County Department of Public Health, essential services of a local
public health authority as provided in the Cook County Board of Health Ordinance, Sections 38-26 through
38-40 of the Cook County Code, other Cook County Ordinances imposing duties upon the Cook County
Department of Public Health, and the regulations of the Cook County Department of Public Health
promulgated thereunder; the Department of Public Health Act, 20 ILCS 2305/1 et seq.; the Civil
Administrative Code of Illinois, 20 ILCS 2310/2310-1 et seq.; and as further detailed in regulations
promulgated by the Illinois Department of Public Health under the Certified Local Health Department
Code, 77 Ill. Adm. Code 600.110 et seq.; provided, however, that the County Board shall continue to serve
as the Board of Health of Cook County; and
(r) To be the governing body of the licensed hospitals or other licensed entities within the CCHHS.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.

 18-4955 WAS REFERRED TO THE CRIMINAL JUSTICE COMMITTEE AT THE JULY 25, 2018
BOARD MEETING
18-4955
Sponsored by: LARRY SUFFREDIN, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE
PREVENTING THE DETENTION OF JUVENILES UNDER THE AGE OF 13
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter 46, Law Enforcement,
Sec. 46-4 be enacted as follows:
Sec. 46-4. - Detention of Juveniles
(a) Placement of a minor away from his or her home must be the last resort and be the least
restrictive alternative available.
(b) An individual under 13 years of age shall not be admitted, kept, detained or committed to the
Cook County Jail or the Juvenile Temporary Detention Center.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.

 18-5013 WAS REFERRED TO THE FINANCE COMMITTEE AT THE JULY 25, 2018 BOARD
MEETING
18-5013
Sponsored by: LARRY SUFFREDIN, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
CREATING A BULK USER FEE AT THE COOK COUNTY BOARD OF REVIEW
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 32 - Fees, Section 32-1.
- Fee Schedule of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as Follows:
Sec. 32-1. - Fee schedule.
The fees or charges provided for or required by the below-listed sections shall be as shown below:
***
Code Section

Description
Charges (in
dollars)

Fees, Rates,

Chapter 2, Administration
34-41

Board of Review Bulk User Fee

$1,000 per user, per annum

Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.

 BUREAU OF HUMAN RESOURCES

18-3239 WAS REFERRED TO THE LEGISLATION AND INTERGOVERNMENTAL
RELATIONS COMMITTEE AT THE JULY 25, 2018 BOARD MEETING
18-3239
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE (President), Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
ALIGNING THE COOK COUNTY SICK LEAVE ORDINANCE WITH THE CURRENT
EMPLOYEE SICK LEAVE POLICY
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 44, Human Resources,
Article III Vacation and Sick Leave, Section 44-93 - Sick Leave is hereby amended as follows:
Sec. 44-93. - Sick leave.
(a) Eligible employees may use sick leave for illness, disability incidental to pregnancy or nonjob
related injury to the employee; appointments with physicians, dentists, or other recognized practitioners; or
for serious illness, disability, or injury, in the immediate family of the employee. Eligible employees on
maternity or paternity leave may use sick leave during the first four (4) to eight (6) weeks following
childbirth, depending on the type of delivery. Use of sick leave during maternity or paternity leave may be
extended upon the Leave Coordinator’s receipt of a medical statement indicating that the employee is
unable to return to work due to medical reasons.
(a) (b) Sick leave is granted by Cook the County because an employee is unable to perform his/her
assigned duties, or because his/her presence at his place of work would jeopardize the health of co-workers.
Accordingly, sick leave shall not be used for any purpose other than to cover an absence related illness and
shall not be used as additional vacation leave.
(c) All eligible employees shall be granted sick leave with pay at the rate of one working day for
each month of service. A month of service is one in which an employee is in a pay status for at least 15
working days in a calendar month. All eligible employees on a part-time work schedule shall be granted
sick leave with pay proportionate to the time worked per pay period. Sick leave may be accumulated to
equal, but at no time to exceed, one hundred seventy-five (175) working days. Records of sick leave credit
and use shall be maintained by each office or department in the Cook County Time and Attendance System.
(b) Subsequent to December 3, 1962, sick leave may be accumulated to equal but at no time to
exceed 120 working days at the rate of 12 working days per year. Records of sick leave credit and use shall
be maintained by each office, department, or institution. Severance of employment prior to the use of any
part of such sick leave terminates all rights for compensation hereunder. Amount of leave accumulated at
the time when any sick leave begins shall be available in full, and additional leave shall continue to accrue
while an employee is using that already accumulated.
(c) Sick leave may be used for illness, disability, or injury of the employee; appointments with
physicians, dentists, or other recognized practitioners; or for serious illness, disability, or injury, in the
immediate family of the employee. After five consecutive sick days, employees shall submit to their
department head a doctor's certificate as proof of sickness. Maternity leave shall not be considered as sick
leave.

 (d) If, in the opinion of the head of the executive head of the office, or department, or institution,
the health of an employee warrants prolonged absence from duty, the employee will be permitted to
combine to his/her sick leave, vacation, and sick leave and personal days, with the approval of from the
Bureau Chief, Bureau of Human Resources.
(e) The employee may apply for disability under the rules and regulations established by the Cook
County Annuity and Benefit Fund Retirement Board.
(f) Severance of employment prior to the use of any part of such sick leave terminates all rights to
such sick leave accrual and compensation for such sick leave, except in the case of a reduction in force
resulting in employees being laid off and recalled from layoff status. If an employee is recalled from layoff
status into the same or a new position in the County Agency, and defined in Section Three of the Budget
Resolution, from which the employee was laid off, the employee shall receive the full benefit of the sick
leave accrual severed from the employee at the time of layoff.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.

 18-3674 WAS REFERRED TO THE LEGISLATION AND INTERGOVERNMENTAL
RELATIONS COMMITTEE AT THE JULY 25, 2018 BOARD MEETING
18-3674
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE (President), Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
ALIGNING EMPLOYEE BENEFITS FOR MILITARY SERVICE WITH STATE AND FEDERAL
LAW
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that CHAPTER 44 HUMAN
RESOURCES, ARTICLE III VACATION AND SICK LEAVE, SECTION NUMBER(S) 44-95, 44-97,
44-101, 44-102, AND ARTICLE IV PENSIONS, SECTION NUMBER 44-132 of the Cook County Code
are hereby amended as Follows:
Sec. 44-95. - Military l Leave. All eligible employees under the jurisdiction of County Officers on an
authorized military leave shall be afforded employment related protections and benefits, in accordance with
State and Federal law, provided that any procedural requirements imposed by the applicable employing
County officer have been met.
(a) Military Service Leave. Any eligible full-time or part-time County employee who has at least
six months or more of continuous actual is called to perform uniformed services, whether in the reserves or
on active duty, service and is a member of the Illinois National Guard or any of the Reserve Components
of the Armed Forces of the United States shall be entitled to leave of absence with full pay for limited
service in field training, cruises, and kindred recurring obligations employment related protections and
benefits, in accordance with State and Federal law, provided that any procedural requirements imposed by
the County have been met. Such leave will normally be limited to 15 days in each year. Subject to certain
exceptions under the applicable laws, these benefits are generally limited to five (5) years of leave of
absence.
(b) Family Military Leave. In accordance with the Illinois Family Military Leave Act, 820 ILCS
151/1, et seq., the County provides eligible employees with up to 30 days of unpaid family military leave
during the time federal or state deployment orders are in effect, provided that such employee has exhausted
all accrued vacation leave, personal leave, compensatory leave and any other leave granted to the employee,
except sick and disability leave. The number of days of leave provided under the Illinois Family Military
Leave Act will be reduced by the number of days of qualifying exigency leave provided under the Family
Medical Leave Act
***
Sec. 44-97. - Records of personal days, sick, vacation and military leave.
(a) For employees under the jurisdiction of the County Board, records of personal days, sick,
vacation, and military leave shall be maintained by the Civil Service Commission.
(b) For employees not under the jurisdiction of the County Board, records of personal days, sick,
vacation and military leave shall be maintained by the department head.

 Records of personal days, sick, vacation, and any other approved leave including but not limited to
bereavement leave, family and medical leave, military leave, and family military leave shall be maintained
by each County office or department in the Cook County Time and Attendance System.
***

Sec. 44-101. - Employees' annuity and benefit fund contribution for employees in armed forces.
The County Board shall annually provide in its annual appropriation bill sufficient funds to make
contributions for such employees based on the same percentage of the salaries of such employees as at the
time of entering such military or naval service or training service leave for the period of their compulsory
or voluntary service to the State or Federal government, and that all such employees at the conclusion of
such military service leave, be restored to their positions as required by State and Federal law.
Sec. 44-102. - Status of employees in armed forces. Reserved.
(a) All employees under the jurisdiction of the County officers, other than the County Board of
Commissioners, who serve in the military or naval forces of the United States, either voluntarily or by
reason of the Conscription Act, have their positions, seniority and status preserved the same as any other
County employee.
(b) All County employees including Forest Preserve employees under the jurisdiction of County
officers, other than the Board of Commissioners, who serve in the military or naval forces of the United
States, either voluntarily or by reason of the Conscription Act, have their positions, seniority and status
preserved the same as any other County employee.
***
Sec. 44-132. - Contribution for employees in armed forces.
The Board shall annually provide in its annual appropriation bill sufficient funds to make contributions for
such employees based on the same percentage of the salaries of such employees as at the time of entering
such military service leave for the period of their compulsory or voluntary service to the State or Federal
government, and that all such employees at the conclusion of such
military service leave, be restored to their positions as required by State and Federal law.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption

 COMMITTEE ITEMS REQUIRING BOARD ACTION

FINANCE COMMITTEE
MEETING OF JULY 25. 2018

18-4102
ORDINANCE
Sponsored by
THE HONORABLE TONI PRECKWINKLE,
PRESIDENT OF THE COOK COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
CABLE FRANCHISE AGREEMENT
WHEREAS, Section 6(a) of Article VII of the Illinois Constitution provides in relevant part that a home
rule unit "may exercise any power and perform any function pertaining to its government and affairs
including, but not limited to, the power to regulate for the protection of the public health, safety, morals
and welfare; to license; to tax . . ."; and
WHEREAS, Section 5/5-1095 of the Counties Code, 55 ILCS 5/5-1095, provides in relevant part that "The
County Board may license, tax or franchise the business of operating a community antenna television
system or systems within the County. . .”; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners (“County Board”) adopted Ordinance 82-0-32
("the Cook County Cable Television Ordinance" or "the Cable Ordinance"), to provide for the nonexclusive franchising and regulation of CATV Systems within Unincorporated Cook County; and
WHEREAS, Cook County seeks to provide cable Franchises and renewals in an equitable and
nondiscriminatory manner, taking all relevant facts and circumstances into account, so as to allow all cable
television Franchisees to provide service within Unincorporated Cook County on a fair and competitive
footing; and
WHEREAS, Comcast of California/ Illinois, LLC; Comcast of Illinois VI, LLC; Comcast of California/
Colorado/ Illinois/ Indiana/ Michigan, LLC; Comcast of Illinois/ Indiana, LLC; Comcast of Illinois IV,
Inc.; Comcast of Illinois/ West Virginia, LLC; and Comcast of Illinois/ Indiana/ Michigan, LLC
("Comcast") requested a new ten-year agreement for its various cable television franchise(s) to provide
CATV Service in Cook County;
WHEREAS, Comcast has constructed and installed, and is currently maintaining and operating a CATV
System in Unincorporated Cook County pursuant to its previous Franchise Agreement and Cable and Video
Customer Protection Law, 220 ILCS 5/22-501 et seq.; and
WHEREAS, the Department of Revenue has reviewed Comcast’s financial performance per the terms of
the Cable Franchise Agreement and has indicated that Comcast has timely remitted its Franchise Fees in
the amount of 5% of its gross revenue for the franchise area on an annual basis and will continue to provide
the statutory maximum franchise fee under the terms of the agreement; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to of the Communications Act of 1934, 47 U.S.C. Section 541 Comcast is seeking
and the parties have negotiated a new Cable Television Franchise Agreement; subsequently the Grantee
and Cook County negotiated and reviewed the terms the new Franchise Agreement and extension/renewal
terms pursuant to 47 U.S.C. Section 541 and 546(h); and

 WHEREAS, the County, having determined that Comcast’s financial, legal, and technical abilities are
reasonably sufficient to provide the services, facilities, and equipment necessary to meet the future cablerelated needs of the community, desires to enter into this Franchise Agreement with Comcast for the
construction, operation and maintenance of a Cable System on the terms and conditions set forth herein;
and
WHEREAS, the term of the Franchise Agreement granted hereunder shall be ten (10) years from the date
of execution, unless the Franchise Agreement is renewed or is lawfully terminated in accordance with the
terms of this Franchise Agreement and/or applicable law; and
WHEREAS, the Franchise Fee provided to the County shall be at the statutory maximum which is 5% of
Comcast’s gross revenues in unincorporated Cook County; and
WHEREAS, the Franchise Agreement provides for a capital grant to the County for the life of the Franchise
Agreement subject to the County’s capital plan to assist in funding the equipment necessary to maintain the
programming for the County’s channel; this grant will be funded through a Public, Educational and
Governmental (P.E.G.) Capital Fee of up to $0.45 per month per subscriber for the life of the Franchise
Agreement; and
WHEREAS, it is in the public interest to grant a new non-exclusive cable television franchise to Comcast
in accordance with the terms of the Franchise Agreement presented herein.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, under the authority of the Cable Act, the Illinois Constitution
of 1970, including the County’s home rule powers, and the Illinois Counties Code, as amended from time
to time, the Cook County Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the execution of a new ten year Cable
Franchise Agreement with Comcast of California/ Illinois, LLC; Comcast of Illinois VI, LLC; Comcast of
California/ Colorado/ Illinois/ Indiana/ Michigan, LLC; Comcast of Illinois/ Indiana, LLC; Comcast of
Illinois IV, Inc.; Comcast of Illinois/ West Virginia, LLC; and Comcast of Illinois/ Indiana/ Michigan, LLC
; and
BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, that the President be authorized to execute the Cable Franchise
Agreement.
Effective date: This Ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
Approved and adopted this 25th of July 2018.
TONI PRECKWINKLE, President
Cook County Board of Commissioners
Attest: DAVID ORR, County Clerk

 18-4552
ORDINANCE
Sponsored by
THE HONORABLE TONI PRECKWINKLE,
PRESIDENT OF THE COOK COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
AN ORDINANCE PROVIDING FOR THE ISSUANCE OF SALES TAX REVENUE BONDS,
SERIES 2018, OF THE COUNTY OF COOK, ILLINOIS; THE APPROVAL, EXECUTION AND
DELIVERY OF A FOURTH SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE; AND PROVIDING FOR OTHER
MATTERS IN CONNECTION WITH THE ISSUANCE OF THE SERIES 2018 BONDS
WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 6(a) of Article VII of the 1970 Constitution of the State of Illinois (the
"Illinois Constitution"), the County of Cook, Illinois (the "County") is a home rule unit of local government
and as such may exercise any power and perform any function pertaining to its government and affairs,
including, but not limited to, the power to tax and to incur debt; and
WHEREAS, the County may also exercise powers relating to the power to tax and to incur debt pursuant
to the Counties Code, as supplemented and amended by the Local Government Debt Reform Act of the
State of Illinois (collectively, the "Act"); and
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the County (the "Corporate Authorities") has not adopted any
ordinance, resolution, order or motion or provided any County Code (as defined in the hereinafter defined
Master Indenture) provisions which restrict or limit the exercise of the home rule powers of the County in
the issuance of sales tax revenue bonds for corporate purposes or which otherwise provide any special rules
or procedures for the exercise of such powers; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to the ordinance duly adopted by the Corporate Authorities on July 24, 2012, the
County duly authorized and approved that certain Master Trust Indenture, dated as of August 1, 2012, as
amended and supplemented from time to time (the "Master Indenture"), between the County and The Bank
of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (the "Trustee") which provides that the County may issue bonds
authenticated and delivered under and pursuant to the Master Indenture (the "Bonds") for the purpose of
financing costs of Projects (as defined in the Master Indenture) and paying costs related to the issuance of
such Bonds; and
WHEREAS, it was intended and hereby determined that the financing of costs of the Projects includes
expenditures for the refinancing of debt incurred to pay costs of the Series 2018 Projects as defined below
in this Ordinance.
WHEREAS, the Master Indenture further provides that all such Bonds shall be designated "Sales Tax
Revenue Bonds," shall include such further appropriate designations as the County may determine, and
may be issued in one or more Series (as defined in the Master Indenture) with each Bond bearing upon its
face the designation determined for its Series; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to the Master Indenture and that certain First Supplemental Trust Indenture, dated
as of August 1, 2012 (the "First Supplemental Indenture"), between the County and the Trustee, the County
has previously issued its Sales Tax Revenue Bonds, Series 2012 (the "Series 2012 Bonds") in the original
aggregate principal amount of $90,000,000.00 for the purpose of financing costs of Projects; and

 WHEREAS, pursuant to the Master Indenture and that certain Second Supplemental Trust Indenture, dated
as of July 1, 2013 (the "Second Supplemental Indenture"), between the County and the Trustee, the County
issued its Sales Tax Revenue Bonds, Series 2013 (Qualified Energy Conservation Bonds - Direct Payment),
in the original aggregate principal amount of $24,945,000.00 (the "Series 2013 Bonds") for the purpose of
financing costs of Projects; and
WHEREAS, the County previously issued its $125,000,000.00 original principal amount of General
Obligation Bonds, Series 2014D (the "Prior Bonds") pursuant to a Trust Indenture, dated as of October 1,
2014, between the County and Amalgamated Bank of Chicago, as trustee, a portion of the proceeds of
which financed projects which qualify as "Projects" pursuant to the Master Indenture with the intent of
refinancing such Prior Bonds with a subsequent financing; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to the Master Indenture and that certain Third Supplemental Trust Indenture, dated
as of August 1, 2017 (the "Third Supplemental Indenture"), between the County and the Trustee, the County
issued its Sales Tax Revenue Bonds, Series 2017 in the original aggregate principal amount of
$165,000,000.00 (the "Series 2017 Bonds") for the purpose of financing costs of Projects and refunding a
portion of the outstanding Prior Bonds; and
WHEREAS, the County now desires to refund all or a portion of the outstanding Prior Bonds with proceeds
of additional Sales Tax Revenue Bonds issued under the Master Indenture and the Fourth Supplemental
Indenture (as hereinafter defined); and
WHEREAS, as pertains to Cook County government and affairs, and as in the interests of the public health,
safety, and welfare of the inhabitants of the County, it is necessary, prudent, or advisable that the County
provide financing for or refinancing of various projects and purposes for the benefit of the County and its
residents, including, but not limited to, the construction, equipping, altering or repair of various County
facilities or for any other Projects under the Master Indenture (collectively, together with projects financed
with proceeds of the Prior Bonds, the "Series 2018 Projects"); and
WHEREAS, the specific components of the construction, equipping, altering and repair of various County
facilities and of any other Projects relating to the Series 2018 Bonds shall be specified in the Bond Order
pursuant to Section 3(d) of this Ordinance; and
WHEREAS, the aggregate costs of the Series 2018 Projects eligible for financing or refinancing are
estimated to be not less than One Hundred Seventy-Five Million Dollars ($175,000,000.00); and
WHEREAS, the Corporate Authorities have determined that it is advisable and necessary to authorize the
issuance of County of Cook, Illinois, Sales Tax Revenue Bonds, Series 2018 (the "Series 2018 Bonds") in
one or more Series for the following purposes: (i) provide for the refunding of all or a portion of the
outstanding Prior Bonds, (ii) paying all or a portion of the costs of the Series 2018 Projects; (iii) capitalizing
interest payable on the Series 2018 Bonds to the extent determined to be necessary as provided herein; (iv)
funding a debt service reserve fund for the Series 2018 Bonds to the extent determined to be necessary as
provided herein; and (v) paying the expenses of issuing the Series 2018 Bonds and the refunding of the
outstanding Prior Bonds; and
WHEREAS, the County, by virtue of its constitutional home rule powers and all laws applicable thereto
has the power to issue the Series 2018 Bonds and such borrowing is for a proper public purpose and in the
public interest; and

 WHEREAS, the Corporate Authorities have determined that in connection with the issuance of the Series
2018 Bonds it is advisable or necessary to authorize the execution and delivery of a Fourth Supplemental
Trust Indenture (the "Fourth Supplemental Indenture"), between the County and the Trustee, as authorized
pursuant to the Master Indenture.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Commissioners of the County of Cook,
Illinois, that following Ordinance is hereby enacted:
Section 1.

Findings

The Corporate Authorities hereby find that all of the recitals contained in the preambles to this
Ordinance are full, true and correct and do hereby incorporate them into this Ordinance by this reference.
It is hereby found and determined that the Corporate Authorities are authorized by law to issue the Series
2018 Bonds in one or more Series to (i) refund all or a portion of the outstanding Prior Bonds; and (ii)
finance or refinance the Series 2018 Projects (including the payment of costs of issuance related thereto,
subject to the limitations set forth in Section 3(a) of this Ordinance). It is hereby found and determined that
such borrowing of money pertains to the government and affairs of the County, is necessary, prudent or
advisable for the public health, safety and welfare of the government and affairs of the County, is for a
proper public purpose or purposes and is in the public interest, and is authorized pursuant to the Act; and
these findings and determinations shall be deemed conclusive. The issuance of the Series 2018 Bonds is
authorized by the Illinois Constitution and the Act and the Series 2018 Bonds shall be issued pursuant to
the Illinois Constitution and the Act.
Section 2.

Issuance of the Series 2018 Bonds

(a)
There shall be authorized the issuance of the Series 2018 Bonds in one or more Series in
the aggregate principal amount of not to exceed One Hundred Seventy-Five Million Dollars
($175,000,000.00) (i) plus an amount equal to the amount of any net original issue premium obtained in the
sale of the Series 2018 Bonds (not to exceed twenty-five percent (25%) of the principal amount thereof) or
(ii) less an amount equal to the amount of any net original issue discount offered in the sale of the Series
2018 Bonds (not to exceed two percent (2.00%) of the principal amount thereof) for the purposes described
in the preambles to this Ordinance. The Series 2018 Bonds may be issued from time to time in one or more
Series in said aggregate principal amount, or such lesser aggregate principal amount as may be determined
by the Chief Financial Officer of the County (the “Chief Financial Officer”) (it being hereby expressly
provided that in the event of a vacancy in the office of Chief Financial Officer or the absence or temporary
or permanent incapacity of the Chief Financial Officer, the Comptroller of the County shall be authorized
to act in the capacity of the Chief Financial Officer for all purposes of this Ordinance). The Series 2018
Bonds shall be designated "Sales Tax Revenue Bonds, Series 2018", with such additions, modifications or
revisions as shall be determined to be necessary by the Chief Financial Officer at the time of the sale and
having any other authorized features determined by the Chief Financial Officer as desirable to be reflected
in the title of the Series 2018 Bonds.

 (b)
The Series 2018 Bonds shall be issued and secured pursuant to the terms and provisions of
the Master Indenture and the Fourth Supplemental Indenture but within the limitations prescribed in this
Ordinance. The Fourth Supplemental Indenture is to be entered into between the County and the Trustee
(or such other trustee as shall be selected by the President of the Corporate Authorities (the “President”) or
the Chief Financial Officer, having a corporate trust office located within the County). The President and
the Chief Financial Officer are each hereby authorized to execute and deliver the Fourth Supplemental
Indenture on behalf of the County, such Fourth Supplemental Indenture to be in substantially the form
attached hereto as Exhibit A, and which is made a part hereof and hereby approved with such changes
therein as shall be approved by the President or Chief Financial Officer executing the same (including such
changes as necessary to reflect the Series 2018 Bonds and the related Series 2018 Projects), with such
execution to constitute conclusive evidence of their approval and the Corporate Authorities' approval of
any changes or revisions therein from the form attached hereto. All capitalized terms used in this Ordinance
without definition shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the Master Indenture or the Fourth
Supplemental Indenture. The President and the Chief Financial Officer are each hereby authorized to act
as an Authorized Officer for the purposes provided in the Master Indenture and the Fourth Supplemental
Indenture.
(c)
The Fourth Supplemental Indenture shall set forth such additional covenants with respect
to the Series 2018 Bonds as shall be deemed necessary by the Chief Financial Officer in connection with
the sale of the Series 2018 Bonds. The Series 2018 Bonds shall be executed by the officers of the County
and prepared in the form as provided in the Fourth Supplemental Indenture, with such changes therein as
shall be approved by the President or the Chief Financial Officer executing the same, with such execution
to constitute conclusive evidence of their approval and the Corporate Authorities' approval of any changes
or revisions therein from the form attached thereto.
(d)
The principal of the Series 2018 Bonds shall become due and payable on or before the later
of: (i) November 15, 2048, or (ii) the date which is 30 years after the date of issuance of the Series 2018
Bonds. The Series 2018 Bonds shall be dated no earlier than August 1, 2018, and not later than the date of
issuance thereof, as shall be provided in the Fourth Supplemental Indenture (any such date for any Bonds
being the "Dated Date"). The Series 2018 Bonds shall be issued as Current Interest Bonds and shall bear
interest at a fixed rate or rates not to exceed seven percent (7%) per annum per maturity as determined by
the Chief Financial Officer at the time of the sale thereof
(e)
The Series 2018 Bonds shall be redeemable prior to maturity at the option of the County,
in whole or in part on any date, at such times and at such redemption prices (to be expressed as a percentage
of the principal amount of Series 2018 Bonds being redeemed not to exceed one hundred three percent
(103%), plus accrued interest to the date of redemption, all as shall be determined by the Chief Financial
Officer at the time of the sale thereof. Certain of the Series 2018 Bonds may be term bonds that are made
subject to sinking fund redemption, at par and accrued interest to the date fixed for redemption, as
determined by the Chief Financial Officer at the time of the sale thereof; provided that the Series 2018
Bonds shall reach final maturity not later than the date set forth in Section 2(d) hereof.
Each Series 2018 Bond shall bear interest (computed upon the basis of a three hundred sixty (360)
day year of twelve (12) thirty (30) day months) payable on the fifteenth days of May and November of each
year, commencing on such May 15 and November 15 as determined by the Chief Financial Officer at the
time of the sale thereof.

 (f)
The Series 2018 Bonds may be issued in either certificated or book-entry only form as
determined by the Chief Financial Officer. In connection with the issuance of Series 2018 Bonds in bookentry only form, the Chief Financial Officer is authorized to execute and deliver a representation letter to
the book-entry depository selected by the Chief Financial Officer in substantially the form previously used
in connection with obligations issued by the County in book-entry form.
Section 3.
Sale of the Series 2018 Bonds; Bond Order; Financing Team; Execution of Documents
Authorized; Undertakings; Offering Materials; Credit Facilities
(a)
The Chief Financial Officer is hereby authorized to sell all or any portion of the Series
2018 Bonds to the Underwriters described in Section 3(c) below, from time to time, and in one or more
Series, on such terms as he or she may deem to be in the best interests of the County; provided that an
amount not to exceed two percent (2.00%) of the principal amount of the Series 2018 Bonds is authorized
to be used to pay reasonable costs of issuance and sale of the Series 2018 Bonds authorized and sold
pursuant to this Ordinance and costs of the refunding of the Prior Bonds, including, without limitation,
printing, bond rating, travel of outside vendors, security, delivery, legal and financial advisory services,
initial fees of trustees, registrars, paying agents and other fiduciaries, initial costs of credit or liquidity
enhancement arrangements, underwriter's discounts and fees, but excluding bond insurance, as determined
in the Bond Order. Nothing contained in this Section shall limit the sale of the Series 2018 Bonds, or any
maturity or maturities thereof, at a price or prices in excess of the principal amount thereof
(b)
The Series 2018 Bonds shall be issued as bonds on which the interest paid and received is
excludable from the gross income of the owners thereof for federal income tax purposes under the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code") (except to the extent that such interest is taken into account
in computing an adjustment used in determining the alternative minimum tax for certain corporations).
(c)
The selection of the following party or parties in the capacity as indicated is hereby
expressly approved in connection with the issuance and sale of the Series 2018 Bonds:
Capacity
Senior Manager
Co-Senior Manager
Co-Managers

Bond Counsel
Co-Bond Counsel
Financial Advisors
Disclosure Counsel
Co-Disclosure Counsel
Special Disclosure Counsel Pension
Underwriters' Counsel
Trustee

Party or Parties
Loop Capital Markets LLC
Barclays Capital Inc.
PNC Capital Markets LLC
Estrada Hinojosa & Company, Inc.
Melvin Securities, LLC
Siebert Cisneros Shank & Co. LLC
Ice Miller LLP
Pugh, Jones & Johnson, P.C.
PFM Financial Advisors LLC
Acacia Financial Group, Inc.
Greenberg Traurig, LLP
Burke Burns & Pinelli, Ltd.
Kutak Rock LLP
Charity & Associates, P.C.
Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A.

 (d)
Subsequent to the sale of the Series 2018 Bonds, the Chief Financial Officer shall file a
Bond Order in the office of the County Clerk of the County (the “County Clerk”), with a copy of the
executed Fourth Supplemental Indenture attached and directed to the Corporate Authorities identifying: (i)
the aggregate principal amount of the Series 2018 Bonds sold and the purchase price at which each Series
2018 Bond was sold; (ii) the principal amount of the Series 2018 Bonds maturing and subject to mandatory
redemption in each year; (iii) the redemption provisions applicable to the Series 2018 Bonds; (iv) the
interest rate or rates payable on the Series 2018 Bonds; (v) the Dated Date of the Series 2018 Bonds; (vi)
the identity of any municipal bond insurer and of any provider of a debt service reserve fund surety bond;
(vii) the identity of any provider of a Credit Facility; (viii) the information regarding the title and
designation of the Series 2018 Bonds; (ix) the Series 2018 Projects to be financed or refinanced with the
proceeds of the Series 2018 Bonds; (x) the principal amounts and maturities of the Prior Bonds to be
refunded, if any; together with (xi) any other matter authorized by this Ordinance to be determined by the
Chief Financial Officer at the time of sale of the Series 2018 Bonds, and thereafter the Series 2018 Bonds
so sold shall be duly prepared and executed in the form and manner provided herein and delivered to the
respective Underwriters in accordance with the terms of sale.
(e)
Any one of the President; the Chief Financial Officer; or any other officer, official or
employee of the County so designated by a written instrument signed by the President or the Chief Financial
Officer and filed with the Trustee (a "Designated Officer") is hereby authorized to execute such documents,
with appropriate revisions to reflect the terms and provisions of the Series 2018 Bonds as authorized by this
Ordinance and such other revisions in text as the President or the Chief Financial Officer shall determine
are necessary or desirable in connection with the sale of the Series 2018 Bonds, to effect the issuance and
delivery and maintenance of the status of the Series 2018 Bonds, including but not limited to:
(i)

a contract of purchase (the "Purchase Contract") by and between the County and the
Underwriters, which Purchase Contract shall be in form acceptable to the Chief Financial
Officer and as customarily entered into by the County for transactions of this type;

(ii)

a continuing disclosure undertaking (the "Continuing Disclosure Undertaking"), as
approved by the Chief Financial Officer to effect compliance with Rule 15c2-12 adopted
by the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
with such revisions as are deemed appropriate to reflect the issuance of the Series 2018
Bonds as bonds secured by Pledged Sales Tax Revenues;

(iii)

such certification, tax returns and documentation as may be required by Bond Counsel,
including, specifically, a tax agreement, to render their opinion as to the tax-exempt status
of the Series 2018 Bonds; and

The execution thereof by such Designated Officers is hereby deemed conclusive evidence of
approval thereof with such changes, additions, insertions, omissions or deletions as such officers may
determine, with no further official action of or direction by the Corporate Authorities.
(f)
When the Continuing Disclosure Undertaking is executed and delivered on behalf of the
County, it will be binding on the County and the officers, agents, and employees of the County, and the
same are hereby authorized and directed to do all such acts and things and to execute all such documents
as may be necessary to carry out and comply with the provisions of such Continuing Disclosure
Undertaking as executed and delivered. Notwithstanding any other provisions hereof, the sole remedies
for failure to comply with any Continuing Disclosure Undertaking shall be the ability of the beneficial
owner of any Series 2018 Bond to seek mandamus or specific performance by court order, to cause the
County to comply with its obligations thereunder.

 (g)
The preparation, use and distribution of a preliminary official statement and an official
statement relating to the sale and issuance of the Series 2018 Bonds are hereby authorized and approved.
Any one of the President or Chief Financial Officer is hereby authorized to execute and deliver an official
statement relating to the sale and issuance of the Series 2018 Bonds on behalf of the County, in substantially
the form previously used by the County for transactions of this type with such revisions as the President or
the Chief Financial Officer shall determine are necessary or required in connection with the sale of the
Series 2018 Bonds.
(h)
In connection with the sale of the Series 2018 Bonds, if determined by the President or the
Chief Financial Officer to be in the best financial interest of the County, the Chief Financial Officer is
authorized to procure one or more municipal bond insurance policies covering all or a portion of the Series
2018 Bonds and to procure one or more debt service reserve fund surety bonds for deposit into any Series
2018 Debt Service Reserve Subaccount.
(i)
In connection with the sale of the Series 2018 Bonds, the President or the Chief Financial
Officer is hereby authorized to obtain one or more Credit Facilities with one or more financial institutions.
The President or the Chief Financial Officer is hereby authorized to enter into a reimbursement agreement
and to execute and issue a promissory note in connection with the provisions of each Credit Facility. Any
Credit Facility and any reimbursement agreement shall be in substantially the form of the credit facilities
and reimbursement agreements previously entered into by the County in connection with the sale of Sales
Tax Revenue Bonds or notes, but with such revisions in text as the President or the Chief Financial Officer
shall determine are necessary or desirable, the execution thereof by the President or the Chief Financial
Officer to evidence the approval by the Corporate Authorities of all such revisions. The annual fee paid to
any financial institution that provides a Credit Facility shall not exceed two percent (2.00%) of the average
principal amount of such Series 2018 Bonds outstanding during such annual period. The final form of any
reimbursement agreement entered into by the County with respect to the Series 2018 Bonds shall be
attached to the Bond Order filed with the County Clerk pursuant to this Section. Any promissory or similar
note delivered in connection with any such reimbursement agreement shall mature not later than the final
maturity date of the Bonds and each such promissory or similar note shall bear interest at a rate not
exceeding fifteen percent (15.00%) per annum. The President or the Chief Financial Officer is hereby
authorized to execute and deliver each such reimbursement agreement.
Section 4.

Alternative Allocation of Proceeds of Series 2018 Bonds

The County by its Corporate Authorities reserves the right, as it becomes necessary from time to
time, to change the purposes of expenditure of the Series 2018 Bonds, to change priorities, to revise cost
allocations among expenditures and to substitute projects, in order to meet current needs of the County;
subject, however, to the provisions of the Act and to the tax covenants of the County relating to the tax
exempt status of interest on the Series 2018 Bonds and further subject to the provisions of the Master
Indenture and the Fourth Supplemental Indenture regarding amendments thereto. To the extent any action
of the County described in the prior sentence is proposed to be taken with respect to the proceeds of the
Series 2018 Bonds, it shall be conditioned on receipt by the County of an opinion of Bond Counsel to the
effect that such action shall not cause the interest on such Series 2018 Bonds to become subject to federal
income taxation.

 Section 5.

Reimbursement

None of the proceeds of the Series 2018 Bonds which are not refinancing the Prior Bonds will be
used to pay, directly or indirectly, in whole or in part, for an expenditure that has been paid by the County
more than 60 days prior to the date hereof except architectural, engineering costs or construction costs
incurred prior to commencement of the Series 2018 Projects or expenditures for which an intent to
reimburse was properly declared under Treasury Regulations Section 1.150-2. This Ordinance is in itself
a declaration of official intent under Treasury Regulations Section 1.150-2 as to all costs of the Series 2018
Projects paid after the date that is 60 days prior to the date hereof and prior to issuance of the Series 2018
Bonds.
Section 6.

Tax Covenant

With respect to the Series 2018 Bonds, the County covenants to take any action required by the
provisions of Section 148(f) of the Code in order to assure compliance with Section 709 of the Master
Indenture and to otherwise comply with the provisions of any tax certificate or agreement executed in
connection with the Series 2018 Bonds.
Section 7.

Performance Provisions

The President, the Chief Financial Officer, the County Clerk, for and on behalf of the County shall
be, and each of them hereby is, authorized and directed to do any and all things necessary to effect the
performance of all obligations of the County under and pursuant to this Ordinance, the Master Indenture,
and the Fourth Supplemental Indenture, and the performance of all other acts of whatever nature necessary
to effect and carry out the authority conferred by this Ordinance, the Master Indenture, and the Fourth
Supplemental Indenture, including but not limited to, the exercise following the delivery date of any of the
Series 2018 Bonds of any power or authority delegated to such official of the County under this Ordinance
with respect to the Series 2018 Bonds upon the initial issuance thereof, but subject to any limitations on or
restrictions of such power or authority as herein set forth. The President, the Chief Financial Officer, the
County Clerk and other officers, agents and employees of the County are hereby further authorized,
empowered and directed for and on behalf of the County, to execute and deliver all papers, documents,
certificates and other instruments that may be required to carry out the authority conferred by this
Ordinance, the Master Indenture and the Fourth Supplemental Indenture or to evidence said authority.
Section 8.

Proxies

The President and the Chief Financial Officer may each designate another to act as their respective
proxy and to affix their respective signatures to, in the case of the President, each of Series 2018 Bonds,
whether in temporary or definitive form, and to any other instrument, certificate or document required to
be signed by the President or the Chief Financial Officer pursuant to this Ordinance, the Master Indenture,
and the Fourth Supplemental Indenture. In each case, each shall send to the Corporate Authorities written
notice of the person so designated by each, such notice stating the name of the person so selected and
identifying the instruments, certificates and documents which such person shall be authorized to sign as
proxy for the President and the Chief Financial Officer, respectively. A written signature of the President
or the Chief Financial Officer, respectively, executed by the person so designated underneath, shall be
attached to each notice. Each notice, with signatures attached, shall be filed with the County Clerk. When
the signature of the President is placed on an instrument, certificate or document at the direction of the
President in the specified manner, the same, in all respects, shall be as binding on the County as if signed
by the President in person. When the signature of the Chief Financial Officer is so affixed to an instrument,
certificate or document at the direction of the Chief Financial Officer, the same, in all respects, shall be
binding on the County as if signed by the Chief Financial Officer in person.

 Section 9.

This Ordinance a Contract

The provisions of this Ordinance shall constitute a contract between the County and the registered
owners of the Series 2018 Bonds, and no changes, additions or alterations of any kind shall be made hereto,
except as herein provided. This Ordinance shall be construed in accordance with the provisions of State
law without reference to its conflict of law principles.
Section 10.

Prior Inconsistent Proceedings

All ordinances, resolutions, motions or orders, or parts thereof, in conflict with the provisions of
this Ordinance, are to the extent of such conflict hereby repealed.
Section 11.

Immunity of Officers and Employees of County

No recourse shall be had for the payment of the principal of or premium or interest on any of the
Series 2018 Bonds or for any claim based thereon or upon any obligation, covenant or agreement in this
Ordinance contained against any past, present or future elected or appointed officer, director, member,
employee or agent of the County, or of any successor public corporation, as such, either directly or through
the County or any successor public corporation, under any rule of law or equity, statute or constitution or
by the enforcement of any assessment or penalty or otherwise, and all such liability of any such elected or
appointed officers, directors, members, employees or agents as such is hereby expressly waived and
released as a condition of and consideration for the passage of this Ordinance and the issuance of such
Series 2018 Bonds.
Section 12.

Passage and Approval

Presented, Passed, Approved and Recorded by the County of Cook, Illinois, a home rule unit of
government, this 25th day of July, 2018.
Section 13.

Effective Date

This Ordinance shall take effect immediately upon its enactment.
Exhibit "A" referred to in this Ordinance read as follows:
Exhibit A: Form of Fourth Supplemental Trust Indenture
Approved and adopted this 25th of July 2018.
TONI PRECKWINKLE, President
Cook County Board of Commissioners
Attest: DAVID ORR, County Clerk

 18-4461
ORDINANCE
Sponsored by
THE HONORABLE LUIS ARROYO JR, RICHARD R. BOYKIN, JOHN P. DALEY,
DENNIS DEER, JOHN A. FRITCHEY, BRIDGET GAINER, GREGG GOSLIN,
STANLEY MOORE, SEAN M. MORRISON, PRESIDENT TONI PRECKWINKLE,
TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER, PETER N. SILVESTRI, DEBORAH SIMS, LARRY SUFFREDIN
AND JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI, COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
CREATING A SHERIFF’S OPERATIONS STATE ASSET FORFEITURE AND
MONEY LAUNDERING STATE ASSET FOREFEITURE FUNDS
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 46 Law Enforcement,
Article II Sheriff, Division 1 Generally, Subdivision I In General, Sections 46-37.2 and 46-37.3 of the Cook
County Code are hereby enacted as Follows:
Sec. 46-37.2. Sheriff’s Operations State Asset Forfeiture Fund.
Illinois compiled statues 720 ILCS 550/12 and 720 ILCS 570/505 enables the Sheriff’s Operations
State Asset Forfeiture fund. In accordance with these statues the Sheriff’s Office receives a portion of the
monies and the sale of proceeds of all other property forfeited and seized for conducting or participating in
drug and controlled substance investigations resulting in forfeiture.
Sec. 46-37.3. Sheriff’s Money Laundering State Asset Forfeiture Fund
Illinois compiled statues 720 ILCS 5/29B, enables the Sheriff’s Money Laundering State Asset
Forfeiture fund. In accordance with this statue the Sheriff’s Office receives a portion of the monies and the
sale of proceeds of all other property forfeited and seized for conducting or participating in money
laundering investigations resulting in forfeiture.
Effective date: This Ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
Approved and adopted this 25th of July 2018.
TONI PRECKWINKLE, President
Cook County Board of Commissioners
Attest: DAVID ORR, County Clerk

 ZONING AND BUILDING COMMITTEE
MEETING OF JULY 25. 2018

18-1356
ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
Sponsored by
THE HONORABLE TONI PRECKWINKLE, PRESIDENT AND PETER N. SILVESTRI,
COUNTY COMMISSIONER
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Commissioners of Cook County that Appendix A Zoning, Article 4
Residential Districts, Sections 4.1, 4.2, 4.3, 4.4, 4.5, 4.5A, 4.6, 4.7 and 4.8 of the Cook County Code shall
be amended as follows:
***
4.1. - R-1 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT
***
4.1.5.

TEMPORARY USES. A temporary use may be allowed upon issuance of a permit by the
Department of Building and Zoning, except that the use of a portable storage container shall not
require a permit.
A. Temporary buildings or yards. For construction materials and equipment, both incidental and
necessary to construction in the zoning district. Permits shall specify the location of the
building or yard and the area of permitted operation. Permits shall be valid for not more than
six months and shall not be renewed for more than four successive periods. The building or
yard shall not interfere with the use and enjoyment of neighboring property.
B. Temporary sales offices. and model dwelling units. Both Temporary sales offices are
incidental and necessary for the sale or rental of real property in the development in which
the office is located. Permits shall specify the location of the office and the area of permitted
operation. Permits shall be valid issued in six (6) month increments for a period of not more
than two years, unless otherwise authorized by the Building Commissioner. and shall not be
renewed for more than three successive periods.
C. [Real estate signs.] Temporary real estate signs as regulated by Article 12.
D. Temporary construction trailers. For use during the construction of a residence, but not to be
used as a dwelling. and not to exceed one year. Permits shall terminate upon completion of
the permitted work.
E. Garage sales. Garage sales shall be limited to two sales per household per year. Garage sales
shall be held for no more than three consecutive days. Garage sales shall only be permitted
between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. F. [Other uses.] Other temporary uses as
permitted by this ordinance.
F. [Portable storage containers.] Portable storage containers as regulated by Section 8.7.8.
G. [Other uses.] Other temporary uses as permitted by this ordinance.

 4.1.6.

ACCESSORY USES. A use, building or other structure customarily incidental to and commonly
associated with a principal, permitted or special use may be allowed as an accessory use, provided
it is operated and maintained under the same ownership and on the same lot as the permitted use.
Accessory uses shall not include structures or features inconsistent with the permitted use or
involve the conduct of any business, profession, trade or industry. Accessory uses may include
the following and similar uses:
***
Q. Structures and enclosures for pets. For the exclusive use or personal enjoyment of residents
of the premises, not for commercial purposes and limited to not more than three traditional
domestic animals pets.
***

4.1.8.

SITE AND STRUCTURE PROVISIONS. The uses in the R-1 Single-Family Residence
District shall conform to the following requirements:
***
K. The maximum impervious surface shall not exceed 20% of the gross lot area.
***
4.2. - R-2 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT
***

4.2.5.

TEMPORARY USES. A temporary use may be allowed upon issuance of a permit by the
Department of Building and Zoning, except that the use of a portable storage container shall not
require a permit.
***
B. Temporary sales offices. and model dwelling units.
***
E. Other temporary uses as permitted by this ordinance.
E. [Portable storage containers.] Portable storage containers as regulated by Section 8.7.8.
F. [Other uses.] Other temporary uses as permitted by this ordinance.
***

4.2.8.

SITE AND STRUCTURE PROVISIONS. The uses in the R-2 Single-Family Residence
District shall conform to the following requirements:
***
J. The maximum impervious surface shall not exceed 20% of the gross lot area.
***

 4.3. - R-3 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT
***
4.3.5.

TEMPORARY USES. A temporary use may be allowed upon issuance of a permit by the
Department of Building and Zoning, except that the use of a portable storage container shall not
require a permit.
***
B. Temporary sales offices. and model dwelling units.
***
E. Other temporary uses as permitted by this ordinance.
E. [Portable storage containers.] Portable storage containers as regulated by Section 8.7.8.
F. [Other uses.] Other temporary uses as permitted by this ordinance.
***

4.3.8.

SITE AND STRUCTURE PROVISIONS. The uses in the R-3 Single-Family Residence
District shall conform to the following requirements:
***
J. The maximum impervious surface shall not exceed 25% of the gross lot area.
***
4.4. - R-4 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICTS
***

4.4.5.

TEMPORARY USES. A temporary use may be allowed upon issuance of a permit by the
Department of Building and Zoning, except that the use of a portable storage container shall not
require a permit.
***
B. Temporary sales offices. and model dwelling units. Any use permitted in Section 4.3.5(B).
***
E. Other temporary uses as permitted by this ordinance.
E. [Portable storage containers.] Portable storage containers as regulated by Section 8.7.8.
F. [Other uses.] Other temporary uses as permitted by this ordinance.
***

4.4.8.

SITE AND STRUCTURE PROVISIONS. The uses in the R-4 Single-Family Residence
District shall conform to the following requirements:
***

 J. The maximum impervious surface shall not exceed 35% of the gross lot area.
***
4.5. - R-5 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT
***
4.5.5.

TEMPORARY USES. A temporary use may be allowed upon issuance of a permit by the
Department of Building and Zoning, except that the use of a portable storage container shall not
require a permit.
***
B. Temporary sales offices. and model dwelling units. Any use permitted in Section 4.4.5(B).
***
E. Other temporary uses as permitted by this ordinance.
E. [Portable storage containers.] Portable storage containers as regulated by Section 8.7.8.
F. [Other uses.] Other temporary uses as permitted by this ordinance.
***

4.5.8.

SITE AND STRUCTURE PROVISIONS. The uses in the R-5 Single-Family Residence
District shall conform to the following requirements:
***
J. The maximum impervious surface shall not exceed 50% of the gross lot area.
***
4.5A. - R-5A RESIDENTIAL TRANSITION DISTRICT
***

4.5A.5.

TEMPORARY USES. A temporary use may be allowed upon issuance of a permit by the
Department of Building and Zoning, except that the use of a portable storage container shall not
require a permit.
***
B. Temporary sales offices. and model dwelling units. Any use permitted in Section 4.5.5(B).
***
E. Other temporary uses as permitted by this ordinance.
E. [Portable storage containers.] Portable storage containers as regulated by Section 8.7.8.
F. [Other uses.] Other temporary uses as permitted by this ordinance.

4.5A.6.

ACCESSORY USES. A use, building or other structure customarily incidental to and commonly
associated with a principal, permitted or special use may be allowed as an accessory use, provided
it is operated and maintained under the same ownership and on the same lot as the permitted use.

 Accessory uses shall not include structures or features inconsistent with the permitted use or
involve the conduct of any business, profession, trade or industry.
***
M. Structures and enclosures for pets. For the exclusive use or personal enjoyment of residents
of the premises, not for commercial purposes and limited to not more than three traditional
domestic animals pets.
***
4.5A.8.

SITE AND STRUCTURE PROVISIONS. The uses in the R-5A Single-Family Residence
District shall conform to the following requirements:
***
I.

The maximum impervious surface shall not exceed 50% of the gross lot area.
***
4.6. - R-6 GENERAL RESIDENCE DISTRICT
***

4.6.5.

TEMPORARY USES. A temporary use may be allowed upon issuance of a permit by the
Department of Building and Zoning, except that the use of a portable storage container shall not
require a permit.
***
B. Temporary sales offices. and model dwelling units. Any use permitted in [Section]
4.5.5(B).
***
E. Other temporary uses as permitted by this ordinance.
E. [Portable storage containers.] Portable storage containers as regulated by Section 8.7.8.
F. [Other uses.] Other temporary uses as permitted by this ordinance.

 4.6.6.

ACCESSORY USES. A use, building or other structure customarily incidental to and commonly
associated with a principal, permitted or special use may be allowed as an accessory use, provided
it is operated and maintained under the same ownership and on the same lot as the permitted use.
Accessory uses shall not include structures or features inconsistent with the permitted use or
involve the conduct of any business, profession, trade or industry. Accessory uses may include
the following and similar uses:
***
P. Structures and enclosures for pets. For the exclusive use or personal enjoyment of residents
of the premises, not for commercial purposes and limited to not more than three traditional
domestic animals pets.
***

4.6.8.

SITE AND STRUCTURE PROVISIONS. The uses in the R-6 General Residence District shall
conform to the following requirements:
***
J. Maximum height. Principal structures shall not exceed two stories nor 30 feet in height.
Accessory structures shall not exceed one story nor 15 feet in height, except as provided in
Article 8.
***
4.7. - R-7 GENERAL RESIDENCE DISTRICT
***

4.7.5.

TEMPORARY USES. A temporary use may be allowed upon issuance of a permit by the
Department of Building and Zoning, except that the use of a portable storage container shall not
require a permit.
***
B. Temporary sales offices. and model dwelling units. Any use permitted in Section 4.6.5(B).
***
E. Other temporary uses as permitted by this ordinance.
E. [Portable storage containers.] Portable storage containers as regulated by Section 8.7.8.
F. [Other uses.] Other temporary uses as permitted by this ordinance.

4.7.6.

ACCESSORY USES. A use, building or other structure customarily incidental to and commonly
associated with a principal, permitted or special use may be allowed as an accessory use, provided
it is operated and maintained under the same ownership and on the same lot as the permitted use.
Accessory uses shall not include structures or features inconsistent with the permitted use or
involve the conduct of any business, profession, trade or industry. Accessory uses may include
the following and similar uses:
***

 O. Structures and enclosures for pets. For the exclusive use or personal enjoyment of residents
of the premises, not for commercial purposes and limited to not more than three traditional
domestic animals pets.
***
4.8. - R-8 GENERAL RESIDENCE DISTRICT
***
4.8.5.

TEMPORARY USES. A temporary use may be allowed upon issuance of a permit by the
Department of Building and Zoning, except that the use of a portable storage container shall not
require a permit.
***
B. Temporary sales offices. and model dwelling units. Any use permitted in Section 4.7.5(B).
***
E. Other temporary uses as permitted by this ordinance.
E. [Portable storage containers.] Portable storage containers as regulated by Section 8.7.8.
F. [Other uses.] Other temporary uses as permitted by this ordinance.

BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Board of Commissioners of Cook County that Appendix A,
Zoning, Article 5, Commercial Districts, Sections 5.1, 5.3, 5.4, 5.5, 5.6, 5.7 and 5.8 of the Cook County
Code shall be amended as follows:
***
5.1. - C-1 RESTRICTED BUSINESS DISTRICT
***
5.1.5.

TEMPORARY USES. Temporary use may be allowed upon issuance of a permit by the
Department of Building and Zoning, except that the use of a portable storage container shall not
require a permit.
***
B. Temporary sales offices. and model dwelling units. Both Are incidental and necessary for
the sale or rental of real property in the development in which the office is located. Permits
shall specify the location of the office and the area of permitted operation. Permits shall be
valid issued in six (6) month increments for a period of not more than two years, unless
otherwise authorized by the Building Commissioner. and shall not be renewed for more than
three successive periods.
***
H. [Portable storage containers.] Portable storage containers as regulated by Section 8.7.8

 ***
5.3. - C-3 GENERAL SERVICE DISTRICT
***
5.3.4.

SPECIAL USES. A special use may be allowed subject to issuance of a special use permit in
accordance with the provisions of Article 13. Unless otherwise specifically set forth, wherever a
special use is named as a major category, it shall be deemed to include only those enumerated
uses.
The following special uses may be permitted in the C-3 District:
***
E. Health, medical and care institutions.
***
2. Medical cannabis dispensing organization, as regulated by 410 ILCS 130/1 et. seq.
***
5.4. - C-4 GENERAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT

5.4.4.

SPECIAL USES. A special use may be allowed subject to issuance of a special use permit in
accordance with the provisions of Article 13. Unless otherwise specifically set forth, wherever a
special use is named as a major category, it shall be deemed to include only those enumerated
uses.
The following special uses may be permitted in the C-4 District:
***
E. Health, medical and care institutions.
***
2. Medical cannabis dispensing organization, as regulated by 410 ILCS 130/1 et. seq.
***
5.5. - C-5 COMMERCIAL TRANSITION DISTRICT
***

5.5.5.

TEMPORARY USES. Temporary use may be allowed upon issuance of a permit by the
Department of Building and Zoning, except that the use of a portable storage container shall not
require a permit.

 ***
B. Temporary sales offices. Any use permitted in Section 5.1.5(B).
***
E. [Portable storage containers.] Portable storage containers as regulated by Section 8.7.8
***
5.6. - C-6 AUTOMOTIVE SERVICE DISTRICT
***
5.6.5.

TEMPORARY USES. Temporary use may be allowed upon issuance of a permit by the
Department of Building and Zoning, except that the use of a portable storage container shall not
require a permit..
***
F. [Portable storage containers.] Portable storage containers as regulated by Section 8.7.8
***
5.7. - C-7 OFFICE/RESEARCH PARK DISTRICT
***

5.7.5.

TEMPORARY USES. Temporary use may be allowed upon issuance of a permit by the
Department of Building and Zoning, except that the use of a portable storage container shall not
require a permit.
***
B. Temporary sales offices. and model dwelling units. Any use permitted in Section 5.1.5(B).
***
D. [Portable storage containers.] Portable storage containers as regulated by Section 8.7.8.
***
5.8. - C-8 INTENSIVE COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
***

5.8.5.

TEMPORARY USES. Temporary use may be allowed upon issuance of a permit by the
Department of Building and Zoning, except that the use of a portable storage container shall not
require a permit.
***

 B. Temporary sales offices. and model dwelling units. Any use permitted in Section 5.1.5(B).
***
H. [Portable storage containers.] Portable storage containers as regulated by Section 8.7.8.
BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Board of Commissioners of Cook County that Appendix A,
Zoning, Article 6 Industrial Districts, Sections 6.1 and 6.2 of the Cook County Code shall be amended as
follows:
***
6.1. - I-1 RESTRICTED INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
***
6.1.4.

SPECIAL USES. A special use may be allowed subject to the issuance of a special use permit
in accordance with the provisions of Article 13. Unless otherwise specifically set forth, wherever
a special use is named as a major category, it shall be deemed to include only those enumerated
uses.
The following special uses may be permitted in the I-1 District:
A. Industrial.
***
8. Medical cannabis cultivation center, as regulated by 410 ILCS 130/1 et. seq.
***
I.

Miscellaneous.
***
5. Medical cannabis dispensing organization, as regulated by 410 ILCS 130/1 et. seq.
***

6.1.5.

TEMPORARY USES. A temporary use may be allowed upon issuance of a permit by the Cook
County Department of Building and Zoning, except that the use of a portable storage container
shall not require a permit.
***
B. Temporary sales offices. and model dwelling units. Both Are incidental and necessary for
the sale or rental of real property in the development in which the office is located. Permits
shall specify the location of the office and the area of permitted operation. Permits shall be
valid issued in six (6) month increments for a period of not more than two years, unless
otherwise authorized by the Building Commissioner. and shall not be renewed for more than
three successive periods.

 ***
E. [Portable storage containers.] Portable storage containers as regulated by Section 8.7.8.
***
6.2. - I-2 GENERAL INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
***
6.2.4.

SPECIAL USES. A special use may be allowed subject to the issuance of a special use permit
in accordance with the provisions of Article 13. Unless otherwise specifically set forth, wherever
a special use is named as a major category, it shall be deemed to include only those enumerated
uses.
The following special uses may be permitted in the I-2 District:
A. Industrial.
***
6. Medical cannabis cultivation center, as regulated by 410 ILCS 130/1 et. seq.
***
I.

Miscellaneous.
***
7. Medical cannabis dispensing organization, as regulated by 410 ILCS 130/1 et. seq.

BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Board of Commissioners of Cook County that Appendix A,
Zoning, Article 8, General Provisions, Section 8.6, 8.7, and 8.10 of the Cook County Code shall be amended
as follows:
***

 8.6. - STRUCTURE HEIGHT
8.6.1 DISTRICT HEIGHT REGULATIONS. The height of any structure shall not exceed 125 percent
of the height of the tallest existing structure located within a one-quarter mile radius of the property lines
of the subject site. Structures located in R-7, R-8, C-2, C-4, C-7 or C-8 zoning districts shall not be used in
the calculation of tallest existing structure. Property zoned R-7, R-8, C-2, C-4, C-7 or C-8 is exempted from
this provision. This provision shall not apply if no structure exists within a one-quarter mile radius. Except
as otherwise provided by ordinance, the following height regulations shall apply:
A. Single Family Districts. Structures located in the R-1, R-2, R-3, and R-4 zoning districts shall
conform with the following height restrictions:
1. Detached single-family residential dwelling units shall not exceed 2 ½ stories and a
height of 35 feet.
2. Nonresidential structures shall not exceed a height of 40 feet.
3. Accessory structures shall not exceed a height of 15 feet or exceed the height of the
principal structure, whichever is less.
B. General Residence District. Structures located in the R-5, R-5A, R-6, R-7, and R-8 zoning
districts shall conform with the following height restrictions:
1. Detached Single-family residential dwelling units shall not exceed 2 ½ stories and a
height of 35 feet.
2. Townhomes shall not exceed 2 ½ stories and a height of 35 feet.
3. Multifamily residential dwelling units shall not exceed a height of 45 feet.
4. Nonresidential structures shall not exceed 3 stories and a height of 45 feet.
5. Accessory structures shall not exceed a height of 15 feet.
C. Restricted Commercial Districts. Structures located in the C-1 and C-2 zoning districts shall
conform with the following height restrictions:
1. Nonresidential structures shall not exceed 3 stories and a height of 45 feet.
2. Accessory structures shall not exceed a height of 20 feet.
D. General, Transition and Automotive Commercial Districts. Building and structures located
in the C-3, C-4, C-5, and C-6 zoning districts shall conform with the following height
restrictions:
1. Nonresidential structures shall not exceed 5 stories and a height of 60 feet, provided the
structure is set back from the front, rear and side lot lines at a ratio of three feet for every
five feet of structure height greater than 45 feet. This height requirement shall apply in
addition to rear and side yard requirements set forth in this ordinance.
2. Accessory structures shall not exceed a height of 20 feet.
E. Office/Research and Intensive Commercial Districts. Structures located in the C-6 and C-8
zoning districts shall conform with the following height restrictions:
1. Nonresidential structures shall not exceed a height of 100 feet, provided the structure is
set back from the front, rear and side lot lines at a ratio of three feet for every five feet of
structure height greater than 60 feet. This height requirement shall apply in addition to
rear and side yard requirements set forth in this ordinance.
2. Accessory structures shall not exceed a height of 20 feet.
F. Industrial Districts. Structures located in the I-1, I-2, I-3, and I-4 zoning districts shall
conform with the following height restrictions:
1. Nonresidential structures shall not exceed a height of 75 feet, provided the structure is
set back from the front, rear and side lot lines at a ratio of three feet for every five feet of
structure height greater than 50 feet. This height requirement shall apply in addition to
rear and side yard requirements set forth in this ordinance.
2. Accessory structures shall not exceed a height of 20 feet.

 G. Exceptions: The following structures shall be exempt from district height regulations.
1. Towers and steeples of a religious institutional use, provided that such structures shall
not exceed a height 75 feet.
***
8.6.3.

BUILDING APPURTENANCES. A chimney, parapet wall, skylight, steeple, flag pole,
smokestack, cooling tower, elevator bulkhead, fire tower, monument, water tower, stack, stage
tower or scenery loft, tank, ornamental tower or spire, roof garden, recreational facility, mechanical
appurtenance or penthouse containing a mechanical appurtenance may exceed the height limits in
this ordinance and An appurtenance is any visible, functional, or ornamental objects accessory to
and part of a building. Appurtenances shall not be included in building height. Appurtenances built
on or above the roof of any principal structure shall not extend more than 15 feet above the
allowable building height regulations.
***
8.7. - REGULATIONS FOR SPECIFIC USES

8.7.1.

FENCES, WALLS, HEDGES AND SHRUBBERY.
***
E. It shall be unlawful for any person within unincorporated Cook County to place, build or
erect a fence railing or guard of any kind constructed of barbed wire, razor wire, iron spike
or other sharp-pointed materials provided, however, this section shall not prohibit the use of
such materials when used entirely on private property and when:
1. Located in a commercial or industrial zoning district, or for governmental/quasigovernmental use; and
2. Securely attached along the top of a soundly constructed fence or structural barrier
starting at a height of not less than six (6) feet, extending no more than two (2) feet and
angled inward as to not extend beyond the property line; and
3. Setback not less than three (3) feet from the side and rear lot line when abutting a
residential zoning lot. Landscaping shall be used within the required three (3) foot
setback and shall include a minimum of a three (3) foot high barrier using shrubbery or
trees distributed across the entire perimeter of the fence or structure, excluding
driveways.
Barbed wire, razor wire, iron spike or other sharp-pointed materials may also be used for the
security of hazardous equipment or installations, such as but not limited to, high voltage
equipment, electrical transformers, cellular towers, etc., regardless of the zoning district,
subject to the approval of the Building Commissioner or their authorized designee.

8.7.2.

MOBILE HOMES OR TRAILER. The following regulations shall apply to mobile homes or
trailer:
***
C. Construction trailers. Construction trailers for use during construction of a residence, but not
to be used as a dwelling and not to exceed one year.
D. Temporary storage. Mobile homes or trailers may be parked temporarily in a driveway or
parking area of a residential use for a period not to exceed three days.

 E. Temporary residence. Mobile homes trailer may be used as a temporary residence during
construction of a residence located on the same zoning lot for a period not to exceed one
year.
C. Temporary residence. Mobile homes may be used as a temporary residence during
construction of a residence located on the same zoning lot for a period not to exceed one
year.
***
8.7.7.

8.7.7. PETS ANIMALS. Animals that are customarily kept for personal use or enjoyment.
Pets are limited to a total of three adult animals and shall include but not be limited to domestic
dogs, domestic cats, domestic tropical birds and rodents. For purposes of this ordinance, an animal
shall be considered an adult when it reaches six months of age. In addition to the regulations
below, the keeping of animals is subject to all applicable provisions of the Cook County
Code of Ordinances, including but not limited to those contained within Chapter 10, Animals, and
Chapter 38, Health and Human Services. For purposes of this ordinance, an animal shall be
considered an adult when it reaches four (4) months of age. This provision shall not apply to
veterinary clinics, animal hospitals or kennels.
A.
Pets. Pets may be kept on any lot of residential use, provided that when kept outdoors,
pets shall be housed in an adequate enclosure suitable for the confinement of such animals.
B.
Livestock. The keeping of livestock shall be limited to a minimum lot area of ½ acre;
livestock shall be kept in an adequate enclosure suitable for the confinement of such animals.
C.
Horses. The keeping of horses shall be limited to a minimum lot area of ½ acre; horses
shall be kept in an adequate enclosure suitable for the confinement of such animals. This
section does not apply to “miniature horses,” which are subject to regulation as “pets” above.
D.
Fowl. No more than twelve (12) fowls shall be kept when located on zoning lots of less
than 1 acre; fowls shall be kept in an adequate enclosure suitable for the confinement
of such animals.
E.
Beekeeping. Bee colonies may be kept on residential and commercial zoning lots, provided
they comply with the following regulations:
1.
Colonies must be registered with the Illinois Department of Agriculture.
2.
An adequate water source shall be provided between March and November.
3.
Apiaries shall be located in the rear of a zoning lot.
4.
Apiaries shall be setback no less than ten (10) feet from an abutting lot line.
5.
Apiaries shall be elevated a minimum of one (1) foot above grade.
6.
When kept on zoning lots of less than ½ acre apiaries shall be enclosed by a barrier
of a minimum of six feet in height.
7.
When located on zoning lots of less than ½ acre the keeping of bees shall be
limited to a maximum of four (4) bee colonies.
F.
Animal enclosures. Enclosures must meet the following requirements:
1.
Enclosures shall comply with the setback requirements of the zoning district
in which it is located.
2.
Enclosures shall be structurally sound and kept in a state of good repair.
G.
Exemptions. This section shall not apply to veterinary clinics, animal hospitals, kennels,
zoos, or animal shelters.
***

 8.7.8.

PORTABLE STORAGE CONTAINERS. The purpose of this section is to provide standards
to ensure that portable storage containers, as defined herein, are used for the short-term,
temporary storage and transport of personal property; are not used as an accessory building; and
do not impede vehicle access, traffic flow, pedestrian or bicycle traffic or circulation or create
public safety hazards.
A. Portable storage containers may be located on privately owned property, provided the
portable storage container shall be placed only on a paved or gravel surface in a driveway or
parking space. At no time will the placement of any portable storage container be permitted
on a public way.
B. No portable storage container shall have storage capacity greater than 900 cubic feet. The
Building Commissioner may make exceptions to storage capacity requirements when
deemed necessary.
C. A portable storage container shall have no signage except for the name, address and telephone
number of the person or firm engaged in the business of renting or otherwise placing the
portable storage container at the location and the signage must be permanently adhered to, or
painted on, the portable storage container.
D. The exterior of the portable storage container shall be constructed of weatherproof material
and, at all times while the portable storage container is located at the site, be maintained in
good condition, free from evidence of deterioration, weathering, discoloration, graffiti, rust,
ripping, tearing or other holes or breaks. When not in immediate use all portable storage
containers shall be locked. It is the responsibility of the owner and renter to provide for the
maintenance of the portable storage container.
E. No portable storage container shall be used to store solid waste, construction debris,
demolition debris, recyclable materials, goods or property other than that of the property
where the portable storage container is located or any other illegal or hazardous material.
Upon reasonable notice to the renter and upon reasonable cause to believe the portable
storage container is being used in violation of the provisions of this section, the Building
Commissioner, or his designee, may inspect the contents of any portable storage container at
any reasonable time.
F. A portable storage container may remain at the location for a period not to exceed thirty (30)
consecutive days, unless otherwise authorized by the Building Commissioner, upon a
showing of good cause.
G. A portable storage container may be removed at the direction of the Building Commissioner
or his designee, by the company that owns or provides that portable storage container or any
other authoritative body.

8.7.9.

MEDICAL CANNABIS DISPENSING ORGANIZATION. The operation of Medical
Cannabis Dispensing Organizations shall comply with all regulations provided in the
Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act (410 ILCS 130/1 et. seq.), as enacted
by the State of Illinois, effective January 1, 2014, as may be amended from time to time and
subject to any conditions or restrictions imposed by the Cook County Board of Commissioners.

8.7.10.

MEDICAL CANNABIS CULTIVATION CENTERS. The operation of Medical Cannabis
Cultivation Centers shall comply with all regulations provided in the Compassionate Use of
Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act (410 ILCS 130/1 et. seq.), as enacted by the State of Illinois,
effective January 1, 2014, as may be amended from time to time and subject to any conditions or
restrictions imposed by the Cook County Board of Commissioners.
***

 8.10. – ENVIRONMENTALLY SENSITIVE AREAS
8.10.1.

ENVIRONMENTALLY SENSITIVE. An Environmental Mitigation Plan is required for any
development proposed on residential zoning lots of less than 20,000 sq. ft. which contains
environmentally sensitive areas, floodways, floodplain or wetlands as depicted in official maps
adopted by Cook County and FEMA Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM).

BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Board of Commissioners of Cook County that Appendix A,
Zoning, Article 9, Planned Unit Development, Sections 9.3 of the Cook County Code shall be amended as
follows:
***
9.3. - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
***
9.3.6.

REQUIRED PUDS. The PUD regulations contained in this article shall be applicable to any
proposed development, in excess of 20 acres in size, and to any proposed development which
contains environmentally sensitive areas, floodplain or wetlands as depicted on the official maps
adopted by Cook County, and to any proposed development located within a floodplain as
depicted in a FEMA Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM). This provision shall not apply to
residential zoning lots with a lot area of 20,000 sq. ft. or less, except where water and sewage is
provided by well and septic.

BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Board of Commissioners of Cook County that Appendix A,
Zoning, Article 12, Signs, Sections 12.1 and 12.4 of the Cook County Code shall be amended as follows:
***
12.1. - SIGN PERMITS FOR ON-PREMISES SIGNS.
***
12.1.3.

GENERAL REQUIREMENTS APPLICABLE TO SIGNS.
***
P. Signs which are directly illuminated shall comply with the following brightness limits:
1. 5,000 nits between sunrise and sunset; and
2. 250 nits between sunset and sunrise.
3. No sign shall be illuminated between the hours of 11 pm and 5 am, provided that an
entity may keep its on-premise sign illuminated to no greater than 250 nits between the
hours of 11 pm and 5 am, when the entity is open for business. For purposes of this
subsection, “open for business” means an entity that is conducting its normal business or
occupation and admits clients, customers or patrons during such time. This subsection
shall not apply to any sign that is part of an emergency response network while such sign
is displaying emergency information from any federal, state, or unit of local government.

 12.4. - DYNAMIC MESSAGE SIGNS
In addition to all other sign requirements, every dynamic message sign for which a permit application is
submitted, on or after the effective date of this ordinance, shall comply with the following:
12.4.1.

LUMINANCE. The following brightness limits shall apply:
A. 5,000 nits between sunrise and sunset; and
B. 250 nits between sunset and sunrise.
C. No sign shall be illuminated between the hours of 11 pm and 5 am, provided that an entity
may keep its on-premise sign illuminated to no greater than 250 nits between the hours of 11
pm and 5 am, when the entity is open for business. For purposes of this subsection, “open
for business” means an entity that is conducting its normal business or occupation and admits
clients, customers or patrons during such time. This subsection shall not apply to any sign
that is part of an emergency response network while such sign is displaying emergency
information from any federal, state, or unit of local government.

12.4.2.

TRANSITION TIME. The text, image or display on the face of the sign shall not change more
than once every 10 seconds. Transition time between messages changes shall be three seconds or
less.

12.4.3.

MOTION.
A. All motion is prohibited on the sign.
B. Any display containing animation, streaming video or text or images which flash, pulsate,
move or scroll is prohibited. Each message must fit on one screen.
C. One message/display may be brighter than another, but each individual message/display must
be static in intensity.
D. During the message transition, the sign shall not display any visible effects including but not
limited to action, motion, fading, dissolving, blinking, or the illusion of such effects.
E. No message shall transition from one face to another face.

12.4.4.

CONTROL/TESTING.
A. All dynamic message signs shall be equipped with an automatic dimmer control or other
mechanism that automatically controls the sign's luminance in compliance with this section.
In instances where the sign malfunctions, the sign shall either automatically shut off or freeze
the message in one position.
B. Prior to the issuance of any permit for a dynamic message sign, the applicant shall submit an
affidavit attesting that the sign has been tested, by a licensed sign contractor, and complies
with all the requirements of this section, and that the luminance intensity, motion, and
transition requirements are protected from manipulation by password-protected software or
other method satisfactory to the Building Commissioner.
C. The test of the luminance levels required by this section shall be made when the sign is set
to full white.
D. An affidavit shall be submitted at the time of the annual renewal attesting that the sign has
been tested by a licensed sign contractor, within thirty days of the renewal, and complies with
all the requirements of this section.

12.4.5.

CONVERSION. The transformation of a non-dynamic message sign to a dynamic message sign
requires the issuance of a permit pursuant to Section 12.1 and must fully comply with the
provisions of this section.

 BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Board of Commissioners of Cook County that Appendix A,
Zoning, Article 13, Administration and Enforcement, Sections 13.2, 13.3, 13.5 13.6, 13.7, 13.8, 13.10 and
13.13 of the Cook County Code shall be amended as follows:
***
13.2. - DEPARTMENT OF BUILDING AND ZONING
AND
THE ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
13.2.1.

DUTIES OF THE DEPARTMENT OF BUILDING AND ZONING.
A. Duties of the Department of Building and Zoning shall be as follows:
1. Inspect buildings, structures and land uses to determine compliance with provisions of
this ordinance. In the discharge of its inspectional duties, the Department of Building and
Zoning and its inspectors, shall have the authority to enter, at any reasonable hour, any
building, structure, property, or premises within the unincorporated area of Cook County
to enforce this Zoning Ordinance.
2. Issue and maintain records of sign permits.
3. Issue and maintain records of certificates of occupancy.
4. Authorize illumination of parking lots between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. in
residential districts when necessary for public safety and welfare.
5. Issue permits regulating erection and use of tents for specific purposes, such as temporary
carnivals, charity or eleemosynary uses, and churches and revival meetings not to exceed
ten days.
6. Duties as the Cook County Board of Commissioners shall by ordinance resolution or
direction provide.
7. Miscellaneous provisions pertaining to enforcement of this ordinance.
i. The Department of Building and Zoning shall adopt an official identification card
for its officials and its inspectors, which shall be displayed for the purpose of
identification.
ii. The Department of Building and Zoning shall have the authority to call upon police,
fire, health, legal, and other public officers for aid in enforcing any regulation of this
Zoning Ordinance, and such police, fire, health, legal, and other public officers, when
so called upon by the Department of Building and Zoning, shall be available to assist
the Department of Building and Zoning, as may be required to enforce this Zoning
Ordinance.
***
13.3. - ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
***

13.3.2.

JURISDICTION. The Zoning Board of Appeals is vested with the following jurisdiction and
authority:
***
B. Hear and make decisions or recommendations to the Cook County Board of Commissioners
on applications for authorized variances on variances from any quantitative requirement of
this ordinance, and all applications referred by the Department of Building and Zoning or the
Cook County Board of Commissioners.

 ***
13.3.3. MEETINGS AND RULES. The meetings of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be held at the
call of the Chairman at such times as the Zoning Board of Appeals may determine. Hearings
conducted by the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be considered public meetings under the Illinois
Open Meetings Act and shall be held in conformance with the Illinois Open Meetings Act. Exofficio members, or their designees, may fully participate in meetings, but shall not vote on any
matters before the Zoning Board of Appeals. For purposes of conducting a public meeting, a
quorum of five members shall be present in person at the meeting, and two of the five members
present may be ex-officio members or their designees. For purposes of conducting a vote at a
public meeting, four voting members must be present in person at the meeting and the affirmative
vote of the majority of voting members is necessary to adopt any motion or decision for approval.
Any person may appear and testify at a hearing. The Chairman or Acting Chairman may administer
oaths and subpoena witnesses. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall keep minutes of its proceedings
showing the vote of each member upon each question. If any voting member is absent or fails to
vote, that shall be reflected in the minutes. Zoning Board of Appeals voting members may not
vote by proxy. Records shall be kept of all hearings and other official actions of the Zoning Board
of Appeals. Applications, exhibits and all documents filed by applicants, as well as transcripts of
hearings if provided, meetings, testimony and deliberations, shall constitute the record of the
Zoning Board of Appeals. The Secretary of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be the keeper of
the records. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall adopt its own rules and procedures, not in
conflict with this ordinance or with applicable State of Illinois Statutes, and may select or appoint
such officers as it deems necessary. A copy of every rule, regulation, amendment, order,
requirement, decision or determination of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be filed immediately
with the Department of Building and Zoning and shall be a public record.
13.3.4.

DECISIONS. The decisions and findings of the Zoning Board of Appeals, except as provided in
13.3.5, shall be final administrative decisions and shall be subject to review as provided by law.
RESERVED
***

13.3.6.

SECRETARY OF THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
***
B. Duties of the Secretary of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be as follows:
***
4. Coordinate and facilitate the public hearings of the Zoning Board of Appeals.
***
13.5. - CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY.
***

 13.5.2.

PROCEDURE. A certificate of occupancy for a building, addition or alteration shall not be
issued until construction has been completed, the premises inspected and the Department of
Building and Zoning has certified that the use conforms with applicable Cook County ordinances.
Pending the issuance of a certificate of occupancy, a temporary certificate may be issued. A
temporary certificate of occupancy shall not exceed six months. The Department of Building and
Zoning shall issue either a certificate of occupancy or provide written notice to the applicant, not
later than 14 days after the final inspection, setting forth why a certificate of occupancy cannot
be issued.
***
13.6. - VARIANCES

13.6.1

PURPOSE. In order to provide a streamlined approval process for minor modifications of
selected zoning standards, the Zoning Administrator is hereby given the authority to review and
approve applications for variances of ten percent or less of the regulations as to location of
structures or as to bulk requirements without referral to the Zoning Board of Appeals and without
a public hearing in accordance with this ordinance. The Zoning Board of Appeals, after a public
hearing, shall recommend to the Cook County Board of Commissioners to grant or deny all other
authorized variances under this ordinance. In making a recommendation to grant a variance, the
Zoning Board of Appeals shall make findings of fact in accordance with standards prescribed in
this ordinance for variances, and shall also find that there are practical difficulties or particular
hardships which prevent the applicant from strictly following regulations of this ordinance. The
purpose of a variance is to provide relief from unreasonable difficulties or unnecessary hardships
resulting from strict application of zoning ordinance requirements.

13.6.2.

APPLICATION, HEARING, AND NOTICE OF HEARING.
***
C. Notice of Hearing. Notice of the time and place of a public hearing for all variance
applications, except those which the Zoning Administrator intends to grant pursuant to
Section 13.6.9 of this article, shall be published by the Zoning Board of Appeals once, not
less than 15 days nor more than 30 days, before the hearing in a newspaper of general
circulation in Cook County. The published notice may be supplemented by additional notice
as required by the rules of the Zoning Board of Appeals. In addition, written notice of public
hearings, including the reference number assigned by the Zoning Board of Appeals, and the
place, date, and time of the hearing shall be given not less than seven days or more than 45
days before the hearing, by the Zoning Board of Appeals to the clerk of each municipality
within 1½ miles of the subject property, and to all persons whose names are listed in the
sworn affidavit filed by the applicant with his or her variance application. to the property
owners within 150 feet of the lot lines of the subject property, whose names appear on the
Cook County tax records. Notice need only be sent to the condominium association of
condominium developments that are located within 150 feet from the subject property. The
Zoning Board of Appeals shall maintain a record of the method of service.
***

 13.6.3.

STANDARDS. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall not recommend to the Board of
Commissioners that it grant or deny a variance A variance shall not be granted or denied, unless
the Zoning Board of Appeals first makes written findings of fact on each of the following
standards based upon evidence presented:
***

13.6.4.

CONDITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS. The Zoning Board of Appeals may recommend to the
Board of Commissioners such conditions Conditions and restrictions may be imposed upon the
premises benefited by a variance as may be necessary to reduce or minimize the effect of the
variance upon other properties in the neighborhood and to better carry out the general intent of
this ordinance. Failure of the applicant to comply with conditions and restrictions imposed shall
constitute a violation of this ordinance.

13.6.5.

AUTHORIZED VARIANCES. A variance from the regulations of this ordinance may be
granted by the Cook County Board of Commissioners only in the following instances and in
accordance with standards set forth in this ordinance:
A. Permit a yard or setback less than the yard or setback required by this ordinance.
B. Permit the use of a lot or lots for a use which is otherwise prohibited solely because of the
insufficient area or width of the lot or lots. The Cook County Board of Commissioners shall
not grant a variance which results in the division of a conforming lot or lots into any
nonconforming lots. The Cook County Board of Commissioners shall not allow a lot less
than 40,000 square feet to be used for an individual septic system and water supply system,
unless the Cook County Department of Public Health has approved the systems. Permit a
reduction of the minimum lot area or lot width required by this ordinance; except that a lot
of less than 40,000 square feet shall not be allowed where private water supply and sewage
systems are used without approval of such systems by the Cook County Department of Public
Health. No variance which results in the division of a conforming lot or lots into any
nonconforming lots shall be permitted.
***
L. All other requests for variances shall be denied.
L. Permit a reduction of the minimum distance required between a billboard and the forest
preserve district lot line.
M. Permit an increase of the maximum allowable impervious surface.
N. Permit an increase of the maximum allowable height of a structure.
O. All other requests for variances shall be denied.

13.6.6. RECOMMENDING VARIANCES ACTION BY THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS.
A majority vote of three of the five voting members of the Zoning Board of Appeals is required
to recommend to the Cook County Board of Commissioners to grant or deny a variance. No
decision of the Cook County Board of Commissioners granting a variance shall be valid for more
than one year, unless a building permit is obtained and construction of the building or the use
commenced.
A.
The Zoning Board of Appeals’ findings of fact and recommendation for a variance shall
become a final administrative decision ten (10) days following the last scheduled public
hearing, except as provided by Section 13.6.7(A).
B.
No decision by the Zoning Board of Appeals, approving a variance, shall be valid for
more than one (1) year unless a building permit is obtained and construction of the
building commenced.

 C.
D.

The Zoning Board of Appeals may impose conditions and restrictions upon a variance
in order to assure that the public health, safety and welfare is adequately protected.
Final decisions of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be subject to review as provided
by law.

13.6.7. ACTION BY THE COOK COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS.
A.
Variances shall be forwarded to the Cook County Board of Commissioner for final
decision whenever requested by either the Chairman of the Zoning and Building
Committee, the Cook County Board Commissioner in whose district the property is located
or the applicant. Such request must be made in writing to the Secretary of the Zoning
Board of Appeals no later than ten (10) days following the last scheduled public hearing.
AB.
Final action shall not be taken by the Cook County Board of Commissioners on an
application for a variance until the Zoning Board of Appeals' findings of fact and
recommendations have been received.
BC.
Variances shall be approved by a favorable vote of three-quarters of all members of the
Cook County Board of Commissioners in cases where the Zoning Board of Appeals
has not recommended approval of a proposed variance or where there has been a written
protest filed against a proposed variance in accordance with Section 13.13 of this
ordinance.
CD.
The Cook County Board of Commissioners shall take final action within 60 days of
receiving the Zoning Board of Appeals' findings and recommendations.
DE.
The Cook County Board of Commissioners may impose conditions and restrictions upon
a variance in order to assure that the public health, safety and welfare is adequately
protected.
F.
Final decisions of the Cook County Board of Commissioners shall be subject to review
as provided by law.
13.6.8.

EFFECT OF DENIAL. An application for a variance which has been denied wholly or in part
by the Cook County Board of Commissioners shall not be resubmitted for a period of one year
from the date of the denial, except on grounds of new evidence or proof of changed conditions
found to be valid by the Zoning Board of Appeals.
***
13.7. - MAP AMENDMENTS
***

13.7.6.

PROCESSING APPLICATIONS. Upon receipt of a complete application for map amendment,
and at least 15 days before a scheduled hearing date, the Department of Building and Zoning
shall forward a copy of the application, including the applicant's proposed findings of fact and
all supporting documentation, to the Cook County Commissioner in whose district the property
is located, and shall notify the Cook County Department of Planning and Development, the Cook
County Department of Transportation and Highways, the Cook County Forest Preserve District,
the Cook County Department of Public Health, and the Cook County Department of
Environmental Control that a complete application, including the applicant's proposed findings
of fact and all supporting documentation has been submitted and is ready for review. Each
reviewing department shall submit recommendations and comments at least seven days before
the scheduled hearing date. Any recommendations and/or comment submitted by reviewing
departments shall be submitted at least seven (7) days before the initial scheduled hearing date.

 ***
13.8. – SPECIAL USE
***
13.8.6.

PROCESSING APPLICATIONS Upon receipt of a complete application for map amendment,
and at least 15 days before a scheduled hearing date, the Department of Building and Zoning
shall forward a copy of the application, including the applicant's proposed findings of fact and
all supporting documentation, to the Cook County Commissioner in whose district the property
is located, and shall notify the Cook County Department of Planning and Development, the Cook
County Department of Transportation and Highways, the Cook County Forest Preserve District,
the Cook County Department of Public Health, and the Cook County Department of
Environmental Control that a complete application, including the applicant's proposed findings
of fact and all supporting documentation has been submitted and is ready for review. Each
reviewing department shall submit recommendations and comments at least seven days before
the scheduled hearing date. Any recommendations and comments submitted by reviewing
departments shall be submitted at least seven (7) days before the initial scheduled hearing date.
***

13.8.14. REVOCATION A special use which has been approved but not established on a zoning lot
within one year or as otherwise provided by the special use permit shall be null and void. A
special use is established on the date of issuance of a building permit or certificate of occupancy,
whichever is earliest. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall not have authority to extend the time
limitation contained in a special use permit. If a special use is revoked by operation of this
provision, and if the special use was granted in conjunction with a map amendment, the map
amendment shall be revoked concurrently with revocation of the special use. Upon revocation,
zoning of the subject property shall revert to the prior zoning classification unless otherwise
authorized by the Cook County Board of Commissioners.
***
13.10. - PENALTIES.
A person, firm or corporation, or their agents, employees or contractors, who violate, disobey or refuse to
comply with, or resist enforcement of any provision of this ordinance shall be subject to a fine of not more
than $200.00 less than $100.00 and not more than $1,000.00 for each offense. Each day a violation
continues to exist shall constitute a separate offense and a separate fine.
***
13.13. – PROTESTS BY MUNICIPALITIES OR PROPERTY OWNERS
The following persons and entities may file written protests pertaining to map amendments, special uses
(including planned unit developments and unique uses), and variations and shall have the right to present
their comments at a public hearing:
A. Any owner(s) of 20 percent of any property immediately adjoining the subject property.
B. Any owner(s) of 20 percent of any property whose land has frontage across an alley or street
from the subject property.
***

 13.13.1 RULES FOR WRITTEN PROTEST.
A. Protesting parties must file a written protest with the Secretary of the Zoning Board of Appeals
and serve a copy of such protest to the applicant or the applicant's attorney of record by certified
mail not earlier than seven days and not no later than 30 20 days after the last public hearing.
If the 30th 20th day falls on a weekend or a holiday observed by Cook County, the 30th 20th
day shall be considered the next weekday.
B. Protesting parties shall indicate in their written protest that they have considered the
application, the standards of approval, supporting documents and the evidence presented at the
hearing.
C. Protesting parties must circulate their protest to the applicant or the applicant's attorney of
record.
***
BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Board of Commissioners of Cook County that Appendix A,
Zoning, Article 14, Rules and Definitions, Section 14.2 of the Cook County Code shall be amended as
follows:
***
14.2. - DEFINITIONS
14.2.1 The following words and terms shall have the meaning[s] set forth [in this section], except where
otherwise specifically indicated. Words and terms not defined shall have the meaning indicated by
common dictionary definition:
Farm animal. Animals other than pets that may, where permitted, be kept and maintained for
commercial production and sale or family food production, education or recreation.
Impervious surface. Any synthetic surface that does not readily absorb or retain water, including
but not limited to areas covered by principle and accessory buildings, parking and driveway areas,
roads, sidewalks, and any area of concrete asphalt including paved recreation areas. In the case of
lumberyards, areas where lumber is stored also constitutes impervious surfaces.
Livestock. Any animal customarily kept by humans for the purpose of providing food, clothing, or
work.
Lot, zoning. A "zoning lot" is a single tract of a land, under unified ownership or control, located
within a single block, which is used or occupied for any principal use designated by its owner or
developer as a tract to be used, developed or built upon as a unit, under single ownership or control.
A "zoning lot" may or may not coincide with a lot of record. shall consist of: (1) a single lot of
record; or (2) a combination of abutting complete lots of record.
Luminance. The photometric measure of luminous intensity per unit area of light traveling in a
given direction. Luminance is measured in candelas per square meters or “nits.”
Medical Cannabis Cultivation Center. "Medical cannabis cultivation center," or “cultivation
center” means a facility operated by an organization or business that is registered by the Department
of Agriculture to perform necessary activities to provide only registered medical cannabis
dispensing organizations with usable medical cannabis, as defined in 410 ILCS 130/10(e).

 Medical Cannabis Dispensing Organization. "Medical cannabis dispensing organization", or
"dispensing organization", or "dispensary organization" means a facility operated by an
organization or business that is registered by the Department of Financial and Professional
Regulation to acquire medical cannabis from a registered cultivation center for the purpose of
dispensing cannabis, paraphernalia, or related supplies and educational materials to registered
qualifying patients, as defined in 410 ILCS 130/10(o).
Motion or Moving. The depiction of movement or change of position of text, images or graphics.
Motion or moving shall include, but not be limited to, visual effects such as dissolving and fading
text and images, travelling, running sequential text, graphic bursts, lighting that resembles zooming,
twinkling or sparkling, changes in light or color, transitory bursts of light intensity, moving patterns
or bands of light, expanding or contracting shapes, and similar actions.
Nits. A unit of measurement of brightness or luminance. One nit is equivalent to one candela per
square meter.
Pets. Pets are domesticated animals that are customarily kept for pleasure or enjoyment, rather than
for utility. Pets have the following characteristics: a special and close relationship with humans;
partial or total dependence on humans; and, bred to live inside a residence in close proximity with
humans without requiring extraordinary restraint or causing unreasonable disruption. For the
purposes of this ordinance pets are limited to those animals commonly sold in local pet stores.
Portable Storage Container. Portable storage container means any container designed for the
outdoor storage of personal property which is typically rented to owners or occupants of property
for their temporary use on the exterior of the property and which is delivered to the property and
removed by vehicle.
Public way. A "public way" is any sidewalk, street, alley, highway or other public thoroughfare. A
“public way” is any sidewalk, street, alley, highway, pedestrian way, pathway, channel, viaduct,
subway, bridge, easement, right-of-way, or other way in which the public has a right of use.
Shed. Shed means an accessory structure, used for storage purposes only, that do not exceed 10
feet in height and 200 square feet in ground area.
Sign, multiple Dynamic Message. A "multiple dynamic message sign" means a billboard or offpremises outdoor advertising sign that displays a series of message changes by any method other
than physically removing and replacing the sign or its components, whether the apparent movement
or changes in the display, the sign structure itself, or any other component of the sign, regardless
of the technology used. A multiple dynamic message sign provides for a fixed message of at least
ten seconds in length with a transition time between message changes of three seconds or less.
Multiple Dynamic message signs contain a default design that will either automatically shut off or
freeze the message in one position if a malfunction occurs.
Temporary Construction Trailer. Temporary construction trailers are structures used to
accommodate temporary offices during and in conjunction with a construction project, such
structures shall not be used as a dwelling and shall terminate upon the completion of the permitted
work.
Temporary Sales Office. Temporary Sales Offices are structures used for the sale or rental of real
property in the development in which the structure is located. Such structures shall not be used as
a dwelling.

 Trailer. See definition set forth in Mobile Home Park Ordinance of Cook County [Chapter 110,
Article II of the Code].
Transition Time. The time it takes for the text, image or display of the face of the sign to change
messages.
Effective date: This Ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
Approved and adopted this 25th of July 2018.
TONI PRECKWINKLE, President
Cook County Board of Commissioners
Attest: DAVID ORR, County Clerk

 