CHICAGO PLAN COMMISSION
121 North LaSalle Street
Council Chambers - 2nd Floor, City Hall
Chicago, Illinois 60602
January 24, 2013
1:00 PM
MINUTES

PRESENT

ABSENT

Martin Cabrera
Smita Shah
Linda Searl
Michael Kelly
George Migala
Bishop John R. Bryant
Kevin Slaughter
Doris Holleb
Patricia Scudiero
Gabe Klein
Olga Camargo
Andrew Mooney
Terry Peterson
Daniel Sih
Alderman Walter Burnett
Alderman Thomas Tunney
Alderman Margaret Laurino

Les Bond
Alderman Edward Burke
Alderman Ray Suarez
Alderman Daniel S. Solis

I.

The Vice-Chairman called the meeting to order at 1:10 PM and then
undertook a roll call to establish the presence of a quorum. The hearing
commenced with thirteen members present.

II.

A court reporter was present to record the proceedings. A transcript is
available for the purpose of pursuing all matters in greater detail and is a
part of the permanent public record of the Regular Hearing of the Chicago
Plan Commission held on January 24, 2013.

III.

The Minutes of the December 20, 2012 Hearing were approved
unanimously.
THE FOLLOWING INTER-AGENCY ITEMS NUMBER 1 THROUGH 8
WERE APPROVED BY AN OMNIBUS VOTE OF 13-0.

 Adjacent Neighbors
1. A resolution recommending a proposed ordinance authorizing the sale of
City-owned land under the Adjacent Neighbors Land Acquisition Program
for the property located at 1908 East 75th Street.
Negotiated Sales
2.

A resolution recommending a proposed ordinance authorizing the
negotiated sale of City-owned land for the property located at 6130-32
South Kenwood Avenue.

3.

A resolution recommending a proposed ordinance authorizing the
negotiated sale of City-owned land for the property located at 7841 South
Racine Avenue.

4.

A resolution recommending a proposed ordinance authorizing the
negotiated sale of City-owned land for the property located at 6843 South
Ada Street.
Dispositions and Acquisitions

5.

A resolution recommending a proposed ordinance authorizing the
disposition of City-owned land to The City Colleges of Chicago for the
property generally bounded by 62nd Street on the north, 65th Street on the
south, Green Street on the west and Lowe Avenue on the east.

6.

A resolution recommending a proposed ordinance authorizing the
disposition of City-owned land to Emmanuel Community Development
Corporation for the property located at 6858 South Indiana Avenue.

7.

A resolution recommending a proposed ordinance authorizing the
disposition of City-owned land to The City Colleges of Chicago for the
property generally bounded by 62nd Street on the north, 65th Street on the
south, Green Street on the west and Lowe Avenue on the east.
Intergovernmental Agreement

8.

A resolution recommending a proposed ordinance authorizing an
Intergovernmental Agreement and Grant of Easement between the City of
Chicago and Metra for the property generally located South of Campbell
Avenue and Sacramento Street and adjacent to the Metra Milwaukee
District Line (Chicago Auto Pound #6).

 D.

MATTERS SUBMITTED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAKE MICHIGAN
AND CHICAGO LAKEFRONT PROTECTION ORDINANCE AND/OR THE
CHICAGO ZONING ORDINANCE:

1.

A proposed city-wide food plan called A Recipe for Healthy Places to be
approved by the Chicago Plan Commission. A Recipe for Healthy Places
is a plan that addresses the intersection between food and obesity. The
plan outlines six strategies that focus on changing the context of our city
and neighborhoods to support healthy eating and discourage the
consumption of unhealthy foods through planning and programmatic
activities and educating individuals so they have the information needed to
make healthier food choices. The plan is meant as a guide for Chicago to
address the epidemic of obesity, improve the well-being of its residents,
expand the economy and create a healthier urban environment.
Approved 15-0, Yeas – Commissioners Cabrera, Bryant, Burnett,
Camargo, Holleb, Kelly, Laurino, Migala, Peterson, Scudiero, Searl,
Shah, Sih, Slaughter and Tunney.

2.

A proposed technical amendment to Residential Planned Development
No. 1135 submitted by BMT-I, LLC, for the property generally located at
4301-4453 South Federal Street, 4300-4452 S. Dearborn Street, 43014453 South Dearborn, and 4330-4452 South State Street. The applicant
proposes to add an interim use of Urban Farm for sub area B. The site is
improved with a residential development. Approved 16-0, Yeas –
Commissioners Cabrera, Bryant, Burnett, Camargo, Holleb, Kelly,
Laurino, Migala, Mooney, Peterson, Scudiero, Searl, Shah, Sih,
Slaughter and Tunney.

3.

A proposed Institutional Business Planned Development and zoning map
amendment submitted by Chicago Southwest Development Corporation,
for the property generally located at 3201-3345 West 31st Street and 31003150 South Kedzie Avenue. The site is located in the Little Village
Industrial Corridor and the applicant proposes to rezone the site from a
M3-3, Heavy Industry District to a C3-3, Commercial, Manufacturing and
Employment District prior to establishing the Planned Development. The
applicant proposes to construct a campus style development to include, a
Community Hospital with 150 beds, community center, recreational open
space, day care, medical office, hospitality space, education space,
commercial retail center, and a garage containing 1,200 accessory
parking spaces. Approved 15-0-1 with Commissioner Cabrera
recusing himself, Yeas – Commissioners, Bryant, Burnett, Camargo,
Holleb, Kelly, Laurino, Migala, Mooney,Peterson, Scudiero, Searl,
Shah, Sih, Slaughter and Tunney.

 4.

A proposed technical amendment to Residential-Business Planned
Development No. 489 for the property generally located at 108 N. State
submitted by CIM Group, LP. The Applicant proposes to add language to
the existing planned development to clarify that in case of a conflict
between the State Street/Wabash Corridor Special Sign District
regulations and the planned development requirements regarding
signage, the planned development requirements shall control. Approved
16-0, Yeas – Commissioners Cabrera, Bryant, Burnett, Camargo,
Holleb, Kelly, Laurino, Migala, Mooney, Peterson, Scudiero, Searl,
Shah, Sih, Slaughter and Tunney.

5.

A proposed amendment to Planned Development No. 98, submitted by
Wolf Point Owners, LLC, for the property generally located at 316-26
North Orleans Street. The applicant proposes to construct three highrises (525’, 750’ and 950’ tall) containing a combined 3,760,000 square
feet of floor area to be developed containing a maximum of 1,410
residential units, 450 hotel rooms and 1,285 parking spaces, along with
office, retail and accessory and related uses. All proposed improvements
are designated to take place within Sub Area B; no change is being
requested to any other aspect of Planned Development No. 98. Approved
16-0, Yeas – Commissioners Cabrera, Bryant, Burnett, Camargo,
Holleb, Kelly, Laurino, Migala, Mooney, Peterson, Scudiero, Searl,
Shah, Sih, Slaughter and Tunney.

Adjournment: 5:00 PM

 