Minutes of the meeting of the Finance Committee of the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and
Hospitals System held Friday, September 21, 2018 at the hour of 8:30 A.M., at 1900 W. Polk Street, in the Second
Floor Conference Room, Chicago, Illinois.

I.

Attendance/Call to Order
Acting Chair Hammock called the meeting to order.
Present:

Acting Chair M. Hill Hammock (Substitute Member) and Director Mary B. Richardson-Lowry
(2)
Directors Mary Driscoll, RN, MPH; Ada Mary Gugenheim; and Emilie N. Junge
Steven Scheer (non-Director Member)

Absent:

Chair Robert G. Reiter, Jr. and Director Hon. Jerry Butler (2)

Additional attendees and/or presenters were:
Ekerete Akpan – Chief Financial Officer
Donna Hart – Chief Information Officer
Charles Jones – Chief Procurement Officer
James Kiamos – Chief Executive Officer, CountyCare

II.

Jeff McCutchan – General Counsel
Deborah Santana – Secretary to the Board
John Jay Shannon, MD – Chief Executive Officer

Public Speakers
Acting Chair Hammock asked the Secretary to call upon the registered public speakers.
The Secretary responded that there were none present.

III. Action Items
A. Minutes of the Finance Committee Meeting, August 24, 2018
Director Richardson-Lowry, seconded by Acting Chair Hammock, moved to
accept the Minutes of the Finance Committee Meeting of August 24, 2018. THE
MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

B. Contracts and Procurement Items (Attachment #1)
This item was considered concurrently with Item III(D).
Charles Jones, Chief Procurement Officer, provided an overview of the contractual requests presented for the
Committee’s consideration. The Committee reviewed and discussed the requests.
With regard to request number 2, Acting Chair Hammock requested that the Committee receive a status report on
the Community Triage Center in the near future.

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Finance Committee
Friday, September 21, 2018
Page 2

III. Action Items
B. Contracts and Procurement Items (continued)
With regard to request number 7, James Kiamos, Chief Executive Officer of CountyCare, provided additional
information. He stated that the cost reduction was achieved through tough negotiations and the reality that the
dollars coming from the State are tighter now. Additionally, MHN ACO, LLC holds onto their members, as far as
longevity, so the longer they have their member, less resources are required to engage them and keep them in a
health status. The vendor’s performance level to date is outstanding.
With regard to request number 12, Director Richardson-Lowry inquired whether there are other companies who
provide this type of product and service. Mr. Jones responded affirmatively, but stated that, currently, based on
the laboratory’s process from manual to automation, this option best fits with their processes and procedures.
With regard to request number 15, Donna Hart, Chief Information Officer, provided additional information.
Because the system has over 325 interfaces and everything is integrated with the ancillary systems, staffing is
needed to support that. CCHHS has used this vendor’s resources since 2007, and they come with the expertise of
supporting the systems. In negotiating this contract amendment, she and Douglas Elwell, Deputy Chief Executive
Officer of Finance and Strategy, asked the vendor to come with discounts, so CCHHS can save money but
actually increase its resources to provide those services to the clinical staff. She is very satisfied with their
performance to date, particularly as they have to keep up with the regulatory requirements. Director Driscoll
stated that she would like to see a broader overview of Information Technology in the near future. Dr. Shannon
responded that there will be a great opportunity to do that as the organization embarks on strategic planning.
Director Richardson-Lowry inquired whether the contract includes performance measures and consequences if
they fail to meet expectations. Ms. Hart responded affirmatively. She added that satisfaction levels of the system
users are assessed through a survey sent out to the users; she offered to provide the results of the most recent
survey to the Committee through the Chair.
Director Richardson-Lowry, seconded by Acting Chair Hammock, moved the
approval of request numbers 1 through 15, subject to completion of review by
Contract Compliance, where appropriate.
THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.

C. Any items listed under Section III

D. Supplemental Contract and Procurement Item (Attachment #2)
This item was considered concurrently with Item III(B).

IV. Report from Chief Procurement Officer
A. 3rd Quarter FY2018 Report of Purchases made under the authority of the Chief Executive Officer
(Attachment #3)
Mr. Jones provided an overview of the information contained within the report. The Committee reviewed and
discussed the information.
B. Report of emergency purchases
There was no report of emergency purchases that were recently made.

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Finance Committee
Friday, September 21, 2018
Page 3

V.

Report from the Chief Financial Officer (Attachment #4)
 Metrics
 Financials through July 2018
Ekerete Akpan, Chief Financial Officer, provided an overview of the information contained in the report. The
Committee reviewed and discussed the information.
Acting Chair Hammock inquired regarding the 42% uninsured rate; he asked whether the administration has any
sense of what portion of that are people who are eligible for Medicaid but not enrolled. Mr. Akpan responded that
he did not know the answer to that question at this time, but it might be something staff can analyze further. He
noted that, in the financial assistance process, there is a concerted effort to determine eligibility and to provide
assistance with applications; those who qualify for a plan but choose to not go that route will be billed and it will
go to bill collection. Acting Chair Hammock recommended that the Committee dive into this subject a little more
in the near future.
On slide 12 of the presentation, it was noted that the column header of “Monthly Target” should instead be listed
as “Target.”
Dr. Shannon provided an update on the budget. He stated that the CCHHS FY2019 Preliminary Budget was
accepted by the County Board on September 12th; it will now be incorporated into the President’s proposed
budget that is expected to be introduced in early October. At this time, it looks like the CCHHS department
hearing may be held on October 25th, and the budget is expected to be voted on by the County Board in
November.

VI.

Adjourn
As the agenda was exhausted, Acting Chair Hammock declared the meeting
ADJOURNED.

Respectfully submitted,
Finance Committee of the
Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
M. Hill Hammock, Acting Chair

Attest:

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Deborah Santana, Secretary

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Finance Committee
Friday, September 21, 2018
Page 4

Follow-up / Requests:
Follow-up:

Request for the Committee to receive a status report on the Community Triage Center in the near
future. Page 1

Follow-up:

Request for the Committee to receive a broader overview of Information Technology in the near
future. Page 2

Follow-up:

Recent information technology user satisfaction survey results to be provided to the Committee.
Page 2

Follow-up:

Regarding the question of the portion of the uninsured rate that is eligible for Medicaid but not
enrolled – follow up on what that portion amounts to, and request for deeper dive on that subject
in the near future. Page 3

 