MINUTES OF MEETING
WAYNE COUNTY ELECTION COMMISSION
MONDAY, JANUARY 11, 2016 – 4:00 P.M.
COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL BUILDING - ROOM 705
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

Call to Order:

The meeting was called to order at 4:06p.m., Monday, January 11,
2016.

Members present: Honorable Freddie G. Burton, Jr., Chief Judge, Probate Court
Honorable Cathy M. Garrett, Secretary- Wayne County Clerk
Members absent: Honorable Richard Hathaway, Member – Wayne County Treasurer
(excused)
Also present:

Janet Anderson-Davis, Assistant Corporation Counsel
Jennifer Redmond
Jenneatta Mitchell
Greg P. Mahar
Jina Sawani

Agenda item:

Consideration of Agenda approval.
Board action on agenda item: Chair Burton requested a motion
to approve the agenda. Member Garrett duly supported by Chair
Burton moved to adopt the agenda as submitted. The motion was
adopted unanimously by a voice vote.

Agenda item:

Approval of Minutes of October 13, 2015
Board action on agenda item: Chair Burton requested a motion
to approve the minutes of the meeting held on October 13, 2015.
Member Garrett duly supported by Chair Burton moved to approve
the minutes of the meeting held on October 13, 2015. The motion
was adopted unanimously by a voice vote.

Agenda item:

Approval of Ballot Printing for the March 8, 2016 Presidential
Primary
Jennifer Redmond reported that proof ballots were sent to the local
city and township clerks and the State Bureau of Elections for
approval.
Board action on agenda item: Chair Burton requested a motion

 to approve the ballot printing for the March 8, 2016 Presidential
Primary. Member Garrett duly supported by Chair Burton moved to
approve the printing of ballots for the March 8, 2016 Presidential
Primary. The motion was adopted unanimously by a voice vote.
Agenda item:

New Business. None

Agenda item:

Public Comment. None

Agenda item:

Adjournment.
Board action on agenda item: Chair Burton requested a motion
to adjourn. Member Garrett duly supported by Chair Burton moved
to adjourn the meeting. The motion was adopted unanimously by a
voice vote.
Meeting adjourned at 4:11 p.m.

 