(b CAP CENTER CORONA CENTER
Bid 2
SOUTH C1 
PARENTS FRI EN DS 773-734-2222 7032350345
DEVELOPING OPTIONS CREATING OPPORTUNITIES 773-734 2850 7082350355

ORG

SSA #5 Regular Commission Meeting Minutes

September 28, 2017

PRESENT ABSENT

Bonnie Dinell-Dimond
Dorothy Hudson

Alex Alemis

Bob Loncar

Angela Hurlock

SERVICE PROVIDER

Tom Schell
Diane Abbott

Meeting was called to order at 2:10 pm.
1. Approval of Agenda

A motion to approve the agenda was made by Angela Hurlock, seconded by Bob
Loncar. Motion carried.

2. Approval of the Minutes

Angela proposed a correction to the minutes from August 24th meeting, the next
meeting date should read September 28th. Bob proposed a correction to the
minutes from August 24th meeting, the minutes should reflect the Chicago Finance
Committee approval then the City Council. With the corrections noted, a motion to
approve the minutes from August 24, 2017 with the corrections was made by Angela
Hurlock, seconded by Dorothy Hudson. Motion carried.

The minutes of the September 14, 2017, meeting were reviewed. There being no
corrections or deletion to the minutes, a motion to approve the September 14, 2017
was made Angela Hurlock, seconded by Dorothy Hudson. Motion carried.

3. Financial Report

Mr. Schell provided the commissioners with a copy of the Service Provider Report.
South Chicago Parents and Friends, Inc., will be utilizing ACCPAC financial software

South Chicago Parents and Friends, Inc. is accredited by the Commission for Accreditation of Rehabilitation Facilities (CARF).

MINUTES OF A REGULARL MEETING
OF THE COMMISIONERS OF SSA #5 September 28, 2017

to compile the financial statements. South Chicago Parents and Friends,
Inc., has created a Chart of Accounts utilizing the City of Chicago budget format.
South Chicago Parents and Friends, Inc., has imputed the 2018 SSA #5 budget
numbers. South Chicago Parents and Friends, Inc., has created a draft Financial
Position and Revenue and Expense Statement.

Mr. Schell informed the commissioners that the SSA #5 will be vouchering all
expenses to the City of Chicago each month, for the next six months.

4. Cash Flow I Receivables

Mr. Schell provided the commissioners with a listing of the SSA #5 2017
outstanding invoices. After a discussion involving each listed item, it was decided
that a more detailed itemization of Eric O?Neal January Co. invoice is requested. A
discussion regarding the storage and disposal of the trolley needs further research.
A motion to approve the payment of the listed outstanding invoices totaling
$62,989.82, was made by Bob Loncar, seconded by Angela Hurlock. Motion
carried,

5. Items for Approval

Mr. Schell presented the proposed 2018 Budget and Work Plan. After detailed
discussion regarding each section of the proposed budget, work plan and scope of
services, a motion to approve the SSA 5, 2018 Proposed Budget, Work Plan and
scope of services was made by Bob Loncar, seconded by Dorothy Hudson. Motion
carried. Additionally, a motion to approve South Chicago Parents and Friends, Inc.,
as the 2018 Service Provider Agency was made by Dorothy Hudson, seconded by
Bob Loncar. Motion carried.

A discussion regarding the ability to increase the amount of commissioners up to
nine commissioners needs further research to determine if the Bylaws can be
amended or the Ordinance needs changing. A motion to increase the amount of
commissioners to nine members was made by Bob Loncar, seconded by Dorothy
Hudson. Motion carried.

6. Items for Discussion

Mr. Schell requested that each commissioner reviews the draft bylaws and submit
any revisions or additions prior to the next meeting so the commissioners can vote
on the draft bylaws at the next meeting.

Mr. Schell distributed the job announcement for the SSA #5 Program Manager. The
announcement has been posted on  ndeed,com, City of Chicago SSA portal and
through the South Chicago Parents and Friends, newsletter.

South Chicago Parents and Friends, Inc. is accredited by the Commission for Accreditation of Rehabilitation Facilities (CARF).

MINUTES OF A REGULAR MEETING
OF THE COMMISIONERS OF SSA #5 September 28, 2017

Once the best candidates are selected, the commissioners will be asked to join in
review/interview process.

Mr. Schell informed the commissioners that the SSA #5 will be added to the South
Chicago Parents and Friends, Inc., website. Mr. Schell provided a mock-up of the

SSA #5 information.

7. Adjournment

There being no additional business, a motion to adjourn the meeting at 4:30 pm.
was made by Bob Loncar, seconded by Dorothy Hudson. Motion carried.

Next Regular Scheduled Meeting October 26, 2017 at 2:00 pm.

South Chicago Parents and Friends. inc. is accredited by the Commission for Accreditation of Rehabilitation Facilities (CARF).

