 CODE EDC 17-07-02-282
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF JUNE 27. 2017 MEETING

RESOLVED, that the minutes of the Regular meeting of June 27. 2017 are hereby
approved and all actions taken by the Directors present at such meeting, as set forth in
such minutes, are hereby in all respects ratified and approved as actions ofthe Economic
Development Corporation.

July 11, 2017

500 Griswold,8uiie 2200 Detroit, Michigan 48226 (313) 963?2940

ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
BOARD OF DIRECTORS REGULAR MEETING
TUESDAY, JUNE 27, 2017 8:30 AM.

BOARD MEMBERS PRESENT: Marsha Bruhn

BOARD MEMBERS ABSENT:

SPECIAL DIRECTORS
PRESENT:

SPECIAL DIRECTORS
ABSENT:

OTHERS PRESENT:

Linda Forte

Chris Jackson
Jonathan Quarles
Matthew Roling
Thomas Stallworth

Monique Claiborne
Kimberly Clayson
Maurice Cox (Ex-Officio)
John Naglick (Ex-Officio)
William Ritsema

None

None

Richard Barr (Honigman)

Kyla Carisen 
Cleveland Dailey 
Gay Hilger 
Denise Hundley 
Malinda Jensen 
Jennifer Kanalos 
Elizabeth Kmetz (Broder Sachse)
Glen Long 

Maria Masty (Broder 8: Sachse)
Rebecca Nevin 
Mimi Pied! 
Donald Rancher (HRD)

John Sivalia (Planning/HRD)
Kelly Shovan 

Will Tamminga 
Adrienne Zeigier 



Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit

MINUTES OF THE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
BOARD OF DIRECTORS REGULAR MEETING

TUESDAY, JUNE 27, 2017

DETROIT ECONOMIC GROWTH CORPORATION

500 GRISWOLD, SUITE 2200 - 8:30 AM.

CALL TO ORDER

Noting that a quorum was present, Vice Chairperson Quarles called the Regular meeting
of the Economic Development Corporation Board of Directors to order at 8:52 am.

GENERAL
Approval of Minutes

Mr. Quarles asked if there were any additions, deletions or corrections to the minutes of
the June 13, 2017 Regular Board meeting.

Hearing none, the Board took the following action:

On a motion by Ms. Claiborne, seconded by Mr. Stallworth, Resolution Code EDC
17?06-02-281 was unanimously approved.

Receipt of Treasurer?s Report

Ms. Shovan reviewed the Treasurer's Report of Receipts and Disbursements for the
month of May, 2017, for the benefit of the Board.

With there being no questions or discussion, the Board took the following action:

On a motion by Mr. Stallworth, seconded by Ms. Claiborne, Resolution Code EDC
17?06-03-215 was unanimously approved.

PROJECTS

Proposed Amendments to EDC Casino Loan Program

Ms. Carlsen reported that, as the Board is aware, the Economic Development Corporation
of the City of Detroit (the currently administers a loan program using funds provided

by the City and the casinos and authorized for specific uses by Detroit City Council in 2005
(the Casino Loan Program").

June 27, 2017

500 Griswold,Suite 2200 - Detroit,Michigon 48226 - (3l3) 963-2940

Funds under the EDC Casino Loan Program are currently allocated in 3 different loan
programs, each subject to a geographic restriction of East Riverfront, CBD, and/or
Woodward Corridor to Warren:

1. Nationai regional retail/restaurant chain loan program; balance)

2. Non?affiliated retaii/restaurant chain loan program ($275,000 balance)

3 Reai Property Rehab Gap Fund; ?resident retail loan fund? (Qualifications: project
must be owned, operated and financed by City of Detroit resident, minimum of 60%
ownership entity is comprised of city residents, minimum 2-year residency
requirement) balance)

While certain of the allocated uses have been popular non-affiliated retail/restaurant)
and readily deployed, certain uses have been underutilized resident retail loan fund).
Furthermore, Detroit?s economic landscape has changed substantially since the EDC
Casino Loan Program was put into place. Accordingly, staff is seeking approvai to amend
the EDC Casino Loan Program to maximize fund impact and improve the performance of
this underutilized resource.

As the study of retail market conditions progresses, preliminary data reports show unmet
demand in neighborhoods across the city. Our ability to invest in projects outside
Downtown and CBD will ensure we are using our resources to support projects that are
sustainable long term. Removing certain of the program restrictions will allow the EDC to
deploy more capital and get resources out into the neighborhoods beyond the downtown,
midtown, and the east riverfront

Subject to City Council approval, staff recommends the foliowing modifications to the EDC
Casino Loan Program:

. Merge all remaining funds into one pot of money for use

0 Add a use, with a 1.2 Million allocation, primarily for EDC small business
programs developed under CDBG sub-recipient agreement (including future
programs), with flexibility to request [can for a business not participating in any
EDC programs. Subject to future EDC Board approval, loans using these funds
may be administered by another community lender for management of these
funds.

. Remove geographic restrictions for all loan uses.

Ms. Carlson stated that they would like to amend what was presented on Page 26. instead
of $1.2 Miliion it should be $1.35 Miliion towards the small business use.

Ms. Navin added that the Finance Committee met to review this matter and is in support
of recommending it to the Board.

Chairperson Forte arrived to chair the meeting. She stated that she was familiar with the
proposed amendments to the Casino Loan Program, as they were discussed at the EDC
Finance Committee meeting, and the Committee recommends approve! by the Board.

A resoiution was inciuded with the memorandum for the Board?s consideration.

June 27, 2017

Following a discussion, the Board took the following action:

On a motion by Mr. Queries, seconded by Ms. Claiborne, Resolution Code CODE
EDC 17-06?74-38 was unanimously approved, as amended.

Beitline Greenway: Professional Services Agreement for Survey Services with
Nowak Fraus Engineers

Mr. Tamminga reported that the City of Detroit by and through its Housing and
Revitalization Department, (the ?City") has been awarded a Community Development
Block Grant for Declared Disaster Recovery (CDBG-DDR) from the US. Department of
Housing and Urban Development (HUD) in the amount of Eight Million Nine Hundred
Thousand and 00/100 Dollars The CDBG-DDR grant is designed to
ameliorate future flooding and support the market through a number of projects and
planning exercises.

With EDC board approval the EDC executed a sub?recipient agreement
with the City and was awarded $2,593,500.00 from the City?s grant. The City
has requested that the EDC undertake construction management services with respect to
the Beltline Greenway project. The federal funds will be used for project activities as it
relates to the Beltilne Greenway.

As part of project execution, the EDC solicited for Quotes for survey services on May 18,
2017 for survey services for the Beitline Greenway project. The basis for EDC contract
awards are based on federal procurement policies set forth in 24 CFR 85.36. More
specifically, this solicitation was made pursuant to the "srnali purchase procedure? method
of procurement per 24 CFR EDC staff received four cost proposais to the
request for quotes.

EDC staff members reviewed all the cost proposals and have determined that Nowak
Fraus provided the lowest cost and most responsive quote. EDC staff recommends
approval of a Professionai Services Agreement with Nowak Fraus. The proposed scope
of services is attached as Attachment A.

EDC staff recommended that the Board of Directors authorize the execution of a
Professional Service Agreement with Nowak Fraus Engineers, not to exceed Twenty-Four
Thousand One Hundred Dollars to be paid out of the funds.

A resolution was provided for the Board?s consideration and approval.

Ms. Bruhn asked who the other applicants were that were considered. Mr. Tamminga
stated that the other vendors who were solicited for proposals were Spaulding DeDecker,
Giffels Webster Engineers, and Manik Smith, which are all great firms. Nowak Fraus
was the most responsive bidder. They have an office in Detroit and are in the process of
getting their Detroit-based certification. They have performed other services for the EDC
and have performed well.

Subsequent to the discussion, the Board took the foliowing action:

June 27, 2017

On a motion by Mr. Staliworth, seconded by Mr. Quarles, Resolution Code EDC
17-06-88-09 was unanimously approved.

Authorization for the Economic Development Corporation to Enter into a Sub?
Recipient Agreement in Connection with the City of Detroit?s Community
Development Block Grant for the Eastern Market Comprehensive Neighborhood
Framework Plan

Ms. Zeigier stated that the City of Detroit, by and through its Housing and Revitalization
Department, (the ?City?) has been awarded a Community Development Block Grant CDBG
from the US. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). The CDBG
program provides communities with resources to address a wide range of unique
community development needs. The City is requesting that the Economic Development
Corporation of the City of Detroit (the act as a sub-recipient of the City in
connection with the CD86 funding to implement a planning study. Specifically, the City
has requested that the EDC undertake project management activities in connection the
Eastern Market Comprehensive Neighborhood Framework Plan. Staff for the EDC will
work as the lead for the project. in addition, EDC staff will work closely with project
partners: The Nature Conservancy (TNC), Planning Development Department (PDD),
and the Housing Revitalization Department (HRD).

The Eastern Market Comprehensive Neighborhood Framework Plan will buiid upon
previousiy completed neighborhood studies, creating a consolidated and actionable vision
for the City of Detroit to synergize growth and support future investment within the Eastern
Market neighborhood. The goal is to create a vibrant mixed-use neighborhood that makes
Eastern Market the hub of food production and distribution for the Great lakes region while
increasing neighborhood amenities, improving the quality of life for local residents, and
expanding their opportunities for nearby employment. Exhibit A to the resolution details
the scope of work for the project. Under the guidance of the EDC, PDD, the City, and
TNC, the chosen consultant firm will analyze previous planning studies and develop
recommendations for implementation strategies, including but not limited to:

- Development of state of the art food production and distribution facilities;

. identification of sites for multi-family housing (new construction and adaptable re-
use), mixed?use development (new construction and adaptable use), and
identification of strategic demoiitions and remediation;

- Perform an open space assessment and identify other infrastructure
improvements that advance economic and ecological performance (streetscapes,
storm water management), with design, are also part of the strategy; and

- Developing an understanding of existing truck traffic in the area and a framework
for future traffic (truck, non-truck) mitigation work to alieviate both existing and
future potential incompatible uses is critical for creating and maintaining a quality
urban environment, including transportation and parking strategies.

The anticipated budget for the Sub-Recipient Activities is approximately $660,000.00,
which was preliminarily set forth in Exhibit to the resolution. The EDC staff has
considered the City?s request and has determined that: the EDC has the expertise and
capacity to undertake the Sub-Recipient Activities (ii) the EDC satisfies the requirements
needed to execute the project and is well suited to act on behalf of the City; and upon
the completion of the planning study certain projects and land uses will be suggested that

June 27, 2017

wiil result in outcomes that will promote economic development in the Eastern Market
Neighborhood.

it is anticipated that, pursuant to the operating contract with the Detroit Economic
Growth Corporation the DEGC would provide such staff, operational and
administrative assistance required or appropriate to administer and implement the Sub
Recipient Activities on behalf of the EDC, with third?party consultants engaged.

A Resolution was included with the Board material for consideration which authorized:

1. The negotiation and execution of a Sub-Recipient Agreement with the City, which
will outline the parties? respective obligations as it relates to the Sub?Recipient
Activities; and

2. The execution of an agreement between the EDC and DEGC pursuant to which
the EDC will request the DEGC to provide such staff, operational and
administrative assistance required or appropriate to administer and implement the
Sub-Recipient Activities on behalf of the EDC.

Ms. Zeigler informed that Mr. John Sivalia of Planning/HRD was in attendance. Mr. Sivalia
responded to Board members? questions.

A discussion took place regarding procurement procedures. Ms. Zeigler
explained the procedures that the EDC follows and advised that the DEGC has recently
subscribed to BidNet, an online procurement service, which is available to all entities
managed by the DEGC. it was also pointed out that the Federal grants have very stringent
procurement policies that must be adhered to. Ms. Forte suggested that this discussion
be continued at a future EDC Board meeting. Mr. Long stated that staff will come back to
the Board with additional information on the procurement policies that are in place.

Subsequent to a discussion, the Board took the following action:

On a motion by Mr. Stallworth, seconded by Ms. Bruhn, Resolution Code EDC
17-06~97-01 was unanimously approved.

Authorization for the Economic Development Corporation to Enter into a Grant
Agreement with the Nature Conservancy in Connection with the Eastern Market
Comprehensive Neighborhood Framework Plan

Ms. Zeigler advised that the City of Detroit (the ?City") has requested the Economic
Development Corporation of the City of Detroit (the to provide project management
services in connection with the Eastern Market Comprehensive Neighborhood Framework
Plan. The planning study will be largely funded by funds from the US. Department of
Housing Urban Development Community Development Block Grant (CDBG). In addition
to the CDBG funds, The Nature Conservancy will provide funding that will be used
towards the Centralized Stormwater Management (CSM) Feature Master Plan.

The CSM Feature Master Plan (CSM Master Plan) is intended to unite two key objectives:

sustainable management of stormwater and catalyzing of future development. The
collection of stormwater runoff to neighborhood?scale centralized facilities wilt provide an

June 27, 2017

opportunity to reduce stormwater drainage charges for the district, and offer an alternative
compliance options for the impending Post Construction Stormwater Ordinance (PCSO),
thereby catalyzing future development through the reduction of a common development
barrier. The CSM feature will be comprised of a network of centralized, hydraulically
connected, neighborhood-scale, green stormwater facilities and greenways, which will
convey and manage runoff from a significant portion of the Neighborhood Business
Innovation Zone and surrounding neighborhood. The Neighborhood Business
Innovation Zone will be a high?tech center of food production, processing, and distribution
within the transitional space of vacant land adjacent to the Market Core.

The CSM Master Plan will integrate the findings and recommendations from the
Framework Plan into an actionable road map that establishes the overall vision, scale,
location, and key design elements for the CSM features. The CSM Master Plan shall be
guided by, but not limited to, the following goals:

- The CSM feature facilities will demonstrate both the best in-class design practices
for green stormwater infrastructure, and how new stormwater related policies can
be leveraged for greener more sustainable land development.

- All stormwater management planning (financial or project based) is done to the
benefit of both current and future landowners within the and the adjacent
community at?large;

The CSM feature facilities are visible and accessible to the public and provide
appropriate access to educate and promote green stormwater solutions.

- The CSM feature facilities can be constructed and operate per plan.

The creation of the CSM Master Plan is being funded through a grant in the amount of
Two Hundred Seventeen Thousand Nine Hundred Ten and 00/100 Dollars 
from The Nature Conservancy.

EDC staff recommended that the Board authorize negotiation and execution of grant
agreement with The Nature Conservancy for the acceptance of Funds. The Scope of Work
and budget were outlined in Exhibit A to the memorandum. A proposed resolution was
included for the Board?s consideration and approval.

With there being no questions or discussion, the Board took the following action:

On a motion by Mr. Stallworth, seconded by Ms. Claiborne, Resolution Code
EDC t7~06~97~02 was unanimously approved.

Acceptance and Transfer of Funds from City for infrastructure Improvements
Related to Development Protect at 40 Davenport

Mr. Bailey circulated some information and reported that 40 Davenport, LLC, a Michigan
limited liability company (?Developer?), is undertaking a complete rehabilitation of the
former Milner Arms apartment building (pictured on hand-out) on certain property it owns
located at 40 Davenport (the ?Development Site?). Developer has agreed to implement
certain infrastructure improvements at the Development Site (the ?Infrastructure
lmprovements?).

June 27, 2017

The City, through Department of Housing and Revitalization is seeking City
Council approval of a $207,000 allocation from the City?s general fund (the "Funds?) for
purposes of funding the infrastructure improvements. HRD has requested the 
assistance in disbursing the Funds and monitoring the construction of the infrastructure
Improvements, which such assistance shall include, but not be limited to, receiving and
reviewing reimbursement requests from the Developer, making reimbursement requests
to the City, and receiving from HRD and transferring to the Developer the Funds.

EDC staff recommends Board approval of assistance as requested above, subject
to City Council approval, (ii) the negotiation of a mutually acceptable agreement
between the City and HRD with respect to the Funds, the negotiation of a funding or
similar agreement with the Developer, and (ii) agreement by HRD and/or the Developer
to fund a reasonable administrative fee payable to the EDC for its services.

A resolution was attached to the memorandum for the Board?s consideration.

Ms. Claiborne asked if this was a new owner and what was going to happen to the current
residents. Ms. Navin advised that there were representatives of the developer, Ms.
Elizabeth Kinetz and Mr. Richard Barr, available to address Board members? questions.

Subsequent to a discussion, the Board took the following action:

On a motion by Mr. Stallworth, seconded by Ms. Bruhn, Resolution Code EDC
1706-96?01 was approved, with Ms. Claiborne abstaining.



EDC Budget for FY 2617-2018

Ms. Kanalos advised that the proposed operating budget had been distributed for FY
2017?18 for review and approval of the resolution adopting operating budget for FY
2017-2018.

The EDC Finance Committee has reviewed the budget and recommended approval by
the EDC Board.

With there being no questions or discussion, the Board took the following action:

On a motion by Ms. Claiborne, seconded by Mr. Queries, Resolution Code EDC
1706-01491 was unanimously approved.

City of Detroit/EDC and DEGCIEDC Contracts Authorization
The Economic Development Corporation?s (the agreement (the ?City Agreement?)
with the City of Detroit (the ?City?) and the Professional Services Agreement (the 

Agreement?) with the Detroit Economic Growth Corporation (the will expire on
June 30, 2017.

June 27, 2017

Staff is requesting authorization to extend and/or execute a new City Agreement and
DEGC Agreement (?Exhibit together with such changes recommended or required by
counsel for either party, for the period of July 1, 2017' to June 30, 2018.

With respect to the City Agreement, City Council is anticipated to approve a budget
allocation in the amount of $275,000.00. Twenty thousand doliars of the City Agreement
will be used to operate the Next Michigan Development Corporation.

The DEGC Agreement will be for a base compensation of $800,000.00 funded primarily
from the City Agreement aliocation of $255,000.00, $350,000.00 from EDC's Trizec
Annuity, and $195,000.00 from Loan repayment account, plus such additional
amounts authorized by the DEGC Agreement.

A resolution authorizing execution of the City Agreement and the DEGC Agreement was
included for the Board?s consideration.

Subsequent to a discussion, the Board took the foliowing action:

On a motion by Ms. Bruhn, seconded by Mr. Quarles, Resolution Code EDC 17-?
06-01-192 was unanimously approved.

Administration: Election of Officers

Ms. Kanalos stated that the EDC Act 338 of Michigan Acts 1974, as amended, requires
that the Officers of the Board of Directors be elected at its annual meeting.

A resolution was included for the Board?s review and approval to elect Linda Forte,
Chairperson, Jonathan Queries, Vice Chairperson, William Ritsema, Secretary, and Matt
Roling, Treasurer, of the Board of Directors of the Economic Development Corporation of
the City of Detroit.

Ms. Bruhn questioned the process of the nomination of officers and expressed that she
was not questioning the proposed officers, but rather, wanted to know the process. Ms.
Kanalos explained that a discussion between staff and the Mayor?s office determines the
proposed candidates, who are then contacted to ask their willingness to accept the
position, if elected. Ms. Bruhn stated that she was very uncomfortable with this procedure
and thinks that the nomination should come from the Board. Mr. Stallworth stated that he
agreed.

Foilowing a discussion, the Board agreed that the process of election of offices will first
announce the upcoming election, in order to give Board members the opportunity to
express interest in an officer position. This will be a more inclusive and transparent
process. The Board agreed that future elections will be conducted this way.

Subsequent to the discussion, the Board took the foliowing action:

On a motion by Ms. Bruhn, seconded by Mr. Stallworth, Resolution Code EDC
17-06?01-193 was unanimously approved.

June 27, 2017

Schedule of Regular EDC Board Meetings for FY 201 ?2018

Ms. Kanalos advised that the proposed meeting schedule was included in the Board
meeting materials for the Board?s review and approval. It is proposed that the Regular
meetings for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2017 and ending June 30, 2018 shall be
held, unless otherwise posted, on the second and fourth Tuesday of each month at
8:30 am. (with the exception of December, as noted below) in the offices of the Detroit
Economic Growth Corporation, 500 Griswold Street, Suite 2200, Conference Room A.
The dates are as follows:

?3.11

July 11, 2017

July 25, 3017
August 8, 2017
August 22, 2017
September 12, 2017
September 26, 2017
October 10, 2017
October 24, 2017
November 14, 2017
November 28, 2017
December 12, 2017
December 19, 2017*

20?! 8

January 9, 2018
January 23, 2018
February 13, 2018
February 27, 2018
March 13, 2018
March 27, 2018
April 10, 2018
April 24, 2018
May 8, 2018

May 22, 2018
June 12, 2018
June 26, 2018

With there being no objection to the proposed schedule, the Board took the following
action:

On a motion by Mr. Stallworth, seconded by Mr. Quarles, Resolution Code EDC
17-06-01-194 was unanimously approved.

OTHER MATTERS
COMMENT
ADJOURNMENT

With there being no other business to come before the Board, Chairperson Forte
adjourned the Regular meeting at 10:28 am.

June 27, 2017

CODE 17-06-02-281
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit

 

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF JUNE 13, 2017 MEETING

RESOLVED, that the minutes of the Regular meeting of June 13, 2017 are hereby
approved and all actions taken by the Directors present at such meeting, as set forth in
such minutes, are hereby in all respects ratified and approved as actions of the Economic
Development Corporation.

June 27, 2017

500 Griswold,Sulte 2200 - 48226 - (313) 963-2940

 EDC 17-06-03-215
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detrozt

 

ACCEPTANCE OF REPORT FOR MAY 2017

RESOLVED, that the Treasurer?s Report of Receipts and Disbursements for the
period ending May 31, 2017, as presented at this meeting, is hereby in all respects
accepted as action of the Economic Development Corporation.

June 27, 2017

500 Griswold,Suite 2260 - DetroitMiChian 48226 (313) 963-2940

 

CODE EDC 17-06-74-38

Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit
(Amended at the Table)

PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO EDC CASINO 

WHEREAS, The Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit (the
currently administers a loan program using funds provided by the City and the
casinos and authorized for specific uses by Detroit City Council in 2005 (the Casino
Loan Program?); and

WHEREAS, funds under the EDC Casino Loan Program are currently allocated in
3 different loan programs, each subject to a geographic restriction of East Riverfront, CBD,
and/or Woodward Corridor to Warren:

1. National regional retail/restaurant chain loan program balance)

2. Non-affiliated retail/restaurant chain loan program ($275,000 balance)

3. Real Property Rehab Gap Fund; ?resident retail loan fund" (Qualifications: project
must be owned, operated and financed by City of Detroit resident, minimum of 60%
ownership entity is comprised of city residents, minimum 2 year residency
requirement) balance)

WHEREAS, staff is seeking approval to amend the EDC Casino Loan Program to
maximize fund impact and improve the performance of loan programs, as
follows (the ?Program Modifications"):

0 Merge all remaining funds into one pot of money for use

. Add a use, with a 1.35 Million allocation, primarily for EDC small business
programs developed under CDBG sub-recipient agreement (including future
programs), with flexibility to request loan for a business not participating in any
EDC programs. Subject to future EDC Board approval, loans using these funds
may be administered by another community lender for management of these
funds.

- Remove geographic restrictions for all loan uses.

WHEREAS, the EDC Board has reviewed the proposed Program Modifications
and believes it is in the best interests of the EDC Casino Loan Program and the promotion
of economic development in the City of Detroit and is otherwise consistent with its
statutorily mandated purposes.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Board of Directors hereby
approves the Program Modifications, subject to, the negotiation of a mutually
acceptable amendment to the existing funding agreement between EDC and the City and
(ii) City Council approval of the Program Modifications and related funding agreement
amendment.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that any two Of?cers, or any one of the Officers
and any one of the Authorized Agents or any two of the Authorized Agents, shall
hereafter have the authority to negotiate and execute the amendment of funding

500 Griswold,SUite 2200 DeiroitJViichigon 48226 (313) 963-2940

agreement, any and all documents, contracts or other papers, and take such other actions
necessary or appropriate to implement the provisions and intent of this resolution on behaif
of the EDC.

BE IT FINALLY RESOLVED that all of the acts and transactions of any officer or
authorized agent of the EDC, in the name and on behalf of the EDC, relating to matters
contemplated by the foregoing resolutions, which acts would have been approved by the
foregoing resoiutions except that such acts were taken prior to execution of these
resolutions, are hereby in all respects confirmed, approved and ratified.

June 27, 2017

CODE 
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit

 

BELTINE AGREEMENT Eon 
FRAUS ENGINEERS.

WHEREAS, the City of Detroit, by and through its Housing and Revitalization
Department, (the ?City?) has been awarded a Community Development Block Grant for
Declared Disaster Recovery from the US. Department of Housing and
Urban Development (HUD) in the amount of Eight Million, Nine Hundred Thousand and
00/100 Dollars and

WHEREAS, CDBG-DDR is designed to ameliorate future flooding and support
market recovery through a comprehensive approach to resiliency; and

WHEREAS, with EDC board approval 6-06-95-01), the EDC executed a sub-
recipient agreement with the City and was awarded $2,593,500.00 from the City?s CDBG-
DDR grant to undertake construction management services with respect to the Beltline
Greenway project; and

WHEREAS, the EDC solicited for Quotes for survey services on May 18, 2017 for
survey services for the Beltline Greenway project and this solicitation was made pursuant
to the "small purchase procedure" method of procurement per 24 CFR and

WHEREAS, EDC staff received four cost proposals to the request for quotes, and
EDC staff members reviewed all the cost proposals and have determined that Nowak
.Fraus provided the lowest cost and most responsive quote.

WHEREAS, EDC staff recommends approval of a Professional Services
Agreement with Nowak Frans, and the proposed scope of services is attached as
Attachment A.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE lT RESOLVED, that the Board of Directors of the
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit hereby authorizes the execution
of a Professional Service Agreement with Nowak Fraus Engineers, not to exceed Twenty
Four Thousand One Hundred Dollars to be paid out of the funds.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that any two Officers, or any one of the Officers
and any one of the Authorized Agents or any two of the Authorized Agents, shall
hereafter have the authority to negotiate and execute any and all documents, contracts or
other papers and take such other actions necessary or appropriate to implement the
provisions and intent of this resolution on behalf of the EDC.

BE IT FINALLY RESOLVED that all of the acts and transactions of any officer or
authorized agent of the EDC, in the name and on behalf of the EDC, relating to matters
contemplated by the foregoing resolutions, which acts would have been approved by the
foregoing resolutions except that such acts were taken prior to execution of these
resolutions, are hereby in all respects confirmed, approved and ratified.

June 27, 2017

500 Griswold,Suite 2200 - 48226 - (313)963~2940

 

CODE EDC 17-06-97-01
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit

RESOLUTION APPROVING .THE EDC TO ENTER INTO SUBRECIPIENT
AGREEMENJ IN THE CITY OF COMMUNITY
DEVELOPMENT EASTERN COMPREHENSIVE
NEIGHBORHOOD FRAMEWORK PLAN

WHEREAS, the City of Detroit, by and through its Housing and Revitalization
Department, (the ?City") has been awarded a Community Development Block Grant
(CDBG) from the US. Department of Housing and Urban Development and

WHEREAS, CDBG is designed to provides communities with resources to address
a wide range of unique community development needs; and

WHEREAS, the CDBG grant will support a planning study in the Eastern Market
neighborhood; and

WHEREAS, the above-referenced project will create a vibrant mixed?use
neighborhood that makes Eastern Market the hub of food production and distribution for
the Great lakes region while increasing neighborhood amenities, improving the quality of
life for local residents; and

WHEREAS, the City, and its partners, are committed to creating a consolidated
and actionable vision for the City of Detroit to synergize growth and support future
investment within the Eastern Market neighborhood; and

WHEREAS, the City is requesting that the Economic Development Corporation of
the City of Detroit (the act as a sub-recipient of the City in connection with the
CDBG grant, to undertake project management services with respect to the planning study
for the Eastern Market Neighborhood Framework Plan; and

WHEREAS, the anticipated budget for the Sub-Recipient Activities is
approximately $660,000.00, which is preliminarily set forth in Exhibit hereto, and may
be subject to change upon agreement by the City and EDC Staff; and

WHEREAS, the EDC currently provides leading economic development and job
organization services for the City and consistently leverages its expertise and innovation
to advance a sustainable, robust and inclusive economy for the City; and

WHEREAS, the EDC staff has determined that: the EDC satisfies the requirements
needed to execute the project and is well suited to act on behalf of the City; and

WHEREAS, is anticipated that, pursuant to the annual services contract
with the Detroit Economic Growth Corporation the DEGC would provide such
staff, operational and administrative assistance'required or appropriate to administer and
implement the Sub-?Recipient Activities on behalf of the EDC, with third-party consultants
engaged as necessary and appropriate; and

500 Griswold, Suite 2200 - Detroit, Michigan 48226 (3I3) 963-2940

WHEREAS, the EDC Board has reviewed the matter and believes that the
undertaking of the Sub-Recipient Activities by the EDC wiil result in a project that is in the
best interests of the promotion of economic development in the City of Detroit and
consistent with its statutorily mandated purposes.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Board of Directors of The
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit hereby authorizes:

i. negotiation and execution of a Sub-Recipient Agreement with the City,
which will outline the parties? respective obligations as it relates to the Sub-
Recipient Activities; and

ii. execution of an agreement between the EDC and DEGC pursuant to which
the EDC request the DEGC to provide such staff, operational and
administrative assistance required or appropriate to administer and
implement the Sub?Recipient Activities on behalf of the EDC, with DEGC
staff time.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that any two Of?cers, or any one of the Officers
and any one of the Authorized Agents or any two of the Authorized Agents, shall
hereafter have the authority to negotiate and execute any and all documents, contracts or
other papers and take such other actions necessary or appropriate to implement the
provisions and intent of this resoiution on behalf of the EDC.

BE IT FINALLY RESOLVED that all of the acts and transactions of any officer or
authorized agent of the EDC, in the name and on behalf of the EDC, relating to matters
contemplated by the foregoing resolutions, which acts would have been approved by the
foregoing resolutions except that such acts were taken prior to execution of these
resolutions, are hereby in all respects confirmed, approved and ratified.

June 27, 2017

CODE EDC 17706-97-02
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit

 

AUTHORIZATION FOR THE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION TO ENTER
INTO A GRANT AGREEMENT WITH THE NATURE CONSERVANCY IN CONNECTION
WITH THE EASTERN MARKET COMPREHENSIVE NEIGHBORHOOD FRAMEWORK
PLAN - 

WHEREAS, the City of Detroit (the ?City?) has requested the Economic
Development Corporation of the City of Detroit (the to provide project management
services in connection with the Eastern Market Comprehensive Neighborhood Framework
Plan; and

WHEREAS, in addition to the CDBG funds The Nature Conservancy will
provide funding that will be used towards the Centralized Stormwater Management (CSM)
Feature Master Plan

WHEREAS, The TNC grant will support the creation of a Centralized Stormwater
Management (CSM) Feature Master Plan; and

WHEREAS, the above?referenced plan will create a sustainable way to manage
stormwater runoff; and

WHEREAS, the City and its partners are committed to creating a consolidated and
actionable vision for the City of Detroit to synergize growth and support future investment
within the Eastern Market neighborhood; and

WHEREAS, the costs of the CSM Feature Master Plan will be funded through TNC
in the amount of Two Hundred Seventeen Thousand Nine Hundred Ten and 00/100
Doliars the scope and budget for which are included in the attached Exhibit
A (the ?Grant Activities"); and

WHEREAS, the EDC staff has determined that: the EDC satisfies the requirements
needed to execute the project and is well suited to act on behalf of The Nature
Conservancy; and

WHEREAS, the EDC Board has reviewed the matter and believes that the
undertaking of the Grant Activities by the EDC will result in a project that is in the best
interests of the promotion of economic development in the City of Detroit and consistent
with its statutorily mandated purposes.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Board of Directors of The
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit hereby authorizes:

i. negotiation and execution of a Grant Agreement with The Nature

Conservancy, which will outline the parties? respective obligations as it
relates to the Grant Activities; and

500 Griswold,8uite 2200 48226 . (313) 963?2940

ii. execution of an agreement between the EDC and DEGC pursuant to which
the EDC will request the DEGC to provide such staff, operational and
administrative assistance required or appropriate to administer and
implement the Grant Activities on behalf of the EDC, with DEGC staff time.

BE iT FURTHER RESOLVED, that any two Officers, or any one of the Officers
and any one of the Authorized Agents or any two of the Authorized Agents, shall
hereafter have the authority to negotiate and execute any and all documents, contracts or
other papers and take such other actions necessary or appropriate to implement the
provisions and intent of this resolution on behalf of the EDC.

BE IT RESOLVED that all of the acts and transactions of any officer or
authorized agent of the EDC, in the name and on behalf of the EDC, relating to matters
contemplated by the foregoing resolutions, which acts would have been approved by the
foregoing resolutions except that such acts were taken prior to execution of these
resolutions, are hereby in all respects confirmed, approved and ratified

June 27, 2017

CODE EDC 17-06-96-01
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit

 

RESOLUTION APPROVING ACCEPTANCE AND TRANSFER OF FUNDS FROM CITY
FOR INFRASTRUCTURE IMPROVEMENTS RELATED TO DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
AT 40 DAVENPORT

WHEREAS, 40 Davenport, LLC, a Michigan limited liability company
(?Developer?), is undertaking a complete rehabilitation of the former Milner Arms
apartment building on certain property it owns at 40 Davenport (the "Development Site?);
and

WHEREAS, Developer has agreed to implement certain infrastructure
improvements at the Development Site (the "infrastructure Improvements?); and

WHEREAS, the City, through Department of Housing and Revitalization 
is seeking City Council approval of a $207,000 allocation from the City?s general fund (the
?Funds?) for purposes of funding the Infrastructure Improvements; and

WHEREAS, HRD has requested the assistance in disbursing the Funds
and monitoring the construction of the Infrastructure Improvements, which such
assistance shail include, but not be limited to, receiving and reviewing reimbursement
requests from the Developer, making reimbursement requests to the City, and receiving
from HRD and transferring to the Developer the Funds (the Activities?); and

WHEREAS, subject to City Council approval, (ii) the negotiation of a mutually
acceptable agreement between the City and HRD with respect to the Funds, the
negotiation of a funding or similar agreement with the Developer, and (ii) agreement by
HRD and/or the Developer to fund a reasonable administrative fee payable to the EDC for
the performance of the EDC Activities; and

WHEREAS, the EDC has the authority to complete the EDC Activities under
Section 2 and Section 27' of the enabling statute, Michigan Public Act 338 of 1974,
as amended; and

WHEREAS, the EDC Board has reviewed the matter and believes it is in the best
interests of the promotion of economic development in the City of Detroit and consistent
with its statutorily mandated purposes.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE tT RESOLVED, that the Board of Directors hereby
approves the undertaking by the EDC of the EDC Activities, subject to, subject to City
Council approval, (ii) the negotiation of a mutually acceptable agreement between the City
and HRD with respect to the Funds, the negotiation of a funding or similar agreement
with the Developer, and (iv) agreement by HRD and/orthe Developerto fund a reasonable
administrative fee payable to the EDC for its services.

BE lT FURTHER RESOLVED, that any two Of?cers, or any one of the Of?cers
and any one of the Authorized Agents or any two of the Authorized Agents, shall

500 Griswold,8uite 2200 DeiroitMichigon 48226 (313) 963-2940

hereafter have the authority to negotiate and execute the above-referenced agreements
with the City and the Developer, any and all documents, contracts or other papers, and
take such other actions necessary or appropriate to implement the provisions and intent
of this resolution on behalf of the EDC.

BE IT FINALLY RESOLVED that all of the acts and transactions of any officer or
authorized agent of the EDC, in the name and on behalf of the EDC, relating to matters
contemplated by the foregoing resoiutions, which acts would have been approved by the
foregoing resolutions except that such acts were taken prior to execution of these
resolutions, are hereby in all respects confirmed, approved and ratified.

June 27, 2017

CODE EDC 17-06-014 91
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit

 

EDC BUDGET FOR FY 20174018

WHEREAS, on the date hereof, the Board of Directors of the Economic
Development Corporation of the City of Detroit (the approved a resolution whereby
the EDC would accept funding from the City of Detroit in the amount of $255,000.00 for
operations of the EDC for fiscal year 2017-2018; and

WHEREAS, the EDC wishes to adopt a budget for its fiscal year beginning July 1,
2017 and ending June 30, 2018.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE lT RESOLVED by the Board of Directors of the Economic
Development Corporation of the City of Detroit, as follows:

1. The Budget of the EDC, attached as Exhibit A hereto, for the fiscal year
beginning July 1, 2017 and ending June 30, 2018 is hereby approved.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the EDC Board hereby authorizes any two of
its Officers or any two of its Authorized Agents or one Of?cer and any one Authorized
Agent to take any other actions and execute any other documents necessary or
appropriate to implement the provisions and intent of this resolution.

BE IT FINALLY RESOLVED that all of the acts and transactions of any Of?cer or
Authorized Agent of the EDC, in the name and on behalf of the EDC, relating to matters
contemplated by the foregoing resolutions, which acts would have been approved by the
foregoing resolutions except that such acts were taken prior to execution of these
resolutions, are hereby in all respects confirmed, approved and ratified.

June 27, 2017

500 Griswold,8uite 2200 Detroit,MiChigOn 48226 (313) 963?2940

CODE EDC 17-06?014 92
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit

 

AUTHORIZATION OF OF AND gees/EDC
CONTRACTS 

WHEREAS, the City of Detroit (the ?City?) and the Economic Development
Corporation (the have previously entered into a services agreement (the ?City
Agreement?) pursuant to which the EDC renders economic development services to the
City and which City Agreement funds a portion of EDC's operating expenses; and

WHEREAS, the City Council is anticipated to authorize City Agreement in the
amount of $275,000.00 for the period beginning July 1, 2017 and ending June 30, 2018;
and

WHEREAS, a contract for Professional Services was heretofore entered into
between the EDC and Detroit Economic Growth Corporation (the as of July 1,
2016 (the Agreement?); and

WHEREAS, the DEGC Agreement will expire pursuant to the terms thereof on
June 30, 2017, but may be extended in accordance with Section 12 of such DEGC
Agreement; and

WHEREAS, the EDC and the DEGC desire to extend the term of the DEGC
Agreement for the period commencing July 1, 2017 and ending June 30, 2018; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 5 of the DEGC Agreement, the EDC would pay
to the DEGC a base compensation equal to Eight Hundred Thousand and 00/100
Dollars, plus such additional amounts authorized by the DEGC Agreement,
for services or activities for or on behalf of the EDC to be rendered by DEGC during such
extension period pursuant to the DEGC Agreement.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the EDC Board of Directors hereby
authorizes any two of the following - the EDC Vice Chairperson, the Treasurer, the
Secretary, or the Authorized Agents - to have full power and authority to execute the City
Agreement in such form as required by the City and approved by counsel,, for the
period beginning July 1, 2017 and ending June 30, 2018. 

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the EDC Board of Directors hereby authorizes
any two of its Vice Chairperson, Treasurer, Secretary, or designated Authorized Agents
to have full power and authority to execute a new DEGC Agreement, in substantially the
form attached hereto as Exhibit A, together with such changes recommended or required
by counsel for either party, for the period beginning July 1, 2017 and ending June 30,
2018, for a base compensation of $800,000.00 funded primarily from the City Agreement
allocation of $255,000.00, $350,000.00 from Trizec Annuity, and $1 95,000.00 from
EDC's Loan repayment account, plus such additional amounts authorized by the DEGC
Agreement.

500 Griswold,SuiTe 2200 Detroit, Michigan 48226 (313) 963-2940

BE lT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the EDC Board hereby authorizes any two of
Officers or any two of its Authorized Agents or one Of?cer and any one Authorized
Agent to take any other actions and execute any other documents necessary or
appropriate to implement the provisions and intent of this resolution.

BE lT FINALLY RESOLVED, that all of the acts and transactions of any Of?cer or
Authorized Agent of the EDC, in the name and on behalf of the EDC, relating to matters
contemplated by the foregoing resolutions, which acts would have been approved by the
foregoing resolutions except that such acts were taken prior to execution of these
resolutions, are hereby in all respects confirmed, approved and rati?ed.

June 27, 2017

 CODE EDC 17-06-01-193
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit

 

ELECTIQN OF OFFICERS

RESOLVED, that the following are hereby elected as Officers of the Board of
Directors of the Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit:

Linda Forte Chairperson
Jonathan Queries Vice Chairperson
William Ritsema Secretary

Matt Roling Treasurer

June 27, 2017

500 Griswold, Suite 2200 Detroit, Michigan 48226 - (313) 963?2940

CODE EDC 17-06-01-194
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit

 

ADMINISTRATION: SCHEDULE OF REGULAR EQC BOARD MEETINGS FOR
FY 2017-18

RESOLVED, that the Board of Directors of the Economic Development
Corporation of the City of Detroit (the hereby adopts the foilowing as its schedule
of regular meetings for its fiscal year beginning July 1, 2017 and ending June 30, 2018.
Unless otherwise posted, such meetings will be heid on the second and fourth Tuesday
of each month at 8:30 am. (with the exception of December as noted below) in the
offices of the Detroit Economic Growth Corporation, 500 Griswold Street, Suite 2200,
Conference Room A, as follows:

2017 2018
July 11, 2017 January 9, 2018
July 25, 3017 January 23, 2018

August 8, 2017
August 22, 2017
September 12, 2017
September 26, 2017
October 10, 2017
October 24, 2017
November 14, 2017
November 28, 2017
December 12, 2017
December 19, 2017*

February 13, 2018
February 27, 2018
March 13, 2018
March 27, 2018
April 10, 2018
April 24, 2018
May 8, 2018

May 22, 2018
June 12, 2018
June 26, 2018

Due to the holiday, this meeting date varies from the regular schedule.

June 27, 2017

500 Griswold,8uite 2200 Detroit, Michigan 48226 (313) 963?2940

