Answers to Questions Frequently Asked (FAQs) at Commission Meetings
What are the current procedures for adoption screening?
The adoption process begins at the time the potential adopter interacts with the chosen animal and
staff/volunteer. The process includes a written application, followed by an interview with the staff/volunteer
during which the application is discussed. Staff and volunteers are trained to ask a set of questions based
on the application. CACC is committed to making sure pets are placed into good homes. Adoptions are
approved case by case, based on the written application and the oral answers given during the interview.
Click here for more information:

What resources are available for adopters to help them keep adopted animals safe and in their homes?
Packets of information created by CACC partners covering new pets, training, medical considerations, food
and emergencies are provided to all CACC adopters.

Is there a behavior hotline for CACC adopters?
A “behavior hotline” specifically for CACC animal adopters does not currently exist. However, CACC partner
The Anti-Cruelty Society provides a behavior helpline available to anyone. Although it is not staffed by a
person 24 hours per day, you can email help@anticruelty.org or call 312-644-8448 extension 343. National
animal welfare organizations also provide behavior help online with answers to frequently asked questions
about animal behavior: see, for example, Best Friends Animal Society, http://bestfriends.org/resources; or
Humane Society of the United States, http://www.humanesociety.org/animals; among others.

What resources are available for owners who redeem pets from CACC?
All pets redeemed from CACC are microchipped, vaccinated against rabies, and provided a City dog license
for dogs 4 months and older. Healthy animals are also spayed/neutered at the discretion of the CACC
veterinarian if they come to CACC intact. Because of the Canine Influenza Virus (CIV), redeemed dogs are not
currently spayed/neutered at CACC (this applies to dogs only). An engraving machine to create identification
tags free of charge for redeemed pets is now available.

Why would dogs returned to owners (RTOs) not be spayed/neutered? What impact has Canine
Influenza Virus (CIV) had on this?
CACC veterinarians advise that there would be significant risk to a dog undergoing anesthesia and a surgical
procedure when the respiratory system is compromised. For example, CIV can cause severe destruction in
the lungs and the respiratory system. CACC asks that animals redeemed to owners be spayed/neutered as
soon as the animal is healthy as determined by the owner’s veterinarian.

Why are rescues sometimes only given less than 12 hours’ notice for cats that are on the “euthanasia
list”?
Sometimes, because of the timing and numbers of cats taken in and CACC’s capacity for care, decisions
have to be made quickly. Timelines on urgent lists reflect the health and behavior of the cats in the facility
and CACC’s capacity for care.

Are there cardboard carriers available for cats leaving CACC?
CACC strongly encourages rescues and transporters to bring their own sturdy carriers. CACC recently
received a donation of cardboard carriers for transport. Please see the Animal Placement Coordinator for
availability. CACC also purchases cardboard carries for adopters.

Does CACC promote and hold events for special pet days during the year? Examples are Adopt A
Shelter Cat in June, National Black Cat Day on November 17, or Adopt a Dog Month in October?
In response to increased interest for such events at CACC, CACC was able to make this happen in 2016. We
partnered with Animal Care League for Clear the Shelters on July 23rd. 17 dogs and 23 cats found their
forever homes through the event.

UPDATED September 2016 (page 1)

 Answers to Questions Frequently Asked (FAQs) at Commission Meetings
How does CACC assure the quality of microchip scanners and that staff is scanning properly?
CACC currently purchases scanners certified /approved by AVID, Home Again, 24 Pet Watch, etc.. Microchip
scanners are assigned in various areas of the facility and field operations, and animals are scanned at
intake, when moved within the facility and prior to leaving the facility. Training to use the scanner is done inhouse as part of the overall employee duties and when new equipment is available.

What vaccinations are given to animals upon intake?
CACC vaccinates all dogs over 6 months old with a DHLPP vaccine (Distemper, Hepatitis, Leptospirosis,
Parainfluenza, and Parvovirus); for dogs 6 months old and younger, DHPP. Cats are vaccinated with a FVRCP
vaccine (Feline Viral Rhinotracheitis, Calicivirus, Panleukopenia).

What is the protocol for cleaning cages at CACC?
In 2015, CACC updated the occupied kennel cleaning protocol with the assistance of the University Of
Wisconsin School Of Veterinary Medicine. The protocol is implemented by contractors and staff. Volunteers
may assist with interim maintenance as defined in the SOP posted in the adoption pavilion. Click here to see
the video for cleaning: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YqP0CAtoNec

Who is responsible for cleaning and ensuring the cleanliness of the animal cages and pavilions?
Why is CACC contracting with the Cook County Sheriff's Office to have certain inmates clean in
the mornings? Why are inmates not cleaning up all feces or emptying outside garbage containers?
The CACC Shelter Manager and the Animal Care Supervisors are responsible for the cleanliness of the
shelter. If there are any concerns about the cleanliness of the shelter, please notify the ACA Supervisor
at the time that you make the observation. The City has an ongoing inter-governmental contract with
the Cook County Sheriff to provide 16 non-violent inmates to clean and feed the animals in seven
pavilions of the shelter seven mornings every week, 365 days each year, along with other tasks as
mutually agreed upon by CACC and the Sheriff. The contract is reviewed every two years with two
possible one-year extensions and recently was renewed through 2017. Inmates and their supervisors
are trained with a video demonstrating the cleaning protocol.

What happens to the donated blankets and towels? Are they discarded or laundered? Are they used
routinely for animals?
Soiled articles must be laundered by staff; and extremely soiled articles or bedding that came in contact with
an animal with an infectious disease or used for comfort in the euthanasia room are disposed of. While
every effort is made to launder all soiled items, there are times when they are not laundered quickly or
stored for more than a day and are consequently discarded. New and laundered items provide bedding for
the animals in the cages.

What are the numbers showing CACC’s intake, live releases and euthanasia?
Click here to view monthly updates of CACC’s animal intake and outcome numbers.

How are animals assessed for adoption and rescue at CACC?
Animals are assessed for adoption and rescue based on observations by staff throughout the animal’s stay
at CACC. If an animal is a good candidate for adoption, it is medically evaluated by our veterinary staff.
Furthermore, some groups of dogs, such as Court Case Dogs™ and dogs participating in doggie playgroups,
are observed and information is available from Safe Humane Chicago for their safe placement in homes.
Designated volunteers also provide observations of animal behavior in the shelter.

What is the process and criteria for euthanasia?
Euthanasia decisions are made based on the overall population in the CACC facility. Observed behavior,
injury and illness of a specific animal is taken into consideration within CACC’s capacity for care. CACC has a
strict procedure for conducting humane euthanasia, which is also under review in 2016. Euthanasia
requires the approval of a CACC Veterinarian and, in the absence of the Veterinarian, the Shelter Manager.
UPDATED September 2016 (page 2)

 Answers to Questions Frequently Asked (FAQs) at Commission Meetings
There are times when a veterinary assistant will decide that euthanasia is warranted based on the severity of
an injury or illness at the time of the emergency call to prevent the animal from further suffering.

How will it be determined when the facility is essentially CIV-free? What are the current protocols for
movement within and between pavilions?
In consultation with Dr. Sandra Newbury, University of Wisconsin School of Shelter Medicine, CACC continues
to watch for CIV in the shelter to track the course of the illness. A selection of dogs showing symptoms are
tested. It is possible that it will take a long time for the shelter to be free of CIV or, if CIV continues to be
endemic within the City of Chicago, that CIV will continue to be present or at least periodically present in the
shelter. When we no longer detect virus from sick dogs at the facility, we will tentatively call the shelter free
of the disease and continue to do periodic surveillance, especially if clinical signs suggest CIV. Because this
is a new strain of influenza, veterinary understanding of it is evolving; we don’t have all the answers. We also
hope to see fewer sick dogs overall as we monitor upper respiratory infections in the population. Within the
space constraints at CACC, healthy animals are isolated from sick animals showing symptoms. Any animal
housed with healthy animals is moved as soon as they show any symptoms, as are animals that have been
exposed to that symptomatic animal.

What is the current status of the construction and renovation projects at CACC?
As of September 2016, new HVAC has been installed, the roof installation has been completed, four of the
seven pavilions (pavilions A, B, F & G) are usable and near completion, and one other (pavilion C) is under
construction with an expected completion date in October 2016. Thereafter, pavilions D & E will be
renovated.

What disciplinary actions were taken for the incident in which the dog Missy was left unattended in a
transport vehicle for five days?
Soon after this incident was made public, the City’s Inspector General (IG) initiated an investigation and
issued recommendations for discipline. Click here to see the report by the Office of the Inspector General.
CACC used the report and established procedures to issue discipline to three employees. Click here to see
the City’s Personnel Rules. Also, following the incident, CACC reviewed its offsite event adoption protocols as
well as the protocols for using the adoption vehicle to ensure that this kind of incident does not happen.

Is there a job fair or some venue offered through the city to make job vacancies known?
Job opportunities for all City of Chicago positions (including CACC positions) are posted at
www.cityofchicago.org/careers.

What plans are there for hiring a Supervising Veterinarian?
CACC posted the Supervising Veterinarian position three times and has not been able to fill the position due
to lack of applications. We then decided to change the title to a Veterinarian position and have also been
unable to fill that position. CACC is currently working with the Department of Procurement Services to
procure a contracted Veterinarian to help out.

What are the management positions at CACC, and what positions remain to be filled?
As of September 21, 2016, there are a total of 12 vacancies (4 full-time and 8 part-time). We will be
working closely with DHR to fill the vacancies in compliance with the hire plan; (1) Veterinarian, (2) Animal
Control Officers, (1) Veterinary Assistant & (8) Animal Care Clerk-Hourly positions.

UPDATED September 2016 (page 3)

 Answers to Questions Frequently Asked (FAQs) at Commission Meetings
How do I become a volunteer at CACC? What are the requirements?
To become a Volunteer at Animal Care and Control you must:
•Be at least 18 years of age
•Complete the City of Chicago Fingerprint/Background check
•Complete Animal Care & Control's volunteer orientation program
•Certify that you have had a tetanus shot in the last five years
•Be able to commit to at least one day per week or 10 hours per month
Click here for more information. Click here to download the CACC Volunteer Handbook.

What are the requirements for a rescue to be able to transfer animals to their care from CACC?
Organizations that are licensed shelters or rescues may be eligible to participate in the CACC Homeward
Bound program. To become a Homeward Bound partner, the organization must submit a completed
application along with appropriate licenses - current Department of Agriculture license, Chicago Business
license and 501(c)(3), if applicable. All out-of-state transfer groups must be a 501(c)(3) nonprofit and
provide proof of good standing within state regulations. Click here for more information.

What are the requirements for facilities approved for holding Chicago stray animals? Are they required
to post photographs on a website? What are the procedures for communication among facilities for
lost or stray animals?
According to City ordinance, the Executive Director may utilize an animal control center or the facilities of any
humane society properly equipped and willing to impound animals. The Executive Director may also
designate an alternate facility that is properly equipped and willing to accept the animal.
Photos of those animals being held at a different facility than at CACC are posted on the lost pet bulletin
board at the CACC facility for the public to view. Also, we strongly encourage that pictures of the stray
animals be posted on a facility’s website.
Chapter 7-12-070 Facilities to be used for impoundments of the Chicago Municipal Code governs. Click here
for more information.

Why doesn’t CACC prevent Homeward Bound partners from transferring animals to other third-party
groups?
According to the State of Illinois Department of Agriculture, an animal shelter or animal control facility may
release an animal to an individual representing an animal shelter if the recipient animal shelter has been
licensed or has a foster care permit issued by the Department or the individual is a representative of a notfor-profit, out-of-State organization.




Licensed animal controls and animal shelters can only transfer to other licensed shelters or out-ofstate not-for-profit organizations.
The transferring entity is responsible for verifying the licensing status of the recipient entity.
After the transfer has occurred, the animal becomes the sole responsibility of the recipient entity.
The transferring entity releases all claim to the animals once the transfer is made.

What resources are available to staff and volunteers for preventing or combating compassion fatigue?
CACC values its employees and volunteers and their commitment to the animals. CACC is making plans to
integrate guidance on compassion fatigue in training for staff and volunteers.

What are the guidelines for public comment at Commission meetings?
Click here for a link to guidelines for public comment at Commission meetings and dates of regular
Commission meetings.. The Commission also initiated evening forums in February 2016 to be held at
intervals between regular Commission meetings for those who cannot attend regular Commission meetings.

What is the emergency/ fire plan for CACC? In particular, where are smoke and fire detectors and fire
alarms located? What is the evacuation plan for staff, volunteers and animals? What is the training of
UPDATED September 2016 (page 4)

 Answers to Questions Frequently Asked (FAQs) at Commission Meetings
staff and volunteers for evacuation? Where are smoke and fire detectors and fire alarms located?
Working with the city’s Department of Facilities and Fleet Management (2FM), evacuation maps and signs
identifying the location of emergency exits are posted in the building. A facility-specific evacuation plan
written by CACC and 2FM is to be reviewed with designated emergency personnel at CACC, and training will
be scheduled in 2016. CACC works with the city’s Office of Emergency Management and the American Red
Cross on city-wide emergency planning.

What are the current procedures for intake prevention and intervention? Are there diversion programs?
The Chicagoland Rescue Intervention & Support Program (CRISP) is a new way to help pets and families in
the Chicagoland area stay healthy and stay together. CRISP is a new initiative that will pool the resources of
six local rescues to work in concert with CACC to provide assistance and support for pet owners in need,
divert owner surrendered animals to accredited rescues, and ultimately reduce the number of dogs
surrendered at CACC. Click here for a link to the CRISP Diversion Program:
http://www.cityofchicago.org/city/en/depts/cacc/supp_info/OwnerSurrenderInformation.html

Does CACC use the yellow ‘Pet Found Here’ cards when they find a stray dog or cat at large?
Yes, CACC uses these cards when weather permits. The yellow card allows the Officer to post a notice that a
stray pet was fond in this location. The reverse side of the card has the date and a brief description of the
pet. If you see this card posted and you lost your pet, please visit CACC during visiting hours to view lost pets
or visit www.petharbor.com/chicago to find your lost pet.

The Commission on Animal Care and Control hosts a Q&A evening meeting between each regular
commission meeting. The next evening meeting is October 18, 2016 at 6:30 p.m. at
Chicago Animal Care & Control, 2741 S. Western Ave.

UPDATED September 2016 (page 5)

 