 CAP CENTER CORONA CENTER

SO UTH CH l? AGO 10241 Commercial Avenue 1 175 Central Avenue. 2
Park, 60485

P7082350345

DEVELOPING OPTIONS, OPPORTUNITIES 773-734-2850 708-235-0355

ORG

SSA 5 Regular Commission Meeting Minutes

April 26, 2018

PRESENT ABSENT
Bonnie Dinell-Dimond
Dorothy Hudson

Alex J. Alemis

Angela Hurlock
Robert Loncar
SERVICE PROVIDER
Tom Schell

Dave Price

Diane Abbott
GUESTS

Brice Johnson

Ismael Cuevas

Meeting was called to order at 2:18 pm.

1. Approval of Agenda

A motion to approve the agenda was made by Dorothy Hudson, seconded by Alex J.
Alemis. Motion carried.

South Chicago Parents and Friends, inc. is accredited by the Commission for Accreditation of Rehabilitation Facilities (CARF).

MINUTES OF A REGULARL MEETING
OF THE COMMISIONERS OF SSA 5 April 26, 2018

2. Approval of the Minutes

The minutes of the March 22, 2018, meeting were reviewed. There being one
correction to the minutes. Robert Loncar stated he believed the tree planting was
approved. After the correction was noted, a motion to approve the March 22, 2018,
meeting minutes was made by Robert Loncar, seconded by Dorothy Hudson. Motion
carried.

Website Presentation by Brice Johnson

Brice Johnson revealed the Sweet Home South Chicago website and the work he
has completed to date. The Commissioners requested a few adjustments and
additions to the page.

3. Financial Report

Financial Reports for the month ending March 31, 2018, were reviewed and
discussed. Thomas Schell reviewed the revenues and expenses for the month of
March. After further discussion regarding the Financial Reports, a motion to accept
the March Financial Reports was made by Angela Hurlock, seconded by Robert
Loncar. Motion carried.

4. Cash Flow I Receivables

Thomas Schell provided the commissioners with a copy of the March, 2018 bank
reconciliation. After discussion, a motion to accept the March bank reconciliation
was made by Dorothy Hudson, seconded by Angela Hurlock. Motion carried.
Thomas Schell reported that as of the date of the meeting, cash in the bank totaled
$363,145.

5. Items for Approval

Thomas Schell presented the March and April invoices for payment approval. After
a brief discussion regarding the invoices, a motion to approve the March and April
invoices was made by Angela Hurlock, seconded by Alex J. Alemis. Motion carried.

South Chicago Parents and Friends, Inc. is accredited by the Commission for Accreditation of Rehabilitation Facilities (CARF).

MINUTES OF A REGULAR MEETING
OF THE COMMISIONERS OF SSA 5 April 26, 2018

6. Program Manager Report

Dave Price presented the Strategy Deployment Review using the SD Matrix SSA #5
handout. Dave Price stated the goals were to increase occupancy with engaged
residents and increase security/decrease incidents within the SSA. According to the
matrix, the March incidents were reduced, with security and increased police
presence the numbers went down. The numbers of vacant store fronts will increase
in May and the special events goal will need to be examined.

Dave Price presented an update regarding the Facade Rebate Program. Dave Price
stated that thus far:

0 Letters were mailed to every business owner
. Several who need work but not interested

0 Several moved forward with process but do not trust or do not want to be
bothered

. Some have indicated interest but no follow through
. (5) Completed Applications for review.

It was decided to schedule a special meeting in order to review each of the
completed proposals and approve or disapprove. The special meeting for thoroughly
reviewing each proposal is scheduled for May 7, 2018 at 1:00 pm. at the MB
location.

Ismael Cuevas presented the proposed Community Identifier Sculpture and the
locations the City of Chicago have chosen to place the sculptures. A request for the
SSA 5 to purchase one of the community identifier sculptures was presented. After
discussion, a motion to approve a community identifier sculpture at 92nd Street and
Commercial Avenue, not exceeding $55,000 for was made by Alex J. Alemis,
seconded by Dorothy Hudson. Motion carried.

Dave Price presented information regarding the Traffic Calming Proposal and that
this is a long term project that could not begin until 2019 or 2020. Dave Price stated
there are many steps and approvals involved in this project and that the cost could
go as high as $270,000. The commissioners decided that this conversation be
tabled until the next meeting when all the commissioners could hear the information.

Dave Price provided a security committee update. In order to install (4) security
cameras, the cost would be $40,000. Dave Price informed another option would be
to offer private camera initiative that would cost $2100 each. Dave Price suggested
offering this option to business owners with a rebate of 25% - 75%. As part of the
security rebate project, Dave Price suggested that the SSA 5 offer free floodlight
lighting to business owners with the condition that they have pay to have It installed.

South Chicago Parents and Friends, Inc. is accredited by the Commission for Accreditation of Rehabilitation Facilities (CARF).

MINUTES OF A REGULAR MEETING
OF THE COMMISIONERS OF SSA 5 April 26, 2018

7. Adjournment

There being no additional time to discuss business, a motion to adjourn the meeting
at 4:55 pm. was made by Dorothy Hudson, seconded by Alex J. Alemis. Motion
carried.

Next Regular Scheduled Meeting May 24, 2018 at 2:00 pm.

South Chicago Parents and Friends, Inc. is accredited by the Commission for Accreditation of Rehabilitation Facilities (CARF).

