MINUTES OF MEETING
WAYNE COUNTY ELECTION COMMISSION
MONDAY, APRIL 18, 2016 – 8:15 A.M.
COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL BUILDING - ROOM 705
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

Call to Order:

The meeting was called to order at 8:17 a.m., Monday, April 18, 2016.

Members present: Honorable Freddie G. Burton, Jr., Chief Judge, Probate Court
Honorable Eric Sabree, Member – Wayne County Treasurer
Members absent: Honorable Cathy M. Garrett, Secretary- Wayne County Clerk (Excused)
Also present:

Janet Anderson-Davis, Assistant Corporation Counsel
Delphine G. Oden, Director, Wayne County Elections
Jennifer Redmond
Greg P. Mahar
John Pirich

Agenda item:

Consideration of Agenda approval.
Board action on agenda item: Chair Burton requested a motion
to approve the agenda. Member Sabree, duly supported by Chair
Burton, moved to adopt the agenda as submitted. The motion was
adopted unanimously by a voice vote.

Agenda item:

Approval of Minutes of March 29, 2016
Board action on agenda item: Chair Burton requested a motion
to approve the minutes of the meeting held on March 29, 2016.
Member Sabree, duly supported by Chair Burton, moved to
approve the minutes of the meeting held on March 29, 2016. The
motion was adopted unanimously by a voice vote.

Agenda item:

Determination of Clarity – Mike Duggan, Mayor, City of Detroit
Chair Burton requested Assistant Corporation Counsel, Janet
Anderson-Davis, to give a brief summary of the duties and
responsibilities of the Election Commission for a determination of
clarity. Corporation Counsel Anderson-Davis indicated that
according to MCL 168.951, each elective officer, except a judicial
officer, is subject to recall by the voters of the electoral district in
which the officer is elected. Robert Davis is an electorate of the City
of Highland Park, and it appears that the Commission does not
have subject matter jurisdiction over the petition. Counsel

 Anderson-Davis gave a brief summary of the duties of the
Commission for a determination of clarity.
Chair Burton asked if there was anyone present on behalf of Mr.
Davis. None. Mr. John Pirich, attorney for Mayor Mike Duggan,
spoke in opposition to the petition and agreed that the Commission
lacks subject matter jurisdiction.
Chair Burton, duly supported by Member Sabree, moved to dismiss
the petition for Determination of Clarity filed by Robert Davis
pursuant to the legal representations offered by Counsel, that the
Commission lacks subject matter jurisdiction. The motion was
adopted unanimously by a voice vote.
Agenda item:

Consider removal of Name Designation for State
Representative Brian Banks
Board action on agenda item: Chair Burton indicated that
previously this Commission approved a Name Designation of “State
Representative” for candidate Brian Banks due to a name similarity.
Since then the candidate has withdrawn from the race rendering
moot the need for a name designation. Member Sabree, duly
supported by Chair Burton, moved to remove the name designation
for Candidate Brian Banks. The motion was adopted unanimously
by a voice vote.

Agenda item:

New Business – Ballot Printing Contract
Janet Anderson-Davis indicated that a memo was sent to the
Commission regarding the timeframe for the contract. The last
solicitation for bids was withdrawn and this Commission decided to
extend the contract. Discussion ensued between the Chair,
Corporation Counsel, and Director Oden. Member Sabree offered
that this issue be placed on the agenda at the next commission
meeting to allow time for more information to be presented to the
commission.

Agenda item:

Public Comment. None

Agenda item:

Adjournment.
Board action on agenda item: Chair Burton requested a motion
to adjourn. Member Sabree, duly supported by Chair Burton,
moved to adjourn the meeting. The motion was adopted
unanimously by a voice vote.
Meeting adjourned at 8:33 a.m.

 