June 13th, 2018 Chicago Transit Board Regular Meeting Minutes.
Noticed for 11:30 AM; Commenced at 11:45 AM.

AGENDA: The posted agenda for the meeting is available at www.transitchicago.com
, “Chicago Transit
Board”, “Meeting Notices, Agendas, and Minutes”, (06/13/2018) (Regular Board Meeting),”Agenda

ROLL CALL: Directors Terry Peterson (Chairman), Arabel Alva Rosales (Vice-Chairman), Kevin Irvin
Alejandro Silva, Johnny Miller, and Andre Youngblood.

CITIZEN ADVISORY BOARD PRESENTATION. CAB Chairman Lester Barclay, accompanied by CAB Vi
Chairman Vanessa Hall, made a brief presentation on recent activities of the Citizens Advisory Boa

Chairman Peterson then asked for a motion to recess the regular Board meeting, in order to condu
proceedings of the Committee on Finance, Audit, and Budget. Moved and approved, the motion w
approved with six yes votes. The Transit Board then re-convened after a short recess.
PUBLIC COMMENT: Baruna Singh
MINUTES: Chairman Peterson asked for a motion to recommend approval of the Board Minutes of
9th, 2018. After being moved for approval and seconded, the motion passed with six yes votes.
EXECUTIVE SESSION: None

BOARD MATTERS: Chairman Peterson asked for a motion to approve Board Agenda Item 6-A, a
resolution setting the date of the August 2018 Regular Board meeting. After the motion was move
seconded, the motion was approved with six yes votes. (Board Resolution # R018-3)

COMMITTEE ON STRATEGIC PLANNING AND SERVICE DELIVERY: Committee chairman Kevin Irvine
presented the report. The committee had approved the Committee minutes of May 9th, 2018. Mr
Irvine also stated that the committee reviewed and approved an ordinance regarding bus route #
Chicago/Golf Road and # 213 Green Bay Road. The committee placed the ordinance on the omnib
recommended for Board approval. Mr. Irvine concluded his report.

COMMITTEE ON FINANCE, AUDIT, AND BUDGET: Committee Chairman Alejandro Silva prese
report. The committee reviewed the monthly (June) report on Finance, approved the May 9
committee meeting minutes, and heard a presentation on the Independent Auditors Report. Mr. Si
also stated that all other Committee agenda items, listed on the Committee Agenda, were presen
reviewed, discussed, placed on the omnibus, and recommended for Board approval, with the exce
of Transit Board Agenda Item # I: an ordinance authorizing the purchase or primary and excess pr
insurance coverage for Policy Year 2018-2019. That ordinance was reviewed and approved
Committee, but was not placed on the Omnibus. Mr. Silva concluded his report.

Chairman Peterson asked for a motion to approve the omnibus as stated by Directors Irvine and S
After being moved and seconded, the motion was approved with six yes votes.
1

 Chairman Peterson next asked for a motion to approve Board Agenda Item # I, the property insura
ordinance. After being moved and seconded, the motion was approved with five yes votes and on
recusal (Youngblood).
All approved June 2018 Board ordinances are available on-line, at www.transitchicago.com
, “Chicago
Transit Board”, “Board Ordinances”, Ordinance Numbers 018-41 through 018-54.

CONSTRUCTION REPORT: Chief Infrastructure Officer Carole Morey presented the Construction Re
The report is available on-line at www.transitchicago.com
, “Chicago Transit Board”, “Presentations
made to the Chicago Transit Board”, (June 2018), “Construction Report”.
NEW BUSINESS: None

MOTION TO ADJOURN: Chairman Peterson asked for a motion to adjourn the June 13th, 2018 Chic
Transit Board meeting. That motion was moved and approved by unanimous voice vote.

2

 