 CODE EDC 17-08-02-284
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF JULY 25, 2017 MEETING

RESOLVED, that the minutes of the Regular meeting of July 25, 2017 are hereby
approved and all actions taken by the Directors present at such meeting, as set forth in
such minutes, are hereby in all respects ratified and approved as actions of the Economic
Development Corporation.

August 14, 2017

500 Griswold,Suite 2200 - Detroit,Michigon 48226 - (313) 963-2940

ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
BOARD OF DIRECTORS REGULAR MEETING
TUESDAY, JULY 25, 2017 8:30 AM.

BOARD MEMBERS PRESENT: Marsha Bruhn

BOARD MEMBERS ABSENT:

SPECIAL DIRECTORS
PRESENT:

SPECIAL DIRECTORS
ABSENT:

OTHERS PRESENT:

Kimberly Clayson
Linda Forte

Chris Jackson
William Ritserna
Matthew Roling
Thomas Stallworth

Monique Claiborne
Maurice Cox (Ex~Ofticio)
John Naglick (Ex-Officio)
Jonathan Quarles

None

Emily Black (l-94 industrial Park Project)

Raeburn King (Springwells Industrial Park Project)
Marvin Thomas (l-94 Industrial Park Project)

Jody Weiss (Springwells Industrial Park Project)

Curt Fetch (Detroit Mt. Elliott Real Estate)
Gay Hilger 

Jed Howbert (Mayor?s Office)

Damon Jordan 

Jennifer Kanalos 

Glen Long 

Rebecca Navin 

Charles Pace (Detroit Mt. Elliott Real Estate)
Mariangela Pledl 

Eli Savit (Mayor?s Office)



Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit

MINUTES OF THE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
BOARD OF DIRECTORS REGULAR MEETING

TUESDAY, JULY 25, 2017

DETROIT ECONOMIC GROWTH CORPORATION

500 GRISWOLD, SUITE 2200 - 8:30 A.M.

CALL TO ORDER

Noting that a quorum was present, Chairperson Forte called the Regular meeting of the
Economic Development Corporation Board of Directors to order at 8:34 am.

GENERAL
Approval of Minutes

Ms. Forte asked if there were any additions, deletions or corrections to the minutes of the
July 11, 2017 Regular Board meeting.

Hearing none, the Board took the following action:

On a motion by Ms. Bruhn, seconded by Mr. Ritsema, Resolution Code EDC 17-
07?02?283 was unanimously approved.

Receipt of Treasurer?s Report

Mr. Long reviewed the Treasurer's Report for the month of June 2017 for the benefit of
the Board and responded to questions.

Subsequent to the discussion, the Board took the following action:

On a motion by Ms. Clayson, seconded by Mr. Jackson, Resolution Code EDC 17?
07-03-216 was unanimously approved.

PROJECTS

l-94 Industrial Park Project: Land Swap and Sale of 3.24 Acres to Mt. Elliott Real
Estate Company for ArcelorMittal Expansion

Mr. Jordan advised that Mt. Elliott Real Estate Company, a local real estate developer,
has proposed to renovate an existing building located at 8600 Mt. Elliott of approximately
288,115 SF, an industrial manufacturing facility (?Project?) located within the l?94 Industrial
Park, as depicted on Exhibit A ("Property?) which was included in the Board material, on
behalf of Tenant ArcelorMittal. Mt. Elliott Real Estate Company ArcelorMittal's expected
investment in the Project is approximately $80 Million. in addition, within 5 years following

July 25, 2017

500 Griswold,SuiTe 2200 DeTrOiT,MiChian 48226 (313) 963-2940

Project completion, Mt. Elliott Real Estate Company and ArcelorMittal expect to create up
to 120 permanent jobs at the Project.

The EDC Staff has negotiated a term sheet with Mt. Elliott Real Estate Company, pursuant
to which the EDC would sell the Property to Mt. Elliott Real Estate Company for a
consideration of approximately $282,370. The proposed term sheet was included in the
Board material as Exhibit (?Term Sheet").

Staff requested the Board?s approval to execute the Term Sheet in substantially the form
of Exhibit and to negotiate, execute and consummate a Development Agreement
consistent with the terms and conditions described in the Term Sheet. A resolution was
also included for the Board?s consideration.

Mr. Jordan and Mr. Felch of Detroit Mt. Elliott Real Estate responded to Board Members?
questions.

Ms. Nevin clarified that there will be an as?surveyed, acre-for?acre exchange, and then
any acreage over the amount EDC is receiving, there is a set pen-acre purchase price for
that. it will all come under the guise of one land exchange agreement.

Ms. Forte commented that l-94 industrial Park has be a long, arduous project, and it is
good to see a project that sounds like it has some sustainability coming there.

Subsequent to the discussion, the Board took the following action:

On a motion by Mr. Jackson, seconded by Mr. Ritsema, Resolution Code EDC
17-07-12-46 was unanimously approved.

Sprinqweils Industrial Park Project: Agreements with State and City Relatinq to
Bridge Project

Ms. Navin advised that in August, 2016, The Economic Development Corporation of the
City of Detroit (the received good faith offers from the Michigan Department of
Transportation with respect to portions of two parcels owned by the EDC in the
Springweils industrial Park, as depicted on Exhibit A (included with the Board material)
as parcels 12C and BB (the ?Sale Parcels?). In particular, MDOT requires the Sale Parcels
in order to place footings for the Gordie Howe international Bridge (the ?Bridge Project?).
ln addition, the EDC has received a request from MDOT to lease parcel 12A and Lot 1
depicted on Exhibit A (the ?Lease Parcel?) to MDOT and/or the Windsor Detroit Bridge
Authority for construction laydown and storage during the construction of the
Bridge Project.

The Mayor recently announced a sweeping community benefits plan, to be funded by
various payments from MDOT and/or WBDA to city agencies in connection with the Bridge
Project (the ?Community Benefits Plan?). A summary of the Community Benefits Plan was
also included with the Board material as Exhibit B.

The City?s administration has requested that the EDC Board agree to participate in the
Community Benefits Plan as follows:

July 25, 2017

1. Accept offer to purchase the Sale Parceis for $365,503.00 (the ?Sale
Proceeds?)

2. Agree to lease to MDOT and/or WBDA the Lease Parcel for seven (7) years, for
a total lease consideration of $3,000,001.00 (the ?Lease Proceeds?).

3. Contribute the Lease Proceeds to the City?s Neighborhood improvement Fund.

4. The EDC will have the right to retain the Sale Proceeds and use them in a manner
consistent with the Springwells Industrial Park Project Plan.

5. The foregoing rights and obligations are further described in and subject to the
foliowing Agreements dated as of June 19, 2017, which were included in the Board
material (without exhibits) as Exhibit C:

a. Agreement: Transfer of Properties, Assets, Interests and Jurisdiction

b. Agreement: Leases and Services

0. Agreement: Joint State/City initiatives for Health, Job Training, and
Neighborhood Development

A resolution was included in the Board material for consideration. Ms. Navin noted that
the resolution should be amended in two ways:

i. Clarification that the lease would be to the Windsor?Detroit Bridge Authority; and
2. Correction to Exhibit A to show the large remainder parcel as part of the tease
parcei as well.

Ms. Nevin introduced Eli Savit of the Mayor?s Office to describe the project in more detaii
and respond to Board members? questions.

Subsequent to the discussion, the Board took the foilowing action:

On a motion by Mr. Statiworth, seconded by Ms. Bruhn, Resolution Code E00
17-07-69?09 was unanimously approved, as amended.

ADMINISTRATION

 

Ms. Forte advised that there was some discussion before the Board meeting about timely
distribution of meeting materials to ensure adequate time for review. Board members
would like staff to try to aim for getting the materials out the Wednesday of the week prior
to the Board meeting.

Ms. Bruhn asked about a speciai committee of the Board that reviewed projects. Ms.
Forte stated that she has been around a long time and Finance is the only standing
Committee of the Board. Ms. Bruhn felt that there might be some validity in having a
committee that reviews the more compiicated projects. Ms. Forte said that maybe this is
something that can be explored and maybe it is a project review ?workshop? that would
still be an open meeting for the entire Board where there can be an additionai look at the
projects and a ?deep dive? before having to vote on them. This is something that can be

July 25, 2017

explored with staff. Mr. Jackson thought that would only be possible if the information was
available ahead of time and would delay action another week or so.

OTHER MATTERS
PUBLIC COMMENT
ADJOURNMENT

With there being no further business to transact, Ms. Forte adjourned the meeting at 9:20
am.

July 25, 2017

CODE EDC 17-07-02-283
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit

 

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF JULY 11, gm? MEETING

RESOLVED, that the minutes of the Regular meeting of July 11, 2017 are hereby
approved and all actions taken by the Directors present at such meeting, as set forth in
such minutes, are hereby in all respects ratified and approved as actions of the Economic
Development Corporation.

July 25, 2017

500 Griswold, Suite 2200 - Detroit, Michigan 48226 - (3l3) 963?2940

. CODE EDC 17-07-12?116
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit

 

l~94 INDUSTRIAL PARK PROJECT: SWAP AND SALE OF 3.24 ACRES T0
MTLELLIOTT REAL ESTATE COMPANY FOR ARCELORMITTAL EXPANSION

WHEREAS, Mt. Elliott Real Estate Company proposes to renovate an existing
building located at 8600 Mt. Elliott of approximately 288,115 SF, an industrial
manufacturing facility (?Project?) located within the HM Industrial Park, as depicted on the
attached Exhibit A (?Property?); and

WHEREAS, the EDC Staff has negotiated a term sheet with Mt. Elliott Real Estate
Company, the proposed form of which is attached hereto as Exhibit (the ?Term Sheet"),
pursuant to which the EDC would sell the Property to Mt. Elliott Real Estate Company for
a consideration of approximately $282,370; and

WHEREAS, Staff is seeking the Board?s approval to execute the Term Sheet in
substantially the form attached as Exhibit and to negotiate, execute and consummate
a Development Agreement consistent with the terms and conditions described in the Term
Sheet; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Directors has determined that the terms of the proposed
transaction as described in the Term Sheet are reasonable and consistent with the 
project plan for the l-94 industrial Park and its statutory purposes.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE lT RESOLVED that the Board of Directors of the EDC
hereby authorizes the execution of the Term Sheet, substantially in the form attached as
Exhibit B, and the negotiation and execution of a Development Agreement, upon the
terms and conditions set forth in the Term Sheet, together with such terms and conditions
deemed reasonable by counsel and Authorized Agents.

BE lT FURTHER RESOLVED that the EDC Board of Directors hereby authorizes
any two of the Officers or any two of the designated Authorized Agents or any combination
thereof to execute any and all documents and take any and all actions necessary or
appropriate to implement the provisions and intent of this resolution.

BE lT FINALLY RESOVLED that all of the acts and transactions of any officer or
authorized agent of the EDC, in the name of the EDC and on behalf of the EDC, relating
to matters contemplated by the foregoing resolutions, which acts would have been
approved by the foregoing resolutions except that such acts were taken prior to execution
of these resolutions, are hereby in all respects confirmed, approved and ratified.

July 25, 2017

500 Griswold,Suite 2200 . Detroit, Michigan 48226 (313) 963-2940

. CODE EDC 17-07-69-053
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detrort

(Amended at the Table)

 

SPRINGWELLS INDUSTRIAL PARK PROJECT: AGREEMENTS WITH STATE AND
CITY RELATING TO BRIDGE PROJECT

WHEREAS, in August, 2016, The Economic Development Corporation of the City
of Detroit (the received good faith offers from the Michigan Department of
Transportation with respect to portions of two parcels owned by the EDC in the
Springweils Industrial Park, as depicted on Exhibit A hereto as parcels 12C and BB (the
?Sale Parcels"), to be used for the placement of footings for the Gordie Howe international
Bridge (the ?Bridge Project?);

WHEREAS, the EDC has also received a request from MDOT to lease the parcels
so depicted on Exhibit A (the ?Lease Parcel") to the Windsor Detroit Bridge Authority
for construction laydown and storage during the construction of the Bridge
Project; and

WHEREAS, the Mayor recently announced a sweeping community benefits plan,
to be funded by various payments from MDOT and/or WDBA to city agencies in connection
with the Bridge Project, a summary of which is attached as Exhibit (the ?Community
Bene?ts Plan?); and

WHEREAS, the City?s administration has requested that the EDC Board agree to
participate in the Community Benefits Plan as follows (the ?Proposed Transaction?):

1. Accept offer to purchase the Sale Parcels for $365,503.00 (the ?Sale
Proceeds")

2. Agree to lease to WDBA the Lease Parcel for seven (7) years, for a total lease
consideration of ?Lease Proceeds?).

3. Contribute the Lease Proceeds to the City?s Neighborhood improvement Fund.

4. The EDC will have the right to retain the Sale Proceeds and use them in a
manner consistent with the Springwells industrial Park Project Plan.

5. The foregoing rights and obligations are further described in and subject to the
following Agreements dated as of June 19, 2017 (without exhibits) as Exhibit 
(the ?Agreements?):

8. Agreement: Transfer of Properties, Assets, Interests and Jurisdiction

b. Agreement: Leases and Services

0. Agreement: Joint State/City initiatives for Health, Job Training, and
Neighborhood Development

500 Griswold,Suite 2200 - DetroitMichigon 48226 - (3l3) 963?2940

WHEREAS, the Board of Directors has determined that the terms of the Proposed
Transaction are reasonable and consistent with the project plan and statutory
purposes.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Directors of the EDC
does hereby authorize the consummation of the Proposed Transaction, upon the terms
and conditions set forth in the Agreements.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the EDC Board of Directors hereby authorizes
any two of the Officers or any two of the designated Authorized Agents or any combination
thereof to execute any and all documents and take any and all actions necessary or
appropriate to implement the provisions and intent of this Resolution.

BE lT FINALLY RESOVLED that all of the acts and transactions of any officer or
authorized agent of the EDC, in the name of the EDC and on behalf of the EDC, relating
to matters contemplated by the foregoing resolutions, which acts would have been
approved by the foregoing resolutions except that such acts were taken prior to execution
of these resolutions, are hereby in all respects confirmed, approved and ratified.

Juiy 25, 2017

EXHIBIT A

 

 






'5

I
naulhl



an ?In? 

ll un.

 

(Amended at Table) 

EN GIN EERS

          

CIVIL ENGINEERS
MNDSURVEYOM
- I LAND PLANNERS
I, NWAIZEIMUHNGINKIH



Lac??I39 Map In mmn-un

 

 

 



 

PARCEL I 

 

 

 

 

?5 

a 
+99% 
R3 

 

 

y? 

 

 

 

 



an


 

p.

I.
man: all 32? 




    

 

4o?

 

  

PRELIMINARY
I
mm\ 
fl??UL?
nil . sphpuhlmuul
sum?H?.
m. 

I .. nmlunumul
Mlle
wmczum 
H. '4 0 ,chle
31- - . . . . Wammulekhlga
03;? I lam! 11$135.6!? .. m" "1 lnuaml
m. m? - rum?
- I . .
?up. unwr- mu' '3 i~ I 'mm
?Away-?-
r: 1 as. a
- -u1nr I'm 
.. L-Ill' I-uu? 
:nuu': a uni-aw "w
v. . "ram u. 
- m. "nunDunn-Ir
uur Ehlnull


- 

:33: 


.

I
I

 

Human

 

1 M5

 




