COMMISSION ON CHICAGO LANDMARKS
CANCELLATION OF A REGULAR MEETING
AND
NOTICE OF PERMIT REVIEW COMMITTEE
MEETING
The Commission on Chicago Landmarks regular meeting of
THURSDAY, JANUARY 6, 2011, has been cancelled.
The Permit Review Committee will hold its regular meeting
on Thursday, January 6, 2011, at 1:00 p.m. in Room 1600,
33 N. LaSalle Street.
Attached is a copy of the agenda for the January 6, 2011,
Permit Review Committee meeting.

John Baird, Secretary

 NOTICE OF PUBLIC MEETING

PERMIT REVIEW COMMITTEE
THURSDAY, January 6, 2011
33 N. LaSalle, Suite 1600

DRAFT AGENDA:

1:00 p.m.

Wicker Park District
Ward
1307 N. Damen

1st

Proposed replacement of vinyl siding with engineered wood siding
(LP Smartside Siding) and alterations to the front elevation of a noncontributing (built c. 1990s) single-family residence.
Old Town Triangle District
43rd
Ward
228 W. St. Paul
Violation: Construction of a visible roof-level deck and pergola on
the rear of a 3-story multi-family residential building.

Brian Goeken, AICP
Deputy Commissioner
Historic Preservation Division

Department of Housing and Economic Development

 Permit Review Committee
Summary of projects and staff recommendations, January 6, 2011
1307 N. Damen
Applicant: Sara Kratz, owner
Geoff Corrado, architect
Proposal:

(Wicker Park District)

Proposed replacement of vinyl siding with engineered wood siding
(LP Smartside Siding) and alterations to the front elevation of a noncontributing (built c. 1990s) single-family residence.

Staff Recommendation:

Given the specific circumstances and conditions of
the project and the property (a non-contributing
building, built ca. 1990), staff recommends that the
Committee find that the project will not have an
adverse effect on the significant historical and
architectural features of the landmark district, subject
to these conditions and Historic Preservation staff
review and approval:
1. The new glass doors are proposed to have
horizontal muntins. The muntins shall (a) either be
“true” divided-lite muntins or dimensional muntins
on both the exterior and the interior sides of the
door, consistent with landmark standards; and (b)
shall have a substantial profile. Details of the door
and the muntins shall be provided with the permit
plans;
2. The mortar for the new limestone veneer shall
match the color of the stone; and,
3. Regarding the new siding on the front elevation:
a. The embossed-grain engineered wood
siding is approved as proposed in this very
limited instance and circumstances.
Alternative options for consideration by the
Committee:
b. The use of engineered wood siding is
approved as proposed in this limited
instance and circumstances, except that the
siding must have a smooth finish; or,
c. Any new siding must be solid wood siding
with a smooth finish.

 228 W. St. Paul
(Old Town Triangle District)
Applicant: Kelly O’Brien, Condo Association, owner
Patrick Magner, architect
Proposal:

Violation: Construction of a visible roof-level deck and pergola on
the rear of a 3-story multi-family residential building.

Staff Recommendation:

Staff recommends that the Committee find that the
project, with the following condition, will not have an
adverse effect on the significant historical and
architectural features of the landmark district and
approve the project subject to this condition and
Historic Preservation staff review and approval:
1. Due to its height projecting above the historic

rooflines of the building and its high level of
visibility along Willow Street within the landmark
district, the pergola structure at the top of the deck
and stairs shall be eliminated. As proposed, the
existing roof.

 