MINUTES OF MEETING
WAYNE COUNTY ELECTION COMMISSION
THURSDAY, MARCH 8, 2018 – 11:30 A.M.
COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL BUILDING - ROOM 700C
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

Call to Order:

The meeting was called to order at 11:34 a.m.

Members present: Honorable Freddie G. Burton, Jr., Chief Judge, Probate Court
Honorable Eric Sabree, Member – Wayne County Treasurer
Members absent: Honorable Cathy M. Garrett, Secretary – Wayne County Clerk (excused)

Also present:

Janet Anderson-Davis, Assistant Corporation Counsel
Gregory P. Mahar, Director, Wayne County Elections
Jennifer Redmond, Assistant Director
Delphine Oden, Consultant

Agenda item:

Consideration of Agenda approval.
Board action on agenda item: Chair Burton requested a motion
to adopt the agenda. Member Sabree, duly supported by Chair
Burton, moved to adopt the agenda. The motion was adopted by
unanimous consent.

Agenda item:

Approval of Minutes of February 23, 2018
Board action on agenda item: Chair Burton requested a motion
to approve the minutes of the meeting held on February 23, 2018.
Member Sabree, duly supported by Member Burton, moved to
approve the minutes of February 23, 2018. The motion was
adopted unanimously by a voice vote.

Agenda item:

Acceptance of May 8, 2018 Special Recall Election Candidate
list as presented by the Wayne County Clerk
Chair Burton asked Assistant Director of Election Jennifer Redmond
about the method of filing, Jennifer Redmond stated that the method
of filing indicates how the candidate filed for office.
Board action on agenda item: Chair Burton requested a motion
for acceptance of May 8, 2018 Special Recall Election Candidate
list. Member Sabree, duly supported by Chair Burton, moved to
1

 accept the May 8, 2018 Special Recall Election Candidate list. The
motion was adopted unanimously by a voice vote.
Agenda item:

Approval for the Ballot Printing for the May 8, 2018 Special
Election
Board action on agenda item: Chair Burton requested a motion
for approval of the Ballot Printing for the May 8, 2018 Special
Election. Member Sabree, duly supported by Chair Burton, moved
to approve the Ballot Printing for the May 8, 2018 Special Election.
The motion was adopted by unanimous consent.

Agenda item:

New Business. None

Agenda item:

Public Comment. None

Agenda item:

Adjournment. Chair Burton requested a motion to adjourn the
meeting. Member Sabree, duly supported by Chair Burton, moved
to adjourn the meeting. The motion was adopted by unanimous
consent.
Meeting adjourned at 11:37 a.m.

2

 