ORDINANCES

MARCH 14, 2018 BOARD MEETING

 

BUREAU OF FINANCE
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER

18-2450
ORDINANCE
Sponsored by
THE HONORABLE TONI PRECKWINKLE,
PRESIDENT OF THE COOK COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
FOR THE LEVY OF TAXES FOR THE FISCAL YEAR 2018
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners and the Committee on Finance of the Board of Commissioners
of Cook County, Illinois, have considered the subject of the Annual Tax Levy for the Fiscal Year A.D.,
2018, and the several sums necessary to be levied to meet the needs and requirements of the County of
Cook for said fiscal year, and have recommended that this Ordinance for the Levy of Taxes be adopted;
and
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of Cook County, Illinois, approved, passed, and adopted the
Annual Appropriation Bill of the County of Cook, for its Fiscal Year 2018, which said Appropriation Bill
is hereinafter set forth and which contains a Revenue Estimate that includes an allocation of the 2018 Tax
Levy by Fund together with additional columns captioned: “ANNUAL TAX LEVY”, “APPROPRIATION
ALLOWANCE FOR UNCOLLECTED TAXES” and "NET TAX LEVY FOR APPROPRIATION "; and
WHEREAS, Cook County and its taxpayers have benefited from Tax Increment Financing Districts (TIFs)
by having the increment generated during the life of the TIFs invest in the specific area generating the
increment; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board passed a Resolution on November 15, 2011 outlining that it is the
policy of Cook County to recapture any property taxes at the termination of a TIF; and
WHEREAS, within the County of Cook, certain real-estate parcels, or a portion of the assessed valuation
of certain real-estate parcels, are from time to time identified on the County real-estate tax rolls as deriving
from new property, insofar as they were developed or substantially improved or are the subject of tax
incentives that expired since the most recent assessment of real-estate taxes, the value of which has not
heretofore been recaptured; and
WHEREAS, the interests of County taxpayers and the County itself are better served if the taxes on the
additional value of said new property is captured.
THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED AND ORDERED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF
COOK COUNTY, ILLINOIS, that pursuant to its home rule powers, $720,483,542.00 as a base levy
amount, plus a TIF value recapture sum of $17,582,624, an expiring incentives sum of $1,289,277, and a
new-property value capture sum of $22,627,596, which aggregate amount of these sums is to be collected
from the Annual Tax Levy for the Fiscal Year A.D. 2018 of the County of Cook for the Public Safety Fund
purposes of said County, and for the Health Enterprise Fund purposes of said County, and for the payment
of principal and interest on general obligation bonds of said County as represented by the Bond and Interest
fund purposes, and for Cook County Employees Annuity and Benefit Fund purposes, and for the Election
Fund purposes, said aggregate amount being $761,983,039, which is the total amount of appropriations
heretofore legally made from the Annual Tax Levy for the year 2018 and contained in the Annual
Appropriation Bill (hereinafter set forth in the Ordinance) for the Fiscal Year 2018 duly adopted by the
Board of Commissioners of Cook County on November 21, 2017, is hereby levied on and upon all taxable
property in the said County of Cook for the Fiscal Year 2018.

 As provided in the Fiscal Year 2018 Annual Appropriation Bill, three percent of the property tax levy
revenues separately allocated to the Public Safety Fund, Health Enterprise Fund, and Election Fund are to
be made available to each Fund for purposes of covering the loss and cost of collecting taxes levied for
said Funds, for the amounts of taxes for which the nonpayment will result in forfeiture of real estate, and
for abatements in the amounts of such taxes as extended upon the collectors’ books. To ensure the County
meets its obligations for indebtedness as represented by the Bond and Interest Fund, and that the actual
collections of property taxes received by the Annuity and Benefit Fund are commensurate with the amounts
so levied, the County Clerk is authorized, in consultation with the County’s Chief Financial Officer, to
extend loss and collections for these funds in a manner that is sufficient for these purposes.
The specific amounts herein levied for the various purposes heretofore named are stated in this Ordinance
and Tax Levy, by being listed and itemized by Fund in the Revenue Estimate of the Annual Appropriation
Bill, including a column captioned: “ANNUAL TAX LEVY”. The tax hereby levied for said Fiscal Year
2018 for said appropriations, to be collected from this Levy, being the aforesaid total, consists of the
following specific amount levied for the various purposes hereinafter set forth:
Base Tax
Levy
$185,054,963

Expiring
TIF
$4,430,798

Expiring
Incentives
$324,896

New
Property
Value
$5,702,124

County Health
Enterprise Fund

$70,944,320

$1,698,630

$124,555

$2,186,018 $74,953,523

Bond and Interest Funds

$264,908,070

$6,550,348

$480,316

$8,429,835 $280,368,569

Employees Annuity &
Benefit Fund

$158,685,772

$3,923,803

$287,720

$5,049,657 $167,946,952

Election Fund

$40,890,417

$979,045

$71,790

$1,259,962 $43,201,214

Total

$720,483,542

Public Safety Fund

$17,582,624 $1,289,277

$22,627,596 $761,983,039

Effective date: This Ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
Approved and adopted this 14th of March 2018.
TONI PRECKWINKLE, President
Cook County Board of Commissioners
Attest: DAVID ORR, County Clerk

Annual
Tax
Levy
$195,512,781

 COMMITTEE ITEMS REQUIRING BOARD ACTION

FINANCE COMMITTEE
MEETING OF MARCH 14. 2018

18-1604
ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
Sponsored by
THE HONORABLE JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI, LUIS ARROYO JR, RICHARD R. BOYKIN
AND EDWARD M. MOODY, COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
PROPERTY TAX INCENTIVE - PREVAILING WAGE REQUIREMENT
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 74 Taxation, Section 7471 of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as follows:
Sec. 74-71. - Laws regulating the payment of wages.
(a)

Living wage requirement.

(1)

Unless expressly waived by the County Board, any Employer occupying a property that
receives a property tax incentive for Class 6b industrial property, Class 8 industrial
property, or Class 9 multifamily residential property shall pay not less than the Living
Wage, as defined in the Cook County Procurement Code (Cook County, Ill., Code, Ch. 34,
Art. IV, Div. 1 § 34-121), to each of its onsite Employees, unless such Employees' Wages
are governed by Federal or State prevailing wage law. For purpose of this Section, the term
"Employee" shall mean an Employee who performs duties or services for an Employer on
average at least 30 hours per week in any two-week period for which the Employee is paid;
"hours per week" shall mean hours for which an Employee is paid or entitled to payment
by the Employer for a period of time during which no duties are performed by the
Employee due to vacation, holiday, illness, incapacity, jury duty, military duty or approved
leave of absence.

(2)

On and after July 1, 2020, the owner of any property that receives a property tax incentive
shall notify all Employers who occupy such property as lessees of the requirements of this
Section. Upon commencement of a lease, on or after July 1, 2020, of a property that
receives a property tax incentive, any new lessee shall be required to submit to the
municipality or the Cook County Board, as the case may be, an affidavit stating that such
lessee is paying a Living Wage to its Employees in compliance with this Section.
Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the requirements of this Section shall not
apply to an Employer who was a lessee and not an owner-occupant of a property that
receives a property tax incentive prior to July 1, 2020.

(3)

This Section shall not apply to Employers that are not-for-profit organizations or funded
by Federal grants or Federal loans or Employers who are lessees but are not owners of a
property that receives a property tax incentive prior to adoption of this amended Ordinance.
Further, this Section shall not apply to Employers who can demonstrate to the County
Board that compliance with the requirements of this Section would cause such Employer
to be in violation of the terms of a collective bargaining agreement between the Employer
and a labor union.

 (4)

Every Employer required to pay the Living Wage shall notify its Employees of the Living
Wage requirements and shall notify all of its Employees annually of any adjustment to the
Living Wage. In addition, the Employer shall notify its Employees that if any Employee
contends that the Employer is not paying a Living Wage or has otherwise violated this
section, that Employee may file a complaint with the Cook County Commissioner on
Human Rights ("Commission"). The Commissioner shall investigate alleged violations of
the Living Wage Ordinance and is authorized to adopt regulations for the proper
administration and enforcement of its provisions. If at the conclusion of the Commission's
investigation, the Commission finds that the Employer has violated this section, it shall (i)
in the case of an Employer receiving a property tax incentive, notify the Assessor; or (ii)
in the case of a Contractor or a subcontractor required to pay the Living Wage, notify the
CPO, who shall exercise such remedies as are in the best interest of the County, including
ordering the Employer to pay back pay and penalties, as provided in this section.

(5)

If an Employer is found to be in violation of this section, such Employer may be required
to pay back pay to each affected Employee, and may also be fined by the County up to
$100.00 for each affected Employee for each day paid at less than the Living Wage. Such
penalties will not be imposed on any Person except after a hearing (Cook County, Ill.,
Code, Ch. 2, Art. IX). Further, if an Employer is found to be in violation of this section,
the property tax incentive for this property is subject to revocation.

(6)

If an Employer is found to have retaliated against an affected Employee, the Employer's
property tax incentive may be terminated unless such Employer appropriately reinstates or
compensates such Employee.

(7)

For the purposes of this Section:
Property tax incentive means a reduction in the assessment level as set forth in Division 2
of this Article for Class 6b industrial property, Class 8 industrial property, or Class 9
multifamily residential property. "Property tax incentive" shall not include a Class 9
designation granted to supportive living facilities, which establish an alternative to nursing
home care for low income older persons and persons with disabilities under Medicaid and
which are certified by the State Department of Public Aid pursuant to Division 2 of this
Article; and
Sales tax means the Retailer's Occupation Tax, the Service Occupation Tax and/or the Use
Tax.

(8)

Living Wage Affidavit. Every municipality or the Cook County Board that provides a
Resolution or Ordinance or authorized officer letter, as the case may be, to an applicant for
a Class 6b industrial property or a Class 8 industrial property tax incentive shall maintain
in its files and records documentation that such municipality or the County Board received
and filed the Living Wage Affidavit submitted by the owner or lessee of such property
stating that such owner or lessee is paying a Living Wage to its Employees in compliance
with this Section. Further, an applicant or lessee of a Class 9 multifamily residential
property tax incentive shall provide the municipality or the Cook County Board, as the case
may be, a Living Wage Affidavit which shall be maintained by such municipality or the
Cook County Board in its files and records.

 (b)

Prevailing wage requirement.

(1)

Notwithstanding anything contained in Section 74-71(b) to the contrary, and for the
avoidance of doubt, any real estate granted any Property Tax Incentive under any
Assessment Class as set forth in Section 74-71(b)(4)(b) on or before July September 1,
2018 shall not be subject to the terms and conditions of Section 74-71(b). Real estate for
which an application for any classification is filed with the Assessor on or before July
September 1, 2018 and which thereafter is determined by the Assessor to be eligible for
the classification under the terms and conditions of this Division after July September 1,
2018, shall not be subject to the terms and conditions of Section 74-71(b).

(2)

Any owner of real estate that on or after July September 1, 2018 is an applicant for, or
recipient of, any Property Tax Incentive under any Assessment Class as set forth in
Division 2 of this Article for which a Resolution or Ordinance from the municipality or the
County Board is or was required, or where an authorized officer letter is or was obtained
in lieu of such Resolution or Ordinance, shall pay all laborers, workers and mechanics
engaged in Construction work within the subject property not less than the prevailing rate
of wages paid for work of a similar character on public works in Cook County. This
requirement extends to all contractors, subcontractors, and lessees who perform such
Construction work, whether or not at the direction of the owner.

(3)

The prevailing rate of wages shall be the same as the then-current rate for Cook County
determined pursuant to the Illinois Prevailing Wage Act (820 ILCS 130/0.01 et seq.).

(4)

(a)

Unless otherwise defined herein, the definition of any terms used in this Section
which are also used in the Illinois Prevailing Wage Act (820 ILCS 130/0.01 et
seq.) shall be the same as that set forth in the Illinois Prevailing Wage Act.

(b)

For the purposes of Section 74-71(b):

Property Tax Incentive means a reduction in the assessment level as set forth in Division 2
of this Article for any property regardless of the Assessment Class for which a Resolution
or Ordinance from the municipality or the County Board is or was required, or where an
authorized officer letter is or was obtained in lieu of such Resolution or Ordinance.
Construction work means all work on any newly constructed building or any improvement
or renovation on any existing building or structure, on any real estate receiving a property
tax incentive involving laborers, workers or mechanics, regardless of the public or private
nature of the project. This includes any maintenance, repair, assembly, or disassembly
work performed on equipment whether owned, leased, or rented.
(5)

Any owner of real estate that on or after July September 1, 2018 is an applicant for, or
recipient of, any Property Tax Incentive under any Assessment Class as set forth in
Division 2 of this Article for which a Resolution or Ordinance from the municipality or the
County Board is or was required, or where an authorized officer letter is or was obtained
in lieu of such Resolution or Ordinance, shall:

 (6)

(a)

keep, or a cause a contractor, subcontractor, or lessee performing the Construction
work within the subject property to keep, for a period of 5 years from the date of
the last payment made, records of all laborers, mechanics, and other workers
engaged in Construction work within the subject property. Such records shall
include (i) the worker's name, (ii) the worker's address, (iii) the worker's telephone
number when available, (iv) the worker's social security number, (v) the worker's
classification or classifications, (vi) the worker's gross and net wages paid in each
pay period, (vii) the worker's number of hours worked each day, (viii) the worker's
starting and ending times of work each day, (ix) the worker's hourly wage rate, (x)
the worker's hourly overtime wage rate, (xi) the worker's hourly fringe benefit
rates, (xii) the name and address of each fringe benefit fund, (xiii) the plan sponsor
of each fringe benefit, if applicable, and (xiv) the plan administrator of each fringe
benefit, if applicable; and

(b)

no later than the 15th day of each calendar month file, or cause a contractor,
subcontractor, or lessee performing the Construction work to file electronically
with the governmental body approving said resolution or ordinance a certified
payroll for the immediately preceding month. A certified payroll must be filed for
only those calendar months during which such Construction work has occurred.
The certified payroll shall consist of a complete copy of the records identified in
this subsection (a) but may exclude the starting and ending times of work each day.
The certified payroll shall be accompanied by a statement signed by the owner or
an officer, authorized employee, or agent of the owner which avers that: (i) he or
she has examined the certified payroll records required to be submitted by this
Section and such records are true and accurate; and (ii) the hourly rate paid to each
worker is not less than the general prevailing rate of hourly wages required by this
Section. An owner is not prohibited from relying on the certification of a
contractor, subcontractor, or lessee provided the owner does not knowingly rely
upon a false certification. Each governmental body shall keep the records
submitted in accordance with this subsection (b) for a period of 5 years from the
date of the last payment for Construction work. The records submitted in
accordance with this subsection (b) shall be considered public records, except an
employee's address, telephone number, and social security number, and made
available in accordance with the Freedom of Information Act. The governmental
body shall accept any reasonable submissions that meet the requirements of this
Section.

The recipient must provide credible evidence that, at all times after it receives and
maintains any tax incentive classification under Division 2 of this Article, if any
Construction work, occurs at the subject property, then any contractors, subcontractors, or
lessees who perform such work must participate in an active apprenticeship and training
program approved and registered with the United States Department of Labor's Office of
Apprenticeship, if the contractor or subcontractor employs people in a covered occupation.

 (7)

Prevailing Wage Affidavit. Every municipality or the Cook County Board that provides a
Resolution or Ordinance or authorized officer letter, as the case may be, to an applicant
for, or a recipient of, any Property Tax Incentive as set forth in Section 71-74 (b)(4)(b)
shall maintain in its files and records documentation that such municipality or the County
Board received and filed the Prevailing Wage Affidavit submitted by the owner of such
property stating that such owner shall pay, or cause a contractor, subcontractor, or lessee
to pay, the prevailing rate of wages in compliance with this Section and comply with
subsections (b)(5) and (b)(6) of this Section. The failure to file such affidavit and
supporting documents within the time established by the Assessor's rules shall result in the
loss of the incentive for the period relating to the non-filing or revocation under Section
74-73.

(b)(c) State or Federal Laws.
(1)

Except where a Person has requested an exception from the Assessor and the County Board
expressly finds that granting the exception is in the best interest of the County, such Person
including any Substantial Owner (as defined in Cook County, Ill., Code, Ch. 34, Art. V §
34-367) shall be ineligible to receive any property tax incentive noted in Division 2 of this
Article if, during the five-year period prior to the date of the application, such Person or
Substantial Owner (as defined in Cook County, Ill., Code, Ch. 34, Art. V § 34-367)
admitted guilt or liability or has been adjudicated guilty or liable in any judicial or
administrative proceeding of committing a repeated or willful violation of the Illinois Wage
Payment and Collection Act, 820 ILCS 115/1 et seq., the Illinois Minimum Wage Act, 820
ILCS 105/1 et seq., the Illinois Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act, 820
ILCS 65/1 et seq., the Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act, 29 U.S.C. 2101
et seq., the Employee Classification Act, 820 ILCS 185/1 et seq., the Fair Labor Standards
Act of 1938, 29 U.S.C. 201, et seq., the Illinois Prevailing Wage Act, 820 ILCS 130/1 et
seq., or any comparable state statute or regulation of any state, which governs the payment
of wages.

(2)

The Assessor shall obtain an affidavit or certification from every Person and Substantial
Owner (as defined in Cook County, Ill., Code, Ch. 34, Art. V § 34-367) who seeks a
property tax incentive from the County as noted in Division 2 of this Article certifying that
the Person or Substantial Owner (as defined in Cook County, Ill., Code, Ch. 34, Art. V §
34-367) has not violated the statutory provisions identified in Subsection (a) of this Section.

 (3)

If the County or Assessor becomes aware that a Person or Substantial Owner (as defined
in Cook County, Ill., Code, Ch. 34, Art. V § 34-367) has admitted guilt or liability or has
been adjudicated guilty or liable in any judicial or administrative proceeding of committing
a repeated or willful violation of the Illinois Wage Payment and Collection Act, 820 ILCS
115/1 et seq., the Illinois Minimum Wage Act, 820 ILCS 105/1 et seq., the Illinois Worker
Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act, 820 ILCS 65/1 et seq., the Worker
Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act, 29 U.S.C. 2101 et seq., the Employee
Classification Act, 820 ILCS 185/1 et seq., the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, 29 U.S.C.
201, et seq., the Illinois Prevailing Wage Act, 820 ILCS 130/1 et seq., or any comparable
state statute or regulation of any state, which governs the payment of wages during the
five-year period prior to the date of the application, but after the County has reclassified
the Person's or Substantial Owner's (as defined in Cook County, Ill., Code, Ch. 34, Art. V
§ 34-367) subject property under a property tax incentive classification, then, after notice
from the Assessor of such violation, the Person or Substantial Owner shall have 45 days to
cure its violation and request an exception or waiver from the Assessor. Failure to cure or
obtain an exception or waiver of ineligibility from the Assessor shall serve as grounds for
revocation of the classification as provided by the Assessor or by the County Board by
Resolution or Ordinance. In case of revocation or cancellation, the Incentive Classification
shall be deemed null and void for the tax year in which the incentive was revoked or
cancelled as to the subject property. In such an instance, the taxpayer shall be liable for and
shall reimburse to the County Collector an amount equal to the difference in the amount of
taxes that would have been collected had the subject property not received the property tax
incentive.

Sec. 74-75 - Incentive Classification Affidavit Requirement Waiver.
(a)
This Section shall apply to existing incentives classifications, pending applications and
eligibility/renewal applications submitted during the 2017 and 2018 assessment year. The Assessor’s Office
shall liberally construe this Section to effectuate its intent as set forth in subsections (b) and (c) below.
(b)
Compliance with the existing affidavit requirements of Sections 74-71(b)(7)(2), 7471(c)(2), 74-72 and 74-74 (b) and (d) shall be waived for the 2017 and 2018 assessment years. Such waiver
shall be lifted at the beginning of the 2019 assessment year and the affidavit requirements of Sections 7471, 74-72 and 74-74 that are then in effect shall be effective for the 2019 assessment year and subsequent
assessment years.
(c)
Existing incentives classifications, pending applications and eligibility/renewal
applications submitted during the 2017 and 2018 assessment year shall not be suspended, revoked or
terminated for failure to comply with the affidavit requirements of Sections 74-71(b)(7)(2), 74-71(c)(2),
74-72 and 74-74(b) and (d), and all affidavits submitted pursuant to such Sections shall be considered void
for any purpose.
BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, that the Cook County Board of Commissioners hereby create a task force
entitled the Cook County Prevailing Wage Advisory Task Force to help make recommendations on the
implementation Property Tax Incentive - Prevailing Wage Requirement throughout Cook County; and

 BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, that the advisory task force shall meet for approximately three months
and consist of:
a.

The Cook County Board President or her designee; one member of the Finance Committee, one
member of the Labor Committee, one member of the Cook County Workforce, Housing and
Community Development Committee; and

b.

The Executive Director of the Cook County Human Rights Commission or his/her designee; and

c.

One representative from each Suburban Council on Governments (COGS); and

d.

Three representatives from Labor Unions; and

e.

Three representatives from the business community.

Effective date: This Ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
Approved and adopted this 14th of March 2018.
TONI PRECKWINKLE, President
Cook County Board of Commissioners
Attest: DAVID ORR, County Clerk

 

18-2650 WAS WITHDRAWN AT THE MARCH 14, 2018 BOARD MEETING
18-2650
Sponsored by: RICHARD R. BOYKIN, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
PROHIBITION AGAINST THE SALE OF FIREARMS AND AMMUNITION TO INDIVIDUALS
YOUNGER THAN 21
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 58 Offenses and
Miscellaneous Provisions, Article VIII Protection of Minors, Sec. 58-204 - Prohibitions against the sale of
firearms and ammunition to minors of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as Follows:
Sec. 58-204 Prohibition against the sale of firearms to minors.
It shall be unlawful for any person, including, but not limited to, persons possessing a Cook
County Deadly Weapons Dealer License or gun show permit, to sell or otherwise transfer any firearm or
ammunition to a minor any individual younger than 21.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect July 1, 2018.

 18-2709 WAS REFERRED TO THE BUSINESS AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
COMMITTEE AT THE MARCH 14, 2018 BOARD MEETING
18-2709
Sponsored by: JESÚS G. GARCÍA, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE
COOK COUNTY HISTORIC DISTRICT PRESERVATION EXEMPTION
WHEREAS, Cook County residents are experiencing substantial and unpredictable property tax increases;
and
WHEREAS, Cook County residents residing in historic districts are experiencing even more substantial
and unpredictable property tax increases due to the overlap of some historic districts with areas experiencing
rapid displacement and gentrification; and
WHEREAS, in June 2017 a Tribune published an investigation entitled “The Tax Divide” that detailed
widespread inconsistencies and inequities in Cook County home valuations; and
WHEREAS, between 2015 and 2016 more than 12,000 black residents left Cook County and since 2010
the greater Chicago areas has seen a loss of nearly 46,000 black residents; and
WHEREAS, the Southwest side neighborhood, Pilsen, known for its Latino culture and identity has seen
a loss of 10,300 Latino residents since 2000; and
WHEREAS, certain areas designated as Historic Districts by the National Register of Historic Places
overlap with areas experiencing rapid displacement, gentrification and loss of cultural heritage; and
WHEREAS, in recognition of the severe economic circumstances that many longtime homeowners face,
the Illinois Legislature and the Cook County Board of Commissioners have historically created legislation
to target impacted communities; and
WHEREAS, the Illinois Legislature passed Public Act 88-451, the Longtime Owner-Occupant Property
Tax Relief Act (35 ILCS 250, et. seq.) with the purpose of providing property tax relief to longtime
homeowners, whose property taxes rose sharply as a result of new construction or renovation of existing
residences in long-established residential areas; and
WHEREAS, on June 5, 2001, the Cook County Longtime Homeowner Exemption Ordinance (Ord. No.
01-O-12) was enacted to provide relief to longtime homeowners who are experiencing unpredictable
property tax increases due to upper-scale development or re-development; and
WHEREAS, the Illinois Legislature passed Public Act 90-0114, creating a Property Tax Assessment
Freeze Program which provides tax incentives to owner-occupants of certified historic residences who
rehabilitate their homes; and
WHEREAS, as a matter of public policy, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has the responsibility
to enact property tax relief provisions that will enable eligible longtime property owners to remain in
financially secure possession of their homes.

 NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the President and the Board of Commissioners of Cook
County the following:
TITLE OF ORDINANCE: Historic District Preservation Exemption Ordinance.
PURPOSE: An Ordinance creating the Historic District Preservation Exemption Program to provide
property tax relief to property owners who have owned a property within a historic district and who have
low- or middle-income tenants who have resided in a property within a historic district for a minimum of 5
years. The ordinance allows property owners to conserve the Historic District Preservation Exemption if
they stay or move to another historic district. Property owners who have tenants who have stayed or moved
to another historic district can also apply. The Cook County Assessor (“Assessor”) shall administer the
Historic District Preservation Program. To be eligible, the property owner must own a Class 2 or Class up
to 2-12 property located in Cook County. The property must have an assessment increase that exceeds one
and one-half (1 ½) times the percentage median assessment increase within the assessment district shall be
exempted in the calculation of the property tax. Eligibility for the program terminates at the time the
property owner no longer has any property in the historic district, however, new property owners can
reapply for existing tenants, or the Assessor determines that the homeowner’s assessment increase no longer
exceeds one and one-half (1 ½) times the percentage median assessment increase within the assessment
district.
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE. This Ordinance shall be known and may be cited as the “Historic District
Preservation Exemption Ordinance.”
SECTION 2. PURPOSE. The intent of this Ordinance is to stabilize the effects of soaring property taxes
for longtime property owners who rent to low and middle-income tenants, who have resided in historic
districts for a minimum of 5 years or more.
SECTION 3. DEFINITIONS. As used in this Ordinance:
“Assessment District.” Cook County has a triennial reassessment cycle wherein one of the three districts
within the county is reassessed each year. The three assessment districts are defined in the Illinois Property
Tax Code (35 ILCS 200/9-220(B)).
“AV.” Assessed Value as defined in the Cook County Real Property Assessment Classification Ordinance
(Section 2, Class 2 and Section 3, Class 2).
“Average Assessment Increase.” A percentage calculated by taking the value of all potentially qualifying
Class 2 properties within the assessment district and determining the percent difference between the current
reassessment value and the prior year’s assessment value.
“Certified Local Government.” A unit of local government fulfilling the requirements of the National
Historic Preservation Act of 1966, as amended, 16 U.S.C. 470a (the ‘Act’) that has been certified by the
Illinois State Historic Preservation Officer pursuant to the Act.
“EAV.” Equalized Assessed Value. The assessed value multiplied by the equalization factor calculated
by the Illinois Department of Revenue.
“H.E.L.P.” Homeowner Exemption for Long-term Properties calculated as follows: that portion of the
current EAV for an eligible property which exceeds the sum of the EAV for the year prior to reassessment;
plus the prior year EAV multiplied by a factor equal to 150 percent of the average assessment increase for
the most current reassessment of the assessment district.

 “Class 2 to 2-12 Properties.” Residential properties as defined in the Cook County Real Property
Assessment Classification Ordinance (Section 2, Class 2).
“Contributing Building.” A building which is a historic structure within a specifically designated historic
or landmark district pursuant to a local ordinance, approved by a Certified Local Government, which has
been certified by the Illinois Historic Preservation Agency, and which meets the following criteria:
A. The building was constructed within or present during the period of historical significance of
the district; and
B. The building relates to the significant features, qualities, and/or themes that give the district its
historic, cultural and/or architectural significance; and
C. The building substantially retains its design, materials and appearance from the period of
historical significance of the district; or if substantially altered, the changes are reversible such
that, through the Substantial Rehabilitation of the building, the building will be returned to a
state that substantially retains its design, materials, and appearance from the period of historical
significance of the district.
“Historic District.” A district which is specifically designated as a historic or landmark district pursuant
to a local ordinance, approved by a Certified Local Government, pursuant to its criteria, which have been
certified by the Illinois Historic Preservation Agency.
“Longtime Property Owner.” Persons who have owned and occupied a Cook County Class 2 or Class
up to 2-12 property since 2008, or five years or more if the owner received assistance in the acquisition of
the property as part of a government or nonprofit housing program. “Longtime homeowners” also means
persons who inherited the property from a spouse who owned and occupied a Class 2 or Class up to 2-12
property since January 1, 2008 or five years or more if the owner received assistance in purchasing the
residence from a governmental or non-profit housing program.
“Period of Historical Significance.” The period of development history for which the district is
significant.
“Preservation Commission.” A commission or similar body established by a Certified Local Government
pursuant to the ‘Act,’ generally for the purpose of identifying, preserving, protecting, recommending for
designation and encouraging the continued use and the rehabilitation of areas, properties and structures
having historic and/or architectural significance.
“Substantial Rehabilitation.” The extensive renovation or replacement of primary building systems of
the landmark and/or the significant improvement of the condition of the landmark, as further prescribed by
rule of the Assessor; which meets or exceeds the Standards of the United States Department of the Interior
for Rehabilitation, Preservation, Restoration and Reconstruction of Historic Properties; and which has been
completed in accordance with plans approved by the Certified Local Government within which the
landmark is located.
“Triennial Reassessment.” Any reassessment of an assessment district, which occurs every third year as
set forth in the Illinois Property Tax Code (35 ILCS 200/9-220(B)).
SECTION 4.
ADMINISTRATION OF THE HISTORIC DISTRICT PRESERVATION
EXEMPTION PROGRAM.

 (A) The Cook County Assessor shall have the authority to:
(1)

Administer the Historic District Preservation Exemption program as created by the enactment
of this Ordinance and;

(2)

Create applications for and determine potential eligibility to the program based on the eligibility
criteria set forth in this Ordinance and;

(B) The Cook County Clerk shall have the authority to compute tax rates and calculate tax bill amounts
and to provide this information to the Cook County Treasurer to implement the provisions of this Ordinance.
(C) The Cook County Treasurer shall state on the tax bill the amount of the tax saved by the exemption.
SECTION 5. ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA.
The following nonexclusive criteria shall be used to verify a property owner’s eligibility for program on an
annual basis:
(1)

Property owner owns a Cook County Class 2 up to Class 2-12 property in a historic district,
and that owner has owned the property since January 1, 2008; or

(2)

Property Owner owns a Cook County Class 2 up to Class 2-12 property in a historic district,
and received assistance in the acquisition of the property as part of a government or nonprofit
housing program under the following guidelines:
(a)

The program is restricted to qualified homebuyers on the basis of the household income
of the homebuyer; and

(b) The income restriction for the homebuyer did not exceed 140% of the area median income
as defined by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development; and
(c)

The subsidy exceeds $5,000 or 5% of the development cost of the property, whichever
is greater; and

(d)

The homebuyer is restricted from selling the house at full market price for at least ten
years from the date of purchase.

The Cook County Board shall determine whether a purchase assistance program is qualified
under the provisions of this Ordinance; or
(3) Property owner owns a Cook County Class 2 up to Class 2-12 property in a historic district, and
the tenants have lived in a historic district since January 1, 2008; or
(4)

Property owner owns a Cook County Class 2 up to Class 2-12 property in a historic district; and

(5)

Homeowner’s property must have an AV increase that exceeds 150% of the current average
AV increase for Class 2 and up to Class 2-12 properties in the assessment district where the
property is located; and

 (8)

Household
Size

Annual household income of property occupants for the year of the property owner’s triennial
assessment does not exceed one hundred and fifteen percent (115%) of the Chicago Primary
Metropolitan Statistical Area median income as defined by the United States Department of
Housing and Urban Development; and
Area Median Income Limits 2017 (Effective April 14, 2017)
50%
$27,650
$31,600
$35,550
$39,500
$42,700
$45,850
$49,000
$52,150

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
(9)

60%
$33,180
$37,920
$42,680
$47,400
$51,240
$55,020
$58,800
$62,580

80%
$44,250
$50,600
$56,900
$63,200
$68,300
$73,350
$78,400
$83,450

100%
$55,300
$63,200
$71,100
$79,000
$85,400
$91,700
$98,000
$104,300

120%
$66,360
$75,840
$85,320
$94,800
$102,480
$110,040
$117,600
$125,160

140%
$77,420
$88,480
$99,540
$110,600
$119,560
$128,380
$137,200
$146,020

For any triennial assessment cycle, property owner did not cause a substantial improvement
which resulted in an increase in fair cash value in the property in excess of the $45,000
allowance as set forth in the Illinois Property Tax Code (35 ILCS 200/15-180).

SECTION 6. APPLYING THE EXEMPTION.
(A) The Cook County Assessor shall:
(1)
(2)

Annually verify potential eligible property owners; and
Provide to the Cook County Clerk the information necessary to calculate the exemption in
accordance with the Ordinance.

(B) The Cook County Clerk shall remove the exempt value from the calculation of the property tax.
(C) The Cook County Treasurer shall state on the tax bill the amount of tax saved by the exemption.
SECTION 7. ELIGIBILITY NOTIFICATION.
The Assessor shall notify potentially eligible owners of record of Class 2 and up to Class 2-12 properties
in Cook County of the existence of the Historic District Preservation Exemption Program for each triennial
assessment cycle within sufficient time to apply.
SECTION 8. TERMINATING ELIGIBILITY.
Eligibility for the program terminates at the time the property owner no longer has any property in the
historic district, however, new property owners can reapply for existing tenants, or the Assessor determines
that the homeowner’s assessment increase no longer exceeds one and one-half (1 ½) times the percentage
median assessment increase within the assessment district.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately on July 1, 2018

 