COMMISSION ON CHICAGO LANDMARKS
NOTICE OF A REGULAR MEETING
The Commission on Chicago Landmarks will hold its regular
meeting on Thursday, August 2, 2018, at 12:45 p.m. in City Hall,
121 North LaSalle Street, Room 201-A, 2nd Floor.
The Permit Review Committee will hold its regular meeting in City
Hall, 121 North LaSalle Street, in Room 201-A on Thursday,
August 2, 2018, at 2:00 p.m.
Attached is a copy of the agendas for the Commission meetings.

David Reifman
Secretary

 AGENDA
COMMISSION ON CHICAGO LANDMARKS
Regular Meeting – Thursday, August 2, 2018
City Hall, 121 North LaSalle Street, Room 201-A
12:45 p.m.

1. Approval of the Minutes of Previous Meeting
Regular Meeting of July 12, 2018
2. Preliminary Landmark Recommendation
COOK COUNTY HOSPITAL ADMINISTRATION BUILDING
1835 West Harrison Street

WARD 27

3. Recommendation to City Council for Approval of Class L Property Tax Incentive
COOK COUNTY HOSPITAL ADMINISTRATION BUILDING
1835 West Harrison Street

WARD 27

4. Class L Property Tax Incentive – Final Certification
FULTON-RANDOLPH MARKET DISTRICT
932-940 West Fulton Market

WARD 27

5. Recommendation to City Council for Approval of Class L Property Tax Incentive
UPTOWN THEATER
4816 North Broadway

WARD 46

6. Recommendation to City Council for Approval of Class L Property Tax Incentive
JACKSON BOULEVARD DISTRICT
201-209 South Ashland Avenue

WARD 28

7. Preliminary Decision on Permit Application for Demolition Pursuant to §2-120-740 through
§2-120-825 of the Municipal Code
MOTOR ROW DISTRICT
2312 South Indiana Avenue

WARD 3

8. Permit Review Committee Reports
Report on Projects Reviewed at the July 12, 2018, Permit Review Committee Meeting
Report on Permit Decisions by the Commission Staff for the Month of July 2018
9. Adjournment

 NOTICE OF PUBLIC MEETING

PERMIT REVIEW COMMITTEE
THURSDAY, August 2, 2018
City Hall, 121 N. LaSalle St., Room 201-A
2:00 p.m.

AGENDA:
1. 111 N. State
42nd Ward
Marshall Field and Company Building
Proposed exterior alterations including new office entrance and canopies, new rooftop
addition and amenity deck, and interior rehabilitation.
2. 530 W. Fullerton
43rd Ward
Mid-North District
Proposed installation of a new accessible ramp and entrance canopy at the front of the
church.
3. 714 S. Dearborn
4th Ward
Printing House Row District
Proposed exterior and interior renovation of non-historic rooftop dwelling including new
deck.
4. 465 W. Cermak
11th Ward
Cermak Road Bridge District
Proposed retail conversion of an industrial building including partial window repair and
replacement, graffiti removal, new first floor east elevation entrance stairs and accessible
ramp and new metal canopies.

Dijana Cuvalo, AIA
Historic Preservation Division
Bureau of Planning, Historic Preservation & Sustainability
Department of Planning and Development

 PERMIT REVIEW COMMITTEE
Summary of projects and staff recommendations, August 2, 2018
DRAFT
1. 111 N. State
42nd Ward
Marshall Field and Company Building
Proposed exterior alterations including new office entrance and canopies, new rooftop
addition and amenity deck, and interior rehabilitation.
Applicant:

Macy’s Retail Holdings Inc., owner
BSREP II SS Chicago LLC, contract purchaser of upper six floors
Forum Studio, architect
Antunovich Associates, architect
Paul Shadle, DLA Piper

Staff Recommendation: Staff recommends that the Committee find that the project, with
the following conditions, meets the criteria set forth in the
Commission’s Rules and Regulations, the Commission’s
Guidelines for Alterations to Historic Buildings and New
Construction, and Standards 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9 and 10 of the U.S.
Secretary of the Interior’s Standards for Rehabilitation of Historic
Buildings and therefore, the project will not have an adverse effect
on the significant historical and architectural features of the
landmark property and approve the project with the following
conditions:
1. New dedicated office entrance on the south façade is approved
as proposed with the condition that secondary vertical
storefront mullions shall be eliminated from the proposal.
Storefront and door details shall be submitted with the permit
plans;
2. The new perforated louvers over the existing windows and
louvers shall be painted to match the storefront system;
3. The two proposed metal canopies at the new office entrance are
approved with the condition that the face of the canopy is
opaque. Canopy details to be submitted as part of the permit
application;
4. Exterior signage is not approved at this time. Details of
signage to be submitted for Historic Preservation staff review
and approval when available;
5. All interior changes including those regarding the new office
lobby and relocation of the fountain are approved as proposed.
Details of the new sliding partitions and redesigned retail pads
and fixtures shall be included with the permit plans; and,
6. As proposed, the rooftop deck glass railings shall be set back 5’
from the inner face of the parapet along State Street and
Washington, and 10’ from the inner face of the parapet along

 Wabash Avenue. The roof trellis shall be set back 30’ from the
inner face of the western parapet. Details of railings shall be
included with the permit plans. All vegetation should be low
growth with no trees or tall shrubs.
2. 530 W. Fullerton
43rd Ward
Mid-North District
Proposed installation of a new accessible ramp and entrance canopy at the front of the
church.
Applicant:

Church of Our Savior, owner
Jack Kelley, MKB Architects

Staff Recommendation: Staff recommends that the Committee find that the project, with the
following conditions, meets the criteria set forth in the
Commission’s Rules and Regulations, the Commission’s
Guidelines for Alterations to Historic Buildings and New
Construction, Standards 6, 9, and 10 of the U.S. Secretary of the
Interior’s Standards for Rehabilitation of Historic Buildings, and
Historic Fulton-Randolph Market District Design Guidelines, and
therefore, the project will not have an adverse effect on the
significant historical and architectural features of the landmark
property and district and approve the project, with the following
conditions, to be reviewed for approval by the Planning, Historic
Preservation & Sustainability Bureau:
1. The proposed ramp and entrance canopy are approved as
submitted; and,
2. Historic Preservation staff shall be notified to view and
approve limestone cladding samples on-site prior to order and
installation.
3. 714 S. Dearborn
4th Ward (King)
Printing House Row District
Proposed exterior and interior renovation of non-historic rooftop dwelling including new
deck.
Applicant:

Alec Hathaway, owner/architect

Staff Recommendation: Staff recommends that the Committee find that the project, with
the following conditions, meets the criteria set forth in the
Commission’s Rules and Regulations, the Commission’s
Guidelines for Alterations to Historic Buildings and New
Construction, and Standard 9 of the U.S. Secretary of the Interior’s
Standards for Rehabilitation of Historic Buildings and therefore,
the project will not have an adverse effect on the significant
historical and architectural features of the proposed landmark
property and approve the project with the following conditions:

 1. At the north elevation of the rooftop addition’s west wing, the
lower-level wall enclosing additional square footage be set
back 1’ and the upper-level balcony be set back 3’ from the
west elevation of the west wing to eliminate visibility above
the building’s Federal Street cornice;
2. A transparent or more open design guardrail be employed at all
visible locations, such as a glass or simple, open, metal
guardrail, to minimize its visual impact and prevent the
appearance of a larger overall rooftop mass;
3. The portion of the wall below the glass window wall at the
central wing’s north elevation and all trim be a dark grey to
ensure that all of this highly visible elevation recedes as much
as possible; and,
4. Roofing/cladding samples be submitted for staff review and
approval with the permit application.
4. 465 W. Cermak
11th Ward
Cermak Road Bridge District
Proposed retail conversion of an industrial building including partial window repair and
replacement, graffiti removal, new first floor east elevation entrance stairs and accessible
ramp and new metal canopies.
Applicant:

Steve Liu, Sky River, owner
Wally Funk, NORR, architect

Staff Recommendation: Staff recommends that the Committee find that the project, with
the following conditions, meets the criteria set forth in the
Commission’s Rules and Regulations, the Commission’s
Guidelines for Alterations to Historic Buildings and New
Construction, and Standards 6, 7, 9 and 10 of the U.S. Secretary of
the Interior’s Standards for Rehabilitation of Historic Buildings
and therefore, the project will not have an adverse effect on the
significant historical and architectural features of the landmark
property and the district and approve the project with the following
conditions:
1. The new windows shall match the existing window in size,
glass size, operation, muntin arrangement and muntin size. The
windows can be simulated divide lite windows as proposed.
Existing and proposed details of exterior profiles shall be
submitted with the permit application;
2. The existing CMU infill may be painted as proposed, but the
color shall match the existing historic face brick subject to onsite Historic Preservation staff review and approval;
3. The proposed stair, ramp and planter system is approved as
proposed, but the cladding shall match the color and texture of
the historic limestone on the building subject to Historic
Preservation staff review and approval of a sample;
4. The proposed entrance doors and storefronts are approved as
submitted. Elevations, sections and enlarged dimensioned

 5.

6.

7.

8.

details shall be submitted with the permit application. All
storefront elements shall have a dark factory-applied finish and
all glass shall be clear vision glass;
The proposed two 14’ long metal canopies are approved as
submitted. Enlarged dimensioned details and attachment
details shall be submitted with the permit application. All
canopies shall have a dark, factory-applied finish and all glass
shall be clear vision;
The proposed large canopy shall be revised to be located inside
the masonry columns rather than overlapping the columns as
shown;
Exterior signage and any exterior lighting are not approved at
this time. Details of signage and any proposed lighting to be
submitted for Historic Preservation staff review and approval
when available; and,
As proposed the masonry façade shall be cleaned. Chemical
cleaning product specifications and material safety data sheets
shall be submitted with the environmental cleaning application.
Any pressure washing shall not exceed 400 psi. Historic
Preservation staff shall be notified to view and approve test
cleaning areas.

 