 . CODE EDC 16-10-02-274
Economic DeveIOpment Corporation of the City of Detroit

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF AUGUST 23, 2016 MEETING

RESOLVED, that the minutes of the Regular meeting of August 23, 2016 are
hereby approved and all actions taken by the Directors present at such meeting, as set
forth in such minutes, are hereby in all respects ratified and approved as actions of the
Economic Development Corporation.

October 25, 2016

Page 1 of 13
500 Griswold,Suite 2200 - Detroit,MiChigon 48226 - (3l3) 963-2940

ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
BOARD OF DIRECTORS REGULAR MEETING
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 23, 2016 - 8:30 A.M.

BOARD MEMBERS PRESENT: Kimberly CIayson

BOARD MEMBERS ABSENT:

SPECIAL DIRECTORS
PRESENT:

SPECIAL DIRECTORS
ABSENT:

OTHERS PRESENT:

Linda Forte
Matthew Roling
Roger Short
Thomas Stallworth

Monique Claiborne
Maurice Cox (Ex-Offioio)
Cris Jackson

Jonathan Quarles

John Nagliok (Ex-O?icio)
William Ritsema

Marvin Thomas (I-94 Industrial Park Project)

Emily Black (l-94 lndustrial Park Project)

John Gallagher (Free Press)
Malik Goodwin 
Gay Hilger 
Malinda Jensen 
Jennifer Kanalos 
Glen Long, Jr. 
Betsy Palazzola (City of Detroit)
Adrienne Zeigler 

Page 2 of 13



Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit

MINUTES OF THE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
BOARD OF DIRECTORS REGULAR MEETING

WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 23, 2016

DETROIT ECONOMIC GROWTH CORPORATION

500 GRISWOLD, SUITE 2200 - 8:30 AM.

CALL TO ORDER

Chairman Forte called the Regular meeting of the Economic Development Corporation
Board of Directors to order at 8:37 am.

GENERAL
Approval of Minutes

Ms. Forte asked if there were any additions, deletions or corrections to the minutes of the
July 20, 2016 Special Board meeting. Hearing none, the Board took the following action:

On a motion by Mr. Stallworth, seconded by Mr. Jackson, Resolution Code EDC
16-08-02-273 was unanimously approved.

Receipt of Treasurer?s Report

Mr. Long reviewed the Treasurer?s Report of Receipts and Disbursements for the months
of June and July 2016 for the benefit of the Board and responded to questions.

Subsequent to a discussion, the Board took the following action:

On a motion by Mr. Short, seconded by Ms. Clayson, Resolution Codes EDC 16-
08?03-204 and 16-08-03-205 were unanimously approved.

PROJECTS

CBDG Declared Disaster Recovery Grant: Authorization for EDC to Enter into Sub-
Subrecipient Agreement with Detroit Riverfront Conservancy, lnc.

Ms. Navin advised that in June, 2016, the Board of Directors of The Economic
Development Corporation of the City of Detroit (the approved the execution of a
Subrecipient Agreement (the ?Subrecipient Agreement") with The City of Detroit, by and
through its Housing and Revitalization Department, (the ?City?) in connection with the
City?s award of a Community Development Block Grant for Declared Disaster Recovery
from the US. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD).
Under the terms of the Subrecipient Agreement, the EDC will primarily be undertaking

1
August 23, 2016

Page 3 of 13
500 Griswold,8uite 2200 - 48226 - (313) 963?2940

project management and construction management activities in connection with the
development of the Beltline Greenway project (the ?Greenway").

In connection with the Greenway, certain land acquisition activities must be undertaken.
Specifically, terms of purchase must be negotiated with private land owners, diligence
activities must be undertaken, and the purchases must be consummated. Aithough it is
anticipated that uitimately the Michigan Department of Naturai Resources (the 
will fund the purchase price for the properties using Land and Water Conservation funds,
however, the initial purchases will be consummated using grant funds.
Further, it is expected that the Detroit Riverfront, Inc. (the will piay an ongoing role
in determining the optimai programming, maintenance and operations strategy the
Greenway given its experience and successes with the Riverwalk and Dequindre Cut
greenways.

in order to expedite the land acquisition process for the Greenway and benefit from the
experiences and successes of the DRC with the Riverwaik and Dequindre Cut greenways,
EDC staff proposes entering into a sub~subrecipient agreement (the ?Agreement") with the
DRC pursuant to which the DRC would undertake the scope of work (the ?Activities?)
pursuant to the budget.

A resolution was included for the Board's consideration authorizing the negotiation and
execution of the Agreement with the DRC, which outiine the parties? respective
obligations as it rotates to the Activities.

Ms. Navin stated the totai grant covers five different projects and the EDC portion??
approximately $2.3 miilion of the $8.9 million grant-45 primarily for the Beitway Greenway.
Mr. Stallworth requested the Board receive an update on the other areas of the grant
whenever it is deemed apprOpriate. Ms. Navin advised that ail of the activities are
expected to continue until March 2018, and staff will work with the City to determine the
timing of the requested update.

Ms. Betsy Palazzoia of the City?s Housing and Revitalization Department explained the
project and responded to Board members? questions.

Subsequent to the discussion, the Board took the foliowing action:

On a motion by Mr. Stailworth, seconded by Mr. Short, Resolution Code EDC 16~
08-95?02 was unanimously approved.

l-94 industrial Park Protect: Autuhoriggtion to Accept Protect Funding from the City
of Detroit and the Detroit Economic Growth Association to implement the Georgia
Street Road Reconstruction Proiect

Mr. Goodwin reported that in 2014, the Detroit Economic Growth Association (the 
received a grant from the US. Department of Commerce Economic Development
Administration (the, and with the City of Detroit, undertook and compieted the
development of a comprehensive strategy for revitalizing the Mt. Elliott Employment
District as the center for a rejuvenated manufacturing ciuster for Detroit (the ?Strategy?).

2

August 23, 2016 
Page 4 of 13

The Mt. Elliott Employment District runs from l~94 generally along Van Dyke (M-53) and
Mt, Elliott Roads north to the city limits at Eight Mile, and includes the EDC Project Plan
area known as the 1-94 industrial Subdivision.

In order to support the commercial traf?c coming from existing businesses and to support
recent development projects such as the $30 million, 500,000 square foot Logistics
facility, and the forthcoming $95 million Flex?N?Gate assembly which together, is
anticipated to generate as much as 550 jobs the City of Detroit, the DEGA, and the
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit (the have prepared a
grant application to the EDA to fund a portion of the reconstruction of Georgia Street from
St. Cyril to Mt. Elliott. This is an important eastuto-west thoroughfare within the l?94 Project
that requires rebuilding in order to sustain increased commercial truck traffic traveling to
and from Mt. Elliott Street.

if awarded, the EDA grant funding will be used to help fund the Georgia Street
reconstruction project, which is located within the i 94 Industrial subdivision (the ?Project?).

The total Project budget is Three Million Seven Hundred Sixty One Thousand Four
Hundred Five and 00/100 Dollars, of which the City of Detroit has
committed to the DEGA that as its partner, City will contribute up to One Million Two
Hundred Fifty Three Thousand Eight Hundred Two and 00/100 Dollars to
satisfy the 30% local match requirement in order to attract the remaining 70%
federal share, being Two Million Five Hundred Seven Thousand Six Hundred Three and
00/100 Dollars in grant monies coming from the EDA (the PW Grant
Funds?).

The City of Detroit Mayor?s Office recognizes the role of the DEGA as its partner, in order
to obtain and administer grant funding anticipated to come from the EDA.

The EDC is anticipated to be the entity responsibie to undertake the Georgia Street
reconstruction work, and accept EDA PW Grant Funds from the DEGA, and local match
funds from the City of Detroit directly, or from the DEGA under a funding agreement with
the City of Detroit.

EDC Staff recommends that the EDC Board acknowledges and accepts the role
as a coaapplicant and project partner with DEGA and the City of Detroit and authorizes the
EDC to implement the planning, engineering and construction activities required to
implement the Project.

In addition, EDC staff recommends acceptance of the EDA PW Grant Funds and funds in
the amount of One Million Two Hundred Fifty~Three Thousand Eight Hundred Two and
00/100 Dollars from the City of Detroit to help pay for the local match
portion of the Project.

As the funding agreements must still be negotiated between the City and EDC or with
DEGA and EDC, staff recommends the Board of Directors authorize its authorized agents
to negotiate and execute any and ail agreements, documents, contracts, or other papers
necessary or to take any actions necessary to implement the Project on behalf of the EDC.

3

August 23, 2016
Page 5 of 13

A resolution was included for the Board?s consideration.
Subsequent to a discussion, the Board took the following action:

On a motion by Mr. Short, seconded by Mr. Staliworth, Resolution Code EDC 16-
08?12?44 was unanimously approved.

ADMINISTRATION

OTHER MATTERS

Mr. Roling mentioned the discussion at the test meeting regarding the Community Benefits
Agreement and just wanted to remind staff that the Board requested a presentation on the
subject at a future meeting.

PUBLIC COMMENT

ADJOURNMENT

With there being no other business to come before the Board, Ms. Forte adjourned the
Special meeting at 9:07 am.

August 23, 2016
Page 6 of 13

. CODE EDC 16-08-02-273
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Defrost

 

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF JULY 20, 2016 

RESOLVED, that the minutes of the Special meeting of July 20, 2016 are hereby
approved and all actions taken by the Directors present at such meeting, as set forth in
such minutes, are hereby in ali respects ratified and approved as actions of the Economic
Development Corporation.

August 23, 2016

Page 7 of 13
500 Griswoid,5uite 2200 - DetroitMichigcm 48226 - (313) 963-2940

CO DC 16-08-03-204
Economic Development Corporation of the City of De r01?

 

ACCEPTANCE OF REPORT FOR JUNE 2016

RESOLVED, that the Treasurer?s Report of Receipts and Disbursements for the
period ending June 30, 2016, as presented at this meeting, is hereby in respects
accepted as action of the Economic Development Corporation.

August 23, 2016

Page 8 of 13
500 Griswold,Suite 2200 - Detroit, Michigan 48226 - (313) 963-2940

. . CODE EDC 16-08-03-205
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detron

 

ACCEPTANCE OF REPORT FOR JULY 2016

RESOLVED, that the Treasurer's Report of Receipts and Disbursements for the
period ending July 31, 2016, as presented at this meeting, is hereby in all respects
accepted as action of the Economic Development Corporation.

August 23, 2016

Page 9 of 13
500 Griswold?uite 2200 - Detroit, Michigan 48226 - (313) 963-2940

 cooE soc 16-03-9502
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroi

 

RESOLUTION APPROVING THE. EDC TO ENTER INTO SUB-SUBRECIPIENT
AGREEMENT WITH DETROIT RIVERFRONT CONSERVANCY, INC. IN CONNECTION
WITH THE CITY OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANT -
DECLARED DISASTER RECOVERY AWARD

WHEREAS, in June, 2016, the Board of Directors of The Economic Development
Corporation of the City of Detroit (the approved the execution of a Subrecipient
Agreement (the ?Subreoipient Agreement") with The City of Detroit, by and through its
Housing and Revitalization Department, (the ?City") in connection with the City?s award of
a Community Development Block Grant for Declared Disaster Recovery 
from the US. Department of Housing and Urban Development and

WHEREAS, under the terms of the Subrecipient Agreement, the EDC will be
primarily responsible for undertaking project management and construction management
activities in connection with the development of the Beltline Greenway project (the
??Greenway?); and

WHEREAS, in connection with the Greenway, certain land acquisition activities
must be undertaken, including but not limited to negotiating terms of purchase with private
land owners, due diligence activities, and the consummation of the purchases; and

WHEREAS, it is expected that the Detroit Riverfront, Inc. (the wiil play an
ongoing role in determining the optimal programming, maintenance and operations
strategy the Greenway given its experience and successes with the Riverwalk and
Dequindre Cut greenways; and

WHEREAS, in order to expedite the land acquisition process for the Greenway
and benefit from the experiences and successes of the DRC with the Riverwalk and
Dequindre Cut greenways, EDC staff proposes entering into a sub-subrecipient
agreement (the ?Agreement") with the DRC pursuant to which the DRC would undertake
the scope of work attached hereto as Exhibit A (the ?Activities?) pursuant to the budget
attached hereto as Exhibit and

WHEREAS, the EDC Board has reviewed the matter and believes that the
undertaking of the Activities by the DRC will result in a project that is in the best interests
of the promotion of economic development in the City of Detroit and consistent with the
statutoriiy mandated purposes.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Board of Directors of the EDC
hereby authorizes the negotiation and execution of the Agreement with the DRC, which
will outline the parties? respective obligations as it relates to the Activities.

BE iT FURTHER RESOLVED, that any two Of?cers, or any one of the Officers
and any one of the Authorized Agents or any two of the Authorized Agents, shall
hereafter'have the authority to negotiate and execute the Agreement and any and all other

Page 10 of 13
500 Griswold,8uite 2200 - Detroit, Michigan 48226 - (313) 963?2940

documents, contracts or other papers and take such other actions necessary or
appropriate to implement the provisions and intent of this resolution on behalf of the EDC.

BE IT FINALLY RESOLVED that all of the acts and transactions of any of?cer or
authorized agent of the EDC, in the name and on behalf of the EDC. relating to matters
contemplated by the foregoing resolutions, which acts would have been approved by the
foregoing resolutions except that such acts were taken prior to execution of these
resolutions, are hereby in all respects confirmed, approved and ratified.

August 23, 2016

Page110f13

00 EDC 16-08-42-114
Economic Development Corporation of the City of De 

 

INDUSTRIAL, PARK PROJECT: AUTHORIZATION TO ACCEPT PROJECJ:
FUNDING FROM THE CITY OF QETROIT AND THE DETROIT ECONOMIC GROWTH
ASSOCIATION TO IMPLEMENT THE GEORGIA STREET ROAD RECONSTRUCTION
PROJECT

WHEREAS, in 2014, the Detroit Economic Growth Association (the 
received a grant from the US. Department of Commerce Economic Development
Administration (the, and with the City of Detroit, undertook and completed the
development of a comprehensive strategy for revitalizing the Mt. Elliott Empioyment
District as the center for a rejuvenated manufacturing cluster for Detroit (the ?Strategy?);
and

WHEREAS, the Mt. Elliott Employment District runs from l-94 generally along Van
Dyke and Mt. Eliiott Roads north to the city limits at Eight Mile, ties in the heart of
the region's automotive manufacturing corridor, and its potential is boistered by its
proximity to major infrastructure assets such as Coleman A. Young Airport, freight rail and
rail yards, and direct access to l~94; and

WHEREAS, the Strategy prioritizes action steps focused among other things on
making infrastructure improvements in order to support the commercial traffic coming from
existing businesses and to support recent development projects such as the $30 million,
500,000 square foot Logistics facility, and the forthcoming $95 million Flex?N-Gate
assembly facility, which together, is anticipated to generate as much as 550 jobs; and

WHEREAS, acting upon the recommendations of the Strategy, the City of Detroit,
the DEGA, and the Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit (the 
have prepared a grant application to the EDA to fund the reconstruction of Georgia Street
from St. Cyril to Mt. Elliott, which is an important east?to-west thoroughfare within the Mt.
Elliott district that requires rebuilding in order to sustain increased commercial truck traffic
traveling to and from Mt. Elliott Street; and

WHEREAS, the EDA grant funding will be used to help fund the Georgia Street
reconstruction project from the investments for Public Works and Economic
Development Facilities Program; and

WHEREAS, the proposed Georgia Street reconstruction project area is situated
within the existing EDC l?94 Industrial Park project area; and

WHEREAS, the EDC is anticipated by the City of Detroit and the DEGA to be the
entity responsible to undertake the Georgia Street reconstruction work, and would accept
EDA PW Grant Funds from the DEGA, and local match funds from the City of Detroit
directly, or from the DEGA under a funding agreement with the City of Detroit; and

Page 12 of 13
500 Griswold,8uite 2200 Detroit, Michigan 48226 - (313) 963-2940

WHEREAS, the total project budget is Three Million Seven Hundred Sixty One
Thousand Four Hundred Five and 00/100 Dollars, of which the City of
Detroit has committed to the DEGA that as its partner, City will contribute up to One Million
Two Hundred Fifty Three Thousand Eight Hundred Two and 00/100 
Dollars to satisfy the 30% local match requirement in order to attract the remaining
70% federal share, being Two Million Five Hundred Seven Thousand Six Hundred Three
and 00l100 Dollars in grant monies coming from the EDA (the PW
Grant Funds?); and

WHEREAS, the City of Detroit Mayor?s Office recognizes the role of the EDC as
its partner, acknowledges that the EDC is acting in cooperation with the City of Detroit and
the DEGA, recognizes the role in implementing the Georgia reconstruction project,
and desires to have the Detroit City Council formally acknowledge the EDC as a project
partner through an adopted resolution.

NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the EDC Board does hereby
acknowledge and accept the EDC's role as a co?applicant and project partner with DEGA
and the City of Detroit.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the EDC Board authorizes the acceptance of
the EDA PW Grant Funds.

BE lT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the EDC Board authorizes the acceptance of
One Million Two Hundred Fifty-Three Thousand Eight Hundred Two and 00/100
Dollars from the DEGA or the City, as applicable, to help pay for the local
match portion of the Georgia Street reconstruction project.

BE lT FURTHER RESOLVED, that any two authorized agents of the EDC (those
being Rodrick Miller, Glen Long Jr., Moddie Turay, Malinda Jensen, Michael Rafferty, and
Kelly Shovan) shall hereafter have the authority to negotiate and execute any and all
agreements, documents, contracts, or other papers necessary or to take any actions
necessary to implement the provisions and intent of this resolution on behalf of the EDC.

BE IT RESOLVED that all of the acts and transactions of any authorized
agent of the EDC, in the name and on behalf of the EDC, relating to matters contemplated
by the foregoing resolutions, which acts would have been approved by the foregoing
resolutions except that such acts were taken prior to execution of these resolutions, are
hereby in all respects confirmed, approved and ratified.

August 23, 2017

Page130f13

