MINUTES OF MEETING
WAYNE COUNTY ELECTION COMMISSION
MONDAY, AUGUST 31, 2015 – 2:30 P.M.
COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL BUILDING - ROOM 700C
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

Call to Order:

The meeting was called to order at 2:41p.m., Monday, August 31, 2015.

Members present: Honorable Judy A. Hartsfield, Chair – Judge of Probate Court
Honorable Cathy M. Garrett, Secretary- Wayne County Clerk
Honorable David Szymanski, Chief Deputy Treasurer
Members absent: Honorable Milton L. Mack Jr., Chairman - Chief Judge, Probate Court
(excused)
Honorable Raymond J. Wojtowicz, Member – Wayne County Treasurer
(excused)
Also present:

Delphine G. Oden, Director, Wayne County Elections
Melanie D. Ryska, Assistant Director, Wayne County Elections
Harnetha Jarrett, Assistant Corporation Counsel
Jennifer Redmond
Gregory P. Mahar

Agenda item:

Consideration of Agenda approval.
Board action on agenda item: Chair Hartsfield requested a
motion to approve the agenda. Member Garrett duly supported by
Member Szymanski moved to adopt the agenda as submitted. The
motion was adopted unanimously by a voice vote.

Agenda item:

Approval of Minutes of February 23, 2015
Board action on agenda item: Chair Hartsfield requested a
motion to approve the minutes of the meeting held on February 23,
2015. Member Szymanski duly supported by Member Garrett
moved to approve the minutes of the meeting held on February 23,
2015. The motion was adopted unanimously by a voice vote.

Agenda item:

Consideration of Request for Temporary Precinct
Consolidation submitted by Romulus City Clerk Ellen L. Craig
Bragg regarding the Woodhaven-Brownstown School District
Election November 3, 2015
Board action on agenda item: Chair Hartsfield requested a

 motion regarding the Request for Temporary Precinct Consolidation
regarding the Woodhaven-Brownstown School District Election
November 3, 2015. Member Garrett duly supported by Member
Szymanski moved to approve the request for temporary precinct
consolidation for the Woodhaven-Brownstown School District
Election November 3, 2015. The motion was adopted unanimously
by a voice vote.
Agenda item:

Approval of Ballot Printing for Cross-Jurisdictional School
Districts
Board action on agenda item: Chair Hartsfield indicated that all
members should have received a copy of the proof ballots with the
proposed language. Member Szymanski inquired if the Clerk’s staff
had reviewed and was in conformity with the requirements.
Member Garrett confirmed that it had been reviewed and was
correct. Member Szymanski duly supported by Member Garrett
moved for approval of Ballot Printing for Cross-Jurisdictional School
Districts. The motion was adopted unanimously by a voice vote.

Agenda item:

New Business. None

Agenda item:

Public Comment. None

Agenda item:

Adjournment. Member Szymanski stated the meeting was
adjourned.
Meeting adjourned at 2:45 p.m.

 