CHICAGO PLAN COMMISSION
121 North LaSalle Street
10:00 A.M.
City Council Chambers
2nd Floor, City Hall
Chicago, Illinois 60602
May 17, 2018
MINUTES
PRESENT
Les Bond, Jr.*
Martin Cabrera*
Raul Garza*
Gary Gardner*
Fran Grossman*
Mike Kelly*
Sarah Lyons*
Terry Peterson*
David Reifman*
Rebekah Scheinfeld*
Patti Scudiero*
Linda Searl*
Smita Shah*
Alderman Daniel Solis*
Alderman Tom Tunney
Reverend Albert Tyson

ABSENT
Alderman Walter Burnett
Alderman Edward Burke
Mayor Rahm Emanuel
Laura Flores
Alderman Joseph Moore
Alderman Proco Joe Moreno

A. The Chairman called the May 17, 2018, Regular Hearing of the Chicago Plan Commission,
to order at 10:12 AM and then undertook a roll call to establish the presence of a quorum; the
hearing commenced with 14 members present(*). A court reporter was present to record the
proceedings. A transcript is available for the purpose of pursuing all matters in greater detail
and is a part of the permanent public record.
B. A motion by Terry Peterson, seconded by Gary Grossman, to approve the Minutes of the
April 19, 2018, Regular Hearing of the Chicago Plan Commission, was approved by a 14-0
vote.
C. MATTERS SUBMITTED PURSUANT TO
REFFERAL ACT.

THE

INTER-AGENCY PLANNING

1. A motion by Smita Shah, seconded by Terry Peterson, to approve a resolution
recommending a proposed ordinance authorizing the modification of the boundaries of
the Chicago Park District-owned property in Jackson Park to be transferred to the City of
Chicago for the Obama Presidential Center, as previously approved by resolution adopted
by the Chicago Plan Commission on March 9, 2015, and ordinance adopted by the City
Council of the City of Chicago on March 18, 2015, was approved by a 14-0 vote; Mike

 Kelly and Rebekah Scheinfeld recused themselves from the vote; Aldermen Walter
Burnett and Daniel Solis voted to approve via proxy. (18-039-21; 5th Ward)
2. A resolution BY Fran Grossman, seconded by Les Bond, Jr., to approve a proposed
ordinance authorizing a long-term ground lease of approximately 19.3 acres of land
within Jackson Park to The Barack Obama Foundation for the construction, operation and
maintenance of the Obama Presidential Center, was approved by a 14-0 vote; Mike Kelly
and Rebekah Scheinfeld recused themselves from the vote; Aldermen Walter Burnett and
Daniel Solis voted to approve via proxy. (18-042-21; 5th Ward)
D. MATTERS SUBMITTED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAKE MICHIGAN AND
CHICAGO LAKEFRONT PROTECTION ORDINANCE AND/OR THE CHICAGO
ZONING ORDINANCE:
1. A motion by Patti Scudiero, seconded by Linda Searl, to approve a proposed planned
development, submitted by The Barack Obama Foundation, for the property generally
located at 5901-6201 South Stony Island Avenue, was approved by a 14-0 vote; Mike
Kelly and Rebekah Scheinfeld recused themselves from the vote; Aldermen Walter
Burnett and Daniel Solis voted to approve via proxy. A motion by Terry Peterson,
seconded by Linda Searl, to approve a proposed Chicago Lakefront Protection Ordinance
application, submitted by The Barack Obama Foundation, for the property generally
located at 5901-6201 South Stony Island Avenue and within the Public-Use Zone of the
Lake Michigan and Chicago Lakefront Protection District, was approved by a 12-0 vote;
Mike Kelly and Rebekah Scheinfeld recused themselves from the vote. The site is
currently zoned POS-1 (Parks and Open Space) and will remain as such prior to the
applicant constructing: (i) a 235’-tall building with cultural exhibit and office space; (ii)
two, two-story cultural buildings with exhibit, program, office and public space; and, (iii)
a two-story athletic and community center. Public open space and a below-grade,
accessory, vehicular parking garage will also be established with no more than 450 such
parking spaces. (19495; 721; 5th Ward)
2. A motion by Smita Shah, seconded by Raul Garza, to approve a proposed Lake Michigan
and Chicago Lakefront Protection Ordinance application, submitted by the Chicago
Department of Transportation, for the property generally located at 6225 South Stony
Island Avenue and within the Public-Use Zone of the Lake Michigan and Chicago
Lakefront Protection District, was approved by a 12-0 vote; Mike Kelly and Rebekah
Scheinfeld recused themselves from the vote. The site is currently zoned POS-1 (Parks
and Open Space) and will remain as such prior to the applicant closing certain public
rights-of way and performing improvements to the remaining roadway network in order
to accommodate future facilities proposed to be constructed within Jackson Park and the
subsequently diverted vehicular, bicycle and pedestrian traffic. (722; 5th Ward)
3. A motion by Linda Searl, seconded by Alderman Tom Tunney, to approve a proposed
Lake Michigan and Chicago Lakefront Protection Ordinance application, submitted by
the Chicago Park District, for the property generally located at 6225 South Stony Island
Avenue and within the Public-Use Zone of the Lake Michigan and Chicago Lakefront
Protection District, was approved by a 12-0 vote; Mike Kelly and Rebekah Scheinfeld
recused themselves from the vote. The site is currently zoned POS-1 (Parks and Open

 Space) and will remain as such prior to the applicant constructing an outdoor, multipurpose track and athletic field. (723; 5th Ward)
A motion by Reverend Albert Tyson, seconded by Patti Scudiero to adjourn the May 17, 2018,
Regular Hearing of the Chicago Plan Commission at 5:17 PM, was approved by a 12-0 vote.

 