DETROIT LAND BANK AUTHORITY

 

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
GUARDIAN BUILDING
500 Griswold St, Suite 1200 Detroit, Michigan
(Belle Isle Conference Room)

Friday, January 29,, 2016
2:00 PM

MINUTES

Present: Marsha Bruhn
Richard Hosey
Patricia PernelI?Shelton
Erica Ward Gerson

Absent: Larry Lipa
Others Present: Detroit Land Bank Authority (DLBA) staff
CALL TO ORDER

Chairperson Ward Gerson called the January 29, 2016 meeting to order at 2:07 PM.

ROLL CALL
Four of five board members were present and a quorum was met.

ADOPTION OF THE AGENDA

Chairperson Ward Gerson called for the adoption of the agenda, amended to include XI.
Executive Session. Motion by Member Bruhn to adopt the agenda. Supported by Member
Hosey. MOTION APPROVED.

REVIEW AND APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Motion by Member Hosey to adopt the December 15, 2015 minutes. Supported by Member
Bruhn. MOTION APPROVED.

PUBLIC COMMENT
Chairperson Ward Gerson opened the meeting to public comment, noting that none was
offered.

EXECUTIVE REPORT

Carrie Lewand-Monroe, Executive Director, provided an update to the Board. Mrs. Lewand-
Monroe reported the past month?s focus was beginning the next round of HHF Demolition,
which commenced on January 5, 2016. Mrs. Lewand-Monroe reported that she and
representatives from the Detroit Building Authority presented to City Council on the HHF
program and received positive feedback. Mrs. Lewand-Monroe commended Acquisitions Land
Reuse Director, Pura Bascos, for achieving the January 31, 2016 drawdown deadline ahead of

schedule. Mrs. Lewand-Monroe explained that meeting this deadline is crucial to future HHF
grant allocations, as the Treasury Department is finalizing the fund allocation process, which will
likely heavily involve municipalities? past abilities to appropriately, and timely, draw down on
funds. Mrs. Lewand-Monroe reported the Demolition program is still undergoing 2 audits: by
the City Inspector General, anticipated to be complete within the next month, and the City
Auditor, which anticipates completion in the spring. Finally, Mrs. Lewand-Monroe announced
that the City?s Open Data portal launched, providing public access to key demolition data in real-
time. Regarding Dispositions, Mrs. Lewand-Monroe reported working with University of
Michigan to be the subject of a master?s capstone project, which would focus on reviewing DLBA
Disposition programs for efficiencies. Mrs. Lewand?Monroe announced an award of 
from Bank of America to fund asbestos surveying for demolition, demolition and scopes of work
for auction homes. Mrs. Lewand-Monroe addressed questions from the Board and a discussion
ensued. Member Hosey requested that DLBA inquire as to whether Round 4 of HHF funds might
be used for initial phases of home rehab, also known as ?demolition.? Mrs. Lewand-Monroe
concluded her report noting that auction sales continued to increase and providing the dates for
the next round of side lot fairs (February 20, March 5, and March 19, 2016).

STAFF REPORTS

Acquisitions and Land Reuse.

Pura Bascos, Acquisitions and Land Reuse Director, confirmed that Round 3 of HHF has started.
Mrs. Bascos indicated that approximately is committed, which is anticipated to
commission 1,200 demolitions.

Disposition.

Carrie Lewand?Monroe, Executive Director, provided the Disposition update. Mrs. Lewand-
Monroe discussed the ramp up for Direct Sales programs in 2016. Mrs. Lewand-Monroe noted
review of the 2016 Blight Bundle is ongoing, but that the majority of parcels are anticipated to
be vacant land. Charity Dean, Sales and Programs Manager, also reported to the Board, noting
that the Occupied Program is going well. All legal documents are finalized and pre-closings are
scheduled to begin February 15, 2016 with a goal of5 per week.

LegaL
Report was tabled to be provided after Executive Session.

Public Affairs.

Craig Fahle, Public Affairs Director, distributed a handout and provided an update. Mr. Fahle
reported that media coverage for the Detroit Land Bank Authority has been slow this month,
allowing for a renewed focus on sharpening customer service and public outreach, including
extensive customer service training for the Public Affairs Team. Mr. Fahle reported continued
success with new advertising and marketing strategies, and announced 2 new newsletters and a
brochure are forthcoming. Mr. Fahle reported attendance at open houses has been strong and
shared results from the new survey tool used to collect data from attendees. Member Bruhn
requested Mr. Fahle to report on the city of residence of open house attendees and auction
winners. Mr. Fahle also reported that community outreach efforts continue to go well,
especially since hiring a part time staff to make phone calls to the communities informing them
of block clubs.

STANDING COMMITTEE REPORTS

Finance and Audit.

Member Hosey reported the Finance team?s progress and the importance of creating and
presenting better reports and presentations with illustrative graphics. Member Hosey reported
that the team is placing a hold on the roll-out of accounting concepts until the budget is
complete.

Project Review.

Member Bruhn provided the Project Review update on behalf of Member Lipa. Member Bruhn
reported the committee has been working on Economic Development procedures. Member
Bruhn suggested a Board tour of the DLBA properties and areas where programs are underway
during the spring or summer of this year. Mike Brady, General Counsel, agreed to work on
specifics for the Board tour.

Community Engagement.

Member PernelI?Shelton reported that she has been attending the City Council and District
Manager Community meetings. Member Pernell-Shelton discussed the marketing strategies
discussed during the Public Affairs report and requested an increase in email traffic regarding
side lot sales and fairs, in addition to adding all Board Members to the DLBA email list.

REPORT

Michelle Story-Stewart, Chief Financial Officer, provided the December 2015 Financial report,
provided an overview to the group and discussion ensued. The Board requested that future
financial figures presented to the Board not include accounting adjustments, in addition to
requesting a report on budget-to-actual report on sales revenue

OLD BUSINESS
Chairperson Ward Gerson opened the floor for any Old Business. None was outstanding.

NEW BUSINESS

Resolutions.

Resolution 01-01-2016, regarding authorizing the Detroit Land Bank Authority to enter into a
contract for Marketing/Advertising services. Mr. Fahle provided an overview of the contract and
discussion ensued. Motion by Member Hosey. Supported by Member Bruhn. MOTION
APPROVED.

Resolution 01-02-2016, regarding adopting procedures governing the disposition of properties
to support City of Detroit Economic Development projects. Jano Hanna, Acquisitions and Land
Reuse Assistant Deputy Director, provided an overview of the resolution and a discussion
ensued. Motion by Member Hosey. Supported by Member Bruhn. MOTION APPROVED.

Resolution 1-03-2016, regarding authorizing the Executive Director to negotiate and sign an
amended agreement for funds for certain renovation projects. Chairperson Ward Gerson
provided an overview of the resolution and a discussion ensued. Motion by Member Hosey.
Supported by Member Pernell-Shelton. MOTION APPROVED.

[At the June 7, 2016 Board Meeting, a corrective roll call vote was held pursuant to MCL
15.270l5) to address a potential procedural deficiency for the January 29, 2016 Closed Session.
Secretary Raheem called roll for each Board Member for the January 29,2016 Closed Session,
Unanimously Approved.]

Chairperson Ward Gerson dismissed for Closed Session at 3:07 pm.

CLOSED SESSION
in accordance with the State of Michigan?s Open Meetings Act, Section 8, Closed Sessions are

permitted. The conditions of such a Closed Session includes the following: 1) The Session must be
for a ?limited purpose,? 2) the Session must be conducted during the course of an open meeting
and 3) per Section 9(1) of the the minutes of the open meeting must include the purpose for
which a closed session is held.

It is noted that the purpose of the Closed Session was called for a permitted purpose as described
within OMA, Section ?to consider material exempt from discussion or disclosure by state or
federal statute,? specifically, Section 13(1)(g) of Michigan?s Freedom of Information Act, which
protects the attorney-client privilege.

The meeting returned to public session at 3:52 pm, at which time General Counsel Mike Brady
provided the update for the Legal Team.

ADJOURNMENT
There being no further business, Chairperson Ward Gerson adjourned the meeting at 4:05 pm.

