DETROIT LAND BANK AUTHORITY
Minutes of Board of Directors Meeting
January 21, 2014
65 Cadillac Square, Suite 3200

Authority Members Present
Erica Ward –Gerson
Marsha Bruhn
Richard Hosey
Patricia Pernell-Shelton
Authority Members Absent
Larry Lipa
Public Comment
None

Adoption of the Agenda
Ms. Ward-Gerson moved to amend the agenda to move the Audit report from
Unfinished Business to the Treasurers Report and also to add an interview of the
candidate for the Executive Director to the New Business section. Mr. Hosey made a
motion to amend the agenda; seconded by Ms. Bruhn. The motion passed.
Approval of Minutes
Ms. Bruhn made a motion to approve the November and December minutes; seconded
by Ms. Ward-Gerson. The motion passed.

1

 Executive Directors Report
Ms. Johnson indicated that an overview of the agency and the status of various federal
grants will be given by Ms. Jones during the Managing Directors Report. Ms. Johnson
also welcomed the new Board and reviewed the agency mission to repurpose vacant,
abandoned and foreclosed property. She also review the unique set of powers that the
authority had by describing an ability to quiet title, suspend taxes and confer a
brownfield designation for properties in the Land Bank and an ability to recapture 50%
of the taxes for properties coming back on line for a five year period.
Treasurer Report
Ms. Bush introduced Jay Wilde from Alan Young and Assoc. to present the new Board
with the results of the third agency audit. Mr. Wilde indicated that although the audit
had a late start, the internal control structure, completeness of the information and the
work of the finance staff made the job go very smoothly. He indicated the draft report
was also presented at the December Board meeting and will be followed by another
report, the Single Audit report, to be presented at a later Board meeting.
Mr. Wilde also indicated the Management Discussion section contained important
information about the agency and summarized the key elements of the report. This
section will be briefly updated to incorporate some revised information received in
December. He also referred to p.7 of the Audit and reviewed the information there
highlighting the two accounting methods used: modified accrual and full accrual. He
went on to say the total agency assets are $6.7 million, the liabilities are $ 1.6 million
and revenues exceeded expenses by about $173,224. Mr. Wilde also talked about the
various sections of the audit such as the notes section and the budgetary comparison
schedule.
Ms. Ward-Gerson then asked about the timing of the audit given the June end of the
fiscal year. Mr. Wilde pointed out the various circumstances that delayed the audit this
year that should not be repeated next year.
Ms. Ward-Gerson made a motion to accept the audit; by approving:
[RESOLUTION 01-04-2014]-RESOLUTION ACCEPTING THE DETROIT LAND BANK
AUTHORITY AUDIT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2013. Motion seconded by Ms. Bruhn and
the motion passed.
Next Ms. Bush presented the December financial report. She indicated that approx.
$900,000 remained in cash down from the previous month due to the repayment of
outstanding Lines of Credit, rent, and financing NSP3 receivables. Accounts
receivables were about $1.1mm due from the City of Detroit. Accounts payable were
about $58,000. Mr. Hosey asked about the restrictions on the $1.5 mm grant from the
city and are we in compliance. Ms. Bush indicated the funds are being spent as if they
are unrestricted. If there are restrictions then another source of funding would be
2

 needed. Ms. Ward-Gerson asked if there was a line of credit that could be used if it was
determined later there are restrictions on the $1.5mm. Ms. Bush indicated the $2mm
LISC Line of Credit previously awarded for NSP could be an option but would need to
be renewed. She next presented the P&L Statement.
Ms. Bruhn asked about the contract for fund development services and if the contract
was still in effect. Ms. Johnson indicated the contract terms she reviewed had terms
that run through September, 2014.
Ms. Bruhn made a motion to accept the Treasurers Report; seconded by Ms. PernellShelton. The motion passed.

Managing Directors Report
Ms. Jones gave an overview of the agency and current programs and their status. NSP
allowed the agency to acquire 191 properties and renovate and sell 27 properties. Two
others were renovated and are leased. The Hardest Hit Blight Program will allow for the
demolition of thousands of properties in 6 target areas in partnership with the state land
bank. She also described the new relationship with the Institute for Population Health
and a focus on the interplay between demolition and lead poisoning. Ms. Jones then
introduced the new staff
Mr. Hosey asked about the status of NSP3 and Ms. Jones indicated of the $2.9mm
awarded about $1.2mm remains. She went on to discuss how DLBA acquired
properties on behalf of the city then sold them to preselected developers for renovation.
About 5 properties in Morningside are left to convey.
Ms. Jones also noted an unresolved issue is sufficient capital to complete renovation
work on NSP properties acquired at the request of PDD. Program income, proceeds
from home sales, could be an option, or the city could provide dedicated revenue from
either Block Grant or the Home program to complete the work.
The issue of insuring the portfolio came up and the insurance policy expires in April.
Ms. Bush indicated that NSP funds were used to prepay the insurance for that portion of
the portfolio, about 160 properties and after April the cost will be about $10,000 per
month
Ms. Bruhn asked for more detail re: the HHF Blight Program and Ms. Jones indicated
the amount of the contract and that all transactions were reimbursable; that DLBA
partnered with the state land bank to act as a demolition program manager; that work
would be bid out to a preselected list of survey and demo contractors and the cleared
lots would be part of the DLBA portfolio. Next, she explained the DLBA would work with
the leadership of the target areas for appropriate property disposition. Ms. Jones also
discussed the potential to use the property maintenance line item as a resource to
establish an in-house property maintenance unit. Ms. Bruhn asked if the basements will
3

 be removed and Ms. Jones indicated generally yes unless the site is part of an
ecological project to address storm water. Ms. Jones indicated she would provide her
presentation to the Board via Dropbox.
New Business
ELECTION OF OFFICERS

Ms. Gerson-Ward was elected Chairperson; Ms. Bruhn was elected Vice-Chair and
Secretary and Mr. Hosey was elected Treasurer.
Selection of DLBA Committees [RESOLUTION 01-01-2014]
Ms. Ward-Gerson indicated the roster of DLBA subcommittees should be: Finance,
Project Review and the creation of a new one to work with the community, Community
Engagement.
Mr. Hosey made a motion to adopt the resolution; seconded by Ms. Pernell-Shelton.
The motion passed.
Committee Assignments
Community Engagement: To be chaired by Ms. Pernell-Shelton and also serving will
be Ms. Bruhn.
Finance:
To be chaired by Mr. Hosey and also serving will be Ms.
Pernell-Shelton.
Project Review:
To be chaired by Mr. Lipa and also serving will be Ms.
Bruhn.
Ms. Bruhn made a motion to support the committee assignments; seconded by Mr.
Hosey. The motion passed.
DLBA BOARD MEETING SCHEDULE

Ms. Ward-Gerson proposed the 2014 Board meeting calendar to be as follows:
2014 Calendar
February 25
March 11
April 15
May 20
June 17
July 29

August 19
September 16
October 21
November 18
December 16

Mr. Hosey made a motion to adopt the meeting schedule; seconded by Ms. Bruhn. The
motion passed.
4

 CONSIDERATION OF AMENDED AND RESTATED BY-LAWS AND ARTICLES OF
INCORPORATION – [RESOLUTION 1-02 -2014]

Ms. Ward-Gerson introduced the item and indicated the most recent change in the
Second Intergovernmental Agreement between the City of Detroit and the State Land
Bank made it was necessary to amend the current DLBA By-Laws and the Articles of
Incorporation. Ms. Bruhn made a motion to approve the Resolution; seconded by Mr.
Hosey. The motion passed.
Ms. Bruhn asked if there was clarity regarding the terms of the new Board members
appointed by the Mayor. Ms. Ward-Gerson indicated Corporation Counsel was sorting
out the terms and preparing letters of appointment.

CONSIDERATION OF CORPORATE SIGNATORIES – [RESOLUTION 1-03-2014]
Ms. Ward-Gerson introduced the item and indicated the usual signatories on the DLBA
corporate bank account are the Treasurer, Chair and Vice-Chair and two of the office
holders have changed. This change requires new signatories and staff has
recommended that to the Board. Mr. Hosey made a motion to adopt the resolution;
seconded by Ms. Pernell-Shelton. The motion passed.
INTERVIEW OF EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR CANDIDATE
Ms. Ward-Gerson introduced Rick Wiener and asked that he share his background and
why he is interested in the position. Mr. Wiener indicated that he was born and raised in
Detroit and attended WSU and Detroit College of Law. He was a former school teacher
and has been very involved in government. Mr. Wiener worked for the state legislature,
was the chief of staff for Governor Granholm as well as the Michigan Director for
congressman Levin. He shared he was enrolled in a Master’s Program at Eastern
Michigan University Historic Preservation
Mr. Wiener said he is interested in the position because of the role the DLBA would play
in the rebuilding of Detroit by repurposing property and thereby rebuilding vibrant
neighborhoods. In addition he indicated an awareness of the challenge presented and
stated early priorities would include building the capacity of the organization, focusing
the team and driving projects. He indicated the Mayor’s vision for the DLBA is to be a
driving force for removing blight through nuisance abatement activities. Lastly, Mr.
Wiener indicated these types of challenges are very interesting and that is why he is
interested in the position.
At the end of the interview Ms. Ward Gerson- asked and the Board agreed that it was
time to move into closed session for the purpose of discussing the Executive Director
position. Closed session started on or about 3:20 pm. Members of the staff and public

5

 left the meeting and Burney Johnson and court reporter Wash remained to capture the
discussion for the record.
Ms. Ward-Gerson made a motion to end the closed session; seconded by Mr. Hosey.
The motion passed.
On or about 3:26 pm the Board returned to Open Session.
Ms. Ward - Gerson indicated consideration of [RESOLUTION 1-05-2014] AN
EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT WITH RICK WIENER TO SERVE AS THE EXECUTIVE
DIRECTOR. Mr. Hosey made a motion to approve the resolution; seconded by Ms.
Pernell-Shelton. The motion passed.
Mr. Wiener thanked the Board and asked for input from the Board on various agency
issues.
Correspondence
Ms. Ward-Gerson indicated she received a letter from Mr. Lipa, who was traveling in
Asia, endorsing the nomination for the Board officers and supporting Mr. Wiener for
Executive Director.

Ms. Ward-Gerson asked for a motion to adjourn the meeting. Ms. Bruhn made the
motion; seconded by Ms. Pernell-Shelton. The motion passed.
The meeting was adjourned at 3:40 pm.

6

 