MINUTES OF THE MEETING
COMMISSION ON CHICAGO LANDMARKS
March 5, 2015

The Commission on Chicago Landmarks held their regularly scheduled meeting on March 5,
2015. The meeting was held at the City Hall, 121 N. LaSalle St., 2nd Floor - City Council
Chambers, Chicago, Illinois. The meeting began at 12:54 p.m.
PHYSICALLY PRESENT:
Rafael Leon, Chairman
Andrew Mooney, Secretary
Commissioner, Department of Planning and Development
Mary Ann Smith
Richard Tolliver
Ernest Wong
ABSENT:
Jim Houlihan, Vice Chairman
Anita Blanchard
Tony Hu
ALSO PHYSICALLY PRESENT:
Eleanor Gorski, Director of Historic Preservation, Department of Planning and
Development
Members of the Public
(The list of those in attendance is on file at the Commission office.)
A recording of this meeting is on file at the Department of Planning and Development, Historic
Preservation Division offices and is part of the public record of the regular meeting of the
Commission on Chicago Landmarks.

Chairman Leon called the meeting to order. He announced that Commissioner Victor Ignacio
Dziekiewicz had passed away and asked for a moment of silence.
1. Approval of the Minutes of Previous Meeting
Regular Meeting of February 5, 2015
Motioned by Wong, seconded by Smith. Approved unanimously. (5-0)

 2. Schedule for a Public Hearing on Final Landmark Recommendation – Announcement
Announced:
FULTON-RANDOLPH MARKET DISTRICT
WARD 27
Primarily the 800- to 1100-blocks of W. Fulton Market Street, the 900-block of W. Lake
Street, and the 800- to 1000-block of W. Randolph Street
The request-for-consent period expired December 12, 2014. A public hearing will be held:
Date:
Location:
Time:
Hearing Officer:

Friday, April 10, 2015
121 N. LaSalle St., Room 201-A
9:30 a.m.
Richard Tolliver

3. Adopt-a-Landmark Floor Area Bonus – Certificate of Completion of Landmark Project
(Former) ENGINE COMPANY 42 FIREHOUSE
228 W. Illinois Street

WARD 42

Floor area bonus under Chicago Zoning Ordinance pursuant to Sec. 17-4-1022 of the
Municipal Code as part of a residential and business Planned Development No. 1092 at 220228 West Illinois Street
Dijana Cuvalo presented the report. Resolution to recommend to City Council approval of
the Certificate of Completion of Landmark Project for the Adopt-a-Landmark Floor Area
Bonus to benefit the (Former) Engine Company 42 Firehouse, 228 West Illinois Street.
Motioned by Smith, seconded by Tolliver. Approved unanimously (5-0).

4. Permit Review Committee Reports
Report on Projects Reviewed at the February 5, 2015 Permit Review Committee
Meeting
Commissioner Wong presented the report from the Permit Review Committee meeting of
February 5, 2015 (see attached).

Report on Permit Decisions by the Commission Staff for the month of February 2015
Dijana Cuvalo presented the staff report for the month of February 2015 (see attached).

 Chairman Leon announced that this was the last meeting for staff member Beth Johnson.
5. Adjournment
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 1:07 p.m.
Motioned by Tolliver, seconded by Smith. Approved unanimously. (5-0)

Andrew Mooney, Secretary

 MEETING MINUTES

PERMIT REVIEW COMMITTEE
COMMISSION ON CHICAGO LANDMARKS
April 9, 2015
The Permit Review Committee (PRC) met on March 5, 2015, at 1:15 p.m. The meeting
was held at 121 N. LaSalle St., in City Council Chambers.
Present:

Ernest Wong, Chair
Rafael Leon
Mary Ann Smith
Richard Tolliver

Staff:

Eleanor Gorski, Director of Historic Preservation
Dijana Cuvalo
Kandalyn Hahn
Cynthia Roubik
Lawrence Shure

The following projects were reviewed by the PRC:
1. Madison/Wabash CTA Station
42nd Ward
Jewelers Row District
Continued Review: Proposed demolition of the existing Madison/Wabash CTA
Station and construction of the Washington/Wabash replacement station.
Action:

The following findings were approved unanimously:

(A) The Committee approved the demolition of the Madison/Wabash station pursuant
to the Jewelers Row District Designation Ordinance and the Master Plan for the
Loop Elevated Rehabilitation and Historic Preservation; and,
(B) The Committee found that the new construction project meets criteria a), b), c),
and d) for New Construction contained in Article III of the Commission’s Rules
and Regulations and the Commission’s Guidelines for Alterations to Historic
Buildings and New Construction, and therefore, the project will not have an
adverse effect on the significant historical and architectural features of the
landmark district and approve the projects as submitted.
2. 919 N. Michigan
2nd Ward
Palmolive Building
Proposed replacement of 16 non-historic two-story storefront bays and repairs to
historic cast iron columns and surrounds.

 Action:

Approved unanimously with the following conditions:

1. The proposed repair of the original cast iron fluted columns and replacement
of deteriorated metal work and recreation of missing decorative metal features
based on historic documentation are approved. The applicant proposed
further detailed condition analysis of the original 12 cast iron columns in the
meeting. This report with repair/replacement scope with details shall be
reviewed for approval by Historic Preservation staff. A detailed means and
methods description of repair and replacement of the metalwork, and
contractor qualifications to show their expertise with historic cast iron work
(minimum of 5 years of experience) shall be included in the permit plans;
2. The new storefronts, proposed to incorporate large glazed windows, a raised
stone base, and vertical mullions with a stepped top that are in a similar
configuration to the original storefront design, are approved. Enlarged
dimensioned details shall be included in the permit plans;
3. As proposed, the historic columns and header panel frames shall be painted to
match the original color determined from a paint analysis. The new
storefronts shall be a light metallic color, as proposed, and consistent with the
original nickel trim and doors. All material samples shall be reviewed and
approved by Historic Preservation staff prior to order and installation; and,
4. The locations and sizes of proposed signage per document dated 2/17/15 are
conceptually approved. For large tenants with multiple storefront windows,
signs within the windows shall only be at every other bay to minimize visual
clutter.
3. 1024 N. Hoyne
2nd Ward
Ukrainian Village District
Proposed construction of a new rear stair enclosure, attached garage with roof deck,
and new first floor balcony and deck with side yard access.
Action:

Approved unanimously with the following conditions:

1. Details of the front façade windows and doors are to be submitted with the
permit plans. Replacement windows are to be wood or clad-wood, and the
existing brick molds are to be retained and repaired or replaced to match;
2. As proposed, new brick and stone masonry and mortar is to match the historic
colors, textures and joint profiles. Historic Preservation staff shall review and
approve masonry and mortar samples prior to order and installation; and,
3. Wood railings for the proposed deck and balcony are to be painted or stained,
and supporting posts shall have a decorative cap or profile.
4. 1032 N. Honore
2nd Ward
East Village District
Proposed rehabilitation and additions to a 2-story masonry structure, including
cornice reconstruction and rooftop addition.
Action:

Approved unanimously with the following conditions:

 1. Details of the front façade windows and doors are to be submitted with the
permit plans. Windows are to be wood or clad-wood, and the existing brick
molds are to be retained and repaired or replaced to match. As proposed, the
front door trim and mullions are to be retained and repaired;
2. As proposed, the stair enclosure on the north elevation shall be clad with dark,
non-reflective metal panels;
3. As proposed, the concrete masonry units (CMU) on the north elevation shall
be integrally colored to match the existing common brick. The metal cladding
on the south elevation shall have a dark, non-reflective finish;
4. The east elevation of the rear garage shall be integrally colored CMU to match
the existing common brick rather than grey CMU as proposed.
5. 1615 W. Chicago
1st Ward
Goldblatt Bros. Department Store
Proposed removal of the rooftop wood water tank due to deteriorated and unsafe
conditions.
Action:

Approved unanimously with the following conditions

1. As proposed, the existing water tank shall be removed due to its deteriorated
and unsafe condition per Rubinos & Mesia Engineers, Inc., report dated
November 6, 2014. Prior to the removal of the existing water tank and any
other associated elements, dimensioned drawings shall be prepared and
submitted with the demolition permit application to document the existing
conditions and help guide the design of the replacement water tower in the
future; and;
2. As proposed, a new non-functioning replacement water tank shall be designed
and installed in the same location as the existing in conjunction with future
restoration projects on the facility, including tuckpointing and window
replacement on the street-facing facades. The timing of the project is by the
end of 2018 or earlier as funding becomes available. The replacement water
tank shall match the existing in size, overall design, exterior appearance and
other characteristics. The design drawings and proposed materials for the
replacement water tank shall be submitted for Committee review and approval
prior to construction and installation.
6. 227-229 W. Menomonee
43rd Ward
Old Town Triangle District
Proposed exterior and interior rehabilitation including raising the existing frame
building by 2.5’ on a new basement; installing new front stairs/stoop; replacement of
siding, front door and windows; and constructing a new rear addition.
Action:

The Committee did not approve the proposed compromise of raising the
existing frame building by 2’-6” (vote was 3-1 with Commissioner
Tolliver voting against the motion).

                