

CODE EDC 18-06-02-299
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF MAY 22, 2018 MEETING

RESOLVED, that the minutes of the Regular meeting of May 22, 2018 are hereby
approved and all actions taken by the Directors present at such meeting, as set forth in
such minutes, are hereby in all respects ratified and approved as actions of the Economic
Development Corporation.

June 12, 2018

500 Griswold,Sui?re 2200 DetroitMichigon 48226 (313) 963-2940

ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
BOARD OF DIRECTORS REGULAR MEETING
TUESDAY, MAY 22, 2018 8:30 AM.

BOARD MEMBERS PRESENT: Marsha Bruhn

BOARD MEMBERS ABSENT:

SPECIAL DIRECTORS
PRESENT:

SPECIAL DIRECTORS
ABSENT:

OTHERS PRESENT:

Kimberly Clayson
Linda Forte
Matthew Roling
Thomas Stallworth

Maurice Cox (Ex-Officio)

Chris Jackson

John Naglick (Ex?Officio)

Jonathan Queries

Vacancy (due to William Ritsema?s resignation)
Vacancy (due to Monique Claiborne?s resignation)

None

Emily Black (l-94 industrial Park Project)
Marvin Thomas (l-94 Industrial Park Project)

Kenyetta Bridges 
Helen Broughton 
Cleveland Dailey 
Gay Hilger 
Malinda Jensen 
Hafsa Khan 

Paul Kako 

Glen Long 
Rebecca Navin 
Mariangela Pledl 
Orza Robertson 
Kelly Shovan 



Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit

MINUTES OF THE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
BOARD OF DIRECTORS REGULAR MEETING

TUESDAY, MAY 22, 2018

DETROIT ECONOMIC GROWTH CORPORATION

500 GRISWOLD, SUITE 2200 - 8:30 A.M.

CALL TO ORDER

Noting that a quorum was present, Chair Forte called the Regular meeting of the Economic
Development Corporation Board of Directors to order at 8:35 am.

GENERAL
Approval of Minutes

Ms. Forte asked if there were any additions, deletions or corrections to the minutes of the
April 24, 2018 Regular Board meeting. With there being no response, the Board took the
following action:

On a motion by Ms. Bruhn, seconded by Mr. Roling, Resolution Code EDC 18-05-
02-297 was unanimously approved.

Acceptance of Treasurer's Report

Ms. Shovan reviewed the Treasurer?s Report of Receipts and Disbursements for the
month of April 2018 for the benefit of the Board. With there being no questions, the Board
took the following action:

On a motion by Mr. Stallworth, seconded by Mr. Roiing, Resolution Code EDC 18-
05?03?226 was unanimously approved.

PROJ ECTS

l-94 Industrial Park Project: Site Landscape Maintenance Contract with Grace
Management Services, Inc.

Mr. Dailey advised that as part of its ongoing responsibility for the l-94 Industrial Park
Project (the ?Project"), the EDC continues to provide landscape maintenance services
within the confines of Miller Road (south), St. Cyril (east), Mt. Elliott (west), Huber/Grinnell
(north) (the ?Project Area"). The landscape services will continue until the Project Area is
fully developed.

The EDC staff publicly advertised and issued a Request for Proposal in March
2018 for the performance of landscape maintenance services for the Project. The work

May 22, 2018

500 Griswold,Suite 2200 - Detroit,Michigon 48226 - (313) 963-2940

entails the cleanup of debris throughout the Project Area, as well as edging, grass cutting,
and general maintenance of the sixty (60) acres adjoining open thoroughfares within the
Project Area (the ?Work").

EDC staff received three (3) proposals. The staff has reviewed all proposals and
recommends Grace Management Services to provide the Work, as the most responsive
bidder. Grace Management Services has a well-documented work history with the EDC,
the City of Detroit and other municipalities in performing landscaping and site maintenance
on large acreage sites. Grace Management Services bid was Fifty Thousand Five
Hundred Ninety-Nine and 001100 (50,599.00) Dollars per season to perform the Work.
This contract is for a two (2) year period, for the 2018 season and 2019 seasons.

EDC staff therefore recommended that the Board authorize EDC staff to negotiate and
enter into an agreement with Grace Management Services, inc. (the ?Agreement?) in an
amount not?to-exceed Fifty Thousand Five Hundred Ninety-Nine and 00/100 (50,599.00)
Dollars per season for landscape maintenance services for the 2018 and 2019 seasons.

Finally, the EDC staff recommended additional funds to address unforeseen
circumstances for each year in the amount of Seven Thousand Five Hundred Eighty-Nine
and 85/100 (7,589.85) Dollars to be included in the authorization.

A resolution was provided for the Board?s consideration.
With there being no questions or discussion, the Board took the following action:

On a motion by Mr. Roiing, seconded by Mr. Staliworth, Resolution Code EDC 18
05?12?50 was unanimously approved.

i?94 industrial Park Protect: Request to Approve Construction Contract With 
Construction for the Georgia Street Road Reconstruction Protect

Mr. Robertson reported that the Economic Development Corporation in
partnership with the City of Detroit is proposing to remove and reconstruct the existing
Georgia Street between Mt. Elliott Street and St. Cyril Street as part of the l-94 industrial
Subdivision Redevelopment Project. The approximate length of the proposed road
redevelopment (the ?Project") section is 2,750 feet. The road was once part of a residential
development and was designed to provide vehicular access for residents and associated
services. The road has deteriorated and without fuii reconstruction, it would not support
heavy truck movement as it wasn?t originally designed for such use.

in support of the Project, the EDC secured a grant from the Economic Development
Administration and expects to receive required match funding from the City of Detroit
Department of Public Works to sufficiently fund the complete Project. in response, the
EDC has solicited proposals from qualified Michigan Department of Transportation
approved construction firms necessary to complete the Project. The Construction firm will
provide full services to the EDC in conjunction with the City of Detroit Department of Public
Works?City Engineering Division. The Project will be constructed over a six (8) month
period starting June 2018 through November 2018.

The scope of work for the Project shall generally include:

May 22, 2018

1. Removal of all existing street pavement, curbs, sidewalks, signage, and
selected utilities within the project area.

2. installation of a new storm water sewer system within the rights-of~way.

3. Coordination with DTE Energy and the Public Lighting Authority for the
removal and replacement of (or parts of) lighting systems within the rights-
of?way.

4. Coordination with Conrail and other rail contractors for their reconstruction
of the two rail crossings on Georgia 

5. lnstallation of new hydrants, traffic signal, limited driveways, concrete street
pavement and sidewalks.

6. Installation of limited hot-mix asphalt at road transition areas.

7. Installation of pavement markings and signage within the general project
area.

8. Restoration of the disturbed areas with topsoil, seed, and mulch.

The EDC staff issued a Request for Proposals on March 13, 2018 for construction
services. The respondents to the RFP submitted proposals, which were reviewed by the
EDC and its engineering team to determine the most responsive firm to complete the
scope of work. Proposals were received on April 12, 2018.

The EDC received four (4) responses to the RFP:
Construction (6670 Sims Dr., Sterling Heights)
Blaze Contracting, Inc. (5640 St. Jean, Detroit)
Mark Anthony Contracting, Inc. (4844 Old Plank Road, Milford)
Major Cement Company (15347 Dale Street, Detroit)

The EDC staff reviewed the proposals and determined that the lowest and most qualified
proposal from Construction to be most responsive. Construction is 3 Sterling
Heights based contractor with experience in performing the services as described in the
scope of work. Construction proposed a notato-exceed amount of Two Million
Seven Hundred Three Thousand One Hundred Eighty~Nine and 00/100 (2,703,189)
Dollars.

EDC staff requested the EDC Board of Directors to authorize a Professional Services
Agreement with Construction to provide the requested services as expressed in the
RFP Scope of Services (see Exhibit 1 Scope) for the not to exceed price of Two Million
Seven Hundred Three Thousand One Hundred Eighty-Nine and 00/100 (2,703,189)
Dollars.

EDC staff also recommended that an owner?s contingency of approximately ten (10)
percent of the contract value or Two Hundred Seventy Thousand Three Hundred Eighteen
and 00/100 (270,318.00) Dollars be established to be dispersed upon the authorization of
any two officers, or any one of the officers and any of the authorized agents of the EDC.
A resolution is attached for your consideration.

Mr. Stallworth noted that the selected contractor was not Detroit based and questioned
whether they would be subcontracting Detroit firms. Mr. Robertson advised that because
this is a Federally funded contract, Executive Orders do not apply; however, he urged
Construction to make an honest effort to hire some Detroit workers.

May 22, 2018

Ms. Navin reminded the Board that as an agency if the State, we are prohibited under the
Michigan Constitution from giving race-based preferences. What the City and we have
done to compensate is adopt Executive Orders. However, because this is a Federally
funded contract, we are prohibited through the restrictions of Federal funds from providing
geographic preference. We must award the contract to the lowest bidder without regard
to geographic location, race or other preferences.

Mr. Stallworth questioned how often we have Federal contracts. Mr. Long reaponded that
the l?94 Georgia Street project and the Motor City Match project are the two major projects
that are Federally funded right now. Ms. Forte questioned the dollar amount of the funding
that comes through the EDC that is Federal funds. Mr. Long stated that Motor City Match
is a $15 million budget and HM which has been around about 20 years is $37 miilion,
which was spent long ago, and out of that is the Georgia Street project which is $3 million.
So we are talking about half of the total budget. The NDC project and the East Riverfront
projects are not Federally funded, so we are abie to the Executive Orders there.

Subsequent to the discussion, the Board took the following action:

On a motion by Mr. Stallworth, seconded by Ms. Clayson, Resolution Code EDC
18?05-12-51 was unanimously approved.

Motor City Match/Motor City Rte-Store: Personal Services Agreement for Michelle L.
Matthews

Ms. Broughton informed that the Economic Development Corporation (EDC) of the City of
Detroit currently administers programs to revitalize Detroit?s commercial corridors and
grow neighborhood business investment using Community Deveiopment Block Grant
funds from the City of Detroit. The EDC entered into a subrecipient agreement
with the City (Contract #2899173) to manage and implement these programs for a term
ending June 2019.

Motor City Match and Motor City Re?Store are two significant initiatives implemented by
DEGC to support commerciai corridor revitalization. Motor City Match, which connects
new or expanding businesses with Detroit?s vacant commercial reai estate provides
competitive grants, loans and counseling to both building owners and business owners
through a quarterly application process. The most recent program, Motor City Re?Store,
is a facade improvement program to grow and retain Detroit?s existing businesses while
improving the physical condition of commercial corridors.

Motor City Match (MCM) has awarded seventy?six (76) Design projects since the inception
of the program and, to date forty?three percent of those who have completed their
design award have subsequently moved forward and won a Cash award. MCM awards
seven projects per quarter to receive architectural design and construction drawings which
prepares the awardees to more accurately estimate the cost of their buiid-cut.

Motor City Re~Store (MCRS) has awarded fifty-two (52) Design awards for the first two
rounds of the program. MCRS projects for existing businesses focus on exterior
improvements only, therefore the total project size may be smaller than an MCM project
however the administrative load for DEGC staff is the same. The volume of awards per

May 22, 2018

quarter for MCRS is three times larger than MCM. Additional administrative assistance
guided by knowledge of development and construction will be invaluable.

While receipt of a design award is not a prerequisite to a cash award, the design track of
each program is an obvious pipeline forthe cash track and getting new businesses opened
and improving the physical condition of commerciai corridors. Therefore, EDC staff has
identified a need to increase internal resources available to the design award tracks of
both programs to better facilitate the awardees progress through their design and move
them quickly to the financing stage by increasing customer touches and scheduled check-
ms.

in addition, the design and buildings team is launching an initiative to educate and assist
new businesses with city licensing and permitting which will be an excellent complement
to the work that will be done by the new District Business Liaisons. Our team will aiso be
coordinating with Design Core Detroit on their Commerce Design initiative which is
focused on increasing inclusive, high-quality design in Detroit.

To assist with the above-described efforts, EDC staff recommended a personal services
agreement with Michelle Matthews for 1950 hours (average of 37.5 hours per week) at
$38 per hour for a not~to~exceed total contract cost of $74,100.00 for the term of June 1,
2018 through May 31, 2019. Ms. Matthews has a background including two years of
business development with a design?build firm, Virtuoso Design+Buiid (VDB), which has
been contracted to provide services to Motor City Match awardees since inception of the
program. Haif of the MCM awardees who have selected an architect have chosen VDB
for their project and have worked with Micheile. Through her work at VDB she also
supported Streetsense consultants on the Retail Market Study for in 2017.
Ms. Matthews has strong organizational skilis, a proactive work styie and experience with
construction and city permitting.

A resoiution was included for the Board?s review and consideration.

Ms. Bruhn questioned if staff interviewed anyone else or was she just selected because
she was working on the project. Ms. Broughton replied that they saw an exemplary person
working with the program and selected her. Ms. Bruhn asked if there was an EDC poiicy
for hiring. Ms. Broughton answered that this is something they have done with other staff
in the past. Mr. Roling added that he knows Michelle personally and she is a great person.
Ms. Bruhn asked if she will continue to do work for Virtuoso. Ms. Broughton stated that
there will be some transition time allotted, but she will be working full time for the EDC.

Mr. Roling asked if our contract prevents EDC from poaching people from them. Ms.
Broughton responded no, and explained that the architectural firms are technical service
providers so the EDC selects the awardees and the awardees select the architects based
on the quality of their work, their responsiveness, their portfolio, and experience, so there
isn?t an opportunity for any preference.

Subsequent to the discussion, the Board took the toilowing action:

On a motion by Mr. Stallworth, seconded by Ms. Clayson, Resoiution Code EDC
18?05?91-663 was unanimously approved.

May 22, 2018

Motor City Re~Store Program: Recommendations for Round 3 Business Awards

Ms. Khan advised that on November 28, 2017, the Motor City Re~Store program
began accepting applications for Round 3 Design and Construction Track Awards. Motor
City Re?Store is a matching facade grant program for existing businesses in Detroit. The
table below describes the levels of award and qualifications.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Awards Awardees must have:
0 Up to $25,000 matching grant per 0 An existing business
winner in the city of Detroit
CONSTRUCTION . Refer to lending partners for . A plan for
AWARD financing improvements
. $2m year . Funds ready for
investment
Awards Awardees must have:
. Up to $10,000 in architectural TA . An existing business
per winner in the city of Detroit
DESIGN - Access to design professionals
AWARD 0 Refer to tending partners for
financing

 

 

 

 

 

When applications closed on January 8, 2018, Motor City Re-Store had received 83
applications for Round 3.

This memorandum and resolution focus on the selection and recommendation of
awardees for:

. Foundation -funded ?Construction" award track receiving cashback grants and
financing assistance

0 CDBG?Funded ?Design? award track receiving cost-shared architectural
design, permitting and bidding assistance for pre?development; and connection
to financing assistance as needed.

First, staff verified business eligibility based on self?reported data submitted in the
application for the following five criteria:

1. The business is incorporated and has a registered and DUNS priorto receiving
a grant award

2. The business is located in and wishes to remain in Detroit for at least five years

3. The business is majority?owned by a person who is at least 18 years or older

4. The business and all owners are in good standing with the City of Detroit, State of
Michigan and and

5. The business is not part of a franchise.

May 22, 2018

Second, staff sorted applications into appropriate award tracks and reviewed all
applications to determine finalists. Finalist applicants were identified as follows:

- ?Design" track applicants are existing Detroit business needing CDBG-funded
architectural design assistance. Finalists were selected based on eligibility and
feasibility of their project. in total, sixty~four (64) ?Design? finalists were
selected.

. ?Construction? track applicants have signed and sealed construction drawings
or ready-to-bid projects that do not require construction drawings. Finalists
were selected based on eligibility and feasibility of their project. in total, eight
(8) ?nalists were selected.

Third, a team of staff evaluated finalist applications based on seven criteria. ?Construction?
and ?Design? applications were scored on a scale of 1-100. Selection criteria are as
follows:

Vision and plan
Experience
Market support
Community benefit
Leverage

Age of Business



Based on the evaluations, EDC staff recommends:

- Thirty?six (36) awardees for ?Design? presented in Exhibit A:
CDBG?funded "Design" awards estimated at $360,000.

0 Six (6) ?Construction? awardees presented in Exhibit A:
FoundationeFunded ?Construction" awards estimated at $114,080 for an approval
amount not to exceed $150,000.

. Total estimated investment is $474,080.

EDC staff will connect awardees with architects to deliver services to ?Design" awardees
per the CD86 procurement processes. EDC staff will connect awardees to construction
professionals to deliver services to "Construction? awardees if needed.

The EDC will enter into grant agreements with Round 3 Motor City Re~Store awardees
and facilitate introductions to lending partners to pursue gap financing through these
independent sources.

Ms. Khan reviewed the list of six construction awardees for the benefit of the Board and
responded to questions.

A resolution approving the staff?s recommendation of ?Design" and ?Construction?
awardees was inciuded for the Board?s consideration.

Mr. Roling opined that he can?t imagine a car dealership as being the intended recipient
of an award. Ms. Khan replied that Jefferson Chevrolet has been located in that

May 22, 2018

neighborhood for over 80 years and are definitely a staple in that area, which is one reason
they were selected, in addition to their vision. Mr. Roling said that itjust doesn?t intuitively
feel that the type of business imagined for the awards, but he knows they can?t be
excluded.

Mr. Stallworth asked why, geographically, there wasn?t more disbursement. Ms. Khan
explained that they received a total of eight construction applicants. Staff evaluated their
design and vision for what they wanted to do, and decided it would be better to have them
in the design tract. There were five left and emphasis was placed on the design and how
it would look from the pedestrian point of view, rather than the location. Mr. Stallworth
stated that he is not being critical of the selection, but rather, trying to understand the flow
of the awardees and making sure that the program is having impact across the city. Ms.
Forte said that her understanding is that Exhibit is kind of a ?pipeline" for the 
of future awards, and it would be helpful to add the district number there also, so that the
Board can see what will be coming down the pipe.

Ms. Broughton added that one thing she didn?t mention is that they are working with Design
Core out of Center for Creative Studies on the design initiative and all of the work they are
doing about Detroit being a city of design. We are very intent on getting good looking
results at the end, so we are encouraging as many people as we can to go through the
design process and have a professional work with them to do that so that they can get
their desired and result.

Subsequent to the discussion, the Board took the following action:

On a motion by Mr. Stallworth, seconded by Ms. Clayson, Resolution Code EDC
18-05-9165 was unanimously approved.


OTHER MATTERS
PUBLIC COMMENT
ADJOURNMENT

With there being no further business to come before the Board, Ms. Forte adjourned the
meeting at 9:14 am.

May 22, 2018

 CODE EDC 18-05-02-298
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit

 

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF APRIL 24. 2018 REGULAR MEETING

RESOLVED, that the minutes of the Regular meeting of Aprit 24, 2018 are hereby
approved and all actions taken by the Directors present at such meeting, as set forth in
such minutes, are hereby in all respects ratified and approved as actions of the Economic
Development Corporation.

May 22, 2018

500 Griswold-,Sulte 2200 - 48226 - (313) 963-2940

 CODE EDC 18-05-03-226
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit

 

ACCEPTANCE OF REPORT FOR APRIL 2018

RESOLVED, that the Treasurer?s Report of Receipts and Disbursements for the
period ending April 30, 2018, as presented at this meeting, is hereby in all respects
accepted as action of the Economic Development Corporation.

May 22, 2018

500 Griswold,8uite 2200 DetroiT,MiChigon 48226 (313) 963-2940

CODE EDC 18-05-12-50
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit

 

I-94 PARK PROJECT: SITE LANDSCAPE MAINTENANCE-CONTRACT
WITH GRACE MANAGEMENT SERVICES, INC.

WHEREAS, the Economic Development Corporation provides landscape
maintenance services for the l-94 Industrial Park Project; and

WHEREAS, the EDC publicly advertised and issued a Request for Proposal
in March 2018 for the performance landscape maintenance services for the 2018
and 2019 seasons; and

WHEREAS, such services would entail the cleanup of debris throughout the
general confines of Miller Road (south), St. Cyril (east), Mt. Elliott (west), Huber/Grinnell
(north) (the ?Project Area?), and edging, grass cutting, and general maintenance of the 80
acres adjoining open thoroughfares within the Project Area (the ?Work"): and

WHEREAS, upon reviewing the responses to the RFP, the EDC staff determined
that Grace Management Services, lnc. was the most responsive bidder with a total bid
amount of Fifty Thousand Five Hundred Ninety-Nine and 00/100 (50,599.00) Dollars per
season;and

WHEREAS, EDC staff recommends that the Board authorize EDC staff to
negotiate and enter into an agreement with Grace Management Services, inc. (the
?Agreement") in an amount not~to?exceed exceed Fifty Thousand Five Hundred Ninety-
Nine and 00/100 (50,599.00) Dollars for each of the 2018 and 2019 seasons; and

WHEREAS, EDC staff also recommends that additional funds to address
unforeseen circumstances (an ?Owner?s Contingency") in the amount of Seven Thousand
Five Hundred Eighty-Nine and 85/100 (7,589.85) Dollars per season be aliooated for
similar landscape maintenance services within the Project Area;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE 1T RESOLVED, the EDC Board of Directors hereby
authorizes negotiation and execution the Agreement in an amount not-to-exceed exceed
Fifty Thousand Five Hundred Ninety-Nine and 00/100 (50,599.00) Dollars per season to
perform the landscape maintenance services for the 2018 and 2019 seasons;

BE lT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the EDC Board of Directors hereby authorizes
an Owner?s Contingency for the Agreement in the amount of Seven Thousand Five
Hundred Eighty-Nine and 85/100 (7,589.85) Dollars per season;

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the EDC Board of Directors hereby authorizes
any two officers of the EDC (the ?Officers"), or any one of the Officers and any individual
authorized to act on behalf of the EDC (the ?Authorized Agents"), or any two of the
Authorized Agents of the EDC to negotiate and execute any and all documents necessary
to implement the provisions and intent of this resolution;

500 Griswold,SUite 2200 DetrOiT,MiChigon 48226 (313) 9632940

BE lT FINALLY RESOLVED, that all of the acts and transactions of any Officer or
Authorized Agent of the EDC, in the name Of and on behalf of the EDC, relating to matters
contemplated by the foregoing resolutions, which acts would have been approved by the
foregoing resolutions except that such acts were taken prior to execution of these
resolutions, are hereby in all respects confirmed, approved, and ratified.

May 22, 2018

CODE EDC 18-05-12-51
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit

 

l-94 INDUSTRIAL PARK PROJECT: SUBDIVISION REDEVELOPMENT 
REQUEST TO APPROVE CONSTRUCTION-CONTRACT WITH V.I.L. CONSTRUCTION
FOR THE GEORGIA STREET ROAD RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT

WHEREAS, EDC staff wants to provide the foilowing to the Georgia Street road
reconstruction project (the ?Project"): the removal of all existing street pavement, curbs,
sidewalks, signage, and selected utilities in the area on Georgia Street between Mt. Elliot
Street and St. Cyril Street (the ?Project Area?); the installation of a new storm water sewer
system within the rights-of?way; coordination with DTE Energy and the Public Lighting
Authority for the removal and replacement of (or parts of) the lighting systems within the
rights-of?way; coordination with Conrail and other rail contractors for their reconstruction
of the two rail crossings on Georgia installation of new hydrants, traffic signals,
limited driveways, concrete street pavement, and sidewalks; installation of limited hot-mix
asphalt at road transition areas; installation of pavement markings and signage within the
general Project Area; restoration of the disturbed areas with topsoil, seed, and mulch to
the; and

WHEREAS, EDC staff determined that it is necessary to obtain construction
services to perform the scope of work described in Exhibit A attached hereto; and

WHEREAS, on March 13, 2018 the EDC staff issued a Request for Proposals
(RFP) for Construction Services; and

WHEREAS, EDC staff received four (4) bids Aprii 12, 2018, reviewed the
proposals, and has recommended the Construction firm of Construction for the
Project; and

WHEREAS, the EDC Board determined that the staff recommendation is
reasonable and consistent with the scope of work for the Project; and

NOW, THEREFORE BE lT RESOLVED that the EDC Board of Directors hereby
authorizes the negotiation and execution of an Professional Services Agreement with
Construction to perform the construction services for the Project in a manner
consistent with the RFP for a contract?not?-to exceed amount of Two Million Seven
Hundred Three Thousand One Hundred Eighty-Nine and 00l100 (2,703,189.00) Dollars.

BE lT FURTHER RESOLVED that the EDC Board of Directors hereby authorizes
the allocation of additionai funds to address requirements for unforeseen conditions (an
Owner's Contingency) in the amount of Two Hundred Seventy Thousand Three Hundred
Eighteen and 001100 (270,318.00) Dollars to be expended at the direction of any two
officers of the EDC-(the one of-the-Officers-and any individual authorized
to act on behalf of the EDC (an ?Authorized any two Authorized Agents of the
EDC.

500 Griswold,Suite 2200 Detroit, Michigan 48226 (313) 963-2940

BE lT FURTHER RESOLVED that the EDC Board of Directors hereby authorizes
any two Officers, or any one of the Officers and any of the Authorized Agents or any two
Authorized Agents of the EDC to negotiate and execute any and all documents necessary
to implement the provisions and intent of this resolution, including but not limited to change
orders for use of Owner's Contingency funds.

BE IT FINALLY RESOLVED that all of the acts and transactions of any Officer or
Authorized Agent of the EDC, in the name and on behalf of the EDC, relating to matters
contemplated by the foregoing resolutions, which acts wouid have been approved by the
foregoing resolutions except that such acts were taken prior to execution of these
resolutions, are hereby in all respects confirmed, approved and ratified.

May 22, 2018

. CODE EDC 18-05-91-66
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit

 

MOTOR MOTOR CITY PERSONAL SERVICES
AGREEMENT FOR MICHELLE MATTHEWS

WHEREAS, The Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit
has developed a small business and commercial corridor revitalization program
(the ?Program?) at the request of the City of Detroit (the ?City?) Mayor?s Of?ce.

WHEREAS, EDC staff recommends a Personal Services Agreement (PSA) with
Micheie Matthews for architectural and design Services that will provide for 1,950 hours
at an hourly rate of $38.00/hr for an amount not to exceed additional Seventy-Four
Thousand One Hundred and 00/100 for the term of June 1, 2018 through
May 31, 2019; and

WHEREAS, the EDC Board of Directors has determined that Staff?s
recommendation is appropriate and within the best interests of the Program.

NOW THEREFORE BE lT RESOLVED, that the EDC Board of Directors hereby
authorizes the negotiation and execution of a PSA with Michele Mathews to provide the
requested services for the not?to-exceed amount of Seventy?Four Thousand One Hundred
and 00/100 

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that any two Of?cers, or any one of the Officers
and any one of the Authorized Agents or any two of the Authorized Agents shall
hereafter have the authority to negotiate and execute ail documents, contracts, or other
papers and to take such actions as are necessary to implement the provisions and intent
of this resolution.

BE IT FINALLY RESOLVED, that all of the acts and transactions of any Officer or
Authorized Agent of the EDC, in the name and on behalf of the EDC, relating to matters
contemplated by the foregoing resoiutions, which acts would have been approved by the
foregoing resolutions except that such acts were taken prior to execution of these
resolutions, are hereby in all respects confirmed, approved and ratified.

May 22, 2018

500 Griswold,8uite 2200 - Detroit, Michigan 48226 - (313) 963-2940

. CODE EDC 18-05-91-635
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit

 

MOTOR CITY ROUND 3 AWARDS

WHEREAS, EDC staff has completed due diligence and evaluation for applications
(?Applications) in the third round (?Round of the Motor City Re?Store Program; and

WHEREAS, the EDC staff has provided recommendations to the Board, to receive
grant investment subject to EDC Board approval; and

WHEREAS, the EDC Board has determined that the staff recommendation is
reasonable and consistent with the Motor City Re-Store program; and

NOW, THEREFORE BE lT RESOLVED that the EDC Board of Directors, accepts
the current results of the Round 3 evaluation process, and approves the Applications that
have been recommended for Motor City Re?Store ?Construction? awards, attached hereto
as Exhibit A and ?Design" awards, attached hereto as Exhibit 8.

BE lT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the EDC Board of Directors, recommends that
grant amounts not fully allocated each round the remaining funds when quarterly
?Construction? awards total less than $500,000) be repurposed and distributed in future
rounds. in such cases, Staff would have the authority to recommend more than $500,000
in awards in future rounds, subject to the approval of the Board.

BE lT FURTHER RESOLVED, that any two Officers, or any one of the Of?cers and
any one of the Authorized Agents or any two of the Authorized Agents shall
hereafter have the authority to negotiate and execute all documents, contracts, or other
papers and to take such actions as are necessary or appropriate to implement the
provisions and intent of this resolution.

BE lT FINALLY RESOLVED, that all of the acts and transactions of any Officer or
Authorized Agent of the EDC, in the name and on behalf of the EDC, relating to matters
contemplated by the foregoing resolutions, which acts would have been approved by the
foregoing resolutions, except that such acts were taken prior to the execution of these
resolutions, are hereby in all respects confirmed, approved and ratified.

May 22, 2018

500 Griswold,Suite 2200 - Detroit, Michigan 48226 (313) 963-2940

1.

Exhibit A
Recommended ?Construction? Awardees

Beautiful Bridal

Estimated Construction Award: $21,600

Owners: Vallery Hyduk and Keasha Rigsby

Location: 2921 E. Jefferson Ave, in Elmwood Park (District 5)

Description: Beautiful Bridal is a high end bridal boutique that sells wedding
gowns, veils, and bridal accessories. The business is co-owned by two female
partners, one of whom is Keasha Rigsby, host of Say Yes to the Dress. The
business is a minority, women, and Detroit resident owned. it has been operating
in the Bagley Mansion for two years.

Scope: With their Re?Store matching grant, Beautiful Bridal will install a permanent
sign, and repair the facade of their historic building with masonry work and
tuckpointing.

Kan Bookstore

Estimated Construction Award: $25,000

Owner: Jamii Tata

Location: 9405 John St, in North End (District 5)

Description: Kan Bookstore is a conop bookstore that brings together the work of
Michigan authors and artists to sell in North End. The business is minority owned,
and has been operating for one year.

Scope: Kan Bookstore will receive exterior improvements along with 5 other
tenants in their building. The improvements will include corrugated metal siding,
awnings, signage and decorative lighting, landscaping, storm water drainage
within the sidewalks and green improvements such as solar safety lighting. Murals,
bicycle racks, and exterior seating areas for business patrons and the public are
also part of the plans.

R66 Consulting Publishing

Estimated Construction Award: $25,000

Owner: Kai Casselis

Location: 9417 John St, in North End (District 5)

Description: R66 is a health and wellness consulting agency that provides
individual and group programs focusing on vitality, strength and overall wellbeing.
Services inciude food sensitivity training; strategic meal planning; and ongoing
nutritional pianning. The business is minority, female, and Detroit resident owned.
It has been operating for one year.

Scope: R66 Consulting and Publishing will receive exterior improvements along
with 5 other tenants in their building. The improvements will include corrugated
metal siding, awnings, signage and decorative lighting, landscaping, storm water
drainage within the sidewalks and green improvements such as solar safety
lighting. Murals, bicycle racks, and exterior seating areas for business patrons and
the public are also part of the plans.

Rite On

Estimated Construction Award: $15,380

Owner: Saied A Salem

Location: 6935 Michigan Ave, in Claytown (District 6)

Description: Rite On is a car dealership Specializing in good quality, pre-owned
vehicles. New cars are also available. Rite On helps customers with credit barriers
get approved for loans. This business is minority owned, and has been operating
for seventeen years.

Scope: Rite On is seeking funds to install a new sign, repave their parking lot, add
landscaping and an ADA accessible ramp. They also seek to improve fencing that
faces a high?traffic commercial corridor.

. Third Wave Music

Estimated Construction Award: $2,100

Owner: Jen David

Location: 4625 Second Ave, in Midtown (District 6)

Description: Third Wave Music is a full?service music store that sells instruments,
provides repair services, lessons, and consignment to Detroit?s musicians. The
business is woman owned, and has been operating for one year.

Scope: With the Re?Store matching grant, Third Wave will add seasonal outdoor
seating; an awning, lighting, and sidewalk signage.

. Jefferson Chevrolet DBA Trader Ray Tire Center

Estimated Construction Award: $25,000

Owner: Brian Tellier

Location: 2130 E. Jefferson Ave, in Rivertown (District 5)

Description: Trader Ray Tire Center is an auto dealership selling new and used
cars, and providing auto service. The business has been operating in its current
location for eighty-one years, and is Detroit resident owned.

Scope: Trader Ray Tire Center is seeking funds to repaint the building, rebuild
missing concrete, and resurface masonry work.

Exhibit 

Recommended ?Design? Awardees

 

 

. . Estimated
Busmess Name Busmess Type Neighborhood Award
7 Mile Community Outreach Adult care facility Greenwich $1 0, 000. 00
21st Century Salon ff Hair and barbershop Bagley $10, 000. 00
2930 Jefferson 1' ?tau firm ,Rivertown "$10 0011.00
Always Bren/trig Detroit I 7 ?Coffee shop North Rosedale Park $10 000 00?
Amore da Roma I :ltalian restaurant Eastern Market I $10, 000. 00
AndreWs Hardy Funeral Home Funeral home Franklin $10,000.00
Arthur Rohde Company :Rental of?ce suits EIrnwobcl Park $10, 000. 00
Auntie Betty? 3 Cate I 3Soul food restaurant Minock Park $10, 000. 00
Beverage One I Convenience store I North Rosedale Park fit-$10 000. 00:
Cadillac Styles Beauty and "Beauty salon and barbershop East Village $10,000.00
Barbershop
Detroit Boiler Company Install and repair bbilers lslandview $10, 000. 00
Detroit Design Center Event and gallery space Midtown $10, 000. 00
Detro1't Martial Arts lnstitute 1 ?T?Martial arts and after?school facility Greenwich ?$10 000. 00
Dino's Cafe Restaurant and bar Central Southwest $10, 000. 00'
Flowers of vetnarn . ?Vietnamese restaurant SeUthwest $1 0, 000 00
Happy To Be Nappy salon/i :Hair salon and spa Bagley $1 0, 000. 00
Jo's Gallery Art gallery on African Sherwood Forest $10,.000 00
American artists 7
Liberal Arts Gallery Art gallery ?McDougall- Hunt $10,000.00
Liberty Pharmacy I 7 Convenience-store and pharmacy Central Southwest 7 $1 0, 000.00
Maty African Restaurant Senegalese restaurant Oak Grove $1 0, 000. 00
Micah' Salon and Boutique Natural hair care salon Sherwood Forest I $10, 000 00
Motor City Snack Shoppe llce cream shop College Park _f $10, 000. 00
Motor City Wine Bar "Wine bar and shop .. it 'Corktown A $10 000 00'
Mike's Fresh Market ?iSupermarket I Bagley . $10, 000. 00?
:Old Redford Kitchen Cafe . a "care with international foods :Oak Grove 1 $10, 000. 00
Pages Bookshop A I i A "LIL/ilndependent bookshop I North Rosedale Park. I $10, 000. 00
Patterson Dog Cat Heepital Veterinary hospital I Woodbridge $10, 000 00
Qureshi Wholesale I EWholesale grocery distributer Buffalo Charles $10,000.00
Rabaut?s Cafe Cafe I Cornerstore Village $10, 000 00
Reshmi Sweet Cate ?Bangladeshi wreataura'ntw I Buffalo Charles ff $1 0, 000 00
Royal Fresh Market 7 Supermarket 'Rosedale Park . $10, 000. 00
Transforming Salon 7 LBarbershop and salon Joy Community $10, 000. 00
The Lockeroorn A ?Bar and restaurant University District 1 $10, 000. 00
Three Brothers Party Stere . Liquor store and grocer Franklin Park $10 000.00
Collision I . Towing company Warrendale $10, 000. 00;
Vernor Express LiqUor Store Convenience store Hubbard Farr-Ins 7 I $10, 000. 00.
Total $360,000.00

 

