MINUTES OF MEETING
WAYNE COUNTY ELECTION COMMISSION
TUESDAY, MARCH 8, 2016 – 1:00 P.M.
COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL BUILDING - ROOM 700A
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

Call to Order:

The meeting called to order at 1:01 p.m., Tuesday, March 8, 2016

Members present: Honorable Freddie G. Burton, Jr. Chair – Judge of Probate Court
Honorable Cathy M. Garrett, Secretary- Wayne County Clerk
Honorable Richard Hathaway, Wayne County Treasurer
Members absent: None.
Also present:

Jennifer Redmond, Wayne County Elections
Janet Anderson-Davis, Assistant Corporation Counsel
Adam Taub
Richard Mack
Albert Garrett
Greg P. Mahar
Jina Sawani
Alan Helmkamp
Dawn S. Lee-Cotton

Agenda item:

Consideration of Agenda approval
Board action on agenda item: Chair Burton requested a motion
to approve the agenda. Member Garrett duly supported by
Member Hathaway moved to adopt the agenda as submitted. The
motion was adopted unanimously by a voice vote.

Agenda item:

Approval of Minutes of January 11, 2016
Board action on agenda item: Chair Burton requested a motion
to approve the minutes of the meeting held on January 11, 2016.
Member Garrett duly supported by Member Hathaway moved to
approve the minutes of the meeting held on January 11, 2016. The
motion was adopted unanimously by a voice vote.

Agenda item:

Consideration of Initiative Petition for Amendment of the
Wayne County Charter – Petitioner: AFSCME (American
Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees
Chair Burton asked if the sponsors of the petition wanted to

 address the commission. Attorney Richard Mack, representing
AFCSME, clarified the request that is being made of the
commission is to seek approval or opinion as to the form of the
petition and not approval as to the language on the petition.
AFCSME member Albert Garrett also spoke in favor of the
commission reviewing the petition for approval as to form.
Discussion ensued between the Attorney Richard Mack, Assistant
Corporation Counsel Anderson-Davis and Chair Burton. Chair
Burton asked if there was anyone present to speak in opposition to
the petition.
Attorney Anderson-Davis informed the commission that legal
responsibility does not lie with the commission and law does not
mandate them to approve as to form. Attorney Mack stated if the
commission had no comment regarding the petition, they would
take that to mean that it was implicitly okay and begin circulation.
Wayne County resident Alan Helmkamp offered a statement in
opposition. He requested that if the commission did not vote
regarding the petition, that its non-vote is not viewed as support.
Chair Burton requested a motion to either support the relief sought
by the representations provided by President Garrett and by
Attorney Mack or to not. No motion form either.
Board action on agenda item:
Agenda item:

Approval of Ballot Printing for the May 3, 2016 Special Election
Board action on agenda item: Chair Burton requested a motion
to approve the ballot printing for the May 3, 2016 Special Election.
Member Garrett duly supported by Member Hathaway moved to
approve the ballot printing for the May 3, 2016 Special Election.
The motion was adopted unanimously by a voice vote.

Agenda item:

New Business. None

Agenda item:

Public Comment. None

Agenda item:

Adjournment. Member Garrett duly supported by Member
Hathaway moved to adjourn. The motion was adopted unanimously
by a voice vote.
Meeting adjourned at 1:18 p.m.

  