MINUTES OF MEETING
WAYNE COUNTY ELECTION COMMISSION
THURSDAY, JULY 14, 2016 – 11:00 A.M.
COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL BUILDING - ROOM 700A
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

Call to Order:

The meeting was called to order at 11:01 a.m., Thursday, July 14, 2016.

Members present: Honorable Freddie G. Burton, Jr., Chief Judge, Probate Court
Honorable Cathy M. Garrett, Secretary- Wayne County Clerk
Members absent: Honorable Eric Sabree, Member – Wayne County Treasurer (excused)
Also present:

Greg P. Mahar
Jenneatta Mitchell
Jennifer Redmond
Kevin Kavanagh

Agenda item:

Consideration of Agenda approval.
Board action on agenda item: Chair Burton requested a motion
to approve the agenda. Member Garrett, duly supported by Chair
Burton, moved to adopt the agenda as submitted. The motion was
adopted unanimously by a voice vote.

Agenda item:

Approval of Minutes of July 13, 2016
Board action on agenda item: Chair Burton requested a motion
to approve the minutes of the meeting held on July 13, 2016.
Member Garrett, duly supported by Chair Burton, moved to approve
the minutes of the meeting held on July 13, 2016. The motion was
adopted unanimously by a voice vote.

Agenda item:

Acceptance of the Certified list of Candidates for the
November 8, 2016 Special General Election and Declaration of
Nominees for the Office of State Representative – District 11
Board action on agenda item: Chair Burton requested a motion to
accept the Certified list of Candidates for the November 8, 2016
Special General Election and declare them the Nominees for the
Office of State Representative – District 11. Member Garrett, duly
supported by Chair Burton, moved that both candidates be
nominated as candidates for the Office of State Representative –
District 11 for the November 8, 2016 Special General Election. The
motion was adopted unanimously by a voice vote.

 Agenda item:

New Business. None.

Agenda item:

Public Comment. None.

Agenda item:

Adjournment.
Board action on agenda item: Chair Burton requested a motion
to adjourn. Member Garrett, duly supported by Chair Burton,
moved to adjourn the meeting. The motion was adopted
unanimously by a voice vote.
Meeting adjourned at 11:02 a.m.

 