Minutes of the meeting of the Managed Care Committee of the Board of Directors of the Cook County
Health and Hospitals System held Thursday, August 23, 2018 at the hour of 10:30 A.M. at 1900 W. Polk
Street, in the Second Floor Conference Room, Chicago, Illinois.
I.

Attendance/Call to Order
Chair Junge called the meeting to order.
Present:

Chair Emilie N. Junge and Director Sidney A. Thomas, MSW (2)
Directors Ada Mary Gugenheim and David Ernesto Munar

Telephonically
Present:
Board Chair M. Hill Hammock (ex-officio)
Absent:

None (0)

Additional attendees and/or presenters were:
Douglas Elwell – Deputy Chief Executive Officer,
Finance and Strategy
James Kiamos – Executive Director of Managed Care

Jeff McCutchan –General Counsel
Deborah Santana – Secretary to the Board
John Jay Shannon, MD – Chief Executive Officer

The next meeting of the Committee will be held on Thursday, October 18, 2018 at 10:30 A.M.
II.

Public Speakers
Chair Junge asked the Secretary to call upon the registered public speakers.
The Secretary responded that there were none present.

III.

Report on CountyCare Health Plan (Attachment #1)
James Kiamos, Executive Director of Managed Care, provided an overview of the Report on the CountyCare
Health Plan. The Committee reviewed and discussed the information.
The Report included information on the following subjects:













Current Membership
Cook County Managed Medicaid Market
Monthly Membership Trend
2018 Operations Metrics:
Call Center and Encounter Rate
Claims Payment
Care Management Health Risk Surveys (HRS) and Health Risk Assessments (HRA)
Care Management High Risk Members
Overall Member Age Distribution
ACA Member Age Distribution
How We Match Up
Lasik
CountyCare Member Incentive Program
Medicaid Redetermination Updates and New Initiatives
Cerner Registration Pop-Up Reminders

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Managed Care Committee
Thursday, August 23, 2018
Page 2

III.

Report on CountyCare Health Plan (continued)
During the discussion of the information on slide 4 regarding the monthly membership trend, Board Chair
Hammock requested that a line be added to reflect the budget goal in future presentations.
Chair Junge noted that CountyCare has a great marketing program. With regard to redetermination activities,
she inquired whether a handout or pamphlet is available to hand out to those whose Medicaid benefits are
going to expire due to redetermination; this may prompt some people to act. Mr. Kiamos indicated that this
can be created.

IV.

Action Items
A. Minutes of the Managed Care Committee Meeting, June 21, 2018
Director Thomas, seconded by Chair Junge, moved to accept the minutes of the
Managed Care Committee Meeting of June 21, 2018. THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.
B. Any items listed under Section IV

V.

Adjourn
As the agenda was exhausted, Chair Junge declared the meeting ADJOURNED.

Respectfully submitted,
Managed Care Committee of the
Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Emilie N. Junge, Chair

Attest:

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Deborah Santana, Secretary

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Managed Care Committee
Thursday, August 23, 2018
Page 3

Requests/Follow-up:

Follow-up:

Regarding the monthly membership trend metric, a request was made to add a line to reflect
the budget goal in future presentations. Page 2

Follow-up:

A suggestion was made for an information pamphlet to be created to hand out to those
individuals whose Medicaid benefits are going to expire due to redetermination. Page 2

 