Minutes of the meeting of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee of the Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System held Friday, August 24, 2018 at the hour of 10:00 A.M. at
1900 W. Polk Street, in the Second Floor Conference Room, Chicago, Illinois.
I.

Attendance/Call to Order
Chair Gugenheim called the meeting to order.
Present:

Chair Ada Mary Gugenheim and Director Mary Driscoll, RN, MPH (2)
Director Emilie N. Junge
Patrick T. Driscoll, Jr. and Patricia Merryweather (non-Director Members)

Telephonically
Present

Absent:

Board Chair M. Hill Hammock (ex-officio) and Layla P. Suleiman Gonzalez,
PhD, JD
None (0)

Additional attendees and/or presenters were:
Claudia Fegan, MD – Chief Medical Officer
Trevor Lewis, MD – John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital
of Cook County
Jeff McCutchan –General Counsel

II.

Deborah Santana – Secretary to the Board
John Jay Shannon, MD – Chief Executive Officer
Ronald Wyatt, MD – Chief Quality Officer

Public Speakers
Chair Gugenheim asked the Secretary to call upon the registered public speakers.
The Secretary responded that there were none present.

III.

Report from the Chief Quality Officer
A. Regulatory and Accreditation Updates
Dr. Ronald Wyatt, Chief Quality Officer, noted that he will provide a report later in the meeting regarding
Leadership and Safety Culture as it relates to the imminent visit from representatives from The Joint
Commission (TJC) at Stroger Hospital; that visit will include Stroger Hospital and the Stroger Hospitalaffiliated clinics, and will happen sometime between now and October.

B. Metrics (Attachment #1)
Dr. Wyatt provided an overview of the metrics. The Committee reviewed and discussed the information.
Dr. Wyatt stated that he and his staff are actively working with staff in Business Intelligence to develop a
more strategic dashboard. He hopes to present a new dashboard next month for review, comment and
further refinement.

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee
Friday, August 24, 2018
Page 2

III.

Report from the Chief Quality Officer (continued)
C. Report – Leadership and Safety Culture (Attachment #2)
Dr. Wyatt provided an overview of the Report on Leadership and Safety Culture, which included
information on the following subjects:























Objectives
Three Domains of High Reliability
What is Safety Culture?
High Reliability – Stages of Maturity
The Joint Commission (TJC) Perspectives – Sample Questions for Assessing Safety Culture
TJC Standard
Sentinel Event Alert Publication
Leadership Behaviors – What Leaders Do
Safety Themes in High Reliability Organizations
Culture – Pre-1990 and Post-1990
Culture – Finding Balance in 21st Century
Blame-Free vs. Blame-Worthy Culture
Unsafe Acts Algorithm
Console, Coach or Counsel?
Eliminating Intimidating Behaviors
Psychological Safety
How to Increase Psychological Safety
Making Culture Matter: Practical Actions
Improvement Transformation
Performance Improvement Current State
Transformational Leadership
Interventions – General

Following Dr. Wyatt’s presentation, Director Driscoll stated that she is looking forward to seeing a more
strategic dashboard that will provide a look at the overall organization. From time to time, she would like
to see data on indicators for current issues for the population. She would also like to receive reports on a
regular basis from the internal System quality committee.

IV.

Action Items
A. Approve appointments and reappointments of Stroger Hospital Department Chair(s) and Division
Chair(s) (Attachment #3)
Dr. Claudia Fegan, Chief Medical Officer, presented the following Stroger Hospital Division Chair
initial appointments for the Committee’s consideration:

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee
Friday, August 24, 2018
Page 3

IV.

Action Items
A. Approve appointments and reappointments of Stroger Hospital Department Chair(s) and
Division Chair(s) (continued)
Initial Appointments – Two (2) Division Chairs
Name
Sameera Guttikonda, MD

Department/Appt. Term
Psychiatry
07/27/2018 – 07/26/2020

Title
Division Chair of
Consultation Liaison

Lakshmi Warrior, MD

Medicine
08/19/2018 – 08/20/2020

Division Chair of
Neurology

Director Driscoll, seconded by Chair Gugenheim, moved to approve the two
(2) proposed Stroger Hospital Division Chair appointments. THE MOTION
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

B. Executive Medical Staff (EMS) Committees of Provident Hospital of Cook County and John H.
Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County
i. Receive reports from EMS Presidents
ii. Approve Medical Staff Appointments/Reappointments/Changes (Attachment #4)
Dr. Trevor Lewis, President of the EMS of John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County, presented
the proposed Medical Staff Appointments/Reappointments/Changes for the Committee’s
consideration.
Dr. Valerie Hansbrough, President of the EMS of Provident Hospital of Cook County, was unable to
attend the meeting due to a scheduling conflict.
The Committee considered the proposed medical staff appointments/reappointments/changes for
Stroger and Provident Hospitals.
Director Driscoll, seconded by Chair Gugenheim, moved to approve the
Medical Staff Appointments/Re-appointments/Changes for John H. Stroger,
Jr. Hospital of Cook County. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.
Director Driscoll, seconded by Chair Gugenheim, moved to approve the
Medical Staff Appointments/Re-appointments/Changes for Provident Hospital
of Cook County. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

C. Minutes of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting, July 20, 2018
Director Driscoll, seconded by Chair Gugenheim, moved to accept the
Minutes of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting of July 20,
2018. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.
D. Any items listed under Sections IV and V

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee
Friday, August 24, 2018
Page 4

V.

Closed Meeting Items
A. Medical Staff Appointments/Re-appointments/Changes
B. Litigation Matter(s)
C. Matters protected under the federal Patient Safety and Quality Improvement Act of 2005 and
the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996
The Committee did not recess into a closed meeting.

VI.

Adjourn
As the agenda was exhausted, Chair Gugenheim declared the meeting
ADJOURNED.

Respectfully submitted,
Quality and Patient Safety Committee of the
Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Ada Mary Gugenheim, Chair

Attest:

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Deborah Santana, Secretary

Requests/follow-up:
Request:

Request made for occasional reporting of data on indicators for current issues for the population.
Page 2

Request:

Request made for reports on a regular basis from the internal System quality committee. Page 2

 