 . . CODE EDC 17-11-02-290
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detrorr

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF OCTOBER 30. 2017 MEETING

RESOLVED, that the minutes of the Special meeting of October 30, 2017 are
hereby approved and all actions taken by the Directors present at such meeting, as set
forth in such minutes, are hereby in all respects ratified and approved as actions of the
Economic Development Corporation.

November 14, 2017

500 Griswold,Sui?re 2200 Detroit, Michigan 48226 (313) 963-2940

ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
BOARD OF DIRECTORS SPECIAL MEETING
MONDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2017 8:30 AM.

BOARD MEMBERS PRESENT: Marsha Bruhn

BOARD MEMBERS ABSENT:

SPECIAL DIRECTORS
PRESENT:

SPECIAL DIRECTORS
ABSENT:

OTHERS PRESENT:

Monique Claiborne
Kimberly Clayson
Linda Forte

Chris Jackson
Jonathan Queries
Matthew Roling

Maurice Cox (Ex?Officio)
John Naglick (Eanfficio)
William Ritsema
Thomas Stallworth

None

None

Anthony Askew 
Kyla Carlsen 
Gay Hilger 
Malinda Jensen 
Jennifer Kanalos 
Glen Long 
Rebecca Navin 
Mariangela Pledl 
Kelly Shovan 



Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit

MINUTES OF THE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
BOARD OF DIRECTORS SPECIAL MEETING

MONDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2017

DETROIT ECONOMIC GROWTH CORPORATION

500 GRISWOLD, SUITE 2200 - 8:30 AM.

CALL TO ORDER

Noting that a quorum was present, Chairperson Forte called the Special meeting of the
Economic Development Corporation Board of Directors to order at 8:34 am.

GENERAL

Approval of Minutes

Ms. Forte asked if there were any additions, deletions or corrections to the minutes of the
October 10, 2017 Regular Board meeting. Hearing none, the Board took the following

ac?on:

On a motion by Mr. Quarles, seconded by Mr. Roling, Resolution Code EDC 17-
10-02-289 was unanimously approved.

Receipt of Treasurer?s Report

Ms. Shovan reviewed the Treasurer?s Report of Receipts and Disbursements for the
Month of September 2017 for the benefit of the Board and responded to questions.

Subsequent to the discussion, the Board took the following action:

On a motion by Mr. Roling, seconded by Mr. Quarles, resolution Code EDC 17-10-
03-219 was unanimously approved.

PROJECTS

Motor City Match Recommendation for Round 9 Business Awards

Mr. Askew reported that on June 1, 2017, the Motor City Match program began
accepting applications for Round 9 of the Business Owner Application Track. The
Business Owner Application Track is for businesses from Detroit and around the world

that are looking to start or expand in Detroit. The table below describes the levels of award
and qualifications.

October 30, 2017

500 Griswold,Suite 2200 - Detroit,Michigon 48226 - (313) 963-2940

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Awards Awardees must have:
BUSINESS . Up to 50 winners . A great idea
PLAN it Free business pianning class
.3 0 Up to 25 winners each round . A great idea
?g SPACE Match making with top real estate . A great business ptan
t; Financial planning assistance
8 0 Up to 7 winners each round . A great idea
DESIGN . Design/build assistance . A great business plan
- Priority permitting . Space secured
0 Financial planning assistance
in . Up to 10 winners each round . A great idea
243? 0 Up to $100,000 matching grant per winner . A great business plan
5 CASH . Grants match your cash dollarmforndollar. . Space secured
. $500,000 in grants per round for building . A plan for build-out
a) and business owners - Funds ready to
. Pitch to lending partners for financing investment

 

When applications closed on duty 3, 2017, the EDC had received over 200 business
applications. Motor City Match had previousiy received over 3,000 applications since the

program?s inception.

The foliowing information focuses on the selection and recommendation of awardees for:

. "Business Plan" award track receiving business planning assistance
?Space? award track receiving site selection assistance
. "Design? award track receiving architectural design, permitting and bidding
assistance for preadevelopment

. "Cash? award track receiving grants and financing assistance

First, staff verified business eiigibility based on self?reported data submitted in the
application for the following five criteria:

1.

new

5.

The business is incorporated and has a registered and DUNS priorto receiving

a grant award
The business wishes to locate in Detroit for at least two years

The business is majority-owned by a person who is at ieast 18 years or older

The business and sit owners are in good standing with the City of Detroit, State of
Michigan and and

The business is not part of a franchise.

Second, staff sorted applications into various award tracks and reviewed eligible business
applications to determine finalists. The awards were selected using the 100?point scale
detailed below. Finalist applicants were identified as follows:

October 30, 2017

 

. ?Business Plan? applicants have great business ideas but haven?t formulated
a business plan yet or need help strengthening their business plans before
pursuing space. in total, sixty (60) Business Plan finalists were selected.

. ?Space? applicants are actively looking for space. These business applicants
are either new business ventures that have a solid business plan or they are
existing businesses with a track record of success and a plan to grow it. In
total, fifty-seven (57) Space finalists were evaluated to determine awardees.

. ?Design? applicants have great business plans and have secured a space but
need help planning for renovations. ln some cases, these businesses are
tenants; in other cases, these businesses own the building they plan to open
their business in. in total, fourteen (14) Design finalists were selected.

. ?Cash? applicants have a location secured, a plan for build-out and strong
understanding of the money needed to start their business and complete
renovations at their space. in total, thirty?five (35) Cash finalists were selected.

Third, a team of outside jurors evaluated finalist applications based on five criteria.
?Business Plan? applications were initially reviewed by a team of business planning service
providers, as well as members of the Motor City Match staff. ?Space" finalists were
reviewed by a team of community stakeholders from across various parts of the city and
"Design? and ?Cash? finalists were reviewed by a team of business leaders and lenders.
?Business Plan?, ?Space?, ?Design", and ?Cash? applications were scored on a scale of l?
100. Each of the five criteria is worth 20 points to contribute to the foo-point score.

Selection criteria are as follows:

Vision and plan
Experience

Market support
Community support
Leverage



?Cash" finalists were required to submit supplemental information. ?Cash" finalists
submitted comprehensive financial information, including a standard loan application and
personal financial statement. Motor City Match staff compiled this supplemental
information to determine the financial need, equity investment and ?financial gap" for each
business. Next, Motor City Match staff met with a team of six local Community
Development Financial institution lending partners on September 29, 2017, to
determine grant and loan investment required to fill the ?financial gap" on each project.
CDFI partners include Invest Detroit, Detroit Development Fund, Capital lmpact Partners,
Michigan Women?s Foundation and Detroit Micro?Enterprise Fund. partners
made commitments to explore landing the balance of the ?nancial gap based on
recommended grant investment from Motor City Match. Motor City Match staff used lender
interest, participant scores, supplemental information and readiness to accept additional
investment to determine ?Cash? awardees and associated grant investment.

Finally, staff compiled juror scores to identify top ranking candidates for awards.

October 30, 2017

EDC staff recommended:

Fifty (50) ?Business Plan? awardees for business planning presented in Exhibit A.
Twenty-Six (26) ?Space? awardees for site seiection presented in Exhibit B.
Seven (7) ?Design? awardees presented in Exhibit C.

Thirteen (13) ?Cash" awardees to receive a total of $500,000 in grant investment,
as described in Exhibit D.

EDC staff will contract with independent business planning service providers to deiiver
services to ?Business Plan? awardees. EDC anticipates that Build institute and LifeLine
will provide business planning training for up to 50 Round 9 Motor City Match ?Business
Plan? awardees.

EDC staff will facilitate one?on~one match making between top ranking businesses and
building owners recognized as ?Space? awardees. Match making services will include
open houses and networking sessions between business owners and building owners. In
addition, technical assistance will include expert guidance on leasing, financial planning
and assessing market opportunities.

EDC staff will hire contractuai professional architect, engineering and construction
providers to deiiver design?build assistance to ?Design? awardees. The EDC has approved
four (4) design-buiid independent contractors to provide ore-development design services
for seven (7) Round 9 Motor City Match ?Design" awardees.

The EDC will enter into grant agreements with Round 9 Motor City Match ?Cash" awardees
and facilitate introductions to lending partners to pursue gap financing through these
independent sources.

A resolution approving the recommendations of ?Business Pian", 
?Cash" awardees was included for the Board?s consideration.

Space", ?Design" and

Mr. Askew responded to Board members? questions. Subsequent to the discussion, the
Board took the following action:

On a motion by Ms. Bruhn, seconded by Mr. Queries, Resolution Code EDC 17?
10-91?48 was unanimously approved.

The Board requested the statistics on how many space awardees have gone on to receive
design awards so that they can see how people are progressing. Mr. Askew said that he
would get that information to the Board.

Motor City Match Recommendation for Round 9 Buildinq Awards

Mr. Askew advised that on June 1, 2017, the Motor City Match program began
accepting applications from interested building owners for Round 9 of the Building
Application Track (?Round The Building Application Track is for Detroit property
owners with a vacant space iooking for quaiity new tenants. Awards include pre?
development assistance, marketing and tenant recruiting. Properties that are matched

October 30, 2017

with businesses are considered for grants, financing and priority permitting. The table

below describes the levels of award and qualifications.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Awards Awardees must:

3 0 Listed as an avaiiabie property viewable by Be current and compliant
hundreds of Business Competition candidates. Judged most feasible for
'5 SPACE . Top 25 scoring buildings will be marketed as a business
a; "top destination for new business?
?2 . Pre?development building assessment
.4 . Match making with top businesses
3 . Up to 7 awardees each round across both the Be current and compiiant
2 building and business tracks . Judged most feasible for
DESIGN . Design/build assistance business
. Priority permitting Have a tenant secured

. Financial planning assistance

. Up to 10 awardees each round across both the Be current and compliant
A 8 building and business tracks Judged most feasible for
0 Up to $100,000 matching grant per winner business
2 CASH - $500,000 in grants per round for buiiding and Have a tenant secured
9 business owners Have a pian for building
. Pitch to landing partners for financing renovations

?1 Have funds ready for
investment

 

 

When applications closed on July 3, 2017, the EDC had received twenty?five (25)
applications (?Application?) for spaces all across the city of Detroit. An Appiication typically
refers to a single tenantabie space within a property. One property may have submitted
multiple Applications and the properties may have previously matched but have tease?
abie space.

Staff completed the foliowing due diligence and evaluation process:

0 Verified that the space referenced in the Appiication is current and compliant on
property taxes, tickets, and water bills.

. Conducted a professional building assessment.
Each Appiication was evaluated and scored on 3 seats of 1?100 as follows:
Each of the following factors contributed up to 20 points: (1) Buiiding
characteristics and vision; (2) Building conditions; (3) Community and market
support; (4) Leverage; and (5) Compliance.

. Evaluations were conducted by EDC staff.

. EDC staff scores were averaged together to achieve the final score for building
characteristics and vision, community and market support, and leverage.

October 30, 2017

The score for building conditions was derived directly from the professional
building assessment conducted by as well as self-reported data from the
property owner.

The score for compliance was derived based on the payment of taxes, water bills,
and tickets.

The results of the due diligence and evaluation process are the following:

Of the twenty-five (25) applications considered for Round 9, four (4) applications
were deemed ineligible because of condition or compliance. Three (3) property
had been previously awarded, leaving eighteen (18) eligible Building Applications
to be considered for Round 9 awards.

Sixteen (16) eligible building applications indicated they had space available for
lease. These building owners are recommended to receive ?Space" awards to
assist with marketing their property and recruiting tenants.

The remaining eligible applicants indicated that they had a tenant secured and no
additional space to lease. This makes these applicants eligible for consideration
for ?Design" or ?Cash" awards in partnership with their tenants.

Based on eligible applications and review of scores, EDC staff recommends the
following Round 9 Building Owner Awards:

0 Space Awards. Sixteen (16) properties are recommended to receive
?Space" awards as presented in Exhibit A, which includes marketing, a
professional building assessment, real estate tours and other matchmaking
activities with top Motor City Match business applicants. These top scoring
buildings are recommended to receive ?Top Property? designation to assist
with marketing and tenant recruiting.

0 Design Awards. Seven (7) properties are recommended to receive
?Design" awards in partnership with their tenants presented in Exhibit B,
which includes architectural technical assistance for tenant build?out and
building renovations.

EDC staff requested that the Board accept the current results of the Round 9 Building
Application evaluation process and confirm the Applications that have been awarded
?Space? and ?Design? awards.

A resolution was provided for the Board?s consideration.

Subsequent to a discussion, the Board took the following action:

On a motion by Mr. Jackson, seconded by Mr. Roling, Resolution Code EDC i7?
10~91~49 was unanimously approved.

October 30, 2017

QDBG Declared Disaster Recovery Award: lslandviewl Greater Villaqes Green
Stormwater Infrastructure Project - Professional Services Aoreement for
Environmental Geotechnical Services (Beltline Greenway) with SME

Mr. Robertson reported that the City of Detroit by and through its Housing and
Revitalization Department, (the ??City?) has been awarded a Community Development
Block Grant for Declared Disaster Recovery (CDBG-DDR) from the US. Department of
Housing and Urban Development (HUD) in the amount of Eight Million Nine Hundred
Thousand and 00/100 Dollars The CDBG-DDR grant is designed to
ameliorate future flooding and support the market through a number of projects and
planning exercises.

With EDC board approval the EDC executed a sub recipient agreement
with the City and was awarded $2,593,500.00 from the City?s CDBG-DDR grant. The City
has requested that the EDC undertake construction management services with respect to
the Beltline Greenway project and other related services. The federal funds will be used
for project activities as it relates to the lslandview/Greater Villages Green Stormwater
infrastructure Project.

As part of the project execution, the EDC solicited for quotes for Environmental 
Geotechnical Services on June 2, 2017 forthe Project. The basis for EDC contract awards
are based on federal procurement policies set forth in 24 CFR 85.36. More specifically,
this solicitation was made pursuant to the "small purchase procedure? method of
procurement per 24 CFR EDC staff received three cost quotes to the request
for quotes. The other firms responding to this RFQ were NTH Consultantsand AKT
Peerless.

EDC staff members reviewed all the cost quotes and have determined that SME provided
the lowest cost and most responsive quote. EDC staff recommends approval of a
Professional Services Agreement with SME. SME has an office in the City of Detroit. The
proposed scope of services is attached as Attachment A.

EDC staff recommended that the Board of Directors authorize the execution of a
Professional Service Agreement with SME, not to exceed Twenty-Eight Thousand Five
Hundred Fifty and no/100 to be paid out of the grant funds.

A resolution was included with the material for the Board?s consideration and approval.

Subsequent to a discussion, the Board took the following action:

On a motion by Ms. Claiborne, seconded by Mr. Roling, Resolution Code EDC
17-1 0-95-04 was unanimously approved.

CDBG Declared Disaster Recovery Award: lslandviewl Greater Villaqes Green
Stormwater Infrastructure Project Professional Services Agreement for
gnvironmental Consulting Services (Jos Campau Greenway Roqell Property) with
SME

Mr. Robertson stated that the City of Detroit by and through its Housing and Revitalization
Department, (the ?City?) has been awarded a Community Development Block Grant for

October 30, 2017

Declared Disaster Recovery from the US. Department of Housing and
Urban Development (HUD) in the amount of Eight Miliicn Nine Hundred Thousand and
00/100 Dollars The CDBG-DDR grant is designed to ameliorate future
flooding and support the market through a number of projects and planning exercises.

With EDC board approval the EDC executed a sub recipient agreement
with the City and was awarded $2,593,500.00 from the City?s grant. The City
has requested that the EDC undertake construction management services with respect to
the Beltline Greenway project and other related services. The federal funds will be used
for project activities as it relates to the lslandview/Greater Villages Green Stormwater
infrastructure Project.

As part of the project execution, the EDC solicited for quotes on August 24, 2017 for
Environmental Consulting Services for the Project. The basis for EDC contract awards
are based on federal procurement policies set forth in 24 CFR 85.35. More specifically,
this solicitation was made pursuant to the ?small purchase procedure" method of
procurement per 24 CFR EDC staff received three cost quotes to the request
for quotes. The other firms responding to this RFO were NTH Consultants and AKT
Peeriess.

EDC staff members reviewed all the cost quotes and have determined that SME provided
the lowest cost and most responsive quote. EDC staff recommends approval of a
Professional Services Agreement with SME. SME has an office in the City of Detroit. The
proposed scope of services was included with the board material as Attachment A.

EDC staff recommended that the Board of Directors authorize the execution of a
Professional Service Agreement with SME, not to exceed One Hundred Forty-Six
Thousand Eight Hundred Seventy?Five and no/100 to be paid out of the
grant funds

A resolution was included for the Board?s consideration and approval.

With there being no other questions or discussion, the Board took the following action:

On a motion by Ms. Bruhn, seconded by Ms. Claiborne, Resolution Code EDC
17?10-95?05 was unanimously approved.


OTHER MATTERS
PUBLJC COMMENT
ADJOURNMENT

With there being no further business, Ms. Forte adjourned the meeting at 9:07 am.

October 30, 2017

. CODE EDC 17-10-02-289
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit

 

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF OCTOBER 10, 2017 MEETING

RESOLVED, that the minutes of the Regular meeting of October 10, 2017 are
hereby approved and all actions taken by the Directors present at such meeting, as set
forth in such minutes, are hereby in all respects ratified and approved as actions of the
Economic Development Corporation.

October 30, 2017

500 Griswold,8uile 2200 - Detroit, Michigan 48226 (313) 963-2940

. CODE EDC 17-10~03-219
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit

 

ACCEPTANCE OF REPORT FOR SEPTEMBER 2017

RESOLVED, that the Treasurer's Report of Receipts and Disbursements for the
period ending September 30, 2017, as presented at this meeting, is hereby in at! respects
accepted as action of the Economic Development Corporation.

October 30, 2017

500 Griswold,8uite 2200 - Detroit,MiChigon 48226 (313) 963?2940

. CODE EDC 17-10-91-48
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Derrorr

 

MOTOR CITY MATCH: ROUND 9 BUSINESS AWARDS

WHEREAS, EDC staff has completed due diligence and evaluation for applications
("Applications) in the ninth round (?Round of the Motor City Match Business Application
Track; and

WHEREAS, the EDC staff has provided recommendations to the Board, to receive
grant investment for the "Cash? award categories subject to EDC Board approval; and

WHEREAS, the EDC Board that the staff recommendation is reasonable and
consistent with the Motor City Match program; and

NOW, THEREFORE BE lT RESOLVED that the EDC Board of Directors,
accepts the current results of the Round 9 Business Application evaluation process, and
approves the Applications that have been recommended for ?Business Plan" awards,
attached hereto as Exhibit A.

BE iT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the EDC Board of Directors, accepts the
current results of the Round 9 Business Application evaluation process, and approves the
Applications that have been recommended for ?Space? awards, attached hereto as Exhibit
B.

BE 1T FURTHER RESOLVED, that the EDC Board of Directors, accepts the
current results of the Round 9 Business Application evaluation process, and approves the
Applications that have been recommended for ?Design" awards, attached hereto as
Exhibit C.

BE iT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the EDC Board of Directors, recommends to
the EDC Board of Directors the approval of the "Cash? grant awards that were
recommended by Staff pursuant to the Round 9 Business Application evaluation process,
attached hereto as Exhibit D.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the EDC Board of Directors, recommends that
grant amounts not fully allocated each round the remaining funds when quarterly
?Cash? awards total less than $500,000) be repurposed and distributed in future rounds.
in such cases, Staff would have the authority to recommend more than $500,000 in ?Cash"
awards in future rounds, subject to the approval of the Board.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that any two Of?cers, or any one of the Officers and
any one of the Authorized Agents or any two of the Authorized Agents shall
hereafter have the authority to negotiate and execute all documents, contracts, or other
papers and to take such actions as are necessary or appropriate to implement the
provisions and intent of this resolution.

500 Griswold,3uite 2200 - Detroit, Michigan 48226 (313) 963-2940

BE lT FINALLY RESOLVED, that all of the acts and transactions of any Officer or
Authorized Agent of the EDC, in the name and on behalf of the EDC, relating to matters
contemplated by the foregoing resolutions, which acts would have been approved by the
foregoing resolutions, except that such acts were taken prior to the execution of these
resolutions, are hereby in all respects confirmed, approved and ratified.

October 30, 2017

Exhibit A

Recommended ?Business Plan? Awardees

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

t. 313rd Koll3ctiv3 LLC Art gallery, work, and event space
2. 44 Burrito Mexican with a taste of soul
3. Alexa Leasing Acquisitions, Inc. Real estate investment and acquisitions
4. Always Right Program Detroit Customer service training program
5. Amarra Products All natural skin care products
6? Beacon Of Light Outreach Program and Resource and outreach community service
Resource Center
7. Beauty Couture By Xtian Facial and body waxing studio
. Storefront with indie books, coffee, and jewelry
8. Books and Spice fashions
9. Center For Young Entrepreneurs Center for young entrepreneurs
10. Chandra Prephan Oral and visual presentation consulting
11. Club Trinity Recreational themed club for young adults
12. Color Me Badd Health and beauty
13. Darnell Floor Tech Cleaning Floor and carpet cleaning business
14. Dynamic Fitness and Dance Artistry Better, healthy, fabulous ?you??
15' Eat Beauty Beauty busmess offering hair, makeup, and
waxing
16. Edu.Art.Cation Creative arts and academic help
17. Era'Rejuv Beauty and barber bar
. . . . Telecommunications cabling and security
18. Ever Flow Communications and Wll'll'lg camera installation
19. Expressive Collage Party Unique personal, expressive collage party
20. Fly Birdy Hooch Homemade sangria delivery service and bar
21. Goddess Steam Feminine hygiene and vaginal steaming
22. Grace Banquet Hall and Conference

Center

 

Banquet hall and conference center

 

 

 

23.

Graffiti Park Studios

New media arts and entrepreneurship hub

 

24.

Eagle Co, LLC dba Artistry
Cafe Lounge

Cafe with an artistry focus

 

 

 

25. JD Madison Investments, lnc. Medical and therapeutic massage
26. Jobs in the Employing Metro-Detroit area residents
21 Large City Lifestyle Fitness Co. Healthy lifestyle fitness for overweight

individuals

 

28.

LeeAngel's Garments and
Manufacturing dba Sleek and Sexy

Full figured mastectomy line manufacturer

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

29. Life Is Vital Detroit Real food for reai people

30. Local Grown Salads Grow, harvest, and package organic salads
31. Ml Mobile Pet Care, inc Mobile pet grooming

32. Motor City STEAM STEM and arts education enrichment

33. No'Grno Quality Alkaline H20 Alkaline water and supplement retailer

34. P.I.O.M. Literacy based tutoring program

35. Poliy Dolly Detroit Clowns LLC. party organize? and service
36. Rampant de accessories Online accessories boutique

37. Rock City Boulders Detroit's first indoor rock climbing 

38. Scrub Life Lounge Medical uniform and accessories sales

39. Simply Shrimp Fast food carryout restaurant

40. So lcey Delights Frozen snow cones

41. Retail men?s clothing store

42. Sweet Confetti Party Shoppe Party supply, rental, custom treats

43. Temptations Grill LLC Carry-out barbecue restaurant

44. The Crib: A Coworking Space Shared office couworking space

45. The Great Escape Family fun entertainment

 

 

 

 

46. The Travel Mug

international coffee house

 

47. TobeMc Senior {Daycare

Quality senior daycare programming

 

48. Unique Designs

Unique, handcrafted jewelry

 

49. Universal Special Events Inc.

Valet service

 

 

50. Yell Sweets

 

Bakery employing high?school students

 

 

Exhibit 

Recommended ?Space? Awardees

 

1. "a Taste of Hastings Street"

Paradise Valley Biack Bottom total immersion
experience restaurant

 

2. AkibaH Heaith Corporation

World's first smartphone case glucometer

 

3. Alternative Center

Methadone treatment center

 

4. Bearly Articulating, LLC

Cowworking Childcare

 

5. Brut Detroit Wine Bar

Pop?Up wine bar and events

 

6. Cockadoodle

Brunch and smoked meats

 

7. COUP 

Women's shoes and accessories boutique

 

8. Cheesecakes, LLC

Manufacturing and selling Cheesecakes

 

9. Detroit Mama Hub

Hoiistic wellness center for mothers

 

10. Detroit Teas, LLC

Restaurant and retail

 

11. Detropolis (created by Hero or Villain Food
Truck Offworld Arcade)

Arcade bar with fast casual dining

 

12. Harmony Preschool

Chiid care and family services

 

13. Held

Handmade ceramic planters and housewares

 

14. Latitude Training Center

Training center for nurse aides

 

15. Lavender Mobiie Spa

Mobile spa service provider

 

16. Lil? Dumplins

Eariy arts education

 

17. Local Grown Salads

Grow, harvest, and package salads

 

18. Lush Yummies Pie Company LLC

Fourth generation pie company

 

19. Noir Sportwear

Women's sportswear and athleisure apparel
retailer

 

20. Parker Avenue Nail Salon

Luxury nail care salon

 

21. Partners for Americas Ciassrooms, LLC

Service provider for K-12 schools

 

 

22. Rock Prior Group, LLC

 

Shoe business

 

 

 

23. Simple Math LLC Math tutoring business

 

24. Sweet Dreamz Creamery, LLC Ice Cream Parlor with baked goods

 

25. Tail?Labrations, LLC Pet treats and accessories

 

 

 

26. The Upperow Affordable luxury clothing for all

 

 

Exhibit 

Recommended ?Design? Awardees

 

Artistic Flesh Tattoo Supply

Custom tattoos, piercings, and equipment

 

2. Chugga?s Main Street Bakery, LLC

Commercial and retail bakery

 

3. City Food Community Concepts

Food-based community development

 

4. Home Sweet Home Specialty Bakery

Specialty retaii bakery

 

5. P?Lacio's Foods LLC DBA Arroz Con Pollo

Panamanian and Honduran fusion restaurant

 

6. The Millionairess Stylist Studios

Women?s apparel, accessories, and salon
services

 

 

7. Urbanum

 

Home decor

 

 

Exhibit 
Recommended ?Cash? Awardees

1. Detroit Lash Brow

Grant: $10,000

Owner: Tamika Newsorne

Location: 17215 Mack Ave. Detroit, on the East side (District 4)

Description: Detroit Lash 8: Brow is an eyelash and eyebrow extensions and tinting
service. The business has been operating for two years and is moving to locations to
the City of Detroit. The new iocaiion also allows for a retail setup adding an
additional revenue stream to the business. Detroit Lash Brow is a minority, woman,
city of Detroit resident?owned business. The business serves the community through

training ciasses and complementary services for cancer patients.

Total expected investment: $23,000

2. The Social Club Grooming Co.

Grant: $20,000

Owner: Sebastian Jackson

Location: 1515 Broadway, Downtown (District 6)

Description: The Social Club Grooming Co. is a community barbershop that uses
the barbershop experience to connect, inspire, and empower people living in
emerging communities around the world. The business hosts a forum in the
barbershop space called ?ShopTalk,? inviting local and global innovators to
participate in panel discussions where they tell their story while receiving a haircut.
The business has been operating for five years in Midtown and is new opening a
second location in the Wurlitzer building which is being developed into a boutique
hotel. The business is minority owned and serves the community by breaking down
barriers through intentionally diverse hiring practices and community conversation.

Total expected investment: $97,000

3. Primary Coiors Early Childhood Center
Grant: $20,000
Owner: Loraine Smith-Hines

Location: 16515?16511 Schooicraft in Grandmont Rosedale neighborhood (District

Description: Primary Colors Early Childhood Center is a state licensed, full?service
childcare facility specializing in pre~k education using theme-based programming for
children ages two-andwa-half to five years old. The business also provides summer
camp, latch key, tutoring, transportation and services from birth to two-and-a-half
years old. The center has been operating for three years in the Grandmont Rosedale
neighborhood and is opening a second facility to meet increased demand for
childcare in the community. The new location will also serve as a resource center for
parents to use computers and printers, as well as an entertainment space for
children?s birthday parties and other events. The business is minority, woman, native
Detroit resident-owned.

Totat expected investment: $55,000

4. Detroit Wedding Studio

Grant: $20,000

Owners: Carrie Gentry

Location: 2921 East Jefferson in the East Riverfront neighborhood (District 5)

Description: Detroit Wedding Studio provides wedding planning and coordinator
services. The business has been operating for three years out of an office and is
expanding to a Motor City Match property. The new location will provide additional
meeting space to service more clients and allow the business to showcase wedding
products and services from other vendors. Motor City Match awardee Beautiful Bridal
is also located inside the building and has curated other tenant spaces to provide a
one-stop wedding experience in the city of Detroit. The business is minority, woman
owned.

Total expected investment: $50,000

5. New Center Eatery

Grant: $25,000

Owners: Johnny Cannon

Location: 6549 Woodward Ave in New Center (District 5)

Description: New Center Eatery is a casual dining and carry out restaurant serving
the community for over 14 years. The business is moving out of its current location
due to uncontrollable circumstances; the Motor City Match grant will allow the
business to move to another location around the block and continue serving the
community it has operated in for over a decade. The business is also committed to
employing locally and will create 46 new jobs in the larger new location. New Center
Eatery is a minority owned business.

Total expected investment: $100,000

6. Cuisine, LLC

Grant: $35,000

Owner: Damon Lockett

Location: 6549 Woodward Ave on the Avenue of Fashion (District 2)

Description: Cuisine is an American cuisine gourmet restaurant. The business
has been operating successfully as a carryout?only restaurant for ten months. The
new location wilt allow the business to meet growing demand and provide sit-down

service for customers. The business is minority, Detroit resident-owned.

Total expected investment: $182,000

7. Urban Flavors

Grant: $45,000

Owners: Cleveland Crumsey

Location: 9215 E. Jefferson Ave in East Village (District 5)

Description: Urban Flavors is a start?up restaurant promoting local organic dishes
catering to urban culinary lovers. The restaurant will provide quality food at
affordable prices in a family friendly environment using natural, local and sustainable
sourced food. Run by a husband and wife team, the business is minority, Detroit-
resident owned.

Total expected investment: $160,000

8. The Noel Group LLC BSA The Detroit Pepper Company
Grant: $45,000

Owner: Marlin Hughes

Location: 17180 Warren in East English Village (District 4)

Description: Detroit Pepper Company is a start-up healthy alternative fast casual
restaurant serving stuffed peppers, smoothies and rawjuices. The business caters to
the health?conscious consumer aiming to increase access to healthy, high quality
and affordable food options in the neighborhood. The owners son has autism so a
key mission and purpose of the company is to empower and encourage children with
autism and others with disabilities to accomplish their goals through training and job
creation. The business is minority, Detroit resident-owned.

Total expected investment: $236,500

9. Inc.

Grant: $45,000

Owner: Michael Dorsey

Location: 1200 Oakman Blvd. Bidg. on the Focus Hope campus (District 2)

Description: is a green remanufacturing company of compatible toner
cartridges for laser printers. The business is 100% veteran with service disability and
minority?owned, operating for ten years as a tier 1 vendor for a major health and
hospital provider. After closing their operation in the metro Detroit suburbs due to
environmental conditions, the owner sought to reopen in the city of Detroit. The new
location will allow the business to expand operations and fulfill demand for several
new contracts with the health hospitai provider. The business is committed to hiring
veterans with service disabilities and Detroit residents as wait as supporting
employees to obtain GED or college education.

Total expected investment: $166,000

10. The Work inc.
Grant: $50,000

Owner: Edward Knight, Jesse Ford, Shane Ford, Christopher Gruse, Jerome Waicl


Location: 2933 Gratiot Avenue in Poletown East (District 5)

Description: The Work lnc. is a leading premium content and video production
company in Detroit that provides a one?stop shop for all production needs. Operating
for seven years the company has a strong ciient base and growing revenues. The
business has outgrown their current location and purchased a building to expand
their operations and hire 2-4 additional employees. The new location includes two
buiidings along a vacant block on Gratiot one block east of past Motor City Match
design awardee, Playground Detroit. The site will have four retail spaces, two ?oors
of operation for The Work Inc. and a floor dedicated for co?working space serving 2-3
additional start-up companies. Majority of the business owners are Detroit residents.

Total expected investment: $3,000,000

11. The Platintim Chef
Grant: $50,000
Owners: Rhoda St Luce

Location: 1111 Bellevue St. in the lslandview neighborhood (District 5)

Description: The Platinum Chef is a vegan, Carribean baked goods business
operating for six years. The new location will aliow the business to expand their
manufacturing and distribution to fulfill a new contract with Whole Foods in lilinois.
The space will also serve as a hub to promote healthy living awareness in the
community through educational programs that employ local residents through an
MEDC Community Ventures DRAP program. The business is minority, woman
owned.

Total expected investment: $306,000

12. Olive Seed

Grant: $60,000

Owner: Latricia Wright

Location: 3179 Franklin Street in the East Riverfront neighborhood (District 5)

Description: Olive Seed is a natural health and wellness provider offering
workshops, cooking demonstrations, consulting services, and carefuily selected
completely naturai products. The business has been operating out of the suburbs for
seven years and is moving their business to the City of Detroit. in addition to serving
large corporate clients such as GM and Quicken Loans, Olive Seed educates
children, low income families, and offers free workshops and discounts for veterans.
The business is minority, woman, Detroit resident-owned and is a past Space and
Design awardee. Olive Seed aiso be locating in a Motor City Match property.

Total expected investment: $242,000

13. One Stop Property Maintenance LLC
Grant: $75,000
Owners: Kenji Lemon

Location: 10331 Hamilton and 10337 Hamitton in the Boston Edison/Arden Park
neighborhood (District 5)

Description: One Stop Property Maintenance is an exterior commercial 
maintenance business including turf maintenance, snow removal and power
washing. The business is growing out of a home-based office into a commercial
property allow for hiring of administrative staff and additional equipment storage to
expand operations. The business has beenoperating for 11 years with a strong
client base such as Techtown, Detroit Pubiic Schools, and CVS, and is committed to
hiring Detroit residents. One Stop Property Maintenance is a Motor City Match
design awardee. The business is minority, Detroit resident?owned.

Total expected investment: $375,000

. CODE EDC 17-1 0-91-49
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detrort

 

MOTOR CITY MATCH RECOMMENDATION FOR ROUND 9 BUILDING AWARDS

WHEREAS, EDC staff has completed extensive due diligence and evaluation for
applications ("Applications) for the ninth round ("Round of the Motor City Match
Building Application Track; and

WHEREAS, the EDC staff has provided recommendations to the EDC Board of
Directors, to receive technical assistance in the ?Space,? and ?Design? Building Owner
award categories; and

WHEREAS, the Board determined that the staff recommendation is reasonable
and consistent with the Motor City Match program; and

NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the EDC Board of Directors
accepts the current results of the Round 9 Building Application evaluation process, and
approves the Applications that have been recommended for ?Space" awards, attached
hereto as Exhibit A.

BE lT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the EDC Board of Directors accepts the current
results of the Round 9 Building Application evaluation process, and approves the
Applications that have been recommended for ?Design? awards, attached hereto as
Exhibit B.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that any two Officers, or any one of the Officers and
any one of the Authorized Agents or any two of the EDC's Authorized Agents shalt
hereafter have the authority to negotiate and execute all documents, contracts, or other
papers and to take such actions as are necessary or appropriate to implement the
provisions and intent of this resolution.

BE lT RESOLVED, that all of the acts and transactions of any Officer or
Authorized Agent of the EDC, in the name and on behalf of the EDC, relating to matters
contemplated by the foregoing resolutions, which acts would have been approved by the
foregoing resolutions, except that such acts were taken prior to the execution of these
resolutions, are hereby in all respects confirmed, approved and rati?ed.

October 30, 2017

500 GriswoldSuite 2200 - Detroit, Michigan 48226 - (313) 963?2940

Motor City Match: Round 9
Recommended ?Space? Awardees Top Property Designation

Exhibit A

October 30, 2017

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Property Street Address Ell-Egg; Aggie Mlgji-Eg?gmt 2:22:12:
Footage

10935 Shoemaker Commercial 4000 Yes Fair
1200 Washington Commercial 4000 Yes Good
12740 14th Commercial 876 No Fair
1347 Fisher parcel address 1343 Commercial 5500 Yes Good
15055 Hubbeli Commercial 200000 Yes Fair
16511-16515 Schoolcraft Commercial 2400 No Fair
17215 Lahser Commercial 3999 No Poor
20531 Joy Commercial 1720 No Great
23 Adams (Io?working 800 Yes Good
3200 Gratiot Commercial 1200 No Fair
3700 3rd Other 6500 Yes Fair
4430 Vernor Commercial 3600 Yes Fair
714 State Fair Commercial 3600 Yes Good
8110 Mack Commercial 7750 Yes Good
8401-8409 Livernois Commercial 4000 Yes Good
9354 Oakland Commercial 2100 Yes Good

 

 

 

 

 

 

Recommended ?Design? Awardees

. ., . .

Artistic Flesh Tattoo Supply

Exhibit 8
Motor City Match: Round 9

October 30, 2017

Description . 

Custom tattoos, piercings,
and equipment

 

 

Chugga?s Main Street Bakery, LLC
City Food Community Concepts

Home Sweet Home Specialty Bakery

The Millionairess Stylist Studios

Urbanum

Commercial and retail
bakery

Food~based community
development

Specialty retaii bakery

fusion restaurant

Women's apparel 8:

P'Lacio's Foods LLC DBA Arroz Con Polio Panamanian Honduran


3131 Woodward

8535 Vernor

6224 16th

14420 Jefferson

2024 Springwell

19434 Livernois

accessories, saion services

Home decor

6541 Woodward

?Tenant 
:Tenant
Owner
:Tenant
'Tenant

;Tenant

:Tenant

. CODE EDC 17-10-95-04
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroi

 

CDBG DECLARED DISASTER RECOVERY AWARD: ISLANDVIEWI GREATER
VILLAGES GREEN STORMWATER INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT 
PROFESSIONAL SERVICES AGREEMENT FOR ENVIRONMENTAL 
GEOTECHNICAL SERVICES (BELTLINE GREENWAY) CONSULTING 
WITH SME

WHEREAS, the City of Detroit, by and through its Housing and Revitalization
Department, (the ?City?) has been awarded a Community Development Block Grant for
Deciared Disaster Recovery from the us. Department of Housing and
Urban Development (HUD) in the amount of Eight Million, Nine Hundred Thousand and
00/100 Dollars and

WHEREAS, is designed to ameliorate future ?ooding and support
market recovery through a comprehensive approach to resiliency; and

WHEREAS, with EDC board approval (menses-01), the EDC executed a sub?
recipient agreement with the City and was awarded $2,593,500.00 from the City?s 
DDR grant to undertake construction management services with respect to the
lsiandview/Greater Villages Green Stormwater Infrastructure Project.

WHEREAS, the EDC solicited for quotes on June 2, 2017 for Environmental 
Geotechnical Services for the Project and this soiicitation was made pursuant to the ?small
purchase procedure? method of procurement per 24 CFR and

WHEREAS, EDC staff received three cost proposals to the request for quotes, and
EDC staff members reviewed alt the cost proposals and have determined that SME
provided the lowest cost and most responsive quote.

WHEREAS, EDC staff recommends approval of a Professional Services
Agreement with SME and the proposed scope of services is attached as Attachment A.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Board of Directors of the
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit hereby authorizes the execution
of a Professional Service Agreement with SME, not to exceed Twenty?Eight Thousand
Five Hundred Fifty Dollars to be paid out of the funds.

BE lT FURTHER RESOLVED, that any two Officers, or any one of the Officers
and any one of the Authorized Agents or any two of the Authorized Agents, shall
hereafter have the authority to negotiate and execute any and all documents, contracts or
other papers and take such other actions necessary or appropriate to implement the
provisions and intent of this resolution on behalf of the EDC.

500 Griswold,3uite 2200 DeiroitMiChigCin 48226 (313) 963-2940

BE IT FINALLY RESOLVED that all of the acts and transactions of any officer or
authorized agent of the EDC, in the name and on behalf of the EDC, relating to matters
contemplated by the foregoing resolutions, which acts would have been approved by the
foregoing resolutions except that such acts were taken prior to execution of these
resolutions, are hereby in all respects confirmed, approved and ratified.

October 30, 2017

. CODE EDC 17-10-95?05
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit

 

CDBG DECLARED DISASTER RECOVERY AWARD: ISLANDVIEWI GREATER
VILLAGES GREEN STORMWATER INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT 
PROFESSIONAL SERVICES AGREEMENT FOR ENVIRONMENTAL CONSULTING
SERVICES (JOS CAMPAU 8: ROGELL PROPERTY) WITH SME

WHEREAS, the City of Detroit, by and through its Housing and Revitalization
Department, (the "City?) has been awarded a Community Development Block Grant for
Declared Disaster Recovery (CDBG-DDR) from the US. Department of Housing and
Urban Development (HUD) in the amount of Eight Million, Nine Hundred Thousand and
00/100 Dollars and

WHEREAS, CDBG-DDR is designed to ameiiorate future flooding and support
market recovery through a comprehensive approach to resiliency; and

WHEREAS, with EDC board approval the EDC executed a sub-
recipient agreement with the City and was awarded $2,593,500.00 from the City?s 
DDR grant to undertake construction management services with respect to the
lslandvielereater Viilages Green Stormwater infrastructure Project.

WHEREAS, the EDC soiicited for quotes for survey services on August 24, 2017
for Environmental Consulting Services for the Project and this solicitation was made
pursuant to the "email purchase procedure? method of procurement per 24 CFR 
and

WHEREAS, EDC staff received three cost proposats to the request for quotes, and
EDC staff members reviewed all the cost proposals and have determined that SME
provided the lowest cost and most responsive quote.

WHEREAS, EDC staff recommends approval of a Professional Services
Agreement with SME and the proposed scope of services is attached as Attachment A.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Board of Directors of the
Economic Deveiopment Corporation of the City of Detroit hereby authorizes the execution
of a Professional Service Agreement with SME We, not to exceed One Hundred
Forty-Six Thousand Eight Hundred Seventy?Five Dollars to be paid out of
the grant funds.

BE iT FURTHER RESOLVED, that any two Of?cers, or any one of the Officers
and any one of the Authorized Agents or any two of the Authorized Agents, shall
hereafter have the authority to negotiate and execute any and all documents, contracts or
other papers and take such other actions necessary or appropriate to implement the
provisions and intent of this resolution on behalf of the EDC.

500 Griswold,Suite 2200 - DetroitMichigon 48226 - (313) 963-2940

BE lT FINALLY RESOLVED that all of the acts and transactions of any officer or
authorized agent of the EDC, in the name and on behalf of the EDC, relating to matters
contemplated by the foregoing resolutions, which acts would have been approved by the
foregoing resolutions except that such acts were taken prior to execution of these
resolutions, are hereby in all respects confirmed, approved and ratified.

October 30, 2017

