MINUTES OF THE MEETING
COMMISSION ON CHICAGO LANDMARKS
JUNE 27, 2013
The Commission on Chicago Landmarks held a special meeting on June 27, 2013. The meeting
was held at the City Hall, 121 N. LaSalle St., City Council chambers, Chicago, Illinois. The
meeting began at 10:06 a.m.
PHYSICALLY PRESENT:
Rafael Leon, Chairman
Jim Houlihan , Vice Chairman
Andrew Mooney, Commissioner of the Department of Housing and
Economic Development, Secretary
Tony Hu
Mary Ann Smith
Ernest Wong
John Baird, Commissioner Emeritus
ABSENT:
Anita Blanchard
Victor Ignacio Dziekiewicz
ALSO PHYSICALLY PRESENT:
Eleanor Gorski, Director of the Historic Preservation Division,
Department of Department of Housing and Economic
Development
Arthur Dolinsky, Department of Law, Real Estate Division
Members of the Public (The list of those in attendance is on file at the
Commission office.)
A recording of this meeting is on file at the Department of Housing and Economic Development,
Historic Preservation Division offices and is part of the public record of the regular meeting of
the Commission on Chicago Landmarks.

Commissioner Leon called the meeting to order.
1. Review of Pre-Permit Submission
WRIGLEY FIELD
1060 W. Addison St.

WARD 44

Proposed renovations to include 4 new exterior additions, relocation of the perimeter
wall at Sheffield and Waveland to accommodate bleacher expansion, the installation of
new outfield signs, and a new roof deck.

 Commissioner Leon announced that the review of the new outfield signs would be postponed
until the regular July 11 CCL meeting, in order to allow more time for discussion between all
parties.
Eleanor Gorski presented the staff report for the proposed renovations, additions, relocation
of the perimeter walls at Sheffield and Waveland, new roof deck, and the master sign
program. The proposed installation of two new outfield signs was not part of the master sign
presentation.
Mike Lufrano, Vice President for Community Affairs for the Chicago Cubs, made a brief
statement about the ongoing work at the stadium and introduced the team that is working on
the proposed project. Gunny Harboe, Principal at Harboe Architects, spoke about how the
proposed renovations meet the Secretary of Interior’s Standards and Guidelines for
Rehabilitation of Historic Buildings, are consistent with the character of the historic stadium,
and provide upgraded facilities to address the needs of the public. Chuck Izzo, from
D’Agostino Izzo Quirk Architects, Inc., spoke about his firm’s advisory role in working with
Harboe architects and VOA to ensure that the design of the facility upgrades will allow
Wrigley Field to function like other baseball stadiums. Alderman Tom Tunney then spoke in
support of the proposed renovations with the exception of the expansion of the exterior walls
on Sheffield and Waveland into the public way.
Chairman Leon called for questions by the Commission members to clarify any information
regarding the proposed work and staff recommendations. The public was then invited to
make public comment; approximately 50 members of the public presented statements.
Commission staff and the applicant’s representatives were recalled to address additional
questions of the Commission. There were additional questions and further discussion by the
Commission.
A motion was made to accept the staff recommendation for approval of the proposed Wrigley
Field renovation and expansion plan with the stated conditions and approve the Wrigley
Field Master Sign Program, absent any mention of the outfield signage.
Motioned by Smith, seconded by Wong. Approved unanimously. (6-0)

2. Adjournment
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 2:29 p.m.
Motioned by Leon. Approved unanimously. (6-0)

Andrew Mooney, Secretary

 