MARQUETTE PARK SSA#14
OPEN COMMISSIONERS MEETING
February 8, 2017
MINUTES
Location: Lithuanian Human Services Council Hall
2711-15 W. 71st Street
Chicago, IL 60629
In attendance: Commissioners

Patricia Nelson, chair
Cynthia Young
Peggie Jones

Absent:

Brenda Justice
Jonas Miglinas
Dolorine Lopez
Stephanie Sherman-Ratliff

Commissioners

Also in attendance:

Joe Polikaitis, SSA#14 and LHS Executive Director
Ina Stankeviciene, SSA#14 Program Manager
Narvell Darling, IHS Director of Operations
Guests:

Patrick Brutus, Coordinator of Economic Development
Dept. of Planning and Development

Opening remarks
Commission chair opened the meeting at 7:15 PM by commenting that a quorum was not
present. Therefore, this meeting will be only of informative nature and questions requiring
commissioner voting will not be discussed. Attendees were reminded to sign their name on the
speaker’s sheet if they want to speak during the Community input agenda item.
Approval of 11/16/2017 minutes
The 11/16/2017 MP SSA #14 meeting minutes were emailed to all Commissioners prior to the
meeting. Also, copies of the minutes were made available to all meeting attendees. Approval of the
minutes will be done by Commissioners during the next meeting when quorum is present. After
approval, they will be posted on Marquette Park SSA#14 website (www.mp-security.org)
Incident Report
Incident Report was read by Ina Stankeviciene. It covered the time period of November 1st, 2016
to January 31st, 2017. During the three-month period, the Illinois Homeland Security addressed 775
security events of varied nature. A total of 144 requests for assistance came directly from the SSA#14
dispatch central, 565 calls from the CPD dispatch, and 67 on view by the rowing patrol cars. There
were 225 security events in November, 254 in December, and 296 in January. Domestic disturbance
and domestic abuse calls are on the rise again. (71 incidents reported for the three months). Burglary
alarm calls occurred 86 times during the three months and burglary – 12 times. Disturbance and
loitering is still over 40% of all incidents (98 incidents in November, 126 in December and 105 in

 January). Suspicious activity by a person or vehicle was reported 67 times. Arrival of security officers
prevented escalation into a more serious incident. Person with a gun was reported 20 times, person shot
– 6. Zone 3 and Zone 4 still required the greatest amount of effort: 245 incidents in Zone 3, and 184 –
in Zone 4 during the past three months. Zone 5 – 45. Statistical data was illustrated with incident charts
and tables. Copies of the report were distributed to all attendees and posted on MP SSA#14
website: www.mp-security.org
Financial Report as of 02/07/2017
Financial report was presented by Joe Polikaitis. He explained that MP SSA#14 funds are held
in two SSA accounts at the Marquette Bank: money market and checking account. Annually, the first
part of property tax collections starts in late February. Thus, to continue with the program we need to
carry over approximately 65-70 thousand dollars to cover security operations during the first two
months of the year. This year, we did not need to take a loan. As of February 3, 2017 there were the
following amounts:
Money Market account – $8,647.00
Checking account – $27,935.00
Total – $36,582.00, which is a good amount to carry over before the tax revenue starts to come in.
CPA Audits
Joe Polikaitis informed that City of Chicago requires annual audits of SSA books, such as
financial records, minutes of the meetings, records of bank accounts, cash transfers and expense
invoices. Audit has to be submitted to the Department of Planning and Development by May 1st. Right
now, we are asking audit agencies to submit their proposals. Next commissioners meeting is scheduled
on April 5th.2017. Therefore, an audit needs to be approved by commissioners during that meeting
before we submit it to the Department of Planning and Development of the City of Chicago.
Expiration of SSA#14 Ordinance – re-establishment process
Joe Polikaitis informed that City of Chicago SSA ordinances have “sundown” clauses that
requires every SSA district to be formally renewed every few years. The present SSA#14 ordinance
expires at the end of 2017 and thus it must be renewed and a new ordinance passed by the City of
Chicago Council.
Renewal of an ordinance is a long and arduous process. The present renewal procedures require
that 20% of property owners sign the petition to renew. This will be very difficult for SSA#14 since we
have nearly 4,000 property PIN’s. We need to collect at least 800 signatures. Some of them may be
challenged for inaccuracies. Thus, realistically, we need to collect approximately 900 property owner
signatures. These signatures must be obtained directly from property owners themselves and they must
show documents that they are rightful owners of the property. Many of the property owners do not live
in the area, in fact some live in other states. Reaching them will be very difficult. Most of all, time is
not on our side.
Alderman Derrick Curtis, 18th Ward, promised to assist us in this process. We need additional
discussions with the alderman and how his office would he be able to assist, namely workers. Decision
to renew should be made within two or three months. There are a number of things that needs to be
done. First of all we need to get the most updated property owners list from the Cook County
Assessors office. Second, we need to hire a consultant which ultimately will cost nearly $70,000.00.
They will verify true owners of each property, status of the property and will recommend and guide us
in the process of obtaining signature.
Significant and positive discussions by the meeting attendees continued for nearly half an hour.
A number of questions were raised and they were answered by Department of Planning and
Development representative Patrick Brutus. Most of the suggestions recommended as how to ease this

 process would not meet City of Chicago requirements. However, some recommendations with respect
to the process of collecting signatures were workable and will be investigated further.
A recommendation was made to write a letter to all property owners, explaining the situation of
renewal, the City of Chicago requirements and set up a registration day for signatures for property
owners. Request them to come to the Lithuanian Human Services Hall with property documents and
sign the petition. Few commented that we need to set aside at least one week for the collection of
signatures. This approach will be evaluated by the commissioners and sole service provider.
Status of Surveillance Cameras
Surveillance camera status was updated by Joe Polikaitis and Narvell Darling, IHS Director of
Operations. Some residents expressed desire to mount surveillance camera on their property as well as
alleys. They were informed that City of Chicago did not permit us to mount cameras on light poles,
thus alleys would be out of the question. Besides we would need many more surveillance cameras.
Also, we need to mount cameras on high buildings and without severe tree obstructions. Signal is
passed over the trees to the dispatch station.
Mr. Narvell Darling of IHS informed that we have one extra camera and asked if someone had
suggestions where it would be needed the most.
Comments by 8-th District Commander Ronald Pontecore
8-th District Commander could not attend the meeting.
Community Input
A number of questions were raised during the Community input part of the agenda. One
resident asked about installation of Christmas decorations along Western avenue. She reminded that
during the last Commissioners meeting a request to move $2,500 from Web side line item to the
decorations line item At that time, after discussion, commissioners rejected the recommendation.
Thus, only the originally budgeted amount (budgeted in 2015) was used. Questioner expressed the view
that in the future no money should be used for such purposes.
Following several comments from meeting attendees that they have no say so in this meeting,
Patrick Brutus of Department of Planning and Development explained very clearly how such meetings
function, what is open meetings act, and how the residents can express their views and have influence
on the commissioners.
The commissioners are the governing body of the SSA but must adhere to the SSA guidelines
and rules. This is their meeting, as if they were in a fish bowl. Meeting attendees are watching them,
however, without ability to do much at this meeting. However, they can express their views during the
community input part for commissioners to consider. They may or may not accept recommendations,
still they are your representatives and make decisions on your behalf.
Some residents complained that they do not feel safe on their own property.
New commissioner Peggie Jones took opportunity to introduce herself to all attendees.
Next Governing Commissioners Meeting
Next meeting is tentatively scheduled for April 5, 2017.
Meeting closed at 8:20 pm.
Respectfully submitted by Ina Stankeviciene

 