CHICAGO PLAN COMMISSION
121 North LaSalle Street
10:00 A.M.
City Council Chambers
2nd Floor, City Hall
Chicago, Illinois 60602
May 18, 2017
MINUTES
PRESENT
Les Bond
Alderman Edward Burke
Alderman Walter Burnett
Martin Cabrera*
Laura Flores*
Sarah Lyons*
Alderman Joseph Moore*
Alderman Proco Joe Moreno*
Terry Peterson*
David Reifman*
Rebekah Scheinfeld*
Patricia Scudiero*
Linda Searl*
Smita Shah*
Alderman Daniel Solis*
Alderman Thomas Tunney*

ABSENT
Mayor Rahm Emanuel
Michael Kelly
Daniel Sih
Lucino Sotelo
Reverend Albert Tyson

A.

The Chairman called the May 18, 2017, Regular Hearing of the Chicago Plan
Commission, to order at 10:12 AM and then undertook a roll call to establish the
presence of a quorum; the hearing commenced with 13 members present(*). A court
reporter was present to record the proceedings. A transcript is available for the purpose of
pursuing all matters in greater detail and is a part of the permanent public record.

B.

A motion by Smita Shah, seconded by Terry Peterson, to approve the Minutes of the April
20, 2017, Regular Hearing of the Chicago Plan Commission, was approved by a 13-0
vote.

C.

A motion by Sarah Lyons, seconded by Linda Searl, to approve Items Number One and
Three and to defer Item Number Two under Negotiated Sale, in accordance with the
Inter-Agency Planning Referral Act, was approved by a 13-0 vote.

D.

Department of Planning and Development Commissioner David Reifman provided the
Plan Commission and public with an update regarding the city’s efforts to create a
voluntary MBE, WBE and local hiring program for projects subject to the Plan
Commission’s review and approval.

 E.

Regarding the following matters submitted in accordance with the Lake Michigan and
Chicago Lakefront Protection ordinance or the Chicago Zoning ordinance:
1. A motion by Terry Peterson, seconded by Smita Shah, to approve a resolution
recommending approval of the North Branch Industrial Corridor Framework for the
North Branch Industrial Corridor which recommends land uses within the Corridor,
was approved by a 15-0 vote. The Framework also provides implementation
strategies for improvements that relate to open space, transportation, urban character
and design. The Framework covers the area generally bounded by the Kennedy
Expressway and the UP Metra line to the west; Fullerton Avenue to the north;
Clybourn Avenue, Kingsbury Street and the Chicago River to the east; and, Kinzie
Street to the south. (2nd, 27th, 32nd, 42nd and 43rd Wards)
2. A motion by Sarah Lyons, seconded by Terry Peterson, to approve a proposed
planned development, submitted by Three Corners Development Inc., for the property
generally located at 6418 North Sheridan Road, was approved by a 10-0 vote. The
site is currently zoned B3-5 (Community Shopping). The applicant proposes to
rezone the site to RM6.5 (Residential Multi-Unit) prior to establishing this planned
development. The applicant proposes to construct an 80’ tall, seven-story building
containing ground floor retail, 111 dwelling units and 125 accessory, vehicular,
parking spaces. An existing, 215’ tall, 25-story building with 450 dwelling units will
remain unchanged on the property. (49th Ward)
3. A motion by Laura Flores, seconded by Linda Searl, to approve a proposed
amendment to Planned Development 982, submitted by Shoemaker Office
Investments LLC, for the property generally located at 3927-63 West Belmont
Avenue, was approved by a 10-0 vote. The applicant proposes to convert office space
on the first floor of an existing, six-story building into nine residential units within
Sub-Area A prior to re-establishing Planned Development 982, as amended. No
changes are proposed to any other terms, conditions or regulations of Planned
Development 982. (30th Ward)
4. A motion by Linda Searl, seconded by Laura Flores, to approve a proposed
amendment to Planned Development 1215, submitted by Riverbend Real Estate
Investments LLC, for the property generally located at 2900 South Hillock Avenue
was approved by a 12-0 vote. The applicant proposes to construct a 49’ tall, fourstory building containing 28 dwelling units and 28 accessory, vehicular, parking
spaces, representing an increase of 21 units from that contained in the previously
approved planned development. (11th Ward)
5. A motion by Alderman Joe Moore, seconded by Linda Searl, to approve a proposed
planned development, submitted by Jefferson Place LLC, for the property generally
located at 4849 North Lipps Avenue, was approved by a 10-0 vote. The site is
currently zoned B3-3 (Community Shopping) and M1-1 (Limited
Manufacturing/Business Park). The applicant proposes to rezone the site to B3-5 prior
to establishing this planned development which will be divided into two sub areas.

 Sub Area A will include a 211’4” tall, 16-story building containing ground floor
retail, 114 dwelling units and 200 vehicular, parking spaces. Sub Area B contains a
140’ tall, 10-story building with ground floor retail, offices and 216 accessory,
vehicular, parking spaces; no changes are proposed to the building in this sub area.
(45th Ward)
A motion by Sarah Lyons, seconded by Linda Searl, to adjourn the May 18, 2017, Regular
Hearing of the Chicago Plan Commission at 4:49 PM, was approved by an 10-0 vote.

 