f) . CAP CENTER conomn CENTER

A . Bid 2

SOUTH 
PARENTS FRI EN DE 7737342222 7032350345
DEVELOPING OPTIONS CREATING OPPORTUNITIES 773-734-2850 7082350355



SSA 5 Regular Commission Meeting Minutes

November 30, 2017

PRESENT ABSENT
Bonnie DinelI-Dimond Angela Hurlock
Dorothy Hudson

Bob Loncar

Alex Alemis

SERVICE PROVIDER

Torn Schell
Dave Price
Diane Abbott

Meeting was called to order at 2:07 pm.
Presentations:

0 Nisha Floyd and ldaima Robles, Women's Business Development Center
presented information regarding and upcoming intensive 8-week program
starting January 24, 2018, that gives established businesses the tools to grow.

. Andre Benford, Benford Protection Group presented his proposal to act as
the security detail for the SSA 5.

1. Approval of Agenda

A motion to approve the agenda was made by Bob Loncar, seconded by Alex

Alemis. Motion carried.

2. Approval of the Minutes

The minutes of the October 26, 2017, meeting were reviewed. There being no

corrections or deletion to the minutes, a motion to approve the October 26, 2017,

meeting minutes was made Bob Loncar, seconded by Dorothy Hudson. Motion
carried.

South Chicago Parents and Friends, Inc. is accredited by the Commission for Accreditation of Rehabilitation Facilities (CARF).

MINUTES OF A REGULARL MEETING
OF THE COMMISIONERS OF SSA 5 November 30, 2017

3. Financial Report

Financial Reports for the month ending October 31, 2017, were reviewed and
discussed. Mr. Schell reviewed the revenues and expenses for the month of
October. A request to add the graph lines for easier reading of the financial
statements was made. After further discussion regarding the Financial Reports, a
motion to accept the October Financial Reports was made by Alex Alemis,
seconded by Dorothy Hudson. Motion carried.

4. Cash Flow I Receivables

Mr. Schell provided the commissioners with a copy of the October, 2017 bank
reconciliation. A request was made to make the photos of checks cashed larger.
After discussion, a motion to accept the October bank reconciliation was made by
Alex Alemis, seconded by Dorothy Hudson. Motion carried.

Mr. Schell reported that as of the date of the meeting, cash in the bank totaled
$98,623.78.

5. Items for Approval

Mr. Schell presented the October invoice for payment approval. After a brief
discussion regarding the invoice, a motion to approve the October invoice was
made by Dorothy Hudson, seconded by Bob Loncar. Motion carried.

Mr. Schell presented a letter from the Office of Inspector General requesting that the
SSA 5 board of commissioners vote to allow the disclosure of the recording of the
October 29, 2015 closed session for use in OlG's investigation and any subsequent
proceedings. The board requested that until the recording can be heard by all
members, a vote could not be made.

Mr. Schell stated the wording of Section 3.0 Members and Section 4.0 Eligibility of
the by?laws was clarified by the City and that it is up to the discretion of the
commissioners to determine the criteria to be a commissioner as well as the number
of commissioners. It was requested to abstain from a vote until further review of the
current wording. The approval of the draft copy of the by-laws was tabled until the
next schedule commissioners meeting.

South Chicago Parents and Friends, Inc. is accredited by the Commission for Accreditation of Rehabilitation Facilities (CARF).

MINUTES OF A REGULAR MEETING
OF THE COMMISIONERS OF SSA 5 November 30, 2017

6. Program Manager Report

Mr. Price presented a security proposal comparison reviewing prices and services
from the past security firm and the proposed Benford Protection Group. After further
discussion regarding the proposals, a motion to hire Benford Protection Group for a
trial of 3 months with their daily hours of 8:00 am. 8:00 pm. was made by Bob
Loncar, seconded by Alex Alemis. Motion carried.

Dave Price stated the Strategy Deployment information could be postponed until the
next meeting as it would take some time to review and discuss.

7. Items for Discussion

There were no items for discussion.

8. Adjournment

There being no additional business, a motion to adjourn the meeting at 4:02 pm.
was made by Dorothy Hudson, seconded by Bob Loncar. Motion carried.

Next Regular Scheduled Meeting December 21, 2017 at 2:00 pm.

South Chicago Parents and Friends, Inc. is accredited by the Commission for Accreditation of Rehabilitation Facilities (CARF).

