City of Detroit

DEA

Downtown Developm ent Authority
EDD Griswold. Suite 2200, 22'? Floor

Detroit, Michigan 48228

Phone: 3?13 963 2940

Fax: 313 963 8839

CODE DDA 18-03-02-605

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF MARCH 14, 2018

RESOLVED, that the minutes of the Regular meeting of March 14, 2018 are hereby
approved and all actions taken by the Directors present at such meeting. as set forth in such
minutes, are hereby in all respects ratified and approved as actions of the Downtown Development
Authority.

March 28, 2018

City of Detroit

Em

Downtown Development Authority

EDD Griswold, Suite 2208, 22"? Floor
Detroit, Michigan 48225

Phone: 813 958 2940

Fax: {318 963 8839

DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT 
BOARD OF DIRECTORS REGULAR MEETING
WEDESDAY, MARCH ?14, 2018 3:00 P.M.

BOARD MEMBERS PRESENT:

BOARD MEMBERS ABSENT:

OTHERS PRESENT:

Marvin Beatty
Austin Black

David Blaszkiewicz
Ehrlich Grain
Sonya Delley
James Jenkins
John Naglick
Steve Ogden

Charles Beckham

Michael Duggan

Richard Hosey

David Massaron

Vacancy (Melvin Hollowell)

Gay Hilger 
Malinda Jensen 
John Lauve (Public)

Glen Long, Jr. 
Rebecca Navin 
Sarah Pavelko 

City of Detroit

Em

Downtown Development Authority
500 Griswold. Suite 2208. 22'?1 Fioor?

Detroit, Michigan 48228

Phone: 31 3 983 2940

Fax: 31 '3 983 8839

MINUTES OF THE DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
BOARD OF REGULAR MEETING

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 14, 2018

DETROIT GROWTH 

500 GRISWOIJD STREET, SUITE 2200 3:00 PJVI.

GENERAL
Cat! to Order

Noting that a quorum was present, Vice Chair Biaszkiewicz called the Regular meeting of the
Downtown Development Authority Board of Directors to order at 3:08 pm.

Approval of Minutes

Mr. Biaszkiewicz questioned whether there were any additions, deletions or corrections to the
minutes of the January 10, 2018 Regular Board meeting. Hearing none, the Board took the
following action:

On a motion by Mr. Beatty, seconded by Ms. Delley, Resolution Code DDA 180302-604
was unanimously approved.

Receipt of Treasurer?s Reports

Mr. Naglick reviewed the Treasurer's Report of Receipts and Disbursements for the Months of
December 2017 and January 2018 for the benefit of the Board and responded to questions.
Subsequent to the discussion, the Board took the following action:

On a motion by Mr. Beatty, seconded by Ms. Delley, Resolution Code 18-03?03-479 and
18-03-03-480 were unanimously approved.

PROJECTS
Mr. Blaszkiewicz advised that he was skipping the first project item and will go back to it later.

Tigers Concession and Management Agreement Request for Consent to Easement to
Comcast

Ms. Navin stated that the City of Detroit Downtown Development Authority the Detroit
Tigers, Inc. (?Tigers") are parties to that certain Amended and Restated Concession and
Management Agreement dated as of August 20, 1998 (as amended, the pursuant to which
the Tigers developed and operate Comerica Park. The properties subject to the CMA include those
properties owned by the Detroit/Wayne County Stadium Authority (the "Stadium Authority")
generally bounded by Woodward on the west, Fisher Freeway on the north, Brush on the east, and

Adams on the south (the ?Project Area"). in 2016, the DDA approved the construction of an
additional parking garage at the intersection of John and Montcalm, within the Project Area (the
?Garage?). Construction on the Garage was completed in 2017.

Pursuant to the CMA, the Tigers and Comcast Cable Communications Management, LLC
(?Comcast?) have requested the consent to the granting of a non?exclusive easement for
Comcast to install a telecommunications box on the exterior wall of the Garage. The equipment
will allow for enhanced wi-fi in and around Comerica Park and the easement would be co-terminus
with the CMA. Counsel for the DDA has reviewed and approved the proposed form of easement,
included with the Board material as Exhibit A (the ?Easement"), as well as a proposed resoiution
consenting to the Easement.

Subsequent to a discussion, the Board took the following action:

On a motion by Mr. Naglick, seconded by Mr. Beatty, Resolution Code DDA 18?03-83-
156 was unanimously approved.

ADMINISTRATION
Amendment to DDA Rules of Procedures

Ms. Jensen advised that on March 9, 2018, the Downtown Development Authority (the 
Board of Directors received in advance proposed amendments to the Rules of Procedures, as
amended, of the Downtown Development Authority. She reviewed the proposed changes for the
benefit of the Board and responded to questions.

A proposed resolution amending the Rules of Procedures was included in the board material for
review and approval.

Subsequent to the discussion, the Board took the following action:

On a motion by Mr. Ogden, seconded by Mr. Black, Resolution Code DDA 18-03-01-442
was unanimously approved.

OTHER 

Mr. Crain asked for an update on the former Haygood properties on Broadway. Ms. Navin
responded that those properties are under a Development Agreement that was approved by this
Board about a year ago, and it is moving forward. There was a fire at one of the propertiesjust as
negotiations on the Development Agreement were being finalized. The project was delayed
because we are going through the insurance adjustment process, and there is some damage that
is being repaired before we can allow access onto the property by the developer and his
consultants.

PROJECTS

Paradise Valley Business Entertainment District: Approval of Parking Management
Services for 1468-1496 Randolph 1455 Centre Properties

Ms. Pavelko advised that the City of Detroit Downtown Development Authority (the 
approved the award of a development agreement for 1468?1496 Randolph 1455 Centre (the
?Property") to Paradise Valley Real Estate Holdings, LLC (the ?Developer") in 2016 to develop a
mixed?use project that includes parking following a Request for Proposals issued by DDA staff. A
development agreement was signed and the Developer is working on their due diligence and
predevelopment activities.

The Developer owns and operates the building adjacent to the Property. To better support the
business enterprise at this location and the activities in Paradise Vaiiey, the Developer approached
DDA staff to request taking over management of the parking facility currently located on the
Property. The parking facility is currently operated by Park-Rite.

DDA staff is seeking the Board?s approval to negotiate and enter into a short-term service
agreement with the Operator to provide parking management services on the Property. The service
agreement will include the following terms (the ?Proposed Terms?):

. Operator: The Ambient Group, LLC, an affiliate of the Deveioper (the ?Operator").

. Term: The term of the agreement shall be for a period of six (6) months (the ?initial Term")
and after the expiration of the lnitiai Term, shall thereafter continue as a month?to?month
basis until terminated by either party.

. Insurance: Operator shalt maintain insurance at its own expense. Such insurance shall
have iimits of Five Million Doilars per occurrence and include Garage
Keepers Legal Liability insurance. Each such policy of insurance shall name the DDA and
the City of Detroit as additional insureds.

- Renta! Rate: Operator shat! pay a monthiy fee of $15,000.

0 Payment of Expenses: Ail operating expenses shall be paid by the Operator. The 
sole responsibility shaii be to make repairs related to capitai improvements.

. Parking Leases: The Operator shall honor the existing parking teases but may
reassess the parking rate charged on an annual basis or pursuant to existing
teases.

Ms. Navin stated that she would iike to make a correction to the memorandum and resolution that
was presented. The lot at 1455 Centre is adiacent to 1468-1496 Randolph and shouid not be
inciuded in this transaction. it will continue to be managed by Park?Rite.

Board Member Jenkins disclosed that he has an interest in this project and recused himself from
voting. Ms. Nevin advised that because of Mr. Jenkins? interest, he will be filing a disclosure with
the DDA, and the item must be tabled for a period of seven days before a vote can be taken.

Mr. Beatty asked where Mr. Jackson is on his adjacent project. Ms. Pavelko stated that due
diligence is aimost complete.

The Board questioned if DDA has had any issues with Park?Rite. Ms. Paveiko advised that there
are no issues. The change in the Operator is for DDA to receive increased revenue on the property.
This would aiso be a courtesy to the deveioper of the adjacent buiiding to give him more flexibility.

The Board asked what the difference in revenue wouid be. Ms. Pavelko responded that the current
operator provides 100 percent of the revenue from the passes to the DDA, and then splits
50/50 the parking revenue that comes in. Mr. Jackson asked for a flat rate, so to get to
the $15,000, we took a historical iook back at what the annual revenue was to address seasonai
changes, and we noted what the current market rate was for the passes, and that rounded
out to $13,300. This change in Operator would bring an additional $1,700 per month to the DDA.
The $13,300 reflects an increase in the parking rate that was just made. Ms. Pavelko advised that
the development agreement does have milestones, so that if the developer does not achieve those
miiestones, he would lose the development agreement.

Mr. Blaszkiewicz said that it appears the question here is why are we making this change in parking
operator now, as opposed to when the adjacent deveiopment is complete.

Ms. Deiley expressed concern and asked it we are now taking money that was coming back to
DDA more fully and putting it into the pocket of this Operator? She questioned the timing of the
increase and if we would have it anyway with ParkRite, where we wouid capture of it upside and
it could all go back into our future projects, which is what the goal is.

Ms. Deliy also pointed out that the DDA will be contracting with someone that is not in the business
of parking management and they subcontract the work.

Mr. Biaszkiewicz asked what the motivation is for the DDA to do this now. Ms. Pavelko responded
that Mr. Jackson approached the DDA to address the parking needs for his adjacent building. He
was offering the additional increase of $1,700 per month, over and above what was currently
projected for this year.

Mr. Blaszkiewicz stated that for the nominai revenue that this is going to generate, is that a sufficient
motivator to do this now, or couid we just raise parking rates and stay with ParkRite? lithe Board
can't get an answer to what the motivator is for doing this now that would fit under the confines of
or in alignment with our mission and purpose, he believes that is why the Board is struggling with
this particular question.

Mr. Beatty asked if this is something that has been done in the past, turn over a piece of
revenue generating property to a person who is in the process of negotiating a land deal with the
DDA. Mr. Long said that he is not sure that there is a history of this that he can recail. This was
presented to him as an opportunity to raise more revenue. The Board has raised some valid
questions here.

Mr. Beatty stated that he has one test question. Does this set a precedent for others who have
development agreements? This is a question that needs to be answered.

Mr. Biaszkiewicz stated that many of the Board members have sat around this tabie for many years
and have seen a number of development agreements not complete the process. Some of the
questions heard today are focused around the motivation, and is it worth it in the short run, making
that transference over to the group.

Mr. Blaszkiewicz suggested this item be tabied for staff to look more specificaiiy at the motivation

here and alignment with mission, and it we getjustification for it, great. if not, the vote most

iikely will not be successful. Staff will have time to respond.

Subsequent to the discussion, the Board tabled Resoiution Code DDA 18?03?110?43.

GENERAL

OTHER MATTERS

PUBLIC COMMENT

Mr. Blaszkiewicz cailed for pubiic comment. Mr. John Lauve stated the foilowing:
"l was happy to hear that you are planning to have a meeting at 2:00 with the Tigers. i?ve
given you two pages here, one is about this whole donation program. Here is how they
are in violation of the contract. They say well we don?t know what to do. They have already
short?changed the people of Detroit on this kids' program. They need to be writing us a

check. Hopefully that will be resolved this year. is the status of Grand
Circus Park. in 2005 they were given a and a half dollars and we haven?t even

finished that project and that is the condition it is in. The other one is supposed to be a
catalyst project and is just parking lots. There are two properties that were slated for
demoiition before City Council stopped it. They should have been rehabilitated so they
have some charm instead of a massive parking lot mixed in. Hopefully we can move on to
do something with it. We'll see what happens.?

Mr. Blaszkiewicz. advised that the two minutes were up and thanked Mr. Lauve for his comments.
ADJOURNMENT

With there being no other business to be brought before the Board, Mr. Blaszkiewicz adjourned the
meeting at 3:56 pm.

City of Detroit

 

Downtown Development Authority
500 Griswold. Suite 2200. 22'" Floor

Detroit, Michigan 48225

Phone: 31 3 963 2940

Fax: 313 983 8839

CODE DDA 18-03-02-604

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF JANUARY 10. 2018

RESOLVED, that the minutes of the Regular meeting of January 10, 2018 are hereby
approved and all actions taken by the Directors present at such meeting, as set forth in such
minutes, are hereby in all respects rati?ed and approved as actions of the Downtown Development
Authority.

March 14, 2018

City of Detroit,

m.

Downtown Development Authority
500 Griswoid. Suite 2200. 22"? Floor

Detroit, Michigan 48225

Phone: 313 963 2940

Fax: 313 988 8839

CODE DDA 18-03-63-479

RECEIPT OF FOR DECEMBER 2017
RESOLVED, that the Treasurer's Report of Receipts and Disbursements for the period

ending December 31, 2017, as presented at this meeting, is hereby in all respects received by the
Downtown Deveiopment Authority.

March 14, 2018

City of Detroit

 

Downtown Development Authority
500 Griswotd. Suite 2200. 22?? Floor

Detroit, Michigan 48226

Phone: 31 3 953 2940

Fax: 313 953 8839

CODE DDA 18-03-03-480

RECEIPT OF REPORT FOR JANUARY 2018
RESOLVED, that the Treasurer's Report of Receipts and Disbursements for the period

ending January 31, 2018. as presented at this meeting, is hereby in all respects received by the
Downtown Development Authority.

March 14, 2018

City Of Detroit

Downtown Development Authority
500 Griswold - Suite 2200

Detroit. Michigan 48228

Phone: 313 963 2840

Fax: 313 983 88353

COMERICA BALLPARK: TIGERS CONCESSION AND MANAGEMENT AGREEMENT --
REQUEST FOR CONSENT TO EASEMENT TO COMCAST

CODE DDA 18-03-834 56

WHEREAS, the City of Detroit Downtown Development Authority the Detroit
Tigers, inc. (?Tigers") are parties to that certain Amended and Restated Concession and
Management Agreement dated as of August 20, 1998 (as amended, the pursuant to which
the Tigers developed and operate Comerica Park; and

WHEREAS, the properties subject to the CMA include those properties owned by the
Detroit/Wayne County Stadium Authority (the ?Stadium Authority?) generally bounded by
Woodward on the west, Fisher Freeway on the north, Brush on the east, and Adams on the south
(the ?Project Area"); and

WHEREAS, in 2016, the DDA approved the construction of an additionai parking garage
at the intersection of John and Montcalm, within the Project Area (the "Garage"), construction of
which was completed in 2017; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to the CMA, the Tigers and Comcast Cable Communications
Management, LLC (?Comcast?) have requested the DDA's consent to the granting of a non?
exclusive easement for Comcast to install a telecommunications box on the exterior wall of the
Garage in order to enhance wi-? in and around Comerica Park; and

WHEREAS, the proposed form of easement is attached hereto as Exhibit A (the
?Easement").

WHEREAS, the DDA Board has determined that the Easement is reasonable and in the
best interests of the overall project.

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the proposed easement is hereby approved
by the DDA Board of Directors.

BE lT FURTHER RESOLVED that the DOA Board hereby authorizes any two of its Officers
or any two of its Authorized Agents or one Officer and any one Authorized Agent to take any other
actions and execute any documents necessary or appropriate to implement the provisions and
intent of this resolution.

BE IT FINALLY RESOLVED that all of the acts and transactions of any Of?cer or
Authorized Agent of the DDA, in the name and on behalf of the DDA, relating to matters
contemplated by the foregoing resolutions, which acts wouid have been approved by the foregoing
resolutions except that such acts were taken prior to execution of these resoiutions, are hereby in
all respects confirmed, approved and rati?ed.

March 14, 2018

City of Detroit

r. cone houses-91442

Downtown Deveiopment Authority
500 Griswold Suite 2200

Detroit. Michigan 48228

Phone: 313 983 2940

Fax: 313 963 8838

RULES OF PROCEDURE. AS AMENDED

 

WHEREAS, the Downtown Devetopment Authority (the has been duly created and
organized under Act 198, Public Acts of Michigan, 1975, as amended ("Act 197?) and authorized
by Act 197 to adopt ruies of procedures for its governance; and

WHEREAS, on July 6, 1999, the DDA Board of Directors (the "Board?) adopted the Rules
of Procedure of the Downtown Deveicpment Authority, as Amended (the and

WHEREAS, on June 12, 2013, the DDA Board of Directors (the "Board?) adopted the Rules
of Procedure of the Downtown Deveiopment Authority, as Amended (the ?Rules"); and

WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of the DDA have determined that it is advisable to
amend the Ruies of the and

a WHEREAS, appropriate notice of the intention to amend was provided pursuant to Article
XI of the Ruies; and

WHEREAS, the Board is desirous of having said amendments take immediate effect.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE lT RESOLVED, that Article ll, Section 12, and Articte XI of the
Rules of Procedure of the City of Detroit Downtown Development Authority, as Amended, are
hereby amended as reflected in the attached Exhibit A.

BE i'l? FURTHER RESOLVED, that the staff of the DDA is hereby instructed to transmit the
Rules of Procedure of City of Detroit Downtown Deveiopment Authority, as Amended, to the City
of Detroit City Council.

BE lT RESOLVED, that the amendments shall take immediate effect.

March 14, 2018

CITY OF DETROITBOARD OFETHICS

PUBLIC SERVANT DISCLOSURE OF INTEREST

 

 

Name of Pubiic Servant*: James Jenkins Date: 3/14/18
Work Address: 985 East Jefferson. Detroit MI 48207
Street City State Zip Code

Public Servant Work Telephone Number: 313-625?7200

Current Public Servant: Yes 3 No

Position/Elected Of?ce/Title: 

Nature ofAuthority Exercised*: Voting board member

 

As a City of Detroit Public Servant, I hereby disciose interest* in the foilowing:

Interest in real or personal property (see Sec. 2-6?3 1, printed on the reverse side), and/or
Interest in City contracts (see Sec. 2-6?32, printed on the reverse side).
The interest is (check one or both): Personal Immediate famiiy member interest 

Name of immediate family* member (if applicabie):

 

See the De?nitions ofAexercises Signi?cant authority; Aimmediate familiar?
Aownership interests and Apublic servants on the reverse side of this form.

Relationship to Public Servant:

 

Describe the par tieular facts and oil cumstances that constitute the interest being disciosed including
the authority being exercised and the decision that IS relevant.

 

Paradise Valley to the an af?liate of Hiram Jackson. Mr Jackson owns the adjacent

 

property and is part of a development team that was selected by the DDA board to

 

proposed deveiooment and mav have an interest In the proposed barkind arrandement
Consequently, I believe it is prudent to disclose the potential con?ict of interest and

 

abstain from participating in the DDA board's vote on the parking lot lease.

 

 

 

 

 

Signature of Public Servant

 

Submit Disclosure to: Detroit City Clerk
200 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, Michigan 48226

With a copy to: Your City Department Director or City Agency Head

1993128.4f339504fBJK:bjk

 

CITY OF DETROIT ETHICS ORDINANCE 
Scc. 2-6-3. De?nitions.

Exercises significant authority means having the ability to in?uence the outcome of a decision on behalf of the City of
Detroit govemment in the course of the performance of a public servants duties and responsibilities.

Immediate family means:

(1) A public servants spouse; or
(2) A public servant?s domestic partner; or
(3) A public servant's relative by marriage, lineal descent, or adoption who receives, directly or indirectly, more than

one?half( 12) of his or her support from the public servant, or from whom the public servant receives, directly or
indirectly, more than one?half of his or her support; or

(4) An individual claimed by a public servant or a public servant's spouse as a dependent under the United States
Internal Revenue Code, being 26 USC 1 et seq.

Public set-mm means the Mayor, members of the City Council, the City Clerk, any member of any City agency, board,
commission, or other voting body that is established by the 199'? Detroit City Charter or by this Code, and any appointee, any
employee, or any individual who provides services to the City of Detroit within or outside of its of?ces or facilities pursuant to a
personal services contract.

Sec. 2-6-31. Disclosure of interest in real and personal property.

(A) In accordance with subsections (B) or (C) of this Section, a public servant who exercises signi?cant authority in
the course of his or her duties over a decision by the City regarding the purchase, sale, lease, zoning, improvement, special
designation, tax assessment or abatement, or development agreement with respect to any real property, or the purchase, sale, or lease
of any personal property, shall disclose any ownership interest that he or she, or his or her immediate family, has concerning such real
or personal property,

(B) Where the circumstances in subsection of this section exist, prior to a decision regarding such real or personal
property that is made by the Mayor, the City Clerk, on appointee, an employee, or individual who provides services to the City
pursuant to a personal services contract, disclosure of an ownership interest therein shall be made on a form that shall be created by
the Law Department, made available at the of?ce of the City Clerk and at each City department and agency, and ?led upon
completion at the of?ce of the City Clerk and with me reSpective City department director or agency head. Upon ?ling, the City
Clerk shall transmit the completed form to the respective department director or agency head. Where the City Council takes action on
an item that relates to such disclosure, following the action taken, the form shall be published in the journal of the City Council.

(C) Where the circumstances in subsection of this section exist, prior to a decision regarding such real or personal
property that is made by the City Council or by an audion'ty, board, commission or agency of the City, such written disclosure shall
be made a part of the minutes of the body on which the member who is making the disclosure serves. immediately therea?er, the
relevant portions of the minutes of such body shall be transcribed and attached to the form that shall be created by the law department,
made available at the of?ce of the city clerk, and ?led upon completion at the office of the city clerk. Upon the ?ling of the
completed form, the city clerk shall transmit the form to the city council for publication in thejoumal of the city council.

Sec. 2~6~32. Disclosure of interest in City contracts.

(A) in accordance with subsections (B) or (C) of this Section, a public servant who exercises signi?cant authority in
the course of his or her duties over the solicitation, negotiation, approval, amendment, performance or renewal of a City contract shall
disclose any ownership interest that he or she, or his or her immediate family, has concerning such City contract.

(B) Where the circumstances in subsection (A) of this Section exist, prior to a decision regarding such City contract
that is made by the Mayor, the City Clerk, an appointee, an employee, or individual who provides services to the City pursuant to a
personal services contract, such disclosure of an ownership interest therein shall be made on a form that shall be created by the Law
Department, made available at the of?ce of the City Clerk and at each City department and agency, and ?led upon completion at the
of?ce of the City Clerk and with the respective City department director or agency head. Upon ?ling, the City Clerk shall transmit
the completed form to the City Council, which shall refer a copy of the form to the respective department director or agency head.
Where the City Council takes action on an item that relates to such disclosure, following the action taken, the form shall be published
in theiournal of the City Council.

(C) Where the circumstances in subsection (A) of this Section exist, prior to a decision that is made by the City
Council or by an authority, board, commission or agency of the City regarding such City contract, such written disclosure shall be
made a part of the minutes of the body on which the member who is making the disclosure serves. immediately thereafter, the
relevant portions of the minutes of such body shall be transcribed and attached to the form that shall be created by the Law
Department, made available at the of?ce of the City Clerk, and ?led upon completion at the of?ce of the City Clerk. Upon the ?ling
of the completed form, the City Clerk shall transmit the form to the City Council for publication in the journal of the City Council.

Sec. 2-6-33. Disclosure of campaign contributions and expenditures.
in accordance with Section 2406(3) of the E997 Detroit City Charter, the Mayor, members of the City Council, the City

Clerk, and candidates for election shall make campaign contributions and expenditures public by ?ling the appropriate report(s) as
required by the Michigan Campaign Finance Act, being MCL 169.201 er seq.

 

i The Ethics Ordinance is at Section 2?6?l et seq of

the 1984 Actpot?r me X055. A {only op me Etnixo? Op?wotvxt: potty f3: oBtctive? (poop mi: MOLE ob Inc Acrpon Xiup Klepi:
200 Xolspuv A. ?l?ouvy Movrxinuh Acrpou, Mtxniyuv 48226, rcapcrov, Sty port}. op flip tekcrmova (3 13) 224?2083, op petty
Br: (17156688 or: me me no Actpotrzs website, ,by clicking the Detroit Code icon.



 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

E:

$on

 

AK ?3

 

vow _rwm a. AF a Auk

PM (A) Lea??k

AA. A ?71" View 2? 
GA.AVAVL, o/C??01? a+5 214 Mt: haf'
we. $749944
0/46/41 are. 

?:50 ?1 4 an 

i: 4/
w?p?wg? rue?u:

{231464sz Heme. 
1% Swe?iizb?n? 

     

 

 

 

13% a" $3an

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



a .
.w .4. 

 my m7 ?at, 

 

 

wfmg?rre-?L/

 

0% 9_ 3?1 arm 

49W mien/a] 2/ p(

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

sage, if)? .l?fv

 

 

 

 

 

 

.Ill?j??maw ole?{4M . 

 

 

 

Jim/J; Mme, . 

 

 

 

(27 0 

 

 

 

(/30 

 

 

