if?" .- CAP CENTER CORONA CENTER
SOUTH CHICAGO If 10241 Commercial Avenue 1175 Central Avenue. 2
Chicago. Illinois 50617 University Park. Illinois 50455

PARENTS EN DS 773-734-2222 7032350345

DEVELOPING OPTIONS, CREATING OPPORTUNITIES 773-734-2850 708-235-0355

ORG

SSA 5 Regular Commission Meeting Minutes

February 22, 2018

PRESENT ABSENT
Bonnie Dinell-Dimond

Dorothy Hudson (2:30 arrival)

Alex Alemis

Angela Hurlock

Robert Loncar

SERVICE PROVIDER

Tom Schell

Dave Price
Diane Abbott

Guests
AldenNoman Susan Sadlowski Garza (3:10 arrival)
Nikki Garcia

Meeting was called to order at 2:08 pm.
1. Approval of Agenda
A motion to approve the agenda was made by Angela Hurlock, seconded by Robert
Loncar. Motion carried.

Presentation:

. Derric Clemmons presented ?Drive by Art" art concepts for Facade Rebate
Program. He presented more specific proposals and locations for consideration.

South Chicago Parents and Friends. Inc. is accredited by the Commission for Accreditation of Rehabilitation Facilities (CARF).

MINUTES OF A REGULARL MEETING
OF THE OF SSA 5 February 22, 2018

2. Approval of the Minutes

The minutes of the January 25, 2018, meeting were reviewed. There being no
corrections or deletion to the minutes, a motion to approve the January 25, 2018,
meeting minutes was made by Angela Hurlock, seconded by Robert Loncar. Motion
carried.

3. Financial Report

Financial Reports for the month ending January 31, 2018, were reviewed and
discussed. Mr. Schell reviewed the revenues and expenses for the month of
January. After further discussion regarding the Financial Reports, a motion to accept
the January Financial Reports was made by Robert Loncar, seconded by Alex
Alemis. Motion carried.

4. Cash Flow I Receivables

Mr. Schell provided the commissioners with a copy of the January, 2018 bank
reconciliation. After discussion, a motion to accept the January bank reconciliation
was made by Angela Hurlock, seconded by Robert Loncar. Motion carried.

Mr. Schell reported that as of the date of the meeting, cash in the bank totaled
$141,638.00.

5. Items for Approval

Mr. Schell presented the January and February invoices for payment approval. After
a brief discussion regarding the invoices, a motion to approve the January and
February invoices was made by Robert Loncar, seconded by Angela Hurlock.
Motion carried.

Mr. Schell stated the City of Chicago approved the increase in the number of SSA 5
commissioners up to nine. The commissioners decided that the nine commissioners
was ideal and that at least 2/3 of the sitting commissioners shall be owners of
property or lease holders or employees of such within the SSA boundaries. A motion
to accept the draft copy of the by?laws was presented by Angela Hurlock, seconded
by Robert Loncar. Motion carried.

South Chicago Parents and Friends, Inc. is accredited by the Commission for Accreditation of Rehabilitation Facilities (CARF).

MINUTES OF A REGULAR MEETING
OF THE COMMISIONERS OF SSA 5 February 22, 2018

Mr. Price presented the Facade Rebate Application. After a discussion regarding the
application, the only change recommended was to change the word storefront to
property: Applicants who plan to make ?property? improvements are eligible for a
rebate of up to 90% of the associated costs of eligible improvements with a
maximum rebate of $9,000. A motion to accept the Draft Facade Rebate Application
was made by Angela Hurlock, seconded by Robert Loncar. Motion carried.

6. Program Manager Report

Mr. Price presented the Security Report in terms of the PD Matrix SSA #5 handout.
Mr. Price stated the goals were to increase occupancy with engaged residents and
increase security within the SSA. According to the matrix, the 2.54 base incidents
need to be driven down. The February incidents were 1.43 mainly due to the snow
storm.

Mr. Price presented a SBIF Update. Mr. Price visited each business within the SSA
5 at least 2 times since his arrival and presented the SBIF program to each business
owner. Mr. Price mailed 102 packets to property owners in hopes of getting a large
audience for the SBIF Program Event. So far, 8 business owners have applied for
SBIF funds with six within the SSA 5 and the other two within the Tif District.

Mr. Price shared his ideas for the SSA 5 Facebook page: Commercial Avenue
SSA@sweethomesouthchicago. Mr. Price stated he wanted to develop a SSA 5
website and spend the money allocated for this budget item. The commissioners
encouraged Mr. Price to complete this task.

Mr. Price presented proposals for the available Tif Infrastructure funds. Mr. Price
stated the proposals include Bus Pads at 91st Commercial Avenue and Traf?c
Calming Curb Extensions on Commercial Avenue. Aldenivoman Susan Sadlowski
Garza stated she would forward to the commissioners the proposals her office has
already submitted.

7. Items for Discussion
Mr. Price passed out an impressive updated list of the current SSA 5 businesses.

Alden~oman Susan Sadlowski Garza presented the Community Identifier that her
office along with an artist have developed. Alden/voman Garza asked the SSA to
combine funding to be able to place three community identifiers in the 10th Ward
instead ofjust one.

South Chicago Parents and Friends. Inc. is accredited by the Commission for Accreditation of Rehabilitation Facilities (CARF).

MINUTES OF A REGULAR MEETING
OF THE COMMISIONERS OF SSA 5 February 22, 2018

8. Adjournment

There being no additional business, a motion to adjourn the meeting at 4:30 pm.
was made by Angela Hurlock, seconded by Dorothy Hudson. Motion carried.

Next Regular Scheduled Meeting March 22, 2018 at 2:00 pm.

South Chicago Parents and Friends, Inc. is accredited by the Commission for Accreditation of Rehabilitation Facilities (CARF).

