MINUTES OF MEETING
WAYNE COUNTY ELECTION COMMISSION
TUESDAY, MARCH 29, 2016 – 2:00 P.M.
COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL BUILDING - ROOM 211
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

Call to Order:

The meeting was called to order at 2:00 p.m., Tuesday, March 29,
2016.

Members present: Honorable Freddie G. Burton, Jr., Chief Judge, Probate Court
Honorable Cathy M. Garrett, Secretary- Wayne County Clerk
Honorable Richard Hathaway, Member – Wayne County Treasurer
Members absent:

None

Also present:

Janet Anderson-Davis, Assistant Corporation Counsel
William Broman
John Pirich
Brian Banks
Pamela M. Sossi
Michael Norris
Jennifer Redmond
Jenneatta Mitchell
Charles E. Ramirez
Jina Sawani

Agenda item:

Consideration of Agenda approval.
Board action on agenda item: Chair Burton requested a motion
to approve the agenda. Member Garrett, duly supported by
Member Hathaway, moved to adopt the agenda as submitted. The
motion was adopted unanimously by a voice vote.

Agenda item:

Approval of Minutes of March 8, 2016
Board action on agenda item: Chair Burton requested a motion
to approve the minutes of the meeting held on March 8, 2016.
Member Garrett, duly supported by Member Hathaway, moved to
approve the minutes of the meeting held on March 8, 2016. The
motion was adopted unanimously by a voice vote.

Agenda item:

Consideration of request for Name Designation – Brian Banks
State Representative Dist. 1

 Chief Burton questioned why Representative Banks didn’t request
to use date of birth, address, or occupation as the name
designation instead of incumbent. Member Hathaway mentioned
that a voter cannot switch parties when voting.
William Broman, Republican Candidate for State Representative
District 1, stated that he has no issue with a name designation as
long as there is no name designation in the General Election.
Pamela Sossi, Democratic Candidate for State Representative
District 1, objected to the name designation and stated that it is
unduly prejudicial. She stated that the ballot has differentiation for
Democratic and Republican candidates and that a date of birth,
address, or middle name could be used. She also stated he could
use some other type of designation such as adjunct professor or
juris doctorate. She also suggested that because Harper Woods is
partially in Macomb County, that the request for name designation
should go before the Board of State Canvassers.
State Representative Brian Banks stated that district 1 is
completely in Wayne County.
Asst. Corporation Counsel Davis sited a court case in which there
was some precedence for using incumbent as a name designation.
Member Hathaway asked if the statute mentioned anything about
first names being similar. Judge Burton expressed that incumbent
generally refers to judicial candidates.
Board action on agenda item: Chair Burton requested a motion
regarding name designation for State Representative Brian Banks.
Member Garrett moved that State Representative Brian Banks
ballot name designation be approved. The motion failed for lack of
support.
There was more discussion regarding what an appropriate
designation would be that wouldn’t give an unfair advantage.
Board action on agenda item: Chair Burton, duly supported by
Member Garrett, moved that the name designation of State
Representative be used. The motion was adopted unanimously by
a voice vote.
Agenda item:

New Business. None

Agenda item:

Public Comment. None

 Agenda item:

Adjournment.
Board action on agenda item: Chair Burton requested a motion
to adjourn. Member Garrett, duly supported by Member Hathaway,
moved to adjourn the meeting. The motion was adopted
unanimously by a voice vote.
Meeting adjourned at 2:23 p.m.

 