ORDINANCES
JANUARY 17, 2018 BOARD MEETING

 COMMISSIONERS

 18-1604 WAS REFERRED TO THE FINANCE COMMITTEE AT THE JANUARY 17, 2018
BOARD MEETING
18-1604

Sponsored by: JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI, LUIS ARROYO JR, EDWARD M. MOODY, RICHARD R.
BOYKIN, DENNIS DEER, JOHN A. FRITCHEY, STANLEY MOORE and DEBORAH SIMS, Cook
County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
PROPERTY TAX INCENTIVE - PREVAILING WAGE REQUIREMENT
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 74 TAXATION, Section
74-71 of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as follows:
Sec. 74-71. - Laws regulating the payment of wages.
(a) Living wage requirement.
(1) Unless expressly waived by the County Board, any Employer occupying a property that receives
a property tax incentive for Class 6b industrial property, Class 8 industrial property, or Class 9
multifamily residential property shall pay not less than the Living Wage, as defined in the Cook
County Procurement Code (Cook County, Ill., Code, Ch. 34, Art. IV, Div. 1 § 34-121), to each of
its onsite Employees, unless such Employees' Wages are governed by Federal or State prevailing
wage law. For purpose of this Section, the term "Employee" shall mean an Employee who
performs duties or services for an Employer on average at least 30 hours per week in any twoweek period for which the Employee is paid; "hours per week" shall mean hours for which an
Employee is paid or entitled to payment by the Employer for a period of time during which no
duties are performed by the Employee due to vacation, holiday, illness, incapacity, jury duty,
military duty or approved leave of absence.
(2) On and after July 1, 2020, the owner of any property that receives a property tax incentive shall
notify all Employers who occupy such property as lessees of the requirements of this Section.
Upon commencement of a lease, on or after July 1, 2020, of a property that receives a property
tax incentive, any new lessee shall be required to submit to the municipality or the Cook County
Board, as the case may be, an affidavit stating that such lessee is paying a Living Wage to its
Employees in compliance with this Section. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the
requirements of this Section shall not apply to an Employer who was a lessee and not an owneroccupant of a property that receives a property tax incentive prior to July 1, 2020.
(3) This Section shall not apply to Employers that are not-for-profit organizations or funded by Federal
grants or Federal loans or Employers who are lessees but are not owners of a property that receives
a property tax incentive prior to adoption of this amended Ordinance. Further, this Section shall
not apply to Employers who can demonstrate to the County Board that compliance with the
requirements of this Section would cause such Employer to be in violation of the terms of a
collective bargaining agreement between the Employer and a labor union.
(4) Every Employer required to pay the Living Wage shall notify its Employees of the Living Wage
requirements and shall notify all of its Employees annually of any adjustment to the Living Wage.

 In addition, the Employer shall notify its Employees that if any Employee contends that the
Employer is not paying a Living Wage or has otherwise violated this section, that Employee may
file a complaint with the Cook County Commissioner on Human Rights ("Commission"). The
Commissioner shall investigate alleged violations of the Living Wage Ordinance and is authorized
to adopt regulations for the proper administration and enforcement of its provisions. If at the
conclusion of the Commission's investigation, the Commission finds that the Employer has
violated this section, it shall (i) in the case of an Employer receiving a property tax incentive,
notify the Assessor; or (ii) in the case of a Contractor or a subcontractor required to pay the Living
Wage, notify the CPO, who shall exercise such remedies as are in the best interest of the County,
including ordering the Employer to pay back pay and penalties, as provided in this section.
(5) If an Employer is found to be in violation of this section, such Employer may be required to pay
back pay to each affected Employee, and may also be fined by the County up to $100.00 for each
affected Employee for each day paid at less than the Living Wage. Such penalties will not be
imposed on any Person except after a hearing (Cook County, Ill., Code, Ch. 2, Art. IX). Further,
if an Employer is found to be in violation of this section, the property tax incentive for this property
is subject to revocation.
(6) If an Employer is found to have retaliated against an affected Employee, the Employer's property
tax incentive may be terminated unless such Employer appropriately reinstates or compensates
such Employee.
(7) For the purposes of this Section:
Property tax incentive means a reduction in the assessment level as set forth in Division 2 of this
Article for Class 6b industrial property, Class 8 industrial property, or Class 9 multifamily residential
property. "Property tax incentive" shall not include a Class 9 designation granted to supportive living
facilities, which establish an alternative to nursing home care for low income older persons and persons
with disabilities under Medicaid and which are certified by the State Department of Public Aid pursuant to
Division 2 of this Article; and
Sales tax means the Retailer's Occupation Tax, the Service Occupation Tax and/or the Use Tax.
(8) Living Wage Affidavit. Every municipality or the Cook County Board that provides a Resolution
or Ordinance or authorized officer letter, as the case may be, to an applicant for a Class 6b
industrial property or a Class 8 industrial property tax incentive shall maintain in its files and
records documentation that such municipality or the County Board received and filed the Living
Wage Affidavit submitted by the owner or lessee of such property stating that such owner or lessee
is paying a Living Wage to its Employees in compliance with this Section. Further, an applicant
or lessee of a Class 9 multifamily residential property tax incentive shall provide the municipality
or the Cook County Board, as the case may be, a Living Wage Affidavit which shall be maintained
by such municipality or the Cook County Board in its files and records.
(b) Prevailing wage requirement.
(1) Any owner of real estate that on or after January, 2018 is an applicant for, or recipient of, any
Property Tax Incentive under any Assessment Class as set forth in Division 2 of this Article for
which a Resolution or Ordinance from the municipality or the County Board is or was required,
or where an authorized officer letter is or was obtained in lieu of such Resolution or Ordinance,
shall pay all laborers, workers and mechanics engaged in Construction work within, or relating to
Construction projects within, the subject property not less than the prevailing rate of wages paid

 for work of a similar character on public works in Cook County. This requirement extends to all
contractors, subcontractors, and lessees who perform such Construction work, whether or not at
the direction of the owner.
(2) The prevailing rate of wages shall be the same as the then-current rate for Cook County determined
pursuant to the Illinois Prevailing Wage Act (820 ILCS 130/0.01 et seq.).
(3) (a) Unless otherwise defined herein, the definition of any terms used in this Section which are also
used in the Illinois Prevailing Wage Act (820 ILCS 130/0.01 et seq.) shall be the same as that set
forth in the Illinois Prevailing Wage Act.
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
Property Tax Incentive means a reduction in the assessment level as set forth in Division 2 of this
Article for any property regardless of the Assessment Class.
Construction means all work on any newly constructed building or structure, or any alteration,
improvement, repair, renovation, rehabilitation, demolition, deconstruction, maintenance, or reconstruction
of existing building or structure, regardless of the public or private nature of the projects or ownership.
(4) Any owner of real estate that on or after January __, 2018 is an applicant for, or recipient of, any
Property Tax Incentive under any Assessment Class as set forth in Division 2 of this Article for
which a Resolution or Ordinance from the municipality or the County Board is or was required,
or where an authorized officer letter is or was obtained in lieu of such Resolution or Ordinance,
shall:
(a) keep, or a cause a contractor, subcontractor, or lessee performing the Construction work to keep,
for a period of 5 years from the date of the last payment made, records of all laborers, mechanics, and other
workers engaged in Construction work within, or relating to Construction projects within, the subject
property; the records shall include (i) the worker's name, (ii) the worker's address, (iii) the worker's
telephone number when available, (iv) the worker's social security number, (v) the worker's classification
or classifications, (vi) the worker's gross and net wages paid in each pay period, (vii) the worker's number
of hours worked each day, (viii) the worker's starting and ending times of work each day, (ix) the worker's
hourly wage rate, (x) the worker's hourly overtime wage rate, (xi) the worker's hourly fringe benefit rates,
(xii) the name and address of each fringe benefit fund, (xiii) the plan sponsor of each fringe benefit, if
applicable, and (xiv) the plan administrator of each fringe benefit, if applicable; and
(b) no later than the 15th day of each calendar month file, or cause a contractor, subcontractor, or
lessee performing the Construction work to file, with Cook County a certified payroll for the immediately
preceding month. A certified payroll must be filed for only those calendar months during which such
Construction work has occurred. The certified payroll shall consist of a complete copy of the records
identified in this subsection (a), but may exclude the starting and ending times of work each day. The
certified payroll shall be accompanied by a statement signed by the owner or an officer, employee, or agent
of the owner which avers that: (i) he or she has examined the certified payroll records required to be
submitted by this Section and such records are true and accurate; and (ii) the hourly rate paid to each worker
is not less than the general prevailing rate of hourly wages required by this Section. An owner is not
prohibited from relying on the certification of a contractor, subcontractor, or lessee provided the owner
does not knowingly rely upon a false certification. Cook County shall keep the records submitted in
accordance with this subsection (b) for a period of 5 years from the date of the last payment for Construction
work. The records submitted in accordance with this subsection (b) shall be considered public records,
except an employee's address, telephone number, and social security number, and made available in

 accordance with the Freedom of Information Act. Cook County shall accept any reasonable submissions
that meet the requirements of this Section.
(5) The recipient must provide credible evidence that, at all times after it receives and maintains any
tax incentive designation under Division 2 of this Article, if any Construction, occurs at the subject
property, then any contractors, subcontractors, or lessees who perform such work must participate
in an active apprenticeship and training program approved and registered with the United States
Department of Labor's Office of Apprenticeship, if the contractor or subcontractor employs people
in a covered occupation.
(6) Prevailing Wage Affidavit. Every municipality or the Cook County Board that provides a
Resolution or Ordinance or authorized officer letter, as the case may be, to an applicant for, or a
recipient of, any Property Tax Incentive as set forth in Division 2 of this Article shall maintain in
its files and records documentation that such municipality or the County Board received and filed
the Prevailing Wage Affidavit submitted by the owner of such property stating that such owner
shall pay, or cause a contractor, subcontractor, or lessee to pay, the prevailing rate of wages in
compliance with this Section and comply with subsections (b)(4) and (b)(5) of this Section. The
failure to file such affidavit and supporting documents within the time established by the
Assessor's rules shall result in the loss of the incentive for the period relating to the non-filing or
revocation under Section 74-73.
(b)(c) State or Federal Laws.
(1) Except where a Person has requested an exception from the Assessor and the County Board
expressly finds that granting the exception is in the best interest of the County, such Person
including any Substantial Owner (as defined in Cook County, Ill., Code, Ch. 34, Art. V § 34-367)
shall be ineligible to receive any property tax incentive noted in Division 2 of this Article if, during
the five-year period prior to the date of the application, such Person or Substantial Owner (as
defined in Cook County, Ill., Code, Ch. 34, Art. V § 34-367) admitted guilt or liability or has been
adjudicated guilty or liable in any judicial or administrative proceeding of committing a repeated
or willful violation of the Illinois Wage Payment and Collection Act, 820 ILCS 115/1 et seq., the
Illinois Minimum Wage Act, 820 ILCS 105/1 et seq., the Illinois Worker Adjustment and
Retraining Notification Act, 820 ILCS 65/1 et seq., the Worker Adjustment and Retraining
Notification Act, 29 U.S.C. 2101 et seq., the Employee Classification Act, 820 ILCS 185/1 et seq.,
the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, 29 U.S.C. 201, et seq., the Illinois Prevailing Wage Act,
820 ILCS 130/1 et seq., or any comparable state statute or regulation of any state, which governs
the payment of wages.
(2) The Assessor shall obtain an affidavit or certification from every Person and Substantial Owner
(as defined in Cook County, Ill., Code, Ch. 34, Art. V § 34-367) who seeks a property tax incentive
from the County as noted in Division 2 of this Article certifying that the Person or Substantial
Owner (as defined in Cook County, Ill., Code, Ch. 34, Art. V § 34-367) has not violated the
statutory provisions identified in Subsection (a) of this Section.
(3) If the County or Assessor becomes aware that a Person or Substantial Owner (as defined in Cook
County, Ill., Code, Ch. 34, Art. V § 34-367) has admitted guilt or liability or has been adjudicated
guilty or liable in any judicial or administrative proceeding of committing a repeated or willful
violation of the Illinois Wage Payment and Collection Act, 820 ILCS 115/1 et seq., the Illinois
Minimum Wage Act, 820 ILCS 105/1 et seq., the Illinois Worker Adjustment and Retraining
Notification Act, 820 ILCS 65/1 et seq., the Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act,
29 U.S.C. 2101 et seq., the Employee Classification Act, 820 ILCS 185/1 et seq., the Fair Labor

 Standards Act of 1938, 29 U.S.C. 201, et seq., or any comparable state statute or regulation of any
state, which governs the payment of wages during the five-year period prior to the date of the
application, but after the County has reclassified the Person's or Substantial Owner's (as defined
in Cook County, Ill., Code, Ch. 34, Art. V § 34-367) subject property under a property tax
incentive classification, then, after notice from the Assessor of such violation, the Person or
Substantial Owner shall have 45 days to cure its violation and request an exception or waiver from
the Assessor. Failure to cure or obtain an exception or waiver of ineligibility from the Assessor
shall serve as grounds for revocation of the classification as provided by the Assessor or by the
County Board by Resolution or Ordinance. In case of revocation or cancellation, the Incentive
Classification shall be deemed null and void for the tax year in which the incentive was revoked
or cancelled as to the subject property. In such an instance, the taxpayer shall be liable for and
shall reimburse to the County Collector an amount equal to the difference in the amount of taxes
that would have been collected had the subject property not received the property tax incentive.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.

 COMMITTEE ITEMS REQUIRING BOARD ACTION

 LEGISLATION AND INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS COMMITTEE
MEETING OF NOVEMBER 8, 2017

 17-5249
ORDINANCE
Sponsored by
THE HONORABLE RICHARD R. BOYKIN, DENNIS DEER, JOHN A. FRITCHEY,
BRIDGET GAINER, GREGG GOSLIN, EDWARD M. MOODY, SEAN M. MORRISON,
PRESIDENT TONI PRECKWINKLE, TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER, DEBORAH SIMS,
JOHN P. DALEY, JESÚS G. GARCÍA, PETER N. SILVESTRI,
LARRY SUFFREDIN AND JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI, COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
REGULATING REPORTS BY THE STATE’S ATTORNEY
TO THE LITIGATION COMMITTEE
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 2 Administration, Article
IV Officers and Employees, Division 9 State’s Attorneys, Subdivision 1 In General, Section 2-329 of the
Cook County Code is hereby enacted as follows:
Sec. 2-329. - State’s Attorney’s Reports to the Litigation Subcommittee
(a)
Notice of Monetary Counterclaims and Fee Requests. When representing Cook County,
Cook County Departments or Officers, or any County Official in any civil legal action in State or Federal
Court, the State’s Attorney or a Special State’s Attorney shall provide notice to the Litigation Subcommittee
of the Finance Committee of the Cook County Board of Commissioners (litigation Subcommittee) prior to
filing a monetary counterclaim, request for monetary sanctions, request for statutory reimbursement and/or
request for fees in excess of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000). If the State’s Attorney or Special
State’s Attorney is unable to provide notice to the Litigation Subcommittee in advance of filing, the State’s
Attorney or Special State’s Attorney shall inform the Chair of the Litigation Subcommittee in advance of
filing and provide notice to the Litigation Subcommittee at its next scheduled meeting.
(b)
Quarterly Inventory of Civil Actions. The State’s Attorney shall give a quarterly inventory
report to the Litigation Subcommittee of the Finance Committee of the Cook County Board of
Commissioners of all civil actions that Cook County is named as a party in all courts of State or Federal
jurisdiction.
Effective date: This Ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
Approved and adopted this 17th of January 2018.
TONI PRECKWINKLE, President
Cook County Board of Commissioners
Attest: DAVID ORR, County Clerk

 LEGISLATION AND INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS COMMITTEE
MEETING OF JANUARY 17, 2018

 17-5210
ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
Sponsored by
THE HONORABLE LARRY SUFFREDIN, COUNTY COMMISSIONER
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE ISSUANCE OF REGULATIONS BY
COUNTY DEPARTMENTS
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 1 General Provisions,
Section 1-9 of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as follows:
Sec. 1-9. - Rules and Regulations issued by County departments, agencies, and offices impacting the
public at-large.
(a)
Public facing Rules and Regulations issued to implement ordinances and resolutions
enacted by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, as defined in Sec. 1-3 of Chapter 1 of this Code and
issued by County departments, agencies and offices in accordance with this Code shall be transmitted to
the Chair of the Cook County Rules Committee and posted on the County department, agency or offices
web page at www.cookcountyil.gov at least County Clerk 10 days 30 days prior to taking effect, with the
exception of emergency Rules and Regulations which shall be transmitted to the Chair of the Cook County
Rules Committee Clerk and posted on the applicable department, agency or office web page at the time of
issuance. Public facing Rules and Regulations issued by County departments, agencies and offices in
accordance with this Code shall be placed on the County Board Agenda by the issuing department, agency
or office and referred to the Rules Committee where said Rules and Regulations will be received and filed,
unless the Rules Committee has suggested modifications. Should the Rules Committee have suggested
modifications, the Rules Committee shall confer with the issuing department, agency or office prior to
making any suggested amendments. County departments, agencies and offices will be charged with
maintaining a hard copy of its respective Rules and Regulations for public review and shall place a copy of
said Rules and Regulations and any amended Rules and Regulations on their respective web page at
www.cookcountyil.gov. Regulations shall be maintained by the Clerk and by the issuing department.
(b)

The requirements provided in Sec. 1-9 (a) shall not apply to:

(1)

Rules or Regulations that concern only the internal management of a department, agency,
office, process, procedure or function and do not affect the private rights or procedures
available to the public;

(2)

employee matters/employee personnel rules;

(3)

informal advisory rulings;

(4)

intra-agency memoranda;

(5)

enforcement notices and orders;

(6)

quasi-judicial proceedings; or

(7)

the prescription of standardized forms.

 (c)
A failure to comply in whole or in part with the requirements of Sec. 1-9(a) shall not be
grounds for a challenge to a Rule or Regulation’s validity by a person governed by such Rule or Regulation.
Effective date: This Ordinance Amendment shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
Approved and adopted this 17th of January 2018.
TONI PRECKWINKLE, President
Cook County Board of Commissioners
Attest: DAVID ORR, County Clerk

 BUSINESS AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE
MEETING OF JANUARY 17, 2018

 17-9977
ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
Sponsored by
THE HONORABLE TONI PRECKWINKLE,
PRESIDENT OF THE COOK COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
TAX INCENTIVE ORDINANCE
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 74 Taxation, Article II
Real Property Taxation, Division 2 Classification System for Assessment, Section 74-75 of the Cook
County Code is hereby amended as follows:
Sec. 74-75 - Incentive Classification Affidavit Requirement Waiver.
(a)
This Section shall apply to existing incentives classifications, pending applications and
eligibility/renewal applications submitted during the 2017 and 2018 assessment year. The Assessor’s
Office shall liberally construe this Section to effectuate its intent as set forth in subsections (b) and (c)
below.
(b)
Compliance with the existing affidavit requirements of Sections 74-71(b)(2), 74-72 and
74-74 (b) and (d) shall be waived for the 2017 and 2018 assessment years. Such waiver shall be lifted at
the beginning of the 2019 assessment year and the affidavit requirements of Sections 74-71, 74-72 and 7474 that are then in effect shall be effective for the 2019 assessment year and subsequent assessment years.
(c)
Existing incentives classifications, pending applications and eligibility/renewal
applications submitted during the 2017 and 2018 assessment year shall not be suspended, revoked or
terminated for failure to comply with the affidavit requirements of Sections 74-71(b)(2), 74-72 and 7474(b) and (d), and all affidavits submitted pursuant to such Sections shall be considered void for any
purpose.
Effective date: This Ordinance Amendment shall be in effect upon adoption.
Approved and adopted this 17th of January 2018.
TONI PRECKWINKLE, President
Cook County Board of Commissioners
Attest: DAVID ORR, County Clerk

 RULES AND ADMINISTRATION COMMITTEE
MEETING OF JANUARY 17, 2018

 17-4454
ORDINANCE
Sponsored by
THE HONORABLE LARRY SUFFREDIN, COUNTY COMMISSIONER
AN AMENDMENT TO THE COOK COUNTY PROCUREMENT CODE
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 34 Finance, Article IV
Procurement Code, Division 2 Procurement Procedures, Section 34-147 of the Cook County Code is hereby
enacted as follows:
Sec. 34-147. - Disclosure of Anticipated Future Costs/Amendments
Prior to the approval of a Contract, the Using Agency shall present to the Board all costs identified
in the Contract, including costs identified for the purchase of optional services, goods, or equipment,
contingency costs, or costs for renewal options.
Effective date: This Ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
Approved and adopted this 17th of January 2018.
TONI PRECKWINKLE, President
Cook County Board of Commissioners
Attest: DAVID ORR, County Clerk

 17-9984
ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
Sponsored by
THE HONORABLE RICHARD R. BOYKIN, COUNTY COMMISSIONER
INSPECTOR GENERAL
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 2 Administration, Article
IV Officers and Employees, Division 5 Inspector General, Section 2-285 and Section 2-287 of the Cook
County Code is hereby amended as follows:
Sec. 2-285. Cooperation.
(a)
It shall be the duty of all County employees, officials, agents, contractors, subcontractors,
licensees, grantees or persons or businesses seeking County contracts, grants, licenses, or certification of
eligibility for County contracts, to cooperate with the OIIG in the conduct of investigations undertaken
pursuant to this division. Every County contract and every bid, proposal, application or solicitation for a
County contract and every application for certification of eligibility for a County contract or program shall
contain a statement that the person, individually and on behalf of the applicant, will abide by all provisions
of this division. It shall be unlawful for any person subject to this Section to refuse to cooperate with the
Independent Inspector General as required by this Section. The penalty for such violation shall be governed
by Section 2-291.
(b)
All persons with whom the OIIG requests an interview are required to comply in a timely
fashion. Within constitutional limitations, failure by any County employee, official, agent, contractor,
subcontractor, licensee, grantee or person or business seeking County contracts, grants, licenses, or
certification of eligibility for County contracts, to cooperate with any reasonable request by the OIIG carries
the threat of sanctions and/or criminal contempt proceedings, and any other penalties the County Board has
within its scope to assess.
(c)
Nothing in this compliance section may be interpreted to allow the OIIG to violate any
individual's constitutional rights, including the 5th Amendment right against self-incrimination.
(d)
It is the duty of every employee, department and elected official to cooperate with the
Independent Inspector General in any investigation or hearing. Each department's premises, equipment,
personnel, books, records and papers shall be made readily available to the Independent Inspector General.

 (e)
If the Independent Inspector General issues a recommendation of corrective action to the
head of a County department or bureau, that department or bureau head must respond to that
recommendation within 30 45 days with a written response to the Independent Inspector General and Chief
of the Bureau of Human Resources. This response must include either (1) a description of any corrective
action the department or bureau head has taken or (2) a request for a 30-day extension of the 30 45 day
decision period if additional time is needed by the department or bureau head to review the recommendation
of corrective action. If the head of that department or bureau did not take any corrective action, or took a
different corrective action than that recommended by the Independent Inspector General, the department or
bureau head must describe the different action and explain the reasons for the different action in the written
response. This response must be submitted to the Independent Inspector General and Chief of the Bureau
of Human Resources within the 30-day decision period. The Independent Inspector General may approve
a request for an extension of this 30 45-day decision period for a period of time not to exceed 30 days if
additional time is needed by the head of the department or bureau to review the recommendation of
corrective action. If a department head, bureau chief, or separately elected official fails to meet the 45-day
requirement or, if approved, the 30-day extension the Independent Inspector General shall notify the Chair
of the Litigation Sub-Committee and the President when there is a failure to reply. The chair of the
Litigation Sub-Committee may then call the department head, bureau chief, or representative of the
separately elected official to appear before the Litigation Sub-Committee to explain the lack of response.
(f) It shall be the duty of all County employees, officials, agents, contractors, subcontractors,
licensees, grantees or persons or businesses seeking County contracts, grants, licenses, or certification of
eligibility for County contracts to report, directly and without undue delay, to the Independent Inspector
General any and all information concerning conduct which they know to involve corruption, allegations of
political discrimination in nonexempt positions or other criminal activity, by another County employee or
official, which concerns his or her office of employment or County related transaction. The knowing failure
of any employee to report as required above shall constitute cause for discipline up to and including
termination. For purposes of this Section, a report made to the Inspector General Hotline shall be considered
a direct report.
***
Sec. 2-287. - Quarterly reports.
No later than the 15th day of January, April, July and October of each year, the Independent Inspector
General shall submit to the President and the County Board a publicly available report, accurate as of the
last day of the preceding month, indicating:
(1)

The number and type of investigations initiated, concluded, or pending since the date of
the last report.

(2)

The number and type of investigations of the conduct (corruption, fraud, waste,
mismanagement, unlawful political discrimination or misconduct) of any County
employee, appointed officials, elected officials, contractors, subcontractors, persons
seeking County contracts, or persons seeking certification of eligibility for County
contracts or other County programs.

(3)

The number of and types of investigations conducted by the OIIG regarding employees
under the separately elected officials.

 (4)

The number and type of recommendations made to any department heads or elected official
and whether or not the recommendation was followed or if the

(5)

The number of concluded investigations that have not yet been responded to within the 45day requirement or, if approved, the 30-day extension,

(5)(6) Upon receipt of such reports, the Cook County Board may take appropriate action, such as
referring the report to a Board committee the Litigation Sub-Committee for further
consideration, receiving and filing, approving or rejecting such report.
Effective date: This Ordinance Amendment shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
Approved and adopted this 17th of January 2018.
TONI PRECKWINKLE, President
Cook County Board of Commissioners
Attest: DAVID ORR, County Clerk

 NEW ITEMS

 18-1716 WAS REFERRED TO THE LEGISLATION AND INTERGOVERNMENTAL
RELATIONS COMMITTEE AT THE JANUARY 17, 2018 BOARD MEETING
18-1716
Sponsored by: LARRY SUFFREDIN, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
AN AMENDMENT TO THE ORDINANCE LIMITING CONTRIBUTIONS TO CANDIDATES
AND ELECTED OFFICIALS
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 2 - Administration,
Article VII - Ethics, Division 2 - Code of Ethical Conduct, Section 2-585 - Limitations of contributions to
candidates and elected officials of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as Follows:
Sec. 2-585. - Limitations of contributions to candidates and elected officials.
(a) No person shall make contributions exceeding the limits established by the Election Code, 10
ILCS 5/9-1 et seq., when making contributions to any of the following elected officials or candidates for
such office: County Board President; Cook County Commissioner; Cook County State's Attorney; Cook
County Clerk of the Circuit Court; Cook County Assessor; Cook County Treasurer; Cook County Board
of Review Commissioner; Cook County Sheriff, Cook County Clerk; and Cook County Recorder of
Deeds except as otherwise provided in Section 2-585.
(b) No person who does business with the County or who has done business with the County within
the preceding four years; or is seeking to do business with the County; or is a person required to register
as a lobbyist with the County; or who has sought official action by the County within the preceding four
years, or is an officer, director or partner of a firm, contracted by the County to act as financial counsel,
bond counsel, underwriter's counsel, legal counsel, or financial manager for the issuance of any bond and
directly working on said bond transaction; or firm, officers, directors or partners, contracted by the
County to provide financial audits of County finances and directly working on said contract shall make
contributions in an aggregate amount exceeding $750.00:
(1) To any candidate for County office or elected County official during a single candidacy; or
(2) To any elected official of the government of the County during any nonelection year of his or
her term.
(3) To any local, state, or federal political committee that is established in support of, a specific
candidate for County office or an elected County official. The combined effect of these
provisions is intended to permit total contribution up to, but not exceeding, $1,500.00 in a year
in which a candidacy occurs. A year, for purposes of this Section, is from January 1 to December
31 of each year.
(c) For purposes of Subsection (b) of this Section, an entity and its subsidiaries, parent company or
otherwise affiliated companies (including a separate segregated fund of an entity, as that term is described
in 52 U.S.C. § 30118(b)), shall be considered a single person. The political contributions of an entity's
employees, officers, directors, and/or partners for which they are reimbursed by the entity or its affiliates
shall also be considered those of a single person. However, nothing in this provision shall be construed

 to prohibit such an employee, officer, director or partner from making a political contribution for which
he is not reimbursed by a person with whom he or she is affiliated.
(d) Effective October 2, 2013, no Board or commission appointee of a County official whose board
or commission appointment provides for compensation and requires confirmation by the Cook County
Board of Commissioners shall make contributions in an aggregate amount exceeding $750.00:
(1) To the appointing County official or the Members of the Cook County Board of Commissioners
during a single candidacy; or
(2) To the appointing County official or the Members of the Cook County Board of Commissioners
during any nonelection year of his or her term.
The combined effect of these provisions is intended to permit total contribution up to, but not
exceeding, $1,500.00 in a year in which a candidacy occurs. A year, for purposes of this Section, is from
January 1 to December 31 of each year.
(e) Any contributions made under this Section shall be reported as required by the Election Code,
10 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.
(f) Any candidate for any County office or any current elected official in Cook County government
shall return contributions found in excess of the limitations set forth in this Section within 30 days of
notification from the Board of Ethics. Failure to return contributions within 30 days shall be a violation
of this Section and subject to fines under Section 2-602.
(g) Ethics shall be transparent and apparent to the public.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.

 18-1749 WAS REFERRED TO THE ASSET MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE AT THE JANUARY
17, 2018 BOARD MEETING
18-1749
Sponsored by: RICHARD R. BOYKIN, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
ILLINOIS BLIND VENDORS ACT
WHEREAS, The Illinois Business Enterprise Program for the Blind with the guidance and federally
mandated oversight of the Illinois Committee of Blind Vendors is created for the purposes of providing
blind persons with remunerative employment, enlarging the economic opportunities of the blind, and
stimulating the blind to greater efforts in striving to make themselves self-supporting. In order to achieve
these goals, blind persons licensed under this Act shall be authorized to operate vending facilities on any
property within Cook County as provided by this Ordinance, and
WHEREAS, According to the U.S. Department of Labor blind persons suffer 70% rate of unemployment,
and
WHEREAS, The United States Congress enacted the Randolph-Sheppard Act in 1937 giving blind persons
the right to employment on Federal property through the Act, and
WHEREAS, The Illinois Legislature enacted “The Blind Vendors’ Act” on January 1, 2010 affirming and
expanding the rights of blind persons licensed under the Randolph-Sheppard Act the right to operate
vending facilities on state property, and
WHEREAS, The mission of the Illinois Committee of Blind Vendors is “To provide the highest level of
self-employment opportunities to blind men and women while employing people of all disabilities, and
WHEREAS, President Barack Obama on January 20, 2012 declared his full support of the RandolphSheppard act by requiring full federal compliance with the Randolph-Sheppard Vending Facility Program,
and
WHEREAS, Cook County currently partners with 11 blind operators and had done so successfully for the
past 40 years, and
WHEREAS, The Illinois Committee of Blind Vendors and its blind managers on Cook County property
have partnered with PepsiCo for a 10-year exclusive commission structure benefitting Cook County
revenues, and
WHEREAS, Partnering with blind managers secures excellent service, equipment, oversight and future
partnering opportunities for the County with the backing and support of the Illinois Committee of Blind
Vendors and the Illinois Business Enterprise Program for the Blind that benefit Cook County, and
WHEREAS, Overall revenue and earnings for Cook County Blind Vendors have dramatically decreased
in recent years causing once good jobs to be lost, and
WHEREAS, Large multi-national vending and foodservice companies have overwhelmingly benefited
from County contracts, and

 BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 2 - Administration,
Article V, Departments and Similar Agencies, Division 2, Real Estate Management Division, Section 2363-365 of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as Follows:
Sec. 263. Illinois Blind Vendors Act Definitions
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meanings ascribed to
them in this Section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Business Enterprise Program for the Blind (BEPB) means a state agency in the Department of Human
Services that administrates the Blind Vending Program in Illinois.
Blind Vendor means a blind person licensed by the Business Enterprose Pragram for the Blind to
operate a vending facility on State, federal, or other property. "Blind person" means a person whose central
visual acuity does not exceed 20/200 in the better eye with correcting lenses or whose visual acuity, if better
than 20/200, is accompanied by a limit to the field of vision in the better eye to such a degree that its widest
diameter subtends an angle of no greater than 20 degrees. In determining whether an individual is blind,
there shall be an examination by a physician skilled in diseases of the eye, or by an optometrist, whichever
the individual shall select.
Blind Vendor Trust Fund means a regulated account owned by the Illinois Committee of Blind
Vendors for the benefit of Blind Vendors.
Building means only the portion of a structure owned or leased by the County or any County
Department.
Cafeteria means a food dispensing facility capable of providing a broad variety of prepared foods and
beverages (including hot meals) primarily through the use of a line where the customer serves himself or
herself from displayed selections. A cafeteria may be fully automatic or some limited waiter or waitress
service may be available and provided within a cafeteria and table or booth seating facilities are always
provided.
Committee means the Illinois Committee of Blind Vendors, an independent representative body for
blind vendors established by the federal Randolph-Sheppard Act.
Commission means commission income paid directly to the blind vendor, the Illinois Committee of
Blind Vendors or the Business Enterprise Program for the Blind.
County means Cook County.
County Department means any department, board or agency created by Cook County.
County property means all property owned, leased, or rented by any Cook County department, agency,
board or instrumentality.
Department means Cook County Department.
Federal property means any structure, land, or other real property owned, leased, or occupied by any
department, agency or instrumentality of the United States (including the Department of Defense and the

 U.S. Postal Service), or any other instrumentality wholly owned by the United States, or by any department
or agency of the District of Columbia or any territory or possession of the United States.
Illinois Committee of Blind Vendors means a federally mandated oversight committee for the Illinois
Blind Vending Facility Program (ICBV). ICBV is a 501c3 non for profit.
License means a written instrument issued by the Department to a blind person, authorizing such
person to operate a vending facility on State, federal, or other property.
Normal working hours means an 8-hour work period between the approximate hours of 8:00 a.m. to
4:00 p.m., Monday through Friday.
Priority means the right of a blind person licensed by the Department of Human Services, Division of
Rehabilitation Services, to operate a vending facility on any and all County property leased or owned, in
the same manner and to the same extent as the priority is provided to blind licensees on federal property
under the Randolph-Sheppard Act, 20 U.S.C. 107, and federal regulations, 34 C.F.R. 395.30.
Vending facility means automatic vending machines, snack bars, cart service, counters, office coffee
service, micromarket and such other appropriate auxiliary equipment that may be operated by blind vendors
and that is necessary for the sale of newspapers, periodicals, confections, tobacco products, foods,
beverages, and notions dispensed automatically or manually and prepared on or off the premises in
accordance with all applicable health laws, and including the vending and payment of any lottery tickets or
shares authorized by State law and conducted by a State agency within the State. "Vending facility" does
not include large cafeterias.
Vending Machinge for the purpose of assigning vending machine income under this Act, means a coin,
currency, or debit card operated machine that dispenses articles or services.
Vending machine income means the commissions or fees paid to the ICBV from vending machine
operations on County property where the machines are operated, serviced, or maintained by, or with the
approval of, a County Department by a commercial or not-for-profit vending concern other than Licensed
Blind Vendors that operates, services, and maintains vending machines, micormarkets, office coffee service
or other non-cafeteria foodservice concern.
Vendor means a blind licensee who is operating a vending facility on State, federal, or other property.
Sec. 2-364. Purpose.
(a) The Randolph-Sheppard Act, 20 U.S.C. Sections 107-107f shall serve as a model for minimum
standards for the operation of the Business Enterprise Program for the Blind. The federal RandolphSheppard Act provides employment opportunities for individuals who are blind or visually impaired
through the Business Enterprise Program for the Blind. Under the Randolph-Sheppard Act, all federal
agencies are required to give priority to licensed blind vendors in the operation of vending facilities on
federal property. It is the intent of this Cook County Ordinance to provide the same priority to licensed
blind vendors on County property by requiring County Departments to give priority to licensed blind
vendors in the operation of vending facilities on County property and preference to licensed blind vendors
in the operation of cafeteria facilities on State property, as such the County shall:
(1) Establish, continue, maintain, and promote the opportunities for vending facilities in conjunction
with Business Enterprise Program for the Blind on all property owned or leased by the County.

 (2) Provide documents detailing all current vending, office coffee, micromarket and foodservice
contracts including contracting company, location, type of service, commission structure, overall
sales and expiration date.
(3) Facilitate transitions from outside companies to the Blind Vendor and the Business Enterprise
Program on County property.
(4) Monitor vending machine income payments from outside contractors to Blind Managers or the
Business Enterprise Program for the Blind.
(5) Assure that priority is given to blind vendors in the operation of vending, micromarket, Office
Coffee Service (OCS) and lottery operations on county property owned or leased
(6) Bid preference is given the Blind Vendors in the operation of cafeterias operated with the County
property. If a tie is rendered by the County’s bid process than the counteract goes to the Blind
Vendors. The Blind Vendors may partner with contractors in the County Bid Process.
(7) No County Department may impose any commission, service charge, rent or utility charge on a
licensed Blind Vendor who operates a vending facility on Cook County property.
(8) The County shall actively pursue all commissions from vending facilities not operated by blind
vendors as provided in this Ordinance, and shall propose new placements of vending facilities on
County property where a facility is not yet in place.
(9) A commission rate equal to commission currently paid to the County or of 20% on Net Sales
(whatever is greater) shall be paid by outside vending micro-market or Office Coffee Services
contractors to the Illinois Committee of Blind Vendors for use by the ICBV to benefit blind
vendors through the existing Blind Vendor Trust Fund.
(10) Partnerships and teaming arrangements between blind vendors and private industry, including
franchise operations, shall be allowed and encouraged by the County.
Sec. 2-365 Satisfactory Vending Facility Sites
(a) Beginning March 1, 2018, all County real estate agreements shall: With the BEPB jointly undertake
to determine whether a current or future building constructed, altered, renovated or currently occupied by
the County constitutes a suitable, satisfactory site for a Vending Facility. Any current Vending Facility site
not operated by Blind Vendors shall be considered a suitable site for a Blind Vendor.
(b) Upon receiving a request for a determination of satisfactory site, the BEPB and the Committee
shall have 20 days in which to notify that requesting County agency as to whether the new property or
building is satisfactory or not satisfactory for the operation of a blind vendor vending facility. A site shall
be deemed to be a satisfactory site by examining the potential customer base, including, but not limited to,
County employees, County contractual employees, and the general public. The determination shall be based
upon a site survey or any other reasonable means enabling an accurate assessment of the location. If the
property has an existing private vendor, bottler, or vending machine operator, then the property shall be
presumed to be a satisfactory site. If the BEPB, in consultation with the Committee, determines that the
number of people using the location is or will be insufficient to support a vending facility, then the BEPB
shall determine the property to be not satisfactory. Upon a determination by the BEPB and the Committee
that the new property or building is satisfactory for the operation of a blind vendor vending facility, the the
Director of County Real Estate shall inform the County Department to comply with the priority established

 for the operation of vending facilities by blind persons under this Ordinance. All County departments shall
fully cooperate with the BEPB to ensure that priority is given to blind vendors in the operation of vending
facilities on County property. This includes notifying the Department prior to the expiration of existing
contracts or agreements for vending facilities or when such contracts or agreements are considered for
renewal options. The notification must be given no later than 6 months prior to the potential expiration or
renewal of the existing vending facility contract or agreement.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect March 1, 2018.

 18-1750 WAS REFERRED TO THE CRIMINAL JUSTICE COMMITTEE AT THE JANUARY 17,
2018 BOARD MEETING
18-1750
Sponsored by: RICHARD R. BOYKIN, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
REQUIRING QUARTERLY REPORTING ON THE COST OF GUN VIOLENCE
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 18 Courts, Article 1 In
General, Section 18-4 of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as Follows:
Sec. 18-4. Quarterly Reporting.
(a) The offices of the Chief Judge and Clerk of the Circuit Court shall report to the Board of
Commissioners quarterly on the cost their offices incur due to processing court cases involving firearms.
BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 2
Administration, Article IV Officers and Employees, Division 9 State’s Attorney, Section 2-338 is hereby
amended as Follows:
Sec. 2-338. Quarterly Reporting
(a) The State’s Attorney shall report to the Board of Commissioners quarterly on the cost that the
office incurs due to processing court cases involving firearms.
BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 38 Health
and Human Services, Article VI Medical Examiner, Division 1 Generally, Section 38-157 is hereby
amended as Follows:
Sec. 38-157. Quarterly Reporting
(a) The Medical Examiner shall report to the Board of Commissioners quarterly on the cost that the
office incurs due to performing autopsies on cases involving firearms.
BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 38 Health
and Human Services, Article V Cook County Health and Hospitals System, Section 34-94 is hereby
amended as Follows:
(a) The Health and Hospitals System shall report to the Board of Commissioners quarterly on the cost
it incurs due to processing medical cases involving firearms.
BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 46 Law
Enforcement, Article II Sheriff, Division 1 Generally, Section 46-40 is hereby amended as Follows:
(a) The Sheriff’s Office shall report to the Board of Commissioners quarterly on the cost that the office
incurs to investigating and processing cases involving firearms.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect March 1, 2018.

 