Commission Meeting Rules (Approved July 2015)
The Commission on Animal Care and Control (Advisory Board) values the attendance of the public at its
meetings at the opportunity to receive comments on matters concerning the Board or Chicago Animal
Care and Control. The Commission will treat members of the public with courtesy and respect, and
expects that the public will treat Commission members and CACC employees in a similar manner.
With the goal of facilitating open access and productive discussion, the Commission has adopted the
following rules governing conduct at Board meetings:
1. Any member of the public who is unable to attend the meeting, but wishes to provide comment to
the Commission may do so by emailing ASKCACC@cityofchicago.org. Timely comments received by
email will be shared to the Commission members prior to the meeting.
2. An individual wishing to address the Commission during the public comment portion of the meeting
must register in person the day of the meeting at the sign-in desk and complete a speaker’s card.
Registration will open 15 minutes before scheduled start time of meeting and will close 5 minutes
after the meeting begins.
3. Once called upon by the Commission, the speaker must appear individually and come to the podium
or designated speaking area, state his/her name and address, and identify any group represented.
4. Due to time constraints, each speaker is limited to two minutes and must conclude when asked to
do so by the Commission member acting as chair. Each speaker will be given a 30 second warning
prior to the expiration of their allotted speaking period.
5. The Commission is allotting a maximum of 30 minutes at each meeting designated specifically for
public comment. The acting Chairperson will select at random from all timely submitted speakers
cards and allow each speaker a maximum of two minutes until the designated 30 minute speaking
session is completed or until there are no additional timely submitted speakers cards.
6. The public comment portion of the meeting is strictly intended for the public to provide information
to the Commission. The Commission will not immediately address questions raised during the public
comment section, regardless of the content of the question. Answers to questions raised during
public comment relevant to the Commission or CACC may be provided by the Commission at next
regularly scheduled Commission meeting. In the alternative, if any visitors wish to address the
department with questions directly they may reach out to the appropriate contact person on the
attached “CACC Departmental Contact List”
7. Personal attacks, obscene language, fighting words, threats, and any attempts to incite violence, are
strictly prohibited.
Violation of any of the above rules may result in the violator being asked to remove themselves from the
meeting by security. Any obscene, threatening or any other language creating a threat to public safety
may result in the meeting being adjourned immediately.

 CACC Contact Guide
Updated September 2015
Answers to Questions or Comments:
To email Chicago Animal Care and Control directly about a question or concern, please email:
ASKCACC@cityofchicago.org.
To submit feedback to the City of Chicago, including Chicago Animal Care and Control you may visit City
Feedback: https://webapps1.cityofchicago.org/eforms/
You may also call 311 and request a citizen comment service request be generated.
CACC’s Automated General Information line is 312-747-1406 (note this is an automated service only)
Requests for Records:
For formal requests for records from Chicago Animal Care and Control, you must submit a request
pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act.
The Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) is a state law that provides citizens with access to public records.
Each City department is a separate agency responsible for maintaining its own records, so requests
should be submitted to the department that maintains the records you want.
All Freedom of Information requests submitted to City of Chicago departments must include the
following information:
The name, mailing address and contact information of the requester; A description of the records that
are being requested.
For Animal Care and Control FOIA requests, write to:
Email:

ACCfoia@cityofchicago.org

Fax:

(312) 747-1409

Mail:

2741 South Western Avenue
Chicago, IL 60608

Please note that all FOIA requests are posted online. FOIA requests are public information, and when
you submit a FOIA request, your name and information about the request will be made available on the
City's website.
Please be specific about the information you are seeking, and indicate the exact locations and dates.
Please indicate in your request how you would like the information sent to you (via email, mail, or
available to pick up at our office).

 