MARQUETTE PARK SSA#14
OPEN COMMISSIONERS MEETING
April 5, 2017
MINUTES
Location: Lithuanian Human Services Council Hall
2711-15 W. 71st Street
Chicago, IL 60629
In attendance: Commissioners

Jonas Miglinas
Cynthia Young
Peggie Jones
Dolorine Lopez
Stephanie Sherman-Ratliff

Absent:

Brenda Justice
Patricia Nelson

Commissioners

Also in attendance:

Joe Polikaitis, SSA#14 and LHS Executive Director
Ina Stankeviciene, SSA#14 Program Manager
Narvell Darling, IHS Director of Operations
Guests:

Alderman David Moore, 17 Ward

Opening remarks
Commissioner Cynthia Young opened meeting at 7:15 PM. She thanked everyone for attending
this meeting and informed attendees that at this moment a quorum of the Commissioners is present.

Approval of 11/16/2017 and 2/08/2017 minutes
The 11/16/2017 and 2/08/2017 MP SSA #14 meeting minutes were emailed to all
Commissioners prior to the meeting. Also, copies of the minutes were made available to all meeting
attendees. A motion to accept the 11/16/2017 minutes was made by Stephanie Sherman-Ratliff and
seconded by Jonas Miglinas. A motion to accept the 2/08/2017 minutes was made by Cynthia Young
and seconded by Jonas Miglinas. Both minutes were accepted by all commissioners in attendance. As
usual, the minutes after approval will be posted on Marquette Park SSA#14 website (www.mpsecurity.org) the next day.

 Incident Report
Incident Report was read by Ina Stankeviciene. During the months of February and March, the
Illinois Homeland Security addressed 548 security events of varied nature, 155 requests for assistance
came directly from the SSA#14 dispatch central, 361 calls from the CPD dispatch. There were 280
security events in February and 268 in March. There has been an increase of burglary alarms – 36 were
reported in February, 46 – in March. A lot of loitering, disturbances were noted in zones 3 and 4. 234 in
total among all zones for the past two months. Domestic disturbance and domestic abuse incidents were
reported 53 times for February and March. We have 132 vacant properties in the area. Our security
force does checks of unoccupied buildings in the area on a regular basis – it would be extremely helpful
if the residents called whenever they saw something out of the ordinary occurring in the area. Vacant
properties contribute to the crime statistics of SSA#14. Copies of the report were distributed to all
attendees and posted on MP SSA#14 website: www.mp-security.org
Comments on Incident report by Narvell Darling, IHS Director of Operations
Narvell Darling explained that one of the problems we currently have is school itself. Two
weeks ago, a young man was shot when he was walking to school. I was behind the car when the
shooting happened and was able to chase him. A lot of kids in this nearest school have a gang bond. I
put our second patrol car by the school. I really don’t know what to do with these children. One 15year-old pulled a gun, we chased him. He was just 15 years old and was arrested 7 times. We have a
drug seller - I had to change camera to catch him because he is coming often, but police told the SSA to
stay away from this. Domestic disturbance is happening often, we are getting 9-10 calls daily on
domestic disturbance. I would like these guys to be arrested so that they could not hurt anyone but I am
not getting any answers from police.
A concern was expressed by attendees that someone needs to be accountable for kids, they
should not be on the streets and creating disturbance and committing crime when they are supposed to
be at school.
Comments by 17 Ward Alderman David Moore
Ald. David Moore stated that he knows that Camelot School is doing a pretty good job. If you
see something wrong, please call 911 and then call his office immediately. If a group of kids or guys
appear anywhere in any activity after hours, he can get police to respond. Please call his office during
office work hours because he may be in some meeting in downtown or somewhere else but his office
workers will respond immediately. Alderman answered a question that not every school in Chicago has
a police officer. He demanded if there is a real problem, he needs to be aware of it so call his office
at 773-783-3672, or his cell phone 312-388-0731 after work hours. People have voice, and Alderman is
there for you to push that voice.
There were more discussions about all schools in the SSA#14 area and teenagers.
Financial Status
Financial report was presented by Joe Polikaitis. He explained that Marquette Park SSA#14 has
two bank accounts. Tax revenues are transferred from Cook County Assessor’s Office to SSA#14
Money Market account. As of today, Money Market account has $133,937.84. In addition, SSA#14
has a checking account. Funds for the checking account are transferred from Money Market account to
cover daily operating expenses. As of today, checking account has $43,536.75 and adds to a total of
$177,474.59. We started the year 2017 with a carry-over of $77,000. Each year we need to carry over

 between 68 and 75 thousand dollars to be able to cover security expenses before the tax revenue starts
to come in late February. Financial status is good at this time.
Approval of 2016 CPA financial audit
As required by the City of Chicago, all SSAs are required to be audited by independent auditors.
An audit was completed by C.P. Partners, LLC of Hoffman Estates, IL and a draft copy of the report
was sent to all commissioners prior to the meeting. Joe Polikaitis summarized the content of the report
to everyone. We ended 2016 with 36,552 dollars under budget. Each individual line item in the budget
is mostly under budget. The tax revenue collection is not coming in as anticipated. The audit report will
be submitted to the City of Chicago (Department of Planning and Development).
Commissioner Stephanie Sherman-Ratliff made a motion to accept 2016 audit report, seconded
by Cynthia Young. Motion to accept the audit report was unanimously approved by the
commissioners.
Expiration of SSA#14 Ordinance – re-establishment process
Commissioner Peggie Jones was concerned that the minimum of 800 signatures will be hard to
collect and asked if there is a possibility to contact people who signed before. Joe Polikaitis explained
that 1/3 of the property owners do not live in this area. Renewal process has changed. City of Chicago
will go through every signature and that signature has to match the signature on a property title. When
we collect a signature, we need to see the owner in person - he has to sign in his own hand. So, first we
need an up-to-date property owners list. What we have today is totally outdated. We need to get that list
(or with Alderman’s or consultant help) from Accessor’s office because they have access to it. When
we get that list, we need to write a letter to the property owners explaining what is happening and
asking people to come in with documents on certain days to sign to approve the program. If we see that
we can collect 400-500 signatures, then we can try to collect the balance of signatures needed. There
are two opinions about this SSA, some people want only security program while some want to expand
and include some community activities. With both Aldermen's help, we might be able to collect all
required signatures and renew this program. Ald. David Moore promised all his help in favor to SSA
program. Initial discussion will be made with Ald. Derrick Curtis who cannot attend this meeting.

Status of Surveillance Cameras
Surveillance camera status was updated by Narvell Darling, IHS Director of Operations. He
informed that right now we have 13 cameras: 11 active cameras, cameras from two locations that we
moved because one camera on 72nd Street and Western building lost power and owner on 71st and
California left and we need to chase him to remove camera. So, we have two cameras that are not being
used. A question was raised about the cost of cameras. Joe Polikaitis informed that 14 cameras cost 90
thousands dollars.
Comments by 8-th District Commander Ronald Pontecore
8-th District Commander could not attend the meeting.

 Community Input
The area residents expressed their concern about the possibility of collecting enough signatures
to be able to renew SSA#14 program. Residents indicated that they want only security program and
nothing else.
Next Governing Commissioners Meeting
Next meeting is tentatively scheduled for July 12th, 2017.
Meeting closed at 8:45 pm.

Respectfully submitted by Ina Stankeviciene

 