MINUTES OF MEETING
WAYNE COUNTY ELECTION COMMISSION
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 2017 – 8:30 A.M.
COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL BUILDING - ROOM 700A
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

Call to Order:

The meeting was called to order at 8:43 a.m.

Members present: Honorable Freddie G. Burton, Jr., Chief Judge, Probate Court
Honorable Eric Sabree, Member – Wayne County Treasurer
Members absent: Honorable Cathy N. Garrett, Secretary – Wayne County Clerk (excused)
Also present:

Janet Anderson-Davis, Assistant Corporation Counsel
Jennifer Redmond, Assistant Director
Rendell Wooden

Agenda item:

Consideration of Agenda approval.
Board action on agenda item: Chair Burton requested a motion
to approve the agenda. Member Sabree, duly supported by Chair
Burton, moved to adopt the agenda as submitted. The motion was
adopted.

Agenda item:

Approval of Minutes of August 30, 2017
Board action on agenda item: Chair Burton requested a motion
to approve the minutes of the meeting held on August 30, 2017.
Member Sabree, duly supported by Chair Burton, moved to
approve the minutes of August 30, 2017. The motion was adopted
unanimously by unanimous consent.

Agenda item:

Acceptance of the November 7, 2017 Special General Election
Candidate list as presented by the Wayne County Clerk
Board action on agenda item: Jennifer Redmond, Assistant
Director, presented the Commission with the Official Candidate List
for the State Representative District #1 November 7, 2017 Special
General Election. Chair Burton requested a motion to approve the
Candidate List as presented. Member Sabree, duly supported by
Chair Burton, moved to approve the November 7, 2017 Special
General Election candidate list. The motion was adopted
unanimously by voice vote.
1

 Agenda item:

Approval of Ballot Printing for the November 7, 2017 General
Election for Cross Jurisdictional School Districts
Board action on agenda item: Chair Burton requested a motion
to approve the Ballot Printing for the November 7, 2017 General
Election. Member Sabree, duly supported by Chair Burton, moved
to approve the Ballot Printing for the November 7, 2017 General
Election. The motion was adopted unanimously by a voice vote.

Agenda item:

New Business. Assistant Corporation Counsel Janet AndersonDavison summarized to the Commission an email she received
from Jim Noseda, Attorney, City of Detroit. The email was regarding
a lawsuit over the placement of a ballot proposal on the November
7, 2017 Ballot for the City of Detroit. Mrs. Anderson-Davis informed
that she responded to the Attorney and indicated that the
Commission is not responsible for Ballot Printing for the City of
Detroit. Chair Burton asked if the County Clerk was in agreeance
with that statement. Ms. Redmond indicated the County Clerk
agreed.

Agenda item:

Public Comment. None

Agenda item:

Adjournment. Chair Burton requested a motion to adjourn the
meeting. Member Sabree, duly supported by Chair Burton, moved
to adjourn the meeting. The motion was adopted by unanimous
consent.

Meeting adjourned at 8:46 a.m.

2

 