DETROIT LAND BANK AUTHORITY

 

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
GUARDIAN BUILDING
500 Griswold St, Suite 1200 Detroit, Michigan
(Belle Isle Conference Room)

Tuesday, March 15, 2016
2:00 PM

MINUTES

Present: Marsha Bruhn
Richard Hosey
Larry Lipa
Patricia Pernell-Shelton
Erica Ward Gerson

Others Present: Detroit Land Bank Authority (DLBA) staff

CALL TO ORDER
Chairperson Ward Gerson called the March 15, 2016 meeting to order at 2:05 PM.

ROLL CALL
All Board members were present and a quorum was met.

ADOPTION OF THE AGENDA

Chairperson Ward Gerson called for the adoption of the agenda, amended to include
Resolutions 03-05-16, 03-06-2016 and 03-07-2016. Motion by Member Hosey to adopt the
agenda as amended. Supported by Member Bruhn. MOTION APPROVED.

REVIEW AND APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Motion by Member Bruhn to adopt the January 15, 2015 minutes. Supported by Member
Hosey. MOTION APPROVED.

PUBLIC COMMENT

Chairperson Ward Gerson opened the meeting to public comment. Ms. Joanne Warwick, a
resident of the North End, raised concerns about the Detroit Land Bank Authority?s authority to
implement processes she believes have not been approved by City Council. Ms. Warwick also
commented that she would like for the Community Liaison process to be stronger to ensure that
the ownership of properties in communities is confirmed prior to being demolished.

EXECUTIVE REPORT

Carrie Lewand-Monroe, Executive Director, provided an update to the Board. Mrs. Lewand-
Monroe reported the Federal Government announced $2.5 Billion for HHF programs nationwide
and that awards will be dispersed in two phases. The City of Detroit was awarded in Phase
land the DLBA will continue at a fast pace of demolition in hopes of additional funds being

awarded in Phase II. Mrs. Lewand-Monroe also announced that the City's Open Data portal
launched, providing public access to key demolition data in real-time. Mrs. Lewand-Monroe
further reported that the DLBA concluded its search for a Disposition Director; Mr. Reginald
Scott is scheduled to begin on April 4, 2016 and his resume will be provided to Board Members
for review. Mrs. Lewand-Monroe also announced the creation of a new department, Inventory,
and noted that Darnell Adams was named the Inventory Director and became a new member of
the Executive Team. Mrs. Lewand-Monroe reported that the last of the 3 spring side lot fairs is
scheduled for Saturday, March 19, 2016 at Mumford High School. Mrs. Lewand-Monroe
reported that auction sales are continuing and we have recently been selling a strong majority
of properties on the website.

STAFF REPORTS

Demolition.

Pura Bascos, Demolition Director, reported that the DLBA is working through Rounds 2 and 3 of
the Hardest Hit Funds, with all identified properties currently out for assessment. Mrs. Bascos
noted that for properties currently out to bid for demolition, cost has decreased on average.
Member Bruhn inquired as to what was the reason for the cost decrease. Mrs. Bascos
commented that it is due to the nature of the bid packs recently. Mrs. Lewand-Monroe added
that decoupling of the asbestos surveys and abatement from the actual demolition has also
assisted in cost reduction.

Disposition.

Carrie Lewand-Monroe discussed the ramp up for Direct Sales programs in 2016. Mrs. Lewand-
Monroe noted review of the 2016 Blight Bundle is ongoing, but that the majority of parcels are
anticipated to be vacant land. Charity Dean, Sales and Programs Manager, also reported to the
Board, noting that the Occupied Program is going well. All legal documents are finalized and pre-
closings are scheduled to begin February 15, 2016 with a goal of 5 per week.

Inventory.
Darnell Adams, Inventory Director, gave a presentation of the functions ofthe new Inventory
Department and responded to questions from the Board.

STANDING REPORTS

Finance and Audit.

Member Hosey reported the Finance team?s progress and the importance of creating and
presenting better reports and presentations with illustrative graphics. Member Hosey reported
that the team is placing a hold on the roll-out of accounting concepts until the budget is
complete.

Project Review.

Member Lipa provided the Project Review update. Member Lipa reported that the committee
met last week and was pleased with the sales of diverse land types to residents throughout the
City. Member Bruhn also reported that the Committee reviewed and provided input on policies
and community partner projects.

Community Engagement.
Member Pernell-Shelton provided the Community Engagement update. Member Pernell?
Shelton reported DLBA staff representation at this month?s Detroit Association of Realtors

membership meeting. Member Pernell-Shelton reported the continued positive feedback from
the side lot fairs and that the committee would like to see more of these types of events,
specifically in the community, in the future. Carrie Lewand-Monroe responded that we are
considering mimicking the side lot fair event style for other forms of disposition to increase
visibility in the neighborhoods.

REPORT

Michelle Story-Stewart, Chief Financial Officer, distributed the February 2016 Financial report,
provided an overview to the group and responded to questions from the Board. Ms. Story-
Stewart reported that the RFP process for Auditors will be presented to Board Members via
email and expressed an interest in having the auditor chosen by August 2016.

OLD BUSINESS
Chairperson Ward Gerson opened the floor for any Old Business. None was outstanding.

NEW BUSINESS

Resolutions.

Resolution 03-01?2016, Resolution authorizing the Executive Director to enter into an
agreement with Southwest Solutions selling certain property pursuant to the Community
Partner program. Motion by Member Bruhn. Supported by Member Lipa. MOTION APPROVED.

Resolution 03-02-2016, Resolution authorizing the Executive Director to enter into an
agreement with The Black Caucus Foundation selling certain property pursuant to the
Community Partner program. Motion by Member Hosey. Supported by Member Lipa. MOTION
APPROVED.

Resolution 03-03-2016, Resolution to approve revised 2015-2016 Operating Budget.
Chairperson Ward Gerson provided an overview of the resolution. Motion by Member Hosey.
Supported by Member Bruhn. MOTION APPROVED.

Resolution 03-04-2016, Resolution to approve FY17 Operating Budget. Chairperson Ward
Gerson and Mrs. Lewand-Monroe provided an overview of the resolution. Motion by Member
Hosey. Supported by Member Parnell-Shelton. MOTION APPROVED.

Resolution 03-05-2016, Resolution to approve updated auction policy. Chairperson Ward
Gerson and Mrs. Lewand?Monroe provided an overview of the resolution. Motion by Member
Hosey. Supported by Member Pernell-Shelton. MOTION APPROVED.

Resolution 03-06-2016, Resolution to approve side lot policy. Chairperson Ward Gerson and
Mrs. Lewand-Monroe provided an overview of the resolution. Motion by Member Bruhn.
Supported by Member Hosey. MOTION APPROVED.

Resolution 03-07-2016, Resolution to approve non-profit policy. Chairperson Ward Gerson and
Mrs. Lewand-Monroe provided an overview of the resolution. Motion by Member Hosey.
Supported by Member Lipa. MOTION APPROVED.

Resolution 03-08-2016, Resolution honoring the service of Member Marsha Bruhn was
introduced by Chair. Chairperson Ward Gerson provided an overview ofthe resolution and a

discussion ensued. Motion by Member Hosey. Supported by Member Parnell-Shelton.
MOTION APPROVED.

Election of Officers
Chairperson Ward Gerson proposed the nomination of Member Hosey to be Vice Chair. Motion
by Member Lipa. Supported by Member Pernell-Shelton. MOTION APPROVED.

Member Hosey requested that approved resolutions, in addition to the meeting minutes, be
posted on the Detroit Land Bank Authority website.

ADJOURNMENT
There being no further business, Chairperson Ward Gerson adjourned the meeting at 3:13 pm.

