ORDINANCES

JUNE 6, 2018 BOARD MEETING

 

BUREAU OF ADMINISTRATION
OFFICE OF THE MEDICAL EXAMINER

18-3651 WAS REFERRED TO THE FINANCE COMMITTEE AT THE JUNE 6, 2018 BOARD
MEETING
18-3651
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE (President), Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
COOK COUNTY MEDICAL EXAMINER’S ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 38, Health and Human
Services, Article VI, Medical Examiner, Division 1, Generally, Sections. 38-109 through 38-148 of the
Cook County Code, is hereby amended as follows:
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY
Sec. 38-109. - Office of coroner eliminated.
The office of Coroner of Cook County is hereby eliminated. This article shall be known and may be
cited as the Cook County Medical Examiner's Ordinance.
Sec. 38-110. - Definitions.
[The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article ordinance, shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:]
***
Sec. 38-119. - Deaths subject to investigation; establishing manner and cause of death.
Where a death has occurred under any of the circumstances enumerated in Section 38-118, then an
investigation, including autopsy if necessary, shall be conducted sufficient to establish manner and cause
of death, and the Medical Examiner shall recover and retain any and all evidence for use in the investigation.
The Medical Examiner shall obtain specimens necessary to determine the cause and manner of death and
retain them in accordance with nationally established practice guidelines for forensic pathology. The
Medical Examiner shall have the authority to retain tissue specimen necessary to determine the cause and
manner of death without notification or family permission and will have the authority to retain such body
parts as the Medical Examiner deems necessary in the public interest with notification to any identified
next-of-kin. The Medical Examiner shall have the authority to dispose of retained body parts or tissue
specimen in an appropriate manner consistent with law, including using anonymized tissue samples for
research in lieu of destruction.
An investigation into a death does not necessarily imply that an autopsy and/or a scene examination
will be performed. The necessity of aAn autopsy and/or a scene examination will be determined
byconducted at the Medical Examiner’s discretion based on the criteria specified in Section 38-118 and
generally accepted guidelines for conducting medico-legal death investigations.
Sec. 38-120. - Deaths subject to investigation; death certificate.

 In deaths subject to investigation under Section 38-118, the Medical Examiner, upon completion of
his/her investigation and examination, shall cause a death certificate to be issued specifically setting forth
the cause, circumstances and manner of death, if determinable, or if undeterminable, so state.
Sec. 38-121. - Deaths subject to investigation; duty to notify.
Any person, including, but not limited to, any law enforcement officer, physician, nurse, ambulance
attendant, hospital director or administrator, or funeral director who may become aware of a death subject
to investigation under Section 38-118 mayshall immediately report such death to the Office of the Medical
Examiner or to any law enforcement officer; any such report to a law enforcement officer shall be
immediately transmitted to the Medical Examiner.
Sec. 38-122. - Deaths subject to investigation; examination of scene.
Upon receipt of a report pursuant to Section 38-121, the Medical Examiner or his/her appointed
representative shall go to the location of the body and take charge of same, and shall begin his/her
investigation with an examination of the scene except when permission for removal has been approved
pursuant to Section 38-123 or removal is otherwise authorized under 38-123 to preserve such body from
damage or destruction, or to protect life, safety, or health. Any such removal of the body pursuant to Section
38-123 shall not preclude the Medical Examiner or his/her appointed representative from examining the
scene.
Sec. 38-123. - Deaths subject to investigation; permission required for removal.
No dead human body whose death may be subject to investigation under Section 38-118, or the
personal property of such a deceased person, shall be handled, disturbed, embalmed or removed from the
place of death by any person except with the permission of the Medical Examiner, unless the same shall
be necessary to preserve such body from damage or destruction, or to protect life, safety, or health.
Whenever the Medical Examiner shall lawfully assume jurisdiction of a body, it shall not be
removed or released from his/her jurisdiction except upon his/her direction and consent or as otherwise
permitted in this Section.
***
Sec. 38-125. - Procedures and powers in investigation into cause of death.
(a) The Medical Examiner shall have the power to establish and supervise the procedures to be utilized
in the conduct of investigations necessary to establish the cause and manner of death. The Medical
Examiner, at his/her option, shall have the power to call and conduct public hearings in cases of public
interest.
(b) The Medical Examiner shall have the power to issue subpoenas requiring persons to give
information under oath and to produce books, records, papers or such other documents or objects the
Medical Examiner shall deem necessary to establish the cause or manner of death. The Medical Examiner
or a hearing officer acting in his/her behalf shall have the power to administer the necessary oath or
affirmation to such witness. Any witness appearing at an investigation or public hearing shall have the right
to be represented by counsel.

 (c) The Medical Examiner shall have the power to request and obtain medical and/or mental health
records within 24 hours of the first day of business operations of a hospital or physician's office that has
treated a decedent under investigation by the Medical Examiner.
(d) The Medical Examiner shall have the power to request and obtain hospital admission blood
samples on any in-hospital death under investigation by the Medical Examiner. Hospitals shall retain
admission blood samples for 2448 hours following the death of a patient who will fall under investigation
by the Medical Examiner as described in Section 38-118.
(e) Violation of the terms of this Section will be subject to the terms delineated in Section 38-148.
***
Sec. 38-131. - Deaths subject to investigation; release of the body.
Upon completion of the Medical Examiner's investigation and examination, the Medical Examiner
shall release the body of the decedent to the decedent's next-of-kin, personal representative, friends, or to
the person designated in writing by the decedent or to the funeral director selected by such person or other
authorized person, as the case may be, for proper disposition.
***
Sec. 38-137. - Retention of human remains.
Notwithstanding other provisions in this Article ordinance, if the Medical Examiner determines that a
body needs to be retained greater than 90 days then the Medical Examiner shall provide a written report to
the Advisory Committee and County Board stating the reason for retention. The Medical Examiner shall
report to Advisory Committee and County Board on this matter quarterly.
***
Sec. 38-141. - Advisory committee.
***
(d) Attendance. The members of this Committee shall attend meetings to be held at the Medical
Examiner's Office on a quarterly basis, beginning with the third quarter of the fiscal year in which this
Ordinance [Article] is enacted.
***
Sec. 38-144. - Fees.
The Medical Examiner shall charge the following fees with the amounts as set in Section 32-1 of
this Code.
***
(18) Conference room use fee. Fee charged for use of the Medical Examiner’s Conference Room
located in the basement of the Office of the Cook County Medical Examiner. Conference room
use fees shall be paid to the Cook County Medical Examiner in advance, unless special

 circumstances warrant a fee waiver which may be granted at the discretion of the Medical
Examiner.
***
Sec. 38-148. - Penalty for violation.
Any person who knowingly violates any provision of this Oordinance [Article] may be fined not more
than $1,000.00 and imprisoned not more than six months per violation.
***
BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 32 Fees,
Sec. 32-1 of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as follows:
Sec. 32-1. Fee schedule.
The fees or charges provided for or required by the below-listed sections shall be as shown below:
CHAPTER 38, HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
38-144(1)

Autopsy report

50.00

38-144(2)

Toxicology report

25.00

38-144(3)

Miscellaneous reports, including artist's drawings,
but not including police reports

25.00

38-144(4)

Permit to cremate a dead human body

100.00 50.00

38-144(5)

Return fee

300.00

38-144(6)

Death certificate amendment fee

20.00

38-144(7)

Storage fee

500.00

38-144(8)

Photographs, radiographs, histology slides

actual cost or $3.00
whichever is greater

38-144(9)

Charge to non-county owned hospitals for the
acceptance of fetal remains not falling under the
jurisdiction of the medical examiner, per fetus

100.00

38-144(10)

Confirmation of death letter, per letter

5.00

38-144(11)

Tissue procurement morgue use fee, per case

250.00

38-144(12)

Student and resident rotation fees, per month

500.00

38-144(13)

Staff supervision of external experts fee, per hour,
one hour minimum

100.00

 38-144(14)

Toxicology send-out fee 100.00

38-144(15)

Laboratory use fee, per day (subject to waiver)

250.00

38-144(16)

Expert witness fee, Chief Medical Examiner, per hour,
one hour minimum (subject to waiver)

600.00

Expert witness fee, Assistant Chief Medical Examiner,
per hour, one hour minimum (subject to waiver)

550.00

38-144(16)

38-144(16)

Expert witness fee, Assistant Medical Examiners,
per hour, one hour minimum
(subject to waiver)

500.00

38-144(17)

Cremation fee (subject to waiver)

250.00

38-144(18)

Conference Room (basement) use fee
per hour, two hour minimum
(subject to waiver)

100.00

Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately in relation to the Ordinance Amendments
provided in Chapter 38, Sections 38-109 through 38-148; the fee Ordinance Amendments provided in
Chapter 32 Fees, Section 32-1 in regards to Section 38-144 shall take effect on December 1, 2018..end

 COMMITTEE ITEMS REQUIRING BOARD ACTION

HEALTH AND HOSPITALS COMMITTEE
MEETING OF JUNE 5, 2018

18-0734
ORDINANCE
Sponsored by
THE HONORABLE TONI PRECKWINKLE,
PRESIDENT OF THE COOK COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
DESIGNATION OF COOK COUNTY AS A HYBRID ENTITY
FOR THE PURPOSES OF COMPLIANCE WITH THE
HEALTH INSURANCE PORTABILITY AND ACCOUNTABILITY ACT
WHEREAS, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA) and its Rules
(codified in the Code of Federal Regulations at 45 CFR parts 160 and 164, Pub. Law No. 10-191) impose
privacy and security standards and requirements upon health plans, health care clearing houses, and health
care providers that transmit any health information in electronic form in connection with standard
transactions within the scope of HIPAA, otherwise known as Covered Entities; and
WHEREAS, Cook County (“County”), a unit of local government under the laws of the State of Illinois,
is a single legal entity which conducts both Covered Functions and non-covered Functions; and
WHEREAS, the operation of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System (“CCHHS”) and the County’s
patient arrestee program, self-insured health, dental, vision and pharmacy benefit plans as administered by
the Department of Risk Management are Covered Functions subject to the HIPAA Privacy and Security
Rules; and
WHEREAS, HIPAA allows a Covered Entity to designate itself as a Hybrid Entity when it performs both
Covered and non-Covered Functions and to designate Health Care Components, which must comply with
HIPAA; and
WHEREAS, a Hybrid Entity limits the Covered Entity’s potential liability by requiring only those
departments designated as Health Care Components to comply with HIPAA; and
WHEREAS, HIPAA requires any entity that performs a function on behalf of a Covered Entity or a Health
Care Component of a Hybrid Entity, which involves the use or disclosure of protected health information
(“PHI”), shall be required to execute a business associate agreement (“BAA”); and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners desires to declare Cook County a Hybrid Entity,
designates the County’s Health Care Components; directs the Cook County Health System Board to
designate a Privacy and Security Officer at the CCHHS and directs that the Director of Risk Management
or his/her designee serve as the Privacy Officer and designate a Security Officer to ensure that the County’s
patient arrestee program, self-insured health, dental, and pharmacy benefit plans are HIPAA compliant.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter
2 Administration, Article XIV HIPAA Compliance, Section 2-1020 through 2-1026- is hereby enacted as
follows:

 ARTICLE XIV - HIPAA Compliance
Sec. 2-1020 - Definitions
The definitions of terms set forth in HIPAA are adopted and incorporated herein by reference as if
fully set forth.
Business Associate - A person or entity that performs a function on behalf of a Covered Entity or
assists a Covered Entity with a function or activity involving the use or disclosure of PHI.
Business Associate Agreement (“BAA”) - A contract between a HIPAA covered entity and a
HIPAA business associate which protects PHI in accordance with HIPAA guidelines.
Covered Entity - A health plan, a health care clearinghouse or a health care provider that transmits
any health information in electronic form within the scope of HIPAA.
Covered Functions - Those functions of a Covered Entity which make it a health plan, health care
provider or health care clearinghouse.
Electronic Protected Health Information (“ePHI”) - Protected health information created or
received by a Covered Entity that is transmitted by electronic media or maintained by electronic media.
Health Care Component - A component or combination of components of a Hybrid Entity
designated by the Hybrid Entity, including any component that would meet the definition of a Covered
Entity if it were a separate legal entity. Health Care Component(s) may include a component only to the
extent that it performs covered functions.
Hybrid Entity - A single legal entity that is a Covered Entity whose business functions include
covered and non-covered functions as defined by HIPAA. The entity must designate Health Care
Components and document the designation in accordance with HIPAA requirements.
Non-covered Functions- Those functions performed by components of a Hybrid Entity that are not subject
to HIPAA requirements.
Protected Health Information (“PHI”) - Individually identifiable health information collected from
an individual that is created or received by a Covered Entity. PHI encompasses information that identifies
an individual and relates to the past, present or future physical or mental health of an individual, the
provision of health care to an individual or payment for the provision of health care to the individual.
Sec. 2-1021 - Health Care Component Designation for Hybrid Entity
(a)
Cook County is required to comply with HIPAA privacy and security standards to maintain
the confidentiality of PHI as referenced in Cook County Resolution 03-R-300 (adopted on July 1, 2003).
(b)
Cook County delegates itself as a Hybrid Entity pursuant to HIPAA as it conducts business
activities which include Covered Functions and non-Covered Functions.
(c)
In accordance with HIPAA, only departments or organizations which administer Cook
County’s patient arrestee program, self-insured health plans or provide electronically billed health care
services and transmit ePHI will be designated as a Health Care Component of Cook County.

 (d)
The following Cook County self-insured health plans and organizations are hereby
designated as Health Care Components of Cook County:
1.

Self-insured health, dental, vision and pharmacy plans as administered by the Department
of Risk Management;

2.

Patient Arrestee Medical Care program as administered by the Department of Risk
Management; and

3.

Cook County Health and Hospitals System.

(e)
All other departments, organizations or functions of Cook County that do not engage in
covered functions are hereby designated as non-covered functions of Cook County.
(f)
The Cook County Board may amend the designation of the Health Care Components by
adding or removing a department, office, division or self-insured health plan to or from such designation.
Sec. 2-1022 - HIPAA Privacy Rule and Security Rule Compliance
(a)
Notwithstanding the designation of the County Health Care Components herein, the
County shall be responsible for developing policies and procedures to ensure compliance with the HIPAA
Privacy Rule and Security Rule, and shall be responsible for activities related to oversight of compliance
with, and enforcement of the aforementioned rules.
A Health Care Component shall not disclose any PHI, ePHI or HIPAA-required documentation
which it receives or maintains to another County department or agency 1) if such disclosure would be
prohibited by the HIPAA Privacy or Security Rules, 2) if the Health Care Component and 3) such other
County department or agency were separate and distinct legal entities.
Sec. 2-1023 - Designation of Privacy Officers and Security Officers
(a)
Each Health Care Component shall have a designated Privacy Officer and Security Officer.
A Health Care Component’s Privacy Officer and Security Officer may appoint an employee of the Health
Care Component to assist in the performance of the Privacy Officer and/or Security Officer’s
responsibilities.
(b)
The Privacy Officer and Security Officer for the Healthcare Components of the County
(other than the CCHHS) shall be the Director of the Department of Risk Management or his or her designee.
(c)
The Privacy Officer and a Security Officer for the CCHHS shall be the Chief Compliance
and Privacy Officer for the Cook County Health and Hospital System or his or her designee.
(d)
The Privacy and Security Officers for their respective Health Care Components shall each
develop written policies and procedures and perform any other duties or obligations as required by HIPAA.

 Sec. 2-1024 - HIPAA Required Agreements; Authorization
(a)
Any entity (including another County department or agency) that performs a function on
behalf of the County or a Health Care Component of the County as defined in Section 2-1021 (d), which
involves the use or disclosure of PHI shall be required to execute a business associate agreement.
(b)
The Chief Compliance and Privacy Officer of CCHHS and the Director of Risk
Management of the County are hereby authorized to enter into BAAs necessary to comply with the HIPAA
Privacy and Security Rules and, to enter into all other agreements required by the HIPAA.
Sec. 2-1026 - Severability
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of this ordinance is held to be invalid
or unconstitutional, or unlawful for any reason, by any court of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall
be deemed and is hereby declared to be a separate, distinct and independent provision of this ordinance,
and such holding or holdings shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this ordinance.
Effective date: This Ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
Approved and adopted this 6th of June 2018.
TONI PRECKWINKLE, President
Cook County Board of Commissioners
Attest: DAVID ORR, County Clerk

 FINANCE COMMITTEE
MEETING OF JUNE 5. 2018

18-3799
ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
Sponsored by
THE HONORABLE TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER, GREGG GOSLIN AND
JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI, COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
AUTHORIZING VIDEO GAMING IN UNINCORPORATED COOK COUNTY
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 58 Offenses and
Miscellaneous Provisions, Offensives Involving Public Morals, Article IV, Section 58-161 of the Cook
County Code is hereby amended as follows:
Sec. 58-161. - Gaming devices.
(a)
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this section, shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the context clearly indicates a different
meaning:
Gaming device means any device, mechanism or implement which, upon operation of the device,
mechanism or implement, is used in playing games which includes, but which is not limited to pinball or
any game which is a form of poker, keno, bingo or any variation of a slot machine, and shall include those
devices, mechanisms or implements having a video display which are intended to be played. The term
"gaming device" specifically includes video gaming terminals, as that term is defined in Section 5 of the
Illinois Video Gaming Act (230 ILCS 40/5).
Place of public resort means any premises wherein any service or merchandise is offered for sale
to the public or where gaming devices are used, kept, owned, played or operated, or any premises used as
a clubhouse or clubrooms, or any premises which are licensed by Cook County to engage in business,
including businesses licensed to serve and/or sell alcoholic beverages. The term "place of public resort"
specifically includes licensed establishments, licensed fraternal establishments, licensed veterans
establishments and licensed truck stop establishments, as those terms are defined in Section 5 of the Illinois
Video Gaming Act (230 ILCS 40/5).
(b)

Owning, operating, etc., in place of public resort.

(1)

Except as otherwise stated in this Article, itIt shall be unlawful for any person to keep,
own, play, use or operate, or cause to be kept, owned, played, used or operated, in any place
of public resort within the unincorporated area of the County, any gambling device,
including a video gaming terminal, where the player, by playing the game, is entitled to
accumulate points or replays for receipt of reward, money, or any other item of value. Such
gaming devices shall not be prohibited where the player is rewarded only with additional
opportunities to play. This section shall not be deemed to prohibit any games of chance
or skill which were expressly authorized by State law on or before April 1, 1994.

 (2)

Video gaming terminals, as defined in Section 5 of the Illinois Video Gaming Act (230
ILCS 40/5 and Section 54-425 of the Cook County Code of Ordinances (54-424 et
seq.), may be operated in an establishment located in unincorporated Cook County that
has been granted a video gaming license per the Video Gaming Ordinance (54-424 et
seq.). All requirements of that Ordinance and the Illinois Video Gaming Act must be met to
obtain and keep a Cook County video gaming license.

(c)
Seizure. It is hereby made the duty of every law enforcement officer to seize any gaming
device kept or used in violation of this section and, such gaming device so seized may, upon court
order, be destroyed. Any person obstructing or resisting any law enforcement officer in the performance of
any act authorized by this subsection shall be fined not less than $100.00 nor more than $500.00 for each
offense.
(d)
Penalty for violation. Except as otherwise provided in this section, any person who shall
violate the provisions of this section shall be fined not less than $100.00 nor more than $500.00 for each
offense. The playing or permitting play of each individual game in violation of this section shall constitute
a distinct and separate offense. Any violation of this section by a liquor licensee may be cause for the
revocation or suspension of a liquor license.
***
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 54, Video Gaming,
Article XIV, Sections 54-424 through 54-460 of the Cook County Code is hereby enacted as follows:
ARTICLE XIV. – VIDEO GAMING
Sec. 54-424. - Short title.
This Article shall be known and may be cited as the "Video Gaming Ordinance."
Sec. 54-425. - Definitions.
The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this Article, shall have the meanings ascribed
to them in this Section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning.
Affiliate means an affiliate of, or person affiliated with, a specified person means a person that directly,
or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, controls, or is controlled by, or is under common control
with, such person.
Affiliated entity means any business entity that directly or indirectly, through one or more
intermediaries, controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, the person.
Applicant means any person applying for a license under this Article.
Associated video gaming equipment means ticket payout systems and validation procedures;
wireless, promotional and bonusing systems; kiosks; gaming related peripherals; hardware, software and
systems; and other gaming devices and equipment for compliance with (a) Illinois laws, regulations, and
requirements as codified or otherwise set forth; and (b) Illinois Gaming Board approved video gaming
industry standards.

 Attributed interest means a direct or indirect interest in an enterprise deemed to be held by an
individual not through the individual's actual holdings but either through the holdings of the individual's
relatives or through a third party or parties on behalf of the individual pursuant to a plan, arrangement,
agreement or contract.
Business entity or Business means a partnership, incorporated or unincorporated association or
group, firm, corporation, limited liability company, partnership for shares, trust, sole proprietorship or
other business enterprise.
Chi-Square test: A statistical test used to determine if a relationship between variables exists
by comparing expected and observed cell frequencies. Specifically, a chi-square test examines the
observed frequencies in a category and compares them to what would be expected by chance or would be
expected if there was no relationship between variables.
Cook County or County means the County of Cook, Illinois.
Control means the possession, direct or indirect, of power to direct or cause the direction of
the management and policies of an applicant or licensee through the ownership of voting securities, by
contract or otherwise.
Credit means one ($0.01), five ($0.05), ten ($0.10), or twenty-five cents ($0.25) either won
or purchased by a player.
Department means the Department of Revenue in the Bureau of Finance of Cook County.
Director means the director of the Department of Revenue.
Distributor: An individual, partnership, corporation, or limited liability company licensed under
the Video Gaming Act to buy, sell, lease, or distribute video gaming terminals or major components or
parts of video gaming terminals to or from terminal operators.
Fraternal organization: An organization or institution organized and conducted on a not for
profit basis with no personal profit inuring to anyone as a result of the operation and that is exempt from
federal income taxation under section 501(c)(8) or (c)(10) of the internal revenue code (26 USC
501(c)(8) or (c)(10)).
Game: A gambling activity that is played for money, property or anything of value, including,
without limitation, those played with cards, chips, tokens, vouchers, dice, implements, or electronic,
electrical or mechanical devices or machines.
Gaming: The dealing, operating, carrying on, conducting, maintaining or exposing for play of
any game.
Gaming operation: The conducting of gaming or the providing or servicing of gaming equipment.
Illinois Gaming Board means the board created by the Illinois legislature to regulate video gaming
by the state of Illinois.

 Illinois resident means:
(a)

With respect to an individual, an individual who is either (1) Domiciled in Illinois or
maintains a bona fide place of abode in Illinois; or (2) Is required to file an Illinois tax
return during the taxable year.

(b)

With respect to a corporation, any corporation organized under the laws of Illinois and any
foreign corporation with a certificate of authority to transact business in Illinois. A
foreign corporation not authorized to transact business in Illinois is a nonresident of
Illinois.

(c)

With respect to a partnership, a partnership in which any partner is an Illinois resident, or
where the partnership has an office and is doing business in Illinois.

(d)

With respect to an irrevocable trust, a trust where the grantor was an Illinois resident at
the time the trust became irrevocable.

Institutional investor means (a) a retirement fund administered by a public agency for the exclusive
benefit of federal, state or local public employees; (b) an investment company registered under section 8 of
the investment company act of 1940 (15 USC 80a-8); (c) a collective investment trust organized by a bank
under part 9 of the rules of the comptroller of the currency (12 CFR 9.18); (d) a closed-end investment trust
registered with the United States securities and exchange commission; (e) a chartered or licensed life
insurance company or property and casualty insurance company; (f) a federal or state bank; (g) an
investment advisor registered under the investment advisors act of 1940 (15 USC 80b-1 through 80b-21);
or (h) such other person as the Illinois Gaming Board may determine for reasons consistent with the Video
Gaming Act and this Article.
Licensed establishment means any licensed retail establishment where alcoholic liquor is drawn,
poured, mixed, or otherwise served for consumption on the premises and includes any such establishment
that has a contractual relationship with an intertrack wagering location licensee licensed under the Illinois
horse racing act of 1975, provided any contractual relationship shall not include any transfer or offer of
revenue from the operation of video gaming under the Video Gaming Act to any licensee licensed under
the Illinois horse racing act of 1975. Provided, however, that the licensed establishment that has such a
contractual relationship with an intertrack wagering location licensee may not, itself, be: a) an intertrack
wagering location licensee, b) the corporate parent or subsidiary of any licensee licensed under the Illinois
horse racing act of 1975, or c) the corporate subsidiary of a corporation that is also the corporate parent or
subsidiary of any licensee licensed under the Illinois horse racing act of 1975. "Licensed establishment"
does not include a facility operated by an organization licensee, an intertrack wagering licensee, or an
intertrack wagering location licensee licensed under the Illinois horse racing act of 1975 or a riverboat
licensed under the Riverboat Gambling Act, except as provided in this definition.
Licensed fraternal establishment means the location where a qualified fraternal organization
that derives its charter from a national fraternal organization regularly meets.
Licensed technician means an individual who is licensed under the Video Gaming Act to repair,
service, and maintain video gaming terminals.

 Licensed terminal handler means a person, including, but not limited to, an employee or independent
contractor working for a manufacturer, distributor, supplier, technician, or terminal operator, who is
licensed under the Video Gaming Act to possess or control a video gaming terminal or to have access to
the inner workings of a video gaming terminal. A licensed terminal handler does not include an individual,
partnership, corporation, or limited liability company defined as a manufacturer, distributor, supplier,
technician or terminal operator under section 5 of the Video Gaming Act.
Licensed video gaming location means a "licensed establishment", "licensed fraternal
establishment" or "licensed veterans' establishment", all as defined in section 5 of the Video Gaming Act
and this Article, that holds a valid authorization granted by the County permitting the licensee to operate
one or more, but not more than five (5) video gaming terminals at the establishment.
Licensee means the person, firm or entity to whom an authorization is granted by the Department
permitting it to engage in the defined activities of video gaming.
Liquor Control Commissioner means the Liquor Control Commissioner of the County.
Liquor license means a license issued by a governmental body authorizing the holder to sell and
offer for sale at retail alcoholic liquor for use or consumption.
Location license means authorization granted by the Department permitting a licensee to locate a
video gaming terminal in the County.
Major components or parts means components or parts that comprise the inner workings and
peripherals of a video gaming terminal, including, but not limited to, the device's hardware, software,
human interface devices, interface ports, power supply, ticket payout system, bill validator, printer and any
component that affects or could affect the result of a game played on the device.
Manufacturer means an individual, partnership, corporation, or limited liability company that
is licensed under the Video Gaming Act and that manufactures or assembles video gaming terminals.
Ownership interest includes, but is not limited to, direct, indirect, beneficial or attributed interest,
or holder of stock options, convertible debt, warrants or stock appreciation rights, or holder of any beneficial
ownership or leasehold interest in a business entity.
Person means any individual, corporation, limited liability corporation, organization,
government, governmental subdivision or agency, business trust, estate, trust, partnership, association
and any other legal entity.
Person with significant interest or control means (1) each person in whose name the license
is maintained for each licensed video gaming location; (2) each person who, in the opinion of the Liquor
Control Commissioner, has the ability to influence or control the activities of the applicant or licensee, or
elect a majority of its board of directors, other than a bank or licensed lending institution that holds a
mortgage or other lien, or any other source of funds, acquired in the ordinary course of business; and (3)
persons having the power to exercise significant influence or control over decisions concerning any part of
the applicant's or licensee's video gaming operation.
Riverboat Gambling Act means the Illinois Riverboat Gambling Act.

 Security means an ownership right or creditor relationship.
Security interest means an interest in property that secures the payment or performance of an
obligation or judgment.
Sole proprietor means an individual who in his or her own name owns one hundred percent (100%)
of the assets and who is solely liable for the debts of a business.
State means the state of Illinois.
State license means authorization granted by the Illinois Gaming Board permitting a licensee to
engage in the defined activities of video gaming.
Substantial interest (With Respect To A Partnership, A Corporation, An Organization, An
Association, A Business Or A Limited Liability Company) means:
(a)

When, with respect to a sole proprietorship, an individual or his or her spouse owns,
operates, manages, or conducts, directly or indirectly, the organization, association or
business, or any part thereof; or

(b)

When, with respect to a partnership, the individual or his or her spouse shares in any of the
profits, or potential profits, of the partnership activities; or

(c)

When, with respect to a corporation, an individual or his or her spouse is an officer or
director or the individual or his or her spouse is a holder, directly or beneficially, of five
percent (5%) or more of any class of stock of the corporation; or

(d)

When, with respect to a limited liability company, an individual or his or her spouse is a
member, or the individual or his or her spouse is a holder, directly or beneficially, of five
percent (5%) or more of the membership interest of the limited liability company; or

(e)

When, with respect to any other organization not covered in subsection (a), (b), (c) or (d)
of this definition, an individual or his or her spouse is an officer or manages the business
affairs, or the individual or his or her spouse is the owner of, or otherwise controls, ten
percent (10%) or more of the assets of the organization; or

(f)

When an individual or his or her spouse furnishes five percent (5%) or more of the capital,
whether in cash, goods or services, for the operation of any business, association or
organization during any calendar year.

For purposes of this definition, "individual" means all individuals or their spouses whose combined interest
would qualify as a substantial interest under this definition and whose activities with respect to an
organization, association, or business are so closely aligned or coordinated as to constitute the activities of
a single entity.
Supplier means an individual, partnership, corporation, or limited liability company that is licensed
under the Video Gaming Act to supply major components or parts of video gaming terminals to licensed
terminal operators.

 Terminal operator means any individual, corporation, limited liability corporation, organization,
government, governmental subdivision or agency, business trust, estate, trust, partnership, association and
any other legal entity that owns, services and maintains video gaming terminals for placement in licensed
video gaming locations in the County.
Use agreement means a contractual agreement between a terminal operator and a licensed
video gaming location establishing terms and conditions for placement and operation of video gaming
terminals by the terminal operator within the premises of the licensed video gaming location.
Veterans' organization means an organization or institution organized and conducted on a not for
profit basis with no personal profit inuring to anyone as a result of the operation and that is exempt from
federal income taxation under section 501(c)(19) of the internal revenue code (26 USC 501(c)(19)).
Video Gaming Act means the Illinois Video Gaming Act.
Video gaming equipment means video gaming terminals, associated video gaming equipment
and major components or parts.
Video gaming operation, as the context requires, means the conducting of video gaming and all
related activities.
Video gaming terminal means any electronic video game machine that, upon insertion of cash,
is available to play or simulate the play of a video game, including, but not limited to, video poker, line
up, and blackjack, utilizing a video display and microprocessors in which the player may receive free games
or credits that can be redeemed for cash and as further defined under the Video Gaming Act, 230 ILCS
40/5. The term does not include a machine that directly dispenses coins, cash, or tokens or is for
amusement purposes only.
Sec. 54-426. - Authority of the Liquor Control Commissioner.
The Liquor Control Commissioner shall have jurisdiction, subject to the jurisdiction of the Illinois
Gaming Board, over and shall supervise all video gaming operations in the unincorporated areas of the
County governed by the Video Gaming Act, the regulations promulgated pursuant to the Video Gaming
Act and this Article. The Liquor Control Commissioner shall have all powers necessary and proper to fully
and effectively execute the provisions of this Article, including, but not limited to, the following:
(a)
To investigate applicants, determine the eligibility of applicants for licenses, and approve or
deny licenses based on the eligibility requirements and other factors set out in this Article.
(b)
To have jurisdiction and supervision, subject to the jurisdiction and supervision of the
Illinois Gaming Board, over all video gaming operations in the unincorporated areas of the County and all
persons in establishments where video gaming operations are conducted.
(c)
To adopt rules for the purpose of administering the provisions of this Article and to
prescribe rules, regulations, and conditions under which all video gaming in the unincorporated areas of
the County shall be conducted. Such rules and regulations are to provide for the prevention of practices
detrimental to the public interest and for the best interests of video gaming, including rules and regulations
regarding (1) the inspection of such establishments and the review of any permits or licenses necessary to
operate an establishment under any laws or regulations applicable to establishments and (2) to impose
penalties for violations of this Article.

 Sec. 54-427. License required; restrictions.
(a)
Terminal operator. A person may not own, maintain, or place a video gaming terminal
in the unincorporated areas of the County unless he or she has a valid terminal operator's state license issued
under the Video Gaming Act. A terminal operator may only place video gaming terminals for use in the
unincorporated areas of Cook County in licensed video gaming locations. No terminal operator may give
anything of value, including, but not limited to, a loan or financing arrangement, to a licensed video gaming
location as any incentive or inducement to locate video terminals in that establishment. Of the after tax
profits from a video gaming terminal, fifty percent (50%) shall be paid to the terminal operator and fifty
percent (50%) shall be paid to the licensed video gaming location, notwithstanding any agreement to the
contrary.
(b)
Licensed establishment. No video gaming terminal may be placed in any licensed video
gaming location in unincorporated Cook County unless the owner or agent of the owner of the video gaming
location has a valid state location license issued under the Video Gaming Act and a valid County license
and has entered into a written use agreement with the terminal operator for placement of the terminals. A
copy of the use agreement shall be on file in the licensed video gaming location in the County and available
for inspection by individuals authorized by the County. A licensed video gaming location located in the
County may operate up to five (5) video gaming terminals on its premises at any time.
(c)

Financial interest restrictions.

(1)

As used in the Video Gaming Act and in this Article, "substantial interest" in a
partnership, a corporation, an organization, an association, a business, or a limited liability
company means:
(A)

When, with respect to a sole proprietorship, an individual or his or her spouse
owns, operates, manages, or conducts, directly or indirectly, the organization,
association, or business, or any part thereof; or

(B)

When, with respect to a partnership, the individual or his or her spouse shares in any
of the profits, or potential profits, of the partnership activities; or

(C)

When, with respect to a corporation, an individual or his or her spouse is an
officer or director, or the individual or his or her spouse is a holder, directly or
beneficially, of five percent (5%) or more of any class of stock of the corporation;
or

(D)

When, with respect to an organization not covered in subsection (c)(1)(A),
(c)(1)(B) or (c)(1)(C) of this section, an individual or his or her spouse is an
officer or manages the business affairs, or the individual or his or her spouse is the
owner of or otherwise controls ten percent (10%) or more of the assets of the
organization; or

(E)

When an individual or his or her spouse furnishes five percent (5%) or more of the
capital, whether in cash, goods, or services, for the operation of any business,
association, or organization during any calendar year; or

 (F)

When, with respect to a limited liability company, an individual or his or her
spouse is a member, or the individual or his or her spouse is a holder, directly or
beneficially, of five percent (5%) or more of the membership interest of the limited
liability company.

(2)

For purposes of this subsection (c) individual includes all individuals or their spouses
whose combined interest would qualify as a substantial interest under this subsection (c)
and whose activities with respect to an organization, association, or business are so
closely aligned or coordinated as to constitute the activities of a single entity.

(c)

Location restrictions.

(1)

A licensed video gaming location that is: a) located within one thousand feet (1,000') of a
facility operated by an organization licensee or an intertrack wagering licensee licensed
under the Illinois Horse Racing Act of 1975 or the home dock of a riverboat licensed
under the Riverboat Gambling Act or b) located within one hundred feet (100') of a school
or a place of worship under the Religious Corporation Act, is ineligible to operate a video
gaming terminal. The location restrictions in this subsection (d) do not apply if a facility
operated by an organization licensee, an intertrack wagering licensee, a school, or a place
of worship moves to or is established within the restricted area after a licensed video
gaming location becomes licensed under the Video Gaming Act. For the purposes of this
subsection, "school" means an elementary or secondary public school, or an elementary
or secondary private school registered with or recognized by the state board of education.

(2)

Notwithstanding the provisions of this subsection (d), the Liquor Control Commissioner
may waive the requirement that a licensed video gaming location not be located within
one thousand feet (1,000') from a facility operated by an organization licensee or an
intertrack wagering licensee licensed under the Illinois Horse Racing Act of 1975 or the
home dock of a riverboat licensed under the Riverboat Gambling Act. The Liquor Control
Commissioner shall not grant such waiver if there is any common ownership or control,
shared business activity, or contractual arrangement of any type between the establishment
and the organization licensee, intertrack wagering licensee, or owners licensee of a
riverboat. The Liquor Control Commissioner may adopt rules to implement the provisions
of this subsection, or, in the absence of the Liquor Contro Commissioner's adopting rules
to implement the provisions of this subsection, the rules of the Illinois Gaming Board shall
apply to implement the provisions of this subsection.

(d)

Undue economic concentration.

(1)

In addition to considering all other requirements under the Video Gaming Act and this
Article, in deciding whether to approve the operation of video gaming terminals by a
terminal operator in a location, the Liquor Control Commissioner shall consider the
impact of any economic concentration of such operation of video gaming terminals. The
Liquor Control Commissioner shall not allow a terminal operator to operate video
gaming terminals if the Liquor Control Commissioner determines such operation will
result in undue economic concentration. For purposes of this subsection (e), "undue
economic concentration" means that a terminal operator would have such actual or
potential influence over video gaming terminals in the County as to:
(A)

Substantially impede or suppress competition among terminal operators;

 (2)

(B)

Adversely impact the economic stability of the video gaming industry in the
County; or

(C)

Negatively impact the purposes of the Video Gaming Act or this Article.

The Liquor Control Commissioner may adopt rules concerning undue economic
concentration with respect to the operation of video gaming terminals in the unincorporated
areas of the County or in the absence of the County's adopting rules concerning undue
economic concentration with respect to the operation of video gaming terminals in the
unincorporated areas of the County, the rules of the Illinois Gaming Board shall apply to
undue economic concentration with respect to the operation of video gaming terminals in
the unincorporated areas of the County. The rules, if adopted by the Liquor Control
Commissioner, shall include, but not be limited to: a) limitations on the number of video
gaming terminals operated by any terminal operator within a defined geographic radius
and b) guidelines on the discontinuation of operation of any such video gaming terminals
the Liquor Control Commissioner determines will cause undue economic concentration.

(f)
Provisions of Illinois Antitrust Act. The provisions of the Illinois Antitrust Act are fully
and equally applicable to the activities of any licensee under this Article.
Sec. 54-428. – Display of license; hours of operation.
(a)
A video gaming location shall be licensed by the Illinois Gaming Board and by the
County before placement or operation of a video gaming terminal on the premises of a video gaming
location in the unincorporated areas of the County. The state license and the County license shall be
maintained at the location where the video gaming terminal is operated.
(b)
Any terminal operator that possesses any video gaming terminal shall have a registration
tag issued by the Illinois Gaming Board securely affixed on each such video gaming terminal.
(c)
Any video gaming terminal without a current registration tag shall be subject to seizure. Any
agent of the County may demand and gain access to any property relating to a licensed video gaming
location or any location where video gaming terminals are stored, sold, distributed, or transported, and
seize any video gaming terminal which does not bear a current registration tag or is operating in a manner
that violates any provision of the Illinois Gaming Act or this Article. Such video gaming terminals so seized
shall be subject to confiscation and forfeiture. In the event the County seizes video gaming terminals in
accordance with this section, the County shall notify the terminal operator of such seizure and of the terminal
operator's right to a hearing under section 54-437 of this Article.
(d)
The odds of winning each video game shall be posted on or near each video gaming
terminal. The manner in which the odds are calculated and how they are posted shall be determined by the
Illinois Gaming Board by rule.
(e)
No video gaming terminal in a licensed video gaming location may be played except during
the legal hours of operation allowed for the consumption of alcoholic beverages at the licensed video
gaming location. A licensed video gaming location that violates this subsection is subject to termination of
its license by the Liquor Control Commissioner.

 Sec. 54-429. – Residency Requirement.
Each applicant on behalf of a video gaming location and person with a substantial interest in a video
gaming location must be an Illinois resident. However, if an out of state applicant has performed its business
within Illinois for at least forty-eight (48) months prior to the effective date of the Video Gaming Act, the
out-of-state person may be eligible for licensing under this Article, upon application to and approval of the
Liquor Control Commissioner. The Liquor Control Commissioner may adopt rules to implement this
section.
Sec. 54-430. – Multiple types of licenses prohibited.
A video gaming terminal operator may not be licensed by the state as a video gaming terminal
manufacturer or distributor or own, manage, or control a licensed video gaming location, and shall be
licensed only to contract with licensed distributors and licensed video gaming locations. An owner or
manager of a licensed video gaming location may not be licensed by the state as a video gaming terminal
manufacturer, distributor, or operator, and shall only contract with a licensed operator to place and service
this equipment.
Sec. 54-431. – Video gaming terminal use by minors prohibited.
No licensee shall cause or permit any person under the age of twenty-one (21) years to use or play
a video gaming terminal.
Sec. 54-432. – Licensing qualifications.
(a)

Issuance of license.

(1)

The burden is upon each applicant to demonstrate his or her suitability for licensure.
Each operator of a licensed video gaming location located in the unincorporated areas of
the County where a video gaming terminal is maintained or placed shall obtain a license
from the Liquor Control Commissioner. The Liquor Control Commissioner may issue or
deny a license under this Article to any person pursuant to the same criteria set forth
in Section 9 of the Riverboat Gambling Act.

(2)

The Liquor Control Commissioner shall not grant a license to a person who has
facilitated, enabled, or participated in the use of coin operated devices for gambling purposes
or who is under the significant influence or control of such a person. For the purposes
of this subsection, "facilitated, enabled, or participated in the use of coin operated
amusement devices for gambling purposes" means that the person has been convicted of
any violation of chapter 28 of the criminal code of 2012, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/28-1 et seq. If there is pending legal action against a person for any such violation, then
the Liquor Control Commissioner shall delay the licensure of that person until the legal
action is resolved.

(3)

Each person seeking and possessing a license as a licensed video gaming location shall
submit to a background investigation conducted by the Illinois Gaming Board with the
assistance of the state police or other law enforcement. The background investigation
shall include each beneficiary of a trust, each partner of a partnership, and each
director and officer and all stockholders of five percent (5%) or more in a parent or
subsidiary corporation of a licensed video gaming location.

 (4)

Each person seeking and possessing a license as a licensed video gaming location shall
disclose the identity of every person, association, trust, corporation, or limited liability
company having a greater than one percent (1%) direct or indirect pecuniary interest in
the video gaming location for which the license is sought. If the disclosed entity is a trust,
the application shall disclose the names and addresses of the beneficiaries; if a
corporation, the names and addresses of all stockholders and directors; if a limited
liability company, the names and addresses of all members; or if a partnership, the
names and addresses of all partners, both general and limited.

(5)

No person may be licensed as a licensed video gaming location if that person has been found
by the Illinois Gaming Board to:

(6)

(A)

Have a background, including a criminal record, reputation, habits, social or
business associations, or prior activities that pose a threat to the public interests of
the state or to the security and integrity of video gaming;

(B)

Create or enhance the dangers of unsuitable, unfair, or illegal practices,
methods, and activities in the conduct of video gaming;

(C)

Present questionable business practices and financial arrangements incidental to the
conduct of video gaming activities: or

(D)

Have any debt or unpaid tax due to the County.

Any applicant under this Article has the burden of proving his or her qualifications
to the satisfaction of the Liquor Control Commissioner. The County may adopt rules
to establish additional qualifications and requirements to preserve the integrity and security
of video gaming in the County.

(b)
Precondition for licensed location. In all cases of application for a licensed location, to
operate a video gaming terminal, each licensed video gaming location shall possess a valid state license
for a video gaming location, a valid liquor license issued by the Illinois Liquor Control Commission and
a valid local retail liquor license issued by the Liquor Control Commissioner in effect at the time of
application and at all times thereafter during which a video gaming terminal is made available to the public
for play at that location. Video gaming terminals in a licensed video gaming location within the
unincorporated areas of the County shall be operated only during the same hours of operation generally
permitted to holders of a license under the provisions of Chapter 6: Alcoholic Beverages of the Cook County
Code of Ordinances adopted pursuant to the Liquor Control Act of 1934.
(c)
Insurance. Each terminal operator shall maintain liability insurance on each video gaming
terminal that it places in a licensed video gaming location in an amount set by the Illinois Gaming Board.
(d)
Minimum requirements for licensing and registration. Every video gaming terminal offered
for play in the unincorporated areas of the County shall first be tested and approved pursuant to the rules of
the Illinois Gaming Board, and each video gaming terminal offered for play in the unincorporated areas
of the County shall conform to an approved model. Every video gaming terminal offered for play in the
unincorporated areas of the County must meet minimum standards set by an independent outside testing
laboratory approved by the Illinois Gaming Board. Each approved model shall, at a minimum, meet the
following criteria:

 (1)

It must conform to all requirements of federal law and regulations, including FCC
class A emissions standards.

(2)

It must theoretically pay out a mathematically demonstrable percentage during the
expected lifetime of the machine of all amounts played, which must not be less than eighty
percent (80%). The maximum payout percentage for approved models shall conform to
the requirements established by the Illinois Gaming Board by rule. Video gaming
terminals that may be affected by skill must meet this standard when using a method of play
that will provide the greatest return to the player over a period of continuous play.

(3)

It must use a random selection process to determine the outcome of each play of a game.
The random selection process must meet ninety nine percent (99%) confidence limits using
a standard chi-squared test for (randomness) goodness of fit.

(4)

It must display an accurate representation of the game outcome.

(5)

It must not automatically alter pay tables or any function of the video gaming terminal based
on internal computation of hold percentage or have any means of manipulation that
affects the random selection process or probabilities of winning a game.

(6)

It must not be adversely affected by static discharge or other electromagnetic interference.

(7)

It must be capable of detecting and displaying the following conditions during idle states
or on demand: power reset; door open; and door just closed.

(8)

It must have the capacity to display complete play history (outcome, intermediate play
steps, credits available, bets placed, credits paid, and credits cashed out) for the most
recent game played and ten (10) games prior thereto.

(9)

The theoretical payback percentage of a video gaming terminal must not be capable of
being changed without making a hardware or software change in the video gaming
terminal, either on site or via the central communications system.

(10)

Video gaming terminals must be designed so that replacement of parts or modules required
for normal maintenance does not necessitate replacement of the electromechanical meters.

(11)

It must have nonresettable meters housed in a locked area of the video gaming terminal that
keep a permanent record of all cash inserted into the machine, all winnings made by the
video gaming terminal printer, credits played in for video gaming terminals, and credits
won by video gaming players. The video gaming terminal must provide the means for
on demand display of stored information as determined by the Illinois Gaming Board.

(12)

Electronically stored meter information required by subsection (d)(11) of this section must
be preserved for a minimum of one-hundred eighty (180) days after a power loss to the
service.

(13)

It must have one or more mechanisms that accept cash in the form of bills. The mechanisms
shall be designed to prevent obtaining credits without paying by stringing, slamming,
drilling, or other means. If such attempts at physical tampering are made, the video gaming
terminal shall suspend itself from operating until reset.

 (14)

It shall have accounting software that keeps an electronic record which includes, but is not
limited to, the following: total cash inserted into the video gaming terminal; the value of
winning tickets claimed by players; the total credits played; the total credits awarded by a
video gaming terminal; and payback percentage credited to players of each video game.

(15)

It shall be linked by a central communications system to provide auditing program
information as approved by the Illinois Gaming Board. The central communications
system shall use a standard industry protocol, as defined by the Gaming Standards
Association, and shall have the functionality to enable the Illinois Gaming Board or
its designee to activate or deactivate individual gaming devices from the central
communications system. In no event may the communications system approved by the
Illinois Gaming Board limit participation to only one manufacturer of video gaming
terminals by either the cost in implementing the necessary program modifications to
communicate or the inability to communicate with the central communications system.

(16)

It shall display Amber Alert messages, should the Illinois Gaming Board, in its discretion,
require video gaming terminals to display Amber Alert messages.

(17)

It shall comply with such rules which establish additional criteria to preserve the integrity
and security of video gaming as the Illinois Gaming Board may adopt.

(e)

Qualifications for licensure.

(1)

In addition to the qualifications required in the Video Gaming Act, the regulations
promulgated under the Video Gaming Act or this Article, the Liquor Control Commissioner
may not grant any video gaming license until the Liquor Control Commissioner is satisfied
that the applicant is:
(A)

A person of good character, honesty and integrity;

(B)

A person whose background, including criminal record, reputation and
associations, is not injurious to the public health, safety, morals, good order and
general welfare of the people of the state or the County;

(C)

A person whose background, including criminal record, reputation and
associations, does not discredit or tend to discredit the Illinois gaming industry, the
state or the County;

(D)

A person whose background, including criminal record, reputation, habits, social or
business associations does not adversely affect public confidence and trust in
gaming or pose a threat to the public interests of the state, the County or to the
security and integrity of video gaming;

(E)

A person who does not create or enhance the dangers of unsuitable, unfair or
illegal practices, methods and activities in the conduct of video gaming;

(F)

A person who does not present questionable business practices and financial
arrangements incidental to the conduct of video gaming activities or otherwise;

 (2)

(3)

(G)

A person who, either individually or through employees, demonstrates business
ability and experience to establish, operate and maintain a business for the type
of license for which application is made;

(H)

A person who does not associate with, either socially or in business affairs, or
employ persons of notorious or unsavory reputation or who have extensive police
records, or who have failed to cooperate with any officially constituted
investigatory or administrative body; and

(I)

A person who has not had a gaming license revoked in any other jurisdiction.

Applicant qualifications for a video gaming license. In addition to all other qualifications
required in the Video Gaming Act, the regulations promulgated under the Video Gaming
Act or this Article, the Liquor Control Commissioner may not grant a video gaming license
until the Liquor Control Commissioner is satisfied that the applicant:
(A)

Is a person who demonstrates adequate financing for the business proposed. The
Liquor Control Commissioner shall consider whether any financing is from a
source that meets the qualifications in subsections (e)(1)(A) through (e)(1)(I) of
this section, and is in an amount sufficient to ensure the likelihood of success in the
performance of the licensee's duties and responsibilities pursuant to the Video
Gaming Act, the regulations promulgated under the Video Gaming Act or this
Article; and

(B)

Has disclosed all persons with significant influence or control over the applicant or
licensee.

Past participation in video gaming.
(A)

The Liquor Control Commissioner shall not grant a license to a person who has
facilitated, enabled or participated in the use of coin operated amusement
devices for gambling purposes on or after the effective date of this Article or who
is under the significant influence or control of such a person.

(B)

The Liquor Control Commissioner has discretion not to grant a license to a
person who, before the effective date of this Article, has facilitated, enabled or
participated in the use of coin operated amusement devices for gambling purposes,
or who is under the significant influence or control of such a person.

(f)

Persons with significant influence or control.

(1)

The Liquor Control Commissioner shall identify each person that holds a position or
level of influence over or control in each applicant or licensee that is significant to the
regulatory concerns and obligations of the Liquor Control Commissioner for the specified
applicant or licensee.

(2)

Each person identified as a person with significant influence or control shall comply with
the following:

 (3)

(A)

Cooperate fully with any investigation conducted by or on behalf of the Liquor
Control Commissioner;

(B)

Comply with the Video Gaming Act, the regulations promulgated under the Video
Gaming Act or this Article; and

(C)

Submit initial and annual disclosure information on forms provided by the Illinois
Gaming Board and the County.

Persons with significant influence or control include, but are not limited to, the following:
(A)

Each person in whose name the liquor license is maintained for each licensed video
gaming location;

(B)

Each person who, in the opinion of the Liquor Control Commissioner, has the
ability to influence or control the activities of the applicant or licensee or elect a
majority of its board of directors, other than a bank or other licensed lending
institution that holds a mortgage or other lien, or any other source of funds,
acquired in the ordinary course of business;

(C)

Persons having the power to exercise significant influence or control over decisions
concerning any part of the applicant's or licensee's video gaming operation.

Sec. 54-433. – Licensing procedures.
(a)

Applications.

(1)

Application Forms. Applications for licensure or renewal shall be submitted on applications
and forms provided by the County.

(2)

Additional Materials. An applicant or its affiliate may be required to submit forms or
materials in addition to an application as required by subsection (a)(1) of this section.

(3)

Number of video gaming terminals sought. Applicants must include on their application
the number of video gaming terminals it will have in the licensed video gaming location. A
separate license fee is applicable to each video gaming terminal. This fee is not applicable
to a specific video gaming terminal but allows for placement of that number of terminals in
the licensed video gaming location. It shall be a violation of this Article for any licensee to
have more video gaming terminals than the number included on the application and for
which a license is issued.

(4)

Institutional investor.
(A)

A business entity that qualifies as an institutional investor may submit a video
gaming institutional investor disclosure form in lieu of a video gaming business
entity disclosure form as instructed in an application if the institutional investor:

 (5)

(i)

Submits a video gaming institutional investor disclosure form to the Illinois
Gaming Board and the County within forty-five (45) days after the
institutional investor individually or jointly with others cumulatively
acquires, directly or indirectly, five percent (5%) or more but less than
twenty percent (20%) of any class of publicly traded securities issued by
a corporate applicant, licensee, parent or subsidiary company of an
applicant or licensee; and

(ii)

Holds or controls the publicly traded securities issued by a corporate
applicant, licensee, parent or subsidiary company of an applicant or
licensee in the ordinary course of business for investment purposes only;
and

(iii)

Does not exercise or intend to exercise influence or control over the
affairs of the issuer of the publicly traded securities issued by a corporate
applicant, licensee, parent or subsidiary company of an applicant or
licensee or their affiliates.

(B)

An institutional investor's exercise in voting privileges on matters put to the vote
of the outstanding security holders shall not be deemed the exercise or intent to
exercise influence or control over the affairs of the issuer of those securities.

(C)

If an institutional investor exempt from filing a video gaming business entity
disclosure form as allowed in subsection (a)(3)(A)(iii) of this section
subsequently determines to exercise influence or control over the affairs of the
issuer of the publicly traded securities issued by a corporate applicant, licensee,
parent or subsidiary company of an applicant or licensee or their affiliates, the
institutional investor shall provide not less than thirty (30) days' notice of the
intent and shall file with the Illinois Gaming Board and the County a video gaming
business entity disclosure form before taking any action that may influence or
control the affairs of the issuer of those securities or their affiliates.

(D)

The video gaming institutional investor disclosure form shall not be construed to
preclude the County from requiring an institutional investor to submit a video
gaming business entity disclosure form if the County determines that the
submission is proper and in furtherance of the Act and this Article.

(E)

An institutional investor exempt from filing a video gaming business entity
disclosure form as allowed in subsection (a)(3)(A)(iii) of this section shall certify
in writing to be bound by and comply with the Video Gaming Act and this section.

Application procedures.
(A)

An applicant is seeking a privilege and assumes and accepts any and all risk of
adverse publicity, notoriety, embarrassment, criticism or other action, or
financial loss that may occur in connection with the application process.

(B)

Any misrepresentation or omission made with respect to an application may be
grounds for denial of the application.

 (6)

(C)

Individuals required to submit video gaming personal disclosure forms shall
be photographed and fingerprinted by the Illinois Gaming Board.

(D)

An application shall be deemed filed when the completed application form,
including all required documents and materials, and the application fee have been
submitted.

Amendments and incorporation by reference.
(A)

An application may be amended with approval by the Liquor Control
Commissioner.

(B)

The Liquor Control Commissioner may allow information, documents, or other
materials submitted by an applicant to be incorporated by reference into a
subsequent application.

(b)
Submission of application. All applications shall be submitted to the Liquor Control
Commissioner in any method designated by the liquor commission, including electronically.
(c)
Fees. All applicants for a license issued by the Liquor Control Commissioner shall pay
application and license fees as specified in Section 32-1 of this code, as applicable, at the time of filing
their application.
(d)
Consideration of applications. Only complete applications will be considered for
licensure. Applications are complete when the applicant has submitted:
(1)

All information required by this Article;

(2)

All information required or requested by the County; and

(3)

Payment of the application and license fees.

(e)

Withdrawal Of applications.

(1)

An application for licensure under this Article may be withdrawn unless the intended
withdrawal is objected to by the Liquor Control Commissioner.

(2)

If an application for licensure is withdrawn, the applicant may not reapply for a license
within one year from the date withdrawal is granted, without leave of the Liquor Control
Commissioner.

(f)

Issuance of license.

(1)

The Liquor Control Commissioner may only issue a license after the Illinois Gaming
Board background investigation is complete, the Illinois Gaming Board determines the
applicant is suitable for licensure, and the applicant has filed a completed application and
paid the required fees.

 (2)

If an applicant is denied a license, the applicant may not reapply for a license within one
year from the date on which the final order of denial was made.

(g)

Renewal of license.

(1)

All licenses issued by the County under this Article shall expire at the end of the 12-month
period as designated by the Liquor Control Commissioner and are renewable annually
unless sooner canceled or terminated. No license issued under this Article is transferable
or assignable.

(2)

The Liquor Control Commissioner may only renew a license upon receipt of a copy of the
current state license, the applicable renewal fees and any renewal forms provided by the
Liquor Control Commissioner.

(3)

The Liquor Control Commissioner may only renew a license if the licensee continues to
meet all qualifications for licensure set forth in the Video Gaming Act, the regulations
promulgated pursuant to the Video Gaming Act and this Article.

(h)
Renewal fees. A licensee shall pay application and license fees annually, as specified in
Section 32- 1 of this code.
Sec. 54-434. – Process of denial of license.
(a)
Where the Liquor Control Commissioner denies a new license application or application for
renewal, the applicant shall be provided with notice setting out the reasons for the denial. The applicant
may protest the decision by completing a protest form provided by the Liquor Control Commissioner, and
filing the completed form with the Liquor Control Commissioner within 14 days after the date of
issuance of the notice of denial. Where the applicant timely files a protest, the applicant shall be
provided with a hearing pursuant to the procedures set out in Chapter 2, Article 9 of the Cook County Code
of Ordinances. At all times relevant hereto, the applicant shall carry the burden of proof, as to their
eligibility for licensure.
(b)
The Liquor Control Commissioner may personally conduct the hearing or refer the matter
to be heard by administrative hearing pursuant to Chapter 2, Article 9 of the Cook County Code of
Ordinances. The procedure of the hearing shall be governed by the rules promulgated by the Liquor
Control Commissioner.
(1)

If the matter is heard by the Liquor Control Commissioner, within 30 days after the
conclusion of the hearing, if the Liquor Control Commissioner finds by preponderance of
the evidence that the applicant did meet the licensure requirements, the decision denying
licensure will be reversed; otherwise the decision denying licensure will be affirmed.

(2)

In the event that the matter is heard by administrative hearing pursuant to Chapter 2, Article
9 of the Cook County Code of Ordinances, within seven days after the conclusion of the
hearing, the hearing officer shall submit to the Liquor Control Commissioner proposed
conclusions of law, proposed findings of fact, and a recommended decision. Within
21 days of receiving the recommendation from the hearing officer, the Liquor Control
Commissioner may agree, disagree, or modify the recommended decision and must issue
a decision as to whether the denial will be upheld or reversed. The Liquor Control
Commissioner's decision shall be the final administrative decision of the Office of the
Liquor Control Commissioner.

 Sec. 54-435. – Location and placement of video gaming terminals.
Video gaming terminals must be located in an area restricted to persons over twenty-one (21) years
of age. The entrance to such restricted area must be within the view of at least one employee, who is over
twenty-one (21) years of age, of the establishment in which they are located. The placement of video gaming
terminals in licensed video gaming locations shall be subject to the rules promulgated by the Illinois
Gaming Board and this Article.
(a)
All licensed video gaming locations and terminal operators shall be responsible for the
proper placement, installation, maintenance and oversight of video gaming terminals within a licensed
video gaming location as prescribed by the Video Gaming Act, the regulations issued pursuant thereto and
this Article.
(b)
All video gaming terminals must be located in an area restricted to persons over twenty-one
(21) years of age. Any licensed video gaming location that allows minors to enter where video gaming
terminals are located shall separate any video gaming terminals from the area accessible by minors.
(c)
When two (2) or more adjacent businesses appear to the Liquor Control Commissioner to
be a single business, or are operated by the same or commingled ownership, then the Liquor Control
Commissioner may limit those businesses to the maximum number of video gaming terminals. The
maximum will be the number permitted under Illinois law for one business as the total number of video
gaming terminals authorized for both or more such businesses, where the Liquor Control Commissioner
determines that the limitation would further the intent of the Video Gaming Act and the integrity of
video gaming in the County.
(1)

In the event the Liquor Control Commissioner decides that two (2) or more adjacent
businesses shall be a single business for purposes of determining the maximum number of
video gaming terminals to which they are entitled, the Liquor Control Commissioner shall
provide the affected businesses with written notice of this decision in accordance with the
notice requirements of subsection 54-434 of this Article.

(2)

An applicant that has been deemed to constitute a single business with one or more adjacent
businesses for purposes of determining the maximum number of video gaming terminals to
which it is entitled may submit a request for hearing to the Liquor Control Commissioner.
The hearing procedures shall be those set forth in section 54-434 of this Article.

(d)
The owner, manager or employee of the licensed video gaming location who is over twentyone (21) years of age shall be present during all hours of operation, and the video gaming terminals or the
entrance to the video gaming terminal area must be within the view of at least one owner, manager or
employee.
Sec. 54-436. – Complaints initiated by a private party.
Any person shall have the right to file a complaint with the Liquor Control Commissioner stating
that a licensee has been or is violating the provisions of this Article or the Video Gaming Act. The
complaint shall be in writing, in the form prescribed by the Liquor Control Commissioner, and shall be
signed by the person or persons making the complaint. The complaint shall state the provisions believed
to have been violated and the facts in detail upon which belief is based. If the Liquor Control Commissioner
is satisfied that the complaint substantially charges a violation and concludes from the facts alleged therein,
together with any other information made available that there is reasonable cause for belief that the
allegations are true, he or she shall set the matter for hearing pursuant to the procedure set out in Section
54-437.

 Sec. 54-437. – Procedures for assessment of a fine, revocation or suspension of license.
(a)
The Liquor Control Commissioner may revoke, suspend or assess a fine against any license
issued by him or her if he or she determines the licensee has violated any of the provisions of this Article, or
any applicable rules and regulations established by the Video Gaming Act or this Article.
(b)
The licensee who continues to hold a debt or unpaid tax to the County after being licensed
under this Article may have his or her license suspended or revoked.
(c)

Fines for violating any provision of this Article shall be imposed as follows:

(1)

A fine of $2,000.00 will be imposed for the first violation.

(2)

A fine of $5,000.00 will be imposed for any second and subsequent violation.

(3)

If a licensee’s first alleged violation is accompanied by multiple violations, provided it is the
first time the licensee is alleged to have violated the provisions of this Article, each charge
heard at that time is subject to a $2,000.00 fine.

(d)
Before the Liquor Control Commissioner can revoke or suspend a license or assess a fine
against a licensee, a hearing must be held. The Liquor Control Commissioner must send written notice to
the licensee at least 14 days prior to any hearing. The notice must inform the licensee of the action being
sought, the allegations leading to such action along with the date, time and location of the hearing. All such
hearings under this Section shall be conducted pursuant to the procedures set out in Chapter 2, Article 9
of the Cook County Code of Ordinances.
(e)
The Liquor Control Commissioner may personally conduct the hearing or refer the matter
to be heard by administrative hearing pursuant to Chapter 2, Article 9 of the Cook County Ordinances.
The procedure of the hearing shall be governed by the rules promulgated by the Liquor Control
Commissioner.
(1)

If the matter is heard by the Liquor Control Commissioner, within 30 days after the
conclusion of the hearing, if the Liquor Control Commissioner finds by preponderance of
the evidence that the applicant committed one or more of the charges set out in the
notice, the Liquor Control Commissioner may suspend the license for a set period of time,
revoke the license, and/or impose a fine.

(2)

In the event that the matter is heard by administrative hearing pursuant to Chapter 2, Article
9 of the Cook County Code of Ordinances, within seven days after the conclusion of the
hearing, the hearing officer shall submit to the Liquor Control Commissioner proposed
conclusions of law, proposed findings of fact, and a recommended decision. Within
21 days of receiving the recommendation from the hearing officer, the Liquor Control
Commissioner may agree, disagree, or modify the recommended decision and must issue
a decision as to whether the licensee committed one or more of the charges set out in
the notice and whether the license will be suspended for a set period of time or revoked
and/or whether a fine will be imposed. The Liquor Control Commissioner's decision shall
be the final administrative decision of the Office of the Liquor Control Commissioner.

 (f)
If prior to rendering a decision, the Liquor Control Commissioner has reason to believe
that the continued operation of a particular licensed premises will immediately threaten the welfare of
the community, he or she may upon issuance of a written order stating the reason for such conclusion
without notice or hearing, order the licensed premises be closed for a period not to exceed 14 days. The
licensee shall have the opportunity to be heard during that period. If the licensee is conducting another
business or businesses on the licensed premises, such order shall not be applicable to such other business
or businesses contingent upon the other business neither serving, making for sale, or giving away any
form of alcoholic beverage.
(g)
A licensee or an agent of the licensee may not tamper, deface, or alter such order. A licensee
shall be held strictly liable for any tampering defacement or alteration of such order.
(h)
Any licensee whose license is the subject of such hearings and found by the Liquor Control
Commissioner to be in violation of one or more of the charges set out in the notice, shall pay to the
County, within 30 days after the Liquor Control Commissioner adjourns the last hearing, all fines and costs.
Any licensee who fails to pay all fines and costs required by this Section shall be ineligible to have their
license renewed at the next applicable renewal and shall be ineligible for issuance of a new license under
this Article. The fact that the licensee may seek administrative review of the Liquor Control
Commissioner's suspension or revocation order shall not affect the licensee's duty to pay all such fees and
costs required by this Article. For each day after the thirtieth day payment is due a licensee fails or
refuses to pay the fees and costs required by this Article, the licensee shall be fined $200.00 per day, such
fines which will accrue on the balance due, up to a total of $15,000.00. Where the decision of the Liquor
Control Commissioner is reviewed through an administrative or judicial process and ultimately that
decision is fully reversed, licensee's payment of such fees and costs will be refunded by the County.
Sec. 54-438. - Inspection.
The Liquor Control Commissioner and the County's officers, employees and agents shall
have unrestricted access to enter the premises or motor vehicles of any licensee or applicant where evidence
of compliance or noncompliance with the provisions of the Video Gaming Act, the regulations promulgated
under the Video Gaming Act or this Article may be found.
Sec. 54-439. - Duties of all video gaming licensees.
In addition to all other duties and obligations required by the Video Gaming Act, the regulations
promulgated under the Video Gaming Act or this Article, each video gaming licensee and applicant for
licensure under this Article has an ongoing duty to comply with the following:
(a)

Comply with all federal, state and local laws and regulations;

(b)
At all times, conduct himself or herself in a professional manner when communicating with
the public, the Illinois Gaming Board, the Liquor Control Commissioner and the County;
(c)
Disclose all ownership interest to the Illinois Gaming Board in accordance with the
Video Gaming Act, the regulations promulgated under the Video Gaming Act or this Article;
(d)
Conduct the licensee's video gaming operation in a manner that does not pose a threat
to the public health, safety, morals, good order or general welfare of the people of the state or the
County;

 (e)
Conduct the licensee's video gaming operation in a manner that does not discredit or
tend to discredit the Illinois gaming industry, the state or the County;
(f)
Conduct the licensee's video gaming operation in a manner that does not reflect adversely
on the security or integrity of the Illinois video gaming industry;
(g)
Keep current in all payments and obligations to the state, the County and to other licensees
with whom video gaming business is conducted;
(h)
Identify to the Illinois Gaming Board and to the County any individual or entity acting on
behalf of the licensee, for compensation, with regard to County action;
(i)
Notify the Illinois Gaming Board and the County of any proposed change in ownership or
any transaction that requires approval of qualifications in accordance with the Video Gaming Act, the
regulations promulgated under the Video Gaming Act or this Article on forms supplied or approved by
the Illinois Gaming Board and the County and containing such information and documents as specified,
and at such time as required, by the Illinois Gaming Board or the Liquor Control Commissioner;
(j)
terminals;

Provide a secure premises for the placement, operation and play of video gaming

(k)
Permit no one to tamper with or interfere with the approved operation of any video
gaming terminal;
(l)
Ensure that all connections with the central communications system and associated video
gaming equipment are at all times maintained and prevent any person from tampering or interfering with
the approved, continuing operation of the central communications system;
(m)
Accept nothing of value from any terminal operator or any agent or representative of any
terminal operator as an incentive or inducement to locate, keep or maintain video gaming terminals at the
licensed video gaming location;
(n)
Conduct advertising and promotional activities in accordance with the Video Gaming Act,
the regulations promulgated under the Video Gaming Act and this Article and in a manner that does not
reflect adversely on or that would discredit or tend to discredit the Illinois gaming industry, the state or the
County;
(o)
Immediately remove all video gaming terminals from the restricted area of play (1) upon
order of the Illinois Gaming Board, the County, an agent of the Illinois Gaming Board or an agent of the
County or (2) that have been out of service or otherwise inoperable for more than seventy two (72) hours;
(p)
Enter into written use agreements with terminal operators that comply with the Video
Gaming Act, the regulations promulgated under the Video Gaming Act and this Article;
(q)
location;

Ensure that video gaming terminals are placed and remain in a designated, approved

(r)
Prevent access to or play of video gaming terminals by persons who are under the age of
twenty- one (21) years or who are visibly intoxicated;

 (s)
Commit no violations of the laws of this state or the ordinances of the County concerning
the sale, dispensing or consumption on premises of alcoholic beverages that result in suspension or
revocation of any liquor license held by or associated with a licensed video gaming location;
(t)
Maintain at all times an approved method of payout for valid receipt tickets and pay all
valid receipt tickets;
(u)
Extend no form of deferred payment for video gaming terminal play in which an
individual receives something of value now and agrees to repay the lender in the future for the purpose of
wagering at a video gaming terminal;
(v)
Promptly report all malfunctions of video gaming terminals and all out of service terminals
to the terminal operator and promptly notify the Illinois Gaming Board of a terminal operator's failure to
provide service and repair of video gaming terminals and associated equipment within twenty- four (24)
hours after notice to the terminal operator;
(w)

Install, post and display signs as required by the Illinois Gaming Board;

(x)
Promptly notify the Illinois Gaming Board and the Liquor Control Commissioner of any
unauthorized or illegal video gaming terminals or any video gaming device that is in violation of section 35
of the Video Gaming Act;
(y)

Exercise control over the licensed video gaming location;

(z)
Promptly notify the Illinois Gaming Board and the Liquor Control Commissioner of any
action taken on or related to any state liquor license held;
(aa)
Allow maintenance and/or service of video gaming terminals and associated video
gaming equipment only by licensed technicians and licensed terminal handlers possessing valid
identification issued by the Illinois Gaming Board; and
(bb)
Redeem for cash a ticket, dispensed by a video gaming terminal, that is within its
redemption period.
Sec. 54-440. - Continuing duty to report violations.
Licensees and applicants for licensure under this Article and persons with significant influence
and control must promptly report all of the following to the Liquor Control Commissioner or his or her
designee:
(a)
A violation of the Video Gaming Act, the regulations promulgated under the Video Gaming
Act, this Article or any illegal conduct including, but not limited to, the possession, maintenance,
facilitation or use of any illegal gaming device;
(b)
Any fact, event, occurrence, matter or action that may affect the conduct of video gaming
or the business and financial arrangements incidental to the conduct of video gaming, or the ability to
conduct the activities for which the licensee is licensed including, but not limited to, any change in persons
identified as having significant influence or control;

 (c)
Each arrest, summons, citation or charge for any criminal offense or violation, excluding
minor traffic violations; and
(d)

Any adverse action taken or nonrenewal relative to a liquor license.

Sec. 54-441. – Minimum standards for use agreements.
In addition to the requirements set forth in the Video Gaming Act, the regulations promulgated under
the Video Gaming Act or this Article, a use agreement must satisfy the following:
(a)

Only be between a terminal operator and a licensed video gaming location;

(b)
Contain an affirmative statement that no inducement was offered or accepted regarding
the placement or operation of video gaming terminals in a licensed video gaming location;
(c)
Contain an indemnity and hold harmless provision on behalf of the state, the Illinois
Gaming Board, the County and their officers, employees and agents relative to any cause of action arising
from a use agreement; and
(d)
Contain a provision that releases the video gaming location from any continuing
contractual obligation to the terminal operator in the event that the terminal operator has its license revoked
or surrenders its license.
Sec. 54-442. - Direct dispensing of receipt tickets only.
A video gaming terminal may not directly dispense coins, cash, tokens, or any other article of
exchange or value except for receipt tickets. Tickets shall be dispensed by pressing the ticket dispensing
button on the video gaming terminal at the end of one's turn or play. The ticket shall indicate the total
amount of credits and the cash award, the time of day in a twenty-four (24) hour format showing hours
and minutes, the date, the video gaming terminal serial number, the sequential number of the ticket, and
an encrypted validation number from which the validity of the prize may be determined. The player shall
turn in this ticket to the appropriate person at the licensed video gaming location to receive the cash award.
The cost of the credit shall be one cent ($0.01), five cents ($0.05), ten cents ($0.10), or twenty-five cents
($0.25), and the maximum wager played per hand shall not exceed two dollars ($2.00). No cash award
for the maximum wager on any individual hand shall exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00).
Sec. 54-443. - Disposal of video gaming terminals.
Video gaming terminals shall be disposed of only pursuant to the regulations of the Illinois Gaming
Board as set forth in section 1800.1070 of the Illinois Administrative Code.
Sec. 54-444. - State-local relations.
(a)
Whenever the County takes any action authorizing or prohibiting the licensing operation,
or use of video gaming terminals in the County it shall notify the Illinois Gaming Board of such action.

 (b)
Whenever the County or the Liquor Control Commissioner takes action relating to the
operation or use of a video gaming terminal in the County, whether licensed or unlicensed, the Illinois
Gaming Board shall be notified and the notice shall specify the extent of the action taken and the reasons
for the action. The County and the Liquor Control Commissioner shall thereupon take whatever action is
necessary under the Video Gaming Act and this Article. If the County confiscated video gaming
terminals or terminal income, the County shall, as soon as practicable under the circumstances, turn over
the video gaming terminals and terminal income to the Illinois Gaming Board unless otherwise ordered by
a court of competent jurisdiction.
Sec. 54-445. – Privilege granted by license; transferability.
A license granted under this Article shall be purely a personal privilege, good for not to exceed
one year after issuance, unless sooner revoked as provided in this Article, and shall not constitute property,
nor shall it be subject to attachment, garnishment or execution, nor shall it be alienable or transferable,
voluntarily or involuntarily, or subject to being encumbered or hypothecated. Such license shall not descend
by the laws of testate or intestate devolution, but it shall cease upon the cessation of business or death of
the licensee.
Sec. 54-446. – Licenses subject to amendments.
All licenses issued pursuant to this Article shall be subject to any and all changes or amendments
that may be hereafter made to the provisions of this Article or to any rules or changes in rules adopted by
the Liquor Control Commissioner. No licensee shall have any vested right to the continuation of any
provision of this Article.
Sec. 54-447. – Applicability of Video Gaming Act and Riverboat Gambling Act.
The provisions of this Article shall be subject to the Riverboat Gambling Act and all rules
promulgated thereunder, and to the Video Gaming Act and all rules promulgated thereunder, except that in
the event of a conflict between the two (2) acts, the provisions of the Video Gaming Act shall apply, and in
the event of a conflict between the rules promulgated under the two (2) acts, the rules promulgated under
the Video Gaming Act shall apply.
Secs. 54-448 - 54-460. – Reserved.
***

 BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, Chapter 32 Fees, Section 32-1 of the
Cook County Code is hereby amended as follows:
Chapter 32 – FEES
Sec. 32-1. - Fee schedule.
The fees or charges provided for or required by the below-listed sections shall be as shown below:
***

Code Section

Description

Fees, Rates,
Charges (in
dollars)

CHAPTER 54, LICENSES, PERMITS AND MISCELLANEOUS BUSINESS REGULATIONS
54-63(b)
54-153(a)
54-153(a)

Roadhouse license fee
Deadly weapons dealer license
Gun show permit fee

750.00
1,000.00
250.00

54-185(a)

Background check for person possessing deadly weapons license or gun
show permit

50.00

54-272(a)

Outdoor movie theater license fee

100.00

54-304(f)

Tobacco product retailer license fee, annually, per license

125.00

More than one vending machine on premises, for first vending machine
license

125.00

Each additional vending machine license

25.00

54-364

54-385

Raffle license fees
10,000.00
(for organizations conducting continuous raffles in a permanent facility)
Business license fee

40.00

 54-433(a)(3)

(Licensing procedures) Video gaming license fee (per video gaming
terminal)

54(Licensing procedures) Video gaming application fee
433(a)(5)(D)

Effective date: This Ordinance shall be in effect sixty days upon adoption.
Approved and adopted this 6th of June 2018.
TONI PRECKWINKLE, President
Cook County Board of Commissioners
Attest: DAVID ORR, County Clerk

1,000.00

500.00

 

COMMITTEE ITEMS REQUIRING BOARD ACTION

ZONING AND BUILDING COMMITTEE
MEETING OF JUNE 6. 2018

18-1356 WAS DEFERRED AT THE JUNE 6, 2018 BOARD MEETING
18-1356
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE (President) and PETER N. SILVESTRI, Cook County Board
Of Commissioners
ZONING ORDINANCE TEXT AMENDMENT
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Commissioners of Cook County that Appendix A, Zoning, Article 4
Residential Districts, Sections 4.1., 4.2, 4.3, 4.4, 4.5, 4.5A, 4.6, 4.7 and 4.8 of the Cook County Code shall
be amended as follows:
4.1. - R-1 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT.
4.1.5.

TEMPORARY USES.

4.1.6.

ACCESSORY USES.

4.1.8.

SITE AND STRUCTURE PROVISIONS.
4.2. - R-2 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT.

4.2.5.

TEMPORARY USES.

4.2.8.

SITE AND STRUCTURE PROVISIONS.
4.3. - R-3 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT.

4.3.5.

TEMPORARY USES.

4.3.8.

SITE AND STRUCTURE PROVISIONS.
4.4. - R-4 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICTS.

4.4.5.

TEMPORARY USES.

4.4.8.

SITE AND STRUCTURE PROVISIONS.
4.5. - R-5 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT.

4.5.5.

TEMPORARY USES.

4.5.8.

SITE AND STRUCTURE PROVISIONS.

 4.5A. - R-5A RESIDENTIAL TRANSITION DISTRICT.
4.5A.5. TEMPORARY USES.
4.5A.6. ACCESSORY USES.
4.5A.8.SITE AND STRUCTURE PROVISIONS.
4.6. - R-6 GENERAL RESIDENCE DISTRICT.
4.6.5.

TEMPORARY USES.

4.6.6.

ACCESSORY USES.

4.8.6

SITE AND STRUCTURE PROVISIONS.
4.7. - R-7 GENERAL RESIDENCE DISTRICT.

4.7.5.

TEMPORARY USES.

4.7.6.

ACCESSORY USES.
4.8. - R-8 GENERAL RESIDENCE DISTRICT.

4.8.5.

TEMPORARY USES.

BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Board of Commissioners of Cook County that Appendix A,
Zoning, Article 5, Commercial Districts, Sections 5.1, 5.3, 5.4, 5.5, 5.6, 5.7 and 5.8 of the Cook County
Code shall be amended as follows:
5.1. - C-1 RESTRICTED BUSINESS DISTRICT.
5.1.5

TEMPORARY USES.
5.3. - C-3 GENERAL SERVICE DISTRICT.

5.3.4.

SPECIAL USES.
5.4. - C-4 GENERAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.

5.4.4.

SPECIAL USES.
5.5. - C-5 COMMERCIAL TRANSITION DISTRICT.

5.5.5.

TEMPORARY USES.
5.6. - C-6 AUTOMOTIVE SERVICE DISTRICT.

5.6.5.

TEMPORARY USES.

 5.7. - C-7 OFFICE/RESEARCH PARK DISTRICT.
5.7.5.

TEMPORARY USES.
5.8. - C-8 INTENSIVE COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.

5.8.5.

TEMPORARY USES.

BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Board of Commissioners of Cook County that Appendix A,
Zoning, Article 6 Industrial Districts, Sections 6.1 and 6.2 of the Cook County Code shall be amended as
follows:
6.1. - I-1 RESTRICTED INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
6.1.4

SPECIAL USES.

6.1.5.

TEMPORARY USES.
6.2. - I-2 GENERAL INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.

6.2.4.

SPECIAL USES.

BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Board of Commissioners of Cook County that Appendix A,
Zoning, Article 8, General Provisions, Section 8.6, 8.7 and 8.10 of the Cook County Code shall be amended
as follows:
8.6. - STRUCTURE HEIGHT.
8.6.1.

DISTRICT REGULATIONS.

8.6.3.

BUILDING APPURTENANCES.
8.7. - REGULATIONS FOR SPECIFIC USES.

8.7.1.

FENCES, WALLS, HEDGES AND SHRUBBERY.

8.7.2.

MOBILE HOMES OR TRAILER.

8.7.7.

PETS ANIMALS.

8.7.8.

PORTABLE STORAGE CONTAINERS.

8.7.9.

MEDICAL CANNABIS DISPENSING ORGANIZATION.

8.7.10. MEDICAL CANNABIS CULTIVATION CENTERS.
8.10.-ENVIRONMENTALLY SENSITIVE AREAS
8.10.1. ENVIRONMENTALLY SENSISTIVE

 BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Board of Commissioners of Cook County that Appendix A,
Zoning, Article 9, Planned Unit Development, Sections 9.3 of the Cook County Code shall be amended as
follows:
9.3. - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
9.3.6

REQUIRED PUDS.

BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Board of Commissioners of Cook County that Appendix A,
Zoning, Article 12, Signs, Section 12.1 and 12.4 of the Cook County Code shall be amended as follows:
12.1. - SIGN PERMITS FOR ON-PREMISES SIGNS.
12.1.3. GENERAL REQUIREMENTS APPLICABLE TO SIGNS.
12.4. - DYNAMIC MESSAGE SIGNS.
12.4.1 LUMINANCE:
12.4.2 TRANSITION TIME:
12.4.3 MOTION:
12.4.4 CONTROL/TESTING.
12.4.5 CONVERSION:
BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Board of Commissioners of Cook County that Appendix A,
Zoning, Article 13, Administration and Enforcement, Sections 13.2, 13.3, 13.5, 13.6, 13.7, 13.8, 13.10 and
13.13 of the Cook County Code shall be amended as follows:
13.2. - DEPARTMENT OF BUILDING AND ZONING AND
THE ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
13.2.1. DUTIES OF THE DEPARTMENT OF BUILDING AND ZONING.
13.3 ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS.
13.3.2. JURISDICTION.
13.3.3 MEETINGS AND RULES.

13.3.4 DECISIONS. -RESERVED The decisions and findings of the Zoning Board of Appeals, except
as provided in 13.3.5, shall be final administrative decisions and shall be subject to review as
provided by law.
13.3.6. SECRETARY OF THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS.

 13.5. - CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY.
13.5.2. PROCEDURE.
13.6. - VARIANCES.
13.6.1. PURPOSE.
13.6.2. APPLICATION, HEARING, AND NOTICE OF HEARING.
13.6.3. STANDARDS.
13.6.4. CONDITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS.
13.6.5: AUTHORIZED VARIANCES
13.6.6 RECOMMENDING VARIANCES ACTION BY THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS.
13.6.7. ACTION BY THE COOK COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS.

13.6.8. EFFECT OF DENIAL.
13.7. - MAP AMENDMENTS.
13.7.6. PROCESSING APPLICATIONS.
13.8. - SPECIAL USE.
13.8.6. PROCESSING APPLICATIONS
13.8.14 REVOCATION
13.10. PENALTIES
13.13. PROTESTS BY MUNICIPALITIES OR PROPERTY OWNERS.
13.13.1. RULES FOR WRITTEN PROTEST.
BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Board of Commissioners of Cook County that Appendix A,
Zoning, Article 14, Rules and Definitions, Section 14.2 of the Cook County Code shall be amended as
follows:
14.2. - DEFINITIONS.
14.2.1.
BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Board of Commissioners of Cook County that Chapter 10
Animals, Article 1, Section 10-2 and Section 10-8 of the Cook County Code shall be amended as follows:

 Sec. 10-2. - Definitions
Sec. 10-8. - Animal care.
BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Board of Commissioners of Cook County that Chapter 38 Health
and Human Services, Article 3, Section 38-52 and Section 38-54 of the Cook County Code shall be
amended as follows:
Sec. 38-52. Definitions
Sec. 38-54 -Declared nuisances.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
Full text of ordinance amendment: https://tinyurl.com/y8sxgqba

 18-4109 WAS REFERRED TO THE FINANCE COMMITTEE AT THE JUNE 6, 2018 BOARD
MEETING
18-4109
Sponsored by: DENNIS DEER, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
AMENDMENT TO COUNTY CONTACTS REGARDING SEXUAL HARASSMENT
COMPLIANCE
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 42, Human Relations,
Section. 42-40 of the Cook County Code, is hereby amended as follows:
Sec. 42-40. - County contracts.
(a) Prohibition. No person who is a party to a contract with Cook County ("County") shall engage
in unlawful discrimination or sexual harassment against any individual in the terms or conditions of
employment, credit, public accommodations, housing, or provision of County facilities, services or
programs. "Sexual harassment" has such meaning as is ascribed to it in other sections of this article.
(b) Contract provisions. The purchasing agent Chief Procurement Officer for the County, and all
other department heads, as authorized, shall include a provision in all County contracts that sets forth the
County's policies with respect to unlawful discrimination and sexual harassment, as embodied in this article,
and that requires every contractor to certify its compliance with these policies and its agreement to abide
by such policies as a part of the contractor's contractual obligations. In certifying its compliance with this
section, every Contractor shall certify that it has policies, procedures, and training advising employees of
the illegality of sexual harassment and the rights and remedies for aggrieved employees. All County
contracts shall further provide that if any party to a contract with the County is found to have violated any
provision of this article, or furnished false or misleading information in any investigation, hearing, or
inquiry held pursuant to this article, that contract may be subject to a declaration of default and termination.
(c) Exception. This section applies only to contracts executed after the effective date of the
ordinance from which this article is derived.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption

 18-4162 WAS REFERRED TO THE FINANCE COMMITTEE AT THE JUNE 6, 2018 BOARD
MEETING
18-4162
Sponsored by: LARRY SUFFREDIN, LUIS ARROYO, JR, RICHARD R. BOYKIN, JERRY BUTLER,
DENNIS DEER, JOHN A. FRITCHEY, BRIDGET GAINER, JESUS G. GARCIA, GREGG GOSLIN,
EDWARD M. MOODY, STANLEY MOORE, SEAN M. MORRISON, TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER,
PETER N. SILVESTRI, DEBORAH SIMS AND JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI, Cook County Board of
Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE
AN ORDINANCE CREATING THE PREFERENCE FOR BUSINESSES OWNED BY PEOPLE
WITH DISABILITIES
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 34 - Finance, Article IV
- Procurement, Division 6 - Bid Incentives and Preferences, Section 34-242 - Businesses Owned by People
with Disabilities is hereby enacted as follows:
Sec. 34-242 . - Businesses Owned by People with Disabilities
(a) Preference for Businesses Owned by People with Disabilities: The CPO shall give a preference of
five percent of the amount of the Contract to a Responsible and Responsive PDBE. The CPO shall
develop procedures for implementation of this Section.
(b) Certification - The CCD shall certify a Person as a PDBE when it is a small business:
(1) That is at least 51 percent owned, controlled, and managed by one or more qualified Disabled
Persons; and
(2) That has its home office in Illinois.
(c) In lieu of conducting its own certifications, the CCD by rule may accept formal certifications by
other entities, provided that Cook County’s requirements are met.
(d) In order to increase awareness and provide opportunities for PDBE’s, the CCD shall provide
education, outreach, and the dissemination of information to PBDE regarding the County's certification
program and available opportunities. The CCD, in collaboration with other departments, shall from time
to time, by way of seminars, workshops, and internet-based communications, make available to the
business community such information, documents, and personnel as well as:
(1) Assist otherwise eligible businesses in applying for, gaining, and maintaining certification;
(2) Assist the business community in understanding the manner in which to properly complete a
Utilization Plan including how a full or partial waiver may be requested, and the manner in
which such a request may be supported;
(3) Identify best practices by other governmental entities and private sector firms that may improve
the Program; and

 4. Identify systemic or organizational problems and related solutions associated with certification
and contract participation.
BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 34 - Finance,
Article IV - Procurement, Division 6 - Bid Incentives and Preferences, Sections 34-229 - Definitions and
Section 34-237. - Veteran-owned businesses are hereby amended as follows:
Sec. 34-229. - Definitions.
Disadvantaged refers to individuals who are mentally, physically, economically, or educationally
disadvantaged, including, but not limited to, individuals who are living below the poverty line,
developmentally disabled, mentally ill, substance abusers, recovering substance abusers, elderly and in
need of hospice care, gang members, on welfare, or people with arrest or conviction records.
Disability or Disabled means, with respect to an individual, a physical or mental impairment that
substantially limits one or more of the major life activities of the individual, a record of physical or mental
impairment that substantially limits one or more of the major life activities of the individual, or being
regarded as an individual with a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more of the
major life activities of the individual.
Earned Credit means the amount allocated to a Contractor upon completion of a Qualifying Contract
through which the Contractor met or exceeded the goals for the utilization of Former Offenders,
Apprentices or youth.
Labor hours means the total hours of workers receiving an hourly wage who are directly employed
at the work site. "Labor hours" shall include hours performed by workers employed by the contractor and
all subcontractors working at the work site. "Labor hours" shall not include hours worked by nonworking
foremen, superintendents, owners and workers who are not subject to prevailing wage requirements.
Persons with Disabilities Owned Business Enterprise (PDBE) means a small business (i) that is at
least 51 percent owned, controlled and managed by one or more Persons with a Disability, or in the case
of a corporation, at least 51 percent or more of the stock of which is owned, controlled, and managed by
one or more Persons with a Disability; (ii) that has its home office in Illinois, as certified by the CCD
under policies and procedures promulgated by the CCD.
Qualifying Contract means a Contract for Public Works with a Bid Price of $100,000.00 or more,
for which the Contractor is eligible for Earned Credits.
Sec. 34-237. - Veteran-owned and Persons with Disabilities Owned businesses.
(a) It is the goal of the County to award each year not less than three percent of its total expenditures
for supplies, equipment, goods, and services to VBEs, and SDVBEs, and PDBEs. The CCD may count
toward its three-percent yearly goal that portion of all Contracts in which the Contractor subcontracts
with a VBE, or SDVBE, or PDBE. CCD shall submit an annual report to the County Board that shall
include, at a minimum, the following for the preceding fiscal year:
(1) The number of responsible VBEs, and SDVBEs, and PDBEs that submitted a Bid or proposal;
(2) The number of VBEs, and SDVBEs, and PDBEs that entered into Contracts, the specific
industry or category of goods, services, or supplies for each Contract, and the total value of
those Contracts;

 (3) The participation of VBEs, and SDVBEs, and PDBEs at both contractor and subcontractor
levels;
(4) The total number of the County's certified VBEs, and SDVBEs, and PDBEs available for
participation in procurement, by category or industry; and
(5) Whether the County achieved the goal described in this subsection.
(b) Each year, the CCD shall review the three-percent goal with input from the Cook County
Chairman of Veterans Affairs, the Cook County Director of Veterans Affairs, countywide veterans'
service organizations, countywide service organizations for people with disabilities and from the
business community including VBEs, and SDVBEs, and PDBEs, and shall make recommendations to
the County Board regarding continuation, increases, or decreases in the percentage goal. The
recommendations shall be based upon the number of VBEs, and SDVBEs, and PDBEs and on the
continued need to encourage and promote businesses owned by qualified veterans and people with
disabilities.
(c) The CPO will make best efforts to recruit and solicit bids and make procurements from VBEs,
and SDVBEs, and PDBEs.
(d) The above-stated goal shall not be treated as a quota nor shall it be used to discriminate against
any person or business enterprise on the basis of race, color, national origin, religion, or sex or disability.
(e) The CCD, in consultation with the Using Agency and the CPO, shall consider the size and
complexity of the procurement before establishing contract specific goals and shall only be required to
establish contract specific goals on procurements that have an available pool of certified VBEs, and
SDVBEs, and PDBEs for supplies, materials and equipment, or services.
(f) The provisions of this Division 6, Section 34-237(a) shall be effective as of July 1, 2013. The
Contract Compliance Director shall as soon as practicable develop and implement procedures and any
corresponding regulations for certifying and monitoring utilization of VBEs, and SDVBEs, and PDBEs.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect January 1, 2019.

 18-4201 WAS REFERRED TO THE FINANCE COMMITTEE ON JUNE 6, 2018 BOARD
MEETING
18-4201
Sponsored by: SEAN M. MORRISON, County Commissioner
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
AMENDMENT TO SECTION 74-63 ASSESSMENT CLASSES
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that CHAPTER 74 TAXATION,
ARTICLE II REAL PROPERTY TAXATION, DIVISION 2 CLASSIFICATION SYSTEM FOR
ASSESSMENT, SECTION 74-63 ASSESSMENT CLASSES of the Cook County Code is hereby amended
as Follows:
Sec. 74-63. - Assessment classes.
Real estate is divided into the following assessment classes:
***
(7) Class 6b. Real estate used primarily for industrial purposes, consisting of all newly constructed
buildings or other structures, including the land upon which they are situated; or abandoned
property, including the land upon which such property is situated; or all buildings and other
structures which are substantially rehabilitated to the extent such rehabilitation has added to their
value, including qualified land related to the rehabilitation. Land qualifies when the rehabilitation
adds vertical or horizontal square footage to the improvements. The amount of land eligible for
the incentive shall be in such proportion as the square footage added by the rehabilitation bears
to the total square footage of the improvements on the parcel.
***
d. In the instance where real estate does not meet the definition of abandoned property as defined
herein, the municipality or the County Board, as the case may be, may still determine that
special circumstances justify finding that the property is deemed "abandoned" for purpose
of Class 6b, unless:
1. There has been a purchase for value and the buildings and other structures have not been
vacant and unused prior to such purchase; or
2. There has been no purchase for value and the buildings and other structures have been
vacant and unused for less than 24 continuous months.
The finding of abandonment, along with the specification of the special circumstances, shall
be included in the Resolution or Ordinance supporting and consenting to the Class 6b
application. If the Ordinance or Resolution is that of a municipality, the approval of the
County Board is required to validate such a finding that the property is deemed "abandoned"
for purposes of Class 6b, and a County Resolution to that effect shall be obtained. The
applicant must obtain the municipal enabling Ordinance with the required finding of special
circumstances and present such municipal Ordinance to the Board of Commissioners of

 Cook County prior to its determination as to whether it will validate such a finding that the
property is deemed "abandoned" for purposes of Class 6b and provide a County Resolution
to that effect. A certified copy of an Ordinance or Resolution finding that special
circumstances exist, as well as a certified copy of a County Ordinance or Resolution
validating such a finding that the property is deemed "abandoned" for purposes of Class 6b
need not be filed at the time of filing the Class 6b eligibility application with the Assessor,
but must be filed with the Assessor no later than the date an assessment appeal is filed to
request the class change to Class 6b. If the Resolution is not filed at the time of the Class 6b
eligibility application, the applicant shall instead file, at that time, a letter from the
municipality or the County as the case may be, confirming that a Resolution or Ordinance
regarding special circumstances has been requested.
If the real estate is located within an Industrial Growth Zone, prior to filing a Class 6b
eligibility application with the Assessor and in lieu of an Ordinance or Resolution, an
applicant may obtain from an authorized officer of the municipality or an authorized officer
of the Cook County Bureau of Economic Development if the real estate is located in an
unincorporated area, a letter stating that the municipality or the County Board, as the case
may be, supports and consents to the filing of the Class 6b application with the Assessor.
Such authorized officer shall have been designated by the legislative body of the
municipality or, in the case of an unincorporated area, by the Cook County Board.
A copy of the authorized officer letter and a certified copy of the legislative action
designating the authorized officer shall be included with the Class 6b application and
submitted to the Cook County Bureau of Economic Development for verification prior to
filing of the application with the Assessor.
In addition, the letter from the authorized officer shall:
1. Describe the redevelopment objective of the municipality;
2. State the applicant's intended use of the property; and
3. State that an Economic Disclosure Statement, as defined in this Division, was received
and filed by the municipality or County Board, as the case may be.
Following verification that the Class 6b application is in an Industrial Growth Zone and has
been properly submitted with a letter from an authorized officer and a certified copy of the
legislative action designating the authorized officer, the Bureau of Economic Development
will forward the application to the Assessor's Office for filing. A certified copy of the
legislative action designating the authorized officer and the authorized officer letter shall be
included with the Class 6b application at the time of filing the application with the Assessor.
The applicant must demonstrate that the industrial development project qualifies for the
Class 6b classification.
Temporary Emergency Economic Recovery Modification (TEERM) Program: In the
instance where real estate does not meet the definition of abandoned property as defined
herein, the municipality or the County Board, as the case may be, may still determine that
special circumstances justify finding that the property is deemed "abandoned" for purpose
of a Class 6b under the TEERM Program if:
1. There has been no purchase for value; and

 2. The buildings and other structures have been vacant and unused for at least 12 continuous
months.
The finding of abandonment, along with the specification of the special circumstances, and
a determination that the applicant's participation in the TEERM Program is necessary for the
development to occur, and that without such designation the industrial enterprise would not
be economically viable causing the property to be in imminent risk of remaining vacant and
unused, shall be included in the Resolution or Ordinance supporting and consenting to the
Class 6b application under the TEERM Program.
In addition, the Ordinance or Resolution where applicable shall:
1. Describe the redevelopment objective of the municipality;
2. State the applicant's intended use of the property; and
3. State that an Economic Disclosure Statement, as defined in this Division, was received
and filed by the municipality or County Board, as the case may be.
If the Ordinance or Resolution is that of a municipality, the approval of the County Board is
required to validate such a finding that the property is deemed "abandoned" for purposes of
Class 6b, and a County Resolution to that effect shall be obtained. The applicant must obtain
the municipal enabling Ordinance with the required finding of special circumstances and
present such municipal Ordinance to the Board of Commissioners of Cook County prior to
its determination as to whether it will validate such a finding that the property is deemed
"abandoned" for purposes of Class 6b and provide a County Resolution to that effect. A
certified copy of an Ordinance or Resolution finding that special circumstances exist, as well
as a certified copy of a County Ordinance or Resolution validating such a finding that the
property is deemed "abandoned" for purposes of Class 6b need not be filed at the time of
filing the Class 6b application with the Assessor, but must be filed with the Assessor no later
than the date an assessment appeal is filed to request the class change to Class 6b. If the
Resolution is not filed at the time of the Class 6b application, the applicant shall instead file,
at that time, a letter from the municipality or the County as the case may be, confirming that
a Resolution or Ordinance regarding special circumstances has been requested.
Critical Emergency Employee Retention Modification (CEERM) Program: In the instance
where real estate does not meet the definition of abandoned property as defined herein, the
municipality or the County Board, as the case may be, may still determine that special
circumstances justify finding that the property is deemed "abandoned" for purpose of a Class
6b under the TEERM Program if:
1. There has been no purchase for value; and
2. The buildings and other structures have been vacant and unused for at least 3 continuous
months.
At least 250 positions would be retained at the subject location and the applicant's
participation in the CEERM Program is necessary for the development to occur, and that
without such designation the industrial enterprise would not be economically viable causing
the property to be in imminent risk of remaining vacant and unused, shall be included in the

 Resolution or Ordinance supporting and consenting to the Class 6b application under the
CEERM Program.
In addition, the Ordinance or Resolution where applicable shall:
1. Describe the redevelopment objective of the municipality;
2. State the applicant's intended use of the property; and
3. State that an Economic Disclosure Statement, as defined in this Division, was received
and filed by the municipality or County Board, as the case may be.
If the Ordinance or Resolution is that of a municipality, the approval of the County Board is
required to validate such a finding that the property is deemed "abandoned" for purposes of
Class 6b, and a County Resolution to that effect shall be obtained. The applicant must obtain
the municipal enabling Ordinance with the required finding of special circumstances and
present such municipal Ordinance to the Board of Commissioners of Cook County prior to
its determination as to whether it will validate such a finding that the property is deemed
"abandoned" for purposes of Class 6b and provide a County Resolution to that effect. A
certified copy of an Ordinance or Resolution finding that special circumstances exist, as well
as a certified copy of a County Ordinance or Resolution validating such a finding that the
property is deemed "abandoned" for purposes of Class 6b need not be filed at the time of
filing the Class 6b application with the Assessor, but must be filed with the Assessor no later
than the date an assessment appeal is filed to request the class change to Class 6b. If the
Resolution is not filed at the time of the Class 6b application, the applicant shall instead file,
at that time, a letter from the municipality or the County as the case may be, confirming that
a Resolution or Ordinance regarding special circumstances has been requested.
Sustainable Emergency Relief (SER) Program: In the instance where real estate does not
meet the definition of abandoned property as defined herein, the municipality or the County
Board, as the case may be, may still determine that special circumstances justify finding that
the property is deemed "qualified" for purpose of Class 6b under the SER Program if:
1. The industrial enterprise that occupies the premises has been at the same location for a
minimum of ten years prior to the date of application for the SER Program; and
2. The industrial enterprise that occupies the premises submits evidence of hardship
supporting a determination that participation in the SER Program is necessary for the
industrial enterprise to continue operations at its current location and maintain its staff,
and that without such designation the industrial enterprise would not be economically
viable causing the property to be in imminent risk of becoming vacant and unused.
The finding that a property is qualified, along with the specification of the special
circumstances, and a determination that the applicant's participation in the SER Program is
necessary for the industrial enterprise to continue operations at its current location and
maintain its staff, and that without such designation the industrial enterprise would not be
economically viable causing the property to be in imminent risk of becoming vacant and
unused, shall be included in the Resolution or Ordinance supporting and consenting to the
Class 6b application under the SER Program.
In addition, the Ordinance or Resolution where applicable shall:

 1. Describe the redevelopment objective of the municipality;
2. State the applicant's intended use of the property; and
3. State that an Economic Disclosure Statement, as defined in this Division, was received
and filed by the municipality or County Board, as the case may be.
If the Ordinance or Resolution is that of a municipality, the approval of the County Board is
required to validate such a finding that the property is deemed "qualified" for purposes of
Class 6b, and a County Resolution to that effect shall be obtained. The applicant must obtain
the municipal enabling Ordinance with the required finding of special circumstances and
present such municipal Ordinance to the Board of Commissioners of Cook County prior to
its determination as to whether it will validate such a finding that the property is deemed
"qualified" for purposes of Class 6b and provide a County Resolution to that effect. A
certified copy of an Ordinance or Resolution finding that special circumstances exist, as well
as a certified copy of a County Ordinance or Resolution validating such a finding that the
property is deemed "qualified" for purposes of Class 6b need not be filed at the time of filing
the Class 6b application with the Assessor, but must be filed with the Assessor no later than
the date an assessment appeal is filed to request the class change to Class 6b. If the Resolution
is not filed at the time of the Class 6b application, the applicant shall instead file, at that time,
a letter from the municipality or the County as the case may be, confirming that a Resolution
or Ordinance regarding special circumstances has been requested.
Applications for Class 6b incentives pursuant to the TEERM Program or SER Program or
CEERM Program must be received by the Assessor's Office on or before November 30, 2018
to receive consideration.
The Assessor shall provide by rule for the filing of annual reports by recipients of Class 6b
incentives granted pursuant to the SER Program as to the use of the property and the number
of persons employed at the Class 6b site. In such reports, recipients shall be required to
certify whether the industrial enterprise that occupied the premises at the time of the SER
application continues its operations at that location. In addition, recipients of Class 6b
incentives granted pursuant to the SER Program shall be required to report to the Assessor
within 30 days if the industrial enterprise that occupied the premises at the time of the SER
application ceases operations at that location. A copy of such reports will be forwarded by
the Assessor's Office to the Secretary of the County Board for distribution to members of the
County Board from the affected districts. Failure to file such reports within the time
established by the Assessor's rules shall result in loss of the incentive for the period relating
to the non-filing. Additionally, if the industrial enterprise that occupied the premises at the
time of the SER application ceases operations at that location, then the Class 6b incentive
granted pursuant to the SER program shall terminate.
e. This classification shall continue for a period of 12 years from the date such new construction
(excluding demolition, if any) or such substantial rehabilitation was completed and initially
assessed, or in the case of abandoned property, from the date of substantial re-occupancy, or
in the case of incentives granted pursuant to the TEERM Program, from the date of the notice
of approval. In the case of incentives granted pursuant to the SER Program, this classification
shall continue for a period of 12 years from the date of the notice of approval, or until the
industrial enterprise that occupied the premises at the time of the SER application ceases
operations at that location if that occurs sooner.

 f. Unless a Class 6b granted pursuant to the TEERM Program or the SER Program or the CEERM
Program, this incentive may be renewed during the last year a property is entitled to a ten
percent assessment level pursuant to Section 74-64(7), if the following requirements are met:
1. The taxpayer notifies the Assessor's Office of intent to request renewal of the incentive
from the municipality or the County Board if the real estate is located in an
unincorporated area;
2. The municipality in which the real estate is located or the County Board, if the real estate
is located in an unincorporated area, adopts a Resolution expressly stating that the
municipality or the County Board, as the case may be, has determined that the industrial
use of the property is necessary and beneficial to the local economy, and supports and
consents to renewal of the Class 6b; and
3. A copy of the Resolution and a completed renewal application are filed with the Assessor's
Office before the expiration of the ten percent assessment level period.
***
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.

 18-4207 WAS REFERRED TO THE FINANCE COMMITTEE AT THE JUNE 6, 2018 BOARD
MEETING
18-4207
Sponsored by: BRIDGET GAINER, RICHARD R. BOYKIN, JOHN A. FRITCHEY, LARRY
SUFFREDIN, JESÚS G. GARCÍA, LUIS ARROYO JR, JERRY BUTLER, DENNIS DEER, GREGG
GOSLIN, EDWARD M. MOODY, STANLEY MOORE, SEAN M. MORRISON, TIMOTHY O.
SCHNEIDER, PETER N. SILVESTRI, DEBORAH SIMS and JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI, Cook County
Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
AN ORDINANCE REQUIRING A FISCAL IMPACT NOTE FOR PENDING LEGISLATION
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 2 - Administration, Article
III. - County Board, Division I. -- Generally, Section 2-77 is hereby amended as follows:
Section 2-77 Fiscal impact review.
(a) Short title. This Section shall be known and may be cited as the Fiscal Impact Review Ordinance.
(b) Impact note required.
(1) Every measure before the County Board including, but not limited to, any ordinance, resolution,
motion, contract approval, or any amendment thereto (collectively and individually "measure"),
except those measures making a direct appropriation or approving a contract for a specified amount
to be expended within one fiscal year, the purpose or effect of which is to expend any County funds
or to increase or decrease the revenues of the County, or to require the expenditure of their own
funds either directly or indirectly, shall have prepared for it a brief explanatory statement or note
("fiscal note") which shall include a reliable estimate of the probable impact of such measure upon
the County's annual budget. The Cook County Chief Financial Officer shall prepare a fiscal impact
statement for all ordinances or resolutions that propose to or would otherwise:
i)
ii)
iii)
iv)
v)

expend any funds or increase or decrease the revenues of the County, either directly or
indirectly; or
appropriate funds; or
increase or decrease existing appropriations; or
increase or decrease the fiscal liability of the County; or
sell or lease any County asset, including revenue streams from that asset, if the
anticipated revenue from the sale or lease of the asset is greater than $5,000,000,00.

(2) If an ordinance authorizes capital expenditures or appropriates funds for capital expenditures, a
fiscal note shall specify by year any principal and interest payments required to finance such capital
expenditures. In addition, increased operational costs, by year, shall be specified. In no event shall
a fiscal note be required to estimate out-year costs for more than five years.
(c) Responsibility and deadline for furnishing the fiscal note.

 1. The Secretary of the Board chief sponsor of the item under consideration shall request, promptly
after the introduction of the measure before the County Board, the Chief Financial Officer of the
County to prepare a fiscal note impact statement promptly after the introduction of the measure
before the County Board setting forth the information specified in this Section regarding any
measure.
2. The fiscal impact statement shall be provided to all Commissioners at least 72 hours prior to the
consideration of the ordinance or resolution by the Board of Commissioners; provided a request by
a Commissioner to prepare the fiscal impact statement is made earlier, the Chief Financial Officer
shall prepare the fiscal impact statement and provide it to the Commissioner within 48 hours of
such request.
(2) (3) No measure may be called for a final vote by the County Board until delivery of the fiscal
note according to the provisions of this Section, except that whenever, because of the complexity
of the measure, additional time is required for the preparation of the fiscal note the Chief Financial
Officer shall provide each member of the County Board and the President of the County Board
with a statement of reasons why the fiscal note cannot be supplied in seven business days, and
request an extension of time not to exceed five additional business days within which such fiscal
note is to be furnished. Such extension shall be granted only with the consent of the majority of the
members of the County Board and shall not extend beyond the end of the fiscal year in which the
request was made. In no event may such extensions be used to unduly delay or hinder the
consideration of the measure by the County Board. The County Board shall authorize the drafting
of any rules of regulations which shall be subject to County Board approval, to ensure compliance
with this Section.
(3)(4) In connection with the preparation of the fiscal note, all County officials and employees shall
upon request cooperate with the Chief Fiscal Officer in providing information.
(d) Form and content.
1. The fiscal note shall be factual in nature, as brief and concise as may be, and shall provide as
reliable an estimate, in dollars, as is possible under the circumstances. The fiscal note shall include
both the immediate effect, and if determinable or reasonably foreseeable, the long-range effect of
the measure.
2. If, after careful investigation it is determined that no dollar estimate is possible, the fiscal note shall
contain a statement to that effect, setting forth the reasons why no such estimate can be given. A
brief summary or work sheet of computations used in arriving at the fiscal note figures shall be
included.
(e) Preparation of fiscal note.
1. No comment or opinion shall be included in the fiscal note with regard to the merits of the measure
for which the fiscal note is prepared; however, technical or mechanical defects may be noted.
2. The work sheet shall include, insofar as practicable, a breakdown of the costs upon which the fiscal
note is based. Such breakdown shall include, but need not be limited to, costs of personnel,
materials and supplies, and capital outlay. The fiscal note shall also include such other information
as is required by the rules and regulations which may be promulgated by the County Board with
respect to the preparation of such fiscal notes. The fiscal impact statement shall, to the degree
possible, consist of an estimate in dollars of the anticipated change in revenue, expenditures, or

 fiscal liability under the provisions of the ordinance or resolution. It shall also include a statement
as to the immediate effect and, if determinable or reasonably foreseeable, the long-range effect of
the measure. If after investigation, it is determined that no dollar estimate is possible, the fiscal
impact statement shall contain a statement to that effect, setting forth the reasons why no dollar
estimate can be given. The fiscal impact statement shall include an explanation of the basis or
reasoning on which the estimate is founded, including all assumptions involved. A copy of the
fiscal note shall be delivered to each member of the Board and the President of the County Board,
according to the provisions of subsection (b) of this Section.
3. The original of the fiscal note and the work sheet shall be signed by the Chief Financial Officer or
such person as the Chief Financial Officer may designate.
(f) No restrictions on committee testimony. The fact that a fiscal note is prepared for any measure shall not
preclude or restrict the appearance before any committee of the County Board, of any official or authorized
employee of any County commission, department, agency or other entity who desires to be heard in support
of or in opposition to the measure.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.

 