ORDINANCES

SEPTEMBER 12, 2018 BOARD AGENDA

 

COMMISSIONERS

18-5789 WAS REFERRED TO THE FINANCE COMMITTEE AT THE SEPTEMBER 12, 2018
BOARD MEETING
18-5789
Sponsored by: JOHN A. FRITCHEY, RICHARD R. BOYKIN, BRIDGET GAINER, GREGG GOSLIN,
SEAN M. MORRISON, TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER, PETER N. SILVESTRI, DEBORAH SIMS and
JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
AN AMENDMENT TO THE COOK COUNTY PARKING LOT AND GARAGE OPERATIONS
TAX
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 74 Taxation, Article XIII,
Parking Lot and Garage Operations Tax, Sections 74-511 and 74-514 of the Cook County Code is hereby
amended as Follows:
Sec. 74-511. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them
in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Booking Intermediary means any person or entity that facilitates processing and fulfillment of
reservations between individuals desiring parking in a parking lot or garage and an operator or valet parking
operator, but does not itself own, lease or operate the parking lot or garage, for which payment is being
collected or retain the consideration for the parking or storage of motor vehicles at such parking place.
Charge or fee paid for parking means the gross amount of consideration for the use or privilege of
parking a motor vehicle in or upon any parking lot or garage in Cook County, collected by an operator or a
valet parking operator and valued in money, whether received in money or otherwise, including cash,
credits, property and services, determined without any deduction for costs or expenses whatsoever, but not
including charges that are added to the charge or fee on account of the tax imposed by this Chapter or on
account of any other tax imposed on the charge or fee. "Charge or fee paid for parking" shall exclude
separately stated charges not for the use or privilege of parking. If any separately stated charge is not
optional, it shall be presumed, unless proved otherwise, that it is part of the charge for the use or privilege
of parking.
Department or Department of Revenue means the County Department of Revenue.
Motor vehicle means any vehicle that is self-propelled.
Operator means any person conducting the operation of a parking lot or garage, as defined by this
Article, or receiving consideration for parking or storage of motor vehicles at a parking place within Cook
County. The term does not include Booking Intermediaries.
Parking lot or garage means any building, structure, premises, enclosure or other place, whether
enclosed or not, except a public way, within the County, where four or more motor vehicles are stored,
housed or parked for hire, charge, fee or other valuable consideration in a condition ready for use, or where
rent or compensation is paid to the owner, manager or lessee of the premises for the housing, storing,
sheltering, keeping or maintaining of such motor vehicles.

 Person means any individual, corporation, Limited Liability Corporation, organization,
government, governmental subdivision or agency, business trust, estate, trust, partnership, association and
any other legal entity.
Valet Parking Operator means a person who employs one or more attendants for the purpose of
providing a valet parking service or who contracts his own services, but not in the capacity of employee, to
any business establishment, for the purpose of providing a valet parking service to such establishment
located in Cook County. The term does not include Booking Intermediaries.
Valet Parking Service means a parking service provided to accommodate patrons of any business
establishment, which service is incidental to the business of the establishment and by which an attendant
on behalf of the establishment takes temporary custody of the patrons' motor vehicle and moves, parks,
stores or retrieves the vehicle for the patrons' convenience.
***
Sec. 74-514. - Maintenance of records.
(a) It shall be the duty of every operator and valet parking operator to keep accurate and complete
books and records to which the Director of Revenue shall, at all times, have full access. These books and
records shall include all cash register or other receipts required by this Article, all tickets and voided tags,
and a daily sheet for each location showing:
(1) The number of motor vehicles parked in or on each lot or garage, segregated on a daily, weekly,
monthly, or other basis, and also segregated by the amount of the charge or fee imposed for
parking; and
(2) The actual parking lot or garage tax receipts collected from all parking transactions.
(3) Any other original source documents and books of entry denoting the transactions that gave
rise, or may have given rise, to any tax liability, exemption or deduction or defense to liability.
(b) All books and records required by this Section shall be retained for the taxable time period as
listed in the statute of limitations section of the Uniform Penalties, Interest and Procedures Ordinance,
Article III, Section 34-60 et seq.; provided, however, that an operator on an annual basis may request
approval from the Director of Revenue to discard tickets or tags that were issued more than one year earlier,
and the Director shall grant approval if the director determines that the operator's books and records satisfy
the requirements of this Article.
(c) Upon the Department of Revenue’s request, any Booking Intermediary shall provide a list of
all operators or valet parking operators within Cook County that have listed a parking lot or garage with the
Booking Intermediary, including the operator’s or valet parking operator’s address and contact information.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.

 BUREAU OF ADMINISTRATION
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS

18-4997 WAS REFERRED TO THE LEGISLATION AND INTERGOVERNMENTAL
RELATIONS COMMITTEE AT THE SEPTEMBER 12, 2018 BOARD MEETING
18-4997
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE (President), Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE (TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS)
AN ORDINANCE RELATIVE TO WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITIES IN
COUNTY RIGHTS-OF-WAY
WHEREAS, the County of Cook (“County”) is empowered to take and have the care and custody of all
real estate owned by the County, including the roadways and trail systems, pursuant to 55 ILCS 5/5-1015;
and
WHEREAS, the County is empowered to consent to the use of its rights-of-way by public utility companies
and others, pursuant to 605 ILCS 5/9-113; and
WHEREAS, telecommunications providers have placed, or from time to time may request to place, certain
telecommunication facilities in the County Highway rights-of-way; and
WHEREAS, on June 19, 2007, the Cook County Board of Commissioners enacted Ord. No. 07-O-33, the
Cook County Public Way Regulatory Ordinance, in order to provide policies and procedures for the
regulation of the use of County public ways for the construction, reconstruction, ownership, replacement,
relocation, modification, maintenance, upgrading, operation and removal of facilities, including but not
limited to public utility, pipeline, telecommunication, cable television, electric, gas, water, wastewater,
petroleum product facilities, driveways, curb cuts, and other facilities; and provide for recovery of costs
incurred by the County for licensing, permitting, inspecting, monitoring and regulating such uses of the
public ways in order to provide for the public safety and interest; and
WHEREAS, while State and federal law limit the authority of local governments to enact laws that prohibit
or have the effect of prohibiting telecommunications services, the County has the power, under existing
State and federal law, to approve appropriate regulations and restrictions relative to small cell, distributed
antenna systems and other wireless telecommunication facility installations in the public rights-of-way as
long as these regulations and restrictions are consistent with recently enacted Public Act 100-0585, known
as the Small Wireless Facilities Deployment Act (“the Act”); and
WHEREAS, in light of the anticipated increased demand for placement of small cell facilities, distributed
antenna system facilities and other wireless telecommunication facility installations within the public rightsof-way, the County Board finds and determines that it is necessary to and in the best interests of the public
health, safety and general welfare to adopt the Ordinance below in order to establish generally applicable
standards for construction, installation, use, maintenance and repair of such facilities and installations within
the County Highway rights-of-way, so as to, among other things, (i) prevent interference with the facilities
and operations of the County’s infrastructure and of other utilities lawfully located in public rights-of-way
or property, (ii) provide specific regulations and standards for the placement and siting of wireless
telecommunication facilities within County rights-of-way, (iii) preserve the character of the areas in which
facilities are installed, (iv) minimize any adverse visual impact of wireless telecommunication facilities and
prevent visual blight, (v) facilitate the location of wireless telecommunication facilities in permitted
locations within the County Highway rights-of-way, and (vi) assure the continued safe use and enjoyment
of properties adjacent to wireless telecommunication facilities locations.

 BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that the foregoing recitals are
incorporated into this Ordinance by this reference as findings of the County Board; and that Chapter 66
Roads and Bridges, Article V Wireless Telecommunication Services and Facilities of the Cook County
Code is hereby enacted as Follows:
Sec. 66-132. Title.
Sec. 66-133. Enabling statute.
Sec. 66-134. Definitions
Sec. 66-135. Regulations and standards.
Sec. 66-136. Permitting requirements.
Sec. 66-137. Permit fees.
Sec. 66-138. Adjustments or relocations of wireless telecommunication facilities.
Sec. 66-139. Damage to wireless telecommunications facility.
Sec. 66-140. Damage to County infrastructure or property.
Sec. 66-141. Variance requirements.
Sec. 66-142. Abandonment and removal.
Sec. 66-143. County wireless telecommunication facilities.
Sec. 66-144. No implied warranties.
Sec. 66-145. Hold harmless agreement.
Sec. 66-146. Severability.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect upon adoption.
Full Text of Ordinance: <https://tinyurl.com/yaqezm7a>

 BUREAU OF HUMAN RESOURCES

18-5656
ORDINANCE
Sponsored by
THE HONORABLE TONI PRECKWINKLE,
PRESIDENT OF THE COOK COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
PREVAILING WAGE ORDINANCE
WHEREAS, the State of Illinois has enacted "An Act regulating wages of laborers, mechanics and other
workers employed in any public works by the State, county, city or any public body or any political
subdivision or by anyone under contract for public works," approved June 26, 1941, codified as amended,
820 ILCS 130/1 et seq. (1993), formerly Ill. Rev. Stat., Ch. 48, par. 39s-1 et seq.; and
WHEREAS, the aforesaid Act requires that the Board of Commissioners of the County of Cook investigate
and ascertain the prevailing rate of wages as defined in said Act for laborers, mechanics and other workers
in the locality of said County employed in performing construction of public works, for said County.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE PRESIDENT AND BOARD OF
COMMISSIONERS OF THE COUNTY OF COOK:
Section 1. To the extent and as required by "An Act regulating wages of laborers, mechanics and other
workers employed in any public works by the State, county, city or any public body or any
political subdivision or by anyone under contract for public works," approved June 26, 1941,
as amended, the general prevailing rate of wages in this locality for laborers, mechanics and
other workers engaged in the construction of public works coming under the jurisdiction of this
County is hereby ascertained to be the same as the prevailing rate of wages for construction
work in the Cook County area as determined by the Department of Labor of the State of Illinois
as of August 2018, a copy of that determination being submitted hereto and incorporated herein
by reference. As required by said Act, any and all revisions of the prevailing rate of wages by
the Department of Labor of the State of Illinois shall supersede the Department's August
determination and apply to any and all public works construction undertaken by the County of
Cook. The Definition of any terms appearing in this Ordinance which are also used in aforesaid
Act shall be the same as in said Act.
Section 2. Nothing herein contained shall be construed to apply said general prevailing rate of wages as
herein ascertained to any work or employment except public works construction of this County
to the extent required by the aforesaid Act.
Section 3. The Bureau of Human Resources shall publicly post or keep available for inspection by any
interested party in the main office of this Bureau of Human Resources (County) this
determination or any revisions of such prevailing rate of wage. A copy of this determination
or of the current revised determination of prevailing rate of wages then in effect shall be
attached to all contract specifications.
Section 4. The Clerk shall mail a copy of this determination to any employer, and to any association of
employers and to any person or association of employees who have filed their names and
addresses, requesting copies of any determination stating the particular rates and the particular
class of workers whose wages will be affected by such rates.

 Section 5. The Bureau of Human Resources shall promptly file a certified copy of this Ordinance with
both the Secretary of State Index Division and the Department of Labor of the State of Illinois.
Section 6. The Bureau of Human Resources shall cause to be published in a newspaper of general
circulation within the area a copy of this Ordinance, and such publication shall constitute notice
that the determination is effective and that this is the determination of this public body.
Section 7. The Chief Procurement Officer of Cook County shall specify in the call for bids in any contract
for public works that the general prevailing rate of wages in the locality for each craft or type
of laborer or mechanic needed to execute the contract to perform such work, also the general
prevailing rate for legal holiday and overtime work as ascertained by the Bureau of Human
Resources, shall be paid for each craft or type of work needed to execute the contract or to
perform such work. The Purchasing Agent in awarding the contract shall cause to be inserted
in the contract a stipulation to the effect that not less than the prevailing rate of wages, as found
by the Bureau of Human Resources, shall be paid to all laborers, workers and mechanics
performing work under the contract, and the Purchasing Agent shall also require in all such
contractor's bonds that the contract include such provision as will guarantee the faithful
performance of such prevailing wage clause as provided by the contract.
Section 8. In the case of any underpayment of the prevailing wage, a penalty of 20% of the underpayment
shall be assessed against the contractor or subcontractor; and the 20% penalty shall be payable
to the Illinois Department of Labor. Any underpayment that has not been repaid to a worker
within thirty-days of violation is subject to an additional 2% of the underpayment as a punitive
damage assessment. This is payable to the worker.
Section 9. There is an automatic two (2) year debarment of any contractor or subcontractor found to have
violated the Act on two (2) separate occasions. An affected contractor or subcontractor may
request the Department to hold a hearing on the alleged violations within ten (10) days
notification of the second violation.
Effective date: This Ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
Approved and adopted this 12th of September 2018.
TONI PRECKWINKLE, President
Cook County Board of Commissioners
Attest: DAVID ORR, County Clerk

 BUREAU OF TECHNOLOGY
CHIEF INFORMATION OFFICER

18-5634 WAS REFERRED TO THE TECHNOLOGY AND INNOVATION COMMITTEE AT
THE SEPTEMBER 12, 2018 BOARD MEETING
18-5634
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE (President), Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT AND ORDINANCE REGARDING INFORMATION
TECHNOLOGY CONSOLIDATION
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter
2 ADMINISTRATION. Article XII - Cook County Information Technology Security, Division 1. - Cook
County Information Technology Security, Sections 2-960, 2-963, 2-964 and reserved section numbers, of
the Cook County Code is hereby amended as follows:
ARTICLE XII. - COOK COUNTY INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SECURITY
DIVISION 1 - COOK COUNTY INFORMATION SECURITY
Sec. 2-960. - Short title.
This Article division shall be known and may be cited as the "Cook County Information Security
Ordinance.”
Sec. 2-961. - Purpose and policy.
All separately elected County and State Officials, Departments, Office Institutions or Agencies
funded by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, including, but not limited to, the offices and
departments under the control of the County Board President, the Board of Commissioners, Cook County
Health and Hospitals System, State's Attorney of Cook County, Cook County Sheriff, Cook County Public
Defender, Illinois Clerk of the Circuit Court of Cook County, Cook County Treasurer, Cook County Clerk,
Cook County Recorder of Deeds, Cook County Assessor, Chief Judge of the Circuit Court of Cook County,
Board of Review, Cook County Public Defender, Cook County Independent Inspector General, Cook
County Veteran's Assistance Commission and the Public Administrator (collectively, "Agency") shall take
all appropriate precautions to protect the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of information. Such
precautions shall be in accordance with applicable Federal and State laws and regulations and take into
consideration industry standards and best practices.
***
Sec. 2-963. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this Article division shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this Section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Guideline means a recommendation to assist an Agency employee or contractor in making
appropriate decisions or performing a particular task, which allows for latitude in interpretation and
implementation.

 Plan means a comprehensive document that details strategic direction, which may also provide
additional details, such as Standards used and so forth.
Data Subject means an individual about whom information is collected or processed.
Policy means a document that communicates leadership expectations to a business unit or
department of an Agency, which may also be considered as mandatory business rules or organization
specific directives and which are communication of management intent.
Procedure means a document stating the manner in which a Policy shall be functionally
implemented in an Agency's environment, which may define specific operation steps, manual methods, or
instructions for compliance with a Policy.
Standard means a document that contains a specification or describes minimum implementation
that satisfies a Policy.
Sec. 2-964. - Information security framework.
(a) The Information Security Working Group shall assist the Chief Information Security Officer
(CISO) in creating, and updating as necessary, comprehensive and written information security Plans,
Policies, Procedures, Standards, and Guidelines for the Agencies (collectively, the "Information Security
Framework") to reasonably protect the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of Agency information.
(b) In creating and updating the Information Security Framework, the Chief Information Security
Officer (CISO) shall seek the advice and recommendations of each Agency in order to ensure that the
Information Security Framework addresses unique considerations of said Agency; all Agencies shall advise
and collaborate with the Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) in the creation of the Information
Security Framework.
(c) The Information Security Framework shall:
(1) Be in accordance with applicable Federal and State laws and regulations;
(2) State all Agencies' minimum requirements and precautions to protect the confidentiality,
integrity, and availability of Agencies' information;
(3) Address the unique considerations of each Agency in a manner that does not unduly interfere
with the operations of such Agency or any confidentiality or privilege required for such
operations; and
(4) Take into consideration industry standards and best practices by including critical and necessary
components of any such similar framework, for example, risk management processes,
information security incident response plans, and data breach notification plans.
(5) Include an Acceptable Use Policy compliant with Section 2-965 of this Article division.
***
Secs. 2-969. - Privacy Policy.

 The Information Security Working Group shall assist the Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) in
creating, and updating as necessary, a comprehensive privacy policy (“Privacy Policy”) for the Agencies.
The Privacy Policy shall govern the County’s handling practices, collection, and use of personal data, as
well as the specific rights of Data Subjects.
***
Secs. 2-97069-2-9792-999. - Reserved
***
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter
2 ADMINISTRATION. Article XII - Cook County Information Technology, Division 2. - Cook County
Information Technology Consolidation, Sections 2-980 through 2-999, of the Cook County Code is hereby
enacted as follows:
DIVISION 2 - COOK COUNTY INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY CONSOLIDATION
Section 2-980. - Short title.
This division shall be known and may be cited as the "Cook County Information Technology
Consolidation Ordinance.”
Section 2-981. - Purpose and Policy
All separately elected County and State Officials, Departments, or Agencies funded by the Cook
County Board of Commissioners, including, but not limited to, the offices and departments under the
control of the County Board President, the Board of Commissioners, Cook County Health and Hospitals
System, State's Attorney of Cook County, Cook County Sheriff, Cook County Public Defender, Illinois
Clerk of the Circuit Court of Cook County, Cook County Treasurer, Cook County Clerk, Cook County
Recorder of Deeds, Cook County Assessor, Chief Judge of the Circuit Court of Cook County, Board of
Review, Cook County Independent Inspector General, Cook County Veteran's Assistance Commission and
the Public Administrator (collectively, "Agency") shall, except as otherwise provided in this Division,
coordinate to deliver information technology services in an efficient and cost-effective manner consistent
with County, State and Federal law and industry standards. Agencies not established under the Board of
Commissioners or Office of the County Board President may elect, but are not required to, abide by the
provisions of this Division.
Section 2-982. - Consolidation Studies
(a) The CIO shall, in collaboration with participating Agencies, conduct a study into the viability
of consolidating the following technology functions:
(1) Active directory, including a consolidated identity and access management system; and
(2) Data center.

 (b) The CIO shall issue a report to the Cook County Board President and Cook County Board of
Commissioners, Technology Committee regarding the viability of consolidating the above-referenced
functions no later than January 1, 2020.
Section 2-983. - Powers and Duties of the Cook County Chief Information Officer
(a) The CIO shall, in collaboration with participating Agencies, develop policies and standards
relating to technology that may be adopted by participating Agencies, including the following areas:
(1) Procurement standards;
(2) Productivity tools, including service desk and data center monitoring software;
(3) Software development;
(4) Hardware and architecture;
(5) Asset management; and
(6) Any other category of technology.
(b) The CIO shall establish a change management process to coordinate all changes to information
technology services or infrastructure that impact Countywide information technology operations.
(c) The CIO shall create a multi-year, Countywide Technology Strategic Plan, which shall be
presented to the President and the Cook County Board of Commissioners for receipt and file on an annual
basis.

(d) The CIO shall seek the advice and recommendations of each participating Agency to ensure
that any shared service or policy adopted by the CIO addresses the unique considerations and legal mandates
governing each participating Agency and does not unduly interfere with the operations of such participating
Agency.
Section 2-984. - Powers and Duties of Participating Agencies
(a) Chargebacks. Each participating Agency is responsible for its share of the cost of shared
information technology products or services. The CIO shall determine the chargeback amount for shared
products or services prior to delivery. The CIO shall ensure that the chargebacks are transparent and that
the chargeback amount does not exceed the actual cost to the County of the information technology product
or service.
Section 2-985. - Consolidated Service Desk
(a) The County shall establish a Countywide Service Desk (“County Service Desk”) managed by
the CIO.
(b) The County Service Desk shall provide Tier 1 support to the Offices under the President and,
by agreement, any participating Agency.
(1) Tier 1 support is a basic level of support, with customer representatives who possess a broad
understanding of County IT environments.

 (2) Except as by agreement between BOT and participating Agencies, participating Agencies shall
remain responsible for Tier 2 support.
(c) The CIO shall implement a County Service Desk service catalogue and service levels consistent
with industry standards.
(d) The CIO and any participating Agency shall agree upon a project schedule to transfer Tier 1
support to the County Service Desk, and if applicable, Agency-specific service level agreements.

(e) The CIO shall implement all legally-mandated controls related to personal health information,
criminal justice information, or any other sensitive data type prior to assuming Tier 1 support for any
function that that may require access to such data.
(f) The CIO shall provide a monthly report on County Service Desk metrics, including service level
reports, to the participating Agencies. The CIO shall deliver the first County Service Desk report within 60
days of the establishment of the County Service Desk.
Sec. 2-986. Adoption and Compliance.
The adoption of any shared service or policy as set forth in this division shall not affect any rights
and responsibilities arising under any law, including the Illinois Constitution, the Illinois Counties Code or
the Code of Ordinances of Cook County, Illinois.
Secs. 2-987-2-999. - Reserved
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.

 COMMITTEE ITEMS REQUIRING BOARD ACTION

CONTRACT COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE
MEETING OF SEPTEMBER 11. 2018

18-4541
ORDINANCE
Sponsored by
THE HONORABLE DENNIS DEER, STANLEY MOORE, LUIS ARROYO JR,
RICHARD R. BOYKIN, JERRY BUTLER, JOHN P. DALEY, JOHN A. FRITCHEY,
JESÚS G. GARCÍA, GREGG GOSLIN, EDWARD M. MOODY, SEAN M. MORRISON,
TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER, PETER N. SILVESTRI, DEBORAH SIMS,
LARRY SUFFREDIN AND JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI, COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
SMALL BUSINESS COMMISSION FOR COOK COUNTY
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter 2 Administration, Article
III County Board, Sections 2-84 through 2-86 of the Cook County Code, is hereby enacted as follows:
Sec. 2-84. Short Title.
This Division shall be known and may be cited as the “Cook County Commission on Small
Business and Supplier Diversity”.
Sec. 2-85. Policy and Purpose.
(a)
There is hereby created a Commission to help create sustainable small business initiatives
that promote business opportunities, financial growth and further development and expansion of small and
minority businesses and businesses that are owned by people with disabilities.
(b)
Explore issues and barriers that prevent small businesses, women owned businesses,
businesses owned by people with disabilities and minority owned businesses from being successful.
(c)
Meet and exceed procurement existing procurement goals. Research and promote best
practices that facilitate meeting contracting and subcontracting goals.
(d)

Review compliance code and compliance of Cook County Agencies.

(e)
Review and recommend best practices to reduce access to capital challenges faced by
minority, women owned businesses and businesses owned by people with disabilities.
(f)
Review and make recommendations on how Cook County Hospital System and other
County agencies can increase the participation of minority, women owned businesses and businesses owned
by people with disabilities.

 Sec. 2-86. Cook County Commission on Small Business.
(a)
The Commission will have eleven (11) members including: two (2) Commissioners who
were the original co-sponsors of the ordinance who shall serve as Chair and Co-Chair of the Commission.
Four (4) of the Commission members shall be selected by the Chair and Co-Chair and must be certified
MBE or WBE business owners certified by Cook County. Five (5) members of the Commission shall be
appointed by the President of the Cook County Board of Commissioners and may include but not be limited
to: representatives of Cook County Agencies, civic leaders, majority contractors or private sector
representatives who have established excellent diversity practices. All shall be confirmed by the Cook
County Board.
(b)
Non-elected Board Members will serve for two (2) years and can be reappointed for
consecutive terms. Commissioners who are appointed shall serve (4) year terms that coincides with election
cycles of commissioners.
(c)
The Commission has the authority to review and make recommendations on approval or
reversal of certification appeals.
(d)
The Commission will advise the President’s office and Board of Commissioners not less
than quarterly on its recommendations.
(e)
The Commission shall have Four (4) Committees 1. Compliance Monitoring, 2.
Certification Advisory Team, 3. Outreach/Mentoring and Training, and 4. Capital Access/Banking.
All meetings of the Commission will be open to the public.
Effective date: This Ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
Approved and adopted this 12th of September 2018.
TONI PRECKWINKLE, President
Cook County Board of Commissioners
Attest: DAVID ORR, County Clerk

 CRIMINAL JUSTICE COMMITTEE
MEETING OF SEPTEMBER 11. 2018

18-4955
ORDINANCE
Sponsored by
THE HONORABLE THE HONORABLE LARRY SUFFREDIN, LUIS ARROYO JR,
RICHARD R. BOYKIN, JERRY BUTLER, JOHN P. DALEY, DENNIS DEER,
JOHN A. FRITCHEY, JESÚS G. GARCÍA, GREGG GOSLIN, EDWARD M. MOODY,
STANLEY MOORE, SEAN M. MORRISON, PRESIDENT TONI PRECKWINKLE,
TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER, PETER N. SILVESTRI, DEBORAH SIMS AND
JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI, COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
PREVENTING THE DETENTION OF JUVENILES UNDER THE AGE OF 13
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter 46 Law Enforcement,
Section 46-4 be enacted as follows:
Sec. 46-4. - Detention of Juveniles
(a)
Placement of a minor away from his or her home must be the last resort and be the least
restrictive alternative available.
(b)
An individual under 13 years of age shall not be admitted, kept, detained or committed to
the Cook County Jail or the Juvenile Temporary Detention Center.
Effective date: This Ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
Approved and adopted this 12th of September 2018.
TONI PRECKWINKLE, President
Cook County Board of Commissioners
Attest: DAVID ORR, County Clerk

 LEGISLATION AND INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS COMMITTEE
MEETING OF SEPTEMBER 12, 2018

18-3674
ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
Sponsored by
THE HONORABLE TONI PRECKWINKLE,
PRESIDENT OF THE COOK COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
ALIGNING EMPLOYEE BENEFITS FOR MILITARY SERVICE
WITH STATE AND FEDERAL LAW
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 44 Human Resources,
Article III Vacation and Sick Leave, Sections 44-95, 44-97, 44-101, 44-102, and Article IV Pensions,
Section 44-132 of the Cook County Code are hereby amended as follows:
Sec. 44-95. - Military lLeave.
All eligible employees under the jurisdiction of County Officers on an authorized military leave
shall be afforded employment related protections and benefits, in accordance with State and Federal law,
provided that any procedural requirements imposed by the applicable employing County officer have been
met.
(a)
Military Service Leave. Any eligible full-time or part-time County employee who has at
least six months or more of continuous actual is called to perform uniformed services, whether in the
reserves or on active duty, service and is a member of the Illinois National Guard or any of the Reserve
Components of the Armed Forces of the United States shall be entitled to leave of absence with full pay for
limited service in field training, cruises, and kindred recurring obligations employment related protections
and benefits, in accordance with State and Federal law, provided that any procedural requirements imposed
by the County have been met. Such leave will normally be limited to 15 days in each year. Subject to certain
exceptions under the applicable laws, these benefits are generally limited to five (5) years of leave of
absence.
(b)
Family Military Leave. In accordance with the Illinois Family Military Leave Act, 820
ILCS 151/1, et seq., the County provides eligible employees with up to 30 days of unpaid family military
leave during the time federal or state deployment orders are in effect, provided that such employee has
exhausted all accrued vacation leave, personal leave, compensatory leave and any other leave granted to
the employee, except sick and disability leave. The number of days of leave provided under the Illinois
Family Military Leave Act will be reduced by the number of days of qualifying exigency leave provided
under the Family Medical Leave Act
***
Sec. 44-97. - Records of personal days, sick, vacation and military leave.
(a)
For employees under the jurisdiction of the County Board, records of personal days, sick,
vacation, and military leave shall be maintained by the Civil Service Commission.
(b)
For employees not under the jurisdiction of the County Board, records of personal days,
sick, vacation and military leave shall be maintained by the department head.

 Records of personal days, sick, vacation, and any other approved leave including but not limited to
bereavement leave, family and medical leave, military leave, and family military leave shall be maintained
by each County office or department in the Cook County Time and Attendance System.
***
Sec. 44-101. - Employees' annuity and benefit fund contribution for employees in armed forces.
The County Board shall annually provide in its annual appropriation bill sufficient funds to make
contributions for such employees based on the same percentage of the salaries of such employees as at the
time of entering such military or naval service or training service leave for the period of their compulsory
or voluntary service to the State or Federal government, and that all such employees at the conclusion of
such military service leave, be restored to their positions as required by State and Federal law.
Sec. 44-102. - Status of employees in armed forces. Reserved.
(a)
All employees under the jurisdiction of the County officers, other than the County Board
of Commissioners, who serve in the military or naval forces of the United States, either voluntarily or by
reason of the Conscription Act, have their positions, seniority and status preserved the same as any other
County employee.
(b)
All County employees including Forest Preserve employees under the jurisdiction of
County officers, other than the Board of Commissioners, who serve in the military or naval forces of the
United States, either voluntarily or by reason of the Conscription Act, have their positions, seniority and
status preserved the same as any other County employee.
***
Sec. 44-132. - Contribution for employees in armed forces.
The Board shall annually provide in its annual appropriation bill sufficient funds to make
contributions for such employees based on the same percentage of the salaries of such employees as at the
time of entering such military service leave for the period of their compulsory or voluntary service to the
State or Federal government, and that all such employees at the conclusion of such military service leave,
be restored to their positions as required by State and Federal law.
Effective date: This Ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
Approved and adopted this 12th of September 2018.
TONI PRECKWINKLE, President
Cook County Board of Commissioners
Attest: DAVID ORR, County Clerk

 18-3239
ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
Sponsored by
THE HONORABLE TONI PRECKWINKLE,
PRESIDENT OF THE COOK COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
ALIGNING THE COOK COUNTY SICK LEAVE ORDINANCE
WITH THE CURRENT EMPLOYEE SICK LEAVE POLICY
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 44 Human Resources,
Article III Vacation and Sick Leave, Section 44-93 is hereby amended as follows:
Sec. 44-93. - Sick leave.
(a)
Eligible employees may use sick leave for illness, disability incidental to pregnancy or
nonjob related injury to the employee; appointments with physicians, dentists, or other recognized
practitioners; or for serious illness, disability, or injury, in the immediate family of the employee. Eligible
employees on maternity or paternity leave may use sick leave during the first four (4) to eight (6) weeks
following childbirth, depending on the type of delivery. Use of sick leave during maternity or paternity
leave may be extended upon the Leave Coordinator’s receipt of a medical statement indicating that the
employee is unable to return to work due to medical reasons.
(ab)
Sick leave is granted by Cook the County because an employee is unable to perform his/her
assigned duties, or because his/her presence at his place of work would jeopardize the health of co-workers.
Accordingly, sick leave shall not be used for any purpose other than to cover an absence related illness and
shall not be used as additional vacation leave.
(c)
All eligible employees shall be granted sick leave with pay at the rate of one working day
for each month of service. A month of service is one in which an employee is in a pay status for at least 15
working days in a calendar month. All eligible employees on a part-time work schedule shall be granted
sick leave with pay proportionate to the time worked per pay period. Sick leave may be accumulated to
equal, but at no time to exceed, one hundred seventy-five (175) working days. Records of sick leave credit
and use shall be maintained by each office or department in the Cook County Time and Attendance System.
(b)
Subsequent to December 3, 1962, sick leave may be accumulated to equal but at no time
to exceed 120 working days at the rate of 12 working days per year. Records of sick leave credit and use
shall be maintained by each office, department, or institution. Severance of employment prior to the use of
any part of such sick leave terminates all rights for compensation hereunder. Amount of leave accumulated
at the time when any sick leave begins shall be available in full, and additional leave shall continue to
accrue while an employee is using that already accumulated.
(c)
Sick leave may be used for illness, disability, or injury of the employee; appointments with
physicians, dentists, or other recognized practitioners; or for serious illness, disability, or injury, in the
immediate family of the employee. After five consecutive sick days, employees shall submit to their
department head a doctor's certificate as proof of sickness. Maternity leave shall not be considered as sick
leave.

 (d)
If, in the opinion of the head of the executive head of the office, or department, or
institution, the health of an employee warrants prolonged absence from duty, the employee will be permitted
to combine to his/her sick leave, vacation, and sick leave and personal days, with the approval of from the
Bureau Chief, Bureau of Human Resources.
(e)
The employee may apply for disability under the rules and regulations established by the
Cook County Annuity and Benefit Fund Retirement Board.
(f)
Severance of employment prior to the use of any part of such sick leave terminates all rights
to such sick leave accrual and compensation for such sick leave, except in the case of a reduction in force
resulting in employees being laid off and recalled from layoff status. If an employee is recalled from layoff
status into the same or a new position in the County Agency, and defined in Section Three of the Budget
Resolution, from which the employee was laid off, the employee shall receive the full benefit of the sick
leave accrual severed from the employee at the time of layoff.
Effective date: This Ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
Approved and adopted this 12th of September 2018.
TONI PRECKWINKLE, President
Cook County Board of Commissioners
Attest: DAVID ORR, County Clerk

 18-1126
ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
Sponsored by
THE HONORABLE PETER N. SILVESTRI, COUNTY COMMISSIONER
ESTABLISHING THE COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 38, HEALTH AND
HUMAN SERVICES, ARTICLE V, COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM,
SECTION 38-80 of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as Follows:
Sec. 38-80. General powers of the System Board.
Subject to the Mission of the CCHHS and consistent with this article, the System Board shall have the
following powers and responsibilities:
(a)
To appoint the Chief Executive Officer of the CCHHS ("CEO") or interim CEO, if
necessary, as set forth in Section 38-81 hereinafter, to hire such employees and to contract with such agents,
and professional and business advisers as may from time to time be necessary in the System Board's
judgment to accomplish the CCHHS' Mission and the purpose and intent of this article; to fix the
compensation of such CEO, employees, agents, and advisers; and, to establish the powers and duties of all
such agents, employees, and other persons contracting with the System Board;
(b)

To exercise oversight of the CEO;

(c)
To develop measures to evaluate the CEO's performance and to report to the President and
the County Board at six-month intervals regarding the CEO's performance;
(d)
To authorize the CEO to enter into contracts, execute all instruments, and do all things
necessary or convenient in the exercise of the System Board's powers and responsibilities;
(e)
To determine the scope and distribution of clinical services; provided, however, if the
System Board determines that it is in the best interest of the CCHHS to close entirely one of the three two
CCHHS hospitals, such closure will require County Board approval; provided further, however, that if the
System Board determines it is in the best interest of the CCHHS to purchase additional hospitals, or to add
or reduce healthcare-licensed, risk-bearing entities in CountyCare, the CCHHS shall, 15 calendar days
before final approval, provide notice to the President and the Cook County Board of Commissioners,
informing such persons as to the basic nature of any such transaction and shall offer to meet with such
persons to brief them in more detail on specifics relating to such a transaction;
(f)
To provide for the organization and management of the CCHHS, including, but not limited
to, the System Board's rights and powers to approve all personnel policies, consistent with existing state
laws, collective bargaining agreements, and court orders;

 (g)
To submit budgets for the CCHHS operations and capital planning and development, which
promote sound financial management and assure the continued operation of the CCHHS, subject to
approval by the County Board;
(h)
To accept any gifts, grants, property, or any other aid in any form from the federal
government, the state, any state agency, or any other source, or any combination thereof, and to comply
with the terms and conditions thereof;
(i)
To purchase, lease, trade, exchange, or otherwise acquire, maintain, hold, improve, repair,
sell, and dispose of personal property, whether tangible or intangible, and any interest therein;
(j)
In the name of the County, to purchase, lease, trade, exchange, or otherwise acquire, real
property or any interest therein, and to maintain, hold, improve, repair, mortgage, lease, and otherwise
transfer such real property, so long as such transactions do not interfere with the Mission of the CCHHS;
provided, however, that transactions involving real property valued at $100,000.00 or greater shall require
express approval from the County Board;
(k)
To acquire space, equipment, supplies, and services, including, but not limited to, services
of consultants for rendering professional and technical assistance and advice on matters within the System
Board's powers;
(l)
To make rules and regulations governing the use of property and facilities within the
CCHHS, subject to agreements with or for the benefit of holders of the County Board's obligations;
(m)
To adopt, and from time to time amend or repeal bylaws and rules and regulations
consistent
with the provisions of this article;
(n)
To encourage the formation of a not-for-profit corporation to raise funds to assist in
carrying out the Mission of the CCHHS;
(o)
To engage in joint ventures, or to participate in alliances, purchasing consortia, or other
cooperative arrangements, with any public or private entity, consistent with state law;
(p)
To have and exercise all rights and powers necessary, convenient, incidental to, or implied
from the specific powers granted in this article, which specific powers shall not be considered as a limitation
upon any power necessary or appropriate to carry out the CCHHS' Mission and the purposes and intent of
this article;
(q)
To perform, through the Cook County Department of Public Health, essential services of a
local public health authority as provided in the Cook County Board of Health Ordinance, Sections 38-26
through 38-40 of the Cook County Code, other Cook County Ordinances imposing duties upon the Cook
County Department of Public Health, and the regulations of the Cook County Department of Public Health
promulgated thereunder; the Department of Public Health Act, 20 ILCS 2305/1 et seq.; the Civil
Administrative Code of Illinois, 20 ILCS 2310/2310-1 et seq.; and as further detailed in regulations
promulgated by the Illinois Department of Public Health under the Certified Local Health Department
Code, 77 Ill. Adm. Code 600.110 et seq.; provided, however, that the County Board shall continue to serve
as the Board of Health of Cook County; and

 (r)
CCHHS.

To be the governing body of the licensed hospitals or other licensed entities within the

Effective date: This Ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
Approved and adopted this 12th of September 2018.
TONI PRECKWINKLE, President
Cook County Board of Commissioners
Attest: DAVID ORR, County Clerk

 ZONING AND BUILDING COMMITTEE
MEETING OF SEPTEMBER 12, 2018

18-4979
ORDINANCE
Sponsored by
THE HONORABLE TONI PRECKWINKLE,
PRESIDENT OF THE COOK COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
AN ORDINANCE GRANTING APPROVAL OF A SPECIAL USE
AND VARIATION LOCATED IN ORLAND TOWNSHIP
AS AUTHORIZED BY THE COOK COUNTY ZONING ORDINANCE
WHEREAS, written application SU 18-01 having been made requesting approval of a Special Use Permit,
pursuant to Section 13.8.4 of the Cook County Zoning Ordinance, to allow for the development of a single
family residence dwelling within an environmentally sensitive area as designated by the Cook County
Comprehensive Land Use and Policies Plan and application V 18-20, pursuant to Section13.6.2 of the Cook
County Zoning Ordinance, a companion variation to: (1) reduce the left interior side yard setback from the
minimum required 15 feet to a proposed 9 feet, (2) reduce the right interior side yard setback from the
minimum required 15 feet to a proposed 9 feet, (3) reduce the lot area from the minimum required 20,000
square feet to an existing 9,917 square feet, and (4) reduce the lot width from 100 feet to an existing 75
feet, all on property located at 16629 Orange Avenue, Orland Park, Illinois; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to notice as required by the Illinois County Code and the Cook County Zoning
Ordinance, a public hearing was conducted by the Zoning Board of Appeals on June 6, 2018 to consider
the Special Use Permit and companion variation requests; and the Zoning Board of Appeals having
recommended that both request be granted and approved.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Commissioners of Cook County, Illinois,
pursuant to its home rule powers, as follows:
Section 1:
Pursuant to the Findings of Fact made and determined by the Zoning Board of Appeals, a
Special Use Permit is granted to allow for the development of a single family residence dwelling within an
environmentally sensitive area as designated by the Cook County Comprehensive Land Use and Policies
Plan, along with a companion variation to: (1) reduce the left interior side yard setback from the minimum
required 15 feet to a proposed 9 feet, (2) reduce the right interior side yard setback from the minimum
required 15 feet to a proposed 9 feet, (3) reduce the lot area from the minimum required 20,000 square feet
to an existing 9,917 square feet, and (4) reduce the lot width from 100 feet to an existing 75 feet on the
following described property:
LOTS 38, 39 & 40, TOGETHER WITH THE WEST ½ OF THE VACATED ALLEY
ADJOINING SAID LOTS 38, 39, & 40, IN BLOCK 26, (SAID ALLEY BEING VACATED BY
DOCUMENT NO. 99117276), IN ALPINE HEIGHTS, BEING A SUBDIVISIION OF THE
SOUTHWEST ¼ OF SECTION 20, TOWNSHIP 36 NORTH, RANGE 12 EAST OF THE THIRD
PRINCIPAL MERIDIAN, IN COOK COUNTY, ILLINOIS.
P.I.N. 27-20-320-059-0000
The common address is 16629 Orange Avenue, Orland Park, Illinois 60467.

 Section 2:
This Ordinance and every provision thereof shall be considered severable. If any Section,
paragraph, subdivision, clause, sentence or provision of this Ordinance shall be adjudged by any Court of
competent jurisdiction to be invalid, such judgment shall not affect, impair, invalidate or nullify the
remainder thereof, which remainder shall remain and continue in full force and effect.
Section 3:
All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are hereby repealed to the extent
of such conflict.
Section 4.
This Ordinance shall become effective from and after its passage, approval and publication
in the manner prescribed by law.
Approved and adopted this 12th of September 2018.
TONI PRECKWINKLE, President
Cook County Board of Commissioners
Attest: DAVID ORR, County Clerk

 

18-5810 WAS REFERRED TO THE FINANCE COMMITTEE AT THE SEPTEMBER 12, 2018
BOARD MEETING
18-5810
Sponsored by: LARRY SUFFREDIN, GREGG GOSLIN, JOHN P. DALEY, JERRY BUTLER,
DEBORAH SIMS and JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
AN AMENDMENT TO THE COOK COUNTY WHEEL TAX
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 74 Taxation, Article XIV,
Wheel Tax, Section 74-550 through Section 74-579 of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as
Follows:
Sec. 74-550. - Short title.
Sec. 74-551. - Definitions.
Through and including May 31, 2019, Secs. 74-552 through 74-579 shall read as follows:
Sec. 74-552. - License requirement.
Sec. 74-553. - Application.
Sec. 74-554. - Exemptions including limitations.
Sec. 74-555. - Issuance.
Sec. 74-556. - Fees.
Sec. 74-557. - Effective dates.
Sec. 74-558. - Annual license.
Sec. 74-559. - Motor bicycle plate.
Sec. 74-560. - Window sticker.
Sec. 74-561. - Removal upon sale.
Sec. 74-562. - Unlawful use on another vehicle.
Sec. 74-563. - Transfer.
Sec. 74-564. - Dealer license.
Sec. 74-565. - Business vehicle identification.
Sec. 74-566. - Right to inspect.

 Sec. 74-567. - Penalty for ordinance violation.
Sec. 74-568. - Penalty for unlawful removal.
Effective June 1, 2019, Secs. 74-552 through 74-579 are removed and replaced with the following:
Sec. 74-552. - License requirement.
Sec. 74-553. - Application.
Sec. 74-554. - Senior and no-fee licenses.
Sec. 74-555. - License fees.
Sec. 74-556. - Effective dates.
Sec. 74-557. - Annual license.
Sec. 74-559. - Business vehicle identification.
Sec. 74-560. - Enforcement.
Sec. 74-561. - Fees and penalties.
Sec. 74-562. - Tax additional.
Sec. 74-563 - Rules and regulations.
BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 32, Fees,
Section 32-1 of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as Follows:
Sec. 32-1. - Fee schedule.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption
Full Text of Ordinance Amendment: <https://tinyurl.com/ya9jn9fm>

 18-5880 WAS REFERRED TO THE LEGISLATION AND INTERGOVERNMENTAL
RELATIONS COMMITTEE AT THE SEPTEMBER 12, 2018 BOARD MEETING
18-5880
Sponsored by: TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER, SEAN M. MORRISON, RICHARD R. BOYKIN, GREGG
GOSLIN, JOHN A. FRITCHEY and PETER N. SILVESTRI, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
REQUIRING A TWO THIRDS MAJORITY VOTE OF THE BOARD TO ENACT ANY NEW OR
ADDITIONAL TAX IN COOK COUNTY
WHEREAS, multiple cities as well as states have either enacted or considered a supermajority requirement
for tax increases as it provides residents with another level of protection from unpopular taxes, and
WHEREAS, taxpayers expect reasonable limits, like a 2/3 majority vote requirement for tax increases in
order to protect them from controversial votes being used to raise or create new taxes without broad public
support, and
WHEREAS, the burden of new and increased taxes that falls on the shoulders of Cook County residents
should not be left to a simple majority vote, and
WHEREAS, the process of both increasing taxes and creating new taxes should be agreed upon by a large
majority of those who will be effected by them, and
WHEREAS, the board should establish the requirement that all new taxes and new tax increases can only
be enacted by a two third majority vote from the Board of Commissioners.
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter 2,
Sec. 105 (f) is hereby amended as follows:
(f) Majority votes. Except as otherwise provided in these rules, and except for questions for which
a higher majority is required by law, all questions shall be determined by a majority vote of those
Commissioners entitled to vote. Any question which enacts a new form of taxation, or increase in taxation,
shall require a two thirds majority vote of the board in order to pass. A vote of “present shall not be counted
in determining the number of Commissioners voting on a question
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.

 