MINUTES OF MEETING
WAYNE COUNTY ELECTION COMMISSION
MONDAY, JANUARY 12, 2015 – 2:00 P.M.
COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL BUILDING - ROOM 705
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

Call to Order:

The meeting was called to order at 2:07 p.m., Monday, January 12,
2015.

Members present: Honorable Milton L. Mack Jr., Chairman - Chief Judge, Probate Court
Honorable Cathy M. Garrett, Secretary- Wayne County Clerk
Honorable Raymond J. Wojtowicz, Member – Wayne County Treasurer
Members absent: None
Also present:

Delphine G. Oden, Director, Wayne County Elections
Melanie D. Ryska, Assistant Director, Wayne County Elections
Janet Anderson-Davis, Assistant Corporation Counsel
Stephen Grady
Keith Jones
Jenneatta Mitchell
Jennifer Redmond
Tonya Wells

Agenda item:

Consideration of Agenda approval.
Board action on agenda item: Chair Mack requested a motion to
approve the agenda. Member Garrett duly supported by Member
Wojtowicz moved to adopt the agenda as submitted. The motion
was adopted unanimously by a voice vote.

Agenda item:

Approval of Minutes of November 6, 2014
Board action on agenda item: Chair Mack requested a motion to
approve the minutes of the meeting held on November 6, 2014.
Member Wojtowicz duly supported by Member Garrett moved to
approve the minutes of the meeting held on November 6, 2014.
The motion was adopted unanimously by a voice vote.

Agenda item:

Determination of Clarity – City of Detroit
Chair Mack asked of Assistant Corporation Counsel Janet
Anderson-Davis to remind the commission of its role in determining
clarity. Assistant Corporation Counsel Anderson-Davis reminded
1

 the commission of its role and duties for a determination of clarity.
Board action on agenda item: Chair Mack requested a motion to
bring item 5A-1-5A-9 before the commission for discussion
purposes. Member Wojtowicz duly supported by Member Garrett
moved to bring Agenda items 5A-1-5A-9 before the commission for
discussion. The motion was adopted unanimously by a voice vote.
Reason for recall as printed on the Recall Petition for 5A-1 for
Raquel Castaneda-Lopez:
“For signing “Great Lakes Water Resolution” (9/2014) without
advocating to call a special general election referendum question to
the citizens of the City of Detroit despite the oppositional voice of
Precinct #405 Delegate recommendations and opposition.”
Reason for recall as printed on the Recall Petition for 5A-2 for Mike
Duggan:
“Entering into Emergency Manager Order #20, prior to being sworn
in as Mayor 12/30/14. For “disposing” of the public utilities water
and sewage department on and before 9/29/14 and public lighting
department on and before 3/31/14 against Article 7, Chapter 1299
Sec 7-905 & 7-1204.”
Reason for recall as printed on the Recall Petition for 5A-3 for
Janice Winfrey:
“For giving Detroit Corporation seal to Kevin Orr, not a department
or City of Detroit worker entitled to have use, failure to hold a
special or general election posing the referendum question to the
people of the City of Detroit dissolving the water & sewage or
lighting departments.”
Reason for recall as printed on the Recall Petition for 5A-4 for Gabe
Leland:
“For signing the resolution to “dissolve the water and sewage
department 9/29/14 or before”. Approving without special election
or general election referendum question to the citizens of the City of
Detroit to terminate both water and sewage and public lighting
department 3/2014.”
Reason for recall as printed on the Recall Petition for 5A-5 for Scott
Benson:

2

 “For the illegal decision of introducing “Great Lakes Water
Resolution to dissolve city service.” For agreeing to resolution to
dissolve public lighting authority, contrary to Article 7: Sec. 7-1204.
Limitation on sale of assets (water) on and before 9/29/14, without
referendum vote of the people.”
Reason for recall as printed on the Recall Petition for 5A-6 for
Brenda Jones:
“For not calling a special or general election for the people to vote
on water and sewage and public lighting authority issues, 3/20149/2014. For her participation in any “oversight committee” panel of
people not elected to serve as public officials under the Detroit city
charter.”
Reason for recall as printed on the Recall Petition for 5A-7 for
Andre Spivey:
“For illegally allowing the Detroit Police Department to accept “gifts
of new scout cars, the fire department accepting new ambulances”
from General Motors, against Art. 2, Sec. 2-106.4 Detroit City
Charter and for signing the Water and Sewage Resolution,
dissolving water and lighting depts.-9/2014.”
Reason for recall as printed on the Recall Petition for 5A-8 for
James Tate:
“For allowing Mayor and Det. City Council to approve appointment
of former City Council member Gary Brown against Art. 2, Sec. 2106.5 and for not calling for a special or general election regarding
the water, sewage and public lighting department dissolutions.”
Reason for recall as printed on the Recall Petition for 5A-9 for
George Cushingberry, Jr.:
“For signing water and sewage resolution to dissolve public utilities
on and before 9/29/14 without special election or general elections
referendum question to the citizens of the city despite precinct 405
delegate opposition and recommendations.”
Board action on agenda item: Member Wojtowicz duly supported
by Member Garrett moved that the petitions before us for said
names be denied for lack of clarity. The motion was adopted
unanimously by a voice vote.
Agenda item:

New Business. None
3

 Agenda item:

Public Comment. Tonya Wells made a public comment.

Agenda item:

Adjournment.
Board action on agenda item: Chair Mack requested a motion to
adjourn. Member Wojtowicz duly supported by Member Garrett
moved to adjourn the meeting. The motion was adopted
unanimously by a voice vote.
Meeting adjourned at 2:17 p.m.

4

 