City Of Detroit

?1th Office Downtown Development Authority
TO: BOARD OF DIRECTORS
DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
nun FROM: REBECCA NAVIN
DATE: JUNE 28, 2017
RE: AMENDMENT TO CMA RELATING TO PISTONS RELOCATION TO

EVENTS CENTER

 

On November 22, 2016, pursuant to Resolution DDA 16-11-123-43, the Board of Directors
of the City of Detroit Downtown Development Authority (the (the ?Board?),
approved the execution of a Memorandum of Understanding between the DDA and Palace
Sports Entertainment LLC (the relating to modifications to the 
?Catalyst Development Project" as defined in Act No. 197 of Public Acts of 1975, as
amended, in order to accommodate the relocation of the home venue for the Detroit
Pistons (the ?Pistons?) from the Palace of Auburn Hills to the Events Center, now known
as Little Caesars Arena (the 

The MOU contemplates, among other things, that the Pistons will join the Amended and
Restated Concession and Management Agreement relating to the LCA (the in
orderto commit to certain undertakings by the Pistons forthe benefit of the DDA consistent
with certain undertakings made by the concessionaire or the Detroit Red Wings and that
the CMA will otherwise be amended in order to permit the transactions contemplated by
the MOU.

Staff is seeking DDA Board approval of an amendment to the CMA on the below terms
(the Amendment Terms"):

. The additional improvements to the LCA to accommodate Pistons? basketball,
operations and facility requirements (the ?Pistons EC Improvements?) are
approved and incorporated into the definition of the Events Center Project under
the CMA.

- The definition of ?Costs of the Events Center Project? shall include cost of the
Pistons EC Improvements, as set forth in the MOU.

- The DDA agrees to issue the Series 2017 DDA Bonds, of which $34.5 Million in
proceeds shall be used by pay or reimburse the costs of the Pistons EC
Improvements.

. Pistons shall maintain insurance in a manner consistent with the requirements of
the Red Wings under the CMA.

. Pistons shall agree to indemnify and defend the DDA in the same manner as the
Red Wings under the CMA.

. Detroit Pistons Basketball Company will be a party to the CMA with respect to the
relevant sections of the CMA applicable to the Pistons.

- DDA acknowledges the Pistons as a sub-concessionaire under the CMA and
agrees to certain standard non?disturbance provisions.

A resolution is attached for the Board?s consideration.

500 Griswold Street, Suite 2200 - Detroit, Michigan 48226 - phone (313) 963-2940 - fax (313) 963-8839

City of Detroit

Elm

Downtown Development Authority
500 Griswold - Suite 2200

Detroit, Michigan 48228

Phone: 313 883 2840

Fax: 318 883 8888

CODE DDA 17-06-123?53

AMENDMENT TO CMA RELATING TO PISTONS RELOCATION TO EVENTS CENTER

WHEREAS, November 22, 2016, pursuant to Resolution DDA 16-11-123-43, the
Board of Directors of the City of Detroit Downtown Development Authority (the (the
?Board"), approved the execution of a Memorandum of Understanding between the DDA
and Palace Sports Entertainment LLC (the relating to modifications
to the ?Catalyst Development Project? as defined in Act No. 197 of Public Acts of
1975, as amended, in order to accommodate the relocation of the home venue for the
Detroit Pistons (the ?Pistons?) from the Palace of Auburn Hills to the Events Center, now
known as Little Caesars Arena (the and

WHEREAS, the MOU contemplates, among other things, that the Pistons will join
the Amended and Restated Concession and Management Agreement relating to the LCA
(the ?@453 in order to commit to certain undertakings by the Pistons for the benefit of the
DDA consistent with certain undertakings made by the concessionaire or the Detroit Red
Wings and that the CMA will othenNise be amended in order to permit the transactions
contemplated by the and

WHEREAS, Staff is seeking DDA Board approval of an amendment to the CMA on
the below terms (the Amendment Terms"):

. The additional improvements to the LCA to accommodate Pistons? basketball,
operations and facility requirements (the ?Pistons EC Improvements") are
approved and incorporated into the definition of the Events Center Project under
the CMA.

. The definition of ?Costs of the Events Center Project" includes cost of the Pistons
EC Improvements, as set forth in the MOU.

. The DDA agrees to issue the Series 2017 DDA Bonds, of which $34.5 Million in
proceeds shall be used by pay or reimburse the costs of the Pistons EC
Improvements.

0 Pistons shall maintain insurance in a manner consistent with the requirements of
the Red Wings under the CMA.

Pistons will indemnify and defend the DDA in the same manner as the Red Wings
under the CMA.

- Detroit Pistons Basketball Company will be a party to the CMA with respect to the
relevant sections of the CMA applicable to the Pistons.

. DDA acknowledges the Pistons as a sub-concessionaire under the CMA and
agrees to certain standard non-disturbance provisions.

WHEREAS, upon review of the proposed CMA Amendment Terms, the DDA
Board has determined that the proposed CMA Amendment Terms as proposed are
consistent with the terms of the MOU, statutory purposes and otherwise in the
best interests of the DDA.

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the DDA Board hereby authorizes any
two of its Officers, or any two of its Authorized Agents, or one Officer and any one
Authorized Agent to negotiate and execute an amendment to the CMA, upon the terms
described herein, together with such other terms as deemed appropriate by such
Authorized Agents and counsel which are not inconsistent with this resolution and that do
not othenivise alter the substance of the CMA or adversely affect the rights and/or
obligations of the DDA under the CMA.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the DDA Board hereby authorizes any two of
its Officers or any two of its Authorized Agents or one Officer and any one Authorized
Agent to take any other actions and execute any other documents necessary or
appropriate to implement the provisions and intent of this resolution.

BE IT FINALLY RESOLVED, that all of the acts and transactions of any Officer or
Authorized Agent of the DDA, in the name and on behalf of the DDA, relating to matters
contemplated by the foregoing resolutions, which acts would have been approved by the
foregoing resolutions except that such acts were taken prior to execution of these
resolutions, are hereby in all respects confirmed, approved and ratified.

June 28, 2017

