ORDINANCES

FEBRUARY 7, 2018 BOARD MEETING

 

COMMITTEE ITEMS REQUIRING BOARD ACTION

CRIMINAL JUSTICE COMMITTEE
MEETING OF FEBRUARY 7, 2018

18-1750
ORDINANCE
Sponsored by
THE HONORABLE RICHARD R. BOYKIN, COUNTY COMMISSIONER
REQUIRING QUARTERLY REPORTING ON THE COST OF GUN VIOLENCE
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 18 Courts, Article 1 In
General, Section 18-4 of the Cook County Code is hereby enacted as follows:
Sec. 18-4. Quarterly Reporting.
(a)
The offices of the Chief Judge and Clerk of the Circuit Court shall report to the Board of
Commissioners quarterly on the cost their offices incur due to processing court cases involving firearms.
BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 2
Administration, Article IV Officers and Employees, Division 9 State’s Attorney, Subdivision II Cook County
Guidelines for Special State's Attorneys, Section 2-338 is hereby enacted as follows:
Sec. 2-338. Quarterly Reporting
(a)
The State’s Attorney shall report to the Board of Commissioners quarterly on the cost that
the office incurs due to processing court cases involving firearms.
BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 38 Health
and Human Services, Article VI Medical Examiner, Division 1 Generally, Section 38-149.1 is hereby
enacted as follows:
Sec. 38-149.1. Quarterly Reporting
(a)
The Medical Examiner shall report to the Board of Commissioners quarterly on the cost
that the office incurs due to performing autopsies on cases involving firearms.
BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 38 Health
and Human Services, Article V Cook County Health and Hospitals System, Section 38-94 is hereby enacted
as follows:
Sec. 38-94. Quarterly Reporting
(a)
The Health and Hospitals System shall report to the Board of Commissioners quarterly on
the cost it incurs due to processing medical cases involving firearms.

 BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 46 Law
Enforcement, Article II Sheriff, Division 1 Generally, Subdivision I In General, Section 46-37.1 is hereby
enacted as follows:
Sec. 46-37.1. Quarterly Reporting
(a)
The Sheriff’s Office shall report to the Board of Commissioners quarterly on the cost that
the office incurs to investigating and processing cases involving firearms.
Effective date: This Ordinance shall be in effect March 1, 2018.
Approved and adopted this 7th of February 2018.
TONI PRECKWINKLE, President
Cook County Board of Commissioners
Attest: DAVID ORR, County Clerk

 ZONING AND BUILDING COMMITTEE
MEETING OF FEBRUARY 7, 2018

16-2730 WAS RECEIVED AND FILED AT THE FEBRUARY 7, 2018 BOARD MEETING
16-2730
ORDINANCE
AN ORDINANCE GRANTING A MAP AMENDMENT,
SPECIAL USE FOR A PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT
LOCATED IN LEYDEN TOWNSHIP
AS AUTHORIZED BY THE COOK COUNTY ZONING ORDINANCE
WHEREAS, the owner of a subject property located in Leyden Township described in Section 1 has
petitioned the Cook County Board of Commissioners for:
1. A Map Amendment to rezone the subject property from its current zoning designation of the C-4
General Commercial District to a proposed zoning designation of the R-8 General Residence District;
and
2. A companion Special Use request for a Planned Unit Development, to allow for the operation of a five
story, 75-unit rental apartment building in Section 29 of unincorporated Leyden Township; and
WHEREAS, the petitions were received by the Zoning Board of Appeals as MA-16-02, and SU-16-04,
and public hearing was held in regard to said zoning requests after due notice, all in accordance with the
Cook County Zoning Ordinance and the Statutes of the State of Illinois; and
WHEREAS, the Zoning Board of Appeals entered detailed findings of facts and recommendations in
accordance with the standards set forth in the Zoning Ordinance recommending that the Cook County Board
of Commissioners grant said applications for a map amendment, special use for planned unit development;
and
WHEREAS, it is the determination of the Cook County Board of Commissioners that the petitioner’s
request be granted in accordance with the recommendations of the Zoning Board of Appeals.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Commissioners of Cook County, Illinois:
Section 1:

BACKGROUND

That the subject property described in Section 2 below be granted a Map Amendment and Special Use for
Planned Unit Development in an R-8 General Residence District to:
1. Map Amendment to rezone the subject property from its current zoning designation of the C-4 General
Commercial District to a proposed zoning designation of the R-8 General Residence District; and
2. Special Use request 16-04 a companion for a Planned Unit Development, to allow for the operation of
a five story, 75-unit rental apartment building in Section 29 of unincorporated Leyden Township; and

 Section 2:

LEGAL DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTY

Parcel 1: 12-29-418-022-0000
The east 210 feet of Lot 54 (except the south 154 feet thereof) in Frederick H. Bartlett's Grand Farms Unit
B, being a subdivision of the north half of the south half of the east 3/4 of the southeast quarter of section
29, township 40 north, range 12, east of the third principal meridian, in Cook County, Illinois.
Parcel 2: 12-29-418-021-0000
Lot 54 (except the south 154 feet and except the east 210 feet thereof), the east half of lot 53 (except the
south 154 feet thereof), in Frederick H. Bartlett's Grand Farms Unit B, being a subdivision of the north half
of the south half of the east 3/4 of the southeast quarter of Section 29, Township 40 north, Range 12, east
of the third principal meridian, in Cook County, Illinois.
Parcel 3: 12-29-418-010-0000
The north 89 feet of the south 154 feet of the east half of Lot 53, and the north 89 feet of the south 154 feet
of lot 54 in Frederick H. Bartlett's grand farms unit b, being a subdivision of the north half of the south half
of the east 3/4 of the southeast quarter of section 29, township 40 north, range 12, east of the third principal
meridian, in Cook County, Illinois.
Parcel 4: 12-29-418-011-0000
The south 65 feet of the east half of lot 53, and the south 65 feet of lot 54 in Frederick H. Bartlett's Grand
Farms Unit B, being a subdivision of the north half of the south half of the east 3/4 of the southeast quarter
of Section 29, Township 40 north, Range 12, east of the third principal meridian, in Cook County, Illinois.
Section 3:
That the Special Use in the R-8 General Residence District as mentioned in Section 1 of this Ordinance is
hereby authorized.
Section 4:
That the Zoning Map of Cook County all other pertinent records be and the same shall be changed to show
the rezoning of the described property hereby incorporated by reference to this Ordinance, as provided by
law.
Section 5:

SPECIAL USE

That this Ordinance under the provisions of Section 13.8.9 of the Cook County Zoning Ordinance is in full
force and effect from and after its passage and approval, except that if said use is not established within one
year as provided in Section 13.8.14 said Special Use for shall be null and void. That said Subject Property
be developed and constructed pursuant to the detailing set forth in the testimony and contained in the
exhibits and Findings of the Cook County Zoning Board of Appeals hereby incorporated by reference into
the Ordinance, as provided by law.
That this Ordinance shall be in full force & effect from and after passage and approval.

 Pursuant to Article 13.7.9 of the Cook County Zoning Ordinance, the Board makes the following
findings as to Applicant’s application for a proposed Map Amendment:
1. Uses of surrounding property:
 The uses of surrounding property are single family and commercial according to the Cook
County Comprehensive Land Use and Policies Plan.
2. Zoning classification of surrounding property.
 The zoning classification of surrounding property is R5 and C4 according to the Cook
County Comprehensive Land Use and Policies Plan
3. Suitability of the Subject Property for the use permitted under the existing zoning
classification
 Interfaith Housing (Applicant) has provided clear evidence through their testimony that the
subject property is suitable for the proposed zoning and use. They have demonstrated that
although there are no residential buildings along this section of the Mannheim Road
corridor, it is suitable for a higher density residential building due to good transportation
access.
4. Trend of development in the area
 The Developer testified that there is no one particular trend of development in the
immediate area. This section of Mannheim Road is best characterized as having a variety
of commercial uses that will compliment the proposed development.
5. Length of time the property has been vacant as zoned considered in the context of land
development in the surrounding area.
 The vacancy of the subject property is consistent with the many others in the immediate
market area. It has benefited from interim uses such as an industrial yard and other uses,
including residential. The subject property has been vacant and owned by the current owner
since 2004.
6. Extent to which property values are diminished by particular zoning restrictions.
 There is no evidence that the zoning restrictions in the subject market are negatively
impacted market values. The C-4 General Commercial District zoning regulations offer
wide variety of possibilities for those who wish to enter the subject market area. The
presence of the C-4 General commercial District potentially has a positive impact on
property values, should prospective developers have a desire to build along the Mannheim
Road Corridor. However, the Subject Property has been vacant for a period of nearly 12
years and has not been developed under the current zoning.
7. Need in the community for the proposed use.
 The proposed use for the Subject Property is affordable housing. The need for affordable
housing in Cook County has been well documented. The Applicant believes the subject
property is a perfect location for affordable housing. They described the location as
desirable because it is located near good transit access. The proposed project is located on
the Pace #330 Bus Route which provides direct access to O’Hare Airport.

 8. Consistency with the Cook County Comprehensive Land Use and Policies Plan.
 The plan promotes policies advocating for mixed uses to be located near transit nodes and
transit corridors with the objective of linking people to jobs throughout the County. The
proposed development fits in with the County’s vision. The proposed development meets
the planning objectives that the County seeks to promote.

 

18-2073 WAS REFERRED TO THE FINANCE COMMITTEE AT THE FEBRUARY 7, 2018
BOARD MEETING
18-2073
Sponsored by: JESÚS G. GARCÍA and LARRY SUFFREDIN, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE
THE CONSENSUS REVENUE FORECASTING COMMISSION FOR COOK COUNTY
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter 2 Administration, Article
III, County Board, Division sections 2-84 through 2-86 of the Cook County Code, is hereby enacted as
Follows:
Sec. 2-84. Short Title
This Division shall be known and may be cited as the “Cook County Forecasting Commission”
Sec. 2-85 Policy and Purpose.
(a) There is hereby created a Commission to develop a consensus revenue forecast on an annual basis
to be updated quarterly. The forecast will include but not be limited to: Sales and taxes, Property Taxes,
Cigarette Taxes, Fuel Taxes and other sources of County revenue.
(b) The Commission will also be responsible for evaluating and forecasting any new revenue sources
proposed by the Board and or Executive
Sec. 2-86 Cook County Forecasting Commission.
(a) The Commission will have seven (7) members appointed by the County Board President and
confirmed by the County Board, but also by virtue of their respective positions including: Chairman of the
Budget and Economic Development, Chairman of the Pension Committee, Chairman of the Finance
Committee, the Chief Financial Officer of Cook County, an economist working for the Federal Reserve
Bank of Chicago, an academic economist with expertise in local economic conditions housed at a
University located in Cook County, one member of the public with expertise in public finance.
(b) Board Members will serve for three (3) years and can be reappointed for consecutive terms.
(c) The Commission has the authority to evaluate county revenue sources, purchase subscriptions to
economic and financial data, engage outside forecasting resources and hire staff if needed.
(d) The forecast will be completed no later than September 15th of each fiscal year, and will be updated
quarterly thereafter, to enable coordination with the County Budget and to allow for mid-year adjustments.
(e) All meetings of the Commission will be open to the public.
(f) The forecast and assumptions will be made publicly available on the County’s website.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.

 18-2140 WAS REFERRED TO THE CONTRACT COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE AT THE
FEBRUARY 7, 2018 BOARD MEETING
18-2140
Sponsored by: RICHARD R. BOYKIN and STANLEY MOORE, Cook County Board of Commissioners
Co-Sponsored by: JOHN P. DALEY, DENNIS DEER AND DEBORAH SIMS, Cook County Board of
Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
MINORITY AND WOMEN OWNED BUSINESS ENTERPRISES AMENDMENT
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 34 Finance, Article IV
Procurement Code, Division 8 Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprises, Section 34-263
Definitions of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as Follows:
Sec. 34-263. Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this Division, shall have the meanings ascribed to
them in this Section, Terms not defined in this Section are defined in Division 1 of this Procurement Code,
or in Section 1-3 of the County Code. Additional terms applicable to Subdivision II are set forth in such
subdivision.
Affiliate. An "Affiliate" of or a Person "Affiliated" with, a specified Person shall mean any Person that
directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, Controls, is Controlled by, or is under common
Control with, the Person Specified. Affiliates shall be considered together in determining whether a firm is
a small business.
Applicant means a person who submits documents and information seeking certification, continued
certification, or re-certification as a PCE to the Office of Contract Compliance.
Broker means a Person who or which neither manufactures the supplies, equipment or goods supplied
nor owns or operates a store, warehouse or other establishment (and related distribution equipment) in
which it maintains, consistent with industry standards, an inventory of the supplies, equipment or goods
required for performance of the Contract for sale in the normal course of business. A Broker provides no
substantial service other than acting as a conduit between his or her supplier and his or her customer.
Business means a sole proprietorship, partnership, corporation, limited liability company, Joint
Venture or any other business or professional entity.
Certified firm means a firm that has been accepted by the County as a certified MBE or WBE or
Established Business.
Commercially Useful Function means the performance of a distinct element of work required for the
Procurement, with the requisite skill and expertise.
Compliance Contract Director or "CCD" means the Contract Compliance Director.

 Contract means any Procurement or Contract (as defined in Section 34-121) in an amount exceeding
$25,000.00.
Contractor means any business that seeks to enter into a contract with the County, and includes all
partners and Affiliates Business.
Contract Specific Goals means the goals established under Section 34-267(b) that are based upon
relevant factors, including, but not limited to, the availability of MBEs or WBEs relative to the scope of
work of the Project.
County Marketplace means the six-county region, currently the counties of Cook, DuPage, Kane,
Lake, McHenry and Will.
Economically Disadvantaged, with respect to an individual, means having a Personal Net Worth less
than $2,000,000.00 $20,000,000.00, indexed annually for the Chicago Metro Area Consumer Price Index
for Urban Wage Earners and Clerical Workers, published by the U.S. Department of Labor, Bureau of
Labor Standards, beginning January 2008.
Established Business means a Local Business that is not a Small Business and was certificated as an
MBE or WBE within the past 12 months:
(1) Which is at least 51 percent owned by one or more Minority Individuals or Women, or in the case
of a publically owned business, at least 51 percent of all classes of the stock of which is owned by one or
more such Minority Individuals or Women;
(2) Whose management, policies, major decisions and daily business operations are independently
managed and Controlled by one or more such Minority Individuals or Women; and
(3) Which has its principal place of business and a majority of its regular, full-time workforce located
within the County's Marketplace.
Expertise means demonstrated skills, knowledge or ability to perform, as defined by normal industry
practices, including licensure where required, in a field.
Good Faith Efforts shall have the meaning set forth in Section 34-271.
Joint Venture means an association of two or more Businesses proposing to perform a for-profit
business enterprise. Joint Ventures must have an agreement in writing specifying the terms and conditions
of the relationships between the partners and their relationship and responsibility to the contract.
`Local Business means a Business located within the County's Marketplace which has the majority of
its regular, full-time work force located within the County's Marketplace.
Local Small Business means a Local Business which is also a Small Business.
Manufacturer means a Person that operates or maintains a factory or establishment that produces, on
the premises, the materials, supplies, articles, or equipment required for a Procurement and of the general
character described by the specifications.

 Minority Business Enterprise or MBE means a Local Small Business, including a sole proprietorship,
partnership, corporation, limited liability company, Joint Venture or any other business or professional
entity:
(1) Which is at least 51 percent owned by one or more Minority Individuals who are economically
disadvantaged, or in the case of a publicly owned business, at least 51 percent of all classes of the
stock of which is owned by one or more such Minority Individuals;
(2) Whose management, policies, major decisions and daily business operations are independently
managed and Controlled by one or more such Minority Individuals; and
(3) Which has its principal place of business and a majority of its regular, full-time workforce located
within the County's Marketplace.
Minority Individual means an individual in one of the following groups:
(1) African-Americans or Blacks, which includes persons having origins in any of the Black racial
groups of Africa;
(2) Hispanic-Americans, which includes persons who are Mexican, Puerto Rican, Cuban, Caribbean,
Dominican, Central or South American, regardless of race;
(3) Native-Americans, which includes persons who are American Indians, Eskimos, Aleuts, or Native
Hawaiians; or
(4) Asian-Americans (persons whose origins are in any of the original peoples of the Far East Asia,
Southeast Asia, the islands of the Pacific or the Northern Marianas, or the Indian Subcontinent);
or
(5) Other groups, including, but not limited to, Arab-Americans, found by the County to be socially
disadvantaged by having suffered racial or ethnic prejudice or cultural bias within American
society, without regard to individual qualities, resulting in decreased opportunities to compete in
the County's Marketplace.
Owned means having all the customary incidents of ownership, including the right of disposition, and
the sharing in all risks and profits commensurate with the degree of ownership interest.
Person or Persons means any natural person, corporation, partnership, Joint Venture, trust,
association, limited liability company, sole proprietorship or other legal entity.
Personal Net Worth means the net value of the assets of an individual after total liabilities are deducted.
An individual's personal net worth does not include the individual's ownership interest in an applicant or
other Certified MBE or WBE, provided that the other Person is certified by a governmental agency that
meets the County's eligibility criteria or the individual's equity in his or her primary place or residence. As
to assets held jointly with a spouse, an individual's Personal Net Worth includes only that individual's share
of such assets. An individual's Personal Net Worth also includes the present value of the individual's interest
in individual retirement accounts, or other retirement savings or investment programs less the tax and
interest penalties that would be imposed if the asset were distributed at the present time, and shall not
include future payments receivable from a pension or Social Security.

 Program means the Minority- and Women-Owned Businesses Enterprise Program established in this
division, and shall include the Public Works Participation Program.
Program Goals means the goals set forth in Section 34-267(a).
Protected Class Enterprise or PCE means a business meeting the definition of Minority Business
Enterprise, Women's Business Enterprise, or Established Business as set forth in this section.
Public Works Participation Program means the program established pursuant to Subdivision II.
Regular Dealer means a Person that owns, operates, or maintains a store, warehouse, or other
establishment in which the supplies, equipment, or goods (excluding software licenses) of the general
character required for the Procurement are bought, kept in stock, and regularly sold or leased in the usual
course of business. To be a Regular Dealer, the Person must be an established business that engages, as its
principal business and under its own name, in the Procurement and sale or lease of the products in question.
A Person may be a Regular Dealer in such bulk items as petroleum products, steel, cement, gravel, stone,
or asphalt without owning, operating, or maintaining a place of business if the Person both owns and
operates distribution equipment for the products. Any supplementing of such Person's distribution
equipment shall be by a long-term lease agreement and not on an ad hoc or contract-by-contract basis.
Packagers, manufacturer representatives, or other Persons who arrange or expedite transactions are not
Regular Dealers.
Small Business means a small business as defined by the U.S. Small Business Administration, pursuant
to the business size standards found in 13 CFR Part 121, as related to the nature of the work the Person
seeks to perform on Contracts. A Person is not an eligible small business enterprise in any calendar fiscal
year in which its gross receipts, averaged over the Peron's previous five fiscal years, exceed the size
standards of 13 CFR Part 121.
Socially Disadvantaged means having been subjected to racial, ethnic or gender prejudice or cultural
bias within American society because of identity as a member of a group, and without regard to individual
qualities, stemming from circumstances beyond the relevant person's control.
Using Agency or User Agency means the departments or agencies within Cook County government,
including Elected Officials.
Utilization Plan means the document, submitted to the County as part of a bid or proposal, in which
one or more bidders or proposers commit to a level of PCE participation in the subject contract, identify
the associated responsibilities and scope of work, and dollar value or the percentages of the work to be
performed.
Woman means a person of the female gender.
Woman-owned Business Enterprise or WBE means a Local Small Business, including a sole
proprietorship, partnership, corporation, limited liability company, Joint Venture or any other business or
professional entity:
(1) Which is at least 51 percent Owned by one or more economically disadvantaged Women, or in the
case of a publicly owned business, at least 51 percent of all classes of the stock of which is Owned
by one or more such Women;

 (2) Whose management, policies, major decisions and daily business operations are independently
managed and Controlled by one or more such Women; and
(3) Which has its principal place of business and a majority of its regular, full-time work force located
within the County's Marketplace.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.

 