MARQUETTE PARK SSA#14
OPEN COMMISSIONERS MEETING
April 25, 2018
MINUTES
Location: Lithuanian Human Services Council Hall
2711-15 W. 71st Street
Chicago, IL 60629
In attendance: Commissioners

Jonas Miglinas
Cynthia Young
Peggie Jones
Stephanie Sherman-Ratliff

Absent:

Patricia Nelson

Commissioners

Also in attendance:

Joe Polikaitis, SSA#14 and LHS Executive Director
Ina Stankeviciene, SSA#14 Program Manager
Narvell Darling, IHS Director of Operations

Guests:

Aldermen Derrick Curtis, 18th Ward
Patrick Brutus, Coordinator of Economic Development
Dept. of Planning and Development

Opening remarks
Commissioner Stephanie Sherman-Ratliff opened the meeting at 7:30 PM. She thanked
everyone for attending and asked everyone to be respectful at the meeting - it is Commissioner’s
meeting, and questions will be accepted only at the end of the meeting during the Community input.
Commissioner Stephanie Sherman-Ratliff suggested to start the meeting with Incident Report while
waiting for commissioner Cynthia Young. This change of the agenda was approved by the
commissioners present at the meeting.
Incident Report
Incident Report was read by Ina Stankeviciene. From February 1 to March 31, 2018, the
Illinois Homeland Security addressed 543 security events of varied nature. Disturbance is still the
most prevalent incident addressed by the Illinois Homeland Security – 43% (234 for both months).
50% of them occur in Zone 3, and 27% – in Zone 4. Domestic violence was 8.5% of all incidents and
Burglary alarm has risen to 13%. Assault reported 5 times for February and March. For both months
burglary was reported only 7 times, but burglary alarm – 72 times, robbery – 6 times, theft – 12.

 Suspicious activity, person or auto were reported 38 times. Laud reports/Shots fired – 10. Weapons
offence or person with a gun was reported 10 times, person shot – only one in February. Most
incidents happen in zone 3 (37% - 202 incidents) and in zone 4 (21% - 113 incidents) in February and
March. During this period Marquette Park Security patrols assisted Police, Fire departments and
citizens in several cases, checked vacant properties. These monthly criminal activity data reports,
with area location, date of the event, and type of activity, are already posted on the Marquette Park
security website www.mp-security.org
Financial Report
Financial report was presented by Joe Polikaitis. He explained that Marquette Park SSA#14
has two bank accounts. As of 04/25/2018, Money Market account had $148,584.67 and Checking
account had $38,860.04 for a total of $187,444.71. So, there is enough money to cover the expenses
before second property collection (August-September).
Approval of 2017 CPA financial audit
Joe Polikaitis explained that as required by the City of Chicago, SSA financial books are
audited every year and report is submitted to the Department of Planning and Development by May
1st. Copies of audit report were represented to all Commissioners prior to the meeting. A motion to
accept the 2017 financial audit was made by Stephanie Sherman-Ratliff and seconded by Jonas
Miglinas.
Expiration of SSA#14 Ordinance
Joe Polikaitis explained that the present Marquette Park SSA#14 Ordinance expires at the end
of 2018. He presented a map of the new SSA which will cover only commercial area. New SSA
boundaries will not include any residential blocks. Sole service provider will be Greater Southwest
Development Corporation. Part of the SSA#14 businesses will be incorporated into the new SSA and
taxes collected from these businesses will be forwarded to the new SSA. The balance of taxes
collected will remain with SSA#14 and will be used for additional security purposes. If there will be
anything that residents of SSA#14 need to know, it will be posted on www.mp-security.com.
Comments by Aldermen Derrick Curtis, 18th Ward
Alderman D. Curtis explained that the City does not want to do anymore residential SSA. He
explained about this new SSA and what benefits it will do for the City and its residents.
Status of Surveillance Cameras
Surveillance camera status was updated by Joe Polikaitis and Narvell Darling. They
explained how many cameras are now working and where they are located. Surveillance camera data
is recorded and kept for future use, if needed. Chicago Police Department has direct access to the
surveillance cameras.

 Approval of 02/07/2018 minutes
The 02/07/2018 MP SSA #14 meeting minutes were emailed to all Commissioners prior to
the meeting. A motion to accept the 02/07/2018 was made by Jonas Miglinas and seconded
by Stephanie Sherman-Ratliff. Minutes were accepted unanimously by all commissioners in
attendance.
Comments by 8-th District Commander Ronald Pontecore
8-th District Commander Ronald Pontecore could not attend the meeting.
Community Input
The area residents expressed their views about what is happening in Marquette Park area and
what will happen to the security of this area. They were very disappointed that Marquette Park
security program will terminate on December 31, 2018. Their concern evolved around the money
that will still be collected before the end of the year and what will happen to it. They were informed
that SSA #14 revenue will be used to increase security before the end of the year, especially during
the Holiday season. There will be expenses to terminate the program, such as final audit,
organization of the documments, removal of Marquette Park SSA#14 posters, etc. Surveillance
cameras are property of SSA#14, however we do not know what is going to happen to them. They
should continue to serve SSA#14 area. Some questions were answered by Patrick Brutus,
Coordinator of Economic Development Dept. of Planning and Development.
Next Governing Commissioners Meeting
Next meeting is tentatively scheduled for August 22, 2018.
Meeting closed at 8:30 PM

Respectfully submitted by Ina Stankeviciene

 