

CODE EDC 18-09-02-303
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF AUGUST 7, 2018 MEETING

RESOLVED, that the minutes of the Special meeting of August 7, 2018 are hereby
approved and all actions taken by the Directors present at such meeting, as set forth in
such minutes, are hereby in all respects ratified and approved as actions of the Economic
Development Corporation.

September 25, 2018

500 Griswold,8uite 2200 - Detroit,Michigon 48226 - (3l3) 963-2940

ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
BOARD OF DIRECTORS SPECIAL MEETING
TUESDAY, AUGUST 7, 2018 8:30 AM.

BOARD MEMBERS PRESENT: Marsha Bruhn

BOARD MEMBERS ABSENT:

SPECIAL DIRECTORS
PRESENT:

SPECIAL DIRECTORS
ABSENT:

OTHERS PRESENT:

Linda Forte

Chris Jackson
Matthew Roiing
Thomas Staiiworth

Kimberly Clayson
Maurice Cox (Ex?Officio)
John Nainck (Ex-Of?cio)
Jonathan Queries

Two Vacancies

None

None

Pierre Batten 
Kyla Carlsen 

Gay Hiiger 

Paui Kako 
Jennifer Kanaios 
Glen Long 

Ja Lisia Melendez 
Rebecca Navin 
Mariangeta Pledl 
Mike Rafferty 



Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit

MINUTES OF THE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
BOARD OF DIRECTORS SPECIAL MEETING

TUESDAY, AUGUST 7, 2018

DETROIT ECONOMIC GROWTH CORPORATION

500 GRISWOLD, SUITE 2200

8:30 AM.

CALL TO ORDER

Noting that a quorum was present, Chair Forte called the Special meeting of the Economic
Development Corporation Board of Directors to order at 8:40 am.

GENERAL
Approval of Minutes

Ms. Forte asked if there were any additions, deletions or corrections to the minutes of the
July 24, 2018 Regular Board meeting. Hearing none, the Board took the following action:

On a motion by Ms. Bruhn, seconded by Mr. Roling, Resolution Code EDC 18-08-
02-302 was unanimously approved.

PROJECTS
Motor City Re-Store: Recommendations for Round 4 Business Awards

Mr. Batton reported that on March 1, 2018, the Motor City Re-Store program began
accepting applications for Round 4 Design and Construction Track Awards. Motor City
Re-Store is a matching facade grant program for existing businesses in Detroit. The table
below describes the levels of award and qualifications.

 

 

 

Awards Awardees must have:
- Up to $25,000 matching grant per 0 An existing business
winner in the city of Detroit
CONSTRUCTION . Refer to lending partners for A plan for
AWARD financing improvements
. year 0 Funds ready for
investment

 

 

 

 

August 7, 2018

500 Griswold,Sui?re 2200 DeirOiT,MiChigon 48226 (313) 963?2940

 

Awards Awardees must have:

 

DESIGN
AWARD

 

0 Up to $10,000 in architectural TA 0 An existing business
per winner in the city of Detroit
Access to design professionals
Refer to lending partners for
financing

 

 

 

 

When applications closed on April 2, 2018, Motor City Re~Store had received 60
applications for Round 4.

This memorandum and resolution focus on the selection and recommendation of
awardees for:

First, staff
application

Foundation?funded ?Construction" award track receiving cashback grants and
financing assistance

CDBG?Funded ?Design? award track receiving cost?shared architectural
design, permitting and bidding assistance for pre-deveiopment; and connection
to financing assistance as needed.

verified business eligibility based on self?reported data submitted in the
for the following five criteria:

1. The business is incorporated and has a registered and DUNS prior to receiving
a grant award

2. The business is located in and wishes to remain in Detroit for at least five years

3. The business is majorityeowned by a person who is at ieast 18 years or older

4. The business and all owners are in good standing with the City of Detroit, State of
Michigan and IRS, and

5. The business is not part of a franchise.

Second, staff sorted applications into appropriate award tracks and reviewed all
applications to determine finalists. Finalist applicants were identified as follows:

?Design? track applicants are existing Detroit business needing CDBG-funded
architectural design assistance. Finalists were selected based on eligibility and
feasibility of their project. In total, thirty~one (36) ?Design? finalists were
selected.

?Construction" track applicants have signed and seated construction drawings
or ready?to?bid projects that do not require construction drawings. Finalists
were selected based on eligibility and feasibility of their project. In total, seven
(7) ?nalists were selected.

Third, a team of staff evaluated finalist applications based on seven criteria. ?Construction?
and "Design? applications were scored on a scale of 1-100. Selection criteria are as

follows:

August 7, 2018

Vision and plan
Experience
Market support
Community benefit
Leverage

Age of Business



Based on the evaluations, EDC staff recommends:

. Twenty?one (21) awardees for ?Design? presented in Exhibit A:
CDBG?funded ?Design? awards estimated at $210,000.

. Foundation?Funded ?Construction" awards estimated at $148,000 in an approval
amount not to exceed $175,000.

0 Total estimated investment is $358,000.

EDC staff will connect awardees with architects to deliver services to ?Design? awardees
per the CDBG procurement processes. EDC staff connect awardees to construction
professionals to deliver services to ?Construction? awardees if needed.

The EDC will enter into grant agreements with Round 4 Motor City Re~Store awardees
and facilitate introductions to lending partners to pursue gap financing through these
independent sources.

A resoiution approving the staff?s recommendation of ?Design? and ?Construction?
awardees was inciuded in the Board material for consideration.

With there being no questions or discussion, the Board took the following action:

On a motion by Mr. Jackson, seconded by Mr. Roling, Resolution Code EDC 18-
08?91?69 was unanimously approved.

Motor City Match: Recommendations for Round 12 Buiiding Awards

Mr. Batten advised that on March 1, 2018, the EDC's Motor City Match program began
accepting applications from interested building owners for Round 12 of the Building
Application Track ("Round The Buiiding Application Track is for Detroit property
owners with a vacant space iooking for quality new tenants. Awards include pre-
development assistance, marketing and tenant recruiting. Properties that are matched
with businesses are considered for grants, financing and priority permitting. The table
below describes the levels of award and qualifications.

August 7, 2018

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Awards Awardees must:
. Listed as an avaiiable property . Be current and compliant
viewabie by hundreds of Business . Judged most feasible for
Competition candidates business
. Top 25 scoring buildings will be
'3 SPACE marketed as a ?top destination for
2 new business"
- Pre-development building
9 assessment
3 0 Match making with top businesses
. Up to 7 awardees each round . Be current and compliant
across both the building and 0 Judged most feasible for
DESIGN business tracks business
. Desagn/bulld assistance . Have a tenant secured
ff} 0 Priority permitting
. Financial planning assistance
. Up to 10 awardees each round - Be current and compliant
across both the buiiding and - Judged most feasible for
business tracks business
. Up to $100,000 matching grant per - Have a tenant secured
31" 2 CASH winner . Have a plan for building
8 a $500,000 in grants per round for renovations
building and business owners Have funds ready for
. .
a: . Pitch to lending partners for investment
4 financing

 

When applications closed on April 2, 2018, the EDC had received twenty~three (23)
applications (?Application?) for spaces all across the city of Detroit. An Application typically
refers to a single tenantable space within a property. One property may have submitted
multiple Applications and the properties may have previously matched but have lease?

able space.

Staff completed the following due diligence and evaluation process:

. Verified that the space referenced in the Application is current and compliant on
property taxes, tickets, and water bilis.

Each Application was evaluated and scored on a scale of 1~100 as follows:

. Each of the following factors contributed up to 20 points: (1) Building
characteristics and vision; (2) Building conditions; (3) Community and market
support; (4) Leverage; and (5) Compliance.

. Evaluations were conducted by EDC staff.

August 7, 2018

 

 EDC staff scores were averaged together to achieve the final score for building
characteristics and vision, community and market support, and leverage.

. The score for building conditions was derived from the self?reported data from the
property owner.

. The score for compliance was derived based on the payment of taxes, water bills,
and tickets.

The selection process is described in greater detail in Section 6 of the Motor City Match
Building Owner Guidelines.

The results of the due diligence and evaluation process are the following:

0 Of the fourteen (14) applications considered for Round 12, two (2) applications
were deemed ineligible because of condition or compliance, ieaving twelve (12)
eligible Building Applications to be considered for Round 12 awards.

0 Eight (8) eligible Round 12 building applications indicated they had space available
for tease. These building owners are recommended to receive ?Space? awards to
assist with marketing their property and recruiting tenants.

The remaining four (4) eiigibie applicants indicated that they had a tenant secured
and no additional space to lease. This makes these applicants eiigible for
consideration for ?Design? or ?Cash? awards in partnership with their tenants.

0 Based on eligible applications and review of scores, EDC staff recommends the
following Round 12 Building Owner Awards:

0 Space awards. Eight (8) properties are recommended to receive Space
awards as presented in Exhibit A, which inciudes marketing, a professional
building assessment, real estate tours and other matchmaking activities
with top Motor City Match business applicants. These top scoring buildings
are recommended to receive ?Top Property? designation to assist with
marketing and tenant recruiting.

0 Design Awards. Seven (7) properties are recommended to receive
?Design? awards in partnership with their tenants presented in Exhibit B,
which includes architecturai technicai assistance for tenant builduout and
building renovations.

EDC staff requested that the Board accept the current results of the Round 12 Building
Application evaluation process and to confirm the Applications that have been awarded
?Space? and ?Design? awards.

A resolution was inciuded in the material for the Board?s consideration.

Mr. Jackson asked about a business that is getting a design award, Brix Wine 
Charcuterie. He questioned how an existing business fell under Motor City Match rather

August 7, 2018

than Re?Store. Ms. Carlsen responded that this is for an existing business to open a
second location.

Ms. Navin disclosed that following the selection of one of the awardees, it was discovered
the spouse of one of the awardees is an employee of the City of Detroit DWSD. it currently
is part of the program guidelines that employees of the City of Detroit and the DEGC and
their family members are not eligible. However, we looked at this situation with counsel
and, given that the spouse is an employee of DWSD and DWSD has no relationship to
the program or the DEGC, we thought that it was prudent and reasonable to seek a waiver
of the eligibility requirement in this circumstance. We are looking at with counsel revising
the eligibility requirements. This is not the first time that this has come up with respect to
a City of Detroit awardee. We have gone through the waiver process before last year and
even sought out counsel from City Corporation Counsel. We are currently looking at an
appropriate adjustment to the eligibility requirements so that it is not such a stringent white-
line rule for City of Detroit employees, so that we can offer that flexibility where there really
is no real or apparent conflict. Ms. Navin asked that the Board consider a waiver of that
eligibility requirement when considering the award to Good Cookies LLC. Ms. Forte
questioned if this was a space awardee. Ms. Carlsen replied that Good Cookies LLC is a
cash awardee and she doesn?t believe that we have gotten to that yet. Ms. Navin
apoiogized and stated that the waiver is being requested on the next item before the
Board, the Business Awards.

Ms. Forte questioned if the new location of the wine bar is on Kercheval. Ms. Carlsen
responded no, that was the current location. The new location is on Livernois.

Subsequent to the discussion, the Board took the following action:

On a motion by Ms. Bruhn, seconded by Mr. Jackson, Resolution Code EDC 18-
08-91?70 was unanimously approved.

Motor City Match: Recommendations for Round 12 Business Awards

Mr. Batten advised that on March 1, 2018, the Motor City Match program began
accepting applications for Round 12 of the Business Owner Application Track. The
Business Owner Application Track is for businesses from Detroit and around the world
that are looking to start or expand in Detroit. The table below describes the levels of award
and qualifications.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Awards Awardees must have:
. Up to 50 winners 0 A great idea
PLAN . Free business planning class
. Up to 25 winners each round . Be current and compliant
SPACE . Match making with top real . Judged most feasible for
in estate busrness
.Fmancral planning 
E, . Up to 7 winners each round . Be current and compliant
I 2 . Design/build assistance 0 Judged most feasible for
3 a Priority permitting business
4 . Financial pianning assistance . Have a tenant secured

 

 

August 7, 2018

 

 

 

 

 

. Up to 10 winners each round Be current and
0 Up to $100,000 matching grant compiiant
per winner . Judged most feasible for
:3 0 $500,000 in grants per round for business

2 CASH building and business owners . Have a tenant secured
. Pitch to lending partners for . Have a plan for building
3 3 financing renovations
a) . Have funds ready for
?t 4 investment

 

 

When applications closed on April 2, 2018, the EDC had received 199 business
appiications (?Application?) for Round 12.

This memorandum and resolution focus on the selection and recommendation of
awardees for:

. "Business Plan" award track receiving business planning assistance
0 ?Space? award track receiving site selection assistance
. ?Cash" award track receiving grants and financing assistance

First, staff verified business eligibility based on self-reported data submitted in the
application for the following five criteria:

1. The business is incorporated and has a registered and DUNS priorto receiving
a grant award

2. The business wishes to locate in Detroit for at least two years

3. The business is majority-owned by a person who is at least 18 years or older

4. The business and all owners are in good standing with the City of Detroit, State of
Michigan and and

5. The business is not part of a franchise.

Second, staff sorted applications into various award tracks and reviewed eligible business
applications to determine finalists. The awards were selected using the too-point scale
detailed below. Finalist applicants were identified as follows:

. ?Business Plan? applicants have great business ideas but haven?t formulated
a business plan yet or need help strengthening their business plans before
pursuing space. in total, sixty (60) Business Plan finaiists were seiected.

0 ?Space? applicants are actively looking for space. These business applicants
are either new business ventures that have a solid business plan or they are
existing businesses with a track record of success and a plan to grow it. Thirty
(30) space awardees were selected.

August 7, 2018

- ?Cash? applicants have a location secured, a plan for build-out and strong
understanding of the money needed to start their business and complete
renovations at their space. in total, thirty?one (31) Cash finalists were selected.

Third, a team of outside jurors evaluated finalist applications based on five criteria.
?Business Plan? applications were initially reviewed by a team of business planning service
providers, as well as members of the Motor City Match staff. ?Space" finalists were
reviewed by a team of community stakeholders from across various parts of the city and
?Cash? finalists were reviewed by a team of business leaders and lenders. ?Business
Plan?, ?Space", and ?Cash? applications were scored on a scale of 1?100. Each of the five
criteria is worth 20 points to contribute to the tOO-point score. Selection criteria are as

follows:

Vision and plan
Expenence

Market support
Community support
Leverage

9399?)?

?Cash? finalists were required to submit supplemental information. ?Cash? finalists
submitted comprehensive financial information, including a standard loan application and
personal financial statement. Motor City Match staff compiled this supplemental
information to determine the financiai need, equity investment and ?financiai gap" for each
business. Next, Motor City Match staff met with a team of six local Community
Development Financial Institution lending partners on June 25, 2018, to determine
grant and loan investment required to fill the financial gap on each project. partners
include invest Detroit, Detroit Development Fund, Capital impact Partners, Michigan
Women?s Foundation and Detroit Micro-Enterprise Fund. partners made
commitments to explore lending the balance of the financial gap based on recommended
grant investment from Motor City Match. Motor City Match staff used lender interest,
participant scores, supplemental information and readiness to accept additional
investment to determine ?Cash? awardees and associated grant investment.

Finally, staff compiled juror scores to identify top ranking candidates for awards.
EDC staff recommends:
Fifty (50) ?Business Plan? awardees for business planning are presented in Exhibit
Thirty (30) ?Space? awardees for site seiection are presented in Exhibit B.
- Fourteen (14) ?Cash? awardees to receive a total of $500,000 in grant investment,
as described on Exhibit C.
EDC staff will contract with independent business planning service providers to deliver
services to ?Business Plan? awardees that will provide business planning training for up to

50 Round 12 Motor City Match ?Business Plan? awardees.

EDC staff will facilitate one-on-one match making between top ranking businesses and
building owners recognized as ?Space? awardees. Match making services wiil include

August 7, 2018

open houses and networking sessions between business owners and building owners. In
addition, technical assistance will include expert guidance on leasing, financial planning
and assessing market opportunities.

The EDC will enter into grant agreements with Round 12 Motor City Match ?Cash?
awardees and facilitate introductions to tending partners to pursue gap financing through
these independent sources.

A resolution approving the staff?s recommendation of ?Business Plan?, and ?Space?
awardees and recommending to the Board staff?s recommendation of ?Cash? awardees
was inciuded in the Board material for consideration.

Ms. Bruhn questioned the discrepancy in the number of cash awardees. The information
states there could be up to 10 awardees and this round there are 14. Ms. Carisen advised
there is a totai of $500,000 cash availabie each quarter.

Ms. Navin commented that the Board resolution each round gives the authority to
realiocate cash awards that are not designated in one round to future rounds in the event
when something like this happens, when we have more than 10 quaii?ed applicants.
There are other rounds where there have been less than 10 and funds were availabie to
be realiocated.

Ms. Forte asked that staff be sure the resolution does not tie the Board to 10 awardees
versus the 14 number.

Subsequent to the discussion, the Board took the following action:

On a motion by Ms. Bruhn, seconded by Mr. Stallworth, Resotution Code EDC
18?08?91n71 was unanimously approved.

Ms. Bruhn reminded that this resoiution needed to be amended to include a waiver, as
mentioned by Ms. Navin earlier.

On a motion by Ms. Bruhn, seconded by Mr. Staliworth, Resolution Code EDC 18?
0891-71 was unanimously approved, as amended, with a waiver of the eligibility
requirements for Good Cookies LLC.

Mr. Jackson proposed that the MCM appiication be amended to allow for City of Detroit
employees to apply and request a waiver, so that it doesn?t discourage entrepreneurship
and City employees from applying. Ms. Navin responded that staff is working with Motor
City Match counsel to draft an amendment and the proposed change will be brought to
the board at the next meeting.

ADMINISTRATION

Ms. Kanaios advised that two new EDC Board members, Damon Hodge and Kwaku
Osei, were approved by City Council on Tuesday.

August 7, 2018

OTHER MATTERS
Mr. Rafferty stated that the EDC Board members should have received an invitation to the
Motor City Match Awards at the Osborn Community Center/Pharmacy 4 Less on 7 Mile at
4:00 pm. tomorrow.

Ms. Forte said that those events are always exciting and encouraged Board members to
attend if possible.

PUBLIC COMMENT
ADJOURNMENT

With there being no further business to come before the Board, Ms. Forte adjourned the
meeting at 9:07 am.

August 7, 2018

. CODE EDC 18-08-02-302
Eoonomro Development Corporation of the City of Detroit

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF JULY 24, @018 MEETING

RESOLVED, that the minutes of the Regular meeting of July 24, 2018 are hereby
approved and all actions taken by the Directors present at such meeting, as set forth in
such minutes, are hereby in all respects rati?ed and approved as actions of the Economic
Development Corporation.

August 7, 2018

500 2200 - Detroit,Michtgon 48226 - (313) 963?2940

. . CODE EDC 18-08-81?69
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit? 

 

MOTOR CITY ROUND 4 AWARDS

WHEREAS, EDC staff has completed due diligence and evaluation for applications
(?Applications) in the fourth round (?Round of the Motor City Re-Store Program; and

WHEREAS, the EDC staff has provided recommendations to the Board, to receive
grant investment subject to EDC Board approval; and

WHEREAS, the EDC Board has determined that the staff recommendation is
reasonable and consistent with the Motor City Re-Store program; and

NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the EDC Board of Directors, accepts
the current results of the Round 4 evaluation process, and approves the Applications that
have been recommended for Motor City Re?Store ?Construction" awards, attached hereto
as Exhibit A and "Design? awards, attached hereto as Exhibit B.

BE FURTHER RESOLVED, that the EDC Board of Directors, recommends that
grant amounts not fully allocated each round the remaining funds when quarterly
?Construction? awards total less than $500,000) be repurposed and distributed in future
rounds. in such cases, Staff would have the authority to recommend more than $500,000
in awards in future rounds, subject to the approval of the Board.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that any two Officers, or any one of the Officers and
any one of the Authorized Agents or any two of the Authorized Agents shall
hereafter have the authority to negotiate and execute all documents, contracts, or other
papers and to take such actions as are necessary or appropriate to implement the
provisions and intent of this resolution.

BE IT RESOLVED, that all of the acts and transactions of any Of?cer or
Authorized Agent of the EDC, in the name and on behalf of the EDC, relating to matters
contemplated by the foregoing resolutions, which acts would have been approved by the
foregoing resolutions, except that such acts were taken prior to the execution of these
resolutions, are hereby in all respects con?rmed, approved and ratified.

August 7, 2018

500 Griswold,Suite 2200 - DetroitMichigon 48226 - (3i3) 963?2940

 . . CODE EDC 18-08-91-70
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detrort

MOTOR CITY MATCH RECOMMENDATION FOR ROUND 12 AWARDS

WHEREAS, EDC staff has completed extensive due diligence and evaluation for
applications (?Applications) for the twelfth round ("Round 12") of the Motor City Match
Building Application Track; and

WHEREAS, the EDC staff has provided recommendations to the EDC Board of
Directors, to receive technical assistance in the "Space,? and ?Design? Building Owner
award categories; and

WHEREAS, the Board determined that the staff recommendation is reasonable
and consistent with the Motor City Match program; and

NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the EDC Board of Directors accepts
the current results of the Round 12 Building Application evaluation process, and approves
the Applications that have been recommended for ?Space" awards, attached hereto as
Exhibit A.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the EDC Board of Directors accepts the current
results of the Round 12 Building Application evaluation process, and approves the
Applications that have been recommended for ?Design? awards, attached hereto as
Exhibit B.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that any two Of?cers, or any one of the Of?cers and
any one of the Authorized Agents or any two of the Authorized Agents shall
hereafter have the authority to negotiate and execute all documents, contracts, or other
papers and to take such actions as are necessary or appropriate to implement the
provisions and intent of this resolution.

BE iT FINALLY RESOLVED, that all of the acts and transactions of any Officer or
Authorized Agent of the EDC, in the name and on behalf of the EDC, relating to matters
contemplated by the foregoing resolutions, which acts would have been approved by the
foregoing resolutions, except that such acts were taken prior to the execution of these
resolutions, are hereby in all respects confirmed, approved and ratified.

August 7, 2018

500 Griswold,Suiie 2200 Detroit, Michigan 48226 (313) 963-2940

. CODE EDC 18-08-9131
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit

 

MOTOR CITY MATCH: ROUND 12 BUSINESS AWARDS

WHEREAS, EDC staff has completed due diligence and evaluation for applications
(Applications) in the twelfth round 12?) of the Motor City Match Business
Application Track; and

WHEREAS, the EDC staff has provided recommendations to the Board to receive
technical assistance for the ?Business Plan? awards, ?Space" awards, and cash grant
investment for the ?Cash? award categories; and

WHEREAS, the EDC Board has determined that the staff recommendation is
reasonable and consistent with the Motor City Match program; and

NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the EDC Board of Directors, accepts
the current results of the ROUND 12 Business Application evaluation process, and
approves the Applications that have been recommended for ?Business Plan? awards,
attached hereto as Exhibit A.

BE iT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the EDC Board of Directors, accepts the
current results of the ROUND 12 Business Application evaluation process, and approves
the Applications that have been recommended for ?Space? awards, attached hereto as
Exhibit B.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the EDC Board of Directors, recommends to
the EDC Board of Directors the approval of the ?Cash? grant awards that were
recommended by Staff pursuant to the ROUND 12 Business Application evaluation
process, attached hereto as Exhibit C.

BE iT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the EDC Board of Directors, recommends that
grant amounts not fully allocated each round the remaining funds when quarterly
?Cash? awards total less than $500,000) be repurposed and distributed in future rounds.
in such cases, Staff would have the authority to recommend more than $500,000 in ?Cash?
awards in future rounds, subject to the approval of the Board.

BE lT FURTHER RESOLVED, that any two Of?cers, or any one of the Of?cers and
any one of the Authorized Agents or any two of the Authorized Agents shall
hereafter have the authority to negotiate and execute all documents, contracts, or other
papers and to take such actions as are necessary or appropriate to implement the
provisions and intent of this resolution.

BE lT FINALLY RESOLVED, that all of the acts and transactions of any Of?cer or
Authorized Agent of the EDC, in the name and on behalf of the EDC, relating to matters
contemplated by the foregoing resolutions, which acts would have been approved by the
foregoing resolutions, except that such acts were taken prior to the execution of these
resolutions, are hereby in all respects confirmed, approved and rati?ed.

August 2018

500 Griswold.Suite 2200 - Detroit. Michigan 48226 - (313)963?2940

