MINUTES OF MEETING
WAYNE COUNTY ELECTION COMMISSION
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2015 – 2:00 P.M.
COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL BUILDING - ROOM 700A
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

Call to Order:

The meeting was called to order at 2:01p.m., Tuesday, October 13,
2015.

Members present: Honorable Freddie G. Burton, Jr., Chief Judge, Probate Court
Honorable Eric R. Sabree, Deputy Treasurer
Members absent: Honorable Cathy M. Garrett, Secretary- Wayne County Clerk (excused)
Honorable Raymond J. Wojtowicz, Member – Wayne County Treasurer
(excused)
Also present:

Delphine G. Oden, Director, Wayne County Elections
Melanie D. Ryska, Assistant Director, Wayne County Elections
Janet Anderson-Davis, Assistant Corporation Counsel
Jenneatta Mitchell
Jennifer Redmond

Agenda item:

Consideration of Agenda approval.
Board action on agenda item: Chair Burton requested a motion
to approve the agenda. Member Sabree duly supported by Chair
Burton moved to adopt the agenda as submitted. The motion was
adopted unanimously by a voice vote.

Agenda item:

Approval of Minutes of August 31, 2015
Board action on agenda item: Chair Burton requested a motion
to approve the minutes of the meeting held on August 31, 2015.
Member Sabree duly supported by Chair Burton moved to approve
the minutes of the meeting held on August 31, 2015. The motion
was adopted unanimously by a voice vote.

Agenda item:

Determination of Clarity – Mike Duggan, Mayor, City of Detroit
Chair Burton asked Assistant Corporation Counsel Janet AndersonDavis to remind the commission of its role in determining clarity.
Assistant Corporation Counsel Anderson-Davis reminded the
commission of its role and duties for a determination of clarity.

 Board action on agenda item: Chair Burton requested a motion
to approve or reject item 5A-1.
Reason for recall as printed on the Recall Petition for 5A-1 for Mike
Duggan:
“Mayor Mike Duggan appointed Melvin “Butch” Hollowell to serve
as Corporation Counsel for the City of Detroit, in spite of Melvin
“Butch” Hollowell being previously charged in 2004 with a
misdemeanor charge of receiving and admitting another for an act
of prostitution.”
Board action on agenda item: Chair Burton duly supported by
Member Sabree moved to reject the language on petition 5A-1
because it is not sufficiently clear. The motion was adopted
unanimously by a voice vote.
Board action on agenda item: Chair Burton requested a motion
to approve or reject item 5A-2.
Reason for recall as printed on the Recall Petition for 5A-2 for Mike
Duggan:
“Mayor Mike Duggan appointed convicted felon Charlie Beckham to
serve in an administrative position for the City of Detroit. Charlie
Beckham was convicted in 1984 for taking bribes while serving as
the Director of the City of Detroit’s Water and Sewage Department.”
Board action on agenda item: Member Sabree duly supported by
Chair Burton moved to deny the language on petition 5A-2 for lack
of clarity. The motion was adopted unanimously by a voice vote.
Agenda item:

New Business.
Director Oden reported that local elections are taking place in
November and there are some cross-jurisdictional school district
elections being held as well. When there is a cross-jurisdictional
school district election and there is no local election being held, the
request for precinct consolidation is submitted to the Wayne County
Election Commission (WCEC). Two communities had their local
election commissions approve their precinct consolidations.
Director Oden requested that the WCEC ratify the actions of the
Charter Townships of Canton and Northville to consolidate
precincts for the November 3, 2015 election.
Board action on agenda item: Chair Burton duly supported by

 Member Sabree moved to adopt the two resolutions approving
precinct consolidation for the November 3, 2015 election for the
Charter Townships of Canton and Northville. The motion was
adopted unanimously by a voice vote.
Agenda item:

Public Comment. None

Agenda item:

Adjournment.
Board action on agenda item: Chair Burton requested a motion
to adjourn. Member Sabree duly supported by Chair Burton moved
to adjourn the meeting. The motion was adopted unanimously by a
voice vote.
Meeting adjourned at 2:22 p.m.

 