ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
BOARD OF DIRECTORS REGULAR MEETING
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 2017 – 8:30 A.M.
BOARD MEMBERS PRESENT: Marsha Bruhn
Monique Claiborne
Linda Forte
Chris Jackson
Jonathan Quarles
Matthew Roling
Thomas Stallworth
BOARD MEMBERS ABSENT:

Kimberly Clayson
Maurice Cox (Ex-Officio)
John Naglick (Ex-Officio)
William Ritsema

SPECIAL DIRECTORS
PRESENT:

None

SPECIAL DIRECTORS
ABSENT:

None

OTHERS PRESENT:

Gay Hilger (DEGC/EDC)
Denise Hundley (DEGC/EDC)
Malinda Jensen (DEGC/EDC)
Jennifer Kanalos (DEGC/EDC
Rebecca Navin (DEGC/EDC)
Mariangela Pledl (DEGC/EDC)
Martha Potere (DEGC/EDC)
Mike Rafferty (DEGC/EDC)
Will Tamminga (DEGC/EDC)
Joe Tate (DEGC/D2D)

 MINUTES OF THE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
BOARD OF DIRECTORS REGULAR MEETING
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBEER 12, 2017
DETROIT ECONOMIC GROWTH CORPORATION
500 GRISWOLD, SUITE 2200 - 8:30 A.M.
CALL TO ORDER
Noting that a quorum was present, Chairperson Forte called the Regular meeting of the
Economic Development Corporation Board of Directors to order at 8:34 a.m.
GENERAL
Approval of Minutes
Ms. Forte asked if there were any additions, deletions or corrections to the minutes of the
August 22, 2017 Regular Board meeting.
Hearing none, the Board took the following action:
On a motion by Ms. Claiborne, seconded by Mr. Quarles, Resolution Code EDC
17-09-02-286 was unanimously approved.
PROJECTS
CDBG Declared Disaster Recovery Award: Islandview/Greater Villages Green
Stormwater Infrastructure Project--Professional Services Agreement for Survey
Services with Nowak Fraus Engineers
Mr. Tamminga reported that the City of Detroit, by and through its Housing and
Revitalization Departmen, (the “City”), has been awarded a Community Development
Block Grant for Declared Disaster Recovery (CDBG-DDR) from the U.S. Department of
Housing and Urban Development (HUD) in the amount of Eight Million Nine Hundred
Thousand and 00/100 Dollars ($8,900,000.00). The CDBG-DDR grant is designed to
ameliorate future flooding and support the market through a number of projects and
planning exercises.
With EDC board approval (#16-06-95-01), the EDC executed a sub-recipient agreement
with the City and was awarded $2,593,500.00 from the City’s CDBG-DDR grant. The City
has requested that the EDC undertake construction management services with respect to
the Beltline Greenway project and related services. The federal funds will be used for
project activities as it relates to the Islandview/Greater Villages Green Stormwater
Infrastructure Project.

September 12, 2017

 As part of project execution, the EDC solicited for Quotes for survey services on July 27,
2017 for survey services for the Project. The basis for EDC contract awards are based
on federal procurement policies set forth in 24 CFR 85.36. More specifically, this
solicitation was made pursuant to the “small purchase procedure” method of procurement
per 24 CFR 85.36(d)1. EDC staff received three cost quotes to the request for quotes. The
other firms responding to this RFQ were Giffels Webster Engineers, and Spalding
DeDecker.
EDC staff members reviewed all the cost quotes and have determined that Nowak Fraus
provided the lowest cost and most responsive quote. EDC staff recommends approval of
a Professional Services Agreement with Nowak Fraus. Nowak Fraus has an office in the
City of Detroit. The proposed scope of services is attached as Attachment A-1.
EDC staff recommends that the Board of Directors authorize the execution of a
Professional Service Agreement with Nowak Fraus Engineers, not to exceed Sixty-Seven
Thousand Dollars ($67,000.00), to be paid out of the funds.
A resolution was included for the Board’s consideration and approval.
Mr. Jackson questioned who owns the Rogel site, the City or the church? Mr. Tamminga
explained that the City sold the site to the church but hopes to regain control of the site.
They are presently in negotiations. The work the EDC is doing is on behalf of the City to
assist in that endeavor.
Ms. Bruhn stated that the resolution does not mention the Rogel property. Mr. Tamminga
responded that it was an oversite and would be added to the resolution.
Ms. Bruhn also pointed out that the resolution references four cost proposals when Mr.
Tamminga had just reported there were three. Mr. Tamminga apologized and stated that
the resolution would also be amended to state three cost proposals.
Mr. Jackson advised that the Scope of Services might also need to be amended. Mr.
Tamminga stated he would take another look at the Scope before entering into the
agreement.
Subsequent to the discussion, the Board took the following action:
On a motion by Mr. Jackson, seconded by Ms. Bruhn, Resolution Code EDC 1709-95-03, was unanimously approved, as amended.
Ms. Forte informed that there is an urgent walk on item for the Board’s consideration.
Neighborhood Retail Opportunity Study Presentation Update (For Information
Only)
Ms. Potere gave a detailed PowerPoint update presentation on the findings of the
Neighborhood Retail Opportunity Study and responded to Board Members’ questions.
The Board thanked her for the update and requested a copy of her presentation and, when
complete, full copies of the report.

September 12, 2017

 North Industrial Park II: Amendment of Resolution Approving Funding Agreements
with DPW and Trident-Checker, LLC to Reimburse Right-of-Way Improvements
Ms. Navin distributed a copy of a resolution that was approved by the EDC Board in
February 2017 and a revised budget for the project.
As the developer finalized the budget, it became clear that there were other infrastructure
and utility improvements that they were going to be making that do not qualify for Act 51
dollars. The developer worked with the Administration and determined that with respect
to Act 51 dollars, the allocation would be limited to about $750,000, and then the
administration was able to identify another $350,000 in funds managed by the Housing
and Revitalization Department that could be allocated towards the non-Art 51 eligible
costs.
What is being proposed today is modifications to the Resolution adopted in February to
authorize EDC to accept up to $750,000 in Act 51 dollars towards this project, and then
authorization for EDC to accept up to $350,000 in funds from the Housing and
Revitalization Department that have been allocated for this project. That would bring the
total for the project up to $1.1 million, a $100,000 increase from the amount approved by
the EDC Board in February.
Subsequent to a discussion, the Board took the following action:
On a motion by Mr. Stallworth, seconded by Mr. Jackson, Resolution Code EDC
17-09-16-06
ADMINISTRATION
OTHER MATTERS
Mr. Stallworth raised the issue of TIF and the new legislation, and what impact that has
on the city. As part of that legislation, it enabled projects to occur in neighborhoods, but
there doesn’t seem to be any conversation about how to get CDCs or neighborhoods
involved in the application process.
Ms. Kanalos advised that there are limitations on how many transformational brownfield
projects a city can have and there are also limitations statewide on how much TIF can be
captured. It is a matter of having a plan and coming to the Administration, as well as the
Brownfield Redevelopment Authority, to have the plan reviewed to see if it is a candidate
for one of those projects. DBRA has not yet been approached with a plan for a
neighborhood.
Ms. Jensen stated that education is needed. She advised that Councilmember Tate’s
office has asked for the administration and DEGC, through the Brownfield Redevelopment
Authority, to sit down with their staff to see if we can attend a community meeting to talk
about tax increment financing in general and how it can be used. That will be one way to
start the process, because this is new legislation. Typically, you would have a developer
who is looking for funding who would start the process.

September 12, 2017

 Ms. Kanalos advised that the Brownfield Redevelopment Authority staff is always available
to speak about the development tools available.
Ms. Bruhn stated that she believes there is some confusion by the public of where to begin
the economic development process. Ms. Jensen explained that there are multiple doors.
DEGC serves as an umbrella organization that points people in the right direction. DEGC
is a well-versed resource on basically everything that is going on in the city relative to
economic development.
Mr. Quarles requested a DEGC organizational chart.
PUBLIC COMMENT
ADJOURNMENT
With there being no further business, Ms. Forte adjourned the meeting at 9:40 a.m.

September 12, 2017

 