MARQUETTE PARK 
OPEN COMMISSIONERS MEETING
April 27, 2016

MINUTES

Location: Lithuanian Human Services Council Hall
2711-15 W. 71St Street
Chicago, IL 60629

In attendance: Commissioners Patricia Nelson, chair
Jonas Miglinas
Young
Stephanie Sherman-Ratliff

Absent: Commissioners Brenda Justice (family emergency)
Dolorine Lopez (sick)
Also in attendance: Joe Polikaitis, LHS Executive Director

Ina Stankeviciene, Program Manager
Narvell Darling, IHS Director of Operations

Guests: Ald. Derrick Curtis, 18th Ward
Patrick Brutus, Coordinator of Economic Development
Department of Planningh Development

Opening remarks

Commission chair opened the meeting by commenting that during the February 24, 2016
meeting, a quorum was not present. Thus it was only an informational meeting and agenda items
requiring voting were delayed until the present meeting. Due to heavy traf?c, some
commissioners were late. Thus, the start of the meeting was delayed until 7:30 pm. In addition,
attendees were reminded to enter their name on the sign-in sheet if they want to speak during the
Community input agenda item. While waiting for remaining commissioner to arrive, some non
voting agenda items were taken up ?rst, so as to save time.

Incident Report

Incident Report was read by Ina Stankeviciene. It covered the time period of February 1
to March 31, 2016 During the two month period, the Illinois Homeland Security addressed 385
security events of varied nature. Requests for assistance came from the Dispatch central
(77), the CPD (Chicago Police Department) (202) and rowing patrol cars (106). Disturbane is
still the most prevalent incident (194) withg zones 3 (56) and zone 4 (102). Most of these events
were noriced by the rowing patrols. In most instances these disturbances were resolved by them
without escalation, thus preventing a more serious incident.

Weapons offenses occurred 6 times each month. Lound reports/shots fored were reported
14 time during the two months. Persons shot -3 times during each month 16 battery incidents
occurred during the two months

incident activity data reports are postred on the Marquette Park security website
In addition, copies of these reports were distributed to all attendees.

Financial Report as of 4/25/2016

Financial report was presented by Joe Polikaitis. During the past two years we had to take
out a loan to cover expenses of the ?rst two months of the year (revenues start coming in by the
end of February). By monitoring security hours, we ended 2015 with $71,000 carry-over. Thus,
no loan was needed even though expected collections are still below budged.

As of April 25, 2016, we had $22,216 in the savings account and $188,545 in the Money
Market account for a total of $210,761. Thus, at present time we are ?nancially sound.

Review of Patrol Hours

To get the most optimal use of patrol vehicles, Illinois Homeland Security coordinates
their efforts with the 8th District patrol hours. IHS increases their patrols during time periods
when the City patrols are reduced. In addition, additional vehicle is introduced during hot

weather spells and it is reduced during especially cold winter days. Thus, IHS patrols 
area for a composite time of 168 hours per week.

Expiration of Ordinance - re-establishment process

Every SSA in the City of Chicago has a ?sunset? clause. It means, that every Ordinance
is approved for a speci?c number of years at which time it has to be renewed (re-established).
Thus a new Ordinance has to be passed by the City council.

Marquette Park Ordinance expires at the end of 2017, at which time a new
Ordinance would have to be passed. Renewall process is very and expensive. If we
want to continue with we?will need to start the renewal process by the end of this year.
The renewal process will need to be completed by September of 2017. In order to renew the
Ordinance, a petition of 20% of all property owners will need to be obtained, i.e. 20% of
property PIN owners will have to sign the petition. Also, the evidence of ownership of the PIN
would have to be obtained by the petition workers. It is a very high bar to reach, since we have
approximately 4000 Pins. We would have to obtain 800 signatures that were veri?ed and that
could survive challenges as to legitimacy of the signatures (signature has to match the signature
of property owner). Signatures would have to be submitted by the time a City Council hearing is
convened to discuss the new Ordinance. Discussion was very bene?cial.

Approval of 11/18/2015 and 2/24/2016 minutes

Due to lack of quorum, the November 18, 2015 minutes could not be approved.
Therefore, these minutes will need to be approved during the April 27, 2016 Commissioners
meeting. Minutes were read by Ina Stankeviciene.

A motion was made to approve the November 18, 2015 minutes by Jonas Miglinas and
seconded by Stephanie Sherman-Ratliff. The minutes were unanimously approved by the
Commissioners. 

The February 24, 2016 minutes were read by Ina Stankeviciene. A motion was made to
approve the February 24, 2016 minutes by Young and seconded by Jonas Miglinas.
Minutes were unanimously approved by the Commissioners.

Approval of 2015 CPA financial audit

The 2015 ?nancial audit was conducted by CR Partners, L.L.C. of Hoffman Estates, IL
Copies of audit report was sent via email to all Commissioners prior to the meeting. 
Commissioners need to approve the report which must be submitted to the Department of
Planning and Development by May 1, 2016. Joe Polikaitis summarized the content of the report

to those attending the meeting. No discrepancies were found and ?nancials matched the bank
statements. The report veri?ed that fund balance at the beginning of the year was
$6,973 and at the end of the year $71,157. A motion to accept the 2015 ?nancial audit was made

by Stephanie Sherman-Ratliff and seconded by Jonas Miglinas. It was unanimously approved by
the Commissioners.

Approval of the Security Firm bidding proposal formatLguidelines and requirements.

The present Illinois Homeland Security contract expires on December 10, 2015. As a
consequence, we need to have a new RFA (request for proposals) with regards to the new
bidding process by the potential security agencies. To insure smooth transition from one security
agency to another, Commissioners need to approve the bidding format, guidelines and
requirements at this meeting so that bidding process can be initiated on June 1, 2016. Draft
pr0posal was submitted to each Commissioner prior to the meeting. Modi?cations, corrections or
any other changes should be submitted by the Commissioners by May 31, 2016. Changes will be
incorporated into the new RFA and copies of the bidding packages will be available for pickup
after June 1, 2016. Public announcements will be made on June 1, 2016 as well as posted on the
website 

A motion was made to approve the draft copy of the bidding package, including
modi?cations received by May 31, 2016, by Patricia Nelson and was seconded by 
Young. Commissioners voted unanimously to approve the motion.

Comments by the 8th District Commander .

Commander James O?Donnell is still on leave of absence. Commander?s of?ce informed
us that they will try to get someone to the meeting, however, none were available

Community Input

The area residents expressed their views on incidents and incident reports as well as
other activities in the neighborhood. Some questions were not related to the problems.
In addition, several requests were made to clarify some previous budget and tax assessment
statements. Some additional clari?cations were made by Patrick Brutus of DPD. A question was
raised as to who will conduct the survey to secure signatures for re-establishment of a new
Ordinance? Joe Polikaitis answered that initial discussions were made with Ald. Derrick Curtis
for assistance. A question of extension of the boundaries was made, including Nabisco facility.

Next Governing Commissioners Meeting
Next meeting is tentatively scheduled for August 17, 2016.

Meeting closed at 9:00 pm.

Respectfully submitted by Ina Stankeviciene

