STATE

S T R E E T C O MM I S S I O N

State Street Commission Meeting
Tuesday, March 20, 2018
2:00 PM
ABC7
190 North State Street
10th Floor Conference Room
MINUTES
ATTENDANCE

I.

AFFILIATION

Commission Members Present
Commissioner Greg Cameron
Commissioner Mark Davids
Commissioner Paul Fitzpatrick
Commissioner John Idler
Commissioner Mark Kelly
Commissioner Ryan Segal
Commissioner Anne Voshel

Joffrey Ballet
AmTrust Corp.
11 East Partners LLC
ABC7
DCASE
Acadia
AVA Consultants

Commission Members Absent
Commissioner Scott David Greenberg
Commissioner Dean Lane
Commissioner David Reifman
Commissioner Rebekah Scheinfeld
Commissioner John Tully
Commissioner Jennifer Williams

the Wit/ECD
Palmer House
Department of Planning & Development (DPD)
Chicago Department of Transportation (CDOT)
Department of Streets & Sanitation
Macy’s

Others Present
Alex Christenson
Michael Edwards
Judie Green
Dwayne Hightower
Steve Hillard
Laura Jones
Tanesheba Marshall
Commander Michael Pigott
Rajiv Pinto
Abel Rodriguez
Mark Roschen
Julian Silva

Mid-America Real Estate
Chicago Loop Alliance (CLA)
Auditorium Theatre
Department of Streets & Sanitation
Streetplus
Chicago Loop Alliance (CLA)
Chicago Department of Transportation (CDOT)
1st District Chicago Police Department
Chicago Department of Transportation (CDOT)
Chicago Loop Alliance (CLA)
Department of Planning & Development (DPD)
Chicago Department of Transportation (CDOT)

Call to Order - SSA#1 - 2015 Chair Anne Voshel

SSA#1-2015 Chair Anne Voshel called the meeting to order at 2:02 PM. Introductions were made around the
room.
II.

Public Comment

No comments were made by the public.
III.

Approval of Minutes

 A motion to approve the minutes from the Tuesday, January 16, 2018, State Street Commission meeting was
made by Commissioner Idler and seconded by Commissioner Davids. There was no discussion and the motion
carried.
IV.

Financial Statements/Metrics as of February 28, 2018

Abel Rodriguez stated that he was in the process of working with A.C.T. on the SSA 2017 Audit, which must
be presented by the auditor, approved by this body and submitted to the City of Chicago by May 1st. Our next
State Street Commission meeting was scheduled for April 17th, however, since the traditional April 15th due
date for taxes falls on a weekend, taxes are now officially due on the 17th and the auditor will not be available
for our meeting on that date. Therefore, Rodriguez asked for a motion to move the next meeting to April 24th
when the auditor can attend. The motion was made by Commissioner Idler and seconded by Commissioner
Cameron. It passed unanimously.
Rodriguez continued that normally during our meeting we would go over the financials through the end of
February, but since we have received a significant amount of the 2017 levy in the month of March, he wanted
to go over what we have received through March 15th.
Looking at the SSA levy line under revenue column on the 2018 SSA 1-2015 Budget Summary document, the
budget is $2,617,629.00 – we’ve collected $1 million of that, so we’re at 40%. Also, under the revenue column
there is a carry-over line which is a placeholder for now – we won’t know what the exact carryover is until the
draft audit is completed and then the Commission can make changes to the line items as necessary. No other
action is needed at this time.
Commissioner Fitzpatrick asked why we had only received 40% if property taxes were due on March 2nd and
the first installment due is 55% of the amount of the total yearly taxes? Mark Roschen replied that most likely
not everyone has paid their taxes.
Commissioner Davids asked why the rent line item was on the high side. Rodriguez replied because the office
is moving in a few months to a new space and 20% of the line item was the deposit and first months’ rent.
There were no additional questions.
V.

Status Reports/Outstanding Issues

Security: Commander Pigott just received a study from the University of Chicago Crime Commission.
He said that robberies (both strongarm and armed robberies) had spiked in the downtown area about November,
but since a peak in January they appear to be trending down. He’s changed the strategic focus of the district;
the borders for the strategic focus for violence are now Wacker to Van Buren and Michigan to Dearborn. Last
week was down 67% in robberies compared to the same week last year. One of the things that he’s noticed,
is that in February of 2017 there was one retail theft that escalated into a robbery – but there were 10 such
thefts in 2018. It’s an alarming trend that we are seeing that retail thefts are escalating into robberies. When
the offenders are being confronted, they are fighting back with pepper spray, knives, and other weapons. The
district will reach out to our community policing and business liaison officer about better ways to handle and
confront retail theft offenders. We don’t want anyone getting hurt out there.
Pigott has increased the district’s strength by 40 officers since the first of the year, and those numbers will
continue to go up every month. We are now a robust training district. Pigott’s main focus when they do get
more manpower will be to beef up bike and foot team officers to catch more quality of life issues like the
bucket boys and panhandling. He believes that if we can keep that at bay, the number of robberies, which are

 primarily cell phones, will be lowered. Most of the robberies are done by juveniles who are out there in groups
of 5-6 people surrounding individuals and demanding money. The robbery numbers are misleading because
we will get a crew like that and they may hit 6-7 times in a week – one group can be responsible for 10-12
robberies out of a monthly total of 50 until we catch them. A lot of homeless individuals also add to the
robbery counts. They will go into a 7-Eleven brandishing a stick and steal liquor or cigarettes.
Officers took a gun off the street at 9 South Michigan after the St. Patrick’s Day Parade. There was an
individual walking around with a 40-caliber hand gun. The clip had 30 rounds, but there were 23 rounds
remaining with one in the chamber. The vast majority of people who come downtown are fine, but there are
a lot of individuals here who are up to no good and police actively search for them. Pigott said he was confident
that the plans being put into place will successfully lower our crime statistics.
Commissioner Fitzpatrick asked to receive a copy of the University of Chicago Crime Commission report, and
then asked the Commander what the Commission could do for him? Pigott responded that we could tell
retailers to call 911 right away so that the police know where the problems are occurring. He expressed concern
that the State Attorney’s office has changed the threshold for making shoplifting a felony, which is why we
are seeing more retail thefts. When people hit high end stores, it should immediately be a felony.
CDOT: Tanesheba Marshall relayed that the State & Lake CTA station RFP is now closed and is
procurement stage. There were quite a few responses. In June, community input will be sought for planning
and engineering.
DCASE: Commissioner Kelly reported that there will be 86 events in Pritzker Pavilion this summer.
OEMC will be increasing safety measures in the park for at least 14 of those events, and a no alcohol in the
park policy will be implemented for larger events. (For smaller events, visitors will be able to bring alcohol.)
There will be enhanced security by the bean and bollards installed around the park. A DCASE information
center will also be put in place.
Streets & Sanitation: Dwayne Hightower, First Deputy Commissioner, gave the Streets and Sanitation
report. Although a little bit of snow is expected on Saturday and teams are in place, they are wrapping up the
season. There was a total snow accumulation of 32.9” at O’Hare and 35.3” at Midway, accounting for 26
snow event programs up until now. The department is now preparing for “clean and green” where volunteers
to clean the neighborhoods are solicited. Starting April 1st, residential street sweeping will start.
Sole Service Provider: Michael Edwards pointed out the President’s Report in meeting packets.
Highlights included:
• Streetplus hired Michael Urbanczyk as the Street Team’s new program manager. A veteran
with security experience, he immediately stood out during interviews because he called
everyone on the street “our Guests.”
• A press conference for the Arts in the Loop study is scheduled for April 11th. Commissioner
Kelly, Commissioner Cameron, and Judie Green will be in attendance. All are welcome.
• CLA has asked everyone in the SSA and beyond to send letters to the Mayor asking that the
noise ordinance street performance legislation amendments, which have been held up in
committee, be expedited. Edwards went to see Alderman Sawyer to make sure he understood
what we were trying to accomplish with the amendments.
• On April 10th, CLA will hold a meeting with 20 or more invited retailers to discuss the reasons
for declining foot traffic in the area. What is the cause of the problem and what should our
response be? Results of the discussion may help shape budget line items for 2019.
• At the previous Commission meeting we discussed the pedway at length and allocated an
additional $17,000.00 toward activation and ground level wayfinding efforts. However,
Alderman Reilly felt that it was inappropriate to call attention to the pedway until it was

 •

•

•

improved. CLA will re-examine the issue and hopefully come back to you with a new plan
later in the year.
Repairs have been made to Lightscape, and in-house software costing approximately
$19,000.00 is in development. Michael Edwards brought a video tutorial to show
Commissioners what will be possible with the software, but audio-visual issues prevented the
viewing. Lightscape is still a very fragile system, and we still don’t have a local person who
can work with Horizon Contracting on resetting the system when it goes awry. A job description
has been created. Chair Voshel responded that perhaps the person did not need to be local.
She is currently working on an audio/visual project for Newberry Library, and the company is
located in Atlanta. She asked Edwards to email the video out to Commissioners.
Previously it was brought to the Commission’s attention that a change in Illinois statute now
requires an SSA resident to sit on the Commission. Although we do not have an opening for
a seat right now, we have a candidate who is a resident in the SSA, LaVerne O. Morris, who is
interested in serving. Her bio was contained in meeting packets. Chair Voshel suggested that
we schedule a luncheon meeting with her. Mark Roschen said it would be possible to adjust
and increase the number of people on the Commission when City Council approves the 2019
SSA#1-2015 budget ordinance if a vacancy does not occur.
CLA brought in their new in-house PR person, Jessica Cabe, about the same time the HLSA
security patrol was launched. We thought we were prepared, but we got more coverage than
anticipated because unfortunate events like the shooting of Commander Paul Bauer magnified
the debate over guns, violence, and law enforcement. Edwards turned his report over to
Streetplus President Steve Hillard, whose background is in law enforcement, and who
subcontracts with HLSA to work with the Street Team.

Hillard briefly went over the difficulties we’ve had putting a security patrol in place, the issuance of the RFP,
the selection of HLSA and the contract approval that occurred at the last State Street Commission meeting.
He stated that the owner of HLSA was retired CPD Commander Janice Dillon, who also provides services for
other SSAs in the city. Dillon has a top command structure of 3 experienced individuals who are licensed
security professionals. 2 of the 3 will be directly assigned to SSA#1-2015 for the first 30 days of the program.
Erick George is our account manager, and he will be working each shift during that period. He will also be
selecting the off-duty officers that will be assigned to us beginning in April. All guards and officers are armed.
The patrol has 3 categories: Off-duty Chicago Police officers who can make arrests, retired police officers,
and trained security personnel. The latter two categories cannot make arrests, but they can apprehend and
detain offenders, and appear in court. If an off-duty officer makes an arrest, they must come to the police
station for processing that arrest. Everyone assigned to the SSA is trained, experienced, and licensed.
Our existing Street Team understands that they serve as the eyes and ears of the street. Streetplus is developing
a communication piece for retailers that delineates who to call first if there is a problem. If it is a true
emergency, there should be no delay in calling 911 directly. Otherwise, our Street Team program manager
should be called, who will then allocate the off-duty officers on duty in the SSA.
Regarding liability, HLSA is first in our insured line of defense, and then Streetplus is second in line and
indemnifies the Chicago Loop Alliance (who also has their own insurance.) Streetplus carries more insurance
than any other business improvement district in the country.
Commander Pigott was asked if he had any concerns about the program. He replied that he believed in the
“broken windows” theory, and that by focusing on the smaller quality of life issues we create an overall safer
environment. Steve Hillard added that his company was founded on the “broken windows” theory, and that
they now provided programs in 9 states, each of which works closely with law enforcement.

 Commissioner Davids expressed disappointment in how Crain’s handled their coverage of our new security
program. He said there haven’t been guidelines placed on what can or cannot be shared with the media,
especially regarding financial information. Mark Roschen stated that SSA meeting discussions were governed
by the Illinois Open Meetings Act and were public. However, if there were questions outside of these
documented proceedings, he suggested that SSA#1-2015 do what has been implemented by service providers
in other SSAs: refer the questions to DPD’s SSA division to FOIA for information.
CTA: No CTA representative was in attendance to give a report. Commissioner Fitzpatrick requested
that the CTA be told to clean the new (but now dirty) Washington El platform which abuts the through SSA
buildings.
VI.

Other Business

Steve Hillard thanked Laura Jones for attending the press kick-off of Salt Lake City’s Ambassador program
last month. It was attended by the Mayor of Salt Lake City, the Downtown Alliance and law enforcement
officials. The program is modeled after Chicago’s Street Team, incorporating a social service component to
address homelessness and quality of life issues. The event received great media attention.
The next SSA #1-2015 State Street Commission meeting will be held on Tuesday, April 24, 2018 at 2:00 PM
at ABC7. Please allow extra time for this meeting. Agenda items include Lou Raizin making the Skyline
presentation that was originally scheduled for today’s agenda, Bob Wissmann from A.C.T. Group presenting
the 2017 audit for SSA #1-2015 (which must be voted upon and sent to the city by May 1st), approval of the
1st quarter metrics, and possible budget modifications.
VII.

Adjournment

The meeting was adjourned at 3:00 PM by Chair Voshel.
Respectfully Submitted,

Greg Cameron
Secretary

 