Minutes of the meeting of the Audit and Compliance Committee of the Board of Directors of the Cook County
Health and Hospitals System held Friday, June 22, 2018 at the hour of 10:30 A.M. at 1900 W. Polk Street, in the
Second Floor Conference Room, Chicago, Illinois.
I.

Attendance/Call to Order
Acting Chairman Hammock called the meeting to order.
Present:

Acting Chairman M. Hill Hammock and Directors Ada Mary Gugenheim, Robert G. Reiter, Jr.
and Layla P. Suleiman Gonzalez, PhD, JD (3)
Directors Mary Driscoll, RN, MPH; Emilie N. Junge; and Mary B. Richardson-Lowry

Absent:

Chairman Hon. Jerry Butler (1)

Additional attendees and/or presenters were:
Ekerete Akpan – Chief Financial Officer
Cathy Bodnar – Chief Corporate Compliance and
Privacy Officer
Douglas Elwell – Deputy Chief Executive Officer,
Finance and Strategy
Caleb Hartman – RSM US LLP
Pat Kitchen – RSM US LLP

II.

Jeff McCutchan –General Counsel
Deborah Santana – Secretary to the Board
Tom Schroeder – Director of Internal Audit
John Jay Shannon, MD – Chief Executive Officer
Dean Sorensen – Security Information Officer

Public Speakers
Acting Chairman Hammock asked the Secretary to call upon the registered public speakers.
The Secretary responded that there were none present.

III.

Report from Chief Corporate Compliance and Privacy Officer (Attachment #1)
Cathy Bodnar, Chief Corporate Compliance and Privacy Officer, provided an overview of the information
contained in the Report. The Committee reviewed and discussed the information.
The report included information on the following subjects:
•
•
•
•
•

CountyCare Compliance and Fraud, Waste and Abuse Program Overview
Case Investigation Process
CountyCare Compliance Structure
Examples of Investigations
Fraud, Waste and Abuse (FWA) Metrics

During the discussion of the information on slide 7 of the presentation regarding Fraud, Waste and Abuse
Metrics, Director Junge inquired whether the cases referred to the Illinois Department of Healthcare and Family
Services’ Office of the Inspector General (HFS OIG) can be broken down between network providers and
CCHHS providers. Ms. Bodnar responded affirmatively.

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Audit and Compliance Committee
Friday, June 22, 2018
Page 2

IV.

Action Items
A. Minutes of the Audit and Compliance Committee Meeting, March 22, 2018
Director Gugenheim, seconded by Director Reiter, moved to accept the minutes of the
Audit and Compliance Committee Meeting of March 22, 2018. THE MOTION
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.
B. Any items listed under Sections IV and V

V.

Closed Meeting Items
A. Report from Director of Internal Audit
B. Discussion of Personnel Matters
Director Suleiman Gonzalez, seconded by Director Gugenheim, moved to recess the
open meeting and convene into a closed meeting, pursuant to the following exceptions to
the Illinois Open Meetings Act: 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(1), regarding “the appointment,
employment, compensation, discipline, performance, or dismissal of specific employees
of the public body or legal counsel for the public body, including hearing testimony on a
complaint lodged against an employee of the public body or against legal counsel for the
public body to determine its validity,” and 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(29), regarding “meetings
between internal or external auditors and governmental audit committees, finance
committees, and their equivalents, when the discussion involves internal control
weaknesses, identification of potential fraud risk areas, known or suspected frauds, and
fraud interviews conducted in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards of
the United States of America.”
On the motion to recess the open meeting and convene into a closed meeting, a roll
call was taken, the votes of yeas and nays being as follows:
Yeas:

Directors Gugenheim, Reiter and Suleiman Gonzalez (3)

Nays:

None (0)

Absent: Chairman Hon. Jerry Butler (1)
THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.
Acting Chairman Hammock declared that the closed meeting was adjourned.
Committee reconvened into the open meeting.

VI.

The

Adjourn
As the agenda was exhausted, Acting Chairman Hammock declared the meeting
ADJOURNED.

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Audit and Compliance Committee
Friday, June 22, 2018
Page 3

Respectfully submitted,
Audit and Compliance Committee of the Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
M. Hill Hammock, Acting Chairman

Attest:

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Deborah Santana, Secretary

Requests/Follow-up:
Request:

Regarding Fraud, Waste and Abuse Metrics, request that the report on cases that are referred to HFS
OIG be broken down to reflect whether they involve network providers or CCHHS providers. Page 1

 