. . . CODE EDC 18-04-02-296
Economlc Development-Corporation of the CITY of Detrorr

 

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF MARCH 13, 2018 REGULAR MEETING

RESOLVED, that the minutes of the Regular meeting of March 13, 2018 are
hereby approved and all actions taken by the Directors present at such meeting, as set
forth in such minutes, are hereby in all respects ratified and approved as actions of the
Economic Development Corporation.

April 10, 2018

 

500 Griswold,8uite 2200 Detroit, Michigan 48226 . (313) 963?2940

ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
BOARD OF DIRECTORS REGULAR MEETING
TUESDAY, MARCH 13, 2018 8:30 A.M.

BOARD MEMBERS PRESENT: Marsha Bruhn

BOARD MEMBERS ABSENT:

SPECIAL DIRECTORS
PRESENT:

SPECIAL DIRECTORS
ABSENT:

OTHERS PRESENT:

Kimberly Clayson
Linda Forte

Chris Jackson
Jonathan Quarles
Thomas Stallworth

Maurice Cox (Ex-Officio)

John Naglick (Ex-Officio)

Matthew Roling

Vacancy (due to William Ritsema?s resignation)
Vacancy (due to Monique Claiborne?s resignation)

None

None

Anthony Askew 
Kyla Carisen 
Charlotte Fisher 
Lilly Hamburger 
Gay Hilger 
Malinda Jensen 
Jennifer Kanalos 
Hafsa Khan 
Glen Long 

Chris McClain (Citizen Detroit)
Rebecca Nevin 
Mariangela Piedl 
Erin Porter (Spaceman Mossup Michaels)
Michael Rafferty 



Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit

MINUTES OF THE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
BOARD OF DIRECTORS REGULAR MEETING

TUESDAY, MARCH 13, 2018

DETROIT ECONOMIC GROWTH CORPORATION

500 GRISWOLD, SUITE 2200 - 8:30 A.M.

CALL TO ORDER

Noting that a quorum was present, Chairperson Forte called the Regular meeting of the
Economic Development Corporation Board of Directors to order at 8:35 am.

GENERAL
Approval of Minutes

Ms. Forte asked if there were any additions, deletions or corrections to the minutes of the
February 27, 2018 Regular Board meeting.

Ms. Bruhn stated that she was proposing the following amendments to the minutes:

On the Fifth Amendment to the Tiger Stadium Development Agreement item, the
minutes read that the vote was unanimous and, as she recalls, Mr. Roling was
opposed.

Regarding the discussion on the Parking Management Services for the Riverfront,
she proposed that a paragraph be added to capture the full discussion so that staff
can respond. She also proposed amendment to the last sentence. The additional
paragraph and the amended last sentence should read as follows:

?Additional concerns included the need for some free parking and servicing
the public; consideration of metered spaces as an alternative; and the need
to clarify the objective. Members questioned providing this parking for
downtown employees. is the purpose to draw people to the riverfront or to
maximize revenues?

Subsequent to the discussion, the Board decided that this item should be
tabled and for staff to consider amendments to the proposal in light of
Board member comments."

Board members agreed that the amendments added clarity and took the following action:

On a motion by Ms. Bruhn, seconded by Mr. Stallworth, Resolution Code EDC 18-
02?02?294 was unanimously approved, as amended.

March 13,2018

500 Griswold,SulTe 2200 Detroit, Michigan 48226 (313) 963-2940

PROJECTS

Small Business and Commercial Corridor Revitalization Program: Authorization to
Enter Into New Community Development Block Grant Subrecipient Agreement

Mr. Rafferty advised that, at the request of the City of Detroit (the ?City?) Mayor?s Office,
the Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit is administering
small business and commercial corridor revitalization programs known as Motor City
Match and Motor City Re-Store (the ?Programs?).

Community Development Block Grant funds from the City for Programs
implementation were transferred to the EDC pursuant to previous Community
Development Block Grant subrecipient agreements. There is a need to replenish the
CDBG funding to continue to support the Programs. Subject to City Council approval, the
City?s Housing and Revitalization Department has agreed enter into a new sub-recipient
agreement with the EDC allocating additional CDBG funding to further support the
Programs in the amount of Three Million and 00/100 Dollars for the term
of January 1, 2018 through June 30, 2019 (the ?Agreement?). The proposed scope of
services and budget were included in the Board material as Exhibits A and B, respectfully.

Staff of the EDC recommended that the EDC Board of Directors authorize the execution
of the Agreement. A resolution was also included in the Board material for consideration.

The Board questioned the proposed amount of dollars spent on outreach and engagement
and why it is more than the amount spent on direct services and support that we are
providing.

Mr. Rafferty responded that one of the challenges they face in these programs is getting
the word out in order to get a steady stream of qualified applications for each round. He
discussed the many ways in which the outreach and engagement is being performed and
the results they have seen.

Ms. Bruhn questioned how these new block grant funds relate to what the Board has
already approved for similar services. Mr. Rafferty responded that these funds will go to
pay for the contract that have already been approved. Mr. Rafferty explained that in 2015
the original subrecipient agreement of $4.5 million was approved by the EDC Board and
City Council. There was an amendment of $3 million in 2016. Now that those monies
have exhausted, we are going back and getting another $3 million. This is a formality by
the City and HRD. This resolution is to authorize the execution of the contract for monies
that have already been budgeted.

Mr. Queries requested an itemized breakdown including dollar amounts of outreach and
engagement contracts that the Board has already approved.

Mr. Long pointed out that this is the CBDG budget that does not include the grant money.
A lot of the outreach and engagement is being done with the grant money.

Subsequent to the discussion, the Board took the following action:

March 13, 2018

On a motion by Mr. Stallworth, seconded by Ms. Clayson, Resolution Code EDC
18~03~91-62 was unanimously approved.

Mr. Stallworth requested, as a follow-up, if the Board could get a picture of what the total
amounts are that are going into the program versus outreach.

Motor City Re-Store Recommendations For Round 2 Business Awards

Ms. Hamburger reported that on September 1, 2017, the Motor City Re~Store
program began accepting applications for Round 2 Design and Construction Track
Awards. Motor City Re~Store is a matching facade grant program for existing businesses
in Detroit. The table below describes the levels of award and qualifications.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Awards Awardees must have:
0 Up to $25,000 matching grant per . An existing business
winner (50% cash reimbursement in the city of Detroit
CONSTRUCTION to $25909) .A for
AWARD . Refer to lending partners for Improvements
. Funds ready for
. $2rn year investment
Awards Awardees must have:
0 Up to $10,000 in architectural TA - An existing business
per winner in the city of Detroit
DESIGN . Access to design professionals
AWARD . Refer to lending partners for
financing

 

 

 

 

 

When applications closed on October 1, 2017, the EDC had received 28 applications for
Round 2. This number was a significant drop off from our Round 1 applicant pool (58
applications received). Noting this, we revamped our outreach strategy for Round 3, which
was open from December 1, 2017 through January 2018. When Round 3 closed we
had 112 applicants. in order to maximize our program?s impact and increase the number
of awards granted, 6 ?Construction? track applicants were moved from Round 3 to Round
2 after performing all the due diligence and analysis normally conducted.

The following focuses on the selection and recommendation of awardees for:

. Funded ?Construction" award track receiving cashback grants and
financing assistance

1? CDBG~Funded ?Design? award track receiving cost?shared architectural
design, permitting and bidding assistance for pie-development; and connection
to financing assistance as needed.

First, staff verified business eligibility based on self?reported data submitted in the
application for the following five criteria:

March 13, 2018

 

1. The business is incorporated and has a registered and DUNS priorto receiving
a grant award

2. The business is located in and wishes to remain in Detroit for at least five years

3. The business is majority-owned by a person who is at least 18 years or older

4. The business and all owners are in good standing with the City of Detroit, State of
Michigan and and

5. The business is not part of a franchise.

Second, staff sorted applications into appropriate award tracks and reviewed eligible
business applications to determine finalists. Finalist applicants were identified as follows:

0 ?Construction? track applicants have signed and sealed construction drawings
or ready-toubid projects that do not require construction drawings. in total, eight
(8) finalists were selected.

. ?Design? track applicants are existing Detroit business needing CDBG-funded
architectural design assistance. In total, seventeen (17) ?Design? finalists were
selected.

Third, a team of staff evaluated finalist applications based on six criteria. ?Construction"
and ?Design? applications were scored on a scale of 1400. Selection criteria are as
follows:

Vision and plan
Expenence
Market support
Community benefit
Leverage

Age of Business



Based on the evaluations, EDC staff recommended:

. Eight (8) ?Construction" awardees presented in Exhibit A:
Non?CDBGuFunded ?Construction" awards estimated at $164,700 in an approval
amount not to exceed $200,000.

. Seventeen (17) ?Design? awardees presented in Exhibit B:
CDBG-funded ?Design? awards estimated at $129,000 in an approval amount not
to exceed $170,000.

EDC staff will connect awardees with architects to deliver services to ?Design? awardees
per the CDBG procurement processes. EDC staff will connect awardees to construction
professionals to deliver services to ?Construction? awardees if needed.

The EDC will enter into grant agreements with Round 2 Motor City Re?Store awardees
and facilitate introductions to lending partners to pursue gap financing through
independent sources.

A resolution approving the staff?s recommendation of ?Design? and ?Construction?
awardees was included for the Board?s consideration.

March 13, 2018



Ms. Clayson questioned if there was a typographical error in the amount of the grant for
Green Dot Stables. Ms. Hamburger responded that a zero was left off and the amount
should be $14,000.

Subsequent to the discussion, the Board took the following action:

On a motion by Mr. Stallworth, seconded by Mr. Quarles, Resolution Code E00
18?03-91?61 was unanimously approved.

Mr. Staliworth requested a list of businesses and types, along with a map showing the
geographic location. He also requested that this information be provided in the board
materials for future rounds.

Motor City Match Program Update

Mr. Askew delivered a PowerPoint presentation updating the Board on the Motor City
Match Program metrics and responded to Board members? questions.

Following the presentation, the Board requested an update at a future meeting on staff?s
plan of how to reprogram the dollars that did not go through.

ADMINISTRATION
OTHER MATTERS
PUBLIC COMMENT
ADJOURNMENT

With there being no further business to come before the Board, Ms. Forte adjourned the
meeting at 9:20 am.

March 13, 2018

. . CODE EDC 18-03-02-295
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detron?

 

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF FEBRUARY 27. 2018 REGULAR MEETING

RESOLVED, that the minutes of the Regular meeting of February 27, 2018 are
hereby approved and all actions taken by the Directors present at such meeting, as set
forth in such minutes, are hereby in all respects ratified and approved as actions of the
Economic Development Corporation. 

March 13, 2018 -

500 Griswold,8uite 2200 . Detroit, Michigan 48226 - (313) 963?2940

 . CODE EDC 18-03-91w62
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit

 

SMALL BUSINESS AND COMMERCIAL CORRIDOR REVITALIZATION PROGRAM:
AUTHORIZATION TO ENTER INTO NEW COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK
GRANT SUBRECIPIENT AGREEMENT

WHEREAS, at the request of the City of Detroit (the ?City?) Mayor?s Of?ce, the
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit is administering small
business and commercial corridor revitalization programs known as Motor City Match and
Motor City Re?Store (the ?Programs?); and

WHEREAS, Community Development Block Grant funding from the City
for the Programs implementation that were transferred to the EDC pursuant to Community
Development Block Grant subrecipient agreements has been depleted; and

WHEREAS, subject to City Council approval, the City's Housing and Revitalization
Department has agreed enter into a new sub?recipient agreement with the EDC allocating
additional CDBG funding to further support the Programs in the amount of Three Million
and 00/100 Dollars for the term of January 1, 2018 through June 30,
2019, proposed scope of services and budget of which are attached hereto as Exhibits A
and B, respectfully (the ?Agreement?); and

WHEREAS, the EDC Board of Directors has determined that the Agreement is
appropriate and otherwise consistent with the statutory purposes; and

NOW, THEREFORE, BE lT, RESOLVED, the Agreement is hereby approved.

BE iT FURTHER RESOLVED, that any two Officers, or any one of the Officers and
any one of the Authorized Agents or any two of the Authorized Agents, shail
hereafter have the authority to negotiate and execute the Agreement and all other
documents, contracts, or papers, and take ali actions, necessary or appropriate to
implement the provisions and intent of this resoiution on behalf of the EDC.

BE lT FINALLY RESOLVED, that all of the acts and transactions of any officer or
authorized agent of the EDC, in the name and on behalf of the EDC, relating to matters
contemplated by the foregoing resolutions, which acts would have been approved by the
foregoing resolutions except that such acts were taken prior to execution of these
resolutions, are hereby in all respects confirmed, approved and ratified.

March 13, 2013

500 Griswold,Suite 2200 Detroit, Michigan 48226 (313) 963-2940

Exhibit A
Scope of Work
Economic Development Corporation (DC)
of the City of Detroit
Commercial Corridor Revitalization

The EDC proposes to undertake the following activities in orderto increase economic
activity and physical revitalization of commercial areas throughout the City of Detroit:

1. Attract new small businesses and real estate investment:

a.

EDC will utilize a variety of approaches to encourage new businessesto
locate in commercial corridors throughout the city. These approaches could
include small business competitions, support for temporary businesses,
target marketing to potential prospects, assistance navigating city
processes and the local business support community, as well as other
approaches. These efforts will be targeted to neighborhood- serving
businesses and other businesses that can drive the economy ofthe citywhile
ensuring thatjobs are available for Detroiters.

2. Retain and expand existing small businesses:

a.

EDC will work with community partners and other technical assistance
providers to deliver assistance to small businesses along commercial
corridors. This assistance may include outreach activities, one?on-one
counseling and assistance, seminars, ?nancial assistance, assistance
navigating city processes and the local business support community and
others. Direct assistancemay come in theform of classroom?style setting,
one?on-one assistance, or as a reimbursement to eligible small businesses
to procure necessary technical assistance accounting, marketing, etc).

3. Improve the physical environment along commercial corridors:

a.

EDC will work with City departments and community partners to improve the
physical conditions of commercial corridors. This may include providing
assistance to businesses, property owners, and the City with code
compliance activities, facade improvements, and other activities that
promote a clean and safe environment. 
theareasthattheEDC ultimately works in.

4. Develop new tools to support business attraction, retention and
expansion, and physical investments.

a.

EDC will develop new tools that can help small businesses, property owners,
developers and others make investments in small businesses and real estate
along commercial corridors, typically in rehabilitation and/or minor expansion
of existing buildings of existing building footprint). These tools will

leverage private investment while addressing market gaps in available

financing. The specifics of these and any other potential tool will be

?nancing. The specifics of these and any other potential tool will be
developed in concertwith the City of Detroit. These CDBG-funded tools may
include forgivable equity investments into projects, a loan loss reserve,
interest rate buy-downs for private loans, forgivable loans, or other ?nancial
instruments.

in addition, the EDC may engage in planning and capacity building activities
to support the objectives of the activities described in Exhibit A.

Exhibit 
Budget

Motor City Match and Re?Store - 1/1/2018 -

 

 

6/30/201 9
Task Totai
Outreach and engagement 1,435,115
Project assessment, and technicai
assistance 1,351,323

Direct project costs (loans and grants)
Other commerciai corridor activities
Project administration fee

63

213,562

 

 

?19

Totai 3,000,000

 

 

 

Economic Development Corporation of the City of DW

MOTOR CITY RE-STORE: ROUND 2 AWARDS

WHEREAS, EDC staff has completed due diligence and evaluation for applications
(Applications) in the first round (?Round of the Motor City Re-Store Program; and

WHEREAS, the EDC staff has provided recommendations to the Board, to receive
grant investment subject to EDC Board approval; and

WHEREAS, the EDC Board that the staff recommendation is reasonable and
consistent with the Motor City Re-Store program; and

NOW, THEREFORE BE iT RESOLVED that the EDC Board of Directors, accepts
the current results of the Round 2 evaluation process, and approves the Applications that
have been recommended for Motor City Re-Store awards, attached hereto as Exhibits A
and 8.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the EDC Board of Directors, recommends that
grant amounts not fully allocated each round the remaining funds when quarterly
?Construction? awards total less than $500,000) be repurposed and distributed in future
rounds. in such cases, Staff would have the authority to recommend more than $500,000
in awards in future rounds, subject to the approval of the Board.

BE lT FURTHER RESOLVED, that any two Of?cers, or any one of the Officers and
any one of the Authorized Agents or any two of the EDC's Authorized Agents shall
hereafter have the authority to negotiate and execute all documents, contracts, or other
papers and to take such actions as are necessary or appropriate to implement the
provisions and intent of this resolution.

BE lT RESOLVED, that all of the acts and transactions of any Officer or
Authorized Agent of the EDC, in the name and on behalf of the EDC, relating to matters
contemplated by the foregoing resolutions, which acts would have been approved by the
foregoing resolutions, except that such acts were taken prior to the execution of these
resolutions, are hereby in ail respects confirmed, approved and ratified.

March 13, 2017 

500 Griswold?uite 2200 Deiroii,MiChigon 48226 (313) 9632940

Exhibit A
Recommended ?Construction? Awardees

1. Green Dot Stables
Estimated Construction Award: $14,700
Owner: Jacques Driscoll
Location: 2200 Lafayette, in Hubbard Richard (District 6)
Yeas in business: 5
Description: Green Dot Stables is a restaurant whose focus is on suppling great
quality food and drinks at an affordable price.
Scope: Green Dot Stables would like to update and repave the parking lot and
to the restaurant, including landscaping, so that it upholds the physical
standards that they have everywhere else in their business.

2. Team LBR, LLC
Estimated Construction Award: $25,000
Owner: Larry B. Rivers
Location: 20122 Livernois, in Green Acres (District 2)
Yeas in business: 10
Description: Team LBR LLC is a minority?owned licensed State of Michigan Real
Estate Brokerage firm that specializes in sales and property management of
single?family and multifamily homes in Detroit.
Scope: Team LBR would like to resurface the gated parking lot with asphalt and
restripe parking lot. They also plan to add landscaping to their grounds.

3. Infinite Dzigns, LLC
Estimated Construction Award: $15,000
Owner: Ray Chambliss
Location: 19605 Grand River, in Minock Park (District 1)
Yeas in business: 6
Description: infinite Dzigns is a minority veteran-owned retail apparel and
contract wholesale apparel decoration company. They create one?of~a~kind
apparel products for educational institutions, community organizations, large
corporations, and small businesses. They also sell their own brand of Detroit?
inspired apparel products under the trademark brand name "Detroit Bred" which
they own exclusively.
Scope: infinite Dzigns would like to add a rain garden, showcase windows where
there is currently cinderblock, fencing, awning, exterior walls painting, picnic table
seating area and lighting.

4. Transformation Barbershop
Estimated Construction Award: $25,000
Owner: Kevin Tubbs
Location: 9407 John R., in North End (District 5)
Yeas in business: 5
Description: Transformation is minority veteran?owned. it is not just a
barbershop/hair salon, it's a community space that hosts several community
events annually in the open park behind the building and the shop has helped
attract other businesses to the retail center, improving the economic development

?(and the quality oflife around Boston} Edison and Arden Park}.

Scope: Transformation Barber Shop will receive exterior improvements along with
5 other tenants in their building. The improvements include corrugated metal
siding, awnings, signage and decorative lighting, landscaping, storm water
drainage within the sidewalks and green improvements such as solar safety
lighting. Murals, bicycle racks, and exterior seating areas for business patrons or
the public and also part of the plans.

. Rebound Design Build

Estimated Construction Award: $25,000

Owner: Steve Harris

Location: 9413 John R., in North End (District 5)

Yeas in business: 5

Description: Rebound is a minority veteran~owned full-service design and build
firm offering preliminary conceptual design, project design, interior design and
space planning through ?nal construction.

Scope: Rebound will receive exterior improvements along with 5 other tenants in
their building. The improvements include corrugated metal siding,
awnings, signage and decorative lighting, landscaping, storm water drainage
within the sidewalks and green improvements such as solar safety lighting. Murals,
bicycle racks, and exterior seating areas for business patrons or the public and
also part of the plans.

. Richard Bennett Associates

Estimated Construction Award: $25,000

Owner: Richard Bennett

Location: 470 Brainard, in Midtown (District 6)

Yeas in business: 18

Description: Richard Bennett Associates is a minority-owned sculpture design
and custom fabrication firm working in wood and metals. The company has
serviced the design community for over 40 years, working on projects such as the
Charles H. Wright Museum, DlA~Mott Collage, Woodward Garden Theater, and
Midtown lnc.

Scope: Mr. Bennett will replace the lower level windows and entry doors, restore
limestone details over windows, replace sidewalks, and open windows on the front
of the building, exposing studio gallery of arts and design work to street and foot
traffic. He also homes to develop a mid? to large scale sculpture court on the side
lot with pads and lighting to create a world class destination venue for the arts.

. Robinson Furniture

Estimated Construction Award: $15,000

Owner: Scott Bradley

Location: 3180 East Jefferson, in Rivertown (District 5)

Yeas in business: 7

Description: Robinson is a minority?owned retail furniture store that sells all types
of furniture, appliances, tires, rims, and lawn/snow equipment.

Scope: Robinson Furniture would like new and updated signage.

8. The Final Kut
Estimated Construction Award: $20,000
Owner: Kevin lngram
Location: 13303 West Seven Mile, in Greenwich (District 2)
Yeas in business: 20
Description: For two decades, The Final Kut has not oniy kept the community
groomed, but has actively been committed to giving back by providing free
barbering services to low income families, free health screenings on site provided
by the Detroit Department of Health, and voter registration. The Final Kut is a
minority?owned business. The shop has been recognized for service excellence
by Native Detroiter Magazine and The Michigan Chronicle.
Scope: The scope of this project includes an awning with LED lighting, new
signage, exterior lighting around the building, new gutters, solar panel for the roof,
a bike rack, and sidewalk repaving.

EXHIBIT 
Recommended ?Design? Awardees

 

Years in Demographic Est. Award

Business Name Business Type business Status Neighborhood (Design)
residential rehab

Annointed Construction, LLC construction ?rm 15 MBE Bagley 7,200.00
plumbing supply and McDougail-

Atlas Plumbing Supply Co. service center 82 Hunt 5 10,000.00

Belle isle Pizza pizza parlor 2 MBE West Village 10,000.00
new and used auto
parts supplier and

Crash Auto Parts, LLC salvage yard 4 - Boynton 7,200.00
graphic design and
commercial printing

Clear Images shop 17 MWBE St. Marys 6,000.00
financial services

Dolex Dollar Express company 9 MBE Springweiis 5 8,000.00

Grootka, Inc. DBA Lager bar, restaurant, music

House venue 10 - Corktown 10,000.00

Evergreen

Headliners Barber Shop barber shop 15 MVBE Lahser 5 6,000.00

Jefferson Chevrolet DBA auto dealership and

Trader Ray Tire Center service center 81 Rivertown 6,000.00
property management

Investments and rehab company 4 MBE Coliege Park 5 7,200.00

MG Income Tax income tax and

Multiservices, inc. financial services 13 MBE Southwest 10,000.00
real estate and
property management

Morales Enterprises company 15 MWBE Springwells 6,000.00
100-year?old

People's Restaurant restaurant supply Eastern

Equipment Co. company 100 - Market 5 7,200.00

Rivers Realty, Inc. Rivers University

Investment real estate brokerage 41 MVBE District 10,000.00
childcare and

The Neighborhood community health

Schoolhouse facility 8 MWBE Banglatown 6,000.00
dance and fitness

The Studio facility 2 MWBE Banglatown 4,200.00

Joy
5,909.99 .

.jilmeout orts Bar

   

. 

 

MWBE, 

 

 

 

   

512900000

