Chicago Board of Health
Meeting Summary: January 17, 2018
DePaul Center, 333 South State Street

Roll Call
Board Members Present
Carolyn C. Lopez, M.D., President
Melanie Dreher, RN, PhD.
Caswell A. Evans, Jr., D.D.S., M.P.H.
Victor M. Gonzalez
Steven K. Rothschild, M.D.
Board Members Absent
Adele Joy Cobbs, M.D.
Horace E. Smith, M.D.
Joseph B. Starshak
Juan M. Calderon

For the Department
Julie Morita, M.D., Commissioner

 Chicago Board of Health
Meeting Summary: January 17, 2018
DePaul Center, 333 South State Street
Call to Order: The meeting was called to order at 9:13 a.m.
Approval of Minutes: December 2017 minutes were unanimously approved.
Commissioner’s Update:
In honor of Martin Luther King Jr.’s birthday this week,
Commissioner Morita began her update with one of her favorite quotes: “Of all the forms of
inequality, injustice in health care is the most shocking and inhumane.” ― Martin Luther King
Jr. Commissioner Morita mentioned, she thought this is a good reminder of CDPH’s vision,
which is a city of thriving communities where ALL residents are able to live healthier lives.
CDPH recognizes the major health disparities along ethnic, sexual orientation and
socioeconomic lines, and CDPH remains committed to closing those gaps. As we reflect on 2017
and the work that lies ahead in 2018, I am hopeful and eager to continue our fight, alongside you,
for our communities.
Recap significant health improvements reported in 2017:
• Teen Births: Chicago’s teen birth rate has dropped to 27.5 births per 1,000, the lowest number
since CDPH started tracking teen births
• HIV Diagnoses: Chicago saw 839 residents newly diagnosed with HIV, the lowest number
reported since 1990 and down more than 20% since 2010. This is a significant first step in our
new Getting to Zero effort.
• Breast Health Disparities: According to a report from the Metropolitan Breast Cancer Task
Force, Chicago is the only city with a significant African American population to be effectively
closing the gap between black and white women when it comes to breast cancer mortality.
• Youth Smoking: The December 2016 survey found that 9.7 percent of 18- to 20-year-olds
reported smoking. In 2015, that figure was 15.2 percent, immediately prior to raising the tobacco
purchasing age to 21.
2017 National Recognition
CDPH was honored both locally and nationally as a model health department leading through
innovative programs, policies and campaigns. Among this year’s accolades:
· CityHealth Gold Medal
· Best Place for Your Uterus
· Innovative Health Department of the Year
· Harvard University’s Top 25 Innovator
Grants
To date, CDPH has received 31 grant awards in 2017, totaling more than $83 million for the
City. We are awaiting word from both the State and CDC on a handful of remaining 2017
awards.
2018 Reminders to Get Vaccinated
Measles
On January 10, an international traveler with a confirmed case of measles arrived at Chicago
O’Hare International Airport and departed on a domestic flight. The Illinois Department of
Public Health (IDPH) issued a press release to inform the public of the situation. As I'm sure you
all saw the news frenzy about this, it had the potential to cause a lot of unnecessary alarm. CDPH
was available to speak to the media and help lessen any concerns and is working closely with
IDPH and the CDC to contact any residents who may have been on the flight. As you may
know, the vaccine that protects people from measles is a standard childhood vaccine, and
travelers who received the vaccine as a child are generally protected. This is a good reminder
about how important it is to ensure the residents of the City of Chicago are fully vaccinated. Note
there is no risk to the general public.

 Chicago Board of Health
Meeting Summary: January 17, 2018
DePaul Center, 333 South State Street
Flu
Influenza activity has increased as reminder; we recommend that people who have not yet
received a flu vaccine do so. It would be effective for the rest of the season, which typically lasts
through April.
Strengthening Environmental Protection
As the Trump administration rolls back environmental standards, CDPH is adding ten new
staff—a 37% increase in our program. The expansion emphasizes air quality through oversight
of activities that emit pollutants, helping protect residents from asthma and other health
problems. The new inspectors will also help ensure fuel storage tanks are installed properly,
dangerous materials are safely stored and businesses are deterred from illegally dumping
hazardous waste.
 Updated fees on waste transfer stations and the generation of debris, as well as higher fines
on fly dumping and other violations, provide revenue above and beyond the costs of new
staff.
 Updated and modified fees for food protection inspections will also provide revenue and
beyond the costs of new staff.
 New Efforts to Protect Southeast Side Communities. In late December, Mayor Rahm
Emanuel and CDPH announced new efforts to protect Southeast Side communities from air
pollution created by industrial facilities. As a result of community feedback and after
numerous revisions of the proposal, CDPH has accepted a strict, robust, and protective
revised "fugitive dust plan" to increase S.H. Bell’s manganese dust control measures and
more stringently protect the air quality for residents living near their Southeast Side facility.
 In the revised plan S.H. Bell has agreed to:
•No longer store manganese outdoors
•Suspend loading and unloading of manganese during periods of high winds
•Take significant abatement measures to ensure manganese dust does not leave the facility
•Construct new on-site equipment to minimize the amount of dust that will leave the facility
CDPH will continue to monitor the facility to ensure continued compliance with city rules and
work with the surrounding community. We expect all companies to comply with our strict
environmental standards and are prepared to take all appropriate steps necessary to protect our
residents. In addition to holding S.H. Bell accountable, CDPH denied a request by Watco for
special exemptions from air monitoring requirements in the City’s Bulk Material Regulations.
Chicago’s current bulk material regulations— for storage and handling—are among the strongest
in the nation.
Medical Countermeasure Mission
CDPH's Hospital Preparedness Program (HPP) and Public Health Emergency Preparedness
(PHEP) Pharmacists, Alexis Beyer, Michael Robbins and Elisabeth Weber, recently published an
article about pre-positioned antibiotics at Chicago hospitals in support of the Medical
Countermeasure Mission. We have copies and can email an electronic copy, if you wish.
False Alarm in Hawaii
As a reminder, CDPH works closely with Office of Emergency Management and
Communications (OEMC). OEMC provides the City with services to strengthen and protect the
lives and property in the City of Chicago. Today, CDPH is offering a Trauma 101 training and
OEMC’s staff will be in attendance.

 Chicago Board of Health
Meeting Summary: January 17, 2018
DePaul Center, 333 South State Street
Comments by the Board President: Dr. Lopez mentioned, she had time to ponder on life during
the holidays and will explain later during the meeting under New Business. Dr. Lopez welcomed the
students and a reporter and provided an overview of the board’s history and explained the board’s
advisory role in matters of infectious disease and health issues affecting public health.
Policy Update: Jesse Lava provided the following policy updates:
MSM blood donations
As mentioned last month, Ald. Tunney introduced a resolution with our support calling on the FDA
to allow men who have sex with men to donate blood. We have now had a hearing on it, with
Antonio King testifying for CDPH, as did groups such as the AIDS Foundation of Chicago, and it
passed out of committee unanimously. Ald. Tunney called it “insulting” and Ald. Lopez called it
“immoral.”
Flexible supportive housing
The City Council has now passed out of committee an ordinance to create and invest in a flexible
housing subsidy pool, which would pair housing subsidies with social services for those who are now
homeless. As you know, housing is a root cause of people’s health—and Healthy Chicago 2.0 has
places a priority on addressing root causes rather than just symptoms of poor health outcomes. The
evidence shows supportive housing reduces incarceration, time in shelters, hospital visits, and
ambulance runs. Meanwhile, we get better health outcomes and more housing stability. CDPH
Managing Deputy Commissioner Megan Cunningham answered questions from aldermen.
Medicaid work requirements
The Trump administration is letting states require Medicaid recipients to get a job. Anyone who is
not disabled, a caregiver, or student would be cut off from healthcare unless they are able to find
work. Only about 9% of working age Medicaid recipients lack a job and don’t fall into one of those
exceptions. The figure could be attributable to the difficulty of finding work in certain areas. This
change is the latest in a series of steps the administration has taken to weaken the ACA, including
shortening the enrollment window, repealing the mandate, expanding access to plans that don’t meet
quality standards and moving toward allowing insurance companies to sell policies across state lines.
Presentation: “Chronic Disease Prevention,” Kate McMahon, Director of Chronic Disease
Prevention & Health Promotion
Old Business: None
New Business: Dr. Lopez explained, earlier she mentioned, she had opportunity to ponder on few
items, specifically: how the Board is currently working, new challenges and new board members.
The idea of having a board retreat to provide an opportunity for members to discuss and review their
work and provide new board members with the tools to better assist CDPH. Dr. Lopez added that
it’s been a while since the Board had an off-site retreat. Board members supported having a retreat
and suggested notifying Jesse Lava or Steve Berlin.
Public Comment: Recommendations to prevent diseases at adult day care: policies, screening
questions and telemedicine.
Adjourn: The meeting adjourned at 9:20 a.m.
Next Board Meeting: Feb 21, 2018, 9:00 a.m.

 