MINUTES OF MEETING
WAYNE COUNTY ELECTION COMMISSION
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 3, 2016 – 1:00 P.M.
COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL BUILDING - ROOM 700C
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

Call to Order:

The meeting was called to order at 1:05 p.m., Wednesday, August 3,
2016.

Members present: Honorable Freddie G. Burton, Jr., Chief Judge, Probate Court
Honorable Cathy M. Garrett, Secretary- Wayne County Clerk
Honorable Eric Sabree, Member – Wayne County Treasurer
Members absent:

None

Also present:

Janet Anderson-Davis, Assistant Corporation Counsel
Delphine G. Oden, Director, Wayne County Elections

Agenda item:

Consideration of Agenda approval.
Board action on agenda item: Chair Burton requested a motion
to approve the agenda. Member Sabree, duly supported by
Member Garrett, moved to adopt the agenda as submitted. The
motion was adopted unanimously by a voice vote.

Agenda item:

Approval of Minutes of July 14, 2016
Board action on agenda item: Chair Burton requested a motion
to approve the minutes of the meeting held on July 14, 2016.
Member Sabree, duly supported by Member Garrett, moved to
approve the minutes of the meeting held on July 14, 2016. The
motion was adopted unanimously by a voice vote.

Agenda item:

Consideration of request for Name Designation – Georgia
Lemmons – Detroit Community School Board Candidate
Asst. Coporation Counsel Anderson-Davis gave a summary of MCL
168.696, which indicates that if two candidates for the same office
have the same or similar surname, then one of them may ask for a
ballot designation.
Chair Burton made a comment that the request was offered by the
candidate’s spouse. He mentioned that the candidate is aware that
many signs and literature have the same surname, without a first
name, and that she believes it may compromise her ability to win

 the election.
Board action on agenda item: Chair Burton requested a motion
regarding the consideration of the request for name designation for
Georgia Lemmons, Detroit Community School Board Candidate.
Member Garrett, duly supported by Member Sabree, moved to
approve the request of the designation of “Certified Teacher” for
Georgia Lemmons, Detroit Community School Board Candidate on
the November 8, 2016 General Election Ballot. YEAS: Garrett,
Sabree. NAYS: Burton. The motion was adopted by a voice vote.
Agenda item:

New Business. Asst. Corporation Counsel Anderson-Davis
indicated that the plaintiff in the Davis v. Bradshaw case filed a
notice of appeal with the 6th Circuit Court of Appeals.
The judge denied the TR order in the White case. Mr. Patterson,
the attorney representing Robert Davis, did not file a brief. The
defendants have until the 15th to file a response to his motion for a
preliminary injunction, and the county has until that date to file a
response to his brief. Since he has not filed a brief, the court may
dismiss Robert Davis or have a telephone conference to decide
how to proceed.
Denise Barr, the attorney representing the State in the Bradshaw
case, indicated that the state is opposed to the county setting forth
its 11th amendment immunity defense.

Agenda item:

Public Comment. None.

Agenda item:

Adjournment.
Board action on agenda item: Chair Burton requested a motion
to adjourn. Member Garrett, duly supported by Member Sabree,
moved to adjourn the meeting. The motion was adopted
unanimously by a voice vote.
Meeting adjourned at 1:12 p.m.

 