MINUTES
Belle Isle Park Advisory Committee Meeting
Friday, July 13, 2018
Location: Belle Isle Nature Center
Meeting called to order at 9:03 a.m.
Roll Call and Excused Absences

EXCUSED ABSENCES
Bradley Dick
PRESENT FOR BIPAC
Michele Hodges, Chair
Sommer Woods
Michael Curis
Bud Denker
Bryan Barnhill
Rev. Lonnie Peek
DNR STAFF PRESENT
Ron Olson, DNR, PRD
Scott Pratt, PRD, Field OPS
Jacob Brown, PRD, Belle Isle Park
Darlisa Rickman, PRD, Belle Isle Park
Amanda Treadwell, PRD, Belle Isle Park
Lt. Michael Shaw, MSP
Lt. Joe Molnar, DNR, LED
APPROVAL FOR EXCUSED ABSENCES
Motion:
Bud Denker
Seconded:
Michael Curis
Excused Absences approve
REVIEW AND APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Motion:

Chair Hodges requested approval of the June 21, 2018 meeting minutes, Michael
Curis moved to approve with Bud Denker seconding the motion. Minutes for
June 21, 2018 approved with no corrections.
BELLE ISLE PARK ADVISORY COMMITTEE
MINUTES – July 13, 2018
1

 Chair Hodges introduced Ryan Abney, Event Manager, Belle Isle Boat House, thanking her for
the hospitality and patience in hosting the BIPAC meeting. Hodges thanked her peers for their
patience with the change in the meeting date.
PRESENTATION
Detroit Grand Prix Proposal
Ron Olson, we were informed that the Grand Prix decided to present a renewal proposal. They
want to extend the Grand Prix into the future. Today they will present their proposal; and then
there will be an evaluation period. Copies are available of the process we will use; another
meeting will then be held on August 2, 2018 at 6:00 p.m. Michael Montri, General Manager for
the Detroit Grand Prix is here to make the proposal presentation.
Michael Montri, General Manager, Detroit Grand Prix
Mr. Montri thanked the BIPAC, DNR and those present for their time and participation in
viewing the proposal. Montri stated that “we would love to get to a place where everybody has
their position but understands and respects the others position.” Montri further stated that they
feel the good the event does outweigh any challenges. People have associated racing and Detroit
for 29 years, 19 of those have been on Belle Isle. The latest iteration began in 2007 after the
Super Bowl; when Super Bowl organizers stated, “Hey it would be great to have a world class
event every year in Detroit to showcase the city”. At that time Belle Isle was in a tough spot
with basic city services and maintenance the city just couldn’t afford to provide.
The mission statement of the Grand Prix states: “To promote the revitalization of the
economically depressed areas of the City of Detroit and to raise funds for the preservation and
improvement of the City of Detroit”. Montri stated this is just as relevant today as it was back
in 2006 when the Grand Prix was formed. As we went through our internal process to determine
whether we wanted to make the proposal that mission statement was the first thing we looked at.
We don’t take this lightly; Belle Isle is a sacred place. Generations upon generations have grown
up here, we understand that we have a responsibility as stewards of Belle Isle to make sure that
it’s right for park goers and people to enjoy this park now and into the future.
We feel that we have that intention and we have listened to people. Listening started with our
parking at Henderson and Owens parks in Detroit then we moved our parking from there and
continued our listening sessions in September. There were several key points that came up in
that listening session that we took away. We started to address them in no order, access is the
first one that we heard from the public. You wanted better access both before, after, and during
our set up on the island. Our plan this year to somehow leave Sunset Pointe open to the edge of
the road and the river; we delayed our build out there. We left unobstructed views from the roads
and river, up until May 13th which was Mother’s Day. I think that was overall positive and that
came directly from feedback. The other thing we did, we tested our operational buildout and
allowed for Central Avenue to stay open, so we had regular ingress and egress on and off the
BELLE ISLE PARK ADVISORY COMMITTEE
MINUTES – July 13, 2018
2

 island for a week longer than ever before. That meant it went through Memorial Day, so it was
easier to get on and off the island during Memorial Day weekend.
The other thing we really took away, was concern with the timeline and we will continually work
towards shortening that. For this year 2018, we were on the island 30 days fewer than we were in
2015. So, 65 days total and faster than we operated previously. Montri shared a chart showing
the Grand Prix is on par with other public motor sports events.
The other key concern that came was our footprint. This year 2018, we removed all barriers,
bridges and equipment once stored year-round by Harbor Master and we moved it off the island.
That was based directly on your feedback on this process. It will no longer be stored here yearround. Another concern of the year-round footprint was the paddock. I’m going to address that
as part of our proposal later in the presentation.
The final concern was an alternate location because everybody said, “what about having it
somewhere else?” We did do some analysis and we looked around the City of Detroit. We
found, for various reasons; size of the land, cost of the building out a circuit, issues with basic
logistics for instance in downtown Detroit, that there really wasn’t a good answer for an
alternative location.
The Grand Premiere has assisted the Belle Isle Conservancy with operations and provided for
year-round Aquarium free of charge. This year, a special dedicated portion of that money raised,
goes to the Scott Fountain. We do community engagement such as our “Free Prix Day”. We
open our venue on Friday and let everyone in free of charge. We had a couple thousand people
for both of those events, plus volunteers. We are supportive of everything you do, and supportive
of Detroit.
We do many educational initiatives with the Detroit Public Schools and other schools, and we
have donated over $20,000 in recreational passports to get onto Belle Isle since 2014. We also
contribute on an annual basis, almost $20,000 in donated tickets to charitable organizations in the
area to be used enabling them to use that money for their needs during charitable functions.
What we are proposing is a 3-year contract with the option of a 2-year extension. We are also
proposing a 50% increase in our event fees to $300,000 annually. In addition, a $50,000
contribution to a project annually, to be determined by the DNR. In addition to that a $35,000
contribution to the DNR for projects in the paddock. We will continue the maintenance that we
did this year on the island. We are proposing that we start 7 days later than we did this year.
That means 39 days before the event weekend. That would take us from where we were, in the
middle of the pack, to the front when it comes to miles per day of barrier and fencing evacuation.
Most of these improvements happened because of feedback we received; we want to continue
that, we want to continue to improve.

BELLE ISLE PARK ADVISORY COMMITTEE
MINUTES – July 13, 2018
3

 We are all in this room because of our passion for Belle Isle, we want to work together to find
ways to improve this event and improve Belle Isle going forward. Montri ended his
presentation with “we are a world class team, a world class event and this, is the Motor City.”
Questions and Answers followed:
Michael Curis: The take down time went up next year vs. this year is there a reason for the?
Montri: Yes, the reason behind that is because we are still unsure of where the
barriers are going to go if we are approved for the 2019 event. Right now, they are
sitting across the way in the lot. As the city has told us we could get called in time to
move those out of there, so if for instance those barriers get moved further away it takes
longer to go back and forth, in addition that 16 days is the result of some really, really
good weather.
Bryan Barnhill: Just out of curiosity why is 2015 the baseline year? Was 2015 the first year
you started to measure the time it took for set-up and takedown? What was the takedown time in
2006 per se? Or was this just the longest take down time from 2015 and earlier on?
Montri: I don’t have the data for 2015, but I could get it for you if you’d like it. 2016
was my first year.
Bryan Barnhill: Ok thanks.
Lonnie Peek: Reiterate you’re squeezing it down 6 more days?
Montri: 7 more days on load in and 4 greater on the isle so it’s a net of 3 from 2018,
12 shorter than 2017.
Sommer Woods: So, I’m going to comment and then I’m done with this conversation. There
were conversations had and I talked to some of the members and obviously people reference the
connection of myself to Robert Penske and not being able to be objective. One, we are merely
ceremonial and have nothing to do with the decision-making process. This is the DNR’s decision
so let’s get that straight. Two, the conversation of who I worked for there was something missing
in the immediate conversation. I have been coming here with my grandfather since I was 5 yrs.
old, I often drive here, I have a condo across the street and yes, I did work with the Grand Prix in
2007. The irony of it is in 2007 the only opposition that we had was more from a labor/union
perspective. There was no one that had feedback about doing some things in this portion of the
City to make this a park that everybody wants to be in.
But I just love conversation in the City of Detroit meeting for this park that now that the DNR is
apart of it and people feel safe, it is now something people like to advocate on behalf of. So, I
hope this passion of advocacy of things that people who are Detroiters such as myself, who have
been here through the hard times and good times are just as passionate about the other things that
are just as important to our community. Because I did not see this when I worked with the Grand
Prix in 2007 and 2008.
BELLE ISLE PARK ADVISORY COMMITTEE
MINUTES – July 13, 2018
4

 So, I’d just like to go on the record for that. And going forward I will recuse myself from any
comments and conversations about my place as a born and bred Detroiter not to address the
renewed advocacy to do with Detroit. Thank you.

GENERAL UPDATES
Ron Olson spoke about the Grand Prix update presented. Olson reminded those present that
copies of what he summarized is available.
Now that the proposal has been presented there will be an official use permit application that will
be sent to us, that is required, that will be in much more detail. We will review the application
between now and our target date of July 23, 2018. Once the application is received and reviewed,
the application will be posted online.
An email address has been issued and appears on the handout; this mailbox will be available
online for anyone who would like to comment. On August 2, 2018 at 6:00 p.m., the Belle Isle
Advisory Committee will convene a special meeting specifically to address this. The location is
yet to be determined. The outcome of a tentative decision will be made at that time; allowing the
committee a chance to ask questions and comment. After that time a final decision will be made.
On the website you will find an overview of key items the DNR will be looking for in review of
the proposal.
Chair Hodges shared the Conservancy’s position or approach as follows: It is the DNR’s
decision and ultimately their role to evaluate this proposal. The Conservancy wants to fulfill its
mission to ensure that Belle Isle is a viable institution for a very long time. We have conducted
our own third-party research relative to other races and the peer group of the Grand Prix, fees
that are paid in other communities, lost revenue on the island. Allowing us to be informed
decision makers as we go forward.
In terms of the questions regarding whether I have a conflict of interest in this process, I believe
very firmly in the significance and importance of the best quality leadership which must be built
on a foundation of integrity and ethics. I will fulfill that obligation every day to that end, I have
consulted with our attorney to determine whether I do have a conflict of interest. And the
determination is that I do not have a conflict of interest and can fully engage in this conversation
and in any resolutions about whether in favor or opposed to the race.
The reasons for that are one: It’s very clear that the relationship between the Conservancy and
the Grand Prix has been disclosed and that a financial benefit exists to the Conservancy. So, the
public is fully aware of that. We have the duty and obligation to manage this park, not in the
context of day to day, but in our mission and therefore have a more holistic view rather than an
episodic one. We understand the overall needs of the park and need a voice when there is
something significant happening on the island. Particularly because we are the philanthropists
and primary fundraisers on the island; if there is going to be a gain or loss of revenue on that.

BELLE ISLE PARK ADVISORY COMMITTEE
MINUTES – July 13, 2018
5

 In terms of my obligation as a member of the Belle Isle Park Advisory Committee, to fulfill
those obligations recusing myself at this point would disable my ability to do that.
Rev. Lonnie Peek stated that he feels we have explained this enough and need to move on. This
has been explained repeatedly and I think now we are at the point where we need to move on.
DNR Law Enforcement Update
Lt. Molnar shared that with the hot weather there have been lots of visitors to the beach. This has
caused bottlenecking, so we have been focused on that area. There has been some towing and
issuing of citations to keep the beach area flowing. Currently working on different ideas to
reduce overcrowding in that area so everyone can attend weddings and other functions.
Lt. Shaw stated that there were zero arrests during the fireworks or the Grand Prix event. Further
stating that parking is a huge issue and will need to be addressed. Lt. Shaw did share briefly that
a park ranger was involved in an incident; that is the only incident there has ever been with the
staff on the island.
Lonnie Peek: Did I hear you right that there was NO arrest during those 2 events?
Lt. Shaw: Yes, sir no arrests and the island was at capacity for the fireworks.
Lonnie Peek stated; I just wanted to point out that we had thousands and thousands of people on
the island for these events and there was NO arrests.
Michael Curis further reiterated that Belle Isle is now the most visited state park in the nation we
have increased capacity by 100 percent over 4 years. Last year we had over 4 million people
visit the park, let me put that in context. That is more people than every Tigers home game,
every Pistons home game, every Lions home game, and every Red Wings home game combined.
On the island we appreciate the law enforcement.
Park Operations Update
Karis Floyd provided the following for the committee:
• There are still challenges with trash removal
• We have professional positions available to be filled
• Belle Isle was chosen to receive a pass chair; this will help us to be more ADA accessible
and friendly. The chair will be rolled out on July 27, 2018 with media presence.
Jacob Brown stated we are still hiring for seasonal positions.
Sommer Woods: Would like to know about the timeline for the bridge and the egress with the
work being done. At the crossover it is hard for people that are walking and running to get across
safely.
Scott Pratt: MDOT is not here to comment

BELLE ISLE PARK ADVISORY COMMITTEE
MINUTES – July 13, 2018
6

 Bryan Barnhill asked for the available positions to be repeated, and what the efforts are to promote
job availability.
Jacob Brown responded that the jobs got posted yesterday. The janitor cleans the island
in general and buildings such as the Flynn and the Casino. The Ranger job is essentially
a catch all job where they work 7 or 8 months but that’s not to say they won’t work for a
longer season. For summer help we are looking for maintenance staff to clean the island,
build tables and clean shelters, bathrooms and for booth workers to sell passes to guests
that enter the park. We have posted on our Facebook page, posted on the bridge, word of
mouth, and community engagement meetings.
Bud Denker stated that with the shortage of people, we appreciate those that are on the island
utilizing the rubbish bins. If you know of someone that needs employment we can use help in
keeping this place clean, especially at the end of a hot summer weekend. So great job by you guys.
Scott Pratt stated he received an answer back from MDOT that the bridge work is
supposed to finish up by the end of this month and they are looking into addressing that
issue.
Infrastructure Updates
Amanda Treadwell (w) provided a written update, included in committee members packets.
Outreach and Upcoming Events
Darlisa Rickman stated it’s been very busy with weddings and family reunions. The following
events are coming up:
• July 15, 2018
Annual Kite Festival
10:00 a.m. – 6:00 p.m.
• July 22, 2018
MObig concert at the bandshell
• July 29, 2018
MObig concert at the bandshell
Bud Denker: How did the Metro Youth day go? And the street naming ceremony?
Darlisa Rickman: Both went very well. A lot of people came out from the community
and thanked him
Bryan Barnhill: How might the public be able to access the events calendar?
Darlisa Rickman: The events are published on the website Michigan.gov, our Facebook
page or I can be contacted directly at the email DNR-BelleIsleParkEvents@michigan.gov
Bryan Barnhill: I am also interested how you would compare the overall participation in events
from this summer vs. last summer. I am just interested in if there is an overall increase.

BELLE ISLE PARK ADVISORY COMMITTEE
MINUTES – July 13, 2018
7

 Darlisa Rickman: I don’t have figures in front of me, but I can tell you that they are
continually growing from the point that we arrived until now. We get lots of inquiries
and requests. We are not always able to fulfill them, but we do 250 weddings and about
175 special events.
Bryan Barnhill: I’m not sure that we anticipated the activity and sheer volume of people that
are interested in the park. I want us to take that into account when we venture forth into our next
phase of planning. Just practical things. If we are maxed out at picnic shelters should we
investigate building more? How are we going to start planning for more use? Just as a standing
item moving forward.
Sommer Woods: Two points with that is I asked last time how we are promoting these great
events that we have here like the Kite fest and, we want to make sure to have the proper
manpower in place regarding these events and handling these events we should be mindful of
that
Belle Isle Conservancy Update
Chair Hodges introduced Sarah Early, Founder and Chair of the Board of Directors for the Belle
Isle Conservancy (BIC). Other staff present were Kate Bebe, Brittani Rhodes and Danielle
Jackson.
Chair Hodges shared the following upcoming events:
•
•
•
•
•

August 11, 2018
Celebration of the Aquariums birthday
The Aquarium will hold “The Deeper Dive” on August 18, 2018 from 5:00 – 7:00 p.m.;
with a Congo theme.
The Belle Isle Park Advisory Committee meeting will be held August 16, 2018 from
6:00 – 8:00 p.m.
September 11, 2018
“The Garden Party”
“Polish the Jewel” Luncheon will be held on October 11, 2018

Chair Hodges thanked Reverend Lonnie Peek for featuring the “Keep Belle Isle Beautiful
Program” on Live in the D.
Chair Hodges stated she attended the Michigan State Parks Advisory Committee and enjoyed
traveling to Lansing for that. The Belle Isle Strategic Management Plan was formally adopted at
this meeting.
• Development Associate position available and 4 new interns for the Conservancy
• Kite fest was the winner of the “Belle Isle Soup” last year
• This year is the new addition of the Philharmonic Orchestra from 2-4pm

BELLE ISLE PARK ADVISORY COMMITTEE
MINUTES – July 13, 2018
8

 PUBLIC COMMENTS (3 minutes each)
Michael Betzold:

Feels that the DNR abuses the public trust and violates their own
mission statement by endorsing the Grand Prix on Belle Isle.

Angela Lugo Thomas:

Grew up coming to Belle Isle and loves the island and is heavily
emotionally involved with the island. Volunteers on the island
as well and would like to stop selling Belle Isle to the highest
bidder. Stop allowing the Grand Prix on Belle Isle it is a public
park.

Jamie Benigna:

Why does it take 68 days for set-up and clean up when other cities
that do Formula 1 racing on public streets do it in half the time.

Bryan Barnhill: There are a lot of new people here and just to explain the process of
public comment meetings they are not really designed to ask questions and get immediate
answers, though there are answers to be had. So, to that benefit I would like for someone
who could possibly answer these questions to identify themselves.
Chair Hodges added, what Mr. Barnhill is saying is that we want to make sure that you
all get the answers to the questions. So, if you’d like to reserve some of your time within
your 3 min. to possibly get an answer or they may raise their hand, so you can know
where they are at and who you can reference for any answers to your questions.
Cheyenne Jones:

Loves and supports the races on Belle Isle.

Cedric Johnson:

Volunteers with the Detroit Grand Prix and heavily supports the
Grand Prix. Would like to keep the race on the island. Feels it is a
world class event.

Bailey Lininger:

Detroit Audubon opposes the renewal of the Belle Isle Grand Prix
contract on Belle Isle because Belle Isle is a state park whose goal
is to connect citizens to nature, not to benefit a private company.
The Grand Prix limits access to the island during peak migration
season and peak park use season. The Grand Prix threatens a
fragile ecosystem on Belle Isle and should be taken elsewhere.

Marc Fortier:

Pro Detroit Grand Prix. Keep the race on the Island.

Ray Pratt:

Believes that the improvements that have been seen the last couple
of years is a result both directly and indirectly of the Grand Prix.
Feels improvements will continue.

BELLE ISLE PARK ADVISORY COMMITTEE
MINUTES – July 13, 2018
9

 Phil Talbert:

Has seen the benefit that the Grand Prix brings to the small
businesses. There are many opportunities for young people as well
to work with well-seasoned professionals. These events matter,
and it changes the perspective and view of how people see the City
of Detroit.

Jennifer Fassbender:

Would like the car races to be eliminated on Belle Isle. For those
of us that are not so fortunate to go on vacation Belle Isle is a
refuge and it is one of the one and only natural spaces used for a
car race. Against the Grand Prix.

Mark Reynolds:

Set-up and tear down damage to the island are unacceptable and
worst in the world. Since Penske does not care to improve
performance they don’t deserve renewal. Feels that they obviously
have no regard for Detroit residents. If the set-up and takedown
cannot be accomplished in 30 days feels that the contract should
not be renewed.

Mary Ellen Howard:

Wants to voice objections to the Grand Prix being on Belle Isle.
Feels serious damage is being done to the park due to the Grand
Prix and that there is a conflict of interest with Michele Hodges
since she claimed that the Grand Prix pays her salary. Also feels
that though Michele should have input on the issue, she should not
be able to vote on the issue.

Laura Lewis:

Opposes renewal of the contract for the Grand Prix, or if there is
renewal the DNR should put a new set of boundaries in place.
Feels the Grand Prix should offer $300,000 to hold the race here
annually.

Diane Muccino:

Wants to keep the Grand Prix on Belle Isle it provides an improved
image and financial support to Belle Isle.

Ed Weglarz:

50-year resident of Wayne County and 20-year volunteer of the
Grand Prix Association. Feels the Grand Prix should be viewed as
an investment. In full support of the Grand Prix. Feels the event
should be kept at the island for the foreseeable future and would
like to move forward.

Chris Qualters:

In full support of keeping the race on the island. Sees the economic
and the social benefits.

Debbie Stefanides:

Has been doing the Detroit Grand Prix for 25 years. Feels there are
many benefits of having the race on Belle Isle and feels it is
BELLE ISLE PARK ADVISORY COMMITTEE
MINUTES – July 13, 2018
10

 needed here. Feels the Grand Prix has been extremely beneficial
here on the island.
Deborah Alrutz:

Supports keeping the Grand Prix on Belle Isle feels it has a
financial benefit for the future of the island and it makes Detroit
look good.

Mike McEvoy:

Feels the race contract should not be renewed Belle Isle is a park
not a racetrack. It’s really disheartening to see the negative change
take place at the park.

Lance Smith:

Supportive of the Grand Prix. Will the opposition raise any money
to keep Belle Isle afloat and keep it in the condition it is in now if
the Grand Prix leaves the island?

Sandra Novarek:

Heavily opposed to the Grand Prix being held on Belle Isle.
Would like to know would Mr. Penske have the Grand Prix near
his home? Feels that holding the Grand Prix on the island is
contradictory to the DNR’s mission statement.
As a DMC worker and a volunteer for the Grand Prix she is proud
of the Grand Prix and she hopes they will continue.

Carol Brzuchalski:

Terry Novak:

Feels everything was either closed or in a state of disrepair and
along comes money from the Grand Prix. How much money has
come from those opposed to the race? Has heard that a new
Aquarium is being built? Belle Isle has a historic one why not
concentrate efforts to more productive areas instead of hurting
those who have cared for you? Two weeks is not 52.

Marylin Joyce Blair:

Has worked the Grand Prix since the 1980’s. Has witnessed the
vast improvements the Grand Prix has made not only to the island
but to the community as well. Feels that as volunteers they are
providing a great help to the public.

Judy Booth:

Is the Director of Sales and Marketing at the Marriot and would
like to outline the great business that the Grand Prix brings
to the Marriott and the City. The Grand Prix changed the opinion
of Detroit during a very difficult time. After witnessing the Grand
Prix there has been multiple return business opportunities and it
helps to maintain jobs for the people of the City of Detroit.

Tony Michaels:

There have been so many improvements done to the island due to
the Grand Prix. Feels the race is a Detroit tradition just like the
Ford Fireworks.
BELLE ISLE PARK ADVISORY COMMITTEE
MINUTES – July 13, 2018
11

 Wanda Black:

A native Detroiter that is 70 years young and feels the Grand Prix
is a major event that keeps Detroit’s most valuable natural asset
alive and well. It brings world vitality to a God given gift to the
City, nature and the world.

Linda Cunningham:

The DNR has been tremendous since they have taken over the
park. Was appalled that the Grand Prix winner could traverse into
the fountain especially in lieu of all the repairs that has had to be
done to the fountain. Very detrimental to the restoration of the
fountain.

Norman Thomas:

Does not feel the Grand Prix should be on Belle Isle.

Tommy Dover:

Pro the Grand Prix, there are great plans for the city and it is
slowly rebuilding. If we say no to hosting the Grand Prix, then we
are saying no to helping the City of Detroit. This is a sacrifice for
many but let’s sacrifice together for a brighter future for the City of
Detroit.

Christopher McCamey:

Pro the Grand Prix very beneficial to the park.

Rick Miller:

Pro the Grand Prix (exited before comment could be made)

Jeffrey Zawalski:

Is in total support of extending the Detroit Grand Prix.

Donald Green:

Heavily opposes the Grand Prix being hosted on Belle Isle does
not feel the Conservancy is the voice of the people and spends too
much time promoting the Grand Prix. Feels that the Grand Prix
did not restore the green spaces in the park that it damaged.

Jon Shefferly:

(Exited before comment could be made and card was not filled
out).

DeJuan Rogers:

Pro Grand Prix feels Belle Isle is the best place for the Race.

Kevin Hennessey:

The professionals who are entrusted with protecting and preserving
Belle Isle for the citizens of Detroit are failing to uphold their duty.
Nowhere does the mission statements promote a racetrack for
millionaires to play in our fountain.

Aaron Goodman:

The public comments received during the recent strategic plan
were overwhelmingly against the continuation of the Grand Prix
on Belle Isle. What is the planned engagement process?
BELLE ISLE PARK ADVISORY COMMITTEE
MINUTES – July 13, 2018
12

 This meeting is not sufficient. The Grand Prix is not an
appropriate event at a state park. It is damaging to the
environment as well.
Rick Babb:

Supports the renewal of the contract, the benefit far exceeds any
perceived negative impact.

Ade Oba Abdalla:

Pro Grand Prix thanks the Grand Prix for hosting the races at Belle
Isle. Feels that the DNR does not have the budget to make the
improvements to the island like the Grand Prix Association does.

Rick Demayo:

Pro Grand Prix.

Michael O’Callaghan:

Discussed the economic impact of tourism.

Angela DiSante:

The Grand Prix is destructive to the environmental quality of Belle
Isle. Please remove it from the island. It is obscene the way the
massive amounts of concrete, traffic, waste, and pollution is
affecting this beautiful state park.

John Regenhardt:

Belle Isle is a park, not a race track. The Grand Prix is essentially
incompatible with a park. There is no changing this. It should
never have been approved. That said, the Grand Prix should not
just be thrown off the island. There should be a plan to transition it
off the island within a reasonable time- perhaps 3 years. Any
transition should sharply limit the total time on Belle Isle and
should require the removal of the paddock.

Hattie Spencer Shaw:

The Grand Prix is only one weekend out of the year! Lives only a
couple of miles away from Belle Isle and feels the Grand Prix is
not noisy. There are no traffic tie ups. Most of the calendar year it
is very quiet. Other businesses make money during the event. Is it
more money that should go to the City/State?

Carl Lizut:

When will the interior roads with extensive potholes be repaved?

Monica Breen:

Public parks need to be free year-round without obstruction.
Grand Prix should move.

Gene Whitney:

(Did not fill out the comment section on the card)

Kathy Pelc:

Pro Grand Prix

BELLE ISLE PARK ADVISORY COMMITTEE
MINUTES – July 13, 2018
13

 Mary Kay Demayo:

In favor of the race being held on Belle Isle. Much good being
done for the island and Detroit.

Kathleen Rashid:

The stated mission of the DNR is to protect the natural
environment for the public. No mention of this from the Grand
Prix rep. because its presence on Belle Isle is specifically counter
productive to this mission. They simply have more money so more
power. Programming for the public would be allowed to increase
if we got rid of it.

Jen David:

Belle Isle’s expansion is being hindered by the Grand Prix.

Bernadette Durkin:

(No comment left on the comment card)

Steve Panton:

Opposes the Grand Prix and does not want the proposal accepted
the “N” in DNR stands for “Natural” and I ask the DNR to take
that seriously. There is nothing natural or beneficial to the City of
Detroit in this proposal. It should not have gotten this far.

Frank Rashid:

A lifelong Detroiter who has been visiting Belle Isle for most of 7
decades. Opposes the continued presence of the Grand Prix on the
island. We invest billions in sports development while less than
half of the national average in Parks and Recreation.

Jerry Farrell:

(Did not fill out the comment section on the comment card)

Doug Steen:

(Did not fill out the comment section on the comment card)

Emmit Caruthers:

Stop blocking the bridge on race day.

Paula C. Laroway:

Supportive of the Grand Prix but also mindful of the impact upon
others. Is hopeful that the Grand Prix will carry on the tradition in
a responsible way.

COMMITTEE MEMBER ITEMS
Bud Denker thanked everyone for coming out.
Motion to Adjourn
Moved:
Bud Denker
Seconded:
Michael Curis
Meeting Concluded

BELLE ISLE PARK ADVISORY COMMITTEE
MINUTES – July 13, 2018
14

 NEXT REGULAR MEETING:
August 16, 2018
Belle Isle Park
Flynn Pavilion
Detroit, MI 48207
6:00 p.m. – 8:00 p.m.
Approved: ___________________________
Michele Hodges

______________________________
Ronald A. Olson, Chief

Date: ______________________________

BELLE ISLE PARK ADVISORY COMMITTEE
MINUTES – July 13, 2018
15

 