CTA ADA Advisory Committee
Meeting Minutes
Monday, July 9 2018
Members Present
Committee Members:

Facilitator:
CTA Staff
Excused Absence:

Pierre Bance
Angela Davis (Chairman)
Melissa Fuller (Vice Chairman)
Bridget Hayman
Michele Lee
Christina McGleam
Susan Riley
Donna K. Shaw
Amber Smock
Allen West
Amy Serpe, Manager, ADA Compliance Programs
Michael Connelly, Chief Planning Officer
Laura Isaacs

Chairman Angela Davis called the meeting to order at 1:31 p.m.
Roll Call
 Meeting members introduced themselves.
Announcements
 Edwin Rodriguez has resigned this Committee.
 Ms. McGleam reminded everyone about the Access Chicago event sponsored by the Mayor’s
Office for People with Disabilities This free event will be at Navy Piere on Thursday, July 19 th
from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m.
 Ms. Smock announced that in July 2020 the National Association of the Deaf will be in Chicago
and she feels this provide a great opportunity to show them how visually accessible the CTA
system is.
Approval of Minutes
 The Meeting Minutes for the April 9, 2018 meeting were sent to all Committee members in
advance for review in addition to the hard copy provided in the meeting packets.
 As there were no corrections to the April 9, 2018 ADA Advisory Committee Meeting Minutes as
presented, Chairman Davis asked for a motion to approve the minutes as submitted.
 Vice Chairman Fuller moved and Mr. West seconded the motion.
 Everyone voted to approve the Minutes as written.
Public Comment

Chairman Davis again reviewed the new procedures for Public Comment, that they
would take place in the beginning of the meeting and that people should sign up in
advance (there is a form) and after those individuals have finished, other individuals
who did not pre-registered may speak as time permits.

Allan Mellis stated that he is, “… a Community Leader for over 40 years, and a Public
Transportation Advocate.” He wants to know when the CTA will release the All Stations
1

 









Accessibility Program (ASAP) report which was supposed to be released in 2017.
“Since that announcement of that plan, the CTA has announced major improvements to
the Belmont and the Grand Avenue Blue Line Stations. However, neither the very
attractive upgraded Belmont station, nor the upgraded Grand Avenue station will provide
disabled access. … The developer of the project adjacent to the Grand Avenue Blue
Line station said he would set aside part of the building to allow for elevators for CTA
disabled access. The CTA did not accept that offer.” He went on to say that he has
heard that funding is not available to provide elevators/access and that there are
technical issues involved. He wants to see financial information within the ASAP. In
closing, I have testified before the Chicago Plan Commission, that when developers are
taking advantage of the Transit Oriented Development zoning bonuses, they should
have to pay into a transit fund to help pay for CTA infrastructure including station
upgrades and additional trains.”
Mr. Connelly responded to Mr. Mellis that the ASAP report should be coming out within
the month. “And I will say that the Grand
AvenueStation, you mentioned the building that
had offered to
allow CTA to put its footprint
for the elevator in the building, doing
furtherengineering it was determined that
that'snot the right location, it's not the right
cornerfor the elevator to come becauseaof5-footsewer line
that runs between that corner and
the tubes.It would be more suitable to put
the elevator on one of the
other quadrants or one
of the other corners of that intersection.itSo
is something that we looked at, and
we
appreciate the developer offering it, it's
butnot feasible for us from an
engineeringstandpoint to use that
elevator locationfor that station.”
Garland Armstrong is concerned about the bus islands at both the Cumberland and
Jefferson Park Stations as wheelchair users cannot get on the busses in the same
place as other passengers. He wants all the bus islands to be accessible to everyone.
Scott Figved is concerned that taxis and other vehicles block bus lanes especially at the
Loop Link near Ogilvie Station. This causes problems for people who need to board
busses, especially for individuals who use mobility devices. His second point deals with
issues at the Jefferson Park Station. Bus boarding is often an issue because people
who use mobility devices need to board at a different location than others and
sometimes busses do not stop to board someone in a wheelchair. Also, the Customer
Service people who are at the Jefferson Park Station are often not at all helpful to
customers with disabilities who request assistance. They are also rude in their response
to customers. And lastly, he is wondering if the community is aware that the 50 th
anniversary of the Special Olympics will be celebrated in Chicago meaning many more
people with disabilities will be visiting. He is concerned about services being available to
meet the demand of crowds.
Mr. West who is with the Chicago Park District’s Special Recreation Program stated that
people are aware of the project and that Ms. Serpe is going to bring up additional
information in her report. Facilitator Serpe added that there was a big article over the
weekend in the Chicago Sun Times newspaper and she will comment more about this
in her upcoming Facilitator’s report.
Ms. Fuller asked Mr. Figved what specific things the Customer Service people don’t do
at Jefferson Park and Mr. Figved responded that they are often in the kiosk and not
paying attention to people and even if you knock on the door you are ignored.
Ms. Davis was following-up regarding taxis and other vehicles in the Loop Link lanes to
which Facilitator Serpe stated that CTA Supervisors do ticket these vehicles when
spotted.
2

 

Ms. Riley stated that she was not even aware that there were Customer Service people
at Jefferson Park and agreed with Mr. Figved regarding that there are sometimes issues
in boarding a bus if you use a wheelchair. Mr. Connelly stated that beginning this year
into the next, the Jefferson Park Bus Terminal will be updated and all the bus islands
will be accessible so all customers can board from the same place.

Updates and Changes at the CTA
 Mike Connelly, provided updates regarding a couple of staff position changes at the CTA.

He is now assuming the role of Chief Operating Officer of Service Planning and Carole
Morey is now the Chief Operating Officer of Infrastructor. Mike will still be attending the
ADA meetings.
Budget and Finance Department Report
 Michele Curran, Vice President Budget and Capital Finance provided budgetary information to
the Committee.
“Good afternoon, Members
of the Committee.I'm Michele Curran,
Vice President of Budget and Capital
Finance. Thankyou for the opportunity to meet with you
this afternoon.
I'm here to give you an overview
of the
CTA budget.Each year CTA proposes each
–
year CTA proposes two budgets to the Board
of Directors, the
Operating Budget and the
Capital Budget.First, we'll talk about the
Operating Budget.
The 2018 Operating Budget $1.514
is
billion, which is 9.7 million lower than
the 2017 budget.With this budget
CTA did notcut service, but it was the first base fare
increasein nineyears. CTA receives its revenues
from two
primary sources, system generated
revenueand publicfunding.System generated revenue
is generated by CTA
and is primarily fare
revenue,but it also includes advertising
and concessions, investment income,
statutory
contributions from the City and County,
State subsidies for reduced fare riders and
other revenue, such as, the new
ride-hailingfee, parking, rentals, et
cetera.Systemgeneratedrevenue accounts for 47 percenttotal
of operating
revenues.
Public funding is received from
the State through RTA or the
City. Publicfundingincludes sales taxes, the real
estatetransfertax or RETT, which comes from the City,
publictransportation funds or PTFs, whicha ismatchon
salestax. And public funding accounts
for 53percent of the total operating
revenue. The2018 budget was
especially challenging
becauseit included State operating funding cuts$33
of million.
The next slide shows CTA's
operatingexpenses which include labor, material,
fuel, power, purchase of security
services,provisionsfor injuries and damages and other
expenses.Other expenses include contracts, debt
service
for capital projects and pension
obligationbonds, utilities and other such
categories.Labor, as you might imagine,
is ourlargestexpense category making up 69 percenttotal
of expenses.
Moving on we also budget for
our capitalprojects.CTA's 2018 to 2022five-yearCapital Improvement Program
or CIP is2.7 billion.The primary source of funding
is Federalfunds. The State also hashistoricallyprovided
approximately 200 million per year
in funding, but they haven't approved
a capitalfunding program since
2009.
CTA and RTA also issue bonds to fund capital
projects.Some of the types of projects that we fund
include
transformative capital projects like Gateway
the
Station, Red/Purple Modernization and Your
New Blue, better
customer amenities, such as,
ADA accessibility, wider stations and canopies
and maintaining and improving our
existinginfrastructure and modernizing our bus and
rail fleet and investing in our track, stations
rail
and other
facilities.
So the next slide is
a listing ofsome of our major capital projects, which have
we several goingon. We have the
majormodernization program such as
Red/PurpleModernization [RPM], Your New Blue [YNB] and the Red
Line
extension.There are also many station
projectsthat are ongoing or have recently
been completed.
And we're
also investing inour fleet by buying new buses, including
electricbuses and railcars, as well as overhauling
some
of our existingfleet.
This concludes the presentation.
I'd be happy to answer any questions you may
have.”
3

 






Ms. Smock asked if CTA had any projections regarding expenses for the next couple of years
such as for labor, etc.
Ms. Curran stated that labor would have some increases due to the wage agreements. “We do
not expecta fare increase or service
adjustmentswithin that next budget, but the budget
book does have some
additional information about
the two-yearplan.”
Ms. Smock was especially interested in funding sources that can be used for projects that
increase accessibility.
Ms. Curran responded that, “As I mentionedwe haven't hada State capital program for
ten years or nearly
ten years, which has
reallyconstrained our ability to fund
additionalcapitalprojects.So we're working, you
know,
we're going downstate asking for fundingthe
all time.But asI mentioned, to fill in some
of those gaps CTA has
issued bonds, RTAissuesbonds on our behalf to try to keep somethose
of projects movingforward.”
Ms. Fuller asked what a “hailing fee” is to which Ms. Curran explained that this is in relation to the ride
sharing services such as Uber, Lyfy, etc. She explained that the City has a ride share tax and that the
CTA gets part of that money.

General Construction Report Update
 Kevin Loughnane, General Manager, Capital Construction presented project updates. (Robert
Wittmann, Vice President of Capital Construction who has previously been presenting to this
Committee has left the CTA.)
 Mr. Loughnane stated that, “… starting off with the
Terminal.
95th As ofthe last quarterly meeting, the south
terminalopened on April14th. From that point on we
are currently working on items in that terminal
and have
progressed to shutting down the
north terminal, and currently we are doing
demolitionof thatfacility.Looking
forward to therest of the quarter, we will complete the
demolitionand also start the structural steel
installationto
start with the new north terminal coming,
and that completion will be by Decemberthis
of year.
On to ground linesignals.An ongoingstatementI believe is in signal
cablescontinues, installation of
foundationand structural steel for the final relay house
is currently in progress and installationhouse
of and new
signal is upcoming in the next
quarter.
For the Quincy Station, glass and
metal panels for the elevator towers areprogress
in
of beinginstalled.
Elevator walkwayconcretepour was completed on the east and west side
of the station.Station housework is
ongoing,including electrical conduit installation
and installing mezzanine
ceiling.
For IMD Paulina and Ogden
Stationhouseworkcontinues.Ogden elevatorfoundationwork has been
completed.Elevatorinstallationwork is ongoingcurrently.Rehab work onthe platform is alsoongoing.
A new construction project
I don'tbelieve that has been listed priorGarfield
is
Station on the green
south. This
work began early thisquarter.This isa resonation tothe overall station and surrounding
areas. Currentwork is
site excavation and installation
of lighting and security
equipment. Construction
completion for this project is
scheduledfor January of2019.
I'll take any questions if anyone
has any.”
 Mr. West asked for clarification regarding the north side of the 95 th Street Station. He wanted
to know if demolition would be done by December or will the station be completed by the end
of December?
 Mr. Loughnane responded that, “The station willbe opened by the end of
December.Demolitionwill be
completed by this quarter -- actually,
this month.”
Elevator/Escalator Efficiencies Report
 The Elevator/Escalator Efficiencies Reports were sent to all Committee members in advance
for review in addition to the hard copy provided in the meeting packets.
 Mr. James Kissane, General Manager of Facilities Maintenance presented the
Elevator/Escalator statistics.
4

 












For the 2nd quarter of 2018 vs. Q-2 in 2017, the following reflects Elevator Efficiencies:

April 2018 = 98.1% vs. April 2017 = 99.3% (-1.2%)

May 2018 = 98.6% vs. May 2017 = 99.2% (-0.6%)

June 2018 = 97.4% vs. June 2017 = 98.7% (-1.3%)

Mr. Kissane also explained that the elevator door refurbishing project should wrap up by
the end of this year. This should improve efficiencies due to the newly redone or
replacement of doors.
For the 2nd quarter of 2018 vs. Q-2 in 2017, the following reflects Escalator Efficiencies:

April 2018 = 97.5% vs. April 2017 = 98.2% (-0.7%)

May 2018 = 96.8% vs. May 2017 = 97.4% (-0.6%)

June 2018 = 97.0% vs. June 2017 = 96.0% (1.0%)
Mr. Kissane added information on the following Escalator Reconditioning Projects.

Chicago – Red Line (Up Escalator), anticipated start date – Fall 2018.

Logan Square (near Kedzie) – Blue Line (Up Escalator), anticipated start date – Winter
2018.
Mr. West asked about the broken escalator within the Red Line Station on the west side at
Madison and Monroe (facing Madison). Mr. Kissane explained that this is one of the oldest
escalators in the system and that parts are no longer available. It is more cost effective to
replace rather than repair some equipment. Mr. West asked if it was going to be rebuilt now
along with an elevator to which Mr. Kissane explained that this is related to capital finance and
funding. The State is not proving all of the funding needed for some of these maintenance
projects.
Ms. Smock asked what is the average age of the escalators and elevators to which Mr.
Kissane stated that it varies such as some are brnad new such as at the Wilson Station versus
the escalator at the North & Clybourn Station which was built in the 40’s.
Ms Lee asked what is the quickest/most efficient way for a customer to report an elevator or
escalator outage?
Mr. Kissane stated that most complaints go through e-mails from the Customer Service or ADA
Departments. He added that he has mechanics addressing issues during the week from 7 a.m.
to 10:30 p.m. and also crews working all weekends. Elevator maintenance is working 24/7.
Chairman Davis asked for clarification regarding the escalator to which Mr. West referred. She
wanted to know if it would be repaired soon? Mr. Kissane stated that it would be out until
funding is made available to replace it.

Customer Service Report
 The Customer Service Reports were sent to all Committee members in advance for review in
addition to the hard copy provided in the meeting packets.
 Kate Kennelly, Manager of Customer Feedback Programs presented the 2018 2nd quarter
statistics regarding disability-related Customer Service complaints.

Total CTA complaints for all three months of Q-2 2018 (April, May & June 2018), =
4,761 of which 202 were ADA related complaints. This is up slightly from Q-2 in 2017
which had 188 ADA related complaints.

Q-2, 2018 Bus Related Complaints: April = 51, May = 46 and June = 59, totaling 156.

Q-2, 2018 Rail Related Complaints: April = 12, May = 18 and June = 16, totaling 46.
(156 + 46 = 202 bus & rail complaints).

During the 3 month 2018 Q-2 period, there were a total of 202 ADA Compliance
Complaints which include things such as rude operator, pass up, ramp issues, stroller
5

 




issues, refusing boarding with a legitimate service animal, failure to kneel bus, AVAS
(announcements), priority seating, gap filler, elevator and escalator issues and touching
passenger, service animal or personal equipment (if not requested to assist).

Below is a breakdown of ADA Compliance Issue complaint categories for Q-2 2018 vs
Q-2 2017:

Total disability-related complaints for Q-2 2018 = 202 complaints vs. 195 in 2017. Of
that total:

ADA Compliance** = 75 in 2018 vs. 67 in 2017

Rude Operator totaled 51 complaints in 2018 vs. 49 in 2017.

Pass up totaled 33 complaints in 2018 vs. 36 in 2017.

Lift/Ramps totaled 5 complaints in 2018 vs. 11 in 2017.

Malfunctioning/Inoperable AVAS (automated stop announcements) totaled 2
complaints in 2018 vs 3 in 2017.

Priority Seating issues totaled 11 complaints in 2018 vs. 7 in 2017.

Stroller issues totaled 2 complaints in 2018 vs. 5 in 2017.

Failure to Kneel Bus totaled 10 complaints in 2018 vs. 7 in 2017.

Refusal to allow service animal on board totaled 3 complaints in 2018 vs. 4 in
2017

Failure/Refusal to Deploy Gap Filler totaled 2 complaints in 2018 vs. 2 in 2017

Elevator malfunction complaints totaled 6 in 2018 vs. 3 in 2017

Escalator malfunction complaints totaled 0 in 2018 vs. 1 in 2017

Failure to announce stops complaints totaled 1 in 2018 vs. 0 in 2017

Accessible Service complaints totaled 0 in 2018 vs. 0 in 2017

Touching passenger/equipment/service animal complaints totaled 1 in 2018 vs. 0
in 2017

NOTE: **ADA Compliance category includes complaints such as employee
failing to assist customers with disabilities or help with securing of wheelchairs,
not complying with ADA rules and fare discrepancies involving passengers
identifying as having a disability.
Both Vice Chairman Fuller and Ms. Smock had questions regarding how many CSAs are
posted at each rail station, as well as what type of training do CSA’s receive? Ms. Kennelly
stated that the Customer Service Department is not in charge of the CSAs.
Facilitator Serpe explained that all CSAs go through a comprehensive, multi-week training.
She provides the ADA & Disability Awareness training component for new CSAs, plus any
CSA that needs to go through retraining, approximately every 2 weeks as part of the overall
multi-week training program. The 1-1/2 hour training deals with general ADA and disability
awareness issues such as appropriate language, etiquette, laws, etc. There is also time spent
on specific CTA policies and procedures established to accommodate customers with varios
disabilities. She explained that the CTA has a new General Manager for Rail Customer Service
who handles all CSA related complaints. Ms. Alexander, along with the ADA Unit and
Customer Service Department do meet to discuss both specific and general type complaints.
Additionally, all CSA related complaints are investigated and disciplined in accordance with
CTA and Union regulations.
Mr. Percy Fry, General Manager for Rail Operations who was present, stated that each rail
stations has one CSA and some busier stations such as by the airports, 95th Street, etc., have
more than one.
6

 







Ms. Lee asked if Bus Operators also receive disability-awareness training to which Facilitator
Serpe replied, “Yes”.
Ms. Smock, Ms. Hayman and the Committee would like more information on CTA’s overall
training process for CSAs, Bus Operators, Rail Personnel etc. Facilitator Serpe responded that
this topic can be covered more fully in an upcoming meeting.
Ms. Smock also pointed out that there is a connection between appropriate staff/customer
interaction and safety which was previously discussed in detail at the last ADA Committee
meeting.
Mr. West stated that his concern is on busses where, even though there are seats available,
people stand in the front in the narrow part of the bus and block people from boarding and
exiting.
Ms. Davis asked if it was a rule that people had to sit down to which Facilitator Serpe stated
that, no, this is not a rule. She added that since Bus safety was going to be on the agenda at
the next meeting these and other issues can be discussed. She encouraged members to
contact either the Chairman, Vice-Chairman or herself regarding comments or questions that
they would like to see addressed.
Mr. West then stated that on 2 occasions dealing with the #J-14 and #20 Bus Routes that the
Bus Operators said they needed to announce that there was a service dog on board the bus
and they did this at each stop before any passenger got on. He asked if this was a new rule to
which Facilitator Serpe responded that, no, there is no such rule. She also aked Mr. West to
provide specifics if this should ever happen again so the incident can be investigated and
resolved.

Facilitator’s Report
 Amy Serpe, Manager ADA Compliance Programs presented updates from the ADA Unit.
 4 Committee member terms will expire at the end of October 2018 (these individuals have
each served a total of 4 years, (2, 2-year terms) and now must cycle off the Committee for at
least 2-years before they can reapply for membership.

The members are Pierre Bance, Christina McGleam, Suzen Riley and Allen West.

There is also a 5th spot that will be available due to the fact that Edwin Rodriguez
resigned.

The CTA will be soliciting new members prior to the January 2019 meeting.
 The CTA will have a resource table and Instruction Bus available at both AccessChicago on
July 19th at Navy Pier and at the Disability Pride Parade on July 21st at Daley Plaza.
 The Mini CTA Bus will be in the Parade and anyone interested in riding in the bus is welcome.
(Ms. Davis, Ms. Fuller and Ms. Shaw said they may be interested).
 Also announced was the Special Olympics 50th Anniversary event taking place on July 21st
from 1-7 p.m. at Soldier Field. There will be many activities and an evening concert for which
tickets must be purchased. There is on-line information about the festivities. Mr. West also
stated that there will be a free shuttle bus provided by the Chicago Park District Special
Recreation Department to bring individuals from Daley Plaza to Soldier Field following the
Parade resource fair.
 Familiarization Tours will again be arranged for the Washington/Wabash Rail Station most
likely in September. These events due require voluntary support from experienced O&M
Instructors so arrangements must be made.
 Facilitator Serpe is working on establishing a dedicated page on CTA’s Intranet site where
specific information can be posted for staff related to ADA policies and procedures.
7

 

Additionally, she will continue with visits to bus garages and rail terminals to talk directly with
staff in relation to specific types of complaints and resolutions.
Lastly, it was pointed out that there are still Committee members who have not completed the
mandatory CTA Statement of Financial Interests form. This needs to be done annually and
turned into the CTA Board Office.

Old Business
 Ms. Smock wants to know how the Committee can amend the By-Laws. She wants language
added to the current By-Laws which provides the process by which the Committee members
can amend them.
 Mr. Connelly explained that the concept of this Committee is that the CTA Board Chairman’s
office established this Committee as an advisory only Committee. The Chairman’s office
decided the Committee structure, number of members and other criteria. Currently it is only the
Chiarman’s office that can change any of the language within the By-Laws.
 Ms. Smock then recommended that the continuation of safety discussion that will happen in
October should not only involve the police department but also discuss what happens when
someone is just having a meltdown and in crisis but the police may not be the correct people to
call. What is the process for assisting these kinds of customers or situations?
New Business
 Chairman Davis and other members would like more specific information regarding CTA
trainings for CSA, bus and rail personnel.
 Ms. Fuller wants to know how the CTA budget fits into the RTA Regional budget and how that
affects ADA and accessibility issues.
Additional Discussion
 Ms. Shaw just had a question regarding how do you know if your Ventra Card is expiring?
Facilitator Serpe explained that there are 2 dates on the card – one in the front part that has
the Ventra logo and one on the back which has the Reduced Fare Program designation – Ride
Free, Disability or Paratransit. Those dates should both be checked. Also, the RTA sends out
the new cards providing the address they have on file is the individual’s current address.
Anyone with questions needs to contact the RTA directly as they handle all of the Reduced
Fare program type cards.
 Based on the length of some of the upcoming discussions such as bus safety, police
involvement, etc., it was suggested that the 2 general reports – Elevator/Escalator Efficiencies
and Customer Service (CS) – received for each meeting should still be sent out in advance of
each meeting and if any Committee member has anything specific they want covered in
relation to the reports they should contact the Chairman, Vice Chairman or Facilitator prior to
the meeting so that the information can be relayed to the CS Department and a succinct
response can be delivered at the meeting. It was pointed out that this process will cut down on
time in terms of reading any of the stats at the meeting and will save time needed for the larger
scale discussions.
 Chairman Davis asked for a motion to do the above for the next meeting. Ms. Fuller moved
and Ms. Hayman seconded the motion. All voted, “Aye”.
Adjournment
 Chairman Davis reminded the members and audience members to pre-register for Public
Comment to ensure a place as a speaker.
8

 


Chairman Davis noted the next meeting will be Tuesday October 9th as Monday is Columbus
Day and a holiday for many.
Chairman Davis asked for a motion to adjourn. Ms. Fuller moved to adjourn the meeting and
Ms. Riley seconded. All voted, “Aye,” and the meeting adjourned at 3:08 pm.

ajs 8-31-18

9

 