MINUTES OF MEETING
WAYNE COUNTY ELECTION COMMISSION
TUESDAY, MAY 17, 2016 – 11:30 A.M.
COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL BUILDING - ROOM 705
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

Call to Order:

The meeting was called to order at 11:32 a.m., Tuesday, May 17, 2016.

Members present: Honorable Freddie G. Burton, Jr., Chief Judge, Probate Court
Honorable Cathy M. Garrett, Secretary- Wayne County Clerk
Honorable Eric Sabree, Member – Wayne County Treasurer
Members absent: None
Also present:

Janet Anderson-Davis, Assistant Corporation Counsel
Delphine G. Oden, Director, Wayne County Elections
Jennifer Redmond
Greg P. Mahar
Jina Sawani

Agenda item:

Consideration of Agenda approval.
Board action on agenda item: Chair Burton requested a motion
to approve the agenda. Member Garrett, duly supported by
Member Sabree, moved to adopt the agenda as submitted. The
motion was adopted unanimously by a voice vote.

Agenda item:

Approval of Minutes of April 18, 2016
Board action on agenda item: Chair Burton requested a motion
to approve the minutes of the meeting held on April 18, 2016.
Member Sabree, duly supported by Member Garrett, moved to
approve the minutes of the meeting held on April 18, 2016. The
motion was adopted unanimously by a voice vote.

Agenda item:

Acceptance of the August 2, 2016 Primary Partisan Candidate
list as presented by the Wayne County Clerk
Director Oden indicated there was no list to be accepted at this time
because there were challenges filed against nominating petitions
that have to be resolved before certification of the Candidate list.

Agenda item:

Ballot Printing Contract
Director Oden indicated that additional information was requested

 by the commission regarding the Ballot Printing Contract. Director
Oden indicated that on March 12, 2014, Bruce Hack from Inland
Press offered a contract extension at the existing price. The last
solicitation for bids was withdrawn and the Commission decided to
extend the contract.
Late last year the State Bureau of Elections issued an RFP for new
voting equipment. There shall be a contract awarded in late
summer of 2016 with new equipment to roll out in early 2017. It was
recommended by Director Oden to extend the current contract from
12/31/2016 to 12/31/2017.
Board action on agenda item: Chair Burton requested a motion
regarding the Ballot Printing Contract. Member Sabree, duly
supported by Member Garrett, moved to extend the ballot printing
contract with Inland Press from December 31, 2016 to December
31, 2017. The motion was adopted unanimously by a voice vote.
Agenda item:

New Business
Assistant Corporation Counsel Anderson-Davis indicated there was
a lawsuit filed titled Berry v. Wayne County Clerk. The case was
assigned to Judge Colombo who then recused himself.

Agenda item:

Public Comment. None

Agenda item:

Adjournment.
Board action on agenda item: Chair Burton requested a motion
to adjourn. Member Sabree, duly supported by Member Garrett,
moved to adjourn the meeting. The motion was adopted
unanimously by a voice vote.
Meeting adjourned at 11:39 a.m.

 