MARQUETTE PARK SSA#14
OPEN COMMISSIONERS MEETING
MAY, 6, 2015
MINUTES.
Location:

Lithuanian Human Services Council Hall
2711-15 W. 71-st Street
Chicago, IL 60629

In attendance: Commissioners: Patricia Nelson, chair
Brenda Justice
Sr. Dolorine Lopez
Jonas Miglinas
Cynthia Young
Absent:
Stephanie Sherman-Ratliff
In attendance: Joe Polikaitis (LHS Exec. Director)
Danga Ilginis (Program Director)
Guests:
18th Ward Alderman-elect Derrick Curtis
17th ward Alderman-elect David Moore.
Patrick Brutus from City of Chicago
Planning and Development Department.
Opening remarks.
Chairperson Patricia Nelson opened the meeting at 7:15pm. Thanked
everyone for attending and requested that all attendees sign the Attendance
and Request to speak sheets. Due to scheduling conflict of 8-th District
Police Commander James O’Donnell, chair requested Commander to speak
first so that he can attend his other commitments.
Comments by 8-th District Commander James O’Donnell
Commander indicated that this was his first SSA#14 meeting and was
gratified by a reasonably good number of residents attending the meeting.
He introduced himself and provided several facts about 8-th District police
activities, especially in the SSA#14 area (Marquette Park). Commander
affirmed that he is aware of the special problems present in the SSA#14
area. He stressed that they are taking special means to combat the criminal
elements in the community.

 Commander presented a number of crime statistics in the Marquette
Park area during the first four months of this year:
1. Major crimes, such as shootings, murders, robberies, rapes,
burglaries are down by 11% compared to last year,
2. Robberies are up 5% from the same time period in 2014.
3. Burglaries are down 52%
4. Auto thefts are down 11%
5. There were (4) criminal sexual assaults (3 out of 4 offenses
were committed by family members or relatives)
6. We experienced couple murders this year (they were
targeted murders)
7. There were two (2) other shootings (one in January and one
in April).
8. Arrests are up 24% from last year
9. Shootings are down; however, one is too many.
Commander stated that his ultimate goal is to reduce crime in 8-th
District, which includes Marquette Park SSA#14 He is out and about
Marquette park and is doing everything possible to minimize criminal
activities in the area.
In response to questions, commander stated that bicycle patrols were
initiated in April and in addition on several occasions there were foot
patrols. Both have its positive and negative issues.
Commander was asked about who is responsible for the abandoned
buildings that were foreclosed. He stated that banks are responsible. He has
police officers that track down which bank owns the property and then they
issue citations to them.
In conclusion, commander urged everyone to call 911 if they see
suspicious activity, suspicious persons or any criminal activity. When
calling, do not give your name, your address or the phone number. Remain
anonymous. In general, if activity is suspicious to you, don’t be afraid to call
911. Police will come and investigate without divulging the source of the
complaint.
Approval of 12/10/2014 and 2/25/2015 minutes.
During February 25, 2015 open Commissioners meeting only three
Commissioners were present. Thus, there was no quorum. As a results, no
decisions could be made at that meeting. Meeting could continue only as
informational session. Thus, the December 10, 2014 minutes could not have

 been approved. Therefore, they were read and approved during this
meeting.
In addition, the February 25, 2015 meeting minutes were read by
Danga Ilginis. There were no corrections recommended for either set of the
minutes. Motion to accept the December 10, 2014 and February 25, 2015
minutes was made by Patricia Young and seconded by Brenda Justice.
Both sets of minutes were approved unanimously.
Incident report:
Incident report was read by Danga Ilginis. It covered time period of
March 1 to April 30, 2015. During the two month period Illinois Homeland
Security personnel addressed a total of 485 incidents ranging from loitering,
disturbances, burglaries, domestic disturbances and vacant property checks.
50 calls were directed by HIS dispatch station and many of those were as a
result of citizen’s requests for assistance. Loitering on street corners, in front
of stores and in the alleys dominated the calls for assistance. It is important
to note that loitering also tends to lead to other, more significant, problems
in the neighborhood. Domestic disturbances are on the increase.
Copies of statistical data on incidents were distributed to the
attendees. Copy of incident report is attached to these minutes
Financial report
Financial report was presented by Joe Polikaitis. Due to foreclosures
and uncollected moneys from the property taxes, SSA#14 collections are
significantly less than budgeted. We ended 2014 with $6,973 of available
funds. To support security services we need nearly $6,000.00 a week, or
nearly $23,000.00 a month. Tax collections do not start coming in until the
end of February. Thus, in order to continue with security services,
Lithuanian Human Services, the sole service provider, had to take out
$42,00.00 loan. Loan was paid back interest free in March 2015.
Due to significant drop in EAV values from 151 million down to 106
million, expected income will not support the budgeted expenses. Thus,
some services might have to be reduced or some new areas of interest will
have to be delayed.
SSA funds are held in two SSA accounts at the Marquette Bank:
money market account and checking account. As of May 1, 2015
Money Market account has $ 88,141.71 and
Checking account has $ 34,842.38

 Approval of 2014 CPA financial audit
As required by City of Chicago, SSA financial books are to be audited
every year and submitted to Department of Planning and Development by
May 1. SSA#14 received three bids to audit financial books. Contract was
signed with CP Partners, L.L.C. of Hoffman Estates, IL. Copies of 2014
financial audit report was sent to every Commissioner for review and action
in an open Commissioners meeting.
Commissioner Cynthia Young made a motion to accept 2014 audit
report, seconded by Jonas Miglinas. Motion to accept the audit report was
unanimously approved by the commissioners.
Review of Patrol Hours
Due to budget shortages, winter patrol hours (149 hours a week) are
still in effect. The available cash does not allow SSA#14 to implement
summer patrol hours (224 hours per week). After some deliberation,
commissioners agreed to maintain winter patrol hour schedule even during
summer months.
Surveillance cameras
Presently there are thirteen surveillance cameras located throughout
the SSA#14 area. Their locations were recommended by Chicago Police
Department and Marquette Park Security. These locations were identified as
“Hot spots”. Surveillance camera data is recorded and kept for future use, if
needed. Chicago Police Department has direct access to the surveillance
cameras and, if needed, they can review the surveillance camera archives in
cases of prosecutions or identification of offenses or offenders. Surveillance
camera images are displayed on large size screens in the dispatch station as
well as screen monitors in patrol cars. There are a number of examples when
the surveillance camera images were able to identify the offender and result
in prosecution and conviction of the offenders.
Surveillance cameras are maintained on a quarterly bases to insure
satisfactory operation. Receiving tower is located on top of the Lithuanian
Human Services building. One camera has been damaged by lightning and
needs to be replaced at a cost of $3,000.00. Commissioner Jonas Miglinas
asked if it could be repaired. He offered his services to repair the unit, if
possible.

 Meeting notices and web page
Prior to this year, meeting notices (flyers) were physically distribution
to all of the residents of SSA#14 area. It was quite a task since we have
nearly 4,000 pins in the SSA#14 area. Distribution was difficult, since we
could not placed them into residential mail boxes. They had to be placed
either under the mat, between doors or between the railings. On windy days,
they are blown away and thus residents remain uninformed about the
meetings. Residents complained and indicated that they never receive these
notices and yet we printed and distributed more than 4,000 flyers.
Thus, we decided to notify homeowners via US Post Office by
sending postcards to all property owners, using addresses identified on PIN
listings. A total of 2,700 postcards were sent out to inform about this open
Commissioners meeting. Unfortunately, nearly one third of the property
owners live outside Marquette Park area.
An existing website is being upgraded. Additional information as well
as notices will be uploaded. Starting with the month of September,
statistical incident information will be uploaded on a biweekly basis.
Minutes of the meetings are being uploaded now. Web page is identified as
www.mp-security.org.
Comments by Hon., David Moore –newly elected alderman of 17th ward
Alderman elect thanked everyone for attending the meeting and
promised that he is here to serve everyone and he will try to do it to the best
of his ability. Alderman stated that he was raised in 17 th ward area and thus
understands the issues that face our community. He urged everyone to
understand the process of activities and come to the meetings with action
plans and not only with criticisms. He will work with 18th ward alderman
elect Derrick Curtis. He is still alderman elect, however he will assume
aldermanic responsibilities when he is sworn in as alderman on May 18,
2015.
Comments by Hon. Derrick Curtis – newly elected alderman of 18th ward.
Alderman Curtis thanked everyone for attending, commissioners for
volunteering their valuable time and urged everyone to work together.
Alderman expressed desire to minimize criticisms of each other and work
toward finding solutions to the problems. He said I am here now, I was here
in the past and I will be here in the future. He promised to be actively
involved in Marquette Park area and attend SSA#14 meetings. He would
love to see beginnings of some other programs, however he understands
financial restrictions. It would be wonderful if we could expand the SSA#14

 area, however, it would mean a start of a new ordinance reestablishment
program He closed by saying that if you do not attend the meeting, then you
do not have a voice.
Comments by Patrick Brutus of DPD
Patrick stated that he has been with Department of Planning and
Development for (9) years. He has worked in areas dealing with industrial
corridors, tiff zones and workforce development. Presently is working with
SSA’s . He is SSA#14 representative within the City of Chicago DPD. He
was complementary of the work done by Lithuanian Human Services as sole
service providers, especially leadership. He is aware of our budget
limitations due to falling EAV values. Property values decreased and thus
income decreased. Also he stated that capture rate of anticipated income is
never 100%. In answer to some questions he indicated that boundaries of
the SSA can be expanded, but it has to be done via reconstitution process.
He stressed that learning the process is SSA is very important.
Commissioners decide the direction of SSA program once ordinance is
enacted and approved by City Council. You can change the services if they
are within the ordinance authorization. Economic development can be
included, but you need to involve commercial developer. There is a troubled
building initiative program within DPD. It involves buildings departments’
community investment core. Police initiates the action and receiver is
appointed. Receiver rehabs the facility and subsequently sells it. These
programs need support of respective aldermen.
Community input.
The residents attending the meeting expressed their views on incidents
and activities occurring in the neighborhood.
A question was raised with respect to boarded up houses. Something
must be done, since this property is no longer on tax rolls and thus it affects
the rest of the community. Can Southwest Assurance assist in this matter? It
is a taxing body to equalize the cost of the houses. This information was
presented during the December 10, 2014 meeting.
A number of individuals raised a question on what other programs can
be initiated by SSA#14, what would be the process? Who will make that
decision? And To what extent residents have a say so in the overall activities
of SSA#14? At this point the process of the present ordinance approval was
explained. Process was initiated by Lithuanian Human Services, an
Advisory board was formed from community residents, Advisory board met
four times with consulting agency and finally a working document was
drafted. Two community meetings were convened and working document

 presented for discussion and change recommendations. After these meetings,
ordinance was drafted and presented, together with all of the required
documentation, to the City of Chicago City Council. They in turn approved
this ordinance, where security was the key element of SSA#14 program.
More than 800 homeowners, as was required prior to presentation of
ordinance, signed and approved the proposed program. Presently
Commissioners have the authority to adjust these programs to meet the
desires of the majority of the community.
Residents were reminded that commissioners and meetings are subject
to the open meetings act. That how these programs work. Commissioners
deliberate and make decisions as if they were in a “fish tank”.
Residents were asked to submit proposals on that needs to be done
and submit them to the Commissioners for consideration.
A number of other questions were raised, such as how much do we
pay for this service. Answer: it is listed on your individual tax bills. Some
inquires as to the working hours of security patrols and what are their
limitations to arrest the offenders. Also a number of residents indicated that
a positive attitude is required in these meetings. We must face reality, that
security must be an integral part of community development and we must be
realistic in our expectations and limitations.
Next Governing Commissioners meeting.
Next meeting is tentatively scheduled for November 11, 2015.
Meeting was closed at 9:15 pm.
Respectfully submitted by Joe Polikaitis

 