MARQUETTE PARK 
OPEN COMIVIISSIONERS MEETING
February 24, 2016



Location: Lithuanian Human Services Council Hall
2711-15 W. 71st Street
Chicago, IL 60629

In attendance: Commissioners Jonas Miglinas

Young
Stephanie Sherman-Ratliff

Absent: Commissioners Patricia Nelson (out of the State)
Brenda Justice (family emergency)
Dolorine Lopez (sick)

Also in attendance: Joe Polikaitis, LHS Executive Director

Ina Stankeviciene, Program Manager
Narvell Darling, IHS Director of Operations

Commission chair, Patricia Nelson, was travelling out of state due to business
requirements, thus the meeting was being chaired by Commissioner Young. She noted,
that since only three Commissioners were in attendance, a quorum requirement was not met and
thus no voting decisions could be made during the meeting. According to an Open meetings
protocol, whenever a quorum is not present, a meeting can continue only for informational
purposes. Agenda items requiring decisions are postponed until the next Open Commissioners
meeting. Thus, a meeting was continued only as a general informational meeting.

Approval of 11/18/2015 minutes

Due to lack of quorum, the November 18, 2015 minutes could not be approved.

Therefore, these minutes will need to be approved during the April 27, 2016 Commissioners
meeting.

Incident Report

Incident Report was read by Ina Stankeviciene. It covered the time period of November
15" 2015 to January 315?, 2016. During this three month period, the Illinois Homeland Security
addressed 73S security events of varied nature. A number of serious incidents did occur.
Speci?cally - 64 burglar alarms calls, 16 burglaries, 30 loud reports, 13 weapons offences, 7
shooting events, and 4 assaults. Suspicious activity by a person or vehicle was reported 45 times.
Arrival of security o?icers prevented escalation into a more serious incidents. Incident Report

was illustrated with incident statistics charts and tables. Copies of the report were distributed to
all attendees.

Financial Report as of 

Financial Report was presented by Joe Polikaitis. Due to foreclosures and uncollected tax
revenue ?'om the 2014 preperty taxes, collections were signi?cantly below the budgeted
amount. Before the 2015 tax collections started coming in, we were down to a total available
cash in the checking account and $6,622.44 in the Money Market
account). Presently, collections started coming in and thus now we have available cash in the
amount of $68,536.86. In order to insure adequate ?nancial availability for January and
February months, we held up payment of some invoices. Thus, this year we did not have to take

out a loan as we had to do the past two years. EAV values remain low, more than 106
million.

Surveillance Cameras

There are thirteen surveillance cameras located throughout the area. Presently,
only twelve are working. One was struck by lightning and has to be replaced. The quality and
clarity of surveillance images of two cameras was signi?cantly improved by replacing the old
surveillance cameras with new ones of better quality. Delivery of signal to the central station
had to be improved because of tree heights, especially during summer months. The system was
recon?gured and signal is being relayed via another station to the central station. They have
assisted in the resolution of criminal activity, shootings and evasion on foot. If funds will allow,
we should improve the quality by replacing two additional surveillance cameras of better quality.

CPA Audits

As required by City of Chicago, SSA ?nancial books are audited every year and report
submitted to Department of Planning and Development by May 1. This year audits are due by
4/29/2016. Request for auditing service proposals were published and three proposals were
received. Of these, CP Partners, L.L.C. of Hof?nan Estates, IL was chosen and contract was

signed. Audit report will be presented to the Commissioners for approval prior to submission to
the City of Chicago.

Web Site

Marquette Park website?s address is and all area
residents (owners and tenants) are urged to check the updated website frequently. There are
announcements of public meetings, minutes ?'om public meetings, criminal activity data

reports, with area location, date of the event, and type of activity, safety notes, etc. In addition a
number of forms and special announcements are posted as well.

Proposed survey and start of 2017 budget process

Survey form was prepared and was scheduled to be mailed to all residents,
however, it was discovered that the available addresses were so obsolete that it would be of
limited use?ilness. We need to investigate if we can get an updated list from Cook County Tax
Collection Department. Planning and Development Department will be preparing the necessary
forms to initiated the 2017 budgeting process. Typically, draft copies need to be submitted by
mid-July. Also, we were informed that we will need to re?establish program thus the
process will have to be initiated by the end of this year.

Community Input
The area residents expressed their views on incidents and incident reports as well as

other activities in the neighborhood. Some questions were not related to the problems.

Attendance of area residents at this meeting was lower than normal. Consequently, the number
of questions was limited.

Next Governing Commissioners Meeting

Next meeting is scheduled for April 27, 2016.

Reapectfully submitted by Ina Stankeviciene

