July 11th, 2018 Chicago Transit Board Regular Meeting Minutes.
Noticed for 10:00 AM; Commenced at 10:25 AM.

AGENDA: The posted agenda for the meeting is available at www.transitchicago.com
, “Chicago Transit
Board”, “Meeting Notices, Agendas, and Minutes”, (07/11/2018)(Regular Board Meeting),”Agenda

ROLL CALL: Directors Terry Peterson (Chairman), Arabel Alva Rosales (Vice-Chairman), Kevin Irvin
Johnny Miller, Andre Youngblood. Alejandro Silva (absent).
PUBLIC COMMENT: Alicia Ibarra

MINUTES: Chairman Peterson asked for a motion to recommend approval of the Board Minutes of
13th, 2018. After being moved for approval and seconded, the motion passed with five yes votes

EXECUTIVE SESSION: Chairman Peterson asked for a motion to approve Board Agenda Items 4-A,
and 4-C: ordinances authorizing the payment of relocation expenses (3330-3344 North Clark Stree
the acquisition of properties (3330-3344 and 3427 North Clark Street), in Chicago, Illinois for the R
and Purple Modernization Project. After being moved and seconded, the motion was approved wit
five yes votes.

COMMITTEE ON STRATEGIC PLANNING AND SERVICE DELIVERY: Committee chairman Kevin Irvine
presented the report. The committee had approved the Committee minutes of June 13th, 2018. M
Irvine also stated that the committee reviewed and approved an ordinance authorizing a five-year
agreement with the University of Chicago for bus routes #171 U of C-Hyde Park, #172 U of C-Kenw
and #192 University of Chicago Hospitals Express . The committee placed the ordinance on the
omnibus, recommended for Board approval. Mr. Irvine concluded his report.

COMMITTEE ON FINANCE, AUDIT, AND BUDGET: Committee Vice-Chairman Kevin Irvine presented
report. The committee reviewed the monthly (July) report on Finance, and approved the June 13th
2018 committee meeting minutes. Mr. Irvine also stated that all other Committee agenda items
on the Committee Agenda, were presented, reviewed, discussed, placed on the omnibus, and
recommended for Board approval. Mr. Irvine concluded his report.
Chairman Peterson asked for a motion to approve the omnibus as stated by Director Irvine. After
moved and seconded, the motion was approved with five yes votes.
All approved July 2018 Board ordinances are available on-line, at www.transitchicago.com
, “Chicago
Transit Board”, “Board Ordinances”, Ordinance Numbers 018-55 through 018-66.

CONSTRUCTION REPORT: Chief Infrastructure Officer Carole Morey presented the Construction Re
The report is available on-line at www.transitchicago.com
, “Chicago Transit Board”, “Presentations
made to the Chicago Transit Board”, (July 2018), “Construction Report”.
NEW BUSINESS: None

 MOTION TO ADJOURN: Chairman Peterson asked for a motion to adjourn the July 11th, 2018 Chic
Transit Board meeting. That motion was moved and approved by unanimous voice vote.

 