MARQUETTE PARK SSA#14
OPEN COMMISSIONERS MEETING
July 12, 2017
MINUTES
Location: Lithuanian Human Services Council Hall
2711-15 W. 71st Street
Chicago, IL 60629
In attendance: Commissioners

Patricia Nelson
Jonas Miglinas
Peggie Jones
Stephanie Sherman-Ratliff

Absent:

Brenda Justice
Cynthia Young
Dolorine Lopez

Commissioners

Also in attendance:

Joe Polikaitis, SSA#14 and LHS Executive Director
Ina Stankeviciene, SSA#14 Program Manager
Narvell Darling, IHS Director of Operations

Guests:

8-th District Commander Ronald Pontecore,
8-th District Captain McDermott
Patrick Brutus, Coordinator of Economic Development
Dept. of Planning and Development

Opening remarks
Chair Patricia Nelson opened meeting at 7:10 PM. She thanked everyone for attending this
meeting.

Approval of 4/5/2017 minutes
The 4/5/2017 MP SSA #14 meeting minutes were emailed to all Commissioners prior to the
meeting. Chair Patricia Nelson informed that copies of Minutes from previous meeting is available
to all attendees. A motion to accept the 4/5/2017 minutes was made by Jonas Miglinas and seconded
by Stephanie Sherman-Ratliff. Minutes were accepted by all commissioners in attendance. Minutes
also will be available on Marquette Park SSA#14 website (www.mp-security.org) the next day after
meeting as usual.

 Incident Report
Incident Report was read by Ina Stankeviciene. During the months of April, May and June,
the Illinois Homeland Security addressed 821 security events of varied nature: there were 284
security events in April, 263 – in May and 274 in March. 219 requests for assistance came directly
from the SSA#14 dispatch central, 550 calls – from the CPD dispatch. Disturbance is still the most
prevalent incident addressed by Illinois Homeland Security – 42% (347 events for all three months).
Most of them reported in zone 3 (156) and in zone 4 (95). Burglary alarm reported 92 times and
burglary – 13 times in April, May and June. One of the most beneficial things you can do to protect
your home is to communicate with your neighbors. In every case with these burglars, they were
caught by a concerned neighbor who later called the police or identified them. Domestic disturbance
and domestic abuse incidents were reported 86 times for all three months. Mostly, it was a violent
confrontation between family or household members involving physical harm, sexual assault, or fear
of physical harm. Domestic violence hurts all family members.
Financial Status
Financial report was presented by Joe Polikaitis. He explained that SSA#14 has two bank
accounts: Money Market and Checking. To Money Market account, the money comes only from the
city. From this account, we transfer money to the Checking account which we use on daily basis. As
of today, we have $35,340.67 in Money Market account and $38,444.85 in Checking account. Total:
$73,785.52. So, financial status is in good standing before second collection starts coming in.
Approval of SAA#14 2018 budget
Copies of proposed budged were sent to the commissioners 2 weeks prior to the meeting. Joe
Polikaitis explained that the budget was presented to the City of Chicago Finance Department and
Department Planning and Development for review. Sometimes they make adjustments. Last review
from the City came just yesterday but it did not affect final amount except allocation for re-establishment program.
Commissioner Stephanie Sherman-Ratliff made a motion to accept the 2018 budget,
seconded by Jonas Miglinas. Motion to accept the budget was unanimously approved by the
commissioners.
There were questions asked by residents how they can make any changes to the budget. Joe
Polikaitis explained how the program works and that the decision is made only by Commission.
Approval of SSA#14 2018 work plan.
The 2018 work plan was submitted to each Commissioner with the 2018 budget. No modifications
or corrections were made. Work plan consists of four parts: customer attraction, economic
development, safety and administration. Jonas Miglinas made a motion to accept the proposed
SSA#14 work plan for 2018. It was seconded by Patricia Nelson. Motion was unanimously
approved by commissioners.
Approval of SSA#14 Sole-service provider for 2018.
Jonas Miglinas made a motion to approve Lithuanian Human Service Council of the USA, Inc. as
sole service provider for Marquette Park SSA#14 for the year 2018. It was seconded by Peggy
Jones. Although the motion was made and seconded, do to oversite, there was no call for
commissioners to vote. Thus, approval of SSA#14 as Sole Service provider for 2018 has to be done
at the next meeting.

 Expiration of SSA#14 Ordinance – re-establishment process
The present Marquette Park SSA#14 Ordinance expires at the end of 2018. Joe Polikaitis
explained that to reestablish SSA#14, we have to prepare the required documents and submit a new
application requesting that City Council pass a new Ordinance for SSA#14 to continue with the
program. With the new Ordinance, everything starts new – new Commissioners will need to be
approved, all pin numbers, and owners must be verified and application document prepared.
Economic liability will be evaluated. Presently, City of Chicago requires 20% signatures of property
owners within the SSA. We have about 4 thousand pin numbers - that means we need a minimum of
800 signatures. It is challenging because an owner needs to sign, have a proof of ownership and
signature must match the one of the title. So, we need 900 plus signatures to be collected. In this
area, at least 1/3 of the property owners do not live here. Some live within the city, most of them in
the suburbs, and some out of the state. Question is - will we be able to collect all signatures we need?
If we decide to go with re-establishment Process, the new Ordinance can include not only the
security aspect, but also we can include community development, marketing, beautification, etc. At
the present time, residents are being taxed at 0.41% rate which can also be increased in the new
Ordinance. We will hold at least two community meetings to present the proposed program and
request comments from the community. Based on their comments, the program can be changed.
Once comments are incorporated, the program goes to the City Council. And the City Council has to
approve or disapprove. The major problem this year is the timing. Since the Ordinance would not be
approved until the end of 2018, taxing revenue would not be available until the second part of 2019.
Thus, the Tax revenue, collected during the first part of 2018 will be delayed until the second
payment of the year (August-September). However, at that time, we get both collections together.
Before the end of the year we would need to pay back the loan and cover all of the expenses
experienced during the year So the question is - do we want to continue the SSA#14 program? Will
we be able to collect all signatures we need? What type of program do we want – to stay within
security or expand? Today we have with us Kimberly Bares, a consultant who has been consulting
many of the SSA programs for many years.
Comments by Kimberly Bares, president PLACE Consulting, Inc.
Kimberly Bares explained that she already helped to reconstitute the SSA last two times and
she already met with commissioners, aldermen and service provider last month. The SSA term ends
with tax year 2017. We will be paying 2017 taxes in 2018. So, there will be money to continue
program in 2018. The SSA will be expired and new SSA will be created if it will go through the
process and it will be successful. So, there will be no Spring collection in 2019. If program will
continue, the provider will need to take credit on behalf of the SSA. The City has a very detailed
timeline and I’ll walk the commission through it to get feedback from community, that the program
matches the desire of community. In this process, we are planning some community engagement
meetings. And I will also clarify the purpose of Commission meetings and Community meetings.
Most Commissions do not engage with community through a meeting. They will ask community for
their input at some point. This is not a Community meeting. What we can do in reconstitution
process is host real community meetings where community members can come in, discuss and
interact with one another. We must ask you for your best ideas, priorities, what you like to see on
the streets, what you like to see on this block. We can start the process of reconstitution on January
1st. But we can start community meetings ahead of that time, like in October. Then, on January 1st,
we will have a good sense of what community really wants. Another important thing is - meeting
20% of property owners and to indicate their support for the SSA. To collect over 800 signatures, it
will be difficult to do, especially in a small amount of time. So, we would like to have those

 community meetings as soon as possible in 2018 to have a signature support. 10 weeks is not a
significant amount of time to collect signatures. Deadline for submission is June 16th, 2018.
Signature collection is due: 10% on June 1st, and another 10% on August 1st.
Status of Surveillance Cameras
Surveillance camera status was updated by Narvell Darling, IHS Director of Operations. He
informed that right now we have 12 operating cameras. 2 cameras are not being used because they
are not functioning after lightening. During the past year, some of the cameras were changed to new
high definition ones. They have been used in strategically important areas. Cameras can be easily
moved from one facility to another.
Comments by 8-th District Commander Ronald Pontecore
8-th District Commander Ronal Pontecore commented that 8-th District has great
partnership with Marquette Security. He invited everyone to attend Beat meetings. He advised that
all residents should never think twice about calling the police if the situation warrants.
There were a lot of questions from attendees related to police work.
Comments by 17th and 18th Ward Aldermen
Aldermen could not attend the meeting.
Community Input
The area residents expressed their views on incidents and other activities in the
neighborhood. Questions were raised concerning the renew the program and who has the authority to
change the requirements for SSA. All questions were answered. Residents declared their support for
SSA#14 as a security program.
Next Governing Commissioners Meeting
Next meeting is tentatively scheduled for October 11th, 2017.
Meeting closed at 8:50 pm.

Respectfully submitted by Ina Stankeviciene

 