 

Police Board Meeting
City of Chicago
22 March 2018

 

POLICE BOARD
CITY OF CHICAGO

PUBLIC MEETING

CHICAGO PUBLIC SAFETY HEADQUARTERS
3510 SOUTH MICHIGAN AVENUE
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS

THURSDAY, MARCH 22, 2018
7:30 PM.

AGENDA
1. Approval of the minutes of the previous public meeting

2. Next regular public meeting of the Police Board: Thursday, April 19,
2018, at 7:30 pm.

3. Disciplinary actions
4. Amendments to the Police Board?s Rules of Procedure

5. Orders issued by the Superintendent of Police during the previous
month

6. Report of the Superintendent of Police

7. Questions and comments from the public (see the Policy Regarding the
Attendance of and Participation by the Public at Board Meetings]

Note: Video or audio recording of the proceedings is permitted as long as the act
of recording does not interfere with or disrupt the meeting.

For information about the Police Board visit
ChicagoPoliceBoard.org

30 NORTH LASALIJT. STREET. SUITE 1220. CHICAGO. ILLINOIS 60602
312 712 4194 

POLICE BOARD
CITY OF CHICAGO

PUBLIC MEETING

CHICAGO PUBLIC SAFETY HEADQUARTERS
3510 SOUTH MICHIGAN AVENUE
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 2018, 7:30 P.M.
MINUTES [Draft]

Board Members Present: President Lori E. Lightfoot, Vice President Ghian Foreman, Eva-Dina
Delgado, Michael Eaddy, Steve Flores, John P. O?Malley Jr., John H. Simpson (via audio
conference), Rhoda D. Sweeney, and Andrea L. Zopp.

Board Members Absent: None.

Others Present: First Deputy Superintendent of Police Anthony Riccio, General Counsel to the
Superintendent Charise Valente, Civilian Of?ce of Police Accountability Public Information
Of?cer Mia Sissac, Police Board Executive Director Max A. Caproni, and members of the
public.

President Lightfoot called the meeting to order. She reported that Mr. Simpson is unable to
attend the meeting in person. Rev. Eaddy moved to permit attendance via audio conference. The
motion passed by a vote of 8 in favor (Lightfoot, Foreman, Delgado, Eaddy, Flores, O?Malley,
Sweeney, and Zopp) to 0 opposed.

President Lightfoot began the meeting by asking for a moment of silence for all victims of gun
violence in Chicago, and for recognition of Commander Paul Bauer and his family.

1. Ms. Sweeney moved to approve the minutes of the Board?s regular public meeting held on
January 18, 2018. The motion passed by a vote of 9 in favor (Li ghtfoot, Foreman, Delgado,
Eaddy, Flores, O?Malley, Simpson, Sweeney, and Zopp) to 0 opposed.

2. President Lightfoot announced that the Board?s next regular public meeting will be at 7:30
pm. on Thursday, March 22, 2018, at Chicago Public Safety Headquarters.

Rev. Eaddy moved to close a series of executive sessions of the Board for the purposes of
considering litigation and personnel matters, as authorized by sections (3), (4), and (11)
of the Illinois Open Meetings Act. The motion passed by a vote of 9 in favor (Lightfoot,
Foreman, Delgado, Eaddy, Flores, O?Malley, Simpson, Sweeney, and Zopp) to 0 opposed.

Chicago Police Board
Public Meeting, 02/28/2018
Minutes [Draft], Page 2 of 4

President Lightfoot also announced that now available on the Board?s website are the Board?s
2017 annual report and a new video that describes the Board?s role and the overall disciplinary
process.

3. President Lightfoot stated that a report of disciplinary actions taken by the Board during the
previous month appears in the blue books made available at the meeting, and she noted that this
report and the Board?s written ?ndings and decisions are posted on the Board?s website. She then
announced that the Board considered in a closed meeting several disciplinary cases, and that the
Board will now take ?nal action on these cases.

0 Case Nos. 16 PB 2918 and 17 PB 2936. Vice President Foreman moved to ?nd Police
Of?cer Mazyar Hariri guilty of charges related to off-duty domestic altercations, and to
discharge him from the Chicago Police Department. The motion passed by a vote of 9 in
favor (Lightfoot, Foreman, Delgado, Eaddy, Flores, O?Malley, Simpson, Sweeney, and
Zopp) to 0 opposed. Vice President Foreman moved to adopt the written ?ndings and
decision that have been reviewed by all Board members who participated in the case. The
motion passed by a vote of 9 in favor (Lightfoot, Foreman, Delgado, Eaddy, Flores,
O?Malley, Simpson, Sweeney, and Zopp) to 0 opposed.

0 Case No. 17 PB 2932. President Lightfoot reported that in June 2017 the Superintendent
?led charges against Sergeant John Poulos for providing false information in applying to
become a police of?cer in 2000 and for having an ownership interest in a tavern between
2003 and 2006, and that Sergeant Poulos ?led a motion to dismiss these charges. Rev.
Eaddy moved to grant the motion and to dismiss the charges with prejudice and reinstate
Sergeant Poulos to his position. The motion passed by a vote of 9 in favor (Lightfoot,
Foreman, Delgado, Eaddy, Flores, O?Malley, Simpson, Sweeney, and Zopp) to 0
opposed. Mr. Flores moved to adopt the written memorandum opinion and order that has
been reviewed by all Board members who participated in the case. The motion passed by
a vote of 9 in favor (Lightfoot, Foreman, Delgado, Eaddy, Flores, O?Malley, Simpson,
Sweeney, and Zopp) to 0 opposed.

 

President Lightfoot stated that the decisions in the above cases will be entered as of today?s date
and will be issued to the parties, and that a copy of the written decisions will be posted on the
Board?s website as required by the Municipal Code of Chicago.

President Lightfoot noted that there is one additional disciplinary matter to announce.

I Case Nos. 18 RR 01 and 02. Mr. O?Malley announced that pursuant to Section 2-78-130
of the Municipal Code of Chicago, he has considered a matter on which the Chief
Administrator of the Civilian Of?ce of Police Accountability and the Superintendent of
Police did not agree regarding the discipline of two police of?cers. Mr. O?Malley
reported that this matter involves allegations that Police Of?cers Richard Caro and
Benjamin Garcia stopped an individual without justi?cation in violation of the Fourth
Amendment and Police Department policy. The Chief Administrator recommended

 

Chicago Police Board
Public Meeting, 02/28/2018
Minutes [Draft], Page 3 of 4

sustaining these allegations and suspending each of?cer for twelve days. The
Superintendent recommended classifying these allegations as Exonerated. Mr. O?Malley
reported that, in his opinion, the response of the Superintendent met the burden of
overcoming the Chief Administrator?s recommendation for discipline, and therefore,
according to the Municipal Code, the Superintendent?s recommendation will be
implemented. A copy of the written opinion will be posted on the Board?s website as
required by the Municipal Code.

5. President Lightfoot announced that the Board is providing notice that it plans to consider
amendments to its Rules of Procedure. She stated that a draft of the proposed amendments will
be posted on the Board?s website, and that there will be an opportunity for public comment
before the Board takes ?nal action on the proposed amendments at a future meeting.

6. President Li ghtfoot announced that copies of the general orders and other directives issued by
the Superintendent of Police during the previous month are listed in the blue books made
available at the meeting and are accessible on the Police Department?s website.

7. President Lightfoot noted that the next item of business is the Superintendent?s report. First
Deputy Superintendent Riccio reported that murders and shootings are down from last year, and
that the Department has recovered over 1,200 illegal ?rearms thus far in 2018. He also reported
that Superintendent Eddie Johnson just returned from Spring?eld, where he was meeting with
legislators and advocating for several gun-control measures. (See the transcript of the meeting,
posted on the Board is website, for a complete report of First Deputy Riccio ?s remarks.)

8. President Lightfoot called upon those members of the public who had signed up in advance to
speak. (See the transcript of the meeting, posted on the Board ?s website, for a complete report of
each speaker ?s remarks.)

0 Shaina Landuis, Jennifer No, and Grace Papino spoke on the issue of sexual offenses
committed by police of?cers.

- Ellen Corley spoke on a variety of matters that she said have been covered-up.

0 Rachel Oliver stated that Progressive Baptist Church offers condolences for the loss of
Commander Bauer, and stands as an advocate for Chicagoans and as a faith-based partner
with the Police Department.

in Jackie Page stated that she was involved in a traf?c crash and alleged misconduct on the
part of the responding of?cer.

- Pamela Hunt spoke about the issues of racism and discrimination in policing.

Chicago Police Board
Public Meeting, 02/28/2018
Minutes [Draft], Page 4 of 4

Kim Townsend spoke about the allegations she has made that from the age of 14 until she
was 18 she was repeatedly raped by a Chicago police of?cer in the 1980s.

Crista Noel advocated naming the campus of the planned new police training facility
after Thomas Wortham and she spoke about the issue of sexual assault by police
of?cers.

Queen Sister spoke about several issues, including the issue of sexual offenses committed
by police of?cers.

Helen Henning spoke about police misconduct she said she has been the victim of.
George Blakemore spoke on several topics.
Robert More spoke about a variety of matters.

President Lightfoot called upon the following individuals and there was no response: Kit
Brennan, Latoya Jones, and Maureen Dombeck.

President Lightfoot stated that all persons who had signed up in advance to speak had been
called. Vice President Foreman moved to adjourn the meeting. The motion passed by a vote of 9
in favor (Lightfoot, Foreman, Delgado, Eaddy, Flores, O?Malley, Simpson, Sweeney, and Zopp)
to 0 opposed, and President Lightfoot announced that the meeting is adjourned.

Respectfully submitted,

ls/ Max A. Caproni
Executive Director

Chicago Police Board
Report of Decisions
February 2018

BIA BIA IPRAICOPA IPRAICOPA OIG OIG Total Total
This Month Year-to-Date This Month Year-to-Date This Month Year-to-Date This Month Year-to-Date

DISCHARGE CASES

Guilty, Discharged Guilty, Suspended Not Guilty Charges Withdrawn-Respondent Resigned Charges Dismissed Total SUSPENSION CASES: GREATER THAN 30 DAYS

Guilty, Recommended Penalty Guilty, Penalty Increased Guilty, Penalty Reduced Not Guilty Charges Withdrawn Total BIA Investigated by the CPD's Bureau of Internal Affairs
Investigated by the Independent Police Review Authority or the Civilian Office of Police Accountability (which replaced IPRA on 15 September 2017)
OIG Investigated by the Office of the Inspector General

 DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY: March 1, 2018]

POLICE BOARD
CITY OF CHICAGO

RULES OF PROCEDURE

Published: 1 November 1975
Amended: 15 June 2006, 19 June 2008, 19 March 2009,
19 November 2009, 16 April 2015, 19 January 2017, and 20 July 2017

I. PRE-HEARING PROCEDURE

A. Proceedings against an of?cer or employee (hereinafter referred to as ?respondent?) shall
be commenced by the ?ling of written charges with the Police Board by the
Superintendent of Police.

B. The charges shall set forth the Rule or Rules of Conduct which the respondent is alleged
to have violated and shall include speci?cations for each such alleged violation.

C. The charges and speci?cations shall be set forth in simple, non-technical language.

D. Prior to the time of the initial status hearing each case shall be assigned for hearing to?a
met-nher?aH-he-Baarclr-w-to a Hearing Of?cer designated by the Board for that purpose.

E. At the time the case is assigned for hearing Ina-InemheH-r?he a Hearing
Of?cer, the date, time and place of the initial status hearing shall also be set.

F. A copy of the charges ?led, and a notice stating the date, place, and time the initial status
hearing will be held, shall be personally served on the respondent not fewer than ?ve (5)
days before the date of the initial status hearing. Return of service will be made by a
receipt from the respondent on the retained copy of the charges, or by an af?davit of the
of?cer serving same. It is the duty of the of?cer serving the charges to secure service and
make a return thereof without delay.

If personal service of the charges has not been made on the respondent after good faith
and diligent attempts at such service, the Superintendent may ?le a motion for alternative
service of the charges (such as abode service or service by certi?ed US mail). It shall be
within the discretion of the Hearing Of?cer assigned to the case to grant or deny such
motlon.

G. The initial status hearing for each case shall occur no fewer than ?ve (5) days nor more
than thirty (30) days after the respondent is served with the charges.

H. At the initial status hearing of each case, the respondent shall appear in person or through
an attorney of the respondent?s own choosing. Every respondent shall be entitled to one
continuance, which continuance shall be granted at the time of the initial status hearing of
each case.

Police Board 20 July 2017
Rules of Procedure Page 1 of 11

 DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY: March 1, 2018]

I. If the respondent chooses to be represented by an attorney of the respondent?s own
choosing, the attorney shall ?le a written appearance with the Police Board on an
appearance form to be provided by the Board. Once an appearance is on ?le with the
Board all future notices sent by the Board to the attorney of record shall be deemed to be
notice to the respondent. No attorney may appear before the Board on behalf of any
respondent until a written appearance is on ?le.

J. After an initial continuance is granted, no further continuance shall be granted, except
upon written request ?led with the Secretaryfl of the Board setting forth the reason for
such request at least ?ve (5) days prior to the date set for hearing. However, the ?ling of
a written request for continuance shall not excuse the respondent and the respondent?s
attorney, if one has been retained, from appearing in person at the designated time and
place for the hearing of the charges and the request for such continuance shall be within
the discretion of Hearing Of?cer so designated by the
Board to grant or deny.

II. DISCOVERY AND OTHER MATTERS

A. Prior to the hearing on charges ?led with the Board, the respondent upon written request
made prior to the hearing and ?led with the Secretary of the Board and the Of?ce of the
Corporation Counsel, shall be entitled to:

1. Any and all written statements made by the respondent concerning the charges ?led,
which are within the custody and control of the Department of Police and/or the
Civilian Of?ce of Police 

2. Any and all oral statements made by the respondent concerning the charges ?led
which have been reduced to writing or summaries of which have been reduced to
writing which are within the custody and control of the Department of Police and/or
the Civilian Of?ce of Police Accountabi 

3. Any and all oral statements of the respondent concerning the charges ?led which
have been in any way mechanically recorded and which are within the custody and
control of the Department of Police and/or the Civilian Of?ce of Police
A cco [ah i] 

4. Any and all written statements or written summaries of oral statements of any witness
to be produced by the Superintendent in the Department?s case-in?chief at the hearing
of said charges;

5. Results or reports of physical or mental examinations, and of scienti?c tests or
experiments made in connection with the particular case which are within the custody
and control of the Department of Police and/or the Civilian Of?ce of Police

 

The Executive uf?lhe Board serves as the Board's Secretary.

 

Police Board 20 July 2017
Rules of Procedure Page 2 of 11

 DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY: March 1, 2018]

and

6. Any evidence within the custody or control of the Department of Police and/or the
Civilian Of?ce Police which
is favorable to the respondent in terms of guilt or innocence to the charges ?led
against the respondent.

B. Any and all other motions which the parties desire to make shall be ?led in writing with
the Secretary of the Board prior to the hearing on said charges. The Hemaeetltlie?Bea-rd
er?Hearing Of?cer designated by the Board to conduct the hearing shall rule on all
motions ?led prior to the hearing, which ruling shall be subject to review by the Board?at
However, it is within the
discretion of the Of?cer designated by the Board to
conduct the hearing to defer ruling on any motion ?led prior to the hearing, and to refer
said motion to the Board for determination.

C. Any motion ?led fewer than ?ve (5) days prior to the date set for hearing on the charges
or the receipt of any documents or information in response to any motion ?led fewer than
?ve (5) days prior to the date set for hearing shall not constitute grounds for a requested
continuance of the hearing on said charges, unless speci?c justi?cation for such late
?ling is presented. The Of?cer designated by the Board
to conduct the hearing shall then consider such justi?cation in ruling on such requested
continuance. It shall otherwise be the duty of the parties to ?le any and all motions under
subsections (A) and (B) above within the time prescribed by: order ul?the Hearing Of?cer
prior to the hearinu or, in [he absence of such an order. not fewer than five (5) days prior
to the date set for 
bee?ng.

D. Within the time prescribed by order of the Hearing Of?cer prior to the hearing or, in the
absence of such an order, not fewer than ?ve (5) days prior to the date set for hearing,
any party intending to call a witness giving expert testimony at the hearing shall provide
to the other party the following information in writing as to each such witness:

1. The subject matter on which the witness will testify;
2. The conclusions and opinions of the witness; and

3. The quali?cations of the witness.

The Hearing Of?cer may require such additional disclosures as to expert witnesses as he
or she deems appropriate.

For purposes of this rule, a witness giving expert testimony shall be the same as a
?Controlled Expert Witness? as that term is used in Illinois Supreme Court Rule

213(f)(3).

Police Board 20 July 2017
Rules of Procedure Page 3 of 1

 OR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY: March 1, 2018]

E. A pre-hearing conference may be held at any time by the Hearing Of?cer assigned to the
case whenever he/she deems that such a conference may aid in the disposition of the case
or preparation for the evidentiary hearing. The parties will be noti?ed of the date and
time of a pre-hearing conference at a regularly scheduled status hearing or by written
notice. All pre?hearing conferences shall be held at the of?ce of the Police Board.
Counsel (or any other representative'of the parties) who will actually try the case and
parties who are unrepresented must be present, but parties represented by counsel need
not appear (unless ordered to do so by the Hearing Of?cer). At the pre?hearing
conference, counsel must be prepared to discuss the issues that will be tried, the witnesses
who will be called and the testimony of each witness at the hearing, and the exhibits that
will be offered into evidence.

At the pre-hearing conference, the Hearing Of?cer shall have the discretion to require
counsel to consider and discuss the following:

1. Formulation and simpli?cation of the issues for the hearing;

2. Stipulations as to issues, evidence, or exhibits that will avoid unnecessary proof;

3. Evidentiary issues that may arise at the hearing;

4. The identity of the witnesses to be called, and the subject matter and the facts relating
to the subject matter on which they will testify (counsel shall bring to the pre-hearing

conference a written list of the witnesses to be called in the case in chief);

5. Limitations on the number or type of witnesses to be called in order to avoid
unnecessary proof or cumulative evidence;

6. The identity of any expert witnesses to be called and the subject matter on which they
will testify, as well as any other information disclosed pursuant to Section II-D above;

7. The availability of the witnesses to be called (counsel shall bring to the pre-hearing
conference information as to the dates on which each witness is available to testify);

8. The exhibits each party intends to offer or use at the hearing and possible objections
to such exhibits (counsel shall exchange copies of such exhibits prior to or at the pre-
hearing conference, and shall bring to the pre?hearing conference a written list of the
exhibits to be offered into evidence in the case in chief);

9. Any demonstrative aids to be used at the hearing;

10. The respondent?s complimentary and disciplinary record to be considered by the
Police Board, and any issues pertaining to such record; and

11. Such other matters that may facilitate the just, speedy, and ef?cient disposition of the
case.

Police Board 20 July 2017
Rules of Procedure Page 4 of 11

 DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY: March 1, 2018]

The results of the pre-hearing conference shall be set forth in a written Order to be
IllL' Hearing ('Jl?i'iccr. the 


 

 

All counsel are required to fully participate in the pre-hearing conference,?and to provide
all information requested by the Hearing Of?cer in connection with sub?paragraphs 
(11) set forth above. and emiiplv withulhp Hearing Of?cer's prerjigr?g

con l?ereuce Order. If any counsel fails to fully participate in such a pre-hearing
conference or provide the information requested by the Hearing Of?cer, the Hearing
Of?cer or the Police Board may issue sanctions against such party and/or its counsel,
including but not limited to dismissal of the case, entry of an adverse judgment in the
case, limitation of the scope of a witness?s testimony at the hearing, or exclusion of the
testimony of a witness or evidence.

HEARING PROCEDURE

A.

Any party shall obtain the presence of witnesses and the production of books and records
for any hearing by the service of a subpoena for same issued by the Board. Subpoenas
may be obtained by request made to the Secretary of the Board. No continuance shall be
granted to any party for the failure to a witness to appear at any hearing unless such
witness shall have been previously served with a subpoena, or unless such party
demonstrates a good faith attempt to have served a subpoena on any such witness.

The Board shall designate Hearing Of?cer to administer oaths for the
purpose of receiving sworn testimony at any hearing or proceeding conducted by the
Board. In any event any of?cer authorized by law to administer oaths shall be authorized
to administer oaths for the purpose of receiving sworn testimony at any hearing of
charges before the Board.

The Superintendent shall be represented at all proceedings before the Board by the
Corporation Counsel of the City of Chicago.

The Superintendent shall present evidence in support of the charges ?led, and the
respondent may then offer evidence in defense or mitigation. If the respondent offers
evidence in defense or mitigation, the Superintendent may then follow with evidence in
rebuttal, including evidence in aggravation that rebuts evidence the respondent offered in
mitigation.

It shall be within the discretion of the Hearing Of?cer designated to conduct the hearing
to rule on the relevance and extent of any evidence offered; such rulings shall be subject
to review by the Board.

Unless the Board, in its discretion, sets the matter for additional proceedings pursuant to
Section below, all evidence and arguments shall be presented prior to the case being

Police Board 20 July 2017
Rules of Procedure Page 5 of 11

 DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY: March 1, 2018]

taken under advisement by the Board, which shall then review the complete record of
proceedings without limitation; while the Board shall review at one time all evidence and
arguments presented, the Board shall consider any evidence in mitigation and aggravation
solely for the purpose of determining the disciplinary action to be imposed, if any.

E. The testimony of all witnesses, whether offered by the Superintendent or respondent,
shall be subject to cross-examination. The Of?cer
designated to conduct the hearing shall not be bound by the formal or technical rules of
evidence; however, hearsay evidence shall not be admissible during the hearing, unless a
federal or Illinois statute or rule of evidence provides otherwise.

F. The Of?cer designated to conduct the hearing shall
allow time at the close of the evidence for closing arguments. Counsel for the
Superintendent will give the opening argument, which will be followed by the
respondent. Following the respondent?s closing argument, the Counsel for the
Superintendent shall be given time for rebuttal argument. If Counsel for the
Superintendent waives argument but the respondent does not, Counsel for the
Superintendent will be given opportunity for a rebuttal argument. If, however, the
respondent waives closing argument, the Counsel for the Superintendent shall not be
given opportunity to make a rebuttal argument.

G. If the respondent does not appear or absents her/himself from any proceedings conducted
by the Board, the niembeiLetli-hahiarekeeHearing Of?cer designated to conduct the
hearing may proceed with the hearing in the absence of the respondent.

H. At the close of all the evidence and arguments, the case will be taken under advisement
by the Police Board; All rulings by the l-learinn Officer shall be subject to review luv the
Board. whiehmiln due course the Board will render its ?ndings and decision as provided
by law. The Board may, in its discretion, after ?nding a respondent guilty of one or more
rule violations, set the matter for additional proceedings for the purpose of determining
administrative action. The Superintendent and the respondent, or through counsel, may
submit any information concerning the respondent?s past work performance or other
relevant information in mitigation or aggravation which would assist the Police Board in
determining administrative action required. Witnesses may appear on behalf of the
Superintendent or the respondent to give sworn testimony.

 

Pursuant thereto, the Police Board shall issue its written ?ndings including penalty, if
any.

I. The ?ndings and decision of the Police Board shall be preserved by the Secretary of the
Board, who shall notify the Superintendent and the respondent of the Board?s action.

The Secretary of the Board shall forward the ?ndings and decision of the Board to the
Superintendent for enforcement of the Board?s action. If the ?ndings and decision is
such that the respondent is guilty of the charges ?led and removal, discharge or
suspension is ordered, such order shall become effective forthwith.

Police Board 20 July 2017
Rules of Procedure Page 6 of 11

 

DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY: March 1, 2018]

K. At all times during the Police Board?s ore-hearing. discovery. and hearing process. all
counsel shall conduct themselves in a civil. courteous. and respectful manner; shall
abstain from abusive. hostile. or obstructive conduct: and shall not engage in conduct that
brings disorder or disruption to Police Board proceedings.

 

The Hearing Ol?llcer or the Police Board rnav imnosc sanctions aeainst anv counsel who
violates this Rule, and against counsel's client, including but not limited to dismissal of
the case. entrv ofan adverse iudginent, limitation or exclusion ol?tcstiinonv or other
evidence. or such other sanction as the [looting Of?cer or the Police Board mav deem

appropriate.

 

IV. SUSPENSION REVIEW PROCEDURES
A. NOTICE

In all cases in which the Superintendent of Police has ordered a member to be suspended
for a period of time, no fewer than six (6) days nor more than thirty (30) days, the
member of the Department to be suspended will be served with a notice stating the length
of suspension and the reason therefor. The notice will also set forth the various options
available to the Department member to have the suspension reviewed.

B. PROCEDURES

1. To have the proposed suspension reviewed by the Police Board, the member must ?le
a request within three business days of being properly noti?ed of the suspension and
the right to request Police Board review. Failure to ?le within the period allotted
constitutes a waiver of the member?s right to review. Requests for review must be
?led in person at the Of?ce of the Police Board during business hours, or by certi?ed
mail (the date of the postmark of the certi?ed mailing will be considered the date of
?ling).

2. Upon the ?ling of the request for review the member will receive a time-stamped
copy of the request indicating that the request was ?led within the period allotted. A
time-stamped copy will also be forwarded to the Superintendent of Police; a copy will
also be sent to the Chief Administrator of the Civilian Of?ce of Police
if 
conducted the complaint register investigation.

3. At the time of the ?ling or within ?ve business days thereafter the member may also
submit a written memorandum delineating speci?c reasons for which the review was
requested and documentary evidence, if any. If the member submits a written
memorandum and/or documentary evidence, the Superintendent and the IPRACOPA
Chief Administrator shall each have an opportunity to provide a written response
and/or documentary evidence. Upon receiving the copy of the request for review, the

Police Board 20 July 2017
Rules of Procedure Page 7 of 11

 DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY: March 1, 2018]

Superintendent and/or the PMCOPA Chief Administrator may also ?le a written
memorandum concerning the matter.

4. Upon receipt of the investigation ?le and the material noted in item 3 above, the
Secretary of the Police Board will assign the review of the ?le and above material to a
Hearing Of?cer of the Police Board rimminbeseli?wu?ee?mmrd-within one
calendar week.

5. The Hearing Of?cer complete the review within
one calendar week of being assigned the review, and upon completion of the review
will submit a written report to each member of the Police Board indicating the
speci?c allegations against the member, the evidence contained in the ?le and above
material supporting the allegations as well as information in the ?le and above
material indicating evidence not supporting the allegations.

6. The Police Board in executive session will consider the report of the Hearing Of?cer
has reviewed the ?le and will vote either to
sustain, reduce the length of, or reverse the suspension ordered by the Superintendent.
A majority vote by the Police Board will be required to render its ?ndings and
decision. However, the Police Board may in its discretion order a hearing before a
membeHAtheLBoarrHar?at? Hearing Of?cer prior to making a determination to
sustain, reduce the length of, or reverse the suspension ordered by the Superintendent.

7. Any member of the Police Board may personally examine the investigative ?le and
the material noted in item 3 above on her/his own initiative before the ?ndings and
decision are rendered by the Police Board.

8. Upon completion of deliberation, the Police Board will cause the Secretary of the
Police Board to prepare the written ?ndings and decision and forward copies to the
Superintendent of Police and to the member who has requested the review.

9. Upon receipt of the ?ndings and decision of the Police Board af?rming the
Superintendent?s order, the Superintendent of Police may then immediately
implement the suspension.

C. EMERGENCY PROCEDURES

1. The member shall be served with a notice of suspension including an express ?nding
by the Superintendent of Police that the public safety, or the good of the Department
or both require the immediate suspension of the member.

2. No later than seven (7) days after service of the notice of emergency suspension a
member?efthePolice Board er?its?Hearing Of?cer shall review the order of the
Superintendent together with the reasons therefor and shall at that time preliminarily
af?rm or reverse such order. If the order is reversed, the member shall be reinstated
and paid for any period under suspension as a result of the order. If the order is

Police Board 20 July 2017
Rules of Procedure Page 8 of 

 DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY: March 1, 2018]

preliminarily af?rmed, the Police Board shall within thirty (30) days of such
af?rmance review such order and may in its discretion, afford the member an
opportunity to receive a hearing pursuant to the Rules of Procedure of the Police
Board.

3. If the Police Board, upon hearing, determines that the emergency suspension was
unwarranted, the Police Board shall order the member reinstated and paid for any
period under suspension as a result of the order.

D. SUSPENSION ACCOMPANIED BY FILING OF CHARGES

The procedures contained in Article IV do not apply to any suspension implemented by
the Superintendent of Police which is accompanied by the ?ling of charges with the
Police Board seeking a member?s separation or suspension in excess of thirty (30) days
except that no later than seven (7) days after service of the notice of suspension a member
ef?thePoliee Board er?its?Hearing Of?cer shall review the order of the Superintendent
together with the reasons therefor and shall at that time determine whether suspension
pending the disposition of charges is warranted. Review of the suspension implemented
by the Superintendent of Police in such instances will be considered in connection with
the hearing before the Police Board.

V. APPLICATION OF RULES OF PROCEDURE

A. At the time the respondent is served with charges ?led against her/him by the
Superintendent as provided herein, the respondent shall also be given a copy of these
Rules of Procedure.

B. All time limitation contained in these Rules regarding continuances and motions shall be
subject to exception in cases of extreme hardship, unusual circumstances or other
justi?cation. Any deviation therefrom shall be within the discretion of the Board
Member or Hearing Of?cer designated to conduct the hearing, and whose ruling shall be
subject to review by the Board at the time the case is taken under advisement.

VI. REVIEWS OF DISCIPLINARY-RELATED RECOMMENDATIONS UNDER THE
CIVILIAN OFFICE OF POLICE ACCOUNTABILITY ORDINANCE

Chapter 2?78 of the Municipal Code of Chicago relating to the Civilian Of?ce of Police
Accountability imposes on the Police Board certain duties when a disagreement
arises between the COPA Chief Administrator (?Chief Administrator?) and the
Superintendent of Police (?Superintendent?) over the recommended discipline for Police
Department (?Department?) members under investigation for violating Department rules. In
particular, of the COPA Ordinance assigns a member of the Police Board a
role in resolving any such disagreement. The following Rules of Procedure set forth the
method by which the Police Board will perform such duties under of the

Police Board 20 July 2017
Rules of Procedure Page 9 of 11

 OR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY: March 1, 2018]

COPA Ordinance.

A. To perform its duties under the COPA Ordinance, the Police Board shall designate from
its membership one member to review disciplinary recommendations (?Reviewing
Member?). The Reviewing Member shall be selected on a random basis and designated
at a regularly scheduled meeting of the Police Board. The Reviewing Member so
selected shall consider requests for review ?led until a new Reviewing Member is
selected at the next regularly scheduled meeting. Substitution of the Reviewing Member
may be made from time to time, as authorized by the Police Board, in the event that the
Reviewing Member becomes unavailable to perform the functions required of a
Reviewing Member.

B. A request for review of a disciplinary recommendation (?Request for Review?) by the
Chief Administrator shall be sent to the Of?ce of the Police Board and to the attention of
the Executive Director of the Police Board. The Request for Review shall consist solely
of: the recommendation of discipline issued by the Chief Administrator
(recommended ?ndings for each allegation of misconduct and recommended disciplinary
action), (2) the Superintendent?s written response to the Chief Administrator?s
recommendation of discipline, addressing each allegation and the recommended
disciplinary action, and (3) the Chief Administrator?s written objections to the
Superintendent?s response. The Request for Review shall be accompanied by a
certi?cate from the Chief Administrator stating: (1) the date on which the Chief
Administrator issued the recommendation of discipline, (2) the date on which the Chief
Administrator received the Superintendent?s written response, (3) the date(s) on which
the Chief Administrator and Superintendent met to discuss the Superintendent?s response,
as required under the COPA Ordinance, (4) the date and method by which the Chief
Administrator sent the Request for Review to the Of?ce of the Police Board, and (5)
pursuant to ?2-78-130, a certi?cation from the Chief Administrator that the
Superintendent was provided notice that the Chief Administrator had referred a particular
matter for a Request for Review to the Of?ce of the Police Board (?Certi?cate?). In
addition, the Chief Administrator shall send to the Superintendent a notice and
a copy of the Certi?cate and all Request for Review material that was sent to the Of?ce
of the Police Board.

C. Upon receipt, the Executive Director of the Police Board will prepare for and forward to
the Reviewing Member a Request for Review ?le consisting solely of: the
recommendation of discipline issued by the Chief Administrator, (2) the Superintendent?s
written response to the Chief Administrator?s recommendation of discipline, (3) the Chief
Administrator?s written objections to the Superintendent?s response, and (4) the
Certi?cate. The ?le shall indicate the date of receipt of the Request for Review.

D. Within 10 business days of receipt, the Reviewing Member shall review the Request for
Review ?le. Upon completion of this review, the Reviewing Member may, in her/his
discretion, request that the Chief Administrator and the Superintendent present additional
documentation or present oral or written arguments in support of their respective
positions. Any such request by the Reviewing Member shall be in writing, shall be

Police Board 20 July 2017
Rules of Procedure Page 10 of 11

 DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY: March 1, 2018]

served upon the Chief Administrator and the Superintendent, and shall identify the
additional information or actions requested. The additional information or
documentation requested shall be provided, and any argument scheduled, within a
reasonably prompt period of time, as determined by the Reviewing Member. The
Reviewing Member may impose reasonable limitations on the presentation of additional
documentation or argument. The Chief Administrator and Superintendent shall serve
each other with copies of any additional documentation submitted to the Reviewing
Member.

E. The Reviewing Member shall consider the Request for Review ?le, and the requested
additional documentation and argument, if any, for the purpose of determining whether
the Superintendent has met the Superintendent?s burden of overcoming the Chief
Administrator?s recommendation for discipline. In making that determination, the
Reviewing Member shall consider and determine whether the Superintendent?s proposed
disposition is more reasonable and appropriate than the Chief Administrator?s
recommendation based on the nature of the misconduct alleged and the information
contained in the Request for Review ?le. If, in the opinion of the Reviewing Member,
the Superintendent?s response did not meet the Superintendent?s burden to overcome the
Chief Administrator?s recommendation for discipline, the Chief Administrator?s
recommendation shall be deemed accepted by the Superintendent, as provided by the
COPA Ordinance. If, in the opinion of the Reviewing Member, the Superintendent met
the burden to overcome the Chief Administrator?s recommendation for discipline, the
Superintendent?s response shall be implemented, as provided by the COPA Ordinance.
The Reviewing Member shall notify in writing the Chief Administrator and
Superintendent of the Reviewing Member?s determination, which shall be announced at
the next regular public meeting of the Police Board, and shall be posted on the
Police Board?s website.

F. The Reviewing Member shall recuse her/himself from any future involvement by the full
Police Board with respect to the disciplinary matter before the Reviewing Member.



Police Board 20 July 2017
Rules of Procedure Page 11 of 11

POLICE BOARD
CITY OF CHICAGO

Policy Regarding the Attendance of and Participation by
the Public at Board Meetings

(Adopted 15 December 2005)

The Police Board values the attendance of the public at its meetings and the opportunity
to receive comments and questions on matters concerning the Board or the Police
Department. The Board will treat members of the public with courtesy and respect, and
expects that the public will treat Board members and Department members in a similar

manner.

Toward that end, the Board has adopted the following rules governing conduct at Board
meetings:

1.

An individual wishing to address the Board must sign-up in advance by
contacting the Board?s of?ce by phone, fax, or in person no later than 4:30 pm.
of the day before the meeting.

When called upon to address the Board, each speaker is to identify him/herself
and speak clearly so that all in attendance may hear and so that the court reporter
may make an accurate record of the proceedings.

Due to time constraints, each speaker is limited to two minutes and must
conclude when asked to do so by the Board member acting as parliamentarian.

Personal attacks, obscene language, ?ghting words, threats, conduct intended to
disrupt or interfere with the meeting, and comments not related to matters within
the Board?s or the Department?s jurisdiction, by a speaker or any person in
attendance, are strictly prohibited.

Violation of any of the above rules may result in the removal of the violator from the
meeting room, or in the immediate adjournment of the meeting; in addition, repeated
violations may result in the violator not being permitted to attend or participate in future
Board meetings.

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Preface: (1) Agenda
(2) Minutes (28 February 2018 regular meeting)
(3) Report of Disciplinary Decisions
(4) Attendance and Participation Policy

DIGEST OF DIRECTIVES ISSUED DURING FEBRUARY 2018

EMPLOYEE RESOURCE 3
SPECIAL ORDER 3
PERSONNEL AND TRAINING 4
IAD AND IPRA STATISTICS 
COMPLAINTS RECEIVED, COMPLETED, AND DISPOSITION 5
DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS 6
SEPARATION REPORT 
CIVILIAN 7
SWORN 8

This communication summarizes new or amended directives issued by the
Superintendent between 01 February and 28 February 2018.

The following directives, along with all of the Chicago Police Department's orders, are
available for review in their entirety on the Department website listed below:


EMPLOYEE RESOURCE

E05-04-01 Academic Selection Board
E02-02-03 Payroll and Timekeeping Holidays Personal Days Baby Furlough

Days
E02-02 Payroll and Timekeeping Attendance
E05-05 Career Service Rank Promotional Process
E06-01 Professional Counseling Division [Employee Assistance Program
SPECIAL ORDER

$04-23 Ordinance Complaint Form
802-04-09 Department of Buildings - Strategic Task Force

PERSONNEL AND TRAINING

During the month of February 2018, 155 training blocks were conducted for Chicago
Police Recruits, Metropolitan Recruits (including surrounding agencies) and ln?Service
Courses.

A total of 31,501 Department attendees received ln-Service/E-Learning training, which
included: Body Worn Camera Orientation Program, LEMART Instructor Development
Courses, Prescribed Weapons Qualifications, Procedural Justice and Legitimacy 1,
POWER Test, Patrol Carbine Requalification A, TASER Qualification and Re?
Certification, Force Mitigation, Decentralized Training Unit Roll Call Training, Driving
Unit ln-Service, DUI Papenlvork for Police Officers and Supervisors, Tactical Room
Entry and Command Staff ASI Workshop 

A total of 763 Chicago Police Recruits were in training along with 47 Metropolitan
Police Recruits.

IAD AND IPRA STATISTICS

COMPLAINTS RECEIVED, COMPLETED AND DISPOSITION

Police Board February 2018 Complaint Statistics

Log Numbers Received in ICLEAR

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

BIA Percent
Total Assigned Percent Adm?n of BIA
Received to BIA of Total Closed Total
February 2017 352 272 77.3% 166 47.2%
2017 Year to Date 719 557 77.5% 332 46.2%
February 2018 291 213 73.2% 99 34.0%
2018 Year to Date 650 463 71.2% 227 34.9%
Pre-Af?davit Investigations
Assigned Percent Assigned Percent Total
to BIA of Total to IPRA of Total Received
February 2017 106 72.6% 40 27.4% 146
2017 Year to Date 225 72.1% 87 27.9% 312
February 2018 114 60.6% 74 39.4% 188
2018 Year to Date 236 58.3% 169 41.7% 405
. . . BIA Investigations Closed
BIA I 
nvestlgatlons Receive (Investigation Completed)
2017 2018 2017 2018 
February 106 114 8 118 47 -71
Year to Date* 225 236 11 260 136 -124
BIA Investigative Findings? (Includes Field Units)
February Percent YTD February Percent YTD YTD
2017 of Total 2017 2018 of Total 2018 
Sustained 12 10.2% 29 5 10.6% 16 -13
Exonerated 3 2.5% 6 2 4.3% 4 -2
Unfounded 10 8.5% 33 4 8.5% 11 -22
Not Sustained 13 11.0% 31 8 17.0% 18 -13
Admin Closed 11 17 9 19.1% 36
No Af?davit INC 69 58.5% 144 19 40.4% 51 -93
118 260 47 136 -124

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

IAD AND IPRA STATISTICS
COMPLAINTS RECEIVED, COMPLETED AND DISPOSITION

NOTE: Investigative ?ndings are based on the date the investigation has been completed. not received.
The new intake system generates Log Numbers representing informational records. Pursuant to Illinois
State Law, Complaint Register numbers are generated upon execution of an af?davit.

CRMS Disciplinary Codes Entered for Members, Not Unique Log#
BIA Investigations Only

(Discipline at 'Final Finding', Case Closed in Records with Sustained Finding)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

February Percent YTD February Percent YTD YTD
2017 of Total 2017 2018 of Total 2018 Violation Noted 28.6% 15 2 6.7% 3 -12
Reprimand
200 -
0 0 0 0 0
Susp Over 30 days 0 
800 
0 0.0V 1 3 10.0?/ 6 5
Resigned Not Served 0 0
900 -
0 0.0V 1 1 1 0
Penalty Not Served 
suspemed 15 53.6% 22 13 43.3% 21 -1
1 to 5 days
Suspended
4 14.3?/ 6 3 26.7?/ 9 3
6 to 15 days 
Suspended
0 . 0 2 6.77 2 2
16to 30 days 00 
28 100.0% 46 30 100.0% 43 -3

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Report Date: 20 Mar 2018
Report Time: 1134 

CITY OF CHICAGO DEPARTMENT OF POLICE
Produced By

OEMC IT Data Warehouse

 

 

SUMMARY OF SEPARATIONS BY CODE FOR FEB 2018 - CIVILIAN

JAN - FEB JAN - FEB ALL OF
DESCRIPNON FEB 201a 2018 FEB 2017 201., 2017

809 RESIGNIUNDER INVEST 
810 RESIGN PENSION

812 RESIGN OTHER EMPLOY
819 SEPIOTHER CITY POS
821 RESIGNIOTHER

826 RESIGNI PERSONAL

827 RELOCATION

828 RESIGN FROM LOA

865 RESTORE TO CS LIST

CIVILIAN TOTALS



OLDDOFDO








00000001-

56

 

NOTE: THE INFORMATION IS CURRENT AS OF THE DATE AND TIME OF THE REPORT.

Report Date:

20 Mar 2018

Report Time: 1134 

Produced By

OEMC IT Data Warehouse

SEPARATION
CODE

808
809
810
812
819
821
825
326
827
828
829
845
855
856
881

DESCRIPTION

RESIGN 
INVEST
RESIGN PENSION
RESIGN OTHER EMPLOY
CITY POS
RESIGNIOTHER

JOB ABANDONMENT
RESIGNIPERSONAL
RELOCATION

RESIGN FROM LOA
RESIGN FROM DPR
MANDATORY RETIREMENT
DISCHARGED
DISCHIPROBATIONARY
EXPIRATION OF LOA

SWORN TOTALS

CITY OF CHICAGO DEPARTMENT OF POLICE

SUMMARY OF SEPARATIONS BY CODE FOR FEB 2018 - SWORN

JAN - FEB
FEB 2018 2018 FEB 2017

?i 2
1
19

NNEDOF
2017

17

490

16

31

611

 

NOTE: THE INFORMATION IS CURRENT AS OF THE DATE AND TIME OF THE REPORT.

