SSA #14 (SPECIAL SERVICE AREA #14)
OPEN MEETING
FEBRUARY 25, 2015

MINUTES

Place: Lithuanian Human Services Council Hall
2711-15 W. 71St Street
Chicago, IL 60629

0 In attendance - Commissioners: Patricia Nelson
Young
Jonas Miglinas

Not in attendance: Stephanie Sherman-Ratliff, Alice Polk and Sr. Dolorene Lopez and
Brenda Justice

Also in attendance: Joe Polikaitis (LHS Exec. Director) and Danga llginis

Minutes of 2-25-2015 Meeting:

Although the Quorum of attending commissioners was not met since there were a number of
commissioners that were absent it was decided to proceed with an informal meeting with
those present. Those gathered were advised that since the required quorum was not met
this would be considered only as an informational meeting and no binding decisions could be
made. However the commissioners in attendance at the meeting could meet and discuss
some issues but could not vote on any issues since a quorum was not met. Any vote is non-
binding.

Minutes

2-25-2015 - The following are informational notes (minutes) of the 2-25-2015 meeting. Not
all commissioners were in attendance. The required quorum to continue with a meeting was
not met. Joe Polikaitis at this point advised that without a quorum of commissioners the
meeting could not continue on an official basis and the commission could not make any
binding decision regarding financial matters etc. The commissioners could, however, discuss
certain issues that were of importance to them - but no binding decisions could be made.

Joe Polikaitis at this point mentioned that the February meeting by history was usually a less
attended meeting. Though the quorum was not met he indicated that the basic meeting
could still continue as it was too late and costly to post pone and too late to re-schedule at
this point. This would then be more of an informational meeting. NO major or binding
decisions could be made at this meeting, but issues could be discussed. .loe Polikaitis
indicated that 4,000 flyers had been printed and mailed through the post office announcing
the meeting.

Joe Polikaitis took this opportunity to give insight as to how the Special Service Areas work in
the City of Chicago, who the decision makers are, how the community is informed etc. Most
recently the community tax payers were informed by US mail. Previously flyers had been
distributed in the community but the response to them was quite low. This time all tax
payers on record were mailed the announcement with an added note asking they advise their
tenants of the meeting as well. Notice of the meeting was also printed in the local
newspaper.

During this informational session some questions were raised regarding the SSA. Here is
some information that addresses those questions. Initially, individuals can apply be an SSA
Commissioner. The process is initially announced in the newspaper and legal residents may
apply for the position. It is a non-paid position. The applications are filed with the ?city".
The applicants are screened through city processes. Basically, applicants cannot have a
criminal background/record, cannot be delinquent on their taxes, the ?City" investigates, this
position is not a paying position. There are rules/regulations that the commissioners must
adhere to though they do not necessarily agree with. The commissioners are the governing
body of the SSA but must adhere to the SSA guidelines and rules. Commissioners cannot
meet in private amongst themselves to discuss matters. Any discussions should take place
during the Commissioner's Open Meeting.

Joe indicated that the minutes from the previous meeting could be read (but would have to
be approved at the following meeting. A copy was made available to the attendees. The
previous minutes were read and accepted. Mr. Polikaitis indicated that the status of the
budget is on line 

There are approx. 4,000 "tax pins" in the SSA #14 area. Notices are sent to all taxpayers of
record by mail.

Danga llginis read the minutes from the previous meeting and the incident report as well
which seemed satisfactory to all in attendance.

Regarding the Security Contractor - Only 3 bids were submitted. Illinois Homeland Security
was one of the bidders. Illinois Homeland Security was awarded the contract. That firm won
the contract because their bid was most cost effective and LHS has previously had a good
working experience with the firm.

Joe Polikaitis indicated that a loan had been taken out in order for security to be covered as
available tax funding would be running out to cover security expenses. He indicated those
revenues were received and once received the loan was paid back with no interest.

Joe also indicated during the meeting discussion that the SSA Budget is part of the Freedom
of Information Act and is available to all through the City of Chicago -comes from the
Planning and Development Division. Requests need to be made to that department, the City
then reviews the requests and then the City makes a decision as to what information is to be
released. The request needs to be initiated through that department.

From the incident report overview it seems that domestic abuse calls are on the rise. How to
cure that problem is a challenge as they are mostly personal in nature. Another challenge
being that victims are skeptical about filing formal complaints and this is a hindrance as then
no one can be formally charged or prosecuted.

Our security force does checks of unoccupied buildings in the area on a regular basis? it
would be extremely helpful if the residents called whenever they saw something out of the
ordinary occurring in the area.

Financial: Joe Polikaitis indicated that currently funds for security have dwindled-there are
fewer funds available at this time. He indicated that he will again need to take a short term
interest free loan to get us through the immediate future. He indicated that the Security
expense is approximately $6,000.00+ weekly. Funds are held at the Marquette National Bank
in two accounts (one account is a Money Market Acct, the other a Checking Acct. The basic
procedure is that the funds come from the County account and are then transferred to the
City Account and then the City transfers the funds to the SSA Money Market account.
Currently the Equalized Assessed Value of Property in the area has dropped due to
foreclosures and considerably less taxes are being collected in the area. Joe indicated that
the budget will need to be adjusted to take this into consideration. He suggested that we
continue on with ?winter? hours (shorter patrol hours) for a while longer until the budget
strengthens.

Some general questions were fielded by the meeting attendees. The basics of the loan to the
SSA are that the Sole Service Provider (Lithuanian Human Services) takes out a loan to cover
SSA expenses for a short period of time until tax revenues begin to be received. When the
revenues are received the loan is paid back to the Lithuanian Human Services Council.

Regarding the SSA #14 cameras - Currently there are 12 cameras in the area that are
operational. One camera that had been hit by lightning is not operational and the SSA has
not had the funds to replace it. Our cameras are monitored on a regular basis. Our police
squad cars are equipped to monitor as substantial area while they are on patrol. Camera
data has been instrumental in apprehending suspects. Illinois Homeland Security shares their
data with the Chicago Police whenever requested. The Marquette Security cameras
have assisted in apprehending offenders in the area.

Respectfully submitted

Danga llginis

