MINUTES OF MEETING
WAYNE COUNTY ELECTION COMMISSION
FRIDAY, MAY 25, 2018 – 10:00 A.M.
COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL BUILDING - ROOM 705
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

Call to Order:

The meeting was called to order at 10:03 a.m.

Members present: Honorable Freddie G. Burton, Jr., Chief Judge, Probate Court
Honorable Eric Sabree, Member – Wayne County Treasurer
Honorable Cathy M. Garrett, Secretary – Wayne County Clerk
Also present:

Janet Anderson-Davis, Assistant Corporation Counsel
Gregory P. Mahar, Director, Wayne County Elections
Jennifer Redmond, Assistant Director
Andrew Kandrevas
Loren Glover
Angela L. Baldwin
Melvin Butch Hollowell
Lisa Williams-Jackson
Enjoli Conley

Agenda item:

Consideration of Agenda approval.
Board action on agenda item: Chair Burton requested a motion
to adopt the agenda. Member Garrett, duly supported by Member
Sabree, moved to adopt the agenda. The motion was adopted
unanimously by a voice vote.

Agenda item:

Consideration of request for Name Designation – Denise
Wellons-Glover for Wayne County Community College District
Trustee – District 5
Jennifer Redmond, Assistant Director, informed the Commission
that Ms. Denise Wellons-Glover had submitted a request for
designation because another candidate for the same office has a
similar surname. The Board was advised that yesterday during the
canvass of the petitions filed by Loren Glover, it was determined
that his filing was insufficient to allow his name to appear on the
ballot.
Chair Burton asked if there were any comments regarding the
request. Mr. Loren Glover made a statement regarding the petition
insufficiency and the request for designation.
1

 The Commission upon unanimous consent agreed that the request
for designation was moot and would not be considered.
Agenda item:

Acceptance of the August 7, 2018 Primary Election Official
Candidate list as presented by the Wayne County Clerk
Chair Burton requested a motion to accept the Official Candidate list
as presented by the Wayne County Clerk.
Attorney Melvin Butch Hollowell, attorney for Sylvia Santana
candidate for State Senate District #3, Reggie Reg Davis, candidate
for County Commission District #6, and John Conyers III, candidate
for U.S. Representative in Congress – 13th District, requested that
each candidate should be certified to the Commission because the
County Clerk erred in her determination of their eligibility. Mr.
Hollowell addressed each candidate’s issue and requested the
Commission to certify their names to appear on the August 7, 2018
ballot.
Chair Burton asked Asst. Corporation Counsel Anderson-Davis to
respond to the allegations made by Mr. Hollowell. Ms. AndersonDavis stated that it was the legal opinion of Corporation Counsel that
the Santana matter was outside the scope of the Berry case and that
the County Clerk nor the Election Commission does not have
investigatory powers to determine whether Ms. Santana had
outstanding campaign finance fines at the time she filed her affidavit.
In regards to the challenge to Reggie Reg Davis, Ms. AndersonDavis stated that a facial review of the affidavit of identity filed by Mr.
Davis showed that his filing was not sufficient and that the candidate
failed to enter his full former name as required by statute and as
directed on the instructions found on the reverse side of the affidavit.
In regards to the challenge to John Conyers III, Ms. Anderson-Davis
stated that the County Clerk’s staff reviewed the petitions more than
once and cooperated with Mr. Conyers and his campaign committee
and that staff and the County Clerk determined the filing was
insufficient.
Board action on agenda item: Chair Burton requested a motion to
amend the candidate list to certify the names of these three
candidates. No motion was offered.
Member Sabree duly supported by Member Garrett, moved to
accept the August 7, 2018 Primary Election Official Candidate list
2

 as presented by the Wayne County Clerk. The motion was adopted
unanimously by a voice vote.
Agenda item:

New Business. None

Agenda item:

Public Comment. None

Agenda item:

Adjournment. Chair Burton requested a motion to adjourn the
meeting. Chair Burton, duly supported by Member Garrett, moved
to adjourn the meeting. The motion was adopted by unanimous
consent.
Meeting adjourned at 10:18 a.m.

3

 