MINUTES: Finance Audit and Budget Committee. May 9th, 2018.
NOTICED: Immediately following SP Committee: Commenced at 9:53 AM.
AGENDA: The posted agenda for the meeting can be found at www.transitchicago.com
, “About CTA”,
“Transit Board Meetings”, “Meeting Notices, Agendas, and Minutes”, “5/9/2018”, “Committee on
Finance Audit, and Budget”, “Agenda”.

ROLL CALL: Present: Committee Chairman Silva, Irvine, Peterson, Miller, Alva Rosales, Youngblood
There was a quorum of six committee members present.

COMMITTEE ACTION: The committee reviewed the Finance report and approved the April 18th, 20
committee minutes. The committee also deferred to the June meeting, the Independent Auditors
Report.

Then, after extensive review by the committee, Chairman Silva asked for a motion to place all
recommended approved items on the omnibus for Board approval. The recommended items inclu
all agenda items. After the motion was moved and seconded, the motion was approved with six y
votes.
The approved items are as follows:

1 An ordinance authorizing the establishment of a short-term borrowing program for capital
purposes secured by sales tax receipts and/or certain IGA revenues; authorizing the issuanc
from time to time, of obligations secured by such revenues in aggregate principal amount
outstanding at any one time not in excess of $150,000,000.00 pursuant to such short-term
borrowing program; and authorizing the execution and delivery of one or more supplementa
indentures under which such obligations are issued.
2 An ordinance authorizing a lease of retail space and license agreements for basement spac
adjacent property located at 4620 North Broadway Street, Chicago, Illinois (Wilson-Red Line
3 An ordinance authorizing an intergovernmental agreement with the Regional Transportation
Authority for Ventra cards for RTA’s Special Fare Programs.
4 An ordinance authorizing a lease of concession space located at 2523 North Kedzie Bouleva
Chicago, Illinois (Blue Line)
5 An ordinance authorizing an intergovernmental agreement with the City of Chicago through
Office of Emergency Management and Communications, for security camera maintenance a
installation services.
6 Contract Number B14OP03283: $17,500.00
7 Contract Number B17OP00750: $584,447.00

MOTION TO ADJOURN: Chairman Silva asked for a motion to adjourn the Finance, Audit, and Budg
committee meeting of May 9th, 2018. After the motion was moved, the motion was approved by
unanimous voice vote.

1

 