COOK COUNTY 
HOSPITALS SYSTEM

CCfi 8

JOHN JAY SHANNON, MD

CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

COOK COUNTY HEALTH HOSPITALS SYSTEM
REPORT TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
September 28, 2018

 

Employee Recognition

Dominque Hudley, medical assistant at Englewood Health Center, served as a major asset to First Ladies Health Day. She
provided glucose testing and diabetes education to event attendees. She has also volunteered in a number of

other community events in Englewood like assisting with the summer meals program and completing the summer meals
training at the GFD. This training consisted of learning/understanding the proper way to storage food to comply with
state standards, proper way of issuing out/ disposing of food, being able to recognized damaged meals, proper
documentation of meals, and proper sanitation.

Dr. Patricia Raksin, chief of neurotrauma and neurocritical care and director of neurosurgery ICU, served as a co-author
on a new Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) clinical recommendation for healthcare providers treating
children with a mild traumatic brain injury often referred to as a concussion. The CDC guideline on the diagnosis
and management of pediatric mild traumatic brain injury was published in JAMA Pediatrics. It marks the culmination of a
nearly 5?year effort to identify best practices for the diagnosis, prognosis, and management of children presenting with
mild traumatic brain injury.

Anibal Rodriguez, administrative assistant IV, on our interpreter services team is retiring after 30 years of service. Anibal
started his career at as a greater at the Stroger Hospital information desk. He later became certified in medical
terminology at Daley College and became an interpreter. Anibal serves as a supervisor of interpreter services,
overseeing a department that has gone through significant changes. The department went from a team of 3 to a team of
21 staff members. The operation went from an 8 hour/day program to providing services 24 hours a day, 7 days a

week. Interpreter services now provides 3,000 interprets per week and language access in 150 languages.

Dr. Connie Mennella, chair of the department of correctional health and medical director at Cermak Health Services, is
the recipient of the Medicine Award for the 2018 Health Medicine Policy Research Group Awards. The awards
program recognizes Chicago-area leaders whose work exemplifies Health 8: Medicine?s mission to promote social justice
and challenge inequities in health and health care. Dr. Mennella has devoted her careerto advocating for and ensuring
excellent care for vulnerable incarcerated populations. In a highly complex interagency environment, she collaborates
daily with correctional staff and leadership, as well as community advocates, and members of the judicial system - in
order to protect and provide for the many thousands of patients in our care.

Activities and Announcements

0 The annual employee flu shot campaign will start on October To comply with the flu policy, all 
employees, contractors, trainees and volunteers must get a flu shot or submit verifiable documentation of a
medical or religious exemption by December 3, 2018. State law no longer allows for a philosophical exemption.

IMPACT 2020 Objective 7.5
- Employee Engagement survey is underway. The survey is being administered by Press Ganey and will

measure employee engagement and the culture of safety. Results will benchmarked against other like
organizations and used to identify areas of focus for CCH HS.

IMPACT 2020 Objective 4.2

Clinical services will begin moving into the new Professional Building in two phases starting October 22nd and
finishing on October 29th. The formal Ribbon Cutting will be held on Monday, October 29, 2018. The
Administrative floors will move in early November.

IMPACT 2020 Objective 1.2

11th Annual Breast Cancer Awareness Event for patients and their guests will be held on
Friday, October 5"h in the Stroger cafeteria. President Preckwinkle will be speaking to the attendees. The event
will also feature educational speakers, entertainment, raffles, photography and refreshments. The Stroger
Hospital Auxiliary Board donated funds to help with the event.

The Cook County Department of Public Health is partnering with Loyola University Chicago and the University of
Illinois at Chicago?s MidAmerica Center for Public Health Practice to host the 2017 Food Summit: Understanding
the impact of Food insecurity/Hunger on Population Health on Friday, September 29th and Saturday,
September The summit will be held at Loyola?s Maywood campus. For more information or to register, visit
the Summit?s website. Flyer attached.

2020 Objectives 6.2, 6.3, 7.4

CountyCare?s new advertising campaign started with digital marketing in September. Out-of-home, transit and
You Tube ads will go into market in October and remain through the end of the choice period in March, 2019.
Several new videos have been produced to support the digital campaign and can be found on the CountyCare
website as well. Focus groups were held earlier this year to determine messaging and creative treatments.

2020 Objectives 2.2, 3.7

The Cook County Health Foundation Associate Board will host their annual fundraising event to benefit women
and children?s health on November 9th at HUB. The invitation is attached.

IMPACT 2020 ObjeCtive 3.2

On Monday, September Reps. Jan Schakowsky, Robin Kelly, Bobby Rush, Danny Davis, Mike Quigley and
Raja Krishnamoorthi along with President Preckwinkle and Dr. Shannon held a press conference in the lobby of
Stroger Hospital to unveil a new report issued by the Democratic staff on the Committee on Oversight and
Government Reform. The report (attached) outlines the number of people in Cook County who are living with
pre-existing conditions and others who are at risk of losing their insurance coverage or being charged higher
premiums due to the latest Republican attack on the Affordable Care Act a Texas lawsuit that takes direct
aim at Americans? health care.

IMPACT Objective 7.1

Through September 18, 2018 Fresh Truck partnership with the Greater Chicago Food Depository
(GCFD) has resulted in 137 visits to 12 health centers Austin, Cicero, the CORE Center, Cottage Grove,
Englewood, Logan Square, Near South, Oak Forest, Prieto, Robbins, Woodlawn, and Provident/Sengstacke. The
move to a permanent Vista Health Center location has delayed the staff training and start date for the Fresh
Truck, which is now expected to take place by the end of Q3 of 2018.

Collectively, the Fresh Truck distributions have resulted in the provision of fresh fruits and vegetables to 17,109
individuals, representing 56,373 household members, totaling more than 385,000 pounds of fresh produce.

2 Page

Most of the individuals benefiting from the Fresh Truck screened positive for food insecurity at a health
center visit.

Fresh Markets are operating outdoors through the late summer/early fall. The Fresh Markets operate on
a weekly basis from 10am-2pm at three (3) health centers in South Suburban Cook County:

0 Cottage Grove on Mondays

0 Oak Forest on Wednesdays

0 Robbins on Fridays

Fresh produce is supplied by Black Oaks Center, a nonprofit that seeks to create a just, holistic, and local food
system through education, entrepreneurship, and access to healthy, affordable foods. partners with
Experimental Station?s Link Up Illinois Link Match program to offer SNAP users a match on all purchases at
Fresh Markets, up to SZO/market/week.

IMPACT 2020 Objectives 1.1, 6.2, 6.3, 7.4

(Select materials and media clips attached)

Legislative Update

Local

State

On September 12, 2018, the Cook County Board amended the enabling ordinance to require notification
of Cook County officials by prior to purchasing h05pitals and/or adding or reducing healthcare licensed,
risk bearing entities in CountyCare. The amendment codifies existing practice.

President Preckwinkle submitted appointments for the Board of Directors to the Cook County Board for
consideration. Below are the appointees:

0 Mary Gugenheim (re-appointment)

0 David E. Munar (re?appointment)

0 Heather Prendergast, MD, MS, MPH

On September 26, 2018 the Legislation Committee approved the appointments and the County Board ratified.

Pubiic Act 100-581, also known as the hospital re-assessment program, was enacted earlier this year. A Hospital
Transformation Review Committee (HTRC) was created as part ofthe legislation. The HTRC has been convening
in order to assist the Illinois Department of Healthcare and Family Services (HFS) in developing a hospital
transformation program to provide financial assistance to hospitals as they transform their services and care
models to better align with the needs of the communities they serve. Twelve state legislators, the HFS Director,
and the Acting Medicaid Director serve on the HTRC.

The Health and Hospital Association (EHA) has also convened a group of hospitals to discuss
transformation and will present their recommendations to the HTRC upon review and approval by their
board of trustees. Dr. Shannon participates on the IHA transformation committee.

Last week, the Supreme Court unanimously ruled to uphold the constitutionality ofa 2012 state law (PA
97?688) that sets standards for property tax exemptions for Illinois nonprofit hospitals, if the value of their
charitable activities exceeds what the hospital would have paid in property taxes. About 75% of Illinois hospitals
have a nonprofit status.

3 Page

 The General Assembly Fall Veto Session is scheduled for November 13-15 and November 27-29.

Federal
On September 6, 2018 Dr. Shannon traveled to Washington, DC with Cook County Board President Toni
Preckwinkle to meet with Cook County members of Illinois? Congressional delegation on matters of importance
to 

0 Congress reconvened after Labor Day to begin the final legislative push before the end of the fiscal year
September 30, 2018 and the midterm elections November 6, 2018. While much of the focus has been on
confirmation hearings for the US. Supreme Court, a number of other consequential health policy matters have
been proceeding.

0 The Senate passed the FY 2019 Labor?HHS-Education appropriations bill, packaged together with the FY 2019
Department of Defense appropriations bill on August 23, 2018 as the third ?minibus? (HR 6157, as amended).
The differences between the House and Senate measures were negotiated in a conference committee and the
Senate overwhelmingly approved the conference report on September 18, 2018.

The agreement funds U.S. Department of Health and Human Services agencies and programs of potential
interest to CCH HS.

0 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC): $7.9 billion, $354 million less than FY 2018. After
accounting for one-time facilities funding in FY 2018, it means an increase of $126 million for CDC at a
comparable level. This includes $805 million from the ACA Prevention and Public Health Fund. The bill
also maintains the Dickey Amendment prohibition against using federal funds to advocate or promote
gun control.

0 Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA): $5.7 billion, $584 million over
FY 2018. Continues prohibition on federal funds for the purchase of syringes or sterile needles but
allows communities with rapid increases in cases of HIV and hepatitis to access federal funds for other
activities, including substance-use counseling and treatment referrals.

I $1.9 billion for the Substance Abuse Block Grant, the same as FY 2018

I $89 million for Criminal Justice activities, the same as FY 2018

I $6.7 billion plus to address substance use and mental health, including opioid and heroin abuse,
$228 million over FY 2018, including $1.5 billion in state opioid response grants

0 Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA): $6.8 billion for HRSA, $107 million over FY 2018
I $122.5 million for the Healthy Start program, $12 million over FY 2018
I $678 million for the Maternal and Child Health Block Grant, $26 million over FY 2018

0 Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (AHRQ): $338 million for AHRQ, $4 million above the fiscal
year 2018 enacted level.

0 Public Health and Social Services Emergency Fund (PHSSEF): $2 billion for PHSSEF, $868 million over FY
2018
I $735 million, $25 million over FY 2018, for Project BioShield, for the acquisition of medical
countermeasures
I $260 million, $10 million over FY 2018, for Pandemic influenza Preparedness

The House returned the week of September 24, 2018 and leaders expressed confidence that they would pass
the conference report, despite grumbling from more conservative Republicans about the overall funding levels
and the fact that most of their controversial policy riders had been jettisoned in negotiations with the Senate.

4lPage

0 Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell brought the Senate opioid package, the SUPPORT for Patients
and Communities Act (HR. 6, as amended) to the floor on September 17, 2018 where it passed 99?1. House and
Senate negotiators have been working to iron out the differences between the two chambers? versions. Among
the sticking points are a House provision that would ease the Medicaid institutions for mental disease (IMD)
exclusion for inpatient opioid and cocaine treatment. Another controversial provision in the House bill would
make it easier for providers to share medical records for substance use treatment under 42 CFR Part 2. The
American Medical Association has come out against the provision, while the American Hospital Association
supports the provision.

- Efforts to chip away at the Patient Protection and Affordable Ca re Act (ACA) and counter-efforts to protect it 
continued in late August and into September. On September 14, 2018 a group of health care organizations filed
a lawsuit asking the US. District Court for the District of Columbia to set aside the Centers for Medicare and
Medicaid Services (CMS) rule expanding the availability of short-term plans. The rule would permit people to
enroll in short?term plans for up to a year and renew for up to three years. While they can be inexpensive, these
plans can skirt ACA rules on essential benefits, guaranteed issue, community rating, etc. The plaintiffs include
the Association for Community Affiliated Plans, National Alliance on Mental Illness, Mental Health America, the
American Association, AIDS United, the National Partnership for Women and Families, and Little
Lobbyists.

- Over the weekend, the Trump Administration issued a press release and text of a highly anticipated rule
concerning new public charge rules. Public charge is an assessment that federal immigration officials undertake
when evaluating an immigrant?s application for entry into the United States and/or for permanent residency 
green ca rd). The new rules could have a chilling effect on immigrants accessing public services that they or their
children would be otherwise eligible for in fear of losing legal immigration status.

The proposed changes dramatically expand what and who would be considered in public charge, by including
additional programs that help households meet basic needs such as Medicaid, the Supplemental Nutrition
Assistance Program (SNAP), and housing assistance programs. Not only would this rule harm the health and
well-being of Cook County househoids, but tens of millions of dollars are estimated to be lost in spending on
health care and in the local economy due to immigrants not applying or withdrawing from benefits. The effects
on may be significant due to anticipated losses in insured patient revenue and increased uncompensated
care. Once posted to the Federal Register, there will be 60 days to provide comments on the draft rule. 
will be submitting comments and encourages our partners to do the same.

Protection of Medicaid remains a key priority for at both the State and Federal level.

Community Outreach

October 1 promotion at the Marillac St. Vincent Family Services - Marillac Social Center Pantry and
Resource Fair that is sponsored by the Marillac Social Center and takes place at the Center located at
2859 W. Jackson Boulevard in Chicago.

October 3 and CountyCare promotion at Malcolm College Service Days, which is hosted by the Wellness
Center of Malcolm College at the school, located at 1900 W. Jackson Blvd. in Chicago. This event for
the students and community will provides services such as health insurance enrollment, counseling,
mental health support services and nutrition education, to name a few.

5 Page

October 4

October 5

October 5

October 6

October 6

October 6

October 11

October 11

October 14

October 16

promotion at Thornton Fractional North High School Parent Teacher Conference and
Community Resource Fair hosted by the Thornton Fractional High School at the District 215 TF North
High School located at 755 Pulaski Road in Calumet City.

and CountyCare promotion at the Summit of Health, which is hosted by the Illinois Department
of Corrections, and will take place at San Miguel Community Center located at 1936 West 48th Street in
Chicago. The Summit of Hope/Health is a community expo, bringing together local service providers to
create a "one?stop" environment for invited parolees and probationers to obtain necessary assistance to
move past barriers, which may prevent an individual from leading a successful life.

and CountyCa re promotion at the 25th Annual Senior Health and Government Fair hosted by
the Alderman Roberto Maldonado at Mozart Park located at 2036 N. Avers Avenue in Chicago.

and CountyCare promotion at the Latin American Health Weeks hosted by the Consulate
General of Mexico and the other Latin American Consulates at the Harrison Park located at 1824 5.
Wood Street in Chicago. The Latin American Health Weeks is composed of a series of health fairs,
informational workshops, screenings, and other activities organized by the consulates to bring resources
to their communities during Hispanic Heritage Month.

and CountyCare promotion at Next Level Health's Complete Health Festival, which will take
place at Hamilton Park located at 513 W. 72nd Street in Chicago. This event commemorates Next Level
Health?s 4th anniversary and it aims to increase awareness about the concept of Complete Health.

and CountyCare promotion at the 49?? Ward Expungement Summit which is hosted by the Clerk
of the Court Dorothy Brown and 49"h Ward Alderman .loe Moore at the Gale Elementary Community
Academy located at 1631 W. Jonquil Terrace in Chicago. The Expungement Summit provides a second
chance to those that made mistakes earlier in their life and paid their debt to society, and since then
been a law-abiding member of the community and deserve a better life to its full potential by applying
for an expungement or a seal, thereby removing them from their criminal records.

and CountyCare promotion at the 4th Annual MHTC Job and Resource Fair which is hosted by
the Cook County Sherriff?s Office at the Mental Health Transition Center located at 2801 South Rockwell
Avenue in Chicago. This annual event is designed to assist current and former detainees as they
transition back to their communities by exploring mental health, educational, independent living, and
employment/vocational resources that will assist in their reentry.

and CountyCare promotion at the State Rep. Elgie Sims and Commissioner Stanley Moore?s
Senior Health Fair which will take place at the Tuley Park Fieldhouse located at 501 E. 91st. Street in
Chicago.

and CountyCare promotion at the McKinney-Vento Resource Fair, which is hosted by the South
Cook Intermediate Service Center will take place at the Regional Institute for Scholastic Excellence
(RISE) located at 405 Ashland Avenue in Chicago Heights. The South Cook Intermediate Service Center
sponsors this event to bring resources and information to homeless families in Bloom Township.

and CountyCare promotion at the Alderman Milly Santiago, State Representative Luis Arroyo
and Cook County Commissioner Luis Arroyo, .lr. Senior Health Fair at Regency Inn Banquets located at
5319 W. Diversey Avenue in Chicago. Seniors will have the opportunity to receive flu shots and check
their blood for cholesterol, glucose or high blood pressure, with many other screenings.

6 Page

October 17

October 18

October 18

October 24

October 27

October 29

October 30

and CountyCare promotion at Metropolitan Family Services Calumet?s Domestic Violence
Awareness Event, which will take place at their offices, locates at 235 East 103rd Street in Chicago. The
Chicago Police Department is co-sponsoring this event to raise awareness about Domestic Violence (DV)
and bring resources to its victims.

and CountyCa re promotion at Oak Forest Senior Health Fair hosted by Oak Forest Senior
Commission at the Oak Forest Park District located at 15601 S. Central Avenue in Oak Forest. At the
event, the staff will focus on promoting the services at the OFHC and the fresh markets on Wednesdays
by Black Oaks.

and CountyCare promotion at 9th Ward Resource Fair which is hosted by Alderman Anthony
Beale at the St. John MB Church located at 211 E. 115th Street in Chicago.

and CountyCare promotion at the Kevlars to Careers Resource Fair and Symposium Presented
by Cook County Recorder of Deeds which takes place at Malcolm College located at 1900 W. Jackson
Boulevard in Chicago. This Veterans? symposium will benefit military veterans and those servicemen and
women in the Chicagoland area who have separated service or will soon separate service. This is a
?Welcome Home? event to give homage to the men and women who have served to protect our
country and as a means to provide them with assistance to overcome some of the challenges they have
and may face as they transition into civilian life.

and CountyCare promotion at the Village of Hazel Crest Community Health Information Day
which will take place at the Village of Hazel Crest Auditorium located at 3000 W. 170th Place in Hazel
Crest.

and CountyCare promotion at Consulate General of Ecuador Health Fair which will take place at
Casa Ecuatoriana located at 3300 W. Lawrence Avenue in Chicago. This health fair is part of the Latin
American Health Weeks program.

promotion at the Chicago Department of Aviation Concessions Career Fair which will take place
at Wilbur Wright College located at 4300 N. Narragansett Avenue in Chicago. The event will feature
representatives from companies looking to hire individuals to work at O?Hare international Airports in
the following areas: airlines, cargo, concessions, construction, hospitality, security and more. In addition,
representatives from the various community organizations will provide available health, social and
different community resources for job seekers.

In partnership with area community churches, Sinai Health Ministries is hosting a series of community health fairs
where they invite community organizations, healthcare organizations and health plans to participate and provide
information to attendees. and CountyCare will have an informational table at these health fairs.

October 13 St. Luke?s Church of God-in-Christ - 1310 North Sedgwick St., Chicago, IL 60610
October 14 Greater Galilee Baptist Church - 1308 South independence Blvd., Chicago, lL 66023

The Greater Chicago Food Depository Fresh Food Truck visits for the month of October include the following ACHN

Health Centers.

October 2 Cicero Health Center 5912 W. Cermak Road, Cicero, lL 60804

October 4 Austin Health Center - 4800 W. Chicago Avenue, Chicago, IL 60651

October 9 Cottage Grove Health Center - 1645 Cottage Grove Avenue, Ford Heights, IL 60411
October 16 Robbins Health Center - 13450 S. Kedzie Avenue, Robbins, IL 60472

October 18 Englewood Health Center - 1135 W. 69th Street, Chicago, IL 60621

October 18 Near South Health Center 3525 S. Michigan, Chicago, IL 60653

7 Page

