MARQUETTE PARK SSA#14
OPEN COMMISSIONERS MEETING
August 19, 2015
MINUTES
Location: Lithuanian Human Services Council Hall
2711-15 W. 71st Street
Chicago, IL 60629
In attendance:

Commissioners

Absent:

Commissioner

Also in attendance:
Guests:

Cynthia Young,
Brenda Justice,
Stephanie Sherman-Ratliff,
Jonas Miglinas,
Patricia Nelson
Dolorine Lopez
Joe Polikaitis, LHS Executive Director
David Moore, Alderman 17th Ward

Opening remarks
Cynthia Young opened the meeting at 7:15 PM. Patricia Nelson had a death in her
family and could not attend and chair the meeting.
Joe Polikaitis, the Executive Director of the Lithuanian Human Services Council,
informed that Danga Ilginis, Program Manager, is sick and cannot attend the meeting. She had a
large brain tumor removed. Now she is doing well and her memory is returning, but it is
uncertain when, or if, she will be returning.
Approval of 05/06/2015 minutes
Joe Polikaitis read a summarized version of the minutes from the previous SSA #14
meeting of May 6th, 2015. All meetings are being recorded and saved for future documentation.
Once approved, these minutes are loaded onto the Marquette Park SSA#14 web site (www.mpsecurity.org). A copy of the detailed minutes was mailed to the Commissioners prior to the
meeting. A motion to accept the minutes was made by Jonas Miglinas and seconded by
Stephanie Sherman-Ratliff. The minutes were accepted as read by unanimous vote (show of
hands) of the Commissioners in attendance.
Incident report
Incident report was read by Joe Polikaitis. It covered the time period of June 1st to July
31st, 2015. During the two month period, the Illinois Homeland Security personnel addressed a

 total of 414 incidents of varied nature. As to the location of incidents, it is the same as it has been
in the past - nearly 60% of incidents have occurred in combined zones of 3, 4, and 5, with zone 3
being the highest. Most prevalent incidents addressed by Illinois Homeland Security are
disturbances of various types, loitering, domestic violence, and burglar alarm. Roving patrols
observed many of these violations and addressed, thus preventing more serious problems. Vacant
property checks were conducted on a regular basis within the area. Security patrols check the
vacant property and ensure that any unoccupied buildings are secured. Vacant properties
contribute to the crime statistics of SSA#14.
A copy of the incident report is attached to these minutes.
Copies of statistical data on incidents were available on the counter in the back of the room to all
attendees. The incident report data will be loaded onto the SSA#14 web-site. Please check this
section often, as it includes important information about criminal activity in our neighborhood.
Sources of requests for assistance came from three separate sources:
Monitoring of police radio
- 214 events
Roving patrols (on site)
- 99 events
SSA#14 dispatch station
- 102 events
Our website contains the monthly summaries of incident reports. Details of these
incidents will be available during the quarterly Commissioners meetings.
Zone maps were also available on the counter in the back of the room.
During the meeting a question was raised as to what will be done with the abandoned
buildings. Statistics is good, however, we need to formulate action items so as to eliminate
sources of criminal activity.
Alderman David Moore stressed the need of block clubs. Block clubs must insure that
their respective blocks are clean, well maintained and safe. He urged to call the police if they see
several individuals gathering in one location. Do not wait for large crowds to develop. Alderman
stated that his community priority is to work with block clubs. Do not be afraid to report
incidents.

Financial report as of 8/1/2015
Financial report was presented by Joe Polikaitis. As of 8/1/2015 Money Market account
has $99,244.01 and Checking account has $12,072.02 Joe explained, if we stay on winter hours
during the year, the total budget outlay will be approx. $320,000. In addition, to maintain the
program into the next year, we need a carry-over of about $45,000.00 due to delayed collections.
Equalized Assessed Values (EAV) of SSA#14 was:
$106 million in 2013 and
$109 million in 2014.
Approval of 2016 Marquette Park SSA#14 budget
Copies of the proposed budget were given to the commissioners 2 weeks prior to the
meeting. Also, it has been reviewed by Planning and Development Department as well as City of
Chicago Finance Department.

 SSA#14 Commissioners need to approve the: (1) 2016 service work plan, (2) 2016
SSA#14 budget and (3) 2016 service provider agency.
The 2016 SSA#14 budget consists of the following:
2014 levy
- $447,781 (assessed @ 0.41%)
Carry over
- $6,970
Late collections
- $ 5,000
Tiff collections
- $1,894
Total Budget for 2016 is
- $461,645
Motion to approve the 2016 budget was made by Jonas Miglinas and seconded by
Stephanie Sherman-Ratliff. Commissioners voted unanimously to approve the 2016 budget,
work plan and service provider (Lithuanian Human Services).
Review of Patrol Hours
Commissioners decided, that due to financial constraints, Marquette Park SSA#14
security will continue to work on a winter hour’s schedule (winter hours – 149 hours a week and
summer hours of 224 hours per week).
Service consists of one assigned vehicle and extra person at times when needed during problem
periods. SSA#14 is not being charged for the additional person during problem periods. Illinois
Homeland Security usually has 2 cars between 5:00 to 10:00 pm. Based on actual incidents,
patrol hours have been extended until 2:00 am on Wednesday to Sunday nights.
Three officers from IPR (Illinois Police Reserve) were introduced at this time. They will
be conducting bicycle patrols in the area on a limited basis. They are volunteering their time one
to two days a week and weekends.
Surveillance Cameras
In the LHS dispatch station (located in the LHS building), there are 13 monitors of the
thirteen surveillance cameras. These surveillance cameras can identify individuals, cars, license
plates, etc.
Twelve cameras are operating at this time. One camera was struck by lightning and
attempts are being made to repair it. If unsuccessful, it will need to be replaced. In addition, the
camera on the 68th and Artesian Ave. corner needs to be moved to a different location.
At 69th & Artesian, there was a shooting and camera identified the offender (shooter).
The offender was arrested by the Chicago Police officers.
Comments by 8-th District Commander James O’Connell
8-th District Commander was not able to attend the meeting.
Comments by Hon. David Moore, Alderman of 17th Ward
Alderman David Moore thanked the 17-th Ward residents for the honor to serve them.
Alderman recommended that all 17th Ward residents, as well as others, jot down his contact
information. He will respond to all of the questions. He is from 17th ward area. Call his office for

 services needed in the 17th Ward. Keep calm and make the calls directly to his office 773-7833672 or his cell phone 312-388-0731.
Alderman explained that block clubs are the key to clean and safe communities. In
addition, alderman briefly discussed activities and future events of 17th Ward and invited to
attend Open House.
A number of other questions was answered by the alderman, namely:
Q. Who is the Superintendent of sanitation?
He was just hired and presently is in training.
Q: What will be done with the 7057 Western Ave. lot, since it is becoming a dumping ground?
Alderman indicated that construction will become soon on this lot.
Q: How do we start a block club?
Contact block club coordinator in the 17th Ward office. Block club representatives act as
coordinator of block clubs. We need to encourage to form block clubs.
Q: Is there a precinct captain?
No, not in his office. Alderman explained the difference between alderman and
committeemen. Aldermen serve all of the residents of the Ward whereas Committeemen are
political appointments and thus they have precinct captains. Block representatives and not
precinct captains.
Q: Train horn are too loud and too frequent, especially at night.
Alderman is already working on the problem.
A request was made to have a budget print out for all attendees. Residents were informed
that budget can be obtained from the internet. Residents, however, wanted hard copies. Joe
Polikaitis will contact Department of Planning and Development for authorization to do so. If
authorization is given, he will have copies for the next meeting.
Comments input
Most of the community input questions were answered by Alderman /David Moore.
Finally, a rhetorical question was asked: “Why is it that incidents usually occurs at the same
location. Why can’t it be stopped?”
Satisfactory answer was not presented.
Next Governing Commissioners meeting.
Next meeting is tentatively scheduled for November 18, 2015.
Meeting was closed at 8:45 pm.

Respectfully submitted by Ina Stankeviciene

 