S T A T E S T R E E T C O MM I S S I O N
State Street Commission Meeting
Tuesday, June 19, 2018
2:00 PM
ABC7
190 North State Street
10th Floor Conference Room
MINUTES
ATTENDANCE

I.

AFFILIATION

Commission Members Present
Commissioner Greg Cameron
Commissioner Mark Davids
Commissioner Paul Fitzpatrick
Commissioner John Idler
Commissioner Mark Kelly
Commissioner Rebekah Scheinfeld
Commissioner Ryan Segal
Commissioner Anne Voshel

Joffrey Ballet
AmTrust Corp.
11 East Partners LLC
ABC7
DCASE
Chicago Department of Transportation (CDOT)
Acadia
AVA Consultants

Commission Members Absent
Commissioner Scott David Greenberg
Commissioner Dean Lane
Commissioner David Reifman
Commissioner John Tully
Commissioner Jennifer Williams

the Wit/ECD
Palmer House
Department of Planning & Development (DPD)
Department of Streets & Sanitation
Macy’s

Others Present
Nathan Bruemmer
Alex Christenson
Michael Edwards
Judie Green
Laura Jones
Robert Kearney
Harris Lerner
Commander Michael Pigott
Dwayne Hightower
Sukmeke Watkins
Jeffrey Wilson

Chicago Loop Alliance (CLA)
Mid-America Real Estate
Chicago Loop Alliance (CLA)
Auditorium Theatre
Chicago Loop Alliance (CLA)
42nd Ward
Acadia
1st District Chicago Police Department
Department of Streets & Sanitation
CTA
CTA

Call to Order - SSA#1 - 2015 Chair Anne Voshel

SSA#1-2015 Chair Anne Voshel called the meeting to order at 2:00 PM. Introductions were made around the
room.
II.

Public Comment

No comments were made by the public.
III.

Approval of Minutes

A motion to approve the minutes from the Tuesday, April 24, 2018 State Street Commission meeting was
made by Commissioner Idler and seconded by Commissioner Fitzpatrick. There was no discussion and the
motion carried.

 IV.

Review/Vote Draft 2019 SSA Budget

Michael Edwards opened the Draft 2019 Budget discussion by saying that the Commissioners have made it
clear in their previous meetings what was important to them – especially safety. Although the EAV has not
been released yet this year, CLA anticipates property values will increase and the cost of necessary SSA
services will rise along with them. Last year’s budget was $2.8 million. CLA staff drafted a zero-based
budget and looked at what it would take to make a difference on the street, resulting in a $3.1 million draft
budget for 2019. Next month after the EAV is known, the budget will be more detailed and adjustments to
line items can be made. Edwards took Commissioners through the draft proposed budget, highlighting the
items that have changed:
 There is no carry over to 2019.
 Under Customer Attraction, the total budget went from $467,250 this year to $450,500 next year
because we no longer have a contract with a public relations firm. CLA brought that function inhouse.
 Public Way Aesthetics landscaping and power-washing lines went up because we are at the end of
3-year contracts and new RFPs will be issued late this fall. Also, in this category, there is
additional funding for infrastructure repair. The original streetscape is wearing out. Although
not as much tree grate work is necessary next year, more aggregate sidewalks need to be replaced
along with beginning to replace acid-etched CTA kiosk plate glass windows.
 Under Economic Development, it’s time to update two studies we’ve done in the past: the
Economic Development study and the Higher Education in the Loop study. In addition, we’d
like to dream a little bit and develop a State Street Master Plan that addresses the changing nature
of the street and the advent of the new State/Lake El station. There are no hard numbers yet to
apply to the cost of such a master plan, but it is estimated at $250,000. It may be possible that
CLA could split this amount with the Commission. (Note: Commissioner Idler questioned the
percentages in the “% of Budget” column. Edwards said he would check with Abel Rodriguez
when he returned from an International Downtown Association Conference in New York.
Rodriguez was selected to teach a session on financials to others in the downtown management
industry. It is an honor for him and an honor for us.)
 Also, under Economic Development, an allocation for Springboard pedestrian counters was left in.
Some have questioned the value of these reports and Springboard’s contract is due to expire.
Further discussion is warranted.
 Chair Voshel questioned the $85,000-line item for banners. She questioned how much revenue
CLA makes on them and how much comes back to the SSA. This is an accounting standard
question for Abel Rodriguez when he returns.
 There is more money in 2019 for Safety Programs. In 2018 we budgeted for hiring two new
ambassadors and a pilot off-duty program. The hiring of both ambassadors was delayed due to a
lack of qualified candidates. At the same time, the off-duty program was a success. The line of
thinking is that we should take the funds set aside for one of the ambassador positions this year
and put it into the off-duty program. Then, in 2019, increase funding for the off-duty program to
$150,000.
 Annual report costs stay the same as last year: $2,500.
 A 3% increase is allotted for salaries; the SSA pays for 75% of office rent, CLA pays for 25%.
Edwards said that overall the budget had increased 18% over last year’s budget resulting in a .4112 rate.
Last year’s rate was .346. This much of an increase requires a community meeting – unless the EAV
increases our funding thus lowering the rate percentage. Still, we have not maxed out what we could ask
for. Commissioner Davids responded that as stakeholders, we are headed into a higher, growing tax
environment. If there is a way to economize, keeping the rate the same or lower, it would be desirable.
Also, he would really like to understand the economic benefits of the proposed master plan.

 A motion to approve the draft 2019 budget was made by Commissioner Idler and seconded by
Commissioner Davids. The motion carried unanimously.
Chair Voshel asked about the timing of the community meeting. When does it need to take place? Michael
Edwards said that he would find out and report back.
V.

Status Reports/Outstanding Issues

DCASE: Commissioner Kelly said that summer has been very exciting. Blues and Gospel fests have
just finished up, complete with the new security protocols and no alcohol policy in place. These went into
effect without almost any complications. The Riverwalk has also implemented a huge increase in security.
Kelly expressed special thanks to Commander Pigott. 3 festivals and 350,000 people later, there was not one
arrest. DCASE is prepping for Lollapalooza, and a city services meeting for Taste of Chicago was just held.
Security: Commander Pigott said that he didn’t know if anyone followed the First District on
Twitter, but they tweet out crime results. In April, the First District were down in robberies 45% as opposed
to April 2017. In May that was down to 35%, and right now June is trending at 45%. All crime is going
down in the district, including retail theft and theft in general. The Mayor has commented on how well they
are doing. More individuals are being stopped, and there are additional officers in Millennium Park, on the
Riverwalk, on State Street, and riding the subway. Pigott said he was pleased with where we were at, and
that everyone should be seeing a much safer environment. He called for questions before he left to cover 3
demonstrations, including a nurses’ union issue and a die-in protesting CPD and the NRA.
Chair Voshel asked that he clarify what Commissioner Kelly had said about alcohol in the park. You can
drink, but only what you buy inside the park? Pigott replied yes, that initially Millennium Park had tried to
create a Ravinia-like picnic ambiance, which was great for 95% of the population. But during certain
festivals like house music, people were calling their friends and bringing in cases of beer and running
around. CPD suggested a change in policy in accordance with Homeland Security best practices. Bags must
now be checked, and some events have a no alcohol policy. This saves CPD many problems on Michigan
Avenue and State Street. Police can’t check bags, so private security is hired for the task. There is a
multiple perimeter set-up and it’s been very successful.
Sole Service Provider Report: Michael Edwards informed Commissioners:
 CLA is working with John Buck to investigate a loop-wide Business Improvement District
(BID). A workshop will take place tomorrow. A discussion with BOMA will take place in
July.
 CLA and CLAF have had some success over the past few years in generating some fund
balances, which their Board is now deciding how to allocate. Two of the projects they would
like to sponsor is the Riverwalk Procession (going on now) and Arts in the Dark in October
at a cost of $78,000 – provided that LUMA8 is willing to move the event to State Street from
Columbus Drive. Edwards asked the Commission what they thought about closing State
Street the Saturday before Halloween weekend. Chair Voshel said she’d been in the parade
before. It’s a fun family-oriented event attended by 200-300,000 people. Commissioner
Cameron said that it seemed like a lot of money for CLA to spend to attract people to State
Street. Can’t LUMA8 get corporate sponsors? CLA Board Chair Judie Green replied that
sponsors are more difficult to get on Columbus than on State Street. She added that in
conjunction with the parade CLAF is talking about lighting up buildings along the street as a
test. The funds used belong to the foundation, not the SSA, and the projects fit in well with
its mission and the Arts & Culture study. Commissioner Fitzpatrick asked that we bring
LUMA8 in to the July meeting so that we can hear their pitch.
 CLA will move into new office space August 4th – 11th, completing the move by August 31st.

 Streets & Sanitation: Dwayne Hightower said because we are at the height of the festival season,
Streets and Sanitation has extra crews out to maintain the quality of cleanliness at the festivals. They are
preparing for Pride Fest, and on State Street also replacing the decorative trash baskets. Michael Edwards
questioned if these were the blue and black baskets, which Hightower affirmed. Edwards asked if there
would be city labels on those; they look taggable. Hightower said he would make a note of that.
CTA: Jeff Wilson announced he had been promoted to head another project and introduced his
Commission replacement, Sukmeke Watkins. She has been with the CTA for 6 years and has been working
with Wilson in the CTA’s government and community relations department. Wrapping up current issues he
had been working on with Laura Jones, Wilson said that the CTA grate key issue had been resolved, the
painting of the stairwells completed, an additional cleaning crew was added at Roosevelt/State, and that an
escalator upgrades memo had been written and vetted (a revenue stream is needed). Chair Voshel thanked
Wilson for his service and welcomed Watkins.
CDOT: Commissioner Scheinfeld said that last June the city released a 3-year action plan called
Vision Zero to eliminate pedestrian deaths and injuries by 2026. This is a public health crisis of great cost to
society. For more information and to see the plan go to www.visionzerochicago.org. The plan outlines three
major legs: Changing behavior, enforcement, and changing the built environment to minimize the risk of
human error. Based on a 3-year period of data, 8 areas in the city with specific corridors have been
identified as high-crash areas. Different tailored solutions plans and costs will be developed for each area,
and there will be a plan for community engagement. The first task force meeting was held today. Alderman
Reilly chaired, and 5 other aldermen attended. Look for public service announcements and other marketing
on DeCaux information panels soon.
Construction season is in full swing. Although there is specifically nothing in this area, many utility
restoration jobs have been carried over from 2017. A complete list of projects will be sent to CLA.
Lakeshore Drive from Monroe to Grand is the biggest one – which is to be completed between the Triathlon
(August 25-26) and the Marathon (October 7).
There is nothing new to report on the State/Lake Station redesign. Proposals are still being evaluated.
VI.

Other Business

The next SSA #1-2015 State Street Commission meeting will be held on Tuesday, July 17, 2018 at 2:00 PM
at ABC7. The agenda includes the final approval of the 2019 budget, and a discussion about banners and
Arts in the Dark.
VII.

Adjournment

The meeting was adjourned at 2:56 PM by Chair Voshel.
Respectfully Submitted,

Mark Davids
Secretary

 