COMMISSION ON CHICAGO LANDMARKS
NOTICE OF A REGULAR MEETING
The Commission on Chicago Landmarks will hold its regular
meeting on Thursday, November 1, 2018, at 12:45 p.m. in City
Hall, 121 North LaSalle Street, Room 201-A, 2nd Floor.
The Permit Review Committee will hold its regular meeting in City
Hall, 121 North LaSalle Street, in Room 201-A on Thursday,
November 1, 2018, at 1:00 p.m.
Attached is a copy of the agendas for the Commission meetings.

David Reifman
Secretary

 DRAFT
DRAFT AGENDA
COMMISSION ON CHICAGO LANDMARKS
Regular Meeting – Thursday, November 1, 2018
City Hall, 121 North LaSalle Street, Room 201-A
12:45 p.m.

1. Approval of the Minutes of Previous Meeting
Regular Meeting of October 4, 2018
2. Final Landmark Recommendation
COOK COUNTY HOSPITAL ADMINISTRATION BUILDING
1835 West Harrison Street

WARD 27

3. Final Landmark Recommendation
MUNICIPAL TUBERCULOSIS SANITARIUM COMPLEX
WARD 39
Roughly bounded by Pulaski Road, Peterson Avenue, Central Park Avenue, and Bryn Mawr
Avenue
4. Permit Review Committee Reports
Report on Projects Reviewed at the October 4, 2018, Permit Review Committee Meeting
Report on Permit Decisions by the Commission Staff for the Month of October 2018
5. Adjournment

 NOTICE OF PUBLIC MEETING

DRAFT PERMIT REVIEW COMMITTEE
THURSDAY, November 1, 2018
City Hall, 121 N. LaSalle St., Room 201-A
1:00 p.m.

DRAFT AGENDA:
1. 1060 W. Addison
44th Ward
Wrigley Field
Proposed revised design of the northwest and southeast elevations and roof deck areas.
2. 4649 N. Broadway
46th Ward
Uptown Square District
Proposed alterations of front façade of existing 2-story masonry non-contributing building
including new windows, storefronts, and replacement of deteriorated exterior wythe of brick
with matching brick.
3. 1848 N. Lincoln
43rd Ward
Old Town Triangle District
Proposed rehabilitation of a raised, three-story building including a rooftop deck and access
enclosures, rear addition, and construction of a new garage utilizing an existing curb-cut.

Dijana Cuvalo, AIA
Historic Preservation Division
Bureau of Planning, Historic Preservation & Sustainability
Department of Planning and Development

 PERMIT REVIEW COMMITTEE
Summary of projects and staff recommendations, November 1, 2018

DRAFT
1. 1060 W. Addison
44th Ward
Wrigley Field
Proposed revised design of the northwest and southeast elevations and roof deck areas.
Applicant:

Chicago Cubs, owner
Alex Ortiz, Icon Venue Group
Stephen Rohlfing, Populous (architects)

Staff Recommendation: Staff recommends that the Committee find that the project, with the
following conditions, meets the criteria set forth in the
Commission’s Rules and Regulations, the Commission’s
Guidelines for Alterations to Historic Buildings and New
Construction, and Standards 4, 5, 6, 9, and 10 of the U.S. Secretary
of the Interior’s Standards for Rehabilitation of Historic Buildings
and therefore, the project will not have an adverse effect on the
significant historical and architectural features of the landmark
property and approve the project with the following conditions:
1. The proposed work to the northwest corner of the ballpark
eliminating the Player’s Family Lounge are approved as shown
on Populous drawings dated 9/20/18. Enlarged details of the
brick piers shall be included in the permit plans;
2. The new elevator enclosure at the southeast corner upper deck,
consistent with the approved Master Plan, is approved.
Enlarged dimensioned plans, elevations, cut sheets, etc… of
the two new elevators proposed in the bleachers, the new
elevator on the southeast corner upper deck, as well as for the
proposed changes in the elevator enclosure at the upper deck
near the main gate shall be provided as part of the permit
application. The size and height of all elevator enclosures must
be as minimal as possible;
3. The proposed beige color, consistent with the previously
installed elevator enclosures at the upper deck, is approved for
the upper deck enclosures. The proposed green metal paneling
is approved for the bleacher elevator enclosures, consistent
with the previously installed elevator enclosures at the
bleachers;
4. Enlarged details of the proposed replacement of the existing
chain-link fencing at the upper deck shall be included in the
permit plans. The cross fencing panel design shall of this fence
shall match the pattern of the cross fencing panels for the
railings at the roof deck and mezzanine levels;

 5. The 9” tall signs for the “Cubs Store” and “Club & Suite
Entry” along the southwest corner are approved as proposed.
Dimensioned details of the “Wintrust” sign above the southeast
gate shall be included as part of a sign application permit;
6. Enlarged details and side-by-side renderings shall be provided
to confirm that the balconies at the Stadium Club along the east
elevation, south of the bleachers, will be similar in appearance
to the balconies shown in the approved Master Plan;
7. Enlarged details of the metal cladding and window system for
the Stadium Club enclosure shall be provided and revised as
necessary, to match as closely as possible to the green metal
framing and opening proportions and profiles of the ballpark.
The revised and coordinated plan and elevation drawings shall
be provided. Dimensioned enlarged plan and section details
shall be included in the permit plans;
8. All materials, colors, and finishes to be a continuation of those
approved in previous phases of work; and,
9. All conditions of approval from the previous reviews of the
overall master project will continue to be applicable.
2. 4649 N. Broadway
46th Ward
Uptown Square District
Proposed alterations of front façade of existing 2-story masonry non-contributing building
including new windows, storefronts, and replacement of deteriorated exterior wythe of brick
with matching brick.
Applicant:

TAG Capital, LLC – Series 4649 Broadway, owner
James Patrick Thompson, architect

Staff Recommendation: Staff recommends that the Committee find that the project, with the
following conditions, meets the criteria set forth in the
Commission’s Rules and Regulations, and therefore, the project
will not have an adverse effect on the significant historical and
architectural features of the landmark district and approve the
project with the following conditions to be reviewed for approval
by Historic Preservation staff:
1. As proposed, the exterior wythe of deteriorated brick will be
replaced with new red brick matching the color, texture and
appearance of the historic brick, per the brick sample viewed
on-site (McNeer Red); and,
2. As proposed, the existing terra cotta will be repaired and
retained whenever possible. A reconstructed second floor sill
and any required terra cotta replication is proposed to be glass
fiber reinforced concrete (GFRC) to match the historic color,
texture and reflectivity. Staff shall be notified to view and
approve GFRC samples on-site prior to order and installation.

 3. 1848 N. Lincoln
43rd Ward
Old Town Triangle District
Proposed rehabilitation of a raised, three-story building including a rooftop deck and access
enclosures, rear addition, and construction of a new garage utilizing an existing curb-cut.
Applicant:

Bill and Lisa Deakin, owner
John DeSalvo, architect

Staff Recommendation: Staff recommends that the Committee find that the project, with the
following conditions, meets the criteria set forth in the
Commission’s Rules and Regulations, the Commission’s
Guidelines for Alterations to Historic Buildings and New
Construction, and Standards 4, 9 and 10 of the U.S. Secretary of
the Interior’s Standards for Rehabilitation of Historic Buildings
and therefore, the project will not have an adverse effect on the
significant historical and architectural features of the landmark
property or district and approve the project with the following
conditions to be reviewed for approval by Historic Preservation
staff:
1. Proposed project is approved as shown on exhibits dated
10/4/18. As proposed, the rear addition and the new garage
will be clad with common brick; and,
2. The project as proposed would require a zoning variation and
the Commission takes no position regarding any requested
variance/adjustment relative to the zoning code requirements.

 