 CODE EDC 18-10-02-305
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detrorr

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF OCTOBER 9, 2018 MEETING

RESOLVED, that the minutes of the Regular meeting of October 9, 2018 are
hereby approved and all actions taken by the Directors present at such meeting, as set
forth in such minutes, are hereby in all respects ratified and approved as actions of the
Economic Development Corporation.

October 23, 2018

500 Griswold,Suite 2200 - Detroit,Michigon 48226 - (313) 963?2940

ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
BOARD OF DIRECTORS REGULAR MEETING
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 9, 2018 -- 8:30 AM.

BOARD MEMBERS PRESENT: Marsha Bruhn

BOARD MEMBERS ABSENT:

SPECIAL DIRECTORS
PRESENT:

SPECIAL DIRECTORS
ABSENT:

OTHERS PRESENT:

Kimberly Clayson
Linda Forte
Damon Hodge
Chris Jackson
Kwaku Osei
Jonathan Quarles

Maurice Cox (Ex-Officio)
John Naglick (Ex-Officio)
Matthew Roling

Thomas Stallworth

None

Jonathan Newton (Waterfront East Development Project)

Pierre Batten 
Kyla Carlsen 
Catherine Frazier 
John Gallagher (Free Press)
Gay Hilger 
Malinda Jensen 
Jennifer Kanalos 
Hafsa Kahn 
Paul Kako 
Rebecca Navin 
Sarah Pavelko 
Mariangeta Pledl 
Kelly Shovan 
Maddie Turray (CGP)

Matt Walters (City of Detroit)



Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit

MINUTES OF THE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
BOARD OF DIRECTORS REGULAR MEETING

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 9, 2018

DETROIT ECONOMIC GROWTH CORPORATION

500 GRISWOLD, SUITE 2200

8:30 AM.

CALL TO ORDER

Noting that a quorum was present, Chair Forte called the Regular meeting ofthe Economic
Development Corporation Board of Directors to order at 8:35 am.

GENERAL
Approval of Minutes

Ms. Forte asked if there were any additions, deletions or corrections to the minutes of the
September 25, 2018 Regular Board meeting. Hearing none, the Board took the following
action:

On a motion by Ms. Bruhn, seconded by Mr. Quarles, Resolution Code EDC 18-
10-02-304 was unanimously approved.

PROJECTS
Motor City Match Pop-Up Track

Mr. Batton reported that the Motor City Match (MCM) program connects buildings in
Detroit to new or expanding businesses, while providing competitive grants, loans, and
businesses services. The program has been administered through four tracks three pre?
development tracks and one development track.

MCM program staff propose a new track, ?Pop-Up", which will better prepare
entrepreneurs in the Motor City Match pipeline by providing an opportunity to test their
business model in a temporary incubator space before opening a brick and mortar
location. The aim of the track is to: (1) provide more robust support and training for
entrepreneurs by leveraging existing resources and partnerships, (2) strengthen grant
investment by building stronger, more sustainable small businesses, and in the long-term,
(3) strategically activate buildings in target corridors to encourage catalytic activity through
temporary activation.

To qualify for the Pop-Up track, an entrepreneur must have a written business plan that
includes financial projections or solid experience selling their product or service and are
post-revenue. The selection process will consist of:

October 9, 2018

500 Griswold,8uite 2200 Detroit,Michigon 48226 (313) 963-2940

 A quarterly application,
Community partner and staff scoring

if seiected, the entrepreneur wiil receive:

- Educational workshops,
Merchandising and marketing assistance,
Financial readiness consulting,
Mentoring with other small business owners, and
Match making with pop-up spaces

Businesses will be allotted $4,000 in Technical Assistance to be used within an eighteen
(18) month award period. The entrepreneur wilt be expected to cover the cost of pop-up
space rent and inventory and will also be connected with financial pianning resources and
microlending options for additional financial business needs. Businesses will be expected
to test their concept in a physical space during their award period. Timing of the pop?up
will vary based on each individual business situation, experience and capacity ranging
from one?day market style pop-ups to three?month short-term lease arrangements.

Below is a summary of the proposed ?Pop?Up? track, which will officially be launched in
March 2019 for Round 16:

 

 

 

 

 

 

Awards Awardees must have:
Educational workshops - A written business
Merchandising and marketing plan with financial
assistance projections
0 Financial readiness consulting Qt
and refer to tending partners 0 Solid experience
AWARD - Match making with pop-up semng their Pmduct
spaces or servrce and are
Small business mentoring POSi"Fevenue- The
Up to $320k per year targeting SEiei?j?on Process Wt?
20 awardees per quarter Ofi
($4,000 per awardee)

 

In preparation for the Pop~Up track, MCM staff invited forty-six (46) MCM businesses to
apply for a Pop-Up track pilot cohort following the recommendation by MCM staff and
community partners based on strong business concepts and active participation in the
program. Of the forty-six (46) invitees, twelve (12) businesses applied.

A team of jurors selected awardees for the piiot cohort based on five criteria: vision and
plan, experience, market support, leverage and community support. Twelve (12) ?Pop?
Up? awardees for the pilot round are presented in Exhibit A attached.

A resolution approving the Pop-Up track and the pilot cohort awardees was included for
the Board?s consideration.

October 9, 2018

Ms. Forte asked for clarification of the term ?post revenue". Mr. Batton stated that they
want individuals who are actually selling their goods or their service and who have made
transactions.

Mr. Jackson questioned whether the buildings are part of the MCM buildings. Mr. Batton
stated that, for the pilot tract, they are working with community partners to identify various
locations within the commercial corridors where there could be a pop-up. Given the
condition of MCM properties at this time, they would not be ready from a zoning and
permitting standpoint for a pop-up.

Mr. Jackson asked who would be responsible for the rent for the property. Mr. Batton
responded the pop-up business would pay their own rent. There is no cash grant going
into this. The participants would be eligible for the same services provided to the other
MCM tracks. The big take away from the pop-up track would be that there are a lot
business models that need to be tested in the Detroit marketplace, and this is a way for
the businesses to get experience in a commercial space and prove that their concept or
business model can be viable, which is an important factor when approaching a
commercial lender.

Mr. Quarles asked what the term of the lease would be. Mr. Batton stated that they wanted
a lot of flexibility, so it couid be as short as one week to six months.

Ms. Forte questioned if all the Pop?Up Track awardees would be allotted $4,000. Mr.
Batton informed that they would receive up to $4,000. Ms. Forte proposed amendment of
the resolution to state, "up to $4,000?.

Subsequent to the discussion, the Board took the following action:

On a motion by Mr. Queries, seconded by Mr. Jackson, Resolution Code EDC 18-
10?91~74 was unanimously approved, as amended.

Waterfront East Development Protect: Approval of ERF Atwater, Development
Agreement

Ms. Pavelko advised that in August 2014, the Economic Development Corporation (the
executed a Development Agreement (the ?Original Agreement") for the Orleans
Landing Project with Rivertown Phase l, LLC, a subsidiary of the development firm,
McCormack Baron Salazar (the ?Orleans Landing Developer?). The Original Agreement
provided a purchase option for a second phase of the project on 3.11 acres of vacant land
at the corner of Riopelle and Atwater (the ?Property?).

The Orleans Landing Developer exercised the purchase option in Fall 2017 and in April,
2018 assigned the purchase option to City Growth Partners, LLC, a development firm
managed by Mr. Moddie Turay. City Growth Partners, through its affiliate ERF Atwater,
LLC (the ?Developer?) presented EDC staff with a project plan for a $120 million minimum
investment in a mixed-use development with approximately 25,000 square feet of street
level retail, 300 residential units, 100 hotel rooms and a fee-based parking deck open to
the public (the ?Project?). The Project plan included a full financial proforma, conceptual
design drawings and site plan, project timeline. ln addition, Developer has negotiated a
with a national hotel flag.

October 9, 2018

The purchase option requires the final sale price be set by independent appraisals. in
order to support the appraised value forthe sale of the project and ensure timely execution
of the Project, the Developer requested the EDC facilitate the sale and financing of the
property acquisition by allowing a portion of the purchase price for the Property to be paid
over time.

EDC staff fully evaluated the Project plan and reviewed the plan with the Mayor. Based
on this review, the EDC staff is seeking the Board?s approvai to negotiate, execute and
consummate a Development Agreement consistent with the terms and conditions
described in the Term Sheet which was included in the Board materiai as Exhibit A (the
?Proposed Terms?). As outlined in the Proposed Terms, under the Development
Agreement, the purchase price for the Property will be paid in part at closing, with the
balance to be paid pursuant to the terms of a promissory note.

A resolution approving the Proposed Terms and authorizing the Development Agreement
and loan documents contemplated thereby was included for the Board?s review and
consideration.

Mr. Jackson commented that this is a great project and asked how the purchase price was
set. Ms. Navin responded that back when the purchase price was negotiated for
McCormack Barron, it was anticipated that the market would be different at the time of the
exercise of the option than it was in 2013 when they were negotiating. An appraisal was
done to set the purchase price and we stood firm on the appraisal price.

Subsequent to the discussion, the Board took the following action:

On a motion by Mr. Jackson, seconded by Mr. Quarles, Resolution Code EDC 18?
10?70-91 was unanimously approved.

ADMINISTRATION
EDC Audited Financial Statements and Management Report as of June 30, 2018

Ms. Kanalos stated that an electronic copy of the above?referenced material was sent to
each Board member on September 27, 2018.

The EDC Finance Committee met and reviewed the material on September 5, 2018 and
recommends formal receipt by the EDC Board.

The resolution inciuded in the Board material indicates the Board?s formal receipt of the
EDC Audited Financial Statements and Management Report as of June 30, 2018, with
comparative totals as of June 30, 2017, as prepared by George Johnson and Company,
Certified Pubiic Accountants.

With there being no questions or discussion, the Board took the foilowing action:

On a motion by Ms. Bruhn, seconded by Mr. Jackson, Resolution Code EDC 18-
10-01-202 was unanimously approved.

OTHER MATTERS

October 9, 2018

PUBLIC COMMENT
ADJOURNMENT

With there being no further business to come before the Board, Ms. Forte adjourned the
meeting at 9:02 am.

October 9, 2018

 CODE EDC 18-10-02-304
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit

 

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF SEPTEMBER 25, 2018 MEETING

RESOLVED, that the minutes of the Regular meeting of September 25, 2018 are
hereby approved and all actions taken by the Directors present at such meeting, as set
forth in such minutes, are hereby in all respects rati?ed'and approved as actions of the
Economic Development Corporation.

October 2018

500 Griswold,8ui?re 2200 DetroitMichigon 48226 (313) 963-2940

 CODE EQC 18-10-9134
Economic Development Corporation of the City of arable)

 

MOTOR CITY POP-UP TRACK

WHEREAS the Motor City Match (MOM) program connects buildings in Detroit to
new or expanding businesses, while providing competitive grants, loans, and businesses
services through four tracks three pro-development tracks and one development track;
and

WHEREAS, the MCM staff has identified a need for MCM awardees with a
business plan to test their product or service in a temporary space prior to opening a
permanent brick and mortar location; and

WHEREAS, MCM staff propose adding a ?Pop Up? track commencing in March,
2019 with Round 16 of the MCM program, providing awardees with Technical Assistance
(TA) services from the MCM approved TA Provider list to support ?nancial counseling,
preparation to run a successful pop-up, design and merchandise assistance, marketing
assistance, as summarized below:

 

 

 

 

 

Awards Awardees must have:

Educational workshops - A written business plan

Merchandising and marketing with ?nancial projections

assistance 

0 Financial readiness consulting and a Solid experience selling

POP-UP refer to lending partners their product or service
AWARD - Match making with pop-up spaces and are POSt"f5Venue-

Small business mentoring The seieFtion Process

Up to $320k per year targeting 20 Wt" 0f?

awardees per quarter (up to $4,000

per awardee)

 

 

and

WHEREAS, in preparation for the Pop-Up track, MCM staff solicited applications
from recommended existing MCM participants and recommends the approval of the
businesses set forth on Exhibit A for Pop-Up awards for a pilot cohort: and

WHEREAS, the Board has determined that adding the Pop~Up track as outlined
above is in the best interests of the MGM program and accepts the awardee
recommendation of MCM staff for the Pop-Up track pilot cohort

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED the EDC Board of Directors hereby
approves the development and execution of the Pop~Up track as herein described.

500 Griswold,Suite 2200 Detroit,Michigon 48226 (313) 963-2940

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the EDC Board of Directors hereby approves
the awardees that have been recommended the pilot cohort for Pop-Up track awards,
attached hereto as Exhibit A

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that any two Officers, or any one of the Of?cers and
any one of the Authorized Agents or any two of the Authorized Agents shall
hereafter have the authority to negotiate and execute all documents, contracts, or other
papers and to take such actions as are necessary or appropriate to implement the
provisions and intent of this resolution.

BE IT FINALLY RESOLVED, that all of the acts and transactions of any Officer or
Authorized Agent of the EDC, in the name and on behalf of the EDC, relating to matters
contemplated by the foregoing resolutions, which acts would have been approved by the
foregoing resolutions, except that such acts were taken prior to the execution of these
resolutions, are hereby in all respects confirmed, approved and ratified.

October 9, 2018

Exhibit A
Recommended ?Pop-Up? Awardees

 

1. Detroit is dope] love Over
Everything

Clothing brand

 

2. Crepe City, LLC

Creperie and catering company with
sweet and savery menu items

 

3. COUP 

Contemporary women's boutique with
accessories, lifestyle objects, and apparel

 

 

 

 

 

 

4. leck Market Clothing, arts and crafts store focused on
artisans and designers of African descent

5. The Standard Detroit Clothing retailer

6. Beauty Couture by Xtian Esthetician

7. Artistic Flesh Tattoo parlor and supply shop

8. SHADE Non?Toxic Beauty Non?toxic cosmetic retailer

9. Flamingo Vintage LLC Vintage clothing and accessories store

with fashions from1920's?1970's

 

10. Grit and Glamour by Pink Pump

Women's clothing store with shoes,
accessories, home decor and trendy gifts

 

11. Drizzle Dreams

Chocolatier and cafe with hand?dipped
chocolate products 

 

 

12. Albert's

 

Home decor and gift store

 

 

 . CODE EDC 1840-70-91
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detrort 

 

WATERFRONT EAST DEVELOPMENT PROJECT: ERF ATWATER, LLQ
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT

WHEREAS, pursuant to that certain Development Agreement dated August, 2014
between the Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit (the ?Egg? and
Rivertown Phase 1, LLC, an affiliate of McCormack Baron Salazar for the Orleans
Landing project, MBS was granted a purchase option for a second phase of the project on
3.11 acres of vacant land at the corner of Riopelle and Atwater (the ?Property?); and

WHEREAS, MBS exercised the purchase option in Fall 2017 and in April, 2018
assigned the purchase option to City Growth Partners, and

WHEREAS, City Growth Partners, LLC through its affiliate ERF Atwater, LLC (the
?Developer?) presented EDC staff with a project plan for a $120 million minimum
investment in a mixed-use development with approximately 25,000 square feet of street
level retail, 300 residential units, 100 hotel rooms and a fee~based parking deck open to
the public (the "Project"); and

WHEREAS, EDC staff is seeking the Board?s approval to negotiate, execute and
consummate a Development Agreement for the Project consistent with the terms and
conditions described in the Term Sheet attached hereto as Exhibit A (the "Proposed
Terms?), which Proposed Terms include the financing of a portion of the purchase price,
which, pursuant to option, was established pursuant to an independent appraisal
process.

WHEREAS, the EDC Board of Directors has reviewed the Proposed Terms and
determined they are consistent with the goal for the revitalization of the East
Riverfront and are otherwise appropriate and consistent with the statutory
purposes;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the EDC Board of Directors hereby
authorizes the negotiation and execution of the Term Sheet in substantiaily the same form
attached hereto as Exhibit A and the negotiation and execution of a Development
Agreement, and loan documents upon the terms and conditions set forth in the Proposed
Terms, together with the same such terms and conditions deemed reasonable and not
materially inconsistent with the Proposed Terms by EDC's counsel and Authorized
Agents.

BE lT FURTHER RESOLVED that any two officers, any two of the Authorized
Agents or any one of the Of?cer and any one of the Authorized Agents of the EDC, shall
hereafter have the authority to negotiate and execute the Term Sheet, the Development
Agreement, and the any and all other documents, contracts or other papers, or take any
and all actions, necessary or appropriate to implement the provisions and intent of this
resolution on behalf of the EDC.

500 Griswold,Suite 2200 - Detroit, Michigan 48226 (313) 963-2940

BE IT FINALLY RESOLVED that all of the acts and transactions of any Officer or
Authorized Agent of the EDC, in the name and on behalf of the EDC, relating to matters
contemplated by the foregoing resolutions, which acts would have been approved by the
foregoing resolutions except that such acts were taken prior to execution of these
resolutions, are hereby in all respects con?rmed, approved and ratified.

October 9, 2018

. . CODE EDC 18-10-01-202
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detrei

 

ADMINISTRATION: EEC AUDITED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MANAGEMENT
BEFORT AS OF JUNE 30, @018

RESOLVED, THAT THE Board of Directors of the Economic Development
Corporation (the hereby receives the EDC Audited Financial Statements and
Management Report as of June 30, 2018, with comparative totals as of June 30, 2017, as
prepared by George Johnson and Company, Certi?ed Public Accountants.

October 9, 2018

500 Griswold,5uite 2200 - DetroihMichigcin 48226 - (3i3) 963-2940

