Chicago Board of Health
Meeting Summary September19, 2018
DePaul Center, 333 South State Street
Roll Call
Board Members Present
Juan M. Calderón
Adele Joy Cobbs, M.D
Melanie Dreher, RN, PhD.
Caswell A. Evans, Jr., DDS, MPH
Carolyn C. Lopez, M.D., President
Joseph B. Starshak
Board Members Absent
Victor M. Gonzalez
Steven Rothschild, M.D.
Horace E. Smith, M.D.
For the Department
Fikirte Wagaw, MPH, First Deputy Commissioner

 Chicago Board of Health
Meeting Summary September19, 2018
DePaul Center, 333 South State Street
Call to Order: The meeting was called to order at 9:05 a.m. by Dr. Lopez, Board President
Approval of Minutes: The August 2018 minutes were approved with modification.
Commissioner’s Update: First Deputy Commissioner Fikirte Wagaw provided the following
updates:
RFP
We have released the first round of Request for Proposals connected to ‘Getting to Zero- our
effort to eliminate new HIV diagnoses within the next decade. CDPH will invest $1.1 million
annually in four community based organizations which will help identify, develop and
implement evidence-based community programming to combat HIV prevalence among
African-American and Latino gay and bisexual men, and trans-women-groups that continue to
face a disproportionate burden of new HIV diagnoses.
Proposals are due October 8th, 2018.
In addition, we have also released a School- Based Oral Health Program (Program). The
Program will provide preventive oral health services to all students in the Chicago Public
Schools from Pre-Kindergarten to 12th grade that provide a positive consent form for
treatment. The children and adolescents in Chicago will benefit from improved access to oral
health care with the goal of positively impacting health outcomes and school attendance. This
proposal is due October 15th.
Safe Passage
It was back to school time for several CDPH staff as they joined other departments in support
of safe passage. Staff was dispatched to various communities across the city during the first
week of school to support our students, we are glad we were able to help and plan on
participating again.
Mental Health First Aid
Chairman Mitts is hosting a mental health first aid workshop with CDPH’s Office of Violence
Prevention via our Resiliency in Communities after Stress and Trauma (ReCast) in
partnership with the National Alliance on Mental Illness. You are invited to participate on
September 27th from
6:00 pm – 8:00 pm at the Institute for Non-Violence, 4926 W. Chicago Ave. If you are
interested please let Angelica know and she will send registration information.
Direct Funding
Commissioner Morita attended the State, Territorial, Local, and Tribal Subcommittee of the
Advisory Committee to the Director of the CDC, of which she is a member. She took the
opportunity again to speak in favor of ensuring direct funding opportunities for large urban
cities like Chicago given our unique needs. Director Redfield acknowledged the need and we
remain hopeful of potential opportunities for Chicago.
Healthy Chicago 2.0 Award
CDPH and our Chicago-based design firm will be awarded the Healthy Active Community
Award from the American Planning Association – Illinois Chapter at the end of the month in
Springfield. The award honors the content and goals of the plan, as well as the design
framework, helping ensure it can be communicated successfully to partners and residents.
This will be the first planning award for CDPH and we are looking forward to it.

 Chicago Board of Health
Meeting Summary September19, 2018
DePaul Center, 333 South State Street
Comments by the Board President:
Dr. Lopez welcomed the students from Columbia College and Rush University. She provided them
with an overview of the board’s history and explained the board’s advisory role in matters of
infectious disease and health issues affecting public health. In addition, Dr. Lopez explained board
members promote efforts that benefit the health of the public, and today, they will join
Commissioner Morita at a press conference in city hall to introduce a new proposal to increase
taxes on e-cigarettes and prevent youth from a lifelong addition. She invited the students to join
them at the press conference.
Policy Update:
Angelica Alfaro, Manager of Legislative Affairs provided the following updates:
Today City Council is expected to vote on a new ordinance to reduce youth tobacco use.
Specifically there are two key parts of the ordinance:
 Increase e-cigarette taxes on both the amount of e-liquid that includes nicotine and the
number of containers of e-liquid – discouraging residents who are price sensitive,
especially young people, from trying the products and getting hooked. However, the
increase is not so large as to dissuade residents who use traditional cigarettes from
switching to electronic options.
 Require that tobacco product displays be behind the retail sales counters, not on top of the
counter right in front of youth.
Old Business:
Dr. Lopez called BOH members asking for recommendations and topic discussions relative to their
role as members.
New Business:
Juan Calderon BOH member mentioned, he emailed BOH members (3) recommendations:
 Create a subcommittee to work with Jesse Lava, Director of Policy to formulate policy
recommendations and shared annually with the Mayor and the Commissioner of Public Health.
 Discuss a change of venue for this year’s meetings e.g. holding board meetings at different health
department centers and communities.
 Invite the African American and Latino Caucus chairpersons of the city council to give a
presentation/or discussion at BOH meetings that would include recommendations on all health
related matters in Chicago’s communities of color.
Public Comments:
A member of the audience inquired how CDPH is promoting the use of e-cigarettes. Brian
Richardson, Deputy Commissioner mentioned: the city has a week in November dedicated to
smoking cessation. In addition, the city has an ad campaign for no smoking indoors and
instrumental in raising the purchase of tobacco to 21 years of age, increasing tobacco taxes and
restricting tobacco purchase near schools. Another member of the audience asked if medical
research has caught up with use of e-cigarettes. Dr. Lopez explained medical literature is starting
but it’s too early; however, we do know nicotine is highly addictive.
Adjourn: The meeting adjourned at 9:39 a.m.
Next Board Meeting: Wednesday, October 17, 2018 9:00 AM

 