ORDINANCES

OCTOBER 17, 2018 BOARD MEETING

 

BUREAU OF ASSET MANAGEMENT
REAL ESTATE

18-6236 WAS REFERRED TO THE ASSET MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE AT THE OCTOBER
17, 2018 BOARD MEETING
18-6236
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE (President), Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE
AUTHORIZING THE ACCEPTANCE OF REAL ESTATE FROM THE FOREST PRESERVE
DISTRICT OF COOK COUNTY
WHEREAS, the County of Cook, a body politic and corporate of the State of Illinois (“County”), is the
owner of real estate located in Rosemont, Cook County, Illinois commonly known as the Rosemont Transit
Center; and
WHEREAS, the Forest Preserve District of Cook County, an Illinois Special District (“District”), is the
owner of real estate located in Rosemont, Cook County, Illinois, legally described on Exhibit A (“District
Real Estate”), which is located adjacent to County holdings in Rosemont; and
WHEREAS, the County desires to obtain title to the District Real Estate from the District in connection
with public improvements to be made at the Rosemont Transit Center; and
WHEREAS, the provisions of Article VII, Section 10 of the 1970 Illinois Constitution and the provisions
of the Intergovernmental Cooperation Act, 5 ILCS 22/1 et seq. authorize and encourage the
intergovernmental cooperation set forth in this Ordinance; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to the Local Government Property Transfer Act, 50 ILCS 605/0.01 et seq., the
District has duly adopted a Resolution, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit B, which declares that
the District is authorized by law to convey the title to the District Real Estate to the County by quit claim
deed; and
WHEREAS, the Director of Real Estate Management for the County (“Director of Real Estate
Management”) has advised the Board of Commissioners of Cook County (“Cook County Board”), and the
Cook County Board so agrees, that the District Real Estate is desirable for County purposes; and
WHEREAS, the County Board, pursuant to its home rule and statutory authority, including the Local
Government Property Transfer Act, 50 ILCS 605/0.01 et seq. adopts this Ordinance, by a vote of two-thirds
or more of its members, which Ordinance authorizes the acceptance of the District Real Estate by the
County.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF COOK
COUNTY, ILLINOIS AS FOLLOWS:
Section 1:
The foregoing recitals are incorporated herein as findings of the Board of Commissioners of Cook County,
Illinois.

 Section 2:
The County Board determines that the acquisition of the District Real Estate from the District is in the
public interest. The County Board hereby authorizes the acquisition of the District Real Estate from the
District, by quit claim deed, for nominal consideration, for the public purpose of improving the Rosemont
Transit Center in accordance with the County’s authority. Such acquisition shall be by quit claim deed
from the District subject only to restrictions, covenants and easements as shown of record.
Section 3:
The President of the Cook County Board of Commissioners and the Cook County Comptroller, or the
Director of Real Estate Management are hereby authorized to execute and deliver any and all other
documents or instruments and take any and all steps necessary or desirable to effectuate such conveyance.
Section 4:
This Ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage and approval in the manner
provided by law.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption

 COMMITTEE ITEMS REQUIRING BOARD ACTION

LEGISLATION AND INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS COMMITTEE
MEETING OF OCTOBER 17, 2018

18-6109 WAS DEFERRED AT THE OCTOBER 17, 2018 BOARD MEETING
18-6109
Sponsored by: RICHARD R. BOYKIN and LARRY SUFFREDIN, Cook County Board of
Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
AMENDING THE PROHIBITIONS ON SALE OR DISTRIBUTION OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 54 Licenses, Permits and
Miscellaneous Business Regulations, Article V, Section 54-305 of the Cook County Code is hereby
amended as Follows:
Sec. 54-305. Prohibitions on sale or distribution of tobacco products.
(a) Underage tobacco sales.
(1) No retailer may sell or distribute tobacco products to any person under 18 21 years of age.
(2) Each retailer shall request and examine the photographic identification of any person purchasing
tobacco products so as to verify that the purchaser is over 18 years of age 21 years of age or
older. No such verification is required for any person who appears without reasonable doubt to
be over the age of 27.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect June 1, 2019.

 18-5880 WAS DEFERRED AT THE OCTOBER 17, 2018 BOARD MEETING
18-5880
Sponsored by: TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER, SEAN M. MORRISON, RICHARD R. BOYKIN, GREGG
GOSLIN and JOHN A. FRITCHEY, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
REQUIRING A TWO THIRDS MAJORITY VOTE OF THE BOARD TO ENACT ANY NEW OR
ADDITIONAL TAX IN COOK COUNTY
WHEREAS, multiple cities as well as states have either enacted or considered a supermajority requirement
for tax increases as it provides residents with another level of protection from unpopular taxes, and
WHEREAS, taxpayers expect reasonable limits, like a 2/3 majority vote requirement for tax increases in
order to protect them from controversial votes being used to raise or create new taxes without broad public
support, and
WHEREAS, the burden of new and increased taxes that falls on the shoulders of Cook County residents
should not be left to a simple majority vote, and
WHEREAS, the process of both increasing taxes and creating new taxes should be agreed upon by a large
majority of those who will be effected by them, and
WHEREAS, the board should establish the requirement that all new taxes and new tax increases can only
be enacted by a two third majority vote from the Board of Commissioners.
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter 2,
Sec. 105 (f) is hereby amended as follows:
(f) Majority votes. Except as otherwise provided in these rules, and except for questions for which
a higher majority is required by law, all questions shall be determined by a majority vote of those
Commissioners entitled to vote. Any question which enacts a new form of taxation, or increase in taxation,
shall require a two thirds majority vote of the board in order to pass. A vote of “present shall not be counted
in determining the number of Commissioners voting on a question
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption

 RULES AND ADMINISTRATION COMMITTEE
MEETING OF OCTOBER 17, 2018

18-3844
ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
Sponsored by
THE HONORABLE JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI AND LARRY SUFFREDIN,
COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
MEETINGS OF THE BOARD - BREAK ORDINANCE
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 2 Administration, Article
3 County Board, Division 2 Rules of Organization and Procedure, Section 2-105(g) of the Cook County
Code is hereby amended as Follows:
Sec. 2-105. Board of Commissioners; meetings of the Board.
(g)

Order of business.

(1)

At each regular meeting of the Board, the order of business (unless otherwise directed by
the Board) is as follows:
a.
b.
c.

Public testimony.
New business.
Committee items requiring board action.

(2)

The Board may grant members of the public leave to speak on items pending before the
Board pursuant to the rules set forth in Section 2-105(i).

(3)

All questions relating to the priority of business shall be decided by the presiding officer,
without debate, subject to appeal.

(4)

Meetings of the Board may commence with a prayer or invocation and the Pledge of
Allegiance.

(5)

The County Board shall break for lunch from 12:00 PM to 12:45PM on days of the Meeting
of the Board of Commissioners, Committees, and Subcommittees.

Effective date: This Ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
Approved and adopted this 17th of October 2018.
TONI PRECKWINKLE, President
Cook County Board of Commissioners
(S E A L)
Attest: DAVID ORR, County Clerk

 FINANCE COMMITTEE
MEETING OF OCTOBER 17, 2018

18-4879
ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
Sponsored by
THE HONORABLE TONI PRECKWINKLE,
PRESIDENT OF THE COOK COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
AN AMENDMENT TO THE MASTER BOND ORDINANCE
AN ORDINANCE amending Master Bond Ordinance Number 11-O-69 adopted on the
27th day of July, 2011, as previously amended, to authorize the County to extend, and
increase through the issuance of $50,000,000 in general obligation bonds, a revolving line
of credit to finance capital projects and approving a form of indenture amendment for such
financing
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners (the “Board”) of The County of Cook, Illinois (the “County”),
heretofore adopted on the 27th day of July, 2011, Ordinance Number 11-O-69 entitled, “An Ordinance
providing for the issuance of one or more series of General Obligation Bonds of The County of Cook,
Illinois” (the “Bond Ordinance”); and
WHEREAS, the Board amended the Bond Ordinance on the 7th day of September, 2011, pursuant to
amending Ordinance Number 11-O-70 (the “First Amending Ordinance”) entitled, “An Ordinance
Amending Ordinance Number 11-O-69 adopted on the 27th day of July, 2011, by the Board of
Commissioners of The County of Cook, Illinois;” and
WHEREAS, the Board further amended the Bond Ordinance on the 1st day of May, 2012, pursuant to
amending Ordinance Number 12-O-21 (the “Second Amending Ordinance”) entitled, “An Ordinance
Amending Ordinance Number 11-O-69 adopted on the 27th day of July, 2011, as previously amended, to
make technical clarifications and revisions regarding credit facilities and other variable rate debt
instruments;” and
WHEREAS, the Board further amended the Bond Ordinance on the 16th day of October, 2012, pursuant
to amending Ordinance Number 12-O-45 (the “Third Amending Ordinance”) entitled, “An Ordinance
Amending Ordinance Number 11-O-69 adopted on the 27th day of July, 2011, as previously amended, by
the Board of Commissioners of The County of Cook, Illinois,” and
WHEREAS, the Board further amended the Bond Ordinance on the 13th day of November, 2013, pursuant
to amending Ordinance Number 13-1961 (the “Fourth Amending Ordinance”) entitled, “An Ordinance
amending Master Bond Ordinance Number 10-O-69 adopted on the 27th day of July, 2011, as previously
amended, to name additional financing teams and authorize the issuance of certain refunding bonds;” and
WHEREAS, the Board further amended the Bond Ordinance on the 23rd day of July, 2014, pursuant to
amending Ordinance Number 14-3645 (the “Fifth Amending Ordinance”) entitled “An Ordinance
amending Master Bond Ordinance Number 11-O-69 adopted on the 27th day of July, 2011, as previously
amended, to authorize the County to enter into a revolving line of credit to finance capital projects and
approving a form of indenture for such financing” (the Bond Ordinance, as amended by the First Amending
Ordinance, the Second Amending Ordinance, the Third Amending Ordinance, the Fourth Amending
Ordinance, the Fifth Amending Ordinance, being the “Master Bond Ordinance”); and

 WHEREAS, the Master Bond Ordinance authorizes the issuance of one or more series of general obligation
bonds to finance Capital Projects (the “Capital Project Bonds”) in a not to exceed aggregate principal
amount of $295,000,000, for such Capital Projects as are expressly approved by the Board from time to
time; and
WHEREAS, traditionally the County has financed its Capital Projects primarily through long-term
borrowing; and
WHEREAS, the County previously has determined that tax-exempt, revolving lines of credit (each, a
“Revolver”) issued by a bank or banks will provide a cost efficient means to finance its Capital Projects on
a tax-exempt basis and that such Revolvers are expected to ultimately be refinanced with tax-exempt longterm bonds; and
WHEREAS, under the Master Bond Ordinance, any amounts drawn under a Revolver (“Advances”) are
Variable Rate Bonds and are Direct Purchase Bonds purchased by the bank providing such Revolver; and
WHEREAS, the County previously has determined that Revolvers will assist the County in achieving its
goals of eliminating negative arbitrage in project funds, minimizing costs associated with undrawn
balances, achieving the lowest rate available in the current short-term market and mitigating structural,
credit, liquidity and operational risk; and
WHEREAS, the County previously has determined to enter into an agreement with PNC Bank, National
Association (“PNC”) pursuant to which PNC provides a Revolver to the County (the “PNC Revolver”) in
an amount not to exceed $125,000,000, which Revolver was extended for a two-year period in December,
2016 and is currently scheduled to terminate in December, 2018; and
WHEREAS, Advances drawn pursuant to the PNC Revolver are secured by an original Trust Indenture by
and between the County and Amalgamated Bank of Chicago, as trustee (the “2014D Indenture”), securing
$125,000,000 General Obligation Bonds, Series 2014D (the “2014D Bonds”) in accord with such financial
policies as are approved by the Board and contained within the annual budget resolution; and
WHEREAS, the Board has determined that it is in the best interests of the County and its taxpayers and
residents to extend the Revolver with PNC for an additional term, not to exceed a three (3) year term and
to increase the amount available under the Revolver from $125,000,000 to an amount not to exceed
$175,000,000; and
WHEREAS, to secure the increase in the par amount of the Revolver, the County must amend the 2014D
Indenture to increase the maximum par amount authorized to be secured thereunder from $125,000,000 to
$175,000,000; and
WHEREAS, to enable the PNC Revolver in such higher principal amount to be fully secured, the County
must authorize the issuance of $50,000,000 in aggregate original principal amount of its General Obligation
Bonds, Series 2018 (the “2018 Bonds”); and
WHEREAS, the Board has determined that it is in the best interests of the County and its taxpayers and
residents to authorize the payment of the costs of issuance of the 2018 Bonds from the Revolver; and

 WHEREAS, the Board has heretofore and it hereby expressly is determined that it is advisable and
necessary to (a) enter into the Second Amendment to 2014D Indenture (the “Second Amendment”), the
form of which has been prepared and is present at this meeting and (b) to enter into an agreement with PNC
and execute any related documents (collectively, the “PNC Revolver Agreements”) in forms approved by
the Chief Financial Officer of the County (the “Chief Financial Officer”) pursuant to which PNC will
provide and extend the PNC Revolver to the County in the higher available principal amount contemplated
by this Ordinance.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Commissioners of The County of Cook,
Illinois, as follows:
Sec. 1. Definitions in Master Bond Ordinance.
The capitalized terms used in this Ordinance not otherwise defined shall have the meanings set forth in the
Bond Ordinance.
Section 1.B of the Master Bond Ordinance is amended to include the following defined terms:
“2014D Indenture” means a Trust Indenture by and between the County and Amalgamated Bank of
Chicago, as amended by the First Amendment to Trust Indenture dated as of August 31, 2017, and by the
Second Amendment to Trust Indenture dated as of the 1st day of the month in which the 2018 Bonds are
issued, securing (i) the $125,000,000 General Obligation Bonds, Series 2014D and (ii) the $50,000,000
General Obligation Bonds, Series 2018.
Sec. 2. Revolvers, Advances and the PNC Revolver Agreement.
The Chief Financial Officer is hereby authorized, on behalf of the County to approve the final provisions
of the PNC Revolver Agreements consistent with this Section 2 which may include, but are not limited to
provisions on fees, covenants, indemnification of PNC and its related entities and each of their respective
directors, officers and employees, events of default, remedies, interest rates on Advances, repayment terms
for Advances and conditions precedent to Advances, and the payment of the costs of issuance of the 2018
Bonds from Advances. The PNC Revolver shall have a maximum principal stated amount of not to exceed
$175,000,000 and shall have the terms as set forth in the PNC Revolver Agreements. The Chief Financial
Officer is hereby authorized, on behalf of the County, to execute and deliver, and the County Clerk is hereby
authorized, on behalf of the County, to attest and impress the official seal of the County upon, the PNC
Revolver Agreements.
The President, the Chief Financial Officer, the Deputy Chief Financial Officer of the County, the
Comptroller of the County and the Deputy Comptroller of the County (each, an “Authorized Officer”) are
each, jointly or collectively as provided herein, authorized to execute on behalf of the County any
documents relating to Advances, the PNC Revolver, the 2014D Indenture, the Second Amendment and the
PNC Revolver Agreements; provided however, that any requests for Advances and other documents
relating to requests for Advances, as amended (including, but not limited to the forms as set forth as Exhibits
B-D to the 2014D Indenture) must be signed by any two of the Authorized Officers.
Sec. 3. Indenture Amendment.
The Chief Financial Officer is hereby authorized, on behalf of the County to execute and deliver, and the
County Clerk is hereby authorized, on behalf of the County, to attest and impress the official seal of the
County upon, the Second Amendment. The Second Amendment shall be in substantially the form present
at this meeting and attached as Exhibit A and hereby approved. The Chief Financial Officer’s execution of
the Second Amendment will constitute conclusive evidence that the executed Second Amendment is in
substantially the form present at this meeting.

 Sec. 4. Declaration of Intent.
The County intends to make certain expenditures of its own funds, on or after the date of passage of this
ordinance or not more than 60 days prior to such date, for the acquisition, construction, acquisition and
installation of Capital Projects and approves or has approved such expenditures as a temporary advance of
such funds. The County expects to reimburse itself for such expenditures from the proceeds of draws from
time to time under the PNC Revolver. The maximum amount of such draws outstanding at any time and
related to the 2014D Bonds is expected to be $125,000,000 and the maximum amount of such draws
outstanding at any time and related to the 2018 Bonds is expected to be $50,000,000. This ordinance is,
among other things, a declaration of intent under Treas. Reg. Section 1.150-2.
Sec. 5. Prior Inconsistent Proceedings.
All ordinances, resolutions, motions or orders, or parts thereof, in conflict with the provisions of this
Ordinance, are to the extent of such conflict hereby repealed.
Effective date: This Ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
Approved and adopted this 17th of October 2018.
TONI PRECKWINKLE, President
Cook County Board of Commissioners
(S E A L)
Attest: DAVID ORR, County Clerk

 18-5789
ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
Sponsored by
THE HONORABLE JOHN A. FRITCHEY, RICHARD R. BOYKIN, BRIDGET GAINER,
GREGG GOSLIN, SEAN M. MORRISON, TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER, PETER N. SILVESTRI,
DEBORAH SIMS AND JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI, COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
AN AMENDMENT TO THE COOK COUNTY
PARKING LOT AND GARAGE OPERATIONS TAX
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter 74 Taxation, Article XIII
Parking Lot and Garage Operations Tax, Sections 74-511and 74-512 of the Cook County Code of
Ordinances are hereby amended as follows:
Sec. 74-511. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed
to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Booking Intermediary means any person or entity that facilitates processing and fulfillment of
reservations between individuals desiring parking in a parking lot or garage and an Operator or Valet
Parking Operator, but does not itself own, lease or operate the parking lot or garage nor any portion thereof,
for which payment is being collected or retain the consideration for the parking or storage of motor vehicles
at such parking place.
Charge or fee paid for parking means the gross amount of consideration for the use or privilege of
parking a motor vehicle in or upon any parking lot or garage in Cook County, collected by an operator or a
valet parking operator or a Booking Intermediary and valued in money, whether received in money or
otherwise, including cash, credits, property and services, determined without any deduction for costs or
expenses whatsoever, but not including charges that are added to the charge or fee on account of the tax
imposed by this Chapter or on account of any other tax imposed on the charge or fee. "Charge or fee paid
for parking" shall exclude separately stated charges not for the use or privilege of parking. If any separately
stated charge is not optional, it shall be presumed, unless proved otherwise, that it is part of the charge for
the use or privilege of parking.
Department or Department of Revenue means the County Department of Revenue.
Motor vehicle means any vehicle that is self-propelled.
Operator means any person conducting the operation of a parking lot or garage, as defined by this
Article, or receiving consideration for parking or storage of motor vehicles at a parking place within Cook
County. The term does not include Booking Intermediaries.
Parking lot or garage means any building, structure, premises, enclosure or other place, whether
enclosed or not, except a public way, within the County, where four or more motor vehicles are stored,
housed or parked for hire, charge, fee or other valuable consideration in a condition ready for use, or where
rent or compensation is paid to the owner, manager or lessee of the premises for the housing, storing,
sheltering, keeping or maintaining of such motor vehicles.

 Person means any individual, corporation, Limited Liability Corporation, organization,
government, governmental subdivision or agency, business trust, estate, trust, partnership, association and
any other legal entity.
Valet Parking Operator means a person who employs one or more attendants for the purpose of
providing a valet parking service or who contracts his own services, but not in the capacity of employee, to
any business establishment, for the purpose of providing a valet parking service to such establishment
located in Cook County.
Valet Parking Service means a parking service provided to accommodate patrons of any business
establishment, which service is incidental to the business of the establishment and by which an attendant
on behalf of the establishment takes temporary custody of the patrons' motor vehicle and moves, parks,
stores or retrieves the vehicle for the patrons' convenience.
Sec. 74-512. - Tax imposed.
(a)
A tax is imposed upon the use and privilege of parking a motor vehicle in or upon any
parking lot or garage in the County. The tax shall be collected by operators and valet parking operators and
Booking Intermediaries, as described in this Article, from any person who seeks the privilege of occupying
space in or upon any parking lot or garage.
(b)
Valet Parking Operators are required to collect and remit the tax imposed by this Article,
for each motor vehicle parked at a Parking Lot or Garage, as described in this Article; however, if the valet
parking operator has a written agreement with a parking lot or garage operator that designates an amount
of consideration paid by the valet parking operator which the parking lot or garage operator remits to the
Department as parking lot and garage operations tax, or proof of such tax being paid to the parking lot or
garage operator, the valet parking operator may take a credit for the amount remitted by the parking lot or
garage operator. The valet parking business shall have the burden of proving its entitlement to this credit
with books, records and other documentary evidence.
(c)

Tax rates through August 31, 2013.

(1)

The following tax rates imposed upon the use and privilege of parking a motor vehicle in
or upon parking lots or garages, except for parking lots and garages in subsection (2), are
in effect through August 31, 2013.

Parking Charge or Fee Time Period
24 hours or less
24 hours or less
24 hours or less
24 hours or less
Weekly
Weekly
Weekly
Weekly
Monthly
Monthly
Monthly
Monthly

Imposed by Operator
$2.00 or less
$2.01 to $4.99
$5.00 to $11.99
$12.00 or more
$10.00 or less
$10.01 to $24.99
$25.00 to $59.99
$60.00 or more
$40.00 or less
$40.01 to $99.99
$100.00 to $239.99
$240.00 or more

Tax Amount
$0.00
0.50
0.75
1.00
0.00
2.50
3.75
5.00
0.00
10.00
15.00
20.00

 (2)

The following tax rates imposed upon the use and privilege of parking a motor vehicle in
or upon parking lots or garages owned by municipalities with populations of 250,000
inhabitants or less are in effect through August 31, 2013.

Parking Charge or Fee Time Period
24 hours or less
24 hours or less
24 hours or less
24 hours or less
Weekly
Weekly
Weekly
Weekly
Monthly
Monthly
Monthly
Monthly

Imposed by Operator
$3.00 or less
$3.01 or $4.99
$5.00 to $11.99
$12.00 or more
$15.00 or less
$15.01 to $24.99
$25.00 to $59.99
$60.00 or more
$60.00 or less
$60.01 to $99.99
$100.00 to $239.99
$240.00 or more

Tax Amount
$0.00
0.50
0.75
1.00
0.00
2.50
3.75
5.00
0.00
10.00
15.00
20.00

(d) Tax rates effective September 1, 2013.
(1)

A tax upon the use or privilege of parking a motor vehicle in or upon parking lots or
garages, except for parking lots and garages in subsection (2), is hereby imposed at the rate
of six percent of the charge or fee paid for parking for a 24-hour period or less and nine
percent of the charge or fee paid for parking for a weekly or monthly period. This tax shall
not apply if the charge or fee paid for parking in such parking lots or garages does not
exceed $2.00 for a 24-hour period or less, $10.00 for a weekly period or $40.00 for a
monthly period.

(2)

A tax upon the use and privilege of parking a motor vehicle in or upon parking lots or
garages owned by municipalities with populations of 250,000 inhabitants or less is hereby
imposed at the rate of six percent of the charge or fee paid for parking for a 24-hour period
or less and nine percent of the charge or fee paid for parking for a weekly or monthly
period. This tax shall not apply if the charge or fee paid for parking in such parking lots or
garages does not exceed $3.00 for a 24-hour period or less, $15.00 for a weekly period or
$60.00 for a monthly period.

(3)

In addition to any amounts due and owing pursuant to sub-sections (1) or (2) herein, a tax
upon the use and privilege of parking a motor vehicle in or upon parking lots or garages,
when such use or privilege is facilitated through a Booking Intermediary, is hereby
imposed at the rate of one and three-quarter percent of the charge or fee paid to such
Booking Intermediary, but not remitted to an Operator.

(e)
The ultimate incidence of and liability for payment of the tax is on the person who seeks
the privilege of occupying space in or upon the parking lot or garage.
(f)

The tax imposed by this Section shall not apply to:

(1)

Residential off-street parking of house or apartment or condominium occupants, wherein
an arrangement for parking is provided in the house or apartment lease in a written
agreement between the landlord and tenant;

 (2)

Residential parking provided for condominium occupants pursuant to a written agreement
between the condominium association and the owner, occupant or guest of a unit owner,
whether the parking charge is payable to the landlord, condominium association, or to the
operator of the parking lot or garage; or

(3)

To hospital and medical center employees parking at a parking lot or garage where the
hospital or medical center is the employer and, as described in this Article, operator.

(g)
The amount of the tax due under this Article shall be computed exclusive of any Federal,
State or municipal taxes imposed.
Effective Date: This Ordinance shall take effect on January 1, 2019.
Approved and adopted this 17th of October 2018.
TONI PRECKWINKLE, President
Cook County Board of Commissioners
(S E A L)
Attest: DAVID ORR, County Clerk

 18-2073
ORDINANCE
Sponsored by
THE HONORABLE JESÚS G. GARCÍA, LARRY SUFFREDIN,
RICHARD R. BOYKIN AND GREGG GOSLIN, COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
AN ORDINANCE TO ESTABLISH AN INDEPENDENT REVENUE FORECASTING
COMMISSION FOR COOK COUNTY
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter 2 Administration, Article
III, County Board, Division sections 2-84 through 2-85 of the Cook County Code, is hereby enacted as
follows:
Sec. 2-84. An Ordinance to establish an Independent Revenue Forecasting Commission for Cook
County
(a)
The Commission will be responsible for evaluating any new revenue sources proposed by
the Board and or Executive.
(b)
The purpose of the Commission will be to analyze the five-year revenue forecast developed
by the Chief Financial Officer on an annual basis and provide quarterly updates to the Board of
Commissioners. The forecast will include but not be limited to: Sales and Use taxes, Property Taxes,
Cigarette Taxes, Fuel Taxes and other sources of County revenue.
(c)
The Chief Financial Officer will be required to provide their forecast, as well as all
associated data, methodology and estimates, to the Commission by July 1st. The Commission will analyze
these assumptions and how they relate to the County’s preliminary budget and will provide
recommendations to the President and Board of Commissioners via an annual public hearing in August.
The Chief Financial Officer will then be required to share any updates to their assumptions on a quarterly
basis.
(d)
If no agreement is reached on the Chief Financial Officer’s assumptions by August 1st, the
Commission shall, not later than August 31st, issue a report to the Cook County Board of Commissioners
that explains its estimates and why an agreement could not be reached.
(e)
The Commission will have seven three members appointed by the County Board President
and confirmed by the County Board, but also by virtue of their respective positions including:
Two academic economists with expertise in local economic conditions housed at a University
located in Cook County and one member of the public with expertise in public finance. The Chief Financial
Officer would serve as Chairman of the Commission.
Commission Members will serve on a voluntary basis for three years and can be reappointed for
consecutive terms.

 (g)
The Chief Financial Officer has the authority to hire one (1) staff to serve as a liaison with
the Commission. This staff would allow the Commission access to the Chief Financial Officer’s
subscriptions to economic and financial data, consultation with forecasting service firms, and outside
resources as needed, per the needs and requests of the Commission.
All aspects of the commission’s work shall be governed by the Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/1
to 120/7.5, and by the Freedom of Information Act, 5 ILCS 140/1 to 140/11.5. Members of the public shall
be encouraged to attend and constructively participate in the commission’s meetings.
(i)
The forecast and assumptions from the Chief Financial Officer, the recommendations from
the Commission, and any external resources utilized will be made publicly available on the County’s
website.
Effective Date: This Ordinance shall be effective April 1, 2019.
Approved and adopted this 17th of October 2018.
TONI PRECKWINKLE, President
Cook County Board of Commissioners
(S E A L)
Attest: DAVID ORR, County Clerk

 

18-6484 WAS REFERRED TO THE LEGISLATION AND INTERGOVERNMENTAL
RELATIONS COMMITTEE AT THE OCTOBER 17, 2018 BOARD MEETING
18-6484
Sponsored by: LARRY SUFFREDIN, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
AN AMENDMENT TO THE COOK COUNTY INSPECTOR GENERAL ORDINANCE
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 2 - Administration,
Article IV - Officers and Employees, Division 5 - Inspector General, Sections 2-288 and 2-291. are
amended as follows:
Sec. 2-288. - Confidential sSummary reports.
Upon conclusion of any investigation, the Independent Inspector General shall submit a confidential
summary report to the President, the appropriate head of any department or bureau to whose office the
investigation pertains, the Chief of the Bureau of Human Resources and to the Purchasing Agent in the
case of a sustained finding regarding a contractor, subcontractor, applicant for a contract, or person
seeking certification of eligibility for a contract, and to the Board of Ethics in the case of a sustained
finding regarding any violation of the Cook County Ethics Ordinance (Sections 2-560 through 2-603). If
the Independent Inspector General has conducted any investigations regarding the office, or an employee,
contractor or subcontractor of a separately elected official, the Independent Inspector General also shall
submit the confidential summary report to the elected official.
Confidential summary reports shall be labeled as such and shall contain the information set forth
below in accordance with this section. Confidential summary reports received by any government official
or employee shall only be used for official government purposes and may only be disclosed for official
government purposes. The penalty for improper use or disclosure of confidential summary reports,
including, but not limited to, a disclosure for political purposes, shall be governed by Section 2-291.
(a)

(b)

The report shall include the following:
(1)

A description of any complaints or other information received by the
Independent Inspector General pertinent to the investigation.

(2)

A description of any illegal conduct, corruption, fraud, waste, mismanagement,
unlawful political discrimination, misconduct, or inefficiencies observed or
discovered in the course of the investigation.

(3)

Recommendations for correction of any illegal conduct, corruption, fraud,
waste, mismanagement, unlawful political discrimination, misconduct, or
inefficiencies described in the report and a timeline for corrective action.

(4)

Such other information as the Independent Inspector General may deem
relevant to the investigation or resulting recommendations.

The report shall not mention the name of any informant, complainant, witness, or person
investigated, except in the following instances:

 (c)

(1)

Where the copy of the report given to the head of any department or agency
recommends disciplinary action against an employee of that agency.

(2)

Where the copy of the report given to the purchasing agent makes
recommendations concerning any contractor, subcontractor, applicant for a
contract, or person seeking certification of eligibility for a contract.

(3)

Where the copy of the report given to the head of a department or agency makes
recommendation concerning a person seeking certification of eligibility of a
program administered by the department or agency.

(4)

Where the copy given to the President and the Chief of the Bureau of Human
Resources recommends disciplinary action against the head or any employee of
any executive department or agency.

If any investigation is not concluded within 180 days after its initiation, the Independent
Inspector General shall notify the President and the Litigation Subcommittee of the
general nature of the complaint or information giving rise to the investigation and the
reasons for failure to complete the investigation within 180 days.

…
Sec. 2-291. - Violations and penalties.
(a)

(b)

It shall be a violation of this division for any person to:
(1)

Retaliate against, punish, harass, threaten or penalize any other person for
communicating, cooperating or assisting the Independent Inspector General in
the performance of duties.

(2)

Interfere, obstruct, or attempt to interfere or obstruct an investigation conducted
by the Independent Inspector General.

In addition to all other available remedies, civil and criminal, the following penalties
shall apply to violations of this division:
(1)

Any County employee who is found to have willfully violated this
division as provided in Section 2-285 or Subsection (a) of this Section
shall be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including discharge.
Disciplinary action shall be instituted in accordance with procedures
applicable to the employee, including but not limited to those
established by the Merit Board, Civil Service Commission, Human
Resources Board, collective bargaining agreements, employee
manuals, handbooks or at-will practice of the employer.

(2)

Any agent, independent contractor or appointed official found to have
willfully violated this division as provided in Section 2-285 or
Subsection (a) of this Section shall be subject to removal.

(3)

Any contractor, subcontractor, grantee, lessee or licensee under a
County contract, grant, lease or license, found to have willfully violated

 this division as provided in Section 2-285 or Subsection (a) of this
Section shall be subject to termination of existing contracts, grants,
leases or licenses, and/or ineligibility for consideration for future
County contracts, grants, leases or licenses for a period not to exceed
two years.
(4)

Any person or business entity seeking County contracts or certification
of eligibility for County contracts or participation in any County
program found to have willfully violated this division shall be subject
to ineligibility for consideration for future County contracts, grants,
leases, licenses, or programs for a period not to exceed two years.

(5)

Any person found to have willfully violated Section 2-285 shall also be
subject to a fine of not less than $300.00 and not more than $500.00 for
each violation.

(6)

Any person who makes a false statement, material to the issue or point
in question, which he does not believe to be true, in any complaint or
other document relating to the Independent Inspector General's
investigations of elected officials, and which is certified by such person
in accordance with Subsection 2-284(1) shall be guilty of knowingly
furnishing false statements or misleading information. Any person
found to have violated, intentionally obstructed or interfered with an
investigation of, or intentionally made a false, misleading or bad faith
allegation or claim in accordance with Subsection 2-284(1) shall be
subject to the above-listed penalties and may be further subject to a
penalty of up to six months imprisonment and fines up to $5,000.00 per
violation. Actions seeking the imposition of a fine shall be filed as
quasi-criminal actions subject to the provisions of the Illinois Code of
Civil Procedure, as amended.

(7)

Any person found to have to have improperly used or disclosed a
confidential summary report as provided in Section 2-288 shall be
subject to a penalty of up to six months imprisonment and fines up to
$5,000.00 per violation. Actions seeking the imposition of a fine shall be
filed as quasi-criminal actions subject to the provisions of the Illinois
Code of Civil Procedure, as amended.

Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.

 