MEETING MINUTES
SSA#42 COMMISSIONERS MEETING
THURSDAY, MAY 18th, 2017
SOUTH SHORE CHAMBER ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT INC.
1750 EAST 71ST STREET
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 60649
Attending:
Commissioners:
Staff:
Alderman’s Office:
Guests:

1.
2.
3.
4.

Judy Jackson Davis, Martha Peters, Lynn Small
Tonya Trice, Ciera Whitaker
Kim Webb
William Jefferson- Allpoints Security; Victoria
Brady- ABJ Community Services, Inc.; Tonya
Anderson-South Shore Community Hospital,
John Davis

Commissioner Jackson-Davis opened the meeting at 10:00 am
The agenda was approved (LS/MP).
The minutes of the May meeting were approved (MP/JJ).
Special Events Management has confirmed one of the talents for
the Summer Festival and is seeking a second act. Several names
were discussed. The vendor should have a final selection by the
June meeting. The vendor is also to hire a paid intern to assist
with the project and serve as a liaison with the commissioners.
The time for the festival is confirmed as August 20th, 2017 at
4:00pm.
5. The SSA is financially solvent and the audit showed no
irregularities. There is a carryover from last year that has to be
spent down. The decision on how the money will be spent will be
reflected in next year’s budget. The audit was accepted (LS/JJ).
6. The bank statements were reviewed. There were no issues.

 7. A preliminary budget was discussed, outlining the various
categories to be funded. A final decision on the budget, including
amounts to be allocated, will be made later in the year. The budget
is due for submission to the City in October.
8. We reviewed a proposal from ABJ Community Services to provide
a one-time window washing service to the SSA. The
commissioners liked the idea of job training neighborhood youth
and providing a service to neighborhood businesses, but are
concerned that the proposal does not cover entire SSA and may be
outside the SSA’s scope of service. ABJ is to rework the proposal to
address these concerns.
9. The website, incorporating the suggestion made at the May
meeting, was reviewed. A few more suggested changes will be
made before the site goes up next week.
10. Allpoints Security is going to adjust their hours of service to
provide better daytime coverage. We are still having a problem with
Walgreens with loitering, poorly maintained parking lot, open
cigarette and drug sales and sale and usage of alcoholic products.
11.
There being no further business the meeting was adjourned
at 11:52am.

 