    

 
    



SI Sifr?c?lftl :?sita
7 I 51. 81/8 tony Island

1750 EAST 71ST STREET
MEETING MINUTES
COMMISSIONERS MEETING
THURSDAY, AUGUST 10, 2017
SOUTH SHORE CHAMBER ECOMOMIC DEVELOPMENT INC.

CHICAGO, IL 60649
Attending:
Commissioners: Amena Karim, Judy Jackson Davis, Alicia Garcia?Abner, 
Small, Martha Peters
Staff: Tonya Trice, Ciera Whitaker

Alderman?s Office: Kim Webb
Guests: Hank Zemora, James Weissensel, Special Events Management;



Brian Taylor, Eddie Jones, Allpoints;
Barbara Bernsen, Property Owner

The meeting was called to order by President Karim at 10:02am.

The agenda was approved by LS JJ.

The minutes were approved by 

Hank Zemora and James Weissensel reported the on the Summer Festival.
Eight vendors have signed up for the event. Tonya Trice advised that she
expected more to come in a few days. Tuesday, August 15 was set as the last
date to accept additional vendors. Hank reported that ?lming on the
television series Empire was taking place on Sunday and that production
trucks would be on site. The marketing plan is being executed as planned. An
intern has been hired to assist in the program. He will be paid $700 and will
report to SEM on Tuesday. Allpoints and SEM will meet to agree on the
distribution of security staff to key areas. It was agreed that 23 security
people will be on duty. The commissioners agreed to provide additional
funding to cover any additional costs. Jackson Park Hospital will be asked to
provide personnel ambulance to cover any medical emergency. Parking/VIP
passes and food tickets will be available for pickup on Monday. Staff will
provide SEM with the quantity of each required. Staff and SEM will look for
additional places to put up signage.

Bank of America will get a walk-up ATM on site. It is expected to be in
operation by the end of the year.

A motion was made and approved by Commissioner Small to increase the
SEM contract from $80,000 to $82,000 to cover the cost of additional security
for the Summer Festival. A motion was made to approve the 2018 work plan
at a level of $611,865 by Commissioner Small. This figure includes the tax
levy and late collections.

The City Council approved the terms of commissioners Karim, Jackson Davis
and Hurt. Commissioner Abner Garcia was welcomed to her first meeting.

 

8. The September agenda will include a Festival recap, vendor and
holiday activities. In October, we will begin to work on an action plan to
improve local business participation in the SSA and compliance with store
signage regulations and property maintenance. We will also look at ways to
work with community organizations to force local business owners to reduce
instances of improper activity.

9. There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 12:04pm.

 

