D

SPECIAL SERVICE AREA #42
Commissioners Meeting
Thursday, September 15th, 2016
South Shore Chamber Offices
1750 East 71st Street, Chicago, IL 60649
In Attendance
Commissioners: Suellen Hurt, Martha Peters, Lynn Small, Gregory Smith
Staff:
Tonya Trice, Ciera Whitaker
Alderman’s Office: Kimberly Webb
Guests:
Brian Taylor, All Points Security;
Brady Gotts, Cleanslate Landscaping:
Barbara Bernsen, property owner; Pat Skoda, Jewel
I.
II.
III.

IV.

Commissioner Small called the meeting to order at 10:25am.
The agenda was approved.
It was reported that Bronzeville Green has not fulfilled their contract
in a satisfactory manner. The planters have not been properly
maintained and weeds have been growing on the sidewalks and curbs
along the public way. With the approval of the alderman and
President Karim the contract with Bronzeville Green was terminated.
Cleanslate Landscaping, who has performed landscaping for the SSA
in years past, was invited to the meeting and proposed to pick up the
balance of the contract. They proposed to clean the weeds for $2700
and put new flowers in the planters for $3,400. As there are sufficient
funds left in the budget and based on our knowledge of Cleanslate’s
work in the past the commissioners, by unanimous consent, selected
Cleanslate to carry out the balance of the landscaping contract. The
new vendor will give the SSA an estimate of the cost to install
evergreen plantings in November.
The management of the Jewel Osco at 75th and Stony was invited to
the meeting to talk about their handling of unhealthy activity around
their store. Though not entirely in our SSA, they are adjacent to us
and we wanted to share our concerns about how they plan to remedy
the situation. Mr. Skoda reported that Jewel Osco shares our concerns
and they are meeting with community representation and the CDP to
curb loitering and illegal activity in the parking lot and increased their

SSA #42 Commissioners’ Meeting/Agenda
1750 E. 71st Street, Chicago, IL 60649

 security manpower. They have noted that like Walgreens, sales of
single cans of beer have added to the problem and the store has put
that merchandise in a less prominent location. They will continue to
meet with community leaders and be more aggressive to make the lot
a safer environment. All Points is going to meet with Jewel
management to coordinate efforts.
V.
This year’s Summer Fest was attended by some 800-100 people.
There were only 10 vendors, 2 from the SSA. There was general
satisfaction with the entertainment. It was noted that pricing of
vendor booths and amenities need to be examined to make
participation more attractive. Possible improvements for next year
include: more aggressive marketing, better visibility of SSA, better
pricing for non-SSA vendors, more uniform look for vendors, tighter
security in the vendor area, a medical team on sight to handle
emergencies, earlier identification of talent (to facilitate publicity). We
plan to have an event planner in place by early January.
VI.
We saw several logo designs but did approve any of them. Several
suggestions were made for the designer.
VII. There were no changes in the budget.
VIII. The August bank statements have not been received so there are no
numbers to review.
IX.
All Points Security that security for the Summer Festival was at
sufficient levels. There were no serious security concerns reported.
X.
Representation to discuss façade enhancement were not available for
the meeting, so the subject has been deferred to next month.
Property owner Barbara Bernsen reported several concerns she has
with the site that includes Bank of America. Some resident have been
throwing garbage at the dumpster on the property, causing the bank
to be fined by the City. There is also an issue with parking in the lot
shared by the bank and Starbucks. Mrs. Berensen would like to place
planters placed on the west edge of her property (which she would
pay for) to avoid the damage caused the salting of the street to the
parkway in the winter.
As these issues go beyond the scope of the SSA it was recommended
that Mrs. Bernsen meet with the alderman, the chamber and
Starbucks to discuss the issues and seek possible resolution.
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at
12:10pm.

SSA #42 Commissioners’ Meeting/Agenda
1750 E. 71st Street, Chicago, IL 60649

 