D

SPECIAL SERVICE AREA #42
Commissioners Meeting
Thursday, October 13, 2016
South Shore Chamber Offices
1750 East 71st Street, Chicago, IL 60649
In Attendance
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.

Ayesha Karim-Chairperson
Judy Jackson- Co-Chair
Martha Peters
Lynn Small - Secretary
Suellen Hurt
Tonya Trice – SSA Program Manaer
Ciera Whitaker – SSA Assistant
5th Ward Alderman Leslie A. Hairston
Kimberly Webb-Chief of Staff
Sharon Louis
Yvette Moyo
Eddie Jones
Barbara Bernsen

I.

The agenda was approved with leave to change the order of items

II.

The minutes were approved with no changes.

III.

Last month Barbara Bernsen asked the commissioners to approve a
plan where she would purchase planters/barricades to protect the
Bank of America building from northbound Stony Island traffic. After
reviewing the scope of the project it was determined that there would
be several City of Chicago agencies involved in the construction of
planters and a remedy could not be resolved by SSA #42. It was
agreed that the Chamber would help guide Ms Bernstein’s request
through the appropriate agencies. The SSA could, however, pay for
the installation and maintenance of plantings. Cleanslate made a
presentation of several types of containers that could be installed on
Stony Island. Again, because several agencies are involved, the SSA

SSA #42 Commissioners’ Meeting/Agenda
1750 E. 71st Street, Chicago, IL 60649

 is not in a position to make a decision. We will need the input of the
concerned city agencies.
IV.

Cleanslate showed a sample of the holiday planter that is being
installed on November 18th. The commissioners approved the
design. The planters will be up though February.

V.

Gang activity along the 71st Street corridor and at Walgreens is still
ongoing. It was agreed that there must be better communication
between Allpoints and CPD in order to keep pressure on the
gangbangers. The Chamber, alderman’s office and SSA need to speak
to the storeowners with a unified voice.

VI.

Reviewed the program for the Holiday Events.

VII.

Approved the following contracts for 2017. The contract for
Landscaping was awarded to Bridgeview after being moved and
seconded by (JJ/LS). The contract for Litter Abatement was awarded
to Cleanslate after being moved and seconded by (MP/JJ). The
contract for security was awarded to Allpoints after being moved and
seconded by (LS/MP). The contract for snow removal was awarded to
Cleanstreet after being moved and seconded by (JJ/LS).

VIII. There being no further business the meeting was adjourned at
11:45am

SSA #42 Commissioners’ Meeting/Agenda
1750 E. 71st Street, Chicago, IL 60649

 