Minutes of the meeting of the Finance Committee of the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and
Hospitals System held Friday, October 19, 2018 at the hour of 8:30 A.M., at 1900 W. Polk Street, in the Second
Floor Conference Room, Chicago, Illinois.

I.

Attendance/Call to Order
Chair Reiter called the meeting to order.
Present:

Chair Robert G. Reiter, Jr. and Ada Mary Gugenheim (Substitute Member) (2)
Board Chair M. Hill Hammock (ex-officio) and Directors Mary Driscoll, RN, MPH and David
Ernesto Munar

Present
Telephonically: Director Mary B. Richardson-Lowry (1)
Absent:

Director Hon. Jerry Butler (1)
Director Gugenheim, seconded by Chair Reiter, moved to allow Director RichardsonLowry to participate in the meeting as a voting member telephonically. THE
MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

Additional attendees and/or presenters were:
Ekerete Akpan – Chief Financial Officer
Debra Carey – Deputy Chief Executive Officer, Operations
Douglas Elwell – Deputy Chief Executive Officer, Finance
and Strategy

II.

Charles Jones – Chief Procurement Officer
Jeff McCutchan – General Counsel
Deborah Santana – Secretary to the Board
John Jay Shannon, MD – Chief Executive Officer

Public Speakers
Chair Reiter asked the Secretary to call upon the registered public speakers.
The Secretary responded that there were none present.

III. Action Items
A. Minutes of the Finance Committee Meeting, September 21, 2018
Director Gugenheim, seconded by Director Richardson-Lowry, moved to accept
the Minutes of the Finance Committee Meeting of September 21, 2018. THE
MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

B. Contracts and Procurement Items (Attachment #1)
Charles Jones, Chief Procurement Officer, provided an overview of the contractual requests presented for the
Committee’s consideration. The Committee reviewed and discussed the requests.

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Finance Committee
Friday, October 19, 2018
Page 2

III. Action Items
B. Contracts and Procurement Items (continued)
With regard to request number 19, the Committee discussed the subject of the provision of dental services at
Cermak Health Services. Director Richardson-Lowry commented that, when she toured Cermak, staff indicated
that, without exception, detainees’ dominant need is dental services, typically on an emergent basis. Chair Reiter
requested that the administration provide a report reflecting statistics on the number and type of procedures done
at Cermak.
With regard to request number 20, Board Chair Hammock inquired regarding the Group Purchasing Organization
(GPO) methodology used to select the vendor. He noted that this vendor under the GPO is located in Michigan;
he inquired whether any of the other vendors under the GPO for this product are located locally, or whether any
local minority firms are involved in the contract. Mr. Jones stated that the vendor, Stryker, is the manufacturer of
this equipment, which is a direct capital equipment purchase; if this was a turnkey solution involving installations,
then they would partner with a local minority or women-owned business enterprise to do the installation. He
indicated that one (1) of the other two (2) vendors is Hill-Rom, which is located in Indiana. He was unsure of the
third vendor; he stated that he will provide the information following the meeting.
Director Richardson-Lowry, seconded by Director Gugenheim, moved the
approval of request numbers 1 through 21, subject to completion of review by
Contract Compliance, where appropriate.
THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.

C. Any items listed under Section III

IV. Report from Chief Procurement Officer
A. Report of emergency purchases
There was no report of emergency purchases that were recently made.

V.

Report from the Chief Financial Officer (Attachment #2)
 Metrics
 Financials through August 2018
Ekerete Akpan, Chief Financial Officer, provided an overview of the information contained in the report. The
Committee reviewed and discussed the information.
During the discussion of the information on the Income Statement (Slide 4 of the presentation), Board Chair
Hammock inquired regarding the expenses for supplies, which are $18 million over budget; he asked whether the
budget has been adjusted yet by the County. Pursuant to County Budget Resolution, the System is permitted to
grow its budget if its revenues grow in managed care; there was action anticipated to increase the appropriation
based on increased revenues in managed care. Mr. Akpan responded that the transfer of funds has been done, and
the budget is expected to be adjusted next month.

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Finance Committee
Friday, October 19, 2018
Page 3

V.

Report from the Chief Financial Officer (continued)
During the review of the information provided on payor mix, Director Munar requested information reflecting the
number of presenting uninsured patients that staff are able to enroll. Mr. Akpan responded that he will provide
that information.
Director Driscoll asked whether the revenue that CountyCare pays CCHHS as a provider is included in the
revenue statement. Mr. Akpan responded affirmatively. Chair Reiter stated that it would be helpful, when Mr.
Akpan is reviewing the operating revenue information with the Committee, if he can highlight there how much
specifically is being received from CountyCare into the operating revenue.

VI.

Adjourn
As the agenda was exhausted, Chair Reiter declared the meeting ADJOURNED.

Respectfully submitted,
Finance Committee of the
Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Robert G. Reiter, Jr., Chair

Attest:

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Deborah Santana, Secretary

Follow-up / Requests:
Request:

Request made for a report reflecting statistics on the number and type of dental procedures done
at Cermak Health Services. Page 2

Follow-up:

Follow-up on question regarding the identity and location of third GPO vendor referenced during
the discussion of request number 20 (Stryker). Page 2

Request:

Request made for information reflecting the number of presenting uninsured patients that staff are
able to enroll. Page 3

 