Minutes of the meeting of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee of the Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System held Friday, October 19, 2018 at the hour of 10:00 A.M. at
1900 W. Polk Street, in the Second Floor Conference Room, Chicago, Illinois.
I.

Attendance/Call to Order
Chair Gugenheim called the meeting to order.
Present:

Chair Ada Mary Gugenheim and Directors Mary Driscoll, RN, MPH and Layla P.
Suleiman Gonzalez, PhD, JD (3)
Board Chair M. Hill Hammock (ex-officio) and Director David Ernesto Munar
Patrick T. Driscoll, Jr. and Patricia Merryweather (non-Director Members)

Absent:

None (0)

Additional attendees and/or presenters were:
Mohammed Abu Realh – Associate Nurse
Executive, Hospital-Based Services
Claudia Fegan, MD – Chief Medical Officer
Valerie Hansbrough, MD – Provident Hospital of
Cook County
Jarrod Johnson - Chief Operating Officer, Stroger
Hospital & Central Campus

II.

Jeff McCutchan –General Counsel
Deborah Santana – Secretary to the Board
John Jay Shannon, MD – Chief Executive Officer
Ronald Wyatt, MD – Chief Quality Officer

Public Speakers
Chair Gugenheim asked the Secretary to call upon the registered public speakers.
The Secretary responded that there were none present.

III.

Report from Chief Quality Officer (Attachment #1)
A.
B.
C.
D.

Regulatory and Accreditation Updates
Metrics
Update on Venous Thromboembolisms (VTEs)
Update on Patient Experience (includes Nursing Update and Environmental Services Update)

Dr. Ronald Wyatt, Chief Quality Officer, provided a regulatory and accreditation update. He stated that
Stroger Hospital had a follow-up survey from a surveyor representing both The Joint Commission (TJC)
and the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services. Stroger Hospital remains accredited; he noted that
the condition-level deficiency was removed, which is very good news. He thanked the executive team,
and in particular, the following individuals: Jarrod Johnson, Chief Operating Officer, Stroger Hospital &
Central Campus; Mohammed Abu Realh, Associate Nurse Executive, Hospital-Based Services; Sonya
Watkins, System Director, Regulatory Affairs and Accreditation; the Command Center team; the
Operating Room team; and the Environmental Services team. He stated that Stroger Hospital is now less
than 18 months from being back in the window for the next TJC visit, so staff will continue to have
ongoing readiness activities. They will plan internal mock surveys, and will prepare for TJC’s visit to
Provident Hospital. The Committee expressed their gratitude to staff for their hard work towards this
major achievement.

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee
Friday, October 19, 2018
Page 2

III.

Report from Chief Quality Officer (continued)
During the discussion of the metrics, Director Driscoll stated that, although it is good to see the graphs, it
is also important to see the actual numbers for Hospital Acquired Infections per quarter and by infection.
Ms. Merryweather inquired regarding quality measurement for the CountyCare Health Plan. Dr. John Jay
Shannon, Chief Executive Officer, stated that the Healthcare Effectiveness Data and Information Set
(HEDIS) measures are oftentimes process measures of care, and some of them are outcome measures. The
administration has shared with the Board how the organization is doing with HEDIS measures in the Plan
and in the System as a provider. Additionally, there is an annual satisfaction survey that is sent to the Plan
members; this is a standardized survey required by the State to get feedback on members’ perception of
how good the Plan is. He stated that he can bring information on that subject back to the Committee; he
also noted that, because the Board needs to have a better understanding of how the Plan is doing from a
quality standpoint, he will go back and huddle with his team to further contemplate the best way to do this.
During the Update on Patient Experience, Mr. Abu Realh provided an overview of the materials for the
Nursing Update, and Mr. Johnson reviewed the materials relating to Environmental Services. Information
contained in the presentation included the following subjects:
Patient Experience Update
 Contributing factors to current limited patient experience improvement
 Solutions
 Nursing Update
o Nursing Action Plan Summary
 Environmental Services (EVS) Update
o Scope of Engagement
o Focused Highlights: EVS

IV.

Action Items
A. Approve appointments and reappointments of Stroger Hospital Department Chair(s) and Division
Chair(s) (Attachment #2)
Dr. Claudia Fegan, Chief Medical Officer, provided an overview of the proposed initial appointment of
the following Stroger Hospital Division Chair:
Name
Alexander Ree, MD

Department/Appt Term
Radiology
10/27/2018 – 10/28/2020

Title
Division Chair of
Neuroradiology

Director Suleiman Gonzalez, seconded by Chair Gugenheim, moved to
approve the proposed initial appointment of the Stroger Hospital Division
Chair. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee
Friday, October 19, 2018
Page 3

IV.

Action Items (continued)
B.

Executive Medical Staff (EMS) Committees of Provident Hospital of Cook County and John H.
Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County
i. Receive reports from EMS Presidents
ii. Approve Medical Staff Appointments/Re-appointments/Changes (Attachment #3)
Dr. Trevor Lewis, President of the EMS of John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County, was unable
to attend due to a schedule conflict.
Dr. Valerie Hansbrough, President of the EMS of Provident Hospital of Cook County, presented the
medical staff appointments/reappointments changes for the Committee’s consideration, and noted that
the request for privileges for Dr. Ramez Haddadin relate to the provision of LASIK surgery services
at Provident Hospital. The tentative target for LASIK surgery services to be provided at Provident
Hospital is November, and it is her understanding that Provident Hospital will be the only facility
offering LASIK surgery to CountyCare members.
Director Driscoll, seconded by Director Suleiman Gonzalez, moved to
approve the Medical Staff Appointments/Re-appointments/Changes for John
H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County, as amended. THE MOTION
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.
Director Driscoll, seconded by Director Suleiman Gonzalez, moved to
approve the Medical Staff Appointments/Re-appointments/Changes for
Provident Hospital of Cook County.
THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.

C. Minutes of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting, September 21, 2018 (Attachment #4)
Chair Gugenheim stated that a correction is needed regarding the Stroger Hospital medical staff
appointments from last month. On Page 3 of the minutes, two (2) physicians were erroneously
presented and approved as initial appointments, when they should have been listed as reappointments.
By approving the minutes as amended, the Committee will accept and approve that
correction/amendment.
Director Driscoll, seconded by Director Suleiman Gonzalez, moved to
approve the Minutes of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting of
September 21, 2018, as amended.
THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.
D. Any items listed under Sections IV and V

V.

Closed Meeting Items
A. Medical Staff Appointments/Re-appointments/Changes
B. Litigation Matter(s)
C. Matters protected under the federal Patient Safety and Quality Improvement Act of 2005 and the
Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996
The Committee did not recess into a closed meeting.

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee
Friday, October 19, 2018
Page 4

VI.

Adjourn
As the agenda was exhausted, Chair Gugenheim declared the meeting
ADJOURNED.
Respectfully submitted,
Quality and Patient Safety Committee of the
Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Ada Mary Gugenheim, Chair

Attest:

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Deborah Santana, Secretary

Requests/follow-up:
Follow-up:

Recommendation regarding metrics for Hospital Acquired Infections, to include the actual
numbers per quarter and by infection, in addition to the graphs provided. Page 2

Follow-up:

Follow-up indicated on the subject of providing the Board information so they can gain a better
understanding of how the CountyCare Health Plan is doing from a quality standpoint. Page 2

 