ORDINANCES
NOVEMBER 14, 2018 BOARD AGENDA

 COMMISSIONERS

 18-6965
ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
Sponsored by
THE HONORABLE RICHARD R. BOYKIN, COUNTY COMMISSIONER
CRITERIA FOR CONVEYANCE
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 103 Land Bank Authority,
Article IV Real Property Acquisition, Management and Disposition, Section 103-53 of the Cook County
Code is hereby amended as Follows:
Sec. 103-53. Criteria for conveyance.
Real Property shall be conveyed by the Land Bank in accordance with this Ordinance and according
to criteria determined in the discretion of the Board and contained in the policies and procedures adopted
by the Board. The Board may adopt policies and procedures that set forth priorities for a transferee's use of
Real Property conveyed by the Land Bank, including, but not limited to, affordable housing. The Land
Bank shall not convey Real Property to any Land Bank employee or their immediate family members.
Effective date: This Ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption
Approved and adopted this 14th of November 2018.
TONI PRECKWINKLE, President
Cook County Board of Commissioners
Attest: DAVID ORR, County Clerk

 BUREAU OF ASSET MANAGEMENT
OFFICE OF ASSET MANAGEMENT

 18-6797
RESOLUTION
Sponsored by
THE HONORABLE TONI PRECKWINKLE,
PRESIDENT OF THE COOK COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
AUTHORIZING THE LOAN OF A PIECE OF ART FROM THE
DUSABLE MUSEUM TO THE COUNTY OF COOK
WHEREAS, the County of Cook (“County”) is the owner of certain real estate (the “Real Estate”) located
at 1950 W. Polk Street, Chicago, Illinois, and now known as the Central Health Campus Professional
Building (the “Property”); and
WHEREAS, the County’s Bureau of Asset Management, Department of Real Estate Management
(“DREM”) seeks to display art at the Property to enhance the patient, visitor and employee experience; and
WHEREAS, the DuSable Museum of African American History (“DuSable”) wishes to loan a serigraph
(the “Art”), also known as silk screening, created by African-American artist Wilmer James for display at
the Property; and
WHEREAS, DuSable is dedicated to the study and conservation of African-American history, culture and
art; and
WHEREAS, Ms. James was a ceramicist, print maker, commercial artist and prominent arts educator; and
WHEREAS, the County will support and further the mission of DuSable through the display of art from
its collection; and
WHEREAS, DREM seeks to enter into a two (2) year Loan Agreement (“Agreement”), renewable for two
(2) additional two (2) year periods, if agreed to in writing by both Parties, and unless terminated by either
Party with ninety (90) day written notice; and
WHEREAS, DuSable will insure the art for the term of the Agreement.

 NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Cook
County is hereby authorized to enter into this Agreement.
Approved and adopted this 14th of November 2018.
TONI PRECKWINKLE, President
Cook County Board of Commissioners
Attest: DAVID ORR, County Clerk

 COMMITTEE ITEMS REQUIRING BOARD ACTION

 BUSINESS AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE
MEETING OF NOVEMBER 13, 2018

 18-6017
ORDINANCE
Sponsored by
THE HONORABLE TONI PRECKWINKLE, PRESIDENT,
RICHARD R. BOYKIN AND JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI, COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
WEST REGIONAL ENTERPRISE ZONE
AN ORDINANCE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF AN ENTERPRISE ZONE IN THE
VILLAGE OF BELLWOOD, THE VILLAGE OF BROADVIEW,
THE VILLAGE OF MAYWOOD, THE VILLAGE OF MELROSE PARK AND COOK COUNTY,
ILLINOIS SUBJECT TO THE ENTERPRISE ZONE ACT OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.
WHEREAS, the State of Illinois Enterprise Zone Act, 20 ILCS 655/1 et seq., as amended (the “Act”)
provides for the creation of enterprise zones to encourage private sector investments, stimulate business
and industrial growth in economically distressed areas as well as neighborhood revitalization by relaxing
government controls and tax incentives throughout the State; and
WHEREAS, the Village of Bellwood, the Village of Broadview, the Village of Maywood, the Village of
Melrose Park (collectively, the “Municipalities”) and the County of Cook (the “County”), corporate bodies
politic organized and existing under the laws of that State of Illinois, each have areas within their respective
legal boundaries that are economically distressed with a disproportionate number of residents who have
suffered pervasive poverty, unemployment and economic distress related to prolonged economic
transformation, shifts of industries throughout the region, and a variety of other factors. These factors have
negatively affected areas that would benefit from private sector investments within an Enterprise Zone; and
WHEREAS, these factors have negatively affected areas that would benefit from private sector
investments with an Enterprise Zone; and
WHEREAS, the Municipalities and County seek approval and certification by the State of Illinois of the
West Regional Enterprise Zone (hereafter referred to as "the Zone"); and
WHEREAS, if approved, businesses who are owned by minorities, women and persons with disabilities,
as defined under the Business Enterprise for Minorities, Women and Persons with Disabilities Act (30 ILCS
575/0.01, et seq.) shall be encouraged to participate within the Enterprise Zone incentive program to benefit
them as business owners (“the Zone benefits”); and
WHEREAS, the Zone benefits include specific state incentives designed to encourage businesses in the
private sector to locate or expand within an Enterprise Zone, subject to terms, conditions, rules and
limitations in the law; and
WHEREAS, businesses using the Zone benefits will be encouraged to hire individuals who are minority
persons, women and persons with disabilities as defined under the Business Enterprise for Minorities,
Women, and Persons with Disabilities Act (30 ILCS 575/0.01, et seq.); and

 WHEREAS, businesses using the Zone benefits will be encouraged to utilize other businesses that are
minority-owned, women-owned, or owned by persons with disabilities as defined under the Business
Enterprise for Minorities, Women, and Persons with Disabilities Act (30 ILCS 575/0.01, et seq.); and
WHEREAS, it is determined that it is in the best interest of the citizens of the County and Municipalities
to establish an Enterprise Zone and encourage private sector investments within said Enterprise Zone; and
WHEREAS, prior to filing an application for approval of the designation of an Enterprise Zone under the
Act, it is required that the County and Municipalities adopt an Ordinance designating the proposed
Enterprise Zone.
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 14 Community
Development, Article X West Regional Enterprise Zone, Section 14-99 through 14-118 of the Cook County
Code is hereby enacted as Follows:
Article X-West Regional Enterprise Zone
Sec. 14-99. Establishment of Enterprise zone and enterprise zone designation - In accordance with the
Act, in cooperation with the Village of Bellwood, the Village of Broadview, the Village of Maywood, the
Village of Melrose Park and the County of Cook, said municipalities and the County hereby declare,
establish, name and designate the West Regional Enterprise Zone (the “Enterprise Zone”); said Enterprise
Zone is subject to and contingent on approval by the Illinois Enterprise Zone Board and certification by the
Illinois Department of Commerce and Economic Opportunity.
Sec. 14-100. Term - The term of the Enterprise Zone shall commence upon certification and approval of
the Illinois Department of Commerce and Economic Opportunity (“DCEO”) and shall remain in effect for
a period of fifteen (15) calendar years and is subject to review for an additional ten (10) year extension,
prescribed under the Act.
Sec. 14-101. Description of zone - The area of the designated Enterprise Zone is described in Exhibit A Boundaries of Enterprise Zone and depicted in Exhibit B - Map of Enterprise Zone, which exhibits are
attached to this Ordinance and incorporated herein by reference, (“Zone Area”).
Sec. 14-102. Qualifications. - The County and the Municipalities hereby declare and affirm that the
proposed Zone Area is qualified for designation as an Enterprise Zone and further affirms and finds that:
(a)
The Zone Area is a contiguous area and entirely within the corporate limits of the County
and Municipalities being the Enterprise Zone;
(b)
The Zone Area comprises an area larger than one-half (1/2) square mile and not more than
fifteen (15) square miles in total area;
(c)

The Zone Area is a depressed area;

(d)
The Zone Area addresses a reasonable need to encompass portions of more than one (1)
municipality and adjacent unincorporated areas of the County;

 (e)
The Zone Area exceeds the minimum requirement of meeting three (3) of the ten (10)
criteria specified in the Act (20 ILCS 655/4 (f)) and any additional criteria established by DCEO;
(f)
A public hearing was conducted pursuant to a notice duly published in a newspaper of
general circulation, within the Zone Area, not more than twenty (20) days nor less than five (5) days before
the hearing date on questions about whether or not to create the Enterprise Zone, what local plans, tax
incentives and other programs should be established in connection with said Enterprise Zone and what the
boundaries thereof should be; and
(g)
The Zone Area meets the qualifications under Section 4 of the Act and satisfies any
additional criteria stated in the Act or established by the Rules of DCEO.
All of the Findings are supported, sustained and consistent with the substantive materials contained
in Exhibit C, attached hereto, and incorporated herein by reference.
Sec. 14-103. Incentives. The County and Municipalities offer incentives designed to encourage businesses
in the private sector to locate or expand within an Enterprise Zone, subject to terms, conditions, rules and
legal limitations in the law:
(a)
State sales tax exemption. Pursuant to applicable law, the County and Municipalities
authorize any retailer, as defined in the Retailers’ Occupation Tax Act (35 ILCS 120.1 et. seq.) who makes
a qualified sale of building materials to be permanently affixed and incorporated into real estate located
within the Enterprise Zone, as amended from time to time, in connection with the expansion, rehabilitation
or new construction of a qualified project may deduct receipts from such sale when calculating the tax
imposed by the State, City, Village and County, pursuant to the Retailers’ Occupation Tax Act; provided,
however, that said deduction shall be allowed if and only if the retailer obtains from the purchaser an
Enterprise Zone Building Materials Exemption Certificate (as that term is defined in the Act, the
“Exemption Certificate”), which must contain the Exemption Certificate number issued to the purchaser by
the Illinois Department of Revenue. Upon request from the Zone Administrator, the Illinois Department of
Revenue shall issue an Exemption Certificate for each construction contractor or other entity identified by
the Zone Administrator. The Illinois Department of Revenue shall make the Exemption Certificates
available directly to the Zone Administrator and each construction contractor or other entity. The
Department of Revenue shall issue the Exemption Certificate within three business days after receipt of
request from the Zone Administrator. The Exemption Certificates shall be provided to the retailer at the
time of sale and maintained by such retailer in its books and records for the purposes of documenting such
deduction. Exemption Certificates shall be valid for twelve (12) months from the date of issuance; provided,
however, that such Exemption Certificates may be extended for an additional twelve (12) months upon
request to the Zone Administrator. Such requests for extension shall not be granted more than twice for any
one project, and the requesting party must demonstrate good faith efforts to diligently pursue construction
of the project.
(b)
State Enterprise Zone machinery and equipment consumables/pollution control facilities
sales tax exemption. A 6.25 percent state sales tax exemption on purchases of tangible personal property
to be used in the manufacturing or assembly process or in the operation of a pollution control facility within
an Enterprise Zone is available. Eligibility is based on a business making an investment in an Enterprise
Zone of at least $5 million in qualified property that creates a minimum of 200 full-time equivalent jobs, a
business investing at least $40 million in a Zone and retaining at least 2,000 jobs, or a business investing at
least $40 million in a Zone which causes the retention of at least 80 percent of the jobs existing on the date
it is certified to receive the exemption.

 (c)
State Enterprise Zone utility tax exemption. A state utility tax exemption on gas, electricity
and the Illinois Commerce Commission's administrative charge and telecommunication excise tax is
available to businesses located in Enterprise Zones. Eligible businesses must make an investment of at least
$5 million in qualified property that creates a minimum of 200 full-time equivalent jobs in Illinois, an
investment of $20 million that retains at least 1,000 full-time equivalent jobs, or an investment of $175
million that creates 150 full-time equivalent jobs in Illinois. The majority of the jobs created must be located
in the Enterprise Zone where the investment occurs.
(d)
State Enterprise Zone investment tax credit. A state investment tax credit of 0.5 percent is
allowed a taxpayer who invests in qualified property in a Zone. Qualified property includes machinery,
equipment and buildings. The credit may be carried forward for up to five (5) years. This credit is in addition
to the regular 0.5 percent investment tax credit, which is available throughout the state, and up to 0.5 percent
credit for increased employment over the previous year.
(e)
State contribution deduction. Businesses may deduct double the value of a cash or in-kind
contribution to an approved project of a Designated Zone Organization from taxable income as allowed
under the Act.
Sec. 14-104. Zone administration - Upon designation as an Enterprise Zone by DCEO, a Zone
Management Board (the “ZMB”) shall be formed and comprised of one representative appointed by each
municipality and County. The ZMB will be the governing body of the Enterprise Zone and will elect a
chairman, create and appoint the position of Zone Administrator (“ZA”) and will be responsible for all
decisions within the Enterprise Zone that may include charging fees associated with the administration of
the Enterprise Zone up to 0.5% (one half of one percent) of the cost of building materials of the project
associated with the Enterprise Zone, provided that the maximum fee is no more than $50,000, as permitted
by the Act (20 JLCS 655/8.2 (c)). The Zone Administrator is responsible for the day-to-day operation of
the Enterprise Zone including:
(a)
Supervise the implementation of the provisions of the Enterprise Zone Intergovernmental
Agreement and the Act.
(b)
Act as a liaison between the County, Municipalities, DCEO, Designated Zone
Organizations, and other State, Federal and local agencies, whether public or private.
(c)
Conduct an ongoing evaluation of the Enterprise Zone Programs and submit evaluative
reports to the ZMB.
(d)
Promote the coordination of other relevant programs, including, but not limited to, housing,
community and economic development, small business, financial assistance and employment training
within the Enterprise Zone.
(e)

Recommend qualified Designated Zone Organizations to the ZMB.

(f)
Have other such duties as specified by the ZMB, including the appointment of authorized
personnel as appropriate, to assure the smooth operation of the Enterprise Zone.
(g)
The Zone Administrator shall file a copy of the Enterprise Zone's fee schedule with DCEO
by April 1 of each year.

 Sec. 14-105. Enterprise zone goals - The County and Municipalities hereby approve the following
activities, which have been identified as initial goals of the Enterprise Zone:
(a)
businesses.
(b)

To identify available sites and vacant or underused buildings for new or expanding

To market available sites and buildings on the economic development websites.

(c)
To assist businesses and Enterprise Zone residents in receiving available local, state, or
federal economic development incentives and benefits.
(d)
To hold educational forums and programs for Enterprise Zone communities, businesses
and residents to explain and promote program benefits and incentives.
(e)

To coordinate available and future economic development incentives within the Enterprise

Zone.
Sec. 14-106. Intergovernmental agreement - The Enterprise Zone shall be governed, managed and
operated in accordance with the Intergovernmental Agreement between the County and Municipalities as
set forth in Exhibit D, which is attached hereto and incorporated into this Ordinance by reference. The chief
elected official or designee of the County and Municipalities is hereby authorized to execute the
Intergovernmental Agreement on behalf of the County and Municipalities and further authorized to sign all
documents reasonably necessary in the furtherance of the Joint Application for said Enterprise Zone, to be
filed with DCEO.
Section 14-107. Creation of a Policy Statement for Development - The Municipalities and County hereby
establish the Enterprise Zone Policy Statement that expresses a desire for businesses within the Zone to
commit to and encourage the development of business entities owned by minorities, women, and persons
with disabilities as defined under the Business Enterprise for Minorities, Women, and Persons with
Disabilities Act (30 ILCS 575/0.01, et. seq.).
Section 14-108. Creation of a Policy Statement for Hiring - the Municipalities and County hereby
establish the Enterprises Zone policy statement that expresses a desire and commitment from businesses to
promote the hiring of individuals who are minority persons, women, and persons with disabilities as defined
under the Business Enterprise for Minorities, Women, and Persons with Disabilities Act (30 ILCS 575/0.01,
et. seq.).
Section 14-109. Creation of a Policy Statement for Using Other Businesses - the Municipalities and
County hereby establish the Enterprises Zone policy statement that expresses a desire and commitment
from businesses to promote the utilization of other businesses that are minority-owned, women-owned, or
owned by persons with disabilities as defined under the Business Enterprise for Minorities, Women, and
Persons with Disabilities Act (30 ILCS 575/0.01, et seq.).

 Section 14-110. Creation of a Database - The Zone will create a database and list of local businesses that
are owned by minorities, women, and persons with disabilities as defined under the Business Enterprise for
Minorities, Women, and Persons with Disabilities Act (30 ILCS 575/0.01, et seq.). This information will
be used as a matchmaking tool for Zone participants to diversify their subcontracting by utilizing businesses
owned by minorities, women, and persons with disabilities as defined under the Business Enterprise for
Minorities, Women, and Persons with Disabilities Act (30 ILCS 575/0.01, et seq.).
Section 14-111. Publish and Distribute Promotional Materials - The Zone will publish a brochure that
will be provided to business owners within the Zone that explains the benefits of utilizing businesses owned
by minorities, women, and persons with disabilities as defined under the Business Enterprise for Minorities,
Women, and Persons with Disabilities Act (30 ILCS 575/0.01, et seq.).
Section 14-112. Conduct Promotional Activities - The Zone will conduct at least one public meeting
each year to describe the Zone benefits for businesses owned by minorities, women, and persons with
disabilities as defined under the Business Enterprise for Minorities, Women, and Persons with Disabilities
Act (30 ILCS 575/0.01, et seq.).
Section 14-113. Incorporate Promotional Statement - The Zone will provide a statement on project
applications, promotional materials, and Zone publications that the Zone encourages the use of businesses
owned by and the hiring of minorities, women, and people with disabilities as defined under the Business
Enterprise for Minorities, Women, and Persons with Disabilities Act (30 ILCS 575/0.01, et seq.).
Section 14-114. Establish the Minority, Women and Persons with Disabilities Advocate - The Zone
will create the position of Minority, Women, and Persons with Disabilities Advocate to promote
participation of firms and persons defined under the Business Enterprise for Minorities, Women, and
Persons with Disabilities Act (30 ILCS 575/0.01, et. seq.).
Section 14-115. Establish Participation Goals - The Zone will establish annual goals and measurements
of participation of firms and persons defined under the Business Enterprise for Minorities, Women, and
Persons with Disabilities Act (30 ILCS 575/0.01, et. seq.) to determine the effectiveness of these efforts
and how they might be revised to optimize their impact.
Section 14-116. Incorporate Affidavits from Zone Participants - The Zone will request that business
applicants for Zone benefits submit a signed Affidavit about their efforts to promote and encourage the
utilization of businesses that are owned by minorities, women, and persons with disabilities as defined
under the Business Enterprise for Minorities, Women, and Persons with Disabilities Act (30 ILCS575/0.01,
et. seq.).
Sec. 14-117. Severability - This Ordinance and every provision thereof shall be considered severable and
the invalidity of any Section clause, paragraph, sentence or provision of this Ordinance will not affect the
validity of any other portion of this Ordinance.

 Sec. 14-118. Publication and effective date - The County and Municipalities are hereby authorized to
publish this Ordinance in pamphlet form. This Ordinance shall be in full force and effect from its passage,
approval and publication as required by law.
Effective date: This Ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
Approved and adopted this 14th of November 2018.
TONI PRECKWINKLE, President
Cook County Board of Commissioners
Attest: DAVID ORR, County Clerk

 LEGISLATION AND INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS COMMITTEE
MEETING OF NOVEMBER 13, 2018

 18-6109 WAS DEFERRED AT THE NOVEMBER 14, 2018 BOARD MEETING
18-6109
Sponsored by:
Commissioenrs

RICHARD R. BOYKIN AND LARRY SUFFREDIN, Cook County Board of

PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
AMENDING THE PROHIBITIONS ON SALE OR DISTRIBUTION OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 54 Licenses, Permits and
Miscellaneous Business Regulations, Article V, Section 54-305 of the Cook County Code is hereby
amended as Follows:
Sec. 54-305. Prohibitions on sale or distribution of tobacco products.
(a) Underage tobacco sales.
(1) No retailer may sell or distribute tobacco products to any person under 18 21 years of age.
(2) Each retailer shall request and examine the photographic identification of any person purchasing
tobacco products so as to verify that the purchaser is over 18 years of age 21 years of age or
older. No such verification is required for any person who appears without reasonable doubt to
be over the age of 27.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect June 1, 2019.

 ASSET MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE
MEETING OF NOVEMBER 14, 2018

 18-6236
ORDINANCE
Sponsored by
THE HONORABLE TONI PRECKWINKLE,
PRESIDENT OF THE COOK COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
AUTHORIZING THE ACCEPTANCE OF REAL ESTATE FROM THE
FOREST PRESERVE DISTRICT OF COOK COUNTY
WHEREAS, the County of Cook, a body politic and corporate of the State of Illinois (“County”), is the
owner of real estate located in Rosemont, Cook County, Illinois commonly known as the Rosemont Transit
Center; and
WHEREAS, the Forest Preserve District of Cook County, an Illinois Special District (“District”), is the
owner of real estate located in Rosemont, Cook County, Illinois, legally described on Exhibit A (“District
Real Estate”), which is located adjacent to County holdings in Rosemont; and
WHEREAS, the County desires to obtain title to the District Real Estate from the District in connection
with public improvements to be made at the Rosemont Transit Center; and
WHEREAS, the provisions of Article VII, Section 10 of the 1970 Illinois Constitution and the provisions
of the Intergovernmental Cooperation Act, 5 ILCS 22/1 et seq. authorize and encourage the
intergovernmental cooperation set forth in this Ordinance; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to the Local Government Property Transfer Act, 50 ILCS 605/0.01 et seq., the
District has duly adopted a Resolution, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit B, which declares that
the District is authorized by law to convey the title to the District Real Estate to the County by quit claim
deed; and
WHEREAS, the Director of Real Estate Management for the County (“Director of Real Estate
Management”) has advised the Board of Commissioners of Cook County (“Cook County Board”), and the
Cook County Board so agrees, that the District Real Estate is desirable for County purposes; and
WHEREAS, the County Board, pursuant to its home rule and statutory authority, including the Local
Government Property Transfer Act, 50 ILCS 605/0.01 et seq. adopts this Ordinance, by a vote of two-thirds
or more of its members, which Ordinance authorizes the acceptance of the District Real Estate by the
County.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF COOK
COUNTY, ILLINOIS AS FOLLOWS:
Section 1:
The foregoing recitals are incorporated herein as findings of the Board of Commissioners of Cook County,
Illinois.

 Section 2:
The County Board determines that the acquisition of the District Real Estate from the District is in the
public interest. The County Board hereby authorizes the acquisition of the District Real Estate from the
District, by quit claim deed, for nominal consideration, for the public purpose of improving the Rosemont
Transit Center in accordance with the County’s authority. Such acquisition shall be by quit claim deed
from the District subject only to restrictions, covenants and easements as shown of record.
Section 3:
The President of the Cook County Board of Commissioners and the Cook County Comptroller, or the
Director of Real Estate Management are hereby authorized to execute and deliver any and all other
documents or instruments and take any and all steps necessary or desirable to effectuate such conveyance.
Section 4:
This Ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage and approval in the manner
provided by law.
Effective date: This Ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
Approved and adopted this 14th of November 2018.
TONI PRECKWINKLE, President
Cook County Board of Commissioners
Attest: DAVID ORR, County Clerk

 FINANCE COMMITTEE
MEETING OF NOVEMBER 14, 2018

 18-4207 WAS DEFERRED AT THE NOVEMBER 14, 2018 BOARD MEETING
18-4207
Sponsored by: BRIDGET GAINER, RICHARD R. BOYKIN, JOHN A. FRITCHEY, LARRY
SUFFREDIN, JESÚS G. GARCÍA, LUIS ARROYO JR, JERRY BUTLER, DENNIS DEER, GREGG
GOSLIN, EDWARD M. MOODY, STANLEY MOORE, SEAN M. MORRISON, TIMOTHY O.
SCHNEIDER, PETER N. SILVESTRI, DEBORAH SIMS and JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI, , Cook County
Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
AN ORDINANCE REQUIRING A FISCAL IMPACT NOTE FOR PENDING LEGISLATION
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 2 - Administration, Article
III. - County Board, Division I. -- Generally, Section 2-77 is hereby amended as follows:
Section 2-77 Fiscal impact review.
(a) Short title. This Section shall be known and may be cited as the Fiscal Impact Review Ordinance.
(b) Impact note required.
(1) Every measure before the County Board including, but not limited to, any ordinance, resolution,
motion, contract approval, or any amendment thereto (collectively and individually "measure"),
except those measures making a direct appropriation or approving a contract for a specified amount
to be expended within one fiscal year, the purpose or effect of which is to expend any County funds
or to increase or decrease the revenues of the County, or to require the expenditure of their own
funds either directly or indirectly, shall have prepared for it a brief explanatory statement or note
("fiscal note") which shall include a reliable estimate of the probable impact of such measure upon
the County's annual budget. The Cook County Chief Financial Officer shall prepare a fiscal impact
statement for all ordinances or resolutions that propose to or would otherwise:
i) expend any funds or increase or decrease the revenues of the County, either directly or
indirectly; or
ii) appropriate funds; or
iii) increase or decrease existing appropriations; or
iv) increase or decrease the fiscal liability of the County; or
v) sell or lease any County asset, including revenue streams from that asset, if the
anticipated revenue from the sale or lease of the asset is greater than $5,000,000,00.
(2) If an ordinance authorizes capital expenditures or appropriates funds for capital expenditures, a
fiscal note shall specify by year any principal and interest payments required to finance such capital
expenditures. In addition, increased operational costs, by year, shall be specified. In no event shall
a fiscal note be required to estimate out-year costs for more than five years.
(c) Responsibility and deadline for furnishing the fiscal note.
1. The Secretary of the Board chief sponsor of the item under consideration shall request, promptly
after the introduction of the measure before the County Board, the Chief Financial Officer of the

 County to prepare a fiscal note impact statement promptly after the introduction of the measure
before the County Board setting forth the information specified in this Section regarding any
measure.
2. The fiscal impact statement shall be provided to all Commissioners at least 72 hours prior to the
consideration of the ordinance or resolution by the Board of Commissioners; provided a request by
a Commissioner to prepare the fiscal impact statement is made earlier, the Chief Financial Officer
shall prepare the fiscal impact statement and provide it to the Commissioner within 48 hours of
such request.
(2) (3) No measure may be called for a final vote by the County Board until delivery of the fiscal
note according to the provisions of this Section, except that whenever, because of the complexity
of the measure, additional time is required for the preparation of the fiscal note the Chief Financial
Officer shall provide each member of the County Board and the President of the County Board
with a statement of reasons why the fiscal note cannot be supplied in seven business days, and
request an extension of time not to exceed five additional business days within which such fiscal
note is to be furnished. Such extension shall be granted only with the consent of the majority of the
members of the County Board and shall not extend beyond the end of the fiscal year in which the
request was made. In no event may such extensions be used to unduly delay or hinder the
consideration of the measure by the County Board. The County Board shall authorize the drafting
of any rules of regulations which shall be subject to County Board approval, to ensure compliance
with this Section.
(3)(4) In connection with the preparation of the fiscal note, all County officials and employees shall
upon request cooperate with the Chief Fiscal Officer in providing information.
(d) Form and content.
1. The fiscal note shall be factual in nature, as brief and concise as may be, and shall provide as
reliable an estimate, in dollars, as is possible under the circumstances. The fiscal note shall include
both the immediate effect, and if determinable or reasonably foreseeable, the long-range effect of
the measure.
2. If, after careful investigation it is determined that no dollar estimate is possible, the fiscal note shall
contain a statement to that effect, setting forth the reasons why no such estimate can be given. A
brief summary or work sheet of computations used in arriving at the fiscal note figures shall be
included.
(e) Preparation of fiscal note.
1. No comment or opinion shall be included in the fiscal note with regard to the merits of the measure
for which the fiscal note is prepared; however, technical or mechanical defects may be noted.
2. The work sheet shall include, insofar as practicable, a breakdown of the costs upon which the fiscal
note is based. Such breakdown shall include, but need not be limited to, costs of personnel,
materials and supplies, and capital outlay. The fiscal note shall also include such other information
as is required by the rules and regulations which may be promulgated by the County Board with
respect to the preparation of such fiscal notes. The fiscal impact statement shall, to the degree
possible, consist of an estimate in dollars of the anticipated change in revenue, expenditures, or
fiscal liability under the provisions of the ordinance or resolution. It shall also include a statement
as to the immediate effect and, if determinable or reasonably foreseeable, the long-range effect of

 the measure. If after investigation, it is determined that no dollar estimate is possible, the fiscal
impact statement shall contain a statement to that effect, setting forth the reasons why no dollar
estimate can be given. The fiscal impact statement shall include an explanation of the basis or
reasoning on which the estimate is founded, including all assumptions involved. A copy of the
fiscal note shall be delivered to each member of the Board and the President of the County Board,
according to the provisions of subsection (b) of this Section.
3. The original of the fiscal note and the work sheet shall be signed by the Chief Financial Officer or
such person as the Chief Financial Officer may designate.
(f) No restrictions on committee testimony. The fact that a fiscal note is prepared for any measure shall not
preclude or restrict the appearance before any committee of the County Board, of any official or authorized
employee of any County commission, department, agency or other entity who desires to be heard in support
of or in opposition to the measure.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption...end

 NEW ITEMS

 18-6982 WAS WITHDRAWN AT THE NOVEMBER 14, 2018 BOARD MEETING
18-6982
Sponsored by: LARRY SUFFREDIN, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
AN ORDINANCE INCREASING THE GIS FEE
BE IT ORDAINED by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 2 - ADMINISTRATION,
ARTICLE IV, OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES, DIVISION 3, RECORDER OF DEEDS, Subdivision II Fees, Section 2-214 GIS fee. be amended as follows:
Sec. 2-214. - GIS fee.
(a) The terms used in this Section shall have the meanings set forth below:
Additional charge is a charge as set out in Section 32-1, which is added to the existing fees imposed
by the County Recorder for the filing of every instrument, paper, or notice of record.
Countywide map is a parcel-based map of the County which includes all the supporting Geographic
Information System.
Geographic information system is an organized collection of computer hardware, software, and
geographic data designed to efficiently capture, store, update, manipulate, analyze, and display all forms of
geographically referenced information.
(b) The charge will be distributed as follows:
(1) Twelve dollars will be deposited into a distinct fund set up by the County Bureau of
Technology. These monies will be used solely to finance equipment, materials, and other
necessary expenses incurred in implementing and maintaining a geographic information
system.
(2) Three dollars will be deposited by the Recorder pursuant to 55 ILCS 5/3-5005.4 (deposit of fee
income-special funds)
(3) Three dollars will be deposited into the Cook County Assessor’s Special Revenue Fund, as
established in Section 2-317 of the Cook County Code.
(4) Two dollars will be deposited into the Cook County Clerk’s Automation Fund, as established
in Section 2-173 of the Cook County Code.
BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 32 - FEES,
Section 32.1 Fee Schedule, be amended as follows:
The fees or charges provided for or required by the below-listed sections shall be as shown below:
***

 2-214

GIS fee, additional charge
***

Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.

15.00 20.00

 