N O T I C E OF

REGULAR

MEETING

Board of Trustees
Public School Teachers' Pension and Retirement Fund of Chicago
Members of the Board of Trustees
of the Public School Teachers' Pension
and Retirement Fund of Chicago

There will be a regular meeting of the Board of Trustees of the Public School Teachers' Pension and
Retirement Fund of Chicago, 203 North LaSalle Street, Suite 2600, Board Room, Chicago, Illinois, on
Tuesday, December 18, 2018 at 9:30 A.M.
Agenda

1. Public Participation
2. Roll Call
3. Approval of Minutes
• Approval of Minutes of Regular Meeting on November 13, 2018
4. Organization of the Board
5. Report of the External Auditor (No Report)
6. Report of the Investment Consultant, Investment Staff, and
Investment Managers
Investment Staff (Ms. Miller-May)
• Prohibited Vendor List
• Private Equity Emerging Markets RFP Approval to Hire Managers
• Approval to Release MWDBE Private Equity RFP
• Approval to Release MWDBE Infrastructure RFP
7. Report of the Actuary (No Report)
8. Executive Session
• Internal Controls
• Personnel Matters
• Litigation/Return to Work
• Disability Pensions and Duty Disability Benefits
9. Report of the Committee on Investments (Chaired by Ms. Padilla)
• December 7, 2018 First Friday Meeting Report
10. Report of the Committee on Pension Laws & Administrative Rules (Chaired by Mr. Bures)
• Legislative Lobbyist Reports (Written Only)
11. Report of the Committee on Claims & Service Credits (Chaired by Ms. Rodriguez)
• Updated Pension Representative Report
12. Report of the Committee on Finance and Audit (Chaired by Mr. Redfeairn)
• December 6, 2018 Finance and Audit Committee Meeting Report and Recommendations
• Enterprise Risk Management Training by Plante Moran
13. Report of the Committee on Communications (Chaired by Ms. Price Ward)
• November 2018 Communications Summary (Written Only)
14. Report of the Policy Committee (Chaired by Mr. Blackwell)
• Approval of Policies
15. Report of the Technology Committee (Chaired by Mr. Redfeairn) (No Report)
16. Report of the Return to Work Committee (Chaired by Ms. Rodriguez)
• Board Adoption or Rejection of Hearing Officer Recommended Decision
17. Report of the Personnel Committee (Chaired by Ms. Reilly) (No Report)
18. Report of the President
• Approval of Trustee Conferences
• Approval of Board Training Hours
• Board Training
o BoardDocs Training (Brief Overview)
o General Trustee Training/Refresher

 19.
20.
21.

22.
23.
24.
25.
26.

 Open Meetings Act
 Annual Required Education
 Annual Statement of Economic Interest Filing
 Trustee Travel
 Educational Publications
o Fiduciary Training
o Ethics Training
o Acceptable Use Training/International iPad Usage
o Fiduciary Training by Ice Miller
Report of the Financial Secretary (Mr. Redfeairn) (No Report)
Report of the Internal Auditor (Ms. McCoy) (No Report)
Report of the Executive Director (Mr. Burbridge)
• Executive Director Report
• 2018 Trustee Election Recap
Report of the Attorney (Mr. Schomberg and Mr. Burns) (No Report)
Unfinished Business
Communications
New Business
Adjournment
Jacqueline Price Ward
Recording Secretary

 