Minutes of the meeting of the Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health
and Hospitals System (CCHHS) held Thursday, October 18, 2018 at the hour of 8:30 A.M. at 1900 W. Polk Street, in
the Second Floor Conference Room, Chicago, Illinois.
I.

Attendance/Call to Order
Acting Chair Thomas called the meeting to order.
Present:

Acting Chair Sidney A. Thomas, MSW and Director Mary Driscoll, RN, MPH (2)
Board Chair M. Hill Hammock (ex-officio) and Directors Ada Mary Gugenheim and Emilie N.
Junge

Present
Telephonically: Chair Mary B. Richardson-Lowry (1)
Absent:

None (0)
Director Driscoll, seconded by Acting Chair Thomas, moved to allow Chair RichardsonLowry to participate in the meeting as a voting member telephonically. THE MOTION
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

Additional attendees and/or presenters were:
Mark Bennett – Laner Muchin Law Firm
Cathy Bodnar – Chief Corporate Compliance and
Privacy Officer
Orlando Brown – Cook County Bureau of Human
Resources
LaShon DeFell – Cook County Bureau of Human
Resources
Timothy Hoppa – Operations Counsel
Feroze Khan – Leave Administration Officer
Jeff McCutchan –General Counsel

Barbara Pryor – Interim Chief Human Resources
Officer
Deborah Santana – Secretary to the Board
John Jay Shannon, MD – Chief Executive Officer
Torrick Ward – Cook County Bureau of Human
Resources
Vince Waters – Cook County Bureau of Human
Resources

The next meeting of the Committee will be held on Thursday, December 13, 2018 at 8:30 A.M.
II.

Public Speakers
Acting Chair Thomas asked the Secretary to call upon the registered public speakers.
The Secretary responded that there were none present.

III.

Action Items

A. Minutes of the Human Resources Committee Meeting of August 23, 2018
Chair Richardson-Lowry, seconded by Director Driscoll, moved to accept the minutes of
the meeting of the Human Resources Committee of August 23, 2018. THE MOTION
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.
B. Any items listed under Sections III and V

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Human Resources Committee
Thursday, October 18, 2018
Page 2

IV.

Report from Interim Chief Human Resources Officer (Attachment #1)
Barbara Pryor, Interim Chief Human Resources Officer, reviewed her report, which included information on the
following subjects:
Using Technology to Bridge the Gap between Human Resources and Employees
• Cloud-Based Technology to Transform Transactional HR to Strategic HR
• HR ServiceLink Portal and Rollout
Absence Management
• Absence Management Compliance
• Assessment for Change
• The Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA) / Leave Process Flow
• Reporting and Analytics
• What’s Next
Metrics - HR Activity Report:
• Improve / Reduce Average Time to Hire
• HR Activity Report – Open Vacancies
• Hiring Snapshot
• Licensed Nurses Hiring Snapshot
• Revenue Cycle Hiring Snapshot
Feroze Khan, Leave Administration Officer, reviewed the information on absence management. During the
discussion of the information, Acting Chair Thomas inquired as to the number of different ways this data can be
sorted - by job classification, department, job title? Ms. Pryor responded in the affirmative; she stated that they do
have those data points, and they plan to come back to the Committee in the coming months with information on
how it can be sorted. Board Chair Hammock recommended that a new metric be created in the coming months to
reflect the number of days or hours in the month in which employees are absent. Acting Chair Thomas stated that,
in the future, it would be interesting to review an overlay of the absentee data against data on usage of registry and
outside personnel used to fill these holes.
During the discussion of the Licensed Nurses Hiring Snapshot on Slide 19, which reflected that 244 nursing
positions are in process, Director Driscoll inquired regarding the total number of nursing positions in the System.
Ms. Pryor responded that she did not have that number at hand, but would provide the information after the
meeting.

V.

Closed Meeting Items
A. Report from Interim Chief Human Resources Officer
B. Proposed Collective Bargaining Agreements with:
• Service Employees International Union, Local 1 (SEIU Local 1), representing Fireman & Oilers
• Service Employees International Union, Local 73, CTW/CLC (SEIU Local 73) representing Service and
Maintenance Employees
• Service Employees International Union, Local 73, CTW/CLC (SEIU Local 73) representing Technicians
• Service Employees International Union, Local 73, CTW/CLC (SEIU Local 73) representing Technologists
• Service Employees International Union, Local 73, CTW/CLC (SEIU Local 73) representing Health Care
Professionals

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Human Resources Committee
Thursday, October 18, 2018
Page 3

V.

Closed Meeting Items
B. Proposed Collective Bargaining Agreements with: (continued)
•
•
•
•

Teamsters Local 700 Stroger representing Hospital Sergeants
Fraternal Order of Police, Labor Council Lodge 238, representing Police Officers located at CCHHS
National Nurses Organizing Committee (NNOC) representing Nurses at CCHHS
House Staff Association of Cook County, representing all postgraduate-level physicians and dentists
(interns, residents and fellows)
• American Federation of State, County, and Municipal Employees (AFSCME), Council 31, AFL-CIO,
Locals 1111, 1178 and 1276, representing Health Facilities

C. Proposed amendments to CCHHS Personnel Rules
D. Discussion of personnel matters
E. Update on labor negotiations
F. Discussion of litigation matters
Director Driscoll, seconded by Chair Richardson-Lowry, moved to recess the open
meeting and convene into a closed meeting, pursuant to the following exceptions to the
Illinois Open Meetings Act: 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(1), regarding “the appointment,
employment, compensation, discipline, performance, or dismissal of specific
employees of the public body or legal counsel for the public body, including hearing
testimony on a complaint lodged against an employee of the public body or against
legal counsel for the public body to determine its validity,” 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(2),
regarding “collective negotiating matters between the public body and its employees or
their representatives, or deliberations concerning salary schedules for one or more
classes of employees,” and 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(11), regarding “litigation, when an action
against, affecting or on behalf of the particular body has been filed and is pending
before a court or administrative tribunal, or when the public body finds that an action
is probable or imminent, in which case the basis for the finding shall be recorded and
entered into the minutes of the closed meeting.”
On the motion to recess the open meeting and convene into a closed meeting, a roll
call was taken, the votes of yeas and nays being as follows:
Yeas:

Acting Chair Thomas, Chair Richardson-Lowry and Director Driscoll (3)

Nays:

None (0)

Absent: None (0)
THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY and the Committee recessed into a
closed meeting.
Acting Chair Thomas declared that the closed meeting was adjourned.
Committee reconvened into the open meeting.

The

Director Driscoll, seconded by Chair Richardson-Lowry, moved to approve the
proposed amendment to the CCHHS Personnel Rules. THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Human Resources Committee
Thursday, October 18, 2018
Page 4

V.

Closed Meeting Items (continued)
Director Driscoll, seconded by Chair Richardson-Lowry, moved to approve the
proposed Collective Bargaining Agreements with the following:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

SEIU Local 1, representing Firemen and Oilers;
SEIU Local 73, representing Service and Maintenance Employees;
SEIU Local 73, representing Technicians;
SEIU Local 73, representing Technologists;
SEIU Local 73, representing Health Care Professionals;
Teamsters Local 700, representing Stroger Hospital Police Sergeants
employees;
FOP, Labor Council Lodge 238, representing Police Officers located at
CCHHS;
NNOC, representing Nurses at CCHHS;
House Staff Association of Cook County, representing all postgraduate-level
physicians and dentists (interns, residents and fellows); and
AFSCME, Council 31, AFL-CIO, Locals 1111, 1178 and 1276, representing
Health Facilities.

THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

VI.

Adjourn
As the agenda was exhausted, Acting Chair Thomas declared the meeting ADJOURNED.
Respectfully submitted,
Human Resources Committee of the
Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Sidney A. Thomas, MSW, Acting Chair

Attest:

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Deborah Santana, Secretary

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Human Resources Committee
Thursday, October 18, 2018
Page 5

Requests/Follow-up:
Follow-up:

Recommendation for a new metric to be created regarding absence management, to reflect the
number of days or hours in the month in which employees are absent. Page 2

Follow-up:

Request for future review of an overlay of absentee data against data on usage of registry and
outside personnel. Page 2

Request:

Request for information on the total number of nursing positions in the System. Page 2

 