Minutes of the meeting of the Managed Care Committee of the Board of Directors of the Cook County
Health and Hospitals System held Thursday, October 18, 2018 at the hour of 10:30 A.M. at 1900 W. Polk
Street, in the Second Floor Conference Room, Chicago, Illinois.
I.

Attendance/Call to Order
Chair Thomas called the meeting to order.
Present:

Chair Sidney A. Thomas, MSW and Director Emilie N. Junge (2)
Board Chair M. Hill Hammock (ex-officio) and Directors Mary Driscoll, RN, MPH and Ada
Mary Gugenheim

Absent:

None (0)

Additional attendees and/or presenters were:
Debra Carey – Deputy Chief Executive Officer,
Operations
Douglas Elwell – Deputy Chief Executive Officer,
Finance and Strategy
James Kiamos – Chief Executive Officer, CountyCare

Jeff McCutchan –General Counsel
Deborah Santana – Secretary to the Board
John Jay Shannon, MD – Chief Executive Officer
Caryn Stancik – Chief Communications and Marketing
Officer

The next meeting of the Committee will be held on Thursday, December 13, 2018 at 10:30 A.M.
II.

Public Speakers
Chair Thomas asked the Secretary to call upon the registered public speakers.
The Secretary responded that there were none present.

III.

Report on CountyCare Health Plan (Attachment #1)
James Kiamos, Chief Executive Officer of CountyCare, provided an overview of the Report on the
CountyCare Health Plan. Caryn Stancik, Chief Communications and Marketing Officer, provided an
overview of the information on the 2018-2019 Choice Period Marketing Campaign. The Committee
reviewed and discussed the information.
The Report included information on the following subjects:





Current Membership
Monthly Membership Trend
Managed Medicaid Market
2018 Operations Metrics:
- Call Center and Encounter Rate
- Claims Payment
- Care Management Health Risk Surveys (HRS) and Health Risk Assessments (HRA)
 Plan Analytics:
- Primary Care Physician (PCP) Visit Leakage Summary: Ambulatory and Community Health
Network of Cook County (ACHN)
- PCP Visits vs. Risk Score for ACHN Clinics
 Open Enrollment
 2018-2019 Choice Period Marketing Campaign

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Managed Care Committee
Thursday, October 18, 2018
Page 2

III.

Report on CountyCare Health Plan (continued)
During the review of the information provided on Slide 9 of the presentation, the Committee discussed the
subject of CountyCare members, whose PCP is an ACHN provider, who go to outside PCPs for services.
Mr. Kiamos noted that this phenomenon is not unique to ACHN clinics; it is a problem for all medical
homes. Mr. Kiamos stated that, to address the problem, the first approach will be a repatriation effort to
outreach and communicate with those members, to ask them why they are not getting all of their care within
their PCP site. Some members might not be aware and may need to be reminded that the System uses a
medical home approach, and then get them engaged with their clinic for a visit. Others may know that they
are assigned to a site but prefer to go elsewhere; if that is the case, they will be changed to their preferred
site. Taking that approach will increase quality and Healthcare Effectiveness Data and Information Set
(HEDIS) measures, and is a better way to deliver care. The other approach that he will implement is to
message all of CountyCare’s providers to let them know that the Plan will no longer pay for members who
are not empaneled to their clinics. That is pretty much on par with the majority of health plans in the market.
Director Driscoll inquired whether members can be surveyed to see why they are not exclusively going to
their PCP. Mr. Kiamos responded that this could be done in parallel with the other approaches.
Douglas Elwell, Deputy Chief Executive Officer of Finance and Strategy, provided additional comments. He
stated that he believes that this is more of a call to action as a provider, rather than it being a plan issue. The
System clinics, as providers, are not establishing that personal relationship with the patients, and they need to
work on it. On the other hand, if the member already has a personal relationship with another clinic, they
need to be assigned over to the other clinic. Debra Carey, Deputy Chief Executive Officer of Operations,
commented that clinic staff are actively reaching out to the new patients; however, they are challenged due to
inaccurate/outdated contact information for many of the patients.

IV.

Action Items
A. Minutes of the Managed Care Committee Meeting, August 23, 2018
Director Junge, seconded by Chair Thomas, moved to accept the minutes of the
Managed Care Committee Meeting of August 23, 2018. THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.
B. Any items listed under Section IV

V.

Adjourn
As the agenda was exhausted, Chair Thomas declared the meeting ADJOURNED.

Respectfully submitted,
Managed Care Committee of the
Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Sidney A. Thomas, MSW, Chair

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Managed Care Committee
Thursday, October 18, 2018
Page 3

Attest:

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Deborah Santana, Secretary

Requests/Follow-up:
There were no requests for follow-up at the meeting.

 