  May 15, 2013                                                                                   

Item No. 7

  AUTHORIZATION TO EXECUTE A HOUSING ASSISTANCE PAYMENTS CONTRACT FOR 
PRINCETON PARK HOMES 
To the Honorable Board of Commissioners:
RECOMMENDATION
It is recommended that the Board of Commissioners approve the attached Resolution
authorizing the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to 1) execute a Housing Assistance
Payments Contract for Princeton Park Homes; and 2) execute all other documents as may be
necessary or appropriate to implement the foregoing.
CORPORATE GOAL
The purpose of this contract is to create more affordable housing opportunities for families in
healthy and revitalizing neighborhoods by providing Property Rental Assistance (PRA) for
sixty seven (67) townhome units detailed below.
FUNDING: Housing Choice Voucher Program
PROPERTY SUMMARY
Development
Name

Community /
Ward /
Alderman

Developer / Owner

Target
Population

PRA
Units

Total Units

Princeton Park
Homes

Roseland;
21st Ward;
Howard
Brookins

Preston Higgins &
Co.

Working
Families

67

908

CONTRACT SUMMARY
Development
Name

Funding

Contract
Term

Contract
Type

Initial Max
Contract

Total Max
Contract

Application
Received

Princeton Park
Homes

HCV Program

5 Years

HAP
Contract

$629,268
/year

$3,146,340
(30 years)

February, 2013

BACKGROUND
Waiting List / Occupancy Process
It is the intent of the owner/manager of this property to lease all of the units to eligible working
families from CHA’s waiting lists. CHA will make referrals from its Public Housing and HCV
waiting lists as well as families whose right of return under the Relocation Rights Contract has
not been satisfied. The CHA waiting list of applicants will be exhausted prior to utilization of
a site based waiting list.

 Princeton Park Homes
Proposed Development
 Existing 908 two-story townhomes with basements; Mixed-Income housing for working
families.
 The complex is spread over an 80 acre green space non-grid street layout, including culde-sacs.
 All units have private front, back & basement entrances. Parking is available in the front
or rear of each building.
 All of the 67 PRA requested units are vacant. At this time 18 units are receiving HCV
assistance.
 In 2004, the owner refinanced the development to upgrade units, abate lead paint and
replace 100% of the windows.
 Many residents are government employees working for City and Cook County
departments including police, fire, schools, CTA, Post Office and Chicago State
University.
Developer Background
 Princeton Park was built in 1946 by the current owner’s family.
 Preston Higgins is President & CEO and has managed the site since 1979
 There are 5 on-site property management staff and 32 full and part time maintenance staff.
Conclusion
The Board action recommended in this item complies in all material respects with all
applicable Chicago Housing Authority board policies and all applicable federal (HUD)
procurement laws.
The Chief Housing Officer concurs with the recommendation to execute a Housing Assistance
Payments contract for Princeton Park Homes.
The CEO/President recommends the approval to execute a Housing Assistance Payments
contract for Princeton Park Homes.

2 
 

 RESOLUTION NO. 2013-CHA-33

WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed
the Board letter dated May 15, 2013 requesting authorization to execute a
Housing Assistance Payments contract for Princeton Park Homes;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to 1) execute a Housing Assistance Payments Contract for Princeton
Park Homes; and 2) execute all other documents as may be necessary or
appropriate to implement the foregoing. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

3 
 

 