MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING

OF THE

COMMISSIONERS OF THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
May 17, 2005

The Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority held its Regular Meeting on Tuesday,
May 17, 2005, at 8:30 a.m. at the Douglas Park Fieldhouse, 1401 South Sacramento, Chicago,
Illinois.
The meeting was called to order by the Chairperson, and upon roll call, those present and absent
were as follows:
Present:
Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Lori Healey
Martin Nesbitt
Carlos Ponce
Mary Wiggins
Sandra Young
Absent:

None

Also present were Terry Peterson, Chief Executive Officer; Gail Niemann, General Counsel;
Chicago Housing Authority Staff Members and the General Public.
There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as
follows:
Terry Peterson, Chief Executive Officer, then presented his monthly report. Per Mr. Peterson,
today’s agenda once again reflects CHA’s commitment to rebuild and improve the quality of life
for CHA’s residents. The Board is scheduled to approve the contract extension for needs
assessment and case management for Horner residents. These services are designed to help
families be successful as they transition from their old unit to a new one. In order to continue to
link families with opportunities that will help them move towards self-sufficiency, the Board is
also scheduled to approve the contract extension for the Employability Plus program. This
program is important because it helps adult residents get their high school diploma or GED and
also provides job and skills training for different trades. The board will also consider a contract
with After School Matters for a Summer Pre-Apprenticeship Program where teens can learn a
combination of academic and professional development skills such as problem-solving and
teamwork. Per Mr. Peterson, also on the agenda today is a recommendation to enter into an IGA
with Chicago Police for installation, maintenance and monitoring of Police High-Tech Video
Surveillance Cameras at various CHA developments. This is to help keep residents and grounds
safe from criminal activity. Mr. Peterson concluded his report by encouraging families to sign
their kids up for the Park District’s summer day camp program and the many other available
programs, mentioned earlier in the meeting by the Chairperson.
The Chairperson then convened the Public Hearing portion of the meeting by inviting residents
and the public at large to address the Board.
1

 Immediately following the Public Hearing portion of the meeting, a Motion was introduced and
seconded to adjourn to Executive Session. The Chairperson announced that pursuant to the
Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2, the Board would adjourn for approximately one (1) hour to
discuss pending, probable or imminent litigation, collective negotiating matters, security and
personnel matters.
The Commissioners subsequently reconvened in Open Session.
A Motion to approve Minutes for the following Board Meetings was presented by
Commissioner Harris: Regular Meeting of November 16, 2004, Regular Meeting of December
21, 2004, Regular Meeting of January 18, 2005, Regular Meeting of February 15, 2005, Regular
Meeting of March 15, 2005, and Regular Meeting of April 19, 2005. The Motion was seconded
by Commissioner Healey and unanimously approved as submitted.
Chairperson Gilliam thereupon introduced the Resolution discussed in Executive Session.
Commissioner Nesbitt then presented a Motion to approve Executive Session Item 1.
(Executive Session Item 1)
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-65
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated May 4, 2005 requesting that the Board of Commissioners
approves the Personnel Actions Report for April 2005.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the Personnel Actions Report for
April 2005.

The Motion to adopt Executive Session Items 1 was seconded by Commissioner Amey and the
voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Lori Healey
Martin Nesbitt
Carlos Ponce
Mary Wiggins
Sandra Young
Nays:

None

The Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried and said Resolution adopted.
Commissioner Nesbitt, Chairperson of the Finance & Audit Committee then presented the
monthly Committee report. Per Commissioner Nesbitt, the Finance & Audit Committee meeting
was held on Wednesday, May 11, 2005. The Chief Financial Officer and her staff presented the
committee with the Treasury and Cash Flow Report as of April 30, 2005, the First Quarter
Financial Statement Report and the Quarterly grant Report.
Commissioner Nesbitt then presented an Omnibus Motion for the approval of the resolutions for
Items A1 thru A3, discussed, voted and recommended for approval by the Finance & Audit
Committee.
(Item A1)
HUD uses the Performance Funding System (PFS) to determine a public housing authority’s
eligibility for an operating subsidy. The PFS is applicable to all public housing authority owned
units under an Annual Contributions Contract. The CHA is required to submit a PFS Calculation
detailing the total operating subsidy for fiscal year 2005. Based on the formula established by
HUD as a part of the Moving-to-Work Demonstration Agreement (“MTW Agreement”),
Memorandum of Approval, Resident Protection Agreement, the resolution for Item A1 approves
2

 requesting a revised operating subsidy in the amount of $172,530,727. This figure was
determined by using the formula described in the MTW Agreement. For fiscal years 2000-2005,
CHA must prepare its request for operating funds by making adjustments to the base year
subsidy eligibility. Upon release of the final pro-ration amount, the CHA’s FY2005
Comprehensive Budget will be adjusted accordingly.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-66
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners have reviewed the Board Letter dated April 18,
2005 requesting authorization to submit a revision of the FY2005 Performance
Funding System Calculation to the Department of Housing and Urban
Development and approval of the FY2005 Performance Funding System
Performance Calculation Revision.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners approve the FY2005 Performance Funding System
Calculation Revision and authorize the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to
execute and submit the Performance Funding System Calculation and all
necessary related documents to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development.

(Item A2)
The CHA receives hundreds of checks during the course of monthly business. These checks are
received from both internal and external sources. Many are billed directly to the third party
payer through an automated non dwelling rental billing procedure established by Finance. In an
effort to formalize the collection, accounting and monitor and control of these funds, Treasury
has developed the Collection/Depository policy and related procedures. This comprehensive
formal CHA Collection/Depository provides the following benefits: Increased utilization of
Image enabled lockbox, ensures faster collection of funds and interest income generation, and
segregates functions within the cash receipts procedures for greater internal control. In addition,
it provides a framework and procedure for new revenue items and the ability to codify and
manage the collection, accounting and reconciliation of CHA miscellaneous income sources.
Accordingly, the resolution for Item A2 approves the adoption of the Collection/Depository
policy.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-67
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated May 17, 2005
requesting adoption of the Collection/Depository policy and concurs in the
recommendation contained therein;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners repeal and rescinds any and all previously adopted
Collection/Depository policies, and resolutions related to the approval of such
policy.

THAT,

the Board of Commissioners adopts the Chicago Housing Authority Collection/
Depository Policy dated May 17, 2005, attached hereto as Exhibit 1.

THAT,

the Collection/Depository Policy dated May 17, 2005 shall be effective
immediately.

(Item A3)
The CHA’s collective bargaining agreement with Local 399 and Local 73 expires in May 2005
and December 2005, respectively. While employed by the CHA as Manager of Labor-Employee
Relations, Kevin Krug successfully negotiated the current collective bargaining agreements that
govern the CHA’s relationship with these union locals. Mr. Krug resigned from his CHA
position in March 2005. Given Mr. Krug’s past success in negotiating with these locals, his
comprehensive knowledge of the issues likely to be raised in the 2005 negotiations, his
understanding of the CHA’s strategic interests, and his familiarity with the parties to these
negotiations, the CHA proposes to retain Mr. Krug to lead the CHA’s negotiations with Local
399 and Local 73 in 2005 and assist with related issues. Accordingly, the resolution for Item A3
approves a waiver of post-employment restrictions for Kevin Krug.
3

 RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-68
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated April 27, 2005,
entitled “Authorization to Waive Post-Employment Restrictions to Facilitate
Negotiations of Collective Bargaining Agreements,”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to waive the post-employment restrictions in the CHA Ethics Policy to
allow the CHA to retain former CHA Manager of Labor-Employee Relations,
Kevin Krug, in the capacity of lead negotiator for the CHA in the upcoming
collective bargaining negotiations with Local 399 and Local 73 as well as assist
with related issues.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items A1 through A3 was seconded by
Commissioner Young and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Lori Healey
Martin Nesbitt
Carlos Ponce
Mary Wiggins
Sandra Young

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Finance & Audit Committee report was also accepted in total.
Commissioner Gates, Chairperson of the Operations & Facility Committee, then presented the
monthly report. Per Commissioner Gates, the Operations & Facility Committee held its
regularly scheduled meeting on Wednesday, May 11, 2005, at approximately 1:30 p.m. at the
626 W. Jackson Corporate Offices. There were no presentations to come before the Committee.
Commissioner Gates then introduced an Omnibus Motion for adoption of resolutions for Items
B1 through B6, discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Operations
Committee.
(Item B1
In 2003, the CHA secured the services of LCM to conduct a self-evaluation of existing ADA
Units and develop a transition plan for the CHA’s programs, facilities and communications to
ensure equal access for persons with disabilities in accordance with all applicable local, state and
Federal requirements, including but not limited to Section 504. LCM’s assistance has been
valuable in dealing with the deficiencies found in renovated ADA Units during a review of these
Units in 2004 by HUD. LCM has completed their responsibilities under the contract issued in
2003. The CHA has determined that it would be advantageous to procure LCM’s services under
a new contract to review architectural drawings for ADA Section 504 compliance prior to
construction in order to catch and correct any potential misinterpretations of ADA Section 504
regulations by the CHA’s Prime Design Consultants (“PDC”). Experience has shown that the
layers of regulations have become so complex and at times contradictory, that even the most
experienced PDCs have been providing drawings and specifications that do not always
adequately meet these requirements. LCM possesses a national reputation as a recognized expert
in this field and their services are needed immediately. Accordingly, the resolution for Item B1
approves award of contract to LCM.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-69
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated May 11, 2005
entitled “Authorization to execute a contract with LCM Architects LLC to
4

 provide reviews of
Compliance”;

CHA architectural drawings for ADA Section 504

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute a contract with LCM Architects, LLC in the not-to-exceed
amount of $198,000.00 to provide review services for CHA architectural
drawings for the purpose of determining ADA Section 504 compliance. The base
term of the contract is two (2) years from the date of the Notice to Proceed, with
two (2) one (1) year renewal options subject to Board approval. This award is
subject to the firm’s compliance with CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident
hiring, and bonding, licensing, and insurance requirements.

(Item B2)
As part of the Capital Improvement Program, CHA solicited bids to modernize the Family
Housing at Wentworth Gardens (IL2-008), 3770 S. Wentworth Avenue. A General Contractor is
necessary to perform general modernization of apartment units and common areas, façade
repairs, and building site improvements at Wentworth Gardens and a total of two hundred and
twelve (212) Units will be renovated. The CHA advertised Invitation for Bid No. 01322 on May
19, 2004 to modernize the Family Housing at Wentworth Gardens (IL2-008), 3770 S. Wentworth
Avenue and made an award under Contract No. 1. The award of Contract No. 1 was approved by
the Board of Commissioners on December 21, 2004. The CHA advertised Invitation for Bid No.
01375 on March 4, 2005, for Contract No. 2, to modernize the Family Housing at Wentworth
Gardens (IL2-008), 3770 S. Wentworth Avenue. The IFB was advertised in area newspapers,
and on the CHA website. The CHA also mailed flyers on March 4, 2004 to 40 firms, including
11 M/W/DBE firms. The CHA received and opened six (6) bids and conducted a pre-award
survey after the bid opening to ensure the selection of the lowest responsive and responsible
bidder. Following the pre-award survey, DPC determined that the bid submitted by the apparent
low bidder was not responsive to the IFB. Therefore, it would be in the best interest of the CHA
to avoid any further delay in issuing Contract No. 2, to award the contract to the second apparent
low bidder, FHP Tectonics General Contractors. FHP Tectonics’ bid of $35,542,000.00 was the
second lowest bid submitted in response to the IFB. FHP Tectonics has a successful, long-term
relationship with the CHA and has repeatedly demonstrated that it has the capacity and financial
backing to tackle projects on the scale of Wentworth Gardens. Re-bidding this project will result
in substantial delays in the renovation of this development, resulting in delayed unit completion
under the Plan for Transformation, accordingly, the Resolution for Item B2 approves award of
contract to FHP Tectonics.
Commissioner Amey Recused from voting on Item B2.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-70
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated May 11, 2005
entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO EXECUTE A CONTRACT WITH FHP
TECTONICS GENERAL CONTRACTORS FOR THE FAMILY HOUSING
MODERNIZATION AT WENTWORTH GARDENS (IL2-008) – CONTRACT
NO. 2”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

that the Board of Commissioners authorize the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute a contract with FHP Tectonics General Contractors in the
amount of $35,542,000.00 for Contract No. 2 of the Family Housing
modernization at Wentworth Gardens (IL2-008), 3770 S. Wentworth Avenue.
This award is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s
MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident hiring, and bonding and insurance
requirements.

(Item B3)
In March 2004, the Board approved entering into negotiation for a Development Agreement with
Granite Partners for Oakwood Boulevard, LLC, for the first phase of homeownership
development of the Madden/Wells site. Pursuant to the Development Agreement, CHA is
required to fund the cost of site remediation for pre-existing conditions on the entire
5

 homeownership development site. The estimated remediation cost for “The Arches at Oakwood
Shores” is $1,658,000.00. CHA’s contractual responsibility for remediating foreseen and
unforeseen environmental conditions is capped at 200% of this estimated total cost
($3,316,000.00). Site preparation has begun in order to begin the development activities for this
redevelopment. Coordination meetings have taken place over the past several months with
various agencies both public and private that will take part in the construction activities on the
site. HUD has indicated that since a competitive process was engaged to procure the
development team as identified in the Plan approved by HUD, and since the engineered barrier
approach to remediation involves construction elements to be performed post-closing, there is
justification to enter into this contract with the Developer. Accordingly, the Resolution for Item
B3 approves award of environmental remediation contract to Granite Partners for Oakwood
Boulevard, LLC. Various benefits to the project will be realized by entering into a contract for
remediation activities with the Developer. The benefits namely are: (1) continuity of schedule;
(2) continuity of activity; and (3) economy of scale.
Commissioner Young recused from voting on Item B3.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-71
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated, May 17, 2005,
entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO ENTER INTO A CONTRACT WITH
GRANITE PARTNERS FOR OAKWOOD BOULEVARD, LLC FOR
ENVIRONMENTAL
REMEDIATION
ACTIVITIES
AT
THE
MADDEN/WELLS PHASE I FOR-SALE REDEVELOPMENT SITE”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into a contract (“Remediation Agreement”) with Granite
Partners for Oakwood Boulevard, LLC for a total contract amount not to exceed
$3,316,000.00 (which represents 200% of the estimated remediation cost for the
Madden/Wells Phase I For-Sale Redevelopment Site) to perform remediation
activities in support of the Madden/Wells Phase I For-Sale Redevelopment Site
(also known as The Arches at Oakwood Shores). The term of the contract shall
be the earlier of: final receipt of a “No Further Remediation” letter from the
IEPA with regards to the Madden/Wells Phase I For-Sale Redevelopment Site, or
two years, subject to a one year extension, if approved by the Board of
Commissioners and HUD

(Item B4)
On April 20, 2004 the Board of Commissioners authorized the CHA to commence negotiations
for a development agreement and ground lease for the first homeownership phase (130 units
consisting of 103 market rate units, 12 units to be reserved for purchase by public housing
residents and 15 affordable units) of the Madden/Wells developments. The developer, Granite
Partners, will be responsible for assembling financing, construction and managing the
development project. Although this phase of homeownership development within the
Madden/Wells community does not consist of any public housing units, 12 units are being
reserved for purchase by qualified public housing residents (former residents of Ida B. Wells,
Madden Park and Clarence Darrow Homes shall be given first priority to purchase the reserved
public housing units). The development will be developed on scattered sites roughly bounded by
East 38 Street on the north, the alley east of South Ellis Avenue on the east, East Pershing Road
on the south and South Langley on the west. As such, portions of the development site will be
ground leased to the developer and portions of the site will be conveyed via quit claim deed for
the construction of townhomes being built as part of the overall development. The anticipated
date to open the construction loan is May 31, 2005. Construction is expected to begin during the
month of June, 2005. Accordingly, the resolution for Item B4 approves the execution of a
development agreement with Granite Partners for Oakwood Boulevard, LLC, for the first
homeownership phase.
Commissioner Young recused from voting on Item B4.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-72
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board letter dated April 19, 2005
requesting authorization to execute a development agreement, ground lease and
6

 quit claim deed with Granite Partners for Oakwood Boulevard, LLC for the first
phase of homeownership development for the Madden/Wells developments.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute a Development Agreement, ground lease (substantially in the
forms attached) and quit claim deed with the development team of Granite
Partners for Oakwood Boulevard, LLC (“Granite Partners”), a limited liability
company comprised of Granite Madden Wells Sale, LLC and MB Real Estate
Services, LLC for the first homeownership phase of the redevelopment of the
Madden/Wells developments

(Item B5)
In March 2001, the Board authorized the execution of an Intergovernmental Agreement (“IGA”)
between the CHA and DoE to perform all environmental reviews and prepare all necessary
documentation for the Plan for Transformation (“Plan”) pursuant to the MTW Agreement. In
May 2002, the Board authorized an increase in funding for the IGA from $1,000,000.00 to
$3,000,000.00 and an amendment to the IGA to allow DoE to assist the CHA and perform or
manage targeted environmental remediation services in connection with the extensive
redevelopment and rehabilitation work required to implement the Plan for Transformation. In
March 2004 the Board authorized an increase in funding from $3,000,000.00 to $4,500,000.00
for required environmental reviews and targeted remediation to be performed under the terms of
the IGA, as amended. To date, the CHA has expended an approximate $3,000,000 of the
$4,500,000 in funding previously authorized for this IGA, and the CHA has committed another
approximate $800,000 for requested services under the IGA. The requested services include
environmental reviews and oversight activities. The remaining approximate $700,000 of
authorized funds will be committed to targeted remediation in the Lake Park Crescent
development area. The CHA, in consultation with DOE, estimates that an additional $1,500,000
above the amount previously authorized by the Board of Commissioners is required to perform
environmental remediation oversight, reviews and reporting on the CHA’s mixed income
development sites over the next 12 to 18 months. Accordingly, the resolution for Item B5
authorizes an increase of funds to the existing IGA with the Department of Environment.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-73
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated May, 11 2005
entitled, “Authorization to Increase the Funding for the Intergovernmental
Agreement with the City of Chicago Acting Through its Department of the
Environment”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to increase the funding for the Intergovernmental Agreement (“IGA”)
with the City of Chicago, acting through its Department of the Environment from
$4,500,000 to an amount not-to-exceed $6,000,000 for environmental reviews and
the targeted environmental remediation services to be performed under the terms
of the IGA, as amended

(Item B6)
The resolution for Item B6 approves an IGA with the City of Chicago through its Office of
Emergency Management and Communication (OEMC) for installation, maintenance and
monitoring of Police High Tech Video Surveillance Cameras in various CHA developments.
“Operation Disruption” is a CPD initiative designed to significantly and immediately disrupt
violent crime, street gang related activity and illegal narcotic related activity in designated high
crime areas by using specially designed Cameras. The Cameras allow them to more effectively
monitor, quickly respond to, and thus control the level of illegal activity in locations where the
Cameras have been installed. CPD has completed an assessment of the higher crime areas within
the CHA housing portfolio, and has recommended this new technology, as an additional policing
service, to deter criminal and gang related activity at various CHA locations. CPD will purchase
twenty-four (24) of these cameras and five (5) remote control boxes to be used at various CHA
locations that will be mutually agreed upon by the CHA and CPD.

7

 RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-74
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated May 11, 2005 requesting “Authorization to Enter into an
Intergovernmental Agreement with the City of Chicago, Acting Through its
Office of Emergency Management and Communications for Installation,
Maintenance and Monitoring of High Tech Video Surveillance Cameras in
Various CHA Developments”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into an Intergovernmental Agreement with the City of Chicago,
acting through its Office of Emergency Management and Communication in an
amount not-to-exceed $1,115,500.00 for a five (5) year term, with one (1) two
year extension option to install, maintain and monitor specialty designed high tech
video surveillance cameras in various CHA Developments to be mutually agreed
upon by the CHA and CPD.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items B1 through B6 was seconded by
Commissioner Ivers and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey (Recused from voting on Item B2 only)
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Lori Healey
Martin Nesbitt
Carlos Ponce
Mary Wiggins
Sandra Young (Recused from voting on Item B3 & B4)

Nays:

None

Commissioner Amey recused from voting on Item B2 only.
Commissioner Young recused from voting on Items B3 and B4.
There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Operations Committee report was also accepted in total.
Commissioner Young, Chairperson of the Tenant Services Committee, then presented her
monthly report. Per Commissioner Young, the Tenant Services Committee held its regularly
scheduled meeting on Wednesday, May 11th at the 626 W. Jackson Corporate Offices. Rayne
Martin, Director of Relocation & Supportive Services, and representatives from Uhlich
Advantage Network presented the Committee with an update on Counseling and supportive
Services.
Commissioner Young then introduced an Omnibus Motion for the adoption of Resolutions for
Items C1 through C5 discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Tenant
Services Committee.
(Item C1)
In June 2003, the Board of Commissioners approved a contract with BMH-I, LLC to provide
funding for Needs Assessments and Case Management Services for Henry Horner Mid-rise
Residents. BMH-I’s contract was subsequently amended in August 2004 to increase the not-toexceed contract amount from $225,000.00 to $450,000.00. For the one year option period,
$126,170.00 in funding is required to allow BMH-I to provide assessment and case management
services to families preparing to relocate into Phase B of the Henry Horner mixed-income
community. Accordingly, the resolution for Item C1 approves the contract extension for BMH-I.
Additionally, to facilitate housing stability, continued occupancy and community integration,
BMH-I will continue to provide post-relocation case management services to families that

8

 moved into replacement units at Henry Horner in Phase II and to continue servicing the families
living in the Horner Mid-Rise building during the initial term of the contract.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-75
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed
Board Letter dated May 17, 2005 entitled “Authorization to Exercise the One
Year Option in Contract No. 0676 With BMH-I, LLC For Needs Assessment and
Case Management Services To Henry Horner Residents”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to exercise the option to extend Contract No. 0676 with BMH-I, LLC for
an additional year to provide needs assessment and case management services in
an amount not to exceed $126,170.00

(Item C2)
The resolution for Item C2 approves exercising the first one-year option of the IGA with the City
of Chicago Board of Education (CPS) for the Employability Plus Program. As part of the
Community and Supportive Services Plan for ABLA, residents are encouraged to participate in
educational and employment training programs. The Program provided by CPS has a high school
reentry program that gives eligible residents the opportunity to return to high school in order to
receive their diploma. Additionally, there is a GED program for residents who are not able to
return to high school. A second component to the program allows residents to participate in job
training where they learn skills in trades such as carpentry, masonry, plumbing, electricity and
painting. Participants also attend workshops in the following areas: Educational Public Health on
HIV/AIDS, drug abuse and Public Assistance legislation. The Program is essential to the ABLA
community, and supports the CHA’s Plan for Transformation by linking families with
opportunities that will assist their move toward self-sufficiency and integration into mixedincome communities.
RESOLUTION NO: 2005-CHA-76
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated May 11, 2005, entitled “RECOMMENDATION TO
EXERCISE
THE
FIRST
ONE
YEAR
OPTION
OF
THE
INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT WITH THE CITY OF CHICAGO
BOARD OF EDUCATION FOR THE EMPLOYABILITY PLUS PROGRAM
AT ABLA DEVELOPMENT”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to exercise the first one (1) year option of the intergovernmental
agreement with the City of Chicago Board of Education for the Employability
Plus program at ABLA (“Contract No. 0675”)for the period of July 1, 2005
through June 30, 2006 for an amount not-to-exceed $76,250.00. The new total
not-to-exceed contract amount of Contract No. 0675 will be $217,550.00.

(Item C3)
The Resolution for Item C3 approves award of contract to After School Matters. Although the
CHA no longer directly provides social services to its residents, it wants to ensure that a summer
pre-apprenticeship employment training opportunities program for its young adult population is
available again this summer. The CHA desires to contract directly with After School Matters, as
it did in the summer of 2004, to ensure that a minimum of 220 slots are available for CHA’s 14
and 15 year old residents. In this manner, CHA residents will be able to seamlessly participate in
the Program and be integrated with other young adult Chicago residents. The Program is
scheduled to run from the July 5, 2005 through August 12, 2005, five days per week, four hours
per day. Participants will receive a combination of academic training and professional skill
development. Skilled teachers focus on teaching the hard skills of the discipline (such as sports,
technology, business and science or skilled trades, e.g. carpentry/plumbing.), the soft skills
necessary to function in a workplace (such as problem-solving and teamwork) and provide the
structure to intertwine the academic component.

9

 RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-77
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated May 11, 2005 entitled “Authorization to Enter Into A Contract
With After School Matters To Provide A Summer Pre-Apprenticeship
Employment Training Program For Fourteen and Fifteen Year Old CHA
Residents and NeighborSports, An Early Evening Summer Sports League That
Features Basketball, Soccer and Volleyball For Thirteen to Eighteen Year Old
CHA Residents”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into a noncompetitive contract with After School Matters, Inc.,
to provide a summer pre-apprenticeship employment training program for
fourteen and fifteen year old CHA residents for the period of July 5, 2005 through
August 12, 2005 and NeighborSports, an early evening summer sports league that
features basketball, soccer and volleyball for boys and girls, ages thirteen through
eighteen for the period of July 18, 2005 through August 25, 2005 for a total
amount not to exceed $377,000.00 for both programs.

(Item C4)
The Service Connector program is managed by the Chicago Department of Human Services
(CDHS), with funding from CHA through an Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA). As part of
this IGA, CHA is responsible to assure adequate, accessible office space for each Service
Connector Delegate to provide services to CHA residents. Heartland is the Delegate Agency
providing case management services for 533 families living in the Madden Wells development.
With the planned demolition of the Madden Wells service connector office that Heartland
currently occupies at 631 E. 37th Street, a new location is required to provide office space for the
Heartland staff so they can continue to provide services to CHA residents. Based on extensive
review of options, input from resident leadership and a survey of 256 residents, CHA has
decided to relocate the staff at the Madden Wells service connector office to 3550 So. Lake Park
Avenue for a three year term. Accordingly, the Resolution for Item C4 approves a lease with
Community Housing Partners for the service connectors office at Madden Wells. This site is
directly across Cottage Grove from Madden Wells at 35th Street. It has ample parking and is
accessible by bus. The service connector staff will continue to assist families with employment,
lease compliance, family stability and accessing other programs and benefits at this location as
well as through outreach to residents’ homes.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005– CHA-78
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated May 11, 2005,
entitled “Request for Authorization to Assume Lessee Obligations under the
Lease Agreement for the Premises Located at 3550 So. Lake Park Avenue, 1st
floor, Chicago, Illinois 60653”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT:

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
Designee to assume the lessee obligations under the Lease, substantially as
attached, between Community Housing Partners V Ltd Partner located at 36 S.
Wabash Ave, Suite 1310, Chicago, Illinois 60603 and Heartland Human Care
Services for a cumulative 4,990 square feet of office space for the premises
known as 3550 So. Lake Park Avenue, 1st floor, Chicago, IL 60653, in the event
that Heartland’s contract with CDHS terminates prior to the expiration of the
Lease. The Lease Agreement is for a three (3) year term at a total base rent of
$202,095.00 with an option to extend the lease for two additional years upon 90
day advance notice by the Lessee.

(Item C5)
The resolution for Item C5 approves the form of lease and tenant selection plan for the new
Robert Taylor Homes Phase A-1 development. It is understood that the owner entity,
Brinshore/Michaels Development, has an interest and desire to implement its own lease forms
and policy that encourages consistent community standards and for the effective management of
its mixed income developments. The lease and tenant selection plan have to accommodate
10

 various aspects of the multiple types of tenants and characteristics of a mixed finance
transaction. The authorization of approval of the form of lease and tenant selection plan for the
new Robert Taylor Homes Phase A-1 development is required at this time to facilitate the
closing of this development transaction. Both documents have been subject to extensive
negotiation among the CHA, the Developer, the Working Group, and the Local Advisory
Committee and the documents are recommended as acceptable. A public comment period was
held from March 7, 2005 to April 5, 2005 and a public hearing was held on March 17, 2005.
Consideration was given to comments received in finalizing the documents with the Developer
and the owner entity.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-79
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated April 15, 2005,
entitled “AUTHORIZATION FOR APPROVAL OF THE FORM OF LEASE
AND TENANT SELECTION PLAN FOR THE NEW ROBERT TAYLOR
HOMES PHASE A-1 DEVELOPMENT AND TO AMEND THE CHA
ADMISSION
AND
CONTINUED
OCCUPANCY
POLICY
TO
INCORPORATE SUCH DOCUMENTS AS AN ADDENDUM THERETO”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the attached form of lease and
tenant selection plan in substantially the form presented to the Board for the new
Robert Taylor Homes Phase A-1 development and hereby approves an
amendment to the Chicago Housing Authority’s Admission and Continued
Occupancy Policy to incorporate the approved forms as an addenda. The
Chairman of the Board or the Chief Executive Officer is hereby authorized to
approve final changes in these forms, including changes based on HUD
requirements, or such changes, if any, resulting from any applicable notice and
comment process. Such approval shall constitute conclusive evidence of the
Board’s approval of any and all such changes

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items C1 through C5 was seconded by
Commissioner Ivers and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Lori Healey
Martin Nesbitt
Carlos Ponce
Mary Wiggins
Sandra Young

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Finance & Audit Committee report was also accepted in total.
There being no further business to come before the Commissioners, upon Motion made,
seconded and carried, the meeting of the Board of Commissioners was adjourned.
_______________________
Sharon Gist Gilliam
Chairperson
_______________________
Lee Gill, Custodian and
Keeper of Records

11

 