@lt'?litNGE.

CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY

 

March 13, 2013 ITEM NO. B5

AUTHORIZATION TO ENTER INTO A CONTRACT WITH GROWING POWER, INC.
TO PROVIDE A YOUTH DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM IN URBAN AGRICULTURE

To the Honorable Board of Commissioners:

RECOMMENDATION

It is recommended that the Board of Commissioners authorize the Chief Executive Of?cer
or his designee to enter into a contract with Growing Power, Inc. (?Growing Power?) to
provide a youth development program in urban agriculture at Altgeld Gardens in an amount not-to-
exceed $349,597 for a two-year base period, with two (2) additional one-year options.

The Executive Vice President of Resident Services, the Of?ce of the General Counsel
and the Department of Procurement and Contracts have completed all necessary due diligence to
support the submission of this initiative and recommend the approval of this item accordingly.

CORPORATE GOAL
The proposed program supports CHA ?s corporate goals of investing in CHA youth by

providing services and supports and empowering them for success in the global economy.

FUNDING: CHA General Fund
SOLICITATION SUMMARY

Vendor:

Growing Power, Inc.
3333 South Iron Street
Chicago, Illinois 60608

Contract Type: Professional Services

Base Contract Amount: $349,597

Base Contract Period: Two-Year Base Term
Option Period: 2 One-Year Options
Publication(s): Chicago Sun Times, Chicago
Defender, Extra

Vendor List: 110

Pick-up List: 20

Participation:

Waiver - Approved

Section 3:

Hiring: 1 Subcontracting 

Solicitation Release Date: 10f26/2012
Days Advertised: 3 Days
Addendum: 

Pre?Bid/Proposal Date: 1 1f6l2012
Solicitation Due Date: 12f4f2012

Assist Agencies: 64
Respondents: 3

Other Economic Opportunities: Urban Agriculture Adult Mentorship Opportunities

60 E. Van Buren Street - Chicago, Illinois 60605-1207 - (312) 742-8500 - mm. thecha. org

GENERAL BACKGROUND

Resident Services Division is charged with engaging youth in out-of-school time and
summer activities to support their development. Among these programs are initiatives that
provide employment and training programs for youth. One of these initiatives, launched in 2010,
was the installation of an urban farm within the Altgeld Gardens community. Since inception,
the farm has supported employment and training programs for more than 400 youth and adults,
providing valuable skills training while increasing the community?s access to healthy food.

The proposed program will provide a year round youth program, serving a minimum of 150
youth per year (3 00 over the two-year base term) from the Altgeld Gardens community. The
primary components of the program will include, but not be limited to: employment skills
development, farm work, life skills development, culinary and nutrition education and
community building and engagement. The ultimate intent of the youth agriculture project is to
enhance the existing urban farm in a way that will 1) provide youth with year-round educational
and training opportunities, 2) engage families in the community, and 3) supply easy access to
affordable and nutritious food.

Growing Power is a national nonpro?t organization that focuses on supporting people of diverse
backgrounds and environments by providing access to healthy, high-quality, safe and affordable
food for people in the community. This mission is implemented through on-the-ground, hands-
on training of youth and adults to take ownership of the garden and engage the community to do
the same. Growing Power?s youth employment training programs educate youth on sustainable
urban agriculture while providing transferrable employment and life skills. It is through this
existing program model that Growing Power will successfully serve youth at Altgeld Gardens.

The Board action recommended in this item complies in all material respects with all applicable
Chicago Housing Authority board policies and all applicable federal (HUD) procurement laws.

The EVP of Resident Services concurs with the recommendation to enter into a contract with
Growing Power to provide a youth development program at Altgeld Gardens.

The CEO/President recommends the approval to enter into a contract with Growing Power, Inc. to

provide a youth development program in Urban Agriculture in an amount not-to?exceed $349,597
for a two-year base period, with two (2) additional one-year options.

60 E. Van Buren Street - Chicago, Illinois 60605-1207 - (312} 742-8500 - imiathechamrg

RESOLUTION NO. 

WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated March 13,

2013, entitled TO ENTER INTO A CONTRACT WITH
GROWING POWER, INC. TO PROVIDE A YOUTH DEVELOPMENT
PROGRAM IN URBAN 

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY

THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Of?cer or his designee
to enter into a contract with Growing Power, Inc. to provide a youth development
program in urban agriculture in an amount not-to-exceed $349,597 for a two-year
base period, with two (2) additional one-year options.

This award is subject to the Contractor?s compliance with the 
Section 3 and insurance requirements.



   
   

 

Board of L?ummissim?rs

60?5. Van Biiren Street- Chicago, Illinois 60605-1207- (312) 742-8500. mm. theclia. org

