Chicago Housing Authority
Board of Commissioners Public Session
September 18, 2012
CHA Corporate Office – 60 E. Van Buren
Name

1

2

3

Mary Thomas

Joseph Peery

Miguel Suarez

Question/Comment

Response

I am the co-chair of the Lathrop Homes leadership
team. The draft Annual Plan says 748 units at
Lathrop homes are not habitable. That is a lie and
misleading to the public. Lathrop has been in limbo
for more than a decade. In 2008, we asked CHA to
put vacant units online, and we were told no.
Recently, CHA told residents that units would not be
rehabbed until 2015. Waiting 12 years to rehab
Lathrop is too long. Let people with a right to return
come back to Lathrop.
I am a resident of Parkside. According to the
Coalition Against Homelessness, there are 105,000
homeless people in Chicago. There are 40,000
families on your waitlist. At Cabrini, you are paying for
the apartments to remain empty. To me it sounds like
you are subsidizing homelessness. You spent money
to rehab the rowhouses, and now they are trying to
demolish all of Cabrini. You don't want poor people
living in Chicago. You are willing to break every rule
to make that happen.
I am a Lathrop resident. $8.1 million will be spent at
Lathrop in 2013. It should be used to protect vacant
units and improve the living environment for people.
Please provide us with a detailed listing of how this
money will be sent.

1

The Community Planning Process for Lathrop is currently
underway and expected to arrive at a Final Master Plan by
Spring 2013. Included as part of that Master Plan, will be the
amount of buildings that will be rehabilitated and preserved in
accordance with the Section 106 Historic Preservation process.
Lathrop families who lived in public housing on 10/1/99 and
have remained lease compliant will be eligible to return to the
new units at Lathrop. The housing offer process will follow the
priorities governed by the Relocation Rights Contract.
Thank you for your comment.

All requests for public records should be made to CHA’s
Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) Office. These requests can
be made via email to, FOIARequest@thecha.org, or by mail:
Attn: Freedom of Information Act Officer
Planning and Reporting
Chicago Housing Authority
60 East Van Buren St., 12th Floor
Chicago, IL 60605

 1)Why would you call it a transformation when you are
putting us out anyways? I want to ask about the
Altgeld parking lot and laundromat.

4

5

6

7

Marguerite Jacobs

Carol Steele

Willie Fleming

Ms. Ward

2) I want to talk about two heartbeats per room, as
well.

(Hands something out to Board members) The most
important thing is the minutes from Parkside of Old
Town. I went to a meeting I wasn't invited to, but
Holsten invited me. On the agenda was Cabrini
rowhouses. They didn't get to that part of the agenda.
Later on I got the minutes, and the minutes said they
were promised that the rowhouses would be torn
down. Who told them this? The rowhouses were part
of the 25,000 count. We are in the 12th year of the
Plan, and we don't have all the units we are supposed
to have. We asked Ponce, "who is making these
decisions?" and he said there is a new CEO coming,
and he said things will continue on whoever is the
CEO.
Thank you Dr. Harris, your poems are inspiring. We
were trying to believe in HOPE VI, and the Plan, and
they failed. We tried to believe in relocation, and that
failed. For some, it made them homeless. The CHA
let us down.
I am an Altgeld resident. You said you want to tear
down our community. There are vacant units out
there, and there are a lot of people who are homeless
and families are being put out. We need answers.
You have four bedrooms and it could be five. We
have to go far out to go to the grocery store. Coyotes
are also coming out and the animals are getting closer
to us.

2

1) In reference to Altgeld Gardens, the parking stickers have
been changed throughout the development and there will be
additional hours added to the normal operations of the
laundromats.
2) The CHA's Admissions and Continued Occupancy Policy is
currently a board approved document. At this time, the policy is
not out for public comment. When the policy is revised, you will
be asked to provide comments and concerns which will be taken
into consideration in finalizing the document. In addition, the
Administrative Plan for the Housing Choice Voucher Program is
currently out for public comment, until October 31, 2012.
The CHA informed the working group in September 2011 that it
will not support the rowhouse property remaining as 100 percent
public housing. Rather, the CHA will actively support the
creation of a mixed-income community at the property.
CHA is currently undergoing a planning process with the Cabrini
Working Group in which the Cabrini rowhomes will be a part of
the property being planned.

Thank you for your comment.

Thank you for your comment. The CHA will undergo a
community input process to obtain feedback on creating a
strong and vibrant community at Altgeld. Altgeld residents will be
invited to attend and are encouraged to participate.

 8

9

10

11

Cheryl Johnson

Paul McKinley

Randy Walls

Francine Washington

I am a resident of Altgeld Gardens, you are planning
to demolish 648 units. We should be able to
participate in this decision. There are 1,300 people
who have not been informed of what you are trying to
do. As a resident, and business owner, we need to
take the initiative to develop a community plan to
present to you. I am meeting with people who know
how to do this, we are going to engage the community
and we want the units to remain in the community.
Will you allow residents to participate in this process?
Walsh is doing development at CHA. They did $290
million of work. They walked away with $310 million.
Now you are saying you are going to take $7 million
and tear down the building. Walsh said they had
gouged CHA, and some of the Board members are a
part of this. The CHA has created a safety problem.
Every time someone is hurt in this community, its
CHA’s fault. They think the building is the problem.
My last statement, you are all responsible and you will
not escape the wrath of God.
I live in Scattered Site housing, under Woodlawn. I
have been living there for 14 years and I've had a
problem for four years. The supports that hold my
house up, are broken. My roof has a hole in it. CHA
and Woodlawn were aware four years ago. They
don't want to offer me anything. They say I am not
qualified. I am lease compliant. Why am I not
qualified? My kids don't sell drugs or gang bang.
Why do you want to put me in a situation where I may
get killed? They offered me a unit that had been
flooded. Why do you want to take me out of a
damaged unit and put me in a worse unit?
Nobody cares about us but us. We were talking about
having an election. CHA only gave us $300,000 for
an election. What about us? We need money for the
election. If someone wants to run against me, it
doesn't matter, we need money. We need it now, not
in the winter.

3

Thank you for your comment. The CHA will undergo a
community input process to obtain feedback on creating a
strong and vibrant community at Altgeld. Altgeld residents will be
invited to attend and are encouraged to participate.

Your comment has been received.

The CHA will not provide a specific response to your issue, in a
public forum. However, CHA has attempted to work with you to
resolve this matter.

Thank you for your comment.

 12

13

14

Angela Williams

George Blakemore

Rachel Goodstein

Last week I attended a meeting on 32nd St. Since
that time I received the help I needed. I can say I've
never had a problem with CHA. I am using the CHA
as a stepping stone which is what its supposed to be.
I had a really bad hardship, and people at CHA have
stepped up to the plate. Thank you Mr. Garrett and
Mr. Woodyard. I am trying to move to a better place
to provide a good situation for my kids, the only
problem we have is that we don't get notifications
about these meetings. I am having a house meeting
at my complex and I am going to tell people who they
should go to for help. I want to say thank you to Ms.
King, Ms. Washington and Mr. Garrett.
Jewish people talk about the Holocaust. Black people
never talk about the legacy of slavery. Why are there
only black people here? Where are the Asians and
Caucasians? Black people are entitled to free food,
shelter and clothes. We have been here for 400
years, and we've gotten nothing. When I see my
people up there, crying for good houses, there is
something wrong. We need money to set up our own
housing for black people, controlled by black people.
We are entitled. We are not getting anything for free.
You must know your history and demand you get what
you deserve.
Good morning, in 1978 I moved west of Halsted to
DePaul. Dan Cotter recruited me to be a member of
the management team at the Cotter Boys and Girls
Club. I have been in the Lathrop community for 20
years. I am here to ask you to renovate Lathrop, just
as you did Trumbull Park on the south side. Lathrop
is the transformation. It has always been well located
and with nice facilities, bus routes and jobs close by.
Lathrop is historic. Over the past 10 years, Lathrop
has been transformed to a ghost town. The CHA is
not fulfilling the mission of CHA, you have empty units
for no reason. Lathrop is now a historic place. There
should be no mention of the demolition of Lathrop.
CHA should repopulate Lathrop, I urge you to act with
wisdom.

4

Thank you for your comment. In order to stay up-to-date on
CHA’s Board meeting schedule, please visit the following
website:http://www.thecha.org/pages/board_information___meet
ings/23.php

Your comment has been received.

The community planning process for Lathrop is currently
underway and expected to arrive at a Final Master Plan by
Spring 2013. Included as part of that Master Plan, will be the
amount of buildings that will be rehabilitated and preserved in
accordance with the Section 106 Historic Preservation process.
Lathrop families who lived in public housing on 10/1/99 and
have remained lease compliant will be eligible to return to the
new units at Lathrop. The housing offer process will follow the
priorities governed by the Relocation Rights Contract.

 15

16

17

18

Theresa Ricks

Naomi Allen

Ida Brantley

Tamika Holt

I came down today, we had issues that need to be
addressed. The residents don’t want to be insulted.
We've had an elevator down for five days (Dearborn).
We have wheelchairs. We need to have elevator staff
there. The elevator motor got too hot.
I have been at Altgeld for 50 years. Why don't you
build our community up? Why don't we have a voice
in the situation? There are homeless people
everywhere. Some of the people on the waitlist are
homeless. How would you feel if that was your
children? Would you reconsider your decision about
destroying our community?
I am a resident of ABLA. ABLA homes has been
remodeled and taken care of. We have had good
teamwork with HJ Russell and Ms. Beverly, and we
are happy.
I am here to discuss Resident Owned Businesses
(ROB). The contractors and vendors CHA does
business with - there is a communication breakdown,
they are reaching out to the ROBs, but as far as going
to meetings to get something hashed out, it’s not
getting that far. It’s like they're being told, as long as
you reach out to ROBs it's fine. I urge you, look
deeper. Are they following Section 3 requirements?
You have residents who know trades, and are in good
standings with the state but have no technical support
from CHA, we are asking the contractors to hold up
their end. An example of communication, McShane,
TCB and Target Group, they have a "Schedule A" and
"Schedule B" but nothing about "Schedule C." They
had no intention of working with ROBs.

5

The CHA does not want residents inconvenienced. When
elevators become inoperable, the problem is immediately
identified and repairs are made. In this particular case,
unfortunately the part that was needed was not readily available
and had to be shipped which subsequently caused the repair
delay.
Thank you for your comment. The CHA will undergo a
community input process to obtain feedback on creating a
strong and vibrant community at Altgeld. Altgeld residents will be
invited to attend and are encouraged to participate.

Thank you for your comment.

The compliance schedules were recently updated and some of
the titles have changed. Contractors are required to complete
the following compliance schedules with their bid and proposal
documents, prior to contract execution:
 Schedule A- M/W/DBE Utilization Plan (completed by
the Prime Contractor)
 Schedule B- Section 3 Utilization Plan (completed by the
Prime Contractor)
 Schedule C- Letter of Intent M/W/DBE and/or Section 3
Business Concern (completed by Subcontractors)
All subcontractors must be able to provide the required
insurance documentation as required by HUD to be a
subcontractor on any federally funded contract. For construction
projects, bonding is also required. If a vendor is unable to
contract with a Section 3 Business Concern, for any reason,
they must demonstrate that they have made good faith
efforts. CHA is working closely with our contractors and
subcontractors to strengthen Section 3 Business Concern
contracting. Additionally, CHA has received and is currently
evaluating proposals for the Section 3 Entrepreneurial Program,
which will help Section 3 businesses develop and grow.

 19

20

21

22

23

Emma Arnold

Georgia Curtis

Remona Wilkins

Robert Davidson

Carole Palkes

I am an ABLA resident. I went to thank HJ Russell
and Brenda Parker and her staff. Ms. Beverly has
always been very informative, thank you for letting me
know what’s going on.
I am a resident of Altgeld. How can you discuss
something in our development without us? I am trying
to understand this. There are 648 units offline, and
they need to be back online. I understand your time is
precious, however we need to address this. How can
one make a decision for the whole development of
Altgeld? Can we get a 90 day review period, so you
can look it over before making a final decision?
I have been a resident of Altgeld for 42 years. My
mom is a senior and 82 years old. With the system
for laundry in Altgeld, they open whenever they want
to, but half the machines are broken. Why did you
take our laundromat? You have seniors going to the
bathroom on themselves and they need to clean their
clothes. You all have your day, believe that. The
Mayor, he has to go.
Why do you put your staff in front of public comment
hearings to get beat up, and you hide behind them? If
your concept was working for the residents, they
wouldn't be crying like they are.
I am the building representative at Lake Michigan
Apts/Vivian Hash. I am speaking about screening
residents. It has been requested that residents be a
part of the screening process. We have a lot of new
people in our building, and we don't know who is who.
If we were a part of the screening process, we would
know who was moving in. Someone moved in on my
floor and she was begging for food and other things.
We need to reassess the screening process and allow
council members to be a part of the process.

6

Thank you for your comment.

Thank you for your comment. The CHA will undergo a
community input process to obtain feedback on creating a
strong and vibrant community at Altgeld. Altgeld residents will be
invited to attend and are encouraged to participate.

It is CHA's intent to provide residents with reasonable amenities.
In response to resident concerns, the laundromat hours of
operation have been reviewed and subsequently there will be
extended hours of operations once the necessary staffing has
been obtained. The new hours of operations are targeted to
begin on November 1, 2012.

Thank you for your comment.

The CHA utilizes the eligibility guidelines listed in the FY2011
Admissions and Continued Occupancy Policy when determining
whether an applicant is eligible for public housing. The property
manager conducts a criminal background screening, credit
screening, and housekeeping inspection in order to make the
final determination. You can review the eligibility guidelines in
the FY2011 ACOP, which can be found online
(http://www.thecha.org/filebin/FY2011_ACOP__Final_Approved_-_07_19_11_-_Revised_11_08_11.pdf) or
provided by your property manager.

 24

John McDermott

I am the Housing and Land Use Director for LSNA.
We have worked with Lathrop. We want you to take a
close look at the Lathrop Homes. The Board did not
have the chance to vote on the development
guidelines in the 2010 RFQ. A broad cross-section of
residents and former residents all have maintained
that those guidelines are not the right fit. Only 1/3 of
Lathrop would return as public housing, and there
would be market-rate with no plan to replace all the
units. The development would also need to be 1200
units. This part of the city has normally not had a lot of
public housing.

7

As a point of clarification, staff did present to the Board on
October 13, 2010 the goals of the RFQ, the selection of the
Development Team and the robust community planning
process, to arrive at one final plan.
As a member of the Working Group, you are aware that the
community planning process for Lathrop is currently underway
and expected to arrive at a Final Master Plan by Spring 2013.
This is a complicated project with lots of competing interests and
CHA is working to strike the right balance among those
interests. Ultimately, Lathrop will be a mixed-income community
with an appropriate mix of public, affordable and market rate
housing to create a vibrant, diverse community that is
seamlessly integrated to support critical community amenities
such as transportation, schools, retail and open space.

 