October 19, 2010 Board Meeting
Regular Meeting of the Board of Commissioners

1.
2.
3.

1.

2.

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

6.

7.
8.

9.

1.

2.

Douglas Park Fieldhouse
1401 S. Sacramento Drive
Resolutions
Approval of Personnel Action Reports for the month of September 2010.
Settlement Agreement in the matter of Barnes vs. CHA.
Settlement Agreement in the matter of Binion vs. CHA.
Tenant Services Committee Report
Recommendation to approve revisions to the Admissions and Continued Occupancy
Policy/Tenant Selection Plan, Lease, Lease Riders, and Bylaws for Kenmore Apartments and Pomeroy
Apartments.
Recommendation to award contract to conduct professional research and analysis related to
the Chicago Family Case Management Demonstration Project. Recommended Awardee: Urban Institute.
Operations and Facilities Committee Report
Recommendation to modify contract with Hasbrouk Peterson Zimoch Sirirattumrong (HPZS) for
additional Prime Design Consulting services.
Recommendation to award contract for Capital Maintenance Work at 4525 S. Lake Park
Townhomes. Recommended Awardee: Old Veteran Construction, Inc.
Recommendation to award contract for Re-Roofing and Exterior Masonry Work at Armour
Square Senior Apartments. Recommended Awardee: Tyler Lane Construction.
Recommendation to enter into a Housing Assistance Payment contract for Nuestro Hogar.
Recommendation to approve Lathrop Community Partners as the Development Team and
recommendation to enter into negotiations for a Master Development Agreement and initiate
Revitalization Planning for Lathrop Homes.
Recommendation to establish and maintain a list of pre-qualified housing developers and
development teams for the Housing For Chicagoans Everywhere Program to provide replacement
housing units to the CHA for public housing eligible families.
Recommendation to approve the FY2011 Moving To Work Annual Plan - Plan for Transformation
Year 12.
Recommendation to exercise the option to contract with CVR and to negotiate, amend and
restate the contract for Housing Choice Voucher and Moderate Rehabilitation Section 8 Program
Services Operation and Administration.
Recommendation to award contracts for Program Administration and Operation of Portions of
the Housing Choice Voucher Program. Recommended Awardees: CVR Associates, Inc. and Nan McKay &
Associates.
Finance & Audit Committee Report
Recommendation to approve Chicago Housing Consulting Services (CHCS), Inc to pursue
performance-based contract administration opportunities and allocation of non-federal funding to
CHCS.
Recommendation to approve 3rd Quarter Revised 2010 Comprehensive Budget.

 3.

Recommendation to award contracts to Humana (Medical and Dental) Davis Vision, Lincoln
National and Ameriflex for the CHA's employee health benefit plan.

 