Chicago Housing Authority
Board of Commissioners Public Session
April 17, 2012
Apartamentos Las Americas – 1611 S. Racine
Name
Francine Washington

1

Mark Carter

2

Charles Price

3

Question/Comment

Response

I have two sons, one just got his masters and one is a
teacher. I want to know, why when you go to these
meetings, you don't side with residents? It seems like
you never defend the residents, we aren't all bad. I
will take a drug test any day - I am tired of you bailing
out developers who do drugs themselves - when
residents have to take drug tests.
1) This is in response to the report from the Urban
Institute. We had a conference call with [people in]
Washington yesterday and violence was one of the
things discussed. Because of CHAs incompetence,
we are trying to push this down the president's throat,
and make him deal with you, it's clear that you don't
care.
2) The findings said that CHA in and of itself hired 203
people in 2010, and one hire was a CHA resident.
The contracts were not given to Section 3 businesses
in 2010. When it comes to contracts and the fund,
you are not in compliance.
1) I am appalled at the comments that are made and
your replies. You say Section 3 hires are not implied
on race. I never said race was the problem. I said
that he [Friedler Construction] didn't hire residents.
You are supposed to look out for residents. This guy
comes in and he's allowed to get away with it, and all
you do is slap him on the hand.
2) Commissioner Ponce, I hear you at Cabrini say it
needs to be torn down, and all we have at Cabrini is
trespassing. You want to destroy a black
neighborhood, and you don't care about the violence
in the Hispanic neighborhood.

1

Thank you for your comment.

1) Over the past decade, crime in Chicago has diminished
significantly, with the demolition of public housing high-rises
accelerating this decrease, according to the Urban Institute
study. The CHA is preparing to embark on a Plan for
Transformation 2.0. The CHA will utilize this crime study as well
as other research to formulate policies which build on successes
as well as address the challenges highlighted by the Urban
Institute.
2) Discussions are ongoing between CHA and HUD on this
issue.

1) For this contract, Friedler Construction had a commitment of
14 Section 3 hires. Friedler exceeded this commitment with a
total of 26 Section 3 hires. Of these 26 Section 3 hires, 12 were
CHA residents.
2) A Request for Qualifications (RFQ) is currently being
prepared by the working group for the redevelopment of William
Green Homes, Cabrini Extension South and the Cabrini Green
Rowhouse sites. Developing a consensus among a diversity of
opinions is a time intensive process that CHA takes seriously.
Furthermore, the CHA will continue to seek input from all
members of the working group for consideration prior to
rendering any decisions.

 William Lawrence Scott

4

Dennis O'Neil

5

John Murphy

6

Dennis Hood

7

I am here as a senior who lived at a CHA property for
seven years and I have since moved to a HUD
property. I was able to find a new property, yet my
concerns for the residents are still here, which is why I
take time from my schedule. I am pleased to inform
the Board that I appreciated the first meeting. Today I
met Mr. Otis Wright, and my concern is senior
services and its connection with services in the
community. I am looking forward to that relationship.
I am here to talk about the Plan for Transformation.
There was supposed to be hope along with mixed
income communities. The way to do this is through
education. Smith School and Washington Irving are in
our community. Mr. Woodyard, you mentioned the
grant [Choice], we have a unique opportunity to do
that in our community as well, but we need
collaboration between CPS and CHA. This
community has often been marginalized. Mayor
Emanuel has a goal to make this an international city,
we can't be an international city when we have this
violence and a two tiered school system. Our
neighborhood can be a model, we hope you look to
that community as the model.
I am here to speak about the recalibration of the Plan
for Transformation, which is the basis of my concern.
It is admirable you seem to be interested in public
input but I am disappointed with how this has
unfolded, and how the design has been developed.
I've been to the website and I've seen the ideas, which
is tough to navigate. You've had meetings with
residents, but nobody who is on the wait list. No
meeting with people who have vouchers and who
want to return. How will you handle getting public
input from people impacted, who are not residents.
I live in Lathrop, I'm from ABLA. I own Hood
construction and I am here to promote resident owned
businesses. Please include resident owned
businesses in 2.0. I am here to ask you, I have a
construction company and a few contracts, in order to
help my people, please give us an opportunity.

2

Thank you for your comment.

Education is an important component in our planning for Plan for
Transformation 2.0. CHA will continue to support the Chicago
Public Schools, including Smyth School, where a CHA staff
person sits on the Advisory Board, to ensure that we are
working together to meet the needs of resident families and their
school aged children.

In an effort to collect ideas from the general public (including
individuals on CHA wait lists) CHA implemented an online idea
forum (http://www.thecha.ideascale.com) to gather lessons
learned as well as recommendations to shape the next phase of
the Plan for Transformation. Through this medium, users could
submit ideas, vote on existing ideas and add comments. The
idea forum collected 88 individual ideas with 241 comments,
1,799 votes and 320 users.

Fundamental to the recalibration of the original Plan for
Transformation, CHA is engaging a broad spectrum of
stakeholders in an information and input process to help shape
the next phase of the Plan. Part of this process has included
four regional resident input sessions for all CHA public housing
residents and HCV participants. During these four sessions,
resident owned business stakeholders had an opportunity to
provide input related to formulating the next phase of the Plan.

 Martha Marshall

8

1) I sat back and I heard one construction company
getting $46 million. There are several resident owned
businesses that could participate. I want to ensure
that company sells their work to residents.
2) The building on Madison was rehabbed in 2003
and 2004 and I fought with CHA to tell them that the
contractor was inferior and that contractor received
over $100 million. It's disturbing that we spend over
16 million in 2003 and have been working on that
building ever since.
3) 3916 W. Washington, I begged them to get
infrastructure done, and they closed it about six years
ago. We need oversight and there needs to be set
aside for resident owned businesses.
4) Also, we need to be involved in this political
process, we have to be involved, the guy who is
running now said he plans to close HUD, we need to
be involved people.

3

1) We believe you are referring to three separate contracts
between CHA and Old Veteran Construction. Although there
are no Section 3 businesses working on these contracts, these
three contracts made a combined commitment of 46 Section 3
hires.
2) The building you are referencing on Madison is Sullivan
Apartments. Since 2000, with the last contract in 2008, CHA
has contracted with five separate vendors for a total of
$21,830,923.
3) Parkview Apartments has been closed since 2007, due to
flooding caused by collapsed plumbing. The CHA has
conducted an open solicitation for Parkview redevelopment
proposals. The CHA is in the process of evaluating these
proposals.
4) Thank you for your comment.

 