ITEM NO. C4

April 14, 2010

REQUEST AUTHORIZATION TO 1.) ENTER INTO AN AGREEMENT TO ENTER
INTO A HOUSING ASSISTANCE PAYMENT CONTRACT (AHAP) TO PROVIDE 19
PROJECT-BASED VOUCHERS TO BETTENDORF PLACE, A LOW-INCOME
SUPPORTIVE HOUSING DEVELOPMENT AND 2.) EXECUTE ALL OTHER
DOCUMENTS AS MAY BE NECESSARY OR APPROPRIATE TO IMPLEMENT THE
FOREGOING
To the Honorable Board of Commissioners:
RECOMMENDATIONS
It is recommended that the Board of Commissioners approve the attached Resolution authorizing
the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to enter into an Agreement to enter into a Housing
Assistance Payment Contract (“AHAP Contract”) with the Alexian Brothers or its nominee to
provide Project-Based Voucher assistance for nineteen (19) Studio apartments at Bettendorf
Place, a supportive housing development for people with HIV/AIDS for the maximum allowable
term, subject to any required HUD approvals. It is further recommended that the Board of
Commissioners authorize the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to take all actions and
execute all documents necessary or appropriate to implement the foregoing.
FUNDING SOURCE
N/A
EXPLANATION
The City of Chicago’s (“City”) Supportive Housing Initiative, established in 2002, provides
shelter for those who cannot participate in the traditional housing market due to personal
challenges, such as illness, substance abuse, domestic violence or homelessness. As part of this
initiative, in addition to housing, critical Social Services will be directly provided to help these
residents overcome their problems, take control of their lives and become productive, selfsustaining members of the community. This Supportive Housing Initiative is an important
component in the overall strategy of addressing Affordable Housing and Homelessness in the
City of Chicago.
Bettendorf Place is the substantial rehabilitation of a former convent on the grounds of a campus
owned by Saint Mary Magdalene Church. After rehabilitation the building will contain 24 studio
apartments, of which 19 will be Project-based Voucher assisted. The other 5 units will have SHP
rental subsidies from HUD under the McKinney-Vento program for the homeless. The building
will include a family meeting room, a community kitchen, meditation/spirituality center, skill
development center and a counseling office. The development will also house offices for social
support staff which will provide services in the areas of recovery, overall case management,
occupational therapy and spiritual care.
The development site is located in South Chicago community at 8425 S. Saginaw Avenue in the
8th Ward. The immediate area is served by two Metra stations, one at 83rd and Exchange and the
60 East Van Buren, 12th Floor · Chicago, Illinois 60605 · (312) 913-7282 · www.thecha.org

 other at 87th and Houston, both less than 6 blocks from of the building. There are also several
CTA bus lines with bus stops located along the north-south arterial streets including Stony
Island, Jeffrey Boulevard and South Chicago Avenue. There are a variety of parks within
walking distance of the site, including Echersall Park, Russell Square Park and Rainbow Park
and Beach. Rainbow Park is located at 77th and the Lake has been recently redeveloped by the
Chicago Park District. The new facility contains a large gym, three clubrooms and a fitness
center. The outdoor area consists of basketball, tennis and handball courts, three baseball
diamonds, two playgrounds, a community garden and plenty of green space with a view of
Chicago’s skyline. A retail corridor runs along S. Stony Island and 71st Street near South Shore
Drive provides a variety of community shopping outlets including clothing, sporting goods and
hardware stores, Walgreens and restaurants. South Shore hospital is less than a mile away and is
an acute care facility containing 170 beds with a full range of services to address the primary
healthcare needs of the community. South Shore’s HIV/AIDS Clinic provides primary medical
services, counseling and emergency room services for community residents living with
HIV/AIDS, a service that will especially beneficial to the residents of Bettendorf.
The developer is Alexian Brothers Bonaventure House, which is affiliated with the Alexian
Brothers Health Systems. Alexian Bonaventure House was established with the support of
Catholic Charities and the Chicago Philanthropic community to acquire and renovate a vacant
convent in Lakeview to provide housing and comprehensive supportive services for people living
with HIV/AIDS. The first people moved in to Bonaventure House in 1989. Nearly a decade
later, Bonaventure House opened another facility in Waukegan called The Harbor. Today,
Bonaventure House is the only licensed and funded recovery home for people with HIV/AIDS in
the state of Illinois. The project will be owned by a sole subsidiary of Bonaventure House.
The total development cost for this project will be approximately $5,236,214 and will be funded
by a mix of public and private sources as follows:
City of Chicago 1602 Grant and HOME loan
Federal Home Loan Bank
DCEO Grant
Mission and Ministry Grant
Total

$ 4,889,355
$
150,000
$
40,859
$ 150,000
$ 5,230,214

The only cost to CHA toward this development will be the project-based rental subsidy. ProjectBased Voucher statutes and regulations will be followed in leasing the 19 Project-Based Voucher
assisted units. Households on the CHA waiting lists will be given priority status.
Based on the foregoing, it is recommended that the Board of Commissioners approve the
attached Resolution authorizing the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to enter into an
AHAP Contract with Alexian Brothers Bonaventure House or its nominee to provide ProjectBased Housing Choice Voucher assistance for nineteen (19) units at Bettendorf Place Supportive
Housing development for the maximum allowable term, subject to any required HUD approvals.
It is further recommended that the Board of Commissioners authorize the Chief Executive
Officer or his designee to take all actions and execute all documents necessary or appropriate to
implement the foregoing.
60 East Van Buren, 12th Floor · Chicago, Illinois 60605 · (312) 913-7282 · www.thecha.org

 RESOLUTION NO. 2010-CHA-50
WHEREAS: the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board letter dated April 14, 2010, entitled “Authorization to 1.) Enter into an
Agreement to enter into a Housing Assistance Payment Contract (AHAP) to
provide Project-Based Voucher assistance to Bettendorf Place Supportive
Housing development for 19 studio apartments and 2.) Execute all other
documents as may be necessary or appropriate to implement the foregoing.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer, or his
designee to 1.) Enter into an Agreement to enter into a Housing Assistance
Payment Contract (AHAP) to provide Project-Based Voucher assistance to
Bettendorf Pace Supportive Housing development for 19 studio apartments and
2.) Execute all other documents as may be necessary or appropriate to implement
the foregoing.

60 East Van Buren, 12th Floor · Chicago, Illinois 60605 · (312) 913-7282 · www.thecha.org

 