May 18, 2010 Board Meeting
Regular Meeting of the Board of Commissioners
Abraham Lincoln Center
3858 S. Cottage Grove Avenue

1.
2.
3.
4.

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.

1.

2.
3.
4.
5.

6.

7.

Resolutions
Approval of Personnel Action Reports for the month of April 2010.
Recommendation to Submit the final site approval application for Coleman Place, Legends
South Phase C-2.
Recommendation to award contract for Litigation Support Services.
Recommendation to approve Lease Agreement for HCV Satellite Office.

Finance & Audit Committee Report
Recommendation to approve the Third Option Year of Contract with CTG Inc. of Illinois, d/b/a
Novanis for Hewlett Packard Maintenance Service.
Recommendation to approve the Third Option Year of Contract with Fastech, Inc. for Sun
Maintenance Services.
Recommendation to approve the Third Option Year of Contract with Sentinel Technologies for
Cisco Equipment Maintenance Services.
Recommendation to approve the Amendment to the FY2010 Annual Plan.
Recommendation to approve Amendment No. 4 to CHA's Amended and Restated Moving To
Work Agreement.
Recommendation to approve Amendment No. 5 to CHA's Amended and Restated Moving To
Work Agreement.

Operations & Facilities Committee Report
Recommendation to Amend Contract with Siemens Industry Inc. to utilize remaining ARRA
Competitive Grant Funds to implement additional improvements at properties that have already
received prior improvements and Amend Contract with Ameresco, Inc. to complete projects not yet
undertaken.
Recommendation to lease 2915 N. Leavitt to the Boys and Girls Clubs of Chicago.
Authorization to lease 6245 S. Wabash to the Boys & Girls Clubs of Chicago.
Recommendation to modify contract with Tropic Construction for Roof Replacement at Hoyne
Community Center.
Ratification of the Pomeroy Housing Development LLC and Pomeroy Senior Housing Limited
Partnership with related documents needed to close the transaction for the rehabilitation of Pomeroy
Apartments.
Recommendation to Issue CHA Multi-family Housing Revenue Notes; Submit a Mixed Finance
Proposal, Evidentiaries and Disposition Application to HUD; Loan General and Other Funds; Execute a
Ground Lease; Sell the Project Building; Finance the sale through Seller Financing to Pomeroy Senior
Housing Limited Partnership and Execute necessary documents to implement the foregoing.
Recommendation to Award contract for General Contractor Services at Pomeroy Apartments.
Recommended Awardee: McHugh Construction Co.

 8.

1.

2.

Recommendation to Approve the FY2010 Senior Designated Housing Plan.

Tenant Services Committee Report
Recommendation to extend contract with Near West Side Community Development
Corporation for Employment, Clinical and Supportive Case Management Services for the Horner and
West Haven Park.
Recommendation to enter into contract with After School Matters to provide Summer Preapprenticeship Employment Training Program for CHA youth.

 