January 21, 2014 Board Meeting
REGULAR MEETING
OF
THE BOARD OF COMMISIONERS
CHA Corporate Offices
60 East Van Buren, 12th Floor Loft, Chicago, Illinois
Tuesday, January 21, 2014
8:30 a.m.
AGENDA
I. Roll Call
II. Closed Meeting



Commissioners will vote on whether to go into closed meeting pursuant to the Open Meetings Act,
5 ILCS 120/2, to discuss matters under the following exceptions: personnel related matters under
(c)(1); and pending/imminent/probable litigation under (c)(11).

III. Open Session - Roll Call
IV. Centering Thoughts – Commissioner Mildred Harris
V. Approval of Closed and Open Minutes for the meetings of December 17, 2013
VI. Presentation of Resolutions and Committee Reports
Closed Meeting Resolutions ‐ Mark Cozzi, Commissioner
1. Recommendation to approve Contract Amendment for Legal Services with Johnson,
Jones, Snelling, Gilbert & Davis, P.C. for the Gautreaux litigation.
2. Recommendation to approve Contract Amendment for Legal Services with Winston &
Strawn LLP for the Peery vs. CHA matter.
3. Recommendation to approve Contract Amendment for Legal Services with Winston &
Strawn LLP for the Stubenfield vs. CHA matter.
4. Recommendation to approve the two option years of contract with Varga Berger Ledsky
Hayes and Casey, for an amount not-to-exceed $90,500 to serve as CHA's Ethics Officer
and Equal Employment Opportunity Officer.
a. Recommendation to establish a Board Audit Committee.

Personnel Committee Report ‐ Mark Cozzi, Commissioner
5. Resolution amending Chief Executive Officer's Employment Benefits.

Tenant Services Committee Report - Mildred Harris, Chairperson
6. Recommendation to accept an award, not-to-exceed $100,000, from and amend the
Grant Agreement with the Urban Institute for the Housing Opportunities and Services
Together (HOST) Demonstration Project.
7. Recommendation to enter into a Funding Agreement with the Central Advisory Council in
the amount not-to-exceed $535,920.

 Operations & Facilities Committee Report – Bridget Reidy, Chairperson
8. Recommendation to increase the reserve capacity, in the amount not-to-exceed
$45,000,000, for the Indefinite Delivery, Indefinite Quantity Program of the Capital
Construction Department.
9. This Number Not Used.
10. Recommendation to approve the two one-year contract option with Office Depot, not-toexceed $190,000, for the supply and delivery of office supplies.
11. Recommendation to award contract for the Administration of the Housing Choice
Voucher; Project-Based Voucher and Moderate Rehabilitation Programs. Recommended
Awardees; CVR Associates, Inc. and Nan McKay & Associates in the amount of
$53,945,508.
12. Recommendation to approve an Intergovernmental Agreement with the Cook County
Assessor's Office for geographic information system data sharing.

Tenant Services Committee Report - Mildred Harris, Chairperson
13. Recommendation to approve option year of Contract No. 11123 with AON Risk Services
Central, Inc., in an amount not-to-exceed $80,000, for Risk Control Inspections.

VII. Report from Chief Executive Officer – Michael Merchant
VIII. Public Participation
IX. Adjournment

 