REGULAR MEETING
OF
THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
Charles Hayes Family Investment Center
4859 South Wabash, Chicago, Illinois
Tuesday, February 17, 2015
8:30 a.m.

AGENDA
I.

Roll Call

II.

Closed Meeting

Commissioners will vote on whether to go into closed meeting pursuant to the Open
Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2, to possibly discuss matters under the following exceptions:
personnel related matters under (c)(1); purchase, sale and lease of real estate property
under (c)(5) and (c)(6); security procedures under (c)(8); pending/imminent/probable
litigation under (c)(11); review of closed meeting minutes under (c)(21) and audit
reviews under (c)(29).

III.

Open Session - Roll Call

IV.

Centering Thoughts – Commissioner Mildred Harris

V.

Approval of Closed and Open Meeting Minutes for January 20, 2015.

VI.

Presentation of Resolutions and Committee Reports
Tenant Services Committee Report – Mildred Harris, Chairwoman
1. Authorization to approve the Match Unit Mobility Counseling Demonstration Program –
Ellen Sahli, Chief Housing Officer; Mary Howard, Deputy Chief Housing Officer, Resident
Services
Operations and Facilities Committee Report – Bridget Reidy, Chairwoman
2. Authorization to exercise the first one-year option with Constellation NewEnergy Gas
Division, LLC , not-to-exceed $6,496,740 for the supply and delivery of Natural Gas to
various CHA residential sites and facilities – Ellen Sahli, Chief Housing Officer; Tim Veenstra,
Deputy Chief Property Officer
3. Authorization to enter into an Intergovernmental Agreement with the Mayor's Office for
People with Disabilities, in the amount of $460,000 for the administration of the CHA's
Modification Fund – Scott Ammarell, Chief Legal Officer; Amanda Motyka, Manager, ADA/
504 Compliance

 4. Recommendation to award contract for Envelope, Life Safety and Mechanical Systems at
Judge Fisher Apartments. Recommended Awardee: Madison Construction Company, notto-exceed $11,169,220 – Scott Ammarell, Chief Legal Officer; Rodney Thomas, Deputy
Chief, Capital Construction
Finance & Personnel Committee Report – Mark Cozzi, Chairman
5. Recommendation to approve Personnel Actions – Jose Alvarez, Chief Administrative Officer;
Marilyn Jefferson, Vice President, Human Resources
Closed Meeting Resolution
6. Ratification of Altgeld Memorandum of Agreement – Scott Ammarell, Chief Legal Officer.
VII.

Report from Chief Executive Officer – Michael Merchant

VIII.

Public Participation

IX.

Adjournment

2

 