March 15, 2011 Board Meeting
Regular Meeting of the Board of Commissioners

1.
2.

3.
4.

1.
2.

3.
1.

2.

3.

4.
5.
6.

Seward/Stanton Park near Parkside of Old Town
375 W. Elm Street
Resolutions
Personnel Action Reports for the month of February 2011 (Not Approved / No Resolution).
Recommendation to enter into a Land Transfer Agreement between CHA and Target
Corporation for land exchanges within or nearby the former William Green Homes Development; enter
into a Hiring Agreement between CHA and Target Corporation for assistance in Community Outreach
and Job Training Workshops to hire CHA candidates and submit Disposition and Acquisition Applications
to HUD (Pulled from Agenda / No Resolution).
Recommendation to execute a Quit Claim Deed to transfer 1125 W. Roosevelt Road to the City
of Chicago and to execute such other documents as necessary.
Recommendation to extend contract with Annettie Machuca Associates to continue providing
litigation consulting matters, assisting HCV Program's review of files and responding to HUD Office of
the Inspector General Audit Findings.
Finance & Audit Committee Report
Recommendation to approve the second one-year option of contract with Integrys Energy
Services for the supply and delivery of natural gas to various CHA residential sites and facilities.
Recommendation to approve contracts for the Private Manager Insurance Program.
Recommended Awardees: First Specialty Insurance, Illinois Union Insurance and Axis Surplus
Companies.
Recommendation to approve and submit to HUD the FY2010 MTW Annual Report.
Operations and Facilities Committee Report
Recommendation to award contracts for ADA Retrofits at Scattered Sites - Package 6.
Recommended Awardees: Chicago Commercial Contractors, LLC and Coleman Development
Corporation.
Recommendation to award contracts for ADA Retrofits at various Scattered Sites - Package 7.
Recommended Awardees: Old Veterans Construction Company, Koal Enterprises, Inc. and Maxwell
Services, Inc.
Recommendation to submit a Mixed-Finance proposal, Evidentiaries, and Supplemental
Disposition Application to HUD; commit HOPE VI funds and CHA General Funds for Park Boulevard
Phase 2A Rental On-Site Redevelopment; execute a Ground Lease with Park Boulevard IIA, LLC and/or
Stateway Associates LLC for the Stateway Gardens Land comprising the Phase 2A Site and execute and
deliver other documents as may be necessary.
Recommendation to enter into a contract with Stateway Associates, LLC for Environmental
Remediation Activities at the Park Boulevard Phase 2A Rental Redevelopment Site.
Recommendation to approve a Predevelopment Loan Agreement with Stateway Associates,
LLC for Park Boulevard Phase 2B and execute and deliver such other documents as necessary.
Recommendation to approve a Mixed-Finance proposal, Evidentiaries, and Disposition
Modification to HUD; Commit HOPE VI Permanent Loan Funds, CHA General Funds and Program Income
Funds for the Oakwood Shores Phase 2C Redevelopment; execute a Deed to Convey the CHA portion of
the Phase 2C Mixed Use Site in Fee Simple to The Community Builders and execute such other
documents as necessary.

 7.

1.
2.

3.

Recommendation to approve the Lease and Tenant Selection Plan and Continued Occupancy
Policy for Park Boulevard Phase 2A (including all future phases) and to amend the CHA Admission and
Continued Occupancy Policy to incorporate such documents as an addendum thereto.

Tenant Services Committee Report
Recommendation to extend contract with Holsten Real Estate Development Corporation for
community and supportive services at Parkside of Old Town.
Recommendation to exercise the second one-year option to extend contracts with Big O
Movers, Smith Movers, REO Movers, and Midway Moving and Storage for resident relocation moving
services and approve a contingency budget.
Recommendation to approve contract amendment with Screening Reports for tenant screening
services for the HCV Program.

 