April 15, 2015

Item No. 9

AUTHORIZATION TO UPDATE CHA’S ETHICS POLICY
To the Honorable Board of Commissioners:
RECOMMENDATION
The CHA’s Ethics Officer, in conjunction with the Chief Administrative Officer and the Office of
the Chief Legal Officer, is proposing revisions to the CHA’s Ethics Policy to bring it into
conformance with revisions that have been made to the City of Chicago Ethics Code, which
served as the model for the CHA’s Policy when it was revised back in June 2004. Therefore,
we seek the approval of the revised Ethics Policy, which includes, but is not limited to, the
following changes:
1. Adds a Code of Conduct provision, similar to that adopted by the City, which sets forth
straight forward, common sense ethical principles
2. Imposes a mandatory duty on officers and employees to report corrupt or unlawful
activity, and provides “whistle blower” protection for anyone who reports such
activity
3. Strengthens and clarifies the CHA’s gift prohibitions to conform to corresponding
City provisions
4. Provides clear rules for prohibited political activities by incorporating the State
Ethics Act’s relevant provisions
5. Bars officers and employees from working on matters involving a person with whom
they are negotiating future employment and adds a “reverse revolving door”
provision
6. Adds a bullying prohibition requiring that officers and employees treat each other
with dignity and respect
7. Reorganizes the Ethics Policy and makes such other revisions to clarify the Policy’s
intent and bring its provisions into line with the City Ethics Code and state law
The Chief Administrative Officer and the Office of the Chief Legal Officer have completed all
necessary due diligence to support the submission of this initiative and recommend the
approval of this item accordingly.
CORPORATE GOAL
Conduct business with integrity by fostering an environment that cultivates trust, honesty,
loyalty and accountability

 GENERAL BACKGROUND
The proposed revisions to the CHA’s Ethics Policy are based on substantial revisions made to
the City of Chicago Ethics Code in 2012 and 2013. The revisions made to the City of Chicago
Ethics Code were the result of recommendations made by the Chicago Ethics Reform Task
Force, which was appointed by Mayor Emanuel in December 2011 to study best ethical
practices nationally and recommend reforms. The Ethics Reform Task Force encouraged the
City and its sister agencies to “harmonize the ethics rules for the City and the Sister Agencies,
so that the City and these affiliated entities share a common set of ethical standards and
practices,” and recommended further study of sister agency ethics rules. Ethics Reform Task
Force Report, Part II, p. 3, and Part I, p. 55. Upon appointment of the CHA’s Ethics Officer, such
a further study was conducted, resulting in proposed revisions which seek to harmonize the
ethics rules of the City and the CHA. The proposed revisions to the CHA Ethics Policy by and
large are based on the recommendations made by the Ethics Reform Task Force as adopted by
the Chicago City Council in the form of revisions to the City of Chicago Ethics Code.
The Board action recommended in this item complies in all material respects with all applicable
Chicago Housing Authority board policies.
The Chief Administrative Officer concurs with the recommendation to revise the CHA’s Ethics
Policy by adopting the revisions shown on the attached redline copy of the proposed revised
Ethics Policy.
The CEO/President recommends the approval to revise the CHA’s Ethics Policy.

2

 RESOLUTION NO. 2015-CHA-33
WHEREAS,

the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated April 15,
2015 entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO UPDATE CHA’s ETHICS POLICY”;

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY

THAT

the Board of Commissioners approves the attached revised CHA’s Ethics
Policy and authorizes the Chief Executive Officer to implement the revised
CHA’s Ethics Policy on May 1, 2015

3

 