MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING

OF THE

COMMISSIONERS OF THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
October 17, 2006
The Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority held its Regular Meeting on Tuesday,
October 17, 2006, at 8:30 a.m. at Trumbull Park Fieldhouse, 2400 East 105th Street, Chicago,
Illinois.
Chairperson Nesbitt called the meeting to order and upon roll call, those present and absent were
as follows:
Present:
Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Bridget O’Keefe
Carlos Ponce
Mary Wiggins
Absent:

Sandra Young

Also present were Sharon Gist Gilliam, Chief Executive Officer; Adrienne Minley, Chief of
Staff; Gail Niemann, General Counsel; Chicago Housing Authority Staff Members and the
General Public.
There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as
follows:
Sharon Gist Gilliam, Chief Executive Officer, then presented her monthly report. Per Ms.
Gilliam, after seven years chairing these meetings she now has the far easier job of being the
CEO. Unfortunately the CEO’s job is a little more demanding every other day in the month so
she intended to make the most of today’s opportunity and be very brief. Ms. Gilliam then
highlighted several of the items scheduled for Board approval including the 2007 Annual Plan.
Per Ms. Gilliam, this plan embodies CHA’s commitment to see this effort through for as long as
it takes to house every eligible family. Like any plan, it has encountered new obstacles and
challenges along the way but CHA continues to invest heavily in the service connector program
that links CHA residents to the supports they need. Ms. Gilliam continued by saying that the
CHA is balancing its budget by keeping administrative costs low and putting every available
dollar into it’s properties and leveraging four dollars from other public and private sources for
every dollar invested in rebuilding homes for CHA residents. Ms. Gilliam concluded her report
by informing the Board and public at large that it is her honor and privilege to continue leading
the effort with their guidance and support.
The Chairperson then convened the Public Hearing portion of the meeting by inviting residents
and the public at large to address the Board.
Immediately following the Public Hearing portion of the meeting, a Motion was introduced and
seconded to adjourn to Executive Session. The Chairperson announced that pursuant to the
Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2, the Board would adjourn for approximately one (1) hour to
discuss pending, probable or imminent litigation, collective negotiating matters, security and
personnel matters.
The Commissioners subsequently reconvened in Open Session. Chairman Nesbitt thereupon
introduced the Resolutions discussed in Executive Session.
1

 Upon Motion made, properly seconded and carried, the Minutes for the Regular Board Meeting
of September 19, 2006 were then unanimously approved.
Commissioner Harris then presented an Omnibus Motion to approve resolutions for Executive
Session Items 1 and 2.
Executive Session Item 1
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-145
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated October 3, 2006, requesting that the Board of Commissioners
approves the Personnel Actions Report for September 2006.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the Personnel Actions Report for
September 2006.

Executive Session Item 2
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-146
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated October 2, 2006,
requesting authorization to enter into a settlement agreement in the amount of
$900,000 in the matter of Theresa Miller, et al. v. CHA, et al, 03 L 5875, with the
CHA responsible for only $500,000 of the settlement amount with the balance
paid by insurance;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the General Counsel, or her designee, to
enter into a settlement agreement in the total amount of $900,000 in the case of
Theresa Miller, et al. v. CHA, et al, 03 L 5875, with the CHA responsible for
$500,000, or its self-insured retention, of the total settlement amount.

Executive Session Item 3
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-147
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated October 11,
2006, regarding authorization to enter into a settlement agreement in the amount
of $3,500,000.00 between the Chicago Housing Authority and Walsh
Construction Company.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or her
designee to enter into a settlement agreement in the amount of $3,500,000.00
between the Chicago housing Authority and Walsh Construction company.

The Motion to adopt resolutions for Executive Session Items 1 through 3 was seconded by
Commissioner Amey and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Nays:

Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Bridget O’Keefe
Carlos Ponce
Mary Wiggins
None

The Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried and said Resolutions adopted.

2

 In the absence of Committee Chair Young, Commissioner Wiggins then presented the report for
the Tenant Services Committee. Per Commissioner Wiggins the Tenant Services Committee
Meeting was held on Wednesday, October 11 at the 626 Corporate Offices. Meghan Harte,
Managing Director of Resident Services, and her staff presented the Committee with an update
on Workforce Development.
Commissioner Wiggins then introduced an Omnibus Motion for the adoption of the Resolutions
for Items A1 thru A3 discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Tenant
Services Committee.
(Item A1)
The resolution for Item A1 approves a contract with Jane Addams Hull House Association to
continue programs to help prepare the LeClaire Courts Residents for the relocation process
scheduled to start in 2008. Programs to be provided are as follows: The Male Involvement
(“Street Soldier”) Initiative. In this program, male youth learn self-discipline, healthy lifestyle
habits, non-violent alternatives to conflict resolution, and do community service projects. Good
Housekeeping. This full curriculum teaches residents how to safely use equipment and supplies
to maintain their units and pass HQS inspections to maintain or regain lease compliance.
LeClaire Neighborhood (technology) Network. – This state of the art computer lab houses
instructors and mentors who offer students homework assistance and a wide range of adult
computer-learning programs to prepare for workplace readiness and self sufficiency.
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-148
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated October 10, 2006 entitled “Authorization to Enter into a
Contract with Jane Addams Hull House Association to Provide Various Programs
for CHA LeClaire Courts Residents”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer, or her
designee, to enter into a non-competitive contract with Jane Addams Hull House
Association, a non-profit 501(c)(3) corporation, to provide services related to: (1)
a Male Involvement (“Street Soldier”) Initiative; (2) a Good Housekeeping
course; and (3) classes at LeClaire Neighborhood (technology) Network for a
total amount not-to-exceed $264,229.00 for all programs for the period of October
15, 2006 through November 31, 2007.

(Item A2)
The resolution for Item A2 approves the third option of Quadel’s contract for the administration
of the CHA’s Housing Choice Voucher /Section 8 Program. The CHA privatized its Section 8
program in 1995. In 1995, the Section 8 programs served approximately 15,000 families.
Today, the program services over 36,000 families and 15,000 landlords and continues to grow.
In November 2002, the Board of Commissioners authorized the CHA to enter into a new contract
with Quadel, which was the then current Section 8 private administrator and the only respondent
to the CHA’s RFP for a new Section 8 private administrator to administer services for the CHA’s
Housing Choice/Section 8 program. The Board authorized a twenty-five month base term from
December 1, 2002 through December 31, 2004 and included three (3) one-year options. The
third option period for 2007 is exercisable at the CHA’s sole discretion. In the Contract’s current
year (second option period), Quadel has successfully demonstrated progress toward maintaining
High Performer status under the SEMAP criteria and is on target to earn at least 75% of the
Performance Incentive Fee as stipulated in the Contract. In addition, the CHA and Quadel
received 2 Awards of Merit for best practices from the National Association of Housing and
Redevelopment Officials (NAHRO).

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-149
the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed
memorandum dated October 10, 2006, entitled “Authorization to exercise the
Third one (1) year option to extend the contract between Quadel Consulting
Corporation and the Chicago Housing Authority for the Administration of the
Section 8 Programs”;

3

 THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

The Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or her
designee to execute an amendment to Contract No. 0370 with Quadel
Consulting Corporation to extend the contract term for the third one (1) year
option from January 1, 2007 through December 31, 2007 in an amount not-toexceed $24,500,000.00 for the administration of the CHA’s Housing Choice
Voucher/Section 8 Program.

(Item A3)
The resolution for Item A3 approves the form of lease, lease addenda, and tenant selection plan
for Lakefront Properties replacement housing known as Lake Park Crescent Phase 1A (For Sale).
The subject development phase will consist of 13 public housing rental units and 55 (20
affordable and 35 market-rate) homes for sale. The CHA will own the 13 public housing units.
The property specific requirements for applicants contained in the tenant selection plan are based
on the Lake Park Crescent Phase I (Rental) Tenant Selection Plan. The current CHA lease will
be used for the 13 public housing units with an addendum entitled, “Lease Addendum:
Compliance with Project Screening Criteria” as well as a lease addendum for building rules. The
lease addendum related to screening criteria has been used in the leasing of public housing units
in Phase 1 of the development. The authorization of these documents is required at this time to
facilitate the closing of this development transaction. The critical components of the tenant
selection plan were negotiated between the CHA and the Developer during the first phase of the
development of Lake Park Crescent and the developer has acknowledged that the CHA will use
its public housing lease for the units it is acquiring.
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-150
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board letter dated October 10,
2006, entitled “Authorization for approval of the Lease, Lease Addenda, and
Tenant Selection Plan for Lakefront Properties Replacement Housing at Lake
Park Crescent Phase IA (For Sale) and to amend the CHA Admissions and
Continued Occupancy Policy to incorporate such documents as an Addendum
thereto,”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the attached form of lease, lease
addenda, and tenant selection plan in substantially the form presented to the
Board for the Lakefront Properties replacement housing at the development phase
known as Lake Park Crescent Phase 1A. The Chairman of the Board or the Chief
Executive Officer is hereby authorized to approve final changes in these forms,
including, but not limited to, changes based on HUD requirements.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items A1 through A3 was seconded by
Commissioner Gates and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Bridget O’Keefe
Carlos Ponce
Mary Wiggins

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Tenant Services Committee report was also accepted in total.
Commissioner Gates, Chairperson of the Operations Committee, then presented the monthly
report. Per Commissioner Gates, the Operations and Facilities Committee Meeting was held on
Wednesday, October 11, 2006 at 1:30 p.m. at the 626 W. Jackson Corporate offices.

4

 Per Commissioner Gates, the Operations Committee was briefed on Item B1, however this item
was deferred for consideration and voting by the full Board. Commissioner Gates then presented
a Motion for the adoption of the following resolution for Item B1:
(Item B1)
The resolution for Item B1 approves Contract Modification Number G-09 with Walsh
Construction Company for the general renovation of Altgeld Gardens – Phase 1 at 969 East
132nd Place. Contract Modification Number G-09 provides for the purchase of additional
materials needed for the following required work: Painting in units in Phase 1, Blocks 2 and 3,
and Installation of vinyl floor tile in units in Phase 1, Blocks 2 and 3. This additional purchase is
necessary in light of the failure of several Resident Owned Businesses to provide the paint and
tile required for this project. This change is Owner Directed. Based upon the evaluation and
engineering performed by the Prime Design Consultant, the review and recommendation of the
CHA’s Owner’s Representative and Project Executive, and review and approval by the CHA’s
staff, it is in the best interest of the CHA to execute Contract Modification No. G-09 with Walsh.
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-151
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated October 10, 2006,
entitled “Authorization to execute Modification No. G-09 to Contract No. 5090
with Walsh Construction Company for additional materials related to the General
Renovation of Altgeld Gardens (IL2-007) – Phase 1”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or her
designee to execute Contract Modification No. G-09 to Contract No. 5090 with
Walsh Construction Company in the amount of $466,530.96 for additional
materials related to the general renovation of Altgeld Gardens (IL2-007) – Phase
1 at 969 East 132nd Place. The new total contract amount of Contract No. 5090 is
$57,724,432.96.
This Contract Modification is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the
CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident hiring, and bonding and insurance
requirements.

The Motion to adopt resolution for Item B1 was seconded by Commissioner Ponce and the
voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Bridget O’Keefe
Carlos Ponce
Mary Wiggins

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolution adopted.
(Item B2)
In an effort to consolidate Dearborn Homes and prepare the area for modernization, residents
must be moved into designated consolidation areas. In the designated consolidation area, units
need to be made ready for occupancy by current Dearborn Homes resident households.
Accordingly, the resolution for Item B2 authorizes Habitat, Property Manager for Dearborn
Homes, to enter into contract with H.L.F Construction Company for the completion of 107 make
ready units at Dearborn Homes. The Habitat Company advertised an Invitation For Bid in area
newspapers; of the four bids received, H. L. F. Construction Co. was found to be the lowest
responsive responsible bidder.

5

 Commissioner Gates then presented a Motion for the approval of the following resolution for
Item B2, discussed, voted and recommended for approval by the Operations Committee.
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-152
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
memorandum dated October 11, 2006 entitled “Authorization for the Habitat
Company to enter into a contract with H. L. F. Construction Co., Inc. for MakeReady Units at Dearborn Homes”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

The Board of Commissioners authorizes the Habitat Company to enter into a
contract with H. L. F. Construction Co., Inc. for the completion of 107 makeready units at Dearborn Homes in an amount of $2,045,753.00.

The Motion to adopt resolution for Item B2 was seconded by Commissioner Ivers and the voting
was as follows:
Ayes:
Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Bridget O’Keefe
Carlos Ponce
Mary Wiggins
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolution adopted.
(Item B3)
Similar to Item B2, the resolution for Item B3 authorizes The Woodlawn Community
Development Corporation to enter into contract with Coleman Development Corporation for
make ready units at the Harold Ickes Development. An Invitation For Bid was advertised in area
newspapers, and of the three bids received Coleman Development Corporation was found to be
the lowest responsive and responsible bidder.
Commissioner Gates then advised the Board that even though Item B3 was not presented at
Committee, it was properly Noticed-up. Commissioner Gates then presented a Motion for the
approval of the following resolution for Item B3:
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-153
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
memorandum dated October 11, 2006 entitled “Authorization for the Woodlawn
Community Development Corp. to enter into a contract with Coleman
Development Corporation for Make Ready Units at the Harold Ickes
Development”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

The Board of Commissioners authorizes the Woodlawn Community Development
Corp. to enter into a contract with Coleman Development Corp for the completion
of 136 make-ready units at the Harold Ickes Development in an amount of
$2,105,839.23.

The Motion to adopt resolution for Item B3 was seconded by Commissioner Ivers and the voting
was as follows:
Ayes:
Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
6

 Bridget O’Keefe
Carlos Ponce
Mary Wiggins
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolution adopted. The Operations and Facilities Committee report was also accepted
in total.
Commissioner O’Keefe, Chairperson of the Finance & Audit Committee, then presented her
monthly report. Per Commissioner O’Keefe, the Finance & Audit Committee Meeting was held
on Wednesday, October 11, 2006 at 2:00 p.m. at the 626 Corporate Office. The Deputy Chief
Financial Officer and his staff presented the Committee with the Treasury and Cash Flow Report
for the month of August 2006.
Commissioner O’Keefe then introduced an Omnibus Motion for the adoption of Resolutions for
Items C1 thru C5 discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Finance and
Audit Committee.
(Item C1)
The CHA is required to submit for approval by the Board, a balanced Annual Comprehensive
Budget detailing each of the following: General Fund, Section 8 Non-MTW, HOPE VI and
Other Funding Programs, and the use for these funds. The FY2006 budgeted expenditures have
been revised from $928,807,877 to $913,768,588, resulting in a $15,039,289 decrease. The
major changes by funding source are as follows: General Fund - total revenues and associated
expenditures decreased by $14,950,617 for a fund total of $831,906,024. The decrease is
primarily due to adjustments to cash flow projections for revitalization and rehabilitation
activities at various CHA properties. Section 8 Non-MTW remained unchanged at $24,844,180.
Hope VI Fund – total revenues and associated expenditures decreased by $203,841 for a fund
total of $37,982,072. The decrease is primarily due to adjustments to cash flow projections for
the redevelopment of Abla and Cabrini River Village sites. City/State remained unchanged at
$1,810,655. Other Funding - the total revenues and associated expenditures increased by
$115,169 for a fund total of $17,225,657. This is primarily due to an increase in projected
spending for the Section 3 program. Accordingly, the resolution for Item C1 approves the
revised 2006 Comprehensive Budget.
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-154
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board letter dated October 10,
2006, entitled “Approval of the Revised 2006 Comprehensive Budget”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners, hereby approves the attached budget amendments,
“The FY2006 Comprehensive Budget Amendment #3”, and finds with respect to
said Budget:

1.

2.

3.

that the proposed expenditures are necessary for the efficient and
economical operation of the Chicago Housing Authority for the purpose of
serving low-income families;
that the financial plan is reasonable in that it indicates funding sources
adequate to cover all proposed expenditures, and does not provide for use
of Federal funding in excess of that payable under the provisions of the
applicable Federal regulations; and
that all proposed rental charges and expenditures will be consistent with
provisions of law and the Annual Contributions Contract in accordance
with the Moving To Work Demonstration Agreement of the Chicago
Housing Authority with the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development.

7

 THAT,

the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer are authorized to execute
and forward to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development all
necessary budget documents and supporting information when applicable.

(Item C2)
The CHA’s current contracts for employee healthcare plan benefits terminate on December 31,
2006 and must be replaced effective January 1, 2007. HUD has previously authorized the CHA
to utilize its insurance Broker of Record, Mesirow Financial, to solicit competitive insurance
bids on behalf of the CHA. Accordingly, Mesirow Financial solicited quotes from 29 healthcare
insurance providers in July 2006. Although the renewal premium quotes received from all
medical carriers were favorable to the CHA when compared to the national trend rates, CIGNA
Healthcare quoted an approximate 5% reduction from the original renewal premiums for the
same benefits. First Commonwealth dental offered a two year guaranteed rate with a minimal
increase of 3% above current rates and provides an extensive network of providers for both the
PPO and DHMO dental plans. The 3% rate increase is lower than market trends. Davis Vision’s
quote was extremely favorable to the CHA. There is no increase in premiums and rates are
guaranteed for two years, and overall employee satisfaction has been favorable. Compared to the
other insurers that provided competitive quotes for medical, dental and vision, CIGNA
Healthcare, First Commonwealth and Davis Vision’s plans offered a better overall value to the
CHA and its eligible participants. For life, STD and LTD insurance, Prudential offered the most
competitive rates and did a better job of addressing the CHA’s current plan design request.
Accordingly, the resolution for Item C2 approves award of contracts to CIGNA, First
Commonwealth, Davis Vision and Prudential for employee health benefit plan. This resolution
also approves an increase in participant’s contributions effective January 1, 2007. The new
proposed employee contribution rates are modest compared to market trends and private
employers and are competitive with sister agencies as well as other governmental entities.

RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-155
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Memorandum dated October 10, 2006, entitled “Authorization to enter into
contracts with CIGNA, First Commonwealth, Davis Vision, and Prudential for
the CHA’s Employee Health Benefit Plan and Authorization to increase
Employee Contribution Rates”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority authorizes the
Chief Executive Officer or her designee to enter into contracts for the CHA’s
Employee Health Benefit Plans for the period of January 1, 2007 to December 31,
2007 with options to extend the contracts for one additional one-year term with
the following providers: (1) CIGNA HealthCare (medical) in an amount not-toexceed $4,600,000 for the base term and subject to funding availability, an
amount not-to-exceed $4,800,000.00 for the option year; (2) First
Commonwealth, a subsidiary of Guardian (dental) in an amount not-to-exceed
$250,000 and subject to funding availability, an amount not-to-exceed
$250,000.000 for the option year; (3) Davis Vision in an amount not-to-exceed
$43,000 and subject to funding availability, an amount not-to-exceed $43,000.00
for the option year; and (4) Prudential Life (Life, STD and LTD) in an amount
not-to-exceed $270,000 and subject to funding availability, an amount not-toexceed $270,000.000 for the option year for the for an aggregate amount not-toexceed $5,163,000 for FY 2007 and subject to funding availability, an aggregate
amount not-to-exceed $5,363,000.00 for FY 2008.

THAT

the Board authorizes the Chicago Housing Authority to increase the employee’s
healthcare benefit plan contribution rates.

(Item C3)
The resolution for Item C3 approves for submittal to HUD the FY2007 Annual Plan, Year 8.
The FY2007 Annual Plan outlines the steps that the CHA will take during FY2007 to achieve the
key goals and commitments set forth in the Plan for Transformation. To ensure community and
resident input on the FY2007 Annual Plan, the CHA held a public comment period from
September 7, 2006 to October 6, 2006. A public hearing was held on September 19, 2006 at the
8

 Harold Washington Library. The CHA has reviewed and responded to public comments, which
will be included in the FY2007 Annual Plan for submission to HUD. To this end, the CHA has
complied with the requirements of the MTW Agreement and HUD regulations regarding annual
plans. The CHA requests that the Board of Commissioners attest to the compliance by approving
the FY2007 Annual Plan. The CHA will submit the FY2007 Annual Plan to HUD on November
2, 2006.
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-156
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated October 10,
2006 requesting approval of the FY2007 Annual Plan – Plan for Transformation
Year 8, attached hereto;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners approves the attached FY2007 Annual Plan – Plan
for Transformation Year 8, and grant authorization to submit these documents to
the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development on November 2, 2006.

(Item C4)
The resolution for Item C4 approves acceptance of a MacArthur Grant in the amount of
$200,000 to develop a comprehensive community development plan for the Dearborn and Ickes
community area and increase the FY2006 comprehensive budget accordingly. The CHA will
work with the City of Chicago Department of Planning and Development to develop a formal
revitalization plan for the Dearborn and Ickes community area. Such planning will capitalize
upon advantages unique to the community area, such as proximity to highly desirable areas of
Chicago, designated TIFs, increased private market investment, and employment opportunities.
It is critical that the CHA obtain the resources necessary to understand, anticipate, and mitigate
potential threats to community renewal and ensure sustainable resident integration in each of
these communities. The MacArthur Foundation’s Program on Human and Community
Development’s emphasis on improving the lives of residents within Chicago’s poorest
communities is well in alignment with the outcomes of the community development plan for this
community area.
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-157
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated October 10, 2006 entitled “Recommendation to accept a
Grant Award from the MacArthur Foundation, increase the FY2006
Comprehensive Budget and enter into a Sub-Grantee Agreement with the City of
Chicago Department of Planning and Development to develop a Comprehensive
Community Development Plan for the Dearborn and Ickes Community Area.”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or her
designee to accept a grant award from the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur
Foundation in the amount of $200,000.00 to enter into a sub-grantee agreement
with the City of Chicago Department of Planning and Development to develop a
comprehensive community development plan for the Dearborn and Ickes
community area and increase the FY2006 comprehensive budget by $200,000.

(Item C5)
The resolution for Item C5 approves amendment of a Service Agreement between CHA and
Windows of Opportunity through the addition of $100,000 in supplemental funding. This
supplemental award will allow Windows of Opportunity, Inc. to continue performing the
following services for the CHA: raise funds for new and ongoing resident initiatives, serve as
fiscal sponsor to local/community based organizations that serve CHA communities and
residents, serve as fiscal administrator to the CHA, receiving grants or contributions whose
acceptance requires a nonprofit status; form and maintain partnerships/linkages with outside
community groups, service providers, and funding sources; work with CHA staff and residents
to identify gaps in services and seek resources to fill those gaps; and facilitate Windows of
Opportunity performance of its role as administrator for certain responsibilities in the CHA’s
Section 3 Educational Fund. In addition, the supplemental funding will enable Windows of
Opportunity to complete its transition to further independence from the CHA by supporting its
9

 development of staff and institutional resources necessary to seek, identify and secure funding
opportunities for program activities from various third party sources.
RESOLUTION NO. 2006 – CHA –158
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated October 10, 2006, entitled “Authorization to Amend a Service
Agreement between CHA and Windows of Opportunity, Inc. for Professional
Services and Administration” and concurs with the recommendations therein;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

It is recommended that the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief
Executive Officer or her designee to amend the existing service agreement with
Windows of Opportunity, Inc., through the addition of $100,000 in supplemental
funding covering professional services and administration rendered during the
second year of the two (2) year base term of the contract, resulting in an updated
not-to-exceed amount of $215,898.00 for the second year of the service
agreement. Any future elections to exercise any of the three (3) one-year
extension options remain subject to Board approval and availability of funds.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items C1 thru C5 was seconded by Commissioner
Harris and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Bridget O’Keefe
Carlos Ponce
Mary Wiggins

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Finance and Audit report was also accepted in total.
There being no further business to come before the Commissioners, upon Motion made,
seconded and carried, the meeting of the Board of Commissioners was adjourned.

s/b:

s/b:

Lee Gill, Custodian and
Keeper of Records

10

Martin Nesbitt
Chairperson

 