MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING
OF THE
COMMISSIONERS OF THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
January 17, 2012
The Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority held its Regular Meeting of the Board of
Commissioners on Tuesday, January 17, 2012 at approximately 8:40 a.m. at the Fusco Park
Fieldhouse, 1312 south Racine in Chicago, IL.
Chairwoman Z. Scott called the meeting to order and upon roll call, those present and absent
were as follows:
Present:
Deverra Beverly
Adela Cepeda
Mark Cozzi
Dr. Mildred Harris
Myra King
Z. Scott
Sandra Young
Absent:

Bridget Reidy

Also present were Charles Woodyard, Chief Executive Officer; Kris Warren, Chief of Staff;
Scott Ammarell, General Counsel; Chicago Housing Authority Staff Members and the General
Public.
There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as
follows:
Upon Motion made and properly seconded, the Commissioners adjourned to Executive Session.
Chairwoman Scott, announced that pursuant to the Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2, the Board
would adjourn for approximately one hour to possibly discuss pending, probable or imminent
litigation, personnel related matters, collective negotiating matters, purchase sale and lease of
real estate property; establishment of reserves and settlement of claims.
The Commissioners subsequently reconvened in Open Session and Chairwoman Scott thereupon
convened the Business and Public portion of the meeting.
Upon Motion made by Commissioner Young and properly seconded by Commissioner Harris,
the Committee Minutes for November 9, 2011 and Minutes for the December 20, 2011 Board
Meetings were unanimously approved.
Commissioner Adela Cepeda, Chairwoman of the Finance and Audit Committee, then presented
the following report. Per Commissioner Cepeda, due to a lack of quorum, the Noticed Joint
Finance & Audit and Operations & Facilities Committee Meeting was not held on Wednesday,
January 11, 2012. Staff, however, met with Commissioners to brief them on items appearing on
the agenda.
Commissioner Cepeda then presented an Omnibus Motion for adoption of the Resolutions for
Items A1, A3, A4 and A5.
(Item A1)
The resolution for Item A1 approves the one year contract option extension of Contract No. 1013
with Pedelty Enterprises, LLC for consulting services related to CHA’s Strategic Plan. Since
2010, Pedelty Enterprises has assisted the CHA with numerous strategic planning efforts to
include the creation of a detailed transition plan that ended the court receivership under the
provisions of the Gautreaux vs. CHA order, tactical and strategic planning intervention to
support the executive team and the facilitation of Leadership and Board of Commissioner biannual retreats. As the CHA plans to recalibrate and revise the Plan for Transformation under
the guidance of the newly appointed Chief Executive Officer, this extension option will focus on
1

 ensuring that the current management team is organized to fit the new vision of the agency.
This will include an emphasis on Executive Coaching for the Executive team members reporting
to the Chief Executive Officer in an effort to further the success of the agency’s strategic
alignment, and to enhance sound customer service relationships between all levels of partners
and agency stakeholders
RESOLUTION NO. 2012-CHA-1
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated January 11, 2012,
entitled “Authorization to exercise option year one for Contract No. 1013
(“Contract”) with Pedelty Enterprises, LLC for Consulting Services related to
CHA’s Strategic Plan.”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to exercise the one year contract option extension of Contract No. 1013
with Pedelty Enterprises, LLC for consulting services related to CHA’s Strategic
Plan, from March 1, 2012 through February 28, 2013, in an amount not-toexceed $240,000.”

(Item A2 – THIS NUMBER NOT USED)

(Item A3)
The resolution for Item A3 approves an Agreement to enter into a Housing Assistance Payment
(AHAP) Contract for Boxelder Court, LLC and amend the Housing Assistance Payment (HAP)
Contract for Nuestro Hogar. Boxelder Court is a vintage courtyard 18-unit building located at
6205 S. Langley in the Woodlawn neighborhood. The sponsor, Brinshore Development has
nearly 20 years of experience and has completed more than 30 tax credit projects comprised of
over 2,800 apartments and homes valued at more than $450 million. The tenant selection plan
for the proposed 6 Property Rental Assistance (PRA) units provides a preference for families
with severe and persistent mental illness. Thresholds will provide the supportive services to the
individuals and families in the proposed PRA units. The remaining 12 unassisted units will be
rented to working families. The 6 PRA units are two-bedroom/1 bath units that range from 942962 square feet. The proposed rents are $650-$700/ per month and are comparable with market
rents for the neighborhood. Nuestro Hogar consists of 31 units located in two existing
multifamily buildings located at 3655 W. Wabansia and 4101 W. Kamerling, both in the
Humboldt Park community. There are currently 11 Project Based Voucher (PBV) units at
Nuestro Hogar. This resolution amends the existing 30-year HAP contract and adds 1 additional
vacant three-bedroom unit thereby making the total number of contract units in Nuestro Hogar
12 (39%). The sponsor, Bickerdike Redevelopment Corporation, has over 42 years of
developing and managing affordable housing. The Bickerdike portfolio consists of more than
1,000 affordable units of housing. On October 13, 2010, CHA approved 8 units located in these
two buildings selected through the Regional Housing Initiative (RHI) evaluation process.
Applicants from CHA’s waiting lists will be referred for this unit. The proposed PRA rent is
$1,062/per month and is comparable with market rent units.
RESOLUTION NO. 2012-CHA-2
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board letter dated January 11, 2012, requesting authorization to 1) execute an
Agreement to Enter into a Housing Assistance Payment (AHAP) Contract for
Boxelder Court, LLC; 2) Amend the Housing Assistance Payment (HAP)
Contract for Nuestro Hogar; and 3) execute all other documents as may be
necessary or appropriate to implement the foregoing.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to 1) execute an Agreement to Enter into a Housing Assistance Payment
(AHAP) Contract for Boxelder Court, LLC; 2) Amend the Housing Assistance
Payment (HAP) Contract for Nuestro Hogar; and 3) execute all other documents
as may be necessary or appropriate to implement the foregoing.

2

 (Item A4)
The resolution for Item A4 approves an Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) with the Chicago
Police Department (CPD) for supplemental police services for FY2012. The IGA for 2012
provides for the specialized policing programs at Altgeld/Murray, Henry Horner/Westhaven,
Lake Park Place, Oakwood Shores, Jackson Square, Parkside/Seward Park and other CHA
communities as assigned. These specialized services include: dedicated watches on CHA
locations as needed; increased police services including increased foot patrols; customized
policing strategy; attendance at monthly community security meetings; monitoring and
prevention of gang activities; monitoring of drug and other illegal activities attendance at all
court hearings for all arrests made by the police officers. In addition to these services the CPD
will continue to provide statistics, and relevant data including crime reports.
RESOLUTION NO. 2012 CHA-3
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letters dated January 11,
2012, entitled, “AUTHORIZATION TO EXECUTE ENTER INTO AN
INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT WITH THE CITY OF CHICAGO
POLICE DEPARTMENT FOR SUPPLEMENTAL POLICE SERVICES FOR
FY 2012”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into an Intergovernmental Agreement with the Chicago Police
Department for a one (l) year period from January 1, 2012 through December 31,
2012 for amount not-to-exceed $6,000,000.00 to ensure various CHA sites have
supplemental police services

(Item A5)
The Housing For Chicagoans Everywhere (HCE) Program is a component to the CHA’s overall
revitalization program. The HCE program provides the opportunity for the Selected Respondents
to participate as either a mixed-finance developer or turnkey developer. A mixed-finance
developer will propose projects utilizing CHA funding as a portion of the project financing
during the development of mixed income projects delivering public housing units. Turnkey
developers will propose infill housing projects which deliver completed public housing units in a
mixed income setting, paid for upon delivery. The HCE RFQ is released on a semiannual/periodic basis to enable developers to enroll and participate in the program throughout the
year. CHA advertised a Request for Qualification (RFQ) in August 2011. The RFQ was
advertised in area newspapers and on CHA’s website. Five Qualifications were received for
Mixed Finance Method and one for the Turnkey Method. These two development methods
attract a wide range of small and large Developers. After the committee completed its analysis of
the Qualifications for Mixed Finance and Turnkey Method, three firms scored within that range
for the Mixed Finance Method: The Michaels Development Company; McCormack Baron
Salazar, Inc.; and Boulevard Group and Mercy Housing Lakefront. Turnstone Development
Corporation and DSR Group, Inc. were selected for the Turnkey Method. Accordingly, the
resolution for Item A5 authorizes the Chief Executive Officer to establish and maintain the
below list of pre-qualified housing developers and development teams.
RESOLUTION NO. 2012-CHA-4
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated January 11,
2012, entitled, “Authorization to establish and maintain a list of pre-qualified
housing developers and development teams for the Housing For Chicagoans
Everywhere (“HCE”) Program to provide replacement housing units to the
Chicago Housing Authority for public housing eligible families.”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to establish and maintain the list below of pre-qualified housing
developers and development teams for the Housing For Chicagoans Everywhere
(“HCE”) Program to provide replacement housing units to the Chicago Housing
Authority for public housing eligible families.

3

 Mixed Finance Developers
Boulevard Group and Mercy Housing
Lakefront
McCormack Baron Salazar Inc.
The Michaels Development Company

Turnkey Method Developer
Turnstone Development Corporation
and DSR Group, Inc. (Joint Venture)

The Motion to adopt resolutions for Items A1, A3, A4 and A5 was seconded by Commissioner
Young and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Deverra Beverly
Adela Cepeda
Mark Cozzi
Dr. Mildred Harris
Myra King
Z. Scott
Sandra Young
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, Chairwoman Scott thereupon declared said Motion
carried and said resolutions adopted.
Commissioner Sandra Young, Chairwoman of the Tenant Services Committee, then presented
her report. Per Commissioner Young, due to a lack of quorum, the Tenant Services Committee
scheduled for January 11th was cancelled. Staff, however, met with Commissioners and
provided background information on the items listed on the agenda.
Commissioner Young then presented an Omnibus Motion for adoption of the Resolutions for
Items B1 and B2.
(Item B1)
The resolution for Item B1 approves an intergovernmental agreement with the City Colleges of
Chicago (CCC) to support self-sufficiency for families by creating a continuum of education and
training opportunities that allow CHA residents to advance over time to progressively higher
levels of education, and obtain certification and employment that should ultimately result in
better paying careers in areas of economic importance. Under the IGA, existing degree and
certification programs have continued to be made available to CHA residents at no cost in a
variety of industries. In addition, CHA and CCC have collaborated to develop specialized
training programs (e.g. Pathways to Green Jobs) that have enabled residents needing more
extensive educational support to move towards entry into degree and certification programs or
directly to employment. This IGA also provides funding for three part-time coordinators at CCC
who are dedicated to support residents as they attend educational programs. As of December
2011, 233 residents have completed a degree/certificate program and an additional 108 are
currently enrolled in programs. In addition, 93% of 2011 program registrants have completed or
still remain in their degree/certificate program, an 8% increase in retention from 2010. CCC
staff have conducted educational sessions with CHA case management providers (e.g.
FamilyWorks), and over 510 residents have attended an orientation.
RESOLUTION NO. 2012-CHA-5
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated January 11, 2012, entitled, “RECOMMENDATION TO
ENTER INTO AN INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT WITH THE
CITY COLLEGES OF CHICAGO FOR EDUCATIONAL SERVICES”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer, or his
designee, to enter into an intergovernmental agreement with the City Colleges of
Chicago (“IGA”) for the period of January 1, 2012 through December 31, 2012 in
an amount not-to-exceed $1,000,000.

(Item B2)
The CHA released a Request For Proposal in September 2011 to solicit consultants and/or firms
to coordinate subsidized employment opportunities for CHA adults at Summer Food Service
Program (SFSP) and Golden Diner Program GDP sites. The RFP was advertised in the Chicago
area newspapers, the CHA website, and BuySpeed. The CHA also directly solicited 292 firms,
4

 including 75 MBE/WBE/DBE firms. Of the three proposals received, it was determined that
Educational Data Systems, Inc. (EDSI) would provide the best overall service and value to CHA.
The SFSP provides a nutritious breakfast and lunch to children between the ages of 3 to 18. The
GDP provides nutritious full-course meals for seniors age 60 and older (and their spouse of any
age) who may have limited mobility and lack the incentive to prepare meals and eat alone. EDSI
currently operates Chicago ServiceWorks, the City’s Workforce Center for Businesses in the
Hospitality/Service sector. Additionally, EDSI has collaborated with CHA FamilyWorks
providers to provide staff with training and education on hotel, restaurant, retail, customer
service jobs and related employment services, and has received contracts to provide employment
services through the Partnership for New Communities’ Opportunity Chicago. EDSI will work
with residents to improve job skills, secure training and employment within the hospitality sector
through these work experience programs. Accordingly, the resolution for Item B2 approves
award of contract to EDSI to provide training and employment placement services for the
Summer Food and Golden Program sites.
RESOLUTION NO. 2012-CHA-6
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated January 11, 2012, entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO ENTER
INTO A CONTRACT WITH EDUCATIONAL DATA SYSTEMS, INC. TO
PROVIDE TRAINING AND EMPLOYMENT PLACEMENT AT SUMMER
FOOD AND GOLDEN DINER PROGRAM SITES”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into a contract with Educational Data Systems, Inc. for a 2 year
base term in an amount not-to-exceed $2,712,398.00, and with 2 one-year options,
to provide training and subsidized work experiences for CHA residents at the
Summer Food Service Program and Golden Diner Program sites.

The Motion to adopt resolutions for Items B1 and B2 was seconded by Commissioner Harris and
the voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Deverra Beverly
Adela Cepeda
Mark Cozzi
Dr. Mildred Harris
Myra King
Z. Scott
Sandra Young
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, Chairwoman Scott thereupon declared said Motion
carried and said resolutions adopted.
Mr. Woodyard, Chief Executive Officer, commenced his report by announcing the Recalibration
of the Plan for Transformation. Per the CEO, over the next few months, CHA will undertake an
extensive effort to engage a wide spectrum of stakeholders and experts who are involved and
affected by the Plan for Transformation. There will be a series of input sessions led by external
facilitators that are designed to capture lessons learned and best practices from the first 12 years
of the Plan For Transformation. The CEO concluded his remarks by inviting the public at large
to leave their contact information at the Sign-in desk so they could be alerted to the launching of
CHA’s website that will report on the progress of the Plan For Transformation 2.0.
Chairwoman Scott then invited residents and the public at large to address the Board.
There being no further business to come before the Commissioners, upon Motion made,
seconded and carried, the meeting of the Board of Commissioners was adjourned

s/b:

s/b:

___________________________
Lee Chuc-Gill, Custodian and
Keeper of Records
5

_______________________________
Z. Scott
Chairwoman, Chicago Housing Authority

 