ITEM NO. A2

December 15, 2010

AUTHORIZATION TO ENTER INTO A CONTRACT WITH
CORPORATION FOR SUPPORTIVE HOUSING TO CONDUCT AN ASSESSMENT OF
RESIDENTS IN SAFE HARBOR STATUS
To the Honorable Board of Commissioners:
RECOMMENDATION
It is recommended that the Board of Commissioners (“Board”) authorize the Chief Executive
Officer or his designee to execute a fixed fee contract with the Corporation for Supportive
Housing (“CSH”) in the amount of $344,769 for a six (6) month term, to conduct a needs
assessment of Chicago Housing Authority (“CHA”) residents who have received multiple Safe
Harbor designations.
FUNDING
General Fund
Vendor:

Corporation for Supportive Housing
50 Broadway, 17th Floor
New York, New York 10004
Specification No. 10-00601
Contract Type: Fixed Fee
Contract Period: Six (6) Months
Contract Amount: $344,769
Option Period: None

Date Advertised: 9/17/2010
Pre-Proposal Conference: 9/23/2010
Date Proposals Due: 10/13/2010
Advertisement Publications:
Chicago Sun-Times
Chicago Defender
El Dia
Number of Pick-Ups: 25
Number of Proposals Received: 2
Number of Vendors Solicited: 268
(Including 177 MBE/WBE/DBE Firms)

CORPORATION FOR SUPPORTIVE HOUSING:
M/W/DBE Participation:
Direct: ____%MBE ___ %WBE ___%DBE
Indirect: ___%MBE ___%WBE ___%DBE
Waiver __X_ PENDING
Section 3:__3__ (#) Hiring _____ ($) Subcontracting _____ ($) Other Economic
Opportunities

60 East Van Buren Street · Chicago, Illinois 60605-1207 · (312) 913-7282 · www.thecha.org

 GENERAL BACKGROUND
In 2009, CHA extended a work requirement to all public housing units through an amendment to
CHA’s Admissions and Continued Occupancy Policy (“ACOP”), with the exception of
developments that operate under a consent decree (i.e., Cabrini Green Homes and Henry Horner
Homes). The CHA work requirement requires that every adult authorized member of a public
housing unit, aged 18 to age 62, is required to be employed at least 20 hours per week unless the
resident or authorized adult member of the household is granted a Safe Harbor. Residents may
also meet the work requirement through any combination of employment, attendance at an
accredited school, institution, training program, job readiness, GED or literacy program,
internship, or work experience opportunity. Volunteer or community service opportunities are
also allowable, provided that the volunteer or community service is verified and constitutes no
more than 50% of the required hours for the first two years of compliance. When residents are
unable to comply with the work requirement, they can request Safe Harbor consideration by
showing that he/she legitimately attempted to comply with the work requirement and are still
unable to secure employment or otherwise fully meet the work requirement. Residents who are
approved by the CHA for Safe Harbor status are required to undergo an interim Safe Harbor reexamination with their property manager every 90 calendar days.
CHA has procured CSH to conduct an assessment and analysis of individuals who have received
multiple Safe Harbor designations. CSH will be working with a subcontractor, the Social
IMPACT Research Center (“IMPACT”), the research department of Heartland Alliance for
Human Needs and Human Rights, in order to better understand the needs, characteristics and
situations of this target population. CSH is a leader in providing expertise in regard to the
integration of affordable housing and social services for families. Both directly and through
partnerships with research institutes such as IMPACT, CSH also has significant experience
performing research, program evaluations and needs assessments to better understand the
housing and social services needs of vulnerable populations.
CSH and IMPACT, in close collaboration with CHA, will develop an assessment tool that will
answer key questions necessary to assess service needs for individuals who have received
multiple Safe Harbor designations. CSH will assess approximately 600 individuals throughout
CHA’s portfolio who fall within this target population. Upon completion of the assessment,
CSH will provide CHA with a detailed analysis to determine the characteristics, barriers and
service needs. Subgroup and cluster analysis will be conducted to determine if characteristics
differ by identifiable factors (e.g. educational obtainment, employment history, etc). The
assessment and resulting analysis will allow CHA to determine how to better address the needs
of this population.
PROCUREMENT HISTORY
The CHA advertised an RFP on September 17, 2010 to solicit consultants and firms to conduct
an assessment of the identified population of residents with multiple Safe Harbor designations to
better understand the social service needs and to inform a strategy for eviction avoidance. The
RFP was advertised in the Chicago Sun-Times, the Chicago Defender, El Dia, the CHA website,
and BuySpeed (e-procurement system). The CHA also directly solicited 268 firms, including
177 MBE/WBE/DBE firms and 70 assist agencies. A pre-proposal meeting was held on
September 23, 2010, with vendors representing four firms in attendance. The CHA received two
60 East Van Buren Street · Chicago, Illinois 60605-1207 · (312) 913-7282 · www.thecha.org

 (2) proposals on October 13, 2010. An Evaluation Committee consisting of five (5) members
evaluated the proposals.
After the Evaluation Committee completed its analysis of the proposals, the Contracting Officer
identified the competitive range. One (1) firm was found to be in the competitive range. An oral
presentation was held with the one (1) firm on November 8, 2010.
Negotiations were held
with the firm and a best and final offer was requested and submitted. Based upon the evaluations
of the written proposals, oral presentations, and the best and final offer, it was determined that
the Corporation for Supportive Housing would provide the best overall service and value to CHA
to conduct this needs assessment.
Based upon the foregoing, it is in the best interest of the CHA to authorize the Chief Executive
Officer, or his designee, to enter into a fixed fee contract with the Corporation for Supportive
Housing in the amount of $344,769 for a period of six (6) months, to conduct a needs assessment
of CHA residents who have received multiple Safe Harbor designations.

60 East Van Buren Street · Chicago, Illinois 60605-1207 · (312) 913-7282 · www.thecha.org

 RESOLUTION NO. 2010-CHA-161
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated December 15, 2010, entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO
ENTER INTO A CONTRACT WITH CORPORATION FOR SUPPORTIVE
HOUSING TO CONDUCT AN ASSESSMENT OF RESIDENTS IN SAFE
HARBOR STATUS”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into a fixed fee contract with the Corporation for Supportive
Housing in the amount of $344,769, to conduct a needs assessment of CHA
residents who have received multiple Safe Harbor designations.

60 East Van Buren Street · Chicago, Illinois 60605-1207 · (312) 913-7282 · www.thecha.org

 