March 16, 2010 Board Meeting
Regular Meeting of the Board of Commissioners

1.
2.

1.

2.
3.
4.
5.

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.

1.
2.

Daniel Hudson Apartments
1930 W. Loyola Avenue
Resolutions
Approval of Personnel Action Reports for the month of February 2010.
Settlement Agreement in the matter of Lisette Berberena, as Mother/Next of Friend of Tyrone
Stoutmire, Jr. v. CHA.

Finance & Audit Committee Report
Recommendation to award contracts for the Private Manager Insurance Program’s General and
Excess Liability Insurance Coverages. Recommended Awardees: Liberty Mutual Insurance, Illinois Union
Insurance and Axis Surplus Companies.
Recommendation to contract with Wilson Yard Senior Apartments to provide 20 Project Based
Vouchers for low-income seniors.
Recommendation to approve and submit to HUD the FY2009 Moving To Work Annual Report.
Recommendation to approve and submit to HUD Amendment No. 3 to CHA's Amended and
Restated Moving To Work Agreement.
Ratification of Acceptance of a Renewal Grant Award from HUD and enter into a Sub-grantee
Agreement with Heartland Human Care Services to continue the implementation of the Family SelfSufficiency Program.

Operations & Facilities Committee Report
Recommendation to exercise First Option Year with Integrys Energy Services, for the supply
and delivery of Natural Gas to various CHA residential sites and facilities.
Recommendation to Award Contract for the Family Housing Renovation at Dearborn Homes,
Phase 5. Recommended Awardee: Walsh Construction.
Recommendation to Award Contract for Authority-wide Construction Management Services.
Recommended Awardee: Partnership for Transformation.
Recommendation to submit an Acquisition Application to HUD, enter into a Purchase
Agreement with RS Homes II LLC for land at the Roosevelt Square.
Recommendation to approve a Predevelopment Loan Agreement with RS Homes II LLC for the
Roosevelt Square Phase IIA Development.
Recommendation to approve Duplication and Distribution contract for Opening the General
Wait list. Recommended Awardee: Pitney Bowes.
Recommendation to approve Online Application System Contract for Opening the General Wait
List. Recommended Awardee: Model Metrics.

Tenant Services Committee Report
Recommendation to exercise the first one-year option to extend the Resident Relocation
Moving Contracts to provide moving services for families relocating under the Plan For Transformation.
Recommendation to extend contract with Holsten Real Estate Development Corporation for
Community and Supportive Services at Parkside of Old Town.

 3.

Recommendation to amend contract with Screening Reports, Inc., for Tenant Screening
Services for the HCV Program.

 