MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING

OF THE

COMMISSIONERS OF THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
April 17, 2007
The Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority held its Regular Meeting on Tuesday,
April 17, 2007, at 8:30 a.m. at the Suder Montessori School, 2022 West Washington, Chicago,
Illinois.
Chairperson Martin Nesbitt called the meeting to order and upon roll call, those present and
absent were as follows:
Present:

Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Carlos Ponce
Mary Wiggins

Absent:

Bridget O’Keefe
Sandra Young

Also present were Sharon Gist Gilliam, Chief Executive Officer; Adrienne Minley, Chief of
Staff; Jorge Cazares, General Counsel; Chicago Housing Authority Staff Members and the
General Public.
There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as
follows:
Sharon Gist Gilliam, Chief Executive Officer, then presented her monthly report. Ms. Gilliam
commenced her report by introducing Linda Kaiser, the new Managing Director for Resident
Services. Ms. Gilliam then announced the closing of the financial structure for the first phase of
Homeownership Units at Lake Park Crescent and indicated that the next Homeownership Phase
is expected to close in FY2008. Ms. Gilliam then reminded CHA residents to enroll and engage
CHA children for the variety of programs available thru the Park District, free of charge. Ms.
Gilliam concluded her report by inviting the CHA Commissioners and public at large to the
CHA Open House at the CNA building on May 9 and extended an invitation to the ceremony for
the Removal, Restoration and Return of the Animal Sculpture at Roosevelt Square on April 25,
at 10:30 a.m.
Chairperson Nesbitt then convened the Public Hearing portion of the meeting by inviting
residents and the public at large to address the Board.
Immediately following the Public Hearing portion of the meeting, a Motion was introduced and
seconded to adjourn to Executive Session. Commissioner Ivers announced that pursuant to the
Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2, the Board would adjourn for approximately one (1) hour to
discuss pending, probable or imminent litigation, collective negotiating matters, security and
personnel matters.
Immediately after adjournment of Executive Session Commissioner Gates left the meeting due to
a conflict on his schedule.

1

 The Commissioners subsequently reconvened in Open Session and upon Motion made by
Commissioner Ivers, properly seconded by Commissioner Harris and carried, the Minutes for the
Regular Meetings of January 16, 2007 and February 20, 2007 were unanimously approved.
Chairperson Nesbitt thereupon introduced the Resolutions discussed in Executive Session.
Commissioner Ivers then presented an Omnibus Motion for the approval of the following
resolutions for Executive Session Item 1 thru 5:
Executive Session Item 1
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-39
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated April 4, 2007, requesting that the Board of Commissioners
approves the Personnel Actions Report for March 2007.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the Personnel Actions Report for
March 2007.

Executive Session Item 2
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-40
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated April 9, 2007
requesting authorization to amend the contract amount for legal services provided
by the law firm of Kutak Rock, LLP.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Chief Executive Officer, or her
designee, to amend Contract No. 6066 with Kutak Rock, LLP by increasing the
contract amount in an amount not to exceed $400,000, in order to pay for
additional legal fees and expenses.

Executive Session Item 3
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-41
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated April 9, 2007,
regarding authorization to amend the contract amount with Mayer, Brown, Rowe
and Maw LLP in connection with Advice and Consultation on Real Estate Tax
Matters for Mixed-Finance Transactions
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or her
designee to amend Contract No. 7029 with Mayer, Brown, Rowe & Maw to
increase the amount of fees for the matter known as Advice and Consultation on
Real Estate Tax Matters for Mixed-Finance Transactions by an additional amount
not to exceed $200,000 in order to pay for legal fees and expenses under the
contract.

Executive Session Item 4
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-42
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated April 9, 2007,
requesting authorization to enter into a settlement agreement in the amount of
$300,000 in the matter of Ellyn Hussey v. CHA, et al, 04 L 1384
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the General Counsel, or his designee, to
enter into a settlement agreement in the amount of $300,000 in the case of Ellyn
Hussey v. CHA, et al, 04 L 1384.

2

 Executive Session Item 5
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-43
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated April 9, 2007,
requesting authorization to enter into a settlement agreement in the amount of
$200,000 in the matter of Disputed Coverage Claim Between CHA and Lexington
Insurance Company Related to the Diane Link Wallace v. CHA, 03 C 491
Litigation.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the General Counsel, or his designee, to
enter into a settlement agreement in the amount of $200,000 in the matter of
Disputed Coverage Claim Between CHA and Lexington Insurance Company
Related to the Diane Link Wallace v. CHA, 03 C 491 Litigation

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Executive Session Items 1 thru 5 was seconded by
Commissioner Wiggins and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Carlos Ponce
Mary Wiggins

Nays:

None

The Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried and said Resolutions adopted.
In the absence of Committee Chair Young, Commissioner Harris presented the report for the
Tenant Services Committee. Per Commissioner Harris, the Tenant Services Committee Meeting
was held on Wednesday, April 11, 2007 at the 60 East Van Buren Corporate Offices. Bryce
White, Resident Services Director, and representatives from Heartland Human Care presented
the Committee with an update on Community Supportive Services/Post Occupancy.
Commissioner Harris then introduced an Omnibus Motion for the adoption of the Resolutions for
Items A1 thru A5 discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Tenant Services
Committee.
(Item A1)
In September 2004, the Board approved a contract with the Spanish Coalition for Housing to
operate three CHA Latino Site Offices and provide intake, marketing, and outreach services to
the Latino community as required by the Latino Consent Decree. As a result, the CHA entered
into a two-year Contract with three one-year extension options. During the base Contract term,
the Spanish Coalition for Housing assisted close to 10,000 people by providing them with a
variety of services related to CHA and non-CHA assistance programs. Given the limited CHA
housing opportunities available, the Spanish Coalition for Housing has also been connecting
people to other assistance programs to help stabilize their housing and/or financial situation.
The Authority exercised the first extension option in the not-to-exceed amount of $297,966.00
for a period of only seven months, because it was considering a new procurement to consolidate
the services under this contract with services provided under separate contract with CHAC, in
order to achieve efficiencies, economies of scales, and greater oversight by the CHA. The CHA
is still in the process of working with CHAC in developing one comprehensive scope of work
that would result in one single contract to provide the referenced services. Accordingly, the
resolution for Item A1 approves exercising the second option of contract with Spanish Coalition
for Housing covering the five months remaining in the first option, and an additional five
months under the second option.
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-44
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners has reviewed the memorandum dated April 9, 2007,
titled “Authorization to exercise a second option of Contract No. 0673 with the
Spanish Coalition for Housing for Marketing, Outreach, and Intake services to the
Latino Population for CHA Programs,”
3

 THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or her
designee to enter into a second option of the Contract No. 0673 (“Contract”) with
the Spanish Coalition for Housing to provide marketing, outreach, and intake
services to the Latino population for the period of March 1, 2007 through
December 31, 2007, and to increase the Contract’s not-to-exceed compensation
amount by $392,000.00. The Contract’s aggregate not-to-exceed compensation
amount will be $1,667,362.00.

(Item A2)
In June of 2003, the Board approved the selection of LCDC/Safeway as the development team to
acquire and rehabilitate 3718-28 W. Douglas to be known as “Fountain View Apartments.”
Fountain View will be rehabilitated into a 45 unit mixed income development of which 14 of the
units will be CHA rental. LCDC/Safeway will be responsible for the overall redevelopment
process at Fountain View, including, but not limited to, preparing funding applications, obtaining
financing, construction, and the coordination of CSS. CSS is needed to provide case
management and community integration services for CHA families wanting to return to the
Fountain View Apartments. Accordingly, the resolution for Item A2 approves negotiation of
contract with LCDC/SAFEWAY to implement and provide CSS at Fountain View Apartments.
LCDC/Safeway plans on entering into a subcontract with Uhlich Children’s Advantage Network
to provide intensive case management and supportive services to increase public housing
residents’ likelihood of meeting the eligibility criteria. By offering supportive services during
pre-leasing of units, the CHA families will receive support in meeting the general leasing
requirements at Fountain View Apartments.
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-45
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated April 9, 2007, entitled “Authorization to negotiate and enter
into a contract with LCDC/SAFEWAY for Community and Supportive Services
for the Fountain View Apartments”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners (“Board”) authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or
her designee to negotiate and enter into a contract with LCDC/Safeway for a one
(1) year base term in an amount not-to-exceed $190,000.00 and 1, one-year option
to provide community and supportive services to the Fountain View Apartments.

(Item A3)
In October 1999, the Board of Commissioners authorized a contract with the Holsten
Management Corporation for the private management and operations of Hilliard Center,
including the Hilliard Family Buildings and the Hilliard Senior Buildings. During Phase I,
Holsten’s Human Capital division provided relocation and supportive services to the current
residents. In March 2005, the Board authorized the CHA to enter into a two-year contract with
Holsten . The primary focus of the contract was to assist CHA families that have chosen to return
to Hilliard Homes. The services included assessment, service planning, obtaining/maintaining
lease compliancy, providing building tours, job development, identifying other services to assist
families in meeting their housing choice and mounting community integration events and
activities. Holsten has met its contractual obligations with the CHA and has demonstrated
outcomes of its work with residents. Under the master development agreement with Holsten, the
parties envisioned that Holsten would receive financial assistance from the CHA pending
funding availability and contract performance for a two year period. Although the two year
contract has expired, the CHA plans to continue the provision of financial assistance to Holsten
to serve families following the occupancy of units and provide continued support for families
eligible for housing at Hilliard Homes. Accordingly, the resolution for Item A3 approves
extension of contract with Holsten to continue preparing a minimum of 385 families to meet the
site requirements at Hilliard Homes.

4

 RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA- 46
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated April 9, 2007
entitled "Authorization to extend Contract No. 5093 with Real Estate
Management Corporation to provide Community and Supportive Services to the
Hilliard Community”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or her
designee to extend Contract No. 5093 (“Contract”) with Holsten Real Estate
Management Corporation for the period of February 6, 2007 through February 5,
2008 and to increase the Contract’s funding by an amount not-to-exceed
$227,000.00, adding it to the carryover balance available at the end of the current
contract term to provide community and supportive services to CHA residents
relocating to Hilliard Homes. The Contract’s new aggregate total not-to-exceed
contract amount will be $1,027,000.00.

(Item A4)
In May 2004, the Board authorized the CHA to negotiate and enter into contract with Stateway
Associates, LLC, and the master developer for Stateway Gardens, to provide CSS to CHA
residents who selected Stateway Gardens as a permanent housing choice. In January 2006, the
Board authorized the CHA to exercise the one-year option available in the Contract for the term
of January 13, 2006 through January 12, 2007. The Contract’s primary focus is to assist CHA
families that have chosen to return to the revitalized Stateway Gardens mixed-income
community. The CHA desires to extend the Agreement for an additional term through April 30,
2008. In addition to services being rendered, Stateway Associates, LLC will offer postoccupancy services to help residents maintain their housing. It is anticipated that Stateway
Associates will provide services to at least 350 families during this extension period. In
December 2006, Stateway Associates provided the transition team of Stateway Community
Partners (SCP), a not for profit organization, to provide relocation and supportive services. Based
on SCP’s proven ability to provide the Contract’s required services during the transition period,
CHA staff agrees with the recommendation to allow SCP to continue as the subcontractor to
provide CSS for Stateway Associates. For the period of January 13, 2007 through April 30,
2008, sufficient carryover funds are available to pay for the CSS. Accordingly, the resolution for
Item A4 extends contract with Stateway Associates LLC to provide CSS services to the
revitalized Stateway Community.
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-47
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated April 9, 2007,
entitled "Authorization to extend Contract No. 5059 with Stateway Associates,
LLC to provide Community and Supportive Services to the Revitalized Stateway
Gardens Community”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or her
designee to extend Contract No. 5059 (“Contract”) with Stateway Associates,
LLC for the period of January 13, 2007 through April 30, 2008 and to increase the
Contract’s funding by an amount not-to-exceed $620,000.00 adding it to the
carryover balance available at the end of the current contract term to provide
community and supportive services to CHA residents relocating to the revitalized
Stateway Gardens community. The Contract’s new aggregate total not-to-exceed
contract amount will be $1,810,200.00.

(Item A5)
The resolution for Item A5 authorizes an extension to Qudel Contract for an additional six
months. The CHA privatized its Section 8 program in 1995. In 1995, the Section 8 programs
served approximately 15,000 families. Today, the program services over 36,000 families and
15,000 landlords and continues to grow. In November 2002, the Board of Commissioners
authorized the CHA to enter into a new contract with Quadel to administer the CHA’s Housing
Choice Voucher/Section 8 programs. The Board recently approved the last and final option for
the period of January 1, 2007 through December 31, 2007. The CHA is in the process of
preparing to release a new Request for Proposals for a private administrator of its Housing
5

 Choice Voucher/Section 8 programs. However, considering the length of time it might take to
evaluate submitted proposals, select the next private administrator and negotiate a contract, the
addition of a six month option period, to be exercised within CHA’s sole discretion, serves as a
contingency plan to allow the CHA to proactively mitigate potential risks associated with
possible discontinuity of its HCV Program operations in the event the CHA does not have a
negotiated contract in place with the next private administrator by January 1, 2008.
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-48
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed
memorandum dated April 9, 2007, entitled “Authorization to amend Contract No.
0370 with Quadel Consulting Corporation for the Administration of the Housing
Choice Voucher/Section 8 Programs to add a six month extension option”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or her
designee to amend Contract No. 0370 with Quadel Consulting Corporation for the
administration of the CHA’s Housing Choice Voucher/Section 8 Program to add a
six (6) month extension option, to be exercised within the CHA’s sole discretion,
for the period of January 1, 2008 through June 30, 2008.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items A1 through A5 was seconded by
Commissioner Ivers and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Carlos Ponce
Mary Wiggins

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Tenant Services Committee report was also accepted in total.
In the absence of Committee Chair Earnest Gates, Commissioner Ivers presented his Operations
and Facilities monthly report. Per Commissioner Ivers, the Operations and Facilities Committee
Meeting was held on Wednesday, April 11, 2007 at approximately 2:00 p.m. at the 60 East Van
Buren Corporate offices.
Commissioner Ivers then introduced an Omnibus Motion for the adoption of the Resolutions for
Items B1thru B9 discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Operations and
Facilities Committee.
(Item B1)
The resolution for Item B1 approves a contract modification with H.L.F. Construction related to
the general renovation of Washington Park Homes and Washington Park Scattered Sites. This
contract modification provides for the removal and replacement of certain concrete walkways
and front and rear patio areas at 3932-54 South Prairie. The original construction drawings and
specifications called for only limited removal and replacement of deteriorated and damaged
concrete in these areas. After commencement of construction activities, it was determined that
the extent of the deteriorated and damaged concrete was more extensive than originally thought,
requiring the Contractor to remove and replace approximately 11,000 square feet of additional
concrete walks, patios at the rear of the buildings, and areas at the front of the buildings. The
new total contract amount of Contract No. 5121 is $5,635,350.76.
Commissioner Wiggins abstained from voting on Item B1 only.
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-49
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated April 9, 2007,
entitled “Authorization to execute Modification No. G-12 to Contract No. 5121
with H.L.F. Construction Company, Inc. for Additional work Related to the
6

 General Renovation of Washington Park Homes (IL2-034 LR) and Washington
Park Scattered Sites (IL2-054)”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or her
designee to execute Contract Modification No. G-12 to Contract No. 5121 with
H.L.F. Construction Company, Inc. in the amount of $113,708.20 for additional
work related to the general renovation of Washington Park Homes (IL2-034 LR)
and Washington Park Scattered Sites (IL2-054). The work covered by this
contract modification will be performed at 3932 – 54 South Prairie Avenue. The
new total contract amount of Contract No. 5121 is $5,635,350.76.
This Contract Modification is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the
CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident hiring, and bonding and insurance
requirements.

(Item B2)
The resolution for Item B2 approves Contract Modification with FHP Tectonics associated with
the general renovation of Wentworth Gardens. This contract modification provides for the
necessary demolition and reconstruction of certain plumbing chase-walls to accommodate new
chase-wall plumbing and bathtubs in the bathrooms of sixty-eight Type T2A units. The new
total contract amount of Contract No. 5118 is $35,913,635.00.
Commissioner Amey abstained from voting on Item B2 only.
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-50
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated April 9, 2007
entitled “Authorization to execute Modification No. G-02 to Contract No. 5118
with FHP Tectonics Corporation for additional work related to the General
Renovation of Wentworth Gardens (IL2-008)”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or her
designee to execute Contract Modification No. G-02 to Contract No. 5118 with
FHP Tectonics Corporation in the amount of $183,153.00 for additional work
related to the general renovation of Wentworth Gardens (IL2-008) at 3770 South
Wentworth. The new total contract amount of Contract No. 5118 is
$35,913,635.00.
This Contract Modification is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the
CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident hiring, and bonding and insurance
requirements.

(Item B3)
The resolution for Item B3 approves submittal of a Mixed-Finance Proposal, Evidentiaries and
Disposition Application to HUD, commit CHA Funds of up to $5,003,133 to the Cabrini
Extension North Phase I Rental on-site redevelopment, execute Ground Leases to the ownership
entities and execute other documents and perform such actions as may be necessary. Cabrini
Extension North Phase I Rental, a mixed-finance, mixed-income redevelopment site, represents
the second phase of on-site redevelopment within the larger Cabrini Extension North
Revitalization Plan. The Cabrini Extension North Phase I Rental will consist of 111 new
construction mixed income rental units built on CHA-owned land that formerly comprised part
of the Cabrini Extension North site. The Phase I site is bounded by Division Street on the north,
Larrabee Street on the east, Elm Street on the south, and Seward Park on the east. The project is
expected to provide 35 rental units of replacement public housing for Cabrini Extension North
residents, subsidized by the CHA under a 40-year contract to provide operating subsidy. Of the
approximately 111 rental units, it is expected that 83 (including the 35 public housing units) will
be subject to low-income housing tax credit restrictions and reserved for households earning up
to 60% of AMI. The remaining 28 rental units will be market rate units. The CHA land for the
Phase I Rental site will be ground leased by one or more ground leases to the ownership entities.
The CHA will also enter into other agreements to implement the proposal, which may include
7

 but not be limited to, loan documents, a Regulatory and Operating Agreement, one or more
Mixed-Finance Amendments to the Annual Contributions Contracts, a Declaration of Restrictive
Covenants, instruments necessary or appropriate to clear title, and other documents. The direct
costs for the rental units in the Cabrini Extension North Phase I Rental development total
$35,169,436 and are expected to be funded by the following sources of permanent financing: (1)
a first mortgage in the amount of $2,804,000 with Alliant; (2) a loan from the City of Chicago in
the amount of $7,205,045, funded by $6,455,045 in CDBG funds and $750,000 from the IHDA
Trust Fund; (3) a HOME loan in the amount of $4,988,942, also from the City of Chicago; (4) a
$3,500,000 CHA loan provided by HOPE VI funds, Development and /or Capital Funds; (5) an
allocation of Low Income Housing Tax Credits from the City of Chicago, expected to provide
$14,596,449 in tax credit equity from Alliant Capital, and (6) allocations of Illinois Affordable
Housing Tax Credits, aka Donation Tax Credits, from the Illinois Housing Development
Authority in the amount of $1,500,000 and from the City of Chicago in the amount of
$1,000,000, which in total will provide approximately $2,075,000 in donation tax credit equity
from Alliant Capital. An equity bridge loan in the approximate amount of $11,500,000 will be
provided by JP Morgan Chase, and repaid from capital contributions provided by the tax credit
syndicator/investor. $1,503,133 in additional HOPE VI funds will be provided to cover indirect
costs and fees.
ESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-51
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated, April 9, 2007,
requesting authorization to 1) Submit a Mixed-Finance Proposal, Evidentiaries
and Disposition Application to the Unites States Department of Housing and
Urban Development (HUD), 2) Commit CHA Funds of up to $5,003,133 to the
Cabrini Extension North Phase I Rental on-site redevelopment, 3) Execute
Ground Lease(s) to the ownership entity(ies) for the land at the Phase I Rental
site, and 4) Execute and deliver such other documents and perform such actions as
may be necessary or appropriate to implement the foregoing.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or her
designee to 1) Submit a Mixed-Finance Proposal, Evidentiaries and Disposition
Application to the Unites States Department of Housing and Urban Development
(HUD), 2) Commit CHA Funds of up to $5,003,133 to the Cabrini Extension
North Phase I Rental on-site redevelopment, 3) Execute Ground Lease(s) to the
ownership entity(ies) for the land at the Phase I Rental site, and 4) Execute and
deliver such other documents and perform such actions as may be necessary or
appropriate to implement the foregoing.

(Item B4)
The resolution for Item B4 approves a contract with Parkside Old Town I, LLC, for
Environmental Remediation Activities at the Cabrini Extension North Phase 1 Rental
Redevelopment Site. In June 2005, the Board approved entering into a Redevelopment
Agreement with Parkside Associates, LLC. Pursuant to the Redevelopment Agreement, CHA
agreed to fund the cost of site remediation for pre-existing conditions. The estimated remediation
cost is $492,687. CHA’s contractual responsibility for remediating foreseen and unforeseen
environmental conditions is capped at 200% of this estimated total cost ($985,374). Site
preparation for the new development has begun with the City’s construction of public utility
infrastructure. Private utility engineering has been completed, and negotiations of required
service agreement contracts are in progress. HUD has indicated that there is justification to enter
into this contract.
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-52
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated, April 9, 2007,
entitled “Authorization to enter 1) Into a Contract with Parkside Old Town I,
LLC, for Environmental Remediation Activities at the Cabrini Extension North
Phase 1 Rental Redevelopment Site and 2) Execute other documents as necessary
to implement the foregoing;”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY

8

 THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or her
designee to 1) enter into a contract for environmental remediation activities with
Parkside Old Town I, LLC, an Illinois limited liability company, for a total
contract amount not to exceed $985,374 which represents 200% of the estimated
remediation cost for the Cabrini Extension North Phase 1 Rental Redevelopment
site and 2) execute other documents as necessary to implement the foregoing. The
term of the contract shall be the earlier of (i) the receipt of a “No Further
Remediation” letter from the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency with
regards to the Cabrini Extension North Phase 1 Rental Redevelopment site, or (ii)
two years subject to a one year extension at CHA’s election and, if necessary,
HUD approval.

(Item B5)
The resolution for Item B5 approves submittal of a Mixed-Finance Proposal and Disposition
Application to HUD for the redevelopment of Roosevelt Square (ABLA) Phase II and to execute
ground leases, loan documents and such other documents as necessary. Phase II of the
ABLA/Roosevelt Square redevelopment plan will produce 432 new units of mixed-income rental
and for-sale housing, neighborhood retail space and a new community park. This phase consists
of five city blocks north and south of Roosevelt Road between Racine and Loomis. Phase I
produced 414 mixed-income housing units which were completed in 2006.
The overall
ABLA/Roosevelt Square redevelopment plan includes 2,443 new units of mixed-income housing
and retail space to be built over six phases. The 185 rental units in Phase II include 128 CHA
units, 55 affordable units, and 2 market-rate units for management. Units will be a mix of
traditional Chicago building types, including two-flats, six-flats, townhouses and 5-story
apartment buildings with entrances facing the street. Most buildings are three or four stories and
none exceeds five stories. The unit types are mixed throughout each block, creating a strong and
varied neighborhood street-front, with changes in articulation, height, massing and building
materials that are in context with the surrounding neighborhood. Each block contains a true mix
of income levels without any distinction in construction quality between income levels and
ownership types. The Phase II rental transaction includes the acquisition of two newly created
parcels on Roosevelt Road from the City of Chicago and one newly created parcel on the former
Riis School site from the Chicago Public Schools. The HOPE VI loan will fund the cost of the
two parcels on Roosevelt and one new parcel at Riis at a total cost of $1,361,884. The newly
acquired land will be owned by the CHA and included in the CHA Ground Lease in order to
construct 35 of the 185 rental units in this phase. The for-sale developer is financing an
additional $2,088,973 to acquire the portion of the Riis School site that will be developed as forsale townhouse buildings and a new park. Eight of the CHA rental units will be located in two
45-unit for-sale condominium buildings to be developed in Phase II. These eight 1-BR units will
be acquired by the tax credit partnership after construction by the for-sale developer. The
acquisition of these units will be completed using tax credit equity only, without HOPE VI
funding. These eight units will be operated under the same Regulatory and Operating
Agreement and lease as the other CHA units in this phase. The rental housing will be built over
an 18-month period; while for-sale housing will be constructed in a 24-month period. Phase II
construction is expected to begin in the 3rd quarter of 2007. The budget for the 185-unit Phase II
rental development at Roosevelt Square is approximately $53,392,427 and will be financed
through a mix of public and private sources. Due to rising construction costs as well as land
acquisition costs that were not part of Phase I, the total budget for Phase II is approximately $10
million more than Phase I, while the unit count is roughly equal. However, due to increased
utilization of tax credits, the HOPE VI portion of the rental budget has only increased by
approximately $1.5 million, resulting in a greater leverage of HOPE VI funds. Upon construction
completion, the CHA will initially contribute $354 per unit each month as operating subsidy to
RS II LP for maintenance and operation of the 128 public housing units in the development. This
amount will increase annually at the lesser of 2% or Consumer Price Index for the term of the
Regulatory and Operating Agreement. As in Phase I, the property manager for the rental units at
Roosevelt Square will be Related Property Management.
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-53
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board letter dated April 9, 2007,
requesting authorization to submit a Mixed-Finance Proposal and Disposition
Application to HUD for the redevelopment of Roosevelt Square (ABLA) Phase II
and to execute ground leases, loan documents and such other documents as
necessary to implement the foregoing.

9

 THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Chief Executive Officer, or her
designee to submit a Mixed-Finance Proposal and Disposition Application to
HUD, and to enter into Rental, For-Sale and Mixed-Use Ground Leases for the
second phase of the mixed-finance redevelopment of ABLA to be known as
Roosevelt Square Phase II.

THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or her
designee, to execute HOPE VI Loan agreements with Roosevelt Square II Limited
Partnership in an amount no-to-exceed $17,100,000 subject to an independent
construction cost review and underwriting.

THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer, or her
designee, to enter into such further agreements, certificates or other documents as
may be necessary or advisable to secure CHA’s interests or effect the foregoing
transaction.

THAT,

the Board of Commissioners delegates to the Chief Executive Officer or her
designee the power to approve any final changes to the forms of the documents
authorized to be submitted herewith, the execution thereof to constitute
conclusive evidence of their approval hereby.

(Item B6)
The resolution for Item B6 approves contract with LR ABLA, LLC, for Environmental
Remediation Activities at the ABLA/Roosevelt Square Phase II Rental and For-Sale
Development Sites. In preparation for the construction of Phase II, a number of environmental
investigation studies have been completed for the CHA-owned land included in the Phase II site.
These studies have identified certain environmental contaminants on the site that can be
effectively remediated with an “engineered barrier” approach. This approach is the preferred
method because it is the least costly and is also acceptable to the Illinois Environmental
Protection Agency. The estimated remediation costs for the Roosevelt Square Phase II Rental
site is $2,072,847 while the For-Sale site is estimated at $1,611,697, for a total Phase II estimate
of $3,684,544. CHA’s responsibility for remediation of foreseen and unforeseen environmental
conditions will be capped at 200% of this estimated total cost, or a total of $7,369,088.
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-54
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated, April 9, 2007,
requesting “Authorization to 1) Enter into a Contract with LR ABLA, LLC, for
Environmental Remediation Activities at the ABLA/Roosevelt Square Phase II
Rental and For-Sale Development Sites and 2) Execute such other documents
necessary to implement the foregoing.”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or her
designee to 1.) Enter into a contract for environmental remediation activities with
LR ABLA, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, for a total contract
amount not-to-exceed $7,369,088 which represents 200% of the estimated
remediation cost for the Roosevelt Square Phase II Rental and For-Sale
Development site, and 2.) Execute such other documents as necessary to
implement the foregoing. The term of the contract with regard to the Roosevelt
Square Phase II Rental and For-Sale Development site shall begin at the closing
of the Phase II Rental Development and terminate at the earlier of (i) receipt of a
“No Further Remediation” letter from the Illinois Environmental Protection
Agency (“IEPA”) for all of Phase II or (ii) two years, subject to two one-year
extension at CHA’s election, and if necessary, HUD approval

(Item B7)
The resolution for Item B7 approves the selection of Oakwood Boulevard Associates (OBA) as
the development team for the Madden/Wells Phase II Rental and also approves entering into a
pre-development loan agreement with OBA. As a result of the satisfactory completion of Phase
1, including a total of 325 units with 126 public housing replacements units, OBA is
10

 recommended as Developer for the rental portion of Phase II. Up to $12,000,000 in HOPE VI
Grant will be allocated for Phase II Rental. Up to $1,260,000 of these funds will be used as a
loan for eligible predevelopment costs. CHA’s commitment to the redevelopment with OBA
will be subject to future board approvals on a phase by phase basis. The entire Madden/Wells
redevelopment calls for a mixed-income, mixed-tenure community of approximately 3,000 units,
of which 1,000 will be targeted to public housing residents; approximately 680 will be
affordable, and approximately 1,320 will be market rate. The Madden/Wells site includes CHA
property located in the area roughly bounded by East Browning Avenue on the north, South Lake
Park Avenue on the east, East Pershing Road (39th Street) on the south, and South King Drive on
the west, including the Madden Park Homes, the Ida B. Wells Homes, Wells Extension, and the
Clarence Darrow Homes sites. The second rental phase of redevelopment will provide 378
rental units; 199 units in Phase IIA of which 81 will be public housing replacement units, 61
affordable units and 57 market rate units. Phase IIB will consist of 179 units of which 68 will be
public housing replacement units, 60 affordable units and 51 market rate units. The diverse
housing types for this phase include row-homes, 6 flats and a mid-rise rental building. This plan
continues the Chicago street grid established in Phase I and has green spaces which help to create
a high quality, pedestrian-friendly neighborhood. The proposed predevelopment loan will not
exceed 75% of eligible third party predevelopment costs consistent with HUD cost control
guidelines and regulations. The loan will help fund a portion of Phase II Rental pre-development
costs which include survey work, architect & engineering design, TIF consulting and planned
development fees and building permits.
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-55
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board letter dated April 9, 2007,
requesting approval to 1) select Oakwood Boulevard Associates as the
development team for the Madden/Wells Phase II Rental and 2) authorize the
Chief Executive Officer or her designee to enter into a pre-development loan
agreement for an amount not to exceed $1,260,000 and development agreement
with Oakwood Boulevard Associates for the Madden/Wells Phase II Rental
redevelopment of the site 3) execute other documents and take such other actions
as may be necessary to implement the foregoing.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,
the Board of Commissioners 1) approves the selection of Oakwood Boulevard
Associates as the Madden/Wells Phase II Rental redevelopment team, 2)
authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or her designee to enter into a
Development Agreement and a pre-development loan agreement for an amount
not to exceed $1,260,000 with Oakwood Boulevard Associates for the
redevelopment of Madden/Wells Phase II Rental site and 3) authorizes the Chief
Executive Officer or her designee to execute other documents and take such other
actions as may be necessary to implement the foregoing.
(Item B8)
The resolution for Item B8 approves the Amended and Restated Contract for Redevelopment for
Rockwell Gardens and a predevelopment loan agreement for the West End Phase II
development. The CHA Board of Commissioners approved the East Lake team as the Master
Developer in February 2001 and submitted to HUD its HOPE VI application in June 2001. In
October, 2002, the Board approved the Development Agreement, and committed an amount not
to exceed $31,970,644 to the contract, which provided for development of 260 public housing
units. In June of 2003, the Development Agreement was executed. Generally, the Amended and
Restated Development Agreement (MDA) will revise the developer milestones, adjust the
schedule, and eliminate some contingencies; revise expectations on land assembly; and reduce
the total number of public housing units to be delivered by East Lake from 260 to 230 units (and
reduce the overall total from 780 units to 690 units). This reduction in units is not expected to
affect CHA’s HOPE VI Revitalization Plan commitment of 260 replacement units, which is
expected to be reached through a combination of units delivered under the MDA, acquired units,
and units built through the redevelopment of the former Maplewood Courts site.
Commensurately with the reduction of units, the MDA is also reducing the maximum amount of
funds being made available under the Agreement from $30,100,000 to $28,826,923, of which up
to $17,878,642 remains for completion of the Phase II Rental Development and Phase III Rental
Development. Due to this reduction, and because of the fact that $2,200,000 in Gautreaux funds
were used in lieu of HOPE VI funds for the Rockwell I-B rental development, approximately
$3,500,000 in HOPE VI funds will remain available for the development of the balance of the
11

 260 units through the redevelopment of the former Maplewood Courts site or other means. East
Lake is implementing the master development through its wholly owned affiliate, East
Lake/West End, LLC, and guarantees completion of each phase.
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-56
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board letter dated April 9, 2007,
requesting authorization to enter into an Amended and Restated Contract for
Redevelopment for Rockwell Gardens and a predevelopment loan agreement for
the West End (Rockwell Gardens) Phase II development and to execute other
documents and take other actions as necessary or appropriate to implement the
foregoing and concurs with the recommendation contained therein;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorize the Chief Executive Officer or her
designee to enter into an Amended and Restated Contract for Redevelopment with
East Lake/West End, LLC, East Lake Management & Development Corp., and
Daniel E. Levin and The Habitat Company, LLC, as Gautreaux receiver
(“Receiver”) for the mixed-finance development of Rockwell Gardens in an
amount not to exceed $28,826,923 (of which up to $17,878,642 remains available
for future phases), subject to any necessary approval by the U.S. Department of
Housing and Urban Development (“HUD”). The not-to-exceed contract amount
is exclusive of any environmental remediation costs that may be required for the
redevelopment of site.

THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorize the Chief Executive Officer or her
designee to enter into a predevelopment loan agreement with East Lake/West
End, LLC, as borrower, East Lake Management & Development Corp. as
sponsor, and Receiver to provide predevelopment loan funds pursuant to the
Amended and Restated Contract for Redevelopment approved hereby, in an
amount not to exceed $724,500, for up to 75% of eligible third party
predevelopment costs consistent with HUD cost control guidelines and
regulations for the West End (Rockwell Gardens) Phase II development.

THAT,

The Chief Executive Officer, or her designee, is hereby authorized execute such
other documents and take such other actions as are necessary or appropriate to
implement the foregoing, and to approve final changes to the agreements
approved hereby, including, but not limited to, changes requested by HUD, her
execution thereof to constitute conclusive evidence of approval thereof.

(Item B9)
The resolution for Item B9 approves a predevelopment loan agreement with Stateway
Associates, LLC for the Stateway Gardens/Park Boulevard Phase II on-site development. In
July 2002 the Board authorized CHA to enter into the Master Development Agreement (MDA)
and commit funding in an amount not to exceed $57,000,000 for activities under the
Development Agreement. The Development Agreement provides that predevelopment loans will
be offered to Stateway Associates, LLC in amounts not to exceed 75% of eligible third party
predevelopment costs. The HUD eligible Phase II on-site predevelopment costs include survey
work, architect & engineering design, TIF and Planned Development fees, building permits and
the cost to prepare a HOPE VI Grant application. This predevelopment loan will be repaid in full
to CHA at the real estate closing for this on-site Phase II development. Based on the estimated
Predevelopment Budget of $6,778,264 and pursuant to terms of the MDA, CHA’s loan will not
exceed $1,038,289 and these terms are consistent with HUD’s cost control guidelines and
regulations.
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-57
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board letter dated April 9, 2007,
requesting authorization to enter into a predevelopment loan agreement with
Stateway Associates, LLC for the Stateway Gardens/Park Boulevard Phase II onsite development and to execute other documents and take such other actions as
may be necessary to implement the foregoing and concurs with the
recommendation contained therein;

12

 THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or her
designee to enter into a predevelopment loan agreement for a not to exceed
amount of $1,038,289 with Stateway Associates, LLC to provide loan funds for
up to 75% of eligible third party predevelopment costs pursuant to the terms of
the Master Development Agreement and consistent with U.S. Department of
Housing and Urban Development cost control guidelines and regulations for the
Stateway Gardens/Park Boulevard Phase II on-site development and to execute
other documents and take such other actions as may be necessary to implement
the foregoing.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items B1 thru B9 was seconded by Commissioner
Ponce and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Martin Nesbitt
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Carlos Ponce

Abstention:

Hallie Amey (Abstained from voting on Item B2 only)
Mary Wiggins (Abstained from voting on Item B1 only)

Nays:

None

At the request of Commissioners Amey and Wiggins, their Recusals on Item B2 and B1
respectively should be changed to Abstentions.
There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Operations and Facilities Committee report was also accepted
in total.
In the absence of Committee Chair O’Keefe, Commissioner Ponce presented the Finance &
Audit Committee monthly report. Per Commissioner Ponce, the Finance Committee Meetings
was held on Wednesday, April 11, 2007 at 2:00 p.m. at the 60 East Van Buren Corporate offices.
The Committees was presented with the Treasury and Cash Flow Report for March 2007 and an
update on the contract with Windows of Opportunity.
Commissioner Ponce then introduced an Omnibus Motion for the adoption of the Resolutions for
Items C1 and C2 discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Finance and
Audit Committees
(Item C1)
The resolution for Item C1 approves the Revised 2007 Comprehensive Budget. The FY2007
budgeted expenditures have been revised from $933,951,548 to $939,565,797, resulting in a
$5,614,249 increase. The major changes by funding source are as follows: General Fund: total
revenues and associated expenditures increased by $13,560,549 for a fund total of $854,485,867.
The increase reflects the HUD approved funding provided for Housing Assistance Payments
under the Housing Choice Voucher Program; Section 8 Non-MTW Fund: total revenues and
associated expenditures decreased by $8,631,765 for a fund total of $15,435,815. The decrease
is due to the transfer of the 11B program on July 1 to a private outside firm that will administer
the program and Other Funding: the total revenues and associated expenditures increased by
$685,465 for a fund total of $16,867,209. The increase is primarily due to prior year carry-overs
of MacArthur and ROSS grants.
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-58
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board letter dated April 9, 2007,
entitled “Approval of the Revised 2007 Comprehensive Budget”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY

13

 THAT,

the Board of Commissioners, hereby approves the attached budget amendments,
“The FY2007 Comprehensive Budget Amendment #1”, and finds with respect to
said Budget:
1.

2.

3.

THAT,

that the proposed expenditures are necessary for the efficient and
economical operation of the Chicago Housing Authority for the purpose of
serving low-income families;
that the financial plan is reasonable in that it indicates funding sources
adequate to cover all proposed expenditures, and does not provide for use
of Federal funding in excess of that payable under the provisions of the
applicable Federal regulations; and
that all proposed rental charges and expenditures will be consistent with
provisions of law and the Annual Contributions Contract in accordance
with the Moving To Work Demonstration Agreement of the Chicago
Housing Authority with the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development.

the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer are authorized to execute
and forward to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development all
necessary budget documents and supporting information when applicable.

(Item C2)
The resolution for Item C2 approves the Restructuring of Equity Financing for C/S Harrison
Courts Limited Partnership and amends the Partnership Agreement and Development Agreement
for Harrison Courts LLC. The Partnership expects to incur construction cost overruns of
approximately $1 million due to a variety of additional construction needs and time extensions
that were not included in the base construction contract. The Partnership Agreement currently
provides for the payment of three equity installments. Two of the installments were previously
paid; the third installment is payable on July 15, 2007. Under the proposed amendment, the total
equity contribution will be increased by $290,053, based on an increase in the Partnership’s tax
credit basis. In addition, the Partners have agreed to advance $266,947 of the developer fee to
the General Partner to loan back to the project for construction costs. These additional funds
totaling $577,000 will be payable upon execution and delivery of the amended Partnership
Agreement. To reduce the construction shortfall, the proceeds of the developer fee will be
reapplied to the Partnership as a loan from the General Partner. The loan will be evidenced by a
non- interest bearing promissory note payable from available cash flow. In addition, the CHA
will be receiving repayment of a construction loan from CHA to the Lathrop Elderly project
from proceeds of a $2 million grant from the Illinois Department of Commerce & Economic
Opportunity (DCEO). Upon receipt of these funds from DCEO, the CHA will loan up to an
additional $500,000 to C/S Harrison Courts Limited Partnership to cover the remaining
construction cost overruns at Harrison.
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-59
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated April 9, 2007,
entitled “Recommendation for approval of the Restructuring of Equity Financing
for C/S Harrison Courts Limited Partnership and Authorization for Harrison
Courts LLC to Amend The Partnership Agreement and Development Agreement
and execute related documents required to consummate the transactions”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the equity financing restructuring
for C/S Harrison Courts Limited Partnership; and

THAT

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves an increase of the loan to Harrison
Courts LP in the amount not to exceed $500,000; and.

THAT

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes Harrison Courts LLC to amend
the Partnership Agreement and Development Agreement and execute related
documents required to consummate the transactions.

14

 The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items C1 and C2 was seconded by Commissioner
Harris and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Carlos Ponce
Mary Wiggins

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Finance Committee report was also accepted in total.
There being no further business to come before the Commissioners, upon Motion made,
seconded and carried, the meeting of the Board of Commissioners was adjourned.

s/b:

s/b:

Lee Chuc-Gill
Custodian and Keeper of Records

15

Martin Nesbitt
Chairperson

 