MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING

OF THE

COMMISSIONERS OF THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
March 15, 2005
The Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority held its Regular Meeting on Tuesday,
March 15, 2005, at 8:30 a.m. at the Charles Hayes Family Investment Center, 4859 South
Wabash, Chicago, Illinois.
The meeting was called to order by the Chairperson, and upon roll call, those present and absent
were as follows:
Present:
Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Martin Nesbitt
Carlos Ponce
Mary Wiggins
Absent:

Earnest Gates
Lori Healey
Sandra Young

Also present were Terry Peterson, Chief Executive Officer; Gail Niemann, General Counsel;
Chicago Housing Authority Staff Members and the General Public.
There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as
follows:
Terry Peterson, Chief Executive Officer, then presented his monthly report. Per Mr. Peterson,
it’s always an honor to open the Board meetings with a few words about the current status of
projects that are changing the lives of CHA residents. Mr. Peterson then continued by
highlighting the housing choice voucher program that affect 15,000 landlords and approximately
36,000 families. Per Mr. Peterson, the mission of the CHA and the Mayor of Chicago is to make
public housing residents a part of the fabric of the city, to end their isolation and to help them
share in all the benefits of life the City of Chicago has to offer. According to Mr. Peterson
landlords, as well as CHA residents, will be held accountable for paying their bills and being
good citizens. Landlords are expected to take care of any outstanding violations and meet
certain standards of safety and cleanliness if they are going to participate in the housing choice
voucher programs. Mr. Peterson concluded his report by requesting the support of the residents,
and public at large, in affirming CHA’s efforts to monitor and enhance the quality of housing for
all CHA residents. Per Mr. Peterson, this is just one small effort in a much broader commitment
to help improve living conditions for our residents.
The Chairperson then convened the Public Hearing portion of the meeting by inviting residents
and the public at large to address the Board.

Immediately following the Public Hearing portion of the meeting, a Motion was introduced and
seconded to adjourn to Executive Session. The Chairperson announced that pursuant to the
Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2, the Board would adjourn for approximately one (1) hour to

1

 discuss pending, probable or imminent litigation, collective negotiating matters, security and
personnel matters.
The Commissioners subsequently reconvened in Open Session and Chairperson Gilliam
thereupon introduced the Resolutions discussed in Executive Session. Commissioner Nesbit
then presented a Motion to approve Executive Session Items 1 thru 3.
(Executive Session Item 1)
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-26
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated March 2, 2005 requesting that the Board of Commissioners
approves the Personnel Actions Reports for February 2005.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the Personnel Actions Reports for
February 2005

(Executive Session Item 2)
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-27
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated February 25,
2005 requesting authorization to enter into a settlement agreement in the matter of
Maria Berry, a minor, by and through her mother Maxine Berry vs. Chicago
Housing Authority, 02 L 15005 and pay a settlement amount of $200,000.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the General Counsel, or her designee, to
enter into the settlement agreement in the matter of Maria Berry, a minor, by and
through her mother Maxine Berry vs. Chicago Housing Authority, 02 L 15005,
and pay a settlement amount of $200,000

(Executive Session Item 3)
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-28
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated February 25, 2005
requesting authorization to enter into a settlement agreement in the amount of
$200,000 in the matter Jason Henderson & Associates v. CHA, 96 L 12337.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the General Counsel, or her designee, to
enter into a settlement agreement in the amount of $200,000 in the case of Jason
Henderson & Associates v. CHA, 96 L 12337

The Motion to adopt Executive Session Items 1 thru 3 was seconded by Commissioner Ponce
and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Martin Nesbitt
Carlos Ponce
Mary Wiggins
Nays:

None

The Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried and said Resolutions adopted.
Commissioner Nesbitt, Chairperson of Finance & Audit Committee then presented the monthly
report. Per Commissioner Nesbitt, the Finance & Audit Committee held its regularly scheduled
meeting on Wednesday, March 9, 2005, at approximately 1:00 p.m. at the 626 Corporate Office.

2

 The Chief Financial Officer presented the Committee with the Treasury and Cash Flow Report as
of February 28, 2005.
Commissioner Nesbitt then introduced an Omnibus Motion for the adoption of Resolutions for
Items A1 through A4 discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Finance &
Audit Committee.

(Item A1)
The resolution for Item A1 approves reconciliation of the Private Managers Insurance Program
for the period of April 1, 2003 thru March 31, 2004. During the renewal process for this
program and based on industry practice and the manner in which payroll was calculated, it was
determined that Ace is due $130,669. This figure is less than the audited amount initially
requested by ACE. ACE has agreed to settle the policy year premium with the additional
payment of $130,669. To minimize such differences between estimated payroll and actual
payroll in the future, calculations will be reviewed by both Property Accounting and Risk
Management. Additionally, an annual review of the PMIP payroll will entail Private
Management Companies and Resident Management Corporations reporting such information
timely. The Risk Management Section will take the responsibility for the accuracy of the
numbers and will provide the information to the broker.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-29
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated March 9, 2005
entitled "Authorization to Reconcile the Private Managers Insurance Program
(PMIP) Workers Compensation Audit from ACE American Insurance Company
for the policy period April 1, 2003 to April 1, 2004”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to allow the reconciliation the Private Managers Insurance Program
(PMIP) workers compensation audit from Ace American Insurance Company for
the policy period April 1, 2003 to March 31, 2004 through its broker of record,
Mesirow Insurance Services, Inc., for a total amount not-to-exceed $130,669.

(Item A2)
In 2003, the Board awarded a 2-year contract to Mesirow as Administrator of the Private
Managers Insurance Program (PMIP). As the Broker of Record, Mesirow has been granted the
authority to competitively solicit bids for insurance coverage on behalf of CHA. The PMIP
ensures that Private Management Companies and Resident Management Corporations (RMCs)
have the necessary insurance coverage contractually required by CHA. All costs associated with
the program are deducted from the participating Private Management Companies' and RMCs'
operating budget. In January 2005, bid packets were released to prospective insurance carriers
and packets were also forwarded directly to 8 Property/Casualty markets, 10 Workers
Compensation markets, 4 Crime markets and the Housing Authority Risk Retention Group.
Packets were also forwarded to 1 wholesaler broker who approached 5 Excess and Surplus
markets. Excess and Surplus Lines Carriers can only be approached through intermediaries. In
addition to the direct solicitations, an advertisement was placed in the Chicago Tribune on
December 20th and 27th. Although the solicitation process was aggressive, bids were only
received from the incumbent carriers. Accordingly, the resolution for Item A2 approves award
of contract to AIG for the administration of the Private Managers Insurance Program.

RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-30
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated March 9, 2005
entitled “Authorization to enter into contracts with American International Group
(AIG), ACE/USA and Great American Insurance Corporation for the Private

3

 Managers Insurance Program’s
Commercial Crime Coverages”.

Liability,

Workers

Compensation

and

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into a contract with American International Group for General,
Auto and Excess Liability Coverages, ACE/USA for Workers Compensation and
Great American Insurance Corporation for Commercial Crime Coverage in an
aggregate amount not-to-exceed $2,209,176 for the period April 1, 2005 through
March 31, 2006

(Item A3)
Windows of Opportunity, Inc., (an Illinois not-for-profit Corporation with 501(C)3 status) was
founded in 1989 as a means to address the “human side of public housing.” The purpose of
Windows of Opportunity, Inc. is to facilitate ongoing communication between CHA residents
and business, cultural, social, educational and philanthropic organizations and communities.
Windows of Opportunity, Inc. serves as a fiscal administrator for grants and funds received from
public, private, and corporate funds for the CHA. The resolution for Item A3 approves award of
contract to Windows. This award will allow Windows of Opportunity, Inc. to continue
performing the following services for the Chicago Housing Authority: (1) raise funds for new
and ongoing resident initiatives; (2) serve as fiscal sponsor to local/community based
organizations that serve CHA communities and residents, (3) as requested by the CHA, serve as
fiscal administrator to the CHA, receiving grants or contributions whose acceptance requires
non-profit or not-for-profit status; (4) form and maintain partnerships/linkages with outside
community groups, service providers, and funding sources; and (5) work closely with CHA staff
and residents to identify gaps in services and seek resources to fill those gaps.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005 – CHA –31
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated March 9, 2005, entitled “Authorization to enter a Contract
with Windows of Opportunity, Inc.” and concurs with the recommendations
therein;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

It is recommended that the Board of Commissioners authorize the Chief
Executive Officer or his designee to enter into a contract with Windows of
Opportunity, Inc.; in an amount not-to-exceed $115,898.00 annually for a base
two (2) year agreement with three (3) one-year options to extend, subject to Board
approval.

(Item A4)
The resolution for Item A4 approves Amendment to the Annual Contributions Contract C-1014
for Project Nos. IL06P002167, 169, 170, 171 and 172. The purpose of this amendment is to
transfer loan funds from Projects IL06P002171 and 172 to IL06P002167, 169 and 170 and to
eliminate Project 171 and 2 units from the ACC.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-32
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated March 15, 2005
entitled Recommendation to Execute Amendment to the Chicago Housing
Authority’s Annual Contributions Contract C-1014 for Project Nos. IL06P002167,
169, 170, 171 and 172.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Chicago Housing Authority shall enter into Amendment modifying the terms
of the Annual Contributions Contract C-1014 with U.S. Department of Housing
and Urban Development to transfer loan funds from Projects IL06P002171 and
172 to IL06P002167, 169 and 170 and to eliminate Project 171. The Chief
Executive Officer, or his designee, is hereby authorized and directed to execute
such Amendment to the Annual Contributions Contract C-1014 in quintuplicate
and the Custodian and Keeper of Records is authorized and directed to attest and

4

 impress the official seal of the Chicago Housing Authority on each such
counterpart. The aforesaid Amendment shall be substantially in the attached
form.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items A1 through A4 was seconded by
Commissioner Amey and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Martin Nesbitt
Carlos Ponce
Mary Wiggins

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Finance and Audit Committee report was also accepted in
total.
In the absence of Commissioner Gates, Chairperson of the Operations & Facility Committee,
Commissioner Nesbitt then presented the monthly report. Per Commissioner Nesbitt, the
Operations & Facility Committee held its regularly scheduled meeting on Wednesday, March 9,
2005, at approximately 1:30 p.m. at the 626 Corporate Office. There were no presentations to
come before the Committee.
Commissioner Nesbitt then introduced an Omnibus Motion for adoption of resolutions for Items
B1 through B4, discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Operations
Committee.
(Item B1
As part of the Capital Improvement Program for Seniors (“CIP”), Contract Number 0423 was
executed between the CHA and G. F. Structures Corporation for general rehabilitation of the
Midwest Terrace Apartments Senior Housing at 150 S. Campbell Avenue (IL2-043). The
rehabilitation work commenced in October, 2003. Contract Modification No. G-12 to Contract
No. 0423 provides for additional labor and materials related to the furnishing and installation of
new fire-safing in the voids, in the sanitary risers and other floor openings for floors 1 through
14. The Contractor will also remove and replace unsuitable foundation soils and backfill with
suitable fill material at the trash enclosure. In addition, the Contractor will relocate the existing
telephone service affected by the relocation of walls in Units 205, 206, 306 and 406, which have
been reconfigured as ADA units. Finally, the Contractor will remove and replace the damaged
kitchen riser and express piping in Room 107A. Accordingly, the resolution for Item B1
approves contract modification for G.F. Structures.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-33
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated March 9, 2005
entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO EXECUTE MODIFICATION NO. G-12 TO
CONTRACT NO. 0423 WITH G. F. STRUCTURES CORPORATION FOR
ADDITIONAL WORK RELATED TO THE GENERAL REHABILITATION
AT MIDWEST TERRACE APARTMENTS (IL2-043)”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute Contract Modification Number G-12 to Contract No. 0423
with G. F. Structures in the amount of $171,755.24 for additional necessary
repairs at Midwest Terrace Apartments, 150 S. Campbell Avenue, Senior Housing
building. The new total contract amount of Contract No. 0423 is $8,310,576.80.
The date for completion of the general rehabilitation at Midwest Terrace
Apartments is not extended

5

 (Item B2)
The resolution for Item B2 approves ratification of a contract award to Consoer Townsend
Envirodyne Engineers, Inc. (CTE). CTE will provide Prime Design Consultant (PDC) services
exclusively at the Britton Budd Apartments (IL2-048) planned for rehabilitation under the Plan
for Transformation. In the Fall of FY2004 the CHA determined that it could obtain financing
through the Federal Housing Administration (FHA) for the rehabilitation work, and that the
modernization of Britton Budd Apartments could be continued using this type of funding. CTE is
already the Architect of Record (AOR) for Britton Budd, and has also been involved with the
Historic preservation efforts at this property. Among the requirements for the additional FHA
financing sought by the CHA is that the PDC contract be issued in the AIA format. In addition,
for FHA reimbursement purposes, the fees for CTE’s services as the PDC at Britton Budd need
to be kept separate from any other fees they are earning from the CHA. In order to meet these
requirements, the CHA will execute a new contract with CTE using the AIA format with a fee in
the amount of the additional funding to perform the remaining phases of the work. This new
contract will cover completing the design and construction drawings, providing construction
oversight and participating with the CHA in the FHA financing process.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-34
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated March 9, 2005
entitled “RATIFICATION OF CONTRACT WITH CONSOER TOWNSEND
ENVIRODYNE ENGINEERS, INC. FOR THE PROVISION OF PRIME
DESIGN CONSULTANT SERVICES AT BRITTON BUDD APARTMENTS
(IL2 – 048)”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners ratifies a contract with Consoer Townsend
Envirodyne Engineers, Inc. for the provision of Prime Design Consultant services
at Britton Budd Apartments, 501 West Surf (IL2-048). Britton Budd Apartments
is a Senior housing development. The contract value will be $1,140,922.00. The
contract shall take effect on the date of the Notice to Proceed, and will cover the
costs of completing the design and construction drawings, providing construction
oversight, and participating with the CHA in the FHA financing process as
needed by the CHA.
This award is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s
MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident hiring, and insurance requirements.

(Item B3)
The development team of LR ABLA LLC and its affiliates were selected to be the developer for
the redevelopment of the CHA’s ABLA Site pursuant to a June 2002 Request for Proposals
issued by the Habitat Company, LLC (“Habitat”). In May 2003, the Board approved entering
into a Master Development Agreement with LR ABLA LLC. Pursuant to the Redevelopment
Agreement, CHA is required to fund the cost of site remediation for pre-existing conditions on
the entire development site (other than costs the Developer would have incurred in any event),
subject to certain rights to terminate for infeasibility. The estimated remediation cost for the ForSale development is $6,200,000.00; CHA’s contractual responsibility to remediate foreseen and
unforeseen environmental conditions is capped at 200% of this estimated total cost. Site
preparation has begun in order to begin the development activities for this redevelopment.
Coordination meetings have taken with various agencies both public and private that will take
part in the construction activities on the site. The City of Chicago Infrastructure Departments are
conducting the underground utility work that is required to service the new units to be
constructed on the site. The various private utility companies including Commonwealth Edison,
Peoples Gas and SBC Ameritech have been involved with the engineering of the new facilities
that will service the residents of the new units. The City of Chicago Department of Environment
(“DOE”), through the Intergovernmental Agreement executed in June 2001, has been acting as
the responsible entity for the environmental issues relating to CHA redevelopment activities. All
of the necessary environmental reports and studies have been completed and the prerequisite
approvals obtained. HUD has indicated that since a competitive process was engaged to procure
the ABLA Redevelopment Team as identified in the Plan approved by HUD, and since the
engineered barrier approach to remediation involves construction elements to be performed post-

6

 closing, there is justification to enter into this contract with LR ABLA LLC. Various benefits to
the project will be realized by entering into a contract for remediation activities with LR ABLA
LLC. The benefits namely are: (1) continuity of schedule; (2) continuity of activity; and (3)
economy of scale. Accordingly, the resolution for Item B3 approves award of environmental
contract with LR ABLA, LLC.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-35
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated, March 15,
2005, “AUTHORIZATION TO ENTER INTO A CONTRACT WITH LR ABLA
LLC FOR ENVIRONMENTAL REMEDIATION ACTIVITIES AT THE ABLA
“ROOSEVELT SQUARE” PHASE I FOR-SALE DEVELOPMENT SITE”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into a contract with LR ABLA LLC for environmental
remediation activities at the ABLA “Roosevelt Square” Phase I For-Sale
Development site for a total amount not to exceed $6,200,000.00. This figure
represents 200% of the estimated remediation costs on the ABLA Phase I ForSale Redevelopment Site. The term of the LR ABLA LLC contract shall be the
earlier of: the receipt of a “No Further Remediation” letter from the Illinois
Environmental Protection Agency with regard to the ABLA Phase I For-Sale
Redevelopment Site, or two years, subject to a one year extension if approved by
HUD

(Item B4)
In January 2004, the City of Chicago filed a demolition complaint against a CHA-owned
scattered site building located at 5557 W. Congress Blvd. In the complaint, the City alleged that
the building contained numerous dangerous and hazardous conditions and also alleged that the
building had, at a minimum, 24% deterioration. Due to the building’s deteriorating condition, it
has been determined that the architectural and rehabilitation cost needed to make the building
viable for habitation exceeds the total development costs (“TDC”) allowed by HUD for this type
of structure. As a result of no visible rehabilitation work being performed or any construction
permit application on file with the City for commencing rehabilitation work on the subject
building, the City succeeded in obtaining a demolition court order. In September 2004, a private
developer via T.J. Wordlaw Realty, contacted CHA and expressed an interest in acquiring the
subject building. The private developer is desirous of acquiring and rehabilitating the building
and has indicated a commitment to make at least one (1) unit in the building available to public
housing eligible tenants through the Section 8 Housing Choice Voucher Program. As part of the
disposition process, the CHA notified the Local Advisory Council (“LAC”) President and has
consulted with the residents for this area. The LAC President has expressed her support of the
disposition. Accordingly, the resolution for Item B4 approves submission of a Disposition
Application to HUD.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-36
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated March 15, 2005
entitled “Request for Authorization to Submit a Disposition Application to the U.
S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (“HUD”) for the Disposition
of 5557 W. Congress Blvd. and to Sell Such Property”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to (i) submit a disposition application to HUD for the disposition of
5557 W. Congress and (ii) to sell such property for an amount of not less than
$45,000, subject to the approval of HUD. The CHA’s FY2006 Annual Plan will
reflect the subject disposition.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items B1 through B4 was seconded by
Commissioner Wiggins and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Sharon Gist Gilliam

7

 Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Martin Nesbitt
Carlos Ponce
Mary Wiggins
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Operations Committee report was also accepted in total.
In the absence of Commissioner Young, Chairperson of Tenant Service Committee,
Commissioner Harris then presented the Tenant Service Committee report. Per Commissioner
Harris, the Tenant Services Committee held its regularly scheduled meeting on Wednesday,
March 9, 2005, at 2:00 p.m. at the 626 Corporate Office. Due to unforeseen circumstances, the
scheduled presentation on Counseling and Supportive Services provided by Changing Patterns
was canceled but rescheduled to the April Committee Meeting.
Commissioner Harris then introduced an Omnibus Motion for the adoption of Resolutions for
Items C1 through C4 discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Tenant
Services Committee.
(Item C1)
The resolution for Item C1 approves the Harrison Courts Tenant Selection Plan (TSP), Lease
Agreement for City-State Properties and Pet Policy for City-State Properties. The TSP outlines
the policies the CHA has chosen to adopt for the admissions to, selection of tenants for, and
occupancy of units at Harrison Courts. To produce the Harrison Courts Tenant Selection Plan,
Lease Agreement for City-State Properties, and Pet Policy for City-State Properties, the CHA
identified the critical issues and topics that need to be included and addressed in these policies
such as eligibility requirements, income limit, wait list management, admissions preferences,
applicant screening criteria, rent, tenant and landlord obligations and restrictions, and causes for
lease termination. The CHA presented the Harrison Courts Tenant Selection Plan, Lease
Agreement for City-State Properties and Pet Policy for City-State Properties to CHA senior staff,
department directors, and assistant directors. The Harrison Courts Tenant Selection Plan, Lease
Agreement for City-State Properties, and Pet Policy for City-State Properties were released for
public comment from February 1 to March 2, 2005. Notification of the public comment period
was provided to current tenants and applicants of the affected properties as well as announced in
newspaper ads before the commencement of the comment period.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-37
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated February 11,
2005, entitled “Authorization for approval of the Harrison Courts Tenant
Selection Plan, Lease Agreement for City-State Properties, and Pet Policy for
City-State Properties.”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the Harrison Courts Tenant
Selection Plan, Lease Agreement for City-State Properties, and Pet Policy for
City-State Properties and authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee
to approve the Harrison Courts Tenant Selection Plan, Lease Agreement for CityState Properties, and Pet Policy for City-State Properties.

(Item C2)
In December 2003, the Board of Commissioners authorized the Contract with Employment and
Employer Services (E&ES) to provide housing counseling and supportive services to families
that had to relocate from their existing public housing units in 2004. Their units were in

8

 buildings scheduled for closing due to redevelopment/rehabilitation and they were to relocate to
other CHA public housing units or private-market housing using a Housing Choice Voucher.
The Contract’s initial term was for fourteen (14) months with four one-year options. The
services to be provided included obtaining/maintaining lease compliancy, assessment, providing
community tours, identifying housing and other services to assist families in meeting their
housing choice. E&ES has met, and at times exceeded its contract obligations with the CHA.
During the Contract’s initial term, E&ES began providing relocation services to families in
Cabrini Green and Cabrini Extensions and supportive social services to all current tenants of the
Green Homes. Accordingly, the resolution for Item C2 approves the first year option of E&ES
contract.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-38
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed
Board letter dated March 9, 2005 entitled “Recommendation to Exercise the First
Year Option of Contract No. 0453 with Employment and Employer Services for
Housing and Supportive Services”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to exercise the first one (l) year extension option of Contract No. 0453
with Employment and Employer Services for housing and supportive services for
the period of June 1, 2005 through May 31, 2006 and to add $544,463.00
additional funding to the not-to-exceed contract amount. The new total not-toexceed amount of the Contract will be $1,635,263.00

(Item C3)
On April 1, 2004, the Chicago Housing Authority entered into a one-year contract with Nancy
M. Bellew to assist the CHA in providing career services to CHA’s HCV participants by
establishing effective linkages to programs offered by CCC and employment and supportive
service providers. These linkages afford participants the opportunity to move toward selfsufficiency through education and training, resulting in participants obtaining sustainable
employment to support themselves and their families. On December 28, 2003, a small
procurement, RFP No. 01278, was issued to three (3) consulting services vendors. In response,
only one proposal was received, which was from Nancy M. Bellew. After sufficient justification
was provided to the CHA’s Contracting Officer, this small procurement Contract was approved
on a noncompetitive basis due to inadequate competition in accordance with HUD Regulation,
24 CFR 85.36(d)(4)(i)(D). During the 12 month contract period, Ms. Bellew has demonstrated
that she is uniquely qualified to assist the CHA with the development of a program to provide
participants with educational programs linked to CCC and to assist linking services to transition
participants to a career pathway in demand driven industries. Accordingly, the resolution for
Item C3 approves a one-year extension option with Nancy Bellew.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-39
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed
Board letter dated March 9, 2005 entitled “RECOMMENDATION TO
EXERCISE THE FIRST YEAR OPTION OF CONTRACT NO. 0581 WITH
NANCY BELLEW TO ASSIST THE CHA WITH FOR PROVIDING
LINKAGES TO EDUCATIONAL AND CAREER SERVICES PUBLIC
HOUSING RELOCATEES AND FOR HOUSING CHOICE VOUCHER
PARTICIPANTS”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to exercise the one (l) year option of Contract No. 0581 with Nancy M.
Bellew (“Contract”) for the period of April 1, 2005 through March 31, 2006 for
an amount not-to-exceed $95,660.00 to assist the CHA with: i.) providing career
services for public housing relocatees and Housing Choice Voucher (“HCV”)
participants by establishing effective linkages to City Colleges of Chicago and
employment and supportive service providers; and ii.) implementing programs for

9

 public housing relocatees and HCV participants to assist them in obtaining
sustainable employment to support themselves and their families. The new total
not-to-exceed amount of the Contract will be $187,910.00.

(Item C4)
In October 1999, the Board of Commissioners authorized a contract with the Holsten
Management Corporation for the private management and operation of Hilliard Center. Final
board authorization for Phase I development was approved by the CHA Board of Commissioners
on June 20, 2002 and authorization for Phase II was authorized on September 20, 2004. During
Phase I, Holsten’s Human Capital division provided relocation and supportive services to then
current residents. They also provided case management and supportive services to those CHA
residents interested in qualifying for admission into the newly completed Phase I of Hilliard
Homes. The services were funded out of the construction budget for Phase I and continued to be
funded out of a pre-construction loan in the interim prior to closing Phase II. The services
included assessment, service planning, obtaining/maintaining lease compliancy, providing
building tours, job development, identifying other services to assist families in meeting their
housing choice and mounting community integration events and activities. Holsten has met its
contract obligations with the CHA and has demonstrated outcomes of its work with residents. In
Phase II, the funding and oversight of the supportive services will shift to Resident Services.
Holsten will continue to provide case management and supportive services and community
integration activities for Phase I residents and provide outreach, case management, assessment
and support services to new and potential residents for Phase II. Accordingly, the resolution for
Item C4 approves contract award to Holsten Management for supportive services to the Hilliard
community.
.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-40
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board letter dated March 9, 2005 entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO ENTER
INTO A CONTRACT WITH HOLSTEN MANAGEMENT CORPORATION
TO PROVIDE SUPPORTIVE SERVICES TO THE HILLIARD
COMMUNITY”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into a contract with Holsten Management Corporation
(‘Contract”) to provide supportive services to CHA residents in the amount notto-exceed $800,000.00.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items C1 through C4 was seconded by
Commissioner Amey and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Martin Nesbitt
Carlos Ponce
Mary Wiggins

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Operations Committee report was also accepted in total.

Commissioner Ivers then introduced a Motion for the adoption of the Resolutions for Walk-On
Item 1.
(Walk-On Item No. 1)

10

 Pursuant to federal regulations, the Chicago Housing Authority (“CHA”) is required to maintain
an Administrative Plan for Housing Choice Vouchers, Project-Based Vouchers and Moderate
Rehabilitation Programs (“Administrative Plan”) that outlines the rules and procedures necessary
to administer voucher programs. The Administrative Plan is used by the program administrator,
CHAC, Inc., to ensure proper administration of voucher programs according to policies
established by the Board of Commissioners. The CHA adopted the current Administrative Plan
at its December 21, 2004 Board meeting. The Resolution for Walk-On Item 1 approves
amendment of the Administrative Plan to provide greater protection for families who participate
in voucher programs. Specifically, the amendments broaden CHAC, Inc.’s ability to preclude or
terminate a landlord’s participation in voucher programs where the landlord fails to comply with
local or state housing codes or federal housing quality standards; is delinquent in paying state or
local real estate taxes, fines or assessments; engages in wrong doing in connection with federal
housing programs; or violates the Housing Assistance Payment contract.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005- CHA - 41
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated March 9, 2005,
entitled “Approval of Amendment of the Administrative Plan for the Housing
Choice Vouchers, Project-Based Vouchers and Moderate Rehabilitation
Programs,”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners repeals and rescinds any and all previously adopted
administrative plans and resolutions related to the approval of such plans,

THAT

the Board of Commissioners adopts the Amended Chicago Housing Authority
Administrative Plan for the Housing Choice Vouchers, Project-Based Vouchers
and Moderate Rehabilitation Programs dated March 9, 2005 attached hereto as
Exhibit A in the form as attached,

THAT

the Chief Executive Officer, or his designee, is hereby authorized to approve and
incorporate final changes to the Administrative Plan including, but not limited to,
changes based upon HUD requirements, and

THAT

the revised Administrative Plan for the Housing Choice Vouchers, Project-Based
Vouchers and Moderate Rehabilitation Programs dated March 9, 2005 shall be
effective March 15, 2005.

The Motion to adopt resolution for Walk-On Item 1 was seconded by Commissioner Nesbitt and
the voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Martin Nesbitt
Carlos Ponce
Mary Wiggins
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolution adopted.
There being no further business to come before the Commissioners, upon Motion made,
seconded and carried, the meeting of the Board of Commissioners was adjourned.

S/B:
S/B:

Lee Gill, Custodian and
Keeper of Records

11

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Chairperson

 