caaNeE.

CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY

 

ITEM NO. A2

AUTHORIZATION TO ENTER INTO A CONTRACT WITH OLD VETERAN
CONSTRUCTION, INC. FOR FACADE REPLACEMENT, INTERIOR
IMPROVEMENTS, AND BUILDING LIFE SAFETY UPGRADES AT JUDGE
FREDERICK W. SLATER APARTMENTS

April 11, 2012

To the Honorable Board of Commissioners:

RECOMMENDATION

It is recommended that the Board of Commissioners authorize the Chief Executive Of?cer or his
designee to enter into a contract with Old Veteran Construction, Inc. in the amount of
$13,577,000.00 for the facade replacement, interior improvements and building life safety
upgrades at Judge Frederick W. Slater Apartments a Senior housing development
located at 740 East 43rd Street, Chicago, IL. The work is to be completed by no later than six
hundred ?fty (650) calendar days from the date set forth in the Notice to Proceed as part of the
Capital Maintenance Program.

RECOMMENDATION SUMMARY
Funding: General Fund

Speci?cation Number: IFB 11 00865

Date Advertised: December 16, 2011
Pre-Bid Conference: December 28, 2011
Site Visit: December 28, 2011

Addendum No. 1 Issued:
Addendum No. 2 Issued:
Addendum No. 3 Issued:
Date Bids Opened:

January 23, 2012
January 27, 2012
February 8, 2012
February 17, 2012

Advertisement Publication(s):

Number of Vendors Solicited:

Number of Assist Agencies:
Number of Pick?ups:
Number of Bids Received:
Contract Type:

Contract Time:

Contract Amount:

Participation:
Direct MBE 41 
Section 3:

Hiring 13

WBE 

Subcontracting 

Chicago Sun?Times, Chicago Defender, Extra, CHA website,
BuySpeed Online

827 (including 194 MBE ?rms and 83 WBE ?rms)

64

73 (including 10 MBE ?rms and 5 WBE ?rms)

8 (including 1 MBE ?rm)

Construction Services

Six hundred ?fty (650) calendar days from the date set forth in
the Notice to Proceed

13,577,000.00

DBE 

 

Other Economic Opportunities

 

 

60 E. Van Bum? Street Chicago, Illinois 60605-1207 - (312) 742-8500 - 1W. thecha.0rg

GENERAL BACKGROUND
Judge Frederick W. Slater Apartments (?Slater Apartments?) is a 204-unit Senior housing
building located at 740 East 43rd Street, Chicago, IL. It is a ?fteen?story structure completed by
the fall of 1967, situated on a 4.2 acre site.

Previous work at this building over the past decade included a roof replacement (2001), 
elevator modi?cations (2001), minor masonry repairs to the building?s exterior, interior
housing unit renovations (2001), installation of new energy ef?cient boilers (2010) and 
Americans with Disabilities Act improvements, resulting in eleven (11) mobility units
and two (2) sensory units (2010).

The Chicago Housing Authority commissioned a capital reserve study to
comprehensively assess this and other buildings? capital needs in 2007. The study represented
an evolution of the CHA approach to comprehensive management of its newly improved assets
with the goal of optimally deploring the agency?s resources over the agency?s housing portfolio
more ef?ciently.

As to this speci?c building, the study disclosed deteriorating masonry panels on the facade. The
building?s pre-cast masonry panels are forty-?ve (45) years-old and are reaching the end of their
useful life. Problems include missing material, severe cracks, failed caulk, exposed reinforcing
steel, diSplacement due to the steel?s deterioration, and hollow areas due to rusting of the steel.

The facade also includes masonry brick that has likewise suffered severe deterioration. Again,
problems include failed caulk and grout between bricks, cracked bricks, caulked weep holes
(which inhibit the building?s water in?ltration system), and severely rusted metal shelf angles
and lintels (which support the building?s brick facade in and around windows and doors).
Structural concrete beams are deteriorating, with spalled chipping or ?aking) concrete
surfaces. Problems likewise exist with the balconies. The balconies? ?oor slabs are sagging.

Past rehabilitation efforts did not include replacing the building?s original plumbing system.
Given its age and deterioration, this Board request includes authorization to comprehensively
update and replace plumbing risers and stacks.

Furthermore, the City?s recently enacted Life Safety and High-rise Ordinance requires
improvements to this and other buildings by the end of 2015. Designs include elements, which
bring the building into compliance with this new ordinance.

Finally, some of the common areas (ground ?oor of?ces and building entrances) are being
completed to enhance accessibility.

 

60 E. Van Buren Street - Chicago, Illinois 00605-1207 - (312) 742?8500 - mm. thee/13.0;

PROPOSED SCOPE OF WORK

The Asset Management and Capital Construction Departments worked together to
develop the following scope of work to address Property Management?s immediate concerns
and any other issues that might arise over the near term, including updating systems and areas
that are now a decade old. For instance, the building?s windows and air conditioning units are
nearing the end of their useful lives and will call for replacement over the next several years.
This approach attempts to address the building?s needs as comprehensively as possible with
minimal discomfort to the building?s residents.

The proposed scope of work includes, but is not limited to, the following:

Exterior
0 Replace the exterior precast wall panels.
0 Install new exterior windows.
0 Install new air conditioning window units.
0 Replace the exterior masonry face brick and repair the concrete beams.
0 Replace the balcony slabs and install new structural support.
0 Replace the roof system.

Mechanical/Electrical/Plumbing 

0 Replace all existing plumbing and heating risers including cOpper piping, existing valves,
horizontal waste lines, and installation of cleanouts at each stack line

0 Replace existing vertical hydronic heating supply and return risers, branch steel piping,
isolation valves.

Life Safety I Fire Prevention

0 Install a two-way voice communication system as required by the Chicago Life Safety
and High-rise Ordinance.

0 Install an elevator recall system.

0 Replace the existing smoke detectors and tie them into the ?re alarm panel.

Architectural
0 Repair interior units including the painting and patching of all walls impacted by chase
riser work, as well as installing new ?ooring, paint, kitchen cabinets and bathroom
?xtures.
0 Renovate ground ?oor of?ce areas and building entrances to enhance accessibility.

Phasing
The CHA will complete the work in twelve (12) phases.

0 The building includes thirty-six (3 6) tiers of units, and the contractor will work on three
(3) unoccupied tiers at a time. Suf?cient vacancies exist to enable this approach.
0 The residents will be relocated into completed tiers as they are ?nished.

The CHA staff has considered two (2) possible approaches, replace vs. repair, for each of the
four (4) major areas of concern:

 

605. Van Buren Street- chicaga, Illinois 60605-1207- (312) 742-8500- 

Precast Panel Deterioration
Option A (replace the existing precast panels)
0 The precast panel deterioration is so wide spread that repair of the panels would not be
cost effective.
0 Permanent ?x with minimal maintenance, and provides an improved appearance.
Option (repair)
0 Rout out all cracks, expose the rebar back to sound material, clean the rebar, replace any
rebar that is too deteriorated and replace the concrete face with epoxy grout.
0 At locations where there is missing material, steel rebar would have to be exposed until
sound steel is found and in some areas replaced.
0 In areas where the panels sound hollow, the face of the panels would have to be exposed
back to sound material, enough material would have to be removed around the rebar to
allow bonding with new material.

The Capital Construction Department recommends replacing the existing precast panels (Option
A).

Face Brick
Option A (new face brick)

0 Due to the extensive amount of brick that would have to be removed to replace the rusted
shelf angles and steel lintels, as well as the amount of required tuck-pointing and spalled
brick replacement, it would be more cost effective to replace the entire brick facade.

This completely eliminates the safety hazard of failing facade materials.

0 It improves the appearance of the building while avoiding additional brick maintenance
in the future.

Option (repair face brick)

0 Most de?ciencies in the brick are due to failed caulk and grout, and cracked brick.

- Repair of the existing face brick facade would require tuck-pointing and replacement of
spalled and cracked brick.

The shelf angles and steel lintels are extremely rusted and would have to be replaced.

The Capital Construction Department recommends new face brick (Option A).

Balconies
Option A (new balconies)

a New balcony slabs would tie into the existing structure and be supported with column
supports at outermost corner and at mid-span of unsupported edge.

0 Removing and replacing the balconies is recommended since repairs have been made to
the balconies in the past (application of thin concrete topping slab, addition of steel tube
column at outermost, unsupported comer) and they have simply added more weight to
the existing slabs and relocated the point of sagging to the center of the outmost edge.

Option (repair balconies)
0 Repair of the existing balconies would require the following:
Temporarily jacking the existing slab.
0 Removal of the existing topping slab.
Shimming the existing columns and adding new columns at the mid-point of the long
exposed edge.

 

60 E. Van Buren Etreet - Chicago, Illinois 60605-1207 - (312) 742-8500 - mm. Mechaarg

0 New concrete t0pping slab to provide positive drainage away from the building.
The Capital Construction Department recommends new balconies (Option A).

Roof
Option A (new roo?
- The roof is approximately twelve (12) years old.
0 The remaining life of the roof is estimated at four (4) years.
0 The new roof warranty would extend for the next ?fteen (15) years.
Option (repair the roo?
0 Due to the impact caused by the facade replacement, a four (4) foot wide swath at the
perimeter of the roof would have to be replaced.
0 New ?ashing would be required at perimeter of roof.

Due to the extent of the renovation work and anticipated life of the roof, the Capital Construction
Department recommends that the roof system be replaced (Option A).

Fire Sprinkler System
The projected scope of work includes installing ?re sprinklers throughout this building.

Bene?ts Gained from the Proposed Scope of Work
0 Corrects existing applicable Chicago Municipal Code Violations;
Corrects potential hazards to public and resident safety;
0 Brings overall building and AC systems up to current Building and Life Safety
Codes and Standards relative to high-rise buildings;
Improves energy ef?ciency of all existing units;
Improves overall building envelope;
Extends useful life of the building;
Increases the value of the property;
Improves overall quality and rent ability of existing units; and
Meets the Plan for Transformation objective of introducing private sector real estate
principles to CHA projects.

PROCUREMENT HISTORY

The CHA advertised Invitation for Bid 11 00865 on December 16, 2011. Advertisements ran in
the Chicago Sun-Times, the Chicago Defender, Extra, on the CHA website, and on BuySpeed
Online. The Pre-Bid Conference and Site Visit were held on December 28, 2011.

The CHA issued three (3) addendums for this solicitation. Addendum No. 1, issued on January
23, 2012, moved the bid due date from January 26, 2012 to February 13, 2012. Addendum No. 2,
issued January 27, 2012, answered Requests for Information, and distributed revised Bid Fee
pages, selected revised technical speci?cations, selected revised drawings, the ?as-built
drawings, and a hazardous materials report. That Addendum also moved the bid due date to
February 17, 2012. Addendum No. 3, issued February 8, 2012, replaced the BF pages, the Davis-
Bacon wage report and selected drawings. The CHA received and opened eight (8) bids on
February 17, 2012.

 

60 E. Van Buren Street - Chicago, Illinois 60605-1207 - (312) 742-8500 - thawing

After analyzing the bid submittal materials, the Department of Procurement and Contracts
(?Procurement?), Asset Management, and the Capital Construction Department held a
pre~award surveyiclari?cation meeting with the apparent low bidder, Old Veteran Construction,
Inc. (?Old Veteran?). The representatives of that ?rm responded to questions on the
thoroughness of their bid, how they developed their costs, and the amount of work they planned
to self-perform. Old Veteran described which sub-contractors will perform portions of the work.
A CHA Compliance Specialist also reviewed the ?rm?s compliance materials in detail and
requested updates to Old Veteran?s information.

Having performed a thorough review of the bid materials of the apparent low bidder, the CCD
staff recommends that Old Veteran receive a contract award for this work. Procurement has
completed its own review of the bid materials and staff?s recommendation, and has determined
that Old Veteran is the lowest responsive and responsible bidder at $13,577,000.00.

Based on the foregoing, the Capital Construction Department recommends that the Board of
Commissioners authorize the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to enter into a contract
with Old Veteran Construction, Inc. in the amount of $13,577,000.00 for the facade replacement
and interior improvements at Judge Frederick W. Slater Apartments a Senior housing
deve10pment located at 740 East 43rd Street, Chicago, IL. The work is to be completed by no
later than six hundred ?fty (650) calendar days from the date set forth in the Notice to Proceed as
part of the Capital Maintenance Program.

This award is subject to the Contractor?s compliance with the Section
3 resident hiring, and bonding and insurance requirements.

 

6?0 E. Van Buren Street - Chicago, Illinois 60605 - 1207 - (312) 742-8500 - mm. til?echa. org

RESOLUTION NO. 

WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated April 11, 2012,

entitled TO ENTER INTO A CONTRACT WITH OLD
VETERAN CONSTRUCTION, INC. FOR FACADE REPLACEMENT,
INTERIOR IMPROVEMENTS, AND BUILDING LIFE SAFETY UPGRADES
AT JUDGE FREDERICK W. SLATER 

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY

THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Of?cer or his
designee to enter into a contract with Old Veteran Construction, Inc. in the
amount of $13,577,000.00 for the facade replacement, interior improvements, and
building life safety upgrades at Judge Frederick W. Slater Apartments 
a Senior housing development located at 740 East 43rd Street, Chicago, IL. The
work is to be completed by no later than six hundred ?fty (650) calendar days
from the date set forth in the Notice to Proceed as part of the Capital Maintenance
Program.

This award is subject to the Contractor?s compliance with the 
Section 3 resident hiring, and bonding and insurance
requirements.

lawn/1L1

   

 

 

 

Bil?ail of Cammirsinners

 

6'0 E. Van Bum-n Street Chicago, Illinois 60605-1207 - (312) 742-0500 - m. thechamy

