June 10, 2015

Item No. 12

AUTHORIZATION TO EXECUTE EITHER 1) A PRELIMINARY COMMITMENT LETTER
FOR THE MARSHALL HOTEL FOR PROPERTY RENTAL ASSISTANCE OR 2) A SUPPORT LETTER FOR THE
MARSHALL HOTEL RENTAL DEVELOPMENT TO PROVIDE A CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY LOAN NOT
TO EXCEED $8,086,500

To the Honorable Board of Commissioners:
RECOMMENDATION
It is recommended that the Board of Commissioners approve the attached Resolution authorizing the
Chief Executive Officer (CEO) or his designee execute either 1) a preliminary commitment letter for The
Marshall Hotel for Property Rental Assistance or 2) a support letter for the Marshall Hotel Rental
Development to provide a Chicago Housing Authority (CHA) Loan not to exceed $8,086,500.
CORPORATE GOAL
The proposed preliminary commitment and support letters support Plan Forward Goal #1: coordinating
public and private investment to develop healthy, vibrant communities.
The purpose of this resolution is to execute a preliminary letter of commitment or a support letter for
The Marshall Hotel. Dependent on participation from other financing sources, CHA will provide only one
letter which will be valid for one year in order to allow the developer to secure other development and
construction financing. Once all financing is secured, the full development plans will be submitted to the
CHA Board prior to execution of an Agreement to Enter into a Housing Assistance Payment Contract
(AHAP/HAP) or prior to the submission of a development proposal for public housing units to the U.S.
Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD).
FUNDING: Housing Choice Voucher Program (HCV) or CHA Loan not to exceed $8,086,500
PROPERTY SUMMARY FOR PRA
Development
Name
The Marshall
Hotel

Community /
Ward /
Alderman
Near North Side/
2nd Ward/Brian
Hopkins

Developer / Owner

Target
Population

PRA
Units

Total Units

The Michaels
Development Company
(MDC)

Individuals

41

81

Initial
Estimated
Contract
$469,860/
year

Total
Estimated
Contract
$19,061,318
(30 years)

Application
Received

CONTRACT SUMMARY
Development
Name

Funding

Contract
Term

Contract
Type

The Marshall
Hotel

Housing Choice
Voucher
Program

30 Years

AHAP/ HAP
Contract

April 2015

 Proposed Mixed Finance Rental Development
CHA would submit a development proposal for the acquisition and rehabilitation of the Marshall Hotel
into a mixed finance rental development that would include 27 public housing units. The acquisition
would allow CHA to convey the property to MDC either in fee simple or by ground lease, in order to
generate additional donation tax credit equity financing for the transaction. The total estimated
development budget for The Marshall Hotel rental development is approximately $25,840,464 and
includes the CHA Loan of $8,086,500.
Proposed PRA Development
 The Marshall Hotel currently consists of 173 total Single Room Occupancy (SRO) units. The
developer intends to reconfigure the building to 81 studio units.
 Substantial rehabilitation of a 4-story elevator building located in the Near North community
area. The new units will be approximately 320-350 square feet.
 Currently none of the units have kitchens and full bathrooms.
 The scope of work includes constructing kitchens and full bathrooms in all units and
replacement of all major systems including plumbing, heating, electrical, elevators and exterior
masonry.
 Target population is individuals. 9 of the PRA units will be designated for the State Referral
Network.
 PRA rents will reflect neighborhood market rents.
 Building amenities will include a library/reading room, vending snack machines, laundry
facilities, secured bicycle parking, individual storage lockers, no-smoking units, on-site property
management, secured entrances and common hallways, security cameras and intercom
system.
Developer Background
 The Michaels Development company (MDC) was established in 1973 and is an arm of The
Michaels Organization, which owns 8 companies that provide various affordable housing
services including development, construction oversight, property management, mortgage
financing, tax credit syndication and supportive services.
 MDC has developed nearly 51,000 affordable and mixed-income housing units in 34 states, the
District of Columbia and the U.S. Virgin Islands, housing over 100,000 people.
 MDC has partnered with CHA on a number of large scale, mixed-income, mixed-use
developments including Legends South and Westhaven Park Apartments.
 Linn-Mathes, Inc will be the general contractor and Interstate Realty Management Company
(IRM), which is the affordable housing property management arm of The Michaels Organization
will be the property manager. IRM’s portfolio consists of over 46,000 units nationwide.
Conclusion
The Board action recommended in this item complies in all material respects with all applicable CHA
Board policies and all applicable federal laws.

2

 The Chief Property Officer concurs with the recommendation to execute either 1) a preliminary
commitment letter for The Marshall Hotel for Property Rental Assistance or 2) a support letter for the
Marshall Hotel rental development to provide a Chicago Housing Authority Loan not to exceed
$8,086,500.

The CEO/President recommends the approval to execute either 1) a preliminary commitment letter for
The Marshall Hotel for Property Rental Assistance or 2) a support letter for the Marshall Hotel rental
development to provide a Chicago Housing Authority Loan not to exceed $8,086,500.

3

 RESOLUTION NO. 2015-CHA-56
WHEREAS,

the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the Board
letter dated June 10, 2015 requesting authorization to execute either 1) a preliminary
commitment letter for The Marshall Hotel for Property Rental Assistance or 2) a support
letter for the Marshall Hotel rental development to provide a Chicago Housing Authority
Loan not to exceed $8,086,500 ;

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:

THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to
execute either 1) a preliminary commitment letter for The Marshall Hotel for Property
Rental Assistance or 2) a support letter for the Marshall Hotel rental development to
provide a Chicago Housing Authority Loan not to exceed $8,086,500.

4

 