 EENGE.

CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY

- 

March 13, 2013 ITEM NO. C3

AUTHORIZATION TO EXECUTE AN AGREEMENT TO ENTER INTO A HOUSING
ASSISTANCE PAYMENTS CONTRACT FOR HOPE MANOR II

To the Honorable Board of Commissioners:

RECOMMENDATION

It is recommended that the Board of Commissioners approve the attached Resolution authorizing
the Chief Executive Of?cer or his designee to I) execute an Agreement to enter into a Housing
Assistance Payments Contract for Hope Manor and 2) execute all other documents as may be
necessary or appropriate to implement the foregoing.

CORPORATE GOAL
The purpose of this contract is to create more affordable housing opportunities for families
in healthy and revitalizing neighborhoods by providing Property Rental Assistance (PRA)

for seventy three (73) apartments detailed below.

FUNDING: Housing Choice Voucher Program

 

 

 

 

 

PROPERTY SUMMARY
Development Community 1? Developer I Owner Target PRA Total Units
Name Ward Population Units
Alderman
Hope Manor II lligglewood; Volunteers of Veterans 73 73
America Veteran
Annard Families
Thompson
CONTRACT SUMMARY
Development Funding Contract Contract Initial Max Total Max Application
Name Term Type Contract Contract Received
Hope Manor II HCV Program 30 Years $940,644/year $28,219,320 March, 2011 to
HAP Studios: $790 (30 years) coincide w!
Contract l-BRs: $904 IHDA Tax
2-BRs: $1016 Credit round 
3-BRs: $1242 updated in
4-BRs: $1403 Sept. 2012 to
receive
additional
IHDA funds

 

BACKGROUND

Waiting List Occupancy Process

It is the intent of the ownerfmanager of this property to lease all of the units to eligible persons
from waiting lists. Eligibility for the property includes being a Veteran, or having a
family member who is a Veteran, and is interested in receiving supportive services. To

6?05. Van Ewen Street- Chicago, Illinois 60605- 1207- (312) 742- 8500- i91?Lt/18008 or, a

accomplish this CHA will utilize a cross-referenced list of Central Referral System (CRS)
applicants and CHA applicants who have identi?ed themselves as Veterans. CHA will also
make referrals from its Public Housing and HCV waiting lists as well as families whose right of
return under the Relocation Rights Contract has not been satis?ed who have identi?ed
themselves or a family member as having served in the military. The CHA waiting list of
Veteran applicants will be exhausted prior to utilization of a site based waiting list.

Hope Manor 11
Hope Manor II Apartments is the new construction of 73 units on vacant City-owned land at

6002 S. Halsted in the Englewood community. The City will convey the land to Volunteers of
America (VOA) at closing. The development will be supportive housing for homeless and
disabled Veterans including families with children and individuals. Building amenities will
include a ?tness room, computer center, community lounges, meeting rooms, laundry facilities,
security cameras, on-site supportive services of?ces, outdoor community space and play lot, plus
on?site parking.

VOA is a national organization that was established in 1896 to help the most vulnerable people
in need of comprehensive supportive services living in the nation?s communities. VOA provides
an array of programs designed to strengthen families, promote safety and well-being in children,
and empower families and individuals to transform their lives. VOA provides services to more
than 1,000 people each year including children in foster care, frail elderly, mothers returning
home from prison and Veterans who are struggling or in crisis. VOA has been a national leader
in providing services to Veterans for over 30 years and currently serves more than 7,500
Veterans daily in more than 50 Veteran speci?c programs throughout the country. Construction
is expected to begin in April, 2013 and be ready for occupancy in October, 2014. VOA also
developed and currently operates Hope Manor 1, which contains 50 total units, 30 of which are
PRA. Hope Manor I was completed in 2012 and is now fully leased.

Conclusion
The Board action recommended in this item complies in all material respects with all applicable

Chicago Housing Authority board policies and all applicable federal (HUD) procurement laws.

The Acting Chief Housing Of?cer concurs with the recommendation to execute an Agreement to
enter into a Housing Assistance Payments contract for Hope Manor II.

The CEO/President recommends the approval to execute an Agreement to enter into Housing
Assistance Payments contract for Hope Manor II.

50 E. Van Buren Street - Chicago, Illinois (312) 742-8500 - my. thecha.org

RESOLUTION 2013-CHA-20

WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board letter dated March 13, 2013, requesting authorization to execute an

Agreement to enter into a Housing Assistance Payments contract for Hope Manor


THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:

THAT, the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Of?cer or his
designee to I) execute an Agreement to enter into a Housing Assistance Payments
Contract for Hope Manor and 2) execute all other documents as may be
necessary or appropriate to implement the foregoing.

 

 

so E. Van Buren Street - chicago, Illinois 60605-1207- (312) 742-5500 - mar. ?Emme-

