MINUTES OF THE ANNUAL AND REGULAR MEETING

OF THE

COMMISSIONERS OF THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
July 18, 2006
The Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority held its Annual and Regular Meeting on
Tuesday, July 18, 2006, at 8:30 a.m. at the Lorraine Hansberry Apartments (formerly LakeParkside Apts.), 5670 W. Lake, Chicago, Illinois.
The meeting was called to order by the Chairperson, and upon roll call, those present and absent
were as follows:
Present:
Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Bridget O’Keefe
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young
Mary Wiggins
Absent:

Earnest Gates
Michael Ivers
Martin Nesbitt

Also present were Adrienne Minley, Chief-of-Staff; Gail Niemann, General Counsel; Chicago
Housing Authority Staff Members and the General Public.
There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as
follows: In lieu of the report of the Chief Executive Officer, Board Chair, Sharon Gist Gilliam,
presented the following report: Chairperson Gilliam welcomed the Commissioners and general
public to the 69th Annual Meeting of the Board of Commissioners of the CHA. Per Chairperson
Gilliam, all the stakeholders in the Plan For Transformation have much to be proud of in this the
69th year. By the end of 2006 the Authority will have rehabbed 73% of its inventory scheduled
for rehabilitation including 95% of senior properties, and will have completed 32.5% of
scheduled new construction. Ms. Gilliam continued by saying that all new construction public
housing and affordable units are leased. More importantly, over the past 7 years as the Plan for
Transformation moves forward CHA has experienced both an increase in the number of residents
working and an increase in average wages earned. As part of the Plan For Transformation, the
construction of new infrastructure, parks and municipal facilities and the establishment of charter
schools are evident in CHA communities. Chairperson Gilliam then proudly stated that during
2006, the CHA was able through creative financing to leverage an additional $69.9 million
which accelerated the rehabilitation of a number of properties ensuring that residents will have
desirable units sooner than originally planned. The Chair concluded her report by tracing the
history of the CHA back to its established date of 1937, the challenges experienced in the 1970’s
and ‘80’s and its current renaissance where market rate homeowners feel lucky to have the
opportunity to spend $400-500 thousand to live next door to a public housing resident. The Chair
then acknowledged the many partners in this historic effort including the Mayor and City
departments; sister governments; foundations; the private sector partners; and most of all the
residents and resident leadership.
Immediately after, a token of Appreciation was presented to the Local Advisory Council
Presidents for their continuing support of the Plan For Transformation.
The Chairperson then convened the Public Hearing portion of the meeting by inviting residents
and the public at large to address the Board.

1

 Immediately following the Public Hearing portion of the meeting, a Motion was introduced and
seconded to adjourn to Executive Session. The Chairperson announced that pursuant to the
Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2, the Board would adjourn for approximately one hour to
discuss pending, probable or imminent litigation, collective negotiating matters, security and
personnel matters.
The Commissioners subsequently reconvened in Open Session.
The Chairperson thereupon called for nominations for the position of Vice-Chairperson. A
Motion was made by Commissioner Wiggins and properly seconded by Commissioner Ponce to
nominate Commissioner Martin Nesbitt for the position of Vice-Chairperson. There being no
other nomination on the slate, nominations were closed and the voting resulted in unanimous
approval for the re-election of Commissioner Martin Nesbitt as Vice-Chairperson of the Chicago
Housing Authority.
The Chairperson thereupon called for nominations for the position of Custodian and Keeper of
Records aka Secretary of the CHA Board of Commissioners. A Motion was made by
Commissioner Harris and properly seconded by Commissioner Amey to nominate Lee Chuc-Gill
for the position of Custodian and Keeper of Records Secretary. There being no other nomination
on the slate, nominations were closed and the voting resulted in unanimous approval for the reelection of Lee Chuc-Gill as Custodian and Keeper of Records/Secretary, Board of
Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority.
Chairperson Gilliam thereupon introduced the Resolutions discussed in Executive Session.
Commissioner Harris then presented a Motion to approve resolution for Executive Item 1.
Executive Item 1
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-99
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated July 1, 2006, requesting that the Board of Commissioners
approves the Personnel Actions Report for June 2006.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the Personnel Actions Report for
June 2006.

The Motion to adopt resolution for Executive Session Item 1 was seconded by Commissioner
Wiggins and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Bridget O’Keefe
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young
Mary Wiggins
Nays:

None

The Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried and said Resolution adopted.
Commissioner O’Keefe, Chairperson of the Finance & Audit Committee, then presented her
monthly report. Per Commissioner O’Keefe, the Finance & Audit Committee Meeting was held
on Wednesday, July 12th at 1:00 p.m. at the 626 W. Jackson Corporate offices. The Chief
Financial Officer and her staff presented the Committee with the Treasury Report for the month
of June 2006.
Commissioner O’Keefe then introduced an Omnibus Motion for adoption of resolutions for
Items A1 and A3, discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Finance &
Audit Committee.

2

 (Item A1)
The resolution for Item A1 approves the revised 2006 Comprehensive Budget. The CHA is
required to submit for approval by the Board, a balanced annual Comprehensive Budget detailing
each of the following: The FY2006 budgeted expenditures have been revised from $939,799,330
to $928,807,877, resulting in a $10,991,453 decrease. The major changes by funding source are
as follows: General Fund - total revenues and associated expenditures decreased by $8,373,523
for a fund total of $846,856,641. The decrease is primarily due to adjustments to unit projections
for redevelopment activities at various CHA Mixed-Income properties. Hope VI Fund - total
revenues and associated expenditures decreased by $603,948 for a fund total of $38,185,913.
The decrease is primarily due to less than anticipated funding provided to support Relocation &
Supportive Services activities. Other Funding - total revenues and associated expenditures
decreased by $2,013,982 for a fund total of $17,110,488. The decrease is primarily due to
adjustments to projected redevelopment activities at various CHA Mixed-Income properties.
The estimated sum of all revenues for fiscal year 2006 and the amount of the fiscal year 2006
Fund Balance available for appropriation in the fiscal year is equal to the estimated sum of all
expenditures to be made or incurred during the fiscal year and the amount of all unpaid liabilities
at the beginning of the fiscal year 2006.
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-100
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board letter dated July 10, 2006,
entitled “APPROVAL OF THE REVISED 2006 COMPREHENSIVE
BUDGET”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners, hereby approves the attached budget amendments,
“THE FY2006 COMPREHENSIVE BUDGET AMENDMENT #2”, and finds
with respect to said Budget:
1.

2.

3.

THAT,

that the proposed expenditures are necessary for the efficient and
economical operation of the Chicago Housing Authority for the purpose of
serving low-income families;
that the financial plan is reasonable in that it indicates funding sources
adequate to cover all proposed expenditures, and does not provide for use
of Federal funding in excess of that payable under the provisions of the
applicable Federal regulations; and
that all proposed rental charges and expenditures will be consistent with
provisions of law and the Annual Contributions Contract in accordance
with the Moving To Work Demonstration Agreement of the Chicago
Housing Authority with the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development.

the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer are authorized to execute
and forward to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development all
necessary budget documents and supporting information when applicable.

(Item A3)
In June 2006, the CHA received official written notice of an award of $50,000.00 from the
MacArthur Foundation to fund and administer the 2006 Council of Large Public Housing
Authorities (CLPHA) Conference. CLPHA is a national non-profit organization that works to
preserve and improve public and affordable housing through advocacy, research, policy analysis
and public education. The CLPHA conference is essential to its members and strives to advocate
for adequate public housing funding and policies that support local management and
accountability; develop and analyze policies that impact the public housing community; and
research and report on key public housing trends and educate policy makers and the public about
the critical role public housing plays in meeting affordable housing needs. Accordingly, the
resolution for Item A3 accepts grant award from the MacArthur Foundation.

3

 RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-101
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated July 10, 2006, entitled “RECOMMENDATION TO ACCEPT
A GRANT AWARD FROM THE JOHN D. AND CATHERINE T.
MACARTHUR
FOUNDATION
AND
INCREASE
THE
FY2006
COMPREHENSIVE BUDGET.”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to accept a grant award from the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur
Foundation in the amount of $50,000.00 for the Council of Large Public Housing
Authorities 2006 Conference and increase the FY2006 comprehensive budget by
$50,000.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items A1 and A3 was seconded by Commissioner
Young and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Bridget O’Keefe
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young
Mary Wiggins
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted.
Commissioner O’Keefe then presented a Motion to adopt Resolution for Item No. A2 deferred
by the Finance Committee for further clarification by staff.
(Item A2)
As part of the Plan for Transformation, the CHA and Blackwell Consulting Services (BCS)
executed a contract for IT management consulting. The CHA is currently utilizing Creative
Computer Systems (CCS) as their critical business system that supports asset management,
financial reporting, and contract record management. CHA sought a replacement system for
their comprehensive and essential business tools. After an extensive procurement process the
CHA elected to utilize an enterprise resource planning (ERP) system from Lawson Software, to
be implemented jointly by BCS and Lawson. The contract secured software licenses and
maintenance and support services for the Lawson system in addition to implementation services
for the deployment of Lawson system and its core modules for Human Resources (HR), Payroll,
Procurement, Compliance and Finance. HR and Payroll modules were implemented in October
2005. Procurement, Finance and Compliance modules were scheduled for implementation on
March 1st 2006. However, due to massive challenges with the legacy system (CCS), data
conversion tasks were not completed as planned, and a revised Go Live date for full
implementation is currently scheduled for October 2, 2006. Accordingly, the resolution for Item
A3 approves extension of contract with Blackwell for additional work required to support the
CHA ERP project, to achieve remaining project milestones, and to complete new and modified
deliverables through go-live and post implementation support phases.
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-102
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated Ju1y 10, 2006,
entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO EXTEND CONTRACT NO. 9777 WITH
BLACKWELL CONSULTING SERVICE FOR ADDITIONAL WORK
RELATED TO THE ENTERPRISE RESOURCE PLANNING (ERP)
SYSTEM”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY

4

 THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute Contract Extension No. 012, 014, 016, 020, and 021 to
Contract No. 9777 in the not to exceed amount of $1,450,000.00 for additional
work related to the management consulting on the enterprise resource planning
system. The new total contract amount of Contract No. 9777 is $6,582,573.00.
This Contract Extension is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s
MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident hiring, and bonding and insurance
requirements.

The Motion to adopt resolution for Item A2 was seconded by Commissioner Ponce and the
voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Bridget O’Keefe
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young
Mary Wiggins
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolution adopted. The Finance and Audit Committee report was also accepted in total.
Due to the absence of Commissioner Gates, Chairperson of the Operations Committee,
Commissioner Ponce then presented the monthly report. Per Commissioner Ponce, the
Operations and Facilities Committee Meeting was held on Wednesday, July 12, 2006 at
approximately 1:30 p.m. at the 626 W. Jackson Corporate offices.
Commissioner Ponce then introduced an Omnibus Motion for the adoption of resolutions for
Items B1 through B5 and B7 discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the
Operations & Facilities Committee.
(Item B1)
The resolution for Item B1 approves Contract Modification Number G-08 with Walsh
Construction in the amount of $3,467,628.00 for additional labor and materials for the following
required work at Altgeld Gardens: work premium time for 2005 & 2006 accelerated schedule;
replace broken sewer pipes; change kitchen size and countertops, install ceilings and door
sweeps; lower unit signage and install Braille signage; install terminal pair blocks and new
splitters, terminate cables and relocate light switches; relocate existing street lights; install
caulking under aluminum sills, and provide letter size mail slot; install raceway for AT&T
temporary cable and relocate Bureau of Electric underground cables; provide power to A-1-4 &
A-3-3 basements, and provide additional furnaces for use in Property Manager maintenance
training; install tamperproof screws and metal blocking at windows; install vinyl stairs treads,
risers and stringers; modify four HUD units and install ADA ramps at rear building access;
install new drywall ceilings, in-fill window openings, and provide glazing for storm doors; and
provide standard and ADA appliances. This additional work is required to perform ownerdirected changes, comply with current Building Codes, adjust for potential design corrections,
and correct discovered conditions.
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-103
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated July 10, 2006
entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO EXECUTE MODIFICATION NO. G-08 TO
CONTRACT NO. 5090 WITH WALSH CONSTRUCTION COMPANY FOR
ADDITIONAL WORK RELATED TO THE GENERAL RENOVATION OF
ALTGELD GARDENS (IL2-007) – PHASE 1”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute Contract Modification No. G-08 to Contract No. 5090 with
Walsh Construction Company in the amount of $3,467,628.00 for additional work
5

 related to the general renovation of Altgeld Gardens (IL2-007) – Phase 1 at 969
East 132nd Place. The new total contract amount of Contract No. 5090 is
$57,257,902.00.
This Contract Modification is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the
CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident hiring, and bonding and insurance
requirements.
(Item B2)
The resolution for Item B2 approves Contract Modification Number G-07 with George Sollitt in
the amount of $2,632,256.50. In order to complete the intended scope for the general renovation
of Trumbull, and based upon the evaluation and engineering performed by the Prime Design
Consultant and CHA’s Owners Rep the following needs to be performed: work premium time
for 2006 accelerated schedule to complete two hundred forty-five units by December 31, 2006;
perform additional abatement of tile, lead paint and other hazardous materials. This additional
work is also required due to owner-directed changes and to correct discovered conditions.
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-104
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated July 10, 2006
entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO EXECUTE MODIFICATION NO. G-07 TO
CONTRACT NO. 0617 WITH THE GEORGE SOLLITT CONSTRUCTION
COMPANY FOR ADDITIONAL WORK RELATED TO THE GENERAL
RENOVATION OF TRUMBULL PARK HOMES (IL2-025)”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute Contract Modification No. G-07 to Contract No. 0617 with
The George Sollitt Construction Company in the amount of $2,632,256.50 to
complete the intended scope of the general renovation of Trumbull Park Homes
(IL2-025) at 2437 E. 106th Street. The new total contract amount is
$56,757,858.35.

This Contract Modification is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s bonding
and insurance requirements.
(Item B3)
The resolution for Item B3 approves Contract Modification Number G-03 with FHP Tectonics
in the amount of $377,291.00 to provides for additional labor and materials for the following
required work at Wentworth Gardens: provide and install pre-finished aluminum panning at the
window jambs and heads; remove, replace and connect a portion of existing sanitary piping
serving Buildings 15, 16, and 17, and the piping serving the adjacent storm basins and catch
basins; in-fill the roof and suffix with new framing, roofing, fascia and painted exterior gypsum
wallboard; perform 100% mold remediation; and replace the concrete material unit door
headers with new solidly grouted and reinforced headers at thirty-one locations. FHP Tectonics
will also issue a credit for costs associated with the removal and replacement of sixty window
lintels. This additional work is required to correct discovered conditions.
Commissioner Amey recused from voting on the following resolution for Item B3:
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-105
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated July 10, 2006
entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO EXECUTE MODIFICATION NO. G-03 TO
CONTRACT NO. 5026 WITH FHP TECTONICS CORPORATION FOR
ADDITIONAL WORK RELATED TO THE GENERAL RENOVATION OF
WENTWORTH GARDENS (IL2-008)”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute Contract Modification No. G-03 to Contract No. 5026 with
FHP Tectonics Corporation in the amount of $377,291.00 for additional work
related to the general renovation of Wentworth Gardens (IL2-008) at 3770 South
6

 Wentworth. The new total contract amount of Contract No. 5026 is
$18,760,728.00.
This Contract Modification is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s bonding
and insurance requirements.
(Item B4)
As part of the Capital Improvement Program, the CHA requires the services of qualified
professional architects/engineers to provide necessary facade inspection services. These
inspections are needed to meet the requirements of the City of Chicago’s Buildings Exterior Wall
Ordinance. The selected firm will perform all inspection and reporting services requested by the
CHA necessary to file reports with the City. After completing the forensic examinations, the firm
will repair and/or restore each inspection opening to a “safe” or “safe with a repair and
maintenance program” condition. Accordingly, in April 2006 the CHA advertised Request for
Proposal for authority-wide facade inspections The RFP was advertised in area newspapers and
on the CHA website. The CHA also directly solicited 15 firms, including 5 MBE/WBE/DBE
firms. Of the seven proposals received and evaluated it was determined that three firms were in
the competitive range. All three firms made oral presentations, and each firm submitted best and
final offers. Upon further evaluation and consideration of the best and final offers of each firm,
Wiss Janney provided the best economic value with respect to the facade inspections and their
hourly rates for Prime Design Consultant Services, if required. Accordingly, the resolution for
Item B4 approves award to Wiss Janney for Authority-wide façade inspections.
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-106
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated July 10, 2006,
entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO NEGOTIATE AND ENTER INTO A
CONTRACT WITH WISS, JANNEY, ELSTNER ASSOCIATES, INC. FOR
AUTHORITY-WIDE FACADE INSPECTIONS”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to negotiate and enter into a contract with Wiss, Janney, Elstner
Associates, Inc. (“Wiss, Janney”) in the amount of $224,500.00 for a term of two
(2) years for authority-wide facade inspections, and if repairs are needed, to
provide Prime Design Consultant services, subject to negotiation, CHA
acceptance of Wiss, Janney’s written proposal, and a contract modification that
will be based upon Wiss, Janney’s fully loaded hourly rates submitted with its
Best and Final Offer. Inspection reports will be submitted to the Chicago
Housing Authority for its review by October 16, 2006.
This Contract is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s
MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident hiring, and insurance requirements.

(Item B5)
As part of the Capital Improvement Program, the CHA requires the services of a qualified
professional firm with expertise in the field of surveillance camera systems analysis and design.
The selected firm will provide surveillance camera design consulting to the CHA. As part of its
assessment, the selected firm will evaluate existing surveillance camera systems. Its design and
engineering services will include, but not be limited to, preparing the schematic design,
performing the design development, creating the bid and construction documents, providing
construction cost estimates, and developing a construction budget for the installation of the
recommended equipment. This work will cover selected Senior and Family properties.
Accordingly, in April 2006, the CHA advertised a Request for Proposal No. 01450 for
assessment and design services for surveillance camera systems at various locations. The RFP
was advertised in area newspapers and on the CHA website. The CHA also directly solicited
thirteen firms, including five MBE/WBE/DBE firms. Of the eight proposals received, the
evaluation committee determined that six firms were in the competitive range. All six firms
made oral presentations, and Best and Final Offers were submitted by each firm. After further
evaluation and consideration of the Best and Final Offers o Videotec Corporation provided the
best overall economic value. The resolution for Item B5 therefore approves award of contract to
Videotec.
7

 RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-107
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated July 10, 2006
entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO EXECUTE CONTRACT WITH VIDEOTEC
CORPORATION FOR ASSESSMENT AND DESIGN SERVICES FOR
SURVEILLANCE CAMERA SYSTEMS AT VARIOUS LOCATIONS”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to negotiate and enter into a firm fixed fee contract with Videotec
Corporation in the amount of $430,580.00 for assessment and design services for
surveillance camera systems at various locations for a term of twelve (12) months,
or until the work is completed in accordance with the contract’s terms and
conditions, whichever occurs first.
This award is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s
MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident hiring, and insurance requirements.

(Item B6 - THIS NUMBER NOT USED)

(Item B7)
The resolution for Item B7 approves execution of an Intergovernmental Agreement with the City
for the sale of a parcel of real estate commonly known as 1001-03 S. State Street. The City shall
acquire the property for the sum of $700,000 less real estate tax proration and closing costs.
The Property consists of a 5,540 sq. ft. vacant lot which is currently being used as a parking lot
behind the CHA’s Housing Choice Voucher Program Administrative Office located at 916-1000
S. Wabash Avenue. Due to the anticipated consolidation of all CHA operations and
administrative offices into the recently renovated CNA office building located at 60 E. Van
Buren, a determination has been made that the Property will no longer be needed for the CHA’s
operations. The Intergovernmental Agreement sets forth the terms for conveying the Property to
the City by Quitclaim Deed. The closing of the transaction shall take place at Chicago Title
Insurance Company in September, 2006 or such later date as agreed to by the parties. HUD
approval for the disposition of this property is not required as the funds used for the initial
acquisition were not public housing funds. The CHA will deliver the Property at closing.
However, prior to closing, the CHA will permit the City to enter onto the Property for the
purpose of performing environmental test, surveys, and other inspections as the City deems
necessary so long as it does not disturb the use of the Property by the CHA.
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-108
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated July 10, 2005
entitled “Request for Authorization to Execute an Intergovernmental Agreement
with the City of Chicago for the Sale of a Parcel of Real Estate Commonly
Known as 1001-03 S. State Street, Chicago, Illinois”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chicago Housing Authority (“CHA”)
to execute an Intergovernmental Agreement with the City of Chicago for the sale
of a parcel of real estate commonly known as 1001-03 S. State Street, Chicago,
Illinois. The sale price for the subject property shall be $700,000 less real estate
tax proration and closing costs.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items B1 through B5 and B7 was seconded by
Commissioner Young and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey (Recused from voting on Item B3 only)
Dr. Mildred Harris
Bridget O’Keefe
Carlos Ponce
8

 Sandra Young
Mary Wiggins

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Operations and Facilities Committee report was also accepted
in total.
Commissioner Young, Chairperson of the Tenant Services Committee, then presented her report.
Per Commissioner Young, the Tenant Services Committee meeting was held on Wednesday,
July 12, 2006 at 2:30 p.m. at the 626 W. Jackson Corporate offices. The Committee was
presented with an update on Relocation by Meghan Harte, Managing Director for Resident
Services, and representatives from DHS and Hull House.
Commissioner Young then introduced an Omnibus Motion for the adoption of Resolutions for
Items C1 through C4 discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Tenant
Services Committee.
(Item C1)
In September 2003, the Board authorized the CHA to negotiate, execute, and enter into a
contract with Lake Park Crescent I LLC to provide community and supportive services for the
Lake Park Crescent Community. Despite extensive negotiations, CHA and LPC were unable to
enter into a formal CSS Contract. As a result, the CHA entered into a one-year contract with a
one-year extension option with Abraham Lincoln Center (ABL), the then provider, for a total
not-to-exceed amount of $353,353.00 for the initial term. The resolution for Item C1 approves
an increase in funding of $162,647.00 to be added to the carryover balance remaining at the end
of the initial contract term required for the option year. The primary focus of the CSS agreement
with ABL is to assist CHA families that have returned to Lake Park Crescent mixed income
community. Case management services have been specifically designed to address barriers a
family may face in meeting the site specific criteria and assisting families in overcoming those
barriers. During the base contract term, ABL engaged families at Lake Park Crescent in the
relocation process through outreach, assessment, and through the creation of the Relocation
Plans for families. ABL has met its contract obligations and CHA’s management is committed to
servicing the residents for the Lake Park Crescent Community with post-occupancy support to
assist them to stay in compliance with lease requirements. As in the base term of the contract, 60
families will be targeted for services.
Commissioner Wiggins recused from voting on the following resolution for Item C1:
RESOLUTION NO: 2006-CHA-109
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated July 10, 2006, entitled “RECOMMENDATION TO
EXERCISE THE FIRST ONE-YEAR OPTION OF CONTRACT NO. 5116
WITH ABRAHAM LINCOLN CENTRE TO PROVIDE COMMUNITY AND
SUPPORTIVE SERVICES FOR THE LAKE PARK CRESCENT
COMMUNITY”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to exercise the first one (1) year option of Contract No. 5116
(“Contract”) with Abraham Lincoln Centre for community and supportive services
for Lake Park Crescent for the period of September 1, 2006 through August 31,
2007, and to increase the Contract’s not-to-exceed compensation amount by
$162,647.00 adding it to the carryover balance available at the end of the
Contract’s base term. The Contract’s aggregate not-to-exceed compensation
amount will be $516,000.00.

(Item C2)
In March 2004, the Board of Commissioners approved a Contract with Northeastern Illinois
University (NEIU) to provide housing counseling and supportive services to families that had to
9

 relocate from their existing public housing units. The Contract’s initial term was for fourteen
(14) months with four one-year options, and the CHA exercised the first option year of the
Contract pursuant to authorization of the Board. NEIU has consistently met its contract
obligations with the CHA. For the second year extension option, $556,386.00 of additional
funding is required to allow NEIU to provide services to as many as 180 newly provided families
in Ida B. Wells and Lawndale Gardens and to continue to provide services to families who were
referred or relocated during the Contract’s first option period. This additional funding, when
added to the remaining available balance at the end of the first option term of the Contract, will
allow the CHA to compensate NEIU for housing counseling and supportive services provided to
families relocating in 2006 throughout the second year extension option period. Accordingly, the
resolution for Item C2 approves the second-one year option on NEIU’s contract.
ESOLUTION NO: 2006-CHA-110
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated July 10, 2006, entitled “RECOMMENDATION TO
EXERCISE THE SECOND ONE YEAR OPTION OF CONTRACT NO. 0598
WITH NORTHEASTERN ILLINOIS UNIVERSITY FOR HOUSING AND
SUPPORTIVE SERVICES”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to exercise the second one (1) year option of Contract No. 0598 with
Northeastern Illinois University for housing and supportive services for the period
of September 1, 2006 through August 31, 2007 and to increase the Contract’s notto-exceed compensation amount by adding $556,386.00 to the carryover balance
remaining at the end of the first one-year option period. The new total not-toexceed contract amount of Contract will be $2,347,061.00.

(Item C3)
The resolution for Item C3 approves extension of contract with Heartland Housing to provide
Community and Supportive Services (CSS) to families relocating to the Jazz on the Boulevard
Community. Services are specifically designed to address site specific criteria and the barriers a
family may face in meeting the screening criteria. Based upon the availability of funding and
Century’s performance of the Contract to date, the CHA desires to extend the Contract for an
additional one-year term and add one additional one-year option to extend the Contract, subject
to Board approval. Additional funding is not being requested at this time because sufficient
funds remain on the contract that will be carried over to provide the pre- and post-occupancy
services during the new extension term. 132 families will be targeted for pre-occupancy services
and 30 families will receive post-occupancy services. The services to be rendered during this
extension term and in the additional option year will continue to focus on assisting residents
through the screening process by assisting residents to present accurate documentation to meet
the screening criteria, job placement and retention services, among other necessary services. In
addition, Century will offer post-occupancy services to help residents maintain their housing.
Commissioner Wiggins recused from voting on the following resolution for Item C3:
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-111
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated July 10, 2006
entitled "AUTHORIZATION TO EXTEND CONTRACT NO. 0633 WITH
HEARTLAND HOUSING, INC. D/B/A CENTURY PLACE DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION TO PROVIDE COMMUNITY AND SUPPORTIVE
SERVICES TO FAMILIES RELOCATING TO THE JAZZ ON THE
BOULEVARD COMMUNITY”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to extend the Contract No. 0633 (“Contract”) with Heartland Housing,
Inc. d/b/a Century Place Development Corporation for the period of September 1,
2006 through August 31, 2007 and carryover the balance available at the end of
the current contract term and add one (1) additional one-year option to the
Contract to provide community and supportive services to CHA residents
10

 relocating to the Jazz On The Boulevard mixed income community. The
Contract’s total aggregate not-to-exceed compensation amount will remain
$956,565.00.
(Item C4)
The resolution for Item C4 approves contract extension with BMH-1, LLC, not-to-exceed
$124,275.00, for Community and Supportive Services (CSS) to families relocating to the Henry
Horner Mixed-Income community. The provision of services at the redeveloped Henry Horner
mixed income community, contemplated as part of the competitive procurement of the
Developer, is dictated by the Master Development Agreement governing this community. Under
this agreement, the parties envisioned that BMH would provide CSS, through a subcontractor,
and would receive financial assistance from the CHA pending funding availability and contract
performance. However, the negotiated Contract only provided for the initial two year term and
one, one-year option. Due to the continued need for CSS, the availability of funding and BMH’s
performance on the Contract to date, the CHA desires to extend the Contract for an additional
one-year term. The requested additional funding for the new extension period will allow BMH
to continue providing post-occupancy services to 121 families who moved to the Henry Horner
mixed-income community during the initial term and first option year of the contract.
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-112
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated July 10, 2006 entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO EXTEND
CONTRACT NO. 0676 WITH BMH-1, LLC FOR COMMUNITY AND
SUPPORTIVE SERVICES TO FAMILIES RELOCATING TO THE HENRY
HORNER MIXED-INCOME COMMUNITY”;
THEREFORE, BET IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners (“Board”) authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or
his designee to extend Contract No. 0676 (the “Contract”) with BMH-1, LLC
(“BMH”) for community and supportive services to Henry Horner residents and
increase the funding by an amount not-to-exceed $124,275.00, adding it to the
carryover balance remaining at the end of the current Contract. The aggregate
total not-to-exceed amount of the Contract will be $750,005.25.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items C1 through C4 was seconded by
Commissioner Harris and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Bridget O’Keefe
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young
Mary Wiggins (Recused from voting on Items C1 & C3 only)
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Tenant Services Committee report was also accepted in total.
There being no further business to come before the Commissioners, upon Motion made,
seconded and carried, the meeting of the Board of Commissioners was adjourned.

s/b:

s/b:

Lee Gill, Custodian and
Keeper of Records

11

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Chairperson

 