Chicago Housing Authority
Board of Commissioners Public Session
March 25, 2013
CHA Central Office – 60 E. Van Buren
Name

1

2

George Blakemore

Francine
Washington

Question/Comment

Response

1) I am a concerned citizen. I live to serve, I don't serve to live,
meaning I have no financial interest here. This is Woman's
month, black ladies have always supported black men. We
need the women. We want to see more black men here also.
We want to see more black men working, married and living in
CHA, supporting black women.

1) Your comment has been received.

2) What is your strategic plan for your senior facility located on
Division at Elms and Clark and Division. I know CHA has a
strategic plan for that valuable property, which is the most
valuable property in the world. I've seen you dismantle Cabrini,
Stateway and Robert Taylor. Black people should know your
plan. You should be transparent and let your community know.
Some of you black women hoodwink us. I am always
advocating for our black people.
1) FamilyWorks and private management contracts are up, are
we working on new contracts for these services, there are no
more options to renew.

2) To see a complete listing of CHA’s future plans for senior,
as well as non-senior housing developments, please refer to
CHA’s FY2013 Annual Plan, which can be found on CHA’s
website. If you do not have internet access, please contact
CHA and we will be happy to provide you with a copy of the
2013 Annual Plan.

2) Why are we giving Growing Power a contract to do a garden
at Altgeld if it will only last five months. We can't get a contract
to do the CAC election, and we can't get a CAC budget. We are
going back to rehab buildings we already rehabbed. What
consultants are sitting at the table monitoring the procurement
process?
3) We have contractors that have been getting numerous
contracts. If I have one contract for $12 million, and you give
me another contract for $5 million after I tell you I don't have
Section 3 - we have all these contractors, who is monitoring the
Section 3 process now making sure these contractors are held
accountable for Section 3? At the next meeting tell me how
many Section 3 contractors have been hired?
1

1) For FamilyWorks providers CHA will begin the development
of new requests for proposals for services for 2014.
Concerning private property managers, CHA is currently in the
second option year of three one-year options to the contract
for private property managers. There is one remaining oneyear option period in that contract available.
2) The CHA has two auditors (Ernst & Young and KPMG)
currently auditing contract files.

3) Pursuant to the Section 3 Voluntary Compliance
Agreement, the CHA has identified a Section 3 Administrator,
who will work with various departments within the CHA to
ensure compliance with Section 3. There are currently 29
active Section 3 Business Concerns on contracts.

 3

Melissa Frazin

4

Bobby Watkins

5

Mary Thomas

I am concerned about the situation at Lathrop. I used to live in
Roscoe Village and I managed volunteers at the Mary Crane
Center. I have seen firsthand the impact of the first
consolidation on residents, which was two years ago, and now
you are asking them to move again, to Diversey, where there is
little space. CHA is trying to make life as unbearable as
possible for the remaining residents at Lathrop, so they move
out of the development. The CHA is trying to ruin one of the
most integrated public housing developments in Chicago. There
are no other developments that come close to that level of racial
integration. Lathrop Homes provides homes in an area with
very high rents. There are already market rate units in the area,
they don't need more. They are proposing that Lathrop
becomes 45% market rate, 25% affordable and 30% public
housing - that would make Lathrop Homes the public housing
development with the least amount of public housing in the city.
Lathrop Homes is located in a desirable neighborhood with
amenities - how many other developments have this much
access to amenities? One of the best things about Lathrop is
how it is integrated with the community.
I have been in Lathrop for 19 years, you have moved us from
one side to the other, and now you want to board up the
rowhouses, why would you make it look bad on both sides? We
don't need to be consolidated. Why not keep at least one side
open and if possible, move people into vacant buildings?
1) Good morning, I am a Lathrop Homes resident and a proud
marine mom. We have had constant disruption in our lives at
Lathrop, for me, this would be my third move for this
consolidation. You said we had to move previously because of
the heating system and you have used the same excuse again.
To consolidate us again would be unreasonable. We need your
help to maintain a decent quality of life.

The CHA is working on a number of options that respond to
the Local Advisory Council’s (LAC) request for CHA to
maintain occupancy at Lathrop so as not to force an
emergency closure of the buildings or site. The CHA is
working with residents to ensure efficiency and safety. The
CHA/development team has not yet presented a final plan for
Lathrop.

2) Mr. Woodyard, have you set a date to meet with the Lathrop
residents, because we really want to meet with you. We think
it's important that you come out and talk with us about the
consolidation and we would appreciate it.

2) The CEO has committed to meeting with Lathrop residents
on the consolidation. Lathrop residents will be advised on the
date of such meeting.

2

The CHA is working on a number of options that respond to
the Local Advisory Council’s (LAC) request for CHA to
maintain occupancy at Lathrop so as not to force an
emergency closure of the buildings or site. The CHA is
working with residents to ensure efficiency and safety.
1) The CHA is working on a number of options that respond to
the Local Advisory Council’s (LAC) request for CHA to
maintain occupancy at Lathrop so as not to force an
emergency closure of the buildings or site. The CHA is
working with residents to ensure efficiency and safety.

 6

7

Sally Hamann

Byron Dickens

I don't live at Lathrop, but I have traveled by there for 34 years
and it used to be a beautiful place. You all have let it get run
down and I am really disappointed. It is historic and it used to
be gorgeous and you have let it go to pieces, which is terrible to
the people who live there. The people who live in my
neighborhood, we live across the river. I am now in the 28th
Precinct of the 1st Ward, Lathrop is in my precinct and I am
taking a personal interest and I will be talking with all my
neighbors about this and I will be telling them we need to keep
the historic homes and we need to restore them - 50%
affordable and 50% public housing. If you don't do that, you are
hurting the whole community and it’s a terrible thing if you let
people build towers and create traffic congestion. You will be
wasting tax payer money if you use TIF funds and don't use the
historic tax credits, you'll be hurting my community.
1) I am speaking about some of the problems we see, like
Section 3 businesses not getting any contracts. You are
proposing construction contracts and residents aren't getting any
work. CHA residents have a mandate that they need to do
something (to be compliant with the work requirement). But we
don't see residents going to work in the community. We need to
see more residents going to work, more Section 3 businesses
getting work. Instead, Urban League is getting money, City
Colleges is getting money and it's not addressing the issues of
residents going to work. There is no training. Let's not forget
the 16-18 year olds for summer jobs, most of them, are getting
kicked off the lease, especially the males.

There have been a series of community meetings, open
houses, interviews and one-on-one discussions including
residents since the planning process began. The
CHA/Development team have heard concerns regarding
historic preservation, affordability, minimizing disruptions,
employment, sense of community, and education. The CHA
understands those concerns and has worked to address those
throughout concept development. The CHA/development
team, however, has not yet presented a final plan for Lathrop.

2) We see you have a Section 8 advisory board. We need an
advisory board for the public housing residents living in mixedincome communities. We don't have a voice in mixed-income
communities.

2) The CHA’s Office of the Ombudsman works with mixedincome community public housing residents to understand
their concerns.

3

1) All residents interested in obtaining employment should
work through their assigned service provider for all
opportunities available. Vendors can register with CHA in
BuySpeed (http://www.thecha.org/pages/buyspeed/115.php)
and indicate if they are a small business or Section 3 business
(which includes ROB). BuySpeed allows potential vendors to
view open solicitations and download CHA bid opportunities.
To stay updated with CHA’s contract opportunities, please visit
the following link:
http://www.thecha.org/pages/open_solicitations/110.php)
To answer the second part of your first question, youth
interested in summer opportunities should apply online now at
www.onesummerchicago.org

 8

Queen Sister

9
Maxine Parson

1) I stand in the spirit of three sisters who came before me, who
I would like to acknowledge today: Marian Stamps, Beauty
Turner and Bobbi Johnson, who we just lost. I am an urban
cultural consultant. Everything I do is rooted in African culture.
Nobody today has talked about the fact that black people are
dying in the city, which stems from the issue of gentrification
which started in 1999 - nobody wants to talk responsibility. We
are about to see a sizzling summer season like we have never
seen before - and it is not a rainbow, there is black blood flowing
in these streets.

1) Your comment has been received

2) I would like to know every member that sits on the Section 8
advisory board. I received four letters from housing, I am
supposed to be on 35th and State. I was scheduled to meet
with them for the same time that this meeting was scheduled.
This was a priority. These are the residents in my community
that I service. It is insulting for you to sit here and watch us as a
people resort to a state of non-productiveness. I say to you, as
a Board, I make moves that shake the ground of this town. I will
not be removed from my home.
1) I live at 243 E. 32nd St in Lincoln Perry. On March 14, I
received a letter telling me I need to transfer due to renovation
of the building, in accordance with a town hall meeting on Feb.
7. The letter said you will be relocated to another unit within 243
or an available unit in another CHA building. The meetings have
been postponed, these senior citizens are old, they need more
time, they need more time than two weeks to move out of their
apartments. They said they will send boxes to the building and
that hasn't happened, they said they will help people move and I
have no idea when that will be. This morning I heard it will be in
the summer. In the meantime I am packing to leave. I am old
and a breast cancer survivor, I don't want to have more cancer
dealing with CHA. Please give us a date.

2) As a general policy, CHA does not disseminate the names
of public housing or HCV participants.

4

1) The CHA sent a letter to residents of Lincoln Perry
Apartments on March 28th to inform them that the
construction and relocation planned to start in April 2013 has
been postponed. We also held a Town Hall meeting on April
11, 2013 to provide the most current information regarding the
project to residents. Residents will be kept apprised of plans
and any necessary relocations.

 