REGULAR MEETING
OF
THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
Albany Terrace Apartments
3030 W. 21st Place, Chicago, Illinois
Tuesday, April 21, 2015
8:30 a.m.

AGENDA
I.

Roll Call

II.

Closed Meeting

Commissioners will vote on whether to go into closed meeting pursuant to the Open
Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2, to possibly discuss matters under the following exceptions:
personnel related matters under (c)(1); purchase, sale and lease of real estate property
under (c)(5) and (c)(6); pending/imminent/probable litigation under (c)(11); review of
closed meeting minutes under (c)(21) and audit reviews under (c)(29).

III.

Open Session - Roll Call

IV.

Centering Thoughts – Commissioner Mildred Harris

V.

Approval of closed and open meeting minutes for March 17, 2015.

VI.

Presentation of Resolutions and Committee Reports
Operations and Facilities Committee Report – Bridget Reidy, Chairwoman
1. Ratification of a Contract Modification for Contract No. 11270 with Madison Construction
Company for Life and Safety and Plumbing Riser replacements at Lidia Pucinska
Apartments in the amount of $180,592.28 – Scott Ammarell, Chief Legal Officer; Rod
Thomas, Deputy Chief, Capital Construction Department
2.

Authorization to execute Task Order Competitive Contracting Contracts with several
contractors for General Contractors Services, CHA Wide, not-to-exceed $117,000,000 –
Scott Ammarell, Chief Legal Officer; Rod Thomas, Deputy Chief, Capital Construction
Department

3.

Authorization to enter into an Intergovernmental Agreement with the City of Chicago
acting through its Department of Fleet and Facilities Management and, as necessary,
other designated City of Chicago Departments to review CHA Projects requiring
Environmental Review under the National Environmental Policy Act, and such other
reviews as required, for a period of five years; commit CHA funds not-to-exceed
$5,322,500 for the review of CHA projects requiring Environmental Review and execute
and deliver such other documents as may be necessary to implement the foregoing –
Scott Ammarell, Chief Legal Officer

 4.

Approval of Policy to allow families in elevator buildings – Scott Ammarell, Chief Legal
Officer

5.

Authorization to establish CHA's Language Access Policy to standardize translation and
interpretation services provided by CHA to Limited English Proficiency (LEP) individuals –
Jose Alvarez, Chief Administrative Officer; Scarleth LeverOrtiz, Director/Diversity

6.

Property Management Contracts – Ellen Sahli, Chief Housing Officer; Tim Veenstra, Deputy
Chief Property Officer

Real Estate Development Report – Jack Markowski, Chairman
7. Authorization to consent to the withdrawal of Magellan Development Corporation and
Ardmore Associates from the Lathrop Homes Development team; amend the contract for
redevelopment of Lathrop and execute other documents as necessary to implement the
foregoing – Anthony Alvarez, Development Manager
Finance & Personnel Committee Report – Mark Cozzi, Chairman
8. Recommendation to approve Personnel Actions – Jose Alvarez, Chief Administrative
Officer
Audit Committee Report – Matthew Brewer, Chairman
9. Authorization to update CHA's Ethics Policy – Jose Alvarez, Chief Administrative Officer;
Scott Ammarell, Chief Legal Officer
10. Recommendation to approve the amended CHA’s Internal Audit Charter – Allen Faucett,
Director, Audit Management and Compliance
11. Authorization to amend CHA By-Laws – Ruth Krugly, Board Counsel
VII.

Report from Chief Executive Officer – Michael Merchant

VIII.

Public Participation

IX.

Adjournment

2

 