August 12, 2015

Item No. 24

RECOMMENDATION TO APPROVE THE 2016 BUDGETS
FOR THE CHA INSPECTOR GENERAL AND INTERNAL AUDIT DEPARTMENTS
To the Honorable Audit Committee Members:
RECOMMENDATION
It is recommended that the Audit Committee of the Board of Commissioners approve the
attached 2016 Inspector General and Internal Audit department budgets.
The Chief Financial Officer has completed all necessary due diligence to support the submission of
this initiative and recommend the approval of this item accordingly.
GENERAL BACKGROUND
The CHA Board of Commissioners at its December 2012 meeting adopted Inspector General
Guidelines granting certain powers to the Inspector General to promote economy, efficiency,
effectiveness and integrity in the administration of programs and operations of the Authority.
The CHA Internal Audit Department mission is to independently and objectively perform
assurance and consulting activity designed to add value and improve operations of the Chicago
Housing Authority. The Internal Audit department helps the organization accomplish its
objectives by bringing a systematic, disciplined approach to evaluate and improve the
effectiveness of risk management, control and governance process.
The Board of Commissioners at its January 2014 meeting, as amended in April 2014, approved a
resolution “Establishing an Audit Committee and Adopting the Audit Committee Charter.” The
Audit Committee is responsible for the oversight of the Inspector General and Internal Audit
functions.
As stated in the Audit Committee’s Charter responsibilities, the Audit Committee shall, as to
Internal Auditor functions:
Ensure that the annual budget of the Chicago Housing Authority provides sufficient
financial and employee resources to perform their duties.
As stated in the Audit Committee’s Charter responsibilities, the Audit Committee shall, as to
Inspector General functions:
Ensure that the annual budget of the Chicago Housing Authority provides
sufficient financial and employee resources to perform its duties.

 RESOLUTION NO. 2015-CHA-ACWHEREAS,

the Audit Committee has reviewed the Committee Letter dated August 12, 2015
requesting approval of the proposed 2016 Inspector General and Internal Audit
Budgets, attached hereto,

THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED BY THE AUDIT COMMITTEE OF THE CHICAGO HOUSING
AUTHORITY:
THAT

The Audit Committee hereby approves the proposed



2016 Inspector General Department Budget
2016 Internal Audit Department Budget

THAT

The Audit Committee authorizes the Chief Executive Officer to include sufficient
resources for the approved Inspector General and Internal Auditor Departments’
2016 budgets in the Authority’s 2016 Comprehensive Budget.

THAT

The Audit Committee recommends to the Board of Commissioners that the annual
budget of the Chicago Housing Authority provide funding for the Inspector General
and the Internal Auditors in the amounts and for the purposes specified in said
budgets.

2

 