ITEM NO. C1

October 13, 2010

RECOMMENDATION TO APPROVE CHICAGO HOUSING CONSULTING
SERVICES, INC.’S (CHCS) COMMENCEMENT OF ACTIVITIES, PURSUANT TO
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-82, AS A DESIGNATED INSTRUMENTALITY OF THE
CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY, TO PURSUE PERFORMANCE-BASED
CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION OPPORTUNITIES AND ALLOCATION OF NONFEDERAL FUNDING TO CHCS.
To the Honorable Board of Commissioners:
RECOMMENDATION
On July 21, 2009, the Board of Commissioners authorized the Chicago Housing Authority (CHA
or the “Authority”) to form separate instrumentalities to pursue alternative sources of funding.
Following that authorization effected by Resolution No. 2009-CHA-82, the CHA formed
Chicago Housing Consulting Services, Inc. (CHCS), an Illinois not-for-profit corporation, as a
designated instrumentality of the CHA. It is recommended that CHCS be approved to
commence and conduct performance-based contract administration (PBCA) activities and
opportunities available through the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development
(HUD). It is also recommended that the Commissioners approve the allocation of non-federal
funding to CHCS as a CHA instrumentality formed pursuant to and consistent with Resolution
No. 2009-CHA-82.
The provision of non-federal funding will permit CHCS to pursue PBCA opportunities and
provide PBCA services, which are intended to be self-sustaining revenue sources for this CHA
instrumentality. The goal is to create an income stream from CHCS’ PBCA activities that is
sufficient to maintain the instrumentality’s operations, as well as provide flexible funding to
support CHA’s central office operations and other initiatives that bolster resident services and
community contributions.
FUNDING
OTHER NON-FEDERAL FUNDS
EXPLANATION
To create separation from restrictions and limitations associated with federal finance sources,
such as HUD funding, and to obtain the benefits derived from discretionary spending and
projects, PHAs have long created “instrumentalities” as vehicles to generate additional revenues
and funding opportunities, as well as expand business and service offerings. Commonly
organized as not-for-profit organizations under applicable state and federal laws,
instrumentalities are often employed as vehicles to undertake financing, development, resident
services and consultative services, as well as other revenue-generating activities that would
otherwise be too onerous if conducted using restricted funds from federal sources.
These instrumentalities prove most successful when coordinated and implemented in concert
with the mission, direction and initiatives of an instrumentality’s housing authority partners. As
60 East Van Buren Street, 12th Floor Chicago, Illinois 60605 · (312) 913-7282· www.thecha.org

 a result, the CHA developed a strategic business plan to establish CHCS as a separate CHA
instrumentality that seeks to generate additional revenue streams and funding opportunities to
support the CHA’s mission.
On November 10, 2009, Resolution No. 2009-CHA-155, the Board of Commissioners authorized
the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to enter into negotiations with and authorized the
execution of a contract with CGI Federal, Inc. (CGI) to be a subcontractor for Chicago Housing
Consulting Services (CHCS), an instrumentality of the Chicago Housing Authority (CHA), to
pursue HUD’s Housing Assistance Payments (HAP) Request for Proposal (RFP) for contract
administration for project-based Section 8 HAP contracts. CGI plans to hire 12 Section 3
employees and selected the Bronner Group to satisfy the M/WBE requirements. CGI is
responsible for all response expenditures associated with HUD’s HAP RFP.
The operating structure of CHCS pursues a viable market opportunity in the area of performance
based contracting. Funding for the proposed CHCS’ PBCA operating area is sought for the preaward and post-award expenses. Pre-award expenses consist of liability insurance and sundry
expenses. Post-award expenses will consist of labor, overhead, training, audit, fidelity bond,
office furniture & equipment and administrative expenses. This request seeks authorization from
the CHA’s Board of Commissioners for PBCA start-up capital in the amounts requested below:
•

PBCA Start-up Capital:
Pre-award
Post-award

$ 50,000 – Not to exceed
$ 700,000– Not to exceed
$ 750,000 – Not to exceed (Total)

This request seeks authorization for the CHA to apply the requested funding to CHCS for the
activities described above, consistent with Resolution No. 2009-CHA-82. In addition to the
funding request, the CHA further seeks formal approval from the Board of Commissioners for
CHA to have CHCS commence, perform and conduct any services and activities determined to
be necessary or convenient by the Authority, consistent with CHCS’ authorized purposes,
articles and by-laws, including CHCS’ pursuit and performance of PBCA opportunities and
activities contemplated in this Resolution.

60 East Van Buren Street, 12th Floor Chicago, Illinois 60605 · (312) 913-7282· www.thecha.org

 RESOLUTION NO. 2010-CHA-133
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated October 13,
2010, entitled “Recommendation to Approve Chicago Housing Consulting
Services, Inc.’s (CHCS) Commencement of Activities, Pursuant to Resolution
2009-CHA-82, as a Designated Instrumentality of the Chicago Housing
Authority, to Pursue Performance-Based Contract Administration Opportunities
and Allocation of Non-Federal Funding to CHCS”,
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes CHCS to commence and undertake
activities as a provider of Performance Based Contract Administration (PBCA)
services as an instrumentality of the Chicago Housing Authority, pursuant to
Resolution No. 2009-CHA-82. Additionally, the Board of Commissioners
authorizes the allocation of non-federal funding to CHCS for pre-award capital
expenses in an amount not to exceed Fifty Thousand and 00/100 Dollars
($50,000.00), and for post-award capital expenses in an amount not to exceed
Seven Hundred Thousand and 00/100 Dollars ($700,000.00), resulting in a total
allocation not to exceed the amount of Seven Hundred Fifty Thousand Dollars
($750,000) for PBCA start-up capital. The funding will be used for purposes
involving the pursuit and performance of PBCA opportunities available through
HUD as a means to increase resource development and revenue opportunities that
support CHA’s mission and other vital organizational initiatives promoting social
welfare. The funds will advance CHA’s ability to address the Strategic Plan
Critical Success Factor - “Increase Non-Federal Funding Sources to Accelerate
the Plan for Transformation”.

60 East Van Buren Street, 12th Floor Chicago, Illinois 60605 · (312) 913-7282· www.thecha.org

 