MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING

OF THE

COMMISSIONERS OF THE CHICAGO HOUSING
AUTHORITY
November 16, 2004

The Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority held its Regular Meeting on Tuesday,
November 16, 2004, at 8:30 a.m. at the Princeton Apartments, 4250 South Princeton, Chicago,
Illinois.
The meeting was called to order by the Chairperson, and upon roll call, those present and absent
were as follows:
Present:
Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Lori Healey
Michael Ivers
Martin Nesbitt
Carlos Ponce
Mary Wiggins

Absent:

Earnest Gates
Sandra Young

Also present were Adrienne Minley, Chief of Staff; Gail Niemann, General Counsel; Chicago
Housing Authority Staff Members and the General Public.
There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as
follows:
The Chairperson then convened the Public Hearing portion of the meeting by inviting residents
and the public at large to address the Board.
Immediately following the Public Hearing portion of the meeting, a Motion was introduced and
seconded to adjourn to Executive Session. The Chairperson announced that pursuant to the
Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2, the Board would adjourn for approximately one (1) hour to
discuss pending, probable or imminent litigation, collective negotiating matters, security and
personnel matters.
The Commissioners subsequently reconvened in Open Session and Chairperson Gilliam
thereupon introduced for approval the Minutes of the Regular Meetings held on September 21,
2004 and October 19, 2004. Upon Motion made and properly seconded, the Minutes for
September 21, 2004 and October 19, 2004 were unanimously approved and accepted as
submitted.
The Chairperson thereupon introduced Executive Session Item 1 discussed in Executive Session.
Commissioner Ivers presented a Motion to approve the Resolution for Executive Session Item 1.

1

 (Executive Session Item 1)
RESOLUTION NO. 2004-CHA-143
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated November 2, 2004 requesting that the Board of
Commissioners approves the Personnel Actions Report for October 2004.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the Personnel Actions Report for
October 2004.

The motion to adopt Executive Session Item 1 was seconded by Commissioner Healey and the
voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Lori Healey
Michael Ivers
Martin Nesbitt
Carlos Ponce
Mary Wiggins
Nays:

None

The Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried and said Resolution adopted.
Commissioner Nesbitt, Chairperson of the Finance & Audit Committee, presented the monthly
report. Per Commissioner Nesbitt, the Finance & Audit Committee Meeting was held on
Wednesday, November 10, 2004 at 1:00 p.m. at the 626 W. Jackson Corporate offices. The
Chief Financial Officer and her staff presented the Committee with the Treasury and Cash Flow
Report as of October 31, 2004, the 3rd Quarter Financial Report and the 3rd Quarter Grant Report.
Commissioner Nesbitt then introduced an Omnibus Motion for adoption of the resolutions for
Item A1 thru A3 discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Finance and
Audit Committee.
(Item A1)
The resolution for Item A1 approves the FY2005 Comprehensive Budget. The FY2005
Comprehensive Budget totaling $946.0 million includes the following fund categories: for the
General Fund total FY2005 revenue is $856.7 million. The General Fund combines Low-Rent,
Capital and Section 8 programs (HCV) into a block grant as allowed by HUD under the MTW
agreement. Revenues consist of Dwelling Rental Income, Interest Income, Administrative
Income, Capital Grant Funds, Housing Assistance and Operating Subsidies. Operating Reserves
were not needed to balance the FY2005 budget. Under the Hope VI Fund total FY2005 Revenue
is $66.4 million. This amount will be used for demolition, revitalization, community and
supportive services programs and relocation of CHA residents. The City/State FY2005 Revenue
fund totals $6.0 million, which includes funding for the following City/State properties:
Leclaire Courts, Lathrop Elderly, Harrison Courts, Ogden Courts and Loomis Courts and other
funding includes revenue totaling $16.9 million for Madden/Wells (MROP Grants) and a variety
of grants that are used to enhance or augment funding for critical programs and services that the
CHA provides to its residents.
RESOLUTION NO. 2004-CHA-144
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board letter dated October 15,
2004, entitled “APPROVAL OF THE FY2005 COMPREHENSIVE BUDGET”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners, hereby approves the attached, “FY2005
COMPREHENSIVE BUDGET”, and finds with respect to said Budget:
1. that the proposed expenditures are necessary for the efficient and economical
operation of the Chicago Housing Authority for the purpose of serving lowincome families;

2

 2. that the financial plan is reasonable in that it indicates funding sources
adequate to cover all proposed expenditures, and does not provide for use of
Federal funding in excess of that payable under the provisions of the
applicable Federal regulations; and
3. that all proposed rental charges and expenditures will be consistent with
provisions of law and the Annual Contributions Contract in accordance with
the Moving To Work Demonstration Agreement of the Chicago Housing
Authority with the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development.
THAT,

the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer are authorized to execute
and forward to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development all
necessary budget documents and supporting information when applicable.

(Item A2)
The resolution for Item A2 approves amendment of contract with Quadel Consulting
Corporation. In 1985 the CHA privatized the Section 8 program. In 1995, the Section 8
program served approximately 15,000 households. Today, the program services over 35,000
households and continues to grow. In November 2002, the Board of Commissioners authorized
the CHA to enter into a contract with Quadel Consulting Corporation to provide administration
services for the CHA’s Housing Choice/Section 8 program. The Contract was for a twenty-five
month period, for an amount not-to-exceed $52,304,543.28 and included three (3) one-year
options. In the Contract’s first year, Quadel successfully achieved status of High Performer
under the SEMAP criteria as set forth by HUD and earned more than 75% of the Performance
Incentive Fees provided for in the Contract. In the current contract year, Quadel has successfully
demonstrated progress toward maintaining High Performer status under the SEMAP criteria and
is on target to earn more than 75% of the Performance Incentive Fees as stipulated in the
Contract. In addition, the CHA and contractor received 7 Awards of Merit for best practices
from the National Association of Housing and Redevelopment Officials (NAHRO).
RESOLUTION NO. 2004-CHA-145
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed
memorandum dated October 21, 2004, entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO
AMEND CONTRACT BETWEEN QUADEL CONSULTING CORORATION
AND THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY FOR THE ADMNISTRATION
OF THE SECTION 8 PROGRAMS”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

The Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute Amendment No. 1 to Contract No. 0370 with Quadel
Corporation to extend the contract term for an additional twelve (12) month
period from January 1, 2005 through December 31, 2005 in an amount not-toexceed $23,500,000.00 for the administration of the CHA’s Housing Choice
Voucher/Section 8 Program.

(Item A3)
During the present mid-point in the Plan for Transformation the amount of contracted projects
have increased in volume as well as complexity. The magnitude of the Plan has promoted
extreme visibility nationwide. Additionally, HUD is maintaining a watchful eye on the funding
expended for the Plan. One of the many areas important to HUD and tantamount to withdrawal
of funds for the Plan is the rigorous requirement of minority participation in the area of
M/W/DBE firms as well as Section 3 residents. Although the compliance projects have
increased, the staff reserved for the monitoring activities has not. The need for a third-party
addition to the current resources initiated the subject procurement matter. The scope of services
for this solicitation requires a firm that will present an aggressive site visit strategy, a willingness
to embrace the need for immediate accessibility of reporting information, as well as an ability to
mobilize almost instantaneously to perform whatever related activities are required. In addition,
the firm must conscientiously assess the current compliance monitoring process, and proactively
address process improvement. Trinal, Inc. presented and demonstrated a proposal that
encompassed all that CHA is looking to accomplish with this solicitation. Accordingly, the
resolution for Item A3 approves award of contract to Trinal, Inc.
RESOLUTION NO. 2004-CHA-146
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated October 22,
2004 entitled “Authorization to enter into a contract with Trinal, Inc. for
Compliance Monitoring and Reporting Services”;
3

 THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into a contract with Trinal, Inc for compliance monitoring and
reporting services in an amount not-to-exceed $1,530,259.00 for a two year base
term with a one year option to extend.

The Motion to adopt the resolutions for Items A1 thru A3 was seconded by Commissioner Ponce
and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Lori Healey
Michael Ivers
Martin Nesbitt
Carlos Ponce
Mary Wiggins
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Finance and Audit Committee report was also accepted in
total.
In the absence of Commissioner Gates, Chairperson of the Operations & Facilities Committee,
Commissioner Healey then presented the monthly report. Per Commissioner Healey, the
Operations and Facilities Committee Meeting was held on Wednesday, November 10, 2004 at
2:00 p.m. at the 626 W. Jackson Corporate offices.
Commissioner Healey then introduced an Omnibus Motion for adoption of resolutions for Items
B1 and B2, discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Operations and
Facilities Committee.
(Item B1)
The CHA advertised a Request for Proposal in July 2004 for Developer’s Representative
Services. The CHA advertised the RFP in the Chicago Sun-Times, the Chicago Defender, and El
Dia. The CHA also directly solicited forty five (45) firms, including twelve (12)
MBE/WBE/DBE firms. An additional fifty (50) firms picked up copies of the solicitation. The
CHA received twelve (12) proposals on July 30, 2004. An Evaluation Committee consisting of
staff members chosen from the Capital Construction Division and Finance reviewed and scored
the written proposals. The Department of Procurement and Contracts established the
competitive range of 66 - 73. Six respondents were found to be in the competitive range. Each of
the six respondents made a presentation before the Evaluation Committee and submitted a Best
and Final Offer. Three firms had further discussions with the CHA. Upon further consideration
of each Respondent following the presentations and discussions, the Evaluation Committee
recommends that Construction Cost Systems offers the best economic value to the CHA.
Accordingly, the resolution for Item B1 approves award of contract to Construction Cost
Systems.
RESOLUTION NO. 2004-CHA-147
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated October 13, 2004
entitled “RATIFICATION OF CONTRACT WITH CONSTRUCTION COST
SYSTEMS FOR DEVELOPER’S REPRESENTATIVE SERVICES AT
HARRISON COURTS, LATHROP ELDERLY, AND LOOMIS COURTS”,
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners hereby ratifies the competitive award of a contract
with Construction Cost Systems in the amount of $1,440,500.00 for Developer’s
Representative Services at Harrison Courts (RH-5), 2910/30/50 W. Harrison,
Lathrop Elderly (RH-4), 2717 N. Leavitt, and Loomis Courts (RH-7), 1314 &
1342 W. 15th St.. The contract shall take effect on the date of the Notice to
Proceed, and shall continue for two (2) years or until the completion of preconstruction, construction, and close-out activities at the assigned developments,
whichever comes first, subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s
4

 MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident hiring, and insurance requirements. The
CHA, at its sole discretion, reserves the right to extend the contract by three (3)
separate one-year options.
(Item B2)
HUD offers incentives to housing authorities that purchase their natural gas supplies at a cost
that is less than what the local utility would charge. CHA’s past experiences with gas prices,
particularly during winter, are such that by committing to purchase a portion of these future gas
needs at current market conditions gas future contracts provide a significant financial benefit.
Commodity market movements most beneficial to customers like the CHA are most likely to
occur during the spring and fall seasons, when national demand for gas to power electric
generation for air conditioning or to meet heating demand is low. In April 2002, the Board of
Commissioners approved the Wellhead natural gas contract with Peoples Energy Services
Corporation (“Peoples”), a non-regulated affiliate of Peoples Energy Corporation, for an amount
not-to-exceed $35,100,000.00 for a twenty (20) month term of May 1, 2002 through December
31, 2003. The Contract included three (3) one-year options. Peoples has agreed to provide
natural gas at the same rates and under the same terms and conditions as provided for in the
original Contract. The extension of the Contract will allow the CHA to purchase its natural gas
supplies from a non-utility source and retain 50 percent of the savings achieved consistent with
the HUD Wellhead incentive. Since natural gas prices have been on the rise during times of
heavy consumer demand, the CHA has the ability to lock in favorable natural gas prices under
the Contract, when the demand and the prices are much lower. Given CHA’s anticipated
consumption of approximately ten million therms of natural gas for the next one year period, the
extension of this Contract offers a projected cost savings. Accordingly, the resolution for Item
B2 approves the second year contract option with Peoples Energy Services.
RESOLUTION NO. 2004-CHA-148
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
memorandum dated November 16, 2004 entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO
EXERCISE THE SECOND YEAR OPTION TO EXTEND THE WELLHEAD
NATURAL GAS CONTRACT WITH PEOPLES ENERGY SERVICES
CORPORATION (CONTRACT NO. 9717)”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute an amendment to Contract No. 9717 with Peoples Energy
Services Corporation to exercise the second year option to extend the term of the
Contract from January 1, 2005 through December 31, 2005 under the same rates,
terms and conditions in an amount not-to-exceed $18,000,000.00 for the purpose
of providing natural gas to the CHA.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items B1 and B2 was seconded by Commissioner
Ivers and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Lori Healey
Michael Ivers
Martin Nesbitt
Carlos Ponce
Mary Wiggins

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Operations and Facilities Committee report was also accepted
in total.
In the absence of Commissioner Young, Chairperson of the Tenant Services Committee,
Commissioner Wiggins presented the report, per Commissioner Wiggins, the Tenant Services
Committee held it’s regularly scheduled meeting on Wednesday, November 10, 2004 at 2:30
p.m. at the 626 Corporate Offices. There were no presentations scheduled to come before the
Committee.
5

 Commissioner Wiggins then introduced an Omnibus Motion for the adoption of Resolutions for
Items C1 through C6 discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Tenant
Services Committee.
(Item C1)
The resolution for Item C1 approves an Intergovernmental Agreement with CDHS to provide
supportive services to CHA residents. Pursuant to this IGA, CDHS will continue to provide a
comprehensive strategy to link families residing in CHA’s family developments, scattered site
communities, and families that relocated to the private housing market with a Housing Choice
Voucher since October 1999, to services provided by public agencies and/or private sector
service providers; provide the CHA with monthly and/or quarterly reports as needed on the
progress of all service activities; provide on-going customer service reviews for the CHA to
identify ways to improve services for its residents; provide outreach and disseminate information
to residents to ensure that CHA families are made aware of the available services and programs
in the citywide network; customize the service connection strategy to meet the specific needs of
each CHA family; offer priority enrollment for CHA residents for certain programs; maximize
coordination with other City, County, and State service agencies; and provide comprehensive
assessments of family requirements for the most needy CHA families. The CHA is increasing
funding for this program for 2005 to address the higher volume of families relocating to the
private housing market under the Housing Choice Voucher program. As families move into
communities across the City, a more individualized approach will be utilized to link families to
specific neighborhood resources. The additional funding will also be used to increase staff
capacity to provide: more outreach services; substantive expertise in service areas critical to a
family’s success in permanent or temporary housing; increased program monitoring and
oversight for continuous quality improvement; and new partnerships and linkages to specific
resources in neighborhoods where residents have relocated.
RESOLUTION NO. -2004 CHA-149
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated November 2,
2004 requesting “Authorization to Enter into an Intergovernmental Agreement
with the Chicago Department of Human Services”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners Authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into an Intergovernmental Agreement with the City of Chicago
acting through it Department of Human Services to provide supportive services to
Chicago Housing Authority ("CHA") residents for the period of January 1, 2005
to December 31, 2005 in an amount not-to-exceed $20,563,987.00.

Item C2
The resolution for Item C2 approves an Intergovernmental Agreement with CDoA to provide
supportive social programs to seniors in CHA senior buildings. CDoA has been serving CHA
residents since 1994 in various capacities. However, as part of the CHA’s Plan for
Transformation, the social services programs for CHA’s senior residents previously performed
directly by CHA staff were outsourced to CDoA through IGAs since the beginning of 2001. The
renewal of the IGA with CDoA for FY 2005 will allow the CHA to continue to economically
and efficiently provide these services for its senior citizens residing in 42 of the CHA’s senior
buildings. CDoA is uniquely qualified to perform these services for senior citizens in the City of
Chicago and has received federal designation as the Area Agency on Aging. This IGA will
continue to allow CHA’s senior citizens to be mainstreamed and receive the same level and
quality of services that CDoA provides to senior citizens throughout the City of Chicago. Under
this IGA, CDoA will continue to maintain a presence with an office in each of the designated 42
senior buildings to make these services readily available to CHA’s senior residents. Similar
services for the remaining CHA senior buildings are provided by the private property managers.
The purpose of the coordinated service program is to improve the quality of life and assist
elderly persons and persons with disabilities to live independently and/or to prevent premature or
unnecessary institutionalization of the elderly residing in CHA’s senior buildings.
RESOLUTION NO. 2004-CHA-150
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed
Memorandum dated October 28, 2004, entitled “Authorization to Extend the
Intergovernmental Agreement with the Chicago Department on Aging to Provide
a Coordinated Supportive Social Services Program for Senior Citizens Residing in
Forty-two CHA Senior Buildings”;
6

 THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to extend the Intergovernmental Agreement with the City of Chicago
Department on Aging (Contract No. 0634) for the period of January 1, 2005
through December 31, 2005 for an amount not to exceed $2,162,598.00 to provide
a coordinated supportive social service program for senior citizens residing in
forty-two (42) senior buildings. The new total not-to-exceed amount of
compensation of Contract No. 0634 will be $4,325,196.00.

(Item C3)
The resolution for Item C3 approves a Funding Agreement with the CAC. A Funding
Agreement between the CHA and the CAC is required by HUD for funding provided by a
housing authority for a duly elected resident council. The purpose of the CAC as the jurisdiction
wide resident council for the CHA Residents is to act as a vehicle for resident participation and
to represent the interests of the residents of the CHA. Additionally, the CAC can represent the
interests of a Local Advisory Council (LAC), upon the LAC’s request. This agreement places
financial responsibility on the CAC to govern, control and document use of CHA provided funds
approved in the CAC’s 2005 operating budget in the amount of One Million Four Hundred
Twenty Three Thousand Six Hundred Eighty Seven and No/Dollars ($1,423,687.00) for the
period beginning January 1, 2005 and ending December 31, 2005. The Agreement requires that
the CAC account to the CHA for the use of the funds provided in the Agreement and permits the
CHA to inspect and audit the CAC’s financial records related to the Agreement.
RESOLUTION NO. 2004-CHA-151
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated November 1,
2004 entitled “Authorization to Negotiate and Enter into a Funding Agreement for
Fiscal Year 2005 with the Central Advisory Council;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorize the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to negotiate and enter into a Funding Agreement with the Central
Advisory Council for the 2005 fiscal year in an amount not-to-exceed One
Million Four Hundred Twenty Three Thousand Six Hundred Eighty Seven and
No/Dollars ($1,423,687.00) for the period beginning January 1, 2005 and ending
December 31, 2005.

(Item C4)
The resolution for Item C4 approves a Funding Agreement with SHAC. A Funding Agreement
between the CHA and SHAC is required for funding this resident organization. The Agreement
will place independent financial responsibility on the SHAC to govern, control and document
CHA funds provided for the 2005 operating budget in an amount not to exceed Three Hundred
Thousand Dollars ($300,000) for the period of January 1, 2005 through December 31, 2005.
SHAC is managed by the three duly elected presidents of the Senior Housing Local Advisory
Council’s (“LAC’s”) and maintains offices at 6401 S. Yale, 3030 West 21st Place and 1845 N.
Larrabee. The purpose of SHAC is to act for and on behalf of the residents who live in CHA
senior buildings. The Agreement will contain provisions to ensure compliance with all state,
local and federal laws, rules and regulations and require SHAC to account for use of the funds
under the Agreement. The Agreement will also permit the CHA to review and audit the Books
and Records of the SHAC.
RESOLUTION NO. 2004-CHA-152
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated November 1,
2004 entitled “Authorization to Negotiate and Enter into a Funding Agreement
with the Senior Housing Advisory Council”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to negotiate and enter into a Funding Agreement with the Senior
Housing Advisory Council for the period commencing January 1, 2005 and
ending December 31, 2005 in an amount not to exceed Three Hundred Thousand
Dollars ($300,000).

7

 (Item C5)
In December 2002, the Board of Commissioners authorized contracts with Reo Movers and Van
Lines, Inc., and Medley’s Moving and Storage, Inc. to provide resident relocation services for a
two year period. The agreement was for a two year period, for an amount of compensation notto-exceed $400,000 for each contract. Subsequently, in March 2003, the Board authorized
contracts with Big “O” Movers and Storage, Inc. and Smith Movers to provide the same services
for similar contract terms and value. Additionally the contracts with Bog “O” Movers and Reo
Movers were modified by increasing the not-to exceed compensation amount by $93,000 each.
During the course of these 4 contracts, the number of families that the Housing Choice Voucher
Department has been requested to relocate has grown daily. The CHA expanded moves for
City/State properties and Altgeld Gardens. Additionally, CHA’s moving contractors were
requested to provide services for the Summer Food Sites Program, pickup and delivery of
donations, and to relocate agencies located on site that had to move. None of these services were
included in the original moves scheduled for Phase IV of the Plan for Transformation.
Accordingly, the costs incurred for moving/relocation services will exceed the funds allocated
for these contracts. Additional funds are required to ensure the moving contractors are paid for
necessary services for the remainder of the term of these contracts to relocate families from
uninhabitable units, for building consolidation in order to ensure the safety of families, and to
conduct remaining moves for Phase IV of the Plan for Transformation. The approval of
additional funds for these contractors will cover obligated as well as anticipated invoices and
costs through the expiration dates of these above 4 contracts and will allow the CHA to continue
with its relocation efforts without interruption. The current moving contractors have either met
or exceeded the acceptable level of performance. Accordingly, the resolution for Item C5
approves contract amendments with the four stated moving companies.
RESOLUTION NO. 2004-CHA-153
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated November 2, 2004 titled “AUTHORIZATION TO AMEND
CONTRACTS WITH BIG “O” MOVERS, REO MOVERS AND VAN LINES
INC., SMITH MOVERS AND MEDLEY’S MOVING AND STORAGE, INC.
FOR RESIDENTRELOCATION SERVICES”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORIY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorized the Chief Executive Officer or his
Designee to modify four (4) existing Resident Relocation Contracts to increase
the not-to- exceed amount of compensation with Big “O” Movers, Inc., in the
amount of 476,181.00, Reo Movers and Van Lines, Inc., in an amount of
$290,063.00, Smith Movers in the amount of $546,181.00 and Medley’s Moving
and Storage, Inc., in the amount of $290,063.00 for an aggregate amount of
compensation not-to-exceed $1,602,488.00.

(Item C6)
The resolution for Item C6 approves the form of lease and admissions and continued occupancy
policy for the Henry Horner Phase II A2– West Haven Park development. The authorization of
approval of the form of lease and admissions and occupancy policy for the Henry Horner Phase
II A2 – West Haven Park development is required at this time to facilitate the closing of this
development transaction. Previously on December 19, 2002, the Board approved Resolution No.
2002-CHA-186, which approved the lease and admissions and occupancy policy for Phase IIa1,
which was an all rental development. The lease and admissions and occupancy policy for Phase
IIa1 have been modified for Phase IIa2 to reflect that the units are in a condominium and to
incorporate other minor changes. These documents have been subject to extensive negotiation
among the CHA, the Developer, and the Horner Residents Committee and the documents are
recommended as acceptable. Notice for the public comment period will be given in accordance
with applicable requirements and consideration will be given to any forthcoming comments in
finalizing the documents with the Developer and the owner entity.
RESOLUTION NO. 2004-CHA-154
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated September 27,
2004, entitled “AUTHORIZATION FOR APPROVAL OF THE LEASE AND
ADMISSIONS AND CONTINUED OCCUPANCY POLICY FOR THE HENRY
HORNER PHASE II A2 – WEST HAVEN PARK DEVELOPMENT AND TO
AMEND THE CHA ADMISSION AND CONTINUED OCCUPANCY POLICY
TO INCORPORATE SUCH DOCUMENTS AS AN ADDENDUM THERETO”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
8

 THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the attached admissions and
continued occupancy policy and form of lease in substantially the form presented
to the Board for the Henry Horner Phase II A2 – West Haven Park development
and hereby approves an amendment to the Chicago Housing Authority’s
Admission and Continued Occupancy Policy to incorporate the approved forms as
an addenda. The Chairman of the Board or the Chief Executive Officer is hereby
authorized to approve final changes in these forms, including changes based on
HUD requirements, or such changes, if any, resulting from any applicable notice
and comment process. Such approval shall constitute conclusive evidence of the
Board’s approval of any and all such changes.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items C1 through C6 was seconded by
Commissioner Harris and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Nays:

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Lori Healey
Michael Ivers
Martin Nesbitt
Carlos Ponce
Mary Wiggins
None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Tenant Services Committee report was also accepted in total.
There being no further business to come before the Commissioners, upon Motion made,
seconded and carried, the meeting of the Board of Commissioners was adjourned.

S/B:
S/B:

Lee Gill, Custodian and
Keeper of Records

9

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Chairperson

 