MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING
OF THE
COMMISSIONERS OF THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
October 20, 2009
The Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority held its Regular Meeting of the Board of
Commissioners on Tuesday, October 20 2009, at approximately 8:40 a.m. at Vivian Carter
Apartments, 6401 South Yale, Chicago, IL.
Chairman Nesbitt called the meeting to order and upon roll call, those present and absent were as
follows:
Present:
Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Deverra Beverly
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Myra King
Carlos Ponce
Bridget Reidy
Sandra Young
Absent:

None

Also present were Lewis Jordan, Chief Executive officer; LaRue Little, Deputy General Counsel;
Chicago Housing Authority Staff Members and the General Public.
There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as
follows:
Upon Motion made and properly seconded the Commissioners adjourned to Executive Session.
The Chairperson announced that pursuant to the Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2, the Board
would adjourn for approximately one (1) hour to possibly discuss pending, probable or imminent
litigation, personnel related matters, collective negotiating matters, purchase sale and lease of
real estate property; establishment of reserves and settlement of claims.
The Commissioners subsequently reconvened in Open Session and Chairman Nesbitt thereupon
convened the Public Hearing portion and Business Sessions of the meeting.
Lewis Jordan, Chief Executive Officer, then presented his monthly report. Per Mr. Jordan,
through the generosity of the MacArthur Foundation, CHA hosted a Research Round Table
which was attended by researchers and academics from all over the country who spoke about and
gave recommendations on the impact the Plan for Transformation has had on residents and the
surrounding communities. According to Mr. Jordan, the next event is a Symposium that is
scheduled for December 11 and 12th. The Symposium will explore topics such as people, place,
and partnerships that brought the Plan together and the local and national impact of the Plan’s
related policies. Mr. Jordan concluded his report by announcing receipt of Stimulus Funds in
the amount of $204,000,000.
Chairman Nesbitt then invited residents and the public at large to address the Board.
Immediately following the Public Hearing portion of the meeting, Chairman Nesbitt introduced
Executive Session Item 1 discussed in Executive Session. Commissioner Ivers then made a
Motion to approve the resolution for Executive Session Item 1:

1

 Executive Session Item 1
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-127
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated October 1, 2009, requesting that the Board of Commissioners
approves the Personnel Actions Report for September 2009.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the Personnel Actions Report for
September 2009.

The Motion to adopt resolution for Executive Session Items 1 was seconded by Commissioner
Young and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Deverra Beverly
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Myra King
Carlos Ponce
Bridget Reidy
Sandra Young
Nays:

None

The Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried and said Resolution adopted.
Commissioner Ivers, Chairman of the Finance and Audit Committee then presented his monthly
report. Per Commissioner Ivers, the Finance and Audit Committee held its regular meeting on
Wednesday, October 14, 2009, at approximately 1:05 p.m. at the 60 East Van Buren Corporate
offices. Elias Rosario, Chief Financial Officer, and his staff presented the Committee with the
Treasury and Cash Flow Report for the month of September 2009 and an Update on American
Recovery and Reinvestment Act.
Commissioner Ivers then introduced an Omnibus Motion for adoption of Resolutions for Items
A1 thru A7 discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Finance and Audit
Committee.
(Item A1)
The resolution for Item A1 approves submission of the FY2010 MTW Annual Plan – Plan for
Transformation Year 11. The document represents CHA's FY2010 MTW Annual Plan and
details CHA’s anticipated activities for FY2010. CHA has organized the discussions of activities
in the FY2010 MTW Annual Plan under the following Sections: General Housing Authority
Operating Information, Non-MTW Related Housing Authority Information, Long-Term MTW
Plan, Proposed MTW Activities, Ongoing MTW Activities-HUD Approval Previously Granted,
and Sources and Uses of Funds. Each of the activities has been tied to one of the following
MTW Statutory Objectives: 1) Increase housing choices for low-income families; 2) Give
incentive to families with children where the head of household is working, seeking work, or is
preparing for work by participating in job training, education programs, or programs that assist
people to obtain employment and become economically self-sufficient; and 3) Reduce cost and
achieve greater cost effectiveness in Federal expenditures. Prior to submission of the FY2010
MTW Annual Plan to the Board, a 30 day public comment period was conducted wherein both
residents and the public alike were able to submit comments orally or in writing regarding the
information contained in the proposed Plan. The public comment period ran from August 17
through September 15, 2009, and a public hearing was held on September 3, 2009. Prior to
finalizing the FY2010 MTW Annual Plan, CHA gave consideration to comments received
during the public comment period.
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-128
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated October 14,
2009, requesting approval of the FY2010 MTW Annual Plan – Plan for
Transformation Year 11, hereto attached.
2

 THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners approves the FY2010 MTW Annual Plan – Plan for
Transformation Year 11, and the form, CHA Certifications of Compliance with
MTW Plan Requirements and Related Regulations, and grant authorization to
submit these documents to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development.

(Item A2)
The resolution for Item A2 approves the revised FY2009 Comprehensive Budget. The FY2009
budgeted expenditures have been revised from $944,326,581 to $940,254,888, resulting in a
$4,071,693 decrease. The major changes by funding source are as follows: General Fund - total
revenues and associated expenditures decreased by $20,094,191 for a fund total of $874,325,411.
The change reflects the use of Competitive Capital Grants awarded to the Authority for the
replacement of boilers at various CHA Senior Housing sites. Section 8 Non-MTW Fund budget remained unchanged at $5,798,259. Hope VI - revenues and associated expenditures
decreased by $4,647,345 for a fund total of $17,486,399. The decrease is primarily due to the
changes in the closing schedules for Park Boulevard 1B and 2A, Lake Park Crescent, Rockwell
Gardens, Cabrini Extension, Robert Taylor and ABLA properties. City/State - budget remained
unchanged at $1,188,829. Other Funding - the total revenues and associated expenditures
increased by $20,669,843 for a fund total of $41,455,990. The increase reflects the use of
Competitive Capital Grants to finance the boiler replacements at various CHA Senior Housing
sites.
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-129
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board letter dated October 14,
2009, entitled “APPROVAL OF THE REVISED FY2009 COMPREHENSIVE
BUDGET”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners, hereby approves the attached budget amendments,
“THE FY2009 COMPREHENSIVE BUDGET AMENDMENT #3”, and finds
with respect to said Budget:
1.

2.

3.

THAT,

that the proposed expenditures are necessary for the efficient and
economical operation of the Chicago Housing Authority for the purpose of
serving low-income families;
that the financial plan is reasonable in that it indicates funding sources
adequate to cover all proposed expenditures, and does not provide for use
of Federal funding in excess of that payable under the provisions of the
applicable Federal regulations; and
that all proposed rental charges and expenditures will be consistent with
provisions of law and the Annual Contributions Contract in accordance
with the Amended and Restated Moving To Work Demonstration
Agreement of the Chicago Housing Authority with the U.S. Department of
Housing and Urban Development.

the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer are authorized to execute
and forward to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development all
necessary budget documents and supporting information when applicable.

(Item A3)
The resolution for Item A3 approves amendment to contract with Crowe Horwath for
independent professional auditing services for the Private Property Management companies
(PPMs). The CHA entered into a contract with Crowe in 2007 for independent professional
auditing services for a base term of two years with two one-year options. During the past three
years, Crowe has met its contract requirements with CHA and has performed all tasks expected
of the independent auditors. Crowe has significant experience in conducting these types of audits
for governmental and as well as public entities. Crowe is willing and able to provide the
required independent professional auditing services to the CHA for the PPMs for the next
contract term, February 26, 2010, through February 25, 2011, under the terms and conditions as
amended.
3

 RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-130
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
memorandum dated October 14, 2009, entitled, “AUTHORIZATION TO
EXECUTE AMENDMENT NO. 2 TO CONTRACT NUMBER 7003 WITH
CROWE HORWATH LLP TO EXECISE THE SECOND ONE-YEAR OPTION
FOR INDEPENDENT PROFESSIONAL AUDITING SERVICES FOR THE
PRIVATE PROPERTY MANAGEMENT FIRMS”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute Amendment No. 2 to Contract No. 7003 (the “Contract”) with
Crowe Horwath LLP. to exercise the one year option to extend the Contract for
the period February 26, 2010, to February 25, 2011, to provide independent
professional auditing services for an amount not-to-exceed $224,850.

(Item A4)
The resolution for Item A4 approves extension of contract with Velma Butler. The CHA entered
into the Contract with Velma Butler & Company, LTD in 2007 for independent professional
auditing services for the RMCs. Velma Butler’s responsibilities include performing Single
Audits of the two RMCs along with some Agreed Upon Procedures (AUP). The purposes of the
audits are to ensure that the RMCs have accurate and timely reporting, meet HUD’s reporting
requirements and are in compliance with their contract with CHA. For the past three years,
Velma Butler has met its contract requirements with CHA and has performed all tasks expected
of the independent auditors. Velma Butler utilized its expertise in conducting Financial and
Single audits for government entities and public housing authorities to identify and assist the
RMCs in improving their accounting and finances. Velma Butler is willing and able to provide
the required independent professional auditing services under the terms and conditions as
provided in the Contract.
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-131
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
memorandum dated October 14, 2009, entitled, “AUTHORIZATION TO
EXECUTE AMENDMENT NO. 2 TO CONTRACT NUMBER 7004 WITH
VELMA BUTLER & COMPANY, LTD TO EXECISE THE SECOND ONEYEAR OPTION
FOR INDEPENDENT PROFESSIONAL AUDITING
SERVICES FOR THE RESIDENT MANAGEMENT COMPANIES”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute Amendment No. 2 to Contract No. 7004 (the “Contract”) with
Velma Butler & Company, LTD. to exercise the one year option to extend the
Contract for the period February 26, 2010, to February 25, 2011, to provide
independent professional auditing services for an amount not-to-exceed $79,298.

(Item A5)
The resolution for Item A5 approves contract extension with KPMG for internal auditing
services. The internal audit function is a critical element for establishing the controls and
operational discipline necessary to facilitate the CHA’s change in business focus.
Responsibilities of the internal auditor under the Contract include developing a risk assessment
and annual audit plan; testing and evaluating the efficiencies and effectiveness of operations; and
ensuring that good internal control systems are in place to improve operations. During the past
three years, KPMG has provided the CHA with outstanding service and has performed all tasks
expected of the internal audit provider. KPMG has utilized expertise from its global internal
audit practice to deliver key solutions to manage critical financial, business and operational risk
on behalf of the CHA. KPMG is willing to provide internal auditing services to the CHA for the
next contract term, January 1, 2010, through December 31, 2010, under the same terms and
conditions as provided in the Contract.

4

 RESOLUTION NO.2009-CHA-132
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
memorandum dated October 14, 2009, entitled, “AUTHORIZATION TO
EXERCISE ONE-YEAR OPTION FOR CONTRACT NUMBER 7001 WITH
KPMG LLP FOR INTERNAL AUDITING SERVICES”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to exercise the option to extend Contract No. 7001 with KPMG LLP for
the period of January 1, 2010, through December 31, 2010, to provide internal
auditing services for a total amount not-to-exceed $1,000,000.

(Item A6)
The resolution for Item A6 ratifies the acceptance of a Capital Fund Recovery Competition Grant
Award from HUD in the amount of $8,216,100 to fill the financing gap due to the collapse of the
market for the second rental phase of Parkside of Old Town. CHA plans to use the CFRC gap
funds as a bridge loan to the developer for the anticipated Tax Increment Financing (TIF) Note that
will be repaid once TIF Note financing is again available. Since CHA anticipates that the market
for this type of investment will return when the economy improves, and the city has made a firm
commitment to issue the TIF Note, CHA expects to be repaid for the loan to this project in three
to five years, prior to completion of the full Cabrini HOPE VI revitalization.
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-133
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated October 14, 2009, entitled “RATIFICATION OF
ACCEPTANCE OF A CAPITAL FUND RECOVERY COMPETITION GRANT
AWARD FROM THE U.S. DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN
DEVELOPMENT, AND AUTHORIZATION TO INCREASE THE FY2009
COMPREHENSIVE BUDGET”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners ratifies the acceptance of a Capital Fund Recovery
Competition grant award from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development Public Housing Gap Financing for Parkside 2A in the amount of
$8,216,100 and authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to increase
the FY 2009 comprehensive budget by the same amount.

(Item A7)
On September 3, 2009, the CHA received official written notice of an award of $9,990,000.00
from HUD’s Public Housing Transformation Program – Ogden North Phase I, which had to be
promptly signed and returned to HUD. The Public Housing Capital Funds being awarded to the
CHA are provided through the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 and are
specifically designated for public housing transformation, to help redevelop public housing that
is blighted and distressing to the surrounding community. Accordingly, the resolution for Item
A7 ratifies acceptance of the Grant Award from HUD in the amount of $9,990,000.00.

RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-134
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated October 14, 2009, entitled “RATIFICATION OF
ACCEPTANCE OF A CAPITAL FUND RECOVERY COMPETITION GRANT
AWARD FROM THE U.S. DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN
DEVELOPMENT, AND AUTHORIZATION TO INCREASE THE FY2009
COMPREHENSIVE BUDGET”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners ratifies the acceptance of a Capital Fund Recovery
Competition grant award from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
5

 Development Public Housing Transformation Program for the redevelopment of
Ogden North Phase I in the amount of $9,990,000 and authorize the Chief
Executive Officer or his designee to increase the FY 2009 comprehensive budget
by the same amount.
The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items A1 thru A7 was seconded by
Commissioner Young and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Deverra Beverly
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Myra King
Carlos Ponce
Bridget Reidy
Sandra Young
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted.
Commissioner Ivers then introduced a motion for adoption of the resolution for Item A8.
(Item A8)
CHA plans to submit an application for a $22 million FY2009 HOPE VI Revitalization grant to
fund the third phase of the Oakwood Shores mixed-income development, which replaces the
former Ida B. Wells public housing development. The award of the HOPE VI grant would allow
development funds currently planned for the Ida B. Wells revitalization to be re-budgeted to
other currently planned but unfunded mixed-income revitalization projects. The HUD Notice of
Funding Availability (NOFA) for Discretionary Programs was published July 14, 2009, and
makes available approximately $113 million in assistance through the FY2009 Revitalization
Grant Program. The application deadline for this competitive award is November 17, 2009. Ida
B. Wells/Oakwood Shores Phase 3 is in the planning process proposing to produce
approximately 111 rental units on-site. Phase 1 and 2A are completed which include a total of
524 units with 207 public housing replacement units. Phase 2B (One) is currently in the
construction phase which includes 81 units with 29 replacement units. Accordingly, the
resolution for Item A8 approves submission of the HOPE VI Revitalization Grant Application to
HUD for the Wells/Oakwood Shore Redevelopment.
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-135
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated October 14,
2009, entitled Authorization to Submit a 2009 Hope VI Revitalization Grant
Application to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development for the
Ida B. Wells/Oakwood Shores Phase 3 Redevelopment;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to submit a 2009 Hope VI Revitalization Grant application to the U.S.
Department of Housing and Urban Development for the Ida B. Wells/Oakwood
Shores Phase 3 redevelopment and to execute such other documents and take such
other actions as may be necessary or appropriate to implement the foregoing.

The Motion to adopt resolution for Item A8 was seconded by Commissioner Ponce and the
voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Deverra Beverly
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Myra King
Carlos Ponce
6

 Bridget Reidy
Recusal:

Sandra Young

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolution adopted. The Finance & Audit Committee report was also accepted in total.
Per Commissioner Ponce, Chairperson of the Operations and Facilities Committee, a Joint
Tenant Services and Operations and Facilities Committee meeting was held on Wednesday,
October 14th at approximately 1:40 p.m. at the 60 East Van Buren Corporate offices.
Commissioner Ponce then introduced an Omnibus Motion for adoption of the Resolutions for
Items B1 thru B9 and B11 thru B13 discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by
the Joint Tenant Services and Operations and Facilities Committees.
(Item B1)
On September 4, 2009, the Prime Design Contractor (PDC), working at several CHA locations,
notified the CHA that it was closing its Chicago office and wished to terminate its contract
immediately. CHA was able to negotiate the PDC’s continuance of services thru September 30,
2009, to allow the CHA to attempt to secure services for projects already underway at
Wentworth Annex and Hoyne Community Center, and façade work at Caroline Hedger
Apartments and Judge Harry M Fisher Apartments. Since these projects were already underway,
it was vital to have replacements for each location as quickly as possible to avoid construction
delays and possible increased costs because of those delays. With the approach of winter
weather, the façade work would be particularly impacted by any delays. Staff determined that
the most time and cost effective way to put replacements in place for the four (4) construction
projects was to secure the services of the PDC’s sub-consultant firms who were already working
on these projects and extremely familiar with them. Accordingly, the resolution for Item B1
ratifies award of contract to Nia Architects, Inc. for PDC services at Wentworth Annex and
Hoyne Community Center and Eskenazi, Farrell & Fodor, P.C. for Caroline Hedger Apartments
and Judge Harry M. Fisher Apartments. It was agreed that the need to keep these projects
moving forward justifies awarding the contracts by non-competitive proposal process under a
public exigency circumstance.
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-136
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated October 14, 2009,
entitled “RATIFICATION OF CONTRACTS WITH NIA ARCHITECTS, INC.
AND ESKENAZI, FARRELL & FODOR, P.C. FOR PRIME DESIGN
CONSULTANT SERVICES AT VARIOUS CHA PROPERTIES”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners ratify two (2) contracts for Prime Design Consultant
services with Nia Architects, Inc. for $52,682.00 at Wentworth Annex and
$111,072.00 at Hoyne Community Center, and one (1) contract with Eskenazi,
Farrell & Fodor, P.C. for $177,000.00 at Caroline Hedger Apartments and Judge
Harry M. Fisher Apartments all procured by non-competitive proposal process.
The new contracts for Nia Architects, Inc. will be for a term of two (2) years or
until all scope has been completed. The new contract for Eskenazi, Farrell &
Fodor, P.C. will be for a term of nine (9) months or until all scope has been
completed. Work began on October 1, 2009.
These awards are subject to each Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s
MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident hiring, and bonding and insurance
requirements.

(Item B2)
A Request for Proposal for the Development of a Reserve Study for Family Properties was
released on July 10, 2009. The RFP was advertised in area newspapers and on the CHA’s
Website and in BuySpeed. Six firms were solicited, including one MBE firm. Fourteen firms
downloaded the solicitation from BuySpeed and 7 firms picked up copies of the RFP. Of the
7

 seven proposals received four firms scored within the competitive range and were invited to
participate in orals/discussions. Based upon the evaluation of the written proposals, information
gathered from the orals/discussions, and best and final offers, it was determined that EMG
provided the best overall service and value to the CHA. Accordingly, the resolution for Item B2
approves award of contract to EMG for the development of a Reserve Study. The purpose of the
reserve study is to assess the reasonable life expectancy of CHA owned equipment and systems
and to obtain qualified estimates of the cost to maintain these systems during their reasonable life
expectancy. EMG has more than 20 years of experience in conducting such reserve studies,
along with extensive public housing experience, and a local project team. EMG has customizable
web-enabled software, which can be hosted on EMG’s system or on CHA’s system, as well as
programs designed to complete mandatory HUD reports.

RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-137
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated October 14, 2009, entitled “Recommendation to Award a
Contract to EMG to Conduct a Reserve Study at the CHA developments in the
family portfolio”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into a service agreement with EMG to conduct a reserve study at
the CHA developments in the family portfolio for a term of twelve (12) months,
with a one-year option, for an amount not to exceed $139,650.50.

(Item B3)
The resolution for Item B3 ratifies the formation of Kenmore Housing Development, LLC and
Kenmore Senior Housing Limited Partnership. The Kenmore Apartments Project is a mixedfinance renovation of an eight story building located at 5040 N. Kenmore, Chicago, Illinois in
the Uptown Community. This senior-designated apartment building originally contained 136
units, but the renovation plan entails unit reconfiguration into a 100 one bedroom unit building.
To facilitate the financing of the renovation of Kenmore Apartments, a multi-tiered financing
approach will be utilized. The CHA will transfer the Kenmore Apartments property to a taxcredit limited partnership known as Kenmore Senior Housing Limited Partnership; an Illinois
limited partnership. The General Partner of the Owner is an Illinois limited liability company
known as Kenmore Housing Development, LLC. The sole member of the General Partner is the
CHA. The General Partner is also the developer of the Project and will manage the day to day
affairs of the Owner. At closing, the Partnership will be comprised of a tax-credit investor as
limited partner and special limited partner, and Kenmore Housing Development, LLC, the
General Partner. The Limited Partner will own a 99.991 interest in the Partnership and the
General Partner will own a .009% interest. Also at closing, the building will be transferred in fee
simple to the Partnership. Kenmore Apartments will provide 99 units of public housing plus
one manager’s unit. The CHA will lease the land underlying the building to the Owner pursuant
to a 99-year ground lease. The CHA will sell the building to the Owner and will finance the sale
of the building through seller financing. Pursuant to a Regulatory and Operating Agreement
between CHA and the Owner, the CHA will provide operating subsidy to pay the reasonable
expenses of operating the units. Ninety-nine units will be ACC units and will be subject to lowincome housing tax credit restrictions. Additionally, the 99 units will be reserved for households
earning no more than 60% of AMI. The proposed renovation of the Kenmore building will
include the replacement of mechanical, electrical, and plumbing infrastructure, new elevators,
newly configured floor plans and common areas, new kitchen and bathroom fixtures and
appliances, and exterior work that includes window and door replacement and selective masonry
repair. The work includes all upgrades needed to meet local codes and ADA accessibility
compliance.
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-138
WHEREAS, the Chicago Housing Authority (the “Authority”) is a municipal corporation and
body politic and corporate organized and validly existing under the laws of the
State of Illinois, including without limitation, the Housing Authorities Act, 310
ILCS 10/1 et. seq., as amended (the “Act”); and

8

 WHEREAS, the Authority currently owns and operates Kenmore Apartments, a housing
property for elderly persons (the “Property”), located at 5040 North Kenmore, in
the City of Chicago (the “City”); and
WHEREAS, notwithstanding the availability of funds under the Operating Subsidy and
Capital Grant Funds, adequate funds have not been available to the Authority to
provide proper maintenance and repair of the Property, and
WHEREAS, after considering a number of alternative methods to finance the rehabilitation of
the Property, it was determined by the Authority to be necessary and advisable to
sell and transfer the Property to a limited partnership legally capable of raising
needed funds under the federal low-income housing tax credit program (the “tax
credit program”), pursuant to the provisions and requirements of Section 42 of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”); and
WHEREAS, since 1986, as other federal low-income housing programs have been reduced or
eliminated, the tax credit program has remained a critical component of the
federal government’s assistance of affordable housing in the United States; and
WHEREAS, the United States Congress in the United States Housing Act of 1937, as
amended, has encouraged local housing agencies such as the Authority to form
affiliated entities in order to take advantage of the financial benefit provided by
the tax credit program; and
WHEREAS, Section 2 of the Act provides that the Authority shall have all powers necessary or
appropriate in order to engage in the rehabilitation, development and
redevelopment of projects; and
WHEREAS, Section 8 of the Act provides that the Authority shall have all the powers
necessary or convenient to carry out and effectuate the purposes and provisions of
the Act; and
WHEREAS, Section 26 of the Act provides that it is the purpose and intent of the Act to
authorize the Authority to do any and all things necessary or desirable to secure
the financial aid or cooperation of the Federal government in the purchasing,
acquiring, constructing, maintaining, operating improving, extending and
repairing of housing projects; and
WHEREAS, the Authority will sell the building of the Project to the Owner and will finance
the sale of the building through seller financing for the approximate price of
$5,230,000, the amount to be determined by an independent third party appraisal.

NOW THEREFORE, Be It Resolved, by the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing
Authority:
PART I
Formation of General Partner and Partnership
Section 1.01 Formation of General Partner. The formation of Kenmore Housing Development,
LLC, an Illinois limited liability company (the “General Partner”), of which the Authority is the
sole member, is hereby ratified and confirmed in all respects. The Chief Executive Officer and
the Chief Financial Officer of the Authority (the “Designated Officers”) are hereby authorized to
take all actions necessary to maintain the status of the General Partner as a limited liability
company under the laws of the State of Illinois.
Section 1.02 Operating Agreement. The form of Operating Agreement presented to
this meeting and attached hereto as Exhibit A is approved in substantially the form presented to
this meeting.
Section 1.03 Formation of Partnership. The formation of Kenmore Senior Housing
Limited Partnership, an Illinois limited partnership (the “Owner”), is hereby ratified and
confirmed in all respects.
9

 Section 1.04 Partnership Agreement. The original Partnership, which was formed
pursuant to a certificate of limited partnership, presented to this meeting and attached hereto
as Exhibit B, and an oral agreement (authorized under Illinois law) between the General Partner
and Lewis A. Jordan, as the original limited partner, in his individual capacity and not in his
capacity as Chief Executive Officer of the Authority, (the “Partnership Agreement”), are hereby
approved. An amended and restated (written) partnership agreement, in the form approved by the
Designated Officer, providing for the replacement of the original limited partner with an investor
limited partner, is also hereby approved. The Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer
of the Authority is hereby authorized to execute and deliver the Partnership Agreement on behalf
of the General Partner.
Section 1.05 Development Agreement. The form of Development Services Agreement presented
to this meeting and attached hereto as Exhibit C is approved in substantially the form presented
to this meeting and the Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer of the Authority is
hereby authorized to execute and deliver the Development Agreement, on behalf of the Owner as
well as on behalf of the General Partner in substantially the form presented to this meeting
together with such changes and revisions as shall be approved by the Designated Officer
executing the same, such approval to constitute conclusive evidence of this Board’s approval of
such changes and revisions.
Section 1.06 Regulatory and Operating Agreement. The Chief Executive Officer and
Chief Financial Officer of the Authority is hereby authorized to execute and deliver a Regulatory
and Operating Agreement on behalf of the General Partner and the Owner.
Section 1.07 No Liability of the Authority. The debts, obligations and undertakings of
the General Partner and the Owner shall be payable and/or satisfied solely from the assets and
resources of the General Partner and the Owner, as applicable, and neither the Authority, the
State of Illinois, the City or any other political subdivision of the State of Illinois shall be liable
or responsible, directly or indirectly, for the payment or satisfaction of any such debt, obligation
or undertaking, or for the performance of any pledge, obligation, or agreement of any kind
whatsoever of the General Partner or the Owner.
Section 1.08 No Recourse. No recourse shall be had for the payment or satisfaction of
any debt, obligation or undertaking of the General Partner or the Owner against any
commissioner, member, officer, employee, agent, counsel or director, as such, past, present or
future, of the Authority, to the maximum extent permitted by law, whether by virtue of any
constitution, statute, ordinance or rule of law, or otherwise.
PART II
Approval of Sale and Transfer of Property
Section 2.01 Sale and Transfer of Property. The sale and transfer of the Property to the
Owner for a purchase price in the approximate amount of $5,230,000, the exact amount to be
determined by an independent third party appraisal, is hereby approved in all respects.
Section 2.02 Purchase and Sale Agreement. The form of Purchase and Sale
Agreement with respect to the Property (the “Purchase and Sale Agreement”) presented to this
meeting and attached hereto as Exhibit D is approved in substantially the form presented to this
meeting, and the Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer of the Authority is
authorized to execute and deliver the Real Estate Sale Agreement on behalf of the
General Partner and on behalf of the Authority in substantially the form presented to this
meeting, together with such changes and revisions as shall be approved by the Designated
Officer executing the same, such approval to constitute conclusive evidence of this Board’s
approval of such changes and revisions.
Section 2.03 Approval of Purchase Option and Right of First Refusal Agreement. The form of
Purchase Option and Right of First Refusal Agreement with respect to the Property presented to
this meeting and attached hereto as Exhibit E is approved in substantially the form presented to
this meeting, and the Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer of the Authority is
authorized to execute and deliver the Purchase Option and Right of First Refusal Agreement on
behalf of the Owner and on behalf of the General Partner in substantially the form presented to
this meeting, together with such changes and revisions as shall be approved by the Designated
10

 Officer executing the same, such approval to constitute conclusive evidence of this Board’s
approval of such changes and revisions.
PART III
Additional Approvals
Section 3.01 Development and Management of Property. The development and
operation of the Property by the Owner is hereby approved. In order to accomplish those
purposes, the Owner shall execute and deliver appropriate instruments and documents, including
but not limited to, the construction contract, architect’s agreement and appropriate management
agreement.
Section 3.02 Loan Transactions. In order to finance the costs of rehabilitating and
equipping the Property, the Owner shall execute and deliver appropriate documents, instruments,
mortgages and security instruments as may be required by the applicable lender.
Section 3.03 Tax-exempt Financing. It is recognized that the Construction Loan and Bridge Loan
will be funded by CHA bonds, the interest on which is exempt from federal income taxation
under Section 142 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
The Owner shall execute and deliver such documents and instruments as shall be required to
support the tax-exempt status of such CHA obligations.

PART IV
Section 4.01 Immunity of Officers, Employees and Members of Authority. No
recourse shall be had upon any obligation, covenant or agreement in this Resolution contained
against any past, present or future commissioner, officer, director, member, employee or agent of
the Authority, or of any successor public corporation, as such, either directly or through the
Authority or any successor public corporation, under any rule of law or equity, statute, ordinance
or constitution or by the enforcement of any assessment or penalty or otherwise, and all such
liability of any such commissioners, officers, directors, members, employees or agents as such is
expressly waived and released by this Resolution as a condition of and consideration for the
passage of this Resolution.
Section 4.02 Performance Provisions. The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Chief
Financial Officer, the Executive Advisor to the Board, the Secretary and any Assistant Secretary
of the Authority be, and each of them hereby is, authorized and directed to do any and all things
necessary to effect the performance of all obligations of the Authority under and pursuant to this
Resolution and the performance of all other acts of whatever nature necessary to effect and carry
out the authority conferred by this Resolution, including, but not limited to, the exercise of any
power or authority delegated to such official of the Authority under this Resolution, but subject
to any limitations on or restrictions of such power or authority as herein set forth. The Chairman,
Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, the Executive Advisor to the Board, the
Secretary and any Assistant Secretary of the Authority and the other officers, agents and
employees of the Authority are hereby further authorized, empowered and directed for and on
behalf of the Authority, to execute and deliver all papers, documents, certificates and other
instruments that may be required to carry out the authority conferred by this Resolution or to
evidence said authority.
Section4.03 Severability. It is the intention of this Board that, if any Article, Section,
paragraph, clause or provision of this Resolution shall be ruled by any court of competent
jurisdiction to be invalid, the invalidity of such Article, Section, paragraph, clause or provision
shall not affect any of the remaining provisions hereof.
Section 4.04 Prior Inconsistent Resolutions. If any provision of this Resolution is in
conflict with or inconsistent with any resolutions or parts of resolutions or the proceedings of the
Authority in effect as of the date hereof, the provisions of this Resolution shall supersede any
conflicting or inconsistent provision to the extent of such conflict or inconsistency.
Section 4.05 Effective Date. This Resolution shall be in full force and effect
immediately upon its passage as by law provided.
(Item B4)
11

 The resolution for Item B4 approves the issuance of CHA Multi-family Housing Revenue Notes,
Series 2009A and 2009B (Kenmore Apartments); submit a Mixed Finance Proposal,
Evidentiaries and Disposition Application to HUD; execute a Ground Lease, sell the Project
Building and finance the sale through Seller Financing to Kenmore Senior Housing Limited
Partnership. The direct costs for the renovation of the 100 rental units of the Kenmore
Apartments development total an estimated $30,469,596 and are expected to be funded by the
following sources of permanent financing: CHA funds, Tax Credit Equity, CHA Seller
Financing, CHA Interest Earnings, Deferred Seller Financing Construction Period Interest and
GP Capital Contribution. The Notes will be issued in two series pursuant to a Note Issuance
Agreement and the proceeds thereof will be loaned to the Owner, also known as the Borrower,
pursuant to a Loan Agreement. Bank of America, or an affiliated entity, will purchase the Series
2009A and 2009B Notes in principal amounts of approximately $11,085,110 and $5,353,205,
respectively. The Authority will provide permanent financing through its loan of capital or other
funds sufficient to retire the Series 2009A Notes (in return for the agreement of the Borrower to
rent 99 units at the site to public housing eligible tenants plus one manager’s unit). The Notes are
not a debt of any city, village, incorporated town or county, or the State of Illinois or any
political subdivision thereof, other than the Authority. The Notes are special limited obligations
of the Authority payable solely from the specific sources specified in the Note Issuance
Agreement.
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-139
WHEREAS, the Chicago Housing Authority, a municipal corporation and a body politic and
corporate duly organized and validly existing under and by virtue of the laws of
the State of Illinois (the “Authority”), including without limitation the Housing
Authorities Act, 310 ILCS 10/1 et seq., and all laws amendatory and supplemental
thereto, including in particular the Local Government Debt Reform Act, 30 ILCS
350/1 et seq. (the “Act”), is authorized by the laws of the State of Illinois (the
“State”), including without limitation in the Act, to issue its revenue Bonds and
Notes for the purposes set forth in the Act and to permit the expenditure of the
proceeds thereof to finance the cost of the development and construction of
multifamily rental housing located in the jurisdiction of the Authority; and
WHEREAS, Kenmore Senior Housing Limited Partnership, an Illinois limited partnership (the
“Borrower”), proposes to rehabilitate the “Kenmore Apartments” Project
consisting of the renovation of 99 rental units of public housing and one
manager’s unit in Chicago, Illinois (the “Project”); and
WHEREAS, a portion of the costs of the Project will be financed through the issuance by the
Authority of its Multi-Family Housing Revenue Note, Series 2009A (Kenmore
Apartments Project) (the “Series 2009A Note”) and its Multi-Family Housing
Revenue Note, Series 2009B (Kenmore Apartments Project) (the “Series 2009B
Note”) (collectively, the “Notes”); and
WHEREAS, the proceeds of the Notes will be loaned to Borrower; and
WHEREAS, the General Partner of Borrower is Kenmore Housing Development, LLC, an
Illinois limited liability company (the “General Partner”); and
WHEREAS, the sole member of the General Partner is the Authority; and
WHEREAS, a determination has been made by the Authority that the Project constitutes
“multifamily rental housing” within the meaning of the Act and that the financing
thereof will meet the public purposes of the Act; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to and in accordance with the provisions of the Act, the Authority is now
prepared to proceed with the financing of a portion of the costs of the Project
through the issuance and sale of the Notes pursuant to a Note Issuance Agreement
(the “Note Issuance Agreement”) among the Authority, Bank of America, N.A.,
or an affiliated entity, as the purchaser of the Notes (the “Note Purchaser”) and
Bank of America, N.A., or an affiliated entity, as fiscal agent (the “Fiscal
Agent”); and
12

 WHEREAS, the proceeds of the Notes will be loaned by the Authority to the Borrower
pursuant to a Loan Agreement between the Authority and the Borrower (the
“Loan Agreement”) and the obligations of the Borrower to pay debt service under
the Loan Agreement will be evidenced by a Note with respect to the Series 2009A
Note debt service (the “Series 2009A Borrower Note”) from the Borrower to the
Authority, and a Note with respect to the Series 2009B Note debt service (the
“Series 2009B Borrower Note” and, together with the Series 2009A Borrower
Note, the “Borrower Notes”) from the Borrower to the Authority, each of which
will be assigned by the Authority to the Fiscal Agent as security for the Notes;
and
WHEREAS, certain income and other rental restrictions required by Sections 42 and 142(d) of
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”) related to the
Project will be specified in one or more Regulatory Agreements, Declarations of
Restrictive Covenants and a Land Use Restriction Agreement (each, collectively,
the “Regulatory Agreement”) and
WHEREAS, certain arbitrage requirements of Section 148 and related provisions of the Code
will be specified in one or more Arbitrage and Tax Certificates (the “Arbitrage
Certificates”) of the Authority and the Borrower; and

WHEREAS, both series of Notes will be sold by private placement to the Note Purchaser
pursuant to the Note Issuance Agreement; and
WHEREAS, the Borrower’s obligations under the Borrower Notes will be secured by one or
more mortgages, security agreements and/or collateral assignments with respect to
the Project (the “Collateral Documents”) from the Borrower to the Authority or
the Fiscal Agent and, if to the Authority, the rights of the Authority to such
instruments and, as applicable, the Borrower Notes may be assigned by the
Authority to the Fiscal Agent pursuant to an assignment (an “Assignment”); and
WHEREAS, the Authority will lease the site of the Project to the Borrower pursuant to a 99year ground lease (the “Ground Lease”);
WHEREAS, the Authority will sell the building of the Project to the Borrower and will finance
the sale of the building through seller financing for the approximate price of
$5,230,000, the amount to be determined by an independent third party appraisal.
WHEREAS, the Series 2009A Note will be secured by and payable from certain Capital Funds
(“Capital Funds”) received by the Authority and deposited into escrow pursuant
to a Pledge Agreement (the “Pledge Agreement”) among the Authority, the
Borrower and the Fiscal Agent, as Escrow Agent, and such Capital Funds, upon
withdrawal from such escrow, will constitute a loan from the Authority to the
Borrower pursuant to a loan agreement (the “Capital Funds Loan Agreement”)
with the Borrower; and
WHEREAS, the Borrower will be required to operate 99 housing units within the Project for
the use and occupancy of public housing eligible individuals plus one manager’s
unit and, in connection therewith, the Borrower will enter into a Regulatory and
Operating agreement with the Authority, a Declaration of Restrictive Covenants
with the Authority and HUD, and a mortgage and other collateral documents and
related agreements and instruments (collectively, and together with the Capital
Funds Loan Agreement, the “Capital Funds Borrower Agreements”); and
WHEREAS, other funding for costs of the Project will be provided
contributions and other sources; and

pursuant to equity

WHEREAS, the proceeds of the Notes and the other funding sources may be disbursed
pursuant to a disbursement or construction agreement (the “Disbursement
Agreement”); and
13

 WHEREAS, all or a portion of the expenditures relating to the Project (the “Expenditures”) (i)
have been paid within the sixty days prior to the passage of this Resolution or (ii)
will be paid on or after the passage of this Resolution; and

WHEREAS, the Authority reasonably expects (based upon information supplied by the
Borrower, upon which it is reasonable and prudent for the Authority to rely) to
reimburse the Borrower for the Expenditures with proceeds of the Notes; and
WHEREAS, the City Council of the City of Chicago (the “City”) has approved (or is expected
to approve) the transfer to the Authority of a portion of the City’s available
unused volume cap for calendar years 2009 and /or subsequent years pursuant to
Section 146 of the Code for use by the Authority in connection with the issuance
of the Notes, and the City and the Authority may enter into a volume cap transfer
agreement (the “Cap Transfer Agreement”) to reflect such transfer; and
WHEREAS, the Authority will enter into a Mixed-Finance Amendment to the Annual
Contributions Contract with HUD; and
WHEREAS, the Note Issuance Agreement, the Loan Agreement, the Notes, the Borrower
Notes, the Regulatory Agreement, the Arbitrage Certificates, the Assignment, the
Pledge Agreement, the Disbursement Agreement, the Ground Lease, the
Collateral Documents, the Cap Transfer Agreement and the Capital Funds
Borrower Agreements are referred to collectively herein as the “Authority
Agreements.”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,
Section 1.
The Authority is authorized to submit a Mixed Finance Proposal
and amended Disposition Application to HUD in connection with the Kenmore Apartments
project, to sell the building of the Project and to finance the sale price through seller financing;
and to enter into the Authority Agreements with the other party or parties thereto in substantially
the same forms now before the Authority. The forms, terms and provisions of the Authority
Agreements be, and they hereby are, in all respects approved. The Chairman, the Chief
Executive Officer or the Chief Financial Officer of the Authority be, and each of them hereby is,
authorized, empowered and directed to execute and deliver, and, where necessary, the Chief
Executive Officer, the Secretary or any Assistant Secretary of the Authority be and each of them
hereby is, authorized, empowered and directed to attest and to affix the official seal of the
Authority to, the Authority Agreements in the name, for and on behalf of the Authority, and
thereupon to cause the Authority Agreements to be executed, acknowledged and delivered to the
other party or parties thereto, in substantially the forms now before the Authority or with such
changes therein as the individual executing the Authority Agreements on behalf of the Authority
shall approve, his or her execution thereof to constitute conclusive evidence of such approval of
any and all changes or revisions therein from the forms of Authority Agreements now before the
Authority. When the Authority Agreements are executed, attested, sealed and delivered on behalf
of the Authority as hereinabove provided, they shall be binding on the Authority. From and after
the execution and delivery of the Authority Agreements, the officers, employees and agents of
the Authority are hereby authorized, empowered and directed to do all such acts and things and
to execute all such documents as may be necessary to carry out and comply with the provisions
of the Authority Agreements as executed. The Authority Agreements shall constitute, and
hereby are made, a part of this Resolution, and copies of the executed Authority Agreements
shall be placed in the official records of the Authority, and shall be available for public
inspection at the office of the Authority.
Section 2.
The Notes shall be issued in fully registered form, in an aggregate principal
amount not to exceed $20,000,000, in authorized denominations as provided in the Note Issuance
Agreement. The Notes shall bear interest at a variable rate of interest as shall be set forth in the
Note Issuance Agreement, as executed, in no event to exceed the maximum rate set forth in the
Note Issuance Agreement. The Notes shall mature on such date or dates as shall be set forth in
the Note Issuance Agreement, as executed, but in no event later than 4 years following the date
of their initial issuance and delivery to the initial purchasers thereof. The Notes shall be subject
to redemption prior to maturity as provided in the Note Issuance Agreement, as executed.
14

 Section 3.
The Notes and the interest thereon will be special, limited obligations of the
Authority, payable solely from the payments to be made by the Borrower under the Loan
Agreement and from the other sources specified or referred to in the Note Issuance Agreement,
which shall be specifically assigned and pledged to such purposes in the manner and to the extent
provided therein. The Notes and all other obligations of the Authority in connection therewith
shall not be a debt of the City or any other city, village, incorporated town or county, the State of
Illinois or any political subdivision thereof and neither the City, nor any other city, village,
incorporated town or county, nor the State of Illinois or any political subdivision thereof shall be
liable thereon, nor in any event shall the Notes or such obligations be payable out of any funds or
properties other than those pledged under the Note Issuance Agreement or those other
agreements specifically securing the Notes. The Notes shall not constitute an indebtedness within
the meaning of any constitutional or statutory debt limitation or restriction.
Section 4.
The forms of the Notes set forth in the Note Issuance Agreement, subject to
appropriate insertions and revisions in order to comply with the provisions of the Note Issuance
Agreement (as executed) be, and the same hereby are approved. The Notes shall be executed in
the name, for and on behalf of the Authority with the manual or facsimile signature of its
Chairman or Chief Executive Officer (or such other officer authorized by law to execute the
Notes on behalf of the Authority) and attested with the manual or facsimile signature of its
Secretary or Assistant Secretary (or such other officer authorized by law to execute the Notes on
behalf of the Authority) and the seal of the Authority shall be impressed or imprinted thereon.
The officers of the Authority shall cause the Notes, as so executed and attested, to be delivered to
the Fiscal Agent for authentication. When the Notes shall be executed on behalf of the Authority
in the manner contemplated by the Note Issuance Agreement and this Resolution, they shall
represent the approved forms of Notes of the Authority.
Section 5.
The sale of the Notes to the Note Purchaser at a purchase price of not less than
98% of the aggregate principal amount thereof plus accrued interest, if any, to the date of
delivery, is hereby approved.
Section 6.
The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, the Secretary
and any Assistant Secretary of the Authority be, and each of them hereby is, authorized to
execute and deliver such documents, certificates, and undertakings of the Authority (including,
without limitation, environmental remediation agreements, investment agreements, book-entry
registration agreements, intercreditor agreements and other agreements pertaining to the security
of the Notes) and to take such other actions as may be required or desirable in connection with
the execution, delivery and performance of the Authority Agreements, the financing of costs of
the Project, the Capital Funds and the issuance, sale and delivery of the Notes. In addition,
subsequent to the issuance of the Notes, any of the foregoing officers of the Authority are hereby
authorized to enter into amendments to the Authority Agreements or other agreements or
instruments entered into by the Authority in connection with the Notes (without the necessity of
obtaining approval by the Board of Commissioners of the Authority to such action) which are
not inconsistent with the parameters set forth in this Resolution and which, in the judgment of
the officers executing the same, are not materially adverse to the interests of the Authority.
Section 7.
All acts of the officers, employees and agents of the Authority that are in
conformity with the purposes and intent of this Resolution be, and the same hereby are, in all
respects, approved and confirmed.
Section 8.
The publication on behalf of the Authority of the notice of public hearing
pursuant to Section 147(f) of the Code and the conduct of such public hearing by and on behalf
of the Authority with respect to the issuance of the Notes is hereby ratified, authorized and
approved.
Section 9.
The Authority hereby allocates to the Notes the “volume cap” reallocated or to be
reallocated by the City to the Authority in an amount equal to the aggregate principal amount of
the Notes actually to be issued.
Section 10.
The Authority reasonably expects (based upon information supplied by the
Borrower, upon which it is reasonable and prudent for the Authority to rely) to reimburse the
Expenditures with proceeds of the Notes.
15

 Section 11.
The Notes, or any one or more series thereof, may be, but are not required to be,
initially issued in book-entry form and registered in the name of The Depository Trust Company,
New York, New York (“DTC”), or its nominee, as securities depository.
Section 12.
The provisions of this Resolution are hereby declared to be separable and if any
section, phrase or provision hereof shall for any reason be declared to be invalid, such
declaration shall not affect the validity of the remainder of the sections, phrases and provisions of
this Resolution.
Section 13.
All resolutions and orders, or parts thereof, in conflict herewith are hereby
superseded to the extent of such conflict.
Section 14.
This Resolution shall be in full force and effect immediately upon its passage, as
by law provided.
(Item B5)
The CHA released a Request for Proposal (RFP) for the renovation of the Kenmore Apartments
on July 14, 2009. The renovation work includes: complete interior demolition, replacement of
mechanical infrastructure, newly configured floor plans and common areas, exterior work that
includes window and door replacement and selective masonry repair. The work also includes all
upgrades needed to meet local codes and ADA accessibility compliance. The RFP was
advertised in area newspapers and on CHA’s Website. In addition, flyers were faxed to fortyfour assist agencies. Sixty-one firms picked up the solicitation. Of the nine proposals received,
five firms fell into the competitive range set by the Director of Procurement and Contracts. The
RFP procurement process allowed for scoring of, and selection based on, criteria including
qualifications of respondents, price related factors, work plan, past performance related to
rehabilitating low income housing tax credit multi-housing developments, experience with
LEED certification, quality control and assurance plans, schedule, contract administration,
section 3 commitment and relationship with subcontractors and material suppliers. In addition to
the qualitative complexities generated by low income housing tax credits, and LEED NC v2.2
certification at the silver level, this project is funded in part through ARRA. This selection
process also allowed consideration of the capacity, experience, and quality assurance which will
need to be applied to produce meticulous reporting and detailed record keeping in compliance
with all applicable provisions of ARRA, including the Buy American provision. The RFP
process also provided an opportunity to request additional pricing information and to arrive at the
firm fixed price in the best interest of the Authority. Walsh Construction Company was the top
scorer, provided the lowest firm fixed price, and also committed to the most section 3 hires of
any of the general contracting proposals. Accordingly, the resolution for Item B5 approves
award of contract to Walsh Construction.
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-140
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated October, 14,
2009, entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO 1) EXECUTE A CONTRACT WITH
WALSH CONSTRUCTION COMPANY FOR GENERAL CONTRACTOR
SERVICES AT KENMORE APARTMENTS (IL2-010) AND 2) ASSIGN THE
CONTRACT
TO
KENMORE
SENIOR
HOUSING
LIIMITED
PARTNERSHIP”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to 1) award a contract to Walsh Construction Company in the firm fixed
amount of $16,850,051 for General Contractor services at Kenmore Apartments
(IL2-010), a Senior Housing building located at 5040 N. Kenmore Avenue, with
final completion to be within 24 months from the date set forth in the Notice to
Proceed, and 2) assign the contract to Kenmore Senior Housing Limited
Partnership. This award is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s
MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident hiring, and bonding and insurance
requirements.

(Item B6)
16

 The CHA released a Request for Proposal (RFP) for the owner’s representative/construction
management services of the Kenmore Apartments renovation in July 2009. Flyers were faxed to
44 assist agencies. Forty-two firms picked up the solicitation. The RFP was advertised in area
newspapers and on the CHA Website.
Eleven proposals were received; reviewed for
responsiveness, evaluated and scored and seven firms fell into the competitive range. Oral
presentations and negotiations were held and the Respondents within the competitive range were
further evaluated and scored. DSR Group, Inc.’s proposal offered the best value to the CHA,
cost or price and other factors considered. Accordingly, the resolution for Item B6 approves
award of contract to DSR Group, Inc. for Owner’s Representative Services at Kenmore
Apartments.
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-141
WHEREAS,

the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated October 14,
2009, entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO 1) AWARD A CONTRACT TO DSR
GROUP, INC. FOR OWNER’S REPRESENTATIVE SERVICES AT
KENMORE APARTMENTS (IL2-010) AND 2) ASSIGN THE CONTRACT
TO KENMORE SENIOR HOUSING LIMITED PARTNERSHIP”;

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to 1) award a contract to DSR Group, Inc. in the firm fixed amount of
$397,000.00 for Owner’s Representative services at Kenmore Apartments (IL2010), a Senior Housing building located at 5040 N. Kenmore Avenue, and 2)
assign the contract to Kenmore Senior Housing Limited Partnership.

(Item B7)
The resolution for Item B7 approves submittal to HUD of a Mixed Finance Proposal, the
Amended and Restated Contract for Redevelopment, Evidentiaries and Disposition Application;
commit CHA funds of up to $9,500,000.00 to the Cabrini Extension North Phase 2A Rental OnSite Redevelopment and execute Ground Lease to the Owner Entity for the Land at the Phase 2A
Rental Site. Cabrini Extension North Phase 2A Rental, a mixed-finance, mixed-income
redevelopment site, represents the second phase of on-site redevelopment within the larger
Cabrini Extension North Revitalization Plan. The Cabrini Extension North Phase 2A Rental
development will consist of 112 new construction mixed income rental units built on CHAowned land that formerly comprised part of the Cabrini Extension North site. The Phase 2 site is
bounded by Hobbie Street on the north, Larrabee Street on the west, Oak Street on the south, and
Cleveland on the east. This development phase (Phase 2A Rental) will be located in an area
bounded by Hobbie on the north, Larrabee on the west, Oak Street on the south, and Cambridge
to the east. The project is expected to provide 39 rental units of replacement public housing for
Cabrini Extension North residents, subsidized by the CHA under a 40-year contract to provide
operating subsidy. Of the approximately 112 rental units, it is expected that 87 (including 34
public housing units) will be subject to low-income housing tax credit restrictions and reserved
for households earning up to 60% of AMI. The remaining 5 public housing units will be able to
be occupied by households earning up to 80% of AMI. The remaining 20 rental units will be
market rate units. The CHA land for the Phase 2A Rental site will be ground leased by one or
more ground leases to the ownership entity(ies) (Parkside Old Town I, LLC, or other affiliate(s)
of the Parkside Associates development team). The CHA will also enter into other agreements to
implement the proposal, which include but not be limited to, loan documents, a Regulatory and
Operating Agreement, one or more Mixed-Finance Amendment(s) to the Annual Contributions
Contract(s), a Declaration of Restrictive Covenants, instruments necessary or appropriate to clear
title, and other documents specific to this transaction. The direct costs for the rental units in the
Cabrini Extension North Phase 2A Rental development total $41,721,331 and are expected to be
funded by several sources of permanent financing to include First Mortgage from Alliant Capital,
HOME and/or CDBG loan, CHA loan, Tax Credit Equity, TIF Loan, HOPE VI and/or Capital
funds.
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-142
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated, October 14,
2009, requesting authorization to: 1) Submit a Mixed-Finance Proposal,
Amended and Restated Contract for Redevelopment,
Evidentiaries and
Disposition Application to the Unites States Department of Housing and Urban
17

 Development (HUD); 2) Commit CHA permanent loan funds of up to
approximately $9,500,000 to the Cabrini Extension North Phase 2A Rental on-site
redevelopment; 3) Commit CHA bridge loan funds of $8,216,100 to the Cabrini
Extension North Phase 2A Rental on-site redevelopment; 4) Execute Ground
Lease(s) with the ownership entity(ies) for the Cabrini Extension North land
comprising the Phase 2A Rental site; and 5) Execute and deliver such other
documents and perform such actions as may be necessary or appropriate to
implement the foregoing.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to: 1) Submit a Mixed-Finance Proposal, Amended and Restated
Contract for Redevelopment, Evidentiaries and Disposition Application to the
Unites States Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD); 2) Commit
CHA Funds of up to approximately $9,500,000 to the Cabrini Extension North
Phase I Rental on-site redevelopment; 3) Commit CHA bridge loan funds of
$8,216,100 to the
Cabrini Extension North Phase 2A Rental on-site
redevelopment; 4) Execute Ground Lease(s) with the ownership entity(ies) for the
Cabrini Extension North land comprising the Phase 2A Rental site, and 5)
Execute and deliver such other documents and perform such actions as may be
necessary or appropriate to implement the foregoing.

(Item B8)
The resolution for Item B8 approves award of contract to Parkside Nine II, LLC for
environmental remediation activities at the Cabrini Extension North Phase 2A Rental
Redevelopment site. The development team of Parkside Nine II, LLC was selected as a result of
an October, 2001 Request for Proposals issued by the CHA and the court-appointed Gautreaux
Receiver, Daniel E. Levin and Habitat. Pursuant to the Development Agreement, CHA is
required to fund the cost of site remediation for pre-existing conditions on the entire rental
development site subject to certain rights to terminate for infeasibility. As part of the
construction preparation, a number of environmental investigation studies were completed. The
estimated remediation costs for the Cabrini Extension North Phase 2A Rental site is $789,197.
CHA’s contractual responsibility for remediating foreseen and unforeseen environmental
conditions is capped at 200% of this estimated total cost and equal to $1,578,394. HUD has
indicated that due to the competitive process to procure a developer, in this case Parkside Old
Town, LLC, as identified in the Plan; the fact that the Phase Redevelopment site constitutes a
portion of that Plan, and the engineered barrier approach to remediation involves construction
elements to be performed post-closing, there is justification to enter into this contract. Benefits
to the project will be realized by entering into a contract for remediation activities with the
development Parties including continuity of schedule, continuity of activity and economy of
scale.
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-143
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated October 14,
2009, requesting authorization to enter into a contract, the Remediation
Agreement, for environmental remediation activities with Parkside Nine II, LLC,
the Developer, for a total contract amount not to exceed $1,578,394 which
represents 200% of the estimated remediation cost for the Cabrini Extension
North Phase 2A Rental Redevelopment Site. The term of the remediation contract
shall commence at closing and expire the earlier of (i) receipt of a “No Further
Remediation” letter from the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency or (ii) two
years, subject to a one year extension at CHA’s election.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into a contract, the Remediation Agreement, for environmental
remediation activities with Parkside Nine II, LLC, the Developer, for a total
contract amount not to exceed $1,578,394 which represents 200% of the
estimated remediation cost for the Cabrini Extension North Phase 2A Rental
Redevelopment Site. The term of the remediation contract shall commence at
closing and expire the earlier of (i) receipt of a “No Further Remediation” letter
18

 from the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency or (ii) two (2) years, subject to
a one year extension at CHA’s election.
(Item B9)
Under the Housing for Chicagoans Everywhere program, in April 2009 the CHA Board of
Commissioners approved the authorization of B-M Ogden, LLC as the selected developer for the
initial housing phase in the Lawndale Complex redevelopment area and to enter into a
predevelopment loan agreement with B-M Ogden, LLC. B-M Ogden, LLC presented a proposal
to CHA/Habitat for Ogden North with the intent to build a 158 unit mixed-income housing
development, inclusive of 60 units of public housing on a portion of the vacant Lawndale
Complex site, on city owned vacant lots and on privately owned parcels scattered within a two
block radius of the Lawndale Complex site. Due to the legal necessity to include certain public
housing provisions normally provided in a redevelopment agreement, CHA and Habitat revised
the predevelopment loan agreement to add those certain provisions and renamed it the
Redevelopment and Predevelopment Loan Agreement. Accordingly, the resolution for Item B9
approves the Redevelopment Agreement with B-M Ogden, LLC for the initial housing phase in
the Lawndale Complex Development.
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-144
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated October 14,
2009, requesting authorization to: 1) enter into a Redevelopment Agreement with
B-M Ogden, LLC for the initial housing phase in the Lawndale Complex
Development area, 2) extend the transaction closing duration for B-M Ogden,
LLC principals, Brinshore Development, LLC and Michaels Development
Company, under Housing for Chicagoans Everywhere program procurement
limits and 3) execute other documents and take such actions as may be necessary
or appropriate to implement the foregoing.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

The Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to: 1) enter into a Redevelopment Agreement with B-M Ogden, LLC for
the initial housing phase in the Lawndale Complex Development area, 2) extend
the transaction closing duration for B-M Ogden, LLC principals, Brinshore
Development, LLC and Michaels Development Company, under Housing for
Chicagoans Everywhere program procurement limits and 3) execute other
documents and take such actions as may be necessary or appropriate to implement
the foregoing.

(Item B11)
The resolution for Item B11 approves the CHA Non-Dwelling Premises Use and Lease Policy
and Procedure. The Non-Dwelling Premises Use and Lease Policy and Procedure governs the
leasing of non-dwelling units and/or properties for property management purposes and for use in
the provision of social services, charitable purposes, public safety activities, and resident services
or use in the support of economic self-sufficiency and anti-drug activities. The CHA held a 30day public comment period for the Non-Dwelling Premises Use and Lease Policy and Procedure
from August 11, 2009, through September 9, 2009. A public comment hearing was held on
Tuesday, September 1, 2009, at the Charles A. Hayes Family Investment Center. Notice for the
30-day public comment period was published in the Chicago Sun-Times, Chicago Defender, and
Extra newspapers, as well as posted on the CHA website and on site at the following Office(s):
Administrative, Central Advisory Council, Latino Site, and Property Management.
Consideration was given to comments received during the comment period and hearing prior to
finalization of the Non-Dwelling Premises Use and Lease Policy and Procedure.
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-145
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated October 14,
2009, entitled “Request for Approval of the Non-Dwelling Premises Use and
Lease Policy and Procedure.”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the attached Non-Dwelling
Premises Use and Lease Policy and Procedure, and authorizes the Chief Executive
19

 Officer, or his designee to approve any final changes, including, but not limited
to, changes based on HUD requirements, or resulting from any applicable notice
and comment process. Such approval shall constitute conclusive evidence of the
Board’s approval of any and all such changes.
(Item B12)
The resolution for item B12 approves the Tenant Selection Plan and Lease Addendum for units
acquired through the Property Investment Initiative. The Tenant Selection Plan and Lease
Addendum for the Property Investment Initiative govern the selection of residents for and
continued occupancy of units acquired through CHA’s Property Investment Initiative. The CHA
held a 30-day public comment period from May 13, 2009, to June 12, 2009. A public comment
hearing was held on May 27, 2009, at the Charles A. Hayes Family Investment Center. An
additional 30 day public comment period was held from August 11, 2009, through September 9,
2009. A second public comment hearing was held on Tuesday, September 1, 2009, at the
Charles A. Hayes Family Investment Center. Notice for both 30-day comment periods was
published in the Chicago Sun-Times, Chicago Defender, and Extra newspapers, as well as posted
on the CHA website and on site at the following Office(s): Administrative, Central Advisory
Council, Latino Site, and Property Management. Consideration was given to comments received
during the comment period and hearing prior to finalization of the Tenant Selection Plan and
Lease Addendum for the Property Investment Initiative.
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-146
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated October 14,
2009, entitled “Approval of the Tenant Selection Plan and Lease Addendum for
the Property Investment Initiative.”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the attached Tenant Selection Plan
and Lease Addendum for the Property Investment Initiative, and authorizes the
Board Chairperson, Chief Executive Officer, or his designee to approve any final
changes in these forms, including, but not limited to, changes based on HUD
requirements, or resulting from any applicable notice and comment process. Such
approval shall constitute conclusive evidence of the Board’s approval of any and
all such changes.

(Item B13)
The resolution for Item B13 approves The Tenant Selection Plan and Lease Addendum for Lake
Parc Place. The Tenant Selection Plan and Lease Addendum for Lake Parc Place govern the
selection of residents for and continued occupancy of residents who reside at Lake Parc Place.
The CHA held a 30-day public comment period for the Tenant Selection Plan and Lease
Addendum for Lake Parc Place from August 11, 2009 through September 9, 2009. A public
comment hearing was held on Tuesday, September 1, 2009 at the Charles A. Hayes Family
Investment Center. Notice for the 30-day public comment period was published in the Chicago
Sun-Times, Chicago Defender, and Extra newspapers, as well as posted on the CHA website and
on site at the following Office(s): Administrative, Central Advisory Council, Latino Site, and
Property Management. Consideration was given to comments received during the comment
period and hearing prior to finalization of the Tenant Selection Plan and Lease Addendum for
Lake Parc Place.
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-147
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated October 14,
2009, entitled “Approval of the Tenant Selection Plan and Lease Addendum for
Lake Parc Place.”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the attached Tenant Selection Plan
and Lease Addendum for Lake Parc Place, and authorizes the Board Chairperson,
Chief Executive Officer, or his designee to approve any final changes in these
forms, including, but not limited to, changes based on HUD requirements, or
resulting from any applicable notice and comment process. Such approval shall
20

 constitute conclusive evidence of the Board’s approval of any and all such
changes.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items B1 thru B9 and B12 thru B13 was seconded
by Commissioner Young and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Deverra Beverly
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Myra King
Carlos Ponce
Bridget Reidy
Sandra Young

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted.
Commissioner Ponce introduced a motion to adopt the resolution for Item B10.
(Item B10)
The resolution for item B10 approves Oakwood Boulevard Associates as the selected rental
Development Team for Phase 3 of the Madden/Wells/Darrow redevelopment; enter into a PreDevelopment Loan Agreement and Development Agreement with Oakwood Boulevard
Associates for Oakwood Shores Phase 3. In October, 2001 and April, 2007 the Board of
Commissioners authorized CHA to enter into a Development Agreement with Oakwood
Boulevard Associates for Phases 1 and 2, respectively. Oakwood Boulevard Associates is
recommended as Developer for the rental portion of Phase 3 based on the satisfactory completion
of Phase 1 and 2A, which has provided a total of 524 units including 207 public housing
replacements units, and the ongoing construction of Phase 2B(ONE), which will provide 81 units
with 29 public housing replacement units. The third rental phase of redevelopment will provide
a total of approximately 250 rental units. Phase 3A currently plans for approximately 111 total
rental units with approximately 40% public housing replacement, 30% affordable and 30%
market rate units. Phase 3B currently plans for approximately 139 total rental units with the
distribution mix yet to be determined. CHA’s commitment to the rental redevelopment with
Oakwood Boulevard Associates will be subject to future board approvals on a phase by phase
basis. The proposed predevelopment loan will not exceed 75% of eligible third party
predevelopment costs consistent with HUD cost control guidelines and regulations. Up to
$2,000,000 in total general and/or other funds will be available to loan for eligible
predevelopment costs for Phase 3 rental developments. The loan will help fund a portion of
Phase 3 Rental pre-development costs which include survey work, architect & engineering
design, TIF consulting and planned development fees and building permits.
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-148
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board letter dated October 14,
2009, requesting authorization to (1) approve Oakwood Boulevard Associates as
the selected development team for Oakwood Shores Phase 3 (2) enter into a predevelopment loan agreement with Oakwood Boulevard Associates for Oakwood
Shores Phase 3, (3) enter into a development agreement with Oakwood Boulevard
Associates for redevelopment of the Madden/Wells Phase 3 Rental site and (4)
execute such documents and perform actions as may be necessary or appropriate
to implement the foregoing.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners (1) approve Oakwood Boulevard Associates as the
selected development team for Oakwood Shores Phase 3, (2) enter into a predevelopment loan agreement with Oakwood Boulevard Associates for Oakwood
Shores Phase 3, (3) enter into a development agreement with Oakwood Boulevard
21

 Associates for redevelopment of the Madden/Wells Phase 3 Rental site and (4)
execute such documents and perform actions as may be necessary or appropriate
to implement the foregoing
The Motion to adopt resolution for Item B10 was seconded by Commissioner Reidy and the
voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Deverra Beverly
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Myra King
Carlos Ponce
Bridget Reidy

Recusal:

Sandra Young

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolution adopted. The Joint Tenant Services and Operations and Facilities Committee
report was also accepted in total.
There being no further business to come before the Commissioners, upon Motion made,
seconded and carried, the meeting of the Board of Commissioners was adjourned at
approximately 10:15 a.m..

s/b:

s/b:

________________________
Lee Chuc-Gill, Custodian and
Keeper of Records

22

____________________________
Martin Nesbitt
Chairman

 