Chicago Housing Authority
Board of Commissioners Public Session
July 17, 2012
Chicago Housing Authority – 60 E. Van Buren
Name

1

2

3

4

Paul McKinley

Question/Comment

Response

Thank you for having a meeting with us the other day.
We have a follow-up with the General Counsel. The
proposal you just signed off on, violates the Housing
Act. You are steering African Americans to certain
areas.
1) I am homeless and my kids have been abused by
their father who lives at Stateway. I called 311 to
come out and do an inspection, and I got asthma from
my unit at 8240 S. Paulina and you can't find the
record.

The CHA believes that it is in compliance with Title VIII of the
Civil Rights Act of 1968 (the Fair Housing Act), and all other
applicable federal laws and regulations.

2) My kids were taken from me and sold by their
father. You are all under investigation. I want a
report. Just like that man said, I am tired of paying
you all money. You get big checks and make bad
decisions.
We have Mr. Whitfield here, and I am glad to see you
are doing okay. I would like to say thank you all. I
have complaints, but I will say them at the working
group tomorrow.

2) If your children have been abducted this is a very serious
matter and CHA recommends contacting the Chicago Police
Department as quickly as possible.

I have a question, I am Resident Owned Business
(ROB) and a resident, I understand CHA has to be
transparent when putting out contracts, why isn't that
language trickling down to property management
companies? They are spending federal funds. Don't
management companies have the same kind of
guidelines for contracts?

Property Managers that procure goods or services to fulfill CHA
site requirements are subject to the same federal requirements
as CHA. Property Managers report their planned procurement
activity to CHA on a monthly basis. Property Managers are
required to post procurement opportunities on CHA’s website,
http://www.thecha.org/pages/private_property_contract_opportu
nities/133.php.

1) 8240 S. Paulina is not a CHA or Section 8 unit and we are
therefore unable to comment on the condition of this unit.

Ms. Morgan

Francine Washington

T. Holt

Thank you for your comment.

In instances when there is a site related emergency, emergency
procurement procedures may be approved which include
bypassing the required posting on CHA’s website.

1

 5

6

John Mounce on behalf
of Annie Ricks

Joseph Perry

My name is John, Ms. Ricks attorney. She got moved
to Wentworth Gardens. Her family has been attacked
and her home was invaded this weekend. I have
been trying to get her relocated on emergency basis.
I called the main number, and I got dropped off. I
called Wentworth management, they said call Victims
Assistance (VA). I called Liz Silas and never heard
back. I sent a letter by mail to the General Counsel
and nobody called me back. Victims Assistance
refused to speak with me so Ms. Ricks called the VA
person. My question, is there an order or request not
to talk to Ms. Ricks' lawyer? Why is nobody speaking
with me?
I want to talk about procedure. Residents have the
right to be represented by anyone of their choosing. I
have gone to grievance procedure hearings where
residents are not able to be represented. Why is this
the case if it says that residents can be represented?
1) I am a Resident Owned Business (ROB). Who is a
part of the working group? Residents are not aware
of the working group, they don't know what it is.

CHA’s counsel has met with Ms. Ricks’ counsel to resolve this
matter.

2) How can a person be a LAC President and a HCV
resident? Can an HCV participant be on the LAC?

2) HCV participants cannot be elected to a Local Advisory
Council; the LACs represent public housing families only. For
more information, please visit the CAC’s website:
http://tellingourstory.org/

3) Will LAC get power back in mixed-income
developments, specifically in Rockwell?

3) Recognizing that mixed‐income communities offer new
opportunities and challenges for CHA families transitioning from
traditional public housing developments, CHA created the Office
of the Ombudsman to assist families living in public housing
units in mixed‐income communities, to have their voices heard
and concerns addressed. The Office of the Ombudsman will
serve the residents at West End (formerly Rockwell Gardens), in
lieu of a Local Advisory Council.

7

A resident can be represented at the grievance hearing but it is
their responsibility to find that person to represent them and
bring the person to the hearing. Representation is not provided
by CHA.
1) A working group is comprised of public housing resident
leaders, the developer, CHA staff, community partners and
representatives from the City of Chicago.

Michelle Townes

2

 8

9

10

11

Dennis Hood

Robert Davidson

Mary Gill

Tracey Champion

Everyone knows my plight, it’s to get contracts. I'm
from ABLA. I can't get a meeting with you (CHA's
CEO). I am trying to put something in place for ROB.
There needs to be some way for us to communicate.
I've had to get everything myself for my business,
insurance and license included. I'm trying to get
contracts and nothing has been done. What is the
problem and where can we go from here?
Good morning. (Passes something to Commissioner
Beverley to be passed down to all Board members).
Commissioners, I am here this morning so you will
reconsider the Lathrop redevelopment. You say we
can remain during the planning process, residents are
upset and coming to me about what will happen. No
decision has been made concerning redevelopment.
We will be displaced. We were consolidated at
Lathrop to the south side. We will not obstruct rehab
on the north side, we won't affect them.
I am from Northeast Scattered Sites. I am here today
to ask permission to assist my seniors in scattered
site apartments. With the heat like this, we have a
senior care club. I have been assisting, can we utilize
the room at 4429 as a cooling room? It’s the
community room on the second floor, we want to use
this as a cooling room for seniors.
My heart goes out to staff and I came up here to say,
we need to try and get on one accord. There is a lack
of communication. Residents are still suffering,
especially in North Lawndale. There is money, but we
need help here. We need financial backing. We have
nothing over there, the buildings are terrible. HUD is
coming up this week and North Lawndale is not on the
agenda. I am LAC President of Scattered Sites West.
We need financial ability - management is helping and
it has been improving. Just to let you know, the LAC
Presidents do work. We are all volunteers. We have
to fight and people harass us.

3

Vendors can register with CHA in BuySpeed and indicate if they
are a small business or Section 3 business (which includes
ROB). BuySpeed allows potential vendors to view open
solicitations and download CHA bid opportunities. To stay
updated with CHA’s contract opportunities, please visit the
following link:
http://www.thecha.org/pages/open_solicitations/110.php
The CHA expects that residents will be able to remain on-site
during redevelopment at Lathrop. However, the Relocation
Rights Contract (RRC) specifically provides for relocations in the
event of an emergency, or for safety or security concerns. In the
event that an on-site situation becomes unsafe due to
construction or other unexpected occurrences, the RRC
stipulates that families will have to relocate, without any change
to their priority status upon their return to Lathrop after
redevelopment.
The CHA responded to this inquiry during the Board meeting,
with the resident. The management office located at 4429 N.
Clifton Ave is designated as a cooling center to alleviate heat
related issues for seniors, CHA residents and the general public
when a heat advisory is issued by the City of Chicago.

Thank you for your comment.

 12

13

John Mounce

Robert Whitfield

Ms. Ricks was given 30 days to relocate, the second
time she got an eviction notice. Her son was jumped
and he was the victim. When the case got dismissed
they tried to evict for rent and they wouldn’t collect.
Ms. Ricks got an eviction notice in the restroom.
When I got the case it was dismissed. I find it
incredible that the system moves fast when you are
evicting people, but slowly when people are trying to
save their homes.
1) I would like to comment on the bylaw changes. I
think it is important that you hear from the residents
before you make this change. I will recommend that
the CAC Board hold a special meeting and that LAC
holds special meetings as well. You should hear from
the residents before you make the decisions regarding
bylaws.
2) I would also like to echo the comments about the
eviction changes as well. The process does move
quickly when you are trying to evict and residents are
not aware of their rights.

4

CHA’s counsel has met with Ms. Ricks’ counsel to resolve this
matter.

Thank you for your comments.

 