MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING

OF THE

COMMISSIONERS OF THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
November 21, 2006
The Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority held its Regular Meeting on Tuesday,
November 21, 2006, at 8:30 a.m. at Fosco Park, 1312 South Racine, Chicago, Illinois.
Chairperson Nesbitt called the meeting to order and upon roll call, those present and absent were
as follows:
Present:
Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young
Absent:

Earnest Gates
Bridget O’Keefe
Mary Wiggins

Also present were Sharon Gist Gilliam, Chief Executive Officer; Adrienne Minley, Chief of
Staff; Gail Niemann, General Counsel; Chicago Housing Authority Staff Members and the
General Public.
There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as
follows:
Sharon Gist Gilliam, Chief Executive Officer, then presented her monthly report. Per Ms.
Gilliam, the highlight of today’s agenda is the request to the Commissioners to approve the
2007 budget. The balance budged reflects the ongoing commitments made by the CHA to
improve not only the physical conditions where CHA families reside but also the social and
economic conditions that define their quality of life. With that in mind, Commissioners will also
consider the extension of an intergovernmental agreement with the Chicago Department of
Human Services. Under this agreement, CHA is investing over $20 million dollars annually to
support residents and help them succeed. While none expects overnight success, CHA is
committed not to give up on any resident who will not give up on himself or herself. Ms.
Gilliam concluded her report by announcing the distribution of 1000 turkeys, courtesy of Jewel
Foods and 500 $25 dollar gift cards, courtesy of several community organizations.
The Chairperson then convened the Public Hearing portion of the meeting by inviting residents
and the public at large to address the Board.
Immediately following the Public Hearing portion of the meeting, a Motion was introduced and
seconded to adjourn to Executive Session. The Chairperson announced that pursuant to the
Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2, the Board would adjourn for approximately one (1) hour to
discuss pending, probable or imminent litigation, collective negotiating matters, security and
personnel matters.
The Commissioners subsequently reconvened in Open Session and upon Motion made, properly
seconded and carried, the Minutes for the Regular Board Meeting of October 17, 2006 were then
unanimously approved.
Chairman Nesbitt thereupon introduced the Resolutions discussed in Executive Session.

1

 Commissioner Harris then presented an Omnibus Motion to approve resolutions for Executive
Session Items 1 through 3.
Executive Session Item 1
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-159
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated November 6, 2006, requesting that the Board of
Commissioners approves the Personnel Actions Report for October 2006.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the Personnel Actions Report for
October 2006

Executive Session Item 2
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA160
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated November 7,
2006, requesting authorization to enter into three settlement agreements in the
matter CHA v. Admiral Insurance Co., et al., 04 CH 12868, pursuant to which:
1) Hartford Accident & Indemnity Company will pay the CHA the amount of
$135,000 for the termination of the CHA’s rights under the excess insurance
policies provided by Hartford Accident & Indemnity Company;
2) American Empire Surplus Lines Insurance Company will pay the CHA the
amount of $35,000 for the termination of the CHA’s rights as to claims arising
from or relating to Altgeld Gardens housing development under the insurance
policy provided by American Empire Surplus Lines Insurance Company; and
3) Sentry Insurance, a Mutual Company, the assumptive reinsurer of Great
Southwest Fire Insurance Company, will pay the CHA the amount of $50,000
for the termination of the CHA’s rights as to claims arising from or relating to
Altgeld Gardens housing development under the excess insurance policy
provided by Great Southwest Fire Insurance Company,
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the General Counsel, or her designee, to
enter into settlement agreements in the matter of CHA v. Admiral Insurance Co.,
et al., 04 CH 12868, pursuant to which Hartford Accident & Indemnity Company
will pay the CHA the amount of $135,000, American Empire Surplus Lines
Insurance Company will pay the CHA the amount of $35,000, and Sentry
Insurance, a Mutual Company, the assumptive reinsurer of Great Southwest Fire
Insurance Company, will pay the CHA the amount of $50,000 and in exchange
for the termination of the CHA’s rights indicated above under the three sets of
insurance policies.

Executive Session Item 3
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-161
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated November 16, 2006, entitled “Recommendation to Approve of
Chair’s Stipend.”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners approves a stipend for the new Chair of the Board of
Commissioners, Martin Nesbitt, of $75,000 to be paid to him in twelve monthly
installments, effective as of October 1, 2006.

2

 The Motion to adopt resolutions for Executive Session Items 1 through 3 was seconded by
Commissioner Young and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young

Nays:

None

The Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried and said Resolutions adopted.
In the absence of Committee Chair O’Keefe, Commissioner Ponce then presented the report for
the Finance and Audit Committee. Per Commissioner Ponce, the Finance and Audit Committee
Meeting was held on Wednesday, November 15 at the 626 Corporate Offices. The Chief
Financial Officer and her staff presented the Committee with the Treasury and Cash Flow Report
for the month of October 2006.
Commissioner Ponce then introduced an Omnibus Motion for the adoption of the Resolutions
for Items A1 thru A4 discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Finance and
Audit Committee.
(Item A1)
The resolution for Item A1 approves the FY2007 Comprehensive Budget totaling $934.0 million
and includes the following fund categories: General Fund, Section 8 Fund (Non-MTW), Hope
VI Fund and City/State Fund. The total revenue for the General Fund is $840.9 million which
combines the Low-Rent, Capital and Section 8 programs into a block grant as allowed by HUD
under the MTW agreement. Revenue under the Section 8 Fund totals $24.1 million based on the
appropriations for approximately 2,991 vouchers for housing assistance based on increments
received from HUD. Hope VI Fund revenue totals $51.3 million for demolition, revitalization,
community and supportive services programs and the relocation of residents affected by the Plan
for Transformation. City/State revenue totals $1.5 million, which includes funding for the
maintenance of one City/State property (LeClaire Courts). Other Fund revenue totals $16.2
million. Revenue consists of competitive grants that are used to enhance or augment funding for
critical programs and services that the CHA provides to its residents.
RESOLUTION NO. 2006CHA-162
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board letter dated November 13,
2006, entitled “Approval of the FY2007 Comprehensive Budget”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners, hereby approves the attached, “FY2007
COMPREHENSIVE BUDGET”, and finds with respect to said Budget:
1.

2.

3.

THAT,

that the proposed expenditures are necessary for the efficient and
economical operation of the Chicago Housing Authority for the purpose of
serving low-income families;
that the financial plan is reasonable in that it indicates funding sources
adequate to cover all proposed expenditures, and does not provide for use
of Federal funding in excess of that payable under the provisions of the
applicable Federal regulations; and
that all proposed rental charges and expenditures will be consistent with
provisions of law and the Annual Contributions Contract in accordance
with the Moving To Work Demonstration Agreement of the Chicago
Housing Authority with the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development.

the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer are authorized to execute
and forward to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development all
necessary budget documents and supporting information when applicable.
3

 (Item A2)
Given the scope of the Authority’s business activity, it is essential that the CHA have a
continuous built-in function to review, assess and monitor the effectiveness, efficiency and
economics of its operations and practices. The internal audit function has a critical role in it’s
partnership with management to facilitate the CHA’s change in business focus. There is also
significant opportunity to address improvements in operations by measuring outcomes and
results that have not been examined to date. By outsourcing this function to a professional
accounting firm, the CHA has continued to benefit from the comprehensive expertise provided
by a private firm and continue its strategy of privatizing business functions where appropriate.
Accordingly, the CHA released a Request for Proposal in September 2006. The RFP was mailed
to nine vendors and advertised in area newspapers. Of the four proposals received KPMG was
chosen due to their ability to best meet the Authority’s needs. Accordingly, the resolution for
Item A2 approves award of contract to KPMG to provide Internal Auditing Services.
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-163
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated November13, 2006 entitled “Authorization to enter into a
contract with KPMG to provide Internal Auditing Services.”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or her
designee to enter into a two year contract with three additional one year options
with KPMG subject to Board approval, and if required, approval by the U.S.
Department of Housing and Urban Development, to provide internal auditing
services to the CHA in an amount not to exceed $2,000,000.00 for the two year
period.

(Item A3)
The resolution for Item A3 approves ratification of contract with Kinsey & Kinsey for
supplemental consulting services related to the Lawson Enterprise Resource Planning System’s
(ERP). The ERP implementation effort for the Procurement, Finance, and Compliance modules
missed the initial scheduled go-live date, and the Authority required experienced resources to
effectively move the project to a successful implementation revised go-live date of October 2,
2006. With the help and guidance of the two resources brought onto the effort from Kinsey &
Kinsey, the Authority was able to meet the revised “go-live” date with good results. The
assignment for two resources brought on for this effort ended on November 4, 2006. It is the
firm belief of the ERP project managers that without the two consultants, the go-live date and
successful implementation would not have been realized in a timely and complete manner.
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-164
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated November 13,
2006, entitled “Authorization to ratify an extension and funding increase for
Contract 40710 with Kinsey & Kinsey, Inc. for supplemental consulting services
related to the Lawson ERP Implementation”,
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer, or her
designee, to ratify the extension of Contract 40710 with Kinsey & Kinsey, Inc. for
ERP consulting services to support Lawson implementation for the period ending
November 4, 2006, and to ratify an increase in funding for Contract 40710 in an
amount not-to-exceed $317,500. The new total not-to-exceed contract amount of
Contract 40710 will be $412,500.

(Item A4)
The resolution for Item A4 approves execution of Amendment to the Annual Contributions
Contract for C-1014. The purpose of this Amendment is to add units of the three completed
Projects under Habitat ACC to the CHA ACC for the operating subsidy for those units. The New
Addendum, in addition, reflects that Project IL06P002182 under ACC C-1014 is being
transferred from the development to the operation portion for the operating subsidy for the units.
4

 RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-165
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated November 13,
2006, entitled Recommendation to Execute Amendment to the Chicago Housing
Authority’s Annual Contributions Contract C-1014 for Project Nos. IL06P002182,
188, 192 and 193.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

The

Chicago Housing Authority shall enter into Amendment modifying the terms
of the Annual Contributions Contract C-1014 (“CHA ACC”) with U.S.
Department of Housing and Urban Development (“HUD”) to transfer units under
Project Nos. IL06P002182 from development to operation under CHA ACC and
move units under the completed Projects IL06P802188, IL06P802192,
IL06P802193 under the Annual Contributions ContractC-1150 between HUD and
Daniel Levin and the Habitat Company, as Receiver for the CHA, to the operation
portion of the CHA’s ACC as Projects IL06P002188, IL06P002188,
IL06P002192 and IL06P002193; and the Chief Executive Officer, or his designee,
is hereby authorized and directed to execute such Amendment to he Annual
Contributions Contract C-1014 in quintuplicate and the Custodian and Keeper of
Records is authorized and directed to attest and impress the official seal of the
Chicago Housing Authority on each such counterpart. The aforesaid Amendment
shall be substantially in the attached form.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items A1 through A4 was seconded by
Commissioner Amey and the voting were as follows:
Ayes:

Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Finance & Audit Committee report was also accepted in total.
In the absence of Committee Chair Earnest Gates, Commissioner Ivers presented the Operations
and Facilities monthly report. Per Commissioner Ivers, the Operations and Facilities Committee
Meeting was held on Wednesday, November 15, 2006 at 1:30 p.m. at the 626 W. Jackson
Corporate offices.
Commissioner Ivers then introduced an Omnibus Motion for the adoption of the Resolutions for
Items B1 thru B4 discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Operations and
Facilities Committee.
(Item B1)
As part of the Capital Improvement Program, CHA solicited bids for general contractors to
perform the general renovation of apartment units and common areas at the Thomas F. Flannery
Apartments (IL2-042F), Building No. 2, located at 1507 North Clybourn Avenue. The general
work on the building will include the following: (a) interior renovation, (b) modernization of
electrical, mechanical and plumbing systems, (c) installation of through-wall air conditioning
units, and (d) masonry cleaning and repair to the exterior of the building. In September 2006, an
Invitation For Bid was advertised in area newspapers. Of the four bids opened, G. F. Structures
Corporation was determined to be the lowest responsive and responsible bidder at
$13,976,380.96. Accordingly, the resolution for Item B1 approves award of contract to G.F.
Structures.
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-166
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated November 13,
2006, entitled “Authorization to execute a contract with G. F. Structures
5

 Corporation for the Senior Housing Renovation at Thomas F. Flannery
Apartments (IL2-042F) – Building No. 2”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorize the Chief Executive Officer or her
designee to execute a contract with G. F. Structures Corporation in the amount of
$13,976,380.96 for the Senior Housing renovation of one hundred twenty-five
(125) units at Thomas F. Flannery Apartments (IL2-042F), Building No. 2, 1507
North Clybourn Avenue. This award is subject to the Contractor’s compliance
with the CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident hiring, and bonding and
insurance requirements.

(Item B2)
The resolution for Item B2 approves submittal of an acquisition package to HUD to enter into a
purchase agreement with the Kingsbury Larrabee, LLC and to execute such other documents as
necessary. In 1994, CHA was awarded a $50 million dollar HOPE VI grant to facilitate the
redevelopment of the Cabrini Extension North site. In 1996, the City of Chicago created the
Near North Redevelopment Initiative (NNRI) that serves as a general guide for the
redevelopment activities. The 1997 HOPE VI Revitalization Plan and the NNRI called for the
construction of 2,000-3,000 new housing units of which 700 would be designated for CHA
families. In 2000, CHA, the City and the Local Advisory Council (LAC) entered into a consent
decree that governs the redevelopment goals on the HOPE VI site. River Village Pointe is being
developed by The Kingsbury Larrabee, LLC c/o The Enterprise Companies into a new 102 unit
residential community within a seven story mid-rise building. The CHA will purchase twelve,
one-bedroom units in this condominium building as replacement housing for Cabrini Extension
North families. The purchase of these units will help satisfy the Cabrini Consent Decree that
requires the replacement of 700 public housing units for Cabrini Extension North families. CHA
anticipates closing with the Developer on or before July 30, 2007. The purchase price of
$2,951,976 will be paid to Kingsbury Larrabee, LLC from two funding sources: CHA HOPE
VI, development, and/or capital funds, and the City of Chicago TIF funds. The CHA will own
these units and retain a private property management firm to manage the units.
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-167
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board letter dated November 13, 2006,
requesting authorization to submit an acquisition package to HUD, to enter into a
purchase agreement with the Kingsbury Larrabee, LLC and to execute such other
documents necessary to implement the foregoing.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Chief Executive Officer, or her
designee to submit an acquisition package to HUD; and

THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or her
designee to enter into a purchase agreement with Kingsbury Larrabee, LLC
utilizing the Cabrini 1994 HOPE VI grant, development and/or capital funds in
the amount of $1,586,309 to acquire twelve Cabrini North Extension replacement
units; and

THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer, or her
designee, to execute such other documents as necessary to implement the
foregoing.

(Item B3)
The Plan for Transformation has identified the Harold Ickes Homes and the Dearborn Homes as
developments to be rehabilitated. In order to effectively utilize the current buildings and the sites
a Community Redevelopment Master Plan must be developed. Accordingly, the resolution for
Item B3 approves an increase to the existing IGA with the Department of Planning to reimburse
DPD for a Planning NOW Consultant to create a Master Plan for Ickes and Dearborn. The
planning activities will include land use planning; community needs assessment, physical needs
assessment, and resident surveys. A master planning process must be initiated quickly to
continue the progress being made along the State Street corridor with Hilliard Homes on the
6

 north and Park Boulevard (Stateway Gardens) and Legends South (Robert Taylor Homes) on the
south. The IGA was authorized by the Board of Commissioners at the April, 2006 Board
Meeting in the amount of $150,000, to use the Planning NOW program established by the City’s
Department of Planning and Development to address the need to perform research and generate
plans in a timely and professional manner. The pool of Planning NOW Consultants was
competitively procured by the City. The CHA has subsequently received a Grant from the
MacArthur Foundation in the amount of $200,000 to fund this project. Therefore, the IGA
should be amended to increase its not-to-exceed amount from $150,000 to $200,000.
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-168
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated November 13,
2006, requesting authorization to increase the not-to-exceed amount by $50,000
for the Intergovernmental Agreement with the City of Chicago Department of
Planning and Development (DPD) to Utilize and Reimburse DPD for a Planning
NOW Consultant to Create a Master Plan for Harold Ickes and Dearborn Homes
to $200,000;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or her
designee to increase the not-to-exceed amount of the Intergovernmental
Agreement with the City of Chicago Department of Planning and Development
(DPD) to utilize and reimburse DPD for a Planning Now consultant to create a
master plan for Harold Ickes and Dearborn Homes by $50,000 for a new not to
exceed amount of $200,000.

(Item B4)
In December 2006, a Request For Proposal for Cable Management and Services was mailed to
twenty-one vendors and advertised in area newspapers. Of the three proposals received, e-Tel
was recommended as the contractor of choice. Staff surveyed non-responding vendors who had
previously expressed interest for the reason(s) why they did not respond, and the anticipated
complexity of the financing structure over a longer period term agreement was determined to be
a primary factor for some vendors who elected not to respond. In accordance with the
requirements outlined in the RFP, e-Tel, LLC demonstrated extensive experience in developing
and implementing cable, telephone, Internet infrastructure, management systems and content
services around the country. The proposed contract is for purchase of the cable television
reception and distribution equipment (which will be owned by CHA), and the related expenses
necessary to provide and manage cable television content and services to the following CHA
sites: Wentworth Gardens, Lowden Homes and Trumbull Park Homes. The cost of the
equipment, infrastructure and services contemplated is $325,000.00 and will include: (a) supply,
delivery, erection and development of the cable infrastructure, materials and equipment; (b)
implementation of cable content and management services (covering programming & channel
management); and (c) provision for engineering, management, billing and collections, and
customer service to the residents. Residents will have the option, at their own expense, to
subscribe to cable television service packages at various service levels, which shall be provided
by e-Tel as the Vendor.
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-169
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
memorandum dated November 13, 2006 entitled “Authorization to enter into a
contract with e-TEL, LLC for the provision and implementation of Cable
Infrastructure and the provision of Cable Television Content and Services at
Three Sites.”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

It is recommended that the Board of Commissioners authorize the Chief
Executive Officer or her designee to enter into a contract with e-Tel, LLC to
design, provide and deploy cable television infrastructure and distribution systems
at three designated sites, and provide cable content and management services for
an initial period of one (1) year for the amount-not-to-exceed $325,000.00,
subject to Board approval, and approval of the U.S. Department of Housing and
Urban Development (“HUD”), if required.

7

 The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items B1 through Item B4 was seconded by
Commissioner Young and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Operations and Facilities Committee report was also accepted
in total.
Commissioner Young, Chairperson of the Tenant Services Committee, then presented her
monthly report. Per Commissioner Young, the Tenant Services Committee Meeting was held on
Wednesday, November 15, 2006 at 2:00 p.m. at the 626 Corporate Offices. Meghan Harte,
Managing Director of Resident Services presented the committee with an update on Winter
Preparedness.
Commissioner Young then introduced an Omnibus Motion for the adoption of Resolutions for
Items C1 thru C3 discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Tenant Services
Committee.
(Item C1)
In January 2004, the CHA entered into a two year contract with TCB to provide Community and
Supportive Services (CSS) to Madden/Wells Redevelopment. Case management services have
been specifically designed to address site specific criteria for relocating to the Madden/Wells
Redevelopment and the barriers a family may face in meeting the criteria and assisting families
in overcoming those barriers. TCB has met its contract obligations and CHA’s management is
committed to servicing the residents at Madden/Wells Redevelopment. Based upon the
availability of funding and TCB’s performance of the Contract to date, the CHA desires to
amend and extend the Contract for an additional one-year term. The requested additional
funding for the extension period will allow TCB to continue providing post-occupancy services
to 126 families who moved to the redeveloped Madden/Wells and provide services to the
families eligible to move to the redeveloped Madden/Wells in FY 2008. Accordingly, the
resolution for item C1 approves extension of contract with TCB for Community and Supportive
Services.
Commissioner Young recused from voting on Item C1 only.
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-170
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated November 13, 2006, entitled “Authorization to amend
Contract No. 0575 with The Community Builders for Community and Supportive
Services at Madden Park/Ida B. Wells/Clarence Darrow Homes Redevelopment”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or her
designee to amend and extend Contract No. 0575 with TCB for community and
supportive services for the period of January 1, 2007 through December 31, 2007
for an amount not-to-exceed $550,000.00 to provide community and supportive
services to CHA residents relocating to Madden Park/Ida B. Wells/Clarence
Darrow Homes Redevelopment.

(Item C2)
Pursuant to the CHA’s Plan for Transformation, social services previously performed by CHA
staff were outsourced to the City of Chicago’s Department of Human Services. The CHA has
chosen to focus on asset management rather than the administration of social services. The
8

 CHA’s goal is to continue to mainstream and integrate public housing residents into the citywide
services network administered by CDHS, which consists of private and public sector service
providers, including state and federally funded service providers. CDHS has been implementing
the Service Connector program for 5 years through IGAs with the CHA. In 2005, a new IGA
between the CHA and CDHS was implemented to allow CDHS to continue to provide services
that allow CHA residents to have a coordinated access to the same services that are available to
all residents of the City of Chicago. Accordingly, the resolution for item C2 approves the IGA’s
second option year whereby CDHS will continue to: (1) provide a comprehensive strategy to link
families residing in CHA’s family developments, scattered site communities, and families that
relocated to the private housing market with a Housing Choice Voucher since October 1999, to
services provided by public agencies and/or private sector service providers; (2) provide the
CHA with monthly and/or quarterly reports as needed on the progress of all service activities; (3)
provide on-going customer service reviews for the CHA to identify ways to improve services for
its residents; (4) provide outreach and disseminate information to residents to ensure that CHA
families are made aware of the available services and programs in the citywide network; (5)
customize the service connection strategy to meet the specific needs of each CHA family; (6)
offer priority enrollment for CHA residents for certain programs; (7) maximize coordination with
other City, County, and State service agencies; and (8) provide comprehensive assessments of
family requirements for the most needy CHA families. Funding was increased in 2005 to
address the higher volume of families relocating to the private housing market under the Housing
Choice Voucher program. As families move into communities across the City, a more
individualized approach will be utilized to link families to specific neighborhood resources.
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-171
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated November 13, 2006, entitled “Recommendation to exercise the
second one year option of the Intergovernmental Agreement with the Chicago
Department of Human Services”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or her
designee to exercise the second one (1) year option of the Intergovernmental
Agreement with the City of Chicago acting through Department of Human
Services to provide supportive services to CHA residents for the period of January
1, 2007 through December 31, 2007 in an amount not-to-exceed $20,563,987.00.

(Item C3)
The resolution for Item C3 approves the Tenant Selection Plan, Lease and Lease Riders to be
used for Cabrini Extension North replacement housing units at The River Village Pointe. The
CHA is purchasing 21 units within this private development and will operate such units as public
housing units. The property specific requirements for applicants contained in the Admissions and
continued occupancy policy are based on the CHA’s Minimum Tenant Selection Plan as well as
critical components of the Cabrini Consent Decree. These documents have been reviewed by the
CHA, the Developer and Cabrini-Green LAC. A public comment period was held from October
10, 2006 through November 8, 2006. A public comment hearing was held on October 26, 2006
at the 18th District Chicago Police Department. Notice for the 30 day public comment period and
public hearing was provided and consideration will be given to any comments prior to finalizing
the documents.
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-172
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated November 13,
2006, entitled “Authorization for approval of the Tenant Selection Plan, Lese, and
Lease Riders for Cabrini Extension North Replacement Housing at the Private
Off-Site development known as the River Village Pointe and to amend the CHA
Admissions and Continued Occupancy Policy to incorporate such documents as
an addendum thereto”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the attached form of tenant
selection plan, lease and lease riders in substantially the form presented to the
Board for the Cabrini Extension North replacement housing at the development
9

 known as The River Village Pointe. The Chairperson of the Board or the Chief
Executive Officer is hereby authorized to approve final changes in these forms,
including, but not limited to, changes based on HUD requirements, or resulting
from any applicable notice and comment process. Such approval shall constitute
conclusive evidence of the Board’s approval of any and all such changes.
The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items C1 thru C3 was seconded by Commissioner
Ponce and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young (Recused from voting on Item C1 only)
Nays:
None
There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Tenant Services report was also accepted in total.
There being no further business to come before the Commissioners, upon Motion made,
seconded and carried, the meeting of the Board of Commissioners was adjourned.

S/B:

S/B:

Lee Gill, Custodian and
Keeper of Records

10

Martin Nesbitt
Chairperson

 