April 20, 2010 Board Meeting
Regular Meeting of the Board of Commissioners

1.
2.

Charles A. Hayes Family Investment Center
4859 S. Wabash Avenue
Resolutions
Approval of Personnel Action Reports for the month of March 2010.
Recommendation to approve a Land Exchange Agreement between CHA and St. Luke Church
of God in Christ for land within the Cabrini Extension South Redevelopment Site.
General

1.

1.
2.
3.
4.

1.
2.
3.

4.

5.

1.
2.
3.

Recommendation to accept an award and execute a Sub-grantee Agreement for the Put Illinois
to Work Program with Heartland Human Care Services; amend contracts with providers, and increase
the FY2010 Comprehensive Budget.
Tenant Services Committee Report
Recommendation to extend contract with Stateway Associates, LLC to provide Community and
Supportive Services to the revitalized Stateway Gardens community.
Recommendation to extend contract with The Community Builders to provide Community and
Supportive Services at Wells/Darrow Homes.
Recommendation to approve Amendments to the Relocation Rights Contract to modify the
process for Offering Replacement Housing to Residents.
Recommendation to enter into an Intergovernmental Agreement with the City of Chicago Board
of Education relating to the installation of a library at Carver Elementary School.

Operations & Facilities Committee Report
Recommendation to award contract for the Family Housing Renovation at Washington Park
Homes Low Rises. Recommended Awardee: Old Veteran Construction, Inc.
Recommendation to award contract for Roof Replacement Work at Wentworth Annex.
Recommended Awardee: Knickerbocker Roofing and Paving Co., Inc.
Recommendation to approve Loan Illinois Affordable Housing Tax Credit Proceeds to the
Oakwood Shores Senior Apartments Limited partnership for the development of a Senior Building at
the Oakwood Shores Redevelopment Site.
Recommendation to submit a Mixed Finance Proposal, Evidentiaries and Disposition Application
to HUD for the West End Phase 2 Rental On-site Redevelopment; execute a Ground Lease with East
Lake/West End LLC for the Rockwell land comprising the West End Phase II rental site.
Recommendation to enter into contract with East Lake/West End, LLC for Environmental
Remediation activities at the West End Phase 2 Rental Redevelopment Site.

Finance & Audit Committee Report
Recommendation to approve 1st Quarter Revised 2010 Comprehensive Budget.
Ratification of authorization to exercise the option to extend Contract with Boulevard Group,
Inc. to continue the technical support and management of grant applications.
Ratification of acceptance of a grant award from the Illinois State Criminal Justice Information
Authority and

 4.

enter into a sub-grant agreement with UCAN, the Chicago Police Department and The Foundation for
Family Empowerment to implement the Youth Court and G.R.E.A.T programs.
Recommendation to enter into a Contract with the Alexian Brothers to provide 19 Project Based
Vouchers to
Bettendorf Place, a low income supportive Housing Development.

 