Minutes of the meeting of the Finance Committee of the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and
Hospitals System held Friday, November 16, 2018 at the hour of 8:30 A.M., at 1950 W. Polk Street, in Conference
Room 5301, Chicago, Illinois.

I.

Attendance/Call to Order
Acting Chair Hammock called the meeting to order.
Present:

Acting Chair M. Hill Hammock (Substitute Member) and Director Mary B. Richardson-Lowry (2)
Directors Ada Mary Gugenheim and Layla Suleiman Gonzalez, PhD, JD
Steven Scheer (Non-Director Member)

Absent:

Chair Robert G. Reiter, Jr. and Director Hon. Jerry Butler (2)

Additional attendees and/or presenters were:
Ekerete Akpan – Chief Financial Officer
Douglas Elwell – Deputy Chief Executive Officer, Finance
and Strategy
Claudia Fegan, MD – Chief Medical Officer

II.

Charles Jones – Chief Procurement Officer
Kent Ray – Associate General Counsel
Deborah Santana – Secretary to the Board

Public Speakers
Acting Chair Hammock asked the Secretary to call upon the registered public speakers.
The Secretary responded that there were none present.

III. Action Items
A. Minutes of the Finance Committee Meeting, October 19, 2018
Director Richardson-Lowry, seconded by Acting Chair Hammock, moved to
accept the Minutes of the Finance Committee Meeting of October 19, 2018.
THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

B. Contracts and Procurement Items (Attachment #1)
Charles Jones, Chief Procurement Officer, provided an overview of the contractual requests presented for the
Committee’s consideration. The Committee reviewed and discussed the requests.
During the discussion of the requests regarding grant awards relating to demonstration projects, Director
Richardson-Lowry requested that the Committee receive a report sometime in the future on the effectiveness of
these kinds of demonstration projects. Also with regard to the grant award requests, Director Gugenheim
requested that information on the actual origin of the grant dollars be included on the transmittal.

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Finance Committee
Friday, November 16, 2018
Page 2

III. Action Items
B. Contracts and Procurement Items (continued)
With regard to request number 8, Director Richardson-Lowry inquired regarding the status relating to contract
compliance, and whether there is a local hire component in the contract. Mr. Jones responded that the contract
compliance status is pending; when review is complete, he will report the results back to the Committee through
the Chair and will include information on whether there is a local hire component.
During the discussion of request number 9, Director Richardson-Lowry noted that the System is investing in
enhancements and build-outs of a number of clinics; she suggested that, once some of these have been completed,
it would be valuable for members of the Board to visit some of these sites to see the improvements and services
being provided in the various communities.
Director Richardson-Lowry, seconded by Acting Chair Hammock, moved the
approval of request numbers 1 through 14, subject to completion of review by
Contract Compliance, where appropriate.
THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.

C. Any items listed under Section III

IV. Report from Chief Procurement Officer
A. Quarterly Report – Minority and Women-Owned Business Enterprise (M/WBE) Metrics (Attachment #2)
Mr. Jones provided an overview of the report. The Committee reviewed and discussed the information.
Director Richardson-Lowry requested that Mr. Jones state the overall goals for M/WBE participation for the record.
Mr. Jones responded with the following information: for professional services, the goal is 35% MBE or WBE; for
goods and services, the goal is 25% MBE and 10% WBE; and for construction, the goal is 24% MBE and 10%
WBE.
Director Richardson-Lowry stated that it would be good to have this information reported to the Committee by the
Director of the Cook County Office of Contract Compliance at the end of the year; because there is a delta between
goals set and achieved, this will provide an opportunity to discuss ways going forward to close the gap. Douglas
Elwell, Deputy Chief Executive Officer of Finance and Strategy, noted that the System is bringing in a consultant to
assist in building a more diverse Supply Chain; the goal is to help people get certified and fulfill the System’s needs.
That is something that the consultant will work on with the new Director of Cook County’s Office of Contract
Compliance. He added that the administration is also working on a number of individual initiatives, but additional
help from the consultant in building the capacity is critically needed.
Acting Chair Hammock requested that this report be reviewed at the November Board Meeting.

B. Report of emergency purchases
There were no emergency purchases that were recently made.

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Finance Committee
Friday, November 16, 2018
Page 3

V.

Report from the Chief Financial Officer (Attachment #3)
 Metrics
 Financials through September 2018
Ekerete Akpan, Chief Financial Officer, provided an overview of the information contained in the report. The
Committee reviewed and discussed the information.
The Committee discussed the information on slide 5 of the report regarding System-wide uninsured numbers
captured by visit. Acting Chair Hammock referenced the System-wide uninsured rate of 42%; he observed that
this number would seem to be composed of two (2) categories: 1) people who could qualify for Medicaid and
have not applied, and 2) people who do not qualify for Medicaid but come in for free care. He inquired whether
the administration is able to determine how that number breaks down between the two (2) categories. Mr. Elwell
noted that this is data by visit, not by revenue; for many of the outpatient visits, it is difficult to connect the
financial counselor with the patients. He indicated that staff will need to do an analysis on the subject. Acting
Chair Hammock stated that perhaps next year this subject can be an area for further investigation.
Also referenced on slide 5 of the report was the observation that deliveries are down by 10%. Director
Richardson-Lowry stated that it will be interesting to see how that number changes in the first and second quarter
of 2019; she requested that a comparative analysis be done to make sure the organization is moving in the right
direction and that marketing is where it needs to be in terms of bringing people into the System. The number of
deliveries should be considerably different, considering who the System serves and where the System serves
them. She noted that there was a public discussion recently about the challenges of reaching full-term delivery,
particularly for women of color; this is an opportunity for the System to have a voice, close the gap, and do some
studying of the issue. She added that she would be happy to assist in looking for grants to address the subject.
Dr. Claudia Fegan, Chief Medical Officer, provided additional information on the subject. She stated that the
maternal mortality rate in the U.S. has gone from single digits in the 1980s to double digits today - now 26% of
women die in childbirth for every 100,000 live births. The rate has more than doubled at a time when everyone
else’s rate has gone down. It is a huge issue and there are a lot of factors, but the reality is that women of color,
particularly black women but Latinas as well, have more than twice the risk of death in childbirth than white
women with an 8th grade education. Public health experts around the country are looking at this issue to determine
the causes and factors so that rate can be exponentially reduced.

VI.

Adjourn
As the agenda was exhausted, Acting Chair Hammock declared the meeting
ADJOURNED.

Respectfully submitted,
Finance Committee of the
Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
M. Hill Hammock, Acting Chair

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Finance Committee
Friday, November 16, 2018
Page 4

Attest:

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Deborah Santana, Secretary

Follow-up / Requests:
Request:

Request made for future report on the effectiveness of demonstration projects supported by grant
dollars. (Page 1)

Request:

Request made for information on contract compliance and local hire component on request
number 8. (Page 2)

Follow-up:

Request made for an analysis/breakdown of the System-wide uninsured rate. (Page 3)

Request:

Request made for a comparative analysis on deliveries in the 1st and 2nd quarter of 2019, and
further study of the challenges in reaching full-term delivery. (Page 3)

 