MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING
OF THE
COMMISSIONERS OF THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
December 6, 2016
The Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority held its Regular Meeting of the Board of
Commissioners on Tuesday, December 6, 2016, at approximately 12:00 noon at the Charles Hayes
Family Investment Center, 4859 S. Wabash in Chicago, IL.
Chairman Hooker then called the meeting to order and upon roll call those present and absent were as
follows:
Present:
Craig Chico
Dr. Mildred Harris
Meghan Harte
John Hooker
Jack Markowski
Francine Washington
Absent:

Matthew Brewer
Mark Cozzi

Also present were Eugene Jones, Chief Executive Officer; James Bebley, Chief Legal Officer; Chicago
Housing Authority staff members and the General Public.
There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as follows:
Jack Markowski, Chairman of the Finance & Audit committee, then presented his report. Per
Commissioner Markowski, the Finance & Audit Committee held its regular meeting at 8:30 a.m. today at
the Charles Hayes Family Investment Center. Commissioner Markowski chaired the meeting and the
following committee members were present as well: Commissioners Cozzi and Harte. Present also but
not counted for the quorum were Chairman Hooker, Vice-Chairman Chico and Commissioner
Washington. Committee members then voted to adjourn to closed session to discuss certain internal and
external audit reviews and investigatory matters. Committee members then returned to open session and
discussed, voted and recommended for approval the following four items.
(Item 1)
The resolution for Item 1 approves and adopts the FY2017 Comprehensive Budget. The CHA is
required to submit for approval by the Board, a balanced annual Comprehensive Budget detailing each
of its funding sources and use of budgeted funds. The FY2017 Comprehensive Budget totaling $1.078
billion includes the following fund categories: MTW Fund: Total revenue for FY2017 is $973.9
million. The MTW Fund combines the Low-Rent, Capital and Section 8 programs into a block grant
as allowed by HUD under the Amended and Restated MTW agreement. Total MTW Fund revenues
consist of Housing Assistance Subsidy, Capital Grant Funds, Operating Subsidy, MTW Reserves,
Block Grant, Dwelling Rental Income, RAD, Interest Income and Other Income. Section 8 Fund (NonMTW): total revenue for this program is $19.4 million. These contracts provide appropriations for
approximately $9.3 million of Mod Rehab vouchers, $9.1 million Veteran’s Affairs Supportive
Housing (VASH) vouchers, and $467.9 thousand M a i n s t r e a m v o u c h e r s f o r h o u s i n g
a s s i s t a n c e b a s e d o n a n n u a l contributions contracts from HUD. Hope VI Fund: total revenue

 equals $2.5 million. These funds are used for revitalization and community and supportive services
programs. Other Funds: total revenue is $82.0 million. Revenue consists of federal and local grants that
will be used to enhance or augment funding for critical programs and services that the CHA provides to
its residents.

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2016-CHA-125
the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board letter dated December 6, 2016,
entitled “APPROVAL OF THE FY2017 COMPREHENSIVE BUDGET”;

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE
CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

THAT,

the Board of Commissioners, hereby approves the attached, “FY2017
COMPREHENSIVE BUDGET”, and finds with respect to said Budget:
1.

that the proposed expenditures are necessary for the efficient and
economical operation of the Chicago Housing Authority for the purpose of
serving low-income families;

2.

that the financial plan is reasonable in that it indicates funding sources
adequate to cover all proposed expenditures, and does not provide for use
of Federal funding in excess of that payable under the provisions of the
applicable Federal regulations; and

3.

that all proposed rental charges and expenditures will be consistent with
provisions of law and the Annual Contributions Contract in accordance
with the Amended and Restated Moving To Work Demonstration
Agreement of the Chicago Housing Authority with the U.S. Department of
Housing and Urban Development.

the Chief Executive Officer or his designee and Chief Finance Officer are
authorized to execute and forward to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development all necessary budget documents and supporting information when
applicable.

(Item 2)
The resolution for Item 2 approves a loan agreement with Parkside Associates, LLC in the amount of
$1,500,000 by using the Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLB) line of credit to fund the loan. As a result of
the real estate crisis of 2009, CHA was forced to act in several capacities across its development and
financial platforms. The CHA purchased a defaulted construction loan of the developer, Parkside of Old
Town LLC, from J.P. Morgan Chase Bank on the 263 unit Parkside 1A development, which included 70
unsold market-rate units. CHA sought and received HUD approval to utilize MTW funds to acquire the
bank note as a bridge loan. This was codified in Amendment 5 of the Amended and Restated MTW
Agreement between the CHA and HUD. A new marketing and operational plan was developed and
implemented and all of the HUD requirements were met within 13 months. CHA’s bridge loan of
approximately $12 million was repaid in full and additional proceeds of $4.5 million, comprised of both
federal and non-federal revenue were generated. A CHA condition precedent for engaging in this
transaction was that Holsten enter into payment agreement with its investor partner, Community
Reinvestment Fund (CRF). CRF held a minority stake in Parkside of Old Town LLC valued at $3.6
million. This accommodation allowed CHA to receive the real estate collateral from J.P. Morgan Chase
without secondary liens. To date, the amount owed to CRF has been paid down to $2.4 million. Holsten

 has commenced negotiations with CRF to reduce the amount outstanding from $2.4 million to $1.5
million. CHA wishes to expedite the finalization of this transaction which will also allow for the
developer to execute a deed in lieu of foreclosure and transfer to CHA two unimproved lots (Lots 15 and
16) from the Parkside 1A development site that were part of the initial collateral from the Parkside 1A
loan. These two lots would then be reallocated into the remaining Parkside Phase 3, consisting of
approximately 179 units of which 53 units will be public housing units. CHA will net approximately
2.5% per annum on the loan. Over the three-year term of the loan, CHA will earn total interest of
$112,500. As collateral for the loan, Parkside Associates, LLC will assign all developer fees and profits
associated with the Parkside Phase 3 development to the CHA along with the personal guarantee of the
developer principal. CHA will have priority right on the first $1.5 million of fees earned and/or
distributed. Interest shall be paid to CHA promptly at the end of each calendar quarter. If interest
remains unpaid after the 30-day grace period, the loan shall be declared in default and the default interest
rate shall be set at 7.0%. CHA has performed all required due diligence in connection with this request.

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2016-CHA-126
the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated December 6, 2016 entitled “Request for authorization to: Enter
into a loan agreement with Parkside Associates, LLC for a loan in the amount of
$1,500,000; 2) Use the Federal Home Loan Bank (“FHLB”) line of credit to fund the
loan; 3) Authorize the pledge of non-federal Government National Mortgage
Association (“GNMA”) securities; 4) Negotiate and execute related financing
documents; and 5) Perform such actions as may be necessary or appropriate to
implement the foregoing.

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE
CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee
to: Enter into a loan agreement with Parkside Associates, LLC for a loan in the
amount of $1,500,000; 2) Use the Federal Home Loan Bank (“FHLB”) line of credit
to fund the loan; 3) Authorize the pledge of non-federal Government National
Mortgage Association (“GNMA”) securities; 4) Negotiate and execute related
financing documents for the Parkside Associates, LLC loan; and 5) Perform such
actions as may be necessary or appropriate to implement the foregoing.

(Item 3)
The resolution for Item 3 approves the award of contracts to the listed individuals in the Resolution as
Hearing Officers and Presenters for the CHA’s Housing Choice Voucher Program. Each contract has a
one-year base term beginning January 1, 2017 through December 31, 2017. Each contract also has two
one-year options. The aggregate not to exceed amount for each one-year term is $900,000. The Board
delegates authority to the Chief Executive Officer to use his discretion to exercise the options. The Chief
Executive Officer shall not exercise more than one option in any year. Pursuant to HUD rules and
regulations and the CHA Administrative Plan, CHA must provide Housing Choice Voucher participants
due process hearings at their request prior to taking certain adverse actions that impact participants’
assistance. CHA issued a Request for Proposal in July 2016 for Housing Choice Voucher Program
Hearing Officers and CHA Presenters Services. Twenty proposals were received and evaluated. Fifteen
proposals that scored higher than the established competitive range were selected.
Commissioner Chico abstains from voting on Item No. 3 only.

 WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2016-CHA-127
the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated December 6, 2016 entitled “RECOMMENDATION TO
AWARD CONTRACTS TO ILLINOIS LICENSED ATTORNEYS TO ACT AS
HEARING OFFICERS AND PRESENTERS FOR THE HOUSING CHOICE
VOUCHER ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS.”

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE
CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT

the Board of Commissioners (“Board”) authorizes the Chief Executive Officer to
approve the award of contracts to twelve (12) Hearing Officers and three (3)
Presenters for a one-year base term from January 1, 2017 through December 31,
2017. Each contract has two (2) one-year options. The aggregate not to exceed
amount for each one-year term is $900,000. The Board delegates authority to the
Chief Executive Officer to use his discretion to exercise the options. The Chief
Executive Officer shall not exercise more than one option in any year.
Recommended Awardees
Lee A. Hauserman

Hearing Officer or Presenter
Presenter

Elizabeth Simon

Hearing Officer

Frederick H. Bates

Hearing Officer

Margaret Connolly Fitzpatrick

Hearing Officer

Lillian M. Wafford

Presenter

Denis G. Guest

Hearing Officer

Allison L. Wood

Hearing Officer

J.A. Brown

Hearing Officer

Devlin J. Schoop

Hearing Officer

Keli L. Knight

Hearing Officer

Joseph Chico

Hearing Officer

Darlene Redmond

Presenter

Cohen Law Firm

Hearing Officer

Dennis M. Fleming

Hearing Officer

Shelby Webb, Jr.

Hearing Officer

(Item 4)
A Request for Proposal was released in July 2016 requesting legal services in six designated categories:
General Litigation; Personal Injury Litigation; Worker’s Compensation; Contracts, General Corporate
Services and Policy and Legislation Counseling; Real Estate and Finance Law Matters and Labor
Negotiations and Employment Law Matters. Ninety proposals from 34 law firms were received and
evaluated. Accordingly, the resolution for Item 4 approves the award of contracts to the below listed
various law firms in six designated categories for legal services to be performed as needed for a two-year
base term plus one option year. The Board delegates authority to the Chief Executive Officer to use his
discretion to exercise the option. The aggregate amount for the Legal Services Agreements are not to

 exceed the annual appropriated budget for the Office of the Chief Legal Officer and Risk Management
for the payment of fees for legal services. If a Task Order assignment under a Legal Services Agreement
will exceed $200,000 then Board approval and HUD approval must be obtained. Legal Services
Agreements are needed in various areas of law should referrals to outside legal counsel become
necessary due to extraordinary volume in a particular area, or for matters which are extremely complex
or which involve special expertise not generally available from in-house staff.

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2016-CHA-128
the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated December 6, 2016 entitled “AUTHORIZATION FOR
CONTRACTAWARD FOR LEGAL SERVICES”.

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE
CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee
execution of Legal Services Agreements with the law firms for the six legal services
areas attached hereto in an aggregate amount not to exceed the annual appropriated
budget for the Office of the Chief Legal Officer and Risk Management for the
payment of fees for legal services. All contracts shall be in effect for two years and
until legal services are completed, with a one (1) year option to extend.

FURTHER THAT,
the Board of Commissioners hereby ratifies and affirms all engagements of Legal
Counsel authorized by the Chief Legal Officer and/or the Chief Procurement Officer
since March 27, 2016.
This award is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s
MBE/WBE/DBE/ Section 3 and insurance requirements.
Group A – General Litigation
Husch Blackwell (formerly Whyte Hirschboeck Dudek)
Johnson, Jones, Snelling, Gilbert & Davis P.C.
Arnstein Lehr
Neal & Leroy, LLC
Riley, Safer, Holmes and Cancila
Taft Stettinus
Litchfield Cavo
Winston Strawn
Hoogendoorn & Talbot LLP
Quuintairos Prieto Wood Boyer
Hinshaw & Culbertson
Laner Muchin
Sanchez Daniels & Hoffman LLP
Seyfarth Shaw
SmithAmundsen LLC
Nixon Peabody
Burke, Burns, Pinelli
Jackson Lewis
Pugh Jones Johnson

 Tristan & Cervantes
Brothers & Thompsen
Grant Law, LLC
Reyes Kurson
Foran Glennon Palandech Ponzi
Dinsmore & Shohl
Group B – Personal Injury Litigation
Sanchez Daniels & Hoffman LLP
Hoogendoorn & Talbot LLP
Arnstein Lehr
Litchfield and Cavo
SmithAmundsen
Burke Burns & Pinelli, Ltd.
QPWB
Foran Glennon
Brothers & Thompson
Group C – Worker’s Compensation Litigation
Litchfield Cavo
QPWB
Smith Amundsen
Group D – Contracts, Gen. Corp. Services and Policy and Legislation Counseling
Ballard Spahr
Reno & Cavanaugh
Nixon Peabody
Seyfarth Shaw
Neal & Leroy, LLC
Husch Blackwell
Hawksin Delafield & Wood
Arnstein & Lehr
Riley Safer Holmes Cancila
Pugh Jones & Johnson
Dinsmore & Shohl
Taft, Stettinus & Hollister
Hoogendoorn & Talbot LLP
Burke Burns & Pirelli
Quintairos Prieto Wood & Boyer
Reyes Kurson
Group E – Real Estate and Finance Law Matters
Applegate & Thorne-Thomsen, P.C
Ballard Spahr
Kutak Rock LLP
Charity & Associates, P.C.
Albert, Whitehead, P.C.
Neal & Leroy, LLC

 Nixon Peabody LLP
Seyfarth Shaw LLP
Reno & Cavanaugh
Arnstein & Lehr LLP
Hinshaw & Culbertson LLP
Foley & Lardner LLP
Taft Stettinus Hollister
Hoogendoorn & Talbot LLP
Quintaires Prieto Wood Boyer
Winston Strawn
Reyes Kurson
Pugh, Jones & Johnson PC
Dinsmore & Shohl LLP
Burke Burns & Pinelli, LTD
Grant Law, LLC
Group F – Labor Negotiations and Employment Law Matters
Winston & Strawn
FranczekRadelet
Laner Muchin, Ltd.
Seyfarth Shaw, LLP
Riley Safer Holmes & Cancila
Arnestein & Lehr, LLP
Hinshaw & Culbertson, LLP
Jackson Lewis
Litchfield Cavo, LLP
Pugh, Jones & Johnson, P.C.
Quintairos, Prieto, Wood & Boyer, P.A.
Dinsmore & Shohl, LLP
Burke Burnes & Pinelli, Ltd.
Grant Law, LLC
SmithAmundsen LLC
Brothers & Thompson, P.C.
The Motion to adopt resolutions for Items 1 through 4 was seconded by Commissioner Washington and
the voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Craig Chico (Abstains from voting on Item 3 only)
Dr. Mildred Harris
Meghan Harte
John Hooker
Jack Markowski
Francine Washington
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, Chairman Hooker thereupon declared said Motion carried and
said resolutions adopted.
Meghan Harte, Chairwoman of the Tenant Services Committee then presented her report. Per
Commissioner Harte, the Tenant Services Committee held its monthly meeting earlier today.
Commissioner Harte chaired the meeting and the following committee members were present as well:

 Commissioners Chico, Harris and Washington. Although Chairman Hooker and Commissioners Cozzi
and Markowski were also present they were not counted toward the quorum. Committee member then
discussed, voted and recommends for approval the item appearing on the agenda.
On behalf of the Tenant Services Committee, Commissioner Chico presented a Motion for approval of
Item 5
(Item 5)
The resolution for Item 5 approves the second one-year option term for: 1) Contract No. 11522 with
Beacon Therapeutic Diagnostic & Treatment Center (Beacon) in an amount not-to-exceed
$1,632,311.00; 2) Contract No. 11523 with Catholic Charities of the Archdiocese of Chicago (Catholic
Charities) in an amount not-to-exceed $2,184,440.00; 3) Contract No. 11524 with Centers for New
Horizons, Inc. (CNH) in an amount not-to-exceed $2,114,606.00; 4) Contract No. 11525 with
Employment & Employer Services, Inc. (EES) in an amount not-to-exceed $3,502,855.00; 5) Contract
No. 11526 with Heartland Human Care Services, Inc. (HHCS) in an amount not-to-exceed
$2,848,145.00; 6) Contract No. 11527 with Holsten Human Capital Development (HHCD) in an amount
not-to-exceed $966,012.00; 7) Contract No. 11528 with Metropolitan Family Services (MFS) in an
amount not-to-exceed $2,255,098.00; 8) Contract No. 11529 with Near West Side Community
Development Corporation (NWS) in an amount not-to-exceed $1,187,347.00; and 9) Contract No. 11530
with UCAN in an amount not-to-exceed $1,809,186.00, each for the respective contract periods of
January 1, 2017 through December 31, 2017. The Board further authorizes CHA to reallocate individual
contract amounts provided that CHA does not surpass the aggregate not to exceed amount of
$18,500,000.00. There are two (2) remaining one-year option terms, which shall be subject to future
Board authorization. Beacon’s mission is to empower children and families by helping them discover a
better future through accredited educational, mental health and social services. Catholic Charities fulfills
the mission of charity to anyone in need by providing services that strengthen and support individuals,
families and communities based on the value and dignity of human life. Catholic Charities is guided by
these core values: respect, compassion, competence and stewardship. CNH is a nonprofit organization
that assists children, youth, and families to become self-reliant. CNH provides programs in seven
locations throughout the Bronzeville and Riverdale communities of Chicago’s Southside. EES provides
services for employers and job seekers, and provides workforce development services for the Chicago
Cook Workforce Partnership. Services include basic skills assessments, work readiness training and
career coaching. HHCS works in communities in the U.S. and abroad to serve those who are homeless,
living in poverty, or seeking safety. HHCS provides a comprehensive array of services in the areas of
health, housing, jobs and justice, and leads state and national policy efforts. HHCD’s mission is to
strengthen at risk populations by expanding their access to viable resources that promote selfsufficiency, wellness and stability through comprehensive services provision, developing low income
and affordable housing and fostering economic development. HHCD offers individual assessments and
coaching, supportive services and empowerment activities. MFS provides a wide variety of programs
and services designed to strengthen families and help them realize their full potential. MFS empowers
families to learn, to earn, to heal and to thrive through services provided in four key areas: economic
stability, education, emotional wellness and empowerment. NWS’ mission is to create a viable, mixedincome community without the displacement of low and moderate income residents. NWS provides job
preparation, life skills training, financial literacy, social services and more. UCAN’s mission is to build
strong youth and families through compassionate healing, education and empowerment. UCAN
provides workforce development services, youth leadership development, clinical and counseling
services and more.

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2016-CHA-129
the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated December 6, 2016 entitled “RECOMMENDATION TO

 AUTHORIZE THE SECOND OPTION YEAR TERM OF FAMILYWORKS
CONTRACTS”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE
CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee
to approve execution of the second one-year option term for: 1) Contract No. 11522
with Beacon Therapeutic Diagnostic & Treatment Center in an amount not-to-exceed
$1,632,311.00; 2) Contract No. 11523 with Catholic Charities of the Archdiocese of
Chicago in an amount not-to-exceed $2,184,440.00; 3) Contract No. 11524 with
Centers for New Horizons, Inc. in an amount not-to-exceed $2,144,606.00; 4)
Contract No. 11525 with Employment & Employer Services, Inc. in an amount notto-exceed $3,502,855.00; 5) Contract No. 11526 with Heartland Human Care
Services, Inc. in an amount not-to-exceed $2,848,145.00; 6) Contract No. 11527 with
Holsten Human Capital Development in an amount not-to-exceed $966,012.00; 7)
Contract No. 11528 with Metropolitan Family Services in an amount not-to-exceed
$2,255,098.00; 8) Contract No. 11529 with Near West Side Community
Development Corporation in an amount not-to-exceed $1,187,347.00; and 9)
Contract No. 11530 with UCAN in an amount not-to-exceed $1,809,186.00 for the
respective contract periods of January 1, 2017 through December 31, 2017. The
Board further authorizes CHA to reallocate individual contract amounts provided
that CHA does not surpass the aggregate not to exceed amount of $18,500,000.00.
This award is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s
MBE/WBE/DBE/Section 3 hiring and insurance requirements.

The Motion to adopt the resolution for Item 5 was seconded by Commissioner Washington and the
voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Craig Chico
Dr. Mildred Harris
Meghan Harte
John Hooker
Jack Markowski
Francine Washington
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, Chairman Hooker thereupon declared said Motion carried and
said resolution adopted.
Matthew Brewer, Chairman of the Real Estate Operations Development committee, then presented his
report. Per Commissioner Brewer, the Real Estate Operations Development Committee held its monthly
meeting earlier today. Commissioner Brewer chaired the meeting and the following committee members
were present as well: Commissioners Harris, Markowski and Washington. Although Chairman Hooker
and Commissioners Chico and Harte were also present they were not counted toward the quorum.
Committee member then discussed, voted and recommended for approval the seven items appearing on
the agenda.
On behalf of the Real Estate Operations Development committee, Commissioner Brewer presented an
Omnibus Motion for approval of Items 6, 7, 7A through 11.

 (Item 6)
The resolution for Item 6 grants authorization to proceed with the application process for properties
utilizing transfer of assistance under the Rental Assistance Demonstration Program. The properties will
be funded as RAD transfer of assistance properties from Lathrop Homes and Altgeld Gardens. The
RAD PBV funding at the properties will allow for flexibility to leverage financing for property
improvements as needs arise. A primary goal of RAD is to use long-term contracts to leverage private
financing for capital improvements while preserving affordability. The redevelopment of Lathrop
Homes will result in more than 1,000 residential units of which 400 are planned to be RAD PBV units
for public housing eligible residents. In addition to the 400 RAD PBV units planned for the Lathrop
site, CHA is seeking 525 other units on the north side of Chicago to subsidize with RAD PBV assistance
transferred from Lathrop Homes. Included under the Lathrop Transfer of Assistance is 4501 N.
Winchester and 6418 N. Sheridan Road. 4501 N. Winchester is a planned adaptive re-use of part of the
former Ravenswood Hospital. The property is an existing brick multi-story building served by elevators.
The developer plans to convert the former hospital building into two uses, independent living apartments
and an Illinois Supportive Living Facility which will provide housing and some services to seniors.
CHA would provide the RAD PBV subsidy for the independent living units. 6418 N. Sheridan Road is a
planned mixed-use building north of the Caroline Hedger Apartments. The building will also include
new community space and parking for the Caroline Hedger Apartments, replacing the present one-story
community structure with new space and the outdoor lot with garage parking. Included under the
Altgeld Gardens Transfer of Assistance is Ickes Phase I A and Phase IB. On July 19, 2016, CHA’s BOC
authorized CHA to submit to HUD an application for RAD PBV for Altgeld Blocks 11, 12 and 13 with
the intention of transferring that assistance to other sites to provide housing for CHA residents for up to
244 units. Ickes Phase IA and Ickes Phase IB: A planned mixed-use, mixed-income development on
CHA-owned land. Property is in a prime location with easy access to: Downtown Chicago,
transportation, employment, schools and parks.
RESOLUTION NO. 2016-CHA-130
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the Board
Letter dated December 6, 2016 requesting authorization to proceed with the application
process for properties utilizing transfer of assistance under the Rental Assistance
Demonstration Program as well as execute and deliver such documents and perform such
actions as may be necessary or appropriate to implement the foregoing.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE
CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Chief Executive Officer or his designee is authorized to proceed with the application
process and utilize transfer of assistance for:
 Lathrop Homes:
o 4501 N. Winchester
o 6418 N. Sheridan
 Altgeld Gardens:
o Ickes Phase IA
o Ickes Phase IB

 (Item 7)
The resolution for Item 7 approves a Housing Assistance Payment contracts for Property Rental
Assistance for up to one-hundred twenty-six units at Roosevelt Towers I Apartments for a 15-year term;
and for up to fourteen units at Leland Apartments for a 15-year term. Roosevelt Towers I Apartments is
an existing development located in the North Lawndale area. The property has 126 one-bedroom units
that currently receive PRA assistance. The original HAP contract expired October 31, 2015. A
subsequent HAP was executed on November 6, 2015 with a term from November 1, 2015 to October 31,
2016. The project was financed using 9% tax credits, TIF dollars and CHA Section 8 subsidy. Target
population for the PRA units is seniors. The owner/manager of East Lake Management Group will
continue to lease all of the PRA-assisted units to eligible individuals and families from CHA’s waiting
lists. Building amenities include laundry facilities on site, a library and reading room, exercise room,
community room, security and onsite management and maintenance. Leland Apartments: Leland
Apartments is an existing 137-unit, apartment development located in the Chicago Uptown area. The
occupied building is in a six-story, mid-rise elevator apartment building. Overall, the property has 123
studios and 14 one-bedroom units; the 14 one-bedroom units currently receive PRA assistance. The
original HAP contract expired on September 30, 2015. A subsequent HAP was executed on February 2,
2016 with a term from October 1, 2015 to September 30, 2016. Target population for PRA units is
disabled and homeless. The owner/manager of Leland Apartments will continue to lease all of the PRAassisted units to eligible individuals and families from CHA’s waiting lists. Building amenities include
laundry facilities on site, a computer lab, 24-hour front desk staff and onsite management and
maintenance.
RESOLUTION NO.2016-CHA-131
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the Board
Letter dated December 6, 2016 entitled “Recommendation to Execute Housing Assistance
Payment Contracts for Property Rental Assistance at Roosevelt Towers I Apartments and
Leland Apartments”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE
CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to 1.)
execute Housing Assistance Payments Contracts (HAP) for Roosevelt Towers I
Apartments and Leland Apartments; and 2.) execute all other documents as may be
necessary or appropriate to implement the foregoing.

(Item 7A)
The resolution for item 7A approves amendment to the professional service agreements with Page
Security, Inc., in the amount of $330,000 and Kates Detective & Security Agency, in the amount of
$1,700,000 to provide additional funding to pay past due invoices and fully fund the current contract
extension, which expires March 21, 2017. The contract amendment associated with the recommendation
is required to address unanticipated levels of violence across the city in which the CHA responded with
an unprecedented level of additional security. As a result, the costs incurred have surpassed the contract
amounts authorized by the board and additional authority is needed. In September 2016, the Property
Office published a Request for Proposals for security services for a longer-term services contract, with
the contract for the newly procured security services to begin at or prior to the conclusion of the current
six-month extension.

 WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2016-CHA-132
the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated December 6, 2016 entitled “AUTHORIZATION FOR
ADDITIONAL FUNDING FOR EXISTING PROFESSIONAL SERVICE
AGREEMENTS TO PROVIDE SECURITY SERVICES AT VARIOUS CHA
PROPERTIES”

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE
CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee
to execute an amendment to the professional service agreements with Page Security,
Inc., in the amount of $330,000 and Kates Detective & Security Agency, in the
amount of $1,700,000 to provide additional funding to pay past due invoices and
fully fund the current contract extension, which expires March 21, 2017.
This award is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s
MBE/WBE/DBE/ Section 3 hiring and insurance requirements.

(Item 8)
The resolution for Item 8 approves the execution of a Housing Assistance Payment Contracts (HAP)
with Hilliard Homes I Limited Partnership and Hilliard Homes II Limited Partnership. Initial contract
rents will be determined by market comparables and fair market rents applicable at the time the HAP
contract is executed. All rent determinations will comply with federal regulations and CHA policy.
Hilliard Senior Apartments consists of two16-story, elevator buildings in a limited area in the Near South
Side community. The historic Hilliard Homes property was redeveloped in two phases by Holsten
Development Corporation in 2003 and 2006 to create affordability for those living below 60% of area
median income. PRA will ensure housing stability for up to 162 total senior residents and the long-term
viability of the properties. The target population for PRA units are households over age 60 from CHA
waitlists. Approximately 35% of CHA’s wait lists are one-person households. Hilliard Homes is a gated
campus that includes two family buildings and two buildings for seniors over 60 years of age. Onsite
24-hour security is provided for the benefit of all residents. Parking is available for residents and their
guests. There are several acres of landscaped gardens and paths, an outdoor amphitheater, and a rose
garden. The elevator buildings provide onsite laundry and exercise rooms, with first floor offices for
management and social services. Social services are available through Holsten Human Capital.

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2016-CHA-133
the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated December 6, 2016 entitled “Recommendation to Execute 1)
Housing Assistance Payment Contracts (HAP) with A) Hilliard Homes I Limited
Partnership and B) Hilliard Homes II Limited Partnership and 2) all other documents
as may be necessary or appropriate to implement the foregoing. “

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE
CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to
execute 1) Housing Assistance Payment Contracts (HAP) with A) Hilliard Homes I
Limited Partnership and B) Hilliard Homes II Limited Partnership and 2) all other
documents as may be necessary or appropriate to implement the foregoing.

 (Item 9 – as amended in the Real Estate Operations Development Committee)
The resolution for Item 9 approves a Programmatic Agreement under Section 106 of the National
Historic Preservation Act. The overall revitalization plan for historic Lathrop includes a multi-phased,
mixed-income, mixed-use development that will be conducted over three on-site phases and will consist
of 1,116 total residential units of which 400 will be Rental Assistance Demonstration (RAD) program
units. Lathrop was listed on the National Register of Historic Places on February 12, 2012, as an early
federally-supported planned housing community set in a Jen Jensen designed landscape. CHA’s plan to
redevelop Lathrop using federal funds has made the project an undertaking subject to review under
Section 106 of the National Historic Preservation Act. (NHPA) and its implementing federal regulations.
The city of Chicago is the responsible entity designated by HUD to assume responsibility for
environmental review, decision-making and action that would otherwise apply to HUD under the
National Environmental Protection Act (NEPA). The City has determined that the demolition of several
historic buildings will have an adverse effect on Lathrop and that it requires the NHPA Section 106
consultation process. The consultation process includes meetings with various stakeholders with an
interest in the adverse effects that the proposed redevelopment actions at Lathrop will have on
maintaining the integrity of the historic nature of the site. The proposed mitigation measures to address
the identified adverse effects are proposed to be executed through the Programmatic Agreement between
CHA, the City, the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation, the Illinois State Historic Preservation
Officer and potentially other funding entities that will document the terms and conditions for
consultation, review and compliance requirements for construction and implementation of Phase 1 and
subsequent phases of redevelopment at Lathrop.

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2016-CHA-134
the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated
December 6, 2016 entitled “Authorization to: Enter into a Programmatic
Agreement under Section 106 of the National Historic Preservation Act
and execute and deliver such other documents and perform such actions
as may be necessary or appropriate to implement the foregoing.”

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or
his designee to: Enter into a Programmatic Agreement under Section 106
of the National Historic Preservation Act and execute and deliver such
other documents and perform such actions as may be necessary or
appropriate to implement the foregoing.

(Item 10)
CHA released a Request for Qualifications (RFQ) in September 2016 requesting pre-qualification of
development teams to engage development partners for the acquisition, development and management of
mixed income and/or mixed income, mixed-use developments. As part of CHA’s unit delivery strategy,
the Request for Qualification (RFQ) was created to help accomplish its commitment to deliver 25,000
units. The unit delivery strategy builds on CHA’s experience working with private development teams
and owners to supply quality housing that enables low-income families to maximize their potential for
long-term economic success. The RFQ provides a method to pre-qualify developers and creates
opportunities for CHA to provide capital loans and operating funds for new construction and
rehabilitation of multi-family, mixed income and mixed use projects that directly benefit CHA residents.
CHA’s primary objective is to provide the highest quality housing units for low-income families within
diverse and healthy communities. Of the four proposals received and evaluated, one firm did not fall
within the competitive range. Accordingly, the resolution for item 10 approves the following three
Development Teams for mixed income unit delivery: Chicago Metropolitan Housing Development
Corporation; PIRHL Developers, LLC. and Globetrotters International Inc. The selected respondents

 will be issued a “Letter of Qualification” and have two years from the date of that letter to submit
proposals to CHA. CHA may provide financial investment or enter into long term leases for the units,
subject to Board, HUD and other approvals, if necessary.
Commissioner Markowski recused from voting on Item No. 10 only.
RESOLUTION NO. 2016-CHA-135
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated December 6, 2016
entitled “Recommendation to approve three (3) development teams for mixed income unit
delivery”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE
CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to
approve three (3) Development Teams for mixed income unit delivery:
 Chicago Metropolitan Housing Development Corporation
 PIRHL Developers, LLC.
 Globetrotters International Inc.

(Item 11)
The Chicago Public Schools and the CHA issued Request for Proposal (RFP) in September 2016 to
solicit consultants for cost estimating services. The intent of this RFP was to procure a single vendor
that can provide professional cost estimating services for the CHA and the Chicago Public Schools’
Capital Construction and Property/Operations departments for construction projects located throughout
the city. The CHA and the Chicago Public School will each enter into a separate contract with the
awardee. Specific estimate requirements will be provided to the awardee through individual estimate
requests. Of the five proposals received and evaluated, the Concord Consulting Group was
recommended as the most responsive and responsible bidder. Accordingly, the resolution for Item 11
approves award of contract to the Concord Consulting Group in an aggregate not-to-exceed amount of
$5,000,000.00 to provide authority-wide cost estimating services for CHA construction, design and
environmental projects. The initial contract will be for a base term of three years in an aggregate amount
not to exceed $3,000,000.00, plus two one-year renewal options each in the not-to-exceed amount of
$1,000,000.00. The Board delegates authority to the Chief Executive Officer to use his discretion to
exercise the options. The Chief Executive Officer shall not exercise more than one option in any year.

RESOLUTION NO. 2016-CHA-136
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the Board
Letter dated December 6, 2016 entitled “Recommendation to Award a Contract for
Authority-wide Cost Estimating Services”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE
CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to
enter into a contract with The Concord Group to provide authority-wide cost estimating
services in an aggregate amount not-to-exceed $5,000,000.00, consisting of an original

 contract value of $3,000,000.00 for a three (3) year base term; plus, two (2) one-year
renewal options in amount of $1,000,000 per year. The Chief Executive Officer is
authorized to use his discretion to exercise the renewal options. Any options exercised by
the Chief Executive Officer must be exercised individually and within the aggregate
amount of approved funding.
This award is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE,
Section 3 and insurance requirements.
The Motion to adopt the resolutions for Items 6, 7, 7A, 8, Amended Item 9 10 and 11 was seconded by
Commissioner Harte and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Matthew Brewer
Craig Chico
Dr. Mildred Harris
Meghan Harte
John Hooker
Jack Markowski (Recused from voting on Item 10 only)
Francine Washington

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, Chairman Hooker thereupon declared said Motion carried and
said resolutions adopted.
Upon Motion made by Chairman Hooker and properly seconded by Commissioner Washington, the
Commissioners adjourned to Closed Session. Chairman Hooker announced that pursuant to the Open
Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2, the Board would adjourn for approximately 30 minutes to discuss personnel
related matters; purchase, sale and lease of real estate property; pending, probable or imminent litigation;
review of closed meeting minutes and audit reviews.
Following Closed Session, Commissioners reconvened in Open Session.
Chairman Hooker called the meeting to order and upon roll call those present and absent were as follows:
Present:

Craig Chico
Dr. Mildred Harris
Meghan Harte
John Hooker
Jack Markowski
Francine Washington

Absent:

Matthew Brewer
Mark Cozzi

There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as follows:
Upon motion made by Commissioner Chico and properly seconded by Commissioner Markowski, the
open and closed minutes for meetings of October 18, 2016 were approved as submitted
Chairman Hooker then announced that during closed session, Commissioners discussed matters related to
Items 12 through 14.

 Commissioner Chico then presented a Motion for the approval of Items 12 through 14.
(Item 12)
Based on discussion in closed session and public comments presented to the Board earlier in the public
hearing portion of the meeting, staff was requested to clarify the proposed authorization related to Item
12. Per Kari Saba, Deputy Chief of Development, approval of Item 12 will allow CHA and the
development team to proceed with negotiations with various parties on possible development concepts
which will include community input and involvement. The Board admonished staff for not engaging
residents and the broader community sooner in the development process and stressed the importance of
holding community meetings during the month of December. Staff were reminded that the Board
approval is required for the entire project, to include financing plans, Tenant Selection Plans and other
related transactions.

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2016-CHA-137
the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated December 6, 2016 entitled “Authorization to: 1) Enter into a long
term ground lease for 6418 North Sheridan Road: and 2) Execute and deliver such
other documents and perform such actions as may be necessary or appropriate to
implement the foregoing.”

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE
CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee in his
capacity as Chief Executive Officer of the CHA or as Chief Executive Officer of CHA
LLC to: 1) Enter into a long term ground lease for 6418 North Sheridan Road: and 2)
Execute and deliver such other documents and perform such actions as may be necessary
or appropriate to implement the foregoing on behalf of CHA or CHA LLC, subject to
HUD approval if required.

(Item 13)
The resolution for Item 13 ratifies the following personnel actions: offer of employment to 21
applicants, promotion of 11 current employees and termination of one employee.

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2016–CHA-138
the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated December 6, 2016,
entitled “Approval of Personnel Actions”:

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE
CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the requested personnel actions.

(Item 14)
WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2016-CHA-139
the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated December 6, 2016 entitled “RECOMMENDATION TO
EXECUTE A FOURTH AMENDMENT TO THE OFFICE SPACE LEASE
BETWEEN A SAFE HAVEN FOUNDATION AND CHICAGO HOUSING
AUTHORITY”

 THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE
CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee
to execute an amendment to Contract No. 11219 with A Safe Haven Foundation to
extend the Lease term commencing January 1, 2017 through December 31, 2017 and
approve a 5% rent increase from a monthly amount of $17,162.11 to $18,020.22
during the Fourth Amendment Lease Term. The Total Gross Base Rent amount for
this extension period is in an amount not-to-exceed $216,242.64 plus $1,950 for
maintenance services and related fees, for a total amount not-to-exceed $218,192.64.

The Motion to adopt the resolutions for Items 12, 13 and 14 was seconded by Commissioner Brewer and
the voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Matthew Brewer
Craig Chico
Dr. Mildred Harris
John Hooker
Jack Markowski
Francine Washington
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, Chairman Hooker thereupon declared said Motion carried and
said resolutions adopted.
Chairman Hooker then invited residents and the public at large to address the Board.
There being no further business to come before the Commissioners, upon Motion made by Commissioner
Chico and seconded by Commissioner Washington, the board meeting of December 6, 2016 was
adjourned.
________________________________
John Hooker, Chairman
Chicago Housing Authority

___________________________
Lee Chuc-Gill, Secretary
Custodian and Keeper of Records

 