MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING

OF THE

COMMISSIONERS OF THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
October 18, 2005

The Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority held its Regular Meeting on Tuesday,
October 18, 2005, at 8:30 a.m. at the Charles Hayes Family Investment Center, 4859 S. Wabash,
Chicago, Illinois.
The meeting was called to order by the Chairperson, and upon roll call, those present and absent
were as follows:
Present:
Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Lori Healey
Michael Ivers
Martin Nesbitt
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young
Absent:

Earnest Gates
Mary Wiggins

Also present were Terry Peterson, Chief Executive Officer; Gail Niemann, General Counsel;
Chicago Housing Authority Staff Members and the General Public.
There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as
follows:
Terry Peterson, Chief Executive Officer, then presented his monthly report. Mr. Peterson’s
report consisted of the Moving to Work Agreement, Year 7 which was scheduled for approval by
the Board. Per Mr. Peterson, over the past five years, hundreds of tours have been conducted of
CHA’s developments. Just the other day a group from China was shown the old high-rises and
the new mixed-income housing. They saw the community anchors like schools and parks,
commercial development like the new shopping mall at Cabrini-Green and some of the
businesses near Henry Horner. They saw how public housing has become part of Chicago
instead of separate from Chicago. According to Mr. Peterson, under CHA’s Plan For
Transformation, he will continue to challenge CHA and Chicago residents to take responsibility
for themselves, their families, their homes and communities. Mr. Peterson concluded his report
by thanking everyone involved for their cooperation and support – the chair, the board, the staff,
the residents and the community as a whole.
At this point in the meeting Chairperson Gilliam announced the Mayoral appointment of ViceChair Healy as Commissioner of the City’s Department of Planning and Development.
Commissioner Healey was issued a Commendation honoring her for her distinguished services to
the CHA Board of Commissioners.
Commissioner Mildred Harris then presented a Motion, which was properly seconded, for the
approval of the following resolution commending Lori Healey for her services as CHA
Commissioner:
1

 RESOLUTION
Whereas,

Ms. Lori T. Healey was appointed to the CHA Board of Commissioners by Mayor
Richard M. Daley on July 10, 2002 and served as Vice Chairperson of the Board
until October 24, 2005, and

Whereas,

Lori T. Healey, a former Managing Principal for architectural projects at
Perkins & Will, member of the Chicagoland Chamber of Commerce, the Chicago
Architecture Foundation, the Women’s Business Development Center, the
Chicago Women in Government Relations, and former First Deputy
Commissioner of the City of Chicago’s Department of Planning and
Development, Deputy Director of the Illinois Department of Commerce and
Community Affairs, Executive Director of the Federation of Women Contractors,
founding member of the Illinois Women in State Government, member of the
Chicago Zoning Reform Commission, and board member of the Illinois
Development Finance Authority, is the newly appointed Commissioner of the
Chicago Department of Planning and Development, and

Whereas,

Lori T. Healey has exercised her duties as Vice Chairperson of Chicago Housing
Authority Board of Commissioners with great diligence, aplomb and the highest
level of integrity and professionalism, and

Whereas,

the Chicago Housing Authority Board of Commissioners wishes to demonstrate
its appreciation and esteem for Lori T. Healey for her service as Commissioner
and Vice Chairperson and for her leadership and dedication to the Authority’s
efforts in transforming public housing, and

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

Lori T. Healey be commended for her diligence, vision and valued dedication to
the CHA Board of Commissioners and the residents of the Chicago Housing
Authority

GIVEN THIS TWENTY-FOURTH DAY OF OCTOBER, IN THE TWO THOUSAND
AND FIFTH YEAR OF OUR LORD.
s/b

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Chairperson, Board of Commissioners

The Chairperson then convened the Public Hearing portion of the meeting by inviting residents
and the public at large to address the Board.
Immediately following the Public Hearing portion of the meeting, a Motion was introduced and
seconded to adjourn to Executive Session. The Chairperson announced that pursuant to the
Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2, the Board would adjourn for approximately one (1) hour to
discuss pending, probable or imminent litigation, collective negotiating matters, security and
personnel matters.
The Commissioners subsequently reconvened in Open Session. Chairperson Gilliam thereupon
introduced for approval the Minutes of Executive Session for January 2004 thru September 2005,
Minutes for the Regular Board Meeting held on September 20, 2005 and the Special Emergency
Meeting held on September 23, 2005. Upon Motion made and properly seconded, the Minutes
were unanimously approved and accepted as submitted.
Chairperson Gilliam thereupon introduced the Resolutions discussed in Executive Session.
Commissioner Young then presented an Omnibus Motion to approve resolutions for Executive
Session Items 1 and 2.

2

 (Executive Session Item 1)
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-150
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated October 3, 2005 requesting that the Board of Commissioners
approves the Personnel Actions Report for September 2005.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the Personnel Actions Report for
September 2005.

(Executive Session Item 2)
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-151
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated October 6, 2005
requesting authorization to amend the contract amount with Holland & Knight in
connection with the Termination for Convenience of Contract No. 0315 with
UBM Contractors, Inc. related to the renovation of the Lowden Homes Family
Development.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to amend Contract No. 0318 with Holland & Knight to increase the
contract amount in an amount not to exceed an additional $140,000 in order to
pay for legal fees and expenses regarding the Termination for Convenience of
Contract No. 0315 with UBM Contractors, Inc. related to the renovation of the
Lowden Homes Family Development.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt Executive Session Items 1 and 2 was seconded by Commissioner
Harris and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Lori Healey
Michael Ivers
Martin Nesbitt
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young

Nays:

None

The Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried and said Resolutions adopted.
Commissioner Young, Chairperson of the Tenant Services Committee then presented a report for
the Joint Tenant Services and Operations Committee meeting held on Wednesday, October 12,
2005.
Commissioner Young then introduced an Omnibus Motion for the adoption of Resolutions for
Items A1 through A3 discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Joint Tenant
Services and Operations Committees.
(Item A1)
The Resolution for Item A1 approves the ratification of contract with Blinderman Construction
Company for the rehabilitation of various family housing sites at Washing Park Homes. As part
of the Capital Improvement Program, the CHA solicited bids to perform rehabilitation work at
various sites at Washington Park Homes. Of the seven bids received, Blinderman was the lowest
responsive and responsible bidder. This work represents Phase 4 of the ongoing rehabilitation of
the Washington Park properties. The scope of the exterior work will include, but not be limited
to, the rebuilding, repairs and/or replacement of concrete slabs, masonry walls and new parapets,
roofing and drainage, new double hung windows, sheet metal, entry doors, stoops and steps, site
walks, landscaping, and parking lots. The scope of interior work will include, but not be limited
3

 to, the complete renovation of all interior dwelling units and common areas. New appliances and
plumbing fixtures will be installed. Buildings will receive new electrical systems, through-wall
air conditioners in each unit, and new heating systems. Each unit will be wired for multiple
telephone service connections and cable television connections. Site work will include site
fencing, refuse areas, and new water, electrical and/or gas services. Blinderman was requested to
begin work prior to Board approval in order to complete 10 of the 32units scheduled for
completion by the end of 2005.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-152
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated October 12, 2005
entitled “Ratification of Contract with Blinderman Construction Company, Inc.
for the rehabilitation of various Family Housing Sites at Washington Park Homes
(IL2-034)”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners hereby ratifies the competitive award of a contract
with Blinderman Construction Company, Inc. in the amount of $3,726,788.00 for
the rehabilitation of various Family housing sites at Washington Park Homes
(IL2-034). The contract will begin upon receipt of the Notice to Proceed. Ten (10)
units are to be completed by December 15, 2005, and all remaining work is to be
completed by May 15, 2006. This award is subject to the Contractor’s compliance
with the CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident hiring, and bonding and
insurance requirements.

(Item A2)
The Authority provides appliances to residents moving from public housing into the private
housing market, when those appliances are not provided by the private market landlord. The
most current contract to supply, deliver and install appliances expired on September 11, 2005.
Accordingly, an Invitation for Bid was advertised in area newspapers and 37 vendors, including
6 MBE’s, 2 WBE’s and 1 ROB were directly solicited. Upon evaluation of the 4 bids received,
the apparent low bidder was deemed non-responsive, and Lake Region Office Supply, Inc. was
deemed to be the lowest responsive and responsible bidder. To meet CHA’s anticipated needs in
Phase IV of the Plan for Transformation, Lake Region Office Supply Inc., was issued a notice to
proceed. Accordingly, the resolution for Item A2 ratifies the award of contract to Lake Region
Office Supply.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-153
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated October 12, 2005 entitled “Ratification of Contract with Lake
Region Office Supply, Inc., for the Supply, Delivery and Installation of 145 New
Stoves and 145 New Refrigerators for families moving into the Private Market
through the Housing Choice Program”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners ratifies the award of a contract to Lake Region
Office Supply, Inc., for the supply, delivery and installation of up to145 new
stoves and up to 145 refrigerators in an amount not-to-exceed $110,860.00, for a
twelve month term from the date of the notice to proceed.

(Item A3)
The resolution for Item A3 approves award of contract to Oakk Construction Company to
replace the roof at the Charles Hayes Family Investment Center. An IFB was advertised in area
newspapers. In addition 8 firms were directly solicited, including 2 MBE’s. Of the 4 bids
received Oakk Construction was deemed to be the lowest responsible and responsive bidder.
Under this contract, the vendor will install sheet membrane roofing and watertight base flashing
to the FIC roof.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005–CHA-154
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated September 27, 2005
requesting authorization to enter into an Agreement with Oakk Construction
Company, Inc. to replace the roof at the Charles Hayes Family Investment Center,
4859 South Wabash.
4

 THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into an Agreement with Oakk Construction Company, Inc. to
replace the roof at the Charles Hayes Family Investment Center, 4859 South
Wabash in an amount not-to-exceed $176,400.00.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items A1 through A3 was seconded by
Commissioner Amey and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Lori Healey
Michael Ivers
Martin Nesbitt
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Joint Tenant Services and Operations Committees report was
also accepted in total.
Commissioner Nesbitt, Chairperson of the Finance & Audit Committee then presented the
monthly report. Per Commissioner Nesbitt, the Finance & Audit Committee Meeting was held
on Wednesday, October 12, 2005 at approximately 2:00 p.m. at the 626 W. Jackson Corporate
offices. The Chief Financial Officer and her staff presented the Committee with the Treasury
and Cash Flow Report as of September 30, 2005 and a FY2006 Comprehensive Budget
Presentation.
Commissioner Nesbitt then introduced an Omnibus Motion for adoption of resolutions for Items
B1 through B5, discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Operations
Committee.
(Item B1)
On January 6, 2000, HUD approved the Chicago Housing Authority’s (CHA) Moving to Work
Demonstration Agreement (MTW Agreement) and the Plan for Transformation. The MTW
Agreement and its amendments provide the CHA the opportunity to implement innovative
strategies for revitalizing housing and assisting residents in taking steps towards economic and
social self-sufficiency. These strategies are outlined in the ten-year Plan for Transformation. In
accordance with the MTW Agreement, the CHA submits an annual MTW plan (Annual Plan) to
HUD no less than 60 days prior to the beginning of the CHA’s fiscal year. Each Annual Plan
provides an update on the progress of the CHA in implementing the Plan for Transformation and
serves as a comprehensive framework of the CHA’s goals and activities for the upcoming year.
Accordingly, the resolution for Item B1 approves submittal of the Plan for Transformation –
Year 7, to HUD. To ensure community and resident input on the FY2006 Annual Plan, the CHA
held a public comment period from September 8, 2005 to October 7, 2005. A public hearing was
held on September 22, 2005 at the University Center (Lake Room) located at 525 South State
Street in Chicago, Illinois. The CHA has reviewed and responded to public comments, which
will be included in the FY2006 Annual Plan for submission to HUD.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-155
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated September 16,
2005 requesting approval of the FY2006 Moving to Work Annual Plan – Plan for
Transformation Year 7 and that the Board of Commissioners Chairperson sign the
PHA Certification of Compliance with MTW Plan Requirements and related
regulations, attached hereto.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY

5

 THAT,

the Board of Commissioners approves the attached FY2006 Moving to Work
Annual Plan – Plan for Transformation Year 7, authorizes the Board of
Commissioners Chairperson to sign the PHA Certification of Compliance with
MTW Plan Requirements and related regulations, and authorizes the Chief
Executive Officer or his designee to make such corrections as he may deem
necessary and to submit these documents to the United States Department of
Housing and Urban Development.

(Item B2)
The resolution for Item B2 approves the 3rd Quarter Revised 2005 Comprehensive Budget. The
FY2005 budgeted expenditures have been revised from $935,023,314 to $936,932,915 resulting
in a $1,909,601 increase. The major changes include the following: The General Fund Total
increased by $6,860,632 for a fund total of $826,064,563. This increase is due to costs
associated with accelerated construction activities at various CHA properties and roofing work at
the Family Investment Center. Section 8 Non-MTW funds remained unchanged at $30,230,557.
Hope VI Funds decreased by $5,160,699 for a fund total of $56,583,777. This decrease is due to
a reduction in unit turnover based on revised cash flow projections for FY2005. City/State funds
remained unchanged at $6,038,462. The estimated sum of all revenues for fiscal year 2005 and
the amount of the fiscal year 2005 Fund Balance available for appropriation in the fiscal year is
equal to the estimated sum of all expenditures to be made or incurred during the fiscal year and
the amount of all unpaid liabilities at the beginning of the fiscal year 2005.

RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-156
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board letter dated September 16,
2005, entitled “Approval of the Revised 2005 Comprehensive Budget”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners, hereby approves the attached budget amendments,
“THE FY2005 COMPREHENSIVE BUDGET AMENDMENT #3”, and finds
with respect to said Budget:
1.

2.

3.

THAT,

that the proposed expenditures are necessary for the efficient and
economical operation of the Chicago Housing Authority for the purpose of
serving low-income families;
that the financial plan is reasonable in that it indicates funding sources
adequate to cover all proposed expenditures, and does not provide for use
of Federal funding in excess of that payable under the provisions of the
applicable Federal regulations; and
that all proposed rental charges and expenditures will be consistent with
provisions of law and the Annual Contributions Contract in accordance
with the Moving To Work Demonstration Agreement of the Chicago
Housing Authority with the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development.

the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer are authorized to execute
and forward to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development all
necessary budget documents and supporting information when applicable.

(Item B3)
The CHA’s current contracts for dental benefit expire on December 31, 2005 and must be
renewed effective January 1, 2006. The national trend for rate increases in employee dental
insurance premiums has been projected to be 4.7% for HMO and 7.1% for PPO for the year
2006. The CHA was able to negotiate premium rate increases limited to 3% for the dental HMO
and 5% for the PPO with all dental benefits remaining the same as in the current contract year.
Accordingly, the resolution for Item B3 approves exercising the one year option of the contract
with First Commonwealth.

6

 RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-157
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Memorandum dated October 12, 2005, entitled “Authorization to renew
Contracts with First Commonwealth for the CHA’s Employee Dental Benefit
Plan”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority authorizes the
Chief Executive Officer or his designee to exercise the one year option of the
contract with First Commonwealth for the CHA’s Employee Dental Benefit Plan
for the period of January 1, 2006 to December 31, 2006 for an amount not-toexceed $233,000. The new aggregate not-to-exceed contract amount will be
$483,000.00

(Item B4)
The CHA’s current contracts for healthcare benefits with CIGNA HealthCare expire on
December 31, 2005 and must be renewed effective January 1, 2006. The national trend for rate
increases in employee medical insurance premiums has been projected to be 13% for the year
2006. Despite this trend, the CHA’s current population of employees, retirees, and COBRA
participants for 2005 generated extremely unfavorable claims experience causing an increase in
the rates for 2006 that was 3 times the trend. The CHA was able to significantly reduce the
increase in the 2006 premium rate by negotiating certain plan design changes that will affect the
employee’s out of pocket costs for medical expenses, but not their monthly contributions toward
the premiums. Accordingly, the resolution for Item B4 approves exercising the one year option
of the contract with CIGNA Healthcare for the CHA’s Employee Medical Benefit Plan.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-158
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Memorandum dated October 12, 2005, entitled “Authorization to renew
Contracts with CIGNA for the CHA’s Employee Medical Benefit Plan”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority authorizes the
Chief Executive Officer or his designee to exercise the one year option of the
contract with CIGNA Healthcare for the CHA’s Employee Medical Benefit Plan
for the period of January 1, 2006 to December 31, 2006 for an amount not-toexceed $4,970,000.

(Item B5)
The CHA’s current contracts for life and disability insurance with UnumProvident expire on
December 31, 2005 and must be renewed effective January 1, 2006. Because the CHA’s claims
experience for 2005 was considerably high that projected for Life and Short-Term disability, the
rates for 2006 were significantly increased. To reduce the STD renewal increase, the CHA
opted for a minor plan design change that limits the STD payout from 66 2/3% to 60%. By
reducing LTD from a 60% payout to 50% and changing the residual to one year, the CHA was
able to eliminate a proposed 50% increase to the in-force rate. Accordingly, the resolution for
Item B5 approves exercising the one year option of the contract with UnumProvident.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-159
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Memorandum dated October 12, 2005, entitled “Authorization to renew
Contracts with UnumProvident for the CHA’s Employee Life, Accidental Death
and Dismemberment, Short-Term Disability, Long-Term Disability and Retiree
Life Benefit Plans”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority authorizes the
Chief Executive Officer or his designee to extend the contracts with
UnumProvident for the CHA’s Employee Life, Accidental Death and
Dismemberment, Short-Term Disability, Long-Term Disability and Retiree Life
7

 Benefit Plans for the period of January 1, 2006 to December 31, 2006 for an
aggregate amount not-to-exceed $400,000.
The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items B1 through B5 was seconded by
Commissioner Young and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Lori Healey
Michael Ivers
Martin Nesbitt
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Finance & Audit Committee report was also accepted in total.
There being no further business to come before the Commissioners, upon Motion made,
seconded and carried, the meeting of the Board of Commissioners was adjourned.

_________________________
Sharon Gist Gilliam
Chairperson

________________________
Lee Gill, Custodian and
Keeper of Records

8

 