MINUTES OF THE SPECIAL MEETING
OF THE
COMMISSIONERS OF THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
March 25, 2016
The Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority held a special meeting of the Board of
Commissioners on Friday, March 25, 2016, at approximately 10:50 a.m. at the CHA Corporate
Offices, 60 East Van Buren, 12th Floor Loft in Chicago, IL.
Chairman Hooker called the meeting to order and upon roll call those present and absent were as
follows:
Present:
Matthew Brewer
Craig Chico
Dr. Mildred Harris
John Hooker
Jack Markowski
Bridget Reidy
Absent:

Mark Cozzi
Harriet Johnson
Francine Washington

Also present were Eugene Jones, Chief Executive Officer; James Bebley, Chief Legal Officer; Chicago
Housing Authority staff members and the General Public.
There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as follows:
Upon Motion made by Commissioner Markowski and properly seconded by Commissioner Brewer,
minutes for February 16, 2016 meetings were approved as submitted.
Commissioner Bridget Reidy, Chairwoman of the Tenant Services Committee then presented her
report. Per Commissioner Reidy, the Tenant Services Committee held its regular meeting at
approximately 9:55 a.m. at the CHA’s Corporate Offices. Commissioner Reidy chaired the meeting
and the following committee members were present as well: Commissioners Chico and Harris.
Present also, but not counted for the quorum were Commissioners Brewer, Markowski and Chairman
Hooker.
On behalf of Tenant Services Committee, Commissioner Reidy presented an Omnibus Motion for the
approval of Items 1, 2 and 3.
(Item 1)
The resolution for Item 1authorize the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to execute a contract
with Entrepreneurial Ventures in Education, Inc. DBA Summer Advantage in the not-to-exceed
amounts of: $3,591,993.00 for a two-year base term; $1,831,467.00 for the first one-year option term;
$1,831,467.00 for the second one-year option term; and $1,831,467.00 for the third one-year option
term, for an aggregate not-to-exceed amount of $9,086,394.00, to provide academic enrichment and
career exploration for CHA youth participating in the Learn and Earn program. A Pre-Proposal
Conference was held in December 2015 with representatives from five firms in attendance. In January
1

 2016, the CHA received two proposals; both proposals were deemed responsive. After the Evaluation
Committee completed its review of the two proposals, the total points awarded each Respondent
resulted in one firm, Summer Advantage, falling within the competitive range. The evaluation team
collectively agreed that oral presentations should be waived, based on the quality, overall scores and
pricing for Summer Advantage, which was lower than the second Respondent. In February 2016, a
Best and Final Offer was requested from Summer Advantage. Based upon the evaluations of the
written proposal and the Respondent’s Best and Final Offer, it was determined that Summer
Advantage can provide the best overall service and value to CHA. The Learn and Earn program is an
academic enrichment and career development summer program, which serves approximately 700 CHA
youth between the ages of 13-15. The primary purpose of the program is to mitigate summer learning
loss. The Learn and Earn program takes place at college campuses throughout the city, including the
City Colleges of Chicago and Loyola University.

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2016-CHA-25
the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated March 25, 2016,
entitled “RECOMMENDATION TO EXECUTE A CONTRACT WITH
ENTREPRENEURIAL VENTURES IN EDUCATION, INC. DBA SUMMER
ADVANTAGE TO PROVIDE ACADEMIC ENRICHMENT AND CAREER
EXPLORATION FOR CHA YOUTH PARTICIPATING IN THE LEARN AND
EARN PROGRAM”.

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

The Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee
to execute a contract with Entrepreneurial Ventures in Education, Inc. DBA Summer
Advantage in the not-to-exceed amounts of: $3,591,993.00 for a two-year base term;
$1,831,467.00 for the first one-year option term; $1,831,467.00 for the second oneyear option term; and $1,831,467.00 for the third one-year option term, for an
aggregate not to exceed amount of $9,086,394.00, to provide academic enrichment
and career exploration for CHA youth participating in the Learn and Earn program.
This award is subject to the contractor’s compliance with applicable CHA
MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 and insurance requirements.

(Item 2)
The resolution for Item 2 approves the second one-year option term for Contract No. 11226 with
Growing Power, Inc. in a not-to-exceed amount of $48,540.00, to provide positive youth development
opportunities and urban agriculture training to CHA youth. Since inception, the urban farm in Altgeld
has supported several youth and adult employment and training programs, providing valuable skills
training while increasing the community’s access to healthy food. Growing Power is a national
nonprofit organization that focuses on supporting people of diverse backgrounds and their environment
by providing access to healthy, high-quality, safe and affordable food for people in the community.
This mission is implemented through on-the-ground, hands-on training of youth and adults to take
ownership of the garden and engage the community to do the same. Growing Power’s youth
employment training programs educate youth on sustainable urban agriculture while providing
transferrable employment and life skills. During 2015, 130 youth participated in the agriculture
program at Altgeld Gardens; since the execution of the original contract in 2013, 400 youth have
successfully completed the program.

RESOLUTION NO. 2016-CHA-26
2

 WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated March 25, 2016,
entitled “RECOMMENDATION TO EXECUTE THE SECOND ONE-YEAR
OPTION TERM WITH GROWING POWER, INC. TO PROVIDE YOUTH
DEVELOPMENT OPPORTUNITIES AND URBAN AGRICULTURE TRAINING
AT ALTGELD GARDENS”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

The Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to
execute the second one-year option term for Contract No. 11226 with Growing Power,
Inc. in a not-to-exceed amount of $48,540.00, to provide positive youth development
opportunities and urban agriculture training to CHA youth.
This award is subject to the contractor’s compliance with applicable CHA
MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 and insurance requirements.

(Item 3)
In December 2015, the CHA advertised a Request for Proposal soliciting the services of industry
professionals to assist with the development and support of a CHA youth council. With the
development of a youth council, CHA seeks to increase the engagement of adolescents in the decision
making process, develop commitment of adolescents to civic engagement, and provide positing
modeling and interactions between adolescents and adults. In January 2016, the CHA received one
proposal, which was deemed responsive. An Evaluation Committee consisting of three members
evaluated the sole responsive proposal. After the Evaluation Committee completed its review of the
proposal, the evaluation team collectively agreed that oral presentations should be waived based on the
overall quality of the Respondent’s proposal, the fact that they were the only Respondent to the
solicitation, and the Respondent’s qualifications to provide the desired services. Based upon the
evaluations of the written proposal and the Respondent’s Best and Final Offer, it was determined that
the Respondent is qualified to provide the service to CHA. Accordingly, the resolution for Item 3
approves award of contract to Mikva Challenge Grant Foundation (Mikva) in the not-to-exceed
amounts of: $142,016.00 for a one-year base term; $145,566.00 for the first one-year option term;
$149,205.00 for the second one-year option term; $152,935.00 for the third one-year option term; and
$156,759.00 for the fourth one-year option term, for an aggregate not-to-exceed amount of
$746,481.00, to provide youth council development and support services. Since 1998, Mikva has
served over 60,000 students and currently operates seven Citywide Youth Councils (CYCs).

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2016-CHA-27
the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated March 25, 2016,
entitled “RECOMMENDATION TO EXECUTE A CONTRACT WITH MIKVA
CHALLENGE GRANT FOUNDATION TO PROVIDE YOUTH COUNCIL
DEVELOPMENT AND SUPPORT SERVICES”.

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

The Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee
to execute a contract with Mikva Challenge Grant Foundation in the amounts of:
$142,016.00 for a one-year base term; $145,566.00 for the first one-year option term;
$149,205.00 for the second one-year option term; $152,935.00 for the third one-year
option term; and $156,759.00 for the fourth one-year option term for an aggregate
not-to-exceed amount of $746,481.00, to provide youth council development and
support services.
3

 This award is subject to the contractor’s compliance with applicable CHA
MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 and insurance requirements.
The Motion to adopt resolutions for Items 1, 2, and 3 was seconded by Commissioner Harris and the
voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Matthew Brewer
Craig Chico
Dr. Mildred Harris
John Hooker
Jack Markowski
Bridget Reidy
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, Chairman Hooker thereupon declared said Motion carried and
said resolutions adopted.
Matthew Brewer, Chairman of the Real Estate Operations Development committee, then presented his
report. Per Commissioner Brewer, the Real Estate Operations Development committee met on Friday,
March 25 at approximately 10:20 a.m. at the CHA Corporate Offices. Commissioner Brewer chaired
the meeting and the following committee members were present as well: Commissioners Markowski
and Reidy. Although Chairman Hooker and Commissioners Chico and Harris were also present they
were not counted toward the quorum since they are not members of the Real Estate Development
Committee.
On behalf of the Real Estate Development committee, Commissioner Brewer presented a Motion for
the approval of Items 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, 10 and 11.
(Item 4)
The resolution for Item 4 authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to execute a Third
Amendment to the Lease Agreement between A Safe Haven Foundation and the CHA to extend the
term of the lease through December 31, 2016, approves a 5% rent increase from a monthly amount of
$16,344.87 to $17,162.11 during the term of the Third Amendment to the Lease Agreement, and
approves other related expenses. CHA’s lease for the current location of the HCV West Office
commenced March 1, 2010. In late 2014, CHA began seeking a new location to lease for the HCV
West Office. However, at this time, CHA is also exploring the option of purchasing a building to house
the HCV West Office. As such, CHA needs additional time to finalize the location and retrofit the
building as may be necessary. A Safe Haven Foundation has agreed to extend the lease with CHA to
cover the time period from March 1, 2016 through December 31, 2016, giving CHA an additional 10
months to move from the current location. A Safe Haven Foundation proposes increasing the base
monthly rent by 5% from the monthly rent in the Second Amendment. An additional $1,300.00 is
being budgeted to cover additional fees, including maintenance fees, per the terms of the current Lease
Agreement.

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2016-CHA-28
the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated March 25, 2016
entitled “REQUEST FOR AUTHORIZATION TO EXECUTE A THIRD
AMENDMENT TO OFFICE SPACE LEASE BETWEEN A SAFE HAVEN
FOUNDATION AND CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY”;
4

 THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designees
to execute a Third Amendment to the Lease Agreement between A Safe Haven and
the Chicago Housing Authority extending the term of the lease from March 1, 2016
through December 31, 2016 and approve a 5% increase in the monthly base rent to
$17,162.11. The Total Gross Base Rent amount for this extension period is in an
amount not-to-exceed $171,621.10 and $1,300.00 for any fees assessed for additional
services or other related expenses as provided for in the Lease, for a total amount notto-exceed $172,921.10.

(Item 5)
The resolution for Item 5 authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to participate in the
New York City Housing Authority (NYCHA) agreement with The Gordian Group for a base term of
two and one-half years with a one (1) one-year option in a not-to-exceed amount of $2,575,000 for the
base term and $1,035,000 for the option year, to implement and manage a Section 3 Job Order
Contracting (JOC) Mentoring Program. In June 2015, NYCHA issued a competitive RFP to seek a
single qualified consultant to develop, implement, and support a JOC program and rapidly engage
construction contractors to perform single or multiple construction projects simultaneously. In
September 2015, NYCHA entered into a contract with The Gordian Group to provide the
aforementioned services. NYCHA and The Gordian Group entered into a three-year contract with the
option for two (2) one-year renewals. The contract is currently in its first base year.
NYCHAs contract with The Gordian Group substantially fulfills CHA’s needs. The CHA, in
conjunction with The Gordian Group, will develop a Request for Proposals (RFP) in which certified
Section 3 Contractors meeting a predefined set of minimum requirements will be qualified and
awarded a Job Order Contract with CHA. During performance of the work, Contractors will be
assigned projects whose size and scope are within the Contractor’s designated tier. The goal of the
tiered program is to increase the Contractor’s ability to perform a higher volume of increasingly more
complex projects. The goal is to improve a Contractor’s ability to perform and graduate through the
tiers. The Gordian Group will provide contractors with technical assistance and training to scope and
bid projects using their pre-priced construction and repair book. Learning skills like these is necessary
for the Section 3 businesses to be able to grow, compete, and bid projects on their own. The Gordian
Group will mentor the Contractors by assisting with all activities through the procurement of each
project. In addition to training the Contractors on the Job Order Contracting system, the eGordian®
Management Software, and the use of the Construction Task Catalog®, mentoring activities for
individual projects may include: participating in the Joint Scope Meeting; assisting with finalizing the
Scope of Work; assisting with the preparation of the Job Order Proposal and data entry into the
eGordian® Management Software.

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2016-CHA-29
the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board letter dated March 25, 2016 entitled: AUTHORIZATION TO PARTICIPATE
ON NEW YORK CITY HOUSING AUTHORITY AGREEMENT WITH THE
GORDIAN GROUP TO PROVIDE PROFESSIONAL SERVICES TO MANAGE
SECTION 3 JOB ORDER CONTRACTING (JOC) MENTORING PROGRAM;

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to
participate on New York City Housing Authority agreement with The Gordian Group
for a base term of two and one-half years with a one (1) one-year option in a not-to5

 exceed amount of $2,575,000 for the base term and $1,035,000 for the option year to
implement and manage a Section 3 Job Order Contracting (JOC) Mentoring Program.
This award is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s
MBE/WBE/DBE/ Section 3 hiring and insurance requirements.

(Item 6)
The resolution for Item 5 approves the 2015 Senior Designated Housing Plan Amendment which
includes: modifying the process by which buildings become reduced age; transition buildings to
reduced age with occupancy rates lower than 90% for 12 months; adding senior designation status to
three new properties (Rosenwald Courts, Fannie Emanuel, and Presbyterian Homes) and offering
additional assessment and referral opportunities to promote the health and safety of residents. Public
Housing Authorities have the ability to designate buildings for seniors through HUD approval of a
Senior Designated Housing Plan. An approved plan remains in effect or may be amended every five
years. CHA’s most recent SDHP Amendment was approved in 2010. A public comment period for
the 2015 SDHP Amendment occurred from October 19 to November 18, 2015. During this 30-day
period, residents and the community at large had the opportunity to review and submit comments on
proposed updates to the plan and participate in three evening public hearing sessions. The comment
period was extended an additional 30 days and closed on December 18, 2015. Two additional midmorning public comment hearings were conducted on December 8th and 11th to accommodate the
needs of CHA’s senior residents. Information regarding the public comment process was available on
CHA’s website, CHA and HCV Administrative Offices, distributed to CHA Property Managers, and
was advertised in the Chicago Defender, Chicago Sun-Times, and Hoy newspapers. Consideration
was given to comments provided during the public comment period.
RESOLUTION NO. 2016-CHA-30
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated March 25, 2016
entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO APPROVE THE 2015 SENIOR DESIGNATED
HOUSING PLAN AMENDMENT “;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer, or his designee, to
approve the 2015 Senior Designated Housing Plan Amendment, attached hereto.

(Item 7 – This Number Not Used)

(Item 8)
The resolution for Item 8 amends Resolution No. CHA-2015-42; and authorize the Chief Executive
Officer or his designee to execute a Housing Assistance Payments Contract (HAP) with 3714 West
Wrightwood LLC. This amendment identifies the legal owner of the property located at 3714 W.
Wrightwood, Chicago, Illinois. The previous board letter stated that the property was purchased by the
developer, Data Properties, Inc. However, the deed to the property states that title is vested in 3714
West Wrightwood LLC. An ownership interest in both companies is held by the same person. This
board resolution has been modified to indicate the correct legal owner of the property.
RESOLUTION 2016-CHA-31
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the Board
letter dated March 25, 2016 requesting authorization to amend resolution # CHA-20156

 42 to correct the named owner entity of the property located at 3714 W. Wrightwood
and execute a Housing Assistance Payments Contract (HAP) with 3714 West
Wrightwood LLC;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners approves this resolution to 1) amend Resolution No.
CHA-2015-42; and 2) authorize the Acting Chief Executive Officer (CEO) or his
designee to execute a Housing Assistance Payments Contract (HAP) with 3714 West
Wrightwood LLC; and 3) execute all other documents as may be necessary or
appropriate to implement the foregoing.

(Item 9)
The resolution for Item 9 approves the execution of a Housing Assistance Payments Contract (HAP)
for Crestwood Apartments. Crestwood Apartments is an existing 6-story elevator building containing
57 units in the Austin community area consisting of 40 studios, 16 one-bedrooms and 1 two-bedroom
unit; The building is currently in CHA’s Moderate Rehabilitation (Mod Rehab) portfolio. 54 of the 57
total units are under a one-year HAP contract, dating back to 1983. The original 15-year HAP contract
expired in 1998. The owner of Crestwood Apartments submitted a PRA application and was
recommended by the PRA evaluation committee to receive housing payment assistance with a 15-year
project-based voucher HAP Contract. The owner has elected to accept the project-based voucher
assistance and opt out of the Mod Rehab contract. HUD will issue tenant protection vouchers which
existing tenants can use to stay at the building or elect to move; Building amenities include a
community room and multi-purpose room for tenant meetings and social functions, laundry facilities,
storage space and on-site property management. William Todd, the principal of Glaucoma Venture
Corporation, has owned and operated the property since 1970. The property manager, Anne Shank,
who is a certified property manager has been in business for over 30 years and has managed
Crestwood Apartments since 1990. The property consistently receives high scores for property
management in CHA’s Asset Management Reviews. The building is currently fully occupied and
current tenants who wish to remain at the property will be allowed to do so. At turnover, it is the intent
of the owner/manager of Crestwood Apartments to lease all of the PRA-assisted units to eligible
seniors from CHA’s Public Housing and PRA waiting lists as well as to families whose right of return
under the Relocation Rights Contract has not been satisfied. CHA’s waiting lists will be exhausted
prior to utilization of a site-based waiting list.

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION 2016-CHA-32
the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board letter dated March 25, 2016 requesting authorization to execute a Housing
Assistance Payments contract for Crestwood Apartments;

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to
execute a Housing Assistance Payments contract for Crestwood Apartments.

(Item 10)
The resolution for Item 1 authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to enter into a Master
Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) with the Public Building Commission of Chicago (PBC) to
7

 implement certain acquisition, construction, demolition, rehabilitation, renovation activities and/or
other projects on behalf of CHA. The Parties understand and agree that the PBC is not entitled, nor is
the CHA obligated, to assign to the PBC any project(s) solely by entering into this Master IGA. This
Agreement is intended to generally govern relations between the CHA and the PBC in connection with
any Projects that may actually be assigned to the PBC. Compensation to the PBC shall be negotiated,
subject to HUD approval, and based on actual Projects performed and completed. The CHA shall not
be obligated to pay for any Projects not undertaken and performed in compliance with this Agreement
and the project-specific documents that are authorized pursuant to this Agreement. Any activity
requested or Project assigned by CHA to the PBC shall be subject to prior CHA Board authorization.
The CHA would require PBC to adhere to the HUD Section 3 requirements, CHA MBE/WBE/DBE
policy as well as applicable HUD procurement requirements and other HUD required contract
documentation and provisions for any projects, contracts and subcontracts initiated under this Master
IGA.
RESOLUTION NO. 2016-CHA-33
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated March 25, 2016
entitled “Authorization to: 1) Enter into a Master Intergovernmental Agreement with
the Public Building Commission of Chicago and 2) Execute and deliver such other
documents and perform such actions as may be necessary or appropriate to implement
the foregoing.”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to:
1) Enter into a Master Intergovernmental Agreement with the Public Building
Commission of Chicago and 2) Execute and deliver such other documents and perform
such actions as may be necessary or appropriate to implement the foregoing.
Any activity requested or Project assigned by CHA to the PBC shall be subject to prior
CHA Board authorization.

(Item 11)
The resolution for Item 11 approves the FY2015 Moving to Work (MTW) Annual Report and grants
authorization to submit the document to HUD for approval. CHA and HUD signed the original Moving
to Work (MTW) Agreement on February 6, 2000 which allowed CHA to implement the original Plan
for Transformation. CHA’s Amended and Restated MTW Agreement with HUD was fully executed on
June 26, 2008 which extended CHA’s participation in the MTW Demonstration Program through
FY2018. CHA will continue to pursue the three statutory objectives of the MTW Demonstration
Program: MTW Statutory Objective I: Increase housing choices for low-income families; MTW
Statutory Objective II: Give incentives to families with children where the head of household is
working, seeking work, or is preparing for work by participating in job training, educational programs,
or programs that assist people to obtain employment and become economically self-sufficient; MTW
Statutory Objective III: Reduce costs and achieve greater cost effectiveness in federal expenditures. As
part of the MTW Agreement, CHA is required to submit an Annual Report to HUD, due 90 days after
the end of the fiscal year. The FY2015 MTW Annual Report provides information necessary for HUD
to assess CHA’s performance in FY2015 regarding both operations and activities authorized by the
MTW Demonstration Program.

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2016-CHA-34
the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated March 25, 2016
requesting approval of the FY2015 Moving to Work Annual Report, attached hereto;
8

 THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the attached FY2015 Moving to Work
Annual Report and grants authorization to the Chief Executive Officer, the Board
Chairperson, or their designee to make any final updates as deemed necessary.

THAT

the Board of Commissioners grants authorization to submit the FY2015 Moving to
Work Annual Report to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development on
March 31, 2016. Such approval shall constitute conclusive evidence of the Board’s
approval of any and all such updates.

The Motion to adopt resolution for Items 4 through 6 and Items 8 through 11 was seconded by
Commissioner Reidy and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Matthew Brewer
Craig Chico
Dr. Mildred Harris
John Hooker
Jack Markowski
Bridget Reidy

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, Chairman Hooker thereupon declared said Motion carried and
said resolutions adopted.
Jack Markowski, Chairman of the Finance & Audit committee, then presented his report. Per
Commissioner Markowski, the Finance & Audit committee met on Friday, March 25, 2016 at
approximately 8:00 a.m. at the CHA’s Corporate Office. Commissioner Markowski chaired the
meeting and the following committee members were present as well: Commissioners Brewer and
Harris. Present also but not counted for the quorum were Chairman Hooker and Vice-Chairman Chico.
The Finance & Audit committee members then voted to adjourn to closed session to discuss certain
audit reviews and investigatory matters with the Internal Auditors and Inspector General. Committee
members then returned to Open Session and discussed, voted and recommend for approval the three
items listed on the Finance & Audit committee agenda.
On behalf of the Finance & Audit committee, Commissioner Markowski presented an Omnibus
Motion for the approval of Items 12, 13 and 14.
(Item 12)
The resolution for Item 12 authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to purchase
insurance coverage for CHA's Property Managers' Insurance Program (PMIP) through its insurance
broker of record, Arthur J Gallagher & Company (AJG), for the period of April 1, 2016 through March
31, 2017 for an aggregate amount not-to-exceed $844,270 as follows: (1) Primary General Liability
coverage written through First Specialty/Swiss Re American Holding in an amount not-to-exceed
$414,800; (2) Umbrella Liability coverage written through First Specialty/Swiss Re American Holding
in an amount not-to-exceed $321,470; and (3) Excess Liability written through Allied Word Assurance
Company (“AWAC”) in an amount not-to-exceed $108,000. The CHA must annually renew its
insurance coverage for the PMIP. The aggregate limit of coverage, $22 million, is constructed using 3
different layers of coverage: (1) primary general liability up to $2 million; (2) umbrella liability, which
9

 provides coverage in the $2 million – $12 million layer; and (3) excess liability, which provides
coverage in excess over the $12 million - $22 million layer. The Authority utilizes a commercial
insurance brokerage firm to place all of its Property & Casualty insurance coverages. This is the first
insurance placement conducted by Arthur J Gallagher, our new broker of record. The broker for the
previous ten years was Aon Risk Services.

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2016-CHA-35
the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board letter dated March 25, 2016 entitled: AUTHORIZATION TO AWARD
CONTRACTS FOR PROPERTY MANAGERS’ INSURANCE PROGRAM
COVERAGE TO FIRST SPECIALTY / SWISS RE AMERICAN HOLDING FOR
GENERAL LIABILITY AND UMBRELLA LIABILITY COVERAGE, AND
ALLIED WORLD ASSURANCE COMPANY (AWAC) FOR EXCESS LIABILITY,
FOR THE PERIOD OF APRIL 1, 2016 – MARCH 31, 2017, IN AN AGGREGATE
AMOUNT NOT-TO-EXCEED $844,270.

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to
purchase the insurance coverage for CHA's Property Managers' Insurance Program
("PMIP") through its insurance broker of record, Arthur J Gallagher & Company
(“AJG”), for the period of April 1, 2016 through March 31, 2017 for an aggregate
amount not-to-exceed $844,270 broken down as follows: (1) Primary General
Liability coverage written through First Specialty/Swiss Re American Holding in an
amount not-to-exceed $414,800; (2) Umbrella Liability coverage written through First
Specialty/Swiss Re American Holding in an amount not-to-exceed $321,470; and (3)
Excess Liability written through Allied Word Assurance Company (“AWAC”) in an
amount not-to-exceed $108,000.
This award is not subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s
MBE/WBE/DBE/ Section 3 and insurance requirements.

(Item 13)
The resolution for Item 13 authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to participate in the
City of Chicago’s contract with CDW Government LLC (CDW) for Enterprise Hardware, Software
and Technology Consulting Services in an amount not-to-exceed $3.6 million for a requested base
term of eighteen (18) months, plus additional option terms consistent with City ‘s reserved extension
options under the Agreement. The CHA seeks to leverage the purchasing power of the City of
Chicago and Cook County’s joint procurement to obtain the same advantageous discount levels for
various goods and services which were secured under the City’s Agreement. CHA will utilize the
blanket purchase agreement to refresh select enterprise hardware and software. The CHA’s
infrastructure consist of four primary areas: Network/telecommunications, Information systems
software/application, Desktop and general computing support, and Video Surveillance.
RESOLUTION NO. 2016-CHA-36
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the Board
letter dated March 25, 2016 entitled: AUTHORIZATION TO Participate IN the city
of Chicago’s contract with CDW GOVERNMENT LLC FOR ENTERPRISE
HARDWARE, SOFTWARE, AND TECHNOLOGY CONSULTING SERVICES
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
10

 THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to
participate in the City of Chicago’s Contract Number 26959 with CDW Government
LLC, for Enterprise Hardware, Software and Technology Consulting Services in an
amount not-to-exceed $3.6 million for a requested base term of eighteen (18) months,
plus additional option terms consistent with City‘s reserved extension options under the
Agreement, which collectively shall not exceed five (5) years in total for any CHA
purposes.
This award is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s applicable
MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 hiring and insurance requirements.

(Item 14)
The resolution for Item 14 authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to participate in the
State of Illinois VMware Statewide Master Contract with Presidio Networked Solutions, LLC for
VMware software maintenance/support, training and services in an amount not-to-exceed $1.6 million
for a requested base term of one year, plus any additional option terms consistent with the State ‘s
reserved extension options under the Agreement. CHA’s participation under the agreement will be
used to implement a cloud-based disaster recovery solution. Cloud-based solutions are scalable, costeffective and easy to deploy.
RESOLUTION NO. 2016-CHA-37
WHEREAS,

the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board letter dated March 25, 2016 entitled: AUTHORIZATION TO PARTICIPATE
IN THE STATE OF ILLINOIS VMWARE STATEWIDE MASTER CONTRACT
WITH PRESIDIO NETWORKED SOLUTIONS, LLC FOR VMWARE
SOFTWARE, MAINTENANCE/SUPPORT, TRAINING AND SERVICES.

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee
to enter contract with Presidio Networked Solutions LLC, participating on the State
of Illinois Statewide Master Contract Number CMS2652930A for VMware software
maintenance/support, training and services in an amount not-to-exceed $1.6 million
for a requested base term of one (1) year, plus additional option terms consistent with
the State‘s reserved extension options under the Agreement, which collectively shall
not exceed five (5) years in total for any CHA purposes.
This award is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s
MBE/WBE/DBE/ Section 3 hiring and insurance requirements.

The Motion to adopt the resolutions for Item 12, 13 and 14 was seconded by Commissioner Reidy and
the voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Matthew Brewer
Craig Chico
Dr. Mildred Harris
John Hooker
Jack Markowski
Bridget Reidy
11

 Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, Chairman Hooker thereupon declared said Motion carried and
said resolution adopted
Chairman Hooker then presented commissioners and the public with an overview of his CHA
activities.
Eugene Jones, Chief Executive Officer, then presented his monthly report to the Commissioners.
Chairman Hooker then invited residents and the public at large to address the Board.
At the conclusion of public testimony, upon Motion made by Chairman Hooker and properly seconded
by Commissioner Washington, the Commissioners adjourned to Closed Session. Chairman Hooker
announced that pursuant to the Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2, the Board would adjourn for
approximately 15 minutes to discuss personnel related matters; purchase, sale and lease of real estate
property; pending, probable or imminent litigation; review of closed meeting minutes and audit
reviews.
The Commissioners subsequently reconvened in Open Session at approximately 11:25 a.m.
Chairman Hooker called the meeting to order and upon roll call those present and absent were as
follows:
Present:
Matthew Brewer
Craig Chico
Dr. Mildred Harris
John Hooker
Jack Markowski
Bridget Reidy
Absent:

Mark Cozzi
Harriet Johnson
Francine Washington

There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as follows:
Chairman Hooker announced that during closed session, commissioners discussed matters related to
Items 15 and 16.
Commissioner Chico then presented an Omnibus Motion for the approval of Items 15 and 16.
(Item 15)
RESOLUTION NO. 2016-CHA-38
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated March 25, 2016
entitled “Request for authorization to commit CHA funds in an amount not to exceed up
to $1,392,000 for rehabilitation and relocation costs and operating reserves associated
with the acquisition of 5253 W. Deming as part of the Real Estate Acquisition Program
(REAP).”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
12

 THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee or
his designee to commit CHA funds in an amount not to exceed up to $1,392,000 for
rehabilitation and relocation costs and operating reserves associated with the acquisition
of 5253 W. Deming as part of the Real Estate Acquisition Program (REAP).

(Item 16)
The resolution for Item 16 approves and ratifies the following personnel actions: offer of employment
to four applicants; promotion of three employees and termination of one employee.

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2016–CHA-39
the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated March 25, 2016,
entitled “Approval of Personnel Actions”:

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the requested personnel actions.

The Motion to adopt the resolutions for Items 15 and 16 was seconded by Commissioner Brewer and
the voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Matthew Brewer
Craig Chico
Dr. Mildred Harris
John Hooker
Jack Markowski
Bridget Reidy
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, Chairman Hooker thereupon declared said Motion carried and
said resolutions adopted.
There being no further business to come before the Commissioners, upon Motion made and seconded,
the special board meeting of March 25, 2016, was adjourned.

s/b:

Chairman John Hooker
Chicago Housing Authority

s/b:
Lee Chuc-Gill, Secretary
Custodian and Keeper of Records

13

 