CHANGE.

CHICAGO 1101.151th AUTHORFW

November 14,2012 ITEM NO. Fl

 

AUTHORIZATION TO ENTER INTO A CONTRACT WITH CATALYST
CONSULTING GROUP TO IMPLEMENT A SHAREPOINT ENTERPRISE CONTENT
MANAGEMENT SYSTEM

To the Honorable Board of Commissioners:

RECO NDATION

It is recommended that the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into a contract with Catalyst for the implementation of a SharePoint Enterprise
Content Management System in an amount not-to-exceed $4,231,168 for the implementation and
two (2) one-year maintenance and support options.

The Executive Vice President (EVP) of Finance, the Office of the General Counsel and the
Office of Procurement have completed all necessary due diligence to support the submission of
this initiative and recommend the approval of this item accordingly.

CORPQRATE GOAL
0 Streamline operations to make CHA more customer-focused and ef?cient.

The CHA generates large amounts of electronic and paper records annually in support of its
paper-driven, manual processes. This project will enable the CHA to leverage its investment in
the Microsoft SharePoint platform by integrating a SharePoint Enterprise Content Management
System (ECMS) solution to meet its growing content management and business process support
needs. A new SharePoint ECMS solution will provide the complete functionality of automated
records management systems and transform enterprise-based, manual processes into automated
?ows.

FUNDING: General Fund, Fiscal Year 2012 2013

SOLICITATION SUMMARY

Speci?cation No.: RFP 12-00934

Vendor: Catalyst Consulting Group, Inc.
Travis Bloom?eld
211 West Wacker Drive, Suite 450
Chicago, Illinois 60606

Contract Type: Professional Services Solicitation Release Date: May 28, 2012
Base Contract Amount: 3,735,000.00 Days Advertised: 30

Base Contract Period: 2 Years (Implementation) Addendum/a: 3
Maintenance/Support Options: Two (2) One Year Options

Publication(s): Chicago Sun-times, Pre-Bid/Proposal Date: May 31, 2012
Chicago Defender, Extra Solicitation Due Date: June 29, 2012
Vendor List: Four Hundred (400) Assist Agencies: Sixty-Four (64)
Pick-up List: Forty-Four (44) Respondents: Four (4)

50 Van Bum: Street - Chicago, Illinois 56505-1207 - (312) 742-3580 - Mammary

 Participation:

Direct:

MBE 
Indirect:

MBE 
Waiver ?(Yes/No)

Section 3:
Hiring Subcontracting Other Economic Opportunities (S)

GENERAL BACKGROUND

Currently, the ileNet system is primarily used as a document repository. Quillix
Capture Software is used with FileNet to capture, scan and index paper documents, such as
forms, correspondence, applications, and customer?related information. The version of FileNet
currently in use at the CHA (Version 3.0) has not been upgraded to the latest supported version.
current maintenance plan is on a calendar year renewal. On two occasions the CHA has
generated an RFP attempting to upgrade the FileNet system. The vendors? upgrade approach
posed a high risk to the live data. The cost was also high and CHA subsequently pursued
an alternative ECM solution based upon Microsoft?s SharePoint software.

The business processes have evolved considerably since the initial document
management implementation of the FileNet system and the system?s con?gured indexes no
longer align optimally with changes to the business processes. As a result, the CHA
reviewed the actual use of the document management system and solicited possible
enhancements that might be needed and work ?ow requirements from the user
community.

In order to better manage its information assets and achieve ef?ciencies in its business processes,
the CHA seeks to implement a new SharePoint Enterprise Content Management System solution
that provides the complete functionality of automated records management systems (capture,
index, store, track, retrieve, archive, dispose and report) and transforms enterprise-based, manual
processes into automated ?ows. The recommendation is to move forward with the SharePoint
ECMS solution that includes KnowledgeLake?s ECM and K2?s work ?ow software. This
solution will provide the following:

KnowledgeLake software includes:

0 Imaging server software that will transform SharePoint into a production ECM system.

0 Capture module is the low to high volume (batch) production-level scanning solution that
makes it easy for employees to electronically share their documents securely.

0 Capture sewer allows for easy and cost-effective scanning and saving of documents to
SharePoint using o?ice copiers, multi-function devices, fax servers and network
scanners.

0 Connect module enables users to easily upload ?les in seconds, without having to open
SharePoint.

KnowledgeLake Unify module brings SharePoint content to business applications to
enable users to search, reference and archive documents in SharePoint without leaving
familiar business applications.

1.9-3; 1T3 32 ?5538 - Wit-719' 

 KnowledgeLake Advanced Capture module is an intelligent, accurate and scalable
automated document processing solution that helps businesses across the industry
spectrum.

K2 blackpearl software includes:

0 Visual tools to automate business processes, such as document approval, employee
onboarding or inventory control.

0 Complete work?ow and business process management platform that includes: designer,
work?ow designer for K2 and SharePoint forms, K2 Studio and K2 Designer for Visual
Studio.

The Board action recommended in this item complies in all material respects with all applicable
Chicago Housing Authority board policies and all applicable federal (HUD) procurement laws.

The EVP of Finance concurs with the recommendation to enter into a two (2) year base term
contract with Catalyst to implement a SharePoint Enterprise Content Management System
solution, with up to two (2) one-year support and maintenance options.

The CHA recommends the approval to enter into a contract with Catalyst for a two (2) year base
term to implement a SharePoint Enterprise Content Management System solution, with up to two
(2) one-year maintenance and support options reserved to the CHA.

RESOLUTION NO. 2012-CHA-99

WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated November 14,

2012, entitled TO ENTER INTO A CONTRACT WITH
CATALYST CONSULTING GROUP TO IMPLEMENT A SHAREPOINT
ENTERPRISE CONTENT MANAGEMENT 

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY

THAT

the Board of Commissioners (?Board?) authorizes the Chief Executive Of?cer or
his designee to enter into a contract with Catalyst Consulting Group to implement
a SharePoint Enterprise Content Management System in an amount not to exceed
$4,231,168.00, including two (2) one year maintenance and support options.

These awards are subject to each Contractor?s compliance with the 

Section 3 resident hiring, and bonding and insurance
requirements.


NOV 25 2mg

     
       
   

 

Board oi Commissioners

69 Van Bum!) Street - Ohlcuga Illinois 66605-1207 - (312/ 742-8560- mom-Mary

