MINUTES OF THE ANNUAL AND REGULAR MEETING
OF THE
COMMISSIONERS OF THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
July 21, 2009
The Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority held its 72nd Annual and Regular Meeting
of the Board of Commissioners on Tuesday, July 21, 2009, at approximately 8:40 a.m. at
Flannery Apartments, 1507-31 North Clybourn, Chicago, IL.
Chairman Nesbitt called the meeting to order and upon roll call, those present and absent were as
follows:
Present:
Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Bridget O’Keefe
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young
Absent:

None

Also present were Lewis Jordan, Chief Executive officer; Kris Warren, Executive Vice President
for Asset Management; Scott Ammarell, General Counsel; Chicago Housing Authority Staff
Members and the General Public.
There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as
follows:
The Chairperson announced that pursuant to the Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2, the Board
would adjourn for approximately half hour to possibly discuss pending, probable or imminent
litigation, personnel related matters; collective negotiating matters, purchase sale and lease of
real estate property; establishment of reserves and settlement of claims.
At approximately 9:30 a.m., the Chairman then convened the Public Hearing portion of the
meeting by presenting his Annual Report.
Chairman Nesbitt, welcomed staff, residents and the public at large to the 72st Annual Meeting of
the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority. The Chairman’s reported on the
progress made to date and the opportunities and challenges that await in the future. Per the
Chairman, progress at the CHA is measured within the framework of the Plan for
Transformation with its measurable goals of reintegrating CHA properties and leaseholders into
the fabric of the city, and therefore, improving the future of residents and neighborhoods alike.
Chairman Nesbitt reminded the public that this year marks the 10th Anniversary of the Plan and
with the help of the City, the federal government and philanthropic and development partners, a
great deal of progress has been made. Chairman Nesbitt continued by saying that instead of
celebrating, his administration envision this year as a time of reflection on what has worked well,
what has not and what can be done better to direct the future of housing, urban and federal
policy. Chairman Nesbitt then highlighted projects to be funded under the stimulus grants and
concluded his report by acknowledging the hard work of CHA staff, the City, the State, nonprofit community organizations, elected officials, residents and community leaders for the
progress made to date.
Immediately following Chairman’s Nesbitt report, Mr. Lewis Jordan, Chief Executive Officer
presented his monthly report. Mr. Jordan welcomed the public at large to celebrate the official
re-opening of the Flannery Apartments which serves as a reminder of how working together
CHA and its partners have transformed a great difficulty into a great opportunity. Mr. Jordan
reminded the public of the devastating fire that caused the closure of one of the most well known
senior housing complexes in the City, and announced that the transformation at Flannery is a
proud testament to CHA’s Plan For Transformation, which is rebuilding and rehabilitating public

 housing units for families and seniors throughout Chicago. Mr. Jordan then highlighted the
accomplishments of his administration to date in an effort to move the Plan for Transformation
forward and reiterated his commitment to making the Plan a success.
Donna Dixon, Director of Senior Programs then presented the public with a historical
perspective on Flannery. Mr. Jim Miller of Hollabird & Root followed with an overview of the
extensive renovation involved in rebuilding the Flannery Apartments.
On behalf of the CHA Board and Staff, Commissioners Amey, Harris and Young were presented
with a bouquet of flowers commemorating their 10 Year Anniversary as CHA Commissioners.
Commissioner O’Keefe was then presented with the attached resolution, a Star Performer Award
and a bouquet of flowers due to her impending resignation as Commissioner of the CHA Board
to be effective July 31, 2009. Commissioner O’Keefe was commended, lauded, applauded and
acknowledged for her leadership in her services as Chairperson of the Finance Committee and as
a member of the Audit Committee.
The Chairperson then invited residents and the public at large to address the Board.
Immediately following public participation, the Chairperson thereupon called for nominations
for the position of Custodian and Keeper of Records aka Secretary of the CHA Board of
Commissioners. A Motion was made by Commissioner O’Keefe and properly seconded by
Commissioner Young to nominate Lee Chuc-Gill for the position of Custodian and Keeper of
Records, Secretary. There being no other nomination on the slate, nominations were closed and
the voting resulted in unanimous approval for the re-election of Lee Chuc-Gill as Custodian and
Keeper of Records/Secretary, Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority.
Upon Motion made and properly seconded the Minutes for Regular Meeting of January 14 and
February 17, 2009 were unanimously approved.
Commissioner Ivers then introduced a Motion to approve the following resolution for Executive
Session Item 1:
Executive Session Item 1
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-81
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated July 1, 2009, requesting that the Board of Commissioners
approves the Personnel Actions Report for June 2009.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the Personnel Actions Report for
June 2009.

The Motion to adopt resolution for Executive Session Items 1 was seconded by Commissioner
Young and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Bridget O’Keefe
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young
Nays:

None

The Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried and said Resolutions adopted.
General Item 1
The resolution for General Item approves and allows CHA to form separate instrumentalities to
pursue opportunities available through HUD and elsewhere regarding: possible acquisition of
real estate related to public housing units; possible administration of regulated services to other
Public Housing Authorities; and other opportunities as a means of increasing both non-federal

 and federal funding sources. Some instrumentalities will create opportunities to provide services
in a variety of ways which are intended to be self sustaining revenue sources. The goal is to have
the instrumentality create an income stream that is lucrative enough to sustain the
instrumentality’s operations, as well as provide funding to support CHA’s central office
operations and other non-profit instrumentalities that bolster resident services and community
contributions. CHA shall not have any such instrumentality created pursuant to this Resolution to
perform or conduct any specific services or activities without obtaining prior approval by the
Board of Commissioners pursuant to CHA’s Significant Action Policy.
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-82
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated July 21, 2009,
entitled “Approval to Allow CHA to Form Separate Instrumentalities to Pursue
Various Sources of Both Non-Federal and Federal Funding”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Authority to form separate
instrumentalities for initiatives involving opportunities through HUD and
elsewhere as a means to increase both non-federal and federal funding, provided
that the Authority shall not have such instrumentality perform or conduct any
services or activities without obtaining prior approval by the Board of
Commissioners. The creation of such instrumentalities will advance CHA’s
ability to address the Strategic Plan Critical Success Factor-Increase Non-Federal
and Federal Funding Sources to Accelerate the Plan for Transformation.

The Motion to adopt resolution for General Item 1 was seconded by Commissioner Ponce and
the voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Bridget O’Keefe
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young
Nays:

None

The Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried and said Resolutions adopted.
Commissioner Michael Ivers, Chairman of the Finance and Audit Committee, then presented his
monthly report. Per Commissioner Ivers, the Finance and Audit committee held its regular
meeting on Wednesday, July 15, 2009 at the 60 East Van Buren Corporate Office. Mike
Gurgone, Treasurer, presented the Committee with the Treasury and Cash Flow Report for the
month of June 2009. Commissioner Ivers then introduced an Omnibus Motion for adoption of
the Resolutions for Items A1 thru A5 discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by
the Finance and Audit Committee.
(Item A1)
The resolution for Item A1 approves the Revised 2009 Comprehensive Budget. The FY2009
budgeted expenditures have been revised from $911,368,182 to $944,326,581, resulting in a
$32,958,399 increase. The major changes by funding source are as follows: General Fund - total
revenues and associated expenditures increased by $19,776,370 for a fund total of $894,419,602.
The change reflects the replacement of boilers at various CHA Senior Housing sites. This revision
also reflects a rate increase for Housing Assistance Payments under the HCV Program. Section 8
Non-MTW Fund – the budget remained unchanged at $5,798,259. Hope VI - revenues and
associated expenditures decreased by $4,160,928 for a fund total of $22,133,744. The decrease is
primarily due to the changes in the closing schedules for Madden Wells, Rockwell Gardens, Cabrini,
Robert Taylor and Abla properties. City/State - budget remained unchanged at $1,188,829. Other
Funding - the total revenues and associated expenditures increased by $17,342,957 for a fund total of
$20,786,147. The increase reflects planned boiler replacements at various CHA Senior Housing
sites.

 RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-83
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board letter dated July 15, 2009,
entitled “APPROVAL OF THE REVISED FY2009 COMPREHENSIVE
BUDGET”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners, hereby approves the attached budget amendments,
“THE FY2009 COMPREHENSIVE BUDGET AMENDMENT #2”, and finds
with respect to said Budget:
1.

2.

3.

THAT,

that the proposed expenditures are necessary for the efficient and
economical operation of the Chicago Housing Authority for the purpose of
serving low-income families;
that the financial plan is reasonable in that it indicates funding sources
adequate to cover all proposed expenditures, and does not provide for use
of Federal funding in excess of that payable under the provisions of the
applicable Federal regulations; and
that all proposed rental charges and expenditures will be consistent with
provisions of law and the Annual Contributions Contract in accordance
with the Amended and Restated Moving to Work Demonstration
Agreement of the Chicago Housing Authority with the U.S. Department of
Housing and Urban Development.

the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer are authorized to execute
and forward to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development all
necessary budget documents and supporting information when applicable.

(Item A2)
The CHA advertised a Request for Proposal for Issuer’s Counsel and/or Bond Counsel in
February 2009 in area newspapers and the Law Bulletin. Of the four proposals received for
Bond Counsel and four for Issuer’s Counsel all firms were asked to come in for oral
presentations. Based upon the review of the proposals, the information gathered in the oral
presentations. and the best and final offers, the evaluation committee determined that Ice Miller,
LLP for Bond Counsel and Mayer Brown, LLP for Issuer’s Counsel were best suited to provide
the respective services due to their ability to best meet the Authority’s needs. Ice Miller, LLP is a
nationally known law firm with a significant Chicago presence that specializes in the area of
housing finance. The firm has represented many public housing authorities on a variety of issues,
including bond issues, real estate, employment and business operations. Mayer Brown, LLP is
also a nationally known law firm with a significant Chicago presence that specializes in the area
of housing finance. Since 2004, Mayer Brown, LLP has served as outside counsel to the CHA on
matters related to the areas of contracts, real estate, finance and general corporate services.
Additionally, the firm has served as underwriter’s counsel in the issuance of approximately $24
million in CHA multi-family housing revenue bonds. The Authority’s Capital Improvement Plan
may involve one or more sales totaling in the aggregate between $50 million and $300 million of
the Multi-family Revenue or Governmental Purpose Bonds, which may be publicly issued or
privately placed over the next two years. Accordingly, the resolution for Item A2 approves
award of contract to Ice Miller, LLP and Mayer Brown, LLP.
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-84
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed
Board Letter dated July 15, 2009 entitled “Authorization to enter into Professional
Services Contracts with Mayer Brown, LLP to serve as Issuer’s Counsel and Ice
Miller, LLP to serve as Bond Counsel”.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into Professional Services Contracts with Mayer Brown, LLP to
provide services as Issuer’s Counsel for a two year base term with a one-year
option and Ice Miller, LLP to provide services as Bond Counsel, for a two-year
period with a one-year option.

 (Item A3)
Since the CHA utilizes the EDMS / FileNet application extensively in its daily operations, in
May 2009, the CHA advertised a Request for Proposals (RFP) in area newspapers to solicit
proposals for FileNet Upgrade Professional Services. The proposal was also sent to thirty
vendors and forty-four Assist Agencies. The CHA received two proposals in response to the
RFP. Both proposals were deemed responsive, however based on the recommendation of the
evaluation committee Crowe Horwath offered the most services at the lowest price, including:
(1) the most efficient and comprehensive FileNet Upgrade packet which minimizes project costs
and risks to the CHA; (2) ongoing training and updates necessary for the FileNet Upgrade to
move from 3.5 to 4.5 environment; and (3) customized solutions to help ensure objective and
consistent reports throughout the upgrade. Crowe Horwath’s proposal was determined to provide
the best price and overall value to the CHA. Accordingly, the resolution for Item A3 approves
award of contract to Crowe Horwath for Filenet Upgrade Professional Services.
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-85
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated July 15, 2009
“AUTHORIZATION TO ENTER INTO A CONTRACT WITH CROWE
HORWATH FOR FILENET UPGRADE PROFESSIONAL SERVICES”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

The Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into a contract with Crowe Horwath for the FileNet Upgrade
Professional Services in an amount not to exceed $313,849.00.

(Item A4)
The resolution for Item A4 approves execution of the two year renewal of the Software License
and Support Agreement with Yardi Systems for the Yardi Housing Management Software. In
2005 the CHA implemented the Yardi Housing Management System to replace its existing
Public Housing Management System and replaced the legacy system for the Housing Choice
Voucher program. The CHA has maintained and supported the base Yardi system through an
optional and renewable annual maintenance and support agreement under the Software License
and Support Agreement (SLSA). In October 2008, CHA elected to license additional Yardi
software, including the vendor’s Customer Service, Portfolio Management Dashboard and Web
Portal Modules. These new Upgrade Modules are separately licensed, and are currently being
implemented into CHA’s production environment and will be subject to the same terms and
conditions for ongoing support, maintenance and upgrade coverage as the parties have observed
for Yardi Voyager System. Pursuant to the SLSA Agreement, the CHA must maintain a support
and maintenance services with Yardi to receive updates and upgrades to the software, as well as
to receive technical support. Since Yardi Systems, Inc is the only vendor capable of providing
maintenance to the Yardi System, CHA requested a proposal for a maintenance agreement under
noncompetitive proposals.
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-86
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated July 15, 2009
“AUTHORIZATION FOR A TWO (2) YEAR RENEWAL OF THE SUPPORT
AND MAINTENANCE AGREEMENT FOR THE YARDI HOUSING
MANAGEMENT SOFTWARE”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

The Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into a two (2) year support and maintenance agreement for the
Yardi Housing Management Software, in the amount of $424,483.19 pursuant to
24 CFR 85.36(d)(4)(i)(A).

(Item A5)
The Chicago Housing Authority has over 36,000 participants in the Housing Choice Voucher
Program (HCV) and approximately 5,000 located on the Westside of the City. The satellite
offices services participating families and landlords by conducting workshops on Family Self
Sufficiency, Choose to Own, the Mobility Program and landlord education as well as house CHA
staff to assist clients with paper work, respond to inquiries from both tenants and landlords and

 refer families to supportive services on site. The resolution for Item A5 approves a Lease
Agreement between the CHA and the Chicago Christian Industrial League for the premises
located at 2750 West Roosevelt Road. The lease for the current HCV Westside satellite office
located at 3333 West Arthington will expire August 31, 2009. The HCV Department selected
the Roosevelt site due to its proximity to public transportation, ample parking for visitors and
staff, accessibility for persons with disability, and the office space being fully furnished and
move in ready. The gross lease rent is $22.00 per square foot, which is inclusive of all common
area maintenance, utilities and property taxes. The lease also provides the CHA with use of
the facility’s Board Room, a large Meeting Room, and classroom facilities.
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-87
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated July 15, 2009,
entitled “Request for Authorization to Enter into a Lease Agreement for the
Premises located at 2750 W. Roosevelt Road, Chicago, IL.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into a Lease Agreement with the Chicago Christian Industrial
League for the premises located at 2750 W. Roosevelt Road, Chicago, IL. The
initial term of the Lease will be three (3) years commencing September 1, 2009
and expiring August 31, 2012 at a Total Gross Rent amount not to exceed
$512,990.49, inclusive of a proportionate share of real estate taxes, common area
maintenance and utilities. The Lease provides for two (2) one-year options and in
the event that a decision is made to exercise any of the options, a subsequent
request to the Board of Commissioners will be made at the appropriate time.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items A1 thru A5 was seconded by
Commissioner Harris and the voting were as follows:
Ayes:

Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Bridget O’Keefe
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Finance & Audit Committee report was also accepted in total.
Commissioner Ponce, Chairperson of the Operations and Facilities Committee, then presented
his monthly report. Per Commissioner Ponce, the Operations and Facilities Committee held its
regular meeting on Wednesday, July 15 at approximately 10:35 a.m. at the 60 East Van Buren
Corporate offices.
Commissioner Ponce then introduced an Omnibus Motion for adoption of the Resolutions for
Items B1 thru B3 discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Operations and
Facilities Committee.

(Item B1)
The resolution for Item B2 approves Modification No. 02 to Contract No. 0640 with Hasbrouck
Peterson Zimoch Sirirattumrong (HPZS) for additional Prime Design Consultant Services and
Reimbursable Expenditures at Dearborn Homes. This modification increases the contract
amount by $226,010.00 to cover civil engineering and security design services fees, and
$163,750.00 for additional reimbursable expenditures, including costs for site surveys, exterior
sewer videos, security consulting specialists, and additional printing. HPZS submitted a
proposal for additional compensation and reimbursable expenses due to the CHA’s request to
increase their design services for civil engineering and campus security. After careful analysis of

 HPZS’s additional costs and extensive negotiations, CHA believes that the requested increase of
$429,760.00 is justified.
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-88
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated July 15, 2009
entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO EXECUTE MODIFICATION NO. 02 TO
CONTRACT NO. 0640 WITH HASBROUCK PETERSON ZIMOCH
SIRIRATTUMRONG FOR THE PROVISION OF ADDITIONAL PRIME
DESIGN
CONSULTANT
SERVICES
AND
REIMBURSABLE
EXPENDITURES AT FRANCES DEARBORN HOMES”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to approve Modification No. 02 of Contract No. 0640 with Hasbrouck
Peterson Zimoch Sirirattumrong for the provision of additional prime design
consultant services at Dearborn Homes in the amount of $266,010.00, and to
increase the funding for reimbursable expenses by $163,750.00.00, totaling
$429,760.00. The new total contract value of Contract No. 0640 is $3,217,760.00.
This modification is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with CHA’s
MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident hiring, and insurance requirements.

(Item B2)
The CHA desires to improve efficiencies through changes in the current property management
structure. A Request for Proposal (RFP) for Private Property Management Services was
therefore released in February, 2009. The RFP was advertised in area newspapers, Crain
Chicago Business, New York Times, Wall Street Journal and CLAPHA. In addition to
advertising, the RFP was placed on the CHA Web Site. Notices were sent to twenty-three firms,
including three MBE firms and 13 assist agencies. The CHA also provided a tour of the
properties on February 24, 25 & 26, 2009. Of the twenty-four proposals received, nine firms
scored within the competitive range. Based upon the evaluations of the written proposals, oral
presentations, negotiations and best and final offers, it was determined that East Lake
Management Group, Inc., The Habitat Company, H.J. Russell & Company, Woodlawn
Community Development Corporation and Hispanic Housing Development Corporation will
provide the best overall service and value to the CHA. Accordingly, the resolution for Item B2
approves award of contracts to the stated firms for Private Property Management Services. The
companies selected were found to be experienced in managing multi-family style buildings and
developments in compliance with HUD regulations and local housing standards and laws. The
scope of work expected of the selected respondent includes those services customarily associated
with third-party multifamily housing management including, but not limited to overseeing
occupancy/leasing, marketing, resident selection, resident relations, annual resident reexaminations, lease enforcement, rent collection, evictions, routine and emergency maintenance
and repairs, management of the grounds and public spaces, budgeting, accounting and CHA
guidelines regarding public housing property management including Procurement,
MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 and Davis Bacon requirements. Until a determination is made
regarding the disposition/rehabilitation of the Harold Ickes Development, WCDC will continue
to manage the development and Metroplex will continue to manage LeClaire Courts and
LeClaire Courts Extension until the buildings are closed. Kenmore Apartments and Pomeroy
Apartments, two CHA senior buildings that are currently vacant, will continue to be managed by
Habitat until the redevelopment closings occur. The private property management firm for the
units of the Scattered Sites, the Superblock and the Annex at the Henry Horner Development will
be determined according to the Henry Horner Amended Consent Decree.
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-89
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated July15, 2009,
entitled “Recommendation to Award Contracts for Private Property Management
Services at CHA Developments and for CHA Owned Units in Mixed-Income
Communities”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into professional service agreements with East Lake

 Management Group, Inc., The Habitat Company, H.J. Russell & Company,
Woodlawn Community Development Corporation and Hispanic Housing
Development Corporation for private property management services for a twentyfour month base period with three one-year options, for an amount not to exceed
$10,957,680 in property management fees annually, based on final rates to be
negotiated.
(Item B3)
The CHA has received funds through the Capital Fund Stimulus Grant pursuant to the American
Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) Capital Fund Formula Grants, which will be used for
the design and implementation CHA’s Surveillance Cameras Initiative at Family and Senior
portfolio. The purpose of the Surveillance Cameras Initiative is to provide the CHA with
additional tools and resources to improve and increase the CHA’s property management
resources and capabilities by leveraging state of the art surveillance technologies and
communications networks, which contribute to the CHA’s efforts for improved investment
protection and operational security at CHA’s residential developments. Accordingly, a Request
for Proposal was advertised in area newspapers and on CHA’s website. Of the seven proposals
received, five firms were found to be within the recommended competitive range, advancing
each to participate in individual meetings for further clarifications and negotiations. At the
conclusion of the discussions with each Respondent within the competitive range, and a review
of their respective best and final offers, it was determined that Siemens Building Technologies
best exhibited the knowledge, experience, plan of action, and pricing that would meet the
demands of CHA’s project, budget, and the timeframe in which to complete it. Siemens has
extensive experience in the security and surveillance industry and is an international organization
with a large body of knowledge and the necessary resources to help ensure the success of such a
large project. Accordingly, the resolution for Item B3 approves award of contract to Siemens
Building Technologies for the assessment, design, installation, testing and maintenance of
surveillance cameras at CHA properties.
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-90
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated July 15, 2009, entitled “Recommendation to Award a Contract
to Siemens Building Technologies for the Assessment, Design, Installation,
Testing and Maintenance of Surveillance Cameras and Related Services.”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into an agreement with Siemens Building Technologies for the
assessment, design, installation, testing surveillance camera networks for CHA
Family and Senior Portfolios in an not to exceed $21,713,653.00 and for
equipment maintenance in an amount not-to-exceed $422,849.00 for a combined
total not-to-exceed $22,136,502.00 for a base term of sixteen (16) months, with
two one-year maintenance options.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items B1 thru B3 was seconded by
Commissioner Harris and the voting were as follows:
Ayes:

Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Bridget O’Keefe
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Operations and Facilities Committee report was also accepted
in total.

 Commissioner Young, Chairperson of the Tenant Services Committee, then presented her
monthly report. Per Commissioner Young, the Tenant Services Committee meeting was held on
Wednesday, July 15th at approximately 11:00 a.m. at the 60 East Van Buren Corporate Offices.
Kellie O’Connell, Director, Research Reporting and Communications presented the Committee
with an update on the launch of CHA’s new website.
Commissioner Young then introduced an Omnibus Motion for the adoption of Resolutions for
Items C1 thru C 4 discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Tenant Services
Committee.
(Item C1)
The resolution for Item C1 approves a Housing Assistance Payment Contract with 3 Diamond
Development, LLC to provide Project Based Voucher assistance for 17 units at Wrightwood
Senior Apartments. Wrightwood Senior Apartments is an 85 unit affordable senior housing
development located at 79th and California in the Ashburn community area on the city’s
southwest side. It will be the new construction of a 6 story building containing 70 one-bedroom,
10 two-bedroom and 5 studio apartments for households 62 years old and older. Building
amenities will include a dining lounge with a warming kitchen and community room, a sitting
area with TVs and a fireplace, a fitness room with exercise equipment, a library, computer room,
laundry facilities and a wellness center with space for visiting physicians, an outdoor patio with
gazebo and on-site parking. 20% of the units will be fully accessible and the remaining 80% will
be adaptable. All of the apartments will be equipped with emergency pull-cords in bed-andbathrooms, electronically-monitored up-and-about check-in systems, full kitchens and bath
facilities, carpeting and window coverings. The owner is a partnership comprised of 3 Diamond
Development, LLC as the 49% general partner and NHS Redevelopment Corporation (NHS) as
the 51% general partner. The principals of 3 Diamond Development, LLC have extensive
experience in developing and managing nursing homes in Illinois and Missouri, owning and
managing more than 1,200 skilled beds and one supportive living facility. The only cost to CHA
toward this development will be the project-based rental subsidy. Project-based Voucher statutes
and regulations will be followed in leasing the17 Project-based Voucher assisted units. Seniors
aged 62 years and older on CHA’s waiting lists will be given priority status.
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-91
WHEREAS: the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board letter dated July 15, 2009 entitled “Authorization to 1.) Enter into an
Agreement to enter into a Housing Assistance Payment Contract (AHAP) to
provide Project-Based Voucher assistance for 17 units at Wrightwood Senior
Apartments, a low-income senior housing development and 2.) Execute all other
documents as may be necessary or appropriate to implement the foregoing.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer, or his
designee to 1.) Enter into an Agreement to enter into a Housing Assistance
Payment Contract (AHAP) to provide Project-Based Voucher assistance for 17
units at Wrightwood Senior Apartments, a low-income senior housing
development and 2.) Execute all other documents as may be necessary or
appropriate to implement the foregoing.

(Item C2)
The resolution for Item C2 approves a Housing Assistance Payment Contract with Lawndale
Christian Development Corporation to provide Project Based Voucher assistance for 10 units at
Dr. King Legacy Apartments (MLK). MLK Apartments is a 45 unit affordable family housing
development located at 3800-24 W. 16th Street in the North Lawndale community. It will be the
new construction of a 3 story mixed-use building containing 27 two-, 15 three- and 3 fourbedroom apartments and 4,500 sq. feet of retail space. The retail units will be located along 16th
Street, with the residential units situated around a large open green space where families can
socialize. MLK is the first phase of a larger revitalization effort called the MLK Historic
District, which will include MLK Apartments, a community center, a campus park and MLK
memorial, a new public library and a new streetscape on 16th Street. The project is part of the
LISC New Communities Program. The developer, Lawndale Christian Development Corporation
(LCDC) was established in 1987 to bring holistic revitalization to the residents of the North

 Lawndale community through economic development, housing improvement, educational
programs and community advocacy. LCDC focuses both on residential and commercial
development projects and accomplishments include over $48 million in redevelopment in the
community. LCDC has rehabbed and constructed 28 homes, 34 condominiums and 151
affordable rental units for low and very low-income residents. LCDC currently owns and
manages over 230 residential and commercial units. The only cost to CHA toward this
development will be the project-based rental subsidy. Project-based Voucher statutes and
regulations will be followed in leasing the10 Project-based Voucher assisted units. Families on
CHA’s waiting lists will be given priority status.

RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-92
WHEREAS: the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board letter dated July 15, 2009 entitled “Authorization to 1.) Enter into an
Agreement to enter into a Housing Assistance Payment Contract (AHAP) to
provide Project-Based Voucher assistance for 10 units at MLK Apartments, an
affordable housing development for low-income families and 2.) Execute all other
documents as may be necessary or appropriate to implement the foregoing.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer, or his
designee to 1.) Enter into an Agreement to enter into a Housing Assistance
Payment Contract (AHAP) to provide Project-Based Voucher assistance for 10
units at MLK Apartments, a low-income family housing development and 2.)
Execute all other documents as may be necessary or appropriate to implement the
foregoing.

(Item C3)
The resolution for Item C3 approves the Operating and Management Agreements with
participating Housing Authorities and the Metropolitan Planning Council to continue to
implement the Regional Housing Initiative (RHI) Program.
The CHA approved an
Intergovernmental Agreement in February, 2002 between the CHA, the participating housing
authorities: the Housing Authorities of Cook County, McHenry County and Lake County, the
Illinois Housing Development Authority and the Metropolitan Planning Council (MPC) to
establish the RHI. Since then, Joliet HA has joined. RHI was created in order to stimulate the
supply of rental housing across the metropolitan region for low-income families by pooling
together Housing Choice Vouchers to establish project-based developments. A key finding of
the MPC’s For Rent: Housing Options in the Chicago Region was the shortage of rental housing
affordable to families earning less than 30% of the Area Median Income. The study also found
that the rents near burgeoning employment centers are higher than what entry-level workers can
afford, meaning employees who cannot afford to live near their work may have commute times
of up to 90 minutes or more one-way. In March of 2007, HUD issued a Notice which prohibits
the partial transfer of Housing Choice Vouchers from one public housing authority to another, as
contemplated in the RHI IGA. However, because Illinois law allows a housing authority to
“operate outside its area of operation by contract with another housing authority” the
participating RHI housing authorities and MPC have agreed to recommend that each agency’s
Board of Directors approve the Operating and Management Agreement in order to continue to
implement the RHI program. Each Operating and Management Agreement will pertain to a
specific project and be between the Lead Agency and the PHA(s) that will be contributing its
vouchers to that project and MPC. The Operating and Management Agreement, which pertains
to Woodstock Commons II, located in McHenry County, is also approved as a template to be
used going forward without requiring Board approval on a per project basis, except for RHI
projects located in CHA’s jurisdiction.
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-93
WHEREAS: the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board letter dated July 15, 2009 entitled “Authorization to Enter into Operating
and Management Agreements as needed with participating Housing Authorities
and the Metropolitan Planning Council to continue to implement the Regional
Housing Initiative program.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY

 THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer, or his
designee to Enter into Operating and Management Agreements as needed with
participating Housing Authorities and the Metropolitan Planning Council to
continue to implement the Regional Housing Initiative program.

(Item C4)
The resolution for Item C4 approves increase funding, in the amount of $562,000.00, for the
Intergovernmental Agreement with the Department of Family and Support Services (DFSS) for
School-age Programs. This request for increased funding will allow DFSS to increase the
number of Learn and Earn program slots to 300 for FY2009, and provide additional funding for
the Operation Warm winter coat drive and other youth programs through the end of the IGA’s
base term. Through donations and relationships with coat manufacturers, Operation Warm
annually distributes over 100,000 coats across the United States. In 2008, Operation Warm
provided approximately 5,000 coats that DFSS and CHA distributed to CHA children and youth.
In 2009, with the additional funding, CHA has an opportunity to double the impact of this
initiative and distribute up to 10,000 coats to children and youth in public housing. Additionally,
DFSS will work with Resident Services to develop additional youth programming to targeted
segments of the CHA youth population that do not currently engage in activities at a level that
will lead to a significant impact (e.g. late-night basketball).
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-94
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated July 15, 2009
entitled “RECOMMENDATION TO INCREASE FUNDING FOR THE
INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT WITH THE DEPARTMENT OF
FAMILY AND SUPPORT SERVICES FOR SCHOOL-AGE PROGRAMS”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

The Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to increase the funding for the Intergovernmental Agreement (“IGA”)
with the City of Chicago, acting through its Department of Family and Support
Services (formerly Department of Children and Youth Services) in the amount of
$562,000.00 for additional school-age programming. The IGA’s new not-toexceed amount for the twenty-two month (22-month) base-term of March 1, 2008
through December 31, 2009 will be $1,584,500.00.

The Motion to adopt resolutions for Items C1 thru C4 was seconded by Commissioner Harris
and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Bridget O’Keefe
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Tenant Services Committee report was also accepted in total.
There being no further business to come before the Commissioners, upon Motion made,
seconded and carried, the meeting of the Board of Commissioners was adjourned at
approximately 11:06 a.m.

s/b:

s/b:

________________________
Lee Gill, Custodian and
Keeper of Records

________________________
Martin Nesbitt
Chairperson

 