MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING
OF THE
COMMISSIONERS OF THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
December 20, 2011
The Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority held its Regular Meeting of the Board of
Commissioners on Tuesday, December 20, 2011 at approximately 8:40 a.m. at the CHA
Corporate Offices, 60 East Van Buren, 12th Floor Loft in Chicago, IL.
Chairwoman Z. Scot called the meeting to order and upon roll call, those present and absent were
as follows:
Present:
Deverra Beverly
Adela Cepeda
Mark Cozzi
Dr. Mildred Harris
Myra King
Bridget Reidy
Z. Scott
Sandra Young
Absent:

None

Also present were Charles Woodyard, Chief Executive Officer; Kris Warren, Chief of Staff;
Scott Ammarell, General Counsel; Chicago Housing Authority Staff Members and the General
Public.
There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as
follows:
Upon Motion made and properly seconded, the Commissioners adjourned to Executive Session.
Commissioner Cepeda, announced that pursuant to the Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2, the
Board would adjourn for approximately one hour to possibly discuss pending, probable or
imminent litigation, personnel related matters, collective negotiating matters, purchase sale and
lease of real estate property; establishment of reserves and settlement of claims.
The Commissioners subsequently reconvened in Open Session and Chairwoman Scott thereupon
convened the Business and Public portion of the meeting. Chairwoman Scott extended her
heartfelt appreciation to Mayor Emanuel and the Board for her recent appointment and indicated
that she was looking forward to successfully completing the goals of the Plan for
Transformation.
Upon Motion made by Commissioner King and properly seconded by Commissioner Young, the
Minutes for the Regular Board Meetings of October 18 and November 15, 2011 were
unanimously approved.
Commissioner Sandra Young, Chairwoman of the Tenant Services Committee, then presented
the following report. Per Commissioner Young, due to a lack of quorum, the Tenant Services
Committee scheduled for December 14th was cancelled. Staff however, met with Commissioners
and provided background information on the items on the agenda.
Commissioner Young then presented an Omnibus Motion for adoption of the Resolutions for
Items A1 and A2.
(Item A1)
The resolution for Item A1 approves the second one-year option of Contract No. 9121 with
Centers for New Horizons, Contract No. 9124 with Employment & Employer Services, Inc.,
Contract No. 9122 with Heartland Human Care Services, Contract No. 9125 with Jane Addams
Hull House Association, Contract No. 9123 with Metropolitan Family Services and Contract No.
9126 with UCAN to continue the FamilyWorks program. The FamilyWorks program is
1

 designed to provide case management, employment, wellness and other supportive services to
families residing in CHA’s family developments and scattered site communities, and families
that relocated temporarily to the private housing market with a Housing Choice Voucher (HCV).
FamilyWorks agencies work closely with CHA staff and property management to facilitate
efficient communication and coordination regarding resident needs. The six (6) FamilyWorks
agencies are assigned to specific regions throughout the City of Chicago and will provide
services to approximately 9,000 CHA families or 26,000 individuals in 2012. Residents of
Horner/West Haven Park, Oakwood Shores, Roosevelt Square, Park Boulevard, Hilliard Homes,
Parkside, and North Town Village receive case management services through other service
providers and are not currently covered through these contracts. The program model utilizes
identifiable outcomes with an intensive concentration on permanent housing choices, lease
compliance, employment preparation and employment retention. CHA staff will continue to
monitor and perform quality assurance of the agencies including, but not limited to, detailed
tracking of performance outcomes, monthly performance reports of individual agencies,
quarterly performance review meetings, participant file audits and on-going resident customer
satisfaction reviews.
RESOLUTION NO. 2011-CHA-136
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated December 14, 2011, entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO
EXERCISE THE SECOND ONE-YEAR OPTIONS OF CONTRACT NO. 9121
WITH CENTERS FOR NEW HORIZONS, CONTRACT NO. 9124 WITH
EMPLOYMENT AND EMPLOYER SERVICES, INC., CONTRACT NO. 9122
WITH HEARTLAND HUMAN CARE SERVICES, CONTRACT NO. 9125
WITH JANE ADDAMS HULL HOUSE ASSOCIATION, CONTRACT NO.
9123 WITH METROPOLITAN FAMILY SERVICES, AND CONTRACT NO.
9126 WITH UHLICH CHILDREN’S ADVANTAGE NETWORK AS
FAMILYWORKS PROVIDERS FROM JANUARY 1, 2012 THROUGH
DECEMBER 31, 2012”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to exercise the Second one-year option of Contract No. 9121 with
Centers for New Horizons, Contract No. 9124 with Employment & Employer
Services, Inc., Contract No. 9122 with Heartland Human Care Services, Contract
No. 9125 with Jane Addams Hull House Association, Contract No. 9123 with
Metropolitan Family Services and Contract No. 9126 with UCAN to provide
comprehensive case management services for CHA residents for the period of
January 1, 2012 through December 31, 2012 in an aggregate amount not-toexceed $23,570,400, adding it to the carryover balances available at the end of the
current contract terms

(Item A2)
The CHA released and advertised a Request For Proposal (RFP) in September 2011 to solicit
consultants and firms to provide case management services for CHA families residing at the
Horner and West Haven Park communities. The RFP was advertised in area newspapers, the
CHA website and BuySpeed. The CHA also directly solicited 53 firms, including 26
MBE/WBE/DBE firms. Of the three proposals received, one proposal was deemed nonresponsive. After the Evaluation Committee completed its analysis of the proposals, a
competitive range was set and approved by the Contracting Officer. Both firms were found to be
within the competitive range, and were scheduled for oral presentations. During these meetings,
negotiations were held, and best and final offers were requested and submitted by each firm.
Based upon the evaluations of the written proposals, oral presentations and revised best and final
offers, it was determined that Near West will provide the best overall service and value to CHA.
Near West has proposed a comprehensive strategy to efficiently and effectively address the
varying levels of needs that exist within the target population. Near West has been the provider
for the Horner Engagement Program (HEP) to the Horner and West Haven Park Community
since the program’s inception. Near West will work closely with CHA staff and property
management to facilitate efficient communication and coordination regarding resident needs.
Accordingly, the resolution for Item A2 approves award of contract to Near West Side
Community Development to provide employment, clinical, youth, senior and supportive case
management services to the CHA residents living in the Horner and West Haven Park
community.
2

 RESOLUTION NO: 2011-CHA-137
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated December 14, 2011, entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO
ENTER INTO A CONTRACT WITH NEAR WEST SIDE COMMUNITY
DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION TO PROVIDE CASE MANAGEMENT
SERVICES FOR THE HORNER AND WEST HAVEN PARK COMMUNITY”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into a contract with Near West Side Community Development
Corporation in an amount not-to-exceed $3,135,168 for the period of January 1,
2012 through December 31, 2013 to provide employment, clinical, youth, senior
and supportive case management services to the CHA residents living in the
Horner and West Haven Park community.

The Motion to adopt resolutions for Items A1 and A2 was seconded by Commissioner Harris and the
voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Deverra Beverly
Adela Cepeda
Mark Cozzi
Dr. Mildred Harris
Myra King
Bridget Reidy
Z. Scott
Sandra Young
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, Chairwoman Scott thereupon declared said Motion
carried and said resolutions adopted.
Committee Chair Bridget Reidy, then presented the report for the Operations and Facilities
Committee. Per Commissioner Reidy, the Operations and Facilities Committee scheduled for
Wednesday, December 14th was cancelled due to lack of quorum. Commissioners, however, met
with staff to discuss items appearing on the proposed agenda. Staff adequately responded to
Commissioners questions and concerns.
Commissioner Reidy then presented an Omnibus Motion for the approval of the Resolutions for
Items B1 and B2.
(Item B1)
In January 2004, HUD conducted an accessibility compliance review of the CHA’s programs,
services and activities, including designated accessible housing units, associated common areas,
on-site management offices, housing programs, and non-housing programs and activities. As a
result of the infractions found during the review, the CHA entered into a Voluntary Compliance
Agreement (VCA) with HUD in 2006. The VCA will last for the duration of seven years over
which time the CHA must progressively certify that 5.3% of its units are accessible for
individuals with mobility impairments and 2.1% of its units are accessible for individuals with
sensory impairments. In 2009, the Board authorized CHA to enter into a two year base term
contract with LCM pursuant to a competitive procurement. The Contract provides for three
stages of accessibility reviews. Under the Contract’s base-term, LCM has satisfactorily
performed the required services. LCM has an extensive knowledge of accessibility codes and
has years of experience doing work very similar to the scope required by CHA at other public
entities, including other public housing authorities, the Mayor’s Office for People with
Disabilities, and sister agencies, such as Chicago Public Schools and the Chicago Transit
Authority, as well as past work with the CHA. Furthermore, LCM has served as the CHA’s
HUD-approved Third-Party Certifier for five years. During that time, LCM has assisted the CHA
in accomplishing the certification of its accessible housing in its senior portfolio in time to
achieve the VCA benchmark of December 2010. They have certified nearly 100% of the
accessible units in CHA’s family housing throughout the Mixed-Income Mixed-Finance,
Traditional, and Scattered Sites portfolios, and they continue to provide professional guidance
and inspections for planned units and units under construction. Accordingly, the resolution for
Item B1 approves the first option of Contract No. 9175 with LCM for professional
3

 architectural/engineering consulting services for the period of January 1, 2012 through December
31, 2012 and increase the Contract’s funding by an amount not-to-exceed $350,000.00.
RESOLUTION NO. 2011-CHA-138
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated December 14,
2011, entitled “Authorization to Exercise the First Option to Extend Contract No.
9175 for Accessibility Consulting Services with LCM Architects, Ltd.”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the CHA to authorize the Chief Executive Officer, or his designee, to exercise the
first option to extend the Contract No. 9175 with LCM for professional
architectural/engineering consulting services for the period of January 1, 2012
through December 31, 2012 and increase the Contract’s funding by an amount
not-to-exceed $350,000.00 adding it to the carryover balance available at the end
of the base term, if any. The Contract’s new aggregate not-to-exceed amount will
be $1,390,000.00.

(Item B2)
The resolution for Item B2 approves a Housing Assistance Payment Contract for Brand New
Beginnings/Sojourner Truth Apartments and approves execution of a Housing Assistance
Payment Contract for The Resurrection Project/Resurrection Homes. Brand New Beginnings
(BNB)/Sojourner Truth: is a three-story brick, 24-unit supportive housing development that was
acquired and rehabbed in 2001 using LIHTC from IHDA. The Tenant Selection Plan provides a
preference for victims of domestic violence, homeless families, and low/very low income
families. BNB provides comprehensive supportive services and has a consistent track record
with CHA, the City of Chicago, and IHDA. The recommended 10-year HAP contract includes
15 two-bedroom and 9 three-bedroom units (24 PRA out of 24 total, 100%). The monthly rents
for the two-bedroom and three-bedroom units are $901 and $1,102, respectively. Both are
comparable with market rents for the area. The Resurrection Project (TRP) is a portfolio of two
existing three-story brick buildings that have never been occupied. 1910 S. Albany contains (1)
two bedroom unit and (1) three bedroom unit; and 2124 W. 19th Street contains (3) two bedroom
units. Both buildings were built in 2010 under the City of Chicago’s Housing and Economic
Development (HED) New Homes for Chicago (NHFC) program but due to current market
conditions couldn’t be sold. HED introduced an ordinance to City Council to (1) obtain the
necessary financing for this project; and (2) allow the NHFC units to convert from ownership to
rental. When approved, HED will hold the first mortgage on the properties. The ordinance is
expected to pass in early December. The requested PRA rents range from $875-$1,100 and are
comparable with the market for this area.
Commissioner Reidy voted Nay on this item only.
RESOLUTION 2011-CHA-139
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board letter dated December 14, 2011 requesting authorization to 1) execute a
Housing Assistance Payment Contract for Brand New Beginnings/Sojourner
Truth Apartments; 2) execute a Housing Assistance Payment Contract for The
Resurrection Project/Resurrection Homes; and 3) execute all other documents as
may be necessary or appropriate to implement the foregoing.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to 1) execute a Housing Assistance Payment Contract for Brand New
Beginnings/Sojourner Truth Apartments; 2) execute a Housing Assistance
Payment Contract for The Resurrection Project/Resurrection Homes; and 3)
execute all other documents as may be necessary or appropriate to implement the
foregoing.

The Motion to adopt resolutions for Items B1 and B2 was seconded by Commissioner Young
and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Deverra Beverly
Adela Cepeda
Mark Cozzi
Dr. Mildred Harris
4

 Myra King
Z. Scott
Sandra Young
Nays:

Bridget Reidy

There being no questions or discussion, Chairwoman Scott thereupon declared said Motion
carried and said resolutions adopted.
Commissioner Adela Cepeda, Chairwoman of the Finance and Audit Committee, then presented
the following report. Per Commissioner Cepeda, the Finance and Audit Committee Meeting
scheduled for Wednesday, December 14th was cancelled due to a lack of quorum. Staff however,
met with Commissioners to brief them on the items appearing on the agenda.
Commissioner Cepeda then presented an Omnibus Motion for adoption of the Resolutions for
Items C1 thru C5.
(Item C1)
The Chicago Housing Authority is required to submit for approval by the Board, a balanced
annual Comprehensive Budget detailing each of its funding sources (MTW Fund, Section 8 NonMTW fund, HOPE VI and Other Grant Programs) and, the use of budgeted funds. The FY2012
Comprehensive Budget totaling $881.2 million includes the following fund categories: MTW
Fund: total revenue for FY2012 is $830.7 million. Total MTW Fund revenues consist of
Dwelling Rental Income, Interest Income, Administrative Fee Income, Capital Grant Funds,
Housing Assistance Subsidy, Operating Subsidy and Other Income. Section 8 Fund (NonMTW): total revenue for this program is $9.1 million. These contracts provide appropriations
for approximately 1,339 of Mod Rehab vouchers, 50 Mainstream vouchers and 385 Veteran's
Affairs Supportive Housing (VASH) vouchers for housing assistance based on annual
contributions contracts from HUD. Hope VI Fund: total revenue equals $25.0 million. These
funds are used to support relocation, revitalization, community and supportive services
programs. Other Funds: total revenue is $16.4 million. Revenue consists of federal, state and
local grants that will be used for redevelopment work at Lake Park Crescent and remediation
work at LeClaire courts. These funds will also serve to enhance or augment funding for critical
programs and services that the CHA provides to its residents. The estimated sum of all revenues
for FY2012 plus the amount of FY2011 fund balance available for appropriation in FY2012 is
equal to the estimated sum of all expenditures to be made or incurred during FY2012 and any
unpaid liabilities at the beginning of FY2012. Accordingly, the resolution for Item C1 approves
submission of the FY2012 budget to HUD.
RESOLUTION NO. 2011-CHA-140
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board letter dated December 14,
2011, entitled “APPROVAL OF THE FY2012 COMPREHENSIVE BUDGET”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners, hereby approves the attached, “FY2012
COMPREHENSIVE BUDGET”, and finds with respect to said Budget:
1.

2.

3.

THAT,

that the proposed expenditures are necessary for the efficient and
economical operation of the Chicago Housing Authority for the purpose of
serving low-income families;
that the financial plan is reasonable in that it indicates funding sources
adequate to cover all proposed expenditures, and does not provide for use
of Federal funding in excess of that payable under the provisions of the
applicable Federal regulations; and
that all proposed rental charges and expenditures will be consistent with
provisions of law and the Annual Contributions Contract in accordance
with the Amended and Restated Moving To Work Demonstration
Agreement of the Chicago Housing Authority with the U.S. Department of
Housing and Urban Development.

the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer are authorized to execute
and forward to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development all
necessary budget documents and supporting information when applicable.
5

 (Item C2)
The resolution for Item C2 approves a one year contract with Oracle Corporation for the renewal
of support and maintenance services for Oracle database software, Oracle Business Intelligence
software and Primavera software. The Oracle maintenance and support agreement is necessary to
provide access to product enhancements, upgrades and updates for supported products, as well as
telephone and electronic support from Oracle’s qualified product technicians. In June of 2001,
ITS purchased Oracle products to replace the legacy systems and to serve as the core database
platform for CHA applications. At the time CHA purchased Oracle database systems,
maintenance costs and services were negotiated in the agreement and were provided for the first
year. Support and maintenance services for the software products have been continuously
provided directly to the CHA from Oracle for each of the subsequent years since the initial
purchase of the Oracle database products on a sole-source basis. Product support, enhancements,
upgrades and updates are available only from Oracle. The same prevailing terms and conditions
have remained substantially in effect since the original acquisition of Oracle database software,
subject only to periodic updates and revisions to Oracle’s standard terms and conditions
applicable to all customers of its maintenance and support services.
RESOLUTION NO. 2011-CHA-141
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
memorandum dated December 14, 2011 titled “AUTHORIZATION TO ENTER
INTO A ONE (1) YEAR CONTRACT WITH ORACLE CORPORATION FOR
RENEWAL OF SUPPORT AND MAINTENANCE SERVICES”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into a one (1) year contract with Oracle Corporation for the
renewal of support and maintenance services for Oracle database software, Oracle
Business Intelligence software and Primavera software, for the period of January
1, 2012 through December 31, 2012, in an amount not-to-exceed $232,312.79.

(Item C3)
The resolution for Item C3 approves a one year extension of the Software Support Agreement
with IBM for FileNet maintenance and support services. In October 2006 IBM Corporation
acquired FileNet Corporation and integrated the business process management and document
management solution into IBM’s service offerings. The CHA utilizes the Enterprise Document
Management System (EDMS)/FileNet application extensively in our daily operations. EDMS
supports departments such as Housing Choice Voucher, Finance, Development Management and
Resident Services by providing the ability to store, maintain, retrieve and archive electronic
records. To date over 6.2 million documents are stored in the CHA’s EDMS repository.
Prudent business practices dictate having maintenance agreements in place with the product
manufacturer in order to obtain preventative and remedial maintenance. Maintenance support
typically consists of software upgrades, bug fixes and remote telephonic and electronic support.
Having a maintenance agreement in effect decreases the risks of potentially adverse impact from
a system outage by reducing restoration time and increasing system availability.
RESOLUTION NO. 2011-CHA-142
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated December 14,
2011, titled, “AUTHORIZATION TO ENTER INTO A ONE (1) YEAR
EXTENSION OF THE AGREEMENT WITH IBM FOR FILENET
MAINTENANCE AND SUPPORT SERVICES”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

The Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into a one (1) year extension of the Software Support Agreement
with IBM for FileNet maintenance and support services on a fixed rate basis and
schedule for additional compensation not to exceed $128,703.26 for the one year
term.

(Item C4)
In November 2011, the CHA along with other City of Chicago’s Sister Agencies and City
Departments received communication from the City of Chicago’s Comptroller regarding the City
of Chicago’s recently adopted Local Mileage Reimbursement and Other Local Transportation
Policy and requested each Sister Agency to adopt and implement the Local Mileage
6

 Reimbursement and Other Local Transportation Policy consistent with the City’s Policy, no later
than December 31, 2011. Accordingly, the resolution for Item C4 ensures compliance with the
City of Chicago, CHA’s Local Transportation & Mileage Reimbursement Policy.
RESOLUTION NO. 2011-CHA-143
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated December 14,
2011, entitled, “RECOMMENDATION TO ADOPT CHA’S LOCAL
TRANSPORTATION & MILEAGE REIMBURSEMENT POLICY”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners adopts the Chicago Housing Authority’s Local
Transportation & Mileage Reimbursement Policy, which is attached to the
Resolution, and authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or designee to implement
the policy effective December 20, 2011.

(Item C5)
The resolution for Item C5 approves the option to extend Contract No. 1005 with the Law
Bulletin Information Network. The Office of the General Counsel requires on-line services to
access case history, court docket and scheduling information as it relates to legal matters. In
January 2010, CHA awarded the Contract to the Law Bulletin for the initial term of January 1,
2010 through December 31, 2011, to provide on-line legal research services. The Contract
provides for a priced one-year option of $40,200, and a small additional amount of $2,000 is
being requested to pay for miscellaneous on-line research that falls outside of the Contract’s
pricing. The Law Bulletin is the sole source authorized by the court systems to provide private
entities with online access to public court records. Since 1989 CHA has contracted with the Law
Bulletin since 1989 to provide the Office of the General Counsel access to the public court
dockets, case histories and scheduling information.
RESOLUTION NO. 2011-CHA-144
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated December 14, 2011 entitled, “AUTHORIZATION TO
EXERCISE THE ONE-YEAR OPTION OF CONTRACT NUMBER 1005
WITH THE LAW BULLETIN INFORMATION NETWORK FOR ON-LINE
LEGAL RESEARCH SERVICES
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

The Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer, or his
designee, to exercise the option to extend Contract No. 1005 (“Contract”) with the
Law Bulletin Information Network from January 1, 2012 through December 31,
2012 and increase the Contract’s compensation by $42,200 for on-line legal
research services. The Contract’s new aggregate not-to-exceed amount will be
$122,600.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items C1 thru C5 was seconded by Commissioner
Harris and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Deverra Beverly
Adela Cepeda
Mark Cozzi
Dr. Mildred Harris
Myra King
Bridget Reidy
Z. Scott
Sandra Young

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairwoman thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted.
Mr. Woodyard, Chief Executive Officer, commenced his report by acknowledging members of
the Central Advisory Council who were in attendance at his first Town Hall Meeting. Mr.
Woodyard informed the Commissioners that in the spirit of cooperation and working together to
7

 recalibrate the Plan For Transformation, he would continue to hold Town Hall Meetings with
resident leadership and other stakeholders. Mr. Woodyard informed the resident leadership
present that he and the CHA staff have a renewed focus on providing top quality service to CHA
families. Mr. Woodyard concluded his report by presenting highlights on the Utility Assistance
Program, holiday activities for CHA youth and their families; and the 27th Annual Senior Gala.
Chairwoman Scott then invited residents and the public at large to address the Board.
There being no further business to come before the Commissioners, upon Motion made,
seconded and carried, the meeting of the Board of Commissioners was adjourned

s/b:

s/b:

___________________________
Lee Chuc-Gill, Custodian and
Keeper of Records

8

_______________________________
Z Scott
Chairwoman, Chicago Housing Authority

 