MINUTES OF THE ANNUAL MEETING
OF THE
COMMISSIONERS OF THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
August 20, 2002
The Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority held its Annual Meeting on Tuesday,
August 20, 2002 at 8:30 a.m. at the Charles Hayes Family Investment Center, located at 4859 S.
Wabash in Chicago.
The Chairperson announced that the Annual Meeting of the Chicago Housing Authority was being
held in accordance with the Bylaws of the Authority for the election of Officers, presentation of
Certificates of Appreciation to stakeholders participating in the Plan For Transformation and report
on Plan accomplishments, to date.
Chairperson Gilliam then introduced the Honor Guard of the 2nd Battalion, 24th Marines, 4th
Division for the Posting of the Colors. Immediately after, Derek Hill, CHA Press Secretary led the
audience in reciting the Pledge of Allegiance. Commissioner Mildred Harris’ Centering Thoughts
consisted of a poem by Paul Lawrence Dunbar, the CHA’s Mission Statement and a quote from
Chief Executive Officer, Terry Peterson with regards to positive changes at CHA. Immediately
following Commissioner Harris, Reverend B. Herbert Martin delivered the Homily which focused
on the topic of ‘Transformation’ due to the sweeping changes in the administration and operation
of the CHA.
The meeting was then called to order by the Chairperson, and upon roll call, those present and
absent were as follows:
Present:
Sharon Gist Gilliam
Lori Healey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Sandra Young
Mamie Bone
Earnest Gates
Leticia Peralta Davis
Michael Ivers
Absent:

Hallie Amey

Also present were Terry Peterson, Chief Executive Officer; Gail Niemann, General Counsel;
Chicago Housing Authority Staff Members and the General Public.
There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as follows:
The Chairperson thereupon called for nominations for the vacant position of Vice-Chairperson. A
Motion was made by Commissioner Gates and properly seconded by Commissioner Harris to
nominate Commissioner Lori Healey for the position of Vice-Chairperson. There being no other
nomination on the slate, nominations were closed and the voting resulted in unanimous approval
for the selection of Commissioner Lori Healy as Vice Chairperson of the Chicago Housing
Authority.
The Chairperson thereupon called for nominations for the position of Custodian and Keeper of
Records. A Motion was made by Commissioner Davis and properly seconded by Commissioner
Young to re-elect Lee Chuc-Gill for the position of Custodian and Keeper of Records. There being
no other nomination on the slate, nominations were closed and the voting resulted in unanimous
approval for the re-election of Lee Chuc Gill as Custodian and Keeper of Records of the Chicago
Housing Authority.
1

 Chairperson Gilliam and the Board of Commissioners then presented Certificates of Appreciation
to participants of the Plan for Transformation. These participants included resident leadership,
City Departments, Government Sister Agencies, not-for-profit sectors and for profit businesses.
Chairperson Gilliam acknowledged the efforts of the participants who have been and continue to
be CHA’s steadfast partners in this historic journey. Chairperson Gilliam also commented that all
the participants have had a role in improving the lives of 135,000 citizens of Chicago and are
highly regarded and valued by residents, staff and Board of the CHA.
Immediately following the award presentation, Terry Peterson, Chief Executive Officer, presented
his monthly report. Mr. Peterson highlighted the many accomplishments related to the Plan which
included the following: a 10-year, $1.5 billion commitment from HUD, a better managed CHA
with 3 years of balanced budgets, the first Housing Authority to issue bonds which helped raise
$290 million to accelerate rehab of senior and scattered site housing, creation of mixed-income
communities, and a successful relocation process which helps residents transition to temporary or
permanent homes both in CHA and the private market. Mr. Peterson then reaffirmed his
commitment to continue to move forward and advance the Plan For Transformation by creating
mixed-income communities in seven additional developments, construction of new units and
provide assistance for job training and employment to 3000 residents.
The Chairperson then convened the Public Hearing portion of the meeting by inviting residents
and the public at large to address the Board.
Immediately following the Public Hearing portion of the meeting, a Motion was introduced and
seconded to adjourn to Executive Session. The Chairperson announced that pursuant to the Open
Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2, the Board would adjourn for approximately one (1) hour to discuss
pending, probable or imminent litigation, collective negotiating matters, security and personnel
matters.
Chairperson Gilliam thereupon introduced the Resolutions discussed in Executive Session.
Commissioner Healey then presented an Omnibus Motion for adoption of the Resolutions for
Items 1 and 2 discussed in Executive Session.
(Executive Item No. 1)
RESOLUTION NO. 2002-CHA-105
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated August 6, 2002
requesting authorization to pay a settlement amount of $135,000 in the matter of
Treva Phillips, individually and as mother and next friend of Denarro Clark, a
minor vs. Chicago Housing Authority, a Municipal Corporation, 99 L 04699.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

The Board of Commissioners authorizes the General Counsel or her designee to pay
the settlement amount of $135,000 in the matter of Treva Phillips, individually and
as mother and next friend of Denarro Clark, a minor vs. Chicago Housing
Authority, a Municipal Corporation, 99 L 04699.

(Executive Item No. 2)
RESOLUTION NO. 2002-CHA-106
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated August 2, 2002 requesting that the Board of Commissioners
approve the Personnel Action Report for July 2002.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the Personnel Actions for July 2002.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt Resolutions for Items 1 and 2 was seconded by Commissioner
Young and the voting was as follows:
2

 Ayes:

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Lori Healy
Dr. Mildred Harris
Mamie Bone
Sandra Young
Michael Ivers
Leticia Peralta Davis

Nays:

None

The Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried and said Resolutions adopted.
Commissioner Young, Committee Chairperson, then presented the Tenant Services Committee
report. Per Commissioner Young, the Committee met on Wednesday, August 14, 2002 at the
Corporate Office located at 626 West Jackson. Staff presented the Committee with an update on
Relocation and Good Neighbors Program. No Resolutions were presented to the Tenant Services
Committee.
Due to an emergency, Commissioner Gates, Committee Chairperson of the Operations and
Facilities Committee, had to leave, therefore, the report was presented by Commissioner Harris.
Per Commissioner Harris, the Operations & Facilities Committee met on Wednesday, August 14,
2002 at the Corporate Office located at 626 W. Jackson. The committee was presented with a
comprehensive report on all Departments reporting to the Operations Division.
Commissioner Harris then introduced an Omnibus Motion for the adoption of the resolutions for
Items A1 through A17 discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Operations
Committee:
(Item A1)
The resolution for Item A1 approves modification to Contract No. 9684 with K.R. Miller due to
design corrections, owner requested changes and discovery of certain concealed deterioration and
field conditions which could not have been reasonably determined at the time of contract
document preparation. Based on review and recommendation by the Prime Design Consultant and
CHA’s independent Construction Manager, the requested modifications were necessary to
complete the scope and intent of the modernization at Parkside/Lake, Parkview, Sheridan/Leland
and Castleman Apartments.
RESOLUTION NO. 2002-CHA-107
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated August 5, 2002
entitled “Authorization to execute Modification G-02 to Contract No. 9684 with
K.R. Miller contractors, Inc. for general renovation of Parkside/Lake Apts.,
Parkview Apts., Sheridan/Leland Apts., and Castleman Apts.,”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee
to execute Modification Number G-02 to Contract No. 9684 with K.R. Miller
Contractors, Inc. in the amount of $944,278.24 for general renovations at
Parkside/Lake Apartments, Parkview Apartments, Sheridan/Leland Apartments and
Castleman Apartments, subject to HUD approval. The new contract total, including
this contract modification is $28,285,824.97. The time for completion of work
under the contract is increased by sixty (60) days.

(Item A2)
The resolution for Item A2 approves modification to Contract No. 9703 with G.F. Structure due to
discovery of certain concealed deterioration and field conditions which could not have been
reasonably determined at the time of contract document preparation and replacement of kitchen
cabinets to meet standards consistent throughout the stated properties. Based on review and
recommendation by the Prime Design Consultant and CHA’s independent Construction Manager,
the requested modifications were necessary to complete the scope and intent of the modernization
at Sullivan and Las Americas Apartments.

3

 RESOLUTION NO. 2002-CHA-108
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated August 6, 2002
entitled “Authorization to execute Modification G-02 to Contract No. 9703 with
G.F. Structures for: construction services at Sullivan Apts., 1633 W. Madison, IL244B & Las Americas Apts., 1611 S. Racine, IL2-83:”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute Modification Number G-02 to Contract No. 9703 with G.F.
Structures in the amount of $828,403.00, subject to HUD approval, for the general
renovation of Sullivan Apartments, 1633 W. Madison and Las Americas Apts.,
1611 S. Racine. The new contract price is $24,377,334.00. The time for
completion of work under the contract is unchanged.

(Item A3)
The resolution for Item A3 approves modification to Contract No. 9686 with Walsh Construction
due to design corrections, owner requested changes and discovery of certain concealed
deterioration and field conditions which could not have been reasonably determined at the time of
contract document preparation. Based on review and recommendation by the Prime Design
Consultant and CHA’s independent Construction Manager, the requested modifications were
necessary to complete the scope and intent of the modernization at six senior properties.
RESOLUTION NO. 2002-CHA-109
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated August 5, 2002
entitled “Authorization to execute Contract Modification No. 2 to Contract No.
9686 with Walsh Construction Company of Illinois for construction services at
Wicker Park Apartments & Annex, Eckhart Park Apartments & Annex, Franklin &
Drake Apartments and South Chicago Apartments”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee
to execute Modification No. G-02 to Contract No. 9686 with Walsh Construction
Company of Illinois in the amount of $2,310,639, subject to HUD approval, for
general repairs and improvements at six (6) senior properties that include Wicker
Park Apartments & Annex, Eckhart Park Apartments & Annex, Franklin & Drake
Apartments and South Chicago Apartments. The new contract amount, including
this contract modification, is $50,392,588.00. The adjusted contract time of
completion under the contract will not be changed.

(Item A4)
The resolution for Item A4 approves modification to Contract No. 9644 with Walsh Construction
due to owner requested changes and discovery of additional concealed deterioration and field
conditions.
Based on evaluation and engineering by the Prime Design Consultant and review
and recommendation by CHA’s independent Construction Manager, the requested modifications
were necessary to complete the scope and intent of the modernization at Judge Slater and Annex
Apartments.
RESOLUTION NO. 2002-CHA-110
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated August 5, 2002
entitled “Authorization to Execute Contract Modification No. 4 to Contract No.
9644 with Walsh Construction Company for Construction Services at Judge Slater
Apartments, 740 E. 43rd Street, IL2-47 and Judge Slater Annex, 4218 S. Cottage
Grove, IL2-70”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute Modification Number G-04 to Contract No. 9644 with Walsh
Construction Company of Illinois in the amount of $ 128,575.00, subject to HUD
approval, for the comprehensive modernization of Judge Slater Apartments, 740 E.
43rd Street, IL2-47, and Judge Slater Annex, 4218 S. Cottage Grove, IL2-70. The
4

 new contract price is $14,949,584.61. The time for completion of work under the
contract shall remain the same.
(Item A5)
The resolution for Item A5 approves modification to Contract No. 9698 with F.H. Paschen/S.N.
Nielson due to design corrections, owner requested changes and discovery of certain concealed
deterioration and field conditions which could not have been reasonably determined at the time of
contract document preparation. Based on review and recommendation by the Prime Design
Consultant and CHA’s independent Construction Manager, the requested modifications were
necessary to complete the intended scope of the rehabilitation of various senior housing
apartments.
RESOLUTION NO. 2002-CHA-111
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated July 31, 2002 entitled
“Authorization to execute Contract Modification No. G-05 to Contract No. 9698
with F.H. Paschen/S.N. Nielson for general renovations at Hattie Callner
Apartments, Harry Schneider Apartments, Loyola Ridge Apartments and
Dickens/Burling Apartments”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee
to execute Contract Modification Number G-05 to Contract No. 9698 with F.H.
Paschen/S.N. Nielson in an amount of $418,729.00, subject to HUD approval, for
general renovations at Hattie Callner Apartments, 855 W. Aldine, Harry Schneider
Apartments, 1750 W. Peterson, Loyola/Ridge Apartments, 1930 W. Loyola and
Dickens/Burling Apartments, 2111 N. Halsted. The new contract amount,
including this modification, is $20,958,216.68. The time for completion of work
under the contract remains the same.

(Item A6)
The resolution for Item A6 approves modification to Contract No. 9708 with Michuda
Construction due to design corrections, owner requested changes and discovery of certain
concealed deterioration and field conditions which could not have been reasonably determined at
the time of contract document preparation. A large portion of the change orders is required for
environmental work to be performed in conjunction with the installation of thru the wall A/C units,
removal of Thermal System Insulation from all boiler rooms, the demolition of drywall joint
compound and total removal of the VAT. Based on evaluation and engineering by the Prime
Design Consultant and review and recommendation by the CHA’s independent Construction
Manager, the requested modifications were necessary to complete the scope and intent of the
modernization at 2140 N. Clark and 2640-2740 N. Sheffield.
RESOLUTION NO. 2002-CHA-112
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated August 6, 2002
entitled “Authorization to execute Contract Modification No. G-01 to Contract No.
9708 with Michuda Construction, Inc. for general renovation at 2140 N. Clark,
2640 N. Sheffield and 2720 N. Sheffield”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee
to execute Contract Modification Number G-01 to Contract No. 9708 with Michuda
Construction, Inc. for an amount not-to-exceed $1,696,209.00, subject to HUD
approval, for the general renovation of 2140 N. Clark, 2640 N. Sheffield and 2720
N. Sheffield. The new contract amount, including this contract modification will be
an amount not-to-exceed $2,534,032.00. The time for completion of work under the
contract remains unchanged.

(Item A7)
Based on regulatory guidelines mandated by various State, County and City ordinances, the
Authority is required, when necessary, to provide various environmental consulting, assessments
and/or testing services. In June 2002, a Request For Proposal was advertised. The CHA directly
solicited 28 firms. A total of 43 firms picked-up the RFP packages and 14 firms submitted
proposals. Based on the evaluation of the submitted proposals, four firms were found to be in the
5

 competitive range. At the request of the CHA, these four firms submitted best and final offers, and
based upon an analysis of those offers, the three firms that were deemed qualified and represented
the most cost effective value to the CHA were selected. The Resolution for Item A7 approves
award of contracts to GSG Environmental, Professional Services Industries, and Carnow Conibear
& Associates.
RESOLUTION NO. 2002-CHA-113
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated August 5, 2002
entitled “Authorization to enter into three contracts for Authority-wide professional
environmental and testing services”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee
to enter into three (3) contracts, each in the not-to exceed amount of $166,666 with
GSG Environmental, Inc., Carnow, Conibear & Associates, Ltd. and Professional
Services Industries, Inc. respectively, for an aggregate total of $500,000 for
professional environmental consulting, assessment and/or testing services to be
utilized throughout the Chicago Housing Authority.

(Item A8)
The Authority received a grant from the Department of Commerce and Community Affairs
(DCCA) for necessary repairs and construction at City/State Properties managed by the CHA. The
CHA elected to utilize the 2002 Grant for window replacement at Maplewood Courts. Maplewood
Courts consists of two 7-story high-rise buildings with a total of 131 units. The buildings contain
the original windows which were installed when the buildings were constructed in 1950. An
Invitation For Bid to install new windows, screens and security grills was advertised in June 2002.
Of the two responses received, Reflection Window Company submitted the lowest responsive bid,
which was within the budge allocations allowed by the DCCA Grant.
RESOLUTION NO. 2002-CHA-114
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated August 2, 2002
entitled “Authorization to enter into a Contract with Reflection Window Company,
LLC for window replacement at Maplewood Courts, RH-6, Specification No.
01134”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee
to enter into a contract with Reflection Window Company, LLC for window
replacement at Maplewood Courts, 320 and 330 S. Maplewood Avenue, RH-6, in
an amount not-to-exceed $412,108.00 for a term of 120 calendar days.

(Items A9 and A10)
The resolutions for Item A9 and Item A10 authorizes the Woodlawn Community Development
Corporation to enter into two contracts with JL & Associates to perform window and stairwell
door installation work at the Harold Ickes Development. This work will be done to fulfill the
objective of the Habitability Committee that was established in 2001. In evaluating the Ickes
Development, the Habitability Committee identified windows and stairwell doors as necessary
repair items. All procurements initiated by the property management firm, relative to the
Habitability initiative, have been executed with assistance from the CHA Procurement and
Contract Department.
RESOLUTION NO. 2002-CHA-115
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the memorandum dated July 8, 2002
entitled, “Authorization for CHA Private Property Management Firm, the
Woodlawn Community Development Corporation (WCDC), to enter into a
Contract with JL & Associates for window installation work at the Harold Ickes
Development” and concurs with the recommendation contained therein;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Woodlawn Community
Development Corporation (WCDC) to enter into a contract with JL & Associates in
6

 a fixed price amount of $151,500 to perform window installation work at the
Harold Ickes Development.
(Item A10)
RESOLUTION NO. 2002-CHA- 116
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the memorandum dated July 8, 2002
entitled, “Authorization for CHA Private Property Management Firm, Woodlawn
Community Development Corporation (WCDC), to enter into a Contract with JL &
Associates for stairwell door installation at the Harold Ickes Development” and
concurs with the recommendation contained therein;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Woodlawn Community
Development Corporation (WCDC) to enter into a contract with JL & Associates in
a fixed price amount of $196,845 to perform stairwell door installation work at the
Harold Ickes Development.

(Item A11)
The resolutions for Item A11 authorizes U.S. Dwellings to enter into contract with National
Roofing Corporation for roof replacement work at Lathrop Homes Development. This work will
be done to fulfill the objective of the Habitability Committee that was established in 2001. In
evaluating the Lathrop Development, the Habitability Committee identified roof replacement as a
necessary repair item. All procurements initiated by the property management firm, relative to the
Habitability initiative, have been executed with assistance from the CHA Procurement and
Contract Department.
RESOLUTION NO. 2002-CHA- 117
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the memorandum dated July 8, 2002
entitled, “Authorization for CHA Private Property Management Firm, U.S.
Dwellings to enter into a Contract with National Roofing Corporation for roof
replacement at the Lathrop Homes Development” and concurs with the
recommendation contained therein;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the U.S. Dwellings to enter into a
contract with National Roofing Corporation in a fixed price amount of $343,900 to
perform roof replacement work at the Lathrop Homes Development.

(Item A12)
The resolutions for Item A12 ratifies the contract entered into by U.S. Dwellings and Builder’s
Construction and Development, Inc. for replacement of stair pans and metal handrails at Lathrop
Homes Development. Under the Habitability Initiative, a formal solicitation was initially
performed by U.S. Dwellings. This solicitation resulted in the receipt of only one bidder who was
deemed non-responsive. A second solicitation resulted in the receipt of one responsive and
responsible bidder, Builders Construction and Development Corporation. When the bid document
was reviewed, competitive pricing could not be determined, resulting in recommendation by the
Procurement Department to re-bid the solicitation. In the interim, there occurred incidents which
suggested that the time frame needed to perform another bid would not serve the Authority’s best
interest for its residents. Accordingly, with the approval of CHA, U.S. Dwellings, noncompetitively awarded the contract to Builders Construction and directed them to proceed in order
to complete the replacement of the stair pans and handrails.
RESOLUTION NO. 2002-CHA-118
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the memorandum dated August 8, 2002
requesting ratification of a contract between CHA private property management
firm, U.S. Dwellings, and Builder’s Construction and Development Corporation for
the replacement of stair pans and metal handrails at the Lathrop Homes
Development” and concurs with the recommendation contained therein;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY

7

 THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby ratifies the award of a contract by CHA private
property management firm, U.S. Dwellings to Builder’s Construction and
Development Corporation for the replacement of stair pans and metal Handrails at
the Lathrop Homes Development in a ‘not-to-exceed’ amount of $140,000.00.

(Item A13)
In order to effectively complete all construction, rehabilitation and capital maintenance activities
outlined in the CHA’s Plan for Transformation, construction management services have been and
will continue to be required for all current CHA Capital Improvement Plan Programs. The
Procurement & Contracts Department is currently making arrangements to competitively solicit
proposals for a new Managing Owner’s Representative. However, an interim Managing Owner’s
Representative is needed until a new contract can be awarded. Since Tishman Construction
Corporation has acted as the Managing Construction Manager for construction management
services since August 2000 and fully understands the complexities of the CHA’s building portfolio
and its construction challenges, the Resolution for Item A13 approves a short-term interim
agreement with Tishman.
RESOLUTION NO. 2002-CHA-119
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated August 13, 2002
entitled “Authorization to enter into an Agreement with Tishman Construction
Corporation as Managing Owner’s Representative”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into a contract, subject to HUD approval, through procurement by
noncompetitive proposal pursuant to 24 CFR 85.36(d)(4)(i)(C) with Tishman
Construction Corporation as Managing Owner’s Representative for construction
management services for capital construction, rehabilitation and maintenance
activities associated with the Capital Improvement Program (CIP) in the amount of
$271,000.00 for the term of August 20, 2002 to November 20, 2002.

(Item A14)
The Operations Department estimates that approximately 80% of CHA properties require securing
by some method. Accordingly, in June 2002, the Authority issued a Request For Proposal (RFP)
for qualified firms who could secure vacant CHA property at any CHA location. Three responses
were received of which one was deemed non-responsive. Vacant Property Services and KarAnne’s Board Up-Inc. were the two responsive bidders. Vacant Property services proposal
included board up services using metal products only and Kar-Anne’s Board Up-Inc. uses plywood
exclusively. Since it is anticipated that the CHA will use both methods to secure apartments, the
Resolution for Item A14 approves award of contract to Vacant Property and Kar-Ann’s Board UpInc.
Commissioner Young recused from voting on Item A14 in error.
RESOLUTION NO. 2002-CHA-120
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated August 5, 2002 entitled “Authorization to enter into a Contract
with Vacant Property Services and Kar-Anne’s Board-Up Inc., for security boardup services.”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee
to enter into contracts with Vacant Property Security and Kar-Anne’s Board-Up,
Inc. for security board-up services in a cumulative amount not-to-exceed
$1,500,000.00 for a twenty-four month term with a one year option, subject to
Board and HUD approval.

(Item A15)
The development team of Oakwood Boulevard Associates was selected to be the developer for the
redevelopment of the CHA’s Phase I Madden/Wells site pursuant to a Request for Proposals issued
by CHA, The Habitat Company and the City of Chicago. Phase I redevelopment will begin the
creation of a mixed-income community with approximately 496 units. The development will have
325 rental units, of which 126 will be public housing replacement units, and 171 units for sale, of
8

 which 10 will be targeted to Madden/Wells families. These units will be contained in diverse
housing types that include townhouse, 2, 3, 6 and 9 flats. The core transaction terms of the Phase I
Madden Wells redevelopment are as follows: The CHA land shall be subject to a 99-year ground
lease upon which the rental development is constructed and transferred, in phases, to the ownerentity only for the single family detached or semi-detached For Sale development, the financing on
the For Sale development may include state and local funds, homebuyer loan proceeds, down
payments and soft second loans; the financing on the Rental development may include tax credit
equity, HOME Funds from the City of Chicago Department of Housing, public housing capital,
Federal Home Loan Bank Financing, and FHA insured first mortgage and TIF Loans. The
Resolution for Item A15 authorizes the Chief Executive Officer to enter into a Development
Agreement and Pre-Development Agreement with Oakwood Boulevard Associates for
Madden/Wells Phase I.
Commissioner Young recused from voting on Item A15.
RESOLUTION NO. 2002-CHA-121
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated July 17, 2002
entitled “Request for Authorization to Enter into a Development Agreement and
Pre-Development Loan Agreement with Oakwood Boulevard Associates for
Madden/Wells Phase I”, and concurs with the recommendation contained therein;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners, authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee
to enter into a Development Agreement with Oakwood Boulevard Associates for
Madden/Wells Phase I and further to enter into the Pre-Development Loan
Agreement.

(Item A16)
The development team of Jazz Drexel L.L.C. was selected to be the developer for the
redevelopment of the CHA’s Drexel site and adjacent City-owned property pursuant to a 1999
Request for Proposal by The Habitat Company and the City of Chicago’s Department of Planning
and Development. The CHA, the City of Chicago and other investors have agreed in principle to
this mixed finance, mixed income development on the former Drexel with Thrush, Inc., Granite
Development and Century Place Development Corporation as developer, through separate
development entity, Jazz Drexel L.L.C. The Jazz Development Plan will have 137 total units in a
variety of building types, including single family row houses, two flat, six flat, condominiums and
town homes buildings. The development will offer a mix of affordability including 30 public
housing units, 9 Tax Credit rental units, 27 affordable for-sale units and 71 market rate for sale
units. Implementation will occur in three construction phases, lasting approximately 36 months.
Century Place Development Corporation will be the developer and property manager of the rental
units. Thrush Development and Granite Development will be the developer of the for-sale units.
There will be one financial closing for the entire project, expected to take place in October 2002.
The Resolution for Item A16 authorizes the Chief Executive Officer to enter into a Development
Agreement with Jazz Drexel L.L.C. and to submit to HUD a Mixed-Finance Proposal and related
documents.
RESOLUTION NO. 2002-CHA-122
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated July 23, 2002,
entitled, Authorization to enter into a development agreement with Jazz Drexel
L.L.C., submit a Mixed Finance Proposal and an Application for the Disposition of
land to the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development for the
development known as Jazz on the Boulevard and concurs with the
recommendation contained therein.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into a development agreement with Jazz Drexel L.L.C., and to
submit to the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development: 1) a
Mixed Finance Proposal and 2) an Application for the Disposition of land, formerly
known as a portion of Washington Park Homes called the “Drexel site” located
between 41st Street on the North, 42nd Place on the South, Cottage Grove on the
West and Drexel Boulevard on the East, for the Jazz on the Boulevard project.
9

 (Item A17)
The Authority is currently negotiating with Quadel Consulting Corporation on a new contract to
administer the CHA’s Section 8 program. Quadel was the sole respondent to the 2001 CHA
Request For Proposals and is the CHA’s current administrator for the Section 8 program.
Negotiations commenced in February 2002 and are ongoing. In February 2002, the Board
authorized a modification extending the contract until July 31, 2002. The resolution for Item A17
approves an additional modification to Quadel’s contract through September 30, 2002.
RESOLUTION NO. 2002-CHA-123
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated July 30, 2002 entitled
"Authorization to Amend Contract No. 8565 between Quadel Consulting
Corporation and the Chicago Housing Authority for the Administration of the
Section 8 Programs".
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee
to execute Modification No. 8 of Contract No. 8565 between Quadel Consulting
Corporation and the Chicago Housing Authority for the expenditure of a not to
exceed amount of $3,165,564.00 to Quadel Consulting Corporation for the
administration of the Section 8 programs for the period of August 1, 2002 through
September 30, 2002.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items A1 through A17 was seconded by
Commissioner Ivers and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Lori Healy
Dr. Mildred Harris
Mamie Bone
Sandra Young (recused on A15 only)
Michael Ivers
Leticia Peralta Davis

Nays:

None

Commissioner Young recused from voting on Item A15 only.
There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Operations & Facilities Committee report was also accepted in
total.
A report of the Finance and Audit Committee was then presented by its Chairperson Leticia PeraltaDavis. Per Commissioner Davis, the Finance staff provided the Committee with the following
reports: Treasury and Cash Flow Report as of July 31, 2002, Quarterly Grant Progress Report,
Quarterly Financial Statements and Capital Budget Reports as of June 30, 2002.
Commissioner Davis then introduced an Omnibus Motion for the adoption of the resolutions for
Items B1 through B5 discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Finance &
Audit Committee:
(Item B1)
The resolution for Item B1 approves the Collective Bargaining Agreement between CHA and the
International Union of Operating Engineers, Local 399 effective June 1, 2001 through May 31,
2005. Representatives of the Union and the CHA have negotiated and tentatively agreed to the
following substantive changes to the Collective Bargaining Agreement: continued wage increases
for Union Employees in accordance with the Area Boma Agreement, added text regarding
“Mandatory Functions delineating CHA’s managerial functions, prerogatives and policy making
rights and added text which provides the CHA the right to employ public aid recipients as part of
the Illinois Department of Public Aid Earnfare Program and Department of Human Services
Workers Experience Program.

10

 RESOLUTION 2002-CHA-124
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated July 25, 2002
requesting authorization for the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to enter
into a successor Collective Bargaining Agreement and Participating Agreement
covering benefits with the International Union of Operating Engineers, Local 399,
covering the period from June 1, 2001 through May 31, 2005;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee
to execute a Collective Bargaining Agreement and Participating Agreements
covering benefits with the International Union of Operating Engineers, Local 399
on the terms described in the attached Collective Bargaining Agreement for the
period from June 1, 2001 through May 31, 2005.

(Item B2)
Amendment No. 120 to the Annual Contributions Contract transfers Project Nos. IL06P002143
and 153 from the development stage of ACC C-1150 with the Receiver, to the operation and
management of the CHA under its ACC C-1014 and transfers loan funds in the amount of $174.43
to Project IL06P002165 to IL06P002168. These projects have been completed and will become
part of the Authority’s inventory of units. The resolution for Item B2 authorizes the Chief
Executive Officer to execute Amendment No. 120 with HUD.
RESOLUTION NO. 2002-CHA-125
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated August 6, 2002
entitled “Recommendation to execute Amendment No. 120 to the Chicago Housing
Authority’s Annual Contributions Contract, C-1014 for Project Nos. IL06P002143,
153, 165 & 168” and concurs with the recommendations contained therein.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Chicago Housing Authority shall enter into Amendment No. 120 with HUD,
modifying the terms of the Annual Contributions Contract, and the Chief Executive
Officer, or his designee, is hereby authorized and directed to execute Amendment
No. 120 of the Annual Contributions Contract in quintuplicate and the Custodian
and Keeper of Records is authorized and directed to attest and impress the official
seal of the Chicago Housing Authority on each such counterpart. The aforesaid
Amendment No. 120 shall be substantially in the attached form.

(Item B3)
The Chicago Housing Authority has begun replacing obsolete computer hardware and software
that has been in operation since 1995. These older computers have exceeded their expected useful
life and have been unable to provide sustained satisfactory performance. Consequently, the CHA
issued an Invitation For Bid (IFB) in June 2002. This IFB competitively solicited qualified firms
and/or individuals who could supply and deliver Gateway E-4000 computers to the CHA. Based
on the 4 bid received, CCIT/PCMall was the lowest responsive and responsible bidder. The
Resolution for Item B3 approves award of contract accordingly.
RESOLUTION NO. 2002-CHA-126
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated July 22, 2002
entitled “Authorization to Enter Into a Contract with CCIT/PC Mall for supply and
delivery of Gateway E-4000 computers”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee
to enter into a contract with CCIT/PC Mall for supply and delivery of Gateway E4000 computers in a firm fixed price of $225,625.00 for a one-year contract term,
subject to HUD approval.

(Item B4 and B5)
As the Plan for Transformation proceeds, the Authority must have systems and supporting
infrastructure in place to monitor progress, process and provide reliable information. CHA’s
aging information technology infrastructure is limited in its ability to support current and planned
application systems which could adversely impact the implementation of the Plan. The Authority
11

 must replace its main servers and communications equipment to support the new web based
applications. The Authority’s Wide Area Network (WAN) which was installed in 1995 is unable to
meet the current demands of the high bandwidth application and must also be replaced.
The
CHA issued and Invitations For Bid (IFB) in June 2002 for replacement of main services and
communications equipment and another IFB in July 2002 for CISCO Hardware and associated
software. Of the proposals received and opened, System Solutions was the lowest, responsive and
responsible bidder for both proposals. The Resolutions for Item B4 and B5 approves award of two
contracts to System Solutions.
RESOLUTION NO. 2002-CHA-127
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated July 22, 2002
entitled “Authorization to enter into a contract with System Solutions for supply
and delivery of Compaq servers and components”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee
to enter into a contract with System Solutions for supply and delivery of Compaq
servers and components in a firm fixed price of $636,874.00 for a one-year contract
term, subject to HUD approval.

(Item B5)
RESOLUTION NO. 2002-CHA-128
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated August 7, 2002
entitled “Authorization to enter into a contract with System Solutions for supply
and delivery of Cisco Hardware and Associated Software”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee
to enter into a one year contract with System Solutions for supply and delivery of
Cisco Hardware and Associated Software for a firm fixed price of $2,171,607.46
subject to HUD approval.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items B1 through B5 was seconded by
Commissioner Ivers and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Lori Healy
Dr. Mildred Harris
Mamie Bone
Sandra Young
Michael Ivers
Leticia Peralta Davis

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Finance & Audit Committee report was also accepted in total.
Walk-On Item No. 1
The Authority’s enterprise servers are at the end of their life cycle and lack sufficient capacity to
support the new applications, therefore, they must be replaced. CHA’s critical applications would
be adversely affected should the enterprise servers fail and the Authority is unable to recover in a
timely manner. Additionally, the Sun servers will lower CHA’s operational cost by providing the
Authority with the ability to host their “own” web site without relying on costly web host
providers. Accordingly, in July 2002, the CHA issued an Invitation For Bid to solicit qualified
firms who could supply and deliver Sun Hardware and associated software to the CHA. Of the six
proposals received, Edge Systems, LLC was the second lowest, responsive and responsible bidder.
The lowest bidder was deemed to be non-responsible. The Resolution for Walk-On Item 1
approves award of contract to Edge Systems, LLC.
A Motion to approve Walk-On Item No. I was then presented by Commissioner Ivers
12

 RESOLUTION NO. 2002-CHA-129
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated August 7, 2002
entitled “Authorization to Enter Into a Contract with Edge Systems, LLC for supply
and delivery of Sun Hardware and Associated Software”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee
to enter into a one year contract with Edge Systems LLC for supply and delivery of
Sun Hardware and Associated Software for a firm fixed price of $789,995.00
subject to HUD approval.

Motion to adopt said resolution was seconded by Commissioner Davis and the voting was as
follows:
Ayes:
Sharon Gist Gilliam
Lori Healy
Dr. Mildred Harris
Mamie Bone
Sandra Young
Michael Ivers
Leticia Peralta Davis
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said motion carried
and said Resolution adopted.
There being no further business to come before the Commissioners, upon Motion made, seconded
and carried, the Annual and Regular Meeting of the Board of Commissioners was adjourned.

____________________________
Sharon Gist Gilliam
Chairperson
___________________________
Lee Gill, Custodian and
Keeper of Records

13

 