MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING

OF THE

COMMISSIONERS OF THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY

September 17, 2002
The Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority held its Annual Meeting on Tuesday,
September 17, 2002 at 8:30 a.m. at the Judge Slater Apartments, 740 East 43rd Street, Chicago,
Illinois.
The meeting was then called to order by the Chairperson, and upon roll call, those present and
absent were as follows:
Present:
Sharon Gist Gilliam
Lori Healey
Mamie Bone
Leticia Peralta Davis
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Sandra Young
Absent:

Hallie Amey

Also present were Terry Peterson, Chief Executive Officer, Gail Niemann, General Counsel;
Chicago Housing Authority Staff Members and the General Public.
There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as follows:
Terry Peterson, Chief Executive Officer then presented his monthly report. Per Mr. Peterson, on
September 1, 2002, the Plan For Transformation – Year 4, was distributed for review and
comments by the public. A Public Hearing Session is scheduled for September 25th at the
Chicago Cultural Center. Mr. Peterson informed the Commissioners that by the end of Year 4,
approximately 14,000 units will be completed which would include all units in Senior Housing and
Scattered Sites in addition to 1500 family units. Also scheduled under Year 4 of the Plan is the
beginning of redevelopment plans for seven out of the nine major developments. According to Mr.
Peterson, the number of families moving back into CHA should begin to exceed the number of
families who have been moving out and every year after, the rate or families returning will
increase. Eventually all of CHA residents will be returning to better communities and better lives,
places that should look and feel like other Chicago neighborhoods with stores, schools, parks and
all the basic amenities of a healthy community. Mr. Peterson concluded his report by highlighting
the Year 4 plans on the Service Connector and Self-Sufficiency programs.
The Chairperson then convened the Public Hearing portion of the meeting by inviting residents
and the public at large to address the Board.
Immediately following the Public Hearing portion of the meeting, a Motion was introduced and
seconded to adjourn to Executive Session. The Chairperson announced that pursuant to the Open
Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2, the Board would adjourn for approximately one (1) hour to discuss
pending, probable or imminent litigation, collective negotiating matters, security and personnel
matters.
Chairperson Gilliam thereupon introduced the Resolution discussed in Executive Session.
A Motion to approve the Resolutions for Item No. 1 discussed in Executive Session was then
presented by Commissioner Gates.
1

 (Executive Session Item No. 1)
RESOLUTION NO. 2002-CHA-130
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated September 5, 2002 requesting that the Board of Commissioners
approve the Personnel Action Report for August 2002.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the Personnel Actions for August
2002.

The Motion to adopt the Resolution for Executive Session Item 1 was seconded by Commissioner
Healey and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Mamie Bone
Leticia Peralta Davis
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Lori Healey
Michael Ivers
Sandra Young

Nays:

None

The Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried and said Resolution adopted.
Commissioner Davis, Chairperson of the Finance and Audit Committee, then presented the
following report. Per Commissioner Davis, the Finance Committee did not hold its regular
meeting due to a lack of quorum.
Commissioner Davis then introduced an Omnibus Motion for the approval and adoption of
Resolutions for Items A1 through A3:
(Item A1)
CHA renews its required insurance coverage on an annual basis. HUD has previously authorized
the CHA to allow its Insurance Broker of Record , Near North, to solicit competitive bids for all
forthcoming insurance procurements. Accordingly, Near North placed an advertisement soliciting
an Invitation For Bid (IFB) for the required insurance coverages and directly solicited 21 insurers.
In response to the IFB, 8 bids and 13 declinations were received. Due to the events of September
11, 2001, insurer bankruptcies and fluctuations in the stock market, the insurance market place has
hardened. Consequently, the competition was less than expected and the CHA is experiencing a
36% increase in premium rates. Based on the recommendation of Near North and the CHA’s Risk
Management Department, the Resolution for Item A1, approves award of contract for insurance
coverage to the stated carriers.
RESOLUTION NO. 2002-CHA -131
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners has reviewed the memorandum dated August 16,
2002 entitled "Authorization to purchase General Liability, Public Officials
Liability, Auto Liability and Excess Liability, Property and Excess Property
Insurance Coverage for CHA".
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee
to purchase the following insurance coverage for the CHA through its broker of
record, Near North Insurance Brokerage, Inc.: (1) General Liability and Excess
Liability insurance coverages written through American International Group in an
amount not-to-exceed $191,105; (2) Public Officials Liability written through
American International Group in an amount not-to-exceed $179,742; (3) Property
Insurance written through American International Group in an amount not-toexceed $700,949; (4) Excess Property Insurance written through Royal Indemnity
in an amount not-to-exceed $51,750; (5) Boiler & Machinery written through
2

 Travelers Insurance in an amount not-to-exceed $32,456; and (6) Auto Liability
written through Housing Authority Risk Retention Group in an amount not-toexceed $65,137, for a one-year period, for a total amount not-to-exceed $1,221,139,
subject to HUD approval, if required.
Item A2
Resolution 2002-CHA-33 approved by the Board in March 2002, authorized the Chief Executive
Officer to enter into a Restrictive Covenant Agreement with the Hearts United Phase III Limited
Partnership to reserve 13 units for low or very low income families, including those participating
in the Tenant Based Housing Choice Voucher Program. The Resolution for Item A2 approves
amendment of Resolution 2000-CHA-33 authorizing CHA to enter into a HAP contract with
Hearts United Phase III to provide 13 Project-Based vouchers to the Hearts United III mixedincome development.
RESOLUTION NO. 2002-CHA-132
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board letter dated August 30, 2002
to amend Resolution No. 2002-CHA-33 requesting authorization to enter into a
Housing Assistance Payments contract to provide 13 Project-based Housing Choice
Vouchers to the Hearts United III housing development:
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby amends Resolution No. 2002-CHA-33 to
authorize the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to enter into a Housing
Assistance Payments contract with Hearts United Phase III Limited Partnership or
its nominee to provide Project-based Voucher assistance for 13 units in the Hearts
United III mixed-income housing development for the maximum allowable term,
subject to any necessary HUD approvals, and to take any action necessary to
implement the foregoing.

(Item A3)
The City of Chicago is working with AIDSCare, Inc., a not-for-profit organization that provides
housing and health care services to low-income and homeless persons with HIV/AIDS, to develop
a new AIDSCare Center, a multi-unit residential complex in north Lawndale. The City’s
Department of Planning and Development is assembling 20 city-owned parcels for the federallyfunded project. Adjacent to the City parcels, at the northwest corner of Sawyer and 13th Street, are
two CHA-owned vacant parcels that are also needed for the project. The Resolution for Item A3
approves transfer of the two CHA parcels needed for the AIDSCare project to the City in
exchange for two City-owned parcels needed to implement the CHA’s HOPE VI Redevelopment
Plan for the Madden Park/Ida B. Wells developments.
Commissioner Young recused from voting on Item A3.
RESOLUTION NO. 2002-CHA-133
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated August 16, 2002
entitled “Approval of Intergovernmental Agreement for Land Transfer with the City
of Chicago for City-Owned Parcels in the Madden Park/Ida B. Wells Community in
Exchange for CHA-owned Parcels in the Lawndale Community” and concurs with
the recommendations therein;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee
to (1) execute an Intergovernmental Agreement with the City of Chicago to convey
two CHA-owned parcels in the Lawndale community to the City of Chicago in
exchange for the acquisition of two City-owned parcels in the Madden Park/Ida B.
Wells community; (2) submit the necessary disposition and acquisition applications
to the U. S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to implement
the land transfer agreement; and (3) execute any other necessary documents for the
land transfer.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items A1 through A3 was seconded by
Commissioner Gates and the voting was as follows:
3

 Ayes:

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Mamie Bone
Leticia Peralta Davis
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Lori Healey
Michael Ivers
Sandra Young (recused from voting on Item A3 only)

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted.
Commissioner Gates, Chairperson of the Operations and Facilities Committee then presented his
report. Per Commissioner Gates a Joint Operations and Tenant Services Committee meeting was
held on Wednesday, September 11, 2002 at the 626 Corporate Offices. A presentation on the
Gautreaux II style relocation counseling for Section 8 relocatees was presented by Leadership
Council for Open Metropolitan Communities
Commissioner Gates then introduced an Omnibus Motion for the adoption of the resolutions for
Items B1 and B2 discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the joint Operations
and Tenant Services Committees.
(Item B1)
In November 2001, the CHA retained a consultant to perform critical examination of the exterior
façade at 626 West Jackson due to loose portions of the façade. The consultant determined that
extensive repairs to the exterior walls were necessary in order to protect the public and CHA
employees from falling debris. Accordingly, the CHA issued an Invitation For Bid (IFB) and
directly solicited 120 vendors. Of the six (6) bids received and opened, G.F. Structures submitted
the lowest responsive and responsible bid. The resolution for Item B1 approves award of contract
to G.F. Structures for selective roof replacement and masonry repairs at 626 West Jackson.
RESOLUTION NO. 2002-CHA-134
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated September 3,
2002 entitled “Authorization to enter into a Contract with G. F. Structures
Corporation for selective roof replacement and masonry repairs at 626 W. Jackson”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee
to enter into a fixed price contract with G. F. Structures Corporation for Selective
Roof Replacement and Masonry Repairs at 626 W. Jackson for a firm fixed price of
$407,563.75.

(Item B2)
The resolution for Item B2 approves modification to Contract No. 9685 with F.H. Paschen/S.N.
Nielsen due to owner requested changes, specifications, corrections or adjustments and discovery
of additional concealed deterioration and field conditions. Based on evaluation and engineering by
the Prime Design Consultant and review and recommendation by CHA’s independent Construction
Manager, the requested modifications were necessary to complete the intended scope of the
rehabilitation of various senior housing developments.
RESOLUTION NO. 2002-CHA-135
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated September 10, 2002
entitled “Authorization to execute Modification No. G-02 to Contract NO. 9685
with F.H. Paschen/S.N.Nielson & Associates for comprehensive modernization at
various Senior Housing Developments”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee
to execute Contract Modification Number G-02 to Contract No. 9685 with F.H.
4

 Paschen/S.N. Nielsen & Associates for an amount not-to-exceed $4,020,000.00
subject to HUD approval, for the comprehensive modernization at Princeton
Apartments 4250 S. Princeton Ave.- IL2-32, Judge Green Apartments 4030 S. Lake
Park Ave. - IL2-55, Lincoln Perry Apartments 3245 S. Prairie Ave. - IL2-63 and
Lincoln Perry Annex 243 E. 32nd Street - IL2-102D. The new contract amount,
including this contract modification, will be $34,104,217.85. The time for
completion of work under the contract will be increased by 107 calendar days.
The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items B1 and B2 was seconded by Commissioner
Harris and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Mamie Bone
Leticia Peralta Davis
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Lori Healey
Michael Ivers
Sandra Young

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Joint Operations and Tenant Services Committee report was also
accepted in total.
There being no further business come before the Commissioners, upon Motion made, seconded
and carried, the meeting of the Board of Commissioners was adjourned.

_______________________
Sharon Gist Gilliam
Chairperson
________________________
Lee Gill, Custodian and
Keeper of Records

5

 