MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING

OF THE

COMMISSIONERS OF THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
December 20, 2005

The Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority held their Regular Meeting on Tuesday,
December 20, 2005 at 8:30 a.m. at Judge Slater Apartments, 740 East 43rd Street, Chicago,
Illinois.
The meeting was called to order by the Chairperson, and upon roll call, those present and absent
were as follows:
Present:
Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young
Mary Wiggins
Absent:

Martin Nesbitt

Also present were Terry Peterson, Chief Executive Officer; Gail Niemann, General Counsel;
Chicago Housing Authority Staff Members and the General Public.
There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as
follows:
Terry Peterson, Chief Executive Officer, then presented his monthly report. Per Mr. Peterson,
even though today’s agenda is full with items relating to bricks and mortar, social services,
property management and administration, he wanted to take the opportunity to remind everybody
about the holiday spirit. CHA communities are slowly but steadily becoming like other Chicago
communities. New homes are being built, stores and businesses are opening, families are
gathering, children are playing and all of the signs of a healthy, active community are evident.
While the CHA still has a long way to go, CHA residents have also come a long way. According
to Mr. Peterson, last week the Mayor broke ground on the first mixed-income community on
CHA property on State Street. It’s one of about 40 new developments that are underway, in
design or in some other phase of construction. Later this week, the CHA will be welcoming
back families into new homes at Drexel. Throughout this year, hundreds of families have moved
back into rebuilt units, while hundreds of others left high-rise housing behind forever for new
homes and new friends in new neighborhoods all across Chicago. Mr. Peterson concluded his
report by acknowledging the leadership of the Commissioners, residents and staff for the 2005
accomplishments and wished everybody a joyous, safe and healthy New Year.
The Chairperson then convened the Public Hearing portion of the meeting by inviting residents
and the public at large to address the Board.

1

 Immediately following the Public Hearing portion of the meeting, a Motion was introduced and
seconded to adjourn to Executive Session. The Chairperson announced that pursuant to the
Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2, the Board would adjourn for approximately one (1) hour to
discuss pending, probable or imminent litigation, collective negotiating matters, security and
personnel matters.
The Commissioners subsequently reconvened in Open Session. Chairperson Gilliam thereupon
introduced for approval the Minutes of Executive Session for November 15, 2005 and Regular
Minutes for the meeting of November 15, 2005. Upon Motion made and properly seconded, the
Minutes were unanimously approved and accepted as submitted.
Chairperson Gilliam thereupon introduced the Resolutions discussed in Executive Session.
Commissioner Gates then presented an Omnibus Motion to approve the following three
resolutions:
(Executive Session Item No. 1)
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-174
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated December 5, 2005 requesting that the Board of Commissioners
approves the Personnel Actions Report for November 2005.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the Personnel Actions Report for
November 2005.

(Executive Session Item No. 2)
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-175
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated December 1,
2005 requesting authorization to amend the contract amount with Jenner & Block
in connection with Guzman, et al. v. CHA, et al., 02 CH 10500,
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to amend Contract No. 9874 with Jenner & Block to increase the
contract amount in an amount not to exceed $150,000 in order to pay for legal
fees and expenses regarding Guzman, et al. v. CHA, et al., 02 CH 10500.

(Executive Session Item No. 3)
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-176
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated December 2, 2005,
requesting authorization to enter into a settlement agreement in the amount of
$325,000 in the matter Irene Gordon v. CHA, 03 L 8556,
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the General Counsel, or her designee, to
enter into a settlement agreement in the amount of $325,000 in the case of Irene
Gordon v. CHA 03 L 8556.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt Executive Session Item 1 thru 3 was seconded by Commissioner
Amey and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young
Mary Wiggins
Nays:

None
2

 The Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried and said Resolutions adopted.
Commissioner Young, Chairperson of the Tenant Services Committee, then presented her report
for the Tenant Services Committee meeting held on Wednesday, December 14, 2005.
Commissioner Young then introduced an Omnibus Motion for the adoption of Resolutions for
Items A1 through A9 discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Tenant
Services Committee.
(Item A1)
The resolution for Item A1approves the form of lease and admissions and continued occupancy
policy for Cabrini-Green off-site replacement housing known as The Larrabee. It is understood
that the developer has an interest and desire to implement its own lease forms and policy that
encourages consistent community standards for the effective management of its mixed-income
developments. The lease and policy have to accommodate various aspects of the multiple types
of tenants and characteristics of a mixed-income transaction. The authorization of this item is
required at this time to facilitate the closing of this development transaction. These documents
have been subject to extensive negotiation among the CHA, the Developer, Cabrini LAC, and
Cabrini Working Group. A public comment period was held from November 9, 2005 through
December 8, 2005. A public comment hearing was held on November 16, 2005 at the 18th
District Police Station. Notice for the public comment period and comment hearing was given in
accordance with applicable requirements. The CHA will consider any forthcoming comments in
finalizing the documents with the Developer and Cabrini LAC.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-177
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated December 20,
2005, entitled “Authorization for approval of the Lease and Tenant Selection Plan
and Continued Occupancy Criteria for Cabrini Green Replacement Housing at the
Private Off-Site Development known as The Larrabee to amend the CHA
Admissions and Continued Occupancy Policy to incorporate such documents as
an addendum thereto”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the attached admissions and
continued occupancy policy and form of lease in substantially the form presented
to the Board for the Cabrini Green replacement housing at the private off-site
development known as The Larrabee. The Chairman of the Board or the Chief
Executive Officer is hereby authorized to approve final changes in these forms,
including changes based on HUD requirements, or such changes, if any, resulting
from any applicable notice and comment process. Such approval shall constitute
conclusive evidence of the Board’s approval of any and all such changes.

(Item A2)
CDoA has been serving CHA residents since 1994 in various capacities. However, as part of the
CHA’s Plan for Transformation, the social services programs for CHA’s senior residents
previously performed directly by CHA staff were outsourced to CDoA through IGAs. The
Board authorized the current IGA to provide the required services for FY 2004 in December
2003 and authorized Amendment No. 1 to extend the IGA for FY 2005 in November 2004. The
execution of the second year option to extend the IGA with CDoA for FY 2006 will allow the
CHA to continue to efficiently provide these services for its senior citizens residing in forty-two
(42) of the CHA’s senior buildings. CDoA is uniquely qualified to perform these services for
senior citizens in the City of Chicago and has received federal designation as the Area Agency
on Aging. Under this second year option to extend the IGA, CDoA will continue to provide
eligible CHA residents with home delivered meals, core services, congregate dining, benefits
eligibility checklist, assessment, educational/cultural/recreational activities, case management,
legal assistance, respite care, transportation, nursing home pre-screening, and linkage to other
needed services through the State of Illinois Community Care Program. Accordingly the
resolution for Item A2 approves the extension of the IGA with CDoA.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-178
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed
Memorandum dated December 14, 2005, entitled “Authorization to Execute the
3

 Second Year Option to Extend the Intergovernmental Agreement with the
Chicago Department on Aging to Provide a Coordinated Supportive Social
Services Program for Senior Citizens Residing in Forty-two CHA Senior
Buildings”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

The Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute Amendment No. 2 exercising the second year option to
extend the Intergovernmental Agreement with the City of Chicago Department on
Aging to provide a coordinated supportive social service program for senior
citizens residing in forty-two (42) CHA senior buildings for the period of January
1, 2006 through December 31, 2006 for an amount not to exceed $2,162,598.

(Item A3)
Pursuant to the CHA’s Plan for Transformation, social services previously performed by CHA
staff were outsourced to the City of Chicago’s Department of Human Services (CDHS).
In
2005, a new IGA between the CHA and CDHS was implemented to allow CDHS to continue to
provide services that allow CHA residents to have coordinated access to the same services that
are available to all residents of the City of Chicago. The resolution for Item A3 approves the first
option year of CDHS IGA. CDHS will continue to provide a comprehensive strategy to link
families residing in CHA’s family developments, scattered site communities, and families that
relocated to the private housing market with a Housing Choice Voucher since October 1999, to
services provided by public agencies and/or private sector service providers; provide on-going
customer service reviews for the CHA to identify ways to improve services for its residents;
customize the service connection strategy to meet the specific needs of each CHA family; offer
priority enrollment for CHA residents for certain programs; maximize coordination with other
City, County, and State service agencies; and provide comprehensive assessments of family
requirements for the most needy CHA families. Funding was increased in 2005 to address the
higher volume of families relocating to the private housing market under the Housing Choice
Voucher program. As families move into communities across the City, a more individualized
approach will be utilized to link families to specific neighborhood resources.
Commissioner Gates recused from voting on Item A3.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-179
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated December 14, 2005, entitled “Recommendation to Exercise
the First One Year Option of the Intergovernmental Agreement with the Chicago
Department of Human Services”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute Amendment No. 1 to the Intergovernmental Agreement with
the City of Chicago acting through its Department of Human Services to exercise
the first one (1) year option to provide supportive services to CHA residents for
the period of January 1, 2006 through December 31, 2006 in an amount not-toexceed $20,563,987.00.

(Item A4)
In June 2003, the Board of Commissioners approved a contract with BMH to provide Needs
Assessments and Case Management Services for Henry Horner Mid-rise Residents. In August
2004, a subsequent amendment was approved increasing the Contract’s base term not-to-exceed
amount from $225,000.00 to $450,000.00. In May 2005, the Board granted approval to exercise
the one year option to extend the Contract with BMH in an amount not-to-exceed $126,170 to
provide services to families preparing to relocate into Phase III of the Henry Horner mixedincome community. The new funding was also intended to allow BMH to continue providing
post relocation case management services to families that moved into Phase II of the
redevelopment Horner replacement units. Though the May 2005 Resolution only specifically
approved $126,170.00 for the option year, the intent was that the carry forward contract amount
balance from the base term would be included. Since the close of the Contract base term in June,
it has been determined that there is a carryover balance from the Contract’s base term of
4

 $72,560.75 that will be applied to the funding needed for the current option-year. A total of
$273,350.00 was actually needed for the Contractor to perform all required services under the
Contract’s option year. Therefore, the resolution for Item A4 approves an additional $74,560.25
in funding to be added to the carryover balance and the funding authorized in the May 2005
resolution to adequately compensate BMH for providing services to families preparing to
relocate into Phase III and continue providing post-relocation services to families now living in
Phase II of the mixed-income community at Horner during the current option year.

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-180
the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed
the Board Letter dated December 14, 2005 entitled “Authorization to increase
the funding of Contract No. 0676 with BMH-1, LLC (“BMH”) for Needs
Assessment and Case Management Services to Henry Horner Mid-Rise
Residents”;

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners (“Board”) authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or
his designee to increase the funding of Contract No. 0676 (the “Contract”) with
BMH-1, LLC (“BMH”) for needs assessment and case management services to
Henry Horner Mid-Rise residents in the amount not-to-exceed $74,560.25, adding
it to the carryover balance of the Contract’s base term and the amount previously
authorized in the Board’s May 2005 Resolution for the current option year. The
total not-to-exceed amount of compensation available to BMH for the option year
will be $273,350. The new aggregate total not-to-exceed amount of the Contract
will be $650,730.25.

(Item A5)
In January 2004, the CHA entered into a two year contract with TCB to provide community and
supportive services to the Madden/Wells/Darrow Homes. The primary focus of the CSS
agreement with TCB was to assist CHA families that have chosen to return to the Madden/Wells
mixed-income community. Case management services have been specifically designed to
address site specific criteria for relocating to the Redevelopment and the barriers a family may
face in meeting the criteria and assisting families in overcoming those barriers. TCB has met its
contract obligations and CHA’s management is committed to servicing the residents at
Madden/Wells/Darrow Homes. Accordingly, the resolution for Item A5 approves the first one
year option of Contract No. 0575 with TCB to continue providing services for those families
who relocated during the initial term of Contract No. 0575 and to provide services to those
families relocating in 2006 and to increase the funding in an amount not-to-exceed $550,000.00
and adding it to whatever balance is left over from the current contract base term amount.
Commissioner Young recused from voting on Item A5.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-181
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated December 14, 2005, entitled “Authorization to exercise the
first one year option of Contract No. 0575 with the Community Builders for
Community and Supportive Services at Madden Park/Ida B. Wells/Clarence
Darrow Homes Redevelopment”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to exercise the first one (1) year option of Contract No. 0575 with the
Community Builders for community and supportive services at Madden Park/Ida
B. Wells/Clarence Darrow Homes Redevelopment (“Contract No. 0575”) for the
period of January 1, 2006 through December 31, 2006, and to increase the
funding in an amount not-to-exceed $550,000.00 adding it to whatever balance is
left over from the current contract base term amount. The new total not-to-exceed
contract amount of Contract No. 0575 will be $1,090,338.00.

5

 (Item A6)
The resolution for Item A6 approves the second one year option for Quadel’s contract. In 1995,
the CHA privatized its Section 8 program which served approximately 15,000 families. Today,
the program services over 36,000 families and 15,000 landlords and continues to grow. In
November 2002, the Board authorized the CHA to enter into a new contract with Quadel, which
was the then current Section 8 private administrator and the only respondent to the CHA’s RFP
for a new Section 8 private administrator to administer services for the CHA’s Housing
Choice/Section 8 program. The Board authorized a twenty-five month base term from December
1, 2002 through December 31, 2004 for an amount not-to-exceed $52,304,543.28 and included
three (3) one-year options. The Contract provided for an automatic exercise of the first one-year
option for 2005 if Quadel met certain requirements, which were met. Quadel has successfully
demonstrated progress toward maintaining High Performer status under the SEMAP criteria and
is on target to earn at least 75% of the Performance Incentive Fee as stipulated in the Contract.
In addition, the CHA and Quadel received 2 Awards of Merit for best practices from the
National Association of Housing and Redevelopment Officials (NAHRO).
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-182
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed
memorandum dated December 14, 2005, entitled “Authorization to exercise the
Second One (1) Year Option to extend the Contract between Quadel Consulting
Corporation and the Chicago Housing Authority for the Administration of the
Section 8 Programs”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

The Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute an amendment to Contract No. 0370 with Quadel Consulting
Corporation to extend the contract term for the second one (1) year option from
January 1, 2006 through December 31, 2006 in an amount not-to-exceed
$24,000,000.00 for the administration of the CHA’s Housing Choice
Voucher/Section 8 Program.

(Item A7)
The resolution for Item A7 approves the second year option of the contracts with Big “O”
Movers, REO Movers, Smith Movers, and Medley’s Moving and Storage Inc. for Resident
Relocation Services with no additional dollars added to the contract amount. Due to the FY2006
Moving to Work Annual Plan, relocation services are still required to move approximately 1,457
families. Current balances on existing Contractors’ purchase orders are expected to be sufficient
in covering estimated costs of $1,657,484 for moving services in 2006. In addition, the current
moving contractors have either met or exceeded the acceptable level of performance.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005- CHA-183
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated December 14, 2005, entitled “Authorization to exercise the
Second Year Option to extend the Resident/Relocation Moving Contracts with
Big “O” Movers and Storage, Inc., REO Movers and Storage, Inc., Smith Movers
Inc. and Medley’s Moving and Storage Inc. for Resident Relocation Services”;
THERFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee
to exercise the second one (l) year option for resident relocation moving services
with Big “O” Movers and Storage, Inc., Reo Movers and Storage, Inc., Smith
Movers Inc., and Medley’s Moving and Storage, Inc., with no increase in the notto-exceed contract amount for any of these contracts.

(Item A8)
Federal regulations require the CHA to maintain and update the Administrative Plan for Housing
Choice Vouchers, Project-Based Vouchers and Moderate Rehabilitation Programs to ensure
conformance with rules and procedures necessary to administer the voucher program. The
Administrative Plan is also used by the program administrator, CHAC, Inc., to outline and ensure
proper administration of the voucher program according to the policies set forth by this Board.
The purpose of this revision is to increase the minimum rent from $25.00 to $50.00. Impacted
6

 families will be sent a 30-day notice alerting them of the change and will also receive a 90-day
initial grace period before the minimum rent increase goes into effect. The CHA released the
Administrative Plan draft language change for public comment from November 10, 2005
through December 13, 2005. Advertisements were placed in major newspapers encouraging all
interested parties to submit written comments or email via the CHA Website. Information
regarding the public comment period and copies of the draft Administrative Plan language
change were also distributed to all CHA developments. All comments received through the
public comment period have been taken into consideration. Accordingly, the resolution for Item
A8 approves amendment of the Section 8 Administrative Plan.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005- CHA -184
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated October 26,
2005 entitled “Approval of the Administrative Plan for the Housing Choice
Vouchers, Project-Based Vouchers and Moderate Rehabilitation Programs.”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners repeals and rescinds any and all previously adopted
plans and resolutions related to the approval of such plan.

THAT,

the Board of Commissioners adopts the revised Chicago Housing Authority
Administrative Plan for the Housing Choice Vouchers, Project-Based Vouchers
and Moderate Rehabilitation Programs dated December 20, 2005 attached hereto
as Exhibit A.

THAT,

the revised Administrative Plan for the Housing Choice Vouchers, Project-Based
Vouchers and Moderate Rehabilitation Programs dated October 26, 2005 shall be
effective December 20, 2005.

(Item A9)
The CHA issued a Request for Proposal (RFP) to competitively solicit qualified firms and
organizations that could supply and maintain washers, dryers and related laundry room
equipment and services to the Lowden Homes development on a shared revenue basis, not
requiring capital or operational outlays from the CHA. The proposed agreement is for a base
term of five years, with a single one year option. Of the six firms that were solicited directly,
two were certified MBE/WBE firms. Of the three respondents deemed responsive, and based
upon an evaluation of the proposals received, the evaluation committee selected MacGray
Services, Inc., as the most responsible and responsive vendor. Accordingly, the resolution for
Item A9 approves a Revenue Sharing Agreement with MacGray Services Inc. This agreement
differs from most CHA contracts in that the CHA and the vendor will maintain a revenue sharing
agreement so that the vendor can realize an appropriate return on its investment of capital and
operational resources, and the CHA would be compensated for its share of service revenues for
associated costs and expenses (such as water, electricity, gas use). The shared revenues will be
used to fund resident services, and residents can enjoy the convenience and reliability of laundry
services close to home.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-185
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated December 14,
2005 titled “Authorization to enter into an Agreement with MacGray Services,
Inc., for the supply and maintenance of Washers, Dryers and Laundry Room
Equipment and Services at Lowden Homes Development”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into a 5 year agreement, with one (1) additional option year
subject to Board approval with MacGray Services, Inc., to provide the supply and
maintenance of washers, dryers and laundry room equipment and services at
Lowden Homes development.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items A1 through A9 was seconded by
Commissioner Ponce and the voting was as follows:

7

 Ayes:

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young
Mary Wiggins

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Tenant Services Committee report was also accepted in total.
Commissioner Gates, Chairperson of the Operations Committee, then presented the monthly
report. Per Commissioner Gates, the Operations and Facilities Committee Meeting was held on
Wednesday, December 14, 2005 at approximately 2:15 p.m. at the 626 W. Jackson Corporate
offices.
Commissioner Gates, then introduced an Omnibus Motion for the adoption of resolutions for
Items B1 and B10, discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Operations &
Facilities Committee.
(Item B1)
In March 2001, the Board authorized the execution of an Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA)
between the CHA and the City Department of Environment (“DOE”) to perform all
environmental reviews and prepare all necessary documentation for the Plan for Transformation
as permitted by HUD. DOE diligently performed this work on behalf of CHA until earlier in
2005, when DOE stated that it would no longer provide such oversight and administration and
requested that CHA no longer utilize the City’s consultant contracts for the environmental
services necessary to implement the mixed-income redevelopment portion of the Plan. This
change was made due to the fact that the scope of the environmental activities required for the
Plan was impacting the ability of the DOE to support other City departments. Accordingly, the
resolution for Item B1 approves award of contracts with a pool of environmental contractors for
remediation services at Mixed-Income Developments. In July 2005, the CHA advertised a
Request for Proposal soliciting environmental remediation services. The RFP was advertised in
area newspapers and the CHA website. In addition, thirty-seven firms were directly solicited and
fifteen firms picked up copies of the solicitation. Of the nineteen proposals received, the ten
firms that scored within the competitive range were asked to make presentations. After
consideration of the evaluations, ODM decided to recommend the six named firms below to be
issued contracts to provide greater capacity and competition than would be available with fewer
contracts.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-186
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated December 14, 2005
entitled “Authorization to Execute Contracts with a Pool of Environmental
Consultants for Environmental Remediation Services at Mixed Income
Developments”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute contracts with Tetra Tech EM Inc.; Environmental Design
International Inc.; Weston Solutions; URS Corporation; Carnow Conibear and
Associates; and Camp Dresser & McKee Inc.; for environmental remediation
services at the Chicago Housing Authority’s mixed income developments. Each
vendor will be under a two (2) year base period Indefinite Delivery, Indefinite
Quantity Task Order Contract with two (2) one (1) year renewal options. The
aggregate amount for task orders assigned to the members of the pool shall be not
more than $3,000,000.
This award is subject to each vendor’s compliance with CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE,
Section 3 resident hiring, and insurance requirements.
8

 (Item B2)
In 1994, CHA was awarded a $50 million dollar HOPE VI grant to facilitate the redevelopment
of the Cabrini Extension North site. In 1996, the City of Chicago created the Near North
Redevelopment Initiative (NNRI) that serves as a general guide for redevelopment activities.
The 1997 HOPE VI Revitalization Plan and the NNRI called for the construction of 2,000-3,000
new housing units of which 700 would be designated for CHA families. In 2000, CHA, the City
and the Local Advisory Council entered into a consent decree that governs, to a great extent, the
redevelopment goals on the HOPE VI site. The Cabrini-Green Consent Decree stipulates, among
other things, the replacement of 700 public housing units. The Larrabee Condominium site,
located at 865 N. Larrabee (Chicago Avenue and Larrabee Street), is bounded by Catholic
Charities to the north, Cabrini Row Houses to the east, a parking garage to the south, and
Larrabee Street to the west. The Larrabee Condominiums are being developed by Sproul
Mitchell Builders, Inc. into a new, 72 unit residential community, with ground floor commercial
space, within a seven story mid-rise building. The CHA will purchase four, two-bedroom units in
this condominium building as replacement housing for Cabrini Extension North families. The
total budget for this development is $1,106,687.
The CHA will own these units and retain a
private property management firm to manage these units. The purchase of these units will help
satisfy the Cabrini Consent Decree that requires the replacement of 700 public housing units for
Cabrini Extension North families. CHA anticipates closing with the Developer on or before June
30, 2006.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-187
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board letter dated December 20,
2005 entitled “Authorization to: 1) Submit an acquisition application to U.S.
Department of Housing and Urban Development (“HUD”); 2) Enter into a
purchase agreement for the redevelopment site known as the Larrabee
Condominiums for Four (4) Cabrini Extension North Replacement units; and 3)
Execute such other documents necessary to implement the foregoing”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Chief Executive Officer, or his
designee to submit an acquisition application to HUD; and

THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into a Purchase Agreement with Larrabee Condominium
Development Corporation utilizing the Cabrini 1994 HOPE VI grant,
development and/or capital funds in the amount of $614,687.00 to acquire four
Cabrini North Extension replacement units; and

THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer, or his
designee, to execute such other documents as necessary to implement the
foregoing.

(Item B3)
The resolution for Item B3 approves award of contract with East Lake Management &
Development Corp. for environmental remediation activities in Phase 1B For-Sale at the
Rockwell Gardens Development Site. The development team of East Lake Management was
selected to be the developer for the CHA’s Rockwell Gardens Site pursuant to a Request for
Qualifications. In October 2002, the Board approved entering into a Master Development
Agreement with East Lake/West End, LLC and East Lake, as sponsor. Pursuant to the
Redevelopment Agreement, CHA is required to fund the cost of site remediation for pre-existing
conditions on the entire portion of the development site that is owned by CHA (other than costs
the Developer would have incurred in any event), subject to certain rights to terminate for
infeasibility. The estimated remediation cost for the For -Sale development is $800,158. CHA’s
contractual responsibility for remediating foreseen and unforeseen environmental conditions is
capped at 200% of this estimated total cost or $1,600,316. All of the necessary environmental
reports and studies have been completed and the prerequisite approvals obtained for the
Remediation Action Plan proposed for the development site. Various benefits to the project
will be realized by entering into a contract with East Lake/West End Homeownership namely
continuity of schedule; continuity of activity and economy of scale.
9

 RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-188
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated December 20,
2005, “Authorization to enter into a contract with East Lake/West End
Homeownership, LLC or other affiliate of East Lake Management &
Development Corp. for Environmental Remediation Activities in Phase 1B ForSale at the Rockwell Gardens Development Site”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into a contract with East Lake/West End, Homeownership, LLC
or other affiliate of East Lake Management & Development Corp. for
environmental remediation activities in Phase 1B For-Sale at the Rockwell
Gardens development site for a total contract amount not to exceed $1,600,316
(200% of the estimated remediation costs on the Rockwell Phase 1B For-Sale
Redevelopment Site). The term of the contract shall be the earlier of: the receipt
of a “No Further Remediation” letter from the Illinois Environmental Protection
Agency with regard to the Rockwell Phase 1B For-Sale Redevelopment Site, or
two years, subject to a one year extension if approved by HUD.

(Item B4)
The resolution for Item B4 approves entering into one or more 99-year ground lease(s) with East
Lake/West End to implement the Rockwell Gardens Phase I-B for-sale development. Phase I-B
represents the second phase of redevelopment within the larger Rockwell Gardens Revitalization
Plan to create 780 new mixed income rental and for-sale housing in the New West Side
community area. A total of approximately 208 new housing units – approximately 92 rental
apartments (57 CHA/tax credit Rental Units, 35 Affordable Rental Units ) and approximately
116 homeownership units –are expected to be available on parcels of land that are contiguous or
near to the Rockwell Gardens Phase I-A development site, as well as on the CHA property
situated “on-site” within the site boundaries of the traditional Rockwell Gardens development.
East Lake Management is the sponsor for the Rockwell Gardens redevelopment activities and
CHA will retain ownership of the CHA-owned land underlying the “on-site” parcels that are
planned as rental housing evidencing site control through one or more 99-year ground leases
with the rental development owner. The Phase I-B rental development will be owned by East
Lake/West End I-B, L.P., an Illinois limited partnership. Funding for the Phase I-B rental
transaction is expected to include Gautreaux as well as HOPE VI funds. However, the
maximum amount committed to the redevelopment, and to the Rockwell I-B rental transaction,
as authorized in prior Board action, has not changed.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-189
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated December 20,
2005, requesting authorization for the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to
enter into one or more 99-year ground lease(s) with East Lake/West End
Homeownership, LLC (or other affiliate of East Lake Management &
Development Corp.) and transfer ten (10) lots of the resubdivided land fee-simple
that are designated for single family detached housing, and to execute, deliver and
perform such documents and take such actions as may be necessary or appropriate
to implement the Rockwell Gardens Phase I-B for-sale development, subject to
any necessary HUD approval.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

The Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into one or more 99-year ground lease(s) with East Lake/West
End Homeownership, LLC (or other affiliate of East Lake Management &
Development Corp.) and to transfer up to ten (10) parcels of land fee-simple that
are designated for single family detached housing, and to execute, deliver and
perform such documents and take such actions as may be necessary or appropriate
to implement the Rockwell Gardens Phase I-B for-sale development, subject to
any necessary HUD approval.

10

 THAT,

All acts of the officers, employees and agents of the Authority which are in
conformity with the purposes and intent of this Resolution be, and the same
hereby are, in all respects, ratified, approved and confirmed.

(Item B5)
The Asset Management Department surveyed the scavenger services being provided across the
developments and found that the service and cost varied from development to development, even
within the same management company’s portfolio. To standardize the type of cost of services
being provided by portfolio, the Asset Management Department required that each property
management company for the Authority contract with one waste removal vendor, for all of the
sites within its portfolio. Legum & Norman, property Management Company for the Authority,
released a Request For Proposal for scavenger services on October 14, 2005 which was
advertised in area newspapers. Of the three companies who responded to the RFP, Allied Waste
Services was ranked the highest and proposed the best price for the service. Accordingly, the
resolution for Item B5 approves award of contact to Allied Waste Services for scavenger services
at various CHA sites.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-190
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
memorandum dated December 14, 2005 entitled “Authorization for Legum &
Norman to Enter into a Contract with Allied Waste Services, Inc. for Scavenger
Services at Various CHA Sites”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes Legum & Norman, property management
company for the CHA, to enter into a contract with Allied Waste Services, Inc.
and for Scavenger Services in the amount not-to-exceed $310,320.00 for a two
year contract term with a one-year option.

(Item B6)
The resolution for Item B6 approves ratification of an emergency non-competitive procurement
with Broadway Consolidated in the not-to-exceed amount of $174,564.00. Broadway
Consolidated performed emergency deck replacement work at three scattered site locations in
response to City of Chicago inspections and issuance of tickets for code violations. In the event
of an emergency at these buildings, residents may need to use these decks as an alternate escape
route from the buildings and the CHA determined that the decks required such extensive repairs
that it would be safer and more cost effective to demolish and rebuild them rather than to repair
them. The CHA, therefore, awarded a Time and Materials Contract to Broadway Consolidated
based on a competitive Invitation to Bid.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-191
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated December 14, 2005
entitled “Ratification of Purchase Order No. 40046 issued to Broadway
Consolidated Companies, Inc. for Emergency Repair Work at Three (3) Scattered
Site Locations”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners hereby ratifies Purchase Order No. 40046 with
Broadway Consolidated Companies, Inc. for the demolition and replacement of
decks at three (3) scattered site locations, 1900 West Sunnyside, 1906 West
Sunnyside, and 4526 North Magnolia. Purchase Order No. 40046 was issued in
the not-to-exceed amount of $174,564.00. This award is subject to the
Contractor’s compliance with CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident hiring,
and bonding and insurance requirements.

(Item B7)
As part of the Capital Improvement Program, the CHA requires the services of a qualified,
professional architectural and/or engineering firm to provide PDC Services to the CHA as it
undertakes renovation activities at Washington Park Low Rise. The CHA advertised the RFP in
area newspapers and on the CHA website. The CHA also directly solicited twenty-one firms,
including eleven MBE/WBE/DBE firms. Of the nine proposals received and upon consideration
11

 of each Respondent’s Proposal, Presentation, and Best and Final Offer, the Evaluation
Committee recommended the following two firms for contract award: NIA Architects and Fox
& Fox. Services to be provided include, but will not be limited to, the preparation of all
drawings and specifications and the preparation of all related contract documents. The selected
respondents will provide construction management activities and assistance in obtaining
construction bids and permits. The selected Respondents will also be designated as the Architects
of Record for the respective Groups to which they are assigned. Accordingly, the resolution for
Item B7 approves award of contract to NIA Architects and Fox & Fox. The CHA will contract
separately with general contractors to perform the construction work. It is expected that
construction will begin in FY 2006.
Commissioner Wiggins recused from voting on Item B7.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-192
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated December 14, 2005
entitled “Authorization to execute Contracts with (1) NIA Architects Inc. and (2)
Fox & Fox Architects & Engineers for Prime Design Consultant Services at
Washington Park Homes – Low Rise (IL2-034 and IL2-059)”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute contracts with Nia Architects Inc. in the amount of
$606,960.00 for Group No. 1 consisting of fifty-six (56) units, and Fox & Fox
Architects & Engineers in the amount of $669,225.00 for Group No. 2 consisting
of eighty-two (82) units, for Prime Design Consultant Services at Washington
Park Homes – Low Rise (IL2-34L and IL2-059). The contracts shall take effect
on the date of the individual Notices to Proceed, and shall continue until the end
dates indicated in the individual contracts.
These awards are subject to each Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s
MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident hiring, and bonding and insurance
requirements.

(Item B8)
On February 17, 2004, the Board approved a contract with EDI for environmental testing and
consulting services. The resolution for Item B8 approves an amendment and funding increase to
EDI’s contract. EDI provided environmental consulting services on behalf of the Office of
Development Management for its mixed-income redevelopment projects. In the past, the
remediation program responsibility was performed by the City of Chicago’s Department of
Environment (CDOE) for ODM through an Intergovernmental Agreement. However, CDOE no
longer offers the same level of assistance to the CHA. In order to assure an effective transition,
ODM required immediate support to fulfill the role vacated by DOE. In response to this
exigency it was agreed to utilize EDI’s environmental testing and consulting resources up to
$101,000.00 in value to meet ODM’s needs through the end of 2005.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-193
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated December 14,
2005, entitled “Authorization to execute Amendment No. 01 to Contract No. 593
with Environmental Design International Inc. for Professional Environmental
Consulting and Testing Services”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive or his designee to
increase the funding of Contract No. 0593 with Environmental Design
International Inc. by an amount not-to-exceed $101,000.00 to provide sufficient
capacity to cover anticipated needs through its expiration. The new total not-toexceed contract amount for Contract No. 0593 will be $1,601,000.00. The length
of the contract is unchanged.

(Item B9)
The resolution for Item B9 approves amendment of Contract with GSG Consultants to continue
12

 to provide necessary environmental consulting services at Altgeld Gardens. In the second quarter
of 2005, the CHA began the modernization of Altgeld Gardens. To address residents’
environmental safety concerns, the Authority requested GSG to submit a proposal under the
terms of the Contract to provide a high level of air and soil screening and monitoring at Altgeld
through the remainder of 2005, or until the underlying hazard remediation portion of
improvement activities at the site is completed, with the fee based upon the firm fixed rates set
forth in the Contract. GSG submitted a proposal that covers additional air sampling objectives to
document the levels of selective parameters during construction at the site. The parameters
include asbestos, lead and airborne particulates. After analyzing GSG’s proposal, including fees,
it was determined that GSG’s proposed fee was fair and reasonable. A new Request for Proposal
for Authority-wide environmental testing and consulting services is nearing completion and
should be ready to be released to the public shortly. It will take into consideration what
additional testing may be needed at Altgeld in 2006 and beyond.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-194
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated December 14,
2005, entitled “Authorization to amend Contract No. 0592 with GSG
Consultants, Inc. for the provision of Environmental Consulting Services at
Altgeld Gardens (IL2-007) Family Housing Development”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to amend Contract No. 0592 with GSG Consultants, Inc. to increase its
funding by an amount not-to-exceed $262,700.00 to continue providing necessary
environmental consulting services at Altgeld Gardens (IL2-007) through the end
of 2005. The new total contract amount for Contract No. 0592 will be
$762,700.00. The length of the contract is unchanged.
This amendment is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s
MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident hiring, and bonding and insurance
requirements.

(Item B10)
The CHA is currently in the process of structuring rehabilitation financing for one severely
distressed property in the Senior Housing portfolio, Britton Budd Apartments located at 501
West Surf, consisting of one 11 story building originally constructed in 1917. Proceeds of the
financing will be used to complete substantial rehabilitation of the one hundred seventy-three
units contained in the property. A newly-formed affiliate of the CHA will be the sole general
partner and have a .01% interest in the partnership. The limited partner of this limited partnership
will be the tax credit investor, having a 99.99% interest in the partnership. The partnership will
enter into a construction contract with the General Contractor providing for the rehabilitation
work to be completed on a fixed price basis. Accordingly, the CHA advertised a Request for
Proposal in area newspapers and directly solicited twenty two firms, including ten M/W/DBE
firms. Five proposals were received and evaluated and upon further consideration of each
Respondent following the presentations and negotiations, the Evaluation Committee determined
that FHP Tectonics Corporation had the best ability to perform the proposed rehabilitation and
offered the best economic value to CHA. The resolution for Item B10 approves award of
contract for General Contractor services at Britton I. Budd Apartments to FHP Tectonics
Corporation.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-195
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated December 14,
2005 entitled “Authorization to execute a Contract with FHP Tectonics
Corporation for General Contractor Services at Britton Budd Apartments (IL2048)”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute a contract with FHP Tectonics Corporation in the amount of
$19,379,000.00 for General Contractor services at Britton I. Budd Apartments
(IL2-048), located at 501 West Surf.
13

 The contract shall take effect on the date of the Notice to Proceed and shall
continue until the completion of construction, which is expected to take less than
two (2) years. The award of this contract is subject to the Contractor’s compliance
with the CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident hiring, and insurance
requirements.
The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items B1 and B10 was seconded by Commissioner
Harris and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young
Mary Wiggins

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Operations and Facilities Committee report was also accepted
in total.
In the absence of Committee Chairperson Nesbitt, Commissioner Ponce presented the Finance
& Audit monthly report. Per Commissioner Ponce, the Finance & Audit Committee Meeting
was held on Wednesday, December 14, 2005 at 2:15 p.m. at the 626 W. Jackson Corporate
offices. The Chief Financial Officer and her staff presented the Committee with the Treasury
and Cash Flow Report as of November 31, 2005. Todd Gomez from Banc of America
Securities presented the Committee with an overview on pricing for City/State.
Commissioner Ponce then introduced an Omnibus Motion for adoption of resolutions for Items
C1 through C7, discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Finance & Audit
Committee.
(Item C1)
The resolution for Item C1 approves submittal of the FY2006 Performance Funding System
(PFS) Calculation to HUD. HUD uses the PFS to determine a public housing authority’s
eligibility for an operating subsidy. The CHA is required to submit a PFS Calculation detailing
the total operating subsidy for fiscal year 2006. Based on the formula established by HUD as a
part of the Moving-to-Work Demonstration Agreement, the CHA should request the operating
subsidy in the amount of $181,172,348. For fiscal years 2000-2009, CHA must prepare its
request for operating funds by making adjustments to the base year subsidy eligibility. The
formula includes making adjustments to the base year amount by using a Simplified Delta of
0.5%, the PFS annual inflation factor for Chicago (which is 2.2% for FY2006), unit demolitions,
and congressional appropriations (i.e., pro-ration of subsidy when less than 100% funding of
operating subsidy). Unlike the procedure used in prior years, HUD has requested each Authority
to submit its PFS Schedule prior to the release of final pro-rations. This is being done in order to
determine the overall need of Public Housing Authorities. Upon release of the final pro-ration
amount, the CHA’s FY2006 Comprehensive Budget will be adjusted accordingly.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-196
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners have reviewed the Board Letter dated December 20,
2005 requesting authorization to submit FY2006 Performance Funding System
Calculation to the Department of Housing and Urban Development and approval
of the FY2006 Performance Funding System Performance Calculation.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners approves the FY2006 Performance Funding System
Calculation and authorize the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to execute

14

 and submit the Performance Funding System Calculation and all necessary related
documents to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development.
(Item C2)
Insurance brokerage services have assisted the Authority in consistently securing insurance for
the CHA and for the Property Mangers Insurance Program (PMIP). The PMIP is an OwnerControlled Insurance Program in which participation is mandatory for all Private Property
Managers and Resident Management Corporations. Since 1999, when the PMIP was formed,
the administrative services and loss control services along with the brokerage services for this
program have been contracted separately from the brokerage services for the CHA. Due to the
restructuring of the PMIP with the deletion of these administrative and loss control services from
the broker for the PMIP, only one contract for insurance brokerage services for both the CHA
and PMIP needed to be solicited. The Authority requires a professional broker with a wide range
of expertise to market these two insurance programs to secure financial protection at competitive
rates. Accordingly, based on the results of a Request For Proposal, it was recommended by the
evaluation committee, that AON would best meet the Authority’s brokerage and consulting
needs. The resolution for Item C2 approves award of contract to AON to provide services that
include risk management project support, claim auditing and insurance placement.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-197
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated December 14,
2005, entitled “Authorization to Enter Into Contract with AON for Professional
Brokerage/Consultant Service and Private Managers Insurance Program (PMIP)
Consulting Services”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into a two-year contract with AON to provide Professional
Brokerage/Consultant Service and Private Managers Insurance Program (PMIP)
Consulting Services for the period January 1, 2006 through December 31, 2007 in
an amount not-to-exceed $510,000, with three (3) one-year extension options
subject to Board and, if required, the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development (HUD) approval.

(Item C3)
The resolution for Item C3 approves a one-year option extension with Velma Butler & Company
and Calibre CPA Group for auditing services for the CHA’s Private Management Firms and
Resident Management Corporations. In 2004, the CHA entered into contracts with the two
named firms to monitor the effectiveness of the management of these properties. During the past
two years, both firms have met their contract requirements with the CHA and have performed all
tasks expected of the Independent Auditors. Velma Butler & Company, LTD had to perform
additional time and services to ensure the proper information was obtained to complete the audits
of the RMCs. Calibre CPA Group PLLC and Velma Butler & Company, LTD are willing and
able to provide Independent Professional Auditing Services to the CHA for contract option term,
April 1, 2006 through March 30, 2007 and March 1, 2006 through February 28, 2007,
respectively under the terms and conditions as provided in their Contracts.
Commissioners Amey, Wiggins and Harris recused from voting on Item C3.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005 –CHA-198
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
memorandum dated December 14, 2005 entitled “Authorization to exercise one
year options for Contract No. 0583 with Calibre CPA Group PLLC and Contract
No. 0584 with Velma Butler & Company, LTD. for Independent Professional
Auditing Services for the Private Property Management firms (PPMs) and the
Resident Management companies (RMCs)
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter an amendment in exercise of the option to extend Contract No.
0583 with Calibre CPA Group PLLC for the period of April 1, 2006 through
15

 March 31, 2007 for a total amount not-to-exceed of $186,400 and Contract
No.0584 with Velma Butler & Company, LTD. for the period of March 1, 2006
through February 28, 2007 for a total amount not-to-exceed $192,938, to provide
Auditing Services.
(Item C4)
The resolution for Item C4 approves the collective bargaining agreement by and between the
CHA and the International Union of Operating Engineers of Chicago, Local 399. The CHA
employs four operating engineers who are members of Local 399 and whose employment terms
are governed, in part, by a CBA. The existing CBA expired on May 31, 2005. The new CBA
has an effective date of June 1, 2005. Pursuant to the CBA, Operating Engineers will be paid
$29.40 per hour retroactive to June 12, 2005. This is an eighty-five (85) cent or 3 percent
increase over their current hourly wage of $28.55. In June 2006, the Operating Engineers will
receive an additional $1.30 per hour increase to be distributed between wages and benefits as
determined by Local 399. Retroactive to June 12, 2005, the CHA will contribute $158 per week
per employee to Local 399’s Health and Welfare Plan as well as $1.90 per hour worked for the
employees’ pensions. These wages and benefits mirror the benefits package negotiated between
Local 399 and the Building Operators and Managers Association (“BOMA”) in October 2004.
In addition to the new wage levels, there are three other substantive differences between the new
CBA and the Agreement that expired May 31, 2005. First, the term of the new CBA is only two
years (i.e. through May 31, 2007) as opposed to four years in the prior Agreement. Second, the
new CBA eliminates the possibility of overtime pay where employees work less than 40 hours a
week. Under the expired Agreement, Local 399 members qualified for overtime pay if they
worked more than 8 hours a day, even if they worked less than 40 hours in that week. Third, the
new CBA defines the work day as constituting 8 hours without a lunch break.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-199
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated November 30,
2005, requesting authorization to enter into a collective bargaining agreement by
and between the Chicago Housing Authority (“CHA”) and the International
Union of Operating Engineers of Chicago, Illinois and Vicinity, Local 399
(“Local 399”)
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer, or his
designee, to enter into a collective bargaining agreement by and between the
“CHA” and Local 399.

(Item C5)
The resolution for Item C5 approves extension of Health Plan Benefits to Domestic Partners of
Benefits-Eligible CHA Employee. This policy will maintain a diverse, fair and tolerant
workforce reflective of the population and will enhance CHA’s ability to attract talented and
qualified individuals to join CHA’s staff. Further, it will align CHA with sister agencies such as
the City of Chicago, CTA, Cook County, the Board of Education and City Colleges of Chicago
that have already implemented similar policies. To be eligible for coverage as a qualified
domestic partner, the CHA employee and the domestic partner must complete and file with the
Human Resources Benefits Department an “Affidavit of Domestic Partnership” in which they
attest that they are each other’s sole domestic partner, they are the same sex, neither is married to
another, the partners are not related by blood closer than would bar marriage and they are both at
least eighteen years of age. In addition, the partners must provide proof of joint ownership of an
asset such as a car or home and be declared as a beneficiary in each other’s will. The Human
Resources Department estimates that the cost of implementing this policy is negligible. CHA
insurance carriers have been contacted and have no opposition to the CHA’s adoption of this
policy.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-200
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated December 14,
2005 entitled “Extension of Health Plan Benefits to Domestic Partners of
Benefits-Eligible Chicago Housing Authority Employees”,
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY

16

 THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chicago Housing Authority (“CHA”)
to extend health plan benefits to domestic partners of benefits-eligible CHA
employees.

(Item C6)
The resolution for Item C6 approves Amendment Number 10 and 11 of CHA’s Employees
Retirement Plan and Trust. Amendment No. 10 will clarify certain provisions of the Plan
regarding minimum distribution requirements as required by Treasury Regulations and
Amendment Number 11 will amend the mandatory distribution provisions of the Plan to comply
with the automatic rollover requirements of the Economic Growth and Tax Relief Reconciliation
Act of 2001 by eliminating involuntary cash-outs of $5,000 or less from the Plan.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-201
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated November 2, 2005
entitled “Authorization to Amend the Chicago Housing Authority Employees’
Retirement Plan and Trust”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute Amendment Ten and Amendment Number Eleven of the
Chicago Housing Authority Employees’ Retirement Plan and Trust in the form
and as of the effective dates indicated in the attached Amendments.

(Item C7)
In January 2004, the Board authorized an IGA with the City of Chicago’s Department of
Administrative Hearings, not to exceed $110,000. This IGA allowed the CHA to implement its
amended Grievance Procedure. Under the amended Grievance Procedure, independent hearing
officers contracted by DoAH adjudicate residents’ formal grievances rather than CHA attorneys.
The IGA’s term was for one year with four (4) options to extend the IGA, each for a year.
From April 1, 2004 through March 31, 2005, the original term of the IGA, training was
conducted and only a small number of hearings were held. As a result, only $8,367 was
expended pursuant to the IGA, leaving sufficient funding for the first and second option periods
of the IGA. Accordingly, the total contract not-to-exceed amount will remain unchanged. Since
April 1, 2005, DoAH has continued to handle residents’ formal grievances and DoAH recently
approved the exercise of the first option. Since the amended Grievance Procedure operates
smoothly the resolution for Item C7 ratifies the first option and extends the second option of the
existing IGA with the Department of Administrative Hearings.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-202
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board letter dated December 14,
2005, entitled “Ratification of the Exercise of the First Option and
Recommendation to Exercise the Second Option to Extend the Intergovernmental
Agreement between the Chicago Housing Authority and the City of Chicago’s
Department of Administrative Hearings,”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners ratifies the exercise of the first one-year option to
extend the Intergovernmental Agreement (“IGA”) for the period of April 1, 2005
through March 31, 2006, and authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to exercise the second one-year option to extend the IGA between the
Chicago Housing Authority (“CHA”) and the City of Chicago’s Department of
Administrative Hearings (“DoAH”) to permit the CHA and its residents to
continue to use DoAH’s facilities and independent hearing officers for the formal
hearing portion of the CHA’s amended Grievance Procedure.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items C1 through C7 was seconded by
Commissioner Gates and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Earnest Gates
17

 Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young
Mary Wiggins
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Finance and Audit Committee report was also accepted in
total.
There being no further business to come before the Commissioners, upon Motion made,
seconded and carried, the meeting of the Board of Commissioners was adjourned.

_________________________
Sharon Gist Gilliam
Chairperson
________________________
Lee Gill, Custodian and
Keeper of Records

18

 