June 15, 2010 Board Meeting
Regular Meeting of the Board of Commissioners

1.
2.

1.

2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.

1.

2.
3.
4.
5.

Fosco Park Fieldhouse
1312 S. Racine Avenue
Resolutions
Approval of Personnel Action Reports for the month of May 2010
Recommendation to enter into Intergovernmental Agreements with the Chicago Park District
and the City of Chicago for Land Exchanges within or nearby the former Rockwell Gardens, Cabrini
Green Extension South and Ida B. Wells/Madden Park Developments and Submit Acquisition and
Disposition Applications to HUD.

Joint Tenant Services & Operations & Facilities Committee Report
Recommendation to submit a Mixed Finance Proposal and Contract for Redevelopment,
Evidentiaries, and Disposition Application to HUD; commit ARRA/CFRC Stimulus Permanent Loan Funds
and CHA General Funds to the Ogden North (Park Douglas) Rental Redevelopment; enter into a Land
Transfer Agreement with the City of
Chicago for CHA’s acquisition of seven City-owned parcels; execute a Ground Lease with the
Ownership Entity and execute other documents necessary to implement the foregoing.
Recommendation to award contract for Environmental Remediation Activities connected with
the Park Douglas Rental Redevelopment Site. Recommended Awardee: McShane Construction Co.
Recommendation to award contract for Fair Housing Testing Services. Recommended Awardee:
The Chicago Lawyers' Committee for Civil Rights Under Law, Inc.
Recommendation to award contract for Green Assessment at CHA's Senior and Family
Properties and to adopt CHA's Sustainability Statement. Recommended Awardee: HOK/Siemens
Recommendation to award Contracts for Authority-wide Demolition Services at Various CHA
Developments. Recommended Awardees: Delta Demolition, Inc.
Recommendation to approve the Tenant Selection Plan, Lease, Lease Riders and Bylaws for
Ogden North and to amend CHA's Admissions and Continued Occupancy Policy.
Recommendation to approve contract amendment with Globetrotters International Inc., to
update CHA’s Housing Choice Voucher Program Tenant and Project Based Waitlist.

Finance & Audit Committee Report
Recommendation to accept an award and execute an Intergovernmental Agreement with the
City of Chicago's Department of Environment for residential energy retrofits on scattered sites
properties.
Recommendation to accept a Grant Award and execute a Grant Agreement with the City of
Chicago's Department of Family and Support Services for the Youth Ready Chicago Program.
Recommendation to accept a Grant Award and execute a Grant Agreement with the 2016 Fund
For Chicago Neighborhoods for the JobsStart Transitional Jobs Program.
Ratification of acceptance of a Grant Award from the HUD HOPE VI Revitalization Program for
the Stateway Gardens/Park Boulevard Phase II Development Project.
Recommendation to approve Amendment No. 1 to Contract No. 1011 with Innovative Financial
Housing Solutions, Inc. for accounting, auditing and consulting Services.

 