Chicago Housing Authority
Board of Commissioners Public Session
February 17, 2015
Charles Hayes FIC – 4859 S. Wabash
Name

1

2

Cameika
Elliott

Paul McKinley

Question/Comment

Response

I am a resident at Oakwood Shores, I come before you asking if you
can help me with the matter of accommodating my son in the proper
three bedroom ADA unit. I have prepared a package and turned it in,
the package has a letter, documents and photos pertaining to this
matter. In 2012 I put a request in to be transferred from Wentworth to
Oakwood Shores under agreement that the unit that I took at Oakwood
would be temporary until the next available three bedroom ADA unit at
Oakwood became available. I was told I was first on the list to receive
that unit and in 2013 after going into the management office and
inquiring about the unit the people in the management office stated to
me that the unit became available however was given to another family.
There has been a lot of back and forth between management and CHA.
Management from Oakwood Shores told me it was CHA’s responsibility
to get me into the ADA unit. My son has undergone two surgeries, so I
need your help. There are problems in the unit where we are, he is
having issues navigating his medical equipment. There is mold in this
apartment as well. Can you please review my package and see that
this matter is resolved?
There was a lot of homeless people this winter, who were sleeping in
the cold, and CHA should have an emergency program for people like
this. I was in Hyde Park and I saw an older woman sleeping on
concrete. Some are former CHA residents who had mental health
issues. This is a problem in the entire city of Chicago.

During the week of March 2 management was working to
remove the carpet as well as address the bedroom mold. The
CHA worked and will continue to work with you to address your
concerns and provide appropriate housing for your needs.

1

The Chicago Department of Family and Support Services
(DFSS) has emergency overnight shelters to which they will
provide transportation. If you see someone sleeping on the
street, please call 311 for Homeless and Emergency Services.
FSS outreach teams respond to shelter requests around the
clock. If the need is immediate, callers/individuals in need will
be asked to go to their local police station or hospital
emergency room where they can wait safely for transportation
to a shelter. FSS will then follow up with the individual to get
them into permanent, supportive housing as soon as possible.

 3

4

5

6

Dennis Hood

Alex Polikoff

Joseph
Watkins

Nazim Hood

I appreciate your prayers, I just came out of surgery, I’m back to 100%.
I was in a contract for three units, a lot of mistakes had been coming up
while I was in the hospital, but I finished the work. I do want to say that
I appreciated the mobilization money that was given to me, I used it
well. We’ve got contracts that are only $100,000, there needs to be
bargaining bids for you to help us get through this process. This
insurance is also killing me financially. I appreciate you coming to the
table and doing something.
I have no statement to make, I know there were questions raised about
the Mobility Demonstration Program at the Tenant Services meeting, I
thought I would just come this morning in case there were any
questions.
I am here to criticize the Section 3 Program, I think there needs to be
input from public housing residents. The program is top heavy towards
developers. You are doing a project at Washington and Pulaski, and
you have contractors like Brinshore and Old Veteran who are not
friendly to the Section 3 residents. We request you bring them to the
table and let residents with businesses have input on how we should be
accommodated. You are not building the program around the
residents. I would hope you would consider utilizing our skills, we are
master practitioners in this business. Nobody can explain our suffering,
you should consider that. Get rid of Old Veteran until he
accommodates the community.

Thank you for your comment. On a regular basis CHA meets
with interested parties, including public housing residents,
related to CHA compliance with the Section 3 Voluntary
Compliance Agreement (VCA). Through extensive compliance
reviews, CHA ensures that both CHA and CHA contractors are
compliant with what is required and outlined in the Section 3
VCA.

1) Specifically, Mr. Merchant, Mr. Veenstra and his staff, on behalf of
Hood Construction and likewise the efforts they have taken, we could
not have done it without them. But this is systemic, a lot of stuff was
going on with Section 3 beforehand, and a lot of things trying to be
corrected, they are not acting like they want us to be involved, we
couldn’t even get a change order on our contract to move furniture.
How do we operate like this? We had to keep running back and forth to
different people and that’s a problem.

1) After following up with H.J. Russell, CHA was informed that
there were no change orders requested on behalf of Hood
Construction. Furthermore, CHA recently issued new
procedures for property management companies related to
Section 3 Business concerns. The new procedures should
help to address many of the concerns voiced by the Section 3
Business community.

2) Secondly, as an ex-offender, I can’t even live in the developments I
come from because I’m helping to build these communities, but I am
not let back in, what more do I need to show?

2

Thank you for taking the time to come out to this Board
meeting.

On a regular basis CHA meets with interested parties, including
public housing residents, related to CHA compliance with the
Section 3 Voluntary Compliance Agreement (VCA). Through
extensive compliance reviews, CHA ensures that both CHA
and CHA contractors are compliant with what is required and
outlined in the Section 3 VCA.

2) Last fall CHA opened its wait list and encouraged all persons
requiring low-income housing to apply for the wait list lottery.
Although CHA has a look back period for offenses, not all
offenses bar an applicant forever. In addition, and pending
HUD’s approval, CHA will implement its Reentry Demonstration
program, which was approved by the board last November.
This demonstration would allow ex-offenders to return living
with a current CHA leaseholder provided they have worked at
least one year with three approved providers. For specific
information about this demonstration and the eligibility
requirements, please visit CHA’s website at
www.thecha.org/about/plans-reports-and-policies.

 7

Tamiko Holt

My problem is Section 3 businesses. We still have problems with
contractors who refuse to acknowledge resident owned businesses,
and we are being locked out by the contracts. You have the senior
building on Washington, the Rosenwald also, still a problem. We had a
meeting about Rosenwald and their practices about Section 3 business
concerns. They think they are going to apply the same practices they
did before. CHA gives big dollars to these contractors and they think
they can spit in our face. You do right by everyone, not just by certain
individuals. We are not asking you for anything, we have skills, do right
by the program and let us in, that’s it.

3

In response to your comments about the Rosenwald Courts
and Flats contract, the Prime Contractor has proposed to meet
the minimum Section 3 Business Concern subcontracting
requirement by submitting a Utilization Plan that sets a goal of
10.22% of the overall contract value. CHA’s Compliance
department will monitor the compliance once construction work
begins. In reference to your comment about the senior building
on Washington, we assume you are referencing the Fannie
Emmanuel development. If this is what you are referencing,
CHA has not yet selected an awardee for this contract,
therefore the compliance commitments are undetermined.

 