April 15, 2015

Item No. 4

APPROVAL OF POLICY TO ALLOW FAMILIES IN ELEVATOR BUILDINGS
TO THE HONORABLE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS:
RECOMMENDATION
It is recommended that the Board of Commissioners approve a Policy to Allow Families in Elevator
Buildings, which substantively changes the CHA’s current policy against providing Public Housing units
and placing families above the third story in any structure unless otherwise approved by the
Gautreaux Court through individual, property specific orders/waivers. Upon discussion and approval
of this Policy, the CHA will jointly file with BPI a motion in the Gautreaux case seeking modification of
the Gautreaux Judgment Order.
CORPORATE GOAL
Approval of the proposed Policy will reflect the present-day context of mixed-income development
and allow the CHA to provide Public Housing units and place families above the third story in
structures, provided specific conditions are met. Moreover, the proposed Policy would: allow the
CHA to provide a greater number of Public Housing units for families, including large families, in
various building types; address the need to secure multiple funding streams; and reduce the time
spent seeking individual waiver orders from the Gautreaux Court for individual structures.
FUNDING
N/A
GENERAL BACKGROUND/EXPLANATION
On July 1, 1969, the Federal District Court for the Northern District of Illinois, Eastern Division
entered a judgment order in Dorothy Gautreaux, et al. v. Chicago Housing Authority (No. 66 C 1459).
Article IV, Section C of which provided that:
No [Public Housing] Dwelling Units shall be provided above the third story in any structure except for
families without children and except Leased [Public Housing] Dwelling Units in a structure in which the
number of [Public Housing] Dwelling Units aggregates no more than 20% of the total number of
apartments in such structure….
Article IV also provided that the Court, “by order,” could permit developments that were “specifically
designed to assist in achieving the purposes” of the judgment order. Under Article X of the judgment
order, the Court is authorized to issue,
…orders modifying or supplementing the terms [of the judgment order] upon the presentation of
relevant information with respect to proposed developments designed by CHA alone or in combination
with other private or public agencies to achieve results consistent with this order, material changes in
conditions existing at the time of this order or any other….

 Throughout the Plan for Transformation and Plan Forward, the CHA and BPI, counsel for the
Gautreaux plaintiffs, have obtained individual Court orders (judicial waivers) permitting CHA to
provide Public Housing units and place families above the third story in structures. In developing
public housing, the CHA has met the following obstacles and factors: 1) limited land; 2) limited funding
sources and the need for multiple funding streams; 3) the ability to provide adequate housing for all
family sizes, which gives rise to a tension between the need to build low rise units for families with
children (who currently cannot be placed above the third floor without a judicial waiver) and the need
to build taller buildings to meet the overall need for more units on the available land; 4) CHA families
with disabilities have a variety of reasons for needing buildings with elevator access, making second
and third floor walk-up units unacceptable to them; and 5) the desire to reduce the time spent seeking
waiver orders from the Court for individual structures.
Under the proposed policy, the CHA may be able to provide Public Housing units and place families
above the third story, provided the following conditions are met:
1)
The structure is located either in the Gautreaux General Public Housing Area or in a CHA
Opportunity Area. In general, Opportunity Areas are areas of the City of Chicago with less
than 20% poverty and less than 5% CHA housing saturation or are improving areas with
moderate neighborhood indicators;
2)
Public Housing units shall comprise no more than one-third of all units within the structure;
3)
No more than 20% of all units within the structure contain 3 or more bedrooms;
4)
Each “unit size” (i.e., the number of bedrooms within a unit) within the structure is
available both to public housing and non-public housing families, unless the structure
contains only one unit of a particular unit size;
5)
Among units containing more than 2 bedrooms, no more than 75% of the same unit size
shall be Public Housing units, unless the structure contains only one unit of a particular
unit size; and
6)
The Public Housing units are and remain well dispersed throughout the structure.

2

 RESOLUTION NO. 2015-CHA-29
WHEREAS,

the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board letter dated April 15, 2015, entitled: “POLICY TO ALLOW FAMILIES IN ELEVATOR
BUILDINGS”;

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:

THAT,

the Policy to Allow Families in Elevator Buildings is approved.

THAT,

that following the Board Approval of the Policy to Allow Families in Elevator
Buildings, the CHA will jointly file with BPI a motion and appear before Judge
Aspen of the Federal District Court of the Northern District of Illinois, Eastern
Division to modify the Gautreaux judgment order and allow the CHA to provide
Public Housing units and place families above the third story, under particular
conditions, without returning to the Court to obtain individual, property specific
orders/waivers.

3

 