Minutes of the meeting of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee of the Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System held Friday, November 16, 2018 at the hour of 10:00 A.M.
at 1950 W. Polk Street, in Conference Room 5301, Chicago, Illinois.
I.

Attendance/Call to Order
Chair Gugenheim called the meeting to order.
Present:

Chair Ada Mary Gugenheim and Director Layla P. Suleiman Gonzalez, PhD, JD
(2)
Board Chair M. Hill Hammock (ex-officio) and Director Mary B. RichardsonLowry
Patrick T. Driscoll, Jr. (Non-Director Member)

Absent:

Mary Driscoll, RN, MPH (1)

Additional attendees and/or presenters were:
Oluwatoyin Adeyemi, MD - Senior Director of HIV
Services
Debra Carey – Deputy Chief Executive Officer,
Operations
Linda Follenweider – Cermak Health Services of
Cook County

II.

Kent Ray –Associate General Counsel
Deborah Santana – Secretary to the Board
Ronald Wyatt, MD – Chief Quality Officer

Public Speakers
Chair Gugenheim asked the Secretary to call upon the registered public speakers.
The Secretary responded that there were none present.

III.

Report from Chief Quality Officer
A. Regulatory and Accreditation Updates
B. Metrics (Attachment #1)
Dr. Ronald Wyatt, Chief Quality Officer, provided an overview of the metrics. The Committee reviewed
and discussed the information.
Board Chair Hammock inquired whether there are other measures that should be added for the Board’s
benefit, or whether the metrics as presented are considered to be complete. Additionally, he
recommended that the metrics as presented be split amongst three (3) pages, for better visibility. Dr.
Wyatt responded that staff are working on another dashboard with different indicators; when that work is
complete, he plans to share that with the Committee.
During the discussion of the Utilization metrics, Director Richardson-Lowry stated that it would be good
to have a discussion, particularly by the 2nd quarter of next year, where Dr. Wyatt would present and give
details around some of the incremental changes that have been made towards improvement, and those
changes anticipated being made in the future; additionally, she is interested in hearing about some of the
areas where improvement is a challenge. She also sees this as an area impacted by cultural competency
and social determinants, so she is interested in hearing his perspective on what the organization can do
there.

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee
Friday, November 16, 2018
Page 2

III.

Report from Chief Quality Officer (continued)
Director Suleiman Gonzalez noted that cultural competence comes up in different ways and in different
conversations; she wondered if there is a way to figure out an index that allows for tracking to determine
whether cultural competence may be playing a role in impacting these indicators.

C. Report from Infection Prevention (Attachment #2)
Dr. Wyatt provided an overview of the Report from Infection Prevention, which included information on
the following subjects:
Stroger Hospital – Goals, Gaps/Barriers/Best Practice, Corrective Measures for:
 Central Line Associated Bloodstream Infections (CLABSIs)
 Catheter-Associated Urinary Tract Infections (CAUTIs)
 Ventilator-Associated Events (VAEs)
 Infection-Related Ventilator Associated Complication and Possible Ventilator-associated
Pneumonia (IVAC Plus)
 Surgical Site Infections (SSIs)
 Healthcare Facility Onset Clostridium difficile
 Healthcare Facility Onset Methicillin-Resistant Staphylococcus Aureus (MRSA) Bacteremia
 Carbapenem-Resistant Enterobacteriaceae
 Hand Hygiene
 Infection Prevention and Control Dashboard

D. Report on HIV Services (Attachment #3)
Dr. Oluwatoyin Adeyemi, Senior Director of HIV Services, provided an overview of the Report on HIV
Services, which included information on the following subjects:
 The HIV Care Continuum
 Getting to Zero Illinois
 Cook County CORE HIV Integrated Programs (CCHIP):
- Organizational Goals
- Demographics
- Quality Plan
 Patient Satisfaction Surveys
 Retention in Care and Viral Suppression
 HIV (Non-ACHN) Screening Initiatives

IV.

Action Items
A. Approve appointments and reappointments of Stroger Hospital Department Chair(s) and Division
Chair(s)
There were none presented for the Committee’s consideration.

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee
Friday, November 16, 2018
Page 3

IV.

Action Items (continued)
B.

Executive Medical Staff (EMS) Committees of Provident Hospital of Cook County and John H.
Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County
i. Receive reports from EMS Presidents
ii. Approve Medical Staff Appointments/Re-appointments/Changes (Attachment #4)
Dr. Trevor Lewis, President of the EMS of John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County, and Dr.
Valerie Hansbrough, President of the EMS of Provident Hospital of Cook County, were not present
and did not provide a report.
Director Suleiman Gonzalez, seconded by Chair Gugenheim, moved to
approve the Medical Staff Appointments/Re-appointments/Changes for John
H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County. THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.
Director Suleiman Gonzalez, seconded by Chair Gugenheim, moved to
approve the Medical Staff Appointments/Re-appointments/Changes for
Provident Hospital of Cook County.
THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.

C. Minutes of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting, October 19, 2018
Director Suleiman Gonzalez, seconded by Chair Gugenheim, moved to accept
the Minutes of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting of October
19, 2018. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.
D. Any items listed under Sections IV and V

V.

Closed Meeting Items
A. Medical Staff Appointments/Re-appointments/Changes
B. Litigation Matter(s)
C. Matters protected under the federal Patient Safety and Quality Improvement Act of 2005 and the
Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996
Director Suleiman Gonzalez, seconded by Chair Gugenheim, moved to recess
the open meeting and convene into a closed meeting, pursuant to the following
exceptions to the Illinois Open Meetings Act: 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(1), regarding
“the appointment, employment, compensation, discipline, performance, or
dismissal of specific employees of the public body or legal counsel for the
public body, including hearing testimony on a complaint lodged against an
employee of the public body or against legal counsel for the public body to
determine its validity,” 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(11), regarding “litigation, when an
action against, affecting or on behalf of the particular body has been filed and
is pending before a court or administrative tribunal, or when the public body
finds that an action is probable or imminent, in which case the basis for the
finding shall be recorded and entered into the minutes of the closed meeting,”
and 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(17), regarding “the recruitment, credentialing, discipline

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee
Friday, November 16, 2018
Page 4

V.

Closed Meeting Items (continued)
or formal peer review of physicians or other health care professionals, or for
the discussion of matters protected under the federal Patient Safety and
Quality Improvement Act of 2005, and the regulations promulgated
thereunder, including 42 C.F.R. Part 3 (73 FR 70732), or the federal Health
Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, and the regulations
promulgated thereunder, including 45 C.F.R. Parts 160, 162, and 164, by a
hospital, or other institution providing medical care, that is operated by the
public body.”
On the motion to recess the open meeting and convene into a closed meeting, a
roll call was taken, the votes of yeas and nays being as follows:
Yeas:
Chair Gugenheim and Director Suleiman Gonzalez (2)
Nays:
None (0)
Absent: None (0)
THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY and the Committee recessed
into a closed meeting.
Chair Gugenheim declared that the closed meeting was adjourned.
Committee reconvened into the open meeting.

VI.

The

Adjourn
As the agenda was exhausted, Chair Gugenheim declared the meeting
ADJOURNED.
Respectfully submitted,
Quality and Patient Safety Committee of the
Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Ada Mary Gugenheim, Chair

Attest:

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Deborah Santana, Secretary

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee
Friday, November 16, 2018
Page 5

Requests/follow-up:
Request:

A request made for the metrics to be enhanced for better visibility. (Page 1)

Follow-up:

A request was made for a future discussion (by 2nd quarter of 2019) on incremental changes that
have been made or are anticipated regarding improvement of Utilization metrics. (Page 2)

Follow-up:

A suggestion was made to develop an index that allows for tracking to determine whether
cultural competence may be playing a role in impacting the indicators. (Page 2)

 