Chicago Housing Authority
Board of Commissioners Public Session
Meeting of December 20, 2005
Judge Slater Apartments, 740 E. 43rd Street, Chicago, IL

1.

Residents
Name/Property/
Lamont Alfred

2.

Y. Mack

3.

Dewayne Newson

4.

Frances R. Banks

5.

James R. Dillard, Jr.

Question/Comment
Tenant patrol rent reimbursement is not received in
timely manner therefore credits are delayed.

Status
Asset Management is actively working on providing
updated list to Property Manager so that reimbursements
can be processed in a timely manner.

Poor management of building and treatment of residents. Management is aware of these issues and effective,
No heat in sun room.
Monday January 16,2006, there will be additional
changes to the management staff. In addition, one
manager was let go, other staff was placed on 30 day
probation.
Water issues (brown water), unsatisfied with tenant
Asset Management is reviewing performance of all
patrol and security, snow removal issues, non-seniors
contractors with Habitat at this site.
living on property and lack of background checks, rude
tenants and poor management.
Does not want to discuss private issues on tape. Left
Duwain Bailey and Asset Management is following-up.
package and requested meeting with Mr. Peterson.
Management unresponsive and disrespectful of seniors.
Management is aware of these issues and effective,
Monday January 16,2006, there will be additional
changes to the management staff
Management unresponsive, poor treatment of seniors,
Management is aware of these issues and effective,
unresponsive management.
Monday January 16,2006, there will be additional
changes to the management staff

 6.

Robert Davidson

Would like to know why his ROB has not been awarded
a moving contract.

7.

Georset Honas

No Show.

8.

Robert Young

No heat in apartment.

9.

Pauline Wesley

Welcomed Commissioners and public to Slater
Apartments.

All bid opportunities for the CHA are posted on the web
and published in the newspapers. After the competitive
solicitation is performed, all vendors who presented
either proposals or bids, are evaluated on a combination
of factors, i.e. price, responsiveness and responsibility
and the vendor who presents the best value to the
Authority from the evaluation is chosen.

Apartment was checked by Property Management and
CHA staff and unit is properly heated.
Comments Noted.

 