MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING

OF THE

COMMISSIONERS OF THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
March 16, 2004
The Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority held its Regular Meeting on Tuesday,
March 16, 2004, at 8:30 a.m. at the Albany Apartments, Senior Housing West, 3030 W. 21st
Place, Chicago, Illinois.
The meeting was called to order by the Chairperson, and upon roll call, those present and absent
were as follows:
Present:
Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Mamie Bone
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Lori Healey
Michael Ivers
Martin Nesbitt
Carlos Ponce
Absent:

Sandra Young

Also present were Montel Gayles, Chief of Staff; Gail Niemann, General Counsel; Chicago
Housing Authority Staff Members and the General Public.
There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as
follows:
The Chairperson then convened the Public Hearing portion of the meeting by inviting residents
and the public at large to address the Board.
Immediately following the Public Hearing portion of the meeting, a Motion was introduced and
seconded to adjourn to Executive Session. The Chairperson announced that pursuant to the
Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2, the Board would adjourn for approximately one (1) hour to
discuss pending, probable or imminent litigation, collective negotiating matters, security and
personnel matters.
The Commissioners subsequently reconvened in Open Session and Chairperson Gilliam
thereupon introduced for approval the Minutes of the Regular Meeting held on December 16,
2003, Regular Meeting held on January 20, 2004, Regular Meeting held on February 17, 2004
and Special Teleconference Meeting held on February 27, 2004. Upon Motion made and
properly seconded, the Minutes for December 16, 2003, January 20, 2004, February 17, 2004
and February 27, 2004 were unanimously approved and accepted as submitted.
The Chairperson thereupon introduced the Resolutions discussed in Executive Session. A
Motion to approve Executive Session Items 1 thru 3 was presented by Commissioner Ivers.
(Executive Session Item 1)
RESOLUTION NO. 2004-CHA-21
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated March 3, 2004, requesting that the Board of Commissioners
approves the Personnel Action Reports for March 2004.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY

1

 THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the Personnel Action Reports for
February 2004.

(Executive Session Item 2)
RESOLUTION NO. 2004-CHA-22
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated February 13, 2004,
entitled “Approval to Provide Lump Sum Pay for Performance Award to the
Chief Executive Officer”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes a 5% one-time lump sum award for pay
for performance for the Chief Executive Officer equal to five percent (5%) of his
current salary.

(Executive Session Item 3)
WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2004-CHA-23
the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated February 24,
2004, requesting authorization to amend the contract amount with Jenner &
Block in connection with Guzman, et. al. v. CHA, et al., 02 CH 10500,

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to amend Contract No. 9874 with Jenner & Block to increase the
contract amount in an amount not to exceed $200,000 in order to pay for legal
fees and expenses regarding Guzman et al. v. CHA, et al., 02 CH 10500.

The Motion to adopt the Resolutions for Executive Session Items 1 thru 3 was seconded by
Commissioner Gates and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Mamie Bone
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Lori Healey
Michael Ivers
Martin Nesbitt
Carlos Ponce

Nays:

None

The Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried and said Resolutions adopted.
Commissioner Martin Nesbitt, Chairperson of the Finance & Audit Committee, then presented
his monthly report. Per Commissioner Nesbitt, the Finance & Audit Committee meeting was
held on Wednesday, March 10, 2004, and the Chief Financial Officer and his staff presented the
Committee with the Treasury and Cash Flow Report as of February 29, 2004.
Commissioner Nesbitt then introduced an Omnibus Motion for adoption of the resolutions for
Items A1 through A3, A5, A7 and A8 discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by
the Finance and Audit Committee.
(Item A1)
The resolution for Item A1 approves the Revised Investment Policy. The Revised Investment
Policy provides updated and clarified guidelines and objectives for the operation of CHA’s
investment program. Major objectives of this revised policy include preservation of principal
and implementation of sufficient liquidity requirements to meet anticipated operating
expenditures.
RESOLUTION 2004-CHA-24
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board letter dated January 26,
2004, Adoption of the Revised Investment Policy.

2

 THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Revised Investment Policy is adopted.

THAT,

the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer are authorized to
implement the above policy.

(Item A2)
The resolution for Item A2 approves the Information Security Policy. The Information Security
Policy provides direction and guidance to protect CHA resources. It establishes uniform
policies, responsibilities, and authorities for carrying out the CHA Security program. Security is
provided for information that is collected, processed, transmitted, stored, or distributed for all
CHA general support systems and major applications.
RESOLUTION NO. 2004-CHA-25
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated February 11,
2004, entitled “Authorization to approve the Information Security Policy”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the Information Security Policy as
set forth in the document titled “Information Systems Security Policy” and dated
December 2003.

THAT,

to prevent any conflict or inconsistency with other current CHA policies, this
Information Security Policy shall be implemented on a progressive basis. In
circumstances where the Policy (or certain discrete sections or provisions of the
Policy) must be harmonized with any conflicting language or divergent provisions
found in existing CHA policies and procedures, the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee shall be authorized to adopt and implement portions of the Information
Security Policy as they are determined to be suitable for clarity and consistency,
with the purpose of giving full effect to all proper policies and procedures.

(Item A3)
In August 2003, a Request for Proposal (RFP) was issued to competitively solicit qualified firms
to provide real estate advisory services for the CHA’s satellite offices. The CHA also directly
solicited 40 vendors, including 17 MBE and 6 WBE vendors. Of the four proposals received and
evaluated, two respondents were found to be in the competitive range and requested to submit
best and final offers. The resolution for Item A3 approves award of contract to Staubach
Midwest, based upon its competitiveness, its overall experience in real estate advisory services
and the highest rating given by the evaluation committee due to its proposed approach to the
feasibility of consolidating and/or relocating operations and marketing CHA’s available real
estate.
RESOLUTION NO: 2004-CHA-26
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated February 27,
2004 entitled “Authorization to Enter into a Contract with Staubach Midwest
for Multiphase Real Estate Advisory Services”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to negotiate and enter into a two (2) year contract with three (3) one- year
options to extend, subject to HUD approval, if required, with Staubach Midwest,
LLC for real estate advisory services consisting of: (1) a Phase I strategy
development fee of $2,500 and a Phase II commission rate of 1.74% of the agreed
upon sale price for the CHA’s central office; and (2) a Phase I strategy
development fee of $5,000 and a Phase II commission rate of 2.5% of the agreed
upon sales price for the CHA’s satellite offices.

(Item A4) THIS NUMBER NOT USED
(Item A5)
In January 2003, the Board approved Resolution 2003-CHA-11 approving the CHA to enter into
a 20 year loan agreement with the Chicago Metropolitan Housing Development Corporation
(CMHDC) for the purchase of sixteen one-bedroom units within the Domain Lofts Development.
3

 The resolution for Item A5 approves amendment to Resolution 2003-CHA-11 allowing changes
in the loan documents.
RESOLUTION NO. 2004-CHA-27
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has revised the Board Letter dated March 2, 2004,
2004 entitled “Request for authorization to ame nd resolution no. 2003-CHA11 to decrease the term of the loan made to the Chicago Metropolitan
Housing Development Corporation (CMHDC) in connection with the
purchase of sixteen one -bedroom units in the Domain Lofts development,
decrease the amount of funds that CHA will pay to CMHDC in exchange for
the transfer of the units to CHA at the end of the loan term, and execute such
other documents as may be necessary to implement the foregoing.”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners approves and authorizes the amendment of
Resolution 2003-CHA-11 and thereby,

Subject to continuing compliance with the Donations Tax Credit Program described in
Resolution No. 2003-CHA-11:
1.

Decreases the term of the loan to a minimum of three (3) years and a
maximum of nine (9) years;

2.

Decreases the amount of funds that CHA shall pay to CMHDC (in
exchange or the units at the end of the loan term) from 15% of effective
Total Development Cost (“TDC”) as originally approved to 3%
(approximately $60,355 in the third (3rd) year and a 12.77%
(approximately $334,040) in the ninth (9th ) year; and

3.

Execute such other documents as may be necessary to implement the
foregoing.

(Item A7)
In November 2003, the Board approved a two year contract to Mesirow as Administrators of the
Private Managers Insurance Program (PMIP). Pursuant to such contract, Mesirow as the Broker
of Record has been granted the authority to competitively solicit bids for insurance coverage on
behalf of CHA for the PMIP. The PMIP ensures that Private Management Companies and
Resident Management Corporations (RMCs) have the necessary insurance coverage
contractually required by CHA. In January 2004 bid packets were released to prospective
insurance carriers. Although the solicitation process was aggressive, bids were only received
from the incumbent carriers. Accordingly, the resolution for Item A7 approves award of contract
to AIG, ACE and Great American.
RESOLUTION NO. 2004-CHA-28
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated February 27, 2004,
entitled “Authorization to enter into contracts with American International
Group, ACE/USA and Great American Insurance Corporation for the
Private Managers Insurance Program’s Liability, Workers Compensation
and Commercial Crime Coverages”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into a contract with American International Group for General,
Auto and Excess Liability Coverages, ACE/USA for Workers Compensation and
Great American Insurance Corporation for Commercial Crime Coverage in an
amount not-to-exceed $2,224,961, for the period April 1, 2004 through March 31,
2005.

(Item A8)
In February 2003, the Board approved a contract with Humana to provide medical insurance for
CHA’s eligible participants. The Humana contract expires on March 31, 2004 but has an option
to extend the contract for a period of nine months through December 31, 2004. Accordingly, the
resolution for Item A8 approves extension of contract with Humana. Later this summer, to foster
4

 competition and test the marketplace, the CHA’s insurance broker of record for employee
benefits will request quotes and proposals from medical insurance carriers.
RESOLUTION NO. 2004 CHA-29
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners have reviewed the Board Letter dated February 23,
2004, entitled “Authorization to Extend the Contract with Humana, Inc. to
Provide for the CHA’s Employee Benefit Plan.”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to exercise the option to extend the contract with Humana, Inc. for the
period of April 1, 2004 through December 31, 2004 to provide for the Chicago
Housing Authority’s (“CHA”) Employee Health Benefit Plan covering eligible
participants of the CHA and eligible participants of the CHA’s affiliates for an
amount not to exceed $3,500,000.00.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt the resolutions for Items A1 through A3, A5, A7 and A8 was
seconded by Commissioner Amey and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Mamie Bone
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Lori Healey
Michael Ivers
Martin Nesbitt
Carlos Ponce

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted.
Commissioner Nesbitt then introduced a Motion for adoption of resolution for Item A6.
(Item A6)
In October 2003, the Illinois Department of Transportation (IDOT) expressed an interest in
acquiring a portion of CHA owned land located adjacent to the Yale Avenue Senior Housing
South Apartments. IDOT has also requested a temporary construction easement over another
portion of the Yale Senior Housing site. Accordingly, the resolution for Item A6 approves
submission of a Disposition Application to HUD for the Yale site and to sell such land to IDOT.
As part of the disposition process, the CHA has notified the Local Advisory Council President,
Building President, residents of the Yale Senior Housing apartments and Alderman.
RESOLUTION NO. 2004-CHA-30
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board letter dated March 16, 2004,
requesting authorization to (i) submit a disposition application to the U.S.
Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) for the disposition of a
portion of land at 6401 S. Yale and (ii) sell such land to the Illinois Department of
Transportation (“IDOT”), subject to HUD approval.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to (i) submit a disposition application to HUD for the disposition of a
portion of land located approximately at 6401 S. Yale (Yale Senior Housing
South Apartments) and (ii) sell such land to IDOT, subject to HUD approval, for
an amount of not less than $180,000.

The Motion to adopt the resolution for Item A6 was seconded by Commissioner Gates and the
voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Sharon Gist Gilliam
5

 Hallie Amey
Mamie Bone
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Lori Healey
Michael Ivers
Martin Nesbitt
Carlos Ponce

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolution adopted. The Finance and Audit Committee report was also accepted in total.
Commissioner Gates, Chairperson of the Operations & Facilities Committee, then presented the
monthly report. Per Commissioner Gates, the Operations & Facilities Committee met on
Wednesday, March 10, 2004 at 1:30 p.m.
Commissioner Gates then introduced an Omnibus Motion for adoptio n of the resolutions for
Items B1 through B7, discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Operations
and Facilities Committee.
(Item B1)
In December 2003, a Request for Proposal (RFP) was advertised for Authority-wide façade
inspections. These inspections are needed to meet the requirements of the City of Chicago and
Department of Buildings Exterior Wall Ordinance. The CHA also directly solicited 26 firms,
including 11 MBE/WBE/DBE firms. Fifteen proposals were received and evaluated by staff
members chosen from Capital Construction Division. Ten firms were found to be in the
competitive range and requested to make presentations and submit best and final offers. Upon
further consideration by the Evaluation Committee, the following three firms were
recommended:
Wiss, Janney, Elstner Associates, Inc., Hasbrouck Peterson Zimoch
Sirirattumrong and BauerLatoza Studio. Accordingly, the resolution for Item B1 approves award
of contract to the three stated firms.
RESOLUTION NO. 2004-CHA-31
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated March 2, 2004,
entitled “A uthorization to Execute Contracts with Wiss, Janney, Elstner
Associates, Inc., Hasbrouck Peterson Zimoch Sirirattumrong and BauerLatoza
Studio for Authority-Wide Façade Inspections.”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute contracts with Wiss, Janney, Elstner Associates, Inc. in the
amount of $336,000.00, Hasbrouck Peterson Zimoch Sirirattumrong in the
amount of $224,100.00, and BauerLatoza Studio in the amount of $307,850.00 for
authority-wide facade inspections. The contracts shall take effect on the dates of
the individual Notices to Proceed, and shall continue through December 31, 2004.

(Item B2)
In December 2003, a Request for Proposal was advertised for Prime Design Consultant Services.
These services include, but will not be limited to the preparation of all drawings and
specifications, and the preparation of all related contract documents. The selected Respondents
will also provide construction management activities and assistance in obtaining construction
bids and permits. They will also be designated as the Architect of Record for the described
construction activities. Of the sixteen proposals received, thirteen firms were found to be in the
established competitive range. Each of the thirteen firms made a presentation and submitted a
best and final offer. Upon further reconsideration of each Respondent, the Eva luation
Committee recommended five firms for seven contracts, each contract corresponding to a site
specified in the original RFP. Accordingly, the resolution for Item B2 approves award of
contracts to the firms as described in the following resolution:
RESOLUTION NO. 2004-CHA-32
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated March 8, 2004,
entitled “Authorization to Execute Contracts with (1) Guajardo Associates; (2
& 3) Holabird & Root; (4) Hasbrouck Peterson Zimoch Sirirattumrong–
6

 Environmental Systems Design, Inc.; (5) Roula Associates Architects; and (6
& 7) Smith & Smith Associates for Prime Design Consultant Services”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute contracts with (1) Guajardo Associates in the amount of
$2,578,400.00, (2 & 3) Holabird & Root in the amounts of $7,353,310.00 and
$957,000.00, (4) Hasbrouck Peterson Zimoch Sirirattumrong – Environmental
Systems Design, Inc. in the amount of $2,720,000.00, (5) Roula Associates
Architects in the amount of $669,870.00, and (6 & 7) Smith & Smith Associates,
Inc. in the amounts of $318,150.00 and $318,150.00 for Prime Design Consultant
Services. The contracts shall take effect on the dates of the individual Notices to
Proceed, and shall continue until the end dates indicated in the individual
contracts, subject to each Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s
MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident hiring, and insurance requirements.

(Item B3)
In January 2004, an Invitation For Bid (IFB) was advertised in area newspapers for Authoritywide demolition services. Under the Plan For Transformation, the CHA has designated
buildings for demolition after they failed mandated “viability” tests that indicated these buildings
can not be rehabilitated at a reasonable cost.
Twenty- four firms, including five
MBE/WBE/DBE firms were also directly solicited. The criteria for awarding contracts was
based on the lowest overall lump sum total within each building type. After reviewing the bids,
staff determined the lowest responsive and responsible bidders to be American Demolition, Delta
Demolition, N.F. Demolition and Omega Demolition. Accordingly, the resolution for Item B3
approves award of contracts to stated firms.
RESOLUTION NO. 2004-CHA-33
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated February 19, 2004,
entitled “Authorization to Execute Contracts with American Demolition,
Delta Demolition, Hennegan Demolition, N. F. Demolition, and Omega
Demoliton for Authority-Wide Demolition Services”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute contracts with (1) American Demolition for an amount not-toexceed $10,911,488.00, (2) Delta Demolition for an amount not-to-exceed
$6,201,944.00, (3) Hennegan Demolition for an amount not-to-exceed
$14,904,960.00, (4) N. F. Demolition for an amount not-to-exceed $7,363,205.00,
and (5) Omega Demolition for an amount not-to-exceed $7,081,536.00, subject to
each Contractor’s compliance with CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident
hiring, and insurance requirements. The work to be performed under the contracts
will be assigned by task orders and will start and end on the date indicated in the
task orders to be issued by the CHA subsequent to contract execution.

(Item B4)
As part of the Capital Improvement Program, the CHA solicited bids to replace windows at
Ogden Courts Family Development. This contract is necessary to replace windows at 2650 and
2710 West Ogden. The new windows will provide improved thermal and moisture protection.
Of the twelve bids received and opened, the Department of Procurement and Contracts
determined the lowest responsive and responsible bidder to be F&V Construction Company.
Accordingly, the resolution for Item B4 approves award of contract to F&V Construction
Company.
RESOLUTION NO. 2004-CHA-34
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated March 2, 2004,
entitled “Authorization to Execute a Contract with F & V Construction
Company Inc. for Window Replacement at Ogden Courts Family
Development (HUD NO. RH-3)”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute a contract with F & V Construction Company Inc. in the
7

 amount of $2,212,026.00 for window replacement at Ogden Courts Family
Development (HUD No. RH-3). The contract will be awarded for a term of one
hundred twenty (120) calendar days from the date of the Notice to Proceed,
subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE, Section
3 resident hiring, and insurance requirements.
(Item B5)
As part of the Capital Improvement Program, the CHA solicited bids to rehabilitate Family
Housing at Trumbull Park Homes, located at 107th & Bensley (IL2-025). The scope of work will
include, but not be limited to, masonry repairs and cleaning, asbestos and mold removal, sewer
main and domestic water supply replacement, creation of a storm water retention system,
window repair and selective replacements, kitchen renovation, bathroom renovation, mechanical
and electrical system upgrades and extensive landscaping improvements. The Invitation For Bid
was advertised in local newspapers and the CHA also directly solicited 58 firms, including
fifteen MBE/WBE firms. After reviewing the bids, the lowest responsive and responsible bidder
was determined to be George Sollitt Construction. Accordingly, the resolution for Item B5
approves award of contract to George Sollitt Construction.
RESOLUTION NO. 2004-CHA-35
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated March 2, 2004,
entitled “Authorization to Execute a Contract with George Sollitt for Family
Housing Rehabilitation at Trumbull Park Homes (IL2-025)”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute a contract with George Sollitt Construction for the amount of
$47,173,000.00, for family housing rehabilitation at Trumbull Park Homes, 107th
& Bensley (IL2-025). The time for completion of the work under the contract will
be no more than forty (40) months from the date of the Notice to Proceed, subject
to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3
resident hiring, and insurance requirements.

(Item B6)
The resolution for Item B6 grants authority to the Chief Executive Officer to enter into an
Agreement with MWH Americas, Inc. to amend and restate Contract No. 9377 with and to
increase the total contract amount pursuant to a noncompetitive procurement based upon a public
exigency exception. A public exigency exists because the CHA requires the immediate and
continuous services of the PDC in order to complete and close-out the remaining construction
work on the PDC’s open task orders without interruption and to avoid waste, duplicative costs
and the possibility of the CHA inc urring risks that would stem from substituting the architect of
records on the PDC’s assigned projects.
RESOLUTION NO. 2004-CHA-36
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated March 2, 2004,
entitled “Authorization to enter into an Agreement with MWH Americans,
Inc. (Formerly Harza Engineering Company, Inc.) to Amend and Restate
Contract No. 9377 for ongoing Professional Architectural Services”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissio ners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into an agreement with MWH Americas, Inc. (formerly Harza
Engineering Company, Inc.) (the “PDC”) to amend and restate Contract No. 9377
regarding the completion of prime design consulting services with respect to all
work assigned to the PDC under Contract No. 9377, converting the fee structure
to a flat, fixed fee in the amount of $5,601,393, which represents an increase of
$1,639,507 over the amount previously authorized by the Board for Contract No.
9377. The amended and restated Contract will be in effect until the PDC has
performed all required and necessary services in connection with the completion
and close-out of all construction work on each of its projects.

(Item B7)
In June 2003, a Request for Qualifications (RFQ) was issued to competitively solicit qualified
firms to assume ownership of a CHA property located at 3718-28 W. Douglas Blvd., rehabilitate
and operate the property as a mixed income family building that would include a minimum of
30% public housing units in the North Lawndale Community. Of the five responses received,
8

 evaluated and ranked by an internal CHA staff evaluation committee, LCDC/Safeway
development team was recommended as the development team. LCDC/Safe way team will
restore, rehabilitate and convert the once 53- unit public housing building into a 45 unit- mixed
finance development project to be known as Fountain View Apartments. LCDC/Safeway has
agreed to dedicate fourteen units for use as public housing, 10 Affordable rental units and 21
Market Rate rental units. The LCDC/Safeway will finance the development with a combination
of public and private sources of funding. Accordingly, the resolution for Item B7 approves
selection of LCDC/Safeway as the development team, authorizes the submission of a disposition
application to HUD for the disposition of the building to LCDC/Safeway and authorizes the CEO
to execute and issue a Letter of Intent to LCDC/Safeway memorializing CHA’s commitment to
negotiate and execute a long term ground lease for the CHA-owned property.
RESOLUTION NO. 2004-CHA-37
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated March 16,
2004, requesting authorization to (i) approve the selected development team to
rehabilitate a scattered site building in North Lawndale; (ii) submit a disposition
application to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD)
for the disposition of the building; and (iii) execute and issue a Letter of Intent
and if required, extensions thereof.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the selected joint venture
development team of Lawndale Christian Development Corporation and Safeway
Construction Company (“LCDC/Safeway”), and

THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee, to submit a Disposition Application to the U.S. Department of Housing
and Urban Development (“HUD”) for the disposition of the North Lawndale
Scattered Site building located at 3718-28 W. Douglas Blvd.; and

THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Chief Executive Officer, or his
designee to execute and issue a Letter of Intent and if required, extensions thereof.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items B1 through B7 was seconded by
Commissioner Ponce and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Mamie Bone
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Lori Healey
Michael Ivers
Martin Nesbitt
Carlos Ponce

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Operations and Facilities Committee report was also accepted
in total.
Due to previous engagements, Commissioner Young, Chairperson of the Tenant Services
Committee, was unable to attend the Board Meeting. Commissioner Harris, therefore, presented
the monthly report. Per Commissioner Harris, the Tenant Services Committee held its regularly
scheduled meeting on Wednesday, March 10, 2004, at 2:00 p.m. at the 626 Corporate Office.
Commissioner Harris then introduced a Motion for the adoption of the resolutions for Item C2
discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Tenant Services Committee.
(Item C1)

THIS NUMBER NOT USED

(Item C2)
A Request for Proposal (RFP) was issued in October 2003 soliciting firms that could provide
housing counseling and supportive services to eligible CHA residents. In December 2003, the
9

 Board approved award of four contracts. The Board was also cognizant of the fact that final
contract negotiations recommending a fifth contractor were underway. The resolution for Item
C2 recommends award of contract to Northeastern Illinois University, the fifth contractor. Based
upon review of Northeastern’ proposal, the information gathered in the oral presentations, and
the best and final offer, it was determined that Northeastern was one of the best candidates due to
their ability to successfully serve the relocation and related service needs of CHA families
moving out of their existing apartments in 2004.
RESOLUTION NO. 2004-CHA-38
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated February 18,
2004, titled “Authorization to Award a Contract for Housing and Supportive
Services to Northeastern Illinois University”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute a contract with Northeastern Illinois University for housing
and supportive services with a fourteen (14) month base and four (1)-one year
option periods in an amount not-to-exceed $1,000,000.00, for the base term.

The Motion to adopt resolution for Item C2 was seconded by Commissioner Harris and the
voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Mamie Bone
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Lori Healey
Michael Ivers
Martin Nesbitt
Carlos Ponce

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolution adopted. The Tenant Services Committee report was also accepted in total.
There being no further business to come before the Commissioners, upon Motion made,
seconded and carried, the meeting of the Board of Commissioners was adjourned.

S/B:

S/B:

Lee Gill, Custodian and
Keeper of Records

10

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Chairperson

 