February 13,2013 ITEM NO. D4

AUTHORIZATION TO ENTER INTO A CONTRACT WITH MADISON
CONSTRUCTION COMPANY FOR LIFE SAFETY UPGRADES, PLUMBING RISER
REPLACEMENT AND COMMON AREA IMPROVEMENTS AT LIDIA PUCINSKA
APARTMENTS AND LIDIA PUCINSKA ANNEX

To the Honorable Board of Commissioners:

0N
It is recommended that the Board of Commissioners authorize the Chief Executive Of?cer or his
designee to enter into a contract with Madison Construction Company for building life safety
upgrades, plumbing riser replacement and common area modernization in the Lidia Pucinska
Annex (847 N. Greenview) and for building life safety upgrades, and common area
modernization in the Lidia Pucinska Apartments (838 N. Noble) both senior buildings in the
amount of $11,418,000.00. The work is to be completed by no later than six hundred sixty (660)
calendar days from the date set forth in the Notice to Proceed as part of the Capital Maintenance

Program.
The Development Executive Vice President (EVP), the Of?ce of the General Counsel and the

O?'ice of Procurement have completed all necessary due diligence to support the submission of
this initiative and recommend the approval of this item accordingly.

W: Ensure portfolio is safe, decent and sustainable
w: General Fund - FY2013

SQLIQIAIIQN SUMMRY

Speci?cation No.: 12 - 00993

Vendor No: Madison Construction Company
Rob Ferrino, President
15657 S. 70th Court

Orland Park, IL 60462
Contract Type: Construction Services Solicitation Release Date: November 20,
2012
Base Contract Amount: $11,418,000.00 Days Advertised: 35 business days
Base Contract Period: six-hundred sixty Addendum(s): 2
(660) days
Option Period: Pre-Bileroposal Date: December 3, 2012

Publications: Chicago Sun-Times, Defender, Solicitation Due Date: January 4, 2013
Extra, CHA website, 

Vendor List: 757 Assist Agencies: 64

Pick-Up List: 63 Respondents: 7

MIWLQBE Participation:

Direct MBE 43? WBE DBE 

 

??gn g:
Hiring Subcontracting Other Economic Opportunities

Section 3 Positions: (1) Laborer, Carpenter, Roofer, Painter
Section 3 Business Concern: Ashlaur Construction

QENERAL BACKGROUND
The purpose of this contract is to modernize both building to comply with the high-rise life

safety ordinance as well as capital maintenance components for both buildings. The
modernization activity will enhance accessibility at building entrances and common areas,
extend the useful life of the buildings, increase the value of the properties, and improve overall
quality and sustainability of existing dwelling and non-dwelling units.

Both Lidia Pucinska Apartments and Lidia Pucinska Annex buildings are located within a
common campus style setting. The apartment building is a nineteen (19) story building
containing one hundred seventy one (171) dwelling units, originally constructed in 1965, and
located at 838 N. Noble Street. The Annex is a nine (9) story building containing two hundred
four (204) dwelling units, built in 1969 and located at 847 N. Greenview Street.

The following is the comprehensive scope of work for the two (2) buildings:

Fire Life Safety Improvements:
1. Fire Communication System (lobby/corridor, stairwell, and elevator 2-way
communication system)
2. Elevator Systems (recall system, automatic transfer switch)
3 Fire Alarm/Suppression System (sprinklers in common areas and trash chutes,
smoke detectors, ?re pumps, etc.)
4. Security Cameras
Other Building Improvements:
1. Security Camera Installation (lobbies and hallways)
2. Plumbing Improvements (new domestic hot and cold water risers, along with
horizontal water lines to bathroom/kitchen and water valves) in the 847 N.
Greenview building only
3. Unit Improvements (new cabinets/countertops, appliances, bathroom/kitchen

plumbing ?xtures, ?ooring and painting) in the 847 N. Greenview building only
4. Lobby and Hallway Improvements (lighting, ?ooring, painting, reception desk,

etc.)

5. Common Area Improvements (new ?oor bathroom ?ooring and plumbing
?xtures, new ceiling, painting, ?ooring at building entrance and general office
area

6. Common Area Modi?cations - to comply with the Americans with Disabilities
Act code requirements

The Fire Life Safety upgrades are recommended in order to provide systems that are compliant
with the City of Chicago?s recently enacted Life Safety and High Rise Ordinance, and the
Chicago Building Code. This Ordinance requires improvements to this and other buildings by the
end of 2014. The designs include elements which will bring the building into compliance with
the ordinance. The existing galvanized plumbing risers are recommended to be replaced
throughout both buildings per the Chicago Building Code and best practices.

CK, . . . file44?Lunatic- ??ma ?all? I. i. .m.mnma om

The Board action recommended in this item complies in all material respects with all applicable
Chicago Housing Authority board policies and all applicable Department of Housing and Urban
Development procurement laws.

The EVP concurs with the recommendation to enter in a contract with Madison Construction
Company for building life safety upgrades, plumbing riser replacement and common area
improvements in the amount of $1 1,418,000.00 at Lidia Pucinska Apartments/Annex.

The CEO/President recommends the approval to execute a contract with Madison Construction
Company for building life safety upgrades, plumbing riser replacement and common area
improvement at Lidia Pucinska Apartments/Annex.

if 32:; '1 lg. ff.- - 

RESOLUTIQN NO. 2013-CHA-10

WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated February 13,

2013 entitled TO ENTER INTO A CONTRACT WITH
MADISON CONSTRUCTION COMPANY FOR LIFE SAFETY UPGRADES,
PLUMBING RISER REPLACEMENT AND COMMON AREA
IMPROVEMENTS AT LIDIA PUCINSKA APARTMENTS AND LIDIA
PUCINSKA 

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY

THAT

the Board of Commissioners (?Board?) authorizes the Chief Executive Of?cer or
his designee to enter into a contract with Madison Construction Company for
building life safety upgrades, plumbing riser replacement and common area
improvements in the amount of $11,418,000.00 at both Lidia Pucinska
Apartments and Lidia Pucinska Annex senior residence buildings . The work is to
be completed by no later than six hundred sixty (660) calendar days from the date
set forth in the Notice to Proceed as part of the Capital Maintenance Program.

This award is subject to Madison Construction?s compliance with the 
Section 3, and bonding and insurance requirements for this

contract.
Illill?i?l?llkl 

   
   

Board of Commissinners

4" 7-614; . - . 
- await Mama 

