MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING

OF THE
COMMISSIONERS OF THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
March 18, 2003
The Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority held its Regular Meeting on Tuesday,
March 18, 2003, at 8:30 a.m. at Stateway Gardens, Park District Field House, 3658 S. Sate Street
in Chicago, Illinois.
The meeting was called to order by the Chairperson, and upon roll call, those present and absent
were as follows:
Present:
Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Mamie Bone
Dr. Mildred Harris
Lori Healey
Michael Ivers
Absent:

Leticia Peralta Davis
Earnest Gates
Sandra Young

Also present were Terry Peterson, Chief Executive Officer; Gail Niemann, General Counsel;
Chicago Housing Authority Staff Members and the General Public.
There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as
follows:
The Chairperson then convened the Public Hearing portion of the meeting by inviting residents
and the public at large to address the Board.
Terry Peterson, Chief Executive Officer, then presented his monthly report.
Mr. Peterson
acknowledged David Baker and Leroy Kennedy from the Illinois Institute of Technology (IIT)
for the earlier announcement of IIT’s Employer Assisted Program, whereby faculty and staff
would be granted $7,500 in forgivable loan to become part of the Stateway community. Mr.
Peterson stressed the importance of community, civic, public and private sector partnership for
the continued success of the Plan For Transformation.
Mr. Peterson continued by
acknowledging the resident leadership, property managers and CHA Operational staff for
anticipating and correcting weather related problems resulting in no major breakdowns or
significant weather related issues. Mr. Peterson concluded his report by informing the
Commissioners that staff was in the process of formulating plans and programs for a safer and
enjoyable summer for CHA children and families.
Immediately following the Public Hearing portion of the meeting, a Motion was introduced and
seconded to adjourn to Executive Session. The Chairperson announced that pursuant to the
Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2, the Board would adjourn for approximately one (1) hour to
discuss pending, probable or imminent litigation, collective negotiating matters, security and
personnel matters.
The Commissioners subsequently reconvened in Open Session and Chairperson Gilliam
thereupon introduced for approval the Minutes of the Regular Board Meeting held on February

1

 18, 2003. Upon Motion made and properly seconded, the Minutes were unanimously approved
and accepted as submitted.
The Chairperson thereupon introduced the Resolution discussed in Executive Session.
(Executive Session Item 1)
A Motion to approve the Resolution for Item 1 discussed in Executive Session was then
presented by Commissioner Bone.
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-31
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated March 4, 2003 requesting that the Board of Commissioners
approve the Personnel Action Report for February 2003.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the Personnel Actions for February
2003.

The Motion to adopt the Resolution for Executive Session Item 1 was seconded by
Commissioner Amey and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Mamie Bone
Dr. Mildred Harris
Lori Healey
Michael Ivers

Nays:

None

The Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried and said Resolution adopted.
Due to the absence of Commissioner Leticia Peralta Davis, Commissioner Lori Healey then
presented the following report. Per Commissioner Healey, the Finance & Audit Committee met
on Wednesday March 12, 2003, at 1:00 p.m. at the Corporate Office, 626 W. Jackson in
Chicago. Todd Gomez, Chief Financial Officer, and his staff presented the Committee with the
Treasury and Cash Flow Report as of February 28, 2003. Also, a report to the joint Finance and
Operations Committee on Change Order Modification Reconciliation was presented by Todd
Gomez and Rich Rodriguez.
Commissioner Healey then introduced an Omnibus Motion for the adoption of the resolutions for
Items A1, A3 and A4 discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Finance &
Audit Committee:
(Item A1)
The Property Managers Insurance Program (PMIP) was established by the CHA to ensure the
Private Management Companies and Resident Management Corporations (RMC) have the
necessary insurance coverage contractually required by CHA. Near North Insurance brokerage,
Inc., the CHA’s business insurance broker of record, placed an advertisement soliciting bids for
the CHA’s PMIP in area newspapers and also solicited 34 insurance carriers directly and through
the excess and surplus insurance marketplace. After reviewing the responses, the three carriers
as stated in Resolution A1 were recommended. The Resolution for A1 accordingly approves
award of contract.

RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-32

2

 WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated March 3, 2003
entitled "Authorization to Award General Liability, Auto Liability, Workers
Compensation and Crime/Fidelity Insurance coverage for CHA’s Private
Managers Insurance Program (PMIP)";
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to procure the following insurance coverage for the Chicago Housing
Authority’s Private Management Insurance Program through its business
insurance broker of record, Near North Insurance Brokerage, Inc.: (1) general
liability, auto liability, and excess liability written through AIG; (2) workers
compensation written through ACE/USA; and (3) crime/fidelity coverage written
through Great American Insurance Corporation for an aggregate amount not-toexceed $2,061,867 for the term of April 1, 2003 to April 1, 2004.

(Item A2 – This Number Not Used)
(Item A3)
The Resolution for Item A3 approves Amendment No. 126 to the Annual Contributions
Contract. The purpose of this amendment is to transfer excess fund in the amount of $42,241
from Project No. IL06P002164 to Project No. IL06P80217 and also transfers $195,288.34 in
grant funds from Project IL06P002123 to Project IL06P002180 (Hutchinson Row).
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-33
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated March 3, 2003
entitled “Authorization to Execute Amendment No. 126 to the Chicago Housing
Authority’s Annual Contributions Contract, C-1014 for Projects
Nos.
IL06P002164 and 180”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Chicago Housing Authority shall enter into Amendment No. 126 with U.S.
Department of Housing and Urban Development, modifying the terms of the
Annual Contributions Contract C-1014, and the Chief Executive Officer, or his
designee, is hereby authorized and directed to execute Amendment No. 126 of the
Annual Contributions Contract in quintuplicate and the Custodian and Keeper of
Records is authorized and directed to attest and impress the official seal of the
Chicago Housing Authority on each such counterpart. The aforesaid Amendment
No. 126 shall be substantially in the attached form.

(Item A4)
In June 1995, the CHA entered into a five year lease with Equity Office to provide office space
at 200 West Adams in Chicago for the Office of the General Counsel and Inspector General.
The Resolution for Item A4 approves a third amendment to the lease. The execution of this 3rd
amendment would extend the lease to February 28, 2005.
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-34
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated March 18,
2003, entitled “Request for Authoriza tion to Execute a Third Amendment to the
Lease for Premises located at 200 West Adams, Suite 2100, Chicago, Illinois”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute a Third Amendment to the Lease Agreement for 200 West
Adams, Suite 2100, Chicago, Illinois. The annual rent for the Lease shall be in the
amount of $263,565.00 for the first year and $272,350.56 prorated for the second
year, plus expenses and real estate taxes.

3

 The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items A1, A3 and A4 was seconded by
Commissioner Amey and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Mamie Bone
Dr. Mildred Harris
Lori Healey
Michael Ivers

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Finance & Audit Committee report was also accepted in total.
Due to the absence of Commissioner Gates, Commissioner Ivers then presented the following
report. Per Commissioner Ivers, a Joint Operations and Tenant Services Committee meeting was
held on Wednesday, March 12th at 1:30 p.m. at the Corporate Office, 626 W. Jackson in
Chicago. Bill Little, Managing Director of Development, and his staff presented the Committees
with a comprehensive status report on Development activities Authority-wide.
Commissioner Ivers then introduced an Omnibus Motion for the adoption of the resolutions for
Items B1 through B6 discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Joint
Operations and Tenant Services Committee:
(Item B1)
In January 2003, the CHA issued Request for Proposals (RFP) for maintenance of CHA
electrical distribution systems. The RFP was advertised in area newspapers and CHA also
directly solicited 66 firms, including 45 MBE/WBE firms. Of the three proposals received,
Aldridge Electric was deemed to be the most responsive and responsible bidder. The resolution
for Item B1 accordingly approves award of contract to Aldridge Electric.
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-35
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
memorandum dated March 12, 2003 titled “Authorization to enter into a Contract
with Aldridge Electric for Maintenance of CHA Electrical Distribution Systems”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into a contract with Aldridge Electric pursuant to Request for
Proposals #01144 for maintenance of CHA electrical distribution systems for a
two (2) year contract term for a total not-to-exceed contract amount of
$175,000.00 with three (3) one (1) year options to extend, subject to Board
approval and HUD approval, if required.

(Item B2)
The resolution for Item B2 authorizes Woodlawn Community Development Corporation
WCDC) to enter into contract with Burton Real Estate Development, d/b/a B-REDI for fire lane
sewer repair and replacement services at the Ickes Development. The procurement was initiated
by WCDC with assistance from the CHA’s Department of Asset Management and Procurement
and Contracts. In October 2001, the Board approved additional funding for several family
developments to initiate improvements in the following areas: carpentry, code violations,
electrical systems, plumbing, roofing and security board- ups. In evaluating the Ickes
Development, the underground pipe and plumbing were identified as necessary repair items.
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA- 36
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the memorandum dated March 12,
2003, entitled “authorization for Woodlawn Community Development
Corporation to enter into a contract with Burton Real Estate Development, Inc.
D/B/A B-Redi Inc. to perform fire lane sewer repair and replacement services at

4

 the Harold Ickes development”, and concurs with the recommendation contained
therein.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Woodlawn Community
Development Corporation to enter into a contract with Burton Real Estate
Development, Inc. d/b/a B-REDI Inc. for fire lane sewer repair and replacement
services at the Harold Ickes Development for the firm, fixed price of $272,385.00.

(Item B3)
The resolution for Item B3 approves the submittal of a Mixed Finance Proposal to HUD for
Stateway Gardens’ Phase 1A off- site redevelopment project known as Pershing Cour ts; commit
CHA’s capital contribution of up to $3,000,000 to the project and execute other documents as
may be required to implement the foregoing. Pershing Courts, a six-story, 80- unit rental
building consisting of 50 one-bedroom units and 30 two-bedroom units, represents the first phase
within the larger Stateway Gardens mixed income Revitalization Plan. Of the 80 rental units, 27
will be set-aside as CHA public housing replacement units, while the remaining 53 units will be
tax credit units restricted to households earning 60% or less of area median income. The Phase
1A off-site development will be developed by Stateway Associates, using 9% low income
housing tax credits, HOME funds, an IHDA Trust Fund loan, and a federally insured FHA
mortgage.
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-37
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated March 18,
2003, requesting authorization to 1) submit a Mixed Finance Proposal to HUD for
Stateway Gardens’ Phase 1A off-site redevelopment project known as Pershing
Courts, 2) commit CHA’s capital contribution of up to $3,000,000 to the Stateway
Garden’s Phase 1A off-site redevelopment project known as Pershing Courts, and
3) execute other documents as may be required to implement the foregoing.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to submit a Mixed Finance Proposal to HUD for Stateway Gardens’
Phase 1A off-site redevelopment project known as Pershing Courts; 2) commit
CHA’s capital contribution of up to $3 million to the Stateway Garden’s Phase
1A off-site redevelopment project known as Pershing Courts; and 3) execute other
documents as may be required to implement the foregoing.

(Item B4)
The resolution for Item B4 approves the form of lease and Admissions and Occupancy policy for
the Jazz on the Boulevard development. It is understood that the developer has an interest and
desire to implement its own lease forms and policy that encourages consistent community
standards and for the effective management of its mixed income developments. The lease and
policy have to accommodate various aspects of the multiple types of tenants and characteristics
of a mixed finance transaction. The lease and policy have been subjected to extensive
negotiation among the CHA, the Developer, the Working Group and the Local Advisory
Committee.
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-38
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated March 18,
2003, entitled “Authorization for approval of an Admission and Occupancy
Policy and form of lease for the Jazz on the Boulevard Development and to
amend the CHA Admission and Occupancy policy to incorporate such document
as an addendum thereto”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY

5

 THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the attached admissions and
occupancy policy and form of lease in substantially the form presented to the
Board for the Jazz on the Boulevard development and hereby approves an
amendment to the Chicago Housing Authority’s Admission and Occupancy
Policy to incorporate the approved forms as an addenda. The Chairman of the
Board or the Chief Executive Officer is hereby authorized to approve final
changes in these forms, including changes based on HUD requirements, or such
changes, if any, resulting from any applicable notice and comment process. Such
approval shall constitute conclusive evidence of the Board’s approval of any and
all such changes.

(Item B5)
In February 2002, the Board approved an Intergovernmental Agreement between the CHA,
participating housing agencies, the Illinois Housing Development Authority and the
Metropolitan Planning Council to establish the Regional Housing Initiative (RHI). The RHI was
created in order to stimulate the supply of rental housing across the metropolitan region for lowincome families by pooling together Housing Choice Vouchers to establish project-based
developments. The resolution for Item B5 approves allocation of housing choice vouchers to
Wentworth Commons. Wentworth Commons is a 51- unit supportive housing development
located in the Roseland community of Chicago. The development will be owned and managed
by Lakefront SRO. Residents will include former homeless families and individuals as well as
tenants referred by RHI. The project will have 24 efficiency apartments and 27 family units.
Under the proposal, RHI will subsidize ten 2 and 3 bedroom family units.
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-39
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board letter dated March 18, 2003
entitled “Recommendation that the Chicago Housing Authority approve the
recommendation of the Regional Housing Initiative (RHI) to allocate housing
choice vouchers to Wentworth Commons in accordance with the RHI program
and authorization to take all actions and execute all documents with respect
thereto”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Chicago Housing Authority approves the recommendation of the Regional
Housing Initiative (RHI) to allocate housing choice vouchers to Wentworth
Commons in accordance with the RHI program and authorize the Chief Executive
Officer or his designee to take all actions and execute all documents with respect
thereto.

(Item B6)
In November 2002, the CHA issued an IFB soliciting qualified firms to provide resident
relocation services. Based on this solicitation, in December 2002, the Board approved award of
three contracts. Because the scope of relocating residents exceeds the current capability of the
three contractors, the services of two additional contractors are required. Since both Big O and
Smith Movers were determined to be responsive and responsible bidders under the November
2002 solicitation, the resolution for Item B6 approves award of contract to Big O and Smith
Movers for resident relocation services.
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-40
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated March 12, 2003 entitled “Authorization to enter into two (2)
contracts for resident relocation services with Big O Movers & Storage, Inc. and
Smith Movers, Inc.”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into a contract with each of (i) Big O Movers & Storage, Inc.
(“BOMSI”) and (ii) Smith Movers Inc. (“SM”) for CHA resident relocation
services for a sum-not-to-exceed $400,000 each contractor (for an aggregate sum-

6

 not-to-exceed for both BOMSI and SM, taken together, being $800,000) for a two
(2) year term, with three (3) one (1) year options to extend, subject to Board and
(if required) HUD approval.
The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items B1 through B6 was seconded by
Commissioner Healey and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Mamie Bone
Dr. Mildred Harris
Lori Healey
Michael Ivers

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Joint Operations and Tenant Services Committee report was
also accepted in total.
There being no further business come before the Commissioners, upon Motion made, seconded
and carried, the meeting of the Board of Commissioners was adjourned.

S/B:

S/B:

Lee Gill, Custodian and
Keeper of Records

7

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Chairperson

 