CHANGE.

HOUSING 

January 11, 2012 ITEM NO. A5

AUTHORIZATION TO MAINTAIN AND EXPAND A LIST OF PRE-QUALIFIED HOUSING
DEVELOPERS FOR THE HOUSING FOR CHICAGOAN EVERYWHERE 
PROGRAM TO PROVIDE REPLACEMENT HOUSING UNITS TO THE CHICAGO HOUSING
AUTHORITY FOR PUBLIC HOUSING ELIGIBLE FAMILIES

 

To the Honorable Board of Commissioners:

RECOMMENDATION
It is recommended that the Board of Commissioners authorize the Chief Executive Of?cer or his designee
to maintain and expand a list of pre-quali?ed housing developers and development teams (?Developers?)
for the Housing For Chicagoans Everywhere Program to provide replacement housing units to
The Chicago Housing Authority for public housing eligible families. The selected respondents
from the HCE Program RFQ will have the opportunity to propose and close development transactions
which dedicate public housing units under either the Mixed-Finance Method or the Turnkey Method. The
selected respondents will be issued a ?Letter of Quali?cation? and have two years from the date of the
Letter of Quali?cation to submit proposals to the CHA. CHA may acquire units, or enter into long term
leases for the units, subject to the approval of the CHA Board of Commissioners, HUD, and any other

necessary approvals.

FUNDING SOURCE


INFORMATION

 

 

Mixed Finance Developers Turnkey Method Developer
Boulevard Group and Mercy Housing Tumstone Development Corporation
Lake?ont and-DSR Group, Inc. (Joint Venture)

 

McCormack Baron Salazar Inc.
The Michaels Development Company

 

 

 

 

 

RFQ Number: 11-00762 Date Advertised: 08/09/11, 08/ 10/ 11 08/12/11
Contract Type: Service Date Bids/Qualifications Opened: 09/30/201 1
Contract Period: Two (2) years Addendum Issued: None

Preb?id/ Quali?cations Conference: 08/25/11
Number of Vendors solicited: 44
(7 Firms)
Advertisement Publication(s): Chicago Number of Pick-ups 97
Defender, Chicago Sun-Times Extra Number of Qualifications Received: 6
Newspaper, CHA Website

60E Van 5m: - Chicago, Illinois 605135- - 7425530- m; momma/g

MIWIDBE Participation:
Signed af?davit on ?le

Signed af?davit on ?le

EXPLANATIQN
CHA requested submissions of quali?cations from interested Developers to promote the development or
dedication of up to approximately 1,000 public housing units in mixed income communities throughout
the City of Chicago.

The HCE program is a component to the overall revitalization program. The HCE program
provides the opportunity for the Selected Respondents to participate as either a mixed-?nance developer
or turnkey developer. A mixed-?nance developer will propose projects utilizing CHA funding as a
portion of the project ?nancing during the development of mixed income projects delivering public
housing units. Turnkey developers will propose in?ll housing projects which deliver completed public
housing units in a mixed income setting, paid for upon delivery. These two development methods attract a
wide range of small and large Developers. The HCE RFQ is released on a send-annual/periodic basis to
enable developers to enroll and participate in the program throughout the year.

Through the HCE Program RFQ, CHA seeks deve10pers who are interested in: l) delivering no more than
thirty-three percent of the units in a development project for public-housing eligible families:
Mixed Finance Method; or 2) delivering public housing units under a turnkey purchase agreement
scattered in a variety of neighborhoods for public housing eligible families: Turnkey Method. HCE units
under consideration for new family public housing are subject to the Gautreaux court order. Any
acquisition or long term lease is subject to approval from the CHA Board of Commissioners, HUD, the
Gautreawr court and any other site speci?c approvals.

PROCUREMENT HISTORY
The CHA advertised Request for Quali?cations No. 11-00762 (RFQ) for Housing For Chicagoans
Everywhere Program on August 9, 2011. The RFQ was advertised in the Chicago Sun-Times,
Chicago Defender, Extra News, and the website. Forty-four (44) vendors were directly solicited
including seven (7) ?rms. A Pre Quali?cation Conference was held on August 25, 2011.

Six (6) quali?cations were received, ?ve (5) for Mixed Finance Method, one (1) for Turnkey Method.
The quali?cations were deemed responsive and were evaluated by the evaluation committee. After the
committee completed its analysis of the quali?cations for Mixed Finance and Turnkey Method, the
Contracting Of?cer set the competitive range and three (3) ?rms scored within that range for the Mixed
Finance Method, The Michaels Development Company, McCormack Baron Salazar, Inc. and Boulevard
Group and Mercy Housing Lakefront. Turnstone Development Corporation and DSR Group, Inc. was
selected for the Turnkey Method.

Based on the foregoing, it is in the best interest of CHA to maintain a list of prequali?ed housing
developers and development teams for the speci?c intention of delivering replacement housing units to
CHA for eligible public housing families under the Housing for Chicagoans Everywhere Program. CHA
will acquire, or enter into a long term lease for the units, subject to subsequent CHA Board of
Commissioners, HUD and any other necessary approvals.

6'05 Van Berra saw: ?ler-ran, 66505-3267 . (312) 742 - mm 

RESOLUTION NO. 2012-CI-IA-4

 

WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated January 11, 2012,

entitled, ?Authorization to establish and maintain a list of pre-quali?ed housing developers
and development teams for the Housing For Chicagoans Everywhere Program to
provide replacement housing units to the Chicago Housing Authority for public housing
eligible families.?

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY

THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Of?cer or his designee to
establish and maintain the list below of pre-quali?ed housing developers and development
teams for the Housing For Chicagoans Everywhere Program to provide
replacement housing units to the Chicago Housing Authority for public housing eligible
families.

 

 

 

 

 

Mixed Finance Developers Turnkey Method Developer
Boulevard Group and Mercy Housing Tumstone Development Corporation
Lakefront and DSR Group, Inc. (Joint Venture)
McCormack Baron Salazar Inc.

The Michaels Development Company

 

 

 

 

 

 

60 E. Van amen 5m: . (mango, 60605-1207- (312) 742-95903 ?reman};

