DRAFT
MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING
OF THE
COMMISSIONERS OF THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
May 18, 2010
The Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority held its Regular Meeting of the Board of
Commissioners on Tuesday, May 18, 2010, at 8:30 a.m. at the Abraham Lincoln Center, 3858
South Cottage, Chicago, IL.
Chairman Nesbitt called the meeting to order and upon roll call, those present and absent were as
follows:
Present:
Martin Nesbitt
Deverra Beverly
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Carlos Ponce
Bridget Reidy
Absent:

Hallie Amey
Myra King
Sandra Young

Also present were Lewis Jordan, Chief Executive Officer; Kris Warren, Chief of Staff; Scott
Ammarell, General Counsel; Chicago Housing Authority Staff Members and the General Public.
There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as
follows:
Upon Motion made and properly seconded the Commissioners adjourned to Executive Session.
The Chairman announced that pursuant to the Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2, the Board
would adjourn for approximately one (1) hour to possibly discuss pending, probable or imminent
litigation, personnel related matters, collective negotiating matters, purchase, sale and lease of
real estate property; establishment of reserves and settlement of claims.
Lewis Jordan, Chief Executive Officer, then presented his monthly report. Mr. Jordan’s reported
on the massive educational undertaking of staff to ensure the success of the opening of the CHA
Waitlist.
Chairman Nesbitt then invited residents and the public at large to address the Board.
Immediately following the Public Hearing portion of the meeting, Chairman Nesbitt introduced
the items discussed in Executive Session. Commissioner Ivers then made an Omnibus Motion to
approve Executive Session Items 1 thru 4.

Executive Session Item 1
RESOLUTION NO. 2010-CHA-51
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated May 3, 2010, requesting that the Board of Commissioners
approves the Personnel Actions Report for April 2010.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the Personnel Actions Report for
April 2010.

1

 Executive Session Item 2
RESOLUTION NO. 2010-CHA-52
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated May 12, 2010,
requesting authorization to 1) Submit the Final Site Approval (commonly referred
to as the “Acquisition Plan”) and Disposition Applications to the United States
Department of Housing and Urban Development (“HUD”) requesting its approval
to acquire the Land from the City of Chicago, 2) Submit to HUD for its approval
all of the necessary amended Evidentiary documents to effectuate the transfer of
the Land including but not limited to an amendment to the Ground Lease, and 3)
Execute and deliver such other documents and perform such actions as may be
necessary or appropriate to implement the foregoing.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorize the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to 1) Submit the Final Site Approval (commonly referred to as the
“Acquisition Plan”) and Disposition Applications to HUD requesting its approval
to acquire the Land from the City of Chicago, 2) Submit to HUD for its approval
all of the necessary amended Evidentiary documents to effectuate the transfer of
the Land including but not limited to an amendment to the Ground Lease, and 3)
Execute and deliver such other documents and perform such actions as may be
necessary or appropriate to implement the foregoing.

Executive Session Item 3
RESOLUTION NO. 2010-CHA-53
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated May 17, 2010
regarding the authorization to execute a contract for litigation consulting services;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into a contract in the not-to-exceed amount of $374,544 for the
Litigation Consulting Services.

Executive Session Item 4
RESOLUTION NO. 2010-CHA-54
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated May 11, 2010, entitled, “REQUEST FOR AUTHORIZATION
TO ENTER INTO A LEASE AGREEMENT FOR THE PREMISES LOCATED
AT 10 W. 35TH ST. Floor 5, CHICAGO, IL 60616
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners (“Board”) authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or
his designee to enter into a lease agreement with the Illinois Institute of
Technology (IIT) for the lease of approximately 14,868 square feet of space in an
office building located at 10 W. 35th St.., Chicago, Illinois. The lease will be for a
one (1) year term commencing on June 1, 2010 and expiring on May 31, 2011.
The Total Base Rent amount shall not exceed $352,380 and is exclusive of any
additional fees for operations outside the normal business hours and/or use of
additional facilities within the Building beyond those provided in the Lease and
the proportionate share of any assessed real estate taxes and/or special
assessments.

2

 The Motion to adopt resolutions for Executive Session Items 1 thru 4 was seconded by
Commissioner Harris and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Martin Nesbitt
Deverra Beverly
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Carlos Ponce
Bridget Reidy

Nays:

None

The Chairman thereupon declared said Motion carried and said Resolutions adopted.
Commissioner Ivers, Chairman of the Finance and Audit Committee, then presented his monthly
report. Per Commissioner Ivers, the Finance and Audit Committee held its regular meeting on
Wednesday, May 12, 2010 at 1:00 p.m. at the 60 East Van Buren Corporate offices. Elias
Rosario, Chief Financial Officer and his staff presented the Committee with the Treasury and
Cash Flow Report for the month of April 2010 and the Financial Report as of March 2010.
Commissioner Ivers then presented an Omnibus Motion for adoption of Resolutions for Items
A1, thru A6 discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Finance and Audit
Committee.
(Item A1)
The resolution for Item A1 approves the third option year of Contract No. 6009 with CTG Inc. of
Illinois, not-to-exceed $49,728.21, for Hewlett Package Maintenance Service. Prudent business
practices dictate having maintenance and service agreements in place to ensure critical business
functions are maintained in good working order on an ongoing basis and restored quickly and
efficiently in the event of any disruption or other impact. The original contract was awarded at
the firm fixed price of $80,478.00 for a two year base term, with three one-year term option
extensions, each priced at $49,728.21.
RESOLUTION NO. 2010-CHA-55
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated May 12, 2010,
entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO EXERCISE THE THIRD ONE (1) YEAR
OPTION EXTENSION OF CONTRACT NO. 6009 WITH NOVANIS FOR
MAINTENANCE SERVICES”,
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

The Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into the third one (1) year extension option with Novanis, for
Hewlett Packard Maintenance Services, in an amount not-to-exceed $49,728.21.

(Item A2)
The resolution for Item A2 approves the third option year of Contract No. 6035 with Fastech,
Inc. for Sun Maintenance Services. The CHA utilizes Sun hardware and software to support
internal/external communications and the CHA’s essential operating functions. Every CHA
computer is linked together via Sun hardware and software components. Critical core
applications, i.e., Lawson (ERP), Yardi, and the Relocation Management Tracking System,
would be adversely affected should the Sun components cease to be operational, and the CHA
would be unable to execute a timely recovery as a result. The original contract was awarded at
the firm fixed price of $251,308.16 for a two year base term, with the option of three, one-year
term extensions, at a firm, fixed price of $128,181.22, $132,196.48, and $132,196.48 for each of
the respective successive option years.
RESOLUTION NO. 2010-CHA-56
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated May 12, 2010,
“AUTHORIZATION TO EXERCISE THE THIRD ONE (1) YEAR OPTION OF
CONTRACT NO. 6035 WITH FASTECH, INC. FOR SUN MAINTENANCE
SERVICES”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
3

 THAT,

The Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into the Third one (1) year option with Fastech, Inc., for Sun
Maintenance Services in the amount of $132,196.48.

(Item A3)
The resolution for Item A3 approves the third option year of Contract No. 6036 with Sentinel
Technologies for Cisco Equipment Maintenance Services. The original contract was awarded for
the firm fixed price of $410,265.00 for a two year base term, with the option of three one-year
term extensions. The one year term extension options were fixed at an amount not to exceed
$208,736.00 per extension year.
RESOLUTION NO. 2010-CHA-57
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated May 12, 2010,
entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO EXERCISE THE THIRD ONE (1) YEAR
OPTION TO EXTEND CONTRACT NO. 6036 WITH SENTINEL
TECHNOLOGIES FOR CISCO EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE SERVICES”,
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

The Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to exercise the third one (1) year extension option with Sentinel
Technologies, for Cisco Equipment Maintenance Services, in an amount not-toexceed $208,736.00.

(Item A4)
The resolution for Item A4 approves submittal of the Amendment to the FY2010 Annual Plan,
Plan For Transformation Year 11 to HUD. The document represents CHA's FY2010 MTW
Annual Plan and details CHA’s anticipated activities for FY2010. CHA determined the need to
amend portions of text in the FY2010 MTW Annual Plan to reflect both newly proposed and
revised MTW activities, as well as anticipated dispositions for the current year. CHA has
organized the discussions of activities in the FY2010 MTW Annual Plan under the following
Sections: General Housing Authority Operating Information, Non-MTW Related Housing
Authority Information, Long-Term MTW Plan, Proposed MTW Activities, Ongoing MTW
Activities-HUD Approval Previously Granted, and Sources and Uses of Funds. Moreover, each
of the activities has been tied to one of the following MTW Statutory Objectives: 1) Increase
housing choices for low-income families; 2) Give incentive to families with children where the
head of household is working, seeking work, or is preparing for work by participating in job
training, education programs, or programs that assist people to obtain employment and become
economically self-sufficient; and 3) Reduce cost and achieve greater cost effectiveness in Federal
expenditures. To this end, CHA has complied with the requirements of the Restated Agreement
and HUD regulations regarding annual plans.
RESOLUTION NO. 2010-CHA-58
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated May 12, 2010,
requesting approval of the Amendment to the FY2010 MTW Annual Plan, hereto
attached.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners approves the attached Amendment to the FY2010
MTW Annual Plan – Plan for Transformation Year 11, and grants authorization to
the Chief Executive Officer, the Board Chairperson, or their designee to make any
final changes as they may deem necessary, (including changes based on HUD
requirements); and submit the Amendment to the U.S. Department of Housing
and Urban Development. Such approval shall constitute conclusive evidence of
the Board’s support of any and all such changes.

(Item A5)
The resolution for Item A5 approves Amendment No. 4 to CHA’s Amended and Restated
Moving To Work Agreement. Amendment No. 4 replaces Paragraphs 20f and 20g of
Attachment D with the following text: 20f. The Mixed-Finance Resident Ombudsman must
produce notes reflecting all of the issues raised at each semi-annual meeting. The notes are to be
4

 forwarded to the Central Advisory Council, CHA’s Chief Executive Officer/President, and
CHA’s Board Chairperson. The notes are also to be posted to CHA’s website within thirty days
after receipt of notes from the court reporter or sixty days from the date of the last meeting. 20g.
The CHA must draft a written response to each of the issues raised in the meeting notes and must
transmit the response to the Mixed-Finance Ombudsman, the Central Advisory Committee and
the Board Chairperson as well as publish the response on its Website within 30 days of receiving
the meeting notes from the court reporter or sixty days from the date of the last meeting;
RESOLUTION NO. 2010-CHA-59
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated May 12, 2010,
requesting approval of Amendment No. 4 to the Amended and Restated Moving
To Work Agreement dated June 26, 2008 (“Restated Agreement”) between the
U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development and Chicago Housing
Authority.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the attached Amendment No. 4 to
the Restated Agreement and grants authorization to the Chief Executive Officer to
execute Amendment No. 4 to the Restated Agreement on behalf of CHA.

(Item A6)
The resolution for Item A6 approves Amendment No. 5 to CHA’s Amended and Restated
Moving To Work Agreement. Amendment No. 5 seeks a broader umbrella statement to grant
authority for a broader use of funds which would enable CHA to expand housing assistance
options for low-income families and provide services to facilitate self-sufficiency and/or the
transition to work. Except as provided in this Amendment No. 5, every term and condition
contained in the Restated Agreement, as amended by previous amendments shall continue to
apply with the same force and effect as if it were fully set forth herein.
RESOLUTION NO. 2010-CHA-60
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated May 12, 2010,
requesting approval of Amendment No. 5 to the Amended and Restated Moving
To Work Agreement, dated June 26, 2008 (the “Restated Agreement”) between
the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development and Chicago Housing
Authority.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the attached Amendment No. 5 to
the Restated Agreement, and grants authorization to the Chief Executive Officer
to execute Amendment No. 5 to the Restated Agreement on behalf of CHA.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items A1 thru A6 was seconded by
Commissioner Reidy and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Martin Nesbitt
Deverra Beverly
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Carlos Ponce
Bridget Reidy

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairman thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Finance and Audit Committee report was also accepted in
total.
Commissioner Ponce, Chairman of the Operations and Facilities Committee, then presented the
monthly report. Per Commissioner Ponce, the Operations and Facilities Committee meeting was
held on Wednesday, May 12th a 1:30 p.m. at the 60 East Van Buren Corporate offices.
Committee members were presented with an update on the reopening of the Family Wait List.
5

 Commissioner Ponce then presented an Omnibus Motion for adoption of the Resolutions for
Items B1 thru B8 discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Operations and
Facilities Committee.
(Item B1)
The resolution for Item B1 amends Contract No. 9004, not-to-exceed $2,403,506, with Siemens
Industry Inc., to utilize remaining ARRA Competitive Grant Funds to implement additional
improvements at properties that have already received prior improvements. This resolution also
amends contract No. 9003 with Ameresco, not-to-exceed $3,539,825 to complete projects not yet
undertaken. The expanded deployment of ESCO conservation improvements and infrastructure
includes but is not limited to the following projects: increase of energy efficiency-related
improvements at twenty-three locations and the replacement, upgrade and improvements to
heating/cooling systems and domestic hot water systems at Lake Parc Place, Abraham Lincoln
Center and the Taylor Park/Firman Family Center, which are CHA-owned and operated
properties.
RESOLUTION NO. 2010-CHA-61
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated May 12, 2010,
entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO AMEND ESCO CONTRACT NO. 9004 WITH
SIEMENS INDUSTRY, INC. AND ESCO CONTRACT NO. 9003 WITH
AMERESCO, INC.
TO UNDERTAKE ADDITIONAL ENERGY
CONSERVATION MEASURES AT CHA PORTFOLIO PROPERTIES.”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to amend Contract 9004 with Siemens Industry, Inc. to increase the
number of energy efficiency-related improvements to the Phase 4 work scope,
which implemented heating system and domestic hot water system replacements
at twenty-three (23) CHA developments in the amount of $2,403,506.00, and to
amend Contract 9003 with Ameresco, Inc. to undertake energy conservation
work at three additional locations in an amount not-to-exceed 3,539,825.00 for a
total aggregate increased funding amount not-to-exceed $5,943,331.00. The
respective projects are to be completed within one hundred eighty (180) calendar
days of the date set forth in the Notice to Proceed. These awards are subject to
the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident
hiring, and bonding and insurance requirements.

(Items B2 ans B3)
The resolutions for Items B2 and B3 approve submittal of Disposition Applications to HUD for
properties located at 2915 N. Leavitt and 6245 S. Wabash and to enter into two separate leases
with the Boys and Girls Clubs of Chicago. The Boys and Girls Clubs of Chicago is a not-for
profit organization that provides youth programs in areas of the City that need safe havens for
children. The Boys and Girls Clubs have worked with the CHA for over 50 years at properties
such as Henry Horner, Robert Taylor, Lathrop Homes, and Washington Park. This lease is
needed in order to continue the youth programs and services that are provided to the children in
Lathrop Homes in the facility located at 2915 N. Leavitt, Chicago, Illinois and commonly known
as The Cotter Club. In the Lathrop Homes community, youth programs are in dire need in order
to foster the positive behavior of its youth. The Boys and Girls Clubs’ continued use of the
Cotter Boys and Girls Club facility will ensure the delivery of these much needed summer and
after-school programs. The Boys and Girls Club will provide an annual report that will highlight
the number of participants and success of their programs, and they will contract for a
preventative maintenance on an annual preventative maintenance schedule. The annual report
and preventative maintenance schedule will be provided to the CHA on an annual basis or upon
request. All utilities will be contracted for and paid for by the Boys and Girls Clubs of Chicago.

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2010-CHA-62
the Board of Commissioners have reviewed Board Letter dated May 12, 2010,
entitled “Authorization to 1) Submit a Disposition Application to the U.S.
Department of Housing and Urban Development for Property located at 2915 N.
Leavitt, Chicago, Illinois and; 2) enter into a long-term lease with the Boys and
Girls Clubs of Chicago.
6

 THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to (1) submit a disposition application to HUD for the property located
at 2915 N. Leavitt, Chicago, Illinois and; (2) enter into a long-term lease with
the Boys and Girls Clubs of Chicago for this property for a base term of one (1)
year with four consecutive one-year options on the same terms and conditions,
with a monthly rent in the amount of $100.00. The execution of the Lease is
subject to HUD approval.

(Item B3)
RESOLUTION NO. 2010-CHA-63
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners have reviewed Board Letter dated May 12, 2010,
entitled “Authorization to Submit a Disposition Application to the U.S.
Department of Housing and Urban Development (“HUD”) for Property Located
at 6245 S. Wabash Avenue and Authorization to Enter into a Long-Term Lease
with “The Boys and Girls Clubs of Chicago”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to: (1) submit a disposition application to HUD for the property located
at 6245 S. Wabash Avenue, and (2) execute a long-term lease for the same
property with The Boys and Girls Clubs of Chicago for a base term of three (3)
years with a five-year (5) option, subject to HUD disposition approval. The
monthly rent will be in the amount of $100.00. The execution of the Lease is
subject to HUD approval.

(Item B4)
The resolution for Item B4 approves a contract modification with Tropic Construction, in an
amount not-to-exceed $350,000.00, to cover roof replacement work at Hoyne Community Center
The roof replacement work includes, but is not limited to, the removal and replacement of the
entire existing metal deck, roof membranes, wood blockings and roof insulation for the two-story
brick building. The original construction drawings anticipated that only limited portions of the
roof, including the insulation, roof membrane and other protective roofing materials, would need
repairs. Once the Contractor had access to the Center and weather allowed, additional forensic
testing of the roof was performed necessitating the replacement work. With completion of this
work, Hoyne will have a completely new, structurally sound roof system with a full 20 year
warranty for the entire building.
RESOLUTION NO. 2010-CHA-64
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated May 12, 2010,
entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO EXECUTE MODIFICATION NO. G-04 TO
CONTRACT NO. 9081 WITH TROPIC CONSTRUCTION CORPORATION
FOR ADDITIONAL WORK RELATED TO THE EXTERIOR ENVELOPE
REPAIRS, INTERIOR RENOVATION WORK AND ADA AND SITE
IMPROVEMENTS AT HOYNE COMMUNITY CENTER (IL2-035)”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute Contract Modification No. G-04 to Contract No. 9081 with
Tropic Construction Corporation in an amount not to exceed $350,000.00 for
additional work related to the exterior envelope repairs, interior renovation work
and ADA and site improvements at Hoyne Community Center (IL2-035). The
new total contract amount for Contract No. 9081 is $2,717,071.00. The Contract
completion date is unchanged.
This Contract Modification is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the
CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident hiring, and bonding and insurance
requirements.
7

 (Item B5)
The resolution for Item B5 approves ratification of the formation of Pomeroy Senior Housing
Limited Partnership with related documents needed to close the transaction for the rehabilitation
of Pomeroy Apartments. Pomeroy Apartments, built in 1923, is a mixed-finance renovation of a
nine story building located in the Edgewater Community at 5650 N. Kenmore Avenue, Chicago,
Illinois. This senior-designated apartment building originally contained 120 units, but the
renovation plan entails unit reconfiguration into a one hundred four one bedroom unit building
plus a manager’s unit. To facilitate the financing of the renovation of Pomeroy Apartments, a
multi-tiered financing approach will be utilized. The CHA will transfer the Pomeroy Apartments
property to a tax-credit limited partnership known as Pomeroy Senior Housing Limited
Partnership, an Illinois limited partnership. The General Partner of the Owner is an Illinois
limited liability company known as Pomeroy Housing Development, LLC. CHA is the sole
member of the General Partner. The General Partner is also the developer of the project and will
manage the day to day affairs of the Owner. At closing, the Partnership will be comprised of a
tax-credit investor as limited partner and special limited partner, and Pomeroy Housing
Development, LLC, the General Partner. The Limited Partner will own a 99.991% interest in the
Partnership and the General Partner will own a .009% interest. Also at closing, the building will
be transferred in fee simple to the Partnership.
RESOLUTION NO. 2010-CHA-65
WHEREAS, the Chicago Housing Authority (the “Authority”) is a municipal corporation and
body politic and corporate organized and validly existing under the laws of the State of Illinois,
including without limitation, the Housing Authorities Act, 310 ILCS 10/1 et. seq., as amended
(the “Act”); and
WHEREAS, the Authority currently owns and operates Pomeroy Apartments, a housing
property for elderly persons (the “Property”), located at 5650 North Kenmore, in the City of
Chicago (the “City”); and
WHEREAS, notwithstanding the availability of funds under the Operating Subsidy and Capital
Grant Funds, adequate funds have not been available to the Authority to provide proper
maintenance and repair of the Property, and
WHEREAS, after considering a number of alternative methods to finance the rehabilitation of
the Property, it was determined by the Authority to be necessary and advisable to sell and
transfer the Property to a limited partnership legally capable of raising needed funds under the
federal low-income housing tax credit program (the “tax credit program”), pursuant to the
provisions and requirements of Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended
(the “Code”); and
WHEREAS, since 1986, as other federal low-income housing programs have been reduced or
eliminated, the tax credit program has remained a critical component of the federal government’s
assistance of affordable housing in the United States; and
WHEREAS, the United States Congress in the United States Housing Act of 1937, as amended,
has encouraged local housing agencies such as the Authority to form affiliated entities in order
to take advantage of the financial benefit provided by the tax credit program; and
WHEREAS, Section 2 of the Act provides that the Authority shall have all powers necessary or
appropriate in order to engage in the rehabilitation, development and redevelopment of projects;
and
WHEREAS, Section 8 of the Act provides that the Authority shall have all the powers necessary
or convenient to carry out and effectuate the purposes and provisions of the Act; and
WHEREAS, Section 26 of the Act provides that it is the purpose and intent of the Act to
authorize the Authority to do any and all things necessary or desirable to secure the financial aid
or cooperation of the Federal government in the purchasing, acquiring, constructing,
maintaining, operating improving, extending and repairing of housing projects; and
WHEREAS, the Authority will sell the building of the Property to the Owner and will finance
the sale of the building through seller financing for the approximate price of $5,500,000, amount
to be determined by an independent third party appraisal.
8

 NOW THEREFORE, Be It Resolved, by the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing
Authority:
PART I
Formation of General Partner and Partnership
Section 1.01 Formation of General Partner. The formation of Pomeroy Housing Development,
LLC, an Illinois limited liability company (the “General Partner”), of which the Authority is the
sole member, is hereby ratified and confirmed in all respects. The General Partner Designated
Officers are hereby authorized to take all actions necessary to maintain the status of the General
Partner as a limited liability company under the laws of the State of Illinois.
Section 1.02 Operating Agreement. The form of Operating Agreement presented to this meeting
and attached hereto as Exhibit A is hereby ratified and approved in substantially the form
presented to this meeting.
Section 1.03 Formation of Partnership. The formation of Pomeroy Senior Housing Limited
Partnership, an Illinois limited partnership (the “Owner”), is hereby ratified and confirmed in all
respects.
Section 1.04 Partnership Agreement. The original Partnership, which was formed pursuant to a
certificate of limited partnership, presented to this meeting and attached hereto as Exhibit B, and
an oral agreement (authorized under Illinois law) between the General Partner and Lewis A.
Jordan, as the original limited partner, in his individual capacity and not in his capacity as Chief
Executive Officer of the Authority, (the “Partnership Agreement”), are hereby ratified and
approved. An amended and restated (written) partnership agreement, in the form approved by the
Designated Officer, providing for the replacement of the original limited partner with an investor
limited partner, is also hereby approved. The Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer
of the Authority is hereby authorized to execute and deliver the Partnership Agreement on behalf
of the General Partner.
Section 1.05 Development Agreement. The form of development services agreement presented
to this meeting and attached hereto as Exhibit C is approved in substantially the form presented
to this meeting and the Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer of the Authority is
hereby authorized to execute and deliver the Development Agreement, on behalf of the Owner as
well as on behalf of the General Partner in substantially the form presented to this meeting
together with such changes and revisions as shall be approved by the Designated Officer
executing the same, such approval to constitute conclusive evidence of this Board’s approval of
such changes and revisions.
Section 1.06 Regulatory and Operating Agreement. The Chief Executive Officer or Chief
Financial Officer of the Authority is hereby authorized to execute and deliver a Regulatory and
Operating Agreement on behalf of the General Partner and the Owner.
Section 1.07 No Liability of the Authority. The debts, obligations and undertakings of the
General Partner and the Owner shall be payable and/or satisfied solely from the assets and
resources of the General Partner and the Owner, as applicable, and neither the Authority, the
State of Illinois, the City or any other political subdivision of the State of Illinois shall be liable
or responsible, directly or indirectly, for the payment or satisfaction of any such debt, obligation
or undertaking, or for the performance of any pledge, obligation, or agreement of any kind
whatsoever of the General Partner or the Owner.
Section 1.08 No Recourse. No recourse shall be had for the payment or satisfaction of any debt,
obligation or undertaking of the General Partner or the Owner against any commissioner,
member, officer, employee, agent, counsel or director, as such, past, present or future, of the
Authority, to the maximum extent permitted by law, whether by virtue of any constitution,
statute, ordinance or rule of law, or otherwise.
PART II
Approval of Sale and Transfer of Property
9

 Section 2.01 Sale and Transfer of Property. The sale and transfer of the Property to the Owner
for a purchase price in the approximate amount of $5,500,000, exact amount to be determined by
an independent third party appraisal, is hereby approved in all respects.
Section 2.02 Purchase and Sale Agreement. The form of Purchase and Sale Agreement with
respect to the Property (the “Purchase and Sale Agreement”) presented to this meeting and
attached hereto as Exhibit D is approved in substantially the form presented to this meeting, and
the Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer of the Authority is authorized to execute
and deliver the Purchase and Sale Agreement, if necessary, on behalf of the General Partner and
on behalf of the Authority in substantially the form presented to this meeting, together with such
changes and revisions as shall be approved by the Designated Officer executing the same, such
approval to constitute conclusive evidence of this Board’s approval of such changes and
revisions.
Section 2.03 Approval of Purchase Option and Right of First Refusal Agreement. The form of
Purchase Option and Right of First Refusal Agreement with respect to the Property presented to
this meeting and attached hereto as Exhibit E is approved in substantially the form presented to
this meeting, and the Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer of the Authority is
authorized to execute and deliver the Purchase Option and Right of First Refusal Agreement on
behalf of the Owner and on behalf of the General Partner in substantially the form presented to
this meeting, together with such changes and revisions as shall be approved by the Designated
Officer executing the same, such approval to constitute conclusive evidence of this Board’s
approval of such changes and revisions.
PART III
Additional Approvals
Section 3.01 Development and Management of Property. The development and operation of the
Property by the Owner is hereby approved. In order to accomplish those purposes, the Owner
shall execute and deliver appropriate instruments and documents, including but not limited to,
the construction contract, architect’s agreement and appropriate management agreement.
Section 3.02 Loan Transactions. In order to finance the costs of rehabilitating and equipping the
Property, the Owner shall execute and deliver appropriate documents, instruments, mortgages
and security instruments as may be required by the applicable lender.
Section 3.03 Tax-exempt Financing. It is recognized that the Construction Loan and Bridge Loan
will be funded by CHA bonds, the interest on which is exempt from federal income taxation
under Section 142 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. The Owner shall execute
and deliver such documents and instruments as shall be required to support the tax-exempt status
of such CHA obligations.
PART IV
Section 4.01 Immunity of Officers, Employees and Members of Authority. No recourse shall be
had upon any obligation, covenant or agreement in this Resolution contained against any past,
present or future commissioner, officer, director, member, employee or agent of the Authority, or
of any successor public corporation, as such, either directly or through the Authority or any
successor public corporation, under any rule of law or equity, statute, ordinance or constitution
or by the enforcement of any assessment or penalty or otherwise, and all such liability of any
such commissioners, officers, directors, members, employees or agents as such is expressly
waived and released by this Resolution as a condition of and consideration for the passage of this
Resolution.
Section 4.02 Performance Provisions. The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial
Officer, and the Custodian and Keeper of the Records/Secretary, Board of Commissioners, be
and each of them hereby is, authorized and directed to do any and all things necessary to effect
the performance of all obligations of the Authority under and pursuant to this Resolution and the
performance of all other acts of whatever nature necessary to effect and carry out the authority
conferred by this Resolution, including, but not limited to, the exercise of any power or authority
delegated to such official of the Authority under this Resolution, but subject to any limitations on
10

 or restrictions of such power or authority as herein set forth. The Chairman, Chief Executive
Officer, Chief Financial Officer, the Executive Advisor to the Board, the Secretary and any
Assistant Secretary of the Authority and the other officers, agents and employees of the
Authority are hereby further authorized, empowered and directed for and on behalf of the
Authority, to execute and deliver all papers, documents, certificates and other instruments that
may be required to carry out the authority conferred by this Resolution or to evidence said
authority.
Section4.03 Severability. It is the intention of this Board that, if any Article, Section, paragraph,
clause or provision of this Resolution shall be ruled by any court of competent jurisdiction to be
invalid, the invalidity of such Article, Section, paragraph, clause or provision shall not affect any
of the remaining provisions hereof.
Section 4.04 Prior Inconsistent Resolutions. If any provision of this Resolution is in conflict with
or inconsistent with any resolutions or parts of resolutions or the proceedings of the Authority in
effect as of the date hereof, the provisions of this Resolution shall supersede any conflicting or
inconsistent provision to the extent of such conflict or inconsistency.
Section 4.05 Effective Date. This Resolution shall be in full force and effect immediately upon
its passage as by law provided.
(Item B6)
The resolution for Item B6 approves issuance of CHA Multi-Family Housing Revenue Notes,
Series 2010A and Series 2010B; approves submittal of a Mixed Finance Proposal, Evidentiaries
and Disposition Application to HUD; loan General and Other Funds; execute a Ground Lease;
sell the Project Building and finance the sale through Seller Finance to Pomeroy Senior Housing
Limited Partnership. This senior-designated apartment building currently contains one hundredtwenty (120) units; the proposed unit mix includes 104 one bedroom public housing units, and a
manager’s unit. To facilitate the financing of the renovation of Pomeroy Apartments, a multitiered financing approach will be utilized. The direct costs for the renovation of the 104 rental
units of the Pomeroy Apartments development total an estimated $36,471,120 and are expected
to be funded by CHA Funds, Tax Credit Equity, CHA Seller Financing and CHA Interest
Earnings. The Notes will be issued in two series pursuant to a Note Issuance Agreement and the
proceeds thereof will be loaned to the Owner, also known as the “Borrower”, pursuant to a Loan
Agreement. Bank of America, N.A. or an affiliated entity will purchase the Series 2010A and
2010B Notes in principal amounts of approximately $11,775,630 and $7,949,217, respectively.
The Authority will provide permanent financing through its loan of capital or other funds
sufficient to retire the Series 2010A Notes (in return for the agreement of the Borrower to rent
104 units at the site to public housing eligible tenants plus one manager’s unit). The Notes are
not a debt of any city, village, incorporated town or county, or the State of Illinois or any
political subdivision thereof, other than the Authority. The Notes are special limited obligations
of the Authority payable solely from the specific sources specified in the Note Issuance
Agreement.
RESOLUTION NO. 2010-CHA-66
WHEREAS, the Chicago Housing Authority, a municipal corporation and a body politic and
corporate duly organized and validly existing under and by virtue of the laws of
the State of Illinois (the “Authority”), including without limitation the Housing
Authorities Act, 310 ILCS 10/1 et seq., and all laws amendatory and supplemental
thereto, including in particular the Local Government Debt Reform Act, 30 ILCS
350/1 et seq. (the “Act”), is authorized by the laws of the State of Illinois (the
“State”), including without limitation in the Act, to issue its revenue Bonds and
Notes for the purposes set forth in the Act and to permit the expenditure of the
proceeds thereof to finance the cost of the development, construction and
renovation of multifamily rental housing located in the jurisdiction of the
Authority; and
WHEREAS, Pomeroy Senior Housing Limited Partnership, an Illinois limited partnership (the
“Borrower”), proposes to rehabilitate the “Pomeroy Apartments” Project
consisting of the renovation of 104 rental units of public housing and one
manager’s unit in Chicago, Illinois (the “Project”); and
WHEREAS, a portion of the costs of the Project will be financed through the issuance by the
Authority of its Multi-Family Housing Revenue Note, Series 2010A (Pomeroy
11

 Apartments Project) (the “Series 2010A Note”) and its Multi-Family Housing
Revenue Note, Series 2010B (Pomeroy Apartments Project) (the “Series 2010B
Note”) (collectively, the “Notes”); and
WHEREAS, the proceeds of the Notes will be loaned to Borrower; and
WHEREAS, the General Partner of Borrower is Pomeroy Housing Development, LLC, an
Illinois limited liability company (the “General Partner”); and
WHEREAS, the sole member of the General Partner is the Authority; and
WHEREAS, a determination has been made by the Authority that the Project constitutes
“multifamily rental housing” within the meaning of the Act and that the financing
thereof will meet the public purposes of the Act; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to and in accordance with the provisions of the Act, the Authority is now
prepared to proceed with the financing of a portion of the costs of the Project
through the issuance and sale of the Notes pursuant to a Note Issuance Agreement
(the “Note Issuance Agreement”) among the Authority, Bank of America, N.A.,
or an affiliated entity, as the purchaser of the Notes (the “Note Purchaser”) and
Bank of America, N.A., or an affiliated entity, as fiscal agent (the “Fiscal
Agent”); and
WHEREAS, the proceeds of the Notes will be loaned by the Authority to the Borrower
pursuant to a Loan Agreement between the Authority and the Borrower (the
“Loan Agreement”) and the obligations of the Borrower to pay debt service under
the Loan Agreement will be evidenced by a Note with respect to the Series 2010A
Note debt service (the “Series 2010A Borrower Note”) from the Borrower to the
Authority, and a Note with respect to the Series 2010B Note debt service (the
“Series 2010B Borrower Note” and, together with the Series 2010A Borrower
Note, the “Borrower Notes”) from the Borrower to the Authority, each of which
will be assigned by the Authority to the Fiscal Agent as security for the Notes;
and
WHEREAS, certain income and other rental restrictions required by Sections 42 and 142(d) of
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”) related to the
Project will be specified in one or more Regulatory Agreements, Declarations of
Restrictive Covenants and a Land Use Restriction Agreement (each, collectively,
the “Regulatory Agreement”) and
WHEREAS, certain arbitrage requirements of Section 148 and related provisions of the Code
will be specified in one or more Arbitrage and Tax Certificates (the “Arbitrage
Certificates”) of the Authority and the Borrower; and
WHEREAS, both series of Notes will be sold by private placement to the Note Purchaser
pursuant to the Note Issuance Agreement; and
WHEREAS, the Borrower’s obligations under the Borrower Notes will be secured by one or
more mortgages, security agreements and/or collateral assignments with respect to
the Project (the “Collateral Documents”) from the Borrower to the Authority or
the Fiscal Agent and, if to the Authority, the rights of the Authority to such
instruments and, as applicable, the Borrower Notes may be assigned by the
Authority to the Fiscal Agent pursuant to an assignment (an “Assignment”); and
WHEREAS, the Authority will lease the site of the Project to the Borrower pursuant to a 99year ground lease (the “Ground Lease”);
WHEREAS, the Authority will sell the building of the Project to the Borrower and will finance
the sale of the building through seller financing for the approximate price of
$5,500,000, amount to be determined by an independent third party appraisal.
WHEREAS, the Series 2010A Note will be secured by and payable from certain Capital Funds
12

 (“Capital Funds”) received by the Authority and deposited into escrow pursuant
to a Pledge Agreement (the “Pledge Agreement”) among the Authority, the
Borrower and the Fiscal Agent, as Escrow Agent, and such Capital Funds, upon
withdrawal from such escrow, will constitute a loan from the Authority to the
Borrower pursuant to a loan agreement (the “Capital Funds Loan Agreement”)
with the Borrower; and
WHEREAS, the Borrower will be required to operate 104 housing units within the Project for
the use and occupancy of public housing eligible individuals plus one manager’s
unit and, in connection therewith, the Borrower will enter into a Regulatory and
Operating agreement with the Authority, a Declaration of Restrictive Covenants
with the Authority and HUD, and a mortgage and other collateral documents and
related agreements and instruments (collectively, and together with the Capital
Funds Loan Agreement, the “Capital Funds Borrower Agreements”); and
WHEREAS, other funding for costs of the Project will be provided
contributions and other sources; and

pursuant to equity

WHEREAS, the proceeds of the Notes and the other funding sources may be disbursed
pursuant to a disbursement or construction agreement (the “Disbursement
Agreement”); and
WHEREAS, all or a portion of the expenditures relating to the Project (the “Expenditures”) (i)
have been paid within the sixty days prior to the passage of this Resolution or (ii)
will be paid on or after the passage of this Resolution; and

WHEREAS, the Authority reasonably expects (based upon information supplied by the
Borrower, upon which it is reasonable and prudent for the Authority to rely) to
reimburse the Borrower for the Expenditures with proceeds of the Notes; and
WHEREAS, the City Council of the City of Chicago (the “City”) has approved (or is expected
to approve) the transfer to the Authority of a portion of the City’s available
unused volume cap for calendar years 2010 and /or subsequent years pursuant to
Section 146 of the Code for use by the Authority in connection with the issuance
of the Notes, and the City and the Authority may enter into a volume cap transfer
agreement (the “Cap Transfer Agreement”) to reflect such transfer; and
WHEREAS, the Authority will enter into a Mixed-Finance Amendment to the Annual
Contributions Contract with HUD; and
WHEREAS, the Note Issuance Agreement, the Loan Agreement, the Notes, the Borrower
Notes, the Regulatory Agreement, the Arbitrage Certificates, the Assignment, the
Pledge Agreement, the Disbursement Agreement, the Ground Lease, the
Collateral Documents, the Cap Transfer Agreement and the Capital Funds
Borrower Agreements are referred to collectively herein as the “Authority
Agreements.”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

Section 1.
The Authority is authorized to submit a Mixed Finance Proposal
and amended Disposition Application to HUD in connection with the Pomeroy
Apartments project, to sell the building of the Project and to finance the sale price
through seller financing; and to enter into the Authority Agreements with the
other party or parties thereto in substantially the same forms now before the
Authority. The forms, terms and provisions of the Authority Agreements be, and
they hereby are, in all respects approved. The Chairman, the Chief Executive
Officer or his designee, or the Chief Financial Officer of the Authority be, and
each of them hereby is, authorized, empowered and directed to execute and
deliver, and, where necessary, the Chief Executive Officer or his designee, or the
Custodian and Keeper of Records/Secretary, Board of Commissioners be and
each of them hereby is, authorized, empowered and directed to attest and to affix
13

 the official seal of the Authority to, the Authority Agreements in the name, for
and on behalf of the Authority, and thereupon to cause the Authority Agreements
to be executed, acknowledged and delivered to the other party or parties thereto,
in substantially the forms now before the Authority or with such changes therein
as the individual executing the Authority Agreements on behalf of the Authority
shall approve, his or her execution thereof to constitute conclusive evidence of
such approval of any and all changes or revisions therein from the forms of
Authority Agreements now before the Authority. When the Authority Agreements
are executed, attested, sealed and delivered on behalf of the Authority as
hereinabove provided, they shall be binding on the Authority. From and after the
execution and delivery of the Authority Agreements, the officers, employees and
agents of the Authority are hereby authorized, empowered and directed to do all
such acts and things and to execute all such documents as may be necessary to
carry out and comply with the provisions of the Authority Agreements as
executed. The Authority Agreements shall constitute, and hereby are made, a part
of this Resolution, and copies of the executed Authority Agreements shall be
placed in the official records of the Authority, and shall be available for public
inspection at the office of the Authority.
Section 2.
The Notes shall be issued in fully registered form, in an aggregate
principal amount not to exceed $23,000,000, in authorized denominations as
provided in the Note Issuance Agreement. The Notes shall bear interest at a
variable rate of interest as shall be set forth in the Note Issuance Agreement, as
executed, in no event to exceed the maximum rate set forth in the Note Issuance
Agreement. The Notes shall mature on such date or dates as shall be set forth in
the Note Issuance Agreement, as executed, but in no event later than 4 years
following the date of their initial issuance and delivery to the initial purchasers
thereof. The Notes shall be subject to redemption prior to maturity as provided in
the Note Issuance Agreement, as executed.
Section 3.
The Notes and the interest thereon will be special, limited
obligations of the Authority, payable solely from the payments to be made by the
Borrower under the Loan Agreement and from the other sources specified or
referred to in the Note Issuance Agreement, which shall be specifically assigned
and pledged to such purposes in the manner and to the extent provided therein.
The Notes and all other obligations of the Authority in connection therewith shall
not be a debt of the City or any other city, village, incorporated town or county,
the State of Illinois or any political subdivision thereof and neither the City, nor
any other city, village, incorporated town or county, nor the State of Illinois or
any political subdivision thereof shall be liable thereon, nor in any event shall the
Notes or such obligations be payable out of any funds or properties other than
those pledged under the Note Issuance Agreement or those other agreements
specifically securing the Notes. The Notes shall not constitute an indebtedness
within the meaning of any constitutional or statutory debt limitation or restriction.
Section 4.
The forms of the Notes set forth in the Note Issuance Agreement,
subject to appropriate insertions and revisions in order to comply with the
provisions of the Note Issuance Agreement (as executed) be, and the same hereby
are approved. The Notes shall be executed in the name, for and on behalf of the
Authority with the manual or facsimile signature of its Chairman or Chief
Executive Officer or his designee (or such other officer authorized by law to
execute the Notes on behalf of the Authority) and attested with the manual or
facsimile signature of its Secretary or Assistant Secretary (or such other officer
authorized by law to execute the Notes on behalf of the Authority) and the seal of
the Authority shall be impressed or imprinted thereon. The officers of the
Authority shall cause the Notes, as so executed and attested, to be delivered to the
Fiscal Agent for authentication. When the Notes shall be executed on behalf of
the Authority in the manner contemplated by the Note Issuance Agreement and
this Resolution, they shall represent the approved forms of Notes of the Authority.
Section 5.

The sale of the Notes to the Note Purchaser at a purchase price of
14

 not less than 98% of the aggregate principal amount thereof plus accrued interest,
if any, to the date of delivery, is hereby approved.
Section 6.
The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or his designee, Chief
Financial Officer, and the Custodian and Keeper of Records/Secretary, Board of
Commissioners be, and each of them hereby is, authorized to execute and deliver
such documents, certificates, and undertakings of the Authority (including,
without limitation, environmental remediation agreements, investment
agreements, book-entry registration agreements, intercreditor agreements and
other agreements pertaining to the security of the Notes) and to take such other
actions as may be required or desirable in connection with the execution, delivery
and performance of the Authority Agreements, the financing of costs of the
Project, the Capital Funds and the issuance, sale and delivery of the Notes. In
addition, subsequent to the issuance of the Notes, any of the foregoing officers of
the Authority are hereby authorized to enter into amendments to the Authority
Agreements or other agreements or instruments entered into by the Authority in
connection with the Notes (without the necessity of obtaining approval by the
Board of Commissioners of the Authority to such action) which are not
inconsistent with the parameters set forth in this Resolution and which, in the
judgment of the officers executing the same, are not materially adverse to the
interests of the Authority.
Section 7.
All acts of the officers, employees and agents of the Authority that
are in conformity with the purposes and intent of this Resolution be, and the same
hereby are, in all respects, approved and confirmed.
Section 8.
The publication on behalf of the Authority of the notice of public
hearing pursuant to Section 147(f) of the Code and the conduct of such public
hearing by and on behalf of the Authority with respect to the issuance of the
Notes is hereby ratified, authorized and approved.
Section 9.
The Authority hereby allocates to the Notes the “volume cap”
reallocated or to be reallocated by the City to the Authority in an amount equal to
the aggregate principal amount of the Notes actually to be issued.

Section 10.
The Authority reasonably expects (based upon information
supplied by the Borrower, upon which it is reasonable and prudent for the
Authority to rely) to reimburse the Expenditures with proceeds of the Notes.
Section 11.
The Notes, or any one or more series thereof, may be, but are not
required to be, initially issued in book-entry form and registered in the name of
The Depository Trust Company, New York, New York (“DTC”), or its nominee,
as securities depository.
Section 12.
The provisions of this Resolution are hereby declared to be
separable and if any section, phrase or provision hereof shall for any reason be
declared to be invalid, such declaration shall not affect the validity of the
remainder of the sections, phrases and provisions of this Resolution.
Section 13.
All resolutions and orders, or parts thereof, in conflict herewith are
hereby superseded to the extent of such conflict.
Section 14.
This Resolution shall be in full force and effect immediately upon
its passage, as by law provided.
(Item B7)
In February 2010, a Request for Proposal (RFP) was advertised in area newspapers and on
CHA’s Website for the renovation of the Pomeroy Apartments. Of the nine proposals received,
evaluated and scored, six firms were placed in the competitive range. In selecting a general
contractor, the evaluators considered each respondent’s work plan, past performance related to
15

 rehabilitating low income housing tax credit - multi-housing developments, experience with
LEED certification, quality control and assurance plans, construction schedule, contract
administration capability and relationship with subcontractors and material suppliers. Because
this project is funded in part through the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009
(ARRA), the evaluators also considered each respondent’s demonstrated knowledge of the
reporting requirements of ARRA. The McHugh Construction Co. scored highest for its overall
approach to the project, having a strong balance of experience performing as a general contractor
on residential development projects that have attained LEED certification as well as development
projects utilizing mixed-financing and ARRA funding. Accordingly, the resolution for Item B7
approves award of contract to McHugh Construction Co., not-to-exceed $17,750,000.00 for
general contractor’s services at Pomeroy.
Following complete interior demolition, the
renovation work required in this nine (9) story building includes replacement of mechanical
infrastructure, newly configured floor plans and common areas, exterior work that includes
window and door replacement and selective masonry repair. The work also includes all upgrades
needed to meet local codes, ADA accessibility compliance, as well as energy efficient
components intended to achieve LEED Certification, and provide eligible basis for energy tax
credits.
RESOLUTION NO. 2010-CHA-67
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated May 12, 2010,
entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO ENTER INTO A CONTRACT WITH THE
MCHUGH CONSTRUCTION CO. FOR GENERAL CONTRACTOR
SERVICES AT POMEROY APARTMENTS (IL2-039) AND TO ASSIGN THE
CONTRACT TO POMEROY SENIOR HOUSING LIMITED PARTNERSHIP”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into a firm fixed-price contract with the McHugh Construction
Co. in the amount of $17,750,000 for General Contractor services at Pomeroy
Apartments (IL2-039), a Senior Housing building located at 5650 North Kenmore
Avenue, for a 12 month construction period from the date set forth in the Notice
to Proceed, and to assign the contract to Pomeroy Senior Housing Limited
Partnership.

(Item B8)
The resolution for Item No. B8 approves the FY2010 Senior Designated Housing Plan (SHDP).
Changes to the FY2010 SDHP will ensure that CHA has the flexibility to lower the minimum
age of the head of household from age 62 years to age 55 years for admission into high vacancy
senior designated properties. The benchmark for determining whether CHA will lower the age at
a senior designated property is that the property must have an occupancy rate lower than 90%
for, at least, six months. Furthermore, upon implementation of the FY2010 Senior Designated
Housing Plan, applicants who are 55 years old and older who require units with accessible
features will be added to each senior site-based wait list. These individuals will be given a
preference on the site-based wait list for those available accessible units. The proposed changes
to the FY2010 SDHP were presented to the CAC Executive Board and the council at large, and
their legal representatives. Notice to residents and the public about the public comment period
and public comment hearing appeared in area newspapers. The public comment period for the
draft FY2010 SDHP was held April 7, 2010 through May 6, 2010. A public comment hearing
was held on April 21, 2010, at the Charles Hayes Family Investment Center. In finalizing the
FY2010 Senior Designated Housing Plan, CHA gave consideration to comments received during
the public comment period and public comment hearing.
RESOLUTION NO. 2010-CHA-68
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated May 12, 2010,
entitled “Recommendation to Approve the FY2010 Senior Designated Housing
Plan”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the FY2010 Senior Designated
Housing Plan, and authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to
approve any final changes to the FY2010 Senior Designated Housing Plan.
16

 THAT,

this approval of the FY2010 Senior Designated Housing Plan supersedes any and
all conflicting language found in prior CHA policies and procedures and replaces
any and all previously board approved Senior Designated Housing Plans.

THAT,

the Chief Executive Officer is hereby authorized to approve final changes in this
policy and lease agreement. Such approval shall constitute conclusive evidence
of the Board’s approval of any and all such changes.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items B1 thru B8 was seconded by Commissioner
Ivers and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Martin Nesbitt
Deverra Beverly
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Carlos Ponce
Bridget Reidy

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairman thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Operations and Facilities Committee report was also accepted
in total.
In the absence of Committee Chair Young, Commissioner Harris presented the Tenant Services
Committee Report. Per Commissioner Harris, Tenant Services Committee held its regular
meeting on Wednesday, May 12, 2010 at 2:35 p.m. at the 60 East Van Buren Corporate offices.
The Committee was presented with an update on 2010 summer youth Initiatives.
Commissioner Harris then presented an Omnibus Motion for adoption of Resolutions for Items
C1 and C2 discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Tenant Services
Committee.
(Item C1)
The resolution for Item C1 approves contract extension with Near West Side (NWS) Community
Development Corporation for Employment, Clinical and Supportive Case Management Services
for the Horner and West Haven Park Community. In spring 2008, CHA and the Horner
Resident’s Committee (HRC) created a pilot engagement program for approximately 747
households at Henry Horner Homes and West Haven Park (Engagement Program). The
Engagement Program requires eligible individuals to participate in activities such as
employment, education, job training, or volunteerism for a minimum of 20 hours per week. In
September 2009, the Horner Engagement Program was modified to be more closely aligned with
the CHA Work Requirement as outlined in the Admissions and Continued Occupancy Policy,
and the Engagement Program term was revised and extended from September 1, 2009 through
August 31, 2011. NWS has satisfactorily performed the required services under this agreement
during the term of the Agreement, and CHA seeks to extend the Agreement with NWS for 18months to avoid disruption of the Horner Engagement Program and to maintain a continuity of
the social services that have been provided by NWS to residents of Horner and West Haven for
the remainder of the term of the Engagement Program.
RESOLUTION NO. 2010-CHA-69
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated May 12, 2010,
entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO EXTEND THE CONTRACT WITH NEAR
WEST SIDE COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION FOR
EMPLOYMENT, CLINICAL, AND SUPPORTIVE CASE MANAGEMENT
SERVICES FOR THE HORNER AND WEST HAVEN PARK COMMUNITY”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to extend the Contract with Near West Side Community Development
Corporation for the period of July 1, 2010 through December 31, 2011 (18
17

 months), in an amount not-to-exceed $2,450,000, to continue providing
employment, clinical, and supportive case management services for the Horner
and West Haven Park Community.
(Item C2)
The resolution for Item C2 approves contract with After School Matters (ASM) to provide
Summer Pre-Apprenticeship and Apprenticeship Youth Employment Programs for CHA youth.
Prior to 2003, the City of Chicago’s Mayor’s Office of Workforce Development administered the
program, however, since 2003, the City has utilized ASM to administer the pre-apprenticeship
program city-wide. ASM’s key partners are the Chicago Public Schools, Chicago Park District,
the Chicago Department of Family and Support Services, Chicago Public Library and the
Chicago Department of Cultural Affairs. In addition to these partners, ASM coordinates
programming in approximately 100 community based organizations (CBOs) located in
neighborhoods throughout the City where there are high concentration of underserved teens. In
the summer of 2010, ASM will ensure a minimum of 325 slots for CHA youth ages 14 and 15 in
the pre-apprenticeship and apprenticeship summer youth employment programs. An additional
30 slots will be available for CHA youth to participate in a mural project that will be housed in
CHA’s Executive Offices. The six-week pre-apprenticeship and apprenticeship programs are
held five (5) days per week, four (4) hours per day.
RESOLUTION NO. 2010-CHA-70
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated May 12, 2010,
entitled “RECOMMENDATION TO ENTER INTO A CONTRACT WITH
AFTER
SCHOOL MATTERS
TO PROVIDE SUMMER
PREAPPRENTICESHIP AND APPRENTICESHIP YOUTH EMPLOYMENT
PROGRAMS FOR YOUTH;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

The Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into a contract with After School Matters to provide summer
pre-apprenticeship and apprenticeship employment programs for 355 CHA youth
for the period of June 1, 2010 through May 31, 2011 for a total amount not-toexceed $310,000.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items C1 and C2 was seconded by Commissioner
Beverly and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Martin Nesbitt
Deverra Beverly
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Carlos Ponce
Bridget Reidy

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairman thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolution adopted. The Tenant Services Committee report was also accepted in total.
There being no further business to come before the Commissioners, upon Motion made,
seconded and carried, the meeting of the Board of Commissioners was adjourned at
approximately 10:03 a.m.
_______________________________
Martin Nesbitt
Chairmen
___________________________
Lee Gill, Custodian and
Keeper of Records

18

 