REGULAR MEETING
OF
THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS

Charles Hayes Family Investment Center, 4859 S. Wabash, Chicago, Illinois
Tuesday, November 20, 2018
9:30 a.m.

AGENDA

I.

Roll Call

II.

Centering Thoughts – Commissioner Mildred Harris

III.

Presentation of Resolutions and Committee Reports
Finance & Audit Committee Report – Craig Chico, Chairman
Item No. 1

Approval of FY2019 Comprehensive Budget – Michael Moran, Chief Financial
Officer

Item No. 2

Authorization to approve the Chicago Metropolitan Housing Development
Corporation’s Participation in the Chicago Housing Authority Employees’ FY2019
Retirement Plan – Mike Gurgone Chief Investment Officer and Treasurer

Item No. 3

Authorization to enter into a Support and Maintenance Agreement with Infor
(US), Inc., for the Enterprise Resource Planning system in an aggregate amount
of $1,225,314 – Patricia Rios, Chief Administrative Officer

Item No. 4

Authorization to execute an Intergovernmental Agreement with the Mayor’s
Office for People with Disabilities for the administration of the CHA’s
Modification Fund – Jessica Mallon, Director of Fair Housing

Item No. 5

Recommendation to purchase coverages for Employee Health Insurance Benefits
– Tenelle Barnes, Chief Human Resources Officer

Tenant Services Committee Report –Meghan Harte, Chairman
Item No. 6

Authorization to enter into a Funding Agreement with the Central Advisory
Council in an amount not-to-exceed $1,340,530 – Mary Howard, Chief Resident
Services Officer

Item No. 7

Recommendation to authorize the fourth option year term of FamilyWorks
Program Contracts in an aggregate not-to-exceed amount of $14,500,000 – Mary
Howard, Chief Resident Services Officer

 Item No. 8

Recommendation to authorize a contract to provide the Resident
Services Coordinator Program. Recommended Awardee: Catholic
Charities in an aggregate amount not-to-exceed $9,062,645 for oneyear base term and one-year option term. – Mary Howard, Chief Resident

Services Officer

Real Estate Operations Development Committee Report – Matthew Brewer, Chairman
Item No. 9

Authorization to enter into a Power Purchase and Lease Agreement with VLV
Development for the supply of renewable electricity at Dearborn Homes – Derek
Messier, Chief Property Officer

Item No. 10

Recommendation to execute a Housing Assistance Payments Contract under
RAD2 for Mae Suites and Lawson House; Preliminary Commitment Letter for
Lawson House and a Housing Assistance Payments Contract for Focus
Apartments – Derek Messier, Chief Property Officer

Item No. 11

Authorization to submit a Demolition Application to HUD for property located at
1450 North Larrabee Street; enter into an Intergovernmental Agreement with the
City of Chicago; enter into an additional Services Agreement with Near North
Cabrini, LLC and enter into a Pre-development Loan Agreement with Near North
Cabrini, LLC in the amount not-to-exceed $1,500,000 – Ann McKenzie, Chief
Development Officer

Item No. 12

Authorization to submit a Disposition Application to HUD for property located at
955 E. 131st Street; enter into a lease for the Altgeld Family Resource Center and
enter into sub-leases between CHA and Center for New Horizons and the City of
Chicago – Ann McKenzie, Chief Development Officer

Item No. 13

Authorization to enter into an Intergovernmental Agreement between the CHA
and the City of Chicago for a land exchange within and nearby the former
Stateway Gardens Development area; submit Acquisition and Disposition
Applications to HUD to dispose of approximately 6.5 aces at 3833 S. Federal
Street and acquire approximately 6.7 aces at 3919 S. Federal Street – Ann
McKenzie, Chief Development Officer

Item No. 14

Authorization to approve the Tenant Selection Plan, Lease and Lease Riders for
Harold Ickes/Southbridge and loan approximately $3,560,000 in proceeds from
the sale of the Illinois Affordable Housing Tax Credits to the development – Ann
McKenzie, Chief Development Officer

2

 Item No. 15

Authorization to commit CHA Funds not-to-exceed $22,500,000 for
Redevelopment and Remediation activities for Parkside 4 Phase 2; submit a RAD
Financing Plan to HUD; execute RAD Project Based Voucher Housing Assistance
Payments contracts for up to 54 RAD units; loan approximately $4,781,804 in
proceeds from the sale of the Illinois Affordable Tax Credits to the development;
enter into a 99-year ground lease for the rental property with the Cabrini Green
LAC Community Development Corporation and deed the property planned to be
for-sale to Parkside Old Town II, LLC – Ann McKenzie, Chief Development Officer

IV.

Public Participation

V.

Closed Meeting
•
Commissioners will vote on whether to go into closed meeting pursuant to the Open
Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2, to possibly discuss matters under the following exceptions:
personnel related matters under (c)(1) and (c)(2); purchase, sale and lease of real estate
property under (c)(5) and (c)(6); pending/imminent/probable litigation under (c) (11);
review of closed meeting minutes under (c) (21) and audit reviews under (c) (29).

VI.

Open Session Resumes – Roll Call

VII.

Approval of Minutes for the Closed and Regular Meetings of September 18, 2018.

VIII.

Presentation of Matters from Closed Session

XI.

Item No. 16

Legal Services Task Order – James Bebley, Chief Legal Officer

Item No. 17

Settlement Agreement in the matter of Novak Construction vs. CHA, Case No.
2017 L 6364 – James Bebley, Chief Legal Officer

Item No. 18

Lease Agreement for office space located at 3619 S. State Street to support
Section 3 business initiatives – Jose Alvarez, Chief Operating Officer

Item No. 19

CHA Corporate Lease Agreement – Diana Liu, Chief Construction Officer

Item No. 20

Approval of Personnel Actions – Tenelle Barnes, Chief Human Resources Officer

Item No. 21

Authorization to enter into an agreement with the Robison Consulting Group, Inc.
to provide Business Process Design Solutions - Patricia Rios, Chief Administrative
Officer

Adjournment
3

 