MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING
OF THE
COMMISSIONERS OF THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
August 21, 2012
The Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority held its Regular Meeting of the Board of
Commissioners on Tuesday, August 21, 2012 at approximately 8:35 a.m. at the Lorraine
Hansberry Apartments, 5670 West Lake, in Chicago, IL.
Chairwoman Z. Scott called the meeting to order and upon roll call, those present and absent
were as follows:
Present:
Deverra Beverly
Adela Cepeda
Dr. Mildred Harris
Harriet Johnson
Myra King
Carlos Ponce
Bridget Reidy
Z. Scott
Sandra Young
Absent:

Mark Cozzi

Also present were Charles Woodyard, Chief Executive Officer; Scott Ammarell, Acting Chief
Housing Officer, Melissa Freeman Cadoree, Acting Deputy Legal Counsel; Chicago Housing
Authority Staff Members and the General Public.
There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as
follows:
Upon Motion made and properly seconded, the Commissioners adjourned to Executive Session.
Chairwoman Scott announced that pursuant to the Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2, the Board
would adjourn for approximately one hour to discuss personnel related matters, pending,
probable or imminent litigation and to discuss audit results with the CHA internal auditor.
The Commissioners subsequently reconvened in Open Session and Chairwoman Scott thereupon
convened the Business and Public portion of the meeting.
In the absence of Committee Chair Mark Cozzi, Commissioner Young presented the report for
the Personnel Committee. Per Commissioner Young, the first meeting of the Personnel
Committee was held on Monday, August 13th at approximately 9:00 a.m. at the 60 East Van
Buren Corporate Offices. Committee members voted to go into Closed Meeting and discussed
the Personnel Action Report for the month of July 2012 and Personnel Actions for August 2012.
Said resolutions were also presented to the full Board in today’s Closed Meeting whereby Item 2
was amended to add the offer of employment for the position of Vice President, Budgeting.
Commissioner Young then presented an Omnibus Motion for approval of Item 1 and Item 2 as
amended in Closed Meeting.
(Item No. 1)
WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2012-CHA-57
the Board of Commissioners has reviewed staff memorandum dated
August 13, 2012 entitled "Personnel Actions Reports", and concurs in the
recommendation contained therein;

THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the personnel actions contained in the personnel reports for the
periodJuly1, 2012 thru July 31, 2012 is hereby accepted.
1

 (Amended Item No. 2)
RESOLUTION NO. 2012–CHA-58
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated August 13,
2012, entitled “Approval of Personnel Actions”:
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the requested personnel actions.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items 1 and Amended Item 2 was seconded by
Commissioner Johnson and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Deverra Beverly
Adela Cepeda
Dr. Mildred Harris
Harriet Johnson
Myra King
Carlos Ponce
Bridget Reidy
Sandra Young
Z. Scott
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, Chairwoman Scott thereupon declared said Motion
carried and said resolutions adopted.
Based on discussions held in Closed Meeting, a motion was then presented by Commissioner
Young for the approval of the Resolution for Item No. 3.
(Item No. 3)
RESOLUTION NO. 2012-CHA-59
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated August 21,
2012, entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO ENTER INTO A SETTLEMENT
AGREEMENT WITH THREE (3) SEPARATED EMPLOYEES”;
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into a settlement agreement with three (3) separated employees
to provide severance and medical coverage.

The Motion to adopt resolution for Item No. 3 was seconded by Commissioner Harris and the
voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Deverra Beverly
Adela Cepeda
Dr. Mildred Harris
Harriet Johnson
Myra King
Carlos Ponce
Bridget Reidy
Sandra Young
Z. Scott
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, Chairwoman Scott thereupon declared said Motion
carried and said resolutions adopted.
Commissioner Sandra Young, Chairwoman of the Tenant Services Committee, then presented
her report. Per Commissioner Young, the Tenant Services Committee Meeting was held on
Wednesday, August 15, 2012 at the CHA Corporate Offices at approximately 1:00 p.m. Mary
Howard, Acting Executive Vice President of Resident Services provided the Commissioners
with an update on 2012 Youth Programs.

2

 Commissioner Young then presented a Motion for approval of the resolution for Item A1
discussed, voted and recommended for approval by the Tenant Services Committee members.
(Item A1)
The CHA advertised a Request for Proposal (RFP) in April 2012 to provide CHA youth with
year-round workforce development, academic and fitness and wellness opportunities. The RFP
was advertised in area newspapers and on CHA’s website. Of the 15 proposals received, 10
firms were found to be within the competitive range and were scheduled for oral presentations.
During these meetings, negotiations were held and best and final offers were submitted by each
firm. Based upon the evaluations of the written proposals, oral presentations and best and final
offers, it was determined that Build, SER, IAFC, Link, NWS and Reflections will provide the
best overall service and value to CHA. Accordingly, the resolution for Item A1 approves award
of contracts to the mentioned firms. CHA’s new corporate strategy has an intentional focus on
building healthy and strong communities. As such, the recommended youth opportunities utilize
community based programs and leveraging existing resources to provide safe, meaningful and
age appropriate activities for CHA youth. In past years, CHA has offered a full menu of
programs for youth during the summer months, however year round programming has been
limited. The recommended programming will address the gap and provide year round youth
engagement activities, with measureable outcomes, in the areas of Workforce Development;
Academic and Fitness and Wellness programs. Each of the recommended contractors each
offers a unique year-round experience for CHA youth.
RESOLUTION NO. 2012-CHA-60
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority as reviewed the
Board Letter dated August 15, 2012, entitled “RECOMMENDATION TO
ENTER INTO CONTRACTS WITH BUILD, INC., CENTRAL STATES SER,
ILLINOIS ACTION FOR CHILDREN, LINK UNLIMITED, NEAR WEST
SIDE
COMMUNITY
DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION
AND
REFLECTIONS FOUNDATION TO PROVIDE CHA YOUTH WITH YEAR
ROUND WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT, ACADEMIC AND FITNESS AND
WELLNESS OPPORTUNITIES”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorized the Chief Executive Officer, or his
designee to enter into cost-reimbursement contracts for a one (1) year base term,
with three (3) one-year options with (1) Build, Inc., in an amount not-to-exceed
$85,679 for the base term; (2) Central States SER in an amount not-to-exceed
$120,000 for the base term; (3) Illinois Action for Children in an amount not-toexceed $359,730 for the base term; (4) Link Unlimited in an amount not-toexceed $157,500 for the base term; (5) Near West Side Community Development
Corporation in an amount not-to-exceed $168,272 for the base term; and (6)
Reflections Foundation in an amount not-to-exceed $102,000 for the base term to
provide more than 650 CHA youth with year-round workforce development,
academic and fitness and wellness opportunities.

The Motion to adopt resolution for Item A1 was seconded by Commissioner Cepeda and the
voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Deverra Beverly
Adela Cepeda
Dr. Mildred Harris
Harriet Johnson
Myra King
Carlos Ponce
Bridget Reidy
Z. Scott
Sandra Young
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, Chairwoman Scott thereupon declared said Motion
carried and said resolution adopted.
Commissioner Bridget Reidy, Chairwoman of the Operations and Facilities Committee, then
presented her report. Per Commissioner Reidy, the Operations and Facilities Committee meeting
3

 was held on Wednesday, August 15th at approximately 1:45 p.m. at the 60 E. Van Buren
Corporate Offices. Commissioner Reidy then presented an Omnibus Motion for the following
four items discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Operations and
Facilities Committee.
(Item B1)
The resolution for Item B1 approves a Housing Assistance Payments Contract with Home First
Illinois. The Home First Illinois contract is for 10 Property Rental Assistance units in four
separate condominium properties, one of which is in Hyde Park, two are in Edgewater and one in
Lakeview. Home First Illinois’ Illinois Accessible Housing Initiative is designed to house
extremely low income individuals who receive Medicaid assistance and are transitioning from a
nursing home (via Money Follows the Person or the Colbert Consent Decree Implementation
Program) who desire to live in housing of their choice. The population includes people with
physical disabilities who are able to live independently provided that affordable and accessible
units with services are available. Individuals that are Money Follows the Person program
participants and are also already on one of CHA’s waiting lists who meet the Tenant Selection
Plan for the Illinois Accessible Housing Initiative project will have first priority for the vacant
units. The condominium property in Hyde Park is located at 1000 53rd Street and will consist of 1
one-BR and 2 two-BR units. Hyde Park is a vibrant, stable community area which offers a wide
array of commercial shops, restaurants, galleries, museums and businesses. The units in the
Edgewater Community are located at 5415 N. Sheridan Road and 5455 N. Sheridan Road and
consist of 2 one-bedroom units and 3 one-bedroom units, accordingly. Edgewater is a thriving,
long established community bordering Lake Michigan, approximately seven miles north of
downtown Chicago. The properties are located adjacent to the Andersonville neighborhood
which offers an array of retail shops, restaurants, galleries and businesses. The Lakeview unit is
located at 420 W. Belmont and will consist of 1 studio and 1 one-bedroom unit. Lakeview is a
flourishing, robust community with a mix of residential, commercial and institutional uses. The
property is less than a mile from Lake Michigan and has easy access to the lakefront via
pedestrian crossing under Lakeshore Drive.
RESOLUTION NO. 2012-CHA-61
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board letter dated August 15, 2012 requesting authorization to execute an
Agreement to enter into a Housing Assistance Payments (AHAP) Contract with
Home First Illinois;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to (1) execute an Agreement to enter into a Housing Assistance
Payments (AHAP) Contract with Home First Illinois for 10 units designated for
people with physical disabilities; and (2) execute all other documents as may be
necessary or appropriate to implement the foregoing. It is anticipated that the
Housing Assistance Payments Contract will be for a 15-year term.

(Item B2)
The resolution for Item B2 approves a Housing Assistance Payments Contract (HAP) with
Thresholds for Edgewater Shores. The 8 studio apartment units in this proposed HAP Contract
will be administered as part of the Property Rental Assistance (PRA) Program. Thresholds will
provide a comprehensive program of therapeutic support, case management, job training and
placement. Thresholds’ was founded in 1959 for the purpose of delivering recovery services to
people with persistent mental illness. Thresholds has developed and currently owns and
manages 36 residential properties consisting of 3 tax credit properties, 6 SROs, 19 group homes
and 11 apartment buildings all providing supportive housing and services to over 500 residents
throughout Chicago, Cook, Kankakee and McHenry Counties. It is Thresholds’ intent to lease
the 8 units to eligible persons from CHA waiting list. In an effort to accomplish this,
Thresholds’ will cross reference its’ waiting list with CHA’s waiting list. Those persons
identified on both lists will receive a first preference for the units. The property is in a six-story
elevator building containing 73 units located at 5326 N. Winthrop in the Edgewater community
area.
RESOLUTION 2012-CHA-62
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board letter dated August 15, 2012 requesting authorization to execute a Housing
Assistance Payments (HAP) Contract with Thresholds for 8 studio apartments at
Edgewater Shores;
4

 THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to (1) execute a Housing Assistance Payments (HAP) Contract with
Thresholds for eight (8) studio apartment units at Edgewater Shores; and (2)
execute all other documents as may be necessary or appropriate to implement the
foregoing. The term of the HAP Contract will be for 15 years.

(Item B3)
The resolution for Item B3 authorize the Chief Executive Officer to dispose of 1250-1252 W.
Roosevelt Road; enter into a 99 Year Ground Lease and commit up to $1,467,000 in HOPE VI
funds for development of the Community Hub. Community Hubs for the Roosevelt Square
developments are planned under the comprehensive ABLA HOPE VI redevelopment plan and
will provide space similar to community centers at other new mixed income development sites.
Related Midwest and Heartland Housing, Inc., the developers of Roosevelt Square, plan to
develop the first multi-purpose Community Hub for Roosevelt Square and community residents
near both Phases I and II. The Hub will be owned and operated by Roosevelt Square I Limited
Partnership (RSI LP) and CHA will enter into a long-term ground lease with the RSI LP for the
property at the northeast corner of W. Roosevelt and S. Throop Street. This single story,
approximately 7,300 square feet Community Hub, will serve a broad cross section of residents
living in the area and will complement and expand existing resources in the neighborhood.
Numerous services led by Heartland Housing Community Services and the development team
are already underway at Roosevelt Square, including arts programming and urban farming for
youth, asset building, case management, and job skills development. The Hub’s programming
will build and expand on existing programming. Educational opportunities such as employment
and technology training are necessary for families to establish self-sufficiency, and ultimately,
for Roosevelt Square to be a stable community. The development budget for the Hub is
approximately $2.5 million and will consist of HOPE VI funds, Grusecki Family Foundation and
Ford Foundation funds.

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2012-CHA-63
the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated August
15, 2012 requesting authorization to 1) Dispose of 1250-1252 W.
Roosevelt Road; 2) Enter into a 99 year Ground Lease; 3) Commit up to
$1,467,000 in HOPE VI funds for development of the Community Hub;
and 4) Execute and deliver such other documents and perform such
actions as may be necessary to implement the foregoing and to accept a
design proposal for rehabilitation of 1254 S. Loomis.

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to: 1) Dispose of 1250-1252 W. Roosevelt Road; 2) Enter into a
99 year Ground Lease; 3) Commit up to $1,467,000 in HOPE VI funds for
development of the Community Hub; and 4) Execute and deliver such
other documents and perform such actions as may be necessary to
implement the foregoing and to accept a design proposal for rehabilitation
of 1254 S. Loomis.

(Item B4)
The CHA is required by HUD regulations to undertake a third party construction cost estimate
whenever the general contractor is owned by the developer. Accordingly, the CHA advertised a
Request for Proposal (RFP) for professional construction cost estimating services in March 2012.
The RFP was advertised on CHA’s website and BuySpeed Online. Forty-eight vendors were
directly solicited including 14 M/W/DBE firms. The three proposals received were deemed
responsive and were evaluated. Oral presentations, clarifications and negotiations were held
with the firms that scored within the competitive range and the best and final offers were
submitted. Based upon the evaluation of the written proposals, oral presentations, and best and
final offers, it was determined that Construction Cost Systems, Inc. (CCS) will provide the best
value to the CHA. Accordingly, the resolution for Item B4 approves award of contract to CCS,
Inc. for professional construction cost estimating services not-to-exceed $300,000.00. In the
past the Habitat Company as court appointed receiver procured and managed construction cost
estimators for the evaluation of construction projects at several mixed income sites. With the
5

 approaching termination of receivership, the Office of Development Management, will assume
similar responsibility and manage construction cost estimators to evaluate its upcoming large
housing development transactions in addition to construction cost estimates for smaller
rehabilitation projects. The independent cost estimating assists in cost control as well as
validates the CHA’s contribution of funds into the development deal.
Construction Cost
Estimating Services will allow ODM to have a third party perspective on construction costs at
various project begin developed, designed and constructed to determine reasonableness of the
costs being proposed by the Developer. This contract will support approximately 15 to 20
Development proposals over the next two years. The contract duration will be comprised of one
year base term with the option to extend the contract for an additional year.
RESOLUTION NO. 2012-CHA-64
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated August 15,
2012, entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO EXECUTE A TASK ORDER
CONTRACT WITH CONSTRUCTION COST SYSTEMS, INC. FOR
PROFESSIONAL CONSTRUCTION COST ESTIMATING SERVICES - CHA
WIDE”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners (“Board”) authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or
his designee to award a task order contract with Construction Cost Systems, Inc.
(CCS) for professional construction cost estimating services for various Chicago
Housing Authority (CHA) development deals in the amount not-to-exceed (NTE)
$300,000, as the total for two (2) year contract capacity. The contract duration
will be comprised of one (1) year base term with an option to extend the contract
for an additional year.
These awards are subject to each Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s
MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident hiring, and bonding and insurance
requirements.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items B1 through B4 was seconded by
Commissioner Beverly and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Deverra Beverly
Adela Cepeda
Dr. Mildred Harris
Harriet Johnson
Myra King
Carlos Ponce
Bridget Reidy
Z. Scott
Sandra Young
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, Chairwoman Scott thereupon declared said Motion
carried and said resolutions adopted.
Chairwoman Scott then invited residents and the public at large to address the Board.
There being no further business to come before the Commissioners, upon Motion made,
seconded and carried, the August meeting of the Board of Commissioners was adjourned
_______________________________
Z. Scott
Chairwoman, Chicago Housing Authority
___________________________
Lee Chuc-Gill, Secretary
Custodian and Keeper of Records

6

 