CHANGE.

CHICAGQ HGUSING 

a;

December 12,2012 ITEM NO. B3

AUTHORIZATION TO ENTER INTO A ONE (1) YEAR CONTRACT WITH ORACLE
CORPORATION FOR RENEWAL OF SUPPORT AND MAINTENANCE SERVICES

To the Honorable Board of Commissioners:

RECOMMENDATION

It is recommended that the Board of Commissioners (?Board?) authorizes the Chief Executive
Of?cer or his designee to enter into a one (1) year contract with Oracle Corporation for the
renewal of support and maintenance services of Oracle database software, Oracle Business
Intelligence software and Primavera software for the period of January 1, 2013 through
December 31, 2013, in an amount not-to-exceed $239,282.18.

The Executive Vice President of Finance, the Of?ce of the General Counsel and the
Office of Procurement have completed all necessary due diligence to support the submission of
this initiative and recommend the approval of this item accordingly.

W: Streamlining Operations to make CHA more customer Focused and
Ef?cient.

General Fund
AITON MMARY
Vendor: Oracle Corporation
233 S. Wacker, Floor 45
Chicago, IL 60606
Contract Type: Fixed Rate/Schedule (Maintenance Support Renewal)
Contract Term: January I, 2012 through December 31, 2012
Contract Amount: $239,282.18 (Not-to-Exceed)
Option Period: None
Patti i ati n: Pending
Direct:
MBE 
Indirect:
MBE 
Waiver: (Yes/No)
Section 3: Pending

Hiring Subcontracting (S) Other Economic Opportunities (3)

an 1-: Van Bumn Street- Chicago, Illinois 60605-1207- (322) 742?35270. men-.Memamg

GENERAL BACKGROUND
The Board action recommended in this item complies in all material respects with all applicable
Chicago Housing Authority board policies and all applicable federal (HUD) procurement laws.

To support the Plan for Transformation and the process of relocating the Chicago Housing
Authority families, the Information Technology Services Department 
developed and implemented numerous applications based on an Oracle centralized database.
This provides the CHA with access to reliable data on a real-time basis to support executive
decision making. Among the many CHA systems and applications that rely upon Oracle
databases and other applications, the CHA developed the Resident Management Tracking
System which tracks and manages residents as they move in and out of their
temporary housing, or into their new permanent housing. Two additional core CHA applications
that also utilize the Oracle databases and systems are the Housing Offer Program and
Yardi Systems. Prudent business practices dictate having maintenance agreements established on
all essential software applications. The Oracle maintenance and support agreement is necessary
to provide access to product enhancements, upgrades and updates for supported products, as well
as telephone and electronic support from Oracle?s quali?ed product technicians.

In June of 2001 ITS purchased Oracle products to replace the legacy systems and to serve as the
core database platform for CHA applications. At the time CHA purchased Oracle database
systems, maintenance costs and services were negotiated in the agreement and were provided for
the ?rst year. Support and maintenance services for the so?ware products have been
continuously provided directly to the CHA from Oracle for each of the subsequent years since
the initial purchase of the Oracle database products on a sole-source basis. Product support,
enhancements, upgrades and updates are available only from Oracle. Given Oracle?s status as
the developer, licensor and owner of the database software (and the exclusive provider of
comprehensive support and maintenance services), the software maintenance and support
services were originally procured from Oracle on a sole-source basis. The same prevailing terms
and conditions have remained substantially in effect since the original acquisition of Oracle
database software, subject only to periodic updates and revisions to Oracle?s standard terms and
conditions applicable to all customers of its maintenance and support services.

As the result of the periodic additions or modi?cations to the schedule of supported
software systems and products licensed by Oracle, the maintenance coverage
requirements were subject to different coverage periods and renewal dates. Consequently, the
CHA previously determined it would be in its best interest to consolidate maintenance and
support arrangements for multiple Oracle systems into a single agreement, and administer
support and maintenance for all Oracle systems on a common ?scal year basis.

Due to the continuing reliance of technology operations upon the Oracle software
platforms, ITS is seeking to renew maintenance and support services for a one (1) year period
with Oracle Corporation for support and maintenance of the following systems and applications:
Oracle Database, Primavera, and Oracle Data Warehouse.

The EVP of Finance concurs with the recommendation to enter into a one (1) year contract with
Oracle Corporation for the renewal of support and maintenance services for Oracle database
software, Oracle Business Intelligence software and Primavera software for the period of January
I, 2013 through December 31, 2013, in an amount not?to-exceed $239,282.18.

The CEO/President recommends the approval to enter into a one (1) year contract with Oracle
Corporation for the renewal of support and maintenance services for Oracle database software,
Oracle Business Intelligence software and Primavera software for the period of January 1, 2013
through December 31, 2013, in an amount not-to-exceed $239,282.18.

52;? E. Van Burr? Sinist- Oil/mgr: If A.-. mm; Mac/1.9.09:

RESOLUTION NO. 

WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the

memorandum dated December 12, 2012 titled TO
ENTER INTO A ONE (1) YEAR CONTRACT WITH ORACLE
CORPORATION FOR RENEWAL OF SUPPORT AND MAINTENANCE


THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY

THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Chief Executive Of?cer or his
designee to enter into a one (1) year contract with Oracle Corporation for the
renewal of support and maintenance services for Oracle database software, Oracle
Business Intelligence software and Primavera software, for the period of January
1, 2013 through December 31, 2013, in an amount not-to-exceed $239,282.18.

These awards are subject to each Contractor?s compliance with the 
Section 3 resident hiring, and bonding and insurance
requirements.

. 1111mm]!

1

     
  


Board of Commissioners

 
 
   

at Van ?are? Sim-2e?! - Chicago, Illinois S?605-f207 - (312) 7421~8530 mm. fireman/g

