MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING

OF THE

COMMISSIONERS OF THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
December 18, 2007
The Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority held its Regular Meeting on Tuesday,
December 18, 2007, at 8:30 a.m. at Schneider Apartments, 1750 W. Person Ave., Chicago,
Illinois.
Chairperson Nesbitt called the meeting to order and upon roll call, those present and absent were
as follows:
Present:
Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Bridget O’Keefe
Carlos Ponce
Absent:

Mary Wiggins
Sandra Young

Also present were Adrienne Minley, Chief-of-Staff; Jorge Cazares, General Counsel; Chicago
Housing Authority Staff Members and the General Public.
There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as
follows:
Adrienne Minley, Chief of Staff, then presented the CEO’s monthly report. Ms. Minley
provided the Commissioners with highlights on holiday activities planned for CHA residents; the
appointment by Mayor Daley of Lewis Jordan as the new Chief Executive Officer and the
closing of Legends South, Oakwood Shores Phase 2A and River Village Point.
The Chairperson then convened the Public Hearing portion of the meeting by inviting residents
and the public at large to address the Board.
Immediately following the Public Hearing portion of the meeting, a Motion was introduced and
seconded to adjourn to Executive Session. The Chairperson announced that pursuant to the
Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2, the Board would adjourn for approximately one (1) hour to
discuss pending, probable or imminent litigation, collective negotiating matters, security and
personnel matters.
The Commissioners subsequently reconvened in Open Session and Chairman Nesbitt thereupon
introduced the Resolutions discussed in Executive Session.
Upon Motion made and properly seconded, the Minutes of the Annual Board Meeting of July 27,
2007 and the Regular Board Meeting of August 21, 2007 were approved.
Commissioner Ivers then presented a Motion to approve resolution for Executive Session Item 1.
Executive Session Item 1
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-168
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated December 3, 2007, requesting that the Board of
Commissioners approves the Personnel Actions Report for November 2007.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
1

 THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the Personnel Actions Report for
November 2007.

The Motion to adopt resolution for Executive Session Item 1 was seconded by Commissioner
Amey and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Bridget O’Keefe
Carlos Ponce

Nays:

None

The Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried and said Resolution adopted.
Executive Session Item 2
Commissioner Harris then presented a Motion to approve resolution for Executive Session Item
2.
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-169
WHEREAS, Sharon Gist Gilliam, after faithfully serving the Chicago Housing Authority
tendered her resignation as Chief Executive Officer of the Chicago Housing
Authority effective as of the end of the day on November 30, 2007, which the
Board of Commissioners accepted November 20, 2007.
WHEREAS, The position of Chief Executive Officer of the Chicago Housing Authority has
been offered to Lewis A. Jordan because of his business experience and extensive
knowledge of the operations of the Public Housing Authorities; and
WHEREAS, Lewis A. Jordan has agreed to accept the position of Chief Executive Officer of
the Chicago Housing Authority.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

Lewis A. Jordan is hereby appointed the Chief Executive Officer of the Chicago
Housing Authority effective January 16, 2008 and is granted supervisory and
management responsibility over all Chicago Housing Authority operations,
programs and activities, all to be exercised in accordance with the approved
policies and procedures of the Chicago Housing Authority.

THAT

Lewis A. Jordan shall have the following authority in his capacity as Chief
Executive Officer:
1) Signature authority to execute, including but not limited to, bonds, leases,
mortgages, contracts, grant applications, grants, correspondence, payroll and
operations/bank drafts, transfers of funds and other legal and official
documents necessary for the operation of the Chicago Housing Authority; and
2) Delegation authority to appoint appropriate Chicago Housing Authority
employees as designees to sign contracts, bonds, leases, mortgages, grant
applications, grants, correspondence, payroll, operations/bank drafts, transfers
of funds and other legal and official documents as he deems necessary for the
efficient operation of the Chicago Housing Authority.

THAT

Effective January 16, 2008, all financial institutions are requested and directed to
honor checks, drafts, and/or other payment orders that bear the facsimile signature
of Lewis A. Jordan without regard to whom or by what means the actual or
purported facsimile signature(s) thereon may have been affixed thereto, if such
signature(s) resemble(s) the facsimile specimen(s) of such signature(s) certified to
and filed with the financial institution by or on behalf of the Chicago Housing
Authority.

2

 The Motion to adopt resolution for Executive Session Item 2 was seconded by Commissioner
Amey and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Bridget O’Keefe
Carlos Ponce

Nays:

None

The Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried and said Resolution adopted.
In the absence of Commissioner Young, Chairperson of the Tenant Services Committee,
Commissioner Ivers then presented the monthly report. Per Commissioner Ivers, the Tenant
Services Committee meeting was held on Wednesday, December 12, 2007 at 1:10 p.m. at the 60
East Van Buren Corporate Offices. Linda Kaiser, Managing Director of Resident Services,
Commissioner Sheryl McGill and Deputy Director Arlene Ortiz from the Department of Human
Services presented the Committee with an overview on Family Works Program.
Commissioner Ivers then introduced an Omnibus Motion for the adoption of Resolutions for
Items A1 thru A10 discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Tenant
Services Committee.
(Item A1)
In November 2007, the CHA approved a three-month extension of the current IGA with CDHS
to allow a transition, while CDHS releases a new Request for Proposals (RFP) to implement a
new service delivery model. The new model, titled the “FamilyWorks” program, improves on
the existing model and tries to address its shortcomings by combining learning’s from the current
program and best practices from the field to address two important challenges: Housing and
Employment. The FamilyWorks program model was developed in collaboration with the CDHS,
Mayor’s Office of Workforce Development, City Colleges of Chicago, Chicago Jobs Council,
and the Mayor’s Office. FamilyWorks also includes a new clinical component to address mental
health and disability issues that often present themselves as barriers to stable housing and
employment. To allow for a smooth transition between models, CDHS will complete the process
of contracting with new vendors in time to provide at least one month of overlap between
existing and new delegate agencies. The FamilyWorks model is designed to serve roughly 9,000
CHA families with two levels of service for families not yet permanently housed and families in
post-occupancy with an average cost per family of $2,275.00. With the start of this new
program, it was decided to place the two consent decree developments on a separate track since
the site dynamics and needs differ from the balance of CHA sites. As a result, CHA will issue
two separate RFPs to obtain services covering the Cabrini Green Development and Henry
Horner Homes. Accordingly, the resolution for Item C1 approves an Intergovernmental
Agreement with the Chicago Department of Human Services for the Family Works Program.
.
RESOLUTION NO: 2007-CHA-170
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated December 12, 2007, entitled “RECOMMENDATION TO
ENTER INTO AN INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT WITH THE
CHICAGO DEPARTMENT OF HUMAN SERVICES FOR THE PERIOD OF
JANUARY 1, 2008 THROUGH DECEMBER 31, 2008”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Board Chairperson, the Chief
Executive Officer or his/her designee to enter into an Intergovernmental
Agreement with the City of Chicago acting through Department of Human
Services for an amount not-to-exceed $20,563,987.00 for the period of January 1,
2008 through December 31, 2008, with two (2) one-year options, to provide
supportive services for CHA residents

3

 (Item A2)
The resolution for Item A2 approves extension of the Intergovernmental Agreement with the
City Colleges of Chicago (CCC) for educational services for CHA residents and relocatees. The
goal of the partnership is to create a continuum of education and training supportive services that
will allow CHA residents to advance over time to progressively higher levels of education,
certification and employment that should ultimately result in better paying careers in industries
of economic importance. Under the IGA, existing degree and certification programs will be
made available to CHA residents at no cost in areas such as healthcare; transportation,
warehousing, and logistics; cosmetology; and the service industries (e.g., hotels, restaurants,
retail, customer service). Customized programs such as industry specific bridge programs enable
residents needing more extensive educational support to move toward entry into degree and
certification programs or directly to employment. In FY2007, 181 residents enrolled in
technical training and of these, 90 completed and 75 are still enrolled. Although the 2007
enrollment numbers were lower than the 400 projected, it is anticipated that enrollment in this
program will increase if the proposed work requirement is adopted in the proposed 2008 ACOP.
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-171
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated December 12,
2007 entitled “Recommendation to Enter Into an Intergovernmental Agreement
with the City Colleges of Chicago for Educational Services”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOVLED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

The Board of Commissioners authorizes the Board Chairperson, the Chief
Executive Officer or his/her designee to enter into an Intergovernmental
Agreement with the City Colleges of Chicago for an amount not-to-exceed
$1,000,000.00 for a base term of one year, with two (2), one-year option periods,
to provide educational services for CHA residents and relocatees.

(Item A3)
The resolution for Item A3 approves an Intergovernmental Agreement with the Chicago
Department of Public Health to provide assessment, referral and treatment services for substance
abusers. As part of its historic Plan for Transformation, the CHA plans to build approximately
6,000 units of public housing in various mixed-income communities. Several of the mixedincome communities include drug testing as part of the requirements for move-in. Residents who
fail a drug test are given a second chance to pass a drug screen, once they have successfully
completed drug treatment. Given the scarcity of drug treatment slots in substance abuse
treatment programs, CHA partnered with CDPH and Caritas and developed a program to
increase CHA residents’ access to available slots in substance abuse treatment programs. The
present contract between CDPH and Caritas Central Intake Unit (CI) expires at the end of 2007,
therefore, CDPH has recently issued a new competitive RFP, and is currently reviewing
submitted proposals. CDPH expects, along with input from the CHA, to begin the contract
process by December 1 to continue the program from January 1, 2008 to December 31, 2010,
pending funding availability. The successful vendor will provide outreach, assessment, referral,
and placement in substance abuse programs and follow up case management services. Due to
the success in leveraging city and state funded treatment slots for CHA residents, all of the funds
budgeted to pay for actual treatment slots have not been necessary. Therefore, the program
budget in FY2008 will be reduced to $355,000. CDPH has committed $150,000.00 for services
rendered and CHA has committed an amount not to exceed $205,000
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-172
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated December 12,
2007, entitled “Authorization to enter into an Intergovernmental Agreement with
the Chicago Department of Public Health for Assessment, Referral and Treatment
Services for Substance Abusers”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOVLED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

The Board of Commissioners authorizes the Board Chairperson, the Chief
Executive Officer or his/her designee to enter into an Intergovernmental
Agreement with the Chicago Department of Public Health for an amount not-toexceed $205,000.00 for a base term of one year, with two (2), one-year options, to

4

 provide a substance abuse assessment, referral and treatment program for CHA
residents.
(Item A4)
The resolution for Item A4 approves an Intergovernmental Agreement with the Chicago
Department of Aging to continue the Golden Diner Nutrition Program. The Golden Diner’s
Program is designed to address the problem of poor nutrition among many elderly who may be
unable to select and/or prepare well balanced meals. The Program provides full course meals
that meet the recommended dietary allowances for older adults to help them stay healthy. For
the fiscal year, October 1, 2006 to September 30, 2007, 84,373 meals were served to CHA senior
residents. The Program also directly addresses isolation by providing the venue for socialization
and physical activities for seniors to engage in before and/or after meals are served..
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-173
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed
Memorandum dated December 12, 2007, entitled “Authorization to Enter into an
Intergovernmental Agreement with the Chicago Department on Aging to Provide
Two Staff Supervisors for the Continuation of the Golden Diner Nutrition
Program at Twenty CHA Senior Buildings”,
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVEDD BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHROITY
THAT,

The Board of Commissioners authorizes the Board Chairperson, the Chief
Executive Officer or his/her designee to enter into an Intergovernmental
Agreement with the Chicago Department on Aging (“CDoA”) to provide two
staff supervisors in order to continue the Golden Diner Nutrition Program at
twenty CHA senior buildings for a one-year term beginning January 1, 2008
through December 31, 2008 in an amount not-to-exceed $144,776.00.

(Item A5)
The resolution for Item A5 approves an Intergovernmental Agreement with the Illinois
Department of Human Services to share information and determine eligibility for Food Stamp
Employment and Training Program (FSE&T) credit. The development of an IGA for
collaboration and data sharing with IDHS will provide the CHA access to the benefits of FSE&T
credits that are eligible to IDHS as the State’s FSE&T agency. The share of information will aide
the parties in defining individual and mutual responsibility for the claiming of eligible FSE&T
costs on behalf of CHA residents enrolled in FSE&T-eligible employment support programs.
Upon identifying the eligible costs, IDHS will submit an accounting to FSE&T on CHA’s behalf
to provide fifty cents ($.50) reimbursement to the CHA for each non-federal dollar CHA spends
on applicable programs, pending eligibility restrictions. The IGA will also permit CHA and
IDHS to identify and leverage as appropriate, other federal reimbursement programs. The IGA
will allow CHA and IDHS to develop and share a data base of information related to CHA
families’ receipt of public assistance benefits administered by IDHS, including but not limited to
Food Stamps, Subsidized Child Care and Temporary Assistance to Needy Families (TANF), to
enable the CHA to determine its eligibility for FSE&T credit and reimbursement from IDHS.
This financial reimbursement will allow Resident Services to provide additional support services
at no expense to the Authority. In addition, this collaboration will allow the CHA and IDHS to
jointly identify and facilitate access to other IDHS benefits for CHA families, that otherwise may
not be fully utilized.
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-174
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated December 12,
2007 entitled “Recommendation to enter into an Intergovernmental Agreement
with the Illinois Department of Human Services to share information and
determine eligibility for Food Stamp, Employment & Training program credit”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOVLED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

The Board of Commissioners authorizes the Board Chairperson, the Chief
Executive Officer, or his/her designee to enter into an intergovernmental
agreement with the Illinois Department of Human Services to share information
and determine eligibility for Food Stamp, Employment & Training program
credit.

5

 (Items A6, A7 and A8)
The resolutions for Items A6, A7 and A8 approve the FY2007 Residential Lease Agreement,
Admissions and Continued Occupancy Policy (ACOP) and Pet Policy and Pet Ownership
Procedures, respectively. The CHA created the FY2007 CHA Residential Lease Agreement to
ensure that the language conforms to federal and state law, the FY2007 Admissions and
Continued Occupancy Policy, as well as the FY2007 Pet Policy and Pet Ownership Procedure.
The CHA presented key changes of the proposed Lease, ACOP and Pet Policy to the Central
Advisory Council (CAC) Executive Board and the council at large and their legal representatives
on September 28 and October 3, 2007. The proposed changes of these documents were also
presented to CHA senior staff, department directors, and assistant directors for review. The
public comment period, on all three items, was held October 9, 2007 through November 7,
2007. Copies of the referenced documents were made available at the CAC Office; the Local
Advisory Council Offices; property management offices; Latino Site Offices; and CHA
Administrative Office located at 60 E. Van Buren Street, 10th Floor Lobby, as well as on the
CHA’ website. The CHA provided notice to most residents via their October rent statement.
Notice to residents and the public about the public comment period appeared in news ads in the
Chicago Sun-Times, Chicago Defender, and HOY Newspaper on October 3, 2007. A public
comment hearing was held on October 24, 2007 at the University Center and the CHA gave
consideration to comments received during the public comment period and public comment
hearing.
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-175
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated December 12,
2007, entitled “Authorization for Approval of the FY2007 CHA Residential Lease
Agreement.”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the FY2007 CHA Residential Lease
Agreement, and authorizes the Board Chairperson, Chief Executive Officer, or
his/her designee to approve any final changes to, and to adopt the FY2007 CHA
Residential Lease Agreement.

THAT,

this FY2007 CHA Residential Lease Agreement supersedes any and all
conflicting language found in prior CHA policies and procedures including any
and all previously board approved CHA Residential Lease Agreements.

THAT,

the Board Chairperson or the Chief Executive Officer is hereby authorized to
approve final changes in this Lease. Such approval shall constitute conclusive
evidence of the Board’s approval of any and all such changes.

(Item A7)
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-176
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated December 12,
2007 entitled “Authorization for the Approval of the FY2007 Admission and
Continued Occupancy Policy.”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the FY2007 Admission and
Continued Occupancy Policy, and authorizes the Board Chairperson, Chief
Executive Officer, or his/her designee to approve any final changes to, and to
amend the FY2007 Admissions and Continued Occupancy Policy.

THAT,

this approval of the FY2007 Admissions and Continued Occupancy Policy
supersedes any and all conflicting language found in prior CHA policies and
procedures and replaces any and all previously board approved Admission and
Continued Occupancy Policies.

THAT,

the Board Chairperson or the Chief Executive Officer is hereby authorized to
approve final changes in this policy. Such approval shall constitute conclusive
evidence of the Board’s approval of any and all such changes

6

 (Item A8)
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-177
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated December 12,
2007 entitled “Authorization for Approval of the FY2007 Pet Policy and Pet
Ownership Procedure.”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the FY2007 Pet Policy and Pet
Ownership Procedure, and authorizes the Board Chairperson, Chief Executive
Officer, or his/her designee to approve any final changes to, and to amend the
FY2007 Pet Policy and Pet Ownership Procedure.

THAT,

this FY2007 Pet Policy and Pet Ownership Procedure supersedes any and all
conflicting language found in prior CHA policies and procedures and replaces any
and all previously board approved Pet Policies and Pet Ownership Procedures.

THAT,

the Board Chairperson or the Chief Executive Officer is hereby authorized to
approve final changes in this policy. Such approval shall constitute conclusive
evidence of the Board’s approval of any and all such changes

(Item A9)
The CHA maintains various Wait Lists of applicants who apply for low-income public housing
units. Among these are one Family Housing Wait List and fifth-eight Site-Based Senior Housing
Wait Lists. Due to the indefinite or transitory housing situations of some Wait List applicants,
applicant data is subject to constant change. As a result, there may be risks of diminished viable
contacts between applicants and the CHA or its property management firms, which could
frustrate efforts to identify and reach Wait List applicants in order to screen them and ultimately
offer them available units. Therefore, the CHA must periodically update the various Wait Lists.
The CHA solicited wait list update services through the release of a Request for Proposals in
September 2007. The RFP was advertised in area newspapers and on CHA’s website. However,
the CHA did not receive any proposals in response to the RFP. The CHA’s Procurement
Department contacted potential vendors to determine why no responses were received. Most
vendors indicated that the project was too large in relation to their current or total capacity, given
their commitment to other projects or the size of their business. Datum Direct Marketing
performed the previous update of the CHA Wait Lists in 2004 and 2005. Datum was able to
successfully complete the project, while meeting the CHA’s procedural and timeline
requirements. Datum also met the CHA’s requirements to organize and maintain large amounts
of correspondence that were either responses to the update or returned mail, achieved through the
daily pick-up and sorting of mail received; double-keying data into electronic databases to track
and report the outcome of each individual outreach on a daily basis; and bar-coding update forms
to prevent fraud. Datum also has past experience with CHAC, the CHA’s Housing Choice
Voucher Program. Since Datum indicated not having enough time to write a proposal given the
deadline, but expressed an interest and having the capacity to undertake the project in short
order, the resolution for Item A9 approves award of contract to Datum Direct Marketing.
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-178
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated December 12, 2007
entitled "Authorization to Enter into a Professional Services Agreement with
Datum Direct Marketing for Wait List Update Services”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

It is recommended that the Board of Commissioners authorize the Chairman,
Chief Executive Officer, or their designee(s) to enter into a contract with Datum
Direct Marketing for wait list update services for a period of two (2) years in the
not-to-exceed amount of $190,000.00.

(Item A10)
The resolution for Item A10 approves contract extension with the Spanish Coalition for Housing
(SCH) for marketing, outreach, and intake services to the Latino population for CHA programs.

7

 In August 2006, the Authority exercised the first extension option in the amount of $297,966.00
for a period of seven months, because it was considering a new procurement to consolidate the
services under this contract. However, the decision was made to postpone consolidation of the
services and the Board granted authorization to exercise the second extension in April 2007
covering ten months for the second option in the amount of $392,000.00. The first option was
prorated based upon the pricing of the first option period set forth in the Contract. However, the
second option was negotiated and the fixed price was reduced from the pricing scheduled for that
option in the Contract. SCH has agreed once again to a reduced contract amount for the third
and final option period. SCH helps clients review and complete applications when housing
opportunities are available, provides applicants with their application status, updates applicant
information, and assists with applicant reinstatements. SCH assists those who already live in
CHA housing with transfer requests and troubleshooting to help prevent their withdrawal from
the program, and serves as an additional resource to help the CHA disseminate information on
specific campaigns such as the updating of the wait lists and senior housing opportunities. Given
the limited CHA housing opportunities available, SCH has also been connecting people to other
assistance programs to help stabilize their housing and/or financial situation. The assistance
includes LIHEAP (the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program), IHWAP (the Illinois
Home Weatherization Assistance Program), homeless prevention programs, as well as
homeownership programs. SCH will continue to provide the aforementioned services during the
third option period.

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-179
the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed
memorandum dated December 12, 2007, entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO
EXERCISE THE THIRD OPTION OF CONTRACT NO. 0673 WITH THE
SPANISH COALITION FOR HOUSING FOR MARKETING, OUTREACH,
AND INTAKE SERVICES TO THE LATINO POPULATION FOR CHA
PROGRAMS”;

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

The Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Board Chairperson, the Chief
Executive Officer or his/her designee to exercise the third option of Contract No.
0673 (“Contract”) with the Spanish Coalition for Housing to operate the Chicago
Housing Authority’s satellite offices in Latino communities’ as agreed to in the
Latino Consent Decree for an amount of $484,112.00 for the period of January 1,
2008 through December 31, 2008. The Contract’s new aggregate compensation
amount will be $2,151,474.00.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items A1 through A10 was seconded by
Commissioner O’Keefe and the voting were as follows:
Ayes:

Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Bridget O’Keefe
Carlos Ponce

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Tenant Services Committee report was also accepted in total.
Commissioner Ponce, then presented the monthly report for the Operations and Facilities
Committee. Per Commissioner Ponce, the Operations and Facilities Committee Meeting was
held on Wednesday, December 12, 2007 at approximately 2:20 p.m. at the 60 East Van Buren
Corporate offices.
Commissioner Ponce then introduced an Omnibus Motion for the adoption of the Resolutions for
Items B1 thru B5 discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Operations and
Facilities Committee.

8

 (Item B1)
The resolution for Item B1 approves an Intergovernmental Agreement with the City of Chicago
Department of Streets and Sanitation (CDSS) for the Recycling Buy-back Program. The
Program is a public-private partnership among the CDSS, Waste Management, Inc., CHA,
Americorps Vista, and the Resource Center, a local nonprofit recycler. The Program, working
with local resident organizations, provides direct payment to CHA residents for recyclable
materials collected in their homes and neighborhoods. The most recent IGA expired December
31, 2006. At that time, the CHA anticipated utilizing the waste removal vendors that contracted
with the private property management companies to handle CHA’s recycling requirements.
Because the waste removal contracts are with 5 different vendors the coordination for the
recycling project proved to be overwhelming. Therefore, with CDSS’s agreement, the Program
was continued in FY2007 to allow the CHA to comply with the requirements of the recycling
ordinance. During FY2008, the second year of the instant IGA, the CHA will explore alternative
means of complying with the recycling ordinance. The CHA has maintained its financial
commitment for participation in the Program for FY 2007 and FY 2008 at the same 1999 funding
level, when the original IGA for the Program was entered into for the amount of $267,178.00 per
year. After estimating the costs based upon a survey of a number of vendors, the CHA has
concluded that the Program administered by CDSS is still the most cost effective for the CHA.

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2007 CHA-180
the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed
the Board Letter dated December 12, 2007, requesting “RATIFICATION OF
AN INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT WITH THE CITY OF
CHICAGO ACTING BY AND THROUGH ITS DEPARTMENT OF
STREETS AND SANITATION FOR THE RECYCLING BUY-BACK
PROGRAM”;

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners ratifies an Intergovernmental Agreement with
the City of Chicago, acting through its Department of Streets and Sanitation
for a total amount not to exceed $534,356.00 for FY2007 and FY2008 for the
Recycling Buy Back Program.

(Item B2)
In order to effectively complete all construction, rehabilitation and capital maintenance activities
outlined in the CHA’s Plan for Transformation, the CHA requires the construction and program
management services of a construction manager for all current CHA Capital Improvement Plan
Programs. In the past year and a half, Partnership for Transformation (PFT), as the construction
manager, has addressed the following needs: (1) the establishment of a single point of
accountability for the rehabilitation of the Senior, Family, and Scattered Sites properties, and
Make-Ready units as part of the Plan for Transformation; (2) the implementation of an efficient
and comprehensive plan covering pre-construction, construction and post-construction to ensure
on-time delivery of housing units, and (3) the imposition of tight fiscal guidelines, as well as
change order protocols, to meet budget targets and constraints. In addition, PFT advises the CHA
Executive Staff, including the CEO, the Managing Director of Operations, and the Director of
Construction Administration, regarding the progress of the Capital Improvement Program. In
order to benefit from the accumulated knowledge and experience PFT has gained in the eighteen
months, and from the anticipated economies of staffing levels, the resolution for Item B2
approves a contract modification with Partnership for Transformation.
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-181
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated December 12, 2007
entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO EXECUTE MODIFICATION NO. 03 TO
CONTRACT
NO.
6023
WITH
THE
PARTNERSHIP
FOR
TRANSFORMATION TO ADD CONSTRUCTION MANAGEMENT
SERVICES FOR THE CAPITAL MAINTENANCE PROGRAM ”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chairperson, Chief Executive Officer
or their respective designee to enter into Modification No. 03 to Contract No. 6023
with Partnership for Transformation to add funding, budget and organizational

9

 staffing for construction management oversight of the Capital Maintenance
Program in the not-to-exceed amount of $353,305.00. The new total contract value
of Contract No. 6023 is the not-to-exceed amount of $7,112,279.00.
This modification is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with CHA’s
MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident hiring, and insurance requirements.
(Item B3)
In 1994, CHA was awarded a $50 million dollar HOPE VI grant to facilitate the redevelopment
of the Cabrini Extension North site. In 1996, the City of Chicago created the Near North
Redevelopment Initiative (NNRI) that serves as a general guide for the redevelopment activities.
The 1997 HOPE VI Revitalization Plan and the NNRI called for the construction of 2,000-3,000
new housing units of which 700 would be designated for CHA families. In 2000, CHA, the City
and the Local Advisory Council entered into a consent decree that governs, to a great extent, the
redevelopment goals on the HOPE VI site. The Cabrini-Green Consent Decree stipulates, at a
minimum, the replacement of 700 public housing units. The 825 N. Hudson site is bounded by
Hudson St. to the West, 862 N. Sedgwick to the East, 412 W. Chicago Ave. to the South, and
Durso Park to the North. 825 N. Hudson is being developed by 825 N. Hudson, LLC ( a joint
venture between Henry & Sonia Ospina and Astor Construction) into a new, 19 unit residential
community within a four story elevator building. The CHA will purchase two, one-bedroom
units in this condominium building as replacement housing for Cabrini Extension North families.
The CHA will own these units and retain a private property management firm to manage the
units. Initially, the amount of the operating subsidy will be based on an average monthly
assessment of $81.20 plus typical projected monthly operating expenses. The purchase of these
units will help satisfy the Cabrini Consent Decree. CHA anticipates closing with the Developer
on or before June 30, 2008. Accordingly, the resolution for Item B3 approves submittal of an
acquisition package to HUD for the purchase of 825 N. Hudson.
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-182
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners have reviewed Board letter dated December 12,
2007 requesting authorization to submit an acquisition package to HUD; to enter
into a purchase agreement with the 825 N. Hudson, LLC; and to execute such
other documents necessary to implement the foregoing.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Board Chairperson, Chief
Executive Officer, or his/her designee to submit an acquisition package to HUD;
and

THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Board Chairperson, Chief
Executive Officer, or his/her designee to enter into a purchase agreement with 825
N. Hudson, LLC utilizing the Cabrini 1994 HOPE VI grant, development and/or
capital funds in the amount of $301,614 to acquire two Cabrini North Extension
replacement units; and

THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Board Chairperson, Chief
Executive Officer, or his/her designee to execute such other documents as
necessary to implement the foregoing.

(Item B4)
The resolution for Item B4 approves contract extension with First Advantage SafeRent, Inc for
Tenant Screening Services. The CHA’s Occupancy Department is responsible for overseeing the
screening procedures for residents in the relocation and transfer processes, and for servicing
residents requesting additions to their lease agreements, to ensure continued compliance with
HUD regulations and the CHA Admissions and Continued Occupancy Policy. A significant
portion of the screening processes entail credit checks, criminal background checks, and
employment verifications for all potential adult family and household members. This screening
must be completed before a family can be determined to be lease compliant and retain their
rights to return to a permanent newly rehabilitated or newly constructed apartment. In 2005, the
CHA entered into a professional services contract with First Advantage SafeRent after
completing a competitive procurement process. That contract included provisions for a one-year
extension option. The Occupancy Department is satisfied with the services provided by First

10

 Advantage SafeRent under the existing agreement and recommends extending the contract by
exercising the available one-year option.
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-183
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated December 12,
2007, entitled "Authorization To Exercise A One (1) Year Extension Option With
First Advantage SafeRent, Inc. For Tenant Screening Services”,
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Board Chairperson, Chief Executive
Officer, or his/her designee to extend the contract with First Advantage SafeRent
by exercising a one-year option in an amount not to exceed $ $119,680.00.

(Item B5)
The resolution for Item B5 approves contract extension with Quadel Consulting Corporation for
the administration of the Section 8 Programs. The CHA privatized its Section 8 program in
1995. In 1995, the Section 8 programs served approximately 15,000 families. Today, the
program services over 36,000 families and 15,000 landlords and continues to grow. In
November 2002, the Board of Commissioners authorized the CHA to enter into a new contract
with Quadel to administer the CHA’s Housing Choice Voucher/Section 8 programs. The Board
authorized the first one-year option for the period of January 1, 2005 through December 31,
2005; the second one-year option for the period of January 1, 2006 through December 31, 2006;
and the last and final option for the period of January 1, 2007 through December 31, 2007.
During the Contract’s current year, Quadel has successfully demonstrated progress toward
maintaining High Performer status under the Section Eight Management Assessment Program
(SEMAP) criteria and is on target to earn at least 75% of the Performance Incentive Fee as
stipulated in the Contract. In April 2007, the Board of Commissioners authorized the CHA to
amend the Contract and to add an extension option for a term up to six months (January 1, 2008
up to June 30, 2008) to be exercised within the CHA’s sole discretion. Since April 2007, the
CHA has released a new Request for Proposals for a private administrator of its Housing Choice
Voucher/Section 8 programs and is in the process of negotiating with potential contractors. The
CHA expects to execute the new contract during the first quarter of 2008. Exercising the option
for three (3) month will allow the CHA to mitigate proactively potential risks associated with
possible discontinuity of its HCV Program operations while it continues its negotiations.

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-184
the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed
memorandum dated December 12, 2007, entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO
EXERCISE THE OPTION OF CONTRACT NO. 0370 BETWEEN
QUADEL CONSULTING CORPORATION AND THE CHICAGO
HOUSING AUTHORITY TO EXTEND THE CONTRACT FOR A TERM
OF THREE (3) MONTH FOR THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE
SECTION 8 PROGRAMS” ;

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

The Board of Commissioners authorizes the Board Chairperson, the Chief
Executive Officer or his/her designee to exercise the option to extend Contract
No. 0370 (“Contract”) with Quadel Consulting Corporation for a three (3) month
term for the period of January 1, 2008 through March 31, 2008 in an amount notto-exceed $6,000,000.00 for the administration of the Chicago Housing
Authority’s Housing Choice Voucher/Section 8 Programs. The Contract’s
aggregate not-to-exceed compensation amount will be $130,304.543.28.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items B1 thru B5 was seconded by Commissioner
Young and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Bridget O’Keefe

11

 Carlos Ponce
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Operations and Facilities Committee report was also accepted
in total.
Commissioner O’Keefe, Chairperson of the Finance and Audit Committee then presented her
monthly report. Per Commissioner O’Keefe, the Finance & Audit Committee held its regular
meeting on Wednesday, December 12, 2007 at 2:40 p.m. at the 60 East Van Buren Corporate
offices. Staff presented the Committee with the Treasury and Cash Flow Report for the month of
November 2007.
Commissioner O’Keefe then introduced an Omnibus Motion for the adoption of the Resolutions
for Items C1 thru C5, discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Finance and
Audit Committee.
(Item C1)
The resolution for Item C1 approves the submittal of the FY2008 Comprehensive Budget to
HUD. The FY2008 Comprehensive Budget totaling $922.5 million includes the following fund
categories: General Fund: total revenue for FY2008 is $850.0 million. The General Fund
combines the Low-Rent, Capital and Section 8 programs into a block grant as allowed by HUD
under the MTW agreement.
Revenues consist of Dwelling Rental Income, Interest,
Administrative Income, Capital Grant Funds, Housing Assistance, Operating Subsidy and Other
Income; Section 8 Fund (Non-MTW): revenue for this program totals $5.2 million for the
contract to provide appropriations for approximately 1,312 vouchers for housing assistance based
on increments received from HUD;
Hope VI Fund:
revenue totals $48.9 million for
demolition, revitalization, community and supportive services programs and relocation activities;
City/State: revenue totals $1.1 million, which includes funding for the maintenance of one
City/State property (LeClaire Courts) and Other Funds: Revenue totals $17.3 million. Revenue
consists of competitive grants that are used for redevelopment and to enhance or augment
funding for critical programs and services that the CHA provides to its residents.
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-185
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board letter dated December 12,
2007, entitled “APPROVAL OF THE FY2008 COMPREHENSIVE BUDGET”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners, hereby approves the attached, “FY2008
COMPREHENSIVE BUDGET”, and finds with respect to said Budget:
1.

2.

3.

THAT,

that the proposed expenditures are necessary for the efficient and
economical operation of the Chicago Housing Authority for the purpose of
serving low-income families;
that the financial plan is reasonable in that it indicates funding sources
adequate to cover all proposed expenditures, and does not provide for use
of Federal funding in excess of that payable under the provisions of the
applicable Federal regulations; and
that all proposed rental charges and expenditures will be consistent with
provisions of law and the Annual Contributions Contract in accordance
with the Moving To Work Demonstration Agreement of the Chicago
Housing Authority with the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development.

the Board Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer are
authorized to execute and forward to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development all necessary budget documents and supporting information when
applicable.

12

 (Item C2)
In January 2000, the Board approved the Plan for Transformation, which called for sweeping
changes in the administration and operation of the CHA. The Plan for Transformation was
approved by HUD and incorporated into a Moving to Work (MTW) Agreement, executed on
February 6, 2000. The agreement was subsequently amended in February 2001, requiring the
CHA to submit an annual plan to HUD. Accordingly, the resolution for Item C2 approves
submittal of the Annual Plan, Year 9 to HUD. The FY2008 MTW Annual Plan outlines the
activities that the CHA will conduct during FY2008 to achieve the MTW Statutory Objectives.
Highlights of the Annual Plan include but are not limited to: 1,008 public housing units in
mixed-income/mixed finance developments, senior designated housing and family properties
will be delivered in 2008. By the end of FY2008, the CHA plans to have 17,210 units completed
attaining 68.8% of its 25,000 unit goal. In FY2008, the CHA anticipates that over 36,500
families will take part and benefit from the HCV Program. Landlord Outreach Specialist will
work to recruit new landlords in opportunity areas. The goal is to recruit 400 new landlords and
800 new units. Forty families are expected to close or own a home in 2008. In 2008, the CHA
intends to implement a new services provision model named Family Works. To ensure
community and resident input on the FY2008 MTW Annual Plan, the CHA held a public
comment period from November 7 to December 6, 2007. A public hearing was held on
November 20, 2007 at the University Center. The CHA has reviewed and responded to public
comments, which are included in the FY2008 MTW Annual Plan.
RESOLUTION 2007-CHA-186
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated December 12,
2007 requesting approval of the FY2008 MTW Annual Plan – Plan for
Transformation Year 9, attached hereto
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners approve the attached the FY2008 MTW Annual Plan
– Plan for Transformation Year 9, and grant authorization to submit these
documents to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development.

(Item C3)
The resolution for Item C3 approves extension of Contract for Trinal for Compliance Monitoring
and Reporting Services. During 2007, in preparation of the expiration of this contract, intensive
knowledge transfer sessions have been taking place with the firm and CHA staff. During these
sessions it became clear that Trinal’s assistance would be needed for a period past the expiration
of the current option year. This additional period will allow the CHA time to 1) implement an
efficient strategy for increased personnel capacity, 2) assist in the large volume of data entry into
the new Lawson legacy system, 3) map a streamlined compliance process once potential
changes to the CHA M/W/DBE program are authorized, 4) provide employee testing for the
appropriate match of skill set and function, and 5) provide additional training on the newly
established procedures, once approved, to new and existing staff. Trinal’s continued engagement
will provide the CHA the benefit of Trinal’s expertise in amplified training, troubleshooting the
process for data entry of computerized information from CHA contractors, and assist in further
professional development and improved work product of not only the CHA compliance staff, but
also CHA’s Private Property Management firms. Trinal has performed professionally,
effectively, and willingly with each request that CHA has initiated and has consistently added
value to their statement of work.
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-187
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated December 12, 2007
entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO EXTEND CONTRACT NO. 0690 WITH
TRINAL, INC FOR FIVE MONTHS FOR COMPLIANCE MONITORING
AND REPORTING SERVICES”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorize the Chairperson, the Chief Executive
Officer or his/her designee to extend the Contract No. 0690 with Trinal, Inc.
(“Contact”) for five (5) months to cover the period of January 1, 2008 through
May 31, 2008 and to increase the contract amount by $221,000.00. The Contract’s
new aggregate total compensation amount is $2,701,259.00.

13

 (Item C4)
The resolution for Item C4 approves contract extension with Fries Frame productions for
production of The Cable Show “A Better Place”. The show, in addition to being a primary
communications tool, is also serving as a conduit of information and inspiration to current
residents. Calls coming into the CHAT line from the general public demonstrate that the show is
highly viewed and the information is being received by the target audience. In Season 4, Fries
Frame won two Emmy Awards for the production of “A Better Place.” Fries Frame has
extensive expertise in the development of cable media communications and in producing life
quality, city focused, magazine style television shows, as well as ethnic media communication
strategies. Fries Frame also has experience producing government municipal television shows
and understands the organizational structure and operations of government agencies. In addition,
the company has the existing film footage, relationships with participants and stakeholders as
well as the necessary technical and communications expertise to continue to perform effectively
in all areas of the show.
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-188
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
memorandum dated December 12, 2007 entitled, “AUTHORIZATION TO
EXERCISE THE OPTION TO EXTEND CONTRACT NO. 7006 WITH FRIES
FRAME PRODUCTIONS FOR PRODUCTION OF CABLE SHOW “A
BETTER PLACE”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chair, the Chief Executive Officer or
their respective designees to approve an amendment to Contract No. 7006 with
Fries Frame Productions to exercise Option Year No. 1 for the production of the
Chicago Housing Authority’s cable show “A Better Place” in the not-to-exceed
amount of $425,155.20 for the period of March 1, 2008 to February 29, 2009.
This amendment is subject to compliance with the CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE and
Section 3 resident hiring requirements.

(Item C5)
The resolution for Item C5 provides the Racine Courts Cooperative to secure Second Additional
financing; amend the Racine Courts Cooperative Bylaw; subordinate the CHA Loan subject to a
purchase Option and execute such other documents as needed to implement the foregoing. On
July 11, 1968, the CHA Board of Commissioners authorized the sale of Racine Courts, a small
public housing development, to its residents, the newly formed Racine Courts Cooperative. The
CHA sold the development to the Cooperative at cost of $1,715,000. The CHA took back a
mortgage from the Cooperative in the amount of the entire purchase price, to be repaid over a 40
year term, in monthly installments at 3% interest. Concurrently, CHA and the Cooperative also
entered into a Regulatory Agreement which would remain in effect until the repayment of the
mortgage. Pursuant to the Articles of Incorporation for the Cooperative, a CHA representative
was appointed to be a member of the Cooperative’s first Board of Directors. Further, pursuant to
the Cooperative’s Bylaws, no amendment may be made to the Bylaws without the prior written
consent of CHA, and any actions taken by the Cooperative Board shall be taken subject to
CHA’s rights under the Regulatory Agreement. The Cooperative is currently attempting to
secure additional short-term financing on the property to pay off existing tax liabilities to the
Internal Revenue Service and Cook County; perform maintenance repairs to the property to
stabilize the Cooperative; and return the property to a viable state. In order to secure an
additional mortgage, the new lender will require CHA to subordinate its mortgage, which has an
outstanding principal balance of $388,654.11. The subordination of the CHA loan is conditioned
upon the granting of a purchase option by the Cooperative to CHA. If the Cooperative fails to
pay off the outstanding balance of the CHA loan within 24 months from January 1, 2008, the
CHA would have the right to exercise the purchase option. Pursuant to the terms of the purchase
option, the balance of the CHA loan would be converted to an equity interest in the property. In
addition, the Cooperative is seeking to amend its Bylaws to remove a CHA representative, as an
official member of the Cooperative Board of Directors as CHA has not been an active participant
on the Board in over 15 years.

14

 RESOLUTION 2007-CHA-189
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners have reviewed Board letter dated December 4, 2007
requesting authorization to provide Racine Courts Cooperative with written
approval to secure additional mortgage financing; amend the Racine Courts
Cooperative Bylaws; subordinate the CHA loan and authorize the Chairperson,
Chief Executive Officer or his/her designee to execute such other documents as
necessary to implement the foregoing.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Chairperson, Chief Executive
Officer or his/her designee to provide Racine Courts Cooperative with written
approval to secure additional mortgage financing;
the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Chairperson, Chief Executive
Officer or his/her designee to provide Racine Courts with written approval to
amend the Racine Courts Cooperative Bylaws;

THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Chairperson, Chief Executive
Officer or his/her designee to approve the subordination of the CHA loan; and

THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Chairperson, the Chief
Executive Officer or his/her designee to execute such other documents as
necessary to implement the foregoing.

The Motion to adopt resolutions for Items C1 thru C5 was seconded by Commissioner Harris
and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Bridget O’Keefe
Carlos Ponce
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Finance and Audit Committee report was also accepted in total.
There being no further business to come before the Commissioners, upon Motion made,
seconded and carried, the meeting of the Board of Commissioners was adjourned.

s/b:

s/b:

Lee Gill, Custodian and
Keeper of Records

15

Martin Nesbitt
Chairperson

 