MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING
OF THE
COMMISSIONERS OF THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
May 19, 2009
The Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority held its Regular Meeting on Tuesday,
May 19, 2009, at approximately 8:40 a.m. at the Minnie Ripperton Apartments, 4250 South
Princeton, Chicago, Illinois.
Chairman Nesbitt called the meeting to order and upon roll call, those present and absent were as
follows:
Present:
Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Bridget O’Keefe
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young
Absent:

None

Also present were Lewis Jordan, Chief Executive Officer; Kris Warren, Chief Operating Officer;
Scott Ammarell, General Counsel; Chicago Housing Authority Staff Members and the General
Public.
There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as
follows:
Upon Motion made and properly seconded the Commissioners adjourned to Executive Session.
Chairman Nesbitt announced that pursuant to the Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2, the Board
would adjourn for approximately one (1) hour to possibly discuss pending, probable or imminent
litigation, personnel related matters, collective negotiating matters, purchase sale and lease of
real estate property; establishment of reserves and settlement of claims.
The Commissioners subsequently reconvened in Open Session and the Chairman thereupon
convened the Public Hearing portion and Business Sessions of the meeting.
Mr. Lewis Jordan, Chief Executive Officer, commenced his monthly report by welcoming the
newly elected members of the Central Advisory Council. Mr. Jordan then preceded with an
update on the implementation of new mixed income housing and new health facilities on the
west side and an update on the next phase of Legends South, Roosevelt Square and Oakwood
Shores. Per Mr. Jordan, the last five public housing units at Parkside of Old Town were
delivered in April and are now available for leasing. The developers are ready to begin the next
phase, to be comprised of 35 public housing units. Mr. Jordan then presented an update on the
Find Your Place campaign, the Senior Housing Outreach campaign and the significant progress
made with the consolidation of units at Ickes Homes. Mr. Jordan outlined the comprehensive
security plan implemented at Ickes. Due to the overwhelming success rate, similar security
measures will be implemented in Cabrini. Mr. Jordan concluded his report by thanking
Commissioner Harris for distributing eleven $1,000 academic scholarships to CHA college
bound youth.
Chairman Nesbitt then invited residents and the public at large to address the Board.
Immediately following the Public Hearing portion of the meeting, the Chairman introduced the
Resolutions discussed in Executive Session.

1

 Commissioner Young then presented an Omnibus Motion for the approval of resolutions for
Executive Session Item 1 and 2 discussed in Executive Session. .
Executive Session Item 1
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-60
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated May 4, 2009, requesting that the Board of Commissioners
approves the Personnel Actions Report for April 2009.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the Personnel Actions Report for
April 2009.

Executive Session Item 2
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-61
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated May 13, 2009,
regarding the authorization to execute a contract for litigation consulting services;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into a contract in the not-to-exceed amount of $100,000.00 for
Litigation Consulting Services.

The Motion to adopt resolutions for Executive Session Items 1and 2 was seconded by
Commissioner Ivers and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Bridget O’Keefe
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young

Nays:

None

The Chairman thereupon declared said Motion carried and said Resolutions adopted.
Commissioner Ponce then presented a Motion for the approval of resolution for General Item 1.
General Item 1
The resolution for General Item 1 approves acceptance of a Grant Award in the amount of
$500,000.00 from the MacArthur Foundation to assist in the funding of activities and events that
will acknowledge the tenth year anniversary of the Plan. CHA will work with sub-grantees,
partners and other proposed participants to plan and implement these events and activities over
the next ten months. Piper Advisory Services will work with CHA leadership and its partners to
carry out a proposed four phase project plan, including the drafting of reports focused on
progress, lessons learned and challenges since the inception of the Plan in Phase I. In Phase II,
Piper will work with CHA and partners to identify and evaluate mechanisms to advance capital
programs. Phases III and IV will support outreach, communications and organizing external
support for an updated version of the Plan. As CHA’s Communications Consultant, MK
Communications’ existing contract will be amended to include responsibility for ensuring
cohesiveness in messaging and outreach across tenth year anniversary activities and events. MK
Communications will help with strategic planning for Editorial Board briefings, which will occur
in the second quarter of 2009, on-going CHA Board of Commissioner briefings on the
anniversary activities, the Mixed-Income Institute to be held in conjunction with the Council of
Large Public Housing Authorities Conference in June 2009, MacArthur’s Research Roundtable
anticipated for the third quarter of 2009, the Plan for Transformation Symposium to be held in
the fourth quarter of 2009 and the Recommitment Event to be held in January 2010. Lloyd

2

 Consulting will work to develop the specific structure and substance of a two-day symposium in
the fourth quarter of 2009. The tenth anniversary events will conclude with a recommitment
event, in which CHA, in partnership with the City of Chicago, HUD, PNC, and the MacArthur
Foundation, will host an event to release an updated version of the Plan and garner public
support and confidence through the Plan’s completion.
RESOLUTION NO. 2009 - CHA - 62
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated May 13, 2009, entitled “RECOMMENDATION TO ACCEPT
A GRANT AWARD FROM THE JOHN D. AND CATHERINE T.
MACARTHUR
FOUNDATION,
ENTER
INTO
SUB-GRANTEE
AGREEMENTS WITH MK COMMUNICATIONS, PIPER ADVISORY
SERVICES, LLOYD CONSULTING AND ESOM COMMUNICATIONS
GROUP AND INCREASE THE FY2009 COMPREHENSIVE BUDGET”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer, or his
designee, to accept a grant award from the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur
Foundation in the amount of $500,000.00, increase the FY 2009 comprehensive
budget by $500,000.00 and enter into sub-grant agreements with MK
Communications in an amount not-to-exceed $90,000.00, Piper Advisory
Services in an amount not-to-exceed $65,000.00, Lloyd Consulting Inc in an
amount not-to-exceed $98,000.00 and ESOM Communications Group in an
amount not-to-exceed $90,000.00 for an aggregate total, inclusive of costs related
to events and initiatives for the tenth year anniversary of the Plan for
Transformation, not-to-exceed $500,000.00 in support of activities and events that
will acknowledge the Chicago Housing Authority’s tenth year anniversary of the
Plan.

The Motion to adopt resolution for General Item 1 was seconded by Commissioner Young and
the voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Bridget O’Keefe
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young
Nays:

None

The Chairman thereupon declared said Motion carried and said Resolution adopted.
The Chairman then announced that the CHA was on Monday, May 18th of a Grant Award from
the City of Chicago, Department of Family and Supportive Services in the amount of
$1,890,000.00 to provide 900 CHA youth with job training, skill development and employment
opportunities. Because CHA was unable to Notice-up this matter due to time constraints, the
Award will be submitted for Board approval at the June 16th Board Meeting.
Commissioner Ivers, Chairman of the Finance and Audit Committee, then presented his monthly
report. Per Commissioner Ivers, the Finance & Audit Committee held its regular meeting on
Wednesday, May 13, 2009 at approximately 1:15 p.m. at the 60 East Van Buren Corporate
offices. The Chief Financial Officer and staff presented the Committee with the Treasury &
Cash Flow Report for the month of April 2009, an Audit Update for Year Ending December
2008 and an Interim Financial Report.
Commissioner Ivers then introduced an omnibus Motion for the adoption of the Resolutions for
Items A1 thru A4, discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Finance and
Audit Committee.

3

 (Item A1)
The Authority’s current contract for Third Party Administrator’s (TPA) services expires in July
2009. Accordingly, a Request for Proposal was released soliciting vendors to provide TPA
services for the next contracting period. The RFP was advertised in area newspapers and on
CHA’s website. Of the two proposals received and information gathered from the oral
presentations, the evaluation committee determined that Cannon Cochran Management Services
Inc. would be the best candidate to provide TPA claim services to the Authority. Accordingly,
the resolution for Item A1 approves award of contract to CCMI for third party administrator
services.
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-63
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board letter dated May 13, 2009,
entitled, “AUTHORIZATION TO ENTER INTO A CONTRACT WITH
CANNON COCHRAN MANAGEMENT SERVICES, INC. FOR THIRD
PARTY ADMINISTRATOR SERVICES”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into a contract with Cannon Cochran Management Services, Inc.
for a term of two (2) years for an amount not-to-exceed $ 483,476with three (3)
one-year options to provide third party administrator services to the CHA and its
Private Managers Insurance Program.

(Item A2)
The resolution for Item A2 approves a two year extension of the agreement with IBM for FileNet
Maintenance and Support Services. The CHA utilizes the Enterprise Document Management
System (EDMS) / FileNet application extensively in its daily operations. EDMS supports
departments such as Housing Choice Voucher, Finance, Development Management and Resident
Services by providing the ability to store, maintain, retrieve and archive electronic records. To
date, over 3.1 million documents and approximately 10 million pages of information are stored
in the CHA’s EDMS repository. Prudent business practices dictate having maintenance
agreements in place with the product manufacturer in order to obtain preventative and remedial
maintenance. Maintenance support typically consists of software upgrades, bug fixes and remote
telephonic and electronic support. Having a maintenance agreement available decreases the risks
of potentially adverse impact from a system outage by reducing restoration time and increasing
system availability.
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-64
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated May 13, 2009,
“AUTHORIZATION TO ENTER INTO A TWO (2) YEAR EXTENSION OF
THE AGREEMENT WITH IBM FOR FILENET MAINTENANCE AND
SUPPORT SERVICES”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into a two (2) year extension of the Software Support
Agreement with IBM, for FileNet Maintenance and Support Services in the
amount of $198,994.85.

(Item A3)
The resolution for Item A3 approves entering into a Lease Extension Agreement with the 1550
W. 88th Street, LLC for lease of approximately 18,000 square feet at the premises located at 1550
W. 88th Street, Chicago, Illinois. The current lease will expire on May 31, 2009. The HCV
Program desires to extend the term of the original lease for an additional year in order to further
investigate either alternative space within the existing premises or different premises within the
community to operate the Housing Choice Voucher (HCV) program. In the event that the CHA
determines that the renovation of existing space best meets the needs and requirements of the
HCV program and the CHA enters into a new lease with the owners of the premises prior to
January 2010, the terms and conditions of the existing lease ($23,250 per month) will remain in
effect during the extension period. If the CHA determines that an alternate premise will better

4

 meet the needs and requirements of the Housing Choice Voucher Program, the terms of the
original lease extension option will be put into effect and the CHA will pay, in addition to the
current rent, an additional amount ($1,627.50 per month) of monthly consideration as set forth in
the existing lease for the entire Extension Period. This satellite office services families by
conducting workshops on Family Self Sufficiency, Choose to Own, the Mobility Program and
landlord education as well as house CHA staff to assist clients with paper work, respond to
inquiries from both tenants and landlords and refer families to supportive services on site.
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-65
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated May 13, 2009,
entitled “Request for Authorization to Enter into a Lease Extension Agreement
for the premises located at 1550 W. 88th St., Chicago Illinois.”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into a Lease Extension Agreement for the premises located at
1550 W. 88th St. Chicago Illinois” between 1550 W. 88th Street, LLC and the
Chicago Housing Authority for an additional one (1) year period commencing
June 1, 2009 and expiring May 31, 2010 at a Total Base Rent amount not to
exceed $298,530, plus any proportionate share of increased real estate taxes and
operating expenses above the Total Base Rent.

(Item A4)
The resolution for Item A4 ratifies expenditures for parking services for CHA senior staff and
pool vehicles, and approves expenditures of anticipated parking services for the period covering
June 1, 2009, thru December 31, 2010, with LAZ Parking Chicago in the Grant Park
Underground Parking Garage. As a result of the CHA’s relocation of its administrative offices
to the CNA Building in December, 2006, the CHA procured parking services for senior staff and
pool vehicles from LAZ. The CHA continues to require parking services for a combined total of
fifty-eight pool and senior staff vehicles in close proximity of the CNA building. An informal
solicitation was conducted to identify parking garages and facilities who could offer equivalent
services to the CHA for pool and senior staff parking needs. Parking services through LAZ’s
agreement includes advantageous rates, convenient and efficient access to CHA headquarters,
security enforced premises, underground parking, 24/7 access with in/out privileges, distance,
escort to vehicles upon request, assistance to customers with air for tires, and car battery jump
starts.

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-66
the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated April
27, 2009, entitled "RATIFICATION AND AUTHORIZATION OF
PARKING EXPENSES FOR THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
SENIOR STAFF AND POOL VEHICLES WITH LAZ PARKING
CHICAGO";

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into an agreement with LAZ Parking for a term of two
years under fixed rate terms, including the ratification of the expenditure
of $59,940.00 for parking services for the Chicago Housing Authority
senior staff and pool vehicles used for the period of January 1, 2009
through May 31, 2009, and further authorizes the anticipated expenditure
for parking services in the amount of $203,870.00 for the period covering
June 1, 2009 through December 31, 2010. The total authorized funding
for the two year period of the agreement is an amount not-to-exceed
$263,810.00.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Item A1 thru A4 was seconded by Commissioner
Young and the voting was as follows:

5

 Ayes:

Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Bridget O’Keefe
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairman thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Finance and Audit Committee report was also accepted in
total.
Commissioner Ponce, Chairman of the Operations and Facilities Committee, then presented his
monthly report. Per Commissioner Ponce, due to a lack of quorum the Operation and Facilities
meeting was not held on Wednesday, May 13th. While Commissioners were briefed on all items
appearing on the agenda, no vote was taken.
Commissioner Ponce then introduced an Omnibus Motion for the adoption of Resolutions for
Items B1 thru B5.
(Item B1)
The resolution for Item B1 approves a contract modification with The Partnership for
Transformation (PFT) to include funding, budget and organization staffing for Option Year No.
2. PFT has become an integral part of the CHA management team with respect to the Capital
Improvement and Capital Maintenance Programs and its central role in the Plan for
Transformation. The loss of the construction management services provided by PFT would be
detrimental to the timely achievement of the CHA’s Plan for Transformation. Since June of
2006, PFT, acting as CHA’s Construction Manager, has established a single point of
accountability for the rehabilitation of the Senior, Family, and Scattered Sites properties, and
Make-Ready units as part of the Plan for Transformation. PFT has also implemented an efficient
and comprehensive plan covering pre-construction, construction and post-construction to ensure
on-time delivery of housing units, and imposed tight fiscal guidelines, as well as change order
protocols, to meet budget targets and constraints. In January of 2008, PFT also took on
construction management responsibilities for the Capital Maintenance Program. In addition, PFT
continues to advise the CHA Executive Staff, including the CEO, the Executive Vice President
for Development, and the Vice President of the Capital Construction Department, regarding the
progress of the Capital Improvement and Capital Maintenance Programs.
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-67
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated May 13, 2009
entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO EXECUTE MODIFICATION NO. 05 TO
CONTRACT
NO.
6023
WITH
THE
PARTNERSHIP
FOR
TRANSFORMATION TO EXERCISE OPTION YEAR NO. 02;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to approve Modification No. 05 to approve funding, budget, and
organizational staffing in the not-to-exceed amount of $4,849,055.00 for Option
Year No. 2 for the period of June 1, 2009 through May 31, 2010. The new total
contract value of Contract No. 6023 is the not-to-exceed amount of
$16,435,912.00.
This modification is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with CHA’s
MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident hiring, and insurance requirements.

(Item B2)
The CHA’s current 24 month agreement for electricity supply and delivery with Constellation
will expire in May 2009. The CHA, therefore, released a Request for Proposal (RFP) for

6

 Electrical Supply and Related Services in March 2009 and received two bids. Constellation
NewEnergy’s proposal was determined to be the most advantageous of the submitted offers and
benefits the CHA in that it provides the most competitive and transparent pricing for a portfolio
of CHA properties that continues to undergo constant change. Additionally, Constellation’s
performance, under the current supply agreement, has been favorably regarded. The CHA’s
current 24 month agreement for electricity supply and delivery with Constellation will expire on
May 26, 2009. Constellation NewEnergy’s rates are blended wholesale supply rates and continue
to be competitive on the open market. Their blended rate includes the costs for: commodity,
customer charge, customer transition charge and transmission. Accordingly, the resolution for
Item B2 approves award of contract to Constellation NewEnergy, Inc. for the supply and
delivery of electricity for various CHA portfolios.
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-68
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated May 19, 2009, entitled “Recommendation to Award a
Contract for the Supply and Delivery of Electricity to Constellation NewEnergy,
Inc.”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into a service agreement with Constellation New Energy for
electrical services in an amount not to exceed $6,988,188 for a twenty-four month
base term, with two one-year options.

(Item B3)
The resolution for Item B3 approves submittal of a Mixed-Finance Proposal to HUD for the
Legends South Phase A2 redevelopment project. Legends South Phase A2 Rental, a mixed
finance, mixed income development project, represents the second phase of onsite
redevelopment within the larger Robert Taylor Revitalization Plan. The Legends South Phase A2
Rental development will consist of approximately 138 new construction rental units built on
CHA-owned land that formerly comprised part of the Robert Taylor Homes. The development
will be located in an area bounded by State Street on the east, 43rd Street on the north, the Metra
tracks west of Federal Street on the west and 45th on the south. The project is expected to provide
60 public housing rental units of replacement housing for former Robert Taylor residents,
subsidized by the CHA under a 40-year contract to provide operating subsidy, subject to HUD
approval and annual Congressional appropriations. Of the proposed 138 rental units, it is
expected that 110 (including the 60 public housing units) will be subject to federal low income
housing tax credit (LIHTC) restrictions. To comply with LIHTC and other financing program
requirements, approximately 46% of the units will be reserved for families with incomes up to
50% of Area Median Income. The remaining 28 units will be market rate and carry no income or
rent restrictions. CHA land in the Phase A2 site will be ground leased by one or more ground
leases to the ownership entity (Legends South A2, LLC, or other affiliates of the BrinshoreMichaels development team). The direct costs of the new Legends South Phase A2 Rental
development total an estimated $44,754,232 and are expected to be funded by various sources of
permanent financing.
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-69
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated May 13, 2009,
requesting authorization to 1) Submit a Mixed-Finance Proposal, Evidentiaries,
and Disposition Modification to HUD, 2) Commit CHA funds up to $14,500,000
to the Legends South Phase A2 redevelopment project, 3) Dispose CHA land at
the Legends South Phase A2 Rental site by one or more ground leases to the
ownership entity(ies), and 4) Execute and deliver such other documents and
perform such actions as may be necessary or appropriate to implement the
foregoing
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorize the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to 1) Submit a Mixed-Finance Proposal, Evidentiaries, and Disposition
Modification to HUD, 2) Commit CHA funds up to $14,500,000 to the Legends

7

 South Phase A2 redevelopment project, 3) Dispose CHA land at Legends South
Phase A2 Rental site by one or more ground leases to the ownership entity(ies),
and 4) Execute and deliver such other documents and perform such actions as
may be necessary or appropriate to implement the foregoing.
(Item B4)
In June 2002, the CHA Board of Commissioners approved entering into a Master Development
Agreement (MDA) for the redevelopment work at Robert Taylor Homes with BMH-I, LLC, and
with Brinshore Development, LLC and Michaels Development Company. Pursuant to the MDA,
CHA is required to fund the cost of site remediation for pre-existing conditions on the
development site on a phase-by-phase basis. The estimated on-site remediation costs for the
Robert Taylor Homes Phase A-2 rental redevelopment is $2,509,492. CHA’s contractual
responsibility for remediation, foreseen and unforeseen environmental conditions under the
MDA is capped at 225% of this estimated total cost, which is $5,646,356. Accordingly, the
Resolution for item B4 approves award of contract to Powers & Sons Construction Company for
environmental remediation activities in connection with the Robert Taylor Homes
Redevelopment Site Phase A-2 Rental.
RESOLUTION 2009-CHA-70
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated, May 19, 2009,
requesting authorization to 1) enter into a contract with Powers & Sons
Construction Company, Inc. for environmental remediation at the Robert Taylor
Homes redevelopment site Phase A-2, 2) Execute other documents as necessary to
implement the forgoing.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to 1) enter into a contract with Powers & Sons Construction Company,
Inc. for environmental remediation activities at the Robert Taylor Homes Phase A2 development site for a total contract amount not to exceed $5,646,356 (225% of
the estimated remediation costs), subject to any necessary HUD approvals and 2)
Execute other documents as necessary to implement the forgoing. The term of the
contract shall be the earlier of: the receipt of a “No Further Remediation” letter
from the IEPA with regard to the On-Site Phase A-2 development site, or two
years, subject to a one year extension.

(Item B5)
The resolution for Item B5 confirms that the Board and CHA have given fair and reasonable
consideration to each of the three proposed housing options for residents of LeClaire Courts
(City/State property) as required pursuant to a resolution passed by the Board on September 16,
2008. Resolution No. 2008-CHA-111, provided approval to CHA to notify HUD of CHA’s
intent not to renew the HAP Contract for LeClaire Courts and to notify the affected residents of
the CHA’s intent to close the property as a result of the deteriorating conditions and insufficient
funding issues that have plagued the property for a number of years. As a condition of that
resolution, the Board determined that the Board and CHA must give fair consideration to three
housing options for the City/State residents to the extent that such options are available and
feasible: 1) Section 8 tenant based-vouchers; 2) the ability to transfer to available rehabilitated
public housing units and 3) the ability to transfer to habitable units at LeClaire Courts Extension,
with the understanding that the determination of habitability will be fully considered by the
Board at its earliest practical opportunity. With respect to options 1 and 2, on March 17, 2009,
the CHA Board approved an addendum to the Relocation Rights Contract. This addendum
provides for the same rights and options for the residents of the LeClaire City/State Leaseholders
as are provided to all CHA public housing residents. With respect to the third option, after
months of assessment, cost analysis, and careful deliberation, it was determined that the cost of
unit construction to meet the standard mandated by Federal regulations and the Relocation
Rights Contract was excessive. Furthermore, funding used for that purpose would diminish
already scarce funds needed for the eventual redevelopment of the property. Therefore, the CHA
recommended and the Board determined that the “habitability” of the LeClaire Courts Extension
Property is not feasible and the LeClaire Courts City/State residents will not be provided access
to habitable units at the LeClaire Courts Extension property.

8

 Commissioners Amey and Young recused from voting on item B5 only.
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-71
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board letter dated May 19, 2009,
entitled “Board of Commissioner’s resolution that the conditions of resolution
2008-CHA-111 for consideration of three housing options for residents of
LeClaire Courts City/State property have been completed and satisfied”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT:

the Board of Commissioners hereby resolves that fair consideration has been
given by the CHA and the Board to option 3 and that the transfer to habitable
units at LeClaire Courts Extension is not feasible and thus will not be made
available to LeClaire Courts City/State residents;

THAT:

the Board of Commissioners by Resolution No. 2009-CHA-33 has previously
taken appropriate action with respect to options 1 and 2 of Resolution 2008-CHA111, by making such options available to LeClaire Courts City/State residents
after the CHA and the Board gave fair consideration to those options; and

THAT:

the Board of Commissioners hereby resolves that all conditions of Resolution
2008-CHA-111 for consideration of the three specified options have been
completed and satisfied.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Item B1 and B5 was seconded by Commissioner
O’Keefe and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey (Recuses from voting on Item B5 only)
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Bridget O’Keefe
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young (Recuses from voting on Item B5 only)
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairman thereupon declared said Motion carried and
said resolutions adopted. The Operations and Facilities report was also accepted in total.
Commissioner Young, Chairperson of the Tenant Services Committee, then presented her
monthly report. Per Commissioner Young, the Tenant Services Committee meeting was held on
Wednesday, May 13, 2009 at approximately 2:10 p.m. at the 60 East Van Buren Corporate
Offices. Linda Kaiser, Executive Vice President of Resident Services and staff updated the
Committee on Workforce Services.
Commissioner Young then introduced an Omnibus Motion for the adoption of Resolutions for
Items C1 and C2 discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Tenant Services
Committee.
(Item C1)
In December 2007, the CHA included a Work Requirement Policy in the 2007 Admissions and
Continued Occupancy Policy (ACOP) to promote economic self-sufficiency for families. In
January 2009, the CHA advertised a Request for Proposal (RFP) to solicit vendors to implement
a workforce development program for CHA residents that promotes educational and professional
advancement and stability in employment. The RFP was advertised in area newspapers and the
CHA website. The CHA also directly solicited 99 firms, including three MBE/WBE/DBE firms
and 14 assist agencies. Of the sixteen submittals received, seven firms were found to be within
the competitive range. Based upon the evaluations of the written proposals, oral presentations,
and the best and final offers, it was determined that Employment & Employee Services,
Heartland Human Care Services, TEC Services Consulting, Inc. and Central States SER will
provide the best overall service and value to CHA for workforce development programs for
residents. Accordingly, the resolution for Item C1 approves award of contract for workforce

9

 services for CHA residents to the above mentioned firms. The awardees will provide
Transitional Jobs programs consisting of job readiness training, placement in subsidized
employment, placement in unsubsidized employment, and employment retention services. Each
of these vendors have also proposed to provide additional program components such as adult
education, contextualized literacy, and customer service trainings.
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-72
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated May 13, 2009,
entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO ENTER INTO CONTRACTS WITH
EMPLOYMENT AND EMPLOYER SERVICES INC., HEARTLAND HUMAN
CARE SERVICES, SER SERVICES, AND TEC SERVICES TO PROVIDE
WORKFORCE SERVICES FOR CHA RESIDENTS”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute contracts with Employment and Employer Services, Heartland
Human Care Services, TEC Services, and SER Services for a combined amount
not-to-exceed amount of $6,176,745.00 for a term of two (2) years with two (2)
one-year options for providing workforce services for CHA residents.

(Item C2)
The resolution for Item C2 approves contract with After School Matters to provide a Summer
Pre-Apprenticeship Employment Training Program and Internship Opportunities for 330 CHA
residents ages 14 and 15 and 40 internships for CHA residents ages 16 through 21. Participants
in the program will focus on acquiring critical workplace skills such as communication,
teamwork, analytical thinking and work readiness. Participating youth will be provided with
career exploration opportunities, including lectures and demonstrations from professionals and
local industry leaders. The six-week internship program will be held five days per week, five
hours per day, for 6 weeks. Participants will be placed in temporary jobs that provide an
opportunity to develop soft skills (e.g. effective communication, conflict resolution and decision
making) and to gain a practical understanding of workplace expectations, policies and
procedures. Youth interns will also receive regular supervision and mentoring by adult
professionals.
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-73
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated May 13, 2009,
entitled “RECOMMENDATION TO ENTER INTO A CONTRACT WITH
AFTER SCHOOL MATTERS TO PROVIDE A SUMMER PREAPPRENTICESHIP EMPLOYMENT TRAINING PROGRAM AND
INTERNSHIP OPPORTUNITIES CHA RESIDENTS;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

The Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into a contract with After School Matters to provide a summer
pre-apprenticeship employment training program for 330 CHA residents ages 14
and 15, and 40 internships for CHA residents ages 16 through 21 for the period of
June 30, 2009 through August 15, 2009 for a total amount not-to-exceed
$270,000.00.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items C1 and C2 was seconded by Commissioner
O’Keefe and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Bridget O’Keefe
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young

10

 Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairman thereupon declared said Motion carried and
said resolutions adopted. The Tenant Services Committee report was also accepted in total.

There being no further business to come before the Commissioners, upon Motion made,
seconded and carried, the meeting of the Board of Commissioners was adjourned at
approximately 11:00 a.m.

s/b:

s/b:

________________________
Lee Gill, Custodian and
Keeper of Records

11

______________________
Martin Nesbitt
Chairman

 