February 13, 2013 ITEM NO. Cl

AUTHORIZATION TO ENTER INTO A CONTRACT WITH TO PROVIDE
DISASTER RECOVERY CO-LOCATION SERVICES

To the Honorable Board of Commissioners:

TION
It is recommended that the Board of Commissioners (?Board?) authorizes the Chief Executive
Of?cer or his designee to enter into a contract with for Disaster Recovery Site Services
for a three (3) year base term in an amount not-to-exceed $218,160 with two (2) one (1) year
options.

The Executive Vice President of Finance, the Of?ce of the General Counsel and the
Of?ce of Procurement have completed all necessary due diligence to support the submission of
this initiative and recommend the approval of this item accordingly.


Streamline operations to make the Chicago Housing Authority more customer-focused
and ef?cient.

The CHA is relocating to a new disaster recovery backup data center from its current disaster
recovery site located at the Charles A. Hayes Family Investment Center In accordance
with industry best practice standards, a disaster recovery site should be located a minimum of
twenty-?ve (25) miles away from its main data center. The current FIC disaster recovery
site is located signi?cantly less than the twenty-?ve (25) mile industry standard. The current site
would also require signi?cant facility upgrades of power speci?cations and HVAC facilities.
The project?s goal is to secure a state-of-the-art backup recovery facility that will enable the
CHA to continue business operations in the event of an emergency or extended outage.

EQNQINQ: General Fund, Fiscal Year 2013

SOLIQITAITON SUMMARY

Speci?cation No.: RFP 12-00929
Vendor: 
225 West Randolph, 23C
Chicago, Illinois 60606
Contract Type: Professional Services
Base Contract Amount: 5 218,160 (Not-to-Exceed)
Base Contract Period: 3 Years (Service and Support)
Contract Tenn: Three (3) Years base term
Option Period: Two (2) One (1) Year Options
Solicitation Release Date: June 28, 2012
Days Advertised: 30
Addenda: 2

Publication(s): Chicago Sun-times, Chicago Defender, Extra

.23; - .-

Pre-Bid/Proposal Date: July 16, 2012

Solicitation Due Date: August 2, 2012
Vendor List: Twenty-Five (25)
Assist Agencies: Sixty-F our (64)
Pick-up List: orty-F our (44)
Respondents: Four (4)

Participation:

Direct:

MBE 
Indirect:

MBE 

Waiver: No (Yes/No)

Section 3: Not Applicable
Hiring Subcontracting (5) Other Economic Opportunities (S)

GENERAL BACKGROUND

From 2006 through 2010 the CHA had several audits and management reviews conducted that
focused on the ability to continue operations in the event of a disaster. KPMG performed
assessments of the business continuity and disaster recovery plans and a primary
facilities risk and vulnerability assessment. These reviews revealed many opportunities for
improvement in order for the CHA to successfully respond to an event and to provide continuity
to business operations. One signi?cant concern noted in the disaster recovery plan was
its backup data center?s close proximity to its primary data center. Industry best practices
recommend that a backup data center should be located a minimum of twenty-?ve (25) miles
from its main computing facility. The FIC location also lacked adequate cooling and
redundant power, which are critical components for backup data centers.

Requirements for the new disaster recovery site include:

0 Relocation of the current backup equipment

0 Establish a disaster recovery site twenty-?ve (25) miles from headquarters

0 Secure state-of-the-art backup recovery facility that will enable CHA to continue
business operations in the event of an emergency or extended outage.

0 Provision of reliable power, Internet access and adequate cooling

0 A site that is accessible and secure with high availability, scalability and 24/7 on-site
technical support

The Board action recommended in this item complies in all material respects with all applicable
Chicago Housing Authority Board policies and all applicable federal (HUD) procurement laws.

The EVP of Finance concurs with the recommendation to enter into a contract with for
rack space for the Disaster Recovery Site for three (3) years of service and support with two (2)
one (1) year service and support options in an amount not-to-exceed $218,160.

The CEO/President recommends the approval to enter into a contract with for the
Disaster Recovery Site for base term of three (3) years of service in an amount not-to-exceed
$218,160 with two (2) one (1) year options.

(Ha

.- Law-.35 

RESOL ION NO. 201 I-IA-7

WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the

memorandum dated February 13, 2013 titled TO ENTER
INTO A CONTRACT WITH TO PROVIDE DISASTER
RECOVERY CO-LOCATION 

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY

THAT,

the Board of Commissioners (?Board?) authorizes the Chief Executive Of?cer or
his designee to enter into a contract with for the disaster recovery eo-
location services for a three (3) year base term in an amount not-to-exceed
$218,160 with two (2) one (1) year options.

These awards are subject to each Contractor?s compliance with the 
Section 3 resident hiring, and bonding and insurance

requirements.


    

 

Van 5.3m): Sire.? 12:3 :3 mm. Pym-I." 212'

