MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING
OF THE
COMMISSIONERS OF THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
December 16, 2014
The Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority held its Regular Meeting of the Board of
Commissioners on Tuesday, December 16, 2014, at approximately 8:30 a.m. at the CHA
Corporate Offices, 60 E. Van Buren, 12th Floor Loft, in Chicago, IL.
Chairperson Z. Scott, called the meeting to order and upon roll call, those present and absent
were as follows:
Present:
Matthew Brewer
Mark Cozzi
Dr. Mildred Harris
Harriet Johnson
Jack Markowski
Z. Scott
Rodrigo Sierra
Francine Washington
Absent:

Bridget Reidy

Also present were Michael Merchant, Chief Executive Officer; Scott Ammarell, Chief Legal
Officer; Chicago Housing Authority Staff Members and the General Public.
There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as
follows:
Upon Motion made by Chairwoman Scott and properly seconded by Commissioner Harris, the
Commissioners adjourned to Executive Session. Chairwoman Scott announced that pursuant to
the Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2, the Board would adjourn for approximately one hour to
discuss personnel related matters; purchase, sale and lease of real estate property; pending,
probable or imminent litigation; review of closed meeting minutes; confidentiality review and
determination of closed meeting minutes and audit reviews.
The Commissioners subsequently reconvened in Open Session at approximately 12:25 p.m.
Chairwoman Scott called the meeting to order and upon roll call those present and absent were as
follows:
Present:
Matthew Brewer
Mark Cozzi
Dr. Mildred Harris
Harriet Johnson
Jack Markowski
Z. Scott
Francine Washington
1

 Absent:

Bridget Reidy
Rodrigo Sierra

There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as
follows:
After Motion made by Commissioner Brewer and properly seconded by Commissioner
Markowski the Minutes for the Regular and Closed meetings of October 7, October 21, and
November 18, 2014, were unanimously approved as submitted.
Pursuant to the Open Meeting Act 5 ILCS 120/2.06 under the exception 2(c)(21), the
Commissioners discussed in Closed Meeting the need for continued confidentiality with respect
to items consisting of verbatim transcripts of closed meetings, audio recordings of closed
meetings, and portions of the closed meeting minutes of the Board. The determination was made
that the need for confidentiality still exists as to the verbatim transcripts, the audio recordings,
and certain portions of the closed meeting minutes.
After motion made by Commissioner
Washington and properly seconded by Commissioner Harris board members unanimously voted
to retain the confidentiality of the verbatim transcripts, the audio recordings, and certain portions
of the Closed Meeting Minutes of the Board.
Committee Chair, Dr. Mildred Harris, then presented the report of the Tenant Services
committee. Per Commissioner Harris, the Tenant Services Committee held its regularly
scheduled meeting on Wednesday, December 9, 2014, at approximately 1:00 p.m. at the CHA’s
Corporate Offices, 12th Floor Loft. In addition to Commissioner Harris, the following committee
members were present as well: Commissioners Johnson, and Washington. Committee members
then discussed, voted, and recommended for approval the resolution for Item 1.
On behalf of the Tenant Services Committee, Commissioner Harris then presented a Motion for
approval of Item 1.
(Item 1)
The resolution for Item 1 approves a Funding Agreement between CHA and the CAC. A
Funding Agreement is required by HUD Regulations for funding provided by a housing
authority for a duly elected resident council. The Funding Agreement shall be used to fund tenant
participation activities (e.g. stipends, operating expenses) and for costs incurred in carrying out
tenant participation activities (e.g. expenses related to resident council elections).
RESOLUTION NO. 2014-CHA-117
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated December 10,
2014 entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO ENTER INTO A FUNDING
AGREEMENT WITH THE CENTRAL ADVISORY COUNCIL”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into a Funding Agreement with the Central Advisory Council in
an amount not-to-exceed $537,530 for the period of January 1, 2015 through
December 31, 2015.
2

 The Motion to adopt resolution for Item 1 was seconded by Commissioner Sierra and the voting
was as follows:
Ayes:
Mark Cozzi
Matthew Brewer
Dr. Mildred Harris
Harriet Johnson
Jack Markowski
Z. Scott
Francine Washington
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, Chairwoman Scott thereupon declared said Motion
carried and said resolution adopted.
In the absence of Committee Chair Bridget Reidy, Commissioner Markowski presented the
report for the Operations and Facilities Committee.
Per Commissioner Markowski, the
Operations and Facilities Committee meeting was held on December 9, 2014, at approximately
1:10 p.m. at the CHA’s Corporate Offices, 12th Floor Loft. In addition to Commissioner
Markowski, the following committee members were present as well: Commissioners Harris and
Washington. Commissioners Johnson and Brewer were present for this meeting but they are not
members of this committee and were not counted toward the quorum. Committee members then
discussed, voted, and recommended for Board approval Items 2 through 6.
On behalf of the Operations & Facilities Committee, Commissioner Markowski then presented
an Omnibus Motion for the approval of Items 2 through 6.
(Item 2)
In May 2014, a Request for Proposal (RFP) was released to solicit proposals from qualified
property management firms experienced in the management and operation of low-income,
subsidized, affordable, and/or public housing properties to provide property management
services for CHA property. In order to allow additional time for marketing of the RFP and
completion of the written proposals, CHA extended the due date from July 3, 2014 to September
3, 2014. In September 2014, HUD informed the CHA that the current MTW operating fund
formula will be transitioned to the standard operating fund formula in the future. This change
will have a significant impact on CHA operating funds. This information was unknown to CHA
or the respondents of the Property Management RFP at the time of proposal submission.
Because of this, more time is needed to allow respondents an opportunity to demonstrate how
they will ensure that CHA’s housing portfolio is safe, decent and sustainable in an environment
of reduced funding. As a consequence, the current contracts were extended to January 31, 2015
and the resolution for Item 2 approves the extension of the existing contracts. The CHA’s current
operating fund formula is governed by the MTW Agreement, which differs from the standard
operating fund formula. The CHA will be seeking HUD approval for this contract extensions
since the total term of these contracts will extend beyond five years.

3

 RESOLUTION NO. 2014-CHA-118
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated December 10,
2014 entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO EXTEND THE EXISTING PROPERTY
MANAGEMENT CONTRACTS AT CHA DEVELOPMENTS”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) or
his designee to extend the existing professional service agreement with Eastlake
Management Group, Inc., The Habitat Management Company, Hispanic Housing
Development Corporation, H. J. Russell & Company, and Woodlawn Community
Development Corporation for property management services at CHA, from
February 1, 2015 to June 30, 2015 for CHA Senior properties, and from February
1, 2015 to July 31, 2015 for Family, Scattered Sites and Mixed Income properties,
for an amount not to exceed $4,305,324 in property management fees, subject to
HUD approval.

(Item 3)
The resolution for Item 3 approves amendments to the Housing Choice Voucher (HCV)
Administrative Plan to provide the opportunity for Family Public Housing wait list applicants to
lease a unit with a Housing Choice Voucher and reorder the HCV wait list selection preferences.
Extending this opportunity to Family Public Housing wait list applicants is an effort to serve
those who have been waiting the longest before housing any new applicants from the October
2014 Wait list opening. Applicants who successfully lease a unit with a voucher will sign a
waiver that will remove them from the Family Public wait list. A 35-day public comment period
was conducted from October 27 through December 1, 2014. Announcements for the public
comment process appeared on CHA’s website and in the Chicago Defender, Chicago Sun-Times
and Hoy newspapers. During the public comment period, both residents and the public alike
were able to submit comments orally and in writing, regarding the amendments to the HCV
Administrative Plan. CHA also held a public hearing during the comment period on November
12. Prior to finalizing these amendments, the CHA gave consideration to comments received
during the public comment period.
RESOLUTION NO. 2014-CHA-119
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated November 17,
2014 entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO APPROVE AMENDMENTS TO THE
HOUSING CHOICE VOUCHER ADMINISTRATIVE PLAN“;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the amendments to the Housing
Choice Voucher Administrative Plan in the form substantially presented to the
Board.

THAT

the Chief Executive Officer, or his designee, is authorized to approve final
changes, including but not limited to, changes based on HUD requirements, or
resulting from any applicable notice and comment process. Such approval shall
constitute conclusive evidence of the Board’s approval of any and all such
changes.
4

 (Item 4)
The resolution for Item 4 approves Amendment No. 2 to Contract No. 11304 to increase the notto-exceed amount and modify organizational staffing with Gilbane Building Company for
Authority-wide Program/Construction Management Services in the amount of $1,721,181. The
purpose of Program/Construction Management Services is to augment Capital Construction
Department (CCD) staffing needs to support and manage the Authority's Plan Forward. Gilbane
will continue to support the Authority's Plan Forward, through Capital Planning, Capital
Maintenance needs, compliance with various Chicago Building Department codes/ordinances,
Quality Assurance and Quality Control, Design Sustainable projects, follow best construction
practices to meet programmatic needs of the Capital Program, construction safety, as well as
oversight of construction activities for both Mixed-Income and Unit Acquisition Program, a role
that was previously performed by the CHA's court appointed receiver, Habitat. Gilbane has
become an integral part of the CCD management team and has provided satisfactory service
during its base year, and the continuation of their construction management services continues to
be important to the timely achievement of the CHA’s Plan Forward. Gilbane and CHA have
reviewed Gilbane's staffing levels and have agreed to adjust them accordingly based on the
revised number of projected projects.
RESOLUTION NO. 2014-CHA-120
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated December 10,
2014 entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO EXECUTE AMENDMENT 2 TO
CONTRACT NO. 11304 TO INCREASE THE NOT-TO-EXCEED AMOUNT
AND MODIFY ORGANIZATIONAL STAFFING WITH GILBANE
BUILDING
COMPANY
FOR
AUTHORITY-WIDE
PROGRAM/CONSTRUCTION MANAGEMENT SERVICES”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute Amendment No. 2 to Contract No. 11304 with Gilbane
Building Company in the not-to-exceed amount of $1,721,181 for Option Year 1,
including not-to-exceed $1,686,181 in modifications to originally proposed
staffing levels, and an increase in the not-to-exceed amount for reimbursable of
$35,000, for the period of 12/1/14 to 7/9/15, to provide Authority Wide
Program/Construction Management Services.
The new aggregate total
compensation amount of the Contract for the base year and option year 1 will be
an amount not-to-exceed $9,878,698.
This award is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s
MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3, and insurance requirements

(Item 5)
The resolution for Item 5 approves Contract Modification in the amount of $82,050.09 for
Madison Construction Company for Life and Safety and Plumbing Riser Replacement at Lidia
Pucinska Apartments. The Contractor will provide the removal of ACM pipe fittings that were
found upon demolition of the existing wall for the hydronic return risers. The Contractor will
provide a new 125A MLO sub panel fed from an existing 100A breaker in LR panel and connect
new AC related loads into the new subpanel at 838 N. Noble because there was new electrical
added to the panel which caused the panel to be at its max load, after the contract was bid. The
Contractor will disconnect the existing ComEd feed to EM panel, provide new 200A breaker for
5

 new normal feed to ATS-3, new wiring from MSB to ATS-3, and new wiring from ATS-3 to
existing EM panel located in electrical closet near the ATS room at 847 N. Greenview because it
was discovered that the existing electrical connections do not meet code. The Capital
Construction Department has verified that the amount to perform the work by the contractor was
within an acceptable range of the CHA’s Independent Cost Estimate.   
 
RESOLUTION NO. 2014-CHA-121
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated December 10,
2014 entitled “APPROVAL OF A $82,050.09 CONTRACT MODIFICATION
FOR MADISON CONSTRUCTION COMPANY FOR LIFE AND SAFETY
AND PLUMBING RISER REPLACEMENT AT LIDIA PUCINSKA
APARTMENTS”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the attached Resolution to approve
an $82,050.09 contract modification for Madison Construction for the following
contract:

Current
Contract
Value

% of Contract - This
Change Order

Cumulative Change
Order Total

All Change Orders as a
Cumulative % of
Original Contract

Cumulative Amount
Over $100,000?

Madison Construction

Life Safety &
Plumbing Riser
Replacement @
Lidia Pucinska
Apts.

Original
Contract
Value

Contract Modifications
to be Approved
December Board)

Project

Contract

General Contractor

 

Revised
Contract
Amount

11270

$11,418,000.00

$14,879,383.22

$82,050.09

0.55%

$3,444,171.62

23.15%

Yes

$14,961,433.31

Total

 
This item is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s
MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 and insurance requirements.
(Item 6)
The resolution for Item 6 approves the Revised Authority’s Records Management Policy. The
purpose of the CHA Records Management Policy is to provide the Authority with formal
guidelines and governance related to the creation, maintenance and handling of CHA Records by
CHA staff and all CHA contractors or vendors who handle CHA records as part of their regular
duties and responsibilities. Administrative and technological changes since the implementation
of the prior policy have warranted revisions to the Policy to reaffirm its application to certain
activities performed by CHA contractors, including property managers, HCV administrators and
construction managers. The Policy is supplemented by the CHA’s Records Program and
Procedures and the CHA’s Record Retention Schedule, which is periodically updated and
submitted for regulatory approval to the Local Records Commission of Cook County (LRCCC),
6

$82,050.09

 the regional agency responsible for oversight of records management by local government
entities such as the CHA. The revisions are largely technical rather than substantive. The 2014
revision to the Policy will provide some grammatical updates and revised language pertaining to
titles, definitions, and other minor editorial changes.
RESOLUTION NO. 2014-CHA-122
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board letter dated December 10, 2014 entitled: “ADOPTION OF REVISED
RECORDS MANAGEMENT POLICY ”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Revised Records Management Policy (2014) is adopted.

THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer and his
designees to implement the Revised Records Management Policy (2014).

The Motion to adopt resolutions for Items 2 thru 6 was seconded by Commissioner Harris and
the voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Mark Cozzi
Matthew Brewer
Dr. Mildred Harris
Harriet Johnson
Jack Markowski
Z. Scott
Francine Washington
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, Chairwoman Scott thereupon declared said Motion
carried and said resolutions adopted.
Jack Markowski, Chairman of the Real Estate Development committee, then presented his report
Per Commissioner Markowski, the Real Estate Development Committee meeting was held on
Wednesday, December 9, 2014, at approximately 2:05 p.m. at the CHA Corporate Offices, 60 E.
Van Buren, 12th Floor Loft. Commissioner Markowski chaired the meeting and the following
committee members were present as well: Commissioners Brewer and Harris. Commissioners
Johnson and Washington were also present but were not counted as part of the quorum.
On behalf of the Real Estate Development Committee, Commissioner Markowski then presented
an Omnibus Motion for the approval of Items 7 through 9.
(Item 7)
The resolution for Item 7 approves submission of a Disposition Application to HUD for the
redevelopment of the Fannie Emanuel Senior Apartments and executes and delivers such other
documents and performs such actions as may be necessary or appropriate to implement the
foregoing. Fannie Emanuel, formerly Park View Apartments, is a CHA owned high-rise
building located at 3916 W. Washington St. in the West Garfield Park community on the City’s
West side. This 20 story high masonry structure was built in 1963 to house 181 apartment units.
The building was closed in 2007 due to significant mechanical system problems. CHA, acting as
7

 the developer, will redevelop this property for senior housing using a mix-finance approach to
leverage HUD funds with private equity. The building will be renovated to meet life safety,
accessibility and city energy code standards. It will provide senior residents with modern
conveniences, recreational spaces and a generous 2.5 acre landscaped site that includes active
walking paths, gardens and other activity areas. The Fannie Emanuel redevelopment will return
the original 181 quality housing units to CHA’s leasing portfolio. Most significant, it will
provide senior residents with a quality, safe and dignified housing. Subsequently, the project
will return to CHA’s Board in 2015 to request mixed finance transaction approvals.
RESOLUTION NO. 2014-CHA-123
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated December 10,
2014 entitled Authorization to submit a disposition application to the United
States Department of Housing and Urban Development (“HUD”) for the
redevelopment of the Fannie Emanuel Senior Apartments and to execute and
deliver such other documents and perform such actions as may be necessary or
appropriate to implement the foregoing.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to submit a disposition application to the United States Department of
Housing and Urban Development (“HUD”) for the redevelopment of the Fannie
Emanuel Senior Apartments and to execute and deliver such other documents and
perform such actions as may be necessary or appropriate to implement the
foregoing.

(Item 8)
The resolution for Item 8 approves an agreement to enter into a Housing Assistance Payments
Contract for 65th Infantry Regiment Veterans Housing. In February 2014, HUD announced the
availability of a set-aside of approximately $7 million in HUD-VASH funding that will support
approximately 1,000 units of project-based voucher (PBV) assistance. CHA submitted an
application for 65th Infantry and was awarded 48 project-based VASH vouchers in August 2014.
The 65th Infantry Regiment Veterans Housing is new construction of a four-story elevator
building containing 49 units in the West Town community area consisting of 24 one-bedroom,
13 two-bedroom and 12 three-bedroom units. All units with be VASH-assisted and for Veterans
with the exception of one two-bedroom unit for a live-in property manager. To retain the award,
the developer, Hispanic Housing Development Corporation, an Illinois not-for-profit corporation
(HHDC), must execute an AHAP and start construction by February 6, 2015. This development
will utilize a number of green features and amenities that will lower utility bills and help create a
healthy living environment, including Energy Star rated appliances, low VOC materials, and
improved insulation and air sealing. Building amenities include storage room allocating space for
each unit, laundry room, lobby, a live-in property manager, a community room, a fitness/exercise
area, business center with computers, and an outdoor patio with a residents’ garden. Additional
amenities include secured bicycle parking, an equipped sports court, garden plots and on-site car
sharing through I-Go. Supportive services will be provided by Norwegian American Hospital
(NAH) along with Jesse Brown VA Medical Center (JBVAMC). Provided services include job
training, legal assistance, peer support groups, educational programming, computer training,
addiction counseling and mental health support. The development will use Housing First
approach where chronically homeless or vulnerable homeless individuals and families will be
provided immediate access to housing and then offered the supportive services that may be
8

 needed to foster long term stability and prevent a return to homelessness. HHDC, established in
1976, is a not-for-profit community development corporation, which develops, builds, and
manages affordable housing in Chicago-metro communities with sizable Latino and minority
residents. Initial contract rents will be determined by market comparables and fair market rents
applicable at the time the HAP contract is executed. All rent determinations will comply with
federal regulations and CHA policy. JBVAMC will screen homeless veterans for clinical
eligibility. Those applicants will then be referred to CHA to determine HUD-VASH eligibility.
CHA will refer homeless Veterans from its wait list to JBVAMC
RESOLUTION NO. 2014-CHA-124
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board letter dated December 10, 2014 requesting authorization to execute an
AHAP and HAP contract for 65th Infantry Regiment Veterans Housing;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute an AHAP and HAP contract for 65th Infantry Regiment
Veterans Housing.

(Item 9)
The resolution for Item 9 approves an Agreement to enter into a Housing Assistance Payments
Contract (AHAP) for Access Housing. In July 2013, the Board approved a preliminary
commitment letter with Home First Illinois, LLC (HFI). HFI has obtained the necessary funds
from Illinois Development Housing Authority (IHDA) to develop 54 total units, 38 of which will
be PRA-assisted, 12 will receive rental subsidy from the State Mental Health Division, and 4 will
have reduced rents via the IHDA Trust Fund program for people at or below 15% AMI. The
project will be a combination of substantial rehabilitation and new construction on vacant lots or
on parcels where existing buildings will be demolished. HFI has acquired 25 total scattered sites
in Logan Square, Hermosa, Humboldt Park and West Town. Of these, 7 sites are vacant lots, 6
sites have properties to be demolished and 12 sites have 2 or 3-flats to be rehabbed. After
construction, the development will consist of 21 two-flats plus one coach house, 2 three-flats, 1
four-flat and 1 two-flat with a residential unit on the second level and a property management
office on the first floor, which is currently zoned for commercial use on the ground floor. Each
of the 13 newly constructed buildings will have ADA accessible units at grade level. The PRA
mix will be comprised of 11 one-bedroom and 27 two-bedroom units. These units will count
toward CHA’s 200-unit Section 811 commitment to the State. HFI, a subsidiary of IFF, an
Illinois not-for-profit corporation, was created to develop and own supportive housing for very
low-income people with disabilities. HFI is the owner of Illinois Accessible Housing Initiative
Phase I & II, which consists of 45 scattered condo units. All 20 units in Phase I are now leased
and occupied under a PRA HAP contract. Phase II is underway and expected to be complete in
the first quarter of 2015. The units will be managed by Affordable Property Management
Specialists, which has been in business since 2006. It is the intent of the owner/manager of
Access Housing to lease all of the PRA-assisted units to disabled applicants that are Olmstead
Class Members referred through the State of Illinois. Any applicants that are also on CHA’s
waiting list will be given a priority preference.

9

 RESOLUTION NO. 2014-CHA-125
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board letter dated December 10, 2014 requesting authorization to execute an
AHAP and HAP contract for Access Housing;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute an AHAP and HAP contract for Access Housing.

The Motion to adopt resolutions for Items 7 through 9 was seconded by Commissioner Cozzi
and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Mark Cozzi
Matthew Brewer
Dr. Mildred Harris
Harriet Johnson
Jack Markowski
Z. Scott
Francine Washington

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, Chairwoman Scott thereupon declared said Motion
carried and said resolutions adopted.
Committee Chair, Mark Cozzi, then presented the report for the Finance & Personnel
Committee.
Per Commissioner Cozzi, the Finance & Personnel Committee meeting was held
on Wednesday, December 9, 2014, at approximately 2:25 p.m. at the CHA Corporate Offices, 60
E. Van Buren, 12th Floor Loft. Present at the meeting were Commissioners Brewer, Johnson and
Markowski. Commissioner Washington was also present; however, she was not counted toward
the quorum. Committee members subsequently adjourned to closed session to discuss Item 11
and then returned to open session and approved Items 10, and 11. Item 11 was also discussed in
today’s closed meeting.
On behalf of the Finance & Personnel Committee, Commissioner Cozzi then presented an
Omnibus Motion for the approval of Items 10 and 11.
(Item 10)
The resolution for Item 10 approves the FY2015 Comprehensive Budget. The FY2015
Comprehensive Budget totaling $976.4 million includes the following fund categories: MTW
Fund. Total revenue for FY2015 is $955.3 million. The MTW Fund combines the Low-Rent,
Capital and Section 8 programs into a block grant as allowed by HUD under the Amended and
Restated MTW agreement. Total MTW Fund revenues consist of Dwelling Rental Income,
Interest Income, Capital Grant Funds, Housing Assistance Subsidy, Operating Subsidy, MTW
Reserves and Other Income. Section 8 Fund (Non-MTW). Total revenue for this program is
$16.1 million. These contracts provide appropriations for approximately 1,277 of Mod Rehab
vouchers, 685 Veteran's Affairs Supportive Housing (VASH) vouchers, and 50 Mainstream
vouchers for housing assistance based on annual contributions contracts from HUD. Hope VI
10

 Fund. Total revenue equals $3.3 million. These funds are used to support relocation,
revitalization, community and supportive services programs. Other Funds. Total revenue is
$1.6 million. Revenue consists of federal and local grants that will be used to enhance or
augment funding for critical programs and services that the CHA provides to its residents. The
estimated sum of all revenues for FY2015 plus the amount of FY2014 fund balance available for
appropriation in FY2015 is equal to the estimated sum of all expenditures to be made/incurred
during FY2015 and any unpaid liabilities at the beginning of FY2015.
RESOLUTION NO. 2014-CHA-126
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board letter dated December 10,
2014, entitled “APPROVAL OF THE FY2015 COMPREHENSIVE BUDGET”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners, hereby approves the attached “FY2015
COMPREHENSIVE BUDGET” and finds with respect to said Budget:
1.

2.

3.

THAT,

that the proposed expenditures are necessary for the efficient and economical
operation of the Chicago Housing Authority for the purpose of serving lowincome families;
that the financial plan is reasonable in that it indicates funding sources
adequate to cover all proposed expenditures, and does not provide for use of
Federal funding in excess of that payable under the provisions of the
applicable Federal regulations; and
that all proposed rental charges and expenditures will be consistent with
provisions of law and the Annual Contributions Contract in accordance with
the Amended and Restated Moving To Work Demonstration Agreement of the
Chicago Housing Authority with the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development.
the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer are authorized to execute
and forward to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development all
necessary budget documents and supporting information when applicable.

(Item 11)
The resolution for Item 11 ratifies the following employment actions: 4 offers of employment to
applicants for the positions of Senior Procurement Specialist; Procurement Specialist; Outreach
Coordinator and Improving Properties Initiative Supervisor; and 1 reclassification of employee
to the position of Manager, HCV Policy & Accountability. The CEO certifies that all these
actions were properly vetted and evaluated pursuant to established CHA protocols.
RESOLUTION NO. 2014–CHA-127
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated December 10,
2014, entitled “Approval of Personnel Actions”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the requested personnel actions.

11

 The Motion to adopt resolutions for Items 10 and 11 was seconded by Commissioner Markowski
and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Mark Cozzi
Matthew Brewer
Dr. Mildred Harris
Harriet Johnson
Jack Markowski
Z. Scott
Francine Washington
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, Chairwoman Scott thereupon declared said Motion
carried and said resolutions adopted.
(Item 12)
The resolution for Item 12 approves the 2014 Revised Public Participation Rules for Board and
Committee Meetings. The rules for Board meetings were last revised on August 15, 2013, and
the rules for Committee meetings were last revised on August 4, 2011. The purpose of the public
participation rules is to provide residents and interested persons with the opportunity to comment
on issues or topics that are within the purview of the Board or Committee, as the case may be.
The proposed revisions to the public participation rules include the following:  consolidation of
Board and Committee meeting rules; on-line registration in advance of meetings for persons who
would like to address the Board or Committee; group presentations; cumulative limit of 60
minutes for public comment and provisions for written comments submitted to the Board.
RESOLUTION NO. 2014-CHA-128
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board letter dated December 10, 2014 entitled: “ADOPTION OF 2014
REVISED PUBLIC PARTICIPATION RULES FOR BOARD AND
COMMITTEE METINGS”

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE
CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY, COOK COUNTY, ILLINOIS AS FOLLOWS:
THAT,

the 2014 Revised Public Participation Rules for Board and Committee Meetings
in substantially the form attached hereto as Exhibit A are adopted.

The Motion to adopt resolutions for Items 10 and 11 was seconded by Commissioner Markowski
and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Mark Cozzi
Matthew Brewer
Dr. Mildred Harris
Harriet Johnson
Jack Markowski
Z. Scott
Francine Washington
Nays:

None
12

 There being no questions or discussion, Chairwoman Scott thereupon declared said Motion
carried and said resolutions adopted.
Michael Merchant, Chief Executive Officer then presented his monthly report to the
Commissioners.
Chairwoman Scott then invited residents and the public at large to address the Board.
There being no further business to come before the Commissioners, upon Motion made and
seconded, the Regular board meeting of December 16, 2014, was adjourned at approximately
1:10 p.m.

s/b:

s/b:

Lee Chuc-Gill, Secretary
Custodian and Keeper of Records

13

Z. Scott
Chairwoman, Chicago Housing Authority

 