REGULAR MEETING
OF
THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
Wentworth Gardens Fieldhouse
3770 South Wentworth, Chicago, Illinois
Tuesday, June 16, 2015
8:30 a.m.

AGENDA
I.

Roll Call

II.

Closed Meeting

Commissioners will vote on whether to go into closed meeting pursuant to the Open
Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2, to possibly discuss matters under the following exceptions:
personnel related matters under (c)(1); purchase, sale and lease of real estate property
under (c)(5) and (c)(6); pending/imminent/probable litigation under (c)(11); review of
closed meeting minutes under (c)(21) and audit reviews under (c)(29).

III.

Open Session - Roll Call

IV.

Centering Thoughts – Commissioner Mildred Harris

V.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes for May 19, 2015.

VI.

Presentation of Resolutions and Committee Reports
Tenant Services Committee Report – Mildred Harris, Chairwoman
1.
Recommendation to enter into a contract with the Chicago Cook Workforce
Partnership to provide Employment Training and Placement Services in the amount
of $430,000 for one year base term, with three one-year options in the total
agreement amount of $1,720,000 – Ellen Sahli, Chief Housing Officer; Mary Howard,
Deputy Chief Housing Officer, Resident Services
Operations and Facilities Committee Report – Bridget Reidy, Chairwoman
2.
Authorization to award contract for Façade Replacement at the Daniel Burnham
Apartments. Recommended Awardee: B.E.T.O.N. Construction Company in the firm
fixed amount of $3,554,312.50 – Eugene Jones, Chief Property Officer; Rod Thomas,
Deputy Chief, Capital Construction Department
3.

Authorization to approve contract modifications for various CHA Projects with the
following contractors: All Chicago in the amount of $154,368 and Old Veteran
Construction in the amount of $2,830,611 for a cumulative total of $2,984,979 –
Eugene Jones, Chief Property Officer; Rod Thomas, Deputy Chief, Capital Construction
Department

 4.

Authorization to exercise second option year and execute an amendment to increase
the not-to-exceed amount of Contract No. 11304 with Gilbane Building Company for
Authority-wide Program/Construction Management Services for a not-to-exceed
amount of $10,389,237 – Eugene Jones, Chief Property Officer; Rod Thomas, Deputy
Chief, Capital Construction Department

5.

Authorization to execute a third amendment to the office space lease by and between
A Safe Haven Foundation and CHA for a third extension to the Lease Agreement notto-exceed $164,549 – Ellen Sahli, Chief Housing Officer; Katie Ludwig, Deputy Chief
Housing Officer

6.

Ratification and acceptance of a grant award from HUD in the amount of $248,845
from the Emergency Safety and Security Program and increase the Asset Management
Department Budget for FY2015 accordingly – Linda Riley Mitchell, Chief Financial
Officer; Margaret Jones, Director, Grant Administration

7.

Authorization to enter into two year Service and Support Agreements with one year
options with Yardi, Infor, Oracle, Knowledgelake, SourceCode and Salesforce.com for
Maintenance and Support Services for their respective software and systems for a
three year total aggregate amount not-to-exceed $4,424,000 – José R. Alvarez, Chief
Administrative Officer; Bryan Land, Senior Vice President, Information Technology

8.

Authorization to proceed with the CHA's Pilot Section 3 Grant Program in the amount
of $750,000 – Scott Ammarell, Chief Legal Officer; Jessica Mallon, Section 3
Administrator

Real Estate Development Report – Jack Markowski, Chairman
9.
Authorization to select the Community Builders, Inc. and McCaffery Interests, Inc. as
the Development Team for the Redevelopment of Harold Ickes Homes; enter into a
contract for Redevelopment with the Development Team and perform such actions as
may be necessary to implement the foregoing – Eugene Jones, Chief Property Officer;
Maya Hodari, Development Manager
10.

Authorization to enter into a Purchase and Sales Agreement with Academy for Global
Citizenship; dispose of the CHA Land by negotiated sale pursuant to the Purchase and
Sale Agreement and execute such other documents as may be necessary – Eugene
Jones, Chief Property Officer; Thomas Worthy, Development Manager

11.

Authorization to execute a Preliminary Commitment Letter for the Carling Hotel –
Eugene Jones, Chief Property Officer; Jolene Saul, Director, PRA & Acquisitions

12.

Authorization to execute a Preliminary Commitment Letter for the Marshall Hotel –
Eugene Jones, Chief Property Officer; Jolene Saul, Director, PRA & Acquisitions
2

 Finance & Personnel Committee Report – Mark Cozzi, Chairman
13.
Personnel Actions – José R. Alvarez, Chief Administrative Officer

General Item
14.
Appointment of Eugene E. Jones, Jr. as Acting Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of the
Chicago Housing Authority (CHA) effective June 17, 2015 – José R. Alvarez, Chief
Administrative Officer
VII.

Appreciation Presentation to Michael Merchant – Z. Scott, Chairwoman

VIII.

Report from Chief Executive Officer – Michael Merchant

IX.

Public Participation

X.

Adjournment

3

 