CHANGE.

AUW 

 

August 15,2012 ITEM NO. B4

AUTHORIZATION TO EXECUTE A TASK ORDER CONTRACT WITH
CONSTRUCTION COST SYSTEMS, INC. FOR PROFESSIONAL CONSTRUCTION
COST ESTIMATING SERVICES - CHA WIDE

To the Honorable Board of Commissioners:

RECOMMENDATION
It is recommended that the Board of Commissioners authorize the Chief Executive Of?cer or his
designee to execute a task order contract with Construction Cost Systems, Inc. (CCS) for
professional construction cost estimating services for various Chicago Housing Authority (CHA)
development deals in the amount not-to-exceed (NTE) $300,000, as the total for two (2) year
contract capacity. The contract duration will be comprised of one (1) year base term with an
option to extend the contract for an additional year.

FUNDING
Funding: General Fund

RFP Number: RFP 12-00905
Contract Type: Professional Services
Contract Time: One (1) Base Year (2012-2013) plus

One (1) One-Year Option (2014)
Date Advertised: March 28, 2012
Pre-Proposal Conference: April 5, 2012
Addendum No. 1 Issued: April 16, 2012
Date Pmposals Opened: April 23, 2012
Advertisement Publication(s): CHA website

BuySpeed Online

Number of Vendors Solicited: 48 (including 14 ?rms)
Number of Assist Agencies: 64

Number of Pick-ups: 38 (including 14 ?rms)
Number of Proposals Received: 3 (including 1 MBE ?rm)
Contract Amount: 300,000 Not-to-Exceed

Participation and Section 3: This is a Task Order Contract, therefore
and Section 3 opportunities will be met on each Task Order based on the total
dollar value. Task Order af?davits are on ?le for each vendor.

GENERAL BACKGROUND
The CHA is required by HUD regulations to undertake a third party construction cost estimate
whenever the general contractor is owned by the developer, an ?identity of interest? relationship.
The process of addressing ?identity of interest? is performed whenever the CHA contemplates

65? Van Duran Straw! - acreage, 59605-1207 - (3 if 74f-85i?0 - m?ram?morg

providing a loan for the development of housing. This process reviews and analyzes non-arm?s
length aspects of the transaction to identify and address any resulting adverse costs/pricing. In
the past the Habitat Company as court appointed receiver procured and managed construction
cost estimators for the evaluation of construction projects at several mixed income sites. With
the approaching termination of receivership, the Of?ce of Development Management 
will assume similar responsibility and manage construction cost estimators to evaluate its
upcoming large housing development transactions in addition to construction cost estimates for
smaller rehabilitation projects. The independent cost estimating assists in cost control as well as
validates the contribution of funds into the development deal.

Construction Cost Estimating Services will allow ODM to have a third party perspective on
construction costs at various project begin developed, designed and constructed to determine
reasonableness of the costs being proposed by the Developer.

This contract will support approximately ??een (15) to twenty (20) Development proposals over
the next two (2) years.

A professional construction cost estimator gives the CHA the opportunity to maintain a third
party professional ?rm under contract at pre?established hourly rates. Whenever the CHA
determines that it needs a third party cost estimate, it will request that the awardee provide a
proposal for the estimate. The proposed fee is subject to negotiation as to the number of hours
required. After an acceptable cost for the work is reached, a task order will be issued to proceed
with the work. In some instances the costs for this professional service will be included in
Development budgets for reimbursement to CHA.

The CHA solicited proposals from professional construction cost estimator services ?rms
(?Respondents?) to propose fees for all necessary construction cost estimating services related to
construction activities of existing dwelling buildings, or portions thereof, non?dwelling facilities
and new construction of dwelling and non-dwelling properties. This includes, but is not limited
to, cost estimating, bid evaluation, special cost reports, cost-bene?t analyses, value engineering
and claims analysis. The Cost Estimator?s work will be directed by ODM beginning in 2012.
Task Orders under the contract may be assigned for an aggregate total not-to-exceed the
$300,000 two (2) years of contract capacity. The contract duration will be comprised of one (1)
year base term with the option to extend the contract for an additional year.

PROCUREMENT HISTORY
The CHA advertised Request for Proposal No. 12-00905 (RFP) for professional construction
cost estimating services on March 28, 2012. The RFP was on website and BuySpeed
Online. Forty?eight (48) vendors were directly solicited including fourteen (14) 
firms and the RFP was downloaded by thirty-eight (38) ?rms. A Pre Proposal Conference was
held on April 5, 2012. One (1) addendum was issued on April 16, 2012 which provided potential
Respondents with clari?cation to questions regarding the RF P.

Three (3) proposals were received on April 23, 2012. The proposals were deemed responsive
and were evaluated by the evaluation committee. After the committee completed its analysis of
the proposals, the Contracting Of?cer set the competitive range and all three (3) ?rms scored
within that range. Oral presentations, clari?cations and negotiations were held with the ?rms
that scored within the competitive range and the best and ?nal offers were submitted. Based

pl 7 . .4 I
v.9 em.? - winters: n?

upon the evaluation of the written proposals, oral presentations, and best and ?nal offers, it was
determined that Construction Cost Systems, Inc. (CCS) will provide the best value to the CHA.

Based on the foregoing, it is in the best interest of the CHA to execute a contract for Professional
Construction Services - CHA wide with Construction Cost Systems, Inc., in an amount not-to-
exceed (NTE) $300,000.00, as the total for two (2) year contract capacity. The contract duration
will be comprised of one (1) year base term with the option to extend the contract for an
additional year.

The award is subject to the Contractor?s compliance with the Section 3
resident hiring, and bonding and insurance requirements.

RESOLUTION NO. 2012-CHA-64

WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated August 15,

2012, entitled T0 EXECUTE A TASK ORDER
CONTRACT WITH CONSTRUCTION COST SYSTEMS, INC. FOR
PROFESSIONAL CONSTRUCTION COST ESTIMATING SERVICES - CHA


THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY

THAT

the Board of Commissioners (?Board?) authorizes the Chief Executive Of?cer or
his designee to award a task order contract with Construction Cost Systems, Inc.
(CCS) for professional construction cost estimating services for various Chicago
Housing Authority (CHA) development deals in the amount not-to-exceed (N TE)
$300,000, as the total for two (2) year contract capacity. The contract duration
will be comprised of one (1) year base term with an option to extend the contract
for an additional year.

These awards are subject to each Contractor?s compliance with the 
Section 3 resident hiring, and bonding and insurance
requirements.

l?leE/I?

   

 

r. - Irv; rv 
?u 5:2: traits - 35: L- - 

