May 9, 2012 ITEM NO. C4

RECOMMENDATION TO EXERCISE THE SECOND ONE YEAR OPTION OF
CONTRACT NO. 9036 WITH EMPLOYMENT AND EMPLOYER SERVICES TO
PROVIDE WORKFORCE SERVICES FOR CI-IA RESIDENTS

To the Honorable Board of Commissioners:

REQQNIMENDATION

It is recommended that the Board of Commissioners (?Board?) authorize the Chief Executive
Officer or his designee to exercise the second one-year option of Contract No. 9036 with
Employment Employer Services for the period of June 15, 2012 through June 30,
2013 and to increase the Contract?s funding by an amount not-to-exceed $825,000 to provide
workforce services for CHA residents. The Contract?s new aggregate not-to-exceed
compensation amount will be $3,173,431.

FUNDING SUMMARY
General Fund
Vendor: Employment Employer Services
Address: 208 South LaSalle Street, Suite 1628
Chicago, IL 60604
Contract Type: Professional Services
Contract Number: 9036
Original Contract: $1,129,680 June 15, 2009 through June 14, 2011
Amendment No. l: 178,600 June 1, 2010 through September 30, 2010
Amendment No. 2: 98,151 February 1, 2011 through June 14, 2011
First Option Year: 5 942,000 June 15, 2011 through June 14, 2012
Second Option Year: 5 825,000 June 15, 2012 through June 30, 2013
Aggregate Total: $3,173,431

Participation (Orig al Modification):
2_0% MBE DBE (MBE based on non-personnel budget)

Section 3: 2 Hiring (S) Subcontracting Other Economic Opportunities

EXPLANATION
Resident Services is seeking to exercise the second one-year option of Contract No. 9036 (the
?Contract?) with to provide workforce services for a minimum of 138 CHA residents and
Housing Choice Voucher participants. The Transitional Jobs program offered by 
is aligned with corporate strategies of helping families maximize their potential and,
when ready, move towards economic independence and begin the transition out of public
housing. The Contract with is currently the only TJ program speci?cally for CHA
residents who have little to no work history. Other ?mded TJ programs in the city of Chicago
have speci?c target populations ex-offender, homeless). This speci?c type of program

needs to continue in order to address the needs of this population, while Resident Services
develops business plans through Plan 2.0 to rede?ne future services.

Transitional Jobs Fromm Model
The Transitional Jobs model is designed to address the employment needs of individuals who

possess little or no work history. has distinct differences from other jobs programs, including
focusing on supportive services and literacy, with assistance transitioning to unsubsidized
employment and subsequent retention support. TJ programs are intentionally designed to
provide job experience and supportive services to participants who lack the employability skills
needed to successfully attach to the workforce.

Subsidized opportunities provide a mutually bene?cial relationship for the worker and the
employer. Workers gain on-the-job experience while continuing to receive job coaching,
retention services and supportive services. These experiences help participants understand the
expectations of the work environment, relationships between subordinates and supervisors and
con?ict resolution. The supportive services and wage subsidies have proven to be an attractive
opportunity for employers who are able to hire new employees with little risk. The ultimate goal
of TJ is to transition workers into unsubsidized positions with the same or different employer.

Resident Services has successfully implemented TJ programs since 2006. CHA has also
participated in the success of TJ programs contracted through Opportunity Chicago, the 
collaborative employment program between CHA, the city of Chicago and the Partnership for
New Communities (PNC). Opportunity Chicago, which was always intended to be time-limited,
officially ended in December 2010. As part of its conclusion, Abt Associates and the Center for
Urban Economic Development at the University of Illinois completed research on the TJ
programs implemented by CHA and PNC. Since 2006, nearly 1,800 CHA residents with little or
no work history participated in TJ programs. Participant outcomes included, but were not
limited to:

90% engaged in Job Readiness Training (JRT) to improve soft skills and prepare

themselves for work;

70% engaged in subsidized jobs;

80% were placed in subsidized jobs transitioned to unsubsidized employment;

91% placed in unsubsidized placements were retained for at least 30 days and 62% were
retained for at least one year;

0 Participants with some work experience prior to entering the program experienced a 37%
increase in quarterly earnings a?er program completion.

0 Participants? employment following program exit concentrated in four primary
industries, including Health Care and Social Assistance Administrative and
Support Services Retail Trade and Accommodation and Food Services
These sectors rank among the Chicago region?s high-demand sectors.

In 2011, CHA also piloted a literacy component into its existing TJ contracts for residents with
reading levels between 6th and 8 grade, using grant funding from PNC. Each program
demonstrated success, with an average increase of 3.2 grade levels in reading and 4.3 grade
levels in math over a 12-week period.

Transitional Jobs Program

During the second option year, will provide a minimum of 75 hours of JRT and literacy
training, focusing on speci?c customer service skills training. Participants will engage in 25
hours of JRT the ?rst week of the program, and then in additional literacy and customer service
training throughout the subsidized placement period. JRT and literacy training will include, but
not be limited to, resume development, interviewing skills, ?nancial literacy and con?ict
resolution. During the TJ program, participants will have the opportunity to meet with
employers ?om high-demand sectors customer service), as well as past transitional jobs
participants currently working in these industries.

Following the initial ?rst week of JRT, the program will include subsidized placements for 138
participants. Subsidized placements on average will last ten (10) weeks, although participants
may stay longer based upon individual skill level and quali?cations. will utilize its
existing relationships with employers to place both subsidized and unsubsidized workers in
positions that match their interest, existing skill level and provide the opportunity for
professional and personal growth.

Building on the success of the 2011 literacy pilot, will continue to provide literacy
services using literacy trainers and an interactive computer-based learning program (Aztec
Learning Program). Participants receive transportation assistance during the JRT session and
will receive the current hourly minimum wage rate during any subsidized placement. Participant
wages and supports for participants account for approximately 49% of the budget for this
program. During the second option term, will be able to provide transitional jobs services
to a minimum of 138 residents who possess little or no work history.

Contract Backmund
was selected through a competitive procurement in 2009 to provide the TJ program and is

also a contracted case management provider for FamilyWorks program. 
consistently exceeds its contract performance outcomes and provides a high quality of service for
CHA residents. has 30 years of experience placing Chicagoland residents in jobs that
match their skill set and career interests.

In May 2009, the Board authorized CHA to enter into the Contract with for a two (2) year
base-term with two (2) one-year options to provide a Transitional Jobs program for CHA
residents. In August 2010, the Board authorized CHA to amend the Contract to coordinate
employment opportunities and place youth in subsidized employment opportunities with funding
from the Chicago Department of Family and Support Services In January 2011, the
Board authorized CHA to amend the Contract to provide literacy services to T1 participants with
funding from the Partnership for New Communities. In May 2011, the Board authorized CHA to
exercise the ?rst one?year option with extending the Contract through June 14, 2012.

Throughout the Contract, has been successful in providing literacy services to participants
and placing residents in permanent, unsubsidized jobs. During the ?rst ten (10) months of this
option year, has provided RT and literacy training to program participants, including 60
residents who increased their math level by at least two (2) grade levels (133% of contract goal)
and 31 residents who increased their reading level by at least two (2) grade levels (69% of
contract goal). To date, has also placed 53 participants in unsubsidized positions (82% of
contract goal). will continue to work with engaged participants through the end of the
contract term in order to exceed each of their contract goals.

In 2011, CHA also requested that facilitate Summer Food placements as part of this
Contract was responsible for the selection, placement, supervision and wage
administration for residents who worked as nutrition aides during the 11 week Summer Food

program'.

Resident Services desires to exercise the second and ?nal one-year option for the period of June
15, 2012 through June 30, 2013. As the only Transitional Jobs program exclusively for CHA
residents, this extension will allow to continue providing the Transitional Jobs program
for a minimum of 138 residents with little to no work history to receive JRT, literacy services,
placement in subsidized and unsubsidized jobs and employment retention services. Continuing
this speci?c type of program is necessary to address the needs of this population as Resident
Services rede?nes future services and business plans through Plan 2.0.

Conclusion

Based upon the foregoing, it is in the best interest of CHA to authorize the Chief Executive
Of?cer, or his designee, to exercise the second one-year option of Contract No. 9036 with
Employment Employer Services for the period of June 15, 2012 through June 30, 2013 and to
increase the Contract?s funding by an amount not-to?exceed $825,000 to provide workforce
services for CHA residents. The Contract?s new aggregate not-to-exceed compensation amount
will be $3,173,431.

 

1n the fall of 2011 CHA released a separate RFP to secure a contractor who would operate both the Summer Food
and Golden Diner programs. The selected vendor was approved by the Board of Commissioners in January 2012.

RESOLUTION NO. 2012-CHA-41

WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the

Board Letter dated May 9, 2012, entitled TO
EXERCISE THE SECOND ONE YEAR OPTION OF CONTRACT NO. 9036
WITH EMPLOYMENT AND EMPLOYER SERVICES TO PROVIDE
WORKFORCE SERVICES FOR CHA 

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY

THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Of?cer or his
designee to exercise the second one-year option of Contract No. 9036 with
Employment Employer Services for the period of June 15, 2012 through June
30, 2013 and to increase the Contract?s funding by an amount not?to-exceed
$825,000 to provide workforce services for CHA residents. The Contract?s new
aggregate not-to-cxceed compensation amount will be $3,173,431.

 

 

Bird oi Commissionm

