MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING

OF THE

COMMISSIONERS OF THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
June 19, 2007
The Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority held its Regular Meeting on Tuesday,
June 19, 2007, at 8:30 a.m. at the Lincoln Perry Apartments, 3245 South Prairie, Chicago,
Illinois.
Chairperson Nesbitt called the meeting to order and upon roll call, those present and absent were
as follows:
Present:
Martin Nesbitt
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Bridget O’Keefe
Carlos Ponce
Mary Wiggins
Absent:

Hallie Amey
Sandra Young

Also present were Sharon Gist Gilliam, Chief Executive Officer, Adrienne Minley, Chief of
Staff; Jorge Cazares, General Counsel; Chicago Housing Authority Staff Members and the
General Public.
There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as
follows:
Sharon Gist Gilliam, Chief Executive Officer, then presented her monthly report. Ms. Gilliam
commenced her report by reiterating the importance of children having structured and organized
activities this summer. Ms. Gilliam then listed the various programs available to CHA residents
free of charge or at minimal fees. Ms. Gilliam then highlighted events hosted by the CHA which
included Service Fairs at Trumbull, Partner Appreciation Awards and the announcement by
Mayor Daley of the opening of the Senior Waiting List.
The Chairperson then convened the Public Hearing portion of the meeting by inviting residents
and the public at large to address the Board.
Immediately following the Public Hearing portion of the meeting, a Motion was introduced and
seconded to adjourn to Executive Session. The Chairperson announced that pursuant to the
Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2, the Board would adjourn for approximately one (1) hour to
discuss pending, probable or imminent litigation, collective negotiating matters, security and
personnel matters.
The Commissioners subsequently reconvened in Open Session and Chairman Nesbitt thereupon
introduced the Resolutions discussed in Executive Session and approval of Meeting Minutes.
Upon Motion made by Commissioner Harris, properly seconded by Commissioner Gates and
carried, Executive Session Minutes for the following Meetings were unanimously approved:
November 21, 2006
December 19, 2006
January 16, 2007
February 20, 2007
March 20, 2007
April 17, 2007
May 15,2007

1

 Also approved were the following Board Minutes for the Meetings of:
Special Meeting of July 28, 2006
Special Meeting of March 20, 2007
Special Meeting of April 13 and 14, 2007
Regular Meeting of April 17, 2007
Regular Meeting of May 15, 2007
Commissioner Harris then presented an Omnibus Motion to approve resolutions for Executive
Session Items 1and 2.
Executive Session Item 1
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-69
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated June 4, 2007, requesting that the Board of Commissioners
approves the Personnel Actions Report for May 2007.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the Personnel Actions Report for
May 2007.

Executive Session Item 2
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-70
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated June 11, 2007,
requesting authorization to enter into a settlement agreement pursuant to which St.
Paul Fire & Marine Insurance Company will pay the CHA the amount of
$150,000 in the matter CHA v. Admiral Insurance Co., et al., 04 CH 12868, for
the termination of the CHA’s rights under the excess insurance policy provided by
St. Paul Fire & Marine Insurance Company to the CHA,
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the General Counsel, or his designee, to
enter into a settlement agreement pursuant to which St. Paul Fire & Marine
Insurance Company will pay the CHA the amount of $150,000 in exchange for
the termination of the CHA’s rights under the insurance policy provided by St.
Paul Fire & Marine Insurance Company as part of a settlement of the case of CHA
v. Admiral Insurance Co., et al., 04 CH 12868, subject to approval by the U.S.
Department of Housing and Urban Development.

The Motion to adopt resolutions for Executive Session Items 1 and 2 was seconded by
Commissioner Gates and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Martin Nesbitt
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Bridget O’Keefe
Carlos Ponce
Mary Wiggins

Nays:

None

The Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried and said Resolutions adopted.
In the absence of Committee Chair Young, Commissioner Ivers presented her monthly report.
Per Commissioner Ivers, the Tenant Services Committee Meeting was held on Wednesday, June
13, 2007 at 1:00 p.m. at the 60 East Van Buren Corporate Offices. Mark Plummer, Director of

2

 Community Development and representatives from the Chicago Park District presented the
Committee with a report on summer opportunities for CHA Youths.
Commissioner Ivers then introduced an Omnibus Motion for the adoption of Resolutions for
Items A1 thru A3, discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Tenant Services
Committee.
(Item A1)
The resolution for Item A1 approves ratification of acceptance of a Grant for the Summer Food
Program in the amount of $3,134,109.05 and ratifies a contract with Open Kitchens, Inc. to
provide food services for the Program. The Summer Food Program ensures that CHA youths
receive nutritional help needed for proper physical development. For 2007 approximately
12,000 breakfast meals and approximately 16,000 cold/hot lunches per day at approximately 145
sites will be served. In addition, approximately 1,800 snacks per day will be served. The
Program will run for 55 days and will begin June 18, 2007 and end September 1, 2007. The
CHA submitted an Invitation for bid in area newspapers and also directly solicited fifteen
vendors, including one MBE/WBE firm. Only one bid was received from Open Kitchens, Inc.,
the company that has successfully provided this service for CHA’s Program in previous years.
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-71
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated June 11, 2007 entitled, “Ratification of acceptance of a Grant
from the Illinois State Board of Education and ratification of a contract with Open
Kitchens, Inc. for the 2007 Summer Food Services Program.”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

The Board of Commissioners ratifies the acceptance of an Illinois State Board of
Education Grant for the Summer Food Program (“Program”) in the amount of
$3,134,109.05 and ratifies a contract with Open Kitchens, Inc. to provide food
services for the Program for the period of June 18, 2007 to September 1, 2007 for
a total amount not-to-exceed $2,847,792.00.

(Item A2)
On January 1, 2001, the CHA entered into a two year sub-grant agreement with the City of
Chicago Board of Education to implement the Employability Plus Program. The Program
provided by CPS has a high school reentry program that gives eligible residents the opportunity
to return to high school in order to receive their diploma. Additionally, there is a GED program
for residents who are not able to return to high school. A second component to the program
allows residents to participate in job training where they learn skills in trades such as carpentry,
masonry, plumbing, electricity and painting. Participants also attend workshops in the following
areas: educational public health on HIV/AIDS, drug abuse and public assistance legislation. The
Program is essential to the ABLA community, and supports the CHA’s Plan for Transformation
by linking families with opportunities that will assist their move toward self-sufficiency and
integration into mixed-income communities. Since CHA’s management is committed to this
Program for ABLA residents, the resolution for Item A2 approves exercising the third one year
option to extend the contract through June 30, 2008 in the amount not-to-exceed $82,472.00.
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-72
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated June 11, 2007, entitled “Recommendation to exercise the third
one year option of the Intergovernmental Agreement with the City of Chicago
Board of Education for the Employability Plus Program at ABLA development”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or her
designee to exercise the third one (1) year option of the intergovernmental
agreement with the City of Chicago Board of Education for the Employability
Plus program at ABLA (“Contract No. 0675”) for the period of July 1, 2007
through June 30, 2008 for an amount not-to-exceed $82,472.00. The new total
not-to-exceed contract amount of Contract No. 0675 will be $379,322.00.

3

 (Item A3)
The resolution for Item A3 approves the form of tenant selection plan, lease, lease riders, and
bylaws to be used for Cabrini-Green Extension North replacement housing units at 825 North
Hudson Condominiums. The CHA is purchasing two (2) units at this private development and
will operate such units as public housing units. It is understood that the developer has an interest
and desire to implement its own lease forms and policy that encourages consistent community
standards for the effective management of its development. The property specific requirements
for applicants are based on the CHA’s Minimum Tenant Selection Plan. A public comment
period was held from May 8, 2007 through June 6, 2007. A public comment hearing was held
on May 29, 2007 at the 18th District Police Station. Notice for the 30 day public comment period
and comment hearing was provided to the public and consideration will be given to any
forthcoming comments prior to finalizing the documents.
RESOLUTION 2007-CHA-73
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated June 11, 2007,
entitled “Authorization for approval of the Tenant Selection Plan, Lease, Lease
Riders, and Bylaws for Cabrini-Green Extension North Replacement Housing at
the private off-site Development known as 825 North Hudson Condominiums and
to amend the CHA Admissions and Continued Occupancy Policy to incorporate
such documents as an addendum thereto”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the attached form of tenant
selection plan, lease, lease riders, and bylaws in substantially the form presented
to the Board for the Cabrini-Green Extension North replacement housing units at
the development known as the 825 North Hudson Condominiums. The
Chairperson of the Board or the Chief Executive Officer is hereby authorized to
approve final changes in these forms, including, but not limited to, changes based
on HUD requirements, or resulting from any applicable notice and comment
process. Such approval shall constitute conclusive evidence of the Board’s
approval of any and all such changes.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items A1 through A3 was seconded by
Commissioner Harris and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Martin Nesbitt
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Bridget O’Keefe
Carlos Ponce
Mary Wiggins

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Tenant Services Committee report was also accepted in total.
Commissioner Gates, Chairperson of the Operations and Facilities Committee, then presented his
monthly report. Per Commissioner Gates, the Operations and Facilities Committee Meeting was
held on Wednesday, June 13 , 2007 at 1:30 p.m. at the 60 E. Van Buren Corporate offices.
Commissioner Gates then introduced an Omnibus Motion for the adoption of the Resolutions for
Items B1 thru B7 discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Operations and
Facilities Committee.
(Item B1)
The resolution for Item B1 approves ratification of contract with Reflection Windows Company
for the installation of windows at Loomis Courts. Under separate contract in 2003, G.F.

4

 Structure was hired to perform exterior renovation work which included window replacement at
1314 West 15th Street and 1342 West 15th Street. GFS purchased windows for 1314 and 1342
West 15th Street and installed windows at 1342 only. However, prior to the installation at 1314,
CHA developed a separate comprehensive general rehabilitation plan for Loomis Courts with
mixed finance funding. A solicitation was issued for the general rehabilitation work and a
contract was issued to a General Contractor other than GFS. The Contractor has now reached a
point in their general rehabilitation work where the installation of the windows at 1314 West 15th
Street must be completed to avoid delays to the Contractor’s schedule. Staff attempted to
negotiate a contract modification with the Contractor for the window installation, but the
Contractor’s proposal was excessive at approximately 50% over in-house cost estimate. CCD
also considered issuing an Invitation for Bid for the work, but the time involved to complete the
IFB process could have resulted in delays to the Contractor’s schedule and financial penalties
imposed by the City-State financing documents. Therefore, because Reflection Window
Company, LLC was the subcontractor to GFS for the installation of the windows at Loomis
Courts, and is the vendor with the most knowledge on how to quickly and efficiently install the
windows being used, a contract was procured by non-competitive proposal with Reflection. To
avoid delaying the work of the Contractor, Reflection has already begun performing the window
installations.
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-74
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated June 11, 2007,
entitled “Authorization to ratify Contract No. 7041 with Reflection Window
Company, LLC for the installation of windows at Loomis Courts (RH-7)”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners ratifies the execution of Contract No. 7041 with
Reflection Window Company, LLC in the amount of $353,000.00 for the
installation of windows at the 1314 West 15th Street building located at Loomis
Courts (RH-7), a City-State development. This award is subject to the
Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident
hiring, and bonding and insurance requirements.

(Item B2)
The resolution for Item B2 approves modification to contract with FHP Tectonics Corporation
for the remainder of the renovation work at Wentworth Gardens. This contract modification
provides for the removal of six existing Fulton boilers and their placement in storage. These
existing boilers are to be replaced with six new double walled Fulton PDWH1000 domestic
water boilers. The new Fulton boilers will be located along side and serve as backup to six
main-line boilers that are already provided for in the base bid documents. The removal of other
equipment, piping, heat exchangers, etc. is included per the base bid. Installation of related
piping, controls, power and venting for direct water heating are also to be provided per the base
bid. Separately, three of the new main-line Fulton PWH100 domestic water boilers, included in
the base bid and currently on site in Buildings 1, 6 and 10, are to be relocated to Buildings 27, 32
and 37 to expedite on-line domestic hot-water service to these Phase 1 and 2 buildings in
advance of buildings in the South sectors.
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-75
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated June 11, 2007
entitled “Authorization to execute Modification No. G-03 to Contract No. 5118
with FHP Tectonics Corporation for additional work related to the General
Renovation of Wentworth Gardens (IL2-008)”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or her
designee to execute Contract Modification No. G-03 to Contract No. 5118 with
FHP Tectonics Corporation in the amount of $236,738.00 for additional work
related to the general renovation of Wentworth Gardens (IL2-008) at 3770 South
Wentworth. The new total contract amount of Contract No. 5118 is
$36,150,373.00.

5

 This Contract Modification is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s
MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident hiring, and bonding and insurance requirements.
(Item B3)
In 2004, HUD conducted an accessibility compliance review of CHA’s programs, services and
activities, including designated accessible housing units, associated common areas, on-site
management offices, housing programs, and non-housing programs and activities. As a result of
the infractions found during the review, the CHA entered into a voluntary compliance agreement
(VCA) with HUD effective May 1, 2006. The VCA will last the duration of seven years over
which time the CHA must progressively certify that 5.3% and 2.1% of its units are accessible for
individuals with mobility impairments and individuals with sensory impairments respectively.
One of the provisions of the VCA requires that the CHA develop and conduct an Employee
Education Training Program (ETP) to train employees involved in admissions, occupancy,
operations, planning and development, with respect to the CHA’s duties, responsibilities and
procedures under Section 504. In March 2007, the CHA issued a Request For Proposal seeking
the services of a qualified organization to provide the ETP. Only one vendor, Nan McKay and
Associates, submitted a proposal in response to the RFP. Staff reviewed the proposal submitted
by Nan McKay and Associates and deemed its contents, including the curricula and training
schedule to meet the requirements of the ETP outlined in the VCA for attaining benchmarks and
educating appropriate staff. Accordingly, the resolution for Item B3 approves award of contract
to Nan McKay and Associates.
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-76
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated June 11, 2007,
entitled “Authorization to Enter into a Contract with Nan McKay and Associates
for the Provision of Mandatory Employee Education Training”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or her
designee to enter into a contract with Nan McKay and Associates for the
provision of an employee education program in an amount not-to-exceed
$156,000 for a one year term pursuant to 24 CFR 85.36 (d)(4)(i)(D).

Item B4)
The CHA first introduced private management of its public housing in the 1980s with its
scattered sites programs as a condition of court receivership. Private Management of public
housing was expanded thereafter to a limited number of troubled high-rise family properties in
the late 1980’s. By 2000, all CHA residential properties had been turned over to private
managers. Some of the primary responsibilities of the property management companies are:
rent collection, emergency and non-emergency work orders, resident eligibility re-examinations,
unit and building systems inspections, property budget/expenditure reporting and assessments,
lease enforcement, referral of residents to social services and risk management. H. J. Russell
currently manages ABLA Homes, William Green Homes, and 1230 Burling, approximately 1136
units in the aggregate. A review of H. J. Russell’s 2006 performance in lease management,
financial accountability, risk management and compliance was satisfactory. Accordingly, the
resolution for Item B4 approves the ratification of contract with HJ Russell.
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-77
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated June 11, 2007,
titled, “Ratification Of The Extension Of The Private Property Management
Agreement With H. J. Russell To Manage William Green Homes, ABLA, And
1230 Burling”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or her
designee to ratify the extension of the private property management agreement
with H. J. Russell to manage William Green Homes, ABLA. And 1230 Burling.

Item B5)
The CHA has undergone a tremendous effort to rehabilitate/upgrade buildings in its senior
designated housing portfolio. HUD mandates that all public housing authorities maintain a

6

 capital and preventive maintenance plan. A replacement reserve study is an essential aspect of
developing a capital and preventive maintenance plan. The replacement reserve study will
allow the CHA to forecast equipment life expectancies and to accurately estimate the funds
necessary to maintain the properties in their current condition. In March 2007, a Request For
Proposal was advertised in area newspapers and six firms were directly solicited. Based on the
evaluation of the six proposals received, oral presentations by four vendors, and final
negotiations, the evaluation committee recommended award of contract to Professional Service
Industries. Accordingly, the resolution for Item B5 approves award of contract to Professional
Service Industries to complete a reserve study at senior buildings.
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-78
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated June 11, 2007,
titled, “Authorization To Enter Into A Contract With Professional Service
Industries To Complete A Reserve Study At Various Senior Designated
Buildings”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or her
designee to enter into a contract with Professional Service Industries to complete
a reserve study at various senior designated buildings in an amount not to exceed
$173,000.00.

Item B6)
In July 2006 the CHA advertised a Request For Proposal for Pest Control Services for various
CHA senior and family Developments. This type of strategic sourcing initiative allows the CHA
to bundle the requirements of the various CHA developments to achieve some economies of
scale based on the quantity of services required across developments. In this process CHA
managed the procurement aspect and the individual property management companies are
expected to contract individually with the selected vendor. The RFP was advertised in area
newspapers and the Authority directly solicited fifteen companies including four
MBE/WBE/DBE firms. Of the seven proposals received four vendors within the competitive
range were notified of their consideration and participation in the next phase of the award
process. The second evaluation was based on oral presentations and best and final offers of the
vendors in the competitive range. Based on the recommendation of the evaluation committee,
Anderson Pest Control was recommended as the most responsive and responsible bidder.
Accordingly, the resolution for Item B6 approves award of contract to Anderson Pest Control
Services.

RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-79
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
memorandum dated June 11, 2007 entitled “Authorization for the Private
Property Management Companies to Enter into Contracts with Anderson Pest
Control for Pest Control Services at Various CHA Developments.”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the private property management
companies to enter into contracts with Anderson Pest Control for pest control
services at various CHA developments in an aggregate amount not to exceed
$1,226,218.00, for a two year base contract term with one (1) one-year extension
option, subject to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development’s
(HUD) approval, if required.

Item B7)
The resolution for Item B7 approves ratification of the Noncompetitive Contract between the
CHA and Chicago Christian Industrial League (CCIL) for maintenance of vacant lots and
Landscaping Services at various CHA Developments. Landscaping services at redeveloped
sites and at vacant lots is a substantial, but necessary cost for the CHA. Over the past few years
the CHA has received several notices from concerned citizens of various neighborhoods and the
City of Chicago regarding the condition of vacant lots. The CHA approached CCIL to manage

7

 and run a landscaping program that will be beneficial to CHA residents since CCIL is an
organization renown for assisting Chicago’s homeless and disenfranchised populations receive
training and assistance to reintegrate into Chicago’s workforce. CCIL is unique in its
commitment and ability to hire 30 CHA residents and provide them on-the-job training and
subsequent permanent employment referrals for landscaping. Several property management
companies used CCIL last year for landscaping services, where CCIL trained and hired over 30
CHA residents in landscaping.
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-80
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
memorandum dated June 11, 2007 entitled “Ratification of the Noncompetitive
Contract between the Chicago Housing Authority and Chicago Christian
Industrial League for Maintenance of Vacant Lots and Non-competitive Contracts
between the Private Property Management Companies and Chicago Christian
Industrial League for Landscaping Services at Various CHA Developments”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

pursuant to 24 CFR 85.36(d)(4)(i)(A), the Board of Commissioners ratifies the
non-competitive contract between the Chicago Housing Authority and the
Chicago Christian Industrial League (“CCIL) for maintenance of various vacant
lots in an amount not to exceed $34,000.00 for a two year contract term and
ratifies the non-competitive contracts between the private property management
companies (East Lake Management Company, Legum & Norman, Wentworth
Gardens RMC, and the Woodlawn Community Development Company) and
CCIL for landscaping services at Altgeld Gardens, Bridgeport Homes, Lowden
Homes, Trumball Park Homes and Wentworth Gardens for an aggregate amount
not to exceed $387,000.00, for a two year contract term, subject to U.S.
Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) approval, if required.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items B1 thru B7 was seconded by Commissioner
Wiggins and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Martin Nesbitt
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Bridget O’Keefe
Carlos Ponce
Mary Wiggins
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Operations and Facilities Committee report was also accepted
in total.
Commissioner O’Keefe, Chairperson of the Finance and Audit Committee then presented her
monthly report. Per Commissioner O’Keefe the Finance and Audit Committee was held on
Wednesday, June 13, 2007 at approximately 2:10 p.m. at the 60 East Van Buren Corporate
offices. Staff presented the Committee with the Treasury and Cash Flow Report for the month of
May 2007.
Commissioner O’Keefe then introduced an Omnibus Motion for adoption of the Resolutions for
Items C1 thru C5 discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Finance and
Audit Committee.
(Item C1)
The resolution for Item C1 approves the revised Budget Policies and Procedures manual. The
CHA’s Office of Budget & Management strives to manage the fiscal resources of the CHA and
to enforce CHA’s Budget Policies and Procedures in accordance with HUD rules and
regulations. Therefore, these budget policies are revised to reflect changes in CHA procedures
as it relates to Finance, Human Resources and Procurement due to the implementation of the new

8

 Lawson System. These revisions were minor and include, but are not limited to: modifying the
old language to reflect new Lawson procedures for the Office of Budget & Management,
Procurement & Contracts and the Human Resources Departments. The OBM Budget Policies &
Procedures Manual will become effective June 19, 2007, and will supersede all previous budget
policies and procedures, and any other previous representations, statements, either verbal or
written, pertaining to CHA’s Budget Policies and Procedures.
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-81
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated June 11, 2007
entitled, “Budget Policy & Procedures Manual”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners approves the revised Budget Policies and Procedures
manual dated June 19, 2007 that are attached to the resolution, which shall
supersede the existing CHA Budget Policy and Procedures Manual dated effective
June 18, 2002 and authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or her designee to: 1)
implement the revised budget policies effective June 19, 2007; and 2) publish and
distribute the CHA Budget Policy and Procedures Manual to staff which contains
the revised policy.

(Item C2)
The resolution for Item C2 approves extension of contract with CCMSI for third party
administration services (TPA). Responsibilities of the TPA under the Contract include
management of CHA’s workers compensation, first party property, general, auto, employment
practice and public officials’ liability claims and management of workers compensation, general
and auto liability claims under the Private Management Insurance Program (PMIP). Also
required was the establishment of a comprehensive claims and management reporting system
(“RMIS”) which would provide data and reports that would be used both for internal and
external use. During the past three years, CCMSI has provided the CHA with outstanding
service and has performed all tasks expected of the TPA. CCMSI has utilized its expertise in
investigation and settlement of claims on behalf of the CHA/PMIP. Its RMIS allowed the Risk
Management Department to provide data and reports to CHA’s external auditor, insurance
broker and senior staff. CCMSI is willing to continue providing TPA services to the CHA for
the contract extension term, July 1, 2007 through June 30, 2008 under the same rates, terms and
conditions as set forth in the Contract, which is less than a 2% increase.
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-82
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board letter dated June 11, 2007, entitled, “Authorization to exercise the Option
to extend Contract No. 0671 with Cannon Cochran Management Services, Inc. for
Third Party Administration Services”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or her
designee to execute an amendment extending Contract No. 0671 (“Contract”)
with Cannon, Cochran Management Services, Inc. for the period of July 1, 2007
through June 30, 2008 to provide third party administrator services for a total
amount not-to-exceed $270,333.00 pursuant to the Contract’s second extension
option.

(Item C3)
The resolution for Item C3 approves an extension of the Annual Support and Maintenance
Services for the Yardi Housing Management System for a term of two years. The System
Agreement provided for the perpetual licensing of the Voyager system and related system
elements, as well as for ongoing maintenance and support services for the software and system,
available on an annually renewable basis. The CHA requires critical Information Technology
systems and software to support essential business functions.

9

 RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-83
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated June 11, 2007
entitled “Authorization to Extend Annual Support and Maintenance Services for
the Yardi Housing Management System for a Term of Two (2) Years”,
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Office or her
designee to extend annual support and maintenance services with Yardi Systems
for the Yardi Voyager system in the not-to-exceed amount of $279,326.11 for a
term of two years.

(Item C4)
The Resolution for Item C4 amends and restates the CHA’s Tax Deferred 457(b) Retirement
Plan and approves award of contract to ICMA-RC and Mesirow Financial. The Plan allows
employees to save for retirement while reducing their taxable income. CHA does not utilize or
contribute any of its funds for the Plan. Employees’ voluntary contributions completely fund the
Plan’s assets from which the Plan’s expenses are paid. In 2006 the amended and restated Plan
specifically provided Nationwide to be the Plan’s administrator. In recent years, the CHA has
found Nationwide to be non-responsive to CHA’s concerns about the Plan and believes the
unattractiveness of the plan has led to poor employee participation. During the review process
the CHA obtained information that under current industry standards, most 457(b) plan sponsors
maintain ongoing due diligence on plan fees, investments and education to protect the interests
of employees through a fiduciary investment advisor as a result of the Pension Protection Act of
2006. Partnering with a fiduciary investment advisor will allow the CHA to conform to industry
standards and assist the CHA with its fiduciary responsibilities as a 457(b) plan sponsor and with
administration of plan needs. In December 2006, Mesirow directly solicited 457(b)
compensation retirement plan proposals from a number of top providers. Of the six proposals
received and evaluated, ICMA-RC, was chosen primarily for its overall lower plan expenses, its
knowledge of not-for-profit organizations and the fact that it specializes in governmental 457(b)
plans. It has an Illinois presence with over 500 plans and it recently acquired one of our sister
agencies, CTA, as one of its clients. It has the lowest expense ratio of all investment platforms,
offers on-site face-to-face and group education support. Also, it will absorb all fees associated
with plan transfer from Nationwide. Although it is not mandatory that the CHA retain a third
party fiduciary investment advisor with respect to the Plan, the utilization of a fiduciary
investment advisor will assist the CHA with respect to management and oversight of the Plan
and will also help protect the interests of the participating employees. Since there is insufficient
time to competitively procure the services of fiduciary investment advisor, and based upon
Mesirow’s knowledge and experience with 457(b) plans and CHA’s satisfaction and experience
with Mesirow’s services to date, CHA has chosen Mesirow to act as the Plan’s fiduciary
investment advisor to assist the CHA in all its fiduciary responsibilities for the first year.
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-84
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Memorandum dated June 11, 2007, entitled “Authorization to amend and
restate the Chicago Housing Authority’s Tax Deferred 457(b) Retirement Plan
(“PLAN”) and to enter into contracts with ICMA-RC and Mesirow Financial
Investment Management, Inc with respect to the Plan”;
THERFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

it is recommended that the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief
Executive Officer or her designee to amend and restate the CHA’s 457(b) tax
deferred retirement plan (“Plan”) to adopt a new Plan administrator, and enter into
a new contract with ICMA-RC as the new Plan administrator for a term of five (5)
years and to enter into a contract with Mesirow Financial Investment
Management (“Mesirow”) as the Plan’s fiduciary investment advisor for a term of
one (1) year.

10

 (Item C5)
The resolution for Item C5 approves amendment to the Annual Contributions Contract C-1014
for Project Nos. IL06P002074 (A), 165, 166, 168, 172 and 238. The purpose of this Amendment
is to move funds from four Projects under CHA ACC to Projects under The Habitat ACC. Also
the revised Addendum reflects the addition of mixed finance projects, Project IL06P002074(A)
and Project IL06P002238 to the CHA ACC C-1014.
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-85
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated June 11, 2007
entitled Recommendation to Execute Amendment to the Chicago Housing
Authority’s Annual Contributions Contract C-1014 for Project Nos. IL06P002074
(A), 165, 166, 168, 172 and 238.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Chicago Housing Authority shall enter into Amendment modifying the terms
of the Annual Contributions Contract C-1014 (“CHA ACC”) with U.S.
Department of Housing and Urban Development (“HUD”) to transfer funds under
Project Nos. IL06P002165, 166, 168 and 172 to Projects IL06P802203, 237 and
239, under the Annual Contributions Contract C-1150 between HUD and Daniel
Levin and the Habitat Company, as Receiver for the CHA, and to add mixed
finance projects IL06P002074(A) and 238 to the CHA ACC; and the Chief
Executive Officer, or her designee, is hereby authorized and directed to execute
such Amendment to the Annual Contributions Contract C-1014 in quintuplicate
and the Custodian and Keeper of Records is authorized and directed to attest and
impress the official seal of the Chicago Housing Authority on each such
counterpart. The aforesaid Amendment shall be substantially in the attached
form.

The Motion to adopt resolutions for Items C1 thru C5 was seconded by Commissioner Gates
and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Martin Nesbitt
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Bridget O’Keefe
Carlos Ponce
Mary Wiggins
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolution adopted. The Finance and Audit Committee report was also accepted in total.
There being no further business to come before the Commissioners, upon Motion made,
seconded and carried, the meeting of the Board of Commissioners was adjourned.

s/b:

s/b:

Lee Gill, Custodian and
Keeper of Records

11

Martin Nesbitt
Chairperson

 