MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING

OF THE

COMMISSIONERS OF THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY

March 19, 2002

The Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority held its Regular meeting on Tuesday,
March 19, 2002 at 8:30 a.m. at the Charles Hayes Family Investment Center, located at 4859 South
Wabash in Chicago.
The meeting was called to order by the Chairperson, and upon roll call, those present and absent
were as follows:
Present:
Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Leticia Peralta Davis
Dr. Mildred Harris
Sandra Young
Mamie Bone
Earnest Gates
Michael Ivers
Absent:

None

Also present were Montel Gayles, Chief of Staff; Gail Niemann, General Counsel; Chicago
Housing Authority Staff Members and the General Public.
There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as follows:
Due to the excused absence of the Chief Executive Officer, no report was presented.
The Chairperson convened the Public Hearing portion of the meeting by inviting residents and the
public at large to address the Board.
Immediately after the Public Hearing Session a Motion was then introduced and seconded to
adjourn to Executive Session. The Chairperson announced that pursuant to the Open Meetings
Act, 5 ILCS 120/2, the Board would adjourn for approximately one (1) hour to discuss pending,
probable or imminent litigation, collective negotiating matters, security and personnel matters.

The Commissioners subsequently reconvened in Open Session and Chairperson Gilliam thereupon
introduced a motion to approve the minutes for the Regular Board Meeting of December 18, 2001
and for Special Teleconference Meeting of January 7, 2002. The minutes for both meetings were
unanimously approved.
Chairperson Gilliam thereupon introduced a motion to approve the Resolutions discussed in
Executive Session.
An Omnibus Motion to approve Executive Items 1 and 2 was made by Commissioner Young.
(Executive Item No. 1)
1

 RESOLUTION NO. 2002-CHA-23
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated March 4, 2002 requesting that the Board of Commissioners
approve the Personnel Action Report for February 2002.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the Personnel Actions for February
2002.

(Executive Item No. 2)
RESOLUTION NO. 2002-CHA-24
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated February 27,
2002 requesting authorization to award BPI attorneys’ fees and expenses.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the payment of Gautreaux Plaintiff’s
Counsel, Business and Professional People for the Public Interest (“BPI”) for the
period of September 25, 1999 through July 31, 2001.

Motion to adopt said resolutions was seconded by Commissioner Bone and the voting was as
follows:
Ayes:
Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Leticia Peralta Davis
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Sandra Young
Earnest Gates
Mamie Bone
Nays:

None

The Chairperson thereupon declared said motion carried and said resolutions adopted.
Commissioner Amey made a motion for General Item No.1 to be approved.
(General Item No. 1)
On December 1, 2000, after a public comment period, the CHA submitted the Plan for
Transformation, Year 2, MTW Annual Plan (Plan Year 2) to HUD for approval. As requested in
the Plan Year 2, HUD and CHA clarified provisions of the MTW Agreement regarding the
allocation of vouchers by HUD to the CHA for each public housing unit disposed of or
demolished. The Amendment specifically allocates vouchers for 2000 and prior years and sets
forth the methodology for the remaining vouchers to be allocated under the CHA Plan for
Transformation and MTW. The Amendment ensures that the resources will be available for
relocation and mobility counseling, housing choice vouchers, and other special ho using related
projects. The resolution for Item No. 1 approves execution of the Moving to Work Amend ment
No. 2.
RESOLUTION NO. 2002-CHA-25
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated February 19,
2002 titled “Authorization to Execute the Chicago Housing Authority Moving to
Work Amendment No. 2";
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners approves the attached Moving to Work Amendment
No. 2 and authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to sign the Moving
to Work Amendment No. 2.

Motion to adopt said resolution was seconded by Commissioner Gates and the voting was as
follows:
Ayes:
Sharon Gist Gilliam
2

 Hallie Amey
Leticia Peralta Davis
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Sandra Young
Earnest Gates
Mamie Bone
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said motion carried
and said resolution adopted.
Commissioner Davis then presented the Finance and Audit Committee report. Per Commissioner
Davis, the Committee met on Wednesday, March 13, 2002 at the Corporate Office located at 626
West Jackson. The Finance staff provided the Committee with a monthly Treasury and Cash Flow
forecast as of February 28, 2002.
Commissioner Davis then introduced an Omnibus Motion for the adoption of the resolutions for
Items A1 through A3 discussed, voted and recommended by the Finance Committee for Board
approval:
(Item A1)
In January 2002, the Authority issued a Request for Proposal (RFP) for a Third Party
Administrator (TPA) services to manage CHA's and the PMIP Worker's Compensation, General
Liability and Auto Liability claims. The RFP was mailed to 14 prospective respondents and three
responses were received. Of the 3 responses, the evaluation committee selected Ward North
America, Inc. Ward North will provide services that include claim investigation, claim settlement
and claim management according to the requirements of the program. CHA intends to enter into a
long-term relationship with one TPA to render all of its various claim- handling objectives
including the reduction of expenses, fraud and improvement of the overall program effectiveness.
RESOLUTION NO. 2002-CHA-26
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
letter dated February 28, 2002 entitled “Authorization for Approval of Third Party
Administrator (TPA) Services for the CHA and the PMIP Workers Compensation,
General Liability and Auto Liability Claims”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners approve the attached Resolution authorizing the Chief
Executive Officer or his designee to enter into a contract with Ward North America,
Inc. for Third Party Administrators for CHA and PMIP Worker's Compensation,
General Liability, Auto Liability Claims for the two-year period beginning April 1,
2002 through March 31, 2004, for a total contract amount not-to-exceed $706,235,
for the 2-year initial contract term, with three one- year extension options subject to
HUD and Board approval, if required.

(Item A2)
In December 2001, the Board approved the award of a 2- year contract to Near North Insurance
Brokerage (NNIB) as administrator of the Private Mangers Insurance Program (PMIP). As the
Broker of Record, NNIB has the authority to competitively solicit bids for insurance coverage on
behalf of CHA. Thirty- four insurance carriers were asked to bid on all or part of the required
insurance coverage. As a result, the General Liability & Excess Liability coverage was only
quoted by the incumbent, AIG. Additionally, the AIG quote includes an option to purchase an
additional $5million in excess liability insurance limits. The Authority has opted to purchase the
additional limits thus increasing the program’s liability coverage to $22million. The resolution for
Item A2 authorizes NNIB to procure the required insurance coverage for the PMIP.
RESOLUTION NO. 2002-CHA-27
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
memorandum dated February 25, 2002 entitled “Authorization to Approve
Insurance Coverages for CHA’s Private Managers Insurance Program (PMIP)”.

3

 THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority authorizes the
Chief Executive Officer or his designee to procure through Near North Insurance
Brokerage, Inc. (“NNIB”), its Administrator/Broker of record for the CHA’s Private
Managers Insurance Program (the “PMIP”), the following required insurance
coverage for the PMIP: (1) Primary General Liability & Excess Liability, subject to
HUD approval, (2) Workers Compensation and (3) Crime/Fidelity for the one- year
period of April 1, 2002 to March 31, 2003 for a total amount of premiums not-toexceed $2,032,302.

(Item A3)
The resolution for Item A3 authorizes the Chief Execut ive Officer to negotiate and execute a
Memorandum of Agreement (MOA) with the Chicago Police Department (CPD) for the transfer of
forfeiture funds, totaling $589,042.73, from the CHAPD Bank One Accounts to the CPD. Since
the CHAPD is no longer in existence, and the CPD is now responsible for policing CHA properties
the MOA will outline the intended use of these funds.
RESOLUTION NO. 2002-CHA-28
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated February 21, 2002
requesting authorization to transfer to the Chicago Police Department all remaining
forfeiture funds from the Chicago Housing Authority Police Department forfeiture
accounts;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee
to negotiate and execute a Memorandum of Agreement with the Chicago Police
Department (CPD) for the transfer of the forfeiture funds from Chicago Housing
Authority Police Departments Bank One Account No.’s 5554950 and 5554942, to
the CPD and the transfer, pursuant to such MOA, of such funds which as of January
9, 2002 totaled $589,042.73; all subject to obtaining any applicable, required
regulatory approvals.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items A1 through A3 was seconded by
Commissioner Young and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Leticia Peralta Davis
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Sandra Young
Mamie Bone
Earnest Gates
Nays:
None
There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Finance & Audit Committee report was also accepted in total.
Commissioner Gates then presented the Operations & Facilities Committee report. Per
Commissioner Gates, the Committee met on Wednesday, March 13, 2002 at the Corporate Office
located at 626 West Jackson.
There were no presentations scheduled to come before the
Committee.
Commissioner Gates then introduced an Omnibus Motion for the adoption of the resolutions for
Items B1 through B8.
(Item B1)
The Commissioners authorized the CHA to enter into private management agreements for property
management services at senior properties and scattered sites. The agreements for property
manage ment services for seniors expired on February 28, 2002. The term of the Scattered Sites
Property Agreements expired in October 2001 and, pursuant to the Management Agreement, has
been extended on a month to month basis up to an additional 12 months. The departments of Asset
Management and the Business Services have developed a new Request for Qualification for future
4

 property management services for senior, scattered sites and family properties. New qualified
firms are scheduled to be submitted for approval to the Board of Commissioners in May 2002.
The resolution for Item B1, therefore, approves an extension of the property management services
contract on a month to month basis through June 30, 2002.
RESOLUTION NO. 2002-CHA-29
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the memorandum dated February 28,
2002, entitled, “Authorization for the Chicago Housing Authority (CHA) to extend
property management agreements for senior properties and scattered site properties”
and concurs with the recommendations contained therein;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee
to extend the Senior and Scattered Site private management contracts in accordance
with terms outlined in Section 2.02 of the CHA property management Agreements
until June 30, 2002, and to ratify the prior month to month extension of the
Scattered Site private management agreements.

(Item B2)
In July 2000, the CHA Board of Commissioners authorized CHA's participation in the City of
Chicago 50/50 Sidewalk Replacement Program. The resolution for Item B2 approves continued
participation in this program. The Authority's participation in the program would consist of
identifying the locations where sidewalk replacement is necessary and providing matching funds to
reimburse the City for 50% of the cost of the work. If the CHA is authorized to participate in the
Program by entering into an IGA, the City of Chicago will procure the sidewalk repair contractor
pursuant to the City's procurement procedures. Ordinarily, the City performs the sidewalk
replacement work itself, but owing to the volume of work contemplated, the City will conduct a
competitive procurement to engage the services of a cont ractor.
RESOLUTION NO. 2002-CHA-30
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners have reviewed Board letter dated February 28, 2002
recommending “Authorization for CHA Participation in City of Chicago 50/50
Sidewalk Replacement Program – 2002” for the CHA developments listed below:
Lathrop Homes
Altgeld Gardens
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

The Board of Commissioners authorizes Chief Executive Officer or his designee to
enter into an Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) for CHA’s participation in the
City of Chicago 50/50 Sidewalk Replacement Program in an amount not-to-exceed
$1,000,000.00.

(Item B3)
Because of the irreparable and deteriorating conditions of 848 units at Rockwell Gardens and 894
units at Robert Taylor Homes, the CHA determined that it was not economically feasible to
rehabilitate or maintain the units as public housing for the long term. In light of this, the CHA
Office of Development Management worked closely with the court-appointed Gautreaux Decree
Receiver, Daniel Levin and the Habitat Company, the City of Chicago and the residents at
Rockwell and Taylor in the planning and development of these communities. Additionally, CHA
procured the Eastlake Development and Management Company as the developer for Rockwell and
Brinshore Michaels as the developer for Taylor. The CHA continuously consulted with the
residents of Rockwell and Taylor and provided them the opportunity to participate in the planning
process for the revitalization of their communities and the submission of HOPE VI Revitalization
grant applications. In December 2001, written notification was received from HUD informing
CHA of the award of HOPE VI Revitalization Grant in the amount of $35 million each for
Rockwell and Taylor. The resolut ion for Item B3 approves the acceptance of the HOPE VI
Revitalization funds for Rockwell and Taylor.
5

 RESOLUTION NO. 2002-CHA-31
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated January 18, 2002,
entitled “Request The Approval To Accept Two (2) Hope VI Revitalization
Program Awards, Authorizing The Chief Executive Officer Or His Designee To
Execute The FY2001 Hope VI Revitalization Grant Agreements For Rockwell
Gardens And Robert Taylor Homes-Phase A”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby accepts the FY2001 HOPE VI Revitalization
Program awards and authorize s the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to
execute the HOPE VI Revitalization Grant Agreements for Rockwell Gardens and
Robert Taylor Homes-Phase A.

(Item B4)
The resolution for B4 approves the Development Agreement with the Lake Park Crescent LLC for
the redevelopment of the Lakefront Site. The Lake Park Crescent LLC was selected as the result
of a Request for Proposal that was issued in September 1999 by the Habitat Company and the City
of Chicago. The Development Agreement calls for the development of a mixed- income
community of approximately 490 units on this site. The development will have 248 units for sale
and 242 rental units. Of the rental units, 120 will be on public housing replacement units for the
Lakefront Properties, 71 will be affordable and 51 will be market-rate. This 16.5-acre site is
bounded by 40th Street on the north, 42nd Place on the south, Lake Park Avenue on the west, and
the railroad tracks on the east.
RESOLUTION NO. 2002-CHA-32
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated March 7, 2002
requesting approval of the Development Agreement with the Lake Park Crescent
LLC for the redevelopment of the Lakefront site.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners approves the Development Agreement with the Lake
Park Crescent LLC for the redevelopment of the Lakefront site and authorizes the
Chief Executive Officer or his designee to execute the Development Agreement.

(Item B5)
Hearts United III is a 53-unit mixed-income housing development project to be located on
scattered City-owned parcels in the general area bounded by 42nd and 44th Streets on the north and
south, respectively, and Vincennes and Cottage Grove Avenue on the east and west, respectively.
The unit mix in the development will be 7 market rate units and 46 low-income housing tax credit
units. 13 tax credit units will be available for families participating in the tenant-based Housing
Choice Voucher program and/or low or very low- income families for an extended period of 40
years. The resolution for Item B5 authorizes the CHA to enter into a Restrictive Covenant
Agreement with Hearts United Ltd. Partnership.
RESOLUTION NO. 2002-CHA-33
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board letter dated February 28, 2002
requesting "Authorization to enter into a Restrictive Covenant Agreement with the
Hearts United Phase III Limited Partnership, an Illinois Limited Partnership or its
nominee to reserve 13 units in Hearts United III for low or very low income
families, including those participating in the Housing Choice Voucher program, and
concurs with the recommendation contained therein:
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee
to enter into a Restrictive Covenant Agreement with the Hearts United Phase III
Limited Partnership, an Illinois limited partnership or its nominee to reserve 13
units in the Hearts United III housing development to low income or very low
income families, including those participating in the tenant-based Housing Choice
Voucher program.
6

 (Item B6)
Currently, the redevelopment of a portion of the Prairie Courts Apartments site is pending final
closing. The new development will be known as the South Park Plaza. Under the South Park
Plaza proposal, the developer will demolish only 10 of the 13 existing buildings and rebuild in its
place a new affordable and low- income rental development. Due to the restricted use of federal
funds for city/state designated properties, these buildings will remain vacant for an undetermined
period of time. The presence of these vacant buildings poses an eminent threat to the community
as well as to the safe passage of children from the adjacent school. In addition, allowing these
vacant buildings to remain standing will also increase CHA's liability as well as a financial burden
for maintaining and securing these properties. CHA has reached out to the City requesting their
assistance with the demolition of the three remaining buildings. The City recently advised CHA
that it would proceed with the subject demolition immediately. The demolition work will be
performed per City demolition specifications and will be coordinated with CHA's redevelopment
efforts at the site. The resolution for Item B6 allows the City of Chicago Department of Building
to proceed with the demolition of the three vacant buildings.
RESOLUTION NO. 2002-CHA-34
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated February 15,
2002 requesting approval to authorize the City of Chicago Department of Buildings
to proceed with the demolition of three (3) vacant Prairie Courts Apartments
buildings commonly known as 2707-09 S. Prairie Ave., 2701 S. Prairie Ave. and
2636 S. Calumet Ave, and concurs with the recommendation contained therein;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee
to allow the City of Chicago Department of Buildings to proceed with the
demolition of three (3) vacant Prairie Courts Apartments buildings commonly
known as 2707-09 S. Prairie Ave., 2701 S. Prairie Ave. and 2636 S. Calumet Ave.
The demolition of these buildings will be performed by the City of Chicago and its
contractors and will be done at no cost to the Chicago Housing Authority.

(Item B7)
In 1993 the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation (Council), Illinois State Historic
Preservation Officer (SHPO) and HUD entered into a Programmatic Memorandum of Agreement
that provided, in part, that HUD would consult further with the SHPO and Council to develop an
appropriate treatment plan for activities that might affect the integrity of any of six public housing
complexes that would be determined eligible for inclusion in the National Register of Historic
Places. In July 1994, the Keeper of the National Register determined that Wells and the five other
public housing complexes were eligible for inclusion in the National Register of Historic Place.
SHPO, however, determined that implementation of the Wells redevelopment, using HUD funds,
would have an adverse effect of the historic significance, thereby requiring CHA to enter into the
Section 106 Review process on the protection of historic properties. The resolution for Item B7
ratifies the Memorandum of Agreement which allows for the demolition of the Phase 1 buildings
at Wells thereby allowing redevelopment to commence. The CHA will agree to rehabilitate a
small cluster of buildings, as part of a later phase, conditioned on the issuance of a Request for
Proposal. In the event that there are no suitable proposals, CHA will be allowed to demolish the
remainder of the Wells buildings.
RESOLUTION NO. 2002-CHA-35
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners has reviewed the memorandum dated February 22,
2002 entitled, “Ratification of a Memorandum of Agreement with the Illinois State
Historic Preservation Officer for the Ida B. Wells Redevelopment ” and concurs
with the recommendations contained therein;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners ratifies the execution by the Chief Executive Officer
or his designee of a Memorandum of Agreement with the Illinois State Historic
Preservation Officer and the City of Chicago for the Ida B. Wells Redevelopment.

(Item B8)
The CHA released Invitatio n for Bid (IFB) on January 15, 2002 to solicit demolition contractors to
perform “Ball & Crane” type demolition of various types of properties throughout the CHA. The
7

 CHA directly solicited thirteen (13) firms, including three (3) MBE/WBE firms. Bidders were
requested to provide lump sum bid prices for three classes of buildings. Class “A” buildings
include all types of structures, including high-rise residential structures exceeding 75 feet in height,
and which total 750,000 cubic feet or more. Class “B” buildings include mid-rise, multilevel
residential structures between 40 feet and 74 feet in height, and which total less than 750,000 cubic
feet. Class “C” buildings include small to medium residential frame, masonry or combination of
construction buildings not exceeding 39 feet in height, and which total 150,000 cubic feet. The
resolution for Item B8 approves award of 4 contracts to the following responsive and responsible
bidders: Omega Demolition, American Demolition, Dore & Associates and N.F. Demolition, each
of whom submitted the lowest overall grand total in each building class. Details of the work were
discussed with each contractor to assure that each firm understands the scope of work. The
proposed contractors have agreed to meet the CHA’s M/WBE requirements, which will range from
25% to 40% based on task order amounts to be issued to the contractors.
RESOLUTION NO. 2002-CHA-36
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated March 4, 2002
entitled “Authorization to Enter into Contracts with Omega Demolition
Corporation, American Demolition Corporation, Dore & Associates and N. F.
Demolition, for the Authority-Wide Ball & Crane type Demolition of Various types
of CHA Properties (IFB No. 01106)”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee
to enter into contracts with: (1) Omega Demolition Corporation for an amount notto exceed $7,783,180; (2) American Demolition Corporation for an amount not-toexceed $7,120,000; (3) Dore & Associates for an amount not-to-0exceed
$4,749,000; and (4) N. F. Demolition for an amount not to exceed $3,880,800 for
all four contracts for Authority wide “Ball & Crane” type demolition of various
types of CHA properties. The term of the contracts will be two years from the date
of the notice to proceed, with an option for one (1) additional year, all in accordance
with IFB No. 01106, subject to the CHA’s General and Special Conditions
contained therein:

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items B1 through B8 was seconded by
Commissioner Harris and the voting was as follows:

Ayes:

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Leticia Peralta Davis
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Sandra Young (Recused from voting on Item
No. B7 only)

Earnest Gates
Mamie Bone
None

Nays:

Commissioner Young recused from voting on Item No. B7 only.
There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said motion carried
and said resolutions adopted.
Commissioner Gates then announced that Item B9 should be voted upon separately since this item
had not completed the review and approval process at the time the Operations Committee meeting
was held.
Commissioner Gates then made a motion for the approval of the resolution for Item B9.
(Item B9)
As part of the Capital Improvement Program for Seniors (CIP), Contract Number 9644 was
executed between the CHA and Walsh for the Comprehensive Modernization of Judge Slater
8

 Apartments, 740 E. 43rd Street and Judge Slater Annex, 4218 S. Cottage Grove in the amount of
$11,319,000. This amount had been previously amended to a current value of $13,697,588.61.
The reasons for these necessary change orders are as follows: 1) During ongoing work, certain
concealed deterioration and field conditions, which could not have been reasonably determined at
the time of contract document preparation, were discovered; 2) Design corrections; and 3) Owner
Requested changes. The resolution for Item B9 approves Contract Modification No 3 the existing
contract with Walsh Construction.
RESOLUTION NO. 2002-CHA-37
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated March 13, 2002
entitled “Authorization to Approve Contract Modification No. 3 for: Cons truction
Services at Judge Slater Apartments, 740 E. 43rd Street, IL2-47 and Judge Slater
Annex, 4218 S. Cottage Grove, IL2-70; Contractor: Walsh Construction Company
of Illinois, Contract No. 9644”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee
to execute Contract Modification No. 3 under Contract No. 9644 with Walsh
Construction Company of Illinois in an amount not-to-exceed $1,123,421, subject
to HUD approval, and to extend the contract time of completion by 85 days until
March 30, 2002 for repairs and improvements at Judge Slater Apartments, 740 E.
43rd St., IL2-47, and Judge Slater Annex, 4218 S. Cottage Grove, IL2-70. The new
total contract amount will be $14,821,009.61.

Motion to adopt resolution for Items B9 was seconded by Commissioner Young and the voting
was as follows:
Ayes:
Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Leticia Peralta Davis
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Sandra Young
Earnest Gates
Mamie Bone
Nays:
None
There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said motion carried
and said resolution adopted. The Operations & Facilities Committee report was also approved in
total.
No presentations or Board Resolutions were scheduled to come before the Tenant Services
Committee, therefore, the regularly scheduled meeting was not held.
There being no further business come before the Commissioners, upon motion made, seconded and
carried, the meeting of the Board of Commissioners was adjourned.

______________________________
Sharon Gist Gilliam
Chairperson
____________________________________
Lee Gill
Custodian and Keeper of Records

9

 