MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING
OF THE
COMMISSIONERS OF THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
November 15, 2011
The Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority held its Regular Meeting of the Board of
Commissioners on Tuesday, November 15, 2011 at approximately 8:45 a.m. at the Schneider
Apartments, located at 1750 West Peterson in Chicago, IL.
In the absence of Chairman Jim Reynolds, Commissioner Adela Cepeda called the meeting to
order and upon roll call, those present and absent were as follows:
Present:

Deverra Beverly
Adela Cepeda
Mark Cozzi
Dr. Mildred Harris
Myra King
Z. Scott
Sandra Young

Absent:

James Reynolds
Bridget Reidy

Also present were Charles Woodyard, Chief Executive Officer; Kris Warren, Chief of Staff;
Scott Ammarell, General Counsel; Chicago Housing Authority Staff Members and the General
Public.
There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as
follows:
Upon Motion made and properly seconded, the Commissioners adjourned to Executive Session.
Commissioner Cepeda, announced that pursuant to the Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2, the
Board would adjourn for approximately one hour to possibly discuss pending, probable or
imminent litigation, personnel related matters, collective negotiating matters, purchase sale and
lease of real estate property; establishment of reserves and settlement of claims.
The Commissioners subsequently reconvened in Open Session and Commissioner Cepeda
thereupon convened the Business and Public portion of the meeting.
Upon Motion made by Commissioner Harris and properly seconded by Commissioner Beverly,
the Minutes for the Finance and Audit Committee Meetings of September 14 and October 12,
2011 were unanimously approved.
Mr. Charles Woodyard was then introduced by Commissioner Mildred Harris.
Per
Commissioner Harris, on September 22, 2011, Mr. Woodyard was appointed Chief Executive
Officer of the Chicago Housing Authority, effective October 24, 2011. Mr. Woodyard was
president and CEO of the Charlotte Housing Authority since 2002, where he led a change
process in both the business and administration of the agency. Having spent 30 years in the
public sector with a focus on housing, Mr. Woodyard has a wealth of experience in municipal
government and the unique challenges facing public housing. In Chicago, he will utilize his
experience of engaging the private sector in the real estate components of public housing, as well
as integration through mixed-income development, to further the progress of CHA’s Plan for
Transformation. Mr. Woodyard has held board positions on numerous local, regional and
national boards, including Leadership Charlotte, Public Housing Authorities Directors
Association (PHADA), National Association of Housing & Redevelopment Officials (NAHRO)
and Partners in Out of School Time (POST). Mr. Woodyard is a graduate of the University of
North Carolina-Chapel Hill, with a master’s degree in public administration.

1

 Commissioner Adela Cepeda, Chairwoman of the Finance and Audit Committee, then presented
the following report. Per Commissioner Cepeda, the Finance and Audit Committee held its
regular meeting on Wednesday, November 9th at the CHA Corporate Offices. Mike Gurgone,
Treasurer, presented the Committee with the Treasury and Cash Flow Report for October 2011.
Commissioner Cepeda then presented a Motion for adoption of the Resolution for Item A1
(Item A1)
The CHA originally entered into contract with Innovative Financial Housing Solutions (IFHS) in
March 2010 pursuant to a small procurement. Subsequently in June 2010, the Board authorized
an increase of the contract’s funding for the balance of the base term, which is set to expire on
February 28, 2012, to allow IHFS to help CHA implement the recommendations that were made
during the first several months of the Contract’s term and to provide technical accounting and
consulting assistance on additional projects. CHA has been very satisfied with the accounting
and consulting services that have been provided by IFHS to date. With the recent resignation of
the CHA’s Chief Financial Officer and Budget Director, the CHA has an immediate need to have
knowledgeable individuals provide ongoing financial operations assistance to the Executive
Office. IFHS’ and Mr. Nolan’s extensive public housing experience and financial acumen place
them in a unique position to fill that gap and allow CHA to efficiently and economically continue
its financial operations until CHA is able to fill those positions with full time employees.
Accordingly, the amended resolution, as presented by Committee Chair Cepeda, approves an
amendment to Contract No. 1011 with IFHS to include expanded financial, advisory, accounting,
auditing and consulting services and increase the contracts funding, not-to-exceed $500,000,
subject to the condition that upon expenditure of the first $250,000, Board approval will be
obtained for expenditure of the remaining $250,000.
RESOLUTION NO. 2011-CHA-132
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated November 9,
2011 entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO AMEND CONTRACT NO. 1011 WITH
INNOVATIVE FINANCIAL HOUSING SOLUTIONS, INC. TO INCLUDE
EXPANDED FINANCIAL ADVISORY, ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, AND
CONSULTING SERVICES, INCREASE THE CONTRACT’S FUNDING, AND
EXERCISE THE CONTRACT’S OPTION YEAR";
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners (“Board”) hereby authorizes the Chief Executive
Officer or his designee to amend Contract No. 1011 (“Contract”) with Innovative
Financial Housing Solutions, Inc. to include expanded financial advisory,
accounting, auditing, and consulting services, and increase the funding of the
Contract by an amount not-to-exceed $500,000, subject to the condition that
upon expenditure of the first $250,000, Board approval will be obtained for
expenditure of the remaining $250,000. The Board also authorizes the Chief
Executive Officer, or his designee, to exercise the Contract’s option year for the
period of March 1, 2012 through February 28, 2013 to continue utilizing IFHS as
a consultant for business process reengineering and strategic planning.

The Motion to adopt resolution for Items A1 was seconded by Commissioner Harris and the voting
was as follows:
Ayes:
Deverra Beverly
Adela Cepeda
Mark Cozzi
Dr. Mildred Harris
Myra King
Z. Scott
Sandra Young
Nays:
None
There being no questions or discussion, Chairwoman Cepeda thereupon declared said Motion
carried and said resolution adopted.
In the absence of Committee Chair Reidy, Commissioner Harris presented the report for the
Operations and Facilities Committee. Per Commissioner Harris, the Operations and Facilities
Committee held its regular meeting on Wednesday, November 9th at the CHA Corporate Office.

2

 Commissioner Harris then presented a Motion for the adoption of the Resolution for Item B1.
(Item B1)
The resolution for Item B1 approves the first of two one-year options on a land lease agreement
between CHA and Sinai Health Center for the 2600 and 2700 Block of Ogden Avenue and the
2600 Block of 13th Place. In December 2010, the Board approved a lease agreement with Sinai
Health Center to build and maintain a Sinai parking lot on approximately 75% of the Lawndale
Complex/Ogden Courts site. The purpose of this lease is to improve the quality of life for public
housing residents, Sinai staff and visitors, and residents residing in the area surrounding the site.
The site is being leased at less than fair market value; however, there is an additional
commensurate benefit to the Park Douglas community due to the fact that Sinai provides family
support and medical services, training and employment opportunities for CHA residents. Jobs
were generated for the construction of the parking lot, the operation of the parking lot and for
hospital support duties.
RESOLUTION NO. 2011-CHA-133
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated November 15,
2011, requesting authorization to execute the 1st of two one-year options on a land
lease agreement with Sinai Health Center on CHA’s vacant Lawndale Complex
and Ogden Courts property sites located at the 2600 and 2700 block of Ogden
Avenue and 2600 block of 13th Place.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute the 1st of two one-year options on a land lease agreement with
Sinai Health Center on CHA’s vacant Lawndale Complex and Ogden Courts
property sites located at the 2600 and 2700 block of Ogden Avenue and 2600
block of 13th Place.

The Motion to adopt resolution for Item B1 was seconded by Commissioner Young and the
voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Deverra Beverly
Adela Cepeda
Mark Cozzi
Dr. Mildred Harris
Myra King
Z. Scott
Sandra Young
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, Commissioner Cepeda thereupon declared said Motion
carried and said resolution adopted.
Commissioner Sandra Young, Chairwoman of the Tenant Services Committee, then presented
the following report. Per Commissioner Young, the Tenant Services Committee held its regular
meeting on Wednesday, November 9, 2011 at the CHA Corporate Offices. Mary Howard, Senior
Vice-President of Resident Services provided the Committee with an in-depth report on the
FamilyWorks Program.
Commissioner Young then presented an Omnibus Motion for adoption of the Resolutions for
Items C1 and C2.
(Item C1)
Early this past summer, the CHA applied for renewal funding from HUD for its Family Self
Sufficiency Program (FSS), which application required the Board’s authorization. On
September 30, 2011, the CHA received official written notice of being selected to receive
$738,873.00 of renewal funding from HUD to support 14 positions for the period of January 1,
2012 through December 31, 2012. The renewal funding allows the continuation of employment
of FSS program coordinators who will ensure that HCV residents are linked to the supportive
services they need to achieve self-sufficiency such as training opportunities, job placement
organizations and local employers. Accordingly, the resolution for Item C1 ratifies the
application and acceptance of $738,873 of renewal funding from HUD.
3

 RESOLUTION NO. 2011-CHA-134
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated November 9, 2011, entitled “RATIFICATION OF
APPLICATION FOR AND AUTHORIZATION TO ACCEPT RENEWAL
FUNDING FROM THE U.S. DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN
DEVELOPMENT BY AN AMENDMENT TO THE HOUSING CHOICE
VOUCHER ANNUAL CONTRIBUTIONS CONTRACT”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners ratifies the application for and authorizes the
acceptance of $738,873.00 of renewal funding from HUD, applicable for CHA’s
FY 2012 Budget, for the Housing Choice Voucher (“HCV”) Family SelfSufficiency Program by an amendment to the HCV Annual Contributions
Contract.

(Item C2)
The resolution for Item C2 approves contract extension with LR ABLA LLC, not-to exceed
$750,000 to provide community and supportive services to families residing at Roosevelt Square.
The Contract’s primary focus is to assist CHA families that have chosen to return to the
Roosevelt Square mixed-finance community. Services are designed to address the barriers a
family may face in maintaining lease compliance. LR ABLA, through its subcontractor
Heartland Human Care Services, will continue to offer case management services to help
residents maintain their lease compliance in Phases I and II of the redeveloped community.
These services continue to focus on job readiness, placement and retention, lease compliance,
counseling and substance abuse, youth activities, and other services to promote self-sufficiency.
As of September 30, 2011 LR ABLA has been making satisfactory progress towards its contract
goals, which are tracked by case managers utilizing Individual Action Plans (IAP) with residents
as goals and milestones are achieved. CHA staff will continue to monitor and perform quality
assurance of LR ABLA including, but not limited to, detailed tracking of performance outcomes,
monthly performance reports of individual agencies, quarterly performance review meetings,
participant file audits and on-going resident customer satisfaction reviews.
RESOLUTION NO. 2011-CHA-135
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated November 9, 2011, entitled “RECOMMENDATION TO
EXTEND CONTRACT NO. 0663 WITH LR ABLA LLC TO PROVIDE
COMMUNITY AND SUPPORTIVE SERVICES TO FAMILIES RESIDING AT
ROOSEVELT SQUARE”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to extend Contract No. 0663 with the LR ABLA LLC (“Contract”) to
provide community and supportive services for CHA families who have chosen to
move to the redeveloped Roosevelt Square Community for the period of January
1, 2012 through December 31, 2012, and to increase the Contract’s funding in an
amount not-to-exceed $750,000.00. The Contract’s new total not-to-exceed
compensation amount will be $6,750,025.40.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items C1 and C2 was seconded by Commissioner
Beverly and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Deverra Beverly
Adela Cepeda
Mark Cozzi
Dr. Mildred Harris
Myra King
Z. Scott
Sandra Young

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairman thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted.
4

 Mr. Woodyard, Chief Executive Officer, then presented his monthly report. Per Mr. Woodyard,
it is an honor to be given the opportunity, by Commissioners and resident leaders, to lead the
CHA in attaining the goals of the Plan For Transformation. Mr. Woodyard continued by
expressing his full support of programs and services to address CHA residents’ needs and vowed
to maintain a strong customer service focus to ensure residents, especially senior residents, are
treated with respect and dignity. Mr. Woodyard concluded his presentation by highlighting his
participation in Operation Warm.
Chairwoman Cepeda then invited residents and the public at large to address the Board.
There being no further business to come before the Commissioners, upon Motion made,
seconded and carried, the meeting of the Board of Commissioners was adjourned

s/b:

s/b:

_________________________________
Lee Chuc-Gill, Secretary, Custodian and
Keeper of Records

5

_______________________________
Adela Cepeda
Acting Chairwoman

 