MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING
OF THE
COMMISSIONERS OF THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
October 19, 2010
The Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority held its Regular Meeting of the Board of
Commissioners on Tuesday, October 19, 2010 at approximately 8:45 a.m. at the Douglas Park
Fieldhouse, 1401 South Sacramento, Chicago, IL.
Commissioner Michael Ivers called the meeting to order and upon roll call, those present and
absent were as follows:
Present:

Deverra Beverly
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Myra King
Carlos Ponce
James Reynolds
Bridget Reidy
Sandra Young

Absent:

Hallie Amey

Also present were Lewis Jordan, Chief Executive Officer; Kris Warren, Chief of Staff; Scott
Ammarell, General Counsel; Chicago Housing Authority Staff Members and the General Public.
There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as
follows:
Commissioner Ivers then announced that since this Chairman’s Reynolds first Board Meeting,
Commissioner Ivers would do the honor of chairing the meeting to familiarize Chairman
Reynolds with proceedings.
Upon Motion made and properly seconded the Commissioners adjourned to Executive Session.
Commissioner Ivers announced that pursuant to the Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2, the
Board would adjourn for approximately one hour to possibly discuss pending, probable or
imminent litigation, personnel related matters, collective negotiating matters, purchase sale and
lease of real estate property; establishment of reserves and settlement of claims.
Due to a conflict in Commissioner Young’s schedule, she left the meeting during Executive
Session.
Commissioner Amey joined the Executive Session at approximately 8:50 a.m.
The Commissioners subsequently reconvened in Open Session and the Chairman thereupon
convened the Public Hearing portion and Business Sessions of the meeting.
Lewis Jordan, Chief Executive Officer, then presented his monthly report. Mr. Jordan officially
welcomed Chairman Reynolds to his first Board Meeting and reaffirmed the support of his staff
to carry out the Chairman’s vision. Mr. Jordan then highlighted development and leasing related
milestones which included the closure of the last two Cabrini mid-rises, groundbreaking
ceremony attended by Mayor Richard Daley at the Ralph Pomeroy Senior Apartments and the
groundbreaking of the future site of Hope Manor Apartments in the Humboldt Park
neighborhood. Mr. Jordan completed his report by providing the public with an update on the
Public Housing Waitlist opening. According to Mr. Jordan, 40,000 names were randomly
selected by a computerized lottery and assigned a spot on the Public Housing Wait List. CHA
1

 began notifying the registrants of their status and CHA will now begin the process of contacting
and screening according to housing needs, family size and unit availability.
Commissioner Ivers then invited residents and the public at large to address the Board.
Following the Public Hearing portion of the meeting the Commissioners convened the Business
portion of the meeting.
Upon Motion made and properly seconded the Minutes for the Regular Meetings of April 20,
May 18, June 15 and July 20, 2010 were then unanimously approved.
The Acting Chairman then introduced matters discussed in Executive Session. Commissioner
Beverly then presented a Motion for the approval of Executive Session Items No. 1 thru 3.
Executive Session Item 1
RESOLUTION NO. 2010-CHA-119
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated September 1, 2010, requesting that the Board of
Commissioners approves the Personnel Actions Report for September 2010.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the Personnel Actions Report for
September 2010

Executive Session Item 2
WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2010-CHA-120
The Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated October 19,
2010, requesting authorization to enter into a settlement agreement in the amount
of $275,000.00 in the matter of Jesse Barnes v. Chicago Housing Authority, 07
WC 031504, plus the amount of $130,000.00 to fund the Medicare set aside
allocation, which can be issued to the claimant separately in the form an annuity
to be administrated by an outside vendor in the above-captioned matter.

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the General Counsel, or his designee, to
enter into a settlement agreement in the amount of $275,000.00, plus the amount of
$130,000.00 to fund the Medicare set aside allocation, which can be issued to the
claimant separately in the form an annuity to be administrated by an outside vendor
in the above-captioned matter in the cases known as Jesse Barnes v. Chicago
Housing Authority, 07 WC 031504.

Executive Session Item 3
RESOLUTION NO. 2010-CHA-121
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated October 19,
2010, requesting authorization to enter into a settlement agreement in the amount
of $195,000 in the matter of Monique Binion vs. CHA, East Lake Management &
Development Corporation, et al. 10 L 9189.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the General Counsel, or his designee, to
enter into a settlement agreement in the amount of $195,000.00 in the case known
as Monique Binion vs. CHA, East Lake Management & Development
Corporation, et al. 10 L 9189.

The Motion to adopt resolutions for Executive Session Items 1thru 3 was seconded by
Commissioner Harris and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Hallie Amey
Deverra Beverly
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
2

 Myra King
Carlos Ponce
Bridget Reidy
James Reynolds
Nays:

None

The Chairman thereupon declared said Motion carried and said Resolutions adopted.
In the absence of Committee Chair Young, Commissioner Harris presented the report for the
Tenant Services Committee. Per Commissioner Harris, the Tenant Services Committee held its
regular monthly meeting on Wednesday, October 13th at the 60 East Van Buren Corporate
Offices. Staff from the Office of Resident Services presented the Committee with an update on
2010 Summer Initiatives.
Commissioner Harris then presented an Omnibus Motion for adoption of Resolutions for Items
A1 and A2.
(Items A1)
The resolution for Item A1 approves revisions of the Admissions and Continued Occupancy
Policy/Tenant Selection Plan (ACOP/TSP), Lease, Lease Riders, and Bylaws for Kenmore
Apartments and Pomeroy Apartments. Kenmore Apartments and Pomeroy Apartments are
senior-designated public housing apartment buildings currently undergoing substantial
renovation. For Kenmore Apartments, CHA is seeking the environmentally friendly LEED
Platinum Level Certification. This certification requires the owner to minimize exposure of
building occupants, indoor surfaces and ventilation air distribution systems to environmental
tobacco smoke. For Pomeroy Apartments, CHA was awarded a HUD Capital Fund Recovery
Competition grant. Under this grant, CHA committed Pomeroy Apartments to meet specific
Enterprise Green Communities criteria which includes enforcing a “no smoking” policy in all
common and individual living areas of the building. Revisions are, therefore, required to the
ACOP/TSP and Lease for both Kenmore Apartments and Pomeroy Apartments to adopt a No
Smoking Policy that is enforceable by the residential lease. A public comment period was held
from September 7, 2010 through October 6, 2010. A public comment hearing was held on
September 14, 2010 at the Ella Flagg senior building. Notice for the 30-day comment period
was published in the Chicago Sun-Times, Chicago Defender, and Hoy newspapers, as well as
posted on the CHA website, CHA Administrative Office and Central Advisory Council.
Consideration was given to any forthcoming comments prior to finalizing the documents.
RESOLUTION 2010 -CHA-122
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated October 13,
2010, entitled “AUTHORIZATION FOR APPROVAL OF THE DRAFT
REVISIONS TO THE ADMISSIONS AND CONTINUED OCCUPANCY
POLICY/TENANT SELECTION PLAN, LEASE, LEASE RIDERS, AND
BYLAWS
FOR
KENMORE
APARTMENTS
AND
POMEROY
APARTMENTS TO INCORPORATE SUCH DOCUMENTS AS AN
ADDENDUM THERETO”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the attached draft revisions to the
Admissions and Continued Occupancy Policy/Tenant Selection Plan, Lease,
Lease Riders, and bylaws for Kenmore Apartments and Pomeroy Apartments.
The Chief Executive Officer is hereby authorized to approve final changes in
these forms, including, but not limited to, changes based on HUD requirements,
or resulting from any applicable notice and comment process. Such approval
shall constitute conclusive evidence of the Board’s approval of any and all such
changes.

(Item A2)
The resolution for Item A2 approves award of contract to Urban Instituted to conduct research
and analysis for the CHA. The contract’s primary focus will be to conduct research on two
initiatives: 1) tracking long-term outcomes for the Chicago Family Case Management
Demonstration project and 2) an impact analysis on crime patterns as a result of HCV residents
3

 in Chicago’s neighborhoods. The Chicago Family Case Management Demonstration project is a
partnership of the Urban Institute, CHA, Heartland Human Care Services and Housing Choice
Partners which has provided enhanced, wrap-around case management and relocation services to
approximately 450 residents at Ida B. Wells and Dearborn Homes since the inception of the
project in March 2007 through its completion in the spring of 2010. The proposed agreement
will enable the Urban Institute to conduct a follow-up survey with participants in 2011 and
perform an analysis of the results. The survey will be beneficial to CHA in assessing the longerterm effects on residents’ outcomes and, ultimately, in long-term planning for services to
residents. Another purpose is to further study the impact of CHA relocatees who have used a
HCV and HCV recipients in general, on patterns of crime in Chicago’s neighborhoods. The
MacArthur Foundation funded the initial study, and CHA seeks to fund further analysis.
MacArthur will match CHA’s funds for the proposed projects.
RESOLUTION NO. 2010-CHA-123
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated October 13, 2010, entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO ENTER
A CONTRACT WITH THE URBAN INSTITUTE TO CONDUCT RESEARCH
AND ANALYSIS FOR THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into a contract with the Urban Institute for the period of
November 1, 2010 through December 31, 2011, in an amount not-to-exceed
$174,320 to conduct research and analysis related to the Chicago Family Case
Management Demonstration Project and with respect to crime patterns as a result
of the presence of Housing Choice Voucher residents in a community.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items A1 and A2 was seconded by
Commissioner Ivers and the voting were as follows:
Ayes:

Hallie Amey
Deverra Beverly
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Myra King
Carlos Ponce
Bridget Reidy
James Reynolds

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairman thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted.
Commissioner Ponce, Chairman of the Operations and Facilities Committee, then presented his
report. Per Commissioner Ponce, the Operation and Facilities Committee held its regular
meeting on Wednesday, October 13th at approximately 1:50 p.m. at the 60 East Van Buren
Corporate offices.
Commissioner Ponce then presented an Omnibus Motion for adoption of the Resolutions for
Items B1 thru B9.
(Item B1)
The resolution for Item B1 approves Modification No. 3 for Hasbrouk Peterson Zimoch
Sirirattumrong (HPZS) for additional Prime Design Consulting services at Dearborn Homes.
HPZS submitted a proposal for additional compensation and reimbursable expenses due to the
CHA’s request to increase their design services for engineering for site communication
distribution, civil engineering for changes to the site – fire lane, and design work for the
trash/stuffer compactor replacement and trash lift installation. After careful analysis of HPZS’s
additional costs and extensive negotiations, staff believes that the contract modification is
justified. This amount includes $323,559.00 for additional services and an increase not-to-exceed
$40,000.00 for reimbursable expenses.
4

 RESOLUTION NO. 2010-CHA-124
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated September 15,
2010, entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO EXECUTE MODIFICATION NO. 03
TO CONTRACT NO. 0640 WITH HASBROUCK PETERSON ZIMOCH
SIRIRATTUMRONG FOR THE PROVISION OF ADDITIONAL PRIME
DESIGN
CONSULTANT
SERVICES
AND
REIMBURSABLE
EXPENDITURES AT FRANCES DEARBORN HOMES (IL2-009)”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to approve Modification No. 03 of Contract No. 0640 with Hasbrouck
Peterson Zimoch Sirirattumrong for the provision of additional prime design
consultant services at Dearborn Homes in the amount of $323,559.00, and to
increase the funding for reimbursable expenses by an amount not-to-exceed
$40,000.00, totaling $363,559.00. The new total contract value of Contract No.
0640 is $3,581,319.00.
This modification is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with CHA’s
MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident hiring, and insurance requirements.

(Item B2)
The CHA advertised an Invitation for Bid (IFB) in July 2010 for capital maintenance work
needed in and around sixteen units located across the North, East and South Buildings at 4525 S.
Lake Park Ave. The IFB was advertised in area newspapers and on CHA’s website. The CHA
received and opened eight bids. After reviewing the bid submittal materials, a pre-award survey
meeting was held with Old Veteran Construction, Inc., the apparent low bidder. The firm
responded to questions on the thoroughness of its bid, the amount of the work it planned to selfperform, and its capacity to perform this work. Based on its submitted bid and its responses at
the pre-award survey meeting, staff has determined that Old Veteran Construction, Inc. is the
lowest responsive and responsible bidder at $1,199,000.00. Old Veteran Construction, Inc.
brings experience working with the CHA not only at Washington Park, but on the five Indefinite
Delivery, Indefinite Quantity task orders it has been awarded in the past two years. Accordingly,
the resolution for Item B2 approves award to Old Veteran Construction, Inc. for Capital
Maintenance Work at 4525 S. Lake Park Avenue.
RESOLUTION NO. 2010-CHA-125
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated October 13,
2010, entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO EXECUTE CONTRACT WITH OLD
VETERAN CONSTRUCTION, INC. FOR CAPITAL MAINTENANCE AT
4525 S. LAKE PARK AVE. (IL2-118)”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

that the Board of Commissioners authorize the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute a contract with Old Veteran Construction, Inc. in the amount
of $1,199,000.00 for capital maintenance work in and around sixteen (16) units at
4525 S. Lake Park Ave. (IL2-118). The work is to be completed by no later than
one hundred fifty (150) calendar days from the date set forth in the Notice to
Proceed.
This award is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s
MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident hiring, and bonding and insurance
requirements.

(Item B3)
The CHA advertised an Invitation for Bid in July 2010 for re-roofing and exterior masonry work
at 3146 S. Wentworth Avenue at Armour Square Apartments, and 3120 S. Wentworth Avenue at
Armour Square Annex. The IFB was advertised in area newspapers and on the CHA website. Of
the three bids received and opened Tyler Lane Construction, Inc., was the apparent low bidder.
The challenge presented by doing roofing and masonry work in winter weather conditions was
discussed in depth. The timing of the project, due to the need to relocate communications
5

 equipment on the roof to provide access to the roof, was also addressed thoroughly. Based on its
submitted bid, staff has determined that Tyler Lane Construction, Inc. is the lowest responsive
and responsible bidder at $638,000.00. Accordingly, the resolution for Item B3 approves award
of contract to Tyler Lane Construction, Inc. for re-roofing and exterior masonry work at Armour
Square Apartments and Armour Square Annex.

RESOLUTION NO. 2010-CHA-126
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated October 13,
2010, entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO EXECUTE CONTRACT WITH TYLER
LANE CONSTRUCTION, INC. FOR THE RE-ROOFING AND EXTERIOR
MASONRY WORK AT ARMOUR SQUARE APARTMENTS (IL2-044) AND
ANNEX (IL2-033)”:
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorize the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute a contract with Tyler Lane Construction, Inc. in the amount of
$638,000.00 for re-roofing and exterior masonry work at Armour Square
Apartments (IL2-044), 3146 S. Wentworth, and Armour Square Annex (IL2-033),
3120 S. Wentworth Ave. The relocation of existing communications equipment,
cabling and supports, and project submittals and material procurement must be
completed by no later than March 31, 2011. All remaining work must be
completed by no later than May 30, 2011.
This award is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s
MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident hiring, and bonding and insurance
requirements.

(Item B4)
The resolution for Item B4 approves entering into a Housing Assistance Payment contract with
Nuestro Hogar. Nuestro Hogar consists of 31 units located in two existing multifamily buildings
in the Humboldt Park community: an 18 unit building at 3655 W. Wabansia and a 13 unit
building at 4101 W. Kamerling. Both buildings were rehabilitated in 2002 by the Bickerdike
Redevelopment Corporation and contain a mix of 2 and 3 bedroom units in 3-story brick
walkups. The properties are located near transit and major commercial corridors of North Ave.,
Grand Ave., and Pulaski Street. Other neighborhood amenities include the McCormick YMCA
and Humboldt Park. Bickerdike Redevelopment Corporation, an Illinois not-for-profit
corporation, is experienced in owning, developing and managing affordable housing. The CHA
will provide Property Rental Assistance subsidy for 8 of the 31 units at Nuestro Hogar. These
properties were selected and recommended by the Regional Housing Initiative.
RESOLUTION NO. 2010-CHA-127
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board letter dated October 13, 2010, entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO ENTER
INTO A HOUSING ASSISTANCE PAYMENT (HAP) CONTRACT FOR
NUESTRO HOGAR”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute a Housing Assistance Payments (HAP) contract for 8 of 31
units at Nuestro Hogar, an affordable housing development for families, in
accordance with the RHI program, subject to any HUD approvals.

(Item B5)
The Habitat Company, the court-appointed Gautreaux Development Manager, on behalf of the
CHA, issued a Request For Qualifications for a Master Developer and Property Management
Team for the Redevelopment of the Lathrop Homes to lead its multi-year, multi-phase
redevelopment. The Working Group’s vision is for sustainable affordability and opportunity in
the heart of Chicago that develops a large scale mixed-income community that achieves LEED
for Neighborhood Development Gold or Platinum level certification. The RFQ sought firms
6

 with demonstrated experience and expertise in Sustainable Development, Affordable Housing
Development, Community Development Planning, Redevelopment of Historic Properties,
Residential Property Management, Supportive Services, Job Creation and Accessibility. The
RFQ specified that the redevelopment scope must provide both ownership and rental on the site
of the present Julia C. Lathrop Homes property. In addition, it must provide appropriate space
for existing on-site community institutions, including the Mary Crane Community Center and
Daniel Cotter Boys & Girls Club or successor institutions. CHA has committed to return 400
public housing rental units which are to be no more than one-third of the total units of the
development. Habitat advertised the RFQ in local newspapers, the United States Green Building
Council Chicago Chapter and CHA websites. Habitat also directly solicited two hundred thirty
one firms, including twenty-three assist agencies. Habitat received six proposals and the
Evaluation Committee, comprised of members of the Lathrop Homes Working Group, reviewed
the proposals and developed its recommendation to CHA/Habitat based on the criteria and
requirements outlined in the RFQ. Five of the Respondents were within the Competitive Range
and each of the five teams made oral presentations. Upon further consideration of each
Respondent following the presentations, the Evaluation Committee recommended that the
highest-ranked team be asked to lead an open community planning process for the
redevelopment of Lathrop Homes. Lathrop Community Partners (LCP) was the highest ranked
team. The second and third ranked teams have also been identified, in the event negotiations
with the highest-ranked team do not conclude with an executed Master Development Agreement.
Accordingly, the resolution for Item B5 approves the Lathrop Community Partners as the
Development Team and approves entering into negotiations for a Master Development
Agreement and initiate Revitalization Planning for Lathrop Homes.
RESOLUTION NO. 2010-CHA-128
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated September 15,
2010, requesting approval of the recommended Development Team, Lathrop
Community Partners (LCP), and authorization for the Chief Executive Officer or
his designee to enter into negotiations for a Master Development Agreement
(MDA) and to initiate revitalization planning for Lathrop Homes.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners approves the recommended Development Team,
Lathrop Community Partners (LCP), and authorizes the Chief Executive Officer
or his designee to enter into negotiations for a Master Development Agreement
(MDA) and to initiate revitalization planning for Lathrop Homes.
The Execution of a Master Development Agreement is subject to the Developer’s
compliance with CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident hiring, and bonding
and insurance requirements.

(Item B6)
CHA requested submissions of qualifications from interested Developers to promote the
development or dedication of up to approximately 1,000 public housing units in mixed income
communities throughout the City of Chicago. The Housing For Chicagoans Everywhere (HCE)
program is a compliment to the CHA’s revitalization program. The HCE program provides the
opportunity for the successful respondents to participate as either a mixed-finance developer or
turnkey developer. These two development methods attract a wide range of small and large
Developers. Through the HCE Program RFQ, CHA sought developers who are interested in: 1)
receiving financial assistance and/or land from CHA in return for setting aside no more than
thirty-three percent (33%) of the units in each development project for public-housing eligible
families Mixed Finance Method; or 2) renovating homes under a turnkey purchase agreement in
return for setting aside up to 100% of the units in a scattered site for public housing/low income
eligible families Turnkey Method. HCE units under consideration for new family public housing
are subject to the Gautreaux court order. Any acquisition or long term lease is subject to HUD
approval, the Gautreaux court order and/or any other site specific approvals. Accordingly, the
resolution or Item B6 approves establishing and maintaining the below list of pre-qualified
housing developers and development teams for the HCE program to provide replacement
housing units to the CHA for public housing eligible families.

7

 RESOLUTION NO. 2010-CHA-129
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated October 13,
2010, entitled, “Authorization to establish and maintain a list of pre-qualified
housing developers and development teams for the Housing For Chicagoans
Everywhere (“HCE”) Program to provide replacement housing units to the
Chicago Housing Authority for public housing eligible families.”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to establish and maintain a list of pre-qualified housing developers and
development teams for the Housing For Chicagoans Everywhere (“HCE”)
Program to provide replacement housing units to the Chicago Housing Authority
for public housing eligible families.
Mixed Finance Developers
Holsten Real Estate
Brinshore Development
VLV Development and Financial
Services

St. Edmunds re-Development Corp.
Tria Adelfi, LLC (Joint Venture)
Heartland Alliance Housing, Inc
The Community Builders

Turnkey Method Developers
D’Escoto, Inc
Three Corners LLC
eSavers, LLC (Joint Venture)
Blackwell Construction
DSR Group
Solarcrete Energy
SG Partners (Joint Venture)
Senco, Inc.
Galvan and Associates
Riptide Investments
Team 4 Development, LLC

(Item B7)
The resolution for Item B7 approves the FY2011 Moving To Work Annual Plan, Plan For
Transformation Year 12. This document represents CHA's FY2011 MTW Annual Plan and
details CHA’s anticipated activities for FY2011. CHA has organized the discussions of activities
in the FY2011 MTW Annual Plan under the following Sections: Introduction, General Housing
Authority Operating Information, Non-MTW Related Housing Authority Information, LongTerm MTW Plan, Proposed MTW Activities – HUD Approval Requested, Ongoing MTW
Activities - HUD Approval Previously Granted, Sources and Uses of Funds, and Administrative.
Each activity CHA seeks to engage in that either uses MTW funds or requires a MTW regulatory
waiver, has to meet at least one of the following three MTW Statutory Objectives: MTW
Statutory Objective I: Increase housing choices for low-income families; MTW Statutory
Objective II: Give incentives to families with children where the head of household is working,
seeking work, or is preparing for work by participating in job training, educational programs, or
programs that assist people to obtain employment and become economically self-sufficient; and
MTW Statutory Objective III: Reduce costs and achieve greater cost effectiveness in federal
expenditures. Prior to submission of the FY2011 MTW Annual Plan to the Board, a 30-day
public comment period was conducted wherein both residents and the public alike were able to
submit comments orally and in writing, regarding the information contained in the proposed
Plan. The public comment period ran from September 10 through October 9, 2010. During such
time, on September 21, 2010, a public comment hearing was held. Prior to finalizing the
FY2011 MTW Annual Plan, CHA gave consideration to comments received during the public
comment period.
RESOLUTION NO. 2010-CHA-130
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated October 13,
2010, requesting approval of the FY2011 MTW Annual Plan – Plan for
Transformation Year 12, hereto attached.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the FY2011 MTW Annual Plan –
Plan for Transformation Year 12, and the form, CHA Certifications of
Compliance with MTW Plan Requirements and Related Regulations.
8

 THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to approve any final changes to the FY2010 MTW Annual Plan. Such
approval shall constitute conclusive evidence of the Board’s approval of any and
all such changes.

THAT,

this approval of the FY2011 MTW Annual Plan supersedes any and all conflicting
language found in prior CHA MTW Annual Plans.

THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby grants authorization to submit the FY2011
MTW Annual Plan to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development.

(Item B8)
In March 2008, the Board authorized CHA to execute a cost reimbursement plus incentive fee
contract with CVR Associates, Inc., for the administration and operation of a portion of the
CHA’s Section 8 Moderate Rehabilitation and Housing Choice Voucher Programs. On
December 31, 2010, the Contract with CVR will expire. CVR has satisfactorily met its
obligation under the Contract and CHA has determined that it would be in its best interest to
have CVR continue the provision of services currently provided under the Contract through
exercise of the Contract’s available 2-year option. In addition, CVR and Associates has greatly
improved Owner and Participant services by updating briefing materials for both Owners and
Participants, expanding the Owner and Participant Council, and jointly with CHA produced a
HQS Guidebook. The services currently under contract with CVR are the HCV Southwest
Satellite Office (administering 13,000 vouchers), HCV inspections, and Call Center operations.
Additionally, CHA desires to amend and restate the Contract to include additional services for
CVR and change the Contract’s payment structure from cost reimbursement with a performance
incentive fee to a fixed performance based type payment contract. Accordingly, the resolution
for Item B8 approves exercising the two year option of CVR’s contract, not-to-exceed
$23,000,000.00.
RESOLUTION NO. 2010-CHA-131
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated October 13, 2010, entitled, “RECOMMENDATION TO
EXERCISE THE OPTION TO CONTRACT NO. 8016 WITH CVR
ASSOCIATES, INC. AND TO NEGOTIATE, AMEND AND RESTATE THE
CONTRACT FOR HOUSING CHOICE VOUCHER AND MODERATE
REHABILITATION SECTION 8 PROGRAM SERVICES OPERATION AND
ADMINISTRATION”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

The Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer, or his
designee, to exercise the 2-year option of Contract No. 8016 (“Contract”) with
CVR Associates, Inc. and to negotiate, amend and restate the Contract for the
period of January 1, 2011 through December 31, 2012 for a fixed performance
based compensation amount not-to-exceed $23,000,000.00 to continue to
administer and operate portions of CHA’s Section 8 Housing Choice Voucher and
Moderate Rehabilitation Programs (the South West Satellite office, the HCV
Customer Service Call Center, and Inspections).

(Item B9)
In 2008, in an effort to promote increased competition and improved services, the CHA
bifurcated the administration and operation of the Housing Choice Voucher Program between
two contractors: Quadel Consulting Corporation (Quadel) and CVR Associates, Inc. (CVR).
The original term of the contracts will expire in December 2010. The CHA will extend the
services awarded to CVR (HCV Southwest Satellite Office; HCV Inspections; and Call Center)
for an additional two years pursuant to the contract option. The CHA determined that it would
be in the best interest of the HCV program if the services currently provided by Quadel were
solicited through a competitive Request for Proposal (RFP) rather than by exercising the option
term available in Quadel’s contract. The HCV Department desires to continue to foster
competition and improve customer service and has issued a Request for Proposal. CHA
advertised the RFP in area newspapers, CHA Website, the Public Housing Authorities Directors
Association website, the Council of Large Public Housing Authorities website, the National
9

 Institute of Government Purchasing website, and the National Association of Housing and
Redevelopment Officials website. The CHA solicited 145 vendors of which 37 were minority
firms. Of the twelve proposals received, one was deemed non-responsible. Based on the
recommendation of the Evaluation Committee, three firms were invited to make an oral
presentation in the area of Wait List; HCV Satellite Offices; Landlord Services and; PBV Mod
Rehab. A fourth firm was invited to make presentations to PBV and Mod Rehab only. Upon
further consideration of each Respondent following the presentations and discussions, the HCV
Department concluded that CVR and Nan McKay and Associate (NMA) provide the best overall
combination of industry expertise, experienced management personnel, program approach and
cost. The CHA recommends adding an additional Satellite Office to CVR’s current portfolio as
well as to consolidate Landlord Services under their direct operations. The CHA recommends
award of Wait List and Admissions; PBV and Mod Rehab; West and Central Satellite Offices to
NMA. NMA was selected by the Evaluation Team based on the quality of Approach and Work
Plans, qualifications, experience, past performance, oral interview, and the credentials of the onsite team presented to lead the efforts. Accordingly, the resolution for Item B9 approves award
of contract to CVR Associates and Man McKay & Associates, for an aggregate amount not-toexceed $29,860,708.00 for Program Administration and Operation of Portions of the Housing
Choice Voucher Program.
RESOLUTION NO. 2010-CHA-132
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated October 13, 2010, entitled, “RECOMMENDATION TO
ENTER INTO NEGOTIATIONS AND CONTRACT WITH CVR &
ASSOCIATES, INC. AND NAN MCKAY & ASSOCIATES FOR PROGRAM
ADMINISTRATION AND OPERATION OF PORTIONS OF THE HOUSING
CHOICE VOUCHER PROGRAM”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to negotiate and execute contracts with CVR and NMA for the
administration and operation of the Housing Choice Voucher and Moderate
Rehabilitation Program in an aggregate amount not-to-exceed $29,860,708 for a
two year period.
This award is subject to the firm’s compliance with CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE,
Section 3 resident hiring, and bonding and insurance requirements.

The Motion to adopt resolutions for Items B1 thru B9 was seconded by Commissioner Harris
and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Hallie Amey
Deverra Beverly
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Myra King
Carlos Ponce
Bridget Reidy
James Reynolds
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairman thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted.
Commissioner Ivers, Chairman of the Finance and Audit Committee, then presented his report.
Per Commissioner Ivers, the Finance & Audit Committee held its regular meeting on
Wednesday, October 13th at approximately 2:45 p.m. at the 60 East Van Buren Corporate
offices. The Chief Financial Officer and staff presented the Committee with the Treasury &
Cash Flow Report for the month of September 2010.
Commissioner Ivers then presented an Omnibus Motion for adoption of the Resolutions for
Items C1, C3 and C4.
10

 (Item C1)
To create separation from restrictions and limitations associated with federal finance sources,
such as HUD funding, and to obtain the benefits derived from discretionary spending and
projects, PHAs have long created “instrumentalities” as vehicles to generate additional revenues
and funding opportunities, as well as expand business and service offerings. Commonly
organized as not-for-profit organizations under applicable state and federal laws,
instrumentalities are often employed as vehicles to undertake financing, development, resident
services and consultative services, as well as other revenue-generating activities that would
otherwise be too onerous if conducted using restricted funds from federal sources. These
instrumentalities prove most successful when coordinated and implemented in concert with the
mission, direction and initiatives of an instrumentality’s housing authority partners. As a result,
the CHA developed a strategic business plan to establish the Chicago Housing Consulting
Services (CHCS) as a separate CHA instrumentality that seeks to generate additional revenue
streams and funding opportunities to support the CHA’s mission. On November 10, 2009,
Resolution No. 2009-CHA-155, the Board of Commissioners authorized the Chief Executive
Officer or his designee to enter into negotiations with and authorized the execution of a contract
with CGI Federal, Inc. (CGI) to be a subcontractor for CHCS, an instrumentality of the Chicago
Housing Consulting Services, to pursue HUD’s Housing Assistance Payments (HAP) Request
for Proposal (RFP) for contract administration for project-based Section 8 HAP contracts.
Accordingly, the resolution for Item C1 approves CHCS to commence and undertake activities
as a provider of Performance Based Contract Administration (PBCA) services as an
instrumentality of the Chicago Housing Authority. Additionally, the Board of Commissioners
approves the allocation of non-federal funding to CHCS for pre-award capital expenses in an
amount not to exceed $50,000.00, and for post-award capital expenses in an amount not to
exceed $700,000.00, resulting in a total allocation not-to-exceed $750,000.00.
RESOLUTION NO. 2010-CHA-133
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated October 13,
2010, entitled “Recommendation to Approve Chicago Housing Consulting
Services, Inc.’s (CHCS) Commencement of Activities, Pursuant to Resolution
2009-CHA-82, as a Designated Instrumentality of the Chicago Housing
Authority, to Pursue Performance-Based Contract Administration Opportunities
and Allocation of Non-Federal Funding to CHCS”,
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes CHCS to commence and undertake
activities as a provider of Performance Based Contract Administration (PBCA)
services as an instrumentality of the Chicago Housing Authority, pursuant to
Resolution No. 2009-CHA-82. Additionally, the Board of Commissioners
authorizes the allocation of non-federal funding to CHCS for pre-award capital
expenses in an amount not to exceed Fifty Thousand and 00/100 Dollars
($50,000.00), and for post-award capital expenses in an amount not to exceed
Seven Hundred Thousand and 00/100 Dollars ($700,000.00), resulting in a total
allocation not to exceed the amount of Seven Hundred Fifty Thousand Dollars
($750,000) for PBCA start-up capital. The funding will be used for purposes
involving the pursuit and performance of PBCA opportunities available through
HUD as a means to increase resource development and revenue opportunities that
support CHA’s mission and other vital organizational initiatives promoting social
welfare. The funds will advance CHA’s ability to address the Strategic Plan
Critical Success Factor - “Increase Non-Federal Funding Sources to Accelerate
the Plan for Transformation”.

(Item C2-THIS NUMBER NOT USED)
(Item C3)
The resolution for Item C3 approves the 3rd Quarter Revised 2010 Comprehensive Budget. The
FY2010 budgeted expenditures have been revised from $983,016,147 to $930,589,732, resulting
in a $52,426,415 decrease. The major changes by funding source are as follows: General Fund:
total revenues and associated expenditures decreased by $41,129,429 for a fund total of
$761,533,289. The reduction is due to changes in the cash flow schedules, as well as the
carryover of various construction projects to FY2011. Section 8 Moderate Rehabilitation (NonMTW) Fund: total revenues and associated expenditures increased by $127,534 for a fund total
11

 of $8,003,263. The increase reflects additional Mainstream dollars awarded for FY2010. Hope
VI: total revenues and associated expenditures decreased by $9,995,715 for a fund total of
$31,888,709. The reduction is due to a change in the cash flow for both Rockwell Gardens and
Park Boulevard properties and delays in construction activities at Cabrini Extension. Other
Funding: total revenues and associated expenditures decreased by $1,428,805 for a fund total of
$129,164,471. This decrease is primarily due to the changes in the cash flow schedule for the
ARRA stimulus project.
RESOLUTION NO. 2010-CHA-134
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board letter dated October 13,
2010, entitled “APPROVAL OF THE REVISED 2010 COMPREHENSIVE
BUDGET”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the attached budget amendments,
“THE FY2010 COMPREHENSIVE BUDGET AMENDMENT #2, and finds
with respect to said Budget:
1.

2.

3.

THAT,

that the proposed expenditures are necessary for the efficient and
economical operation of the Chicago Housing Authority for the purpose of
serving low-income families;
that the financial plan is reasonable in that it indicates funding sources
adequate to cover all proposed expenditures, and does not provide for use
of Federal funding in excess of that payable under the provisions of the
applicable Federal regulations; and
that all proposed rental charges and expenditures will be consistent with
provisions of law and the Annual Contributions Contract in accordance
with the Amended and Restated Moving To Work Demonstration
Agreement of the Chicago Housing Authority with the U.S. Department of
Housing and Urban Development.

the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer are authorized to execute
and forward to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development all
necessary budget documents and supporting information when applicable.

(Item C4)
The CHA’s insurance broker for Employee Health Plan Benefits, Mesirow Financial (Mesirow),
directly solicited requests for insurance premium quotes from 36 top healthcare insurance
providers in their respective fields for employee medical, dental, vision, Life, STD and LTD
insurance, including the CHA’s current healthcare benefit insurance providers. Letters
requesting premium quotes, along with current data (April 2010 CHA census population)
necessary for preparing insurance premium quotes, were delivered by Mesirow to the 36
healthcare insurance providers in June 2010. Mesirow received 1 proposed quote for medical, 3
for dental, 4 for vision and 4 for Life, LTD and STD benefits and 4 for flexible spending
accounts. The recommended awarded vendor for medical insurance, Humana Healthcare,
Humana Dental, Davis Vision all provided favorable quotes to the CHA for 2011 rates.
Compared to the other insurers that provided competitive quotes for dental and vision, Humana
Healthcare, Humana Dental and the Davis Vision’s plans offered a better overall value to the
CHA and its eligible participants. For Life, STD and LTD insurance, Lincoln Financial offered
the most favorable rates. The not-to-exceed amounts for each contract reflect the total premiums
that include CHA’s eligible participants and the eligible participants of CHA’s Affiliates. The
CHA’s affiliates will reimburse the CHA 100% of the premiums (approximately $500,000) to
cover the above referenced Employee Health Benefit Plans for their eligible participants during
the term of these contracts. Accordingly, the resolution for Item C4 approves awards of
contracts to Humana Medical and Dental, Davis Vision, Lincoln National and Ameriflex for the
CHA’s employee health benefit Plan.
RESOLUTION NO. 2010-CHA-135
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Memorandum dated October 13, 2010, entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO
ENTER INTO CONTRACTS WITH HUMANA (MEDICAL AND DENTAL),
DAVIS VISION, LINCOLN FINANCIAL AND AMERIFLEX FOR THE
12

 CHA’S EMPLOYEE HEALTH BENEFIT PLANS
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

that the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into contracts with the following insurance providers for the
Chicago Housing Authority’s (“CHA”) Employee Health Benefit Plans covering
eligible participants of the CHA and eligible participants of CHA’s affiliates for
the benefit year of January 1, 2011 through December 31, 2011 and for the
FY2012 option benefit year: (1) Humana HealthCare (medical) in an amount notto-exceed $5,304,951.00 for the base term and subject to funding availability, an
amount not-to-exceed $5,600,000.00 for the option year; (2) Humana, (dental) in
an amount not-to-exceed $238,576.44 for the base term and subject to funding
availability, an amount not-to-exceed $238,576.44 for the option year; (3) Davis
Vision in an amount not-to-exceed $40,010.93 for the base term and subject to
funding availability, an amount not-to-exceed $40,010.93 for the option year; (4)
Lincoln National Life [Life, Short-term disability (STD) and Long-term disability
(LTD)] in an amount not-to-exceed $287,270.71 for the base term and subject to
funding availability, an amount not-to-exceed $287,270.71 for the option year;
and (5) Ameriflex for employee flexible spending accounts in an amount not-toexceed $11,825.00 for the base term and subject to funding availability, an
amount not-to-exceed $11,825.00 for an aggregate amount not-to-exceed
$5,882,634.08 for FY 2011 and subject to funding availability, an aggregate
amount not-to-exceed $6,177,683.08 the FY2012 option benefit year.

The Motion to adopt resolutions for Items C1, C3 and C4 was seconded by Commissioner Harris
and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Hallie Amey
Deverra Beverly
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Myra King
Carlos Ponce
Bridget Reidy
James Reynolds
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairman thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted.
There being no further business to come before the Commissioners, upon Motion made,
seconded and carried, the meeting of the Board of Commissioners was adjourned at
approximately 11:20 a.m.
_______________________________
s/b:
Michael Ivers
Acting Chairman
___________________________
s/b:
Lee Chuc-Gill, Custodian and
Keeper of Records

13

 