June 17, 2014 Board Meeting
REGULAR MEETING
OF
THE BOARD OF COMMISIONERS
Lorraine Hansberry Apartments
5670 W. Lake
Tuesday, June 17, 2014
8:30 a.m.
AGENDA
I. Roll Call
II. Closed Meeting



Commissioners will vote on whether to go into closed meeting pursuant to the Open Meetings Act,
5 ILCS 120/2, to discuss matters under the following exceptions: personnel related matters under
(c)(1); and pending/imminent/probable litigation under (c)(11).

III. Open Session - Roll Call
IV. Centering Thoughts – Commissioner Mildred Harris
V. Approval of Closed and Open Minutes for the meetings of May 20, 2014
VI. Presentation of Resolutions and Committee Reports
Closed Meeting Resolutions
1. Contract amendment for legal services with Litchfield Cabo LLP for Schlessinger v. CHA
matter
2. Contract amendment for legal services with Winston & Strawn for Stubenfield v. CHA
matter
3. Contract amendment for legal services with Winston & Strawn for Peery v. CHA matter
4. Settlement Agreement in the matter of Theresa Palmer vs. CHA and Hispanic Housing
Development Corporation, Case No. 09 L 15720

Operations Committee Report ‐ Bridget Reidy, Chairperson
5. Recommendation to approve an Intergovernmental Agreement with the City of Chicago
Department of Administrative Hearing for reports of cases involving alleged City of
Chicago Building Code Violations
6. Authorization to exercise First Option Year and execute an amendment to increase the
not‐to‐exceed amount of Contract No. 11304 with Gilbane Building Company for
Authority Wide Program/Construction Management Services
7. Recommendation to award contract for Modernization & Life Safety at Caroline Hedger
Senior Apartments. Recommended Awardee: Madison Construction in the firm fixed
amount of $30,437,000 plus a not‐to‐exceed amount of $1,826,220 in contingency for a
total amount not‐to‐exceed $32,263,220

 Real Estate Development Report ‐ Jack Markowski, Chairman
8. Authorization to execute a Preliminary Commitment Letter for Property Rental
Assistance for Back of the Yards Residences & Dance Studio
9. This Number Not Used.
10. Recommendation to award a contract to provide master planning technical services for
Roosevelt Square Redevelopment Area. Recommended Awardee: Solomon Cordwell
Buenz in the amount of $386,010
11. Authorization to enter into a Purchasing and Sales Agreement with Metra; submit a
Disposition Application to HUD for the disposition of CHA Land; execute a deed to convey
the CHA land in Fee Simple to Metra; and execute and perform such action as may be
necessary to implement the foregoing.

Finance & Personnel Committee Report ‐ Mark Cozzi, Chairman
12. This Number Not Used.
13. Authorization to enter into a Cooperative Purchasing Agreement with the State of Illinois
to utilize and enroll under its Microsoft Select Agreement for the supply and delivery of
Microsoft software and to utilize and enroll under its Microsoft enterprise agreement for
maintenance upgrade and support services in an amount not‐to‐exceed $2,017,440
14. Approval of Personnel Actions.

VII. Report from Chief Executive Officer – Michael R. Merchant
VIII. Presentation of Certificate to Michael Redd – Michael R. Merchant
IX. Public Participation
X. Adjournment

 