

February 15, 2012 ITEM NO. B2

 

AUTHORIZATION To 1) SUBMIT A MIXED-FINANCE PROPOSAL,
EVIDENTIARIES, AND DISPOSITION APPLICATION TO THE UNITED STATES
DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT 2) COMMIT
UP TO $15,500,000 CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY (CHA) FUNDS FOR THE
LAKEFRONT PHASE II RENTAL 3) EXECUTE AN INITIAL
GROUND LEASE WITH STATEWAY COMMUNITY PARTNERS FOR THE
LAKEFRONT PROPERTIES LAND COMPRISING THE PHASE II RENTAL 
AND 4) EXECUTE AND DELIVER SUCH OTHER DOCUMENTS AND PERFORM
SUCH ACTIONS AS MAY BE NECESSARY OR APPROPRIATE To IMPLEMENT
THE FOREGOING.

To the Honorable Board of Commissioners:

RECOMMENDATION

It is recommended that the Board Of Commissioners authorize the Chief Executive Of?cer or his
designee to: 1) Submit a Mixed-Finance Proposal, Evidentiaries, and Disposition Application to
the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development 2) Commit up to
$15,500,000 of CHA ?Inds tO the Lakefront Phase II Rental development; 3) Execute an initial
Ground Lease with Stateway Community Partners for the Lakefront Properties land comprising
the Phase II rental site; and 4) Execute and deliver such other documents and perform such
actions as may be necessary or appropriate to implement the foregoing.

FUNDING
Not to Exceed $15,500,000 of General or Other Funds

Redevelopment
Participation:

Direct: MBE 
Indirect: 
Waiver 

Section 3:
Hiring Subcontracting Other Economic Opportunities

:12 mtllechamrg

EXPLANATION
Program Overview: Lakefront Phase II is the ?nal phase of redevelopment of Lakefront
Properties, a site formerly comprised of four public housing high-rise buildings with a total of
604 units. The redevelopment is bounded by 40th Street on the North, 42nd Place on the South,
Lake Park Avenue on the West and the Metra railway line on the East. A master plan was
accepted by the CHA Board of Commissioners in January 2002 to build Lake Park Crescent, a
new mixed-income redevelopment in the Oakland community area on the south side of Chicago.

When completed, the new development will house a total of 485 units including 120 public
housing units. The developer of Lake Park Crescent Phase I constructed the ?rst 216 units, of
which 148 rental units were completed in 2005, and the 68 remaining units in Phase IA For Sale
were completed in 2008. CHA has received a total of 73 public housing units in Phase I and
Phase IA. The developer of the Phase II site will construct the remaining 269 units including
132 units of mixed income rental housing and 137 units of for sale housing. This resolution
relates to the ?nal rental phase and the ?nal for-sale phase will be presented at a later date.

Development Entities: Davis Lakefront LLC is the master developer of the Lakefront
Properties Phase II development and Davis Associates Managers LLC is the sponsor. The Phase
II Rental development will be owned by Lakefront Phase II, LLC. Lakefront Phase II, LLC is
comprised of Lakefront Phase II Manager, LLC as the Managing Member and Centerline
Investor LP LLC as the Investor Member. The investor member will own 99.98% of
Lakefront Phase II, LLC. At the closing for this transaction, the CHA Ground Lease will initially
be entered into between CHA and Stateway Community Partners, a 501(c)(3) service provider
and non-pro?t member of Lakefront Phase II, LLC. Simultaneously at the closing, the Ground
Lease will be assigned by Stateway Community Partners to Lakefront Phase II, LLC, the Owner
Entity for the rental development. Thereafter, Lakefront Phase II, LLC will assume all
responsibilities, obligations and rights as tenant under the Ground Lease.

Lakefront Phase II Rental Development Summary: The Lakefront Phase II Rental
development will be comprised of 47 public housing, 51 affordable (LIHTC), and 34 market-rate

units. The chart below identi?es income restrictions by unit type. Of the 47 units set aside for
public housing residents, there will be 16 one bedroom, 14 two bedroom, and 17 three bedroom
units.

 

Affordable
Public Housing - LIHTC Market Total
Rate Units

 

50% 60% 80% 50% 60%
AMI AMI AMI AMI AMI unrestricted

 

The overall Phase II Rental site boundaries are 40th Place to the north, Lake Park Avenue to the
west, Oakenwald Avenue to the east, and 42nd Place to the south. The redevelopment was
designed to reincorporate smaller, pedestrian-friendly street blocks and architecture compatible

theclta. org

with that of the surrounding neighborhood. As part of the redevelopment, new streets, alleys,
and utilities are being constructed by the Chicago Department of Transportation to support the
new housing development. The building features in Phase II continue this objective by
complementing what was constructed in Phase 1.

Construction:

This new construction rental phase will contain a total of thirteen structures including one (1)
eight-story 81 unit steel and concrete midrise building and 51 units in 7 three-?ats and 5 six-?ats
offered through four different building types. The building and unit types will be mixed
throughout each block, with a solid mix of ACC, affordable, and market rental units in each
block, in efforts to create a strong, mixed income rental community. Each building type and unit
will be constructed with the same quality and materials so that each unit will be indistinguishable
among income levels.

The buildings will be constructed of brick masonry with full brick exteriors on all sides. The
facades are Norman brick with structural architectural cast concrete lintels, architectural precast
concrete sills and trim. Windows are aluminum or aluminum clad wood with insulated tinted
glazing and low-E coating. The buildings are designed to exceed the current energy guidelines
of the City of Chicago. The midrise building will be LEED certi?ed and includes a green roof,
rain gardens, and energy/ ef?cient water ?xtures. The midrise will include a laundry room with
14 washers and 10 dryers, as well as a 750 square foot community room. All low-rise units will
have individual washers and dryers. All units will have at least one parking space, including an
indoor garage for the 81 unit midrise building.

Financing: The total development budget of the residential portion of this Phase II will be
approximately $50,909,100 and is expected to be funded by the approximate following sources
of permanent ?nancing:

(1) $13,925,000 CHA Loan: This loan is projected to be funded by a combination of
approximately $6,880,090 CHA Capital Funds and $7,044,910 CHA Development Funds.
The loan term will be for approximately 42 years, inclusive of the construction period, with
an interest rate of up to 3% and repayment will be deferred until maturity.

(2) $28,173,000 LIHTC Equity: The LIHTC investor, Centerline Capital, is projected to
provide tax credit equity in the approximate amount of $28,173,000. Equity will be
generated by the syndication of approximately $3,130,656 annual federal LIHTC from the
City of Chicago?s Housing and Economic Development (HED). The equity amount is based
on a purchase price of $0.90 per dollar for the ten year credit allocation.

(3) $5,000,000 City of Chicago HOME Loan: City of Chicago?s HED is projected to loan
approximately $5,000,000 to the project with a term of 42 years, inclusive of the
construction period, with an interest rate of up to 3% and repayment will be deferred until
maturity.

(4) $2,450,000 First Mortgage: US. Bank is projected to provide a forward commitment for
the permanent ?rst mortgage loan in the approximate amount of $2,450,000 with a fixed

thecha. org

interest rate to be locked at the time of closing presently estimated at 8.16%. The loan is
proposed to have a 15-year term and 30-year amortization period.

(5) $783,000 Illinois Affordable Housing Tax Credit (Donation Tax Credit) Equity Loan:
The City of Chicago?s HED has allocated donation tax credits which are projected for
purchase by Centerline Capital at a price of approximately $0.87 per credit. The proceeds
will be loaned to the project by CHA. The loan term will be approximately 42 years,
inclusive of the construction period, with an interest rate of up to 3% and repayment will be
deferred until maturity.

(6) $568,000 DCEO Grant Funds (Capital Contribution): The Illinois Department of
Commerce and Economic Opportunity (DCEO) is expected to allocate $568,000 of its
Energy Ef?cient Affordable Housing Construction Program Funds. The ?mds will come in
to the project as a Capital Contribution or as a Sponsor Loan.

(7) $10,100 Member Capital Contribution

During the construction period, US. Bank will provide a construction loan up to $21,500,000
with an anticipated interest rate based on the one-month LIBOR rate plus 2.75% for a term of 24
months with a six month extension. The construction loan will be repaid from equity.

Additional project sources include $780,560 of CHA Development Funds for Gautreaux
Development Manager fees and costs and Initial Operating De?cit Reserve. Demolition grant
funds were previously used for demolition in 1996. Approximately $3,987,579 of Capital Funds
will be used to pay site remediation and extraordinary site work costs which will be authorized
by a separate Board action. Additionally, CHA Administration will be paid from these sources.

Based on the foregoing, it is in the best interest of the Chicago Housing Authority to: 1) Submit a
Mixed-Finance Proposal, Evidentiaries, and Disposition Application to the United States
Department of Housing and Urban Development 2) Commit up to $15,500,000 of CHA
?mds to the Lakefront Phase II Rental development; and 3) Execute an initial Ground Lease with
Stateway Community Partners for the Lakefront Properties land comprising the Lakefront Phase
II rental site; and 4) Execute and deliver such other documents and perform such actions as may
be necessary or appropriate to implement the foregoing.

mthechamrig

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2012-CHA-10

the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated,
February 15, 2012 requesting authorization to: 1) Submit a Mixed-
Finance Proposal, Evidentiaries, and Disposition Application to the United
States Department of Housing and Urban Development 2)
Commit up to $15,500,000 Chicago Housing Authority (CHA) funds to
the Lakefront Phase II Rental development; 3) Execute an initial Ground
Lease with Stateway Community Partners for the Lakefront Properties
land comprising the Phase II rental site; and 4) Execute and deliver such
other documents and perform such actions as may be necessary or
appropriate to implement the foregoing.

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY

THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Of?cer or his
designee to: 1) Submit a Mixed-Finance Proposal, Evidentiaries, and
Disposition Application to the United States Department of Housing and
Urban Development 2) Commit up to $15,500,000 of Chicago
Housing Authority (CHA) ?mds to the Lakefront Phase II Rental
development; 3) Execute an initial Ground Lease with Stateway
Community Partners for the Lakefront Properties land comprising the
Phase II rental site; and 4) Execute and deliver such other documents and
perform such actions as may be necessary or appropriate to implement the
foregoing.

  

 

 

 

Board of CommissioFe-rs

 

60 E. Van sheet. Chicago, 60605-1207. (312) 742-8500 Twit/{Meeting

