Planning and Stakeholder Relations Committee
Minutes
March 15, 2018
The meeting was called to order at 8;30 am in Port Authority’s Neal H. Holmes Board
Room at 345 Sixth Avenue, Fifth Floor, Pittsburgh, with the following in attendance:
Board Committee Members
John Tague, Jr., Chairman
Ann M. Ogoreuc
Stephanie Turman

Board Members and Solicitor
Michelle Zmijanac
Joel Lennen

1. Opening Remarks
Mr. Tague, Committee Chair, opened the meeting and welcomed those in
attendance.
2. Approval of Minutes from the February 15, 2018 Planning and Stakeholder
Relations Committee Meeting
Mr. Tague asked Committee members if there were any corrections to the minutes.
There were none and members approved the minutes.
3. Station Square Station Conceptual Design Presentation (B. Masciotra)
Ms. Breen Masciotra showed a PowerPoint presentation of the Station Square
Transit Center Design, which includes:
•

•
•
•

Current station includes:
o Four Bus Stops – including 13 different bus routes
o Light Rail Station – includes three LRV routes
o Incline Station
o Combined total of 5800 riders a day – third busiest location in the
system
Station Square has been an entertainment and tourist location – including
over $350 million in planned real estate development.
Walkshed – everything in Blue on the presentation is within a ten-minute walk
to the light rail station.
When the Authority started to look at this project they looked at staff and
community input with a station user survey. The results of the rider survey
indicate riders would like to see:
o Better design, more information and safety improvements
o The number one obstacle that people identified with is feeling unsafe
from traffic
o Also in the community meetings and with staff there was discussion
about the concerns with the crosswalk and traffic

 Planning and Stakeholder Relations Committee
Minutes
March 15, 2018

•

•

•

Station Improvement Projects generally include three components TOD
Feasibility, Station Access and Station Design.
o TOD Feasibility is not included for this station as Port Authority does not
own land
o Station Access – create a safe environment and easy access
o Station Design – improve design and appearance of station, improve rider
experience.
Proposed street improvements:
o Widening the Sidewalks and adding a landscape buffer.
o Under the bridge of the Light Rail – screen off the area and add public art
and landscaping. Add light and make it feel safer and welcoming.
o Improve the design of the station such as lowering the brick walls to add
more light into the station by using screening.
o PennDOT Improvements:
! PennDOT is working on a project that includes East Carson Street
from Smithfield Street to 33rd Street. The purpose of their project is
pedestrian safety improvements.
! The Authority staff has provided input to PennDOT on this project
to insure it meets Port Authority’s needs.
! Most important thing that PennDOT is doing and a benefit to the
Station Square planning work is moving the inbound bus stop. A
major concern at the bus stop is illegal pedestrian crossings from
the bus stop to the Light Rail Stop.
o Signage and clear graphics near key access locations, as one way to
show all these transportation modes are in one area and give some
indication that there is a light rail facility to your left and an incline station
to your right.
o Another recommendation is implementing a landscape buffer and
bumping out the curbs making them wider. This will make it safer for
pedestrians to cross the street.
Making some changes to the Incline Station:
o The employee parking is currently the most visible part of the station.
o When you open the door to the Incline it blocks the sidewalk. Would like
to add an automatic sliding door
o Adding a plaza in place of employee parking
o Adding a ticket vending machine outside
o Creating better access for maintenance by adding an access road behind
the incline for Port Authority employees only

2

 Planning and Stakeholder Relations Committee
Minutes
March 15, 2018

Questions from committee and board members
1. Ms. Zmijanac asked what are the areas in Blue across the Smithfield Bridge (as
shown on the presentation)?
• Ms. Masciotra answered – It is the area that riders can walk to such as
Downtown, it is within ten-minute walk or ½ mile to a Light Rail Station
or Bus Station.
2. Mr. Tague asked what is going to be done with wayfinding and real time?
• Ms. Masciotra answered – Mr. Vetere is responsible for those efforts
and it is not yet known what type of signage the Authority will be using,
especially for the electronic real time.
3. Ms. Turman asked what is the timeline of the project?
• Ms. Masciotra answered we will be following up with Mr. Wargo and
having future design meetings and submitting our capital requests to
consider what we need to support to keep this project going.

3

 