PORT AUTHORITY OF ALLEGHENY COUNTY
MINUTES OF THE ANNUAL BOARD MEETING
FRIDAY, JANUARY 26, 2018
The Annual Meeting of the Board of Port Authority of Allegheny County was held on Friday, January
26, 2018 at 9:30 a.m. at the Authority’s Administration Offices, 345 Sixth Avenue, Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania, 15222-2527, pursuant to due public notice given as required by law.
Board Members:
Jeff Letwin, Chair
Jennifer Liptak
Senator Jim Brewster
Ann Ogoreuc
John Tague
Rob Vescio
Rob Kania
Michelle Zmijanac
D. Raja
Stephanie Turman
Joel Lennen, General Counsel

Media:
Kate Giammarise, Post-Gazette
Ed Blazina, Post-Gazette
Meg Schiller, KDKA
Theresa Clift, Tribune Review

Port Authority Staff:
Katharine Kelleman, chief executive officer, Bill Miller, chief operations officer, Keith Wargo, assistant
general manager Engineering and Technical Support, Barry Adams, assistant general manager
Human Resources, Ed Typanski, director Grants and Capital Programs, Catherine Terrill,
professional Services contract specialist, Jerimaine Ward, manager Contract Administration, Chris
Walker, Associate service planner. Inez Colon, director Employment, John DeAngelis, manager
Contract Administration, Tony Trona, director Purchasing and Materials Management, Fred Mergner,
assistant manager Scheduling and Service Planning, Adam Brandolph, Public Relations
representative, Deborah Skillings, Community Outreach representative, Diane Williamson, executive
assistant.
Other
Stuart Strickland, ACTC and Speaker, Donna Dzurilla, Speaker, Annie Regan, Speaker, Cindy
Paulding, Speaker, Debra Green, Speaker, Tyrone Green, Speaker, Franya Hutchins, Speaker,
Glenn Walsh, Speaker, Nica Ross, Speaker, James Love, Speaker, Jonah McAllister-Erickson,
Speaker, Kate Grannemann Coluccio, Speaker, Karen Warman, Speaker, Laura Wiens, Speaker, Jim
Bonner, Speaker, Tom Conroy, Speaker, Rashad Colvin, Speaker, Krystle Knight, Speaker, Helen
Gerhardt, Just Harvest, Paul O’Hanlon, Speaker, David Donahoe.
Following the pledge of allegiance, the Chair called the Annual Meeting to order for the purpose of
electing new officers.
The Chair called on Mr. Robert Kania, Chair of the Nominating Committee, for a report. Mr. Kania
first thanked his fellow committee members, Ms. Ann Ogoreuc and Ms. Stephanie Turman, for their
assistance.

1

 Mr. Kania reported that the slate of officers recommended for election for Calendar Year 2018 by the
Nominating Committee is as follows: Mr. Jeffrey Letwin, Chair; Ms. Jennifer Liptak, Vice Chair;
Senator Jim Brewster, Secretary; and Mr. Robert Kania, Treasurer.
In addition to these officers, the Nominating Committee recommended the following staff members:
Mr. Peter Schenk, Assistant Treasurer and Mr. Michael J. Cetra, Ms. Diane Williamson, Ms. Rebecca
Janicik and Ms. Julie Leistner as Assistant Secretaries.
The Chair asked if there were any other nominations.
There being no other nominations, Mr. Letwin requested a motion to accept the nominations as
presented by the Nominating Committee. It was moved, seconded and unanimously agreed to accept
the slate of officers recommended by the Nominating Committee.
Mr. Letwin thanked the Board for their confidence in him and for appointing him for another term. He
stated that this is one of the best Boards he has had the opportunity to work with and he thanked all
Board members for the commitment involved and the compassion with which we come to realize for
this organization.
Under new business, the Board recognized Mr. David Donahoe for his exemplary service while the
Board preformed the search for our new chief executive officer. The Board presented Mr. Donahoe
with a resolution and a plaque that read, “This is in recognition for outstanding leadership served and
dedication to the Port Authority in an effort and commitment to improving and expanding public
transportation throughout Allegheny County.” Mr. Letwin stated that this is consistent with all the
things Mr. Donahoe had done for all of the other organizations in the city as well.
There being no further business, the Annual Meeting was adjourned.

2

 