PERFORMANCE OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE MEETING
Thursday, April 19, 2018

The meeting was called to order at 9:00 am. in Port Authority's Neal H. Holmes Board Room
located on the fifth floor of the Heinz 57 Center with the following in attendance:

 

 

Board Committee Members Other Board Member
Michelle Zmijanac, Chair John Tague

Jennifer Liptak Ann Ogoreuc

Jeff Letwin

1. Approval of Minutes:

Minutes from the March 15, 2018 Performance Oversight Committee meeting were
approved.

2. Proposed Resolutions:

 

There were eight resolutions reviewed by the Performance Oversight Committee and
are being recommended for consideration by the Board.

Mr. Trona first reviewed two procurement items and the Committee found the bids to
be in accordance with the Authority?s procurement policies and procedures, the prices
to be fair and reasonable, and the bidders to be responsive and reSponsible.

The Performance Oversight Committee therefore agreed to recommend for award the
items in the total amount of $237,382.

Next, Mr. Wargo presented a resolution requesting authorization to enter into a
Contribution Agreement with the Department of Transportation for the
Kenmawr Bridge project. He explained that is planning to rehabilitate and
improve the Kenmawr Bridge located in the boroughs of Swissvale and Rankin and
adjacent to the East Busway.

PennDOT?s design for the project includes the construction of an additional span on the
bridge replacement structure to accommodate potential future expansion and extension
of the East Busway. They are willing to proceed with the construction of the additional
span subject to the Authority entering into a Contribution Agreement and agreeing to
reimburse for the costs associated with the construction of the span and the
Authority conveying certain right-of?way necessary for completion of the project.

The Contribution Agreement in Exhibit A is recommended for a total not-to-exceed
amount of $1,460,000.

The Performance Oversight Committee agreed to recommend that resolution.

The next resolution, also presented by Mr. Wargo, authorizes the Authority to enter into
an Agreement with Ansaldo STS USA, Inc., for the procurement and replacement of
the Automatic Trip StOp System on the Authority?s light rail vehicles. He explained that
the Authority has determined that it needs to replace its existing Automatic Trip Stop
System on its entire LRV fleet.

The Performance Oversight Committee agreed to recommend entering into the
Agreement with Ansaldo for a total not-to-exceed amount of $20,138,108.88.

The next resolution, also presented by Mr. Wargo, provides authorization to amend the
Agreement with CDM Smith, Inc., to Provide Bus Rapid Transit Management and
Engineering Services. Mr. Wargo explained that the Authority previously entered into
an Agreement with CDM Smith to provide the services which included completing
preliminary engineering work in support of the grant application for the BRT Project.

The Agreement was awarded for an initial term of two years, with the option to extend
the Agreement up to one additional year.

Mr. Wargo reported that to date, CDM Smith has performed the services in a
satisfactory manner and assisted the Authority in timely submitting a federal Small
Starts grant application to the FTA in September 2017, which was highly rated by the
FTA, but no Small Starts funding was available for award at that time.

In order to continue to advance the BRT Project and make a timely submission of an
updated Small Starts grant application, it is necessary that the Agreement be extended
one additional yearthrough November 15, 2019, and to increase the total not?to-exceed
amount by $1,500,000.

The Performance Oversight Committee agreed to recommend extending the
Agreement and increasing the total not-to-exceed amount.

Mr. Miller presented the next resolution that would authorize the Authority to amend its
Agreement with CHK America, Inc., to provide signage and wayfinding program
services.

Mr. Miller explained that services for the Wayfinding System consist of communicating
consistent transit information to customers at all passenger facilities and bus stops and
is scheduled to expire on April 30, 2018.

The Authority desires to continue the Agreement in order for certain tasks to be
performed, including designing signage for major transfer locations and the various
transit stops within the Authority?s service area.

The Performance Oversight Committee agreed to recommend extending the
agreement to April 30, 2019 and increasing the total not-to?exceed amount by
$1,300,000.

Mr. Adams presented the next resolution which seeks authorization to amend the
Agreement for Employee Benefits Consulting. He explained that the Board previously
authorized the award of the Agreement to Towers Watson Delaware, Inc., for an initial
three?year term for a total not-to-exceed amount of $1,000,000. The Agreement also
contained two additional Option years.

Mr. Adams noted that the consulting services provided by Towers Watson have been
satisfactory to date and in compliance with the Agreement.

The Performance Oversight Committee agreed to recommend extending the term of
Agreement for two additional years to July 31, 2020 and increasing the total not?to-
exceed amount by $700,000.

The next resolution was presented by Mr. Central which seeks authorization to amend
Agreements for Investigative Services.

Mr. Cetra reported that in May 2015, the Board authorized the award of four
Agreements to Specialty Private Investigators, Inc.; CSI Corporate Security and
Investigations, Inc.; Pittsburgh Information and Research Company; and Investigations
by King, LLC, to provide investigative services for an initial term of three years for a total
not-to-exceed amount of $300,000. The Agreements also contain two option years.

Mr. Cetra noted that Pittsburgh Information and Research Company has ceased doing
business.

The Performance Oversight Committee agreed to recommend extending the remaining
three Agreements for an additional year to June 30, 2019 with no increase in the total
not?to-exceed amount of the Agreements.

The final resolution, also presented by Mr. Cetra, seeks authorization to amend the
Agreement with the University of Pittsburgh.

He explained that Port Authority and the University of Pittsburgh are parties to an
Agreement to provide eligible Pitt students, faculty and staff with access to and use of
the Authority?s public transit system. In exchange for this service, Pitt pays the Authority
a fee of 50 percent of the Authority?s base fare per card tap, which is currently $1.25
per card tap.

The Performance Oversight Committee agreed to recommend extending the
Agreement for one additional year to June 30, 2019.

Financial Report:

At the meeting, Mr. Schenk reported that Total Operating Income through March was
approximately $4.4 million higher than budget, principally due to higher Passenger
Revenues. It was also reported that Total Expenses were approximately $16 million
under budget. Total subsidies were approximately $2.5 million under budget, which is
a timing issue with State Operating Assistance. Mr. Schenk noted that subsidies should
meet budget by fiscal year-end.

With no further business, the meeting was adjourned.

