MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING

OF THE

COMMISSIONERS OF THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
November 20, 2007
The Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority held its Regular Meeting of the Board of
Commissioners on Tuesday, November 20, 2007, at 8:30 a.m. at Albany Apartments, 3030 W.
21st Place, Chicago, Illinois.
Chairperson Nesbitt called the meeting to order and upon roll call, those present and absent were
as follows:
Present:
Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young
Absent:

Bridget O’Keefe
Mary Wiggins

Also present were Sharon Gist Gilliam, Chief Executive officer; Adrienne Minley, Chief-ofStaff; Jorge Cazares, General Counsel; Chicago Housing Authority Staff Members and the
General Public.
There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as
follows:
Sharon Gist Gilliam, Chief Executive Officer, then presented her monthly report. Ms. Gilliam
commenced her report by highlighting press coverage received at the Ickes development on
policing issues. In other press, CHA was featured on the Tribune’s Real Estate front page on the
North Side rebirth and featured a former Cabrini Resident, Miles Warren, III, who now owns a
townhouse in Parkside of Old Town. According to the CEO, this positive story reflects the
changes being made by CHA not only on the north-side but throughout the Chicagoland area.
On the following week the Tribune again featured CHA. It described CHA development of 450
acres with “green elements” and how CHA requires architects to include green elements on all
its new developments. The CEO then highlighted Windows of Opportunity’s inaugural “Night
with the Stars” banquet where former public housing residents who had risen above their
challenges to achieve personal and professional success were saluted. The CEO proudly
concluded her report by announcing that under the Family Self Sufficiency, 21 graduates
received their diploma – and shared their own success stories - at the Family Self Sufficiency
(FSS) Graduation on October 25 at the Charles A. Hayes Family Investment Center. According
to the CEO, when the class began, the average income was $13,300. Upon graduation, it
increased to by more than 100% to $27,726. Eight of the graduates purchased their own homes.
Over the last 11 years, FSS has dispersed $4.5 million to 484 voucher participants (an average of
nearly $10,000 per graduate) and has helped create 62 new homeowners.
The Chairperson then convened the Public Hearing portion of the meeting by inviting residents
and the public at large to address the Board.
Immediately following the Public Hearing portion of the meeting, a Motion was introduced and
seconded to adjourn to Executive Session. The Chairperson announced that pursuant to the
Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2, the Board would adjourn for approximately one (1) hour to
discuss pending, probable or imminent litigation, collective negotiating matters, security and
personnel matters.

1

 The Commissioners subsequently reconvened in Open Session.
Chairman Nesbitt thereupon introduced the Resolution discussed in Executive Session and
presented a Motion to approve the resolution for Executive Session Item 1.
Executive Session Item 1
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-150
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated November 1, 2007, requesting that the Board of
Commissioners approves the Personnel Actions Report for October 2007.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the Personnel Actions Report for
October 2007.

The Motion to adopt resolution for Executive Session Item 1was seconded by Commissioner
Ponce and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young

Nays:

None

The Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried and said Resolution adopted.
In the absence of Committee Chair O’Keefe, Commissioner Amey presented the monthly
Finance and Audit Committee report. Per Commissioner Amey, the regular Finance and Audit
Committee Meeting was held on Wednesday, November 14, 2007 at approximately 1:00 p.m. at
the 60 E. VanBuren Corporate offices. Staff presented the committee with the Quarterly Finance
update; Treasury and Chas Flow Report for the month of October 2007 and a detailed
presentation of the FY2008 Budget.
Commissioner Amey then introduced an Omnibus Motion for adoption of the Resolutions for
Items A1 thru A6 approved by the Finance and Audit Committee.
(Item A1)
In September 2005, the Board of Commissioners authorized the Authority to enter into two-year
base term contracts with Columbia Capital Management, LLC and Reznick Group P.C., to
provide the CHA with financial advisory services. Each contract provided an option for a one
year extension at the Authority’s discretion. Accordingly, the resolution for Item A1 approves
contract extension for financial advisory services to Columbia Capital Management, LLC and
Reznick Group P.C. The contract extension will provide the Office of Development
Management and the Finance Division with the analytical support and guidance in developing
and implementing alternative financing strategies for future projects. These financial advisors
have become familiar with CHA’s financing programs (bond, tax, credit, banks and construction
loans) and the types of transactions required in mixed finance developments and have provided
invaluable support and expertise. They have been instrumental in developing the financing
strategies for development transactions and their continued services are vital to the completion of
these deals. Columbia Capital has assisted with the Britton Budd project as well as the Capital
Program Revenue Refunding Bonds. The Reznick Group served as the financial advisor for the
City/State financing deal.
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-151
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated November 14, 2007
entitled “Authorization to Extend Contract Award for Financial Advisory
Services to Columbia Capital Management, LLC and Reznick Group P.C.”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSINGAUTHORITY
2

 THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or her
designee to exercise the one year option under the same fees, terms and conditions
as the current contracts with Columbia Capital Management, LLC and Reznick
Group P.C. to provide financial advisory services in an amount not to exceed the
balance of the original $200,000 authorized for the base term of each contract,
respectively, with no additional dollars added.

(Item A2)
The resolution for Item A2 approves contract extension with AON Risk Services for Brokerage
and Consultant Services to the CHA and for the Private Manager Insurance Program (PMIP).
Insurance brokerage services have greatly assisted the Authority in consistently securing
insurance for the CHA and the PMIP, which is an Owner-Controlled Insurance Program that
assures consistent insurance and financial protection for the CHA through its Private Managers
and Resident Management Corporations (RMC). Participation in this program is mandated by
contract for all Private Managers and RMC’s.
During the initial contract term, AON has
aggressively marketed both insurance programs starting with holding informational sessions at
the Authority with prospective carriers. AON conducted an in depth analysis of all coverage
and made recommendations that have resulted in coverage enhancements to several lines of
insurance coverage at no additional cost, procurement of additional lines of coverage, and a
restructure of the CHA’s property coverage. The Risk Management Department strongly
believes that AON’s efforts resulted in CHA receiving optimum insurance coverage while
realizing cost savings for the CHA and the PMIP.
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA- 152
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners has reviewed the memorandum dated November 14,
2007 entitled, “Authorization to Exercise the Option to Extend Contract No. 6006
with Aon Risk Services, Inc. Of Illinois for Brokerage and Consultant Services to
the CHA and for the Private Managers Insurance Program (PMIP)”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or her
designee to execute an amendment extending Contract No. 6006 (the “Contract”)
with Aon Risk Services, Inc. of Illinois (“Aon”) for the period of January 1, 2008
through December 31, 2008 for an amount of $262,650.00 to continue providing
brokerage and consultant services to the CHA and for the Private Managers
Insurance Program. The Contract’s new aggregate compensation amount will be
$772,650.00

(Item A3)
The resolution for Item A3 approves acceptance of a grant award from the McArthur Foundation
in the amount of $200,000 and approves the sub-grantee agreement with Heartland Human Care
Services to continue the Family Self-Sufficiency (FSS) Expansion Initiative. The CHA will
work with Heartland to expand the Public Housing FSS program, which was launched as a pilot
in the mixed-income developments of Roosevelt Square, Jazz on the Boulevard, Lake Park
Crescent and to public housing residents in Altgeld, Trumbull Park Homes, and Lowden Homes.
The FSS program provides supportive services to participants through case management,
financial management classes, access to employment, and training opportunities. Funds diverted
from increased rent due to wage increases will accrue in an escrow account for each participant’s
use upon completion of a 3-5 year program and achievement of personal and financial goals.
The program sites targeted for the FSS expansion have high levels of chronic unemployment,
and few opportunities for jobs that pay at or above the minimum wage.
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-153
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated November 14, 2007, entitled “RECOMMENDATION TO
ACCEPT A GRANT AWARD FROM THE MACARTHUR FOUNDATION,
INCREASE THE FY2007 COMPREHENSIVE BUDGET, AND ENTER INTO
A SUB-GRANTEE AGREEMENT WITH HEARTLAND HUMAN CARE
SERVICES TO CONTINUE THE PUBLIC HOUSING FAMILY SELF

3

 SUFFICIENCY (FSS) EXPANSION INITIATIVE TO TARGET ALTGELD
GARDENS/MURRAY HOMES, TRUMBULL AND LOWDEN HOMES”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or her
designee to accept a grant award from the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur
Foundation in the amount of $200,000.00, enter into a sub-grantee agreement with
Heartland Human Care Services to extend Family Self Sufficiency services to
public housing residents residing in Altgeld Gardens/Phillip Murray Homes,
Trumbull Park Homes, and Lowden Homes, who face particular challenges with
engaging in program opportunities promoting self-sufficiency, and to increase the
FY2007 comprehensive budget by a total of $200,000.

(Item A4)
The resolution for Item A4 approves an extension to the Lawson Software Maintenance
Agreement. In 2004, the CHA issued an RFS to replace its existing system applications for
Finance, Human Resources, Payroll and Purchasing to 53 pre-qualified vendors in the
management consulting category and received 4 responses. Upon review and after an extensive
and thorough competitive negotiation process, the CHA selected and awarded contract to the
vendor team of Blackwell Consulting Services and Lawson Software, Inc., who implemented the
Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) system. As a component of the implementation, Lawson
provided its copyrighted software application under a perpetual license through a negotiated
License Agreement. At the same time, the CHA negotiated fixed pricing under the Support and
Maintenance Agreement with Lawson for a minimum term of five years. At the time the
underlying software license and support agreements were negotiated, it was intended that the
designated software application would suit the agency’s needs for a period between seven to ten
years and the application’s extended term maintenance was approved for sole source
procurement. During the 2007 calendar year term of the Support and Maintenance Agreement,
the CHA and Lawson agreed to upgrade the current Lawson System Environment through the
addition of certain new environmental functionality and enhancements. As a result of the newly
licensed environment and enhancements, which will be added to the catalog of supported
Lawson software in use by CHA when implemented, the maintenance and support costs are
expected to rise incrementally to the amount of $187,291.00 for the 2008 support term. Had
CHA not engaged in this environmental upgrade, the prevailing level of support would have
been potentially impacted due to Lawson’s scheduled decommissioning of the current
environment as of July 31, 2008.
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-154
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated November 14,
2007 entitled “Recommendation to Approve the Lawson Software Maintenance
Agreement Extension”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or her
designee to enter into the current one (1) year term for software maintenance and
support with Lawson Software for the provision of software updates, support,
maintenance, and other services for the Lawson Enterprise Resource Planning
(ERP) system in an amount not-to-exceed $187,291.00 for the annual term
effective in 2008.

(Item A5)
In December 1998 and each year thereafter, the CHA’s Board of Commissioners approved and
authorized Chicago Metropolitan Housing Development Corporation (CMHDC) full-time
employees participation in the CHA’s medical/dental/disability, Employee Assistance Program,
deferred compensation and retirement plans upon the condition that CMHDC make all
appropriate payments to the CHA for the costs of said benefits. The 1998 Resolution adopted by
the Board of Commissioners required annual approval by the Board for the continued
participation of CMHDC’s full time employees in the CHA’s employee benefit programs.
CMHDC has been diligent in making their payments, accordingly, the resolution for Item A5
approves extension of Employee Benefits for the CMHDC.
4

 RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-155
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated November 14,
2007, entitled “Request for Approval of Extension of Employee Benefits for
Chicago Metropolitan Housing Development Corporation (“CMHDC”)”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the CHA to allow Chicago Metropolitan
Housing Development Corporation’s (“CMHDC”) fulltime employees to continue
participation in all of the CHA’s benefit plans made available to the CHA’s
employees for January 1, 2008 through December 31, 2009, provided CMHDC
makes all requisite payments to the CHA on timely basis.

(Item A6)
During FY2006, the seventh year of the Plan for Transformation, the CHA concluded that the
commitment to rehabilitate or rebuild 25,000 units of public housing would take additional time
given a number of obstacles, which include: reduced federal funding; increase construction and
labor costs; a demand for higher quality construction in mixed-income communities; complex
coordination of community involvement; legal obstacles; and adjustments made to the relocation
process as a result of community input. Consequently, the CHA indicated in the FY2007
Moving to Work Annual Plan submitted to HUD on November 2, 2006 that the Plan for
Transformation would require a 15-year commitment. Accordingly, the resolution for item A6
approves Amendment No. 6 to the CHA’s Moving to Work Agreement. The execution of the
amendment would extend the term of the MTW Agreement, funding commitments, and
regulatory and program waivers through 2015. While the Board initially approved Amendment
No. 6 on February 20, 2007, HUD determined that Amendment No. 6 required a public comment
period. The public comment period for Amendment No. 6 was held October 9, 2007 through
November 7, 2007. Notice to residents and the public about the public comment period appeared
in news ads in the Chicago Sun-Times and Chicago Defender Newspapers on October 3, 2007.
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-156
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated February 20,
2007, requesting approval of Amendment No. 6 to the “Memorandum of
Approval, Resident Protection Agreement, Moving to Work Agreement,” dated
February 6, 2000 between the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development and the Chicago Housing Authority.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the attached Amendment No. 6 to
the “Memorandum of Approval, Resident Protection Agreement, Moving to Work
Agreement,” which extends the term of the MTW Agreement, funding
commitments, and regulatory and program waivers through 2015.

THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby grants authorization to the Chief Executive
Officer to execute Amendment No. 6 to the “Memorandum of Approval, Resident
Protection Agreement, Moving to Work Agreement” on behalf of the CHA.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items A1 thru A6 was seconded by
Commissioner Young and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Finance & Audit Committee report was also accepted in total.
5

 Commissioner Ponce then presented the Operations and Facilities monthly report. Per
Commissioner Ponce the Operations and Facilities Committee Meeting was held on Wednesday,
November 14, 2007 at approximately 2:15 p.m.
Commissioner Ponce then introduced an Omnibus Motion for the adoption of the Resolutions for
Items B1thru B6 discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Operations and
Facilities Committee.
(Item B1)
The resolution for Item B1 ratifies extension of and increase of contract amount with Delta Demolition,
Inc., for demolition services at Wells. These units were vacated in preparation for the razing of the

buildings and to make the site ready for a new mixed-income community development. Despite
making efforts to secure the empty buildings from trespassing, vandalism occurred. The local
Alderman, the Local Advisory Council and the Property Manager expressed concerns regarding
the safety of the residents and their property in the surrounding community. The initial contractor
scheduled to demolish these buildings could not secure the additional bonding capacity to cover
the full cost of demolishing the buildings at Ida B. Wells as well as the significant demolition
work it was already performing for the CHA. To avoid any further delay and to immediately
address the exigent safety concerns at the site, a demolition task order was issued in May 2007 at
a cost of $1,728,799.00 to Delta Demolition. The demolition work was assigned to Delta for
several reasons: Delta has previously performed demolition work at Wells, so it was familiar
with the area and the types of buildings, and already had a good relationship with the Property
Manager and residents; Delta would be able to start work as soon as needed; Delta could provide
the bonding necessary to perform the task; and Delta was one of the three contractors which had
been awarded a contract for the demolition of the types of buildings within Wells. Since Delta
had already been issued ten demolition task orders, the capacity remaining on its contract was
insufficient to cover the full cost of the demolition work, necessitating a contract modification to
cover the balance of the Wells demolition.
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-157
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated November 14, 2007
entitled “RATIFICATION OF THE EXTENSION OF, AND THE INCREASE
OF THE CONTRACT AMOUNT OF CONTRACT NO. 0601 WITH DELTA
DEMOLITION INC. FOR THE PROVISION OF DEMOLITION SERVICES
AT IDA B. WELLS APARTMENTS (IL2 – 001)”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners ratifies (1) the extension of Contract No. 0601 with
Delta Demolition Inc. (“Delta”) solely for the completion of all work assigned
under Task Order No. 11, but no later than December 31, 2007; and (2) an
increase of the contract amount of Contract No. 0601 with Delta for the provision
of demolition services at Ida B. Wells Apartments (IL2-001), a Family Housing
development, in the amount of $1,076,104.00. The new value of Contract No.
0601 is $7,278,048.00.

(Item B2)
The resolution for Item B2 ratifies Contract Modification No. G-01 with Friedler Construction
Company in the amount of $246,066.00. This modification provides for the repair of concrete
for twenty corner columns in 2920 South State and seventeen corner columns in 2940 South
State with a specialty wrap application. The corner columns are cracking due to an unknown
cause. While this cracking does not pose an immediate hazard to life and health, continued
deterioration could cause a structural issue. The solution proposed by the Prime Design
Consultant addresses the problem for schedule, cost, and technical feasibility. The selected
solution is to wrap the columns with a specialty application now commonly used to restore the
tensile strength of concrete. During the review of this Contract Modification, the Capital
Construction Department determined that failure to move as quickly as possible could cause
delays in the completion of units by 2007, as the columns need to be fixed before other work can
be performed nearby. In addition, deteriorating weather would make this work difficult to
perform, therefore, it needed to be completed while the weather is still fairly mild. Although
residents or construction workers are not in any immediate danger due to these conditions,
allowing the columns to further deteriorate could change that analysis.
6

 RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-158
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated November 14,
2007, entitled “RATIFICATION OF MODIFICATION NO. G-01 TO
CONTRACT NO. 7043 WITH FRIEDLER CONSTRUCTION COMPANY FOR
ADDITIONAL WORK RELATED TO THE FAMILY HOUSING
RENOVATION OF DEARBORN HOMES (IL2-009) – PHASE 1”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners ratifies Contract Modification No. G-01 to Contract
No. 7043 with Friedler Construction Company in the amount of $246,066.00 for
additional work related to the Family Housing renovation of Dearborn Homes
(IL2-009) – Phase 1 at 2920 and 2940 South State Street. The new total contract
amount of Contract No. 7043 is $18,026,066.00. This Contract Modification is
subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE, Section
3 resident hiring, and bonding and insurance requirements.

(Item B3)
As part of the Capital Improvement Program, the CHA solicited bids to perform renovation work
at the Family Housing development at Washington Park Low Rises (IL2-034). The Scope of
Work for this solicitation includes, but is not limited to, the renovation of all tenant and common
areas, including mechanical, electrical and plumbing systems, and site/landscaping
improvements. Work shall result in sixty-four units being extensively renovated, along with the
exterior building and landscaping improvements. Fifty-four units are scheduled to be completed
by December 21, 2008. Ten units are scheduled to be completed by May 1, 2009. The IFB was
advertised in area newspapers and on the CHA website in August 2007. After a thorough review
of the four bids received and opened and a pre-award survey meeting conducted with the
apparent low bidder, O.A.K.K. Construction Co., Inc. it was determined that O.A.K.K.’s
submittal met the requirements of the IFB. O.A.K.K.’s Lump Sum Base Bid Total of
$9,980,000.00 was reduced by $78,000.00, the amount of Deductive Alternate No. 1. This
Deductive Alternate is for the cost of the appliances needed during the renovation. A new
contract with an appliance manufacturer will permit the CHA to purchase the needed appliances
directly at a considerable savings over the cost bid by O.A.K.K. This adjustment to the Lump
Sum Base Bid Total did not impact the determination of the lowest responsive and responsible
bidder. Accordingly, the resolution for Item B3 approves award of contract to O.A.K.K.
Construction for the renovation of Washington Park Homes Low Rises.
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-159
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated November 14,
2007, entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO EXECUTE A CONTRACT WITH
O.A.K.K. CONSTRUCTION CO., INC. FOR THE FAMILY HOUSING
RENOVATION AT WASHINGTON PARK LOW RISES (IL2-034)”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

that the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or her
designee to execute a contract with O.A.K.K. Construction Co., Inc. in the
amount of $9,902,000.00 for the renovation of sixty-four (64) units and associated
site work at ten (10) buildings located at 701-15 E. 45th St., 4501-15, 4517-27 and
4529-39A S. Champlain, 4508-12A, 4514-16A, 4518-20A, and 4522-36 S. Evans
Ave., and 4614-24 and 4626-36 S. Wabash Ave., Washington Park Low Rises
(IL2-034), a Family Housing development, for the completion of fifty-four (54)
units by December 21, 2008 and ten (10) units by May 1, 2009. This award is
subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE, Section
3 resident hiring, and bonding and insurance requirements.

(Item B4)
As part of the Capital Improvement Program, CHA solicited bids to perform renovation work at
the Family Housing development at Dearborn Homes (IL2-009). This renovation work will be
performed at 2930 South Dearborn, 2931 South Federal and 2710 South State. The Scope of
Work for this solicitation will result in one hundred fifty-two units being reduced to one hundred
twenty-four) units, due to the conversion of standard units to ADA units. Exterior building and
7

 landscaping improvements will also be done during this extensive renovation. These units are
scheduled to be completed by December 31, 2008. The IFB was advertised in area newspapers
and on the CHA’s website in August 2007. The CHA received and opened four bids. After a
thorough review of all bid submittals, a pre-award survey meeting was conducted with the
apparent low bidder, Michuda Construction Inc. As a result of this pre-award survey meeting, it
was determined that Michuda’s submittal met the requirements of the IFB. Michuda’s original
Lump Sum Base Bid Total of $28,382,018.00 was reduced by $130,548.00, the amount of
Deductive Alternate No. 1. This Deductive Alternate is for the cost of the appliances needed
during the renovation. A new contract with an appliance manufacturer will permit the CHA to
purchase the needed appliances directly at a considerable savings over the cost bid by Michuda.
The adjusted Lump Sum Base Bid Total amount is $28,251,470.00. This adjustment to the Lump
Sum Base Bid Total did not impact the determination of the lowest responsive and responsible
bidder. Accordingly, the resolution for Item B4 approves award of contract to Michuda for the
renovation of units at Dearborn Homes.
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-160
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated November 14,
2007, entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO EXECUTE A CONTRACT WITH
MICHUDA CONSTRUCTION INC. FOR THE FAMILY HOUSING
RENOVATION AT DEARBORN HOMES (IL2-009) – PHASE 2”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

that the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or her
designee to execute a contract with Michuda Construction Inc. in the amount of
$28,251,470.00 for the renovation of one hundred twenty-four (124) units and
associated site work at 2930 South Dearborn, 2931 South Federal and 2710 South
State, Dearborn Homes (IL2-009), a Family Housing development, to be
completed by December 31, 2008. This award is subject to the Contractor’s
compliance with the CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident hiring, and
bonding and insurance requirements.

(Item B5)
In September 2006, the Board authorized the CHA to execute a Contract with LCM to provide
third party-certification/verification services to implement the Voluntary Compliance Agreement
(VCA) with HUD.
The VCA’s first benchmark required that 35% of all of the CHA’s
rehabilitated and/or redeveloped Accessible Units meet Federal accessibility requirements by
August 1, 2007. In June 2007, it became evident that the CHA would need additional time to
accomplish the first benchmark. In September 2007, HUD granted the CHA a provisional
extension of the 35% benchmark and gave the CHA until May 31, 2008 to produce 287
certifiable UFAS-Accessible Units for people with mobility impairments and 114 certifiable
UFAS-Accessible for people with sensory impairments. If the benchmark is not met, HUD has
the ability to immediately impose sanctions set forth in the VCA dating back to August 1, 2007.
On July 17, 2007, the Board authorized a funding increase for the Contract due to the large
increase in the number of inspections required to try and meet the first benchmark. Prior to
executing Amendment No. 1, the CHA negotiated a lower unit inspection cost for units that must
be re-inspected, saving the Authority potentially tens of thousands of dollars. To date, LCM has
fully performed its obligations under the Contract, inspecting approximately 850 UFASAccessible Units and over 60 Common-Use Areas, which have only yielded 22 Mobility Unit
and 70 Sensory Unit verifications, well below the necessary verifications required.
Accordingly, the resolution for item B5 approves exercising LCM’s first option period to
continue providing third party verification services needed to facilitate meeting the VCA’s first
benchmark that has been extended to May 31, 2008. LCM will perform the additional CHA
inspections under rates negotiated as part of its original contract that reflect a marginal three
percent cost-of-living increase for the first option period and will perform re-inspections under
recently negotiated reduced rates.
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-161
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated November 14,
2007, entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO EXERCISE THE FIRST OPTION TO
EXTEND CONTRACT NO. 6061 WITH LCM ARCHITECTS LTD. FOR THE
PROVISION OF THIRD-PARTY CERTIFICATIONS”;

8

 THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or her
designee to exercise the first option to extend Contract No. 6061 with LCM
Architects, Ltd. for the period of November 15, 2007 through November 14,
2008, and increase the not-to-exceed compensation amount by $500,000.00
adding it to the carryover balance available at the end of the current contract term
to allow LCM to re-inspect units and conduct additional initial inspections so the
CHA can meet the benchmarks established in the VCA.

(Item B6)
On December 14, 2005, the CHA’s Board of Commissioners authorized the execution of
indefinite quantity and indefinite delivery contracts with a group of environmental consultants.
Since that time six Requests for Services (RFS) have been solicited from this group with a total
bid amount of $895,392.00, with two RFS’ still under evaluation. The performance of the
contractors has been satisfactory. In July 2005 a Request for Proposal (RFP) was advertised
soliciting environmental remediation services for various CHA locations. The RFP was
advertised in area newspapers and on the CHA’s website. In addition to advertising, thirty-seven
firms were directly solicited and 15 firms picked up copies of the solicitation. Nineteen proposals
were received and evaluated. The evaluation committee recommended that six contracts be
issued to provide greater capacity and a competitive process than would be available with fewer
contracts. Two vendors, however, declined to sign the CHA contract offered. Accordingly, the
Resolution for Item B6 approves award of contract for environmental remediation services to
Environmental Design International, Inc.; Weston Solutions; Carnow, Conibear & Assoc., LTD;
and Camp Dresser & McKee.
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-162
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated November 14,
2007 entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO EXERCISE THE FIRST YEAR OPTION
ON ENVRIONMENTAL SERVICES CONTRACTS MADE WITH FOUR
ENVIRONMENTAL CONSULTANTS FOR ENVIRONMENTAL SERVICES
AT THE MIXED INCOME DEVELOPMENTS”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or her
designee to exercise the first year option period for the environmental services
contracts with Environmental Design International, Inc.; Weston Solutions;
Carnow, Conibear & Assoc., LTD; and Camp Dresser & McKee for
environmental remediation services at the mixed income developments for the
balance of the original $3,000,000.00 authorized for these contracts with no
additional dollars being added. This award is subject to each Contractor’s
compliance with CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident hiring, and
insurance requirements.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items B1 thru B6 was seconded by Commissioner
Harris and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Operations and Facilities Committee report was also accepted
in total.
Commissioner Young, Chairperson of the Tenant Services Committee, then presented her
monthly report. Per Commissioner Young, the Tenant Services Committee meeting was held on
9

 Wednesday, November 14 at the 60 East Van Buren Corporate Offices at 3:00 p.m.. Kristie
Hamer and Andy Teitelman presented the Committee with an update on CHA Holiday Activities.
Commissioner Young then introduced an Omnibus Motion for the adoption of Resolutions for
Items C1 thru C 4 discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Tenant Services
Committee.
(Item C1)
The resolution for Item C1 approves the Funding Agreements between the CHA and the Central
Advisory Council (CAC) and the Senior Housing Advisory Council (SHAC). A Funding
Agreement is required by HUD Regulations for funding provided by a housing authority for a
duly elected resident council. The CAC funding agreement places financial responsibility on the
CAC to govern, control and document use of CHA provided funds approved in the CAC’s 2008
operating budget in the amount of $1,673,687. The SHAC Funding places independent financial
responsibility on the SHAC to govern, control and document CHA funds provided for the 2008
operating budget in an amount not to exceed $360,000. The Agreements will contain provisions
to require compliance with all state, local and federal laws, rules and regulations and require
CAC and SHAC to account for use of the funds under the Agreement. The Agreement will also
permit the CHA to review and audit the Books and Records of the CAC and SHAC.
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-163
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated November 14,
2007, entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO NEGOTIATE AND ENTER INTO A
FUNDING AGREEMENT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008 WITH THE CENTRAL
ADVISORY COUNCIL (“CAC”) AND THE SENIOR HOUSING ADVISORY
COUNCIL (“SHAC”)
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or her
designee to negotiate and enter into a Funding Agreement with the Central
Advisory Council and the Senior Housing Advisory Council for the period
commencing January 1, 2008 and ending December 31, 2008 in an amount not to
exceed One Million Six Hundred Seventy Three thousand Six Hundred Eighty
Seven Dollars ($1,673,687) for the CAC and Three Hundred Sixty Thousand
Dollars ($360,000) for SHAC.

(Item C2)
Pursuant to the CHA’s Plan for Transformation, social services previously performed by CHA
staff were outsourced to the City of Chicago’s Department of Human Services (CDHS). The
CHA has chosen to focus on asset management rather than the administration of social services.
The CHA’s goal is to continue to mainstream and integrate public housing residents into the
citywide services network administered by CDHS, which consists of private and public sector
service providers, including state and federally funded service providers. CDHS has been
operating the Service Connector program for 6 years through IGAs with the CHA. CDHS plans
to release a new Request for Proposals (RFP) to provide support services for CHA families by
the end of November 2007. The RFP is being released to implement a new service delivery
model to promote increased self-sufficiency and permanent housing choices in accordance with
the overall goals of the Plan for Transformation. The scope of work to be included in the new
RFP will be distinctly different from the scope of work included in the contracts with CDHS’
delegate agencies. It is anticipated that CDHS will complete the process of contracting for new
vendors to implement the revised support services program in February of 2008. It is also
anticipated that Resident Services will present a separate item to the Board of Commissioners in
December of 2007 to request approval to enter into a new IGA with the Department of Human
Services for the restructured service program model. This request for an additional $1,500,000
will allow CDHS to continue providing services to the current Service Connector caseload as
CHA and CDHS transition to the restructured service program model. Spending will continue to
decrease during the transition to the new program model. Accordingly, the resolution for Item
C2 approves extension of the Intergovernmental Agreement with the Chicago Department of
Human Services to provide supportive services to CHA residents.
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-164
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
10

 Board Letter dated November 14, 2007, entitled “RECOMMENDATION TO
EXTEND THE INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT WITH THE
CHICAGO DEPARTMENT OF HUMAN SERVICES FOR THE PERIOD
JANUARY 1, 2008 THROUGH MARCH 31, 2008”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or her
designee to extend the Intergovernmental Agreement with the City of Chicago
acting through Department of Human Services for the period of January 1, 2008
through March 31, 2008 in an amount not-to-exceed $1,500,000to provide
supportive services to CHA residents.

(Item C3)
In December 2006, the Board authorized the CHA to exercise the third option to extend the IGA
with CDoA, for an additional one-year term for the period of January 1, 2007 through December
31, 2007 in the amount of $2,162,598.00 to provide supportive social services in thirty-nine (39)
CHA designated senior resident buildings. Under Amendment No. 3 to the IGA, CDoA
continued to maintain its presence with an office in each of the 39 designated senior buildings to
make supportive social services available to the senior residents. Throughout the duration of this
IGA, which originally commenced on January 1, 2004, the level of funding provided to CDoA
has remained constant at $2,162,598.00 each year, although each year CDoA has faced
continued increases in personnel costs due to union negotiations and wage increases. In the past,
CDoA was able to absorb these costs, but for 2007 CDoA has requested CHA to help defray
cost. CDoA has performed its obligations under the IGA, and CHA’s management believes that
the request for additional funds to cover wage increases over the term of the IGA is warranted.
Accordingly, the resolution for Item C3 amends the IGA with the Chicago Department of Aging
in the amount of $250,000.
Commissioner Ivers abstained from voting on Item C3 only.
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-165
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed
Memorandum dated November 14, 2007, entitled “Recommendation To Amend
the Intergovernmental Agreement with the Chicago Department on Aging by the
Addition (Contract No. 0634)”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

The Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or her
designee to amend the Intergovernmental Agreement (“IGA”) with the City of
Chicago’s Department on Aging to increase funding by $250,000.00 for the term
that expires on December 31, 2007. The IGA’s new aggregate compensation
amount will be $8,900,392.60 for the four year term of the agreement through
December 31, 2007

(Item C4)
The provision of CSS at the Madden/Wells Redevelopment was contemplated as part of the
competitive procurement of the developer and is governed by the Master Developer Agreement
with respect to this community. Under this agreement, the parties envisioned that TCB, as the
developer, would be responsible to provide CSS to CHA public housing residents, who move
into this new mixed-income community, and that TCB would receive financial assistance from
CHA pending funding availability and contract performance. In 2004, the CHA entered into a
two year contract with a one-year option with TCB to provide CSS to Madden/Wells
Redevelopment. Since December 2005, the Board has authorized the CHA to exercise the
option periods with TCB. During these contract terms, TCB has provided supportive services for
more than 500 families, including post occupancy services for the 63 families who have
relocated to Oakwood Shores Phase 1A and the 63 families who have relocated to Oakwood
Shores Phase 1B. TCB has met its contract obligations, and CHA’s management remains
committed to servicing residents eligible to return to the Madden/Wells Redevelopment and to
continue supportive services to families for up to two years following the occupancy of units. It
is anticipated that some of the funds previously authorized by the Board will be available at the
end of the current extension term. Accordingly, based upon the availability of these carryover
11

 funds, availability of additional funds, and TCB’s performance of the Contract to date, the
resolution for Item C4 approves extension of contract with TCB.
RESOLUTION NO: 2007-CHA-166
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated November 14, 2007, entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO
AMEND CONTRACT NO. 0575 WITH THE COMMUNITY BUILDERS FOR
COMMUNITY AND SUPPORTIVE SERVICES AT MADDEN PARK/IDA B.
WELLS/CLARENCE DARROW HOMES REDEVELOPMENT”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or her
designee to amend and extend Contract No. 0575 (“Contract”) with The
Community Builders for the period of January 1, 2008 through December 31,
2008 and to increase the Contract’s funding by an amount not-to-exceed
$450,000.00 adding it to the carryover balance available at the end of the
Contract’s current term to provide community and supportive services to CHA
residents relocating to Madden Park/Ida B. Wells/Clarence Darrow Homes
Redevelopment.

The Motion to adopt resolutions for Items C1 thru C4 was seconded by Commissioner Ponce and
the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers (abstained from voting on Item C3 only)
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Tenant Services Committee report was also accepted in total.
There being no further business to come before the Commissioners, upon Motion made,
seconded and carried, the meeting of the Board of Commissioners was adjourned.

s/b:

s/b:

Lee Chuc-Gill, Custodian and
Keeper of Records

12

Martin Nesbitt
Chairperson

 