Chicago Housing Authority
Board of Commissioners Public Session
Meeting of November 18, 2003
ABLA – William Jones Apartments, 1447 S. Ashland, Chicago, IL
Response to Public Comment

Residents
Name/Property/

1.

2.

3.

4.

Latresha Green

Francine
Washington

Delores Fitzpatrick

Joseph Watkins

COMPLAINT

RE: Scattered Site West properties
When will the Capital Construction program
begin?
Will Capital Construction provide the scope of
work on units scheduled to be rehabbed?
Will residents be hired under Section 3
program?

Requested support of staff and public for
Windows of Opportunity fundraiser scheduled
for December 10, 2003.
The name of the Ida B. Wells development
will be changed and residents had no input.
Requesting reconsideration of name change.

Residents who are hired by contractors are
only working 3 days a week and are being
paid with Money Orders, resulting in residents
being unable to file income tax.

REFERRED TO

Status

These questions were referred to Darnetta Tyus, Senior Advisor to
the Board of Commissioners. Several meetings have been
scheduled to resolve these issues.

Comments noted

The new name of the mixed-income community to be built on the
Wells site was chosen by the Working Group, which includes a
tenant’s representative. The Working Group also makes other major
decisions that shape plans for a new mixed-income community,
such as the choice of a developer and the general design of the site.
The Working Group includes representatives from the CHA, the City
of Chicago, the developer, Habitat Co. and others.

This issue is under review internally, and staff will contact Mr.
Watkins. Contractors who hire residents under the Section 3
Program are required to document payment through payroll records,
which are submitted to the CHA for verification of compliance.

 Chicago Housing Authority
Board of Commissioners Public Session
Meeting of November 18, 2003
ABLA – William Jones Apartments, 1447 S. Ashland, Chicago, IL
Response to Public Comment

5.

Janis Stanton

A) Can long term employment for residents be
addressed?

A) The CHA promotes job opportunities for public housing residents
through several resources. More than 3,000 residents have been
placed in jobs through the collective efforts of the CHA Service
Connector and the City of Chicago.
In addition, residents are placed in jobs with CHA contractors
through the Section 3 Program. Residents applying to this program
are divided into three priority groups. First preference is awarded to
lease-compliant residents living at locations where contractors are
stationed. Second preference is granted to lease-compliant
residents living at sites neighboring the location where a contractor
is stationed. If no applicant in either of these two groups
demonstrates adequate qualifications for a job, preference is then
extended to low-income earners living in the City of Chicago.

B) Who selected Community Builders as
redevelopment team and why didn’t residents
have input in selection?

B) The selection of Community Builders, a firm handling
redevelopment of the Madden-Wells redevelopment, was approved
by the CHA Board of Commissioners after the Working Group made
an advisory recommendation.

6.

Devera Beverly

Acknowledged staff for continued support.

Comments noted.

7.

Ms. Wiggins

On behalf of CAC presented Darnetta with
birthday bouquet.

Comments noted.

 