September 21, 2010 Board Meeting
Regular Meeting of the Board of Commissioners

1.
2.

1.
2.

3.
4.

1.

2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.

8.
9.

1.

Hispanic Housing Development Corporation
1402 N. Kedzie Avenue
Resolutions
Approval of Personnel Action Reports for the month of August 2010.
Settlement Agreement with Michuda Construction, Inc.

Finance & Audit Committee Report
Recommendation to award contract for independent professional auditing services.
Recommended Awardee: Ernst & Young, LLP.
Recommendation to award contracts, through its insurance broker of record, Aon Risk Services
Central, Inc., for insurance coverage for General, Excess, Public Officials, All Risk Property, Employed
Lawyers Errors and Omissions, Employment Practices, Auto, Crime and Fiduciary Liability Coverage.
Recommendation to approve contract awards to implement a Client Management Tracking
System. Recommended Awardees: Model Metrics and Salesforce.com (Not Approved / No Resolution).
Recommendation to approve the first one-year option with R4 Services LLC for offsite record
storage services.

Operations and Facilities Committee Report
Recommendation to approve Lathrop Community Partners as the Development Team and
recommendation to enter into negotiations for a Master Development Agreement and initiate
Revitalization Planning for Lathrop Homes (Not Approved / No Resolution).
Recommendation to award contract for exterior masonry work at Armour Square Apartments.
Recommended Awardee: B.E.T.O.N.
Recommendation to award contract for the Renovation and ADA/504 Compliance Work at
1316-18 S. Sawyer Avenue. Recommended Awardee: All Chicago Inc.
Recommendation to award contract for Demolition Services at LeClaire Courts Extension Group 1. Recommended Awardee: McDonagh Demolition, Inc.
Recommendation to Execute Contract for Demolition Services at LeClaire Courts Extension Group 2. Recommended Awardee: McDonagh Demolition.
Recommendation to Execute Contract for Demolition Services at LeClaire Courts Extension Group 3. Recommended Awardee: McDonagh Demolition.
Recommendation to approve Memorandum Of Agreement with the Housing Authority of Cook
County to administer Housing Choice Vouchers (HCV) where an employee of the Housing Authority
may have a financial interest in the voucher.
Recommendation to approve Agreements to enter into Housing Assistance Payment Contracts
for Hope Manor Apartments.
Recommendation to approve Agreements to enter into Housing Assistance Payment Contracts
for Independence Apartments.
Tenant Services Committee Report
Recommendation to exercise the second one-year option for Contract No. 8064 with Housing
Choice Partners of Illinois to provide Good Neighbor services.

 2.
3.
4.
5.

Recommendation to exercise the second one-year option for Contract No. 8065 with
Employment & Employer Services to provide Good Neighbor services.
Recommendation to approve the FY2010 Admissions and Continued Occupancy Policy and
Residential Lease Agreement.
Recommendation to amend Contract No. 9009 with Screening Reports, Inc. for tenant
screening services.
Recommendation to approve two six-month options to extend contract with Nan McKay and
Associates for Technical Advisor Services (Pulled from Agenda / No Resolution).

 