MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING
OF THE
COMMISSIONERS OF THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
October 20, 2015
The Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority held its Regular Meeting of the Board of
Commissioners on Tuesday, October 20, 2015, at approximately 8:45a.m.at the Ella Flagg Apartments
located at 4645 North Sheridan in Chicago, IL.
Chairman John Hooker called the meeting to order and upon roll call those present and absent were as
follows:
Present:
Matthew Brewer
Mark Cozzi
Dr. Mildred Harris
John Hooker
Harriet Johnson
Jack Markowski
Rodrigo Sierra
Francine Washington
Absent:

Bridget Reidy

Also present were Eugene Jones, Acting Chief Executive Officer; James Bebley, Chief Legal Officer;
Chicago Housing Authority Staff Members and the General Public.
There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as follows:
Upon Motion made by Chairman Hooker and properly seconded by Commissioner Brewer, the
Commissioners adjourned to Executive Session. Chairman Hooker announced that pursuant to the
Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2, the Board would adjourn for approximately one hour to discuss
personnel related matters; purchase, sale and lease of real estate property; pending, probable or
imminent litigation; review of closed meeting minutes and audit reviews.
The Commissioners subsequently reconvened in Open Session at approximately 9:45 a.m.
Chairman Hooker called the meeting to order and upon roll call those present and absent were as
follows:
Present:
Matthew Brewer
Mark Cozzi
Dr. Mildred Harris
John Hooker
Harriet Johnson
Jack Markowski
Rodrigo Sierra
Francine Washington

1

 Absent:

Bridget Reidy

There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as follows:
After Motion made by Commissioner Cozzi and properly seconded by Commissioner Brewer the
Minutes for the Regular and Closed meetings of September 15, 2015 were unanimously approved as
submitted.
In the absence of Committee Chair Bridget Reidy, Commissioner Jack Markowski presented the report
for the Operations and Facilities Committee. Per Commissioner Markowski, due to a lack of quorum
at the recommendation of the Chief Legal Officer, Commissioners and the public were briefed on the
items appearing on the agenda, and the items were open to comments and questions from
Commissioners and the public, but for the record, no vote was taken.
On behalf of the Operations & Facilities Committee, Commissioner Markowski then presented an
Omnibus Motion for the approval of Items 2 through 5.
(Item 2)
The resolution for Item 2 approves a modification to the contract with Madison Construction, totaling
$6,697,382.88 to address various asbestos abatement and building code compliance issues. The
original scope of work at Caroline Hedger was to bring the building into compliance with the City of
Chicago’s High Rise Sprinkler and Life Safety ordinances and modernize the building. The original
scope of work included various improvements to the sprinkler and fire alarm systems, roofing, façade,
windows, heating system and plumbing riser replacements. This project was designed in late 2012
prior to the implementation of the revised CHA design standards. In late 2013, the CHA recognized
that the existing design standard for assessments was making CHA vulnerable to an increased amount
of change orders for unanticipated costs for issues relating to code compliance and discovered
conditions. (The code compliance issues are due to the changes to the building code since the project
was initially designed.) The previous design standard for assessments required architectural and
engineering firms to review only 3% of all units and did not allow destructive demolition. In response,
in 2014, the CHA implemented a more rigorous design standard for assessments to help identify more
issues before construction begins. The design standards for assessment now require architectural and
engineering firms to review 100% of all units in Scattered Sites properties, 20% of all units in other
properties and perform destructive demolition to discover underlying issues hidden within a building’s
infrastructure. This project was designed prior to the implementation of the new design standards for
assessments. These change orders are representative of the problems that the new design standards for
assessment address. Staff has verified that the amount to perform the work by this contractor is within
an acceptable range of the CHA’s Independent Cost Estimates for these change orders.

RESOLUTION NO. 2015-CHA-89
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated October 14, 2015
“AUTHORIZATION TO EXECUTE A CONTRACT MODIFICATION FOR C-11464
CAROLINE HEDGER”;

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY

2

 THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Acting Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute a modification to the following contract with Madison Construction
in the amount of $6,697,382.88:

Original
Contract Value

Current Contract
Value

Contract
Modifications
to be Approved
(October 2015
Board)

% of
Original
Contract
ValueThis
Change
Order

Cumulative
Change Order
Total

All Change
Orders as a
Cumulative
% of
Original
Contract

Cumulative
Amount
Over
$100,000?

Revised
Contract
Amount

C-11464 Madison Construction
Modernization & Life Safety Upgrades at Caroline Hedger

$ 30,437,000.00

$ 31,782,276.47

$ 6,697,382.88

22.00%

$8,042,659.35

26.42%

Yes

$ 38,479,659.35

This item is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 and
insurance requirements.
(Item 3)
The resolution for Item 3 approves contract award for armed and unarmed security services at CHA
locations with Skytech Enterprises LTD. for a base term of three (3) years, in an amount not to exceed
$1,972,944 and to exercise the first 1-year option in an amount not-to-exceed $674,319, subject to
funding availability, and to exercise the second 1-year option in an amount not-to-exceed $692,210,
subject to funding availability. The total aggregate not-to-exceed contract amount will be $3,339,473
for the 3-year base term and the two (2) one-year option periods. The CHA retains private security
services at the following CHA Administrative locations: CHA’s main Administrative offices located at
60 East Van Buren; two HCV Satellite Office locations at 3500 South State Street and 2750 West
Roosevelt Road; and the Family Investment Center (FIC), located at 4859 S. Wabash. The current
security contract that covers these locations expires August 31, 2015. As CHA will continue to conduct
business at these locations, security services are still required. The CHA issued an RFP in April, 2015,
to solicit vendors to provide Security Services at Various CHA Locations. The RFP was advertised in
area newspapers and CHA also directly solicited 92 firms, and posted the solicitation announcement on
the CHA website and in the CHA Supplier Portal. CHA received eight proposals; six of the eight
were deemed responsive. Based upon the evaluations of the written proposals and the Respondents’
BAFO proposal, it was determined that Skytech Enterprises, LTD., would provide the best overall
service and value to CHA.

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2015-CHA-90
the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated October 14, 2015
entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO EXECUTE A SECURITY SERVICES CONTRACT
WITH SKYTECH ENTERPRISES LTD.”;

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Acting Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) or
his designee to execute a contract for armed and unarmed security services at various
CHA locations with Skytech Enterprises LTD. for a base term of three (3) years, in an
amount not to exceed $1,972,944. In addition, the Board of Commissioners authorizes
3

 the CEO or his designee to exercise the first 1-year option in an amount not-to-exceed
$674,319, subject to funding availability, and to exercise the second 1-year option in
an amount not-to-exceed $692,210, subject to funding availability. The total aggregate
not-to-exceed contract amount will be $3,339,473 for the 3-year base term and the two
(2) 1-year option periods.
(Item 4)
The resolution for Item 4 approves the amended CHA’s Vehicle Policy icy effective October 20, 2015.
The revised CHA Vehicle Policy expands and/or replaces any other fleet policies previously
implemented by the CHA and limits use of CHA fleet vehicles to CHA employees; removes all
reference to use of CHA fleet vehicles by Property Management Firms; includes prohibited use of cell
phones and text messaging while driving a vehicle; eliminates 24-hour use of CHA vehicles and allows
for overnight use with prior authorization. The proposed CHA Vehicle Policy is to ensure the proper
care and control of all CHA vehicles (automobiles, vans, trucks and any other vehicles leased or owned
by CHA). The Policy enables the CHA to keep overall costs and risks of liability to a minimum, as
employees are responsible for ensuring access to corporate fleet, to be used for transportation in workrelated duties. CHA will maintain the fewest number of vehicles necessary for essential day-to-day
functions. CHA vehicles are available for employees to use in the performance of official business. All
employees using any vehicle for CHA business must comply with this Policy.

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2015-CHA-91
the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the memorandum dated October 14, 2015,
entitled “Approval and Adoption of the Chicago Housing Authority Vehicle Policy
effective October 20, 2015, and concurs with the recommendations contained therein.

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners rescinds any and all previously implemented fleet and
vehicle policies, and any resolutions related to the approval of such policies including,
but not limited to, the CHA’s Vehicle Usage Policy adopted September 18, 2001 by
Board Resolution No. 01-CHA-127; and

THAT,

the Board of Commissioners adopts the Chicago Housing Authority Vehicle Policy
effective October 20, 2015; and

THAT,

the Chicago Housing Authority Vehicle Policy shall be effective immediately.

(Item 5)
The resolution for Item 5 authorizes the Acting Chief Executive Officer to enter into support,
maintenance and subscription agreements as follows: (a) a three-year support and maintenance
agreement with Infor in an amount not-to-exceed $915,009; (b) a three-year support and maintenance
agreement with Sourcecode/K2 in an amount not-to-exceed $76,636; (c) a two-year support and
maintenance agreement with Knowledgelake in an amount not-to-exceed $259,415; (d) a two-year
subscription agreement with Salesforce.com in an amount not-to-exceed $796,800; and (e) a one-year
support and maintenance agreement with Oracle in an amount not-to-exceed $184,072. The total
aggregate not-to-exceed compensation amount for the requested agreements above is $2,231,931.
Infor, Inc. is the sole source provider for support and maintenance for Lawson’s proprietary Enterprise
Resource Planning (ERP) system. The CHA utilizes Lawson’s ERP in the following business areas:
procurement, general ledger, accounts payable, HR and payroll. Sourcecode is the sole source
provider for support and maintenance of the K2 workflow engine that extends SharePoint’s basic
4

 workflow capabilities, which allows CHA to automate manual processes. Knowledgelake is the sole
source provider for support and maintenance of the Knowledgelake Enterprise Content Management
solution that provides the complete functionality of automated records management systems (capture,
index, store, track, retrieve, archive, dispose and report).Salesforce.com is the sole source for access to
the vendor’s remotely hosted, cloud-based Salesforce computing platform, which is provided on a
user-based subscription model to all clients. Salesforce.com is presently being used by Resident
Services, the Housing Choice Voucher (HCV) program, and HCV’s contracted vendors to monitor the
performance of contracted vendors, including but not limited to: case management services,
Community and Supportive Services (move-in) and Relocation Services (move-out). Salesforce is also
used by the HCV program to support and track activities related to its call center. Oracle is the sole
source provider for support and maintenance of Oracle platforms, such as Oracle database and other
Oracle Data Warehouse applications. The following CHA core business applications are all based on
the Oracle database application platform: Resident Management Tracking System, Yardi Housing
Management System, CHA Maximizing Productivity, CHA Reporting, and Primavera Project
Management.
RESOLUTION NO. 2015-CHA-92
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated October 14, 2015
entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO ENTER INTO SUPPORT, MAINTENANCE
AND SUBSCRIPTION AGREEMENTS WITH INFOR, SOURCECODE/K2,
KNOWLEDGELAKE, ORACLE AND SALESFORCE.COM FOR THEIR
RESPECTIVE SOFTWARE SYSTEMS AND PLATFORMS”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to
enter into the following support, maintenance and subscription agreements: (a) a threeyear support and maintenance agreement with Infor in an amount not-to-exceed
$915,009; (b) a three-year support and maintenance agreement with Sourcecode/K2 in
an amount not-to-exceed $76,; (c) a two-year support and maintenance agreement with
Knowledgelake in an amount not-to-exceed $259,415; (d) a two-year subscription
agreement with Salesforce.com in an amount not-to-exceed $796,800; and (e) a oneyear support and maintenance agreement with Oracle in an amount not-to-exceed
$184,072. The total aggregate not-to-exceed compensation amount for the requested
agreements above is $2,231,931.
This award is subject to each Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s
MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident hiring, and insurance requirements, as applicable.

The Motion to adopt resolution for Item 2 through 5 was seconded by Commissioner Harris and the
voting was as follows
Ayes:
Matthew Brewer
Mark Cozzi
Dr. Mildred Harris
John Hooker
Harriet Johnson
Jack Markowski
Rodrigo Sierra
Francine Washington
Nays:

None
5

 There being no questions or discussion, Chairwoman Scott thereupon declared said Motion carried and
said resolution adopted.
Jack Markowski, Chairman of the Real Estate Development committee, then presented his report. Due
to the lack of quorum, the Real Estate Development Committee did not officially meet, however,
Commissioners and the public were briefed on the items appearing on the agenda, and the items were
open to comments and questions from Commissioners and the public, but for the record, no vote was
taken.
On behalf of the Real Estate Development Committee, Commissioner Markowski then presented an
Omnibus Motion for the approval of Items 6 through 8.
(Item 6)
The resolution for Item 6 approves submittal of a Development Proposal and Evidentiary documents to
the HUD; 2) commits CH) funds not to exceed $8,139,780 for Clybourn and Division; 3) approves the
Tenant Selection Plan, Lease and Lease Riders for the development to be known as Clybourn and
Division and amend the CHA Admissions and Continued Occupancy Policy to incorporate such
documents as an addendum thereto; and 4) Execute and deliver such other documents and perform
such actions as may be necessary or appropriate to implement the foregoing. Clybourn and Division is
a new construction, mixed-use, multi-family housing development consisting of family residential
units, a library, a community room, a community garden and approximately 17,000 sq. ft. of
commercial space, to be built upon an acre of City of Chicago owned land, located in the 27 th Ward.
The commercial space includes approximately 7,100 sq. ft. for an early childhood education center,
5,550 sq. ft. for a restaurant and the remaining for additional retail. Clybourn and Division is located
between Clybourn Avenue (e), Division Street (s), Scott Street (w), and an alley north of Division (n)
in the Near North Side Community Area within the Cabrini Green revitalization area. The
redevelopment of Clybourn and Division is mandated under the Cabrini Consent Decree dated August
2000. The City of Chicago released a Request For Proposals on September 20, 2010 for planning,
redevelopment, and management of a new mixed-income, mid-rise rental building including
retail/commercial space for which Brinshore Michaels was the selected Developer. The proposed
design: a seven-story elevator structure containing 84 one, two and three-bedroom family apartments is
comprised of 26 PH units, 16 units affordable up to 60% AMI, 10 market –restricted units up to 80%
of AMI, and 32 unrestricted market units. The developer for the Clybourn and Division
redevelopment, BMD-I, LLC (Brinshore-Michaels) is owned and managed by an affiliate of Brinshore
Development, L.L.C. and The Michaels Development Company I, L.P. Clydiv, LLC, the owner of the
development, is comprised of Clydiv Manager, LLC (.005%), the Managing Member, owned by
Michaels Chicago Holding Company, LLC (50%) and Brinshore PL, LLC (50%). A ‘To-BeDetermined’ affiliate of The Richman Group, will be the Investor Member to syndicate the low income
housing tax credits (LIHTCs). The Investor Member will own 99.99% of Clydiv, LLC and will be the
tax credit investor. A Special Member, Cabrini Green CDC-SPE, LLC, owned by Cabrini Green LAC
Community Development Corporation, will own 0.005% of the owner entity. The total estimated
development budget for Clybourn and Division is $39,784,040 including the $31,991,709 budget for
the residential housing only that includes the CHA Loan of approximately $8,100,000 to be funded
with CHA Capital Funds. Additional project sources include approximately $39,780 of CHA General
Funds for CHA Administration and Initial Operating Deficit Reserve.

6

 WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2015-CHA-93
the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated October 14, 2015
entitled “Authorization to: 1) Submit a Development Proposal and Evidentiary
documents to the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development
(HUD); 2) Commit Chicago Housing Authority (CHA) funds not to exceed
$8,139,780 for Clybourn and Division development; 3) Approve the Tenant
Selection Plan, Lease and Lease Riders for the development to be known as
Clybourn and Division and amend the CHA Admissions and Continued Occupancy
Policy to incorporate such documents as an addendum thereto; and 4) Execute and
deliver such other documents and perform such actions as may be necessary or
appropriate to implement the foregoing.”

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee
to: 1) Submit a Development Proposal and Evidentiary documents to the United
States Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD); 2) Commit
Chicago Housing Authority (CHA) funds not to exceed $8,139,780 for Clybourn
and Division development; 3) Approve the Tenant Selection Plan, Lease and Lease
Riders for the development to be known as Clybourn and Division and amend the
CHA Admissions and Continued Occupancy Policy to incorporate such documents
as an addendum thereto; and 4) Execute and deliver such other documents and
perform such actions as may be necessary or appropriate to implement the
foregoing.
This award is subject to each Contractor’s compliance with CHA’s
MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident hiring, bonding and insurance requirements.

(Item 7 - Amended)
The resolution for Item 7 approves the creation of a Pilot Acquisition and Redevelopment (PAR)
program via a to-be-formed CHA instrumentality which would acquire and/or redevelop market rate
and affordable housing through strategic, targeted investments as established in Plan Forward; 2)
creates a CHA instrumentality to hold and develop market rate and affordable housing; and 3) amends
previously approved credit facilities and Resolution Nos. 2013-CHA-91 and 2014-CHA-87 to increase
the interest rates for the BMO Harris line of credit from 3.5% to 4.0% and the Federal Home Loan
Bank line of credit from 1.5% to 2.5% to support the Real Estate Acquisition Program (REAP) and
PAR Program activities. Specific transactions would be presented to the Board for approval and must
meet the following specific conditions: 1) the total balance at any one time between both lines of credit
for the PAR program would not exceed $15 million; 2) the property is in an Opportunity and/or
General Area; 3) total acquisition and rehabilitation costs are reasonable; 4) comprehensive property
inspection and assessments have been completed; 5) Phase I environmental assessments have been
completed; 6) no material title impediments; and 7) a preliminary review of the business and financial
status of seller has been performed, if necessary. In the event CHA desires to subsequently seek HUD
approval to designate and operate all or a portion of the units in a PAR Program acquisition property as
public housing and HUD grants such approval, CHA will undertake all steps necessary to implement
the conversion of the units accordingly. In December 2013, the Board of Commissioners approved the
REAP as part of CHA’s unit delivery strategy. While REAP remains an important tool, there are
several challenges including a 180-day due diligence period for the CHA to complete all preacquisition requirements mandated by HUD and the inability to reimburse developers fully for their
costs. While typical due diligence periods for real estate transactions are 45-60 days, CHA’s current
7

 180-day due diligence period (compared to 45-60 days for standard buyers) makes CHA acquisition
offers non-competitive despite the available funding to purchase properties. The proposed PAR
Program would allow CHA to create and maintain housing in Opportunity and General Areas, foster
community and economic development, and establish new real estate transaction parameters while
building a track record of owning and operating market rate and affordable housing.

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION 2015-CHA-94
the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board letter dated October 14, 2015 requesting authorization to: 1) create a Pilot
Acquisition and Redevelopment (PAR) Program via a to-be-formed CHA
instrumentality to acquire and/or redevelop market rate and affordable housing; 2)
create a CHA instrumentality to hold and develop market rate and affordable housing;
and 3) amend previously approved credit facilities and Resolution Nos. 2013-CHA-91
and 2014-CHA-87 to support Real Estate Acquisition Program (REAP) and PAR
Program activities;

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Chicago Housing Authority to: 1)
create the Pilot Acquisition and Redevelopment (PAR) Program via a CHA
instrumentality to acquire and/or redevelop market rate and affordable housing
through strategic, targeted investments as established in Plan Forward; 2) create a
CHA instrumentality to hold and develop market rate and affordable housing; and 3)
amend previously approved credit facilities and Resolution Nos. 2013-CHA-91 and
2014-CHA-87 to increase the interest rates for the BMO Harris line of credit from
3.5% to 4% and the Federal Home Loan Bank line of credit from 1.5% to 2.5% to
support the REAP and PAR Program activities.
Specific transactions would be presented to the Board for approval and must meet the
following specific conditions: 1) the total balance at any one time between both lines
of credit would not exceed $20 million; 2) the property is in an Opportunity and/or
General Area; 3) total acquisition and rehabilitation costs are reasonable; 4)
comprehensive property inspection and assessments have been completed; 5) Phase I
environmental assessments have been completed; 6) no material title impediments;
and 7) a preliminary review of the business and financial status of seller has been
performed, if necessary. In the event CHA desires to subsequently seek HUD
approval to designate and operate all or a portion of the units in a PAR Program
acquisition property as public housing and HUD grants such approval, CHA will
undertake all steps necessary to implement the conversion of the units accordingly.
Prior HUD approval is required to pledge Federal cash/securities as collateral.

(Item 8)
The resolution for Item 8 authorizes CHA staff to proceed with the application process for an
additional 4 properties under CHA’s RAD portfolio award from HUD. These additional properties
serve, in part, as a contingency plan for original Phase 1 properties that may not move forward in
accordance with programmatic deadlines. In 2012, Congress authorized the Rental Assistance
Demonstration (RAD) program. RAD provides an opportunity for housing authorities to utilize either
project-based voucher (PBV) or project-based rental assistance (PBRA) contracts to stabilize funding
for up to 185,000 units of public housing. A primary goal of RAD is to use long-term contracts to
leverage private financing for capital improvements while preserving affordability. CHA submitted a
8

 portfolio application to HUD on October 24, 2013 to transition 10,935 units within two phases under
the RAD program. In June 2015, CHA received a RAD portfolio award for 10,880 units across 63
properties via a Commitment to a Housing Assistance Payment (CHAP) contract. The finalized RAD
agreement and HAP contract is contingent upon CHA achieving certain programmatic milestones
within specified deadlines. There are properties that were previously considered for Phase 1 that are
not expected to meet the deadlines associated with the RAD award. CHA has identified 4 senior
properties that may serve as substitutions.
RESOLUTION NO. 2015-CHA-95
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the Board
letter dated October 14, 2015 requesting authorization to proceed with the application
process for 4 properties within CHA’s RAD existing portfolio award allocation.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes CHA staff to proceed with the
application process and, as relevant, substitution process to accommodate 4 additional
senior properties.

The Motion to adopt resolutions for Items 6 through 8 was seconded by Commissioner Cozzi and the
voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Matthew Brewer
Mark Cozzi
Dr. Mildred Harris
John Hooker
Harriet Johnson
Jack Markowski
Rodrigo Sierra
Francine Washington
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, Chairwoman Scott thereupon declared said Motion carried and
said resolutions adopted.
Committee Chair Mark Cozzi then presented the report of the Finance & Personnel Committee
meeting. Per Commissioner Cozzi, the Finance & Personnel committee met on Wednesday, October
14, 2015 at the CHA Corporate Offices located at the CHA Corporate Offices, 626 W. Jackson in
Chicago. Commissioner Brewer chaired the meeting and the following committee members were
present: Commissioner Johnson and Markowski. Present also was Chairman Hooker, who is an exofficio voting member of all committees. After presentation by staff and discussion of Item 9, Item 9
was approved. Commissioners then adjourned to closed session to discuss Item 10. Commissioners
returned to open session and approved Item 10. Item 10 was also discussed in closed session today.
On behalf of the Personnel Committee, Commissioner Cozzi then presented an Omnibus Motion for
the approval of Items 9 and 10.
(Item 9)
The resolution for Item 9 approves the adoption of the CHA’s Retirement Plan and Trust as Amended
and Restated effective May 15, 2015. This Amended and Restated plan was approved by the Plan
Trustees at the CHA Employees’ Retirement Plan and Trust May 15, 2015 meeting. The CHA Board
9

 of Commissioners acts as Plan Sponsor. The CHA Employees’ Retirement Plan and Trust was
established in 1951 by the CHA to provide employees with retirement benefits as an additional form of
compensation. The amendments clarify the duties and obligations of the Trustees and Investment
Managers. These amendments include: updates on domestic partnerships and same sex marriage to
conform to Illinois same sex laws; requires Trustees to sign the Code of Conduct-Ethics Policy; in the
event that either the Union or the Chicago Housing Authority Retired Members (CHARM) does not
nominate a representative to the Plan Trustee Board within the first 4 months of the two-year term, the
CHA Board of Commissioners Chair may appoint a Plan trustee for the Union or CHARMS;
explanation of the duties of the Chairperson, Vice-Chairperson and Secretary; add to the duties of
Trustees the power to ratify the actions of the Trustees who act as Chairperson and General Counsel
regarding any benefits approved by them, in their capacity as Trustees, to Participants and/or
designated beneficiaries in between Trustees’ meetings; and clarifies that the Investment Managers
shall be responsible for the prudent investment of the portion of the Fund’s assets which is under their
direction, and specifying that each Investment Manager shall be governed by the Fund’s investment
policy.

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO 2015-CHA-96
The Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated October 15, 2015
entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO APPROVE THE ADOPTION OF THE CHA
RETIREMENT PLAN AND TRUST AS AMENDED AND RESTATED
EFFECTIVE MAY 15, 2015”.

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY

THAT

It is recommended that the Board of Commissioners approve the adoption of the
Chicago Housing Authority Retirement Plan and Trust (The Plan) as Amended and
Restated effective May 15, 2015, attached hereto as Exhibit A.

(Item 10)
The Board is required to ratify the selection, appointment and removal of employees below grade 72.
Accordingly, Item 10 recommends that the Board ratify the following employment actions: offer of
employment to 9 applicants; promotion of 4 employees and termination of 2 employees.

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2015–CHA-97
the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated October 14, 2015,
entitled “Approval of Personnel Actions”:

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the requested personnel actions.

The Motion to adopt resolutions for Items 9 and 10 was seconded by Commissioner Brewer and the
voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Matthew Brewer
Mark Cozzi
Dr. Mildred Harris
John Hooker
Harriet Johnson
Jack Markowski
10

 Rodrigo Sierra
Francine Washington

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, Chairwoman Scott thereupon declared said Motion carried and
said resolutions adopted.
Per Chairperson Scott, during closed meeting, commissioners discussed matters relating to Item 1.
Commissioner Cozzi then presented a motion for the approval of Item 1.
(Item 1)
RESOLUTION NO. 2015-CHA-98
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated October 20, 2015
entitled “Request for authorization to: 1) Acquire a 10-unit residential building at 5253
W Deming utilizing the Federal Home Loan Bank line of credit; 2) Negotiate and
execute acquisition transaction and related financing documents as necessary; 3)
Identify specific collateral as needed; and 4) Perform such actions as may be necessary
or appropriate to implement the foregoing.”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Acting Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to: 1) Acquire a 10-unit residential building located at 5253 W. Deming
utilizing the Federal Home Loan Bank (“FHLB”) line of credit; 2) Negotiate and
execute acquisition transaction and related financing documents as necessary; 3)
Identify specific collateral as needed; and 4) Perform such actions as may be necessary
or appropriate to implement the foregoing. In the event CHA desires to subsequently
seek HUD approval to designate and operate all or a portion of the units as public
housing and HUD grants such approval, CHA will undertake all steps necessary or
appropriate to implement the conversion of the units accordingly.

The Motion to adopt resolution for Item 1 was seconded by Commissioner Markowski and the voting
was as follows:
Ayes:
Matthew Brewer
Mark Cozzi
Dr. Mildred Harris
John Hooker
Harriet Johnson
Jack Markowski
Rodrigo Sierra
Francine Washington
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, Chairwoman Scott thereupon declared said Motion carried and
said resolution adopted.
Eugene Jones, Acting Chief Executive Officer, then presented his monthly report to the
Commissioners.
11

 Chairman Hooker then invited residents and the public at large to address the Board.
There being no further business to come before the Commissioners, upon Motion made and seconded,
the Regular board meeting of October 20, 2015, was adjourned at approximately 11:05 a.m.

________________________________
J. Hooker
Chairman, Chicago Housing Authority
___________________________
Lee Chuc-Gill, Secretary
Custodian and Keeper of Records

12

 