PORT AUTHORITY OF ALLEGHENY COUNTY
MINUTES OF THE REGULAR BOARD MEETING
FRIDAY, JUNE 29, 2018
The Regular Meeting of the Board of Port Authority of Allegheny County was held on Friday, June 29,
2018, at 9:30 a.m., at the Authority’s Administration Offices, 345 Sixth Avenue, Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania, 15222-2527, pursuant to due public notice given as required by law.
Board Members
Jeff Letwin, Chair
Jennifer Liptak
Michelle Zmijanac
Ann Ogoreuc
John Tague
Stephanie Turman
D. Raja
Rob Vescio
Senator Jim Brewster (via phone)
Joel Lennen, General Counsel

Media
Ed Blazina, Post-Gazette

Port Authority Staff:
Katharine Kelleman, chief executive officer, Bill Miller, chief operations officer, Pete Schenk, chief
financial officer, Jeffrey Devlin, chief information officer, Mike Cetra, assistant general manager Legal
and Corporate Services, Barry Adams, assistant general manager Human Resources, Ed Typanski,
director Grants and Capital Programs, Catherine Terrill, Professional Services contract specialist,
Adam Brandolph, Public Relations representative, Darcy Cleaver, assistant manager Passenger
Amenities, Tony Trona, director Procurement and Materials Management, Tom Noll, director
Technical Support, Eric Bilsky, assistant director Capital Programs, Inez Colon, director Employment
Josh Banyas, manager Capital Programs, Breen Masciotra, TOD project manager, Bill Wheeler, FTA
Planning Fellow, John Beeler, manager Customer Services, Fred Mergner, assistant manager,
Scheduling and Service Planning, Diane Williamson, executive assistant.
Other
Carolyn Lenigan, Glenn Walsh, Laura Wiens, PPT, March Wiezorak, AG, Steve DeGenaro, Dave
Haines, AECOM, Grego Cerminara, Michael Baker, Inc., Michelle Hinds, SAI, Bill Trimbath, Collective
Efforts LLC, Dan Frederick, Monazoh Basin, David Haffaker, Sound Transit.
The Chair called the June 29, 2018 Regular Meeting of the Board to order.
After the recital of the pledge of allegiance, a recommendation was made for approval of the minutes
of the May 25, 2018 Regular Meeting. A motion was made, seconded and unanimously passed.
The Chair called on Ms. Kelleman for a report of the Chief Executive Officer. Ms. Kelleman began
her comments by honoring Port Authority employees and retirees who passed in May. The retired
operators are Eugene Evans, Daniel Gaertner, Aaron Schelgel, Charles Wilcox, Charles Taylor,
Charles Emery and James Pizzuto; and for the Maintenance team, retired Maintenance employee,
Ray Starn.
1

 Ms. Kelleman departed from her prepared comments to talk about Ms. Margo Carter, our Employee
Relations manager, who passed away just a few weeks ago. Margo was one of the first people Ms.
Kelleman met when she came to Port Authority back in January. Margo was lively and engaged,
recently promoted to a managerial role in a department that she loved, and Ms. Kelleman really
thought that if Margo was any indicator of the employees here, it was just a matter of time before we
were getting awards for being a topnotch agency. We had an amazing team that needed to be
unleashed. Margo set the tone for Ms. Kelleman every time she saw her on the rails and in the city.
She had a happy smile and she knew everyone. Ms. Kelleman was definitely on Team Margo.
Ms. Kelleman continued by stating that we lost her quickly and unexpectedly. It is a testament to her
that so many mourn her, and I’ll say that we are poorer for the loss but richer for having known her.
Ms. Kelleman also found out that Margo was a senior pastor at the Grace Tabernacle Community
Church in Crafton and the founder of the Go-Go Girls, which is a female mentoring program at the
First Baptist Church in Bridgeville. Margo was amazing here and everywhere she went. She leaves
behind a 14-year old daughter, so our thoughts are with her family. If her daughter is half the woman
Margo is, she’s well on her way to be amazing.
Ms. Kelleman then changed the topic to all the hard work from our Maintenance Team last week
during the flooding. As a transplant from Florida, I’m used to flooding, but this surprised even me.
We lost 50 tons of ballast in two hours from our Overbrook Line, and we are in the process of getting
800 tons of ballast to repair the line overall. It was a calamity, but our crews worked around the clock
to get us back up and running within a few days.
Ms. Kelleman continued reporting that the Library Line is a little over 100 years-old, so it might take a
little longer to put it together. But the quick recovery and fantastic efforts from our team have been
outstanding.
Next, Ms. Kelleman was happy to report that May ridership was up again, four percent year over year
from the previous month, so we are on a positive trend for the year. We are not letting up and are
seeing ridership increase every day, so we are victims of our own success. Our buses are full and
they continue to be full.
Ms. Kelleman then reported that the Board is considering the FY 2019 budget this morning, which
has been tied to a tactical plan outlining our five subject areas for next year. In her hiring process, the
Board made it very clear that it was time to go beyond the status quo here, that both Pittsburgh and
Allegheny County wanted it, and they were looking for the leader who could deliver it. The residents
of the County deserve this service and our budget will establish short term goals for next year that will
later work for longer term success and a full-fledged robust and strategic plan for our following fiscal
year.
Ms. Kelleman continued reporting that our tactical plan is focused on an excellent customer
experience, a 10 percent increase in our on-time performance, a focus on our Facilities Maintenance
Plan, the creation and adoption of a 20-year long term plan, and service planning blocks that can line
us up for BRT and success throughout our communities taking a closer look at all of our scheduled
employee engagements, financial processes, and the heavy lift our team is ready to do. Let us
continue to plan for the future with our BRT increase and making a strategic investment to our
existing rail and bus infrastructure to make sure we’re ready to accommodate this increased ridership
growth and that we’re positioned for the future.
2

 Ms. Kelleman concluded her remarks by stating that we are not keeping the status quo going
anymore. We are planning for a bright robust future for public transportation, and as you’ve heard her
say, Pittsburgh can be the place that redefines what it is to be a bus agency in the 21st century and
this is a first critical step in that direction. Investing in our system sets the tone for our agency and
that tone is excellence. Our team is ready to deliver it and we’re lining up a plan with funding to make
sure that we can. Our riders deserve better and Allegheny County deserves better.
That concluded the report of the Chief Executive Officer.
The Chair called on Ms. Zmijanac, Chair of the Performance Oversight Committee, for a report from
the Committee. Ms. Zmijanac reported that a meeting of the Performance Oversight Committee was
held on June 21, 2018 and the minutes from the previous meeting were approved by the Committee.
First the chief financial officer, Peter Schenk, reported that Total Operating Revenues through May
were approximately $5.1 million higher than budget, principally due to higher Passenger Revenues. It
was reported that Total Expenses through May were approximately $16.4 million under budget. Total
subsidies were approximately $481,814 under budget, which is a timing issue with State Operating
Assistance. Subsidies should be on budget by fiscal year-end.
There were four resolutions reviewed by the Performance Oversight Committee for consideration by
the Board.
The Committee first reviewed four procurement items. The Committee found the bids to be in
accordance with the Authority’s procurement policies and procedures, the prices to be fair and
reasonable, and the bidders to be responsive and responsible. The Performance Oversight
Committee therefore recommended for award the four items highlighted in the resolution for the total
amount of $1,345,360.
On behalf of the Performance Oversight Committee, Mrs. Zmijanac respectfully requested approval of
the resolution. It was moved, seconded and unanimously agreed that the resolution be approved as
presented.
The next resolution sought Authorization to Award a construction contract for the LED Lighting
Upgrades project. Ms. Zmijanac reported that the Authority wishes to upgrade the existing lighting
systems in the maintenance and storage areas at South Hills Junction Building #1 and the Ross,
Collier and East Liberty Garages. The work would also include upgrading high bay lighting at the
Steel Plaza and Wood Street Stations.
Ms. Zmijanac stated that it has been determined that the bid of TSB, Inc., d/b/a Schultheis Electric, is
the lowest responsive bid from a responsible bidder meeting the Authority’s specifications. The
Performance Oversight Committee, therefore, recommended awarding the contract to Schultheis
Electric, in the amount of $2,712,621, subject to completing all pre-award requirements.
On behalf of the Performance Oversight Committee, Mrs. Zmijanac respectfully requested approval of
the resolution. It was moved, seconded and unanimously agreed that the resolution be approved as
presented.
3

 Ms. Zmijanac stated that the next resolution seeks authorization to amend the Travel and Expense
Reimbursement Policy. It was reported at the Performance Oversight Committee meeting that the
Authority maintains a set of guidelines and procedures for the reimbursement of travel expenses
incurred by employees in performing business-related activities. Management wishes to amend the
Policy to make various changes, including requiring that the Authority book hotel and other lodging
reservations for employees traveling on business, ensuring employees utilize public transportation
during out-of-town travel whenever feasible and making other administrative updates and
clarifications.
Ms. Zmijanac stated that the Performance Oversight Committee recommends approving the
amended Travel and Expense Reimbursement Policy attached to the resolution as Exhibit A.
On behalf of the Performance Oversight Committee, Mrs. Zmijanac respectfully requested approval of
the resolution. It was moved, seconded and unanimously agreed that the resolution be approved as
presented.
The final resolution recommended by the Performance Oversight Committee was Authorization to
Enter into an Interagency Cooperation and Reimbursement Agreement with the Pennsylvania
Turnpike Commission to study transportation funding and develop options for the future. Pursuant to
Act 89, the PA Turnpike Commission makes annual payments to the Pennsylvania Department of
Transportation, some of which supports transit programs.
The Authority has benefitted from Act 89 through a capital improvement program and stable operating
funding and wants to take proactive steps to ensure a reliable and sustainable source of
transportation funding exists in future years. The Turnpike Commission wishes to work with the
Authority to study the state of transportation funding.
Ms. Zmijanac stated that the Performance Oversight Committee recommends entering into the
Agreement with the Pennsylvania Turnpike Commission for the completion of the study for a total notto-exceed amount of $205,000.
On behalf of the Performance Oversight Committee, Mrs. Zmijanac respectfully requested approval of
the resolution. It was moved, seconded and unanimously agreed that the resolution be approved as
presented.
That concluded the report of the Performance Oversight Committee.
The Chairman called on Mr. John Tague for the report of the Planning and Stakeholder Relations
Committee.
Mr. Tague reported that the Committee met last week and he had several items to report to the
Board.
At the meeting, Mr. Schenk presented the Authority’s proposed tactical plan. This proposed plan
would set Authority-wide goals for each division.
Next, Mr. Tague reported that Mr. Schenk provided an update on the new Customer Service Center.
Employees moved into their new space during the June 23-24 weekend. The new space provides an
4

 improved customer experience where customers can access a ticket vending machine, purchase fare
products or speak with a Customer Service representative. Port Authority is planning a grand
opening event for later this summer.
Mr. Tague further reported that the Allegheny County Transit Counsel met last week. Ms. Andrea
Elcock and Ms. Aniqua Zahra presented the Annual Service Report and answered questions about
service planning.
Mr. Tague continued reporting that he had an opportunity to participate in the Community
Transportation Association of America on June 10 through June 14 in Pittsburgh. Generally, the
CTCA operates smaller vehicles such as minivans and para-transit-sized vehicles. Mr. Tague
acknowledged the participation of a number of Port Authority employees, as well as Ms. Karen
Hoesch from ACCESS. Two of the ACCESS providers, Con-Tran and First Transit, provided vehicles
to the roadeo.
Finally, Mr. Tague stated that the Planning and Stakeholder Relations Committee is recommending
approval of the FY 2019 operating and capital budgets. The Operating budget totals $441 million and
the Capital Budget totals $146 million. Both budgets balance anticipated expenses with anticipated
revenues and grants.
On behalf of the Planning and Stakeholder Relations Committee, Mr. Tague respectfully requested
approval of the resolution.
Before a vote was taken, Mr. D. Raja advised that he would be voting “no” and wanted to share an
explanation for his vote to the budget stating that he is not in favor of adding 40 new positions at the
cost of $4.76 million for 2019 without an additional source of funds or revenues. Mr. Raja continued
explaining that as he evaluates every expense, from his perspective, as a Board member, he looks to
see the priority in regard to service. As you know, many times we have speakers come to ask for
more service and Mr. Raja evaluates every new expense against this. He does, however, understand
many times it’s a balancing act. His concern is that cost for the addition of these 40 positions will
continue to remain as we go forward and we would begin to draw down on the reserves that have
been built up over the years, and we would face a shortfall sometime in the future without knowing
what the source of funding or revenues would be.
The Chair thanked Mr. Raja for his explanation and asked if there was any more discussion. Mr.
Tague stated that he has been involved in public transit in Allegheny County for almost two decades.
He has seen the good and the bad. I’ve endured all of the years that we had to cut and cut and cut.
Port Authority is at a critical moment, and I feel the only way to move forward is to invest in the
system. I believe in the vision Ms. Kelleman brought here and believe that it is essential that we
improve the overall customer experience. We would not be able to move forward unless we address
the fundamentals of the systems. He concluded by stating, “I, for one, fully support the budget and
fully support investing in our transit system that is so vital to our community.”
Next, Ms. Liptak thanked CEO Kelleman and staff for their due diligence. Thank you, Mr. Tague, for
his diligence and the Committee for the work that they’ve done. A year ago we were looking for a
CEO and our organization had some pretty challenging issues before us related to policies that were
held up by the Board and others but also policies that were concerning to the community.
5

 Ms. Liptak said she personally feels we found a superstar in Ms. Kelleman and she is pleased with
the work that she has done to bring in the community input and remind us, especially me as a Board
Member, that the customer’s voice matters. That’s a constant message that she has put out to the
community and it’s important, and we need to make sure that this is something that I as a Board
member should consider every time I make a vote. For some time, we’ve settled for the system that
we’ve had, but strived for the system our people deserve. I think it’s time that we continue to move
forward and give Ms. Kelleman the tools that she feels she needs to do that. Ms. Liptak stated that
she is fully supportive of the budget, and thanked Ms. Kelleman and her team for the efforts moving
forward.
At this time, the Chair asked for a motion. The motion was then moved, seconded and passed with
an eight to one vote.
Next, the Chair called on Mr. Rob Vescio for a report from the Technology Committee. Mr. Vescio,
Chair of the Committee, stated that he did have a few items to report from the first Technology
Committee meeting held on June 21, 2018.
The Committee was introduced to Mr. Jeffrey Devlin, Port Authority’s new Chief Information Officer.
Mr. Devlin joined Port Authority in late May 2018. At the meeting, he provided the Committee with his
background and experience of over 30 years of technology and leadership. Mr. Devlin also described
his 100-day plan, which encompasses three major components. These include focusing on the
customer experience, an assessment of the technology ecosystem and steps to be positioned for
success. He provided information on each of these areas including strengths and weaknesses
identified to date.
The presentation concluded with a visual depiction of the software applications in the technology
ecosystem categorized under customer experience, operational services and administrative
functions. In this, Mr. Devlin noted a positive about the current ecosystem in that most focus is on the
customer experience and that an appropriate amount of technology is positioned within the
operational and administrative areas.
Mr. Vescio noted that there were no resolutions presented at the first meeting.
That concluded the report of the Technology Committee.
Mr. Letwin remarked that this is very exciting and we keep moving in the direction of where we want
the Authority to go in terms of recognizing that technology is where our future lies and in finally putting
together a team to focus on that for the Board. We look forward to a lot of positive developments as
this process moves forward.
The Chair then noted that we had a glitch in our system for signing up to speak at the Board meeting
and not everyone had the opportunity to sign up in a timely manner. Mr. Letwin opened the meeting
and asked for anyone wishing to address the Board.
Ms. Laura Wiens from Pittsburghers for Public Transit, addressed the Board. Ms. Wiens thanked
Board members John Tague and Stephanie Turman and CEO, Katharine Kelleman for attending
PPT’s Rider’s Vision launch on Monday, and noted that she does see a path forward in collaboration
on a lot of improvements for our system to grow ridership and to grow equity, things that are
6

 achievable in the near term even without extensive expansion of funding. She further stated that we
are invested in the fight to ensure that both sustained funding continues to come from the State and
that we look at additional sources of revenue and funding because we know that there’s no other
guarantee of growth and ridership than actually expanding the number of routes that we have,
expanding frequency and expanding service span over evenings and weekends.
Ms. Wiens said that she hopes the Board had an opportunity to take a look at PPT’s Rider’s Vision.
PPT thinks that this is an opportunity to really talk about the ways that transit is a critical asset for all
sorts of things including the importance of it as a solution for climate change and air quality problems
that we have in the region, the importance of it for stimulating economic development and adding new
economic opportunities for depressed regions, and why it needs to be a critical partner with affordable
housing.
There being no further business to conduct, the meeting was adjourned.
The next Regular Meeting of the Board will be Friday, July 27, 2018.

7

 