MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING

OF THE

COMMISSIONERS OF THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
December 19, 2006
The Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority held its Regular Meeting on Tuesday,
December 19, 2006, at 8:30 a.m. at Ella Flag Young Apartments, 4645 North Sheridan, Chicago,
Illinois.
In the absence of Chairperson Martin Nesbitt, Commissioner Wiggins called the meeting to order
and upon roll call, those present and absent were as follows:
Present:

Mary Wiggins
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Bridget O’Keefe
Carlos Ponce

Absent:

Earnest Gates
Martin Nesbitt
Sandra Young

Also present were Sharon Gist Gilliam, Chief Executive Officer; Adrienne Minley, Chief of
Staff; Charles Levesque, Acting General Counsel; Chicago Housing Authority Staff Members
and the General Public.
There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as
follows:
Sharon Gist Gilliam, Chief Executive Officer, then presented her monthly report. Per Ms.
Gilliam, the holidays are a busy, yet special time of year for everyone, and the CHA is no
exception. The many special events that CHA staff and residents participate in during the
holiday season are fun, build a sense of community, support independence and create self esteem
during the holidays. Ms. Gilliam then highlighted activities related to the Thanksgiving Basket
Giveaway, Kids Shopping Spree where 50 selected CHA children between the ages 8-12, who
were on the honor roll and/or had perfect attendance, were greeted by Bears linebacker Lance
Briggs and CHA staff to a shopping spree at Target; Senior Gala, where approximately 2,000
seniors ate and danced, and listened to a warm welcome from the Mayor and the Chicago Bulls
Kids Holiday Party. Ms. Gilliam concluded her report by saying that while all of these events
give us a special feeling and makes the holidays that much more special, she believes that they
serve a more important purpose. They let the residents of CHA know that they are not
abandoned by the city, that they are part and parcel of the larger community of Chicago and that
they are important and valued members of the Chicago community.
The Chairperson then convened the Public Hearing portion of the meeting by inviting residents
and the public at large to address the Board.
Immediately following the Public Hearing portion of the meeting, a Motion was introduced and
seconded to adjourn to Executive Session. The Chairperson announced that pursuant to the
Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2, the Board would adjourn for approximately one (1) hour to
discuss pending, probable or imminent litigation, collective negotiating matters, security and
personnel matters.

1

 The Commissioners subsequently reconvened in Open Session and upon Motion made by
Commissioner Ivers, properly seconded by Commissioner Ponce and carried, the Minutes for the
Executive Session Meeting of October 17, 2006 were then unanimously approved.
Commissioner Wiggins thereupon introduced the Resolution discussed in Executive Session.
Commissioner Ivers then presented a Motion to approve the following resolution for Executive
Session Item 1:
Executive Session Item 1
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-173
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated December 6, 2006, requesting that the Board of
Commissioners approves the Personnel Actions Report for November 2006.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the Personnel Actions Report for
November 2006.

The Motion to adopt resolutions for Executive Session Item 1 was seconded by Commissioner
Amey and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Mary Wiggins
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Bridget O’Keefe
Carlos Ponce

Nays:

None

The Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried and said Resolution adopted.
In the absence of Committee Chair Young, Commissioner Ivers then presented the report for the
Tenant Services Committee. Per Commissioner Ivers, the Tenant Services Committee Meeting
was held on Wednesday, December 13, 2006 at the 626 Corporate Offices. Meghan Harte,
Director of Resident Services presented the Committee with an update on Workforce
Development.
Commissioner Ivers then introduced an Omnibus Motion for the adoption of the Resolutions for
Items A1 thru A5 discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Tenant Services
Committee.
(Item A1)
The current contracts for Big “O” Movers and Storage, Inc. and Smith Movers, Inc. expire on
March 31, 2007. The current contracts for REO Movers and Van Lines, Inc. and Medley
Movers, Inc., expire on January 15, 2007. Due to the FY2007 Moving to Work Annual Plan,
relocation services are still required to move an estimated 1,434 families. Accordingly, the
resolution for Item A1 approves exercising the third one year option for each of the four current
resident services contracts with no additional dollars added to the contract amount. Current
balances on existing contracts are expected to be sufficient in covering estimated costs of
$1,535,066.00 for moving services in 2007. The approval of the extension of the contracts will
cover anticipated invoices and will allow the CHA to continue with its relocation efforts without
interruption and take advantage of the vendor prices which are reasonable and near or below
other market rate vendors for this option period. Moreover, the current moving contractors met
or exceeded the acceptable level of performance.
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-174
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated December 11, 2006, entitled “Authorization to exercise Third
Year Option to extend the Resident Relocation moving contracts for Big "O"
2

 Movers and Storage, Inc., Medley's Moving and Storage, Inc., REO Movers and
Van Lines, Inc., and Smith Movers, Inc., for Resident Relocation Services”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

The Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or her
designee to exercise the third one (1) year option for resident relocation moving
services with Big “O” Movers and Storage, Inc., REO Movers and Van Lines,
Inc., Smith Movers, Inc., and Medley’s Moving and Storage, Inc., with no
increase in the not-to-exceed

(Item A2)
On November 2006, in accordance with HUD regulations and community desires, the Chicago
Housing Authority adopted the Site and Neighborhood Policy to ensure that Housing Choice
Voucher (HCV) families do not reside in areas that may constitute a danger to their health, safety
and general welfare. The policy was implemented in March 2006. At that time, CHAC
inspectors began to grade properties not only on interior apartment and building conditions, but
also on surrounding site and neighborhood conditions, considering factors such as abandoned or
boarded up buildings, vacant lots, excessive debris on the street, and open drug trade. Since
implementing the policy, the CHA and CHAC have monitored leasing patterns, housing search
times, overall inspections and unit failure rates, to ensure that families are not adversely affected
by the policy. It was determined that families continue to find housing in areas free of adverse
site and neighborhood conditions, in all 77 community areas, in the same amount of time as prior
to the policy. Nevertheless, after almost a year of monitoring the progress of the policy, revisions
in the policy are appropriate to reflect CHA’s continued support of revitalizing communities.
Accordingly, the resolution for Item A2 approves amendment of the HCVP Administrative Plan,
Site and Neighborhood Policy. The proposed changes would recognize the distinction between
a well maintained lot and a poorly maintained lot and would provide owners with increased
opportunities to improve the conditions of their community. The recommended revisions would
also be in furtherance of the CHA’s desire to hold to high standards property owners who
participate in the Housing Choice Voucher program; while also ensuring the health and safety of
HCV families and the betterment of neighborhood conditions.
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-175
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated December 11,
2006, entitled “Approval of the Administrative Plan for the Housing Choice
Vouchers, Project-Amendments to the Housing Choice Voucher Program
Administrative Plan, Site and Neighborhood Policy.”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners repeals and rescinds any and all previously adopted
plans and resolutions related to the approval of such plan.

THAT,

the Board of Commissioners adopts the revised Chicago Housing Authority
Administrative Plan for the Housing Choice Vouchers, Project-Based Vouchers
and Moderate Rehabilitation Programs dated August 15, 2006 attached hereto as
Exhibit A.

THAT,

the revised Administrative Plan for the Housing Choice Vouchers, Project-Based
Vouchers and Moderate Rehabilitation Programs dated November 17, 2006 shall
be effective December 19, 2006.

(Item A3)
The resolution for Item A3 approves the third year option for the Intergovernmental Agreement
with the Chicago Department of Aging (CDoA). This amendment will continue to allow CHA’s
senior citizens to be mainstreamed and receive the same level and quality of services that CDoA
provides to senior citizens throughout the City of Chicago such as home delivered meals, core
services, congregate dining, benefits eligibility checklist, assessment, educational, cultural, and
recreational activities, case management, legal assistance, respite care, transportation, nursing
home pre-screening, and linkage to other needed services through the State of Illinois
3

 Community Care Program . CDoA will continue to maintain a presence with an office in each of
the designated thirty-nine (39) senior buildings to make these services readily available to
CHA’s senior residents.
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-176
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed
Memorandum dated December 11, 2006, entitled “Authorization to Execute the
Third Year Option to Extend the Intergovernmental Agreement with the Chicago
Department on Aging to Provide a Coordinated Supportive Social Services
Program for Senior Citizens Residing in Thirty-nine CHA Senior Buildings”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

The Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or her
designee to execute Amendment No. 3 exercising the third year option to extend
the Intergovernmental Agreement with the City of Chicago Department on Aging
to provide a coordinated supportive social service program for senior citizens
residing in thirty-nine (39) CHA senior buildings for the period of January 1,
2007 through December 31, 2007 for an amount not to exceed $2,162,598.

(Item A4)
The resolution for Item A4 approves the FY2007 Funding Agreement with CAC. A Funding
Agreement between the CHA and the CAC is required by HUD Regulations for funding
provided by a housing authority for a duly elected resident council. This agreement places
financial responsibility on the CAC to govern, control and document use of CHA provided funds
approved in the CAC’s 2007 operating budget in the amount of $1,423,687 for the period
beginning January 1, 2007 and ending December 31, 2007. As per HUD Regulations, the
Funding Agreement includes assurances that all CAC expenditures will not contravene
provisions of law and will promote serviceability, efficiency, economy, and stability in the
operation of the housing authority. The Agreement requires that the CAC account to the CHA
for the use of the funds provided in the Agreement and permits the CHA to inspect and audit the
CAC’s financial records related to the Agreement.
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-177
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated December 11,
2006 entitled “Authorization to Negotiate and Enter into a Funding Agreement for
Fiscal Year 2007 with the Central Advisory Council (“CAC”);
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorize the Chief Executive Officer or her
designee to negotiate and enter into a Funding Agreement with the Central
Advisory Council for the 2007 fiscal year in an amount not-to-exceed One
Million Four Hundred Twenty Three Thousand Six Hundred Eighty Seven
Dollars ($1,423,687), of which Two Hundred Fifty Thousand Dollars ($250,000)
is for the expenses, costs of the 2007 Central Advisory Council and Local
Advisory Council’s general elections, for the period beginning January 1, 2007
and ending December 31, 2007

(Item A5)
The resolution for Item A5 approves a Funding Agreement with the Senior Housing Advisory
Council (SHAC). The Agreement will place independent financial responsibility on SHAC to
govern, control and document CHA funds provided for the 2007 operating budget in an amount
not to exceed $300,000 for the period of January 1, 2007 through December 31, 2007. SHAC is
managed by the three duly elected presidents of the Senior Housing Local Advisory Council’s
and maintains offices at 6401 S. Yale, 3030 West 21st Place and 1845 N. Larrabee. The purpose
of SHAC is to act for and on behalf of the residents who live in CHA senior buildings. The
Agreement will contain provisions to require compliance with all state, local and federal laws,
rules and regulations and require SHAC to account for use of the funds under the Agreement.
The Agreement will also permit the CHA to review and audit the Books and Records of the
SHAC.

4

 RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-178
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated December 11,
2006, entitled “Authorization to Negotiate and Enter into a Funding Agreement
with the Senior Housing Advisory Council (“SHAC”);
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or her
designee to negotiate and enter into a Funding Agreement with the Senior
Housing Advisory Council for the period commencing January 1, 2007 and
ending December 31, 2007 in an amount not to exceed Three Hundred Thousand
Dollars ($300,000), including Sixty Thousand Dollars ($60,000) for the expenses
of the 2007 Central Advisory Council and Local Advisory Council’s general
elections.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items A1 through A5 was seconded by
Commissioner O’Keefe and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Mary Wiggins
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Bridget O’Keefe
Carlos Ponce

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Tenant Services Committee report was also accepted in total.
In the absence of Committee Chair, Earnest Gates, Commissioner Ponce presented the
Operations and Facilities monthly report. Per Commissioner Ponce, the Operations and
Facilities Committee Meeting was held on Wednesday, December 13, 2006 at 1:30 p.m. at the
626 W. Jackson Corporate offices.
Commissioner Ponce then introduced an Omnibus Motion for the adoption of the Resolutions for
Items B1 thru B8 discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Operations and
Facilities Committee.
(Item B1)
CHA’s current contract with People’s Energy for its natural gas supply expires on December 31,
2006. Under the contract, the CHA obtains its natural gas supply for CHA properties under a
wholesale (wellhead) arrangement which enables the CHA to purchase natural gas at commodity
levels tied to prevailing prices and terms set at regional energy exchanges. Due to the large
volumes consumed and the availability of commodity pricing and terms, wellhead supply
customers, such as the CHA, obtain favorable pricing for gas supplies compared to the costs
applicable to supply obtained from a local utility provider at regular retail rates and tariffs. As an
authorized wellhead customer under the contract with People’s Energy, the CHA has been able
to obtain wholesale pricing for its periodic purchases of natural gas supply on a blended basis of
fixed and floating prices tied to the prevailing wholesale exchange rates. Under applicable
regulatory conditions, the CHA is permitted to obtain a fixed (per therm) price for a portion of its
periodic supplies, and the remainder of the natural gas consumed or stored in the CHA’s supply
account is purchased at rates tied to the wholesale market price. The blended (fixed/floating)
wellhead purchasing structure allows the CHA to effectively manage and secure its forecasted
and actual consumption of natural gas through the combination of forward pricing and spot
pricing, and the CHA also mitigates the risks of price fluctuations through the ability to store
allocations of gas supplies for use in future periods. Gas prices fluctuate regularly on the open
market and are anticipated to be high during the winter months. Given the daily changes in
market prices, the actual unit cost of gas supplies (per therm) will not be completely fixed for the
entire term of extension and would not be uniformly priced for the CHA’s fluctuating use and
consumption over time. People’s Energy has expressed a willingness to continue the commodity
purchasing arrangements with the CHA for wholesale gas supply in order to extend the cost and
management benefits which the CHA enjoys as a wellhead supply purchaser. Accordingly, the
5

 resolution for Item B1 approves ratification and execution of the amendment to the Wellhead
Natural Gas Contract with Peoples Gas. Securing and continuing wholesale purchasing rights
for natural gas supplies through this extension procured by non-competitive proposal is
anticipated to reduce the amount the CHA would pay for natural gas supplies versus retail utility
rates during the requested five (5) month term, and enables the CHA to better manage its costs
and expenditures by hedging against historically common increases in natural gas costs during
the winter months and to make timely purchasing and planning decisions using the best available
information on closing or consolidating CHA sites and facilities.
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-179
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
memorandum dated December 11, 2006 entitled “Authorization To Enter Into
And Execute An Extension Of The Wellhead Natural Gas Contract With Peoples
Energy Services Corporation”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or her
designee to enter into and execute an extension to the Contract with Peoples
Energy Services Corporation, procured by a non-competitive proposal method,
from January 1, 2007 through May 31, 2007, under the same prevailing terms and
conditions in an amount not-to-exceed $9,772,846.00 for the purpose of providing
natural gas to the CHA.

(Item B2)
The resolution for Item B2 approves execution of the Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) with
the City of Chicago Department of Streets and Sanitation. To comply with the City’s recycling
ordinance, the CHA entered into an IGA to administer the Recycling Buy Back Program. This
Program is a public-private partnership among the City, Waste Management, Inc., CHA,
Americorps *Vista, and the Resource Center, a local nonprofit recycler. The program, working
with local resident organizations, provides direct payment to CHA residents for recyclable
materials collected in their homes and neighborhoods. That agreement expired in 2004. The
CHA agreed to maintain its financial commitment for participation in Recycling Buy-Back
Program for FY 2005 and FY 2006 at the same level as in 1999 when the original IGA was
entered, $267,178.00 per year. The CHA made a payment of $267,178.00 for FY2005 to the
City earlier this year. On designated days each week, recycling trucks travel through the various
public housing developments. Residents bring their recyclable material to the truck and are paid
market value for the material according to weight. Payments are made in the form of vouchers,
which can be redeemed at local grocery and convenience stores. In addition to providing a shortterm investment in the CHA developments through the voucher payments, the recycling program
also makes a more long-term investment in these communities by hiring residents to work with
the program.
RESOLUTION NO. 2006 CHA-180
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed 5the
Board Letter dated December 11, 2006, requesting “Ratification of an
Intergovernmental Agreement with the City of Chicago acting by and through its
Department of Streets and Sanitation for the Recycling Buy-Back Program and
ratification of payment for FY2005”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners ratifies the payment of $267,178.00 made to the City
of Chicago for the Recycling Buy Back Program for FY2005 and ratifies an
Intergovernmental Agreement with the City of Chicago, acting through its
Department of Streets and Sanitation for a total amount not to exceed $534,356.00
for FY2005 and FY2006 for the Recycling Buy Back Program.

(Item B3)
The resolution for Item B3 approves contract extension with Digby Security for protective
service at various CHA administrative facilities. The base contract provides for, and Digby’s is
willing to agree to, an extension of the Contract for a year, without a firm commitment on the
number of guards that will be required during that year. As CHA consolidates its administrative
facilities and closes various locations, the security requirements will be reduced. The CHA
6

 anticipates needing 38,142.75 hours of contract security for the administrative facilities in 2007.
The Vendor’s past performance under the Contract for the base period has been suitable and
sufficient to warrant the extension and the Vendor’s continued provision of protective services.
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-181
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated December 11, 2006, entitled “Authorization to extend
Contract Number 5000 with Digby’s Security for Protective Services at various
CHA Administrative Facilities”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or her
designee to exercise the one year option for contract Number 5000 with Digby’s
Security and Detective Agency, Inc. in an amount not to exceed $674,764.41.

(Item B4)
In December 2005, an RFP for protective services for various CHA family and senior housing
properties was mailed to 28 vendors and advertised in area newspapers. This type of strategic
sourcing initiative is the CHA’s first attempt to bundle the requirements of the various CHA
developments to achieve some economies of scale based on the quantity required across its
developments. In this process, the CHA managed the procurement aspects of selecting a security
provider and the individual private property management companies are expected to contract
individually with the selected vendor utilizing a form contract that have provisions in which the
vendor will indemnify the property manager and the CHA, and the vendor will have the property
manager and the CHA endorsed as additional insured. The funds for these services are included
in the operating subsidies for each of the PPM’s and will be administered by CHA’s
Operations/Asset Management department. Of the fifteen proposals received, Securitas Security
Services d/b/a Burns International Security Services was ranked the highest by the evaluation
committee before the oral presentations and was ranked second highest after the oral
presentations. Securitas offers the most competitive price for the services requested.
Commissioner O’Keefe recused from voting on Item B4.
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-182
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
memorandum dated December 11, 2006, entitled “Authorization for the Private
Property Management Companies to Enter into Contracts with Securitas Security
Services d/b/a Burns International Security Services for Protective Services at
Various CHA Developments“;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the private property management
companies to enter into contracts with Securitas Security Services d/b/a Burns
International Security Services for Protective Services at various CHA
developments in an aggregate amount not to exceed $16,395,177.00, for a two
year contract term with one (1) one-year extension option, subject to Board and, if
required, the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD)
approval.

(Item B5)
As part of the Capital Improvement Program, the CHA solicited bids for general contractors to
perform the general renovation of apartment units, common areas, and site improvements for the
Family Housing at Lawndale Gardens (IL2-005), located at 2501 South California Avenue. This
work includes, but is not limited to the renovation of one hundred twenty-five two-story dwelling
units in sixteen buildings, and the Community Building to be completed no later than December
2008. Environmental work includes the abatement and removal of mold, lead paint, and asbestos
and asbestos-containing materials. The interior work includes the creation of seven ADA,
section 504 compliant accessible ground floor units, and three visual/hearing impaired units.
Renovation of all other units includes carpentry repairs, door and hardware replacement, repair
or replacement of all interior finishes, new kitchen and bathroom fixtures/equipment/accessories,
7

 painting, and entirely new mechanical, electrical and plumbing systems/equipment/fixtures.
Exterior work includes new windows, 100% tuck pointing, roofing and sheet metal, new exterior
doors and signage. The IFB was advertised in area newspapers and based on the four bids
opened H.L.F. Construction Company, Inc. was determined to be the lowest responsive and
responsible bidder at $18,088,000.00. Accordingly, the resolution for Item B5 approves award
of contract to H.L.F. Construction Company.
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-183
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated December 11,
2006, entitled “Authorization to execute a contract with H.L.F. Construction
Company, Inc. for the Family Housing Renovation at Lawndale Gardens (IL2005)”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or her
designee to execute a contract with H.L.F Construction Company, Inc. in the
amount of $18,088,000.00 for the Family Housing renovation of one hundred
twenty-five (125) units at Lawndale Gardens (IL2-005), 2501 South California
Avenue. This award is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s
MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident hiring, and bonding and insurance
requirements.

(Item B6)
The resolution for Item B6 approves award of contract to Walsh Construction for the Family
Housing Renovation (314 units) and construction of two laundry facilities at Murray Homes.
This work includes, but is not limited to (a) selective demolition and hazardous material
remediation; (b) interior and exterior renovation work; (c) site and landscape work; and (d)
mechanical, electrical, plumbing, cable TV and phone site work. In addition, two prototype
laundry building facilities will be built in Block 5 and Block 7. The CHA advertised an
Invitation for Bid in October 2006 in area newspapers and on the CHA website. Of the three
bids opened Walsh Construction, who submitted the second lowest bid, has been determined to
be the lowest responsive and responsible bidder at $61,291,000.00.
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-184
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated December 13,
2006, entitled “Authorization to execute a contract with Walsh Construction for
the Family Housing Renovation and construction of two(2) laundry facilities at
Philip Murray Homes U (IL2-011)”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or her
designee to execute a contract with Walsh Construction in the amount of
$61,291,000.00 for the renovation of three hundred fourteen (314) Family
Housing units and the construction of two (2) prototype laundry facility buildings
at Philip Murray Homes (IL2-011), 130th Street and Ellis Avenue. This award is
subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE, Section
3 resident hiring, and bonding and insurance requirements

(Item B7)
In February 2006, The Habitat Company, as Receiver, issued a Request for Proposal for a
Developer for the mixed-income development Lake Park Crescent Phase II in conjunction with
the CHA, and based on the development guidelines of the Lake Park Crescent Working Group.
The RFP requested developers to propose for development an attractive, safe, diverse and
sustainable mixed-income neighborhood, within an existing master plan where public housing,
affordable housing and market-rate housing is seamlessly integrated with the surrounding
community and street grid. The Developer will be responsible for developing at least 269
housing units which must include at least 47 public housing units and 55 affordable housing
units. Following an extensive marketing and outreach effort, two proposals were received. Each
of the proposals met the minimum submission requirements outlined in the RFP and were
evaluated in depth by CHA staff as well as the member organizations of the Lake Park Crescent
8

 Working Group. In July 2006, each respondent participated in a community presentation to the
North Kenwood/Oakland Community Conservation Council. In September 2006, the Lake Park
Crescent Working Group reached a consensus and recommended Davis Associates Managers
LLC as the developer. Davis is an experienced Chicago-based firm with demonstrated capacity
to develop large multi-phase projects and a broad range of housing products-from luxury
condominiums to affordable & HOPE VI housing developments.
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-185
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated December 11,
2006, entitled “Request for approval and authorization to enter into negotiations
for a Contract for Redevelopment for the mixed-income development Lake Park
Crescent Phase II with Davis Associates Managers LLC”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves and authorizes the Chief Executive
Officer or her designee to enter into negotiations for a Contract for
Redevelopment with Davis Associates Managers LLC for the mixed-income
development Lake Park Crescent Phase II.

(Item B8)
In August 2006, the Habitat Company advertised and IFB in area newspapers. Twenty-two
companies’ picked-up copies of the IFB and four companies were directly solicited. Of the four
bids submitted, the Board approved award of contract to H. L. F. Subsequently, the Habitat
Company confirmed that the scope of work included in H. L. F. Construction Co.’s bid was less
than that necessary to complete the make ready units and H. L. F. requested additional funds to
complete the work, resulting in H. L F.’s bid not being the lowest. As a result, H. L. F.
Construction Co. has withdrawn its bid. Coleman Development Corp., the next lowest
responsive and responsible bidder, was surveyed to determine whether it was prepared to
complete all the required work at the price originally quoted and that its correct bid amount to
perform all work is $2,065,523.89. Accordingly, the resolution for B8 authorizes Habitat to
enter into a contract with Coleman Development to replace the bid withdrawn by H.L.F.
Construction for 107 make-ready units at Dearborn Homes.
Commissioner Ponce recused from voting on Item B8.
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-186
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
memorandum dated December 13, 2006, entitled “Authorization for the Habitat
Company to enter into contract with Coleman Development Corporation to
replace the bid withdrawn by H.L.F. construction for make-ready units at
Dearborn Homes”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners (1) authorizes The Habitat Company to enter into a
contract with Coleman Development Corp. to replace the bid withdrawn by H. L.
F. Construction Co. in an amount not-to-exceed $2,065,523.89 for the completion
of 107 make ready units at Dearborn Homes and (2) rescind Resolution 2006CHA-152 authorizing The Habitat Company’s award of such contract to H. L. F.
Construction Co.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items B1 through Item B8 was seconded by
Commissioner Ivers and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Mary Wiggins
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Bridget O’Keefe (Recused from voting on Item B4 only)
Carlos Ponce (Recused from voting on Item B8 only)

9

 Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Operations and Facilities Committee report was also accepted
in total.
Commissioner O’Keefe, Chairperson of the Finance & Audit Committee, then presented her
monthly report. Per Commissioner O’Keefe, the Finance & Audit Committee Meeting was held
on Wednesday, December 13, 2006 at 2:00 p.m. at the 626 Corporate Office. The Chief
Financial Officer presented the Committee with the Treasury and Cash Flow Report for the
month of November 2006.
Commissioner O’Keefe then introduced an Omnibus Motion for the adoption of Resolutions for
Items C1 thru C6 discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Finance & Audit
Committee.
(Item C1)
The CHA will be consolidating seven of its office locations into a new corporate headquarters
consisting of 140,215 usable square footage in the CNA-owned commercial office building
located at 60 East Van Buren. The seven locations CHA will be consolidating from are: 200 W.
Adams, Legal Offices, 626 W. Jackson, Corporate Office, 600 W. Jackson, Corporate Office, 35
S. Paulina, Satellite Office, 916/1000 S. Wabash, Consultant Office, 500 & 591 E. 37th Street,
Satellite Offices and 4700 S. State, Satellite Office. In September 2006, an RFP was advertised
in area newspapers. This RFP competitively solicited qualified firms that could provide
professional moving services for the seven CHA administrative offices. Mandatory site visits
were held and were attended by eight vendors. Of the seven proposals received and evaluated,
four were determined to be within the competitive range set. As a result of oral presentations
held with the four vendors, a 2nd scoring was conducted by the evaluation team, and a
recommendation was made by the requesting department to award a contract to Joyce Bros.
Joyce Bros. is a well known moving company with vast experience in corporate relocations.
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-187
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated December 11,
2006, entitled “Authorization to enter into a contract with Joyce Bros. for Physical
Move Services for the consolidation of the Chicago Housing Authority
Administrative Offices”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or her
designee to enter into a firm-fixed rate contract with Joyce Bros. to perform the
physical move of multiple Chicago Housing Authority administrative offices to
the CNA-owned commercial office building located at 60 East Van Buren Street,
Chicago, Illinois for an amount not-to-exceed $170,000.

(Item C2)
Since December 1998 and each year thereafter, the CHA’s Board of Commissioners has
approved and authorized CMHDC’s full-time employees participation in the CHA’s
medical/dental/disability, Employee Assistance Program, deferred compensation and retirement
plans upon the condition that CMHDC make all appropriate payments to the CHA for the costs
of said benefits. The 1998 Resolution adopted by the Board of Commissioners required annual
approval by the Board for the continued participation, accordingly, the resolution for Item C2
approves CMHDC’s full time employees continued participation in CHA’s benefits plans. Over
the years CMHDC has been making payments in a timely manner.

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-188
the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated
December 11, 2006 entitled “Request for Approval of Extension of
Employee Benefits for Chicago Metropolitan Housing Development
Corporation (“CMHDC”)”;

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY

10

 THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chicago Metropolitan Housing
Development Corporation’s (“CMHDC”) fulltime employees to continue
participation in all of the CHA’s benefit plans made available to the
CHA’s employees for 2007, provided CMHDC makes all requisite
payments to the CHA on timely basis.

(Item C3)
In September 2006, an RFP for Development and Production of a CHA Cable Television
Program was released. The RFP was mailed to seventeen vendors and advertised in the area
newspapers. Six proposals were picked up and four proposals were received. Based on the
results of the evaluation committee, Fries Frame Productions was chosen due to their ability to
best meet CHA’s needs. Fries Frame has provided these services to CHA since 2002 and has
provided quality work and positive response from viewers. Fries Frame has extensive
experience in developing government informational programming. Additionally, Fries Frame’s
combined news experience, coupled with its production quality and knowledge of government
programming, makes it uniquely qualified to continue to produce the CHA cable television
show. Fries Frame Productions will develop and produce ten monthly television shows for a cost
not-to-exceed $412,772.00 for the initial one-year base term of the contract. Accordingly, the
resolution for Item C3 approves award of contract to Fries Frame.

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-189
the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
memorandum dated December 11, 2006, entitled “Authorization to enter into a
contract with Fries Frame Productions for the Development and Production of
the CHA Cable Television Show”;

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners (the “Board”) authorizes the Chief Executive Officer
or her designee to enter into a contract with Fries Frame Productions to produce
and develop the Chicago Housing Authority’s cable television show for an initial
one (1) year period in an amount-not-to-exceed $412,772.00 with two (2) oneyear extension options, subject to Board and, if required, the U.S. Department of
Housing and Urban Development’s approval.

(Item C4)
The resolution for Item C4 approves contract extension with Windows of Opportunity Inc. The
purpose of Windows of Opportunity, Inc. is to become a permanent entity to facilitate ongoing
communication between the CHA residents, businesses, cultural, social, educational and
philanthropic organizations and communities. Windows of Opportunity, Inc. serves as a fiscal
agent/administrator for grants and funds received from public, private, and corporate funds for the
CHA. This award will allow Windows of Opportunity, Inc. to continue performing the following
services for the Chicago Housing Authority: raise funds for new and ongoing resident initiatives,
e.g. a scholarship program; as requested by CHA, serve as fiscal agent to the CHA at the
discretion of its Board of Directors, receiving grants or contributions whose acceptance requires a
nonprofit status; form and maintain partnerships/linkages with outside community groups, service
providers, and funding sources; and work closely with CHA staff and residents to identify gaps in
services and seek resources to fill those gaps. At the end of the twelve-month option term,
recommendations will be made regarding CHA’s future funding, structure, and role of Windows
of Opportunity, Inc. As a stated condition of their contract, Windows will undergo a random
audit of their programs, services, fiscal practices and policies at the discretion of the CHA. All
payments made during the extension contract term will be dispersed contingent upon the amount
of funds raised by Windows of Opportunity during the contract term specified in the Plan, CHA
will consider this a breach of contract and funds will be withheld.
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-190
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated December 11, 2006 entitled “Authorization to Exercise Option
Year of Current Contract with Windows of Opportunity, Inc.” and concurs with
the recommendations therein;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY

11

 THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or her
designee to exercise the option year to extend contract number 5065 with
Windows of Opportunity, Inc., for a period of January 1, 2007 to December 31,
2007, in an amount not to exceed $215,898.00 subject to the terms and conditions
established by the Chicago Housing Authority as the conditions for the extension
option period.

(Item C5)
The CHA currently has twelve Private Property Managers and two Resident Management
Companies under contract to manage its portfolio of seventy one properties. In 2003, the
Authority decided it was in our best interest to select firms to audit the PPM/RMCs and to
establish their audit scope. The Authority advertised and solicited proposals for the auditing
services in October 2006 in area newspapers. The RFP was also mailed to 18 Public Accounting
Firms. Of the three proposals received, the evaluation committee determined that they all were
in the competitive range. All three firms made oral presentations and submitted their Best and
Final Offers. After further evaluation and consideration of the Best and Final Offers, the
evaluation committee selected Crowe Chizek & Co. LLC to perform the “agreed upon
procedures” outlined in the scope of services for the Private Property Management firms and
Velma Butler & Co. to conduct the OMB A-133 audits of the RMCs due to their ability to meet
the requirements as outlined in the RFP in the most cost efficient manner. Crowe Chizek’s broad
base of expertise will also allow them to provide CHA with best practices in the property
management area. Velma Butler’s firm is well aware of the operational challenges and issues
facing housing authorities across the US and will provide the CHA with best practices in dealing
with the RMCs. Accordingly, the resolution for Item C5 approves award of contract to Crowe
Chizek and Velma Butler.
Commissioner Harris recused from voting on Item C5.

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-191
the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
memorandum dated December 11, 2006 entitled “Contract Award for
Independent Professional Auditing Services for the Private Property
Management Firms and Resident Management Companies” to Crowe Chizek &
Co. LLC for the PPMs and to Velma Butler & Co., Ltd. for the RMCs.

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or her
designee to enter into two-year contracts, with a one-year option subject to Board
and HUD approval, if required, with Crowe Chizek & Co. LLC to provide
auditing service to the PPMs in an amount not-to-exceed $379,750 and with
Velma Butler & Co. to provide auditing services for the RMCs in an amount notto-exceed $173,900, representing a first year amount not-to-exceed of $185,250
for Crowe Chizek and $102,000 for Velma Butler & Co.

(Item C6
In October 2004, the CHA Board of Commissioners authorized a contract to be entered into with
Trinal, Inc., an accomplished and experienced minority compliance contracting firm. The
statement of work required that this firm monitor five Capital Construction projects, twenty-six
Private Property Management contracts, and provide auditing services for approximately thirteen
Office of Development Management projects. In addition to the express monitoring activities,
the firm was to assess CHA current monitoring processes, identify best practices, provide
recommendations for process enhancements, supply implementation assistance and oversee
training of CHA staff and outsourced partners as required. Although the number of new
procurements in private management, and construction areas have somewhat reduced, with eight
ODM deal closings in 2005, ten in 2006 and four anticipated in 2007, the compliance
monitoring effort for the construction phase of these various projects, is increasing. Each of the
thirty-one construction and management contracts, and eighteen currently open development
projects being handled by this firm are of multi-year lengths, with some projects forecasted to
end in a few years. With this in mind, the final year of Trinal, Inc.’s engagement with the CHA
is expected to be replete with knowledge transfer, new process implementation, and training - in
addition to the day-to-day requirements of the firm’s contract as the need for accurate reporting
and increased efficacy of processes will not diminish. Notwithstanding the intensified work
12

 requirements, this firm has performed professionally, effectively, and willingly with each request
that CHA has initiated and has consistently added value to their statement of work. Accordingly,
the resolution for Item C6 approves extension of contract and increases funding for Trinal.
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-192
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated December 11,
2006 entitled “Authorization To Exercise One Year Option, And Increase
Funding For Contract #0690 With Trinal, Inc For Compliance Monitoring And
Reporting Services”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

The Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or her
designee to 1) increase 2006 funding by: $130,000, 2) exercise the one (1) year
option and funding of $628,615, and 3) increase option year funding by $191,385,
to result in a not-to-exceed contract amount of $2,480,259.00.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items C1 thru C6 was seconded by Commissioner
Ponce and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Mary Wiggins
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris (Recused from voting on Item C5 only)
Michael Ivers
Bridget O’Keefe
Carlos Ponce

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Finance & Audit Committee Report was also accepted in total.
There being no further business to come before the Commissioners, upon Motion made,
seconded and carried, the meeting of the Board of Commissioners was adjourned.

S/B:
S/B:

Lee Gill, Custodian and
Keeper of Records

13

Martin Nesbitt
Chairperson

 