MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING
OF THE
COMMISSIONERS OF THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
September 15, 2015
The Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority held its Regular Meeting of the Board of
Commissioners on Tuesday, September 15, 2015, at approximately 8:30 a.m. at the CHA Corporate
Offices, 60 E. Van Buren, 12th Floor Loft, in Chicago, IL.
In the absence of Chairwoman Z. Scott, Vice-Chair Rodrigo Sierra called the meeting to order and
upon roll call those present and absent were as follows:
Present:
Matthew Brewer
Mark Cozzi
Dr. Mildred Harris
Harriet Johnson
Rodrigo Sierra
Francine Washington
Absent:

Jack Markowski
Bridget Reidy
Z. Scott

Also present were Eugene Jones, Acting Chief Executive Officer; William Preston, Deputy General
Counsel; Chicago Housing Authority Staff Members and the General Public.
There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as follows:
Upon Motion made by Vice-Chairman Sierra and properly seconded by Commissioner Harris, the
Commissioners adjourned to Executive Session. Vice Chair Sierra announced that pursuant to the
Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2, the Board would adjourn for approximately one hour to discuss
personnel related matters; purchase, sale and lease of real estate property; pending, probable or
imminent litigation and review of closed meeting minutes.
The Commissioners subsequently reconvened in Open Session at approximately 9:55 a.m.
Vice Chair Sierra called the meeting to order and upon roll call those present and absent were as
follows:
Present:
Matthew Brewer
Dr. Mildred Harris
Harriet Johnson
Jack Markowski
Rodrigo Sierra
Francine Washington

1

 Absent:

Mark Cozzi
Bridget Reidy
Z. Scott

There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as follows:
After Motion made by Commissioner Markowski and properly seconded by Commissioner
Washington the August 17, 2015 Minutes for the Regular meeting and corrected Closed meeting
minutes of August 17, 2015, as discussed in closed session, were unanimously approved.
Vice Chair Sierra then announced that the next matter up for vote is the Scrivener’s Error Correction
for Resolution No. 2013-CHA-101 approved at the November 19, 2013 board meeting.
Commissioners were provided with a copy of the corrected board letter and resolution correcting the
reference address from 2301-57 South Dearborn to 2301-55 South Federal. After Motion made by
Commissioner Brewer and seconded by Commissioner Johnson the approval for the Scrivener’s Error
Correction passed by unanimous vote.
Committee Chairwoman, Dr. Mildred Harris, then presented the report of the Tenant Services
committee. Per Commissioner Harris, the Tenant Services Committee held its regularly scheduled
meeting on Wednesday, September 9, 2015, at approximately 1:00 p.m. at the CHA’s Corporate
Offices, 12th Floor Loft. In addition to Commissioner Harris, the following committee members were
present as well: Commissioners Brewer and Washington. Also present but not counted toward the
quorum were Commissioners Cozzi and Markowski. Committee members then discussed, voted, and
recommended for approval the resolution for Item 1.
On behalf of the Tenant Services Committee, Commissioner Harris then presented a Motion for
approval of Item 1.
(Item 1)
The resolution for Item 1 approves the first one-year option of Contract 11339 with Heartland Human
Care Services (HHCS) in the amount of $120,950 and Contract 11338 with Metropolitan Family
Services (MFS) in the amount of $186,075, for the Youth Substance Abuse Prevention Programs and
also approves the second one-year option with HHCS in the amount of $123,777 and MFS in the
amount of $186,075, subject to performance and funding availability, at the discretion of the Acting
CEO for the Youth Substance Abuse Prevention Programs. CHA’s Resident Services Division is
charged with supporting youth and adults on the path to self-sufficiency, which includes removing or
decreasing barriers. As part of this charge, Plan Forward: Communities that Work commits to a
program addressing youth substance abuse for at least 60 youth. HHCS and MFS will each implement
an evidence-based curriculum for a minimum of 240 total youth between the ages of 11 and 18 in an
after-school setting during the first and second option years. The curricula focuses on developing
positive knowledge and characteristics that have been proven to decrease youth substance abuse
behaviors.
RESOLUTION NO. 2015-CHA-80
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated September 9, 2015
entitled “Authorization to exercise the first and second one-year options with Heartland
Human Care Services and Metropolitan Family Services to provide Youth Substance
Abuse Prevention Programs”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY;
2

 THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Acting Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to:
Exercise the first one-year option with Heartland Human Care Services in the amount of
$120,950 and Metropolitan Family Services in the amount of $186,075 to provide
Youth Substance Abuse Prevention Programs to CHA youth, and to exercise the second
one-year option with Heartland Human Care Services in the amount of $123,777 and
Metropolitan Family Services in the amount of $186,075 at the discretion of the CEO or
his designee, subject to performance and funding availability.
This award is subject to the Contractors’ compliance with the CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE/
Section 3 and insurance requirements.

The Motion to adopt resolution for Item 1 was seconded by Commissioner Washington and the voting
was as follows:
Ayes:
Matthew Brewer
Dr. Mildred Harris
Harriet Johnson
Jack Markowski
Rodrigo Sierra
Francine Washington
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, Vice Chairman Sierra thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolution adopted.
In the absence of Committee Chairwoman Bridget Reidy, Commissioner Jack Markowski presented
the report for the Operations and Facilities Committee. Per Commissioner Markowski, the Operations
and Facilities Committee met on Wednesday, September 9, 2015, 2015 at the CHA Corporate Offices
located at the CHA Corporate Offices, 626 W. Jackson in Chicago. Present at the meeting were
Commissioners Harris, Washington, Reidy and Markowski. Present also, but not counted for the
quorum were Commissioners Brewer and Cozzi. Committee members then discussed the two items
appearing on the agenda. Item 2 was approved by the Committee. Item 3 was deferred for vote so that
staff could provide additional information and clarification on certain matters of the FY2016 MTW
Plan. Staff has provided the requested information and adequately clarified the matters discussed at
committee meeting.
On behalf of the Operations & Facilities Committee, Commissioner Markowski then presented an
Omnibus Motion for the approval of Items 2 and 3.
(Item 2)
The CHA advertised a Request For Proposal (RFP) in April 2015 to solicit vendors to provide, design,
and implement an optimal background screening program to perform criminal, tenancy and credit
background checks. The RFP was advertised in area newspapers and 71 Agencies and 211 Section 3
Business Concerns received notification of the solicitation. The CHA also directly solicited 35 firms,
posted the solicitation announcement on the CHA website and in the CHA Supplier Portal. In May
2015, the CHA received six proposals; all six were deemed responsive. An Evaluation Committee
evaluated the six responsive proposals; responses to Section 3 and M/W/DBE requirements were
evaluated by DPC Compliance staff, and Respondent pricing was evaluated by DPC Procurement staff.
3

 After the Evaluation Committee completed its review of the six proposals, the total points awarded
each Respondent resulted in four firms falling within the competitive range and moving forward with
oral presentations. Based upon the evaluations of the written proposals, oral presentations, and the
overall proposed fee, including the Best and Final Offer, Screening Reports, Inc. received the highest
combined number of points during the evaluation process for the criteria scored and is recommended
to provide the best overall service and value to CHA. Accordingly, the resolution for Item 2 approves
award of contract to Screening Reports, Inc. to perform criminal, tenancy, and credit background
checks for a base term of three years in an amount not-to-exceed $2,460,030 and one two-year option
period in an amount not to exceed $1,640,020, for a total amount not-to-exceed $4,100,050.
RESOLUTION NO. 2015-CHA-81
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the Board
letter dated September 9, 2015 entitled: AUTHORIZATION TO ENTER INTO A
FIRM FIXED RATE CONTRACT WITH SCREENING REPORTS, INC. for
CRIMINAL, TENANCY, AND CREDIT BACKGROUND CHECKS;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to
execute a firm fixed rate contract with Screening Reports, Inc. to perform criminal,
tenancy, and credit background checks for a base term of three years in an amount notto-exceed $2,460,030 and one two-year option period in an amount not-to-exceed, for a
total amount not-to-exceed $4,100,050.
This award is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE/
Section 3 hiring and insurance requirements.

(Item 3)
The resolution for Item 3 approves the FY2016 Moving to Work (MTW) Annual Plan and grants
authorization to submit the document to HUD for approval. CHA and HUD signed the original MTW
Agreement on February 6, 2000 which allowed CHA to implement the original Plan for
Transformation. CHA’s Amended and Restated MTW Agreement with HUD was fully executed on
June 26, 2008 which extended CHA’s participation in the MTW Demonstration Program through
FY2018. In April 2013, CHA unveiled a new strategic plan, Plan Forward: Communities that Work,
which outlines the agency’s newly articulated mission and strategic goals that will guide CHA’s
current and future work. As part of the MTW Agreement, CHA is required to submit an Annual Plan
to HUD, due 75 days prior to the start of CHA’s fiscal year. The MTW Annual Plan provides required
information on planned operations and activities for the fiscal year, including proposed new MTW
activities that require HUD approval. Prior to submission of the Proposed FY2016 MTW Annual Plan
to the Board, a 30-day public comment period was conducted. Announcements for the public comment
process appeared on CHA’s website and in area newspapers. CHA also distributed resident notices
across public housing properties and sent an email notification to HCV participants. During the public
comment period, both residents and the public alike were able to submit comments orally and in
writing, regarding the information contained in the Proposed FY2016 MTW Annual Plan. CHA held
three public hearings during the comment period. Prior to finalizing the Proposed FY2016 MTW
Annual Plan, CHA gave consideration to comments received during the public comment period. CHA
has complied with the requirements of the Amended and Restated MTW Agreement and HUD
regulations regarding annual plans and amendments. The deadline for submitting the Proposed
FY2016 MTW Annual Plan to HUD is October 16, 2015.
4

 RESOLUTION NO. 2015-CHA-82
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated September 9, 2015
requesting approval of the Proposed FY2016 MTW Annual Plan, attached hereto;
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED BY CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the FY2016 MTW Annual Plan, and the
form, Certifications of Compliance with Regulations from Attachment B to the
Amended and Restated MTW Agreement.

THAT

the Board of Commissioners (“Board”) authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to approve any final changes to the Proposed FY2016 MTW Annual Plan.
Such approval shall constitute conclusive evidence of the Board’s approval of any and
all such changes.

THAT

this approval of the Proposed FY2016 MTW Annual Plan supersedes any and all
conflicting language found in prior CHA MTW Annual Plans.

THAT

the Board of Commissioners hereby grants authorization to submit the Proposed
FY2016 MTW Annual Plan to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development by the deadline of October 16, 2015.

The Motion to adopt resolutions for Items 2 and 3 was seconded by Commissioner Harris and the
voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Matthew Brewer
Dr. Mildred Harris
Harriet Johnson
Jack Markowski
Rodrigo Sierra
Francine Washington
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, Vice Chairman Sierra thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolution adopted.
Jack Markowski, Chairman of the Real Estate Development committee, then presented his report. Per
Commissioner Markowski, the Real Estate and Development committee met on Wednesday,
September 9, 2015 at the CHA Corporate Offices located at the CHA Corporate Offices, 626 W.
Jackson in Chicago. Present at the meeting were Commissioners Brewer, Cozzi, Harris, Reidy and
Markowski. Present also, but not counted for the quorum was Commissioner Washington. After
presentation by staff, committee members discussed and voted on the items appearing on the agenda.
On behalf of the Real Estate Development Committee, Commissioner Markowski then presented an
Omnibus Motion for the approval of Items 4 through 6.
(Item 4)
The resolution for Item 4 approves an amendment to an existing Housing Assistance Payments
Contract (HAP) for East Park Apartments for a 15-year term. The Property Rental Assistance (PRA)
Evaluation Committee has completed all necessary due diligence to support the submission of this
initiative and recommend the approval of this item accordingly. East Park Apartments will submit a
5

 4% Low Income Housing Tax Credit (LIHTC) application, to the City of Chicago’s Department of
Planning & Development (DPD). On behalf of a to-be-formed entity that includes a new Habitataffiliated entity and the Major Adams Community Committee (MACC), The Habitat Company LLC is
preparing an application that would sell the property to the new Habitat-MACC partnership to make
the following investments and improvements to East Park Apartments: replace the roof; upgrade the
HVAC System; improve the common areas; reduce operating costs; and provide new kitchen cabinets
and appliances. In addition, Habitat plans to make a commitment to DPD by marketing units to
military veterans. They plan to enter into an agreement with the Veterans Administration that markets
the units to veterans by providing information about East Park Apartments, along with information
about getting on the CHA waiting list. The owner/manager of East Park Apartments will continue to
lease all of the PRA-assisted units to eligible individuals and families from CHA’s waiting lists. CHA
will make these referrals from the Public Housing and PRA waiting lists as well as individuals and
families whose right of return under the Relocation Rights Contract has not been satisfied. CHA’s
waiting lists will be exhausted prior to utilization of a site-based waiting list.
RESOLUTION NO. 2015-CHA-83
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the Board
letter dated September 9, 2015 entitled: Authorization to execute an amendment to an
existing Housing Assistance Payments (HAP) Contract for 150 units within the East
Park Apartments for a term of 15-years;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Acting Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute an amendment to the existing Housing Assistance Payments
Contract (HAP) for 150 units within the East Park Apartments for a term of 15-years.

(Item 5)
The resolution for Item 5 approves a Lease Agreement between the Chicago Housing Authority (CHA)
and the City of Chicago for use of the Near North High School (NNHS) building located at 1450 North
Larrabee Street. In furtherance of Plan Forward: Communities that Work, the CHA entered into a
Land Transfer Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) with the City of Chicago and Chicago Park
District in 2014. This IGA provides that the City will convey and CHA will acquire the Near North
High School and adjacent field at 1450 -1500 North Larrabee Street in exchange for CHA conveying
to the City a portion of CHA-owned land that was formerly part of the Harold Ickes Homes
development site. The City will, thereafter, convey such property to the Board of Education of the City
of Chicago for the construction of a new artificial turf field and running track for Jones College Prep
High School. The City conveyed the NNHS Property to CHA on August 17, 2015. The NNHS
Property is needed by CHA for mixed-income residential development, retail/commercial development
and green space. It is a part of the revitalization of the former Cabrini-Green development community
and is included in the Cabrini Consent Decree. The redevelopment of the land is being planned
through the Near North Working Group and is anticipated to commence in 2018. Currently, the NNHS
building sits on a portion of the acquisition site and is being used by the Chicago Police Department
(CPD) and the Chicago Fire Department (CFD) for training purposes. The CPD and the CFD desires
to continue to utilize the building until such time as CHA commences redevelopment activities. The
CHA and City have negotiated a lease with an initial term of two (2) years with an option to extend the
term for another one (1) year period. The CHA received HUD approval to enter into the Lease
Agreement with the City in June 2015.

6

 RESOLUTION NO. 2015-CHA-84
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated September 9, 2015
entitled “Authorization to: 1) enter into a Lease Agreement between the Chicago Housing Authority
and the City of Chicago for use of the Near North High School Building at 1450 North Larrabee Street;
and 2) Execute and Deliver such other documents and perform such actions as may be necessary to
implement the foregoing”;

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Acting Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to: 1) enter into a Lease Agreement between the Chicago Housing Authority
(CHA) and the City of Chicago (City) for use of the Near North High School building at
1450 North Larrabee Street; and 2) execute and deliver such other documents and
perform such actions as may be necessary to implement the foregoing.

(Item 6)
As part of CHA’s unit delivery strategy, a Request For Qualification (RFQ) was released in April 2015
to pre-qualify developers to engage as development partners for the acquisition, development and
management of mixed income developments and family units with a preference for investors in
Opportunity and General Areas. CHA’s primary objective is to provide the highest quality housing
units for low-income families within diverse and healthy communities. The unit delivery strategy
plans to build on CHA’s experience working with private development teams and owners to supply
quality housing that enables low-income families to maximize their potential for long-term economic
success. 298 vendors were solicited and 123 Assist Agencies were notified. Of the five proposals
received, four were deemed responsive. Accordingly, the resolution for Item 6 approves the following
four development teams as pre-qualified developers: Brinshore Development, LLC; Metropolitan
Housing Development Corporation; Preservation of Affordable Housing, Inc. and Verigreen, Inc. The
selected respondents will be issued a “Letter of Qualification” and have two years from the date of that
letter to submit proposals to the CHA. CHA may provide financial investment or enter into long term
leases for the units, subject to Board, HUD, or other necessary approvals.
RESOLUTION NO. 2015-CHA-85
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated September 9, 2015
entitled “Authorization to approve four (4) Development Teams for subsidized family
housing unit delivery”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Acting Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to approve the below four (4) development teams for Subsidized Family
Housing Unit Delivery

MIXED FINANCE DEVELOPERS
Brinshore Development, LLC
Metropolitan Housing Development Corporation
Preservation of Affordable Housing, Inc.
Verigreen, Inc.
The Motion to adopt resolutions for Items 4 through 6 was seconded by Commissioner Washington
and the voting was as follows:
7

 Ayes:

Matthew Brewer
Dr. Mildred Harris
Harriet Johnson
Jack Markowski
Rodrigo Sierra
Francine Washington

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, Vice Chairman Sierra thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted.
In the absence of Committee Chair Mark Cozzi Commissioner Matthew Brewer then presented the
report of the Finance & Personnel Committee meeting. Per Commissioner Brewer, the Finance &
Personnel committee met on Wednesday, September 9, 2015 at the CHA Corporate Offices located at
626 W. Jackson in Chicago. Present at the meeting were Commissioners Brewer, Cozzi, and
Markowski. Present also, but not counted for the quorum was Commissioner Washington. After
presentation by staff on Items 8 and 9 listed on the agenda, committee members discussed, voted and
recommended both items for approval. Commissioners then adjourned to closed session to discuss
Item 10 – Personnel Actions. Commissioners returned to open session and approved Item 10, as
discussed in closed session. Amended Item 10 was also discussed in closed session today.
On behalf of the Finance & Personnel Committee, Commissioner Brewer then presented an Omnibus
Motion for the approval of Items 8 through 10.
(Item 7 – This Number Not Used)

(Item 8)
The resolution for Item 8 approves award of contracts to the following insurance providers for the
CHA Employee Benefit Plan, covering eligible participants of the CHA and eligible participants of the
CHA’s affiliates, for the benefit year of January 1, 2016 through December 31, 2016, for a total
amount of $6,735,633 (1) Blue Cross Blue Shield medical, with a firm fixed rate contract based on an
employee census of 411, calculated to be $6,087,990, which includes Healthcare Reform taxes and
fees associated with the Affordable Care Act; (2) Guardian Dental with a firm fixed rate contract based
on employee census of 401, calculated at $287,239; (3) Davis Vision with a firm fixed rate contract,
based on an employee census of 398, calculated at $40,360; (4) Unum with a firm fixed rate contract
based on employee census of 398, NTE $70,000 (5) AmeriFlex with a firm fixed rate contract based on
employee participation, calculated at $11,551; (6) Guardian Life Insurance Company of America for
Life, AD&D, Retiree Life, STD and LTD with a firm fixed rate contract based on employee age and
salary, in an amount calculated at $238,493. The CHA’s current contracts for employee healthcare plan
benefits with Blue Cross Blue Shield and Guardian Life Insurance Company of America will terminate
on December 31st, 2015, and must be replaced on January 1st, 2016. These coverages are placed
through Mesirow Financial, CHA’s broker of record for employee benefit plans. HUD has previously
authorized the CHA to utilize a broker to procure its insurance coverages by soliciting competitive
insurance bids on behalf of CHA. Mesirow Financial, the CHA’s insurance broker for Employee
Health Plan Benefits, directly solicited requests for coverage from 9 health insurance providers, for
Medical, Dental, and Vision coverages. Bids for Life AD&D, Retiree Life, Short Term Disability,
and Long Term Disability were not solicited as the Board has previously authorized option years 2015
and 2016, which were guaranteed rates. Bids for the administration of Flexible Spending Accounts
were also solicited.
8

 RESOLUTION NO 2015-CHA-86
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
memorandum dated September 9, 2015 entitled: “Authorization to enter into contracts
with Blue Cross Blue Shield (Medical) and Guardian (Dental, Life, Accidental Death &
Dismemberment, Retiree Life, Short Term Disability, and Long Term Disability), Davis
Vision (Vision), Unum (Long Term Care), and Ameriflex (Flexible Spending
Administration) for the CHA’s Employee Benefit Plan”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorize the Acting Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into contracts with the following insurance providers for the Chicago
Housing Authority’s (“CHA”) Employee Benefit Plan covering eligible participants of
the CHA and eligible participants of the CHA’s affiliates, for the benefit year of
January 1, 2016 through December 31, 2016, for a total amount of $6,735,633, (1) Blue
Cross Blue Shield medical with a firm fixed rate contract based on an employee census
of 411, calculated to be $6,087,990, which includes Healthcare Reform Taxes and Fees
associated with the Affordable Care Act; (2) Guardian Dental with a firm fixed rate
contract based on employee census of 401, calculated at $287,239; (3) Davis Vision
with a firm fixed rate contract, based on an employee census of 398, calculated at
$40,360; (4) Unum with a firm fixed rate contract based on employee census of 398,
NTE $70,000 (5) AmeriFlex with a firm fixed rate contract based on employee
participation, calculated at $11,551.
Previously authorized by the Board of
Commissioners in 2013 with a rate lock, (6) Guardian Life Insurance Company of
America for Life, AD&D, Employee Life, STD and LTD with a firm fixed rate contract
in an amount calculated at $238,493.

(Item 9 - Corrected)
During Commissioners briefings and presentations at the September 9 Finance & Personnel committee
meeting, Commissioners were briefed on the purchase of the below insurance renewals, including the
Sexual Misconduct Liability written through Beazley Regional in the amount not-to-exceed $75,000.
However, the copy that was distributed to the public at committee and board meeting did not include
the Sexual Misconduct Liability in the amount of $75,000.
The corrected resolution for Item 9 therefore approves the purchase of the following insurance
coverage for the CHA for the period of October 1, 2015 through September 30, 2016, for an aggregate
amount not-to-exceed 1,172,469 through its insurance broker of record, AON Risk Services Central,
Inc.: All-Risk Property written through Lexington, in the amount not-to-exceed $762,820; Excess
Liability coverage written through Allied World Assurance Company (AWAC) in an amount not-toexceed $50,000; Auto Liability written through Housing Authority Insurance Group (HAIG) in an
amount not-to-exceed $35,584; General Liability coverages written through RSUI in an amount not-toexceed $31,453; Public Officials E&O written through Ironshore for $103,600 and Ace for $57,168 in
an aggregate amount not-to-exceed $160,768; Sexual Misconduct Liability written through Beazley
Regional in the amount not-to-exceed $75,000; Fiduciary written through National Union in an amount
not to exceed $15,879; Employed Lawyers Errors and Omissions Liability written through Chartis /
Illinois National in an amount not-to-exceed $11,800; Crime written through Berkley Regional in an
amount not-to exceed $9,015; and Employment Practices Liability written through Chartis / National
Union in an amount not-to-exceed $20,150. Aon directly and indirectly (through one wholesaler)
solicited requests for insurance premium quotes from 32 carriers (most with the ability to quote
9

 multiple lines of coverage) on July 1, 2015. After reviewing the responses, AON and CHA’s Risk
Management Department recommend that the above mentioned insurers provide the required insurance
coverage for CHA for the Period October 1, 2015 through September 30, 2016.
RESOLUTION NO. 2015-CHA-87
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners has reviewed the memorandum dated September 11, 2015
entitled “AUTHORIZATION FOR THE CHA TO AWARD CONTRACTS FOR ALLRISK PROPERTY, EXCESS LIABILITY, AUTO LIABILITY, GENERAL
LIABILITY, PUBLIC OFFICIALS LIABILITY, SEXUAL MISCONDUCT
LIABILITY, FIDUCIARY LIABILITY, EMPLOYED LAWYERS ERRORS &
OMISSIONS, CRIME AND EMPLOYMENT PRACTICES LIABILITY
INSURANCE COVERAGE”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

It is recommended that the Board of Commissioners authorize the Chief Executive
Officer or his designee to purchase the following insurance coverage for the CHA for
the period of October 1, 2015 through September 30, 2016, for an aggregate amount
not-to-exceed $1,172,469 through its insurance broker of record, AON Risk Services
Central, Inc. (“AON”): (1) All-Risk Property written through Lexington, in the amount
not-to-exceed $762,820; (2) Excess Liability coverage written through Allied World
Assurance Company (AWAC) in an amount not-to-exceed $50,000; 3) Auto Liability
written through Housing Authority Insurance Group (HAIG) in an amount not-toexceed $35,584; (4) General Liability coverages written through RSUI in an amount
not-to-exceed $31,453; (5) Public Officials E&O written through Ironshore for
$103,600 and Ace for $57,168 in an aggregate amount not-to-exceed $160,768; (6)
Sexual Misconduct Liability written through Beazley in the amount not-to-exceed
$75,000; (7) Fiduciary written through National Union in an amount not to exceed
$15,879; (8) Employed Lawyers Errors and Omissions Liability written through Chartis
/ Illinois National in an amount not-to-exceed $11,800; (9) Crime written through
Berkley Regional in an amount not-to exceed $9,015; and (10) Employment Practices
Liability written through Chartis / National Union in an amount not-to-exceed $20,150.

(Item 10)
The resolution for Item 10 ratifies the following personnel actions: 4 offers of employment; 2
promotions; 1 termination and 1 separation of an employee pursuant to a separation agreement. The
Acting Chief Executive Officer certifies that all actions were properly vetted and evaluated pursuant to
established CHA protocol.
RESOLUTION NO. 2015–CHA-88
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated September 15, 2015,
entitled “Approval of Personnel Actions”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the requested personnel actions.

The Motion to adopt resolutions for Items 8 through 10 was seconded by Commissioner Markowski
and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Matthew Brewer
Dr. Mildred Harris
10

 Harriet Johnson
Jack Markowski
Rodrigo Sierra
Francine Washington
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, Vice Chairman Sierra thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted.
Eugene Jones, Acting Chief Executive Officer, then presented his monthly report to the
Commissioners.
Vice Chairman Sierra then invited residents and the public at large to address the Board.
There being no further business to come before the Commissioners, upon Motion made and seconded,
the Regular board meeting of September 15, 2015, was adjourned at approximately 11:35 a.m.
________________________________
Rodrigo Sierra
Vice Chairman, Chicago Housing Authority
___________________________
Lee Chuc-Gill, Secretary
Custodian and Keeper of Records

11

 