MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING

OF THE

COMMISSIONERS OF THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
September 20, 2005

The Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority held its Regular Meeting on Tuesday,
September 20, 2005, at 8:30 a.m. at the Mahalia Jackson Apartments (91st & South Chicago
Apartments), 9141 & 9177 S. South Chicago, Chicago, Illinois.
The meeting was called to order by the Chairperson, and upon roll call, those present and absent
were as follows:
Present:
Sharon Gist Gilliam
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Lori Healey
Martin Nesbitt
Sandra Young
Mary Wiggins
Absent:

Hallie Amey
Carlos Ponce
Michael Ivers

Also present were Terry Peterson, Chief Executive Officer; Gail Niemann, General Counsel;
Chicago Housing Authority Staff Members and the General Public.
There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as
follows:
Terry Peterson, Chief Executive Officer, then presented his monthly report. Mr. Peterson started
his report by offering a bit of perspective on Hurricane Katrina and the people of New Orleans.
According to Mr. Peterson, the question for New Orleans is not unlike the question the CHA
faced when the Plan for Transformation first started: How do you rebuild communities and
rebuild lives? Mr. Peterson continued by saying that the federal government should look at
CHA’s accomplishments to date under the Plan and follow CHA’s model of rebuilding new
communities and lives.
The Chairperson then convened the Public Hearing portion of the meeting by inviting residents
and the public at large to address the Board.
Immediately following the Public Hearing portion of the meeting, a Motion was introduced and
seconded to adjourn to Executive Session. The Chairperson announced that pursuant to the
Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2, the Board would adjourn for approximately one (1) hour to
discuss pending, probable or imminent litigation, collective negotiating matters, security and
personnel matters.
Commissioner Ponce joined the meeting in Executive Session.
The Commissioners subsequently reconvened in Open Session.

1

 Chairperson Gilliam thereupon introduced for approval the Minutes of the Regular Board
Meeting held on August 16, 2005. Upon Motion made and properly seconded, the Minutes were
unanimously approved and accepted as submitted.
Chairperson Gilliam thereupon introduced the Resolutions discussed in Executive Session.
Commissioner Wiggins then presented an Omnibus Motion to approve resolutions for Executive
Session Items 1 through 3.
(Executive Session Item 1)
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-126
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated September 6, 2005 requesting that the Board of
Commissioners approves the Personnel Actions Report for August 2005.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the Personnel Actions Report for
August 2005.

(Executive Session Item 2)
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-127
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated August 29, 2005,
requesting authorization to enter into a settlement agreement in the amount of
$500,000 in the matter Dwayne Renfro v. CHA, et al., 01 L 9968.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the General Counsel, or her designee, to
enter into a settlement agreement in the amount of $500,000 (out of a total
settlement package of $2.0 million) in the case of Dwayne Renfro v. CHA, et al.,
01 L 9968.

(Executive Session Item 3)
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-128
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated August 29, 2005,
requesting authorization to enter into a settlement agreement in the amount of
$3,700,000 in the matter City of Chicago v. Chicago Housing Authority; People
of the State of Illinois, ex rel. Richard A. Devine, State’s Attorney of Cook County,
Illinois v. Chicago Housing Authority, 91 M1 402619 and consolidated cases.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the General Counsel, or her designee, to
enter into a settlement agreement in the amount of $3,700,000 in the matter City
of Chicago v. Chicago Housing Authority; People of the State of Illinois, ex rel.
Richard A. Devine, State’s Attorney of Cook County, Illinois v. Chicago Housing
Authority, 91 M1 402619 and consolidated cases.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt Executive Session Items 1 through 3 was seconded by
Commissioner Young and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Lori Healey
Carlos Ponce
Martin Nesbitt
Sandra Young
Mary Wiggins

Nays:

None
2

 The Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried and said Resolutions adopted.
Commissioner Nesbitt, Chairperson of the Finance & Audit Committee, then presented his
monthly report. Per Commissioner Nesbitt, the Finance & Audit Committee held its regularly
scheduled meeting on Wednesday, September 14, 2005 at the 626 W. Jackson Corporate Offices.
The Chief Financial Officer and her staff presented the committee with the following reports:
Treasury and Cash Flow Report as of June 30, 2005, the 2nd Quarter Financial Report and the
Grant Progress Report as of June 30, 2005.
Commissioner Nesbitt then introduced an Omnibus Motion for the adoption of Resolutions for
Items A1 through A3 discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Finance &
Audit Committee.
(Item A1)
The CHA must annually renew its insurance coverage for General Liability, Excess Liability,
Public Officials Liability, Employment Practices Liability, Auto Liability, Property, Excess
Property, and Boiler and Machinery. HUD previously authorized the CHA to have its Insurance
Broker of Record, Mesirow Services, Inc. (Mesirow) to competitively solicit bids on CHA’s
behalf for all forthcoming insurance procurements. An Invitation for Bid was advertised in the
Chicago Tribune. In addition, Mesirow directly solicited 9 insurers. Despite advertising and
aggressive direct solicitation by Mesirow, only one bid for each type of insurance coverage was
received from the incumbent carriers. The CHA also received 5 declinations. After reviewing
the responses, Mesirow and CHA’s Risk Management Department recommend that the
incumbent insurers, who submitted bids provide CHA’s required insurance coverages. Policy
limits and retention levels remain the same as the previous year for General Liability, Excess
Liability, Public Officials Liability, Boiler and Machinery and Auto Liability. Policy limits were
increased for Employment Practice Liability and a lower retention level was obtained for the
Property policy. Accordingly, the Board approves award of insurance coverage to incumbent
carriers as stated in the following Resolution for item A1:
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-129
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners has reviewed the memorandum dated September
14, 2005 entitled "Authorization For The CHA To Award General Liability,
Public Officials Liability, Employment Practices Liability, Auto Liability, Excess
Liability, Property, Excess Property, and Boiler and Machinery Insurance
Coverage ";
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to award the following insurance coverage for the CHA for the period of
October 1, 2005 through September 30, 2006 for an aggregate amount not-toexceed $1,572,353 through its insurance broker of record, Mesirow Insurance
Services, Inc.: (1) General Liability and Excess Liability insurance coverage’s
written through AIG in an amount not-to-exceed $222,887; (2) Public Officials
Liability and Employment Practices Liability written through AIG in an amount
not-to-exceed $277,445; (3) Property and Excess Property Insurance written
through AIG and RSUI Indemnity in an amount not-to-exceed $889,847; (4)
Excess Property (DIC) Insurance written through Royal Indemnity in an amount
not-to-exceed $50,798; (5) Boiler & Machinery written through Travelers
Insurance in an amount not-to-exceed $61,305; and (6) Auto Liability written
through HARRG in an amount not-to-exceed $70,071.

(Item A2)
The Chicago Housing Authority anticipates entering into development agreements with major
real estate companies to design, construct and manage its newly redeveloped, mixed-income
residential communities consisting of approximately 33% market rate rental, 33% affordable
units and 33% public housing units. The Authority advertised and solicited proposals for
financial advisory services to assist in evaluating and structuring mixed finance transactions in
order to facilitate the development of diverse communities on CHA-owned land. Responsibilities
of the financial advisor will include development and implementation of alternative financing
strategies, financial analysis of proposed development plans, coordination and execution of
3

 financing plans, and analytical support for the Finance Division and the Office of Development
Management. An RFP for Financial Advisory Services was released in April, 2005. The RFP
was mailed to twenty-two (22) vendors and advertised in area newspapers. Fifteen (15) proposals
were picked up and six (6) proposals were received. Based on the results of the evaluation
committee, Columbia Capital Management LLC, First Albany Capital and Gardner Underwood
& Bacon (Joint Venture), Public Financial Management and Reznick Group P.C. were chosen
due to their ability to best meet the Authority’s needs. Accordingly, the resolution for Item A2
approves award of contract to the previously named vendors.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-130
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated September 14, 2005 entitled “Authorization for Contract
Award for Financial Advisory Services to Columbia Capital Management, LLC,
Reznick Group, P.C., First Albany Capital and Gardner Underwood and Bacon
(Joint Venture) and Public Financial Management, Inc.”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into separate contracts with Columbia Capital, LLC., Reznick
Group, P.C., First Albany Capital and Gardner Underwood & Bacon, (Joint
Venture) and Public Financial Management, Inc. to provide financial advisory
services for a base two-year term in an amount not-to-exceed $200,000 per
contract, with a one year option, subject to Board and the U.S. Department of
Housing and Urban Development (HUD) approval, if required. The total
aggregate not-to-exceed amount for all four contracts is $800,000.

(Item A3)
The Resolution for Item A3 approves amendment of the Annual Contributions Contract. This
Amendment transfers all grant and loan funds under the Projects IL06P002177, 205 and 210 to
Project No. IL 06P002207 under ACC C-1014 for the mixed finance development, the Keystone
Development. The Unit Change Amendment adds 25 units for the River Village North
IL06P002230 Acquisition using HOPE VI and removes 24 units as a net result of the elimination
of Projects IL06P002177, 205 and 210, and transfer of the funds for the consolidation of funds
units into Project IL06P002207.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-131
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated September 15,
2005 entitled Recommendation to Execute Amendments to the Chicago Housing
Authority’s Annual Contributions Contract C-1014 for Project Nos.
IL06P002177, 205 207, and 210.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Chicago Housing Authority shall enter into Amendments modifying the terms
of the Annual Contributions Contract C-1014 with U.S. Department of Housing
and Urban Development to
transfer funds from and eliminate Project
IL06P002177, 205 and 210 to Project IL06P002207 and to delete 24 units as a
net result of the transfer of funds and elimination of said Projects and add 25 units
to ACC C-1014 from the River Village North Project IL06P002230; and the Chief
Executive Officer, or his designee, is hereby authorized and directed to execute
such Amendments to the Annual Contributions Contracts C-1014 in quintuplicate
and the Custodian and Keeper of Records is authorized and directed to attest and
impress the official seal of the Chicago Housing Authority on each such
counterpart. The aforesaid Amendments shall be substantially in the attached
form.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items A1 through A3 was seconded by
Commissioner Young and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
4

 Lori Healey
Carlos Ponce
Martin Nesbitt
Sandra Young
Mary Wiggins
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Finance & Audit Committee report was also accepted in total.
Commissioner Gates, Chairperson of the Operations & Facility Committee, then presented the
monthly report. Per Commissioner Gates, the Operations & Facility Committee held its
regularly scheduled meeting on Wednesday, August 10, 2005, at approximately 1:30 p.m. at the
626 W. Jackson Corporate Offices. Andy Jenkins, CHA Project Executive and representatives
from SD-1 presented the Committee with an update on Emergency Planning & Evacuation
Procedures.
Commissioner Gates then introduced an Omnibus Motion for adoption of resolutions for Items
B1 through B5, discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Operations
Committee.
(Item B1)
The resolution for Item B1 approves Contract Modification G-14 and G15 to Contract No. 0422
with G. F. Structures. As part of the Capital Improvement Program for Seniors, G. F. Structures
is providing general rehabilitation work for the Judge Harry M. Fisher Apartments, 5821 N.
Broadway (IL2-44D). The rehabilitation work commenced in October 2003. Modification
Number G-14 provides for additional labor and materials to upgrade eleven Units to meet the
stringent design criteria of HUD/504 standards. The required work includes: selective
demolition, electrical, plumbing, and gas line work; creation of new partitions; installation of
plumbing hardware; and relocation of the front entry door, cabinets, and counter tops.
Modification Number G-15 provides for additional labor and materials for the following required
work: funding of overtime costs needed to meet 2004 unit goals, where such overtime hours
were used for work including installation of insulation, plumbing, painting, carpentry, and
mechanical work.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-132
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated September 14, 2005
entitled “Authorization to execute Modification Numbers G-14 and G-15 to
Contract No. 0422 with G. F. Structures Corporation for additional work related
to the General Rehabilitation at Judge Harry M. Fisher Apartments (IL2-44D)”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute Contract Modification Numbers G-14 in the amount of
$160,206.35 and G-15 in the amount of $118,947.43 to Contract No. 0422 with
G. F. Structures Corporation in the combined amount of $279,153.78 to complete
the intended scope of the general rehabilitation of Judge Harry M. Fisher
Apartments. The new total contract amount is $ 9,997,401.84. These Contract
Modifications are subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s
MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident hiring, and bonding and insurance
requirements.

(Item B2)
Pursuant to a Memorandum of Agreement reached in relation to litigation involving relocation,
demolition, and redevelopment at Cabrini Green, the CHA has committed to decentralize the
heating equipment and water pumps at William Green Homes. This decentralization will ensure
that residents have adequate heat throughout the upcoming heating season, obviate the need for
expensive repairs to the obsolete existing heating system, and reduce operating costs. As part of
this decentralization, nine new boilers will be installed in three buildings (1230 N. Burling, 1230
N. Larrabee, and 660 West Division) to replace the antiquated current system, which is
susceptible to failure during the coming winter. Additionally, the boilers can be used at other
5

 sites when the three buildings are closed as part of the redevelopment of Cabrini Green. The
CHA advertised an Invitation for Bid No. 01416 in July 21, 2005 for the purchase and
installation of nine boilers at William Green Homes in area newspapers and on the CHA website.
The CHA also faxed flyers to twenty-four firms, including eleven M/W/DBE firms. After
reviewing the bids, the lowest responsive and responsible bidder was determined to be C & P
Maintenance Company, Inc., a 100% WBE certified firm. It was necessary to issue a Notice to
Proceed on or about August 22, 2005 in order to meet a November 18th deadline for the
installation of the boilers. The Resolution for Item B2 therefore ratifies award of contract to
C&P Maintenance for the purchase and installation of nine boilers at Cabrini.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-133
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated September 14, 2005
entitled “Ratification of Contract with C & P Maintenance Company, Inc. for the
purchase and installation of nine boilers at William Green Homes (IL2-030)”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners hereby ratifies the award of a contract with C & P
Maintenance Company, Inc. for the purchase and installation of nine (9) boilers at
William Green Homes (IL2-030) in the amount of $1,139,000.00, subject to the
Contractor’s compliance with CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident hiring,
and bonding and insurance requirements. Installation is to be completed by no
later than November 18, 2005.

(Item B3)
The roof at the Robert Taylor Boys and Girls Club was determined to be in need of major repair
or replacement in the winter of 2004. Due to extreme weather conditions at the time, the roof
repair was delayed until the temperatures were more conducive to outdoor work. Interstate
Realty Management Co., the property management company at Robert Taylor, therefore
advertised an Invitation for Bid. The IFB was advertised in area newspapers and three bids were
received. M. W. Powell Company was determined to be the lowest responsive and, responsible
bidder. Accordingly, the resolution for item B3 approves award of contract to M.W. Powell for
the replacement of the roof and associated work at the Taylor Boys & Girls Club.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-134
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners have reviewed the Board Letter dated July 12, 2005,
entitled, “Authorization For Interstate Realty Management Co. to enter into a
Contract with M. W. Powell Company for the roof replacement at Robert Taylor
Homes Boys and Girls Club”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes Interstate Realty Management Co.
to enter into a contract with M. W. Powell Company to replace the roof at the
Robert Taylor Homes Boys and Girls Club in an amount not to exceed
$274,380.00.

(Item B4)
The Real Estate Assessment Center (REAC) was created by HUD to centralize and standardize
the evaluation of the physical condition of HUD properties. REAC Inspectors inspect CHA
developments each year. In anticipation of the 2005 annual inspection for LeClaire Courts, in
December 2004 LeClaire Courts hired The Inspection Group to inspect LeClaire and advise PM
One and CHA as to the necessary repairs to pass the anticipated 2005 REAC. At the direction of
the Asset Management Department, PM One Management Company engaged Panda Industries,
LLC in February 2005 to make necessary repairs to the exterior of the buildings and 241 interior
units at LeClaire Courts. In March 2005, Asset Management was notified that the REAC
inspection would not take place until June 2005. PM One Management Co. paid Panda
$349,000.00 for its work to the exterior elements of the Development. In April of 2005, a
dispute arose between Panda and PM One Management Co. regarding the payment for the
repairs to the interiors of units. Panda was told to cease work and only completed work in the
interior of 202 of the 241 units to be repaired. In June 2005, to resolve the payment dispute for
the interior work completed by Panda, CHA’s Contracting Officer and Panda agreed to settle the

6

 claim for $437,500.00. Accordingly, the Resolution for Item B4 approves ratification of
expenses for repairs completed at LeClaire Courts.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-135
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated August 10, 2005, entitled, “Recommendation to Ratify
Expenses for Repairs at LeClaire Courts”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
Designee to ratify payments made to Panda Industries, LLC in the amount of
$786,500.00 for repair work at LeClaire Courts in anticipation of the HUD REAC
Inspection.

(Item B5)
The Resolution for Item B5 approves the adoption of the Policy for the use of CHA Community
Space in Residential and Non-Residential Buildings. The CHA adopted its current community
space policy in 1992. This policy covered all CHA properties without distinguishing between
residential and non-residential buildings. The policy was also limited in scope and did not
address liability issues or a variety of concerns that arise when individuals or organizations seek
to use CHA facilities. Due to increased and diverse requests for the use of CHA community
space and the differing nature and characteristics of residential and non-residential buildings, two
distinct, expanded and more comprehensive policies, one for residential buildings and one for
non-residential buildings, are needed and have been crafted.
The two attached policies are
designed to promote the orderly conduct of activities on CHA properties for civic, educational,
recreational and social purposes while preserving residential tranquility and operational
efficiencies.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-136
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the memorandum dated September
14, 2005 entitled “Authorization to approve Policies for the Use of Chicago
Housing Authority Community Space” and the policies attached thereto;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the adoption of the “Policy for the Use
of Chicago Housing Authority Community Space in Residential Buildings” and
the “Policy for the Use of Chicago Housing Authority Community Space in
Non-Residential Buildings” with the policies to become effective December 1,
2005.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items B1 through B5 was seconded by
Commissioner Harris and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Lori Healey
Carlos Ponce
Martin Nesbitt
Sandra Young
Mary Wiggins

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Operations Committee report was also accepted in total.
Commissioner Young, Chairperson of the Tenant Services Committee, then presented her
monthly report. Per Commissioner Young, The Tenant Services Committee meeting was held
on Wednesday, September 14, 2005 at the 626 W. Jackson Office at approximately 2:45 p.m.
Commissioner Young then introduced an Omnibus Motion for the adoption of Resolutions for

7

 Items C1 through C6 discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Tenant
Services Committee.
(Item C1)
In its effort to change the image of public housing, the CHA assembled a team to research
historically significant men and women of Chicago whose names would be well-suited to be
used for unnamed senior buildings or those named after streets based on their locations. This
initiative also allowed building residents to participate in choosing names that they felt better
represented the communities in which the buildings exist. Naming these CHA senior buildings
in honor of these historically notable individuals selected provides the opportunity to publicly
recognize their contributions and serves as a constant reminder of their dedication, hard work
and devotion to Chicago and its various communities. Official dedication ceremonies were held
on August 1, 4 and 9, 2005 for the South, North and Central regions, respectively. These new
names would be used for all official CHA purposes, including any documents, correspondence,
contracts and other records.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-137
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated August 4, 2005
requesting authorization to ratify the renaming of Twenty-Seven (27) Chicago
Housing Authority Senior Buildings as listed below.
Name
Langley Senior
Apartments
Lake Michigan
Apartments
91st & South
Chicago Apts.
Yale Apartments
69th & South
Chicago Apts.
Washington Park
Apts.
Princeton
Apartments
Yates Garden Senior
Apts.
Sheridan & Leland
Apts.
Dickens & Burling
Apts.
Larrabee Senior
Apartments
Lincoln & Sheffield
Apts.
Lincoln & Sheffield
Annex
Clark & Webster
Apts.
Clark & Irving
Apartments
Clark & Irving
Annex
Loyola & Ridge
Apts.
Sheridan & Devon
Apts.
LaSalle & Division
Apts.
Shields Apartments
Eckhart Annex

Location
4930 S. Langley

HUD IL
Number
IL.2-057

4227 S. Oakenwald

IL.2-041

9141 & 9177 South
Chicago
6401 S. Yale
661 E. 69th Street

IL-2.080

4949 S. Cottage Grove

IL.2-034

4250 S. Princeton

IL.2-032

Vivian Carter Apartments
Ada S. Dennison-McKinley
Apartments
Maudelle Brown Bousfield
Apartments
Minnie Ripperton Apartments

2440 E. 106th Street

IL.2-042D

Ida Platt Apartments

4645 N. Sheridan

IL.2-056

Ella Flagg Young Apartments

2111 N. Halsted

IL.2-050

Maria Diaz Martinez Apartments

1845 N. Larrabee

IL.2-071

Elizabeth Wood Apartments

2640 N. Sheffield

IL.2-061

2720 N. Sheffield

IL.2-072

2140 N. Clark

IL.2-051

Edith Spurlock Sampson
Apartments
Edith Spurlock Sampson
Apartments
Margaret Day Black Apartments

3930 N. Clark

IL.2-058

3920 & 3940 N. Clark

IL.2-066

1930 W. Loyola

IL.2-103

6400 N. Sheridan

IL.2-073

Mary Hartwell Catherwood
Apartments
Mary Hartwell Catherwood
Apartments
Daniel Hudson Burnham
Apartments
Caroline Hedger Apartments

116 W. Elm

IL.2-082

Zelda Ormes Apartments

344 W. 28th Street
847 N. Greenview

IL.2-042G
IL.2-067

Long Life Apartments
Lidia Pucinska Apartments

IL.2-060
IL.2-049

8

Newly Designated Name
Mary Jane Richardson-Jones
Apartments
Vivian Gordon Harsh
Apartments
Mahalia Jackson Apartments

 Eckhart Park
Apartments
Franklin & Drake
Apts.
Lake-Parkside
Apartments
Parkview
Apartments
Garfield Apartments
Midwest Terrace

838 N. Noble

IL.2-042B

Lidia Pucinska Apartments

440 N. Drake

IL.2-45A

Elizabeth Davis Apartments

5670 W. Lake

IL.2-079

Lorraine Hansberry Apartments

3916 W. Washington

IL.2-042A

Fannie Emanuel Apartments

3700 W. Congress
150 S. Campbell

IL.2-44C
IL.2-043

Irene McCoy Gaines Apartments
Alfreda Barnett Duster
Apartments

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners ratifies and authorizes the renaming of TwentySeven (27) Chicago Housing Authority Senior Buildings as listed above.

(Item C2)
The resolutions for Item C2, approves the FY2005 Admissions and Continued Occupancy Policy
(ACOP). The ACOP policy governs the selection of residents for and continued occupancy of
units in traditional public housing developments. The CHA created the FY2005 ACOP to ensure
that the language conforms to Federal and State law, the FY2005 CHA Residential Lease
Agreement, and FY2005 Pet Policy and Pet Ownership Procedure. The CHA presented the draft
ACOP with the proposed changes to the Central Advisory Council (CAC) Executive Board and
the council at large and their legal representatives in August 2005. The public comment period
for the draft ACOP was held August 11, 2005 through September 9, 2005. Copies of the draft
ACOP were made available at the CAC Office; the Local Advisory Council (LAC) Offices;
property management offices; Latino Site Offices; and all CHA Administrative Offices as well
as the CHA website. The CHA provided notice to residents and the public about the public
comment period in news ads that ran on August 8, 2005. A public comment hearing was held on
August 23, 2005 at the University Center. In finalizing the ACOP, the CHA will give
consideration to any comments received as a result of the public comment period and public
comment hearing.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-138
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated August 24,
2005, entitled “Authorization for the Approval of the FY2005 Admission and
Continued Occupancy Policy.”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the FY2005 Admission and
Continued Occupancy Policy, and authorizes the Board Chairperson or Chief
Executive Officer or his designee to approve any final changes to, and to amend
the FY2005 Admissions and Continued Occupancy Policy.

THAT,

this approval of the FY2005 Admissions and Continued Occupancy Policy
supersedes any and all conflicting language found in prior CHA policies and
procedures and replaces any and all previously board approved Admission and
Continued Occupancy Policies.

THAT,

the Board Chairperson or the Chief Executive Officer is hereby authorized to
approve final changes in this policy. Such approval shall constitute conclusive
evidence of the Board’s approval of any and all such changes.

(Item C3)
The resolution for Item C3 approves the FY2005 CHA Residential Lease Agreement.
The
CHA created the FY2005 CHA Residential Lease Agreement to ensure that the language
conforms to Federal and State law, the FY2005 Admissions and Continued Occupancy Policy, as
well as the FY2005 Pet Policy and Pet Ownership Procedure. Similar to Item C3, the CHA

9

 presented the draft FY2005 CHA Residential Lease Agreement to the listed organizations and
the proper public comment period was held. Copies of the draft Lease were made available and
a public comment hearing was held on August 23, 2005 at the University Center. In finalizing
the lease, the CHA will give consideration to any comments received as a result of the public
comment period and public comment hearing.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-139
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated August 24,
2005, entitled “Authorization for Approval of the FY2005 CHA Residential Lease
Agreement.”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the FY2005 CHA Residential Lease
Agreement, and authorizes the Board Chairperson or Chief Executive Officer or
his designee to approve any final changes to, and to adopt the FY2005 CHA
Residential Lease Agreement.

THAT,

this FY2005 CHA Residential Lease Agreement supersedes any and all
conflicting language found in prior CHA policies and procedures including any
and all previously board approved CHA Residential Lease Agreements.

THAT,

the Board Chairperson or the Chief Executive Officer is hereby authorized to
approve final changes in this Lease. Such approval shall constitute conclusive
evidence of the Board’s approval of any and all such changes.

(Item C4)
The resolution for Item C4 approves the FY2005 Pet Policy and Pet Ownership Procedure which
outline the obligations and requirements for residents who wish to keep common household pets
in their public housing unit. The FY2005 Pet Policy and Pet Ownership Procedure were created
to ensure that the language conforms to Federal and state law, the FY2005 Admissions and
Continued Occupancy Policy, as well as the FY2005 CHA Residential Lease Agreement.
Similar to Items C2 and C3, the CHA presented the draft FY2005 Pet Policy and Pet Ownership
Procedures to the listed organizations and the proper public comment period was held. Copies
of the draft Pet Policy were made available and a public comment hearing was held on August
23, 2005 at the University Center.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-140
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated August 24,
2005, entitled “Authorization for Approval of the FY2005 Pet Policy and Pet
Ownership Procedure.”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the FY2005 Pet Policy and Pet
Ownership Procedure, and authorizes the Board Chairperson or Chief Executive
Officer or his designee to approve any final changes to, and to amend the FY2005
Pet Policy and Pet Ownership Procedure.

THAT,

this FY2005 Pet Policy and Pet Ownership Procedure supersedes any and all
conflicting language found in prior CHA policies and procedures and replaces any
and all previously board approved Pet Policies.

THAT,

the Board Chairperson or the Chief Executive Officer is hereby authorized to
approve final changes in this policy. Such approval shall constitute conclusive
evidence of the Board’s approval of any and all such changes.

(Item C5)
The resolution for Item C5 approves the Tenant Selection Plan for Loomis Courts, Lease
Agreement, Pet Policy and Pet Ownership Procedure. The CHA has chosen to adopt these
polices for the admissions to, selection of tenants for, and occupancy of units at Loomis Courts.
To produce these policies the CHA identified the critical issues and topics that needed to be
10

 included and addressed, such as: eligibility requirements, income limit, wait list management,
admissions preferences, applicant screening criteria, rent, tenant and landlord obligations and
restrictions, and causes for lease termination. The CHA released the stated policies for public
comment from August 15 through September 13, 2005. Notification of the public comment
period was provided to current tenants and applicants of Loomis Courts, as well as announced in
newspaper ads.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005 -CHA-141
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated August 24,
2005, entitled “Authorization for Approval of the Tenant Selection Plan for
Loomis Courts, Lease Agreement for City-State Properties (Loomis Courts), and
Pet Policy for City-State Properties (Loomis Courts) and Pet Ownership
Procedure.”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the Tenant Selection Plan for
Loomis Courts, Lease Agreement for City-State Properties (Loomis Courts), and
Pet Policy for City-State Properties (Loomis Courts) and Pet Ownership
Procedure, and authorizes the Board Chairperson or Chief Executive Officer or
his designee to approve any final changes to and adopt the Tenant Selection Plan
for Loomis Courts, Lease Agreement for City-State Properties (Loomis Courts),
and Pet Policy for City-State Properties (Loomis Courts) and Pet Ownership
Procedure.

(Item C6)
According to federal regulations, the CHA is required to maintain an Administrative Plan for
Housing Choice Vouchers, Project-Based Vouchers and Moderate Rehabilitation Programs
outlining the rules and procedures necessary to administer the voucher program. The
Administrative Plan is also used by the program administrator, CHAC, Inc., to ensure the
program is implemented in accordance with the policies set forth by the CHA’s Board of
Commissioners. The CHA Board last approved changes to the Administrative Plan on August
16, 2005. In response to Hurricane Katrina, and in accordance with guidance provided by the
Department of Housing and Urban Development, the CHA now seeks to amend the
Administrative Plan’s “Section III General Administration – Selection from the Waiting List”.
The resolution for Item C6, therefore, approves amendment to the Administrative Plan. The
proposed amendment would create a housing preference for victims of federally declared
disasters who are Section 8 voucher holders or public housing residents in other jurisdictions.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-142
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated September 8,
2005 entitled “Approval of the Administrative Plan for the Housing Choice
Vouchers, Project-Based Vouchers and Moderate Rehabilitation Programs.”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners repeals and rescinds any and all previously adopted
plans and resolutions related to the approval of the Administrative Plan; and

THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves and adopts the revised
Administrative Plan for the Housing Choice Vouchers, Project-Based Vouchers
and Moderate Rehabilitation Programs dated September 8, 2005 and attached as
Exhibit A, effective September 20, 2005.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items C1 through C6 was seconded by
Commissioner Gates and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Lori Healey
Carlos Ponce
Martin Nesbitt
11

 Sandra Young
Mary Wiggins

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Tenant Services Committee report was also accepted in total.
There being no further business to come before the Commissioners, upon Motion made,
seconded and carried, the meeting of the Board of Commissioners was adjourned.

_________________________
Sharon Gist Gilliam
Chairperson

________________________
Lee Gill, Custodian and
Keeper of Records

12

 