ITEM NO. C3

April 14, 2010

RATIFICATION OF ACCEPTANCE OF A GRANT AWARD FROM THE ILLINOIS
STATE CRIMINAL JUSTICE INFORMATION AUTHORITY AND ENTRY INTO SUBGRANT AGREEMENTS WITH UCAN, THE CHICAGO POLICE DEPARTMENT,
AND FOUNDATION FOR FAMILY EMPOWERMENT, AND INCREASE IN THE
FY2010 COMPREHENSIVE BUDGET
To the Honorable Board of Commissioners:
RECOMMENDATION
It is recommended that the Board of Commissioners ratify the acceptance of a grant award from
the Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority (ICJIA) in the amount of $250,000.00,
increase the FY 2010 comprehensive budget by the same amount and entry into sub-grant
agreements with UCAN, the Chicago Police Department (CPD), and the Foundation for Family
Empowerment for an aggregate amount of $250,000.00 in order to implement the Youth Court
and Gang Resistance Education and Training (G.R.E.A.T.) programs on behalf of the AltgeldRiverdale Community (ARC) Weed and Seed Partnership. Weed and Seed is a community
development strategy funded by the Department of Justice that is being implemented through the
ARC Partnership, which is a steering committee made up of local stakeholders within the
Altgeld Riverdale area that includes the CHA and the subgrantees for this award. The Youth
Court and G.R.E.A.T. Programs are strategies to address youth violence and family engagement
that are part of the Weed and Seed community development strategy.
FUNDING
No funding requirements
EXPLANATION
On January 28, 2010, the CHA received official written notice of an award of $250,000.00 from
the ICJIA through the Edward Byrne Recovery Act Grant Program. The purpose of the funding
is to implement a community based youth violence prevention strategy through the Youth Court
and G.R.E.A.T. programs to be administered in partnership with CPD at five (5) schools within
the area. The Youth Court and G.R.E.A.T. programs will serve as ARC’s initial programs to
reach its Weed and Seed strategy to reduce youth violence in ARC. Youth Court (or Peer Jury) is
a student-driven program in collaboration with the school’s discipline office. Students, acting as
peer jurors, are trained to analyze the facts of a referred student’s case, ask questions, and decide
upon appropriate consequences to school disciplinary issues and identify positive solutions. The
G.R.E.A.T. curriculum is a violence, gang, and criminal activity prevention program designed
for elementary and middle school students.
As part of the American Reinvestment and Recovery Act, this grant opportunity is also designed
to create or retain jobs within a community with demonstrated need. Funding will create one (1)
position with UCAN, who will be the community outreach coordinator (COC), retain one (1)
60 East Van Buren, 12th Floor · Chicago, Illinois 60605 · (312) 913-7282 · www.thecha.org

 position with the Foundation for Family Empowerment, which will be the Youth Court program
coordinator (YCC), and create four (4) part-time jobs for CPD as certified G.R.E.A.T. program
officers.
The COC will serve as the initial director of the Weed and Seed site in the Altgeld Riverdale
community, and oversee meetings, communications, and committee development. The COC
will garner community participation and meet with community leaders, youth, and residents to
educate them about the project and recruit them to participate in ARC’s strategies. The COC
will work with youth and adults to explain the benefits of Youth Court and increase community
involvement, and network with other youth courts in Chicago and the South Suburbs. The COC
will be employed full-time through UCAN .
Youth Court and Civics Summer Program (Grades 6-8)
An intense summer program focused on civics, Youth Court principles, conflict resolution, and
restorative justice will prepare students in the community to implement youth courts in their
schools beginning in the fall. The summer program will provide the Youth Court staff the
opportunity to establish relationships and trust within the community, and gain buy-in for the
school year efforts. The second summer program (2011) will keep students engaged and active
for the 2011-2012 school-year.
Beginning in the 2010-2011 school year, the YCC will manage the youth courts within the local
elementary schools. The classes will be determined by the principal, teachers, and ARC staff, as
part of the larger, two year plan.
1) The YCC will offer 12 sessions per classroom (approximately 3 times a week for one month)
x 6 classrooms (6 schools in surrounding community) for 1.5 hour per session and one hour of
prep time per session.
2) Student incentives will be needed to enhance student engagement.
3) The YCC will assist the COC to develop and monitor the Youth Court, after school hours.
The YCC will recruit and run a youth court training and civics summer program. The training
will prepare youth to return to school in the fall prepared to implement a youth court. The
program will likely consist of two weeks, 20 hour per week intensive training.
G.R.E.A.T. Program
The G.R.E.A.T. elementary curriculum is a violence, gang, and criminal activity prevention
program designed for fourth and fifth grade students. The six-session program is taught by a law
enforcement officer, and can be compacted to 3 weeks or expanded to 6 weeks. The program is
most effective when it is part of a comprehensive, multifaceted approach to violence prevention
that includes family, peer, media, and community components, and is reinforced throughout the
community (G.R.E.A.T. Training Manual).
In the 2010-2011 school year, CPD officers will continue to teach the G.R.E.A.T. elementary
curriculum within the local elementary schools. If any local Altgeld-Riverdale schools are not

60 East Van Buren, 12th Floor · Chicago, Illinois 60605 · (312) 913-7282 · www.thecha.org

 currently using the curriculum, it will be implemented. The classes will be determined by the
principal, teachers, and ARC staff, as part of the larger, two year plan.
The G.R.E.A.T. family program for Altgeld will begin in July 2010. The program will target 710 families per session. Each session is six weeks in length and will meet one day per week.
Three officers will be used for facilitation and one officer for young childcare monitoring. The
G.R.E.A.T. program can only be taught by certified, active officers. More specifically, the
G.R.E.A.T. family program must be taught by officers who have been certified in the 21-hour
G.R.E.A.T. family model. Therefore, only certified, skilled officers will be utilized to be lead
facilitators for this program. The overall impact of this program will be to educate between 77
and 110 families (275-440 participants) depending upon size of families participating.
G.R.E.A.T. Family Program (Families in Community)
The G.R.E.A.T. Family Program for Altgeld will begin in July 2010. The program will target 710 families per session. Each session is six weeks in length and will meet one day per week.
The ideal participation per session will be 7-10 families with an average family size of 3-5
members. Our target per session will be 25 to 40 participants. We will utilize 4 certified officers
per session. Three officers will be used for facilitation and one officer for young childcare
monitoring.
G.R.E.A.T. Summer Program (Grades 4-8)
During the summers of 2010 and 2011, CPD will conduct 4 sessions of after-school
programming. The sessions will consist of 3 days per week of evening programs that are 4 hours
in length. The goal will be to start programming at a host school targeting the students when
they are dismissed. The program will begin at 3pm and last until 7pm. Facilitation of anti-gang
activities will be utilized as well as communication, peaceful conflict resolution, life skill
building, goal setting and practicing refusal skills. Each night, a meal will be served to the
participants. Our goal for enrollment will be a maximum of 30 participants per week. Each
week the focus will be to involve a new group of participants (the program is duplicated each
week). We will enlist the assistance of vendors to supplement the program and enhance
learning. The lessons will be taught by 3 G.R.E.A.T. certified officers each day.
Based upon the foregoing, it is in the best interest of the CHA to ratify the acceptance of the
ICJIA grant in the amount of $250,000, increase in the FY 2010 comprehensive budget by the
same amount and entry into sub-grantee agreements with UCAN, Chicago Police Department,
and the Foundation for Family Empowerment for an aggregate amount not-to-exceed $250,000.

60 East Van Buren, 12th Floor · Chicago, Illinois 60605 · (312) 913-7282 · www.thecha.org

 RESOLUTION NO. 2010-CHA-49
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated April 14, 2010, entitled “RATIFICATION OF
ACCEPTANCE OF A GRANT AWARD FROM THE ILLINOIS CRIMINAL
JUSTICE INFORMATION AUTHORITY, ENTRY INTO SUB-GRANTEE
AGREEMENTS WITH UCAN, CHICAGO POLICE DEPARTMENT AND
FOUNDATION FOR FAMILY EMPOWERMENT, AND INCREASE IN THE
FY2010 COMPREHENSIVE BUDGET”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners ratifies the acceptance of a grant award from the
Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority in the amount of $250,000.00, the
increase in the FY2010 comprehensive budget by the same amount, and entry into
sub-grant agreements with UCAN, Chicago Police Department and Foundation
for Family Empowerment for an aggregate amount not-to-exceed $250,000.

60 East Van Buren, 12th Floor · Chicago, Illinois 60605 · (312) 913-7282 · www.thecha.org

 