MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING
OF THE
COMMISSIONERS OF THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
March 15, 2011
The Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority held its Regular Meeting of the Board of
Commissioners on Tuesday, March 15, 2011 at approximately 8:45 a.m. at the Seward/Stanton
park, Cabrini Parkside, 375 West Elm Street in Chicago, IL.
Chairman Reynolds called the meeting to order and upon roll call, those present and absent were
as follows:
Present:
Hallie Amey
Deverra Beverly
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Myra King
Carlos Ponce
Bridget Reidy
James Reynolds
Sandra Young
Absent:

None

Also present were Lewis Jordan, Chief Executive Officer; Kris Warren, Chief of Staff; Scott
Ammarell, General Counsel; Chicago Housing Authority Staff Members and the General Public.
There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as
follows:
Upon Motion made and properly seconded the Commissioners adjourned to Executive Session.
Chairman Reynolds announced that pursuant to the Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2, the Board
would adjourn for approximately one hour to possibly discuss pending, probable or imminent
litigation, personnel related matters, collective negotiating matters, purchase sale and lease of
real estate property; establishment of reserves and settlement of claims.
Due to unforeseen circumstances, Chairman Reynolds left the meeting in session immediately
after Executive Session was adjourned and Commissioner Ivers chaired the meeting in his
absence.
The Commissioners subsequently reconvened in Open Session and the Chairman thereupon
convened the Public Hearing portion and Business Sessions of the meeting.
Mr. Lewis Jordan, Chief Executive Officer, then presented his monthly report. Mr. Jordan,
provided the Commissioners….
Commissioner Ivers then invited residents and the public at large to address the Board.
Following the Public Hearing portion of the meeting, the Commissioners convened the Business
portion of the meeting.
Commissioner Ivers then introduced matters discussed in Executive Session and presented an
Omnibus Motion for the approval of Executive Session Items 1, 3 and 4.
(Executive Session Item No. 1 – Tie Vote, Item Not Approved)
With regards to Executive Session Item No. 1, Personnel Action Reports for February 1, 2011,
Commissioners Harris, Ivers, Ponce and Reidy voted Ayes and Commissioners Amey, Beverly,
King and Young voted Nayes resulting in a tie vote. Accordingly, this matter was not approved.

 RESOLUTION NO. 2011-CHAWHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated March 15, 2011 requesting that the Board of Commissioners
approves the Personnel Actions Report for February 2011.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the Personnel Actions Report for
February 2011.

The Motion to adopt resolution for Executive Session Item 1 was seconded by Commissioner
Harris and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Carlos Ponce
Bridget Reidy
Nays:

Hallie Amey None
Deverra Beverly
Myra King
Sandra Young

The Chairman thereupon declared a Tie Vote and said Resolutions was not adopted.
Executive Session Item No. 2
Upon Motion made and properly second the Commissioners unanimously agreed to table
Executive Session Item No. 2 until further notice: “Recommendation to enter into a Land
Transfer Agreement between the CHA and Target Corporation for land exchanges within or
nearby the former William Green homes Development; enter into a Hiring Agreement between
CHA and Target Corporation for assistance in Community Outreach and Job Training
Workshops to hire CHA candidates and submit Disposition and Acquisition Applications to
HUD”.
Executive Session Item No. 3
RESOLUTION NO. 2011-CHA-29
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated February 15,
2011, requesting authorization to execute a quitclaim deed to transfer 1125 W.
Roosevelt Road to the City of Chicago and to execute such other documents as
necessary to implement the foregoing.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute a quitclaim deed to transfer 1125 W. Roosevelt Road to the
City of Chicago and to execute such other documents as necessary to implement
the foregoing.

Executive Session Item No. 4
RESOLUTION NO. 2011-CHA-30
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed Board
Letter dated March 15, 2011, entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO EXTEND
CONTRACT NO. 1046 WITH ANNETTIE MACHUCA ASSOCIATES, INC.
FOR LITIGATION CONSULTING SERVICES AND TO ASSIST THE HCV
DEPARTMENT TO REVIEW FILES AND RESPOND TO HUD OIG AUDIT
FINDING”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute Amendment No. 2 to Contract No. 1046 with Annettie
Machuca Associates, Inc. to extend the term of the agreement from March 1, 2011
through February 28, 2012 and increase the Contract’s by an amount not-toexceed $250,000.00 to continue providing litigation consulting services and to
assist the HCV Department to prepare a response to HUD OIG Audit Finding
1018-3(C).

 The Motion to adopt resolutions for Executive Session Items 3 and 4 was seconded by
Commissioner Harris and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Hallie Amey
Deverra Beverly
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Myra King
Carlos Ponce
Bridget Reidy
Sandra Young

Nays:

None

The Chairman thereupon declared said Motion carried and said Resolutions adopted.
Commissioner Ivers, Chairman of the Finance and Audit Committee, then presented his report.
Per Commissioner Ivers, the Finance and Audit Committee held its regular meeting on
Wednesday, March 9, 2011 at the CHA Corporate Offices. The Chief Financial Officer and his
staff presented the committee with the February 2011 Treasury Report.
Commissioner Ivers then presented an Omnibus Motion for adoption of the Resolutions for
Items A1 thru A3.
(Items A1)
In March 2010, the Board of Commissioners approved a request to exercise the first one-year
option o extend contract #8014 with Integrys Energy Services, Inc. (“Integrys”) for the supply
and delivery of natural gas to various CHA residential sites and facilities. The current contract
amendment will expire on March 31, 2011. The Natural Gas Supply and Delivery Agreement
executed by the CHA and Integrys offers CHA the opportunity to purchase its gas needs at
wholesale instead of retail, and enables the CHA to hedge against potential market price
fluctuations through use of multi-tiered price/risk management options. The resolution for Item
A1 approves the second one-year extension of the Agreement that would allow the CHA to
continue to purchase natural gas supplies from non-retail utility sources and thereby reduce the
CHA’s overall natural gas costs. HUD has historically encouraged and offered incentives to
housing authorities that purchase their natural gas supplies at wholesale costs that are less than
what the local retail utility would ordinarily charge. CHA’s aggregate natural gas usage in 2010
was 22.4% less than in 2009 and 36.3% less than in 2008 for the portfolio properties subject to
the Agreement, and the cost was approximately 41.6% and 40.5% less accordingly over that
same term. The decreases in the CHA’s natural gas consumption and costs were primarily due to
price/risk management strategies, building consolidations and closures, and energy-efficient
retrofits.
RESOLUTION NO. 2011-CHA-31
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
memorandum dated March 9, 2011 entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO EXERCISE
THE SECOND ONE-YEAR OPTION OF CONTRACT #8014 WITH
INTEGRYS ENERGY SERVICES, INC. FOR THE SUPPLY AND DELIVERY
OF NATURAL GAS TO VARIOUS CHA RESIDENTIAL SITES AND
FACILITIES”,
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to exercise the second one (1) year option term under Contract #8014
with Integrys Energy Services, Inc., extending the Natural Gas Supply and
Delivery Agreement by one (1) year, from April 1, 2011 through March 31, 2012,
and increasing the maximum compensation under Contract #8014 by the amount
of $7,084,047, subject to HUD approval, if required.

(Item A2)
In January 2011 the Board approved a 2-year contract with three 1-year optional extensions with
AON, as Broker of Record for the Private Management Insurance Program (PMIP). The
resolution for Item A2 approves contracts for the Private Manger Insurance Program in the
aggregate total amount not-to-exceed $1,236,444. One of Aon’s duties as CHA’s Broker of

 Record is to competitively solicit bids for insurance coverage on behalf of CHA. The PMIP, an
owner-controlled program, ensures that the private management companies have the necessary
insurance coverage contractually required by CHA. All costs associated with the program are
deducted from the participating Private Management Companies’ operating budgets. Aon
directly and indirectly solicited requests for insurance premium quotes from 27 insurance carriers
in January 2011 and requested that their quotes be submitted to Aon in early February 2011. Last
year was the first time in over ten years that multiple insurance carriers were willing to quote
both the General and Excess Liability coverage. Even with CHA’s improving claims history,
combined with the interest generated over the past several years by Aon, the market for insurers
in the public housing is extremely limited. One insurer has stopped writing senior housing
altogether, and is no longer an option. Aon received only one quote for General Liability and 2
quotes for Excess Liability for the CHA program. The Fiduciary Liability/Crime coverage was
not purchased in 2010, but will be secured for the April 1, 2011 through March 31, 2012 policy
period.
RESOLUTION NO. 2011-CHA-32
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated March 9, 2011,
entitled “Authorization to enter into contracts for the Private Managers Insurance
Program (“PMIP”) through Aon Risk Services Central, Inc. with First Specialty
Insurance, Illinois Union, AXIS Surplus Insurance Companies, and Berkley
Regional for the Private Managers Insurance Program’s General and Excess
Liability, and Fiduciary Liability/Crime Insurance Coverages”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into contracts for the Private Managers Insurance Program
(“PMIP”) through Aon Risk Services Central, Inc. with (1) First Specialty
(General Liability) in an amount not-to-exceed $549,080.00; (2) Illinois Union
(Excess Liability) in an amount not-to-exceed $475,524.00; (3) AXIS (Excess
Liability) in an amount not-to-exceed $196,840.00; (4) Berkley Regional
Insurance (Fiduciary Liability/Crime) in the amount not-to-exceed $12,900.00 for
an aggregate amount of $1,234,344 for the period April 1, 2011 through March
31, 2012.

(Item A3)
The resolution for Item A3 approves submission of the FY2010 Annual Report to HUD. The
FY2010 MTW Annual Report provides information necessary for HUD to assess CHA’s
performance in 2010 regarding both day-to-day operations and activities authorized by the MTW
Demonstration Program. The Plan for Transformation was approved by HUD and incorporated
into a Moving to Work (MTW) Agreement that was executed on February 6, 2000. On June 26,
2008, CHA executed an Amended and Restated MTW Agreement which supersedes the original
MTW Agreement and extends CHA’s participation in the MTW program until 2018. The
Restated Agreement instituted new reporting requirements and subsequently HUD issued revised
reporting requirements in Form 50900 for public housing authorities participating in the MTW
Demonstration Program. The FY2010 MTW Annual Report is the first report to follow the new
reporting requirements and has been streamlined to reflect these changes. Under the MTW
Agreement, CHA is required to produce and submit an Annual Report to HUD outlining the
progress toward commitments made in the original Plan for Transformation and each Annual
Plan.
RESOLUTION NO. 2011-CHA-33
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated March 9, 2011,
requesting approval of the FY2010 Moving to Work Annual Report, attached
hereto.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED BY CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the attached FY2010 Moving to
Work Annual Report and grants authorization to the Chief Executive Officer, the
Board Chairperson, or their designee to make any final changes as deemed
necessary.

THAT

the Board of Commissioners grants authorization to submit the FY2010 Moving
to Work Annual Report to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban

 Development on March 31, 2011. Such approval shall constitute conclusive
evidence of the Board’s approval of any and all such changes
The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items A1 thru A3 was seconded by Commissioner
Young and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Hallie Amey
Deverra Beverly
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Myra King
Carlos Ponce
Bridget Reidy
Sandra Young
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairman thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted.
Commissioner Ponce, Chairman of the Operations and Facilities Committee, then presented his
report. Per Commissioner Ponce, the Operations and Facilities Committee held its regular
meeting on Wednesday, March 9, 2011 at the CHA Corporate Offices.
Commissioner Ponce then presented an Omnibus Motion for adoption of the Resolutions for
Items B1 thru B7.
(Item B1)
The CHA advertised Invitation for Bid in December 2010 for ADA/504 retrofit and capital
maintenance work needed in and around sixteen (16) units in the CHA’s Scattered Sites
Program. The IFB was advertised in area newspapers and on the CHA website. Of the seven bids
opened and received, pre-award survey meetings with the apparent low bidder and second lowest
bidder for each Bid Group was held. Representatives of Chicago Commercial Contractors, Inc.
(apparent low bidder for Bid Group 2), and Coleman Development Corporation (apparent low
bidder for Bid Group 3) attended separate meetings. They responded to questions on the
thoroughness of their bids, the amount of the work they planned to self-perform, and their
capacity to perform this work. Each firm’s proposed project team was reviewed and lead-times
for several materials were discussed. A list of subcontractors expected to work on the project was
considered. Having completed its review of the submitted bid materials, the responses at the preaward survey meetings, and the recommendations of staff, the resolution for Item B1 approves
award of contract to Chicago Commercial Contractors, LLC, the lowest responsive and
responsible bidder for Bid Group 2, and Coleman Development Corporation, the lowest
responsive and responsible bidder for Bid Group 3. The exterior work includes, but is not
limited to, the replacement or installation of ramps meeting ADA specifications, and replacing
damaged or cracked sections of the sidewalk. The interior work includes, but is not limited to,
replacing interior doors and frames with pre-hung doors, replacing base and wall hung cabinets,
installing new kitchen appliances, replacing damaged flooring and drywall, installing new light
fixtures, updating accessories in bathrooms, hanging new window blinds, install new water
heaters and furnaces, and update electrical outlets. This work will be done in compliance with
ADA specifications.
RESOLUTION NO. 2011-CHA-34
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated March 9, 2011
entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO EXECUTE CONTRACTS WITH CHICAGO
COMMERCIAL CONTRACTORS, LLC. AND COLEMAN DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION FOR ADA/504 RETROFIT WORK AT VARIOUS
SCATTERED SITES – PACKAGE 6 (BID GROUPS 2 AND 3)”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

that the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into contracts for ADA/504 retrofit and capital maintenance
work in and around nine (9) units in the Chicago Housing Authority’s Scattered
Sites Program with Chicago Commercial Contractors, LLC in the amount of
$396,291.00 for Bid Group 2, and with Coleman Development Corporation in the
amount of $180,470.00 for Bid Group 3. Work is to be performed at 1941 W.

 Crystal, 3231 W. Crystal, 3241 W. Crystal, 3336 W. Division, 3300 W.
Evergreen, and 3356 W. Evergreen (Bid Group 2), and 925 N. California – Unit
A, 925 N. California – Unit B and 922 N. Honore (Bid Group 3) in Chicago, IL.
Work for Bid Group 2 is to be completed within one hundred eighty (180)
calendar days from the date set forth in the Notice to Proceed. Work for Bid
Group 3 is to be completed within one hundred twenty (120) calendar days from
the date set forth in the Notice to Proceed.
This award is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s
MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident hiring, and bonding and insurance
requirements.
(Item B2)
The CHA advertised an Invitation for Bid in December 2010 for ADA/504 retrofit and capital
maintenance work needed in and around fifteen (15) units in the CHA’s Scattered Sites Program.
The IFB was advertised in area newspapers and on the CHA website. Of the seven bids
received, pre-award survey meetings were held with the apparent low bidders for each Bid
Group. Representatives of Old Veteran Construction, Inc., (apparent low bidder for Bid Groups
1, 2, 3 and 5), Koal Enterprises, Inc. (apparent low bidder for Bid Group 4) and Maxwell
Services, Inc. (apparent low bidder for Bid Group 6) attended separate meetings. Accordingly,
the resolution for Item B2 approves award of contracts to Old Veteran Construction, Inc., the
lowest responsive and responsible bidder for Bid Groups 1, 2, 3 and 5, Koal Enterprises, Inc.,
the lowest responsive and responsible bidder for Bid Group 4, and Maxwell Services, Inc., the
lowest responsive and responsible bidder for Bid Group 6.
RESOLUTION NO. 2011-CHA-35
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated March 9, 2011,
entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO EXECUTE CONTRACT WITH OLD
VETERAN CONSTRUCTION, INC., KOAL ENTERPRISES, INC. AND
MAXWELL SERVICES, INC. FOR ADA/504 RETROFIT WORK AT
VARIOUS SCATTERED SITES – PACKAGE 7”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

that the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into contracts for ADA/504 retrofit and capital maintenance
work in and around fifteen (15) units in the Chicago Housing Authority’s
Scattered Sites Program with Old Veteran Construction, Inc. in the amount of
$970,000.00 for Bid Groups 1, 2, 3 and 5, with Koal Enterprises, Inc. in the
amount of $281,067.00 for Bid Group 4, and with Maxwell Services, Inc. in the
amount of $192,319.00 for Bid Group 6. Work is to be performed at 4856 N.
Avers Ave. and 1130 W. Patterson Ave. (Bid Group 1); 3303 N. Central Park
Ave. (Bid Group 2); 1632 N. Humboldt, 1730 N. Kedzie, 1830 N. Sawyer, 1903
N. Spalding, and 1919 N. Richmond Ave. (Bid Group 3); 3234 W. Beach, 3103
N. Oakley and 2050 N. Stave (Bid Group 4); 4735 W. Dickens and 3256 W.
Hirsch (Bid Group 5); and 654 W. Grace and 656 W. Grace (Bid Group 6). Work
for Bid Groups 1, 2, 5 and 6 is to be completed within ninety (90) calendar days
from the date set forth in the Notice to Proceed. Work for Bid Group 3 is to be
completed within one hundred eighty (180) calendar days from the date set forth
in the Notice to Proceed. Work for Bid Group 4 is to be completed within one
hundred twenty (120) calendar days from the date set forth in the Notice to
Proceed.
This award is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s
MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident hiring, and bonding and insurance
requirements.

(Item B3)
The resolution for Item B3 approves submittal of a Mixed Finance Proposal, Evidentiaries, and
Supplemental Disposition Application to HUD for the Park Boulevard Phase 2A Rental On-site
Redevelopment. In November 2008, the competitively won and was awarded a $20,000,000
HOPE VI Grant to leverage and develop Park Boulevard Phase 2. Phase 2A of the Park
Boulevard development represents the first rental phase of the $20,000,000 Stateway Gardens
HOPE VI Grant and the start of the second on-site phase of the larger Stateway Gardens
revitalization. Phase 2A will consist of a mix of rental housing types, including two mid-rise
buildings (36 units and 80 units) and two 6-flats, totaling 128 on-site rental units. Each mid-rise

 contains five floors with parking on the ground floor. The Phase 2A site is an “L” shaped parcel
that anchors the southwest corner of State and 36th Streets. The area is approximately 1.8 acres
and is generally bounded on the north by 36th Street, on the south by 37th Street, on the east by
State Street and on the west by the public alley and Dearborn Street. Park Boulevard IIA, LLC
and/or Stateway Associates LLC will enter into a Ground Lease with CHA for the Stateway
Gardens land comprising the Phase 2A site. The 46 public housing units will be evenly
distributed throughout all 4 buildings with the following bedroom distribution: 25-1BR units;
18-2BR units, and 3-3BR units. The proposed development budget for Phase 2A is $41,887,987
and is expected to be funded by the following sources of permanent financing: Bank of America,
HOPE VI Funds, City of Chicago HOME Loan, LIHTC and Illinois Affordable Housing Tax
Credit.
RESOLUTION NO. 2011-CHA-36
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated March 9, 2011,
requesting authorization to: 1) Submit a Mixed-Finance Proposal, Evidentiaries,
and Supplemental Disposition Application to the United States Department of
Housing and Urban Development (HUD); 2) Commit HOPE VI Funds up to
approximately $15,500,000 and CHA General Funds up to approximately
$800,000 for the Park Boulevard Phase 2A rental on-site redevelopment; 3)
Execute a Ground Lease with Park Boulevard IIA, LLC and/or Stateway
Associates LLC for the Stateway Gardens land comprising the Phase 2A site; and
4) Execute and deliver such other documents and perform such actions as may be
necessary or appropriate to implement the foregoing.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to 1) Submit a Mixed-Finance Proposal, Evidentiaries, and Supplemental
Disposition Application to the United States Department of Housing and Urban
Development (HUD); 2) Commit HOPE VI Funds up to approximately
$15,500,000 and CHA General Funds up to approximately $800,000 for the Park
Boulevard Phase 2A rental on-site redevelopment; 3) Execute a Ground Lease
with Park Boulevard IIA, LLC and/or Stateway Associates LLC for the Stateway
Gardens land comprising the Phase 2A site; and 4) Execute and deliver such other
documents and perform such actions as may be necessary or appropriate to
implement the foregoing

(Item B4)
In February 2001 Stateway Associates, LLC was selected as the developer for the HOPE VI
Revitalization Program at Stateway Gardens in response to the Request for Proposals issued by
the CHA and The Habitat Company. Pursuant to the development agreement, CHA is required
to fund the cost of site remediation for pre-existing conditions on the entire rental development
site subject to certain rights to terminate for infeasibility. As part of the construction preparation,
a number of environmental investigation studies were completed for the CHA-owned land
included in the Phase 2A site. These studies have identified certain environmental contaminants
on the site that can be effectively remediated with an “engineered barrier” approach. This
approach is the preferred method because it is the least costly and is also acceptable to the
Illinois Environmental Protection Agency. This is the approach that was used on the first phase
of construction at Park Boulevard. The estimated remediation costs for the Park Boulevard
Phase 2A Rental site is $497,760 CHA’s contractual responsibility for remediating foreseen and
unforeseen environmental conditions is capped at 200% of this estimated total cost and equals
$995,520.. Accordingly, the resolution for Item B4 approves award of contract to Stateway
Associates, LLC, for the amount of $995,520 for Environmental Remediation Activities at the
Park Boulevard Phase 2A Rental Redevelopment Site.
RESOLUTION NO. 2011 CHA-37
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated March 9, 2011,
requesting authorization to enter into a contract, the Remediation Agreement, for
environmental remediation activities with Stateway Associates, LLC, the
Developer, for a total contract amount not to exceed $995,520 which represents
200% of the estimated remediation cost for the Park Boulevard Phase 2A Rental
Redevelopment Site. The term of the remediation contract shall commence at
closing and expire the earlier of (i) receipt of a “No Further Remediation” letter
from the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency or (ii) two (2) years, subject to
a one year extension at CHA’s election.

 THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into a contract, the Remediation Agreement, for environmental
remediation activities with Stateway Associates, LLC, the Developer, for a total
contract amount not to exceed $995,520 which represents 200% of the estimated
remediation cost for the Park Boulevard Phase 2A Rental Redevelopment Site.
The term of the remediation contract shall commence at closing and expire the
earlier of (i) receipt of a “No Further Remediation” letter from the Illinois
Environmental Protection Agency or (ii) two (2) years, subject to a one year
extension at CHA’s election.

(Item B5)
The resolution for Item B5 approves a predevelopment loan agreement in the total amount of
$1,795,470 to provide loan funds to Stateway Associates for predevelopment services for the
development of Park Boulevard Phase 2B. The proposed predevelopment loan will not exceed
75% of eligible third party costs for rental units only, consistent HUD’s cost control guidelines
and regulation. The loan funds will help fund a portion of predevelopment costs which include,
but are not limited to, architect, engineering, legal services, surveys, market studies and other
activities. All predevelopment loan funds will be repaid in full at the project’s transaction
closing. Phase 2B represents the Stateway HOPE VI Grant’s second phase of development and
the overall fourth phase of development at Stateway Gardens. The completed Phases 1A and 1B
that includes both on and off site development has delivered 239 total housing units and provided
71 quality public housing units to former Stateway Garden residents. The first HOPE VI phase
known as 2A is scheduled to close late spring 2011 and will provide 128 housing opportunities,
including 46 units for public housing residents.
RESOLUTION NO. 2011-CHA-38
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated March 9, 2011,
requesting authorization to: 1) Enter into a Predevelopment Loan Agreement with
Stateway Associates, LLC in the amount of $1,795,470 for Park Boulevard Phase
2B; and 2) Execute and deliver such other documents and perform such actions as
may be necessary or appropriate to implement the foregoing.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to: 1) Enter into a Predevelopment Loan Agreement with Stateway
Associates, LLC in the amount of $1,795,470 for Park Boulevard Phase 2B; and
2) Execute and deliver such other documents and perform such actions as may be
necessary or appropriate to implement the foregoing. The predevelopment loan
will be repaid in full at the Park Boulevard 2B transaction closing.

(Item B6)
The resolution for Item B6 approves a Mixed Finance Proposal, Evidentiaries and Disposition
Modification to HUD for the Oakwood Shores Phase 2C Redevelopment. Oakwood Shores
Phase 2C is a 6-story mixed-use building known as Oakwood Shores Terraces and Medical
Center. The unit mix for the Phase 2C plan provides 48 units of mixed income rental housing
comprised of the 19 Public Housing Low Income Housing Tax Credit units, 17 Low Income
Housing Tax Credit units and 12 un-restricted Market Rate Units. The development plan
includes a mix of one-two-and three-bedroom units located in one mid-rise building. The
nineteen public housing units will consist of the following bedroom mix: 10 one-bedroom units
and 9 two-bedroom units. The commercial component of the building will be on the first two
floors and the residential component will be on the third through sixth floors. The Community
Builders, Inc. (TCB), Granite Development (Master) Corp. (Granite), and UJIMA, Inc., are the
developers involved in this comprehensive development. The residential development team for
this specific Phase will consist of a partnership between TCB and Granite. Phase 2C will be
located South of the Donoghue School site at the intersection of South Cottage Grove Avenue
and East 38th Street, in an area generally bounded by South Cottage Grove Avenue to the West,
East 38th Street to the South, Ellis Avenue to the East, and East 37th Street to the North. The
total development budget of the residential portion of this Phase 2C will be approximately
$14,677,289 and is expected to be funded by the approximate following sources of permanent
financing: CHA Loan, LIGTC Equity, Illinois Affordable Housing Tax Credit, The Federal
Home Loan Bank of San Francisco and DCEO Funds.

 Commissioner Young recused from voting on this item only.
RESOLUTION NO. 2011-CHA-39
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated, March 9, 2011,
requesting authorization to: 1) Submit a Mixed-Finance Proposal, Evidentiaries,
and Disposition Modification to the United States Department of Housing and
Urban Development (HUD); 2) Commit HOPE VI permanent loan funds not to
exceed $3,800,000 CHA General Funds not to exceed $2,200,000 and Program
Income Funds of approximately $26,106 for the Oakwood Shores Phase 2C
redevelopment; 3) Execute a deed to convey the CHA portion of the Phase 2C
mixed use site in fee simple to The Community Builders, Inc. (TCB); and 4)
Execute and deliver such other documents and perform such actions as may be
necessary or appropriate to implement the foregoing.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to: 1) Submit a Mixed-Finance Proposal, Evidentiaries, and Disposition
Modification to the United States Department of Housing and Urban
Development (HUD); 2) Commit HOPE VI permanent loan funds not to exceed
$3,800,000 CHA General Funds not to exceed $2,200,000 and Program Income
Funds of approximately $26,106 for the Oakwood Shores Phase 2C
redevelopment; 3) Execute a deed to convey the CHA portion of the Phase 2C
mixed use site in fee simple to The Community Builders, Inc. (TCB); and 4)
Execute and deliver such other documents and perform such actions as may be
necessary or appropriate to implement the foregoing.

(Item B7)
The resolution for Item B7 approves the form of lease and Tenant Selection and Continued
Occupancy Policy for the Park Boulevard Phase IIA and all future on-site and off-site phases. It
is understood that the developer has an interest and desire to implement its own lease forms and
policy that encourages consistent community standards and for the effective management of its
mixed-income developments. The lease and policy have to accommodate various aspects of the
multiple types of tenants and characteristics of a mixed-finance transaction. The property
specific requirements for applicants contained in the attached Tenant Selection Plan are based on
the CHA’s Minimum TSP. The authorization of approval of the form of lease and tenant
selection and occupancy policy for the Park Boulevard Phase IIA is required at this time to
facilitate the closing of this development transaction. A public comment period was held from
January 31, 2011 through March 2, 2011. A public comment hearing was held on February 9,
2011 at Stateway Community Partners. Notice for the 30-day comment period was published in
the Chicago Sun-Times, Chicago Defender, and Hoy newspapers, as well as posted on the CHA
website and on site at the following Office(s): CHA Administrative Office, Central Advisory
Council, Latino Site Offices and UPA Property Management Office. Consideration was given to
comments received prior to finalizing the documents.
RESOLUTION NO. 2011-CHA-40
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated March 9, 2011,
entitled “AUTHORIZATION FOR APPROVAL OF THE LEASE AND
TENANT SELECTION AND CONTINUED OCCUPANCY POLICY FOR THE
PARK BOULEVARD PHASE IIA (INCLUDING ALL FUTURE PHASES)
AND TO AMEND THE CHA ADMISSION AND CONTINUED OCCUPANCY
POLICY TO INCORPORATE SUCH DOCUMENTS AS AN ADDENDUM
THERETO”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the attached tenant selection and
continued occupancy policy and form of lease in substantially the form presented
to the Board for the Park Boulevard (including all future phases). The Chairman
of the Board or the Chief Executive Officer is hereby authorized to approve final
changes in these forms, including changes based on HUD requirements, or such
changes, if any, resulting from any applicable notice and comment process. Such
approval shall constitute conclusive evidence of the Board’s approval of any and
all such changes.

 The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items B1 thru B7 was seconded by Commissioner
Reidy and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Hallie Amey
Deverra Beverly
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Myra King
Carlos Ponce
Bridget Reidy
Sandra Young

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairman thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted.
Commissioner Young, Chairman of the Tenant Services Committee, then presented the report for
the Tenant Services Committee. Per Commissioner Young, the Tenant Services Committee
meeting was held on Wednesday, March 9 2011 at 1:00 at the CHA Corporate Offices.
Commissioners were presented with an update on CHA Social Media Strategy.
Commissioner Young then presented an Omnibus Motion for adoption of the Resolutions for
Items C1 thru C3.
(Item C1)
The resolution for item C1 approves contract extension with Holsten Real Estate Development
Corporation for Community and Supportive Services (CSS) at Parkside. On June 21, 2005 the
Board authorized CHA to enter into a contract for redevelopment of Cabrini Green Extension
North with Parkside Associates.
Parkside Associates is responsible for the overall
redevelopment process of Parkside and is also responsible for preparing funding applications,
obtaining financing, construction, and the coordination of CSS. Since 2005, Parkside Associates
has been providing CSS for Cabrini Green residents desiring to move into Parkside. The Board
authorized the first one-year option in March 2007 and the second one-year option in January
2008, continuing the provision of CSS to assist CHA families that have chosen to return to
Parkside. In 2009 and 2010, the Board approved one-year extensions of the agreement to
continue services to families at Parkside. The CSS was designed to address the barriers a family
may face in meeting the site specific criteria allowing them to return to Parkside. The current
extension and additional funding will allow Holsten to continue providing post-occupancy
services to the 107 families residing at Parkside. CSS will remain focused on assessment and
service planning, case management and employment services. The post-occupancy services will
include identifiable outcomes focused on job readiness, placement and retention, lease
compliance, youth activities, and other services to promote self-sufficiency. CHA staff will
monitor and perform quality assurance of the services provided through the review of monthly
performance reports, quarterly monitoring visits and participant file reviews.
RESOLUTION NO. 2011-CHA-41
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated March 9, 2011, entitled “RECOMMENDATION TO
EXTEND CONTRACT NO. 5164 WITH HOLSTEN REAL ESTATE
DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION TO PROVIDE COMMUNITY AND
SUPPORTIVE SERVICES TO CABRINI GREEN RESIDENTS”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to extend Contract No. 5164 (“Contract”) with Holsten Real Estate
Development Corporation for the period of April 1, 2011 through March 31, 2012
and to increase the Contract’s funding by an amount not-to-exceed $400,000,
adding it to the carryover balance available at the end of the current contract term
to provide community and supportive services to CHA families at the Parkside of

(Item C2)
The resolution for Item C2 approves the second one-year contract extension with Big O Movers,
Smith Movers, REO Movers, and Midway Moving and Storage, not-to-exceed $325,000 each for

 resident relocation moving services and approves a contingency budget in the amount of
$200,000 for a combined total not-to-exceed $1,500,000.00. The CHA provides relocation
services to families moving into the private market with a Housing Choice Voucher or within
CHA’s developments under the Plan for Transformation. The current contracts to provide
relocation services will expire on March 31, 2011 and continued services for families are
necessary. During the second and final one-year option, the above-mentioned companies will:
provide moving services for CHA residents who need to relocate due to redevelopment; support
10/1/99 CHA families who make a permanent housing choice and relocate back to CHA
housing; assist residents who are served through CHA’s Victim Assistance Program; and provide
other emergency relocation services when requested by CHA. Each contractor has performed
satisfactorily and met its contractual requirements during the base term and first option year of
the respective contracts.
RESOLUTION NO. 2011-CHA-42
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated March 9, 2011 entitled
“AUTHORIZATION TO EXERCISE THE SECOND ONE-YEAR OPTION(S) TO
EXTEND THE RESIDENT RELOCATION MOVING CONTRACTS WITH BIG
“O” MOVERS AND STORAGE. INC., REO MOVERS AND STORAGE, INC.,
SMITH MOVERS, INC. AND MIDWAY MOVING AND STORAGE, INC., TO
PROVIDE MOVING AND RELOCATION SERVICES FOR FAMILIES
RELOCATING UNDER
THE PLAN FOR TRANSFORMATION”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to exercise the second one-year option(s) for resident relocation moving
services with Big “O” Movers and Storage, Inc. under Contract No. 8019, in an
amount not-to-exceed $325,000, Reo Movers and Storage, Inc. under Contract
No. 8021, in an amount not-to-exceed $325,000, Smith Movers, Inc. under
Contract No. 8020, in an amount not-to- exceed $325,000, and Midway Moving
and Storage, Inc. under Contract No. 8022, in an amount not-to-exceed $325,000,
for a combined increase in not-to-exceed compensation totaling $1,300,000 for all
contracts. The Board of Commissioners additionally authorizes that any unused
not-to-exceed compensation or contingency funding previously approved by the
Board of Commissioners shall be carried over for application as may become
necessary during the remaining contract term.

(Item C3)
The resolution for Item C3 approves Amendment No. 3 to contract with Screening Reports for
Tenant Screening Services for the Housing Choice Voucher Program. To ensure continued
compliance with the CHA HCV Administrative Plan and HUD regulatory provisions, CHA’s
HCV Program screens adult household members for certain types of criminal activity before
admission to the program, at a move, for adult additions to the household, or head of household
changes, and at regular re-certifications. The background check is then provided to CHA, which
is used as assistance for a final determination. In February 2012 the CHA elected to exercise the
one year option reserved under Contract No. 9009 through the execution of Amendment No. 3
which extended the term of the agreement for one year and added funding for public housing
screening services in an amount not to exceed $121,000.00, which had been previously
authorized in the Board of Commissioners’ prior action. The below resolution authorizes
addition of $165,000 to continue the coverage of criminal background checks for HCV
participants, and Live-In-Aids at admission, biennial reexaminations, at receipt of Request for
Tenancy Approval, and moves. In April 2011, CHA HCV Program will start performing
background checks for participating landlords. Before the end of the option year, the HCV
Program will seek to competitively procure a vendor to provide background and credit checks.
RESOLUTION NO. 2011-CHA-43
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated March 9, 2011, entitled, “AUTHORIZATION TO EXECUTE
AMENDMENT NO. 4 TO CONTRACT NUMBER 9009 WITH SCREENING
REPORTS, INC. FOR TENANT SCREENING SERVICES FOR THE HCV
PROGRAM”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY

 THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer, or his
designee, to amend Contract No. 9009 with Screening Reports, Inc. to provide
tenant screening services to the HCV Program and increase the Contract by an
amount not to exceed $165,000. The Contract’s new aggregate not-to-exceed
amount will be $828,000.00.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items C1 thru C3 was seconded by Commissioner
and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Hallie Amey
Deverra Beverly
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Myra King
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairman thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted.
There being no further business to come before the Commissioners, upon Motion made,
seconded and carried, the meeting of the Board of Commissioners was adjourned.

s/b:

s/b:

___________________________
Lee Chuc-Gill, Secretary and Custodian and
Keeper of Records

_______________________________
James Reynolds
Chairman

 