Chicago Housing Authority
Board of Commissioners Public Session
March 17, 2015
CHA Corporate Office – 60 E. Van Buren
Name

Question/Comment

Response

1) That was an excellent video but I do have a gripe, me and Joseph
Watkins were there and some residents that lived there helped save the
building. The man who the building is named after built 500 schools in
the south for African Americans, a lot of people don’t know that black
folks had relationships with Jews back then because they were
Holocaust survivors and blacks are Jim Crow survivors. So there was
an agreement between the communities to save the building.
1

Paul McKinley

2) Also, the Section 3 goals are not a part of the development of this
building. We’re asking that the Rosenwald be stopped, they have no
Section 3 businesses and the Alderman gave us an application saying
we must be union, which violates CHA laws. You don’t have to be
union to be Section 3. These are violations of Section 3. You can’t
allow this to go forward. This administration must halt the project.

1) I am here to speak on behalf of Altgeld Gardens concerning the
Agreement with BPI. We have a right to know what the outcome is. I
am interested, will there be a legal settlement on behalf of the MOU
with BPI? As a representative of the community, we have never been
engaged, this is like plantation days.
2

Cheryl
Johnson

2) I want to talk about the Section 3 opportunities that will be coming to
my community, I hope that my organization People for Community
Recovery will be engaged, we have a 35 year history working in this
community. My organization has been ignored. The law says I have a
right to be engaged in economic opportunities in my community. No
more nepotism or favoritism should be happening in a government
agency.

1

1) Your comment has been received.
2) The Section 3 requirements have been established for the
Rosenwald Courts and Flats Project. The Prime Contractor has
met the minimum Section 3 Business Concern subcontracting
requirement with a goal of 10.22% of the overall contract.
In addition, Section 3 Residents and Business Concerns are
not required to have union affiliations to participate in Section 3
Hiring and Subcontracting opportunities with CHA. However, in
the Rosenwald mixed finance transaction involving multiple
funding sources, including City of Chicago Funding, City
requirements of union affiliation to work on this specific project
site are applicable. HUD has recently released newly proposed
Section 3 language in collective bargaining and/or project labor
agreements, which should address this issue.
1) Under the Agreement, CHA is able to proceed with
rehabilitation of Blocks 7 and 8.
2) Your comment has been received.

 3

Tamiko Holt

1) I missed the video but I bet it was nice and quaint. I read the
response you gave me last month concerning the Rosenwald, and it
was pretty nice and it was the same rhetoric that we are always getting,
but I will bring you up to speed. Look at their applications when they
did the outreach for businesses, you don’t see anything being
mentioned about trying to see what Section 3 businesses are in the
area. Is CHA making sure that the money they are putting into this
project is being used towards their interests or is that them putting it in
to demo and they spend the money there and they don’t have to meet
requirements when they start building? The contractors know the grey
areas. Are they putting that money in the demo? That is not hiring a
bunch of people or contracting Section 3 businesses, Section 3
businesses are not versed in that area.
2) As far as BPI, I notice BPI is in Section 8 business. Geatreaux might
have been needed, but we don’t need them in our business anymore.
We don’t need them breaking up our communities anymore.
I have a complaint against CHA and it’s agents at the Rosenwald
including Alderman Dowell and others. They have continued to violate
Section 3. To the greatest extent feasible, people in charge of
Rosenwald have not reached out to the original Section 3 residents. If
it wasn’t for our group there would be no Rosenwald. The Alderman
should not be in charge of who is selected for this project. None of the
indigenous people are at the table. There is too much suffering going
on for these people to fall out of the sky and take our work. What are
you doing to help the original indigenous Section 3 population?

4

Joseph
Watkins

1) The prime vendor for the Rosenwald Courts and Flats
project has included the full scope of work (both demolition and
rehabilitation) in the development of their Section 3 utilization
plan. It should also be noted that the demolition of Rosenwald
is the first portion of the project’s scope, with the rehabilitation
portion to follow, which would also include Section 3
participation.
2) Your comment has been received.

The Section 3 hiring commitments for the Rosenwald Courts
and Flats project are being fulfilled through CHA’s Section 3
Job Opportunities website. The site requires the selfcertification of all applicants and verifies the Section 3 status of
each applicant to ensure individuals are selected in preference
tier order. This is in accordance with CHA’s Section 3 Policy:
“A Prime Contractor must utilize CHA’s hiring system in order
to fill any open Section 3 positions. The hiring system will
automatically filter applicants to the Prime Contractor in order
of preference, per HUD and this policy. The Prime Contractor,
and any Subcontractors with a Section 3 hiring commitment,
must complete their job posting through CHA’s online hiring
system. All new hires will be tracked through CHA’s online
hiring system and all new hires must be secured using this
online system, which is used to assist the CHA to connect
qualified applicants with Prime Contractors and
Subcontractors.”
In addition, CHA has conducted extensive outreach to the
Section 3 community at large to encourage their use of the Job
Opportunities website. The CHA has conducted in-person
trainings at various CHA developments to aide applicants in
using the system and worked in tandem with the LAC and CAC
to ensure that their constituents received training and
assistance with the system.

2

 5

William Word

I am with Hood Construction, a Section 3 business. I hear what
everyone says about the problems, but I have to congratulate CHA
because you have stepped up and you helped us, and we appreciate
that, but still a lot needs to be done. I look forward to being a part of
the Rosenwald contract. There still needs to be considerations for the
Section 3 business entities.

3

Thank you for your comment.

 