Chicago Housing Authority
Board of Commissioners Public Session
Meeting of April 19, 2005
Parkside Apartments, 5670 West Lake Chicago, IL

Residents
Name/Property/

Status

Clara Sanders

Extended Welcome to Commissioners and the General
Public.

Comments noted

Shahshak Levi

Acknowledged Board and CHA staff for outstanding job in
st
1 Quarter 2005. Acknowledged all involved in Working
Group for Taylor Transformation. Submitted document to
Commissioners regarding legal issues on Taylor
Selection Plan.
Representing Jewish Council on Urban Affairs. His
organization was disappointed to learn about the
awarding of CHA Contracts linked to political
th
contributions in the 17 Ward.
Can resident requirements be revised to allow Rockwell
residents a right to return? Maplewood residents would
like to apply for Section 3 jobs. Ms. Baldwin requested
information with regards to Section 3 vacancies available
for Maplewood residents.
Welcomed Commissioners and public to Senior Housing
Central. Acknowledged accomplishments for Seniors and
Senior Buildings under the Transformation Plan and is
supportive of resident leadership goals for family
buildings.
Committed to positive changes in Altgeld. Requesting
support of Property Manager and CHA Board for better
quality of life for Altgeld residents.
Distributed copy of documents to Commissioners
regarding LAC flyer dealing with washer & dryer hook-ups
at Altgeld. Why do Lawndale, Leclaire Courts,
Washington Park, Madden, ABLA, Bridgeport and Horner
equipped for washers and dryers and not Altgeld.
Ceded time to Ms. Johnson

CHA has reviewed and responded to Mr. Levi’s document.

1.
2.

Sidney Hollander
3.

Mary Baldwin
4.

Martha Marshall
5.

Unique Gibson
6.

7.

Question/Comment

Cheryl Johnson
PCR

Donyail Ballard

CHA does not ever award contracts to vendors based on their political
contributions. CHA CEO Terry Peterson is not involved with reviewing or
recommending contractors to the CHA.
All lease-compliant residents who lived in CHA as of 10/1/99 are guaranteed the
right to return to public housing under the Relocation Rights Contract. CHA
residents interested in Section 3 job opportunities should contact CHA’s Human
Resources Department at 312-742-6500.
Comments noted

Comments noted

Please see below

N/A

8.
Barbara Simmons

She is disabled and would like to have access to washer
and dryer in her unit at Altgeld.

Please see below

Martha Boyd

Requested to have card pulled.

N/A

Stacey Lawrence

Due to large number of seniors at Altgeld, washer and
dryer a necessity in their units.

Please see below

9.
10.
11.

1

 Chicago Housing Authority
Board of Commissioners Public Session
Meeting of April 19, 2005
Parkside Apartments, 5670 West Lake Chicago, IL

Laundry Facilities at
Altgeld Gardens

In order to allow all public housing residents access to the same amenities and services, regardless of the development they
live in, individual laundry facilities – washer and dryer hookups – will not be provided in the apartments at Altgeld Gardens
when the rehab work is completed.
The cost to install laundry hookups for every apartment at Altgeld is estimated between $7 million and $9 million – money
which has not been budgeted for this purpose.
The CHA does not typically have laundry hookups inside the individual public housing units at any CHA housing
development (this includes our senior properties, all of which have a laundry facility on-site). According to the CHA lease,
major appliances are not to be hooked up by leaseholders or other unit occupants.
However, the CHA is looking at creating multiple laundry facilities on-site in the Altgeld Gardens development so that all
residents will have laundry services nearby. It is expected that these facilities would be contracted to a laundry services
professional through the procurement process.

2

 