April 19, 2011 Board Meeting
Regular Meeting of the Board of Commissioners

1.

1.
2.
3.

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.

1.
2.

3.

4.

Altgeld Gardens
951 E. 132nd Place
Resolutions
Recommendation to extend contract with MDSTRUM Housing Services, Inc., for the review and
recalculation of the Family Self Sufficiency Program Escrow Accounts.

Tenant Services Committee Report
Recommendation to approve extension of contract with Stateway Associates, LLC to provide
community and supportive services at Park Boulevard.
Authorization to extend contract with The Community Builders for community and supportive
services at Oakwood Shores.
Recommendation to award contract for the assessment of CHA senior residents.
Recommended Awardee: Housing Opportunities Unlimited.

Operations and Facilities Committee Report
Recommendation to award contract for plumbing riser replacement work at Lidia Puchinska
Apartments, 838 N Noble. Recommended Awardee: Burling Builders, Inc.
Recommendation to award contract for ADA/504 conversion work at various scattered sites.
Recommended Awardee: Coleman Development Corporation.
Recommendation to approve four HAP/AHAP contracts with Transformation Housing IV, New
Moms Transformation, Zapata Apartments and Sunnyside Kenmore Apartments.
Request for authorization to substitute Stateway Associates 2A, LLC as the development entity
for the Park Boulevard 2A Rental Redevelopment.
Recommendation to approve a three-month contract extension with Spanish Coalition for
Housing to provide Latino Site offices, marketing, intake and outreach Services for CHA.
Recommendation to approve lease agreement for 10 W. 35th Street, Floor 5, used as the HCV
Southwest Satellite Office.

Finance & Audit Committee Report
Recommendation to approve the Revised 2011 Comprehensive Budget (1st Quarter).
Recommendation to approve a Year 2011 CHA Contribution to the CHA Employees' Retirement
Trust that is in addition to the minimum amount to be actuarially determined by the January 1, 2011
Actuarial Report.
Recommendation to approve the first one-year option of contract with with MK
Communications to provide
communication consulting services.
Recommendation to modify and exercise the first one-year option of contract with MK
Communications for the period of May 18, 2011 through May 17, 2011 and increase the contract’s notto-exceed compensation to provide services for the Find Your Place in Chicago campaign.

 