MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING
OF THE
COMMISSIONERS OF THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
May 20, 2003
The Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority held its Regular Meeting on Tuesday,
May 20, 2003, at 8:30 a.m. at 9141 South Chicago Avenue, in Chicago, Illinois.
The meeting was called to order by the Chairperson, and upon roll call, those present and absent
were as follows:
Present:
Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Mamie Bone
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Lori Healey
Michael Ivers
Sandra Young
Absent:

None

Also present were Terry Peterson, Chief Executive Officer; Gail Niemann, General Counsel;
Chicago Housing Authority Staff Members and the General Public.
There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as
follows:
Terry Peterson, Chief Executive Officer, then presented his monthly report. Mr. Peterson’s
report highlighted the ongoing challenges in rebuilding communities, helping residents become
self sufficient and the ongoing commitment of staff to improve and manage a responsible
relocation process that offers a wide range of housing options for all residents. Mr. Peterson
encouraged the Board’s consideration for the approval of Board items which includes the
renewal of contract with Tom Sullivan for independent monitoring services, the Mixed Finance
Proposal for Rockwell and the Master Development Agreement for ABLA. Mr. Peterson called
the Board’s attention to the award of contract with After School Matters which will provide a
new job training program for teenagers. According to Mr. Peterson, this summer over 200 CHA
kids will acquire job and life skills, as well as tutoring , reading, math and writing skills under
this program.
Mr. Peterson concluded his report by advising the Board that approval of these
items reflects CHA’s continued commitment to improving the lives of all public housing
residents.
The Chairperson then convened the Public Hearing portion of the meeting by inviting residents
and the public at large to address the Board.
Immediately following the Public Hearing portion of the meeting, a Motion was introduced and
seconded to adjourn to Executive Session. The Chairperson announced that pursuant to the
Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2, the Board would adjourn for approximately one (1) hour to
discuss pending, probable or imminent litigation, collective negotiating matters, security and
personnel matters.
The Commissioners subsequently reconvened in Open Session and Chairperson Gilliam
thereupon introduced for approval the Minutes of the Special Teleconference Meeting held on
March 28, 2003 and the Regular Board Meeting held on April 15, 2003. Upon Motion made and
properly seconded, the Minutes for March 28, 2003 and April 15, 2003 were unanimously
approved and accepted as submitted.
The Chairperson thereupon introduced the Resolutions discussed in Executive Session.
1

 An Omnibus Motion to approve the Resolutions for Items 1 thru 3 discussed in Executive
Session was then presented by Commissioner Gates.
(Executive Session Item 1)
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-62
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated May 1, 2003, requesting that the Board of Commissioners
approves the Personnel Action Report for April 2003.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the Personnel Actions for April
2003.

(Executive Session Item 2)
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-63
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed a Board Letter dated May 1, 2003,
entitled, “Authorization to Ratify the Retention of Additional Counsel for and
Expend Funds in the Wallace, et al. v. CHA Litigation,”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

The Board of Commissioners hereby ratifies the retention of Skadden, Arps,
Slate, Meagher and Flom as additional defense counsel for the Wallace litigation
and authorizes the expenditure of up to $750,000 for this firm’s fees and costs in
this case.
This resolution is effective upon its adoption.

(Executive Session Item 3)
WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-64
the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated May 5, 2003,
requesting authorization to enter into a settlement agreement in the matter of
Warren Glodo vs. Chicago Housing Authority, 99 WC 29627 and 99 WC 33669,
and pay a settlement amount of $150,000.

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the General Counsel, or her designee, to
enter into the settlement agreement in the matter of Warren Glodo vs. Chicago
Housing Authority, 99 WC 29627 and 99 WC 33669; and pay a settlement
amount of $150,000.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt the Resolutions for Executive Session Item 1 thru 3 was seconded
by Commissioner Young and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Mamie Bone
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Lori Healey
Michael Ivers
Sandra Young
Nays:

None

The Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried and said Resolutions adopted.
(General Item 1)
In December 2002 the CHA submitted a proposal requesting a $250,000 communicatio ns grant
from the MacArthur Foundatio n to support strategic communication efforts. This grant will be
focused on improving resident outreach and addressing the complexity of providing accurate and
timely information to multiple CHA partners. Additionally, funds will continue to support the
analysis and compilation of data to help inform internal staff and external partners. The
resolution for this item approves acceptance of the MacArthur grant.

2

 RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-65
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated May 14, 2003, entitled, “Recommendation to accept a Grant
Award from and negotiate and enter into a Grant Agreement with the John D. and
Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation for Communication Strategies in the amount
of $250,000”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority hereby
authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to accept a grant award
from and, negotiate and enter into a grant agreement with the John D. and
Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation in an amount of $250,000, to implement the
CHA’s Communication Strategies.

THAT,

The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority, hereby
authorizes that the 2003 CHA budget be revised to reflect the $250,000 grant
award.

Commissioner Lorie Healey, Interim Chairperson of the Finance and Audit Committee, then
presented her monthly report. Per Commissioner Healey, the Finance & Audit Committee held
its regular meeting on Wednesday, May 14 at 1:00 p.m. at the 626 Corporate Office. The
following presentations were made to the Committee by Todd Gomez, Chief Financial Officer,
and his staff: FY2002 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report, FY2003 1st Quarter Financial
Report, Quarterly Grant Update and Treasury Report.
Commissioner Healey then introduced an Omnibus Motion for the adoption of the resolutions for
Items A1 thru A4 discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Finance and
Audit Committee.
(Item A1)
CHA is required by HUD to undergo an annual audit in conformity with Generally Accepted
Auditing Standards, Government Auditing Standards and provisions provided in the Office of
Management and Budget Circular A-133. The audit is used to determine whether the CHA’s
financial data and reports may be relied upon, to confirm that an internal control structure is in
place, to determine that proper policies and procedures are followed and to ensure compliance
with the terms and conditions of grant awards. Accordingly, CHA issued a Request for Proposal
(RFP) for Auditing Services in area newspapers and directly solicited eight M/WBE firms. Two
responses were received and evaluated and were invited for oral presentations. Based on their
experience in auditing governmental agencies and their available resources, it was determined
that Deloitte & Touche would be the best candidate to provide the auditing services. In addition,
Deloitte and Touche has previously provided the Authority with professional auditing services of
the highest quality. Deloitte & Touche proposed fee is an 11% increase over their present fee,
primarily the result of the need to audit two DCCA grants and extra fraud requirements of the
auditing profession. Accordingly, the resolution fo r Item A1 approves award of contract to
Deloitte & Touche.
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-66
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated April 18, 2003,
entitled “Authorization to enter into a Contract with Deloitte & Touche to Provide
Auditing Services.”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into a 2 year contract with three additional one year options with
Deloitte & Touche to provide auditing services to the CHA in an amount not to
exceed $1,102,600 for the two year period subject to Board and (if required) HUD
approval.

(Item A2)
The Chicago Housing Authority anticipates issuing governmental purpose bonds or private
activity revenue bonds, when appropriate, to finance the cost of rehabilitating and/or
redeveloping portions of its public housing portfolio. Because transactions of this nature vary in
size and complexity, and in many cases it is necessary to move quickly to take advantage of
market conditions, it is beneficial to the Authority to have a pre-qualified pool of firms to
3

 provide investment banking services to support the CHA’s redevelopment program. To achieve
this goal, the Authority solicited firms to submit their qualifications to serve as Senior Manager
and/or Co-Manager for private activity and governmental purpose bonds to be issued to finance
multi- family housing development. In accordance with the RFQ, the committee decided to
create two pools: Designated Senior Managers and Eligible Senior or Co-Managers. The RFQ
for Bond Underwriters was advertised in area newspapers and mailed to forty seven (47)
perspective respondents which included seven (7) MBE firms. Of the twenty three responses
received, all were deemed responsive. Accordingly, the resolution for item A2 approves Prequalification of the below mentioned firms.
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-67
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated April 22, 2003, entitled “Approval Of Pre-Qualification Of
Bond Underwriters.”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners approves the pre-qualification of the following
firms to provide bond underwriting services as designated below:
Designated
Senior Managers
Lehman Bros.
Smith Barney
RBC Dain
Rauscher
Bank of America
Loop Capital
SBK Brooks

Eligible Senior
or Co-Managers
UBS
PaineWebber
Merrill Lynch
Newman &
Assoc.
LaSalle Capital
Mkts.
George K. Baum
Berean Capital
Mesirow
Financial
William Blair
A.G. Edwards
Bank One
Griffin, Kubik,
Stephens
MR Beal
Siebert
Brandford
Ramirez & Co.

(Item A3)
The resolution for Item A3 authorizes the Authority to commit and expend non- federal funds in an
amount not-to-exceed $1 million to pay for the documentation and establishment of a TIF Master
Facility. The TIF Master Facility will be a $15,000,000 facility which will allow the City of
Chicago to provide up- front development funds to those mixed finance projects located in TIF
districts that are either (1) not yet established, (2) not yet performing, or (3) do not have excess
funds to provide up- front development loans, thus making it infeasible for the City of Chicago to
provide traditional TIF assistance. FANNIE MAE through the American Communities Fund
(“FANNIE MAE”) and the General Board of Pension and Health Benefits of the United Methodist
Church, will be the lenders. The John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation is the guarantor
of the TIF Master Facility.
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-68
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board letter dated March 26, 2003,
requesting authorization to commit and expend non-federal funds to pay facility
and legal costs of documenting and establishing a TIF Master Facility with Fannie
Mae and the General Board of Pension and Health Benefits of the United
Methodist Church, (guaranteed by the MacArthur Foundation) for the benefit of
various mixed finance development projects:
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
4

 THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Chief Executive Officer, or his
designee, subject to HUD approval, if necessary, to commit and expend General
Fund Dollars up to a maximum amount of $1,000,000 to pay for costs associated
with the documentation and establishment of a TIF Master Facility to provide
financing assistance to various mixed finance development projects included
under the CHA’s Plan for Transformation.

(Item A4)
In order to more effectively manage the retention, disposition and access of CHA records, a new
Interim Policy has been created. This Interim Policy describes CHA’s responsibilities for
retaining, storing, and disposing of official CHA records as required by Federal and State laws
and as is necessary for CHA’s operations. This Interim Policy shall supercede all other Board
approved resolutions for the Interim Records Management Storage and Retrieval Policy and is to
be incorporated into CHA’s operations pending the development of permanent records
management policies and procedures. Accordingly, the resolution for item A4 approves the
Revised Interim Records Management Policy.
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-69
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated April 22, 2003,
entitled “Adoption of the Chicago Housing Authority Interim Records
Management, Storage and Retrieval Policy & Procedures Manual”,
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners approves the Interim Records Management, Storage
and Retrieval Policy & Procedures Manual and authorizes the Chief Executive
Officer or his designee to implement this interim policy.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items A1 thru A4 was seconded by Commissioner
Harris and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Mamie Bone
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Lori Healey
Michael Ivers
Sandra Young
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Finance & Audit Committee report was also accepted in total.
Commissioner Earnest Gates, Chairperson of the Operations & Facilities Committee, then
presented his monthly report. Per Commissioner Gates, the Operations & Facilities Committee
held its regular meeting on Wednesday, May 14 at 1:30 p.m. at the 626 Corporate Office.
Commissioner Gates then introduced an Omnibus Motion for the adoption of the resolutions for
Items B1 through B6 discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Operations
& Facilities Committee.
(Item B1)
Since 1999, the CHA has participated in the City’s Buy-Back Recycling Program through an
Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) to ensure it’s compliance with the City’s recycling
ordinance. The IGA provided for a one- year base period and included four one-year options. In
May 2000, the Board authorized the exercise of the first option year. Although option year-one
of the IGA’s expired in March 2001, the recycling services and provision of materials and
equipment have continued through the present. The CHA has received invoices for option years
two and three, which have been verified, and are each the same as for the services rendered and
materials and equipment provided for option year one. Due to certain difficulties, budgetary
constraints and funding issues, a presentation to the Board requesting authorization to continue
the services for option years two and three was delayed. In February 2003, the Operations’
budgets were revised to accommodate funding this program for the previous two years and the
new fourth option year which has just begun. Accordingly, the resolution for Item B1 ratifies
obligations for Option Years 2 and 3 and approves Option Year 4 of the IGA.
5

 RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-70
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners have reviewed Board Letter dated April 29, 2003,
entitled “Ratification of obligations for option years two and three, and
authorization to exercise option year four of the Intergovernmental Agreement
with the City of Chicago for the Chicago Public Housing Buy-back Recycling
Program ”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute a contract modification to ratify the exercise of option years
two and three of the Intergovernmental Agreement (“IGA”) with the City of
Chicago for the CHA’s Buy-Back Recycling Program in the amount of $534,356
($267,178/year) for the term of April 1, 2001 to March 31, 2003 and to exercise
option year four of the IGA in an amount not-to-exceed $267,178.00 for the term
April 1, 2003 to March 31, 2004 for the continuing participation in the Buy-Back
Recycling Program.

(Item B2)
As part of the Capital Improvement Program for Seniors a contract was awarded to K. R. Miller
Contractors, Inc. for general comprehensive renovations at four (4) senior housing locations,
including the Castleman Apartments. The resolution for Item B2 approves a contract
modification with K.R. Miller as a result of concealed conditions which could not reasonably
have been determined at the time of contract document preparation. The modified scope of
work includes testing of all pre-cast concrete panels, additional injection of epoxy into all
exterior and interior vertical cracks, additional installation of new structural steel surface- mount
angles to secure the existing pre-cast concrete panels and concealment of all such angles with
gypsum board. The newly found excessive deep cracks in the pre-cast concrete panels poses a
present danger to residents, to the public at large and to the structural integrity of the building.
Accordingly, the resolution for Item B3 approves cont ract modification No. G-10 with K.R.
Miller.
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-71
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated May 5, 2003,
entitled “Authorization to execute Modification No. G-10 to Contract No. 9684
with K. R. Miller Contractors, Inc. for additional general renovations at
Castleman Apartments, 4945 n. Sheridan”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute Contract Modification Number G-10 to Contract No. 9684
with K. R. Miller Contractors, Inc. for fixed price of $491,545.26 for additional
necessary repairs at Castleman Apartments, 4945 N. Sheridan, which is one of
four senior buildings being renovated under Contract Number 9684, and new total
fixed price amount of Contract No. 9684 is $30,368,937.59, including all contract
modifications through G-10. The date for completion of the general renovations
at Castleman Apartments is extended 30 day to June 15, 2003.

(Item B3)
The resolution for Item B3 approves submittal of a Mixed Finance Proposal to HUD for the
Rockwell Gardens Phase I-A Off-site redevelopment project. The Rockwell Gardens Phase I-A
represents the first phase of redevelopment within the larger Rockwell Gardens Revitalization
Plan to create 780 new mixed income rental and for-sale housing in the Near West Side
community area. Phase I-A will make 42 units of rental housing available on an off-site parcel
of land that is located one block to the west of Rockwell Gardens. Fourteen units will be setaside as public housing units, 18 units will be tax credit units restricted to households earning
60% or less of area median income, and 10 will be available as market rate apartments. Phase IA will be financed using low income housing tax credits, HOPE VI Revitalization funding, and a
conventional mortgage loan. The financing plan for Phase I-A totals approximately $8 million
and is as follows: CHA will loan up to $2,800,789 in HOPE VI Revitalization funds from the
commitment of $35 million approved by the Board Resolution on October 15, 2002, secured by a
junior mortgage; Tax Credit Equity will provide $4,098,047; and LaSalle Bank, the developer’s
first mortgage lender, will provide $1,097,901.

6

 RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-72
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated May 1, 2003,
requesting authorization to submit a Mixed Finance Proposal to the U.S.
Department of Housing and Urban Development for the Rockwell Gardens Phase
I-A off-site redevelopment project and execute other documents as may be
required to implement the foregoing.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

The Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to submit a Mixed Finance Proposal to the U.S. Department of Housing
and Urban Development for the Rockwell Gardens Phase I-A off-site
redevelopment project and, subject to any necessary HUD approvals, to execute
such documents and take such actions as may be necessary or appropriate to
implement the foregoing, including but not limited to, entering into loan
documents, the regulatory and operating agreement, and an ACC amendment, and
to approve any final changes to such documents.

(Item B4)
The resolution for Item B4 approves a Master Development Agreement with LR ABLA LLC for
the Mixed Income Redevelopment of ABLA. The Master Development Agreement calls for the
development of a mixed- income community of approximately 2,441 units, including 755 public
housing rental units, 720 affordable housing units and 966 market-rate units. Of the 720
affordable housing units, it is contemplated that 335 will be rental units and 385 will be
homeownership units, with 50 of those affordable homeownership units priced at ranges to be
affordable to existing CHA families. Under the Agreement, the Developer will be responsible for
certain planning and predevelopment activities, assembling financing, construction, and
managing the development process. The CHA and Receiver are committing an amount not to
exceed $44 million in funding under the Development Agreement, consisting of 1996 and 1998
HOPE VI Revitalization Grant funds. The redevelopment of ABLA Homes will be implemented
in six separate phases, with the first phase beginning construction in spring 2004.
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-73
WHEREAS: the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated April 18, 2003,
requesting authorization to enter into a Master Development Agreement with LR
ABLA LLC for the mixed- income redevelopment of ABLA Homes.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT:

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorize s the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into, on behalf of the Authority, a Master Development
Agreement with Daniel E. Levin and the Habitat Company LLC, the courtappointed Gautreaux Receiver (“Receiver”) and LR ABLA LLC (“Developer”)
for the mixed- income redeve lopment of ABLA Homes for an amount not to
exceed $44 million, subject to HUD approval.

(Item B5)
In accordance with the Plan For Transformation, the Authority is preparing to acquire off-site
replacement housing pursuant to the projected 2003 unit delivery schedule. Accordingly, the
resolution for Item B5 approves the purchase of two new units in the One South Leavitt Housing
Development for the price of $235,000.00 which is below HUD’s total development cost limits.
The One South Leavitt Development is a 34- unit market rate income development located at
Madison and Leavitt Avenues on the Near West Side of Chicago. The anticipated unit delivery
date is fourth quarter 2003.
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-74
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated April 20, 2003,
entitled “Request for authorization to purchase two new units of replacement
housing in the One South Leavitt Housing Development”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAOG HOUISNG AUHTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chicago Housing Authority, through
the Gautreaux Receiver, to purchase two one-bedroom condominium units of
housing in the One South Leavitt Housing Development from Pattison and
Associates, LLC., subject to HUD approval, and any other necessary approvals,
for an amount not to exceed $235,000 (including payment of any necessary
7

 Gautreaux receiver fees and costs).
The Chief Executive Officer or its designee is authorized to take such actions and
execute such leases, deeds, or other documents, and to make such submissions to
HUD, as it determines are necessary or advisable for closing the above
transactions and complying with applicable court orders in connection therewith
(Item B6)
The resolution for Item B6 approves a design change (attached) for the official corporate seal
and insignia of the Chicago Housing Authority (CHA), and authorizes the CHA to make a
trademark application of the new design. The new proposed corporate seal illustrates a vision of
change consistent with the Plan for Transformation. The new seal, represents the vibrancy and
modernization of today’s CHA, along with our new mantra, CHANGE. The original design for
the new proposed seal was created exclusively for the CHA by the Leo Burnett Advertising
agency as a pro bono project .
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-75
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated April 25, 2003, entitled “Approval of New Design for The
CHA Corporate Seal.”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

The Board of Commissioners approves the new design (attached), adopt the
design as the CHA’s official corporate seal and insignia and authorize the CHA to
make a trademark application of the new design.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items B1 through B6 was seconded by
Commissioner Harris and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Mamie Bone
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Lori Healey
Michael Ivers
Sandra Young

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Operations & Facilities Committee report was also accepted in
total.
Commissioner Sandra Young, Chairperson of the Tenant Services Committee, then presented her
monthly report. Per Commissioner Young, the Tenant Services Committee held its regular
meeting on Wednesday, May 14, 2003 at 1:00 p.m. at the 626 Corporate Office.
(Item C1)
Under the provision of the CHA Leaseholder Housing Choice and Relocation Rights Contract ,
the CHA is responsible for the employment of an independent auditor to ensure monitoring and
tracking of the relocation process. In 2002, Tom Sullivan, an attorney from the law firm of
Jenner & Block, was the independent monitor for Phase II Relocation. Both the CHA and CAC
agree that monitoring of the phase III relocation should be performed by Mr. Sullivan and
several of his staff from Jenner & Block. Mr. Sullivan has extensive experience in dealing with
issues of this importance. Accordingly, the resolution for Item C1 approves award of contract to
Mr. Sullivan for the remainder of FY2003. As monitor, Mr. Sullivan, will be responsible for
reviewing CHA’s contractual obligation to residents in the relocation process by reviewing
Phase III of the relocation process, determining how effectively CHA is implementing the
Contract, and whether CHA effectively addresses instances of undue hardship experienced by
residents.
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-76
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated May 1, 2003, titled
“Authorization to enter into a contract with Thomas P. Sullivan, Attorney, Jenner
& Block, for Relocation Monitoring Services;”
8

 THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into an eight (8) month consulting contract with Thomas P.
Sullivan, Attorney, Jenner and Block, in an amount not to exceed $520,000.

(Item C2)
Although the Authority no longer directly provides social services to its residents, it wanted to
ensure that services were available this summer to provide a summer pre- internship employment
training opportunities program for its young adult population. In previous years, the City of
Chicago’s Mayor’s Office of Workforce Development has provided the administration for these
services. The City of Chicago is now utilizing the services of After School Matters to administer
the program and to provide a summer pre- internship employment training program. After
School Matters will competitively secure pre-internship employment training providers. The
Program is scheduled to run from July 7, 2003, through August 15, 2003, for five days per week,
four hours per day and will serve approximately 220 fourteen and fifteen-year-old teenage CHA
residents. Participants will receive instruction in basic academic skills including reading, writing
and math. Participants will also receive instruction on how to complete an employment
application, prepare a resume and how to go on a job interview. In addition, the participants will
receive training on personal life skills such as shopping, budgeting and banking. Each
participant will receive a $400.00 stipend. Accordingly, the resolution for Item C2 approves
contract award to After School Matters.

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2003–CHA–77
the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has
reviewed the Board Letter dated May 5, 2003, entitled “Authorization To
Enter Into An Agreement With After School Matters, a 501(c)(3) Not For
Profit Corporation, To Provide A Summer Pre-Internship Employment
Training Program For Fourteen and Fifteen Year Old CHA Residents.”

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
Designee to enter into a contract with After School Matters, a 501 (c)(3)
not for profit corporation, to provide a summer pre-internship employment
training program for fourteen and fifteen year old CHA residents for the
period of July 7, 2003, through August 15, 2003, for a total amount not to
exceed $271,820.00.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items C1 and C2 was seconded by Commissioner
Harris and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Mamie Bone
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Lori Healey
Michael Ivers
Sandra Young

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted.
There being no further business to come before the Commissioners, upon Motion made,
seconded and carried, the meeting of the Board of Commissioners was adjourned.
S/B:
S/B:

Lee Gill, Custodian and
Keeper of Records

9

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Chairperson

 