June 16, 2015

Item No. 14
RESOLUTION NO. 2015-CHA-58

WHEREAS,

Michael R. Merchant, after faithfully serving the Chicago Housing Authority, tendered his resignation
as Chief Executive Officer of the Chicago Housing Authority effective as of the end of the day on July
2, 2015 but will serve in an advisory capacity to the Acting Chief Executive Officer from June 17,
2015 until July 2, 2015.

WHEREAS,

the Board of Commissioners has accepted the resignation of Michael R. Merchant as Chief Executive
Officer of the Chicago Housing Authority and all authority of such position granted to him as such will
be rescinded, as of the close of business on June 16, 2015;

WHEREAS,

The position of Acting Chief Executive Officer of the Chicago Housing Authority has been offered to
Eugene E. Jones Jr.; and

WHEREAS,

Eugene E. Jones Jr. has agreed to serve as such Acting Chief Executive Officer of the Chicago Housing
Authority until the appointment of the Chief Executive Officer position has been made;

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

Eugene E. Jones, Jr. is hereby appointed Acting Chief Executive Officer of the Chicago Housing
Authority effective June 17, 2015, until such time as a permanent Chief Executive Officer is appointed
by this Board. Eugene E. Jones will continue to be an at-will employee and will be evaluated through a
performance review after six months as Acting Chief Executive Officer. Eugene E. Jones, Jr. is hereby
granted supervisory and management responsibility over all Chicago Housing Authority operations,
programs and activities, all to be exercised in accordance with the approved policies and procedures of
the Chicago Housing Authority.

THAT

Eugene E. Jones, Jr. shall have the following authority in his capacity as Acting Chief Executive Officer:

THAT

1)

Signature authority to execute, including but not limited to, bonds, leases, mortgages, contracts,
grant applications, grants, correspondence, payroll and operations/bank drafts, transfers of funds
and other legal and official documents necessary for the operation of the Chicago Housing
Authority; and

2)

Delegation authority to appoint appropriate Chicago Housing Authority employees as designees to
sign contracts, bonds, leases, mortgages, grant applications, grants, correspondence, payroll,
operations/bank drafts, transfers of funds and other legal and official documents as he deems
necessary for the efficient operation of the Chicago Housing Authority.

Effective June 17, 2015, all financial institutions are requested and directed to honor checks, drafts,
and/or other payment orders that bear the facsimile signature of Eugene E. Jones, Jr. without regard to
whom or by what means the actual or purported facsimile signature(s) thereon may have been affixed
thereto, if such signature(s) resemble(s) the facsimile specimen(s) of such signature(s) certified to and
filed with the financial institution by or on behalf of the Chicago Housing Authority.

60 East Van Buren, 12th Floor · Chicago, Illinois 60605 · (312) 913-7282 · www.thecha.org

 