Port

Technology Committee Report
July 19, 2018

Good morning Mr. Chairman and fellow board members. The Technology Committee met
on Thursday, July 19, and I have a few items to report to the Board today.

1. There were two resolutions reviewed by the Committee.

First, Mr. Devlin presented a resolution seeking authorization to Extend and
Amend Agreements with a Pool of Firms to Provide Information Technology
Consulting Services.

oThe agreements are with various firms to provide consulting services for
technology project-based initiatives on an as-needed, work order, basis.

oThe initial 3 year term of agreements expires on September 30, 2018.

oThe agreements include an option for up to two 1-year extensions that
may be exercised at the sole discretion of the Authority.

oThe Technology Committee recommends exercising the first one?year
option, extending the agreements until September 30, 2019, and
increasing the previously authorized total not-to-exceed amount of the
agreements by $2,573,000.

My fellow members, I respectfully request that the Board approve this
resolution.

Mr. Cetra then presented a resolution for Authorization to Enter into a Limited
Access Tunnel License Agreement with Pittsburgh SMSA Limited Partnership
d/b/a Verizon Wireless, for a Multicarrier Distributed Antenna System.

oThis resolution will allow for cell phone and wireless data services in the
underground tunnels of the Downtown Business District and the North
Shore for service for our patrons and for the Authority.

oVerizon Wireless will be the lead carrier for a multi-carrier system.

oWhen completed, Verizon, and any other carrier who joins the system,

will pay a licensing fee to the Authority of $25,000 per year, with annual
increases.

Page 1

Port

Technology Committee Report
h?y19,2018


.
4-. 

oAdditional material terms of the agreement are set forth in Exhibit A to
this resolution.

oThis resolution is also subject to approval by the FTA due to the federal
interest in the stations and tunnels.

My fellow members, I respectfully request that the Board approve this
resolution.

2. Next, Mr. Devlin provided an update on the fare collection software upgrade, new
ticket vending machines that will be installed later this year, and the progress
towards releasing an RFP for a mobile ticketing app, with plans for a pilot program in
late spring of 2019.

3. Finally, Mr. Brandolph discussed the new website that is in development and nearing
a soft launch in August and September of this year.

Unless there are questions, that concludes my report.

Thank you.

Page 2

