MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING
OF THE
COMMISSIONERS OF THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
February 21, 2012
The Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority held its Regular Meeting of the Board of
Commissioners on Tuesday, February 21, 2012 at approximately 8:50 a.m. at the Charles Hayes
Family Investment Center located at 4859 South Wabash in Chicago, IL.
Chairwoman Z. Scott called the meeting to order and upon roll call, those present and absent
were as follows:
Present:
Deverra Beverly
Mark Cozzi
Dr. Mildred Harris
Myra King
Carlos Ponce
Bridget Reidy
Z. Scott
Sandra Young
Absent:

Adela Cepeda

Also present were Charles Woodyard, Chief Executive Officer; Kris Warren, Chief of Staff; Bill
Preston, Deputy General Counsel; Chicago Housing Authority Staff Members and the General
Public.
There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as
follows:
Upon Motion made and properly seconded, the Commissioners adjourned to Executive Session.
Chairwoman Scott, announced that pursuant to the Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2, the Board
would adjourn for approximately one hour to possibly discuss pending, probable or imminent
litigation, personnel related matters, collective negotiating matters, purchase sale and lease of
real estate property; establishment of reserves and settlement of claims.
The Commissioners subsequently reconvened in Open Session and Chairwoman Scott thereupon
convened the Business and Public portion of the meeting.
On behalf of the Board of Commissioners, Chairwoman Scott congratulated and welcomed back
Carlos Ponce on his recent reappointment as Commissioner to the CHA Board. Commissioner
Ponce’s appointment was approved by the City Council on January 18th and his term will expire
on July 7, 2015. Commissioner Ponce is a member of the Tenant Services Committee and also a
member of the Finance and Audit Committee.
Upon Motion made by Commissioner Ponce and properly seconded by Commissioner Harris, the
Executive Session Meeting Minutes and Regular Board Meeting Minutes for January 17, 2012
were approved. Due to her absence at the January 17th meetings, Commissioner Reidy abstained
from voting on the approval of the minutes.
Commissioner Ponce then presented an Omnibus Motion for adoption of the Resolutions for
Executive Session Items 1 and 2.
(Executive Session Item No. 1)
RESOLUTION NO. 2012-CHA-7
WHEREAS,
the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated
February 21, 2012 requesting authorization 1) Enter into a Purchase and
Sales Agreement with Norfolk Southern Railway Company; 2) Submit a
Disposition application to HUD for CHA land commonly referred to as
the vacant site at or near 525-537 West 56th Place, and the multi-family
1

 buildings located at or near 501-539, West 58th Street, 400-414A West
57th Place, 401-15 West 57th Place, 400-430 West 57th Place, and 401-31
West 57th Street, Chicago, Illinois (the “CHA Land”) by negotiated sale;
3) dispose of the CHA Land by negotiated sale pursuant to the Purchase
and Sale agreement upon HUD approval of the Disposition application; 4)
Enter into a Hiring Agreement with Norfolk Southern Railway; and 5)
Execute and deliver such other documents and perform such actions as
may be necessary or appropriate to implement the foregoing
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to 1) Enter into a Purchase and Sales Agreement with Norfolk
Southern Railway Company; 2) Submit a Disposition application to HUD
of CHA land commonly referred to as the vacant site at or near 525-537
West 56th Place, and the multi-family buildings located at or near 501-539
West 58th Street, 400-414A West 57th Place, 401-15 West 57th Place, 400430 West 57th Place, and 401-31 West 57th Street, Chicago, Illinois (the
“CHA Land”) by negotiated sale; 3) dispose of the CHA Land by
negotiated sale pursuant to the Purchase and Sale agreement upon HUD
approval of the Disposition application; 4) Enter into a Hiring Agreement
with Norfolk Southern Railway; and 5) Execute and deliver such other
documents and perform such actions as may be necessary or appropriate to
implement the foregoing

(Executive Session Item No. 2)
RESOLUTION NO. 2012-CHA-8
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board letter dated February 15, 2012
requesting approval of: 1) the execution of a purchase agreement for vacant land
known as 4213 - 4259 S. Cicero to be included in the redevelopment of the former
LeClaire Courts site; 2) submission of an acquisition package to HUD; and 3) the
Chief Executive Officer or his designee’s execution of such other documents as
necessary to implement the foregoing.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves: 1) the Purchase Agreement in an
amount of $3,336,930 for vacant land known as 4213-4259 S. Cicero Avenue to
be included in the redevelopment of the former LeClaire Courts site and other
related closing costs in an amount not to exceed $108,450; 2) the submission an
acquisition package to HUD; and 3) authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute such other documents as may be necessary to implement the
foregoing.

The Motion to adopt resolution for Executive Session Items 1 and 2 was seconded by Commissioner
Reidy and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Deverra Beverly
Mark Cozzi
Dr. Mildred Harris
Myra King
Carlos Ponce
Bridget Reidy
Z. Scott
Sandra Young
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, Chairwoman Scott thereupon declared said Motion
carried and said resolutions adopted.
Commissioner Sandra Young, Chairperson of the Tenant Services Committee, then presented the
following report. Per Commissioner Young, the Tenant Services Committee held its regular
monthly meeting on Wednesday, February 15, 2012 at the 60 East Van Buren Corporate Offices.

2

 Commissioner Young then presented a Motion for adoption of the Resolution for Item A1:
(Item A1)
The resolution for Item A1 approves the first one-year option of Contract No. 1100 with Illinois
Action For Children (IAFC) to provide parent education and enhanced child care resource and
referral services for CHA families. As the only agency funded by the State of Illinois to
administer the Child Care Assistance Program for Cook County, IAFC manages and maintains
an extensive database of childcare and early education programs. Therefore, CHA has
contracted with IAFC since 2007 to provide a childcare referral program specifically for CHA
residents. As the Admissions and Continued Occupancy Policy’s (ACOP) work-requirement
increased to 20 hours per week in FY2010, accessibility to childcare became an increased need
for these families. In 2011 IAFC completed 412 enhanced referrals and over 2,030 families have
been provided information on available services. In addition, IAFC initiated a parent
development program for CHA residents. Participating parents engaged in a series of ten
sessions focused on topics including, but not limited to, child development, parent-child
relationship building, effective communication with children, and cultural learning opportunities
for children. In 2012, IAFC will continue to provide enhanced child care referral services and
parent development programs. Resident Services will likely modify this agreement in the future
as CHA continues to redefine future plans.
RESOLUTION NO. 2012-CHA-9
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated February 15, 2012, entitled, “AUTHORIZATION TO
EXERCISE THE FIRST ONE YEAR OPTION OF CONTRACT NUMBER
1100 WITH ILLINOIS ACTION FOR CHILDREN TO PROVIDE PARENT
EDUCATION AND ENHANCED CHILD CARE RESOURCE AND
REFERRAL SERVICES FOR CHA FAMILIES”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to exercise the first one-year option of Contract No. 1100 with Illinois
Action for Children for the period of March 1, 2012 through February 28, 2013 in
an amount not-to-exceed $330,000 to provide enhanced children resources and
referral services for CHA families.

The Motion to adopt resolution for Item A1 was seconded by Commissioner Harris and the voting
was as follows:
Ayes:
Deverra Beverly
Mark Cozzi
Dr. Mildred Harris
Myra King
Carlos Ponce
Bridget Reidy
Z. Scott
Sandra Young
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, Chairwoman Scott thereupon declared said Motion
carried and said resolution adopted.
Commissioner Bridget Reidy, Chairwoman of the Operations and Facilities Committee, then
presented her report. Per Commissioner Reidy, the Operations and Facilities Committee meeting
was held on Wednesday, February 15 at approximately 1:55 p.m. at the 60 East Van Buren
Corporate Offices.
Commissioner Reidy then presented an Omnibus Motion for adoption of the following
resolutions discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Operations and
Facilities Committee:
(Item B2)
The resolution for Item B2 approves submittal of a Mixed-Finance Proposal, Evidentiaries and
Disposition Application to HUD for the Lakefront Phase II Rental Development. Lakefront
Phase II is the final phase of redevelopment of Lakefront Properties, a site formerly comprised of
3

 four public housing high-rise buildings with a total of 604 units. The redevelopment is bounded
by 40th Street on the North, 42nd Place on the South, Lake Park Avenue on the West and the
Metra railway line on the East. A master plan was accepted by the CHA Board of
Commissioners in January 2002 to build Lake Park Crescent, a new mixed-income
redevelopment in the Oakland community area on the south side of Chicago. When completed,
the new development will house a total of 485 units including 120 public housing units. The
developer of Lake Park Crescent Phase I constructed the first 216 units, of which 148 rental units
were completed in 2005, and the 68 remaining units in Phase IA For Sale were completed in
2008. CHA has received a total of 73 public housing units in Phase I and Phase IA. The
developer of the Phase II site will construct the remaining 269 units including 132 units of mixed
income rental housing and 137 units of for sale housing. Davis Lakefront LLC is the master
developer of the Lakefront Properties Phase II development and Davis Associates Managers
LLC is the sponsor. The Phase II Rental development will be owned by Lakefront Phase II, LLC.
Lakefront Phase II, LLC is comprised of Lakefront Phase II Manager, LLC as the Managing
Member and Centerline Investor LP III, LLC as the Investor Member. The investor member will
own 99.98% of Lakefront Phase II, LLC. At the closing for this transaction, the CHA Ground
Lease will initially be entered into between CHA and Stateway Community Partners, a 501(c)(3)
service provider and non-profit member of Lakefront Phase II, LLC. Simultaneously at the
closing, the Ground Lease will be assigned by Stateway Community Partners to Lakefront Phase
II, LLC, the Owner Entity for the rental development. Thereafter, Lakefront Phase II, LLC will
assume all responsibilities, obligations and rights as tenant under the Ground Lease. The total
development budget of the residential portion of this Phase II will be approximately $50,909,100
and is expected to be funded by CHA Capital Funds, tax credit equity, donation tax credits,
DCEO Grant Funds, City of Chicago Home Loan and the U.S. Bank.

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2012-CHA-10
the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated,
February 15, 2012 requesting authorization to: 1) Submit a MixedFinance Proposal, Evidentiaries, and Disposition Application to the United
States Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD);
2)
Commit up to $15,500,000 Chicago Housing Authority (CHA) funds to
the Lakefront Phase II Rental development; 3) Execute an initial Ground
Lease with Stateway Community Partners for the Lakefront Properties
land comprising the Phase II rental site; and 4) Execute and deliver such
other documents and perform such actions as may be necessary or
appropriate to implement the foregoing.

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to: 1) Submit a Mixed-Finance Proposal, Evidentiaries, and
Disposition Application to the United States Department of Housing and
Urban Development (HUD); 2) Commit up to $15,500,000 of Chicago
Housing Authority (CHA) funds to the Lakefront Phase II Rental
development; 3) Execute an initial Ground Lease with Stateway
Community Partners for the Lakefront Properties land comprising the
Phase II rental site; and 4) Execute and deliver such other documents and
perform such actions as may be necessary or appropriate to implement the
foregoing.

(Item B3)
The resolution for Item B3 is related to Item B2. This resolution approves contract award to
Davis Lakefront LLC for Environmental Remediation and extraordinary site work activities at
the Lakefront Phase II Rental Development Site. As part of the construction preparation for the
Lakefront Phase II Rental development, a number of environmental investigation studies were
completed for the CHA-owned land. These studies have identified certain environmental
contaminants on the site that can be effectively remediated with an “engineered barrier”
approach. This approach is the preferred method because it is the least costly and is also
acceptable to the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency. This is the approach that was used
on the first two phases of construction at the Lake Park Crescent Phase 1 Rental and Phase I ForSale developments which are interspersed within the proposed Lakefront Phase II Rental
development. The estimated remediation cost for the Lakefront Phase II Rental site is $1,366,047
and CHA’s contractual responsibility, pursuant to the MDA, for remediating foreseen and
unforeseen environmental conditions is capped at 200% of the estimated total remediation cost
and equals $2,732,095. In addition to the remediation that is often required in developing
4

 property in established urban environments, the Lakefront Phase II site has a number of site
preparation challenges not present at other CHA development locations that is being referenced
herein as “extraordinary site work”. The most notable is soil above the level of the streets known
as a crown. In many areas of the Phase II site, the crown is three to five feet above the level of
the street. This will require additional excavation work to remove and properly dispose of the
excess soil. Also, to allay safety concerns, an existing chain link fence separating the CHA
property from the Metra tracks near the development site is being extended. Lastly, certain other
site work features of the undeveloped portions of the site are being completed to facilitate the
overall site development and work necessary for the current construction phase.
RESOLUTION NO. 2012 CHA-11
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated February 15,
2012 requesting authorization to enter into a contract for environmental
remediation and extraordinary site work activities with Davis Lakefront LLC, the
Developer, for a total contract amount not to exceed $5,750,318 (which represents
200% of the estimated remediation amount, and extraordinary site work costs
including a 15% contingency) for the Lakefront Phase II Rental Development
Site. The term of the Remediation and Site Work Agreement shall commence at
closing and expire the earlier of (i) receipt of a “No Further Remediation” letter
from the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency or (ii) two (2) years, subject to
a one (1) year extension at CHA’s election.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into a Remediation and Site Work Agreement with Davis
Lakefront LLC, the developer, for environmental remediation and extraordinary
site work activities at the Lakefront Phase II Rental development site, for a total
contract amount not to exceed $5,750,318 (which represents 200% of the
estimated remediation cost for the Lakefront Phase II Rental Development site,
the additional extraordinary site work, and a 15% contingency). The term of the
Remediation and Site Work Agreement shall commence at closing and expire the
earlier of (i) receipt of a “No Further Remediation” letter from the Illinois
Environmental Protection Agency or (ii) two (2) years, subject to a one (1) year
extension at CHA’s election. The contingency will only be used as necessary

(Item B5)
The resolution for Item B5 approves a Master Development Agreement with BMC-1 LLC (a
Brinshore-Michaels Development Entity) for the Washington Park Revitalization of the 45th &
Cottage Grove Avenue site. This Washington Park redevelopment project is located on the
footprint where two former CHA high-rises once stood and nearby city owned vacant land. The
CHA parcel is bounded by 44th street to the north, Evans Street to the west, 45th street to the
south and Cottage Grove Avenue to the east. The City parcels are generally on Langley between
43rd Street and 44th Street with additional lots on 44th Street; between Langley and Evans. The
development team of Brinshore-Michaels was selected through a competitive selection process
by the Washington Park Working Group and approved by the Board in February of 2011.
Brinshore-Michaels presented a bold two-phase redevelopment plan for the site that fused
contemporary and traditional architectural elements. The plan also aims to invite retail and
residential users to the site and furnish this important parcel with multiple public and private
uses. Brinshore-Michaels has selected the design team of Johnson & Lee Architects (building
design/planner), Hartshorne Plunkard Architecture (building design/planner) and Site Design
Group (landscape), a strong collaborative team of award winning design experts, to articulate
and implement the Washington Park Working Group/CHA’s vision for the 45th and Cottage
Grove site. Finally, Brinshore-Michaels has enlisted the services of Sperry Van Ness LLC, one
of the nation’s fastest growing commercial brokerage firms with a presence in nearly 150 U.S.
markets to spearhead the commercial component of the project. The 2 phases are planned to
produce a total of 155 units including 40 public housing units. The specific transaction details for
each phase will be considered by the Board as the phases are ready to proceed. The plans for the
first phase include a unit mix of 23 public housing, 40 affordable and 26 market rate units for a
total of 89 rental units. This mixed finance project anticipates financing from Low Income
Housing Tax Credit and Donation Tax Credit equity, a private first mortgage, a CHA Loan, City
TIF and HOME funds, FHLB AHP funds, and a deferred developer fee. To help move the
project forward, a standard $959,055.00 CHA Predevelopment Loan for the first phase has been
requested by the developer. The predevelopment loan will not exceed 75% of eligible third party
predevelopment costs consistent with HUD cost control guidelines. The loan will help fund
5

 predevelopment costs that include architectural and engineering design development, technical
reports and surveys, real estate services, preparation of construction documents and permit fees.
After repayment of the first predevelopment loan at the project transaction closing, funds will be
available to make a predevelopment loan for the second phase in the same amount. All
predevelopment funds loaned will be repaid in full at each project’s transaction closing. The
predevelopment budget for the first phase is attached to this resolution.
RESOLUTION NO. 2012-CHA-12
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated February 15,
2012, requesting authorization to enter into with BMC-I LLC (A BrinshoreMichaels development entity): 1) A Master Development Agreement for the
Washington Park revitalization of the 45th and Cottage Grove Avenue site; 2)
Predevelopment Loan Documents; and 3) Execute such other documents as may
be necessary to implement the foregoing.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

The Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to:
1) Enter into a Master Development Agreement with BMC-I LLC (A BrinshoreMichaels development entity) for the Washington Park revitalization of the 45th
and Cottage Grove Avenue site; 2) Execute Predevelopment Loan Documents;
and 3) Execute such other documents as may be necessary to implement the
foregoing.

The Motion to adopt resolutions for Items B2, B3 and B5 was seconded by Commissioner Harris
and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Deverra Beverly
Mark Cozzi
Dr. Mildred Harris
Myra King
Carlos Ponce
Bridget Reidy
Z. Scott
Sandra Young
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, Chairwoman Scott thereupon declared said Motion
carried and said resolutions adopted.
(Item B1)
The CHA has successfully utilized Indefinite Delivery, Indefinite Quantity (IDIQ) task order
contractors throughout the Plan for Transformation. The CHA has determined that the IDIQ
method of contracting is the most cost effective way to accomplish construction work in the
areas of Capital Maintenance, ADA/504 Dwelling and Non-Dwelling retrofits, creation of new
computer labs and the Property Investment Initiative (PII). The IDIQ contracts will allow the
CHA, under the Capital Maintenance Program, to bring its Senior Housing into compliance with
the City of Chicago Life Safety ordinance modified in September of 2011 to extend deadlines to
January 1, 2015. The CHA’s goal is to comply with the ordinance by December of 2013.
Projects will include the evaluation, repair and installation of new components, if necessary, to
2-way communication systems, smoke detectors, elevator recall systems, fire pumps, backup
generators, automatic transfer switches, and fire sprinklers in trash chutes. The Capital
Maintenance Program also entails Scattered Sites maintenance projects. These include
modifications for code compliance, various general building and unit repairs such as window,
roofing, furnace, and air conditioning replacements, and kitchen and bath upgrades.
Accordingly, the CHA advertised Request for Proposal (RFP) in August 2011 for general
contractor services to perform Indefinite Delivery, Indefinite Quantity Task Orders at various
CHA Development locations. The RFP was advertised in area newspapers and on the CHA
website and on BuySpeed Online. Twenty-one firms submitted proposals. Two firms were
deemed non-responsive due to insufficient submittal materials. The remaining nineteen firms
were evaluated and one vendor scored significantly below the cut-off points during the
evaluation process. To distribute work under the contracts, the eighteen General Contractors
(GCs) will receive opportunities to bid on Task Orders via Requests for Services (RFS). Bids
will be judged on the submittal materials and lump sum bid amounts. GCs that do outstanding
6

 work will be identified, and consideration will be given to increasing their maximum capacity
through utilization of the reserve capacity set aside for this purpose. On an as-needed basis, the
CHA’s Contracting Officer may evaluate requests from CCD to adjust the not-to-exceed values
of these well performing vendors. While each firm will have a guaranteed minimum of
$50,000.00, great performance will impact a firm’s ability to be awarded additional tasks beyond
the $1,500,000.00 not-to-exceed amount initially assigned to each contract. Underperforming
firms will not be considered for increases. In addition, the Contracting Officer will have the
discretion to prohibit a vendor from participating in further Task Order opportunities under its
contract should it show a pattern of failing to bid. Each contract will be for an amount not-toexceed $1,500,000.00 and a base term of two (2) years. The CHA may extend these Contracts
for one (1) one-year renewal option, subject to approval by the Board of Commissioners.
Per Commissioner Reidy, Item B1 was deferred for full Board approval so that staff could
provide Committee members with supplemental information related to compliance, monitoring,
security performance, funding and scope of work associated with each task order.
Commissioners were provided with the requested information and were satisfied that due
diligence has been made with regards to this solicitation and its recommended awardees.
Commissioner Reidy then presented a Motion for the approval of Item B1.
RESOLUTION NO. 2012-CHA-13
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated February 15,
2012, entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO EXECUTE INDEFINITE QUANTITY
INDEFINITE DELIVERY TASK ORDER CONTRACTS WITH ALL
CHICAGO, INC., APEX CONSTRUCTION GROUP, BLINDERMAN
CONSTRUCTION CO., INC., BROWN AND MOMEN, INCORPORATED,
COLEMAN DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION, CORDOS DEVELOPMENT
&
ASSOCIATES,
DONE
RITE
CONSTRUCTION
SERVICES,
INCORPORATED, FRIEDLER CONSTRUCTION COMPANY, GIBRALTAR
CONSTRUCTION CO. INC., KOAL ENTERPRISES, INC., MADISON
CONSTRUCTION COMPANY, MAXWELL SERVICES INC., OAKK
CONSTRUCTION CO., INC., OAKLEY CONSTRUCTION CO., INC. , OLD
VETERAN CONSTRUCTION, INC., POWERS & SONS CONSTRUCTION
COMPANY, INC., TROPIC CONSTRUCTION CORPORATION AND
WATERSIDE DEVELOPMENT, LLC FOR GENERAL CONTRACTOR
SERVICES - CHA WIDE”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners (“Board”) authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or
his designee to award eighteen (18) Indefinite Delivery, Indefinite Quantity task
order contracts for general contracting work at various CHA Senior, Family,
Scattered-Site and Non-Dwelling Developments for an aggregate amount not-toexceed $80,000,000.00. Each contract will specify a minimum value of
$50,000.00, a maximum not-to-exceed value of $1,500,000.00, and a base term of
two (2) years plus one (1) one-year renewal option. The CHA may extend these
Contracts for one (1) one-year renewal option, subject to approval by the CHA
Board of Commissioners. The eighteen (18) contractors to be awarded contracts
are as follows:

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9

Recommended Firms
All Chicago, Inc.
Apex Construction Group
Blinderman Construction Co.,
Inc.
Brown and Momen, Incorporated
Coleman Development
Corporation
Cordos Development &
Associates
Done Rite Construction Services,
Incorporated
Friedler Construction Company
Gibraltar Construction Co. Inc.
7

10
11
12

Recommended Firms
Koal Enterprises, Inc.
Madison Construction Company
Maxwell Services Inc.

13
14

Oakk Construction Co., Inc.
Oakley Construction Co., Inc.

15

Old Veteran Construction, Inc.

16

Powers & Sons Construction
Company, Inc.
Tropic Construction Corporation
Waterside Development, LLC

17
18

 The Board further authorizes an additional $53,000,000.00 in reserve capacity to
be utilized at the discretion of the Contracting Officer. The Board authorizes the
Contracting Officer to evaluate requests from the Capital Construction
Department to utilize the reserve capacity funds to adjust the not-to-exceed values
of well performing firms.
These awards are subject to each Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s
MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident hiring, and bonding and insurance
requirements.
The Motion to adopt resolution for Items B1 was seconded by Commissioner Harris and the
voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Deverra Beverly
Mark Cozzi
Dr. Mildred Harris
Myra King
Bridget Reidy
Z. Scott
Sandra Young
Abstention:

Carlos Ponce

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, Chairwoman Scott thereupon declared said Motion
carried and said resolution adopted.
(Item B4)
The resolution for Item B4 approves the form of Lease and Tenant Selection Plan (TSP) for the
Lakefront Properties Phase II and all future on-site and off-site phases (formerly known as
Lakefront Properties). The Lease and TSP have to accommodate various aspects of the multiple
types of tenants and characteristics of a mixed-finance transaction. The property specific
requirements for applicants contained in the Tenant Selection Plan are based on the CHA’s
Minimum TSP (Board approved September 21, 2004). Approval is required at this time to
facilitate the closing of this development transaction. A public comment period was held from
November 3, 2011 through December 5, 2011. A public comment hearing was held on
November 15, 2011 at Lake Park Crescent Midrise. Notice for the 30-day comment period was
published in the Chicago Sun-Times, Chicago Defender, and Hoy newspapers, as well as posted
on the CHA website and on site at the following Office(s): CHA Administrative Office, Central
Advisory Council, Latino Site Offices, HCV Satellite Offices, and Lakefront Properties
Management Office. Consideration will be given to any forthcoming comments prior to
finalizing the documents.
During Committee Meeting, Commissioners requested supplemental information on the Lease
and Tenant Selection Plan for the Lakefront Properties Phase II. Staff provided Commissioners
with a copy of the Tenant Selection Plan (TSP) and future TSPs will be accompanied by an
Executive Summary.
Commissioner Reidy then presented a Motion for the approval of Item B4.
RESOLUTION NO. 2012-CHA-14
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated February 15,
2012, entitled “AUTHORIZATION FOR APPROVAL OF THE LEASE AND
TENANT SELECTION PLAN FOR THE LAKEFRONT PROPERTIES
PHASE II (INCLUDING ALL FUTURE PHASES) AND TO AMEND THE
CHA ADMISSION AND CONTINUED OCCUPANCY POLICY TO
INCORPORATE SUCH DOCUMENTS AS AN ADDENDUM THERETO”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the attached tenant selection plan
and form of lease in substantially the form presented to the Board for the
Lakefront Properties Phase II (including all future phases). The Chairman of the
Board or the Chief Executive Officer is hereby authorized to approve final
changes in these forms, including changes based on HUD requirements, or such
8

 changes, if any, resulting from any applicable notice and comment process. Such
approval shall constitute conclusive evidence of the Board’s approval of any and
all such changes.
The Motion to adopt resolution for Items B4 was seconded by Commissioner Ponce and the
voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Mark Cozzi
Dr. Mildred Harris
Myra King
Carlos Ponce
Bridget Reidy
Z. Scott
Sandra Young
Abstention:

Deverra Beverly
Myra King

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, Chairwoman Scott thereupon declared said Motion
carried and said resolution adopted.
In the absence of Committee Chair Adela Cepeda, Commissioner Carlos Ponce presented the
report for the Finance and Audit Committee. Per Commissioner Ponce, the Finance & Audit
Committee held its regular monthly meeting on Wednesday, February 15, 2012 at the 60 East
Van Buren Corporate Offices at approximately 2:50 p.m.
Commissioner Ponce then presented an Omnibus Motion for adoption of the Resolutions for
Items C1 and C2.
(Item C1)
The resolution for Item B1 approves the Amendment to the FY2012 Moving to Work (MTW)
Annual Plan, Plan For Transformation Year 13. CHA’s continued participation in the MTW
Program is contingent upon adherence to the requirements set out in the Restated Agreement,
which includes submission of an Annual Plan. The document represents CHA's FY2012 MTW
Annual Plan and details CHA’s anticipated activities for FY2012. CHA submitted its FY2012
Moving to Work (MTW) Annual Plan to HUD on October 24, 2011. CHA determined the need
to amend the FY2012 MTW Annual Plan to reflect additional anticipated activity in FY2012.
An Amendment to the FY2012 MTW Annual Plan is necessary to obtain HUD approval for
additional disposition activity and potential redevelopment funding applications for Choice
Neighborhoods or other Federal Notices of Funding Availability (NOFAs) released in FY2012.
Prior to submission of the Amendment to the FY2012 MTW Annual Plan to the Board, a 30-day
public comment period was conducted wherein both residents and the public alike were able to
submit comments orally and in writing, regarding the information contained in the proposed
Amendment to the FY2012 MTW Annual Plan. The public comment period ran from December
29, 2011 through January 30, 2012. During such time, on January 18, 2012, a public comment
hearing was held. Prior to finalizing the Amendment to the FY2012 MTW Annual Plan, CHA
gave consideration to comments received during the public comment period. To this end, CHA
has complied with the requirements of the Restated Agreement and HUD regulations regarding
annual plans. CHA requests that the Board of Commissioners approve the Amendment to the
FY2012 MTW Annual Plan.
RESOLUTION NO. 2012 -CHA-15
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated February 15,
2012 requesting approval of the Amendment to the FY2012 MTW Annual Plan –
Plan for Transformation Year 13, hereto attached.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the Amendment to the FY2012
MTW Annual Plan – Plan for Transformation Year 13.

THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to approve any final changes to the Amendment to the FY2012 MTW
9

 Annual Plan. Such approval shall constitute conclusive evidence of the Board’s
approval of any and all such changes.
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby grants authorization to submit the
Amendment to the FY2012 MTW Annual Plan to the U.S. Department of
Housing and Urban Development.

(Item C2)
The resolution for Item C2 approves the third extension option for Contract No. 8014 with
Integrys Energy Services, Inc. for the supply and delivery of Natural Gas to various CHA
residential sites and facilities. Contract Amendment No. 2 will expire on March 31, 2012. The
Natural Gas Supply and Delivery Agreement offers CHA the opportunity to purchase its natural
gas supply needs at wholesale instead of retail, and enables the CHA to hedge against potential
market price fluctuations through use of multi-tiered price/risk management options. An
extension of the Agreement would allow the CHA to continue to purchase natural gas supplies
from non-retail utility sources and thereby reduce the CHA’s overall gas costs. It is critical that
the CHA continue to reduce its energy costs through gas purchases made under the wellhead
program. CHA’s aggregate natural gas usage in 2011 was 10.59% less than in 2010 and 43.00%
less than in 2008 for the portfolio properties subject to the Agreement, and the respective costs
were approximately 19.44 % and 72.03% less over the same periods. The decreases in the
CHA’s natural gas consumption and costs were primarily due to price/risk management
strategies, building consolidations and closures, and energy-efficient retrofits.
RESOLUTION NO. 2012-CHA-16
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
memorandum dated February 15, 2012 entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO
EXERCISE THE THIRD ONE-YEAR OPTION FOR CONTRACT #8014 WITH
INTEGRYS ENERGY SERVICES, INC. FOR THE SUPPLY OF NATURAL
GAS TO VARIOUS CHA RESIDENTIAL SITES AND FACILITIES”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee execute an amendment exercising the third one-year option extending
Contract #8014 with Integrys Energy Services, Inc., for the supply of natural gas
to various CHA residential sites and facilities for the period of April 1, 2012
through March 31, 2013, in an amount not-to-exceed $4,106,913.

The Motion to adopt resolutions for Items C1 and C2 was seconded by Commissioner Harris and
the voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Deverra Beverly
Mark Cozzi
Dr. Mildred Harris
Myra King
Carlos Ponce
Bridget Reidy
Z. Scott
Sandra Young
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, Chairwoman Scott thereupon declared said Motion
carried and said resolutions adopted.
Chairwoman Scott then invited residents and the public at large to address the Board.
There being no further business to come before the Commissioners, upon Motion made,
seconded and carried, the meeting of the Board of Commissioners was adjourned

s/b:
___________________________
s/b: Lee Chuc-Gill, Custodian and
Keeper of Records
10

_______________________________
Z. Scott
Chairwoman, Chicago Housing Authority

 