MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING
OF THE
COMMISSIONERS OF THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
November 21, 2017
The Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority held its Regular Meeting of the Board of
Commissioners on Tuesday, November 21, 2017, at approximately 9:50 a.m. at the CHA Corporate
Offices located at 60 E. V in Chicago, IL.
Chairman Hooker called the meeting to order and upon roll call those present and absent were as follows:
Present:
Matthew Brewer
Craig Chico
Dr. Mildred Harris
Meghan Harte
John Hooker
Jack Markowski
Cristina Matos
Francine Washington
Absent:

Mark Cozzi

Also present were Eugene Jones, Chief Executive Officer; James Bebley, Chief Legal Officer; Chicago
Housing Authority staff members and the General Public.
There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as follows:
Jack Markowski, Chairman of the Finance & Audit committee, then presented his report. Per
Commissioner Markowski, the Finance & Audit Committee held its regular meeting at 8:40 a.m. today at
the CHA Corporate Offices. Commissioner Markowski chaired the meeting and the following committee
members were present as well: Commissioners Brewer, Harte and Matos. Present also but not counted
for the quorum were Chairman John Hooker, Vice-Chairman Craig Chico and Commissioner Francine
Washington.
(Item 1)
The CHA is required to submit for approval by the Board, a balanced annual Comprehensive Budget
detailing each of its funding sources and the use of budgeted funds. The FY2018 Comprehensive Budget
totaling $1.204 billion includes the following fund categories: MTW Fund: total sources for FY2018 is
$902.9 million. The MTW Fund combines the Low-Rent, Capital and Section 8 programs into a block
grant as allowed by HUD under the Amended and Restated MTW agreement. Total MTW Fund
revenues consist of Housing Assistance Subsidy, Capital Grant Funds, Operating Subsidy, Block Grant,
Dwelling Rental Income, RAD, Interest Income and Other Income. Section 8 Fund (Non-MTW): total
sources for this program is $19.7 million. These contracts provide appropriations for approximately $9.1
million of Mod Rehab vouchers, $10.2 million Veteran’s Affairs Supportive Housing (VASH) vouchers,
and $467.2 thousand Mainstream vouchers for housing assistance based on annual contributions
contracts from HUD. Hope VI Fund: total sources equal $1.1 million. These funds are used for
revitalization and community and supportive services programs. Other Funds. Total sources are $280.5
million. These sources consist of new third-party financing that will be used for capital related work.

 Additionally, other federal and local grants will be used to enhance or augment funding for critical
programs and services that the CHA provides to its residents. Accordingly, the resolution for Item 1
approves the FY2018 Comprehensive Budget.

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2017-CHA-113
the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated November 21, 2017 entitled “Recommendation to Approve the
FY2018 Comprehensive Budget”,

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE
CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

The Board of Commissioners, hereby approves the attached, FY2018
COMPREHENSIVE BUDGET”, and finds with respect to said Budget:
1. That the proposed expenditures are necessary for the efficient and economical
operation of the Chicago Housing Authority for the purpose of serving lowincome families;
2. That the financial plan is reasonable in that it indicates funding sources adequate
to cover all proposed expenditures, and does not provide for use of Federal
funding in excess of that payable under the provisions of the applicable Federal
regulations; and
3. That all proposed rental charges and expenditures will be consistent with
provisions of law and the Annual Contributions Contract in accordance with the
Amended and Restated Moving to Work Demonstration Agreement of the
Chicago Housing Authority with the US Department of Housing and Urban
Development.

THAT,

the Chief Executive Officer or his designee and Chief Finance Officer are authorized to
execute and forward to the US Department of Housing and Urban Development all
necessary budget documents and supporting information when applicable.

(Item 2)
The resolution for Item 2 ratifies the Development Services & Fees Agreement made by and among
Three Corners Development, Inc., Chicago Housing Authority and Chicago Housing Consulting
Services, Inc. for Concord at Sheridan. Concord at Sheridan will be a 7-story new construction mixeduse, mixed-income building with 111 residential units above approximately 136 parking spaces and
approximately 30,000 square feet of ground-level retail space. Concord Commercial, LLC is the
ownership entity for the retail component. In May 2017, the Board approved, that Three Corners
affiliate LLC and an affiliate of the CHA, Forward Communities, LLC, would together own 100% of the
membership interests in Concord Commercial LLC. However, the equity split described will no longer
be implemented. Neither Forward Communities, LLC nor Chicago Housing Authority will have an
interest in Concord Commercial, LLC. As a result of re-evaluation of strategy in connection with
financing capacity coupled with potential operating deficits and likely delays in construction and lease
fulfillment, staff negotiated the Development Services & Fees Agreement which provides for alternative
revenue for CHA and /or its affiliates comprised of $1,000,000 for consulting services and 40% codeveloper fee estimated at $400,000.

 RESOLUTION NO. 2017-CHA-114
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the Board
Letter dated November 21, 2017 entitled “Ratification of Development Services & Fees
Agreement and Affirmation of Such Other Documents and Perform Such Action as May
Be Necessary or Appropriate to Implement the Foregoing”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE
CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

The Board of Commissioners hereby ratifies and affirms that certain Development
Services & Fees Agreement dated on or about October 1, 2017 made by and among Three
Corners Development, Inc., Chicago Housing Authority and Chicago Housing Consulting
Services, Inc., NFP, an Illinois not-for-profit corporation.

(Item 3)
The resolution for Item 3 approves the execution of loan documents in a not to exceed amount of $28
million, in connection with the credit facility agreement between BMO Harris Bank and the CHA and to
use non-federal funds for the repayment of the outstanding Federal Home Loan Bank credit facility loan
in an amount not to exceed $1,850,000. In October 2016, the Board approved a $50 million credit
facility with BMO Harris Bank in order to support residential and community development activities.
Funds were to be accessed only when needed for authorized uses as explicitly approved by the Board.
This facility was used for acquisition financing ($20 million) for Presbyterian Homes. In April 2016,
the Board approved another $20 million credit facility with Federal Home Loan Bank, whereby the
Board authorized CHA borrowing an amount not to exceed $1,982,500 from which $1,850,000 was
utilized for acquisition costs for 19 market-rate condominium units at the Jackson Square at West End
development. Both financings are maturing in December 2017. Accordingly, the resolution for Item No.
3 approves use of non-federal funds to repay the Jackson Square acquisition loan with Federal Home
Loan Bank. The resolution also approves new financing in an amount not to exceed $8 million dollars
in connection with construction activities related to the Altgeld Gardens Community, Childcare and
Library Facility, as bridge financing. This request will accommodate the repayment of the Federal Home
Loan Bank acquisition loan utilizing non-federal funds, refinancing of the acquisition loan for
Presbyterian Homes and construction activities related to the Altgeld Gardens Community, Childcare
and Library facility. The refinancing of Presbyterian Homes and bridge financing for the Altgeld
Gardens Community, Childcare and Library facility are of a short term nature (term not to exceed 2
years with an interest rate not to exceed prime rate).

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2017-CHA-115
the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated November 21, 2017 entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO: 1)
APPROVE BORROWING IN AN AMOUNT NOT TO EXCEED $28 MILLION
DOLLARS FROM THE CHA CREDIT FACILITY AT BMO HARRIS BANK
FOR A TERM NOT TO EXCEED 2 YEARS WITH A RATE NOT TO EXCEED
PRIME RATE; AND 2) USE NON-FEDERAL FUNDS TO REPAY THE
FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANK CREDIT FACILITY.”

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE
CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves borrowing an amount not to exceed
$28 million dollars from the CHA credit facility at BMO Harris Bank for a term not
to exceed 2 years with a rate not to exceed prime rate. The loan proceeds shall be

 utilized as follows: 1) $20 million will be used to refinance the acquisition loan for
Presbyterian Homes; and 2) $8 million will be used as bridge financing for
construction activities related to the Altgeld Gardens Community, Childcare and
Library facility.
The Board of Commissioners further authorizes the repayment of the outstanding
Federal Home Loan Bank acquisition loan in an amount of $1,850,000 utilizing nonfederal funds.
(Item 4 – This Number Not Used)
(Item 5)
Salesforce.com (Salesforce), is the original equipment manufacturer of a cloud-based Customer
Relationship Management software which is currently used by the CHA for the management of its HCV
call center and Resident Services FamilyWorks programs. The current contract with Salesforce expires
on December 31, 2017. After receiving a direct quotation for the software licenses and subscriptions
from Salesforce.com under the CHA’s existing contractual relationship, the CHA published notification
of a Sole Source procurement on its website, in alignment with the Citywide Procurement Reform Task
Force and subsequently advertised an Invitation for Bid in October 2017 to provide Salesforce software
licenses. In November 2017, the CHA received one bid response from Carahsoft Technology Corp.,
which is a Salesforce reseller. Carahsoft’s bid submission price was $43,593 more than price previously
quoted from Salesforce.com for direct acquisition. Accordingly, the resolution for Item 5 approves a
contract with Salesforce.com for a two-year base term, from January 1, 2018 through December 31,
2019, in the total amount of $854,936 to provide software licenses.
RESOLUTION NO. 2017-CHA-116
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the Board
Letter dated November 21, 2017 entitled “Authorization to Enter into a Contract with
Salesforce.com for Software Licenses”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE
CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to
execute a contract with Salesforce.com for a two (2) year base term, effective from
January 1, 2018 through December 31, 2019, in the total not-to-exceed amount of
$854,936, to provide software licenses.
This award is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE/
Section 3 hiring and insurance requirements.

The Motion to adopt resolutions for Items 1 through 5 was seconded by Commissioner Brewer and the
voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Matthew Brewer
Craig Chico
Dr. Mildred Harris
Meghan Harte
John Hooker
Jack Markowski
Cristina Matos

 Francine Washington
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, Chairman Hooker thereupon declared said Motion carried and
said resolutions adopted.
Commissioner Megan Harte, Chairwoman of the Tenant Services Committee then presented her report.
Per Commissioner Harte, the Tenant Services Committee held its monthly meeting earlier today.
Commissioner Harte chaired the meeting and the following committee members were present as well:
Commissioners Harris, Chico and Washington. Although Chairman Hooker and Commissioners Brewer
and Markowski were also present they were not counted toward the quorum. Committee member then
discussed, voted and recommended for approval the items appearing on the agenda.
On behalf of the Tenant Services Committee, Commissioner Harte presented an Omnibus Motion for
approval of Items 6 through 9.
(Item 6)
The resolution for Item 6 approves an Intergovernmental Agreement with the Chicago Park District
(CPD) for a one-year base term from January 1, 2018 through December 31, 2018 to provide year-round
park district programs for CHA youth residents and tenants in an amount not to exceed $550,000. Since
2002, CHA and CPD have collaborated to provide year-round park district programs for CHA youth
who otherwise may not be able to participate due to cost. CPD programs provide youth with ageappropriate activities, while assisting working parents by offering safe and constructive programs for
children during out-of-school time. This IGA offers reduced program fees for CHA youth for year-round
voucher programs (e.g., Park Kids, Summer Camp, Vacation Camps, etc.) and the remaining program
fees are split between CHA and CPD. CHA and CPD will continue to collaborate to bring supplemental
programming to Park Districts near CHA developments (e.g., Windy City Hoops, Counselor in Training
Program, Junior Bears football).

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2017-CHA-117
the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated November 21, 2017 entitled “Authorization to Execute an
Intergovernmental Agreement with the Chicago Park District”.

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE
CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to
execute an Intergovernmental Agreement with the Chicago Park District for a oneyear base term from January 1, 2018 through December 31, 2018 to provide yearround park district programs for Chicago Housing Authority youth residents and
tenants in an amount not to exceed $550,000.

(Item 7)
The resolution for Item 7 approves the execution of a Program Administration Agreement with the
Chicago Department of Family and Support Services (DFSS), Chicago Department of Planning and
Development (DPD) and a third-party administrator which shall be competitively procured by DFSS, for
a three-year base term from January 1, 2018 through December 31, 2020, to administer CHA’s MTW
activity for local program based assistance to help families access and remain stably housed. Further,
this action authorizes CHA to fund the Flexible Housing Subsidy Program in an amount not to exceed

 $800,000 annually in an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,400,000. In 2017 CHA received approval
from the CHA Board and HUD’s Moving To Work Office to implement a local based program activity
which was scheduled to be implemented in 2018. Since that time, CHA has been involved in additional
conversations with the City of Chicago to address coordinated access for people experiencing
homelessness. CHA, in partnership with the City of Chicago and its sister agencies including DFSS and
DPD propose to implement the local program-based assistance, using its single fund flexibility, to help
families access and remain stably housed. This program will be coordinated with the City of Chicago
where CHA’s funding will be pooled to establish the Flexible Housing Subsidy Program to create a
collective solution to housing persons experiencing homelessness. In this coordinated effort, the City of
Chicago will have a greater collective impact in addressing the issue. The Flexible Housing Subsidy
Program will be used to provide assistance for people experiencing homelessness, which may include
bridge rental assistance, move-in fees and deposits, subsidized housing and social service support.

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2017-CHA-118
the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated November 21, 2017 entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO
ENTER INTO A PROGRAM ADMINISTRATION AGREEMENT TO FUND
THE FLEXIBLE HOUSING SUBSIDY PROGRAM”.

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE
CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

The Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to approve execution of a Program Administration Agreement with the
Chicago Department of Family and Support Services (“DFSS”), Chicago
Department of Planning and Development (“DPD”) and a third-party
administrator which shall be competitively procured by DFSS, for a three-year
base term from January 1, 2018 through December 31, 2020, to administer
CHA’s MTW activity for local program based assistance to help families access
and remain stably housed. Further, this action authorizes CHA to fund the
Flexible Housing Subsidy Program in an amount not to exceed $800,000
annually in an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,400,000.

(Item 8)
Resident Services oversees performance-based contracts with FamilyWorks providers; each contract
includes key metrics established based on the demographics of families within their assigned regions.
CHA has administered the FamilyWorks program since 2009 to ensure that residents have access to
comprehensive social service support not otherwise available through the City of Chicago. FamilyWorks
is the cornerstone program by which all CHA sponsored events and programs run through. During the
next contract term, the FamilyWorks service providers will continue providing targeted services to
address individual resident needs. Accordingly, the resolution for Item 8 authorizes the execution of the
third one-year option term with Centers for New Horizons, Inc. in an amount not-to-exceed $1,893,696;
Employment & Employer Services, Inc. in an amount not-to-exceed $5,339,184; Heartland Human Care
Services, Inc. in an amount not-to-exceed $2,538,195; Holsten Human Capital Development in an
amount not-to-exceed $512,962; Metropolitan Family Services in an amount not-to-exceed $3,533,785;
Near West Side Community Development Corporation in an amount not-to-exceed $1,053,538; and
UCAN in an amount not-to-exceed $1,628,640, each for the respective contract periods of January 1,
2018 through December 31, 2018. The Board further authorizes CHA to reallocate individual contract
amounts provided that CHA does not surpass the aggregate not to exceed amount of $16,500,000.

 In 2018, CHA plans to implement the approved MTW activity requiring all residents who are in Safe
Harbor or not compliant with the work requirement to participate in FamilyWorks services. In addition,
five of the seven FamilyWorks agencies will oversee and operate CHA’s Digital Resource Centers.
FamilyWorks providers will also implement CHA’s Summer Youth Employment Program for more than
1,500 CHA youth, which is part of the Mayor’s One Summer Chicago Initiative. Overall more than
9,000 households will have access to services through FamilyWorks, with an average cost of $1,723 per
household.

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2017-CHA-119
the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated November 21, 2017 entitled “RECOMMENDATION TO
AUTHORIZE THE THIRD OPTION YEAR TERM OF FAMILYWORKS
CONTRACTS”.

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE
CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee
to approve execution of the third one-year option term for: 1) Contract No. 11524
with Centers for New Horizons, Inc. (“CNH”) in an amount not-to-exceed
$1,893,696; 2) Contract No. 11525 with Employment & Employer Services, Inc.
(“EES”) in an amount not-to-exceed $5,339,184; 3) Contract No. 11526 with
Heartland Human Care Services, Inc. (“HHCS”) in an amount not-to-exceed
$2,538,195; 4) Contract No. 11527 with Holsten Human Capital Development
(“HHCD”) in an amount not-to-exceed $512,962; 5) Contract No. 11528 with
Metropolitan Family Services (“MFS”) in an amount not-to-exceed $3,533,785; 6)
Contract No. 11529 with Near West Side Community Development Corporation
(“NWS”) in an amount not-to-exceed $1,053,538; and 7) Contract No. 11530 with
UCAN in an amount not-to-exceed $1,628,640, each for the respective contract
periods of January 1, 2018 through December 31, 2018. The Board further authorizes
CHA to reallocate individual contract amounts provided that CHA does not surpass
the aggregate not to exceed amount of $16,500,000. There is one (1) remaining oneyear option term, which shall be subject to future Board authorization.
This award is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s
MBE/WBE/DBE/Section 3 hiring and insurance requirements.

(Item 9)
CHA issued a Request for Proposal in August 2017 requesting qualified firms to provide Family Self
Sufficiency program services for CHA residents. Of the two proposals submitted, the evaluation
committee recommended award of contract to Heartland Human Care Services (HHCS). HHCS
provides a comprehensive array of services in the areas of health, housing, jobs and justice, and leads
state and national policy efforts. Accordingly, the resolution for Item 9 approves award of contract to
HHCS in an aggregate amount of $8,270,381 for a two-year base term and three one-year option terms.
HHCS is also the current service provider for the Family Self Sufficiency (FSS) program, and is
currently a CHA FamilyWorks service provider. FSS program enables participating families to build
financial assets while working toward educational, professional, and personal goals such as: maintaining
employment for 12 months prior to program completion (required of all participants); being free of
welfare assistance (i.e. TANF) (required of all participants); reducing debt/improving credit; earning a
post-secondary education degree or certification. Throughout participation, families work with an FSS
Coordinator to develop and achieve goals specified upon enrollment into the program. FSS

 Coordinators provide referrals and follow-up to resources, direct service and mentoring, and financial
coaching to empower families to make positive life changes.
Participants accrue escrow savings
throughout the program; CHA administers the escrow savings accounts. CHA is approved through HUD
to serve up to 1,250 families in its FSS program. A HUD grant currently provides funding for the wages
and fringe benefits of 15 FSS coordinator positions.
RESOLUTION NO. 2017-CHA-120
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the Board
Letter dated November 21, 2017 entitled “RECOMMENDATION TO ENTER INTO A
CONTRACT WITH HEARTLAND HUMAN CARE SERVICES TO PROVIDE
FAMILY SELF SUFFICIENCY PROGRAM SERVICES”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE
CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to
execute a contract with Heartland Human Care Services in an aggregate amount of
$8,270,381 for a two (2) year base term and three (3) one-year option terms. The Board
delegates authority to the Chief Executive Officer to use his discretion to exercise the
option year terms. Each option term shall only be exercised at the time of the expiration
of the prior contract term, and may only be exercised individually.
This award is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE/
Section 3 hiring and insurance requirements.

The Motion to adopt resolutions for Items 1 through 5 was seconded by Commissioner Chico and the
voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Matthew Brewer
Craig Chico
Dr. Mildred Harris
Meghan Harte
John Hooker
Jack Markowski
Cristina Matos
Francine Washington
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, Chairman Hooker thereupon declared said Motion carried and
said resolutions adopted.
Matthew Brewer, Chairman of the Real Estate Operations Development committee, then presented his
report. Per Commissioner Brewer, the Real Estate Operations Development Committee held its monthly
meeting earlier today. Commissioner Brewer chaired the meeting and the following committee members
were present as well: Commissioners Harte, Markowski and Washington. Although Chairman Hooker
and Commissioners Chico and Harris were also present they were not counted toward the quorum.
Committee member then discussed, voted and recommended for approval the four items appearing on the
agenda.
On behalf of the Real Estate Operations Development committee, Commissioner Brewer presented an
Omnibus Motion for approval of Items 10, 11 and Items 13 through 15.

 (Item 10)
In July 26, 2017, the CHA released a Pre-Qualified Development Team Opportunity Notice of Proposal
for mixed-use/mixed-income development for property located at 2640-2720 North Sheffield and the
adjacent land. The notice invited submissions of proposals for the site from the 21 Pre-Qualified
Development Teams approved under CHA’s PDT Programs. The evaluation team then interviewed the
top two respondents. Based upon the PIRHL team proposal and information provided at the subsequent
interview, the evaluation team recommended PIRHL as the recommended pre-qualified development
partner for the property located at 2640-2720 North Sheffield. Accordingly, the resolution for Item 10
approves the selection of PIRHL Developers, LLC as the Developer for the redevelopment of Edith
Spurlock Sampson Apartments and Annex including adjacent land and to negotiate and enter into a
Development Agreement. Edith Spurlock Sampson Apartments consists of 386 residential rental units.
The entire site is approximately 3.6 acres which includes adjacent land owned by CHA located between
Sheffield Avenue, Lincoln Avenue, Kenmore Avenue and Diversey Parkway. The site is located in a
key transit-oriented area of Lincoln Park, across the street from Jonquil Park and a short walk to the
CTA Diversey Brown/Purple line stop. CHA has received a Commitment to enter into a Housing
Assistance Payment (CHAP) contract under HUD’s Rental Assistance Demonstration (RAD) program
for the conversion of the buildings from public housing to Section 8 Project-Based Vouchers. PIRHL
has developed 37 properties across eight states with an emphasis on affordable housing. They have
partnered with public housing authorities including Baltimore Housing.
RESOLUTION NO. 2017-CHA-121
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated November 21, 2017
entitled “Recommendation to 1) Approve the selection of PIRHL Developers, LLC as the
Developer for the redevelopment of Edith Spurlock Sampson Apartments and Annex
including adjacent land; 2) Negotiate and Enter into a Development Agreement for Edith
Spurlock Sampson Apartments and Annex including adjacent land; and 3) Execute and
deliver such other documents and perform such actions as may be necessary or
appropriate to implement the foregoing.”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE
CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Chief Executive Officer or his designee, is authorized to approve the selection of
PIRHL Developers, LLC as the Developer for the redevelopment of Edith Spurlock
Sampson Apartments and Annex including adjacent land;

THAT,

the Chief Executive Officer, or his designee, is authorized to negotiate and enter into a
Development Agreement for Edith Spurlock Sampson Apartments and Annex including
adjacent land; and

THAT,

the Chief Executive Officer, or his designee, is authorized to execute and deliver such
other documents and perform such actions as may be necessary or appropriate to
implement the foregoing.

(Item 11)
The resolution for Item 11 approves the FY2018 HCV Administrative Plan. The HCV Administrative
Plan provides required information on the rules CHA will follow in the administration of the HCV
Program. The FY2018 HCV Administrative Plan contains updated and minor policy changes as follows
to be consistent with HUD requirements and current practice: expansion of list for addition of household
members; Family Self-Sufficiency Bi-annual Re-examination; Bi-annual Housing Quality Standard

 Inspections; additional Voucher Search Time; elimination of the Restructuring Repayment Agreements;
changes to RAD PBV adoption of provisions from ACOP and changes to selection of PRA Program
Participants. CHA held a 30-day public comment period and two public hearings during the public
comment period. Prior to finalizing the Proposed FY2018 HCV Administrative Plan, CHA gave
consideration to comments received during the public comment period.
RESOLUTION NO. 2017-CHA-122
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated November 21, 2017
requesting approval of the Proposed FY2018 HCV Administrative Plan, attached hereto;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE
CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

The Board of Commissioners hereby approves the Proposed FY2018 HCV
Administrative Plan and grants authorization to the Chief Executive Officer, the Board
Chairperson, or their designee to make any final updates as deemed necessary;

THAT,

This approval of the Proposed FY2018 HCV Administrative Plan supersedes any and all
conflicting language found in prior CHA HCV Administrative Plans;

THAT,

The Board of Commissioners grants authorization to submit the Proposed FY2018 HCV
Administrative Plan to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development upon
Board approval. Such approval shall constitute conclusive evidence of the Board’s
approval of any and all such changes.

(Item 12 – This Number Not Used)
(Item 13)
The resolution for Item No. 13 approves the execution of Agreement to enter into Housing Assistance
Payments (AHAP) contract and a Housing Assistance Payments (HAP) contract for 6145 North
Broadway Apartments, Mark Twain Apartments, Warren Apartments, Clark-Estes Apartments,
Englewood Phase I Apartments, Montclare Veteran’s Village of Roseland, Montclare Senior Residences
of Calumet Heights, Cicero Senior Lofts and Thresholds RAD LLC; 6145 North Broadway
Apartments is a 105-unit, 6-story, mixed-use, new construction, elevator building located in the
Edgewater community in a General Area and across the street from an opportunity area. It consists of
45 studios, 40 one-bedroom, and 20 two-bedroom units with 3,750 square feet of ground floor retail
space. There will be 25 accessible units, and 80 adaptable units of which 24 units will also be for the
sensory impaired. The building will offer 44 parking spaces, a green roof, as well as landscaped outdoor
and community spaces, including a grilling station and fire pit. Building amenities include a community
and meeting room, fitness room, bike room, as well as storage area. PRA will assist up to 21 residential
units – 7 studios, 7 one-bedroom, and 7 two-bedroom units. Tenants are responsible for all utilities. Each
unit will have separate heating and cooling control. Tenants will come from the CHA waitlists. Mark
Twain Apartments is a vintage, 5-story, elevator building and is located at 111 W. Division on the edge
of the Gold Coast historic district in the Near North Side community. Redevelopment is part of the
City’s SRO Preservation initiative. Immediately across the street is an Opportunity Area, which includes
the 390-unit, 35-story luxury apartment Sinclair building which opened in September 2017.The Mark
Twain currently contains 153 units. After redevelopment, 148 studio units will be available with 8
accessible and 8 adaptable units. The ground floor consists of 9,600 square feet of commercial space.
The developer is working to attract new retail businesses that will enhance the community, including
coffee shops, restaurants and smaller retail businesses. Building amenities will include a roof-top deck,
laundry room, community room, computer room with library area, as well as offices for management

 and social services. All utilities will be paid by the building. Vacancies will be filled from the CHA
Waitlist with up to 10 units filled from the State Referral Network. PRA will assist 100% of the studio
units (100%). Warren Apartments is a new construction, 7-story, elevator building located at 1533
West Warren Boulevard and 1542-1554 West Madison Street in the Near West Side community. The
site is located in a General area, in a revitalizing community with excellent access to public
transportation. Warren Apartments will be located adjacent to Heartland’s award-winning property,
Harvest Commons Apartments. Warren Apartments will contain 75-units: 13 studios, 49 one-bedroom
units, and 13 two-bedroom units. Three units will be accessible, 12 units will be adaptable, and 2 units
will be available for persons who are audio or visually impaired. Unit amenities include individually
controlled heating and cooling and Energy Star appliances. PRA will assist up to 25 units (33%): 18
one-bedroom and 7 two-bedroom units.
Tenants will come from CHA waitlists. Clark-Estes
Apartments (CEA) received CHA Board of Commissioner’s preliminary support in May 2017. The
development was awarded Low-Income Housing Tax Credits from the City of Chicago in October 2017.
CEA is a 4-story, new construction, mixed-use development for families in the Rogers Park community
and located on a strong commercial artery surrounded by a thriving residential and business community
with access to public transportation, schools and recreational areas. The site is designated as a General
area and is less than one block from an Opportunity Area. CEA will contain 54 total residential units: 15
studios, 21 one-bedroom, and 18 two-bedroom units. PRA will assist 10 one-bedroom and 5 twobedroom units. Tenants will be identified from the CHA waitlists and up to 7 units from the State
Referral Network. Englewood Phase I Apartments is a new construction, multi-family property
consisting of 8 buildings containing 80 total units across 4 city blocks in the Englewood community.
The development plan includes 20,000 square feet of first-floor retail, a 2,000 square foot community
center, and 50 parking spaces. Englewood Phase I Apartments will consist of 16 one-bedroom, 56 twobedroom, and 8 three-bedroom townhome and apartment-style units. Eight units will be accessible and
2 units will be available for the visually / hearing impaired. PRA rental subsidies will assist 25% of the
units: 4 one-bedroom, 14 two-bedroom, and 2 three-bedroom apartments. Tenants will come from the
CHA Waitlists. Montclare Veteran’s Village of Roseland (MVVR) was awarded 75 VASH vouchers
from HUD as part of a 2016 national competitive process. The CHA Board of Commissioners gave
preliminary approval for the project in July 2016. MVVR was awarded Low-Income Tax Credits from
the City of Chicago in October 2017. MVVR is a 75-unit new construction, 4-story, elevator building,
providing supportive housing services to veterans. The land located in the 107th & Halsted TIF district
will be donated from the City of Chicago to the development and is adjacent to the 111th Station for the
CTA Red Line Extension. MVVR will offer 33 studios, 38 one-bedroom, and 4 two-bedroom units. All
units will be adaptable, with 8 to 16 units accessible, and 2 units available to the audio or visually
impaired. VASH vouchers will assist 75 units (100%). Tenants are identified by the Jesse Brown VA
Center and will receive social services from Featherfist. Tenants will meet VASH requirements.
Montclare Senior Residences of Calumet Heights (MCCH) is a 134-unit, 7-story, new construction
residential property for independent seniors who are 55 years of age and older. The development was
awarded Low-Income Housing Tax Credits from the Illinois Housing Development Authority in October
2017.The development is located in the Stony Island Commercial and Burnside Industrial TIF District.
MCCH will consist of 101 one-bedroom and 33 two-bedroom units. All units will be adaptable, with 14
units accessible, and 3 units for the sensory-impaired. Tenants will be responsible for electric only.
Heat will be included as part of the building expense. PRA rental subsidies will assist 34 one-bedroom
units (25%) and tenants will come from CHA Waitlists. Cicero Senior Lofts is a new construction, 4story elevator, 62-unit building for seniors age 55 years and older in the Garfield Ridge community.
The development is located immediately adjacent to the CHA Le Claire Courts redevelopment area; and
is located in an Opportunity and Gautreaux General area. Cicero Senior Lofts was awarded LowIncome Housing Tax Credits from the City of Chicago in October 2017. Cicero Senior Lofts will offer 8
studio, 46 one-bedroom, and 8 two-bedroom units. All 62 units will be adaptable with 4 units
accessible. PRA rental subsidies will assist 15 one-bedroom units. Tenants will come from CHA
Waitlists. Thresholds RAD LLC, an Illinois limited liability company has submitted applications to the

 HUD to convert Grais, Austin, and Rowen from the Moderate Rehabilitation program tenant protection
vouchers to project-based vouchers (PBV) under the Rental Assistance Demonstration Second
Component program (RAD2). Subject to HUD and CHA approvals, 146 total units in 3 separate
properties will be preserved as affordable housing.
In September, 2017 the CHA Board of Directors
approved acceptance of RAD2 vouchers for the development and the assignment of up to 6 PRA
vouchers to each of the 3 buildings. The RAD2 approval remains in effect. As part of the conversion
process, the three properties under the Thresholds RAD LLC will complete necessary rehabilitation.

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2017-CHA-123
the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated October 17, 2017 entitled “Recommendation to Execute 1)
Agreement to enter into Housing Assistance Payments (AHAP) contract and Housing
Assistance Payments (HAP) contract for A) 6145 North Broadway Apartments, B)
Mark Twain Apartments, C) Warren Apartments, D) Clark-Estes Apartments, E)
Englewood Phase I Apartments, F) Montclare Veteran’s Village of Roseland, G)
Montclare Senior Residences of Calumet Heights, H) Cicero Senior Lofts, I)
Thresholds RAD LLC; and 2) all other documents as may be necessary or appropriate
to implement the foregoing.”

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE
CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to
execute 1) Agreement to enter into Housing Assistance Payments (AHAP) contract
and Housing Assistance Payments (HAP) contract for A) 6145 North Broadway
Apartments, B) Mark Twain Apartments, C) Warren Apartments, D) Clark-Estes
Apartments, E) Englewood Phase I Apartments, F) Montclare Veteran’s Village of
Roseland, G) Montclare Senior Residences of Calumet Heights, H) Cicero Senior
Lofts, I) Thresholds RAD LLC; and 2) all other documents as may be necessary or
appropriate to implement the foregoing.

(Item 14)
CHA issued Request for Proposals (RFP) in August 2017 to solicit qualified accessibility consultants to
provide authority-wide professional accessibility consulting services. Of the three proposals received,
the Evaluation Committee recommended award of contract to LCM Architects, LLC. Accordingly, the
resolution for Item 14 approves award of contract to LCM Architects, LLC for a not-to-exceed amount
of $1,174,099.00 to provide authority-wide professional accessibility consulting services for a base term
of two years and two (2) one year options. LCM Architects will provide authority-wide professional
accessibility consulting services at various points during the construction lifecycle process and will
produce a new Transition Plan. The consultant will review plans and construction documents for
rehabilitated, acquired or redeveloped housing and non-dwelling facilities for overall accessibility,
perform on-site inspections of housing and non-dwelling facilities that are undergoing substantial
renovation or are being newly constructed, complete independent third party certifications of
rehabilitated or redeveloped public housing units and create a new Transition Plan to ensure CHA’s
properties, practices and policies are in compliance.
RESOLUTION NO. 2017-CHA-124
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the Board
Letter dated November 21, 2017 entitled “Recommendation to Award a Contract for
Professional Accessibility Consulting Services”.

 THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE
CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to
enter into one (1) contract to provide professional accessibility consulting services at
various CHA properties with LCM Architects, LLC, in a not-to-exceed amount of
$1,174,099.00 for a base term of two years and two (2) one year options. The Chief
Executive Officer is authorized to use his discretion to exercise the renewal options. Any
options exercised by the Chief Executive Officer must be exercised individually and
within the aggregate amount of approved funding.
This award is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE,
Section 3 and insurance requirements.

(Item 15)
The resolution for Item No. 15 approves the commitment of CHA funds not to exceed $13,500,000 for
John Pennycuff Memorial Apartments. In June 2017 under Resolution No. 2017-CHA-66, the CHA
Board authorized the CHA loan not to exceed $12.5 million for the John Pennycuff Memorial
Apartments. There have been no major changes to the proposed development plan, design, or
development team partners. The new development will continue to provide 47 of the 88 total new rental
units for CHA residents. However, final construction costs for the proposed project are greater than
initially projected. With this resolution, CHA requests authorization to increase its $12.5 million loan by
$1 million to not exceed the revised total CHA loan amount of $13.5 million. In addition, the developer
agreed to increase its compliance by an additional $1 million in contracts with Section 3 Job Order
Contractors. The not-to-exceed $13.5 million CHA funds will cover a portion of the project
construction costs. CHA plans to provide approximately $13.5 million, or $287,234 for redevelopment
of each of the 47 CHA units. The total estimated project budget of $25.5 million for the development of
John Pennycuff Memorial Apartments covers the new construction of one building.
RESOLUTION NO. 2017-CHA-125
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the Board
Letter dated November 21, 2017 entitled “Authorization to 1) Commit Chicago Housing
Authority funds not to exceed $13,500,000 for John Pennycuff Memorial Apartments and
4) Execute and deliver such other documents and perform such actions as may be
necessary or appropriate to implement the foregoing.”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE
CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

The Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to:
1) Commit Chicago Housing Authority funds not to exceed $13,500,000 for John
Pennycuff Memorial Apartments and 2) Execute and deliver such other documents and
perform such actions as may be necessary or appropriate to implement the foregoing.
This award is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE/
Section 3 hiring and insurance requirements.

(Item 16 – This Number Not Used)

 The Motion to adopt the resolutions for Items 10 through 15 was seconded by Commissioner Markowski
and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Matthew Brewer
Craig Chico
Dr. Mildred Harris
Meghan Harte
John Hooker
Jack Markowski
Cristina Matos
Francine Washington

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, Chairman Hooker thereupon declared said Motion carried and
said resolutions adopted.
The Chairman then announced the formal resignation of Commissioner Mark Cozzi from the CHA Board
of Commissioners to be effective as of November 21, 2017. Unfortunately, due to a scheduling conflict,
Commissioner Cozzi was unable to attend his last meeting. In honor of Commissioner Cozzi’s six years
of outstanding service a plaque and resolution will be delivered to him.
Upon Motion made by Chairman Hooker and properly seconded by Commissioner Washington, the
Commissioners adjourned to Closed Session. Chairman Hooker announced that pursuant to the Open
Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2, the Board would adjourn for approximately 45 minutes to discuss personnel
related matters; purchase, sale and lease of real estate property; pending, probable or imminent litigation;
review of closed meeting minutes and audit reviews.
Following Closed Session, Commissioners reconvened in Open Session.
Chairman Hooker called the meeting to order and upon roll call those present and absent were as follows:
Present:

Matthew Brewer
Craig Chico
Dr. Mildred Harris
Meghan Harte
John Hooker
Jack Markowski
Cristina Matos
Francine Washington

Absent:

Mark Cozzi

There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as follows:
Upon motion made by Chairman Hooker and properly seconded by Commissioner Cozzi, the open and
closed minutes for meetings of October 17, 2017 were approved as submitted.
The Chairman then announced that during Closed Session Commissioners discussed Item No. 17. A
Motion to approve Item No. 17 was presented by Commissioner Matos

 (Item 17)
The resolution for Item No. 17 approves the promotion of a current employee to the position of Chief of
Development and ratifies the following Personnel Actions for employees below Grade Level 74: offer of
employment to four applicants; temporary promotion of applicant to Procurement Specialist and promotion of
two applicants; acceptance of retirement of 1 employee and acceptance of resignation of 5 employees.
RESOLUTION NO. 2017–CHA-126
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated November 21, 2017,
entitled “Approval of Personnel Actions”:
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE CHICAGO
HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the requested personnel actions.

The Motion to adopt the resolution for Item 17 was seconded by Commissioner Brewer and the voting
was as follows:
Ayes:
Matthew Brewer
Craig Chico
Dr. Mildred Harris
John Hooker
Jack Markowski
Cristina Matos
Francine Washington
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, Chairman Hooker thereupon declared said Motion carried and
said resolutions adopted.
Chairman Hooker then invited residents and the public at large to address the Board.
There being no further business to come before the Commissioners, upon Motion made by Commissioner
Chico and seconded by Commissioner Washington, the board meeting of November 21, 2017 was
adjourned at approximately 11:50 a.m.
______________________
John Hooker, Chairman
Chicago Housing Authority
___________________________
Lee Chuc-Gill, Secretary
Custodian and Keeper of Records

 