MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING

OF THE

COMMISSIONERS OF THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
April 15, 2008
The Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority held its Regular Meeting on Tuesday,
April 15, 2008, at 8:30 a.m. at the Lorraine Hansberry Apartments at 5670 West Lake Street in
Chicago, Illinois.
Chairperson Nesbitt called the meeting to order, and upon roll call, those present and absent were
as follows:
Present:

Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Samuel Mendenhall
Carlos Ponce
Mary Wiggins

Absent:

Michael Ivers
Bridget O’Keefe
Sandra Young

Also present were Lewis Jordan, Chief Executive Officer; Adrienne Minley, Chief-of-Staff;
Jorge Cazares, General Counsel; Chicago Housing Authority Staff Members and the General
Public.
There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as
follows:
Lewis Jordan, Chief Executive Officer, then presented his monthly report. Mr. Jordan informed
the Commissioners and public at-large of the scheduled opening of the Wait List for the Housing
Choice Voucher Program. Mr. Jordan explained the selection process, outreach and advertising
strategy. Mr. Jordan continued by extending an open invitation to the ribbon cutting ceremony
for Parkside Old Town Development which will be attended by Mayor Daley and Senator
Durbin. The CEO concluded his report by congratulating the ten CHA youths that were
presented Certificates of Achievement for Academic Excellence at the Bulls Game on Sunday,
April 13th.
The Chairperson then convened the Public Hearing portion of the meeting by inviting residents
and the public at large to address the Board.
Immediately following the Public Hearing portion of the meeting, a Motion was introduced and
seconded to adjourn to Executive Session. The Chairperson announced that pursuant to the
Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2, the Board would adjourn for approximately one (1) hour to
discuss pending, probable or imminent litigation, collective negotiating matters, security and
personnel matters.
Upon return from Executive Session and in accordance with Section 2.06(d) of the Open
Meetings Act, the Chairman announced that a review of the Minutes of all Closed Sessions from
January 2004 through February 2008 was conducted in order to determine whether the need for
confidentiality still exists as to all or part of those Minutes. The Minutes or portions thereof no
longer requiring confidential treatment will be made available for public inspection.

1

 Upon Motion made and properly seconded the Minutes for the Regular Board Meeting and
Executive Session Meeting of March 18, 2008 were unanimously approved.
Chairman Nesbitt, thereupon introduced the Resolutions discussed in Executive Session.
Commissioner Mendenhall presented a Motion to approve the following resolutions for
Executive Session Items 1 and 2:
Executive Session Item 1
RESOLUTION NO. 2008-CHA-32
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated April 2, 2008, requesting that the Board of Commissioners
approves the Personnel Actions Report for March 2008.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the Personnel Actions Report for
March 2008.

Executive Session Item 2
RESOLUTION NO. 2008-CHA-33
WHEREAS, the Chicago Housing Authority (“CHA”) is a housing authority of the city of
Chicago, as defined by the Illinois Housing Authorities Act, 310 ILCS 10/1, et
seq.; and
WHEREAS, as a housing authority under the Illinois Housing Authorities Act, the CHA is an
Illinois municipal corporation under the laws of the State of Illinois, and as such,
is subject to the requirements of the Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/1, et seq.;
and
WHEREAS, the Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2.06, requires the CHA to keep a verbatim
record of all of its closed Executive Sessions; and
WHEREAS, the Open Meetings Act authorizes the Board of Commissioners of the CHA (the
“Board”) to destroy the verbatim records of its closed Executive Sessions no less
than 18 months after the completion of said closed Executive Sessions.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

The Custodian and Keeper of Records and Official Documents, or his or her
designee, is hereby authorized to destroy the verbatim records of those closed
Executive Sessions for which:
(1)

The Board has approved the minutes of the closed Executive
Session, regardless of whether the minutes have been released for
public review;

(2)

More than 18 months have elapsed since the date of the closed
Executive Session;

(3)

There is no court order requiring the preservation of such verbatim
record; and

(4)

The Board has not passed a motion requiring the preservation of
the verbatim record of that meeting.

The Motion to adopt resolutions for Executive Session Item 1 and 2 was seconded by
Commissioner Ponce and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
2

 Samuel Mendenhall
Carlos Ponce
Mary Wiggins
Nays:

None

The Chairperson, thereupon, declared said Motion carried and said Resolutions adopted.
In the absence of Committee Chair Sandra Young, Commissioner Wiggins presented the
monthly report for the Tenant Services Committee. Per Commissioner Wiggins, the Tenant
Services Committee meeting was held on Wednesday, April 9, 2008 at 1:00 p.m. at the 60 East
Van Buren Corporate Offices. Donna Dixon, Director of Senior Services, presented the
Committee with an update on Senior Programs.
Commissioner Wiggins then introduced an Omnibus Motion for the adoption of the Resolutions
for Items A1 through A3 discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Tenant
Services Committee.
(Item A1)
The resolution for Item A1 approves award of contract to Heartland Human Care Services. In
January 2008, the CHA advertised a Request For Proposal for employment, clinical, supportive
case management, and relocation services for the Cabrini Green Community in area newspapers
and on CHA’s website. The CHA also directly solicited fifty-two vendors. Of the four proposal
received, two vendors were determined to be within the competitive range and were invited to
participate in oral discussions. After the second evaluation was completed, it was determined that
Heartland Human Care Services (HHCS) best met CHA’s needs. Under the proposed
agreement, HHCS will utilize the CabriniWorks model to address the range of service needs of
the population through a team approach to case management, consisting of outreach specialists,
housing case managers, employment specialists, and clinical case managers. The primary
objective of the services provided by HHCS is to assist Cabrini residents in securing
employment, to prepare families to meet the site based requirements for their permanent housing
choice, and to increase the self-sufficiency of Cabrini families. In reference to the workforce
component of the model, HHCS will implement its Transitional Jobs program, with an objective
of providing job readiness training and securing employment for 100 Cabrini residents. In
addition, HHCS will work with CHA’s Office of the General Council and Resident Services
Department to manage the Cabrini Lottery List that consists of over 1,400 families who are
covered by the Cabrini Consent Decree, and will work with property management at various
Cabrini replacement housing sites to assist families in transitioning from traditional public
housing to their permanent housing choice.
RESOLUTION NO. 2008-CHA-34
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated April 9, 2008
entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO EXECUTE A CONTRACT WITH
HEARTLAND HUMAN CARE SERVICES FOR EMPLOYMENT, CLINICAL,
SUPPORTIVE CASE MANAGEMENT, RELOCATION, AND LOTTERY
LIST MANAGEMENT SERVICES FOR THE CABRINI GREEN
COMMUNITY”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into a contract with Heartland Human Care Services, Inc. for a
twenty-two (22) month base contract term in an amount not-to-exceed
$5,296,504.40, with two (2) one-year extension options, to provide employment,
clinical supportive case management, relocation, and Lottery list management
services for the Cabrini Green Community.

(Item A2)
The CHA approved an Intergovernmental agreement (IGA) in February 2002, between the CHA
and participating housing agencies to establish the Regional Housing Initiative (RHI). RHI was
created in order to stimulate the supply of rental housing across the metropolitan region for lowincome families by pooling together Housing Choice Vouchers to establish project-based
developments. Accordingly, the resolution for Item A2 approves the recommendation of RHI to
3

 provide Project Based Voucher Assistance to the Casa Morelos Affordable Housing
Development Project for nine units. Casa Morelos is a 45 unit Low Income Tax Credit new
construction project located at 2013-19 S. Morgan in the Pilsen neighborhood. It will consist of
12 one-bedroom units, 24 two-bedroom units and 9 three-bedroom units. The developer and
owner of the land is The Resurrection Project (TRP), a non-profit housing development
corporation located in the Pilsen community. TRP has rehabilitated or newly constructed 156
units of low income housing in 12 developments in the Pilsen/Little Village communities, all of
which they still own and manage. The total development cost for this project will be
approximately $14,283,621 and will be funded by mix of public and private sources. The only
cost to CHA toward this development will be the project-based rental subsidy. Project-Based
Voucher statutes and regulations and the RHI’s policies will be followed in leasing the 9 ProjectBased Voucher assisted units
RESOLUTION NO. 2008-CHA-35
WHEREAS: the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board letter dated April 9, 2008 entitled “Authorization to 1.) Approve the
recommendation of the Regional Housing Initiative (RHI) to provide ProjectBased Voucher assistance to the Casa Morelos affordable housing development
project for 9 units, and 2.) Execute all documents as may be necessary or
appropriate to implement the foregoing.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT:

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to 1.) Approve the recommendation of the Regional Housing Initiative
(RHI) to provide Project-Based Voucher assistance to the Casa Morelos
affordable housing development project for 9 units, and 2.) Execute all
documents as may be necessary or appropriate to implement the foregoing.

(Item A3)
The resolution for Item A3 approves entering into a Housing Assistance Payment Contract to
provide Project-Based Voucher Assistance for 35 units at the G&A Senior Residents at Eastgate
Village. G & A Senior Residence is located at 300 East 26th Street in the Bronzeville community
on Chicago’s near south side. The building is the new construction of a 9-story structure
containing 117 one bedroom senior rental apartments restricted to individuals or couples at or
above 62 years old. Thirty-five of the units will receive Project-based Voucher assistance and
priority will be given to seniors on the CHA/CHAC waiting list. The developer is Eastgate
Village Partners, L.P., a partnership between George Ardelean, owner of G & A Construction
and Molly Matthews LLC, which is owned by Terry Gabinski. Both G & A Construction and
Molly Matthews have a proven track record of owning and developing affordable housing.
Since 1996, they have developed 11 housing projects, creating 573 affordable units, 288 of
which are senior housing. The total development cost for this project will be approximately
$28,342,739 and will be funded by mix of public and private sources. The only cost to CHA
toward this development will be the project-based rental subsidy.
RESOLUTION NO. 2008-CHA-36
WHEREAS: the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board letter dated April 15, 2008 entitled “Authorization to 1.) Enter into an
Agreement to enter into a Housing Assistance Payment Contract (AHAP) to
provide Project-Based Voucher assistance for 35 units at the G & A Senior
Residence at Eastgate Village, a low-income senior housing development and 2.)
Execute all other documents as may be necessary or appropriate to implement the
foregoing.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer, or his
designee to 1.) Enter into an Agreement to enter into a Housing Assistance
Payment Contract (AHAP) to provide Project-Based Voucher assistance for 35
units at the G & A Senior Residence at Eastgate Village, a low-income senior
housing development and 2.) Execute all other documents as may be necessary or
appropriate to implement the foregoing.

4

 The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items A1 thru A3 was seconded by Commissioner
Harris and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Samuel Mendenhall
Carlos Ponce
Mary Wiggins
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson, thereupon, declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Tenant Services Committee report was also accepted in total.
Commissioner Ponce, Chairman of the Operations and Facilities Committee, then presented his
monthly report. Per Commissioner Ponce, the Operations and Facilities Committee meeting was
held on Wednesday, April 9, 2008 at 1:45 p.m. at the 60 East Van Buren Corporate Offices.
Commissioner Ponce then introduced an Omnibus Motion for adoption of the Resolutions for
Items B1 through B8, discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Operations
and Facilities Committee.
(Item B1)
The resolution for Item B1 approves contract Modification No. 01 for Guajardo REC Architects
in the amount of $395,718.00. As part of the Capital Improvement Program, Contract No. 0637
was executed between the CHA and Guajardo REC Architects (GREC), LLC. for Prime Design
Consultant services at Cabrini. During contract execution in 2005, it was anticipated that the
renovation of Cabrini homes would be accomplished through the award of a single contract to a
single General Contractor, and the renovation work was expected to be finished by the beginning
of 2007. Due to difficulties encountered with relocating the residents of all 586 units at once, the
renovation work has been separated into seven (7) phases, and the completion date has been
extended out to 2013. The services GREC expected to perform for one phase of construction will
now be performed in multiple phases over a much longer time period. After careful analysis of
GREC’s projected additional costs and extensive negotiations, staff believes that an equitable
adjustment to the contract is justified. This amount includes $395,718.00 for additional services
and an increase of $61,430.00 for reimbursables.
RESOLUTION NO. 2008-CHA-37
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated April 9, 2008,
entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO EXECUTE MODIFICATION NO. 01 TO
CONTRACT NO. 0637 WITH GUAJARDO REC ARCHITECTS LLC FOR
THE PROVISION OF ADDITIONAL PRIME DESIGN CONSULTANT
SERVICES AND REIMBURSABLE EXPENDITURES AT FRANCES
CABRINI HOMES”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to approve Modification No. 01 for the provision of additional prime
design consultant services at Frances Cabrini Homes in the amount of
$395,718.00, and to increase the funding for reimbursable expenses by
$61,430.00, totaling $457,148.00. The new total contract value of Contract No.
0637 is $3,035,548.00. This modification is subject to the Contractor’s
compliance with CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident hiring, and
insurance requirements.

(Item B2)
The resolution for Item B2 approves submission of a Demolition Application to HUD for the
demolition of the following five Scattered Sites Buildings: 334 W. 42nd Street, 313 W. 42nd
Street, 5259 S. Emerald Avenue, 1639 W. 56th Street/5600 S. Marshfield and 5719 S. Carpenter.
Because of the deteriorated conditions of these buildings, it has been determined that the
architectural and rehabilitation costs needed to make the buildings viable for habitation exceed
the Total Development Costs (TDC) allowed by HUD for these types of structures. Per HUD
regulations at 24 CFR Part 970.8, permission to demolish all or a portion of a development must
5

 be requested via submission of HUD form 52860, and must include a copy of a resolution by the
Authority’s Board of Commissioners approving the application.
RESOLUTION NO. 2008 -CHA-38
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated April 9, 2008,
entitled “REQUEST FOR AUTHORIZATION TO SUBMIT A DEMOLITION
APPLICATION TO THE U.S. DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN
DEVELOPMENT (HUD) FOR THE DEMOLITION OF FIVE (5) SCATTERED
SITES BUILDINGS AND TO DEMOLISH SAID PROPERTIES”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to submit a demolition application to the U.S. Department of Housing
and Urban Development (HUD) for the demolition of a one (1) unit building at
334 W. 42nd Street, a one (1) unit building at 313 W. 42nd Street, a two (2) unit
building at 5259 S. Emerald Avenue, a six (6) unit building at 1639 W. 56th
Street/5600 S. Marshfield (one structure), and a one (1) unit building at 5719 S.
Carpenter, and to commence demolition upon receipt of approval from HUD.

(Item B3)
In order to foster the health and safety of CHA residents and the general public, professional
environmental remediation services are needed by the CHA to address environmental hazards
such as lead, mold and asbestos throughout the CHA as they occur in developments not currently
under renovation. However, there are many situations in which the CHA must be able to quickly
respond to environmental hazards that are highly time sensitive whenever they are discovered in
CHA developments that are not currently scheduled for renovation or demolition. Accordingly,
a Request for Proposal was issued to solicit firms that would be on call to address such time
sensitive demands for remediation. The RFP was advertised in area newspapers and on the CHA
Buy Speed system. Of the three proposals received and evaluated, two firms were determined to
be within the competitive range. Discussions were then held with each of these firms, after
which they were asked to submit best and final fee proposals. The resolution for Item B3
approves award of contracts to Enviroplus, Inc. and Tecnica Environmental Services, Inc. for
Authority-wide environmental services.
RESOLUTION NO. 2008-CHA-39
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated April 9, 2008,
entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO EXECUTE CONTRACTS WITH
ENVIROPLUS, INC. AND TECNICA ENVIRONMENTAL SERVICE, INC.
FOR AUTHORITY-WIDE ENVIRONMENTAL REMEDIATION SERVICES”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute two (2) indefinite quantity contracts, each with a minimum
amount of $100,000.00, for Authority-wide environmental remediation services
with Enviroplus, Inc. for an amount not-to-exceed $2,080,000.00 and Tecnica
Environmental Services, Inc. for an amount not-to-exceed $1,920,000.00, for a
total aggregate amount not-to-exceed $4,000,000.00. Each contract will have a
base term of two (2) years and two (2) one (1) year renewal options. This award
is subject to each Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE,
Section 3 resident hiring, and bonding and insurance requirements.

(Item B4)
As part of the Capital Improvement Program, the CHA requires the services of qualified
professional firms to provide necessary facade inspection services. These inspections are needed
to meet the requirements of the City of Chicago generally, and specifically the City of Chicago
Department of Buildings Exterior Wall Ordinance. The CHA advertised Request for Proposal in
December 2007 in area newspapers and on the CHA website. The CHA also directly solicited
15 firms, including 4 MBE/WBE/DBE firms. All of the four proposals received were found to
be in the competitive range and above and were, therefore, requested to make presentations.
Upon further consideration Globetrotters was recommended for an award of a contract for
projects categorized in Groups I and II and Wiss Janney was recommended for an award of a
6

 contract for projects categorized in Group III. Accordingly, the resolution for Item B4 approves
award of contract to Globetrotters and Wiss Janney.
RESOLUTION NO. 2008-CHA-40
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated April 9, 2008
entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO ENTER INTO CONTRACTS WITH
GLOBETROTTERS ENGINEERING CORPORATION AND WISS JANNEY
ELSTNER ASSOCIATES, INC. TO PROVIDE AUTHORITY-WIDE FAÇADE
INSPECTION SERVICES FOR YEAR 2008”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute contracts with Globetrotters Engineering Corporation
(“Globetrotters”) in an amount not-to-exceed $446,350.00 and Wiss, Janney,
Elstner Associates, Inc. (“Wiss Janney”) in an amount not-to-exceed $317,800.00
for Authority-wide façade inspection services for a combined amount not-toexceed $764,150.000 for a term of one (1) year from the date set forth in the
Notice to Proceed; and if repairs are needed, to provide Prime Design Consultant
services, subject to negotiations, the Chicago Housing Authority’s acceptance of
Globetrotters’ and Wiss Janney’s written proposals, and the issuance of a contract
modification based upon the hourly rates submitted with Globetrotters’ and Wiss
Janney’s Best and Final Offers. These awards are subject to each Contractor’s
compliance with the CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident hiring, and
insurance requirements.

(Item B5)
The resolution for Item B5 ratifies payment of $286,336.03 to Digby Security for protective
services at various CHA Administrative Sites and ratifies the Non-competitive Contract
Agreement for extended services in the amount of $220,000.00. Contract No. 5000 with Digby’s
was originally entered into in December, 2004 for a two-year base term. The Contract was
extended for the option year in December 2006 and was due to expire effective December 31,
2007. However, due to delays in CHA’s administrative building consolidation, additional
security service hours were required during the term of the option year and for several months
following the expiration date of the option term. The CHA continues to need security services at
its headquarters and administrative locations. To prevent an interruption in the delivery of
services, the contract with Digby will be extended for additional services and for an extended
term through July 2008, while the procurement process for a new security services solicitation is
completed.
RESOLUTION NO. 2008-CHA-41
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated April 9, 2008 entitled, “AUTHORZATION TO RATIFY AN
EXTENSION OF CONTRACT NO. 5000 WITH DIGBY’S DETECTIVE AND
SECURITY AGENCY, INC. FOR PROTECTIVE SERVICES AT VARIOUS
CHA ADMINISTRATIVE SITES”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby ratifies the extension of Contract No. 5000
for additional services and for an extended term of seven (7) months, effective
from January 1, 2008 through July 31, 2008, in the amount of $506,336.03, for
the provision of protective services at various CHA Administrative Sites. The
Contractor’s total aggregate compensation under the extended Contract shall be in
the not-to-exceed amount of $3,504,114.03.

(Item B6)
Following a competitive procurement process initiated by the Request for Qualifications and
Proposals for Master Network Administrator, the Public Building Commission entered into a
contract with International Business Machines (IBM) for a extensive turnkey program to enhance
public safety and security by providing a unified surveillance network of cameras, fiber network
systems and other integral elements, including equipment, software and services. The
surveillance network and its various component elements are to be deployed throughout the City
7

 of Chicago under an initiative, which includes the City of Chicago and its various municipal
departments and sister agencies, and is commonly known as Operation Virtual Shield (OVS).
Based on CHA’s desires to augment its own facilities and infrastructure and to participate in the
OVS initiative by deploying cameras and other surveillance resources at strategic locations
within its residential portfolio the resolution for Item B6 approves an Intergovernmental
Agreement between CHA and the Public Building Commission. In cooperation with the CHA,
PBC will provide project management for the design, installation, construction and maintenance
of the surveillance systems at designated CHA properties.
Commissioner Ponce abstained from voting on Item B6.
RESOLUTION NO. 2008-CHA-42
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated April 9, 2008,
requesting “Authorization To Enter Into An Intergovernmental Agreement With
The Public Buildings Commission For The Design, Supply, Installation And
Maintenance Of Surveillance Systems At Various CHA Residential Locations
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into an intergovernmental agreement with the City of Chicago’s
Public Building Commission in an amount not to exceed $2,500,000.00 for a two
year base period.

(Item B7)
The resolution for Item B7 approves issuance of CHA Multi-Family Housing Revenue Bonds,
Series 2008A and Series 2008B (Britton Budd Project); submit a Mixed Finance Proposal,
Evidentiaries and Disposition Application to HUD; execute a Ground Lease, sell the Project
Building and Finance the Sale through Seller Financing to Surf Senior Housing Limited
Partnership. The Britton Budd Apartments Project is a mixed-finance renovation of an eleven
story building located at 501 W. Surf, Chicago, Illinois. It was constructed in 1917 and acquired
by the CHA in the 1950’s. The Property is located in the Lakeview Historic District, which is
registered as a National Register Historic District. This senior-designated apartment building
currently contains one hundred seventy-three public housing units and the proposed unit mix
includes 36 studios and 137 one bedroom units. To facilitate the financing of the renovation of
Britton Budd, a multi-tiered financing approach will be utilized. The CHA will transfer the
Britton Budd property to a tax-credit limited partnership known as Surf Senior Housing Limited
Partnership, an Illinois limited partnership. The General Partner of the Owner is an Illinois
limited liability company known as Surf Housing Development, LLC. The sole member of the
General Partner is the CHA. The General Partner is also the developer of the Project and will
manage the day to day affairs of the Owner. The CHA will lease the land underlying the building
to the Owner pursuant to a 99-year ground lease. The CHA will sell the building to the Owner
and will finance the sale of the building through seller financing. Pursuant to a Regulatory and
Operating Agreement between CHA and the Owner, the CHA will provide operating subsidy to
pay the reasonable expenses of operating the units. All of the units will be public housing units
and will be subject to low-income housing tax credit restrictions. Additionally, 104 units will be
reserved for households earning no more than 50% of AMI and 69 units will be reserved for
households earning no more than 60% of AMI. By Board Resolution 2006-CHA-65, adopted
May 16, 2006, the Board of Commissioners approved a financing plan and related financing
documents needed to close the transaction for the rehabilitation of Britton Budd Apartments as a
Project Based Section 8 project. The financing plan has been restructured to close the Project as
100% public housing. The direct costs for the renovation of the 173 public housing rental units
of the Britton Budd Apartments development total an estimated $36,416,396. The Bonds will
be issued in two series pursuant to one or more Indentures of Trust and the proceeds thereof will
be loaned to the Owner, pursuant to one or more Loan Agreements. Bank of America or an
affiliated entity will purchase the Series 2008A and 2008B Bonds in principal amounts of
approximately $8,757,780 and $10,493,202, respectively. The Authority will provide permanent
financing through its loan of capital or other funds sufficient to retire the Series 2008A Bonds (in
return for the agreement of the Borrower to rent 172 units at the Project to public housing
eligible tenants plus one manager’s unit). The Bonds are not a debt of any city, village,
incorporated town or county, or the State of Illinois or any political subdivision thereof, other
than the Authority. The Bonds are special limited obligations of the Authority payable solely
8

 from the revenues of the Project and the other sources specified in the Indenture.
Commissioner Mendenhall abstained from voting on this item.
RESOLUTION NO. 2008-CHA-43
WHEREAS, the Chicago Housing Authority, a municipal corporation and a body politic and
corporate duly organized and validly existing under and by virtue of the laws of
the State of Illinois (the “Authority”), including without limitation the Housing
Authorities Act, 310 ILCS 10/1 et seq., and all laws amendatory and supplemental
thereto, including in particular the Local Government Debt Reform Act, 30 ILCS
350/1 et seq. (the “Act”), is authorized by the laws of the State of Illinois (the
“State”), including without limitation in the Act, to issue its revenue bonds for
the purposes set forth in the Act and to permit the expenditure of the proceeds
thereof to finance the cost of the development and construction of multifamily
rental housing located in the jurisdiction of the Authority; and
WHEREAS, Surf Senior Housing Limited Partnership, an Illinois limited partnership (the
“Borrower”), proposes to rehabilitate the “Britton Budd Apartments” Project
consisting of the renovation of 173 rental units of public housing in Chicago,
Illinois (the “Project”); and
WHEREAS, a portion of the costs of the Project will be financed through the issuance by the
Authority of its Multi-Family Housing Revenue Bonds, Series 2008A (Britton
Budd Project) (the “Series 2008A Bonds”) and its Multi-Family Housing
Revenue Bonds, Series 2008B (Britton Budd Project) (the “Series 2008B Bonds”)
(collectively, the “Bonds”); and
WHEREAS, the proceeds of the Bonds will be loaned to Borrower; and
WHEREAS, the General Partner of Borrower is Surf Housing Development, LLC, an Illinois
limited liability company (the “General Partner”); and
WHEREAS, the sole member of the General Partner is the Authority; and
WHEREAS, a determination has been made by the Authority that the Project constitutes
“multifamily rental housing” within the meaning of the Act and that the financing
thereof will meet the public purposes of the Act; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to and in accordance with the provisions of the Act, the Authority is now
prepared to proceed with the financing of a portion of the costs of the Project
through the issuance and sale of the Bonds pursuant to one or more Indentures of
Trust (the “Indenture”) between the Authority and a corporate trustee to be
determined, as Trustee (the “Trustee”); and
WHEREAS, the proceeds of the Bonds will be loaned by the Authority to the Borrower
pursuant to one or more Loan Agreements between the Authority and the
Borrower (the “Loan Agreement”) and the obligations of the Borrower to pay
debt service under the Loan Agreement will be evidenced by one or more Notes
(the “Note”) from the Borrower to the Authority which will be assigned by the
Authority to the Trustee; and
WHEREAS, certain income and other rental restrictions required by Section 42 of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”) will be specified in one or more
Regulatory Agreements and Declarations of Restrictive Covenants (the
“Regulatory Agreement”) among the Authority, the Borrower and the Trustee;
and
WHEREAS, certain arbitrage requirements of Section 148 and related provisions of the Code
will be specified in one or more Tax Exemption Certificate and Agreements (the
Tax Agreement”) among the Authority, the Borrower and the Trustee; and
WHEREAS, both series of Bonds will be sold by private placement to Bank of America or an
9

 affiliated entity (the “Bond Purchaser”) pursuant to one or more Bond Purchase
Agreements (the “Bond Purchase Agreement”) among the Authority, the
Borrower and the Bond Purchaser; and
WHEREAS, the Borrower’s obligations under the Note will be secured by one or more
mortgages, security agreements and/or collateral assignments with respect to the
Project (the “Collateral Documents”) from the Borrower to the Authority or the
Trustee and, if to the Authority, the rights of the Authority to such instruments
and, as applicable, the Note will be assigned to the Trustee pursuant to an
assignment (an “Assignment”) from the Authority; and
WHEREAS, the Authority will lease the site of the Project to the Borrower pursuant to a 99year ground lease (the “Ground Lease”);
WHEREAS, the Authority will sell the building of the Project to the Borrower and will finance
the sale of the building through seller financing for the approximate price of
$4,000,000, the amount to be determined by an independent third party appraisal.
WHEREAS, the Series 2008A Bonds will be secured by and payable from certain Capital
Funds (“Capital Funds”) received by the Authority and deposited into escrow,
and such Capital Funds, upon withdrawal from such escrow, will constitute a loan
from the Authority to the Borrower pursuant to a loan agreement (the “Capital
Funds Loan Agreement”) with the Borrower; and
WHEREAS, the Borrower will be required to operate 172 housing units within the Project for
the use and occupancy of public housing eligible individuals plus one manager’s
unit and, in connection therewith, the Borrower will enter into a Regulatory and
Operating agreement with the Authority, a Declaration of Restrictive Covenants
with the Authority and HUD, and a mortgage and other collateral documents and
related agreements and instruments (collectively, and together with the Capital
Funds Loan Agreement, the “Capital Funds Borrower Agreements”); and
WHEREAS, other sources of funding for costs of the Project will be provided
equity contributions and other sources; and

pursuant to

WHEREAS, the proceeds of the Bonds and the other funding sources may be disbursed
pursuant to a disbursement or construction agreement (the “Disbursement
Agreement”); and
WHEREAS, all or a portion of the expenditures relating to the Project (the “Expenditures”) (i)
have been paid within the sixty days prior to the passage of this Resolution or (ii)
will be paid on or after the passage of this Resolution; and
WHEREAS, the Authority reasonably expects (based upon information supplied by the
Borrower, upon which it is reasonable and prudent for the Authority to rely) to
reimburse the Borrower for the Expenditures with proceeds of the Bonds; and
WHEREAS, the City Council of the City of Chicago (the “City”) has approved (or is expected
to approve) the transfer to the Authority of a portion of the City’s available
unused volume cap for calendar years 2008 and or 2009 pursuant to Section 146
of the Code for use by the Authority in connection with the issuance of the Bonds,
and the City and the Authority may enter into a volume cap transfer agreement
(the “Cap Transfer Agreement”) to reflect such transfer; and
WHEREAS, the Authority will enter into a Mixed-Finance Amendment to the Annual
Contributions Contract with HUD; and
WHEREAS, the Indenture, the Loan Agreement, the Bonds, the Note, the Regulatory
Agreement, the Bond Purchase Agreement, the Tax Agreement, any Assignment,
the Disbursement Agreement, the Ground Lease, the Collateral Documents, the
Cap Transfer Agreement and the Capital Funds Borrower Agreements are referred
to collectively herein as the “Authority Agreements”; and
10

 WHEREAS, in lieu of Bonds being issued pursuant to an Indenture of Trust between the
Authority and the Trustee, Bonds may be styled as "Multi-Family Housing
Revenue Notes, Series 2008[A][B]" (the "Notes") and issued pursuant to a Note
Issuance Agreement between the Authority and Bank of America, N.A. (or an
affiliate) as purchaser of the Notes (the "Note Purchaser") and as fiscal agent,
without the necessity for a Trustee, with the Authority's rights assigned to the
Note Purchaser under an Assignment and Security Agreement (the
"Assignment"), and in such event, all references herein to the "Bonds", the
"Indenture", the "Trustee" and the "Bond Purchaser" shall be deemed to refer to
the Notes, the Note Issuance Agreement, and the Note Purchaser, respectively,
and all such agreements and instruments shall be included within the definition of
"Authority Agreements" approved by this Resolution."
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

Section 1.
The Authority is authorized to submit a Mixed Finance Proposal
and amended Disposition Application to HUD in connection with the Britton
Budd Apartments project, to sell the building of the Project and to finance the sale
price through seller financing; and to enter into the Authority Agreements with
the other party or parties thereto in substantially the same forms now before the
Authority. The forms, terms and provisions of the Authority Agreements be, and
they hereby are, in all respects approved. The Chairman, the Chief Executive
Officer or the Chief Financial Officer of the Authority be, and each of them
hereby is, authorized, empowered and directed to execute and deliver, and, where
necessary, the Chief Executive Officer, the Secretary or any Assistant Secretary
of the Authority be and each of them hereby is, authorized, empowered and
directed to attest and to affix the official seal of the Authority to, the Authority
Agreements in the name, for and on behalf of the Authority, and thereupon to
cause the Authority Agreements to be executed, acknowledged and delivered to
the other party or parties thereto, in substantially the forms now before the
Authority or with such changes therein as the individual executing the Authority
Agreements on behalf of the Authority shall approve, his or her execution thereof
to constitute conclusive evidence of such approval of any and all changes or
revisions therein from the forms of Authority Agreements now before the
Authority. When the Authority Agreements are executed, attested, sealed and
delivered on behalf of the Authority as hereinabove provided, they shall be
binding on the Authority. From and after the execution and delivery of the
Authority Agreements, the officers, employees and agents of the Authority are
hereby authorized, empowered and directed to do all such acts and things and to
execute all such documents as may be necessary to carry out and comply with the
provisions of the Authority Agreements as executed. The Authority Agreements
shall constitute, and hereby are made, a part of this Resolution, and copies of the
executed Authority Agreements shall be placed in the official records of the
Authority, and shall be available for public inspection at the office of the
Authority.
Section 2.
The Bonds shall be issued in fully registered form, in an aggregate
principal amount not to exceed $25,000,000, in authorized denominations as
provided in the Indenture. The Bonds shall bear interest at a variable rate of
interest as shall be set forth in the Indenture, as executed, in no event to exceed
the greater of 9% per annum or 125% of the rate for the most recent date shown in
the 20 G.O. Bonds Index of average municipal bond yields as published in the
most recent edition of the Bond Buyer (or any successor publication or index);
provided, however, the Indenture may provide a lower maximum rate. The Bonds
shall mature on such date or dates as shall be set forth in the Indenture, as
executed, but in no event later than 4 years following the date of their initial
issuance and delivery to the initial purchasers thereof. The Bonds shall be subject
to redemption prior to maturity as provided in the Indenture, as executed.
Section 3.
The Bonds and the interest thereon will be special, limited
obligations of the Authority, payable solely from the payments to be made by the
Borrower under the Loan Agreement or from the other sources specified or
11

 referred to in the Indenture, which shall be specifically assigned and pledged to
such purposes in the manner and to the extent provided therein. The Bonds and all
other obligations of the Authority in connection therewith shall not be a debt of
the City or any other city, village, incorporated town or county, the State of
Illinois or any political subdivision thereof and neither the City, nor any other
city, village, incorporated town or county, nor the State of Illinois or any political
subdivision thereof shall be liable thereon, nor in any event shall the Bonds or
such obligations be payable out of any funds or properties other than those
pledged under the Indenture or those other agreements specifically securing the
Bonds. The Bonds shall not constitute an indebtedness within the meaning of any
constitutional or statutory debt limitation or restriction.
Section 4.
The forms of the Bonds set forth in the Indenture, subject to
appropriate insertions and revisions in order to comply with the provisions of the
Indenture (as executed and delivered) be, and the same hereby are approved. The
Bonds shall be executed in the name, for and on behalf of the Authority with the
manual or facsimile signature of its Chairman (or such other officer authorized by
law to execute the Bonds on behalf of the Authority) and attested with the manual
or facsimile signature of its Secretary or Assistant Secretary (or such other officer
authorized by law to execute the Bonds on behalf of the Authority) and the seal of
the Authority shall be impressed or imprinted thereon. The officers of the
Authority shall cause the Bonds, as so executed and attested, to be delivered to the
Trustee for authentication. When the Bonds shall be executed on behalf of the
Authority in the manner contemplated by the Indenture and this Resolution, they
shall represent the approved forms of Bonds of the Authority.
Section 5.
The sale of the Bonds to the Bond Purchaser at a purchase price of
not less than 98% of the aggregate principal amount thereof plus accrued interest,
if any, to the date of delivery, is hereby approved.
Section 6.
The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer,
the Secretary and any Assistant Secretary of the Authority be, and each of them
hereby is, authorized to execute and deliver such documents, certificates, and
undertakings of the Authority (including, without limitation, environmental
remediation agreements, investment agreements, book-entry registration
agreements, intercreditor agreements and other agreements pertaining to the
security of the Bonds) and to take such other actions as may be required or
desirable in connection with the execution, delivery and performance of the
Authority Agreements, the financing of costs of the Project, the Capital Funds and
the issuance, sale and delivery of the Bonds. In addition, subsequent to the
issuance of the Bonds, any of the foregoing officers of the Authority are hereby
authorized to enter into amendments to the Authority Agreements or other
agreements or instruments entered into by the Authority in connection with the
Bonds (without the necessity of obtaining approval by the Board of
Commissioners of the Authority to such action) which are not inconsistent with
the parameters set forth in this Resolution and which, in the judgment of the
officers executing the same, are not materially adverse to the interests of the
Authority.
Section 7.
All acts of the officers, employees and agents of the Authority that
are in conformity with the purposes and intent of this Resolution be, and the same
hereby are, in all respects, approved and confirmed.
Section 8.
The publication on behalf of the Authority of the notice of public
hearing pursuant to Section 147(f) of the Code and the conduct of such public
hearing by and on behalf of the Authority with respect to the issuance of the
Bonds is hereby ratified, authorized and approved.
Section 9.
The Authority hereby allocates to the Bonds the “volume cap”
reallocated or to be reallocated by the City to the Authority in an amount equal to
the aggregate principal amount of the Bonds actually to be issued.
Section 10.

The Authority reasonably expects (based upon information
12

 supplied by the Borrower, upon which it is reasonable and prudent for the
Authority to rely) to reimburse the Expenditures with proceeds of the Bonds.
Section 11.
The Bonds, or any one or more series thereof, may be initially
issued in book-entry form and registered in the name of The Depository Trust
Company, New York, New York (“DTC”), or its nominee, as securities
depository.
Section 12. The provisions of this Resolution are hereby declared to be
separable and if any section, phrase or provision hereof shall for any reason be
declared to be invalid, such declaration shall not affect the validity of the
remainder of the sections, phrases and provisions of this Resolution.
Section 13. All resolutions and orders, or parts thereof, in conflict herewith are
hereby superseded to the extent of such conflict.
Section 14.
This Resolution shall be in full force and effect immediately upon
its passage, as by law provided.
(Item B8)
In January 2008, the CHA released an IFB for the renovation of the Britton Budd Apartments.
Flyers were faxed to fifty-nine contractors, including twenty M/W/DBE firms. The IFB was
advertised in area newspapers and on the CHA Website. Five bids were received and opened
and reviewed for responsiveness. One firm was deemed non-responsive for not submitting a bid
bond, as required by the IFB. A pre-award survey was conducted with the two lowest bidders for
the purpose of clarifying and qualifying their bids. While both bidders were determined to be
responsible and both bids were responsive to the IFB, the IFB allowed for the selection of a
responsible bidder based on price and price related factors. In this case, where the project is
funded in part by private tax credit equity, the time frame to deliver units directly impacts the
amount of private equity that will be provided by the investor. A longer construction time frame
reduces the amount of equity and increases the amount of CHA funding. Accordingly, the
resolution for Item B8 approves award to Walsh Construction, the second lowest bidder, for the
general contractor services at Britton Budd Apartments.
Commissioner Mendenhall abstained from voting on this item.
RESOLUTION NO. 2008-CHA-44
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated April 9, 2008,
entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO 1) AWARD A CONTRACT WITH WALSH
CONSTRUCTION COMPANY FOR GENERAL CONTRACTOR SERVICES
AT BRITTON BUDD APARTMENTS (IL2-048) AND 2) ASSIGN THE
CONTRACT TO SURF SENIOR HOUSING LIMITED PARTNERSHIP”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to 1) award a contract to Walsh Construction Company in the amount of
$22,984,000.00 for General Contractor services at Britton Budd Apartments (IL2048), a Senior Housing building located at 501 West Surf Street, for a term of 13
months from the date set forth in the Notice to Proceed, and 2) assign the contract
to Surf Senior Housing Limited Partnership. This award is subject to the
Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident
hiring, and bonding and insurance requirements.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items B1 thru B8 was seconded by Commissioner
Wiggins and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Samuel Mendenhall (Abstained from voting on Item B7 & B8)
Carlos Ponce (Abstained from voting on Item B6)
Mary Wiggins
13

 Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson, thereupon, declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Operations and Facilities Committee report was also accepted
in total.
In the absence of Committee Chair O’Keefe, Commissioner Mendenhall presented the report for
the Finance and Audit Committee. Per Commissioner Mendenhall the Finance & Audit
Committee held its regular meeting on Wednesday, April 9 at approximately 2:30 p.m. at the 60
East Van Buren Corporate offices. Miroslava Mejia-Krug, Chief Financial Officer, and staff
presented the Committee with the Treasury and Cash Flow Report for the month of March 2008
and an update on Project Based Accounting.
Commissioner Mendenhall then introduced a motion for the adoption of the resolution for Item
C1 that was deferred by the Finance and Audit Committee for further discussion.
(Item C1)
The resolution for Item C1approves the 1st Quarter Revised 2008 Comprehensive Budget. The
CHA is required to submit for approval by the Board, a balanced annual Comprehensive Budget
detailing Funding Programs, and the use for these funds. The FY2008 budgeted expenditures
have been revised from $922,503,086 to $915,520,920, resulting in a $6,982,166 decrease. The
major changes by funding source are as follows: General Fund: total revenues and associated
expenditures decreased by $7,483,070 for a fund total of $842,483,885. The decrease primarily
reflects a reduction in the proposed number of units leased for Housing Assistance Payments;
Section 8 Non-MTW Fund: total revenues and associated expenditures increased by $487,272
for a fund total of $5,729,370. This is due to an increase in the number of vouchers and an
increase in the average cost per voucher. Hope VI: total revenues and associated expenditures
increased by $1,780,697 for a fund total of $50,640,483. The increase is due to a change in the
sources of funds between Other Funding and Hope VI; City/State: budget remained unchanged
at $1,049,390 and Other Funding: the total revenues and associated expenditures decreased by
$1,767,065 for a fund total of $15,617,792. The decrease is due to a change in the sources of
funds between Other Funding and Hope VI.
RESOLUTION NO. 2008-CHA-45
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board letter dated April 9, 2008,
entitled “APPROVAL OF THE REVISED 2008 COMPREHENSIVE
BUDGET”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners, hereby approves the attached budget amendments,
“THE FY2008 COMPREHENSIVE BUDGET AMENDMENT #1”, and finds
with respect to said Budget:
1.

2.

3.

THAT,

that the proposed expenditures are necessary for the efficient and
economical operation of the Chicago Housing Authority for the purpose of
serving low-income families;
that the financial plan is reasonable in that it indicates funding sources
adequate to cover all proposed expenditures, and does not provide for use
of Federal funding in excess of that payable under the provisions of the
applicable Federal regulations; and
that all proposed rental charges and expenditures will be consistent with
provisions of law and the Annual Contributions Contract in accordance
with the Moving To Work Demonstration Agreement of the Chicago
Housing Authority with the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development.

the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer are authorized to execute
and forward to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development all
necessary budget documents and supporting information when applicable.

14

 The Motion to adopt resolution for Item C1 was seconded by Commissioner Ponce and the
voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Samuel Mendenhall
Carlos Ponce
Mary Wiggins

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson, thereupon, declared said Motion carried
and said resolution adopted.
Commissioner Mendenhall then introduced an Omnibus Motion for the adoption of the
Resolutions for Items C2 thru C5, discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the
Finance and Audit Committee.
(Item C2)
The CHA’s information technology infrastructure is critical to daily operations in its ability to
support planned and existing application systems. The Authority utilizes Sun hardware and
software to support internal/external communications and the Authority’s essential operating
functions. Every CHA computer is linked together via Sun hardware and software components.
Critical core applications would be adversely affected should the Sun components cease to be
operational, and the Authority unable to execute a timely recovery as a result. Accordingly, the
resolution for Item C2 approves the first one-year option of contract with Fastech, Inc., for Sun
Maintenance Services.
RESOLUTION NO. 2008-CHA-46
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated April 9, 2008,
“AUTHORIZATION TO EXERCISE THE FIRST OPTION OF CONTRACT
NO. 6035 WITH FASTECH, INC. FOR SUN MAINTENANCE SERVICES”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

The Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into the first one (1) year extension option with Fastech, Inc., for
Sun Maintenance Services in the amount of $128,181.22.

(Item C3)
The Office of Information Technology Services is responsible for assuring the Authority’s
technical infrastructure and essential applications are continuously maintained to support the
agency’s operations. Prudent business practices dictate having maintenance and service
agreements in place to ensure critical business functions are maintained in good working order
on an ongoing basis and restored quickly and efficiently in the event of any disruption or other
impact. Accordingly, the resolution for Item C3 approves the first one-year option of contract
with Sentinel Technologies for Cisco Equipment Maintenance Services.
RESOLUTION NO. 2008-CHA-47
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated April 9, 2008,
“AUTHORIZATION TO EXERCISE THE FIRST OPTION OF CONTRACT
NO. 6036 WITH SENTINEL TECHNOLOGIES FOR CISCO EQUIPMENT
MAINTENANCE”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

The Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into the first one (1) year extension option with Sentinel
Technologies for Cisco Equipment Maintenance Services, in the amount of
$208,736.00.

15

 (Item C4)
In 2004 the CHA replaced its existing system applications for finance, human resources, payroll
and purchasing with an Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) system and selected Lawson
Software’s ERP platform and its included systems, applications and software, as the CHA’s core
ERP platform. In order for the Lawson System to continue to serve and suit the agency’s needs
for the anticipated base life cycle of between seven to ten years maintenance for the Lawson
System was secured from Lawson Software for a minimum base term of five years, with
escalation caps for future maintenance terms. Lawson Software recently provided notice to its
customer base that the core Lawson ERP software had been improved and was available for
current customers to upgrade to through a migration to Lawson System Foundation 9.0.
Although upgrades are optional for users to deploy, the CHA has determined that the benefits of
upgrading the current environment to a higher performing platform justified the CHA’s
migration to LSF 9. Therefore, in October 2007, a Request for Proposal was advertised for
Lawson Systems Upgrade and Implementation. The RFP was advertised in area newspapers and
on the CHA website. The CHA also directly solicited ten vendors. Of the three proposals
received and opened two were determined to be in the competitive range. Based on the
recommendation of the evaluation committee, Blue Horseshoe was determined to be the lowest
responsive, responsible respondent in the amount of $347,320.00. Accordingly, the resolution
for Item C4 awards contract to Blue Horseshoe to implement Lawson System Foundation
upgrades.

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2008-CHA-48
the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated April 9, 2008,
entitled, “AUTHORIZATION TO ENTER INTO A CONTRACT WITH BLUE
HORSESHOE SOLUTIONS, INC. FOR PROFESSIONAL SERVICES TO
IMPLEMENT THE LAWSON SYSTEM FOUNDATION UPGRADES.”

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

It is recommended that the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief
Executive Officer or his designee to enter into a contract with Blue Horseshoe
Solutions, Inc. for professional services to implement upgrades to the Lawson
System Foundation, in an amount not-to-exceed $347,320.00.

(Item C5)
The CHA evaluated its current mailroom services and projected mailroom service needs
including, but not limited to: customer service, postage mail rates, mail sort, equipment and
software upgrades. A decision was made by CHA Management to combine mailroom services
for CHA, Section 8 Moderate Rehabilitation and Housing Choice Voucher Programs. The CHA
advertised a Request For Proposal for mailroom management services in February 2008 in area
newspapers and on the CHA’s web site. Of the four proposals received, three were deemed
responsive. Pitney Bowes proposal and best and final offer established that it best met the
CHA’s needs to provide industry standard mailroom services at industry rates. Accordingly, the
resolution for Item C5 approves award of contract to Pitney Bowes for mailroom management
services for CHA and CHAC.
RESOLUTION NO. 2008-CHA-49
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
memorandum dated April 9, 2008, entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO ENTER
INTO A CONTRACT WITH PITNEY BOWES MANAGEMENT SERVICES
FOR MAILROOM MANAGEMENT SERVICES FOR THE CHA AND CHA’S
ADMINISTRATORS OF ITS SECTION 8 MODERATE REHABILITATION
AND HOUSING CHOPICE VOUCHER PROGRAMS”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into a contract with Pitney Bowes Management Services, Inc.
for mailroom management services for the Chicago Housing Authority and the
CHA’s administrators of the Section 8 Moderate Rehabilitation and Housing

16

 Choice Voucher Programs for a base term of two (2) years in an amount not to
exceed $270,000.00, with three (3), one (1) year options.
The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items C2 thru C5 was seconded by Commissioner
Wiggins and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Samuel Mendenhall
Carlos Ponce
Mary Wiggins

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson, thereupon, declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Finance and Audit Committee report was also accepted in total.
There being no further business to come before the Commissioners, upon Motion made,
seconded and carried, the meeting of the Board of Commissioners was adjourned.

s/b:

s/b:

Lee Gill, Custodian and
Keeper of Records

17

Martin Nesbitt
Chairperson

 