May 20, 2014 Board Meeting
REGULAR MEETING
OF
THE BOARD OF COMMISIONERS
CHA Corporate Office
60 East Van Buren, 12th Floor Loft
Tuesday, May 20, 2014
8:30 a.m.
AGENDA
I. Roll Call
II. Closed Meeting



Commissioners will vote on whether to go into closed meeting pursuant to the Open Meetings Act,
5 ILCS 120/2, to discuss matters under the following exceptions: personnel related matters under
(c)(1); and pending/imminent/probable litigation under (c)(11).

III. Open Session - Roll Call
IV. Centering Thoughts – Commissioner Mildred Harris
V. Approval of Closed and Open Minutes for the meetings of April 15, 2014
VI. Presentation of Resolutions and Committee Reports
Finance & Personnel Committee Report - Rodrigo Sierra, Chairperson
1. Recommendation to award contract for Third Party Administrator Services.
2. Recommendation to exercise the two (2) option year terms with Aloha Document
Services, not‐to‐exceed $490,000 for high volume printing and duplication services.
3. Approval of Personnel Actions.

Tenant Services Committee Report - Mildred Harris, Chairperson
4. Recommendation to 1) Increase Resident Services budget in the amount of $1,000,000
in anticipation of the need for exigent contracts that mitigate summer violence for CHA
youth; 2) Execute and amend contracts and Intergovernmental Agreements to
implement anti‐violence and other youth programming at CHA sites as needs are
identified throughout the summer; 3) Accept an award in the amount of $920,700 and
execute a grant agreement with the City of Chicago Department of Family and Support
Services for the Summer Youth Employment Program, and 4) Increase the compensation
amounts and amend service provider contracts to implement the Summer Youth
Employment Program in an additional aggregate amount of $920,700.
5. Recommendation to increase the contract and exercise three one‐year options not‐to‐
exceed $1,020,750 with International Scholarship and Tuition Services, Inc. to provide
post‐secondary scholarships for CHA College‐bound youth and adults.

Operations Committee Report, Bridget Reidy, Chairperson

 6. Recommendation to enter into a new Lease Agreement with Illinois Institute of
Technology for the premises located at 10 W. 35th Street, 5th Floor, for a base term of 3
years in an amount not‐to‐exceed $1,130,646; with two one‐year extension options in an
amount not‐to‐exceed $399,781 and $411,774 respectively.
7. Ratification of a Contract Modification for Contract No. 1117, in the amount of
$19,419.16 with Pan Oceanic Engineering Co. for Fire Lane renovation.
8. Recommendation to increase supplemental police coverage and funding, not‐to‐exceed
$2,000,000 for the Intergovernmental Agreement with the Chicago Police Department
for Summer 2014.

Real Estate Development Report - Jack Markowski, Chairperson
9. Recommendation to enter into a Predevelopment Loan Agreement with Lathrop
Community Partners, LLC or other related entity in an amount not‐to‐exceed $3,441,283;
execute a Preliminary Commitment Letter for Lathrop Phase I; and execute other
documents as may be necessary to implement the foregoing.
10. Recommendation to submit a Development Proposal, Evidentiary Documents, and
Supplemental Disposition Application to HUD; commit CHA funds not‐toexceed
$12,900,000 for the Parkside II B Rental Development; execute a Ground Lease; execute
a Remediation Agreement not‐to‐exceed $2,097,492 with Parkside Phase IIB, LP and
Parkside Associates, LLC for environmental remediation activities at the Parkside Phase
IIB Rental Development and execute other documents as may be necessary to
implement the foregoing.
11. Recommendation to approve the Tenant Selection Plan, Lease, Lease Riders and Bylaws
for Washington Park, Taylor Homes and Stateway Gardens Replacement Housing at the
private development known as Rosenwald; amend the ACOP and perform such actions as
may be necessary.
12. Recommendation to enter into a Purchase and Sale Agreement with Chicago
Neighborhood Initiatives (CNI), Inc.; and Safeway Construction Co., (SCC) Inc. acting
through a to‐be formed Joint Venture Entity; submit a Disposition Application to HUD for
the sale of CHA land located within the Wells Development; execute a Deed to convey
the CHA land in Fee Simple to CNI and SCC; dedicate approximately an acre of CHA land
as a new 38t Street; and execute and perform such actions as may be necessary to
implement to foregoing.
13. Recommendation to execute an agreement to enter into a Housing Assistance Payments
Contract for Kenmore Plaza Apartments.
14. Recommendation to execute an agreement to enter into a Housing Assistance Payments
Contract for Lake Village East.
15. Recommendation to execute an agreement to enter into a Housing Assistance Payments
Contract for Belray Apartments & Major Jenkins.

VII. Report from Chief Executive Officer – Michael R. Merchant
VIII. Public Participation
IX. Adjournment

 