CHANGE.

CHICAGO 

 

q?z T-r

December 12, 2012 ITEM NO. D2

AUTHORIZATION TO ENTER INTO CONTRACTS WITH NATIONAL ABLE
NETWORK AND DE LA SALLE INSTITUTE TOLTON CENTER TO PROVIDE
LITERACY SERVICES

To the Honorable Board of Commissioners:



It is recommended that the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Of?cer or his
designee to enter into contracts with National Able Network (?Able?) and De La Salle Institute -
Tolton Center (?Tolton?) to provide adult literacy services in an aggregate not-to-exceed amount
of $997,143 for a two-year base period from December 19, 2012 through December 18, 2014, with
two (2) additional one-year options.

The Executive Vice President (EVP) of Resident Services, the Of?ce of the General Counsel and
the Of?ce of Procurement have completed all necessary due diligence to support the submission
of this initiative and recommend the approval of this item accordingly.

GOAL

Nine contracts support CHA ?s corporate strategy ofprovidiug services and supports that
empower residents for success in the global economy.

w: CHA General Fund

LI TI 
Vendors:
National Able Network De La Salle Institute Tolton Center
567 West Lake, Suite 1150 3455 South Wabash
Chicago, Illinois 60661 Chicago, Illinois 60616
Contract Type: Professional Services
Aggregate Contracts Not-To-Exceed Amount: $997,143
Contract Term: December 19, 2012 December 18, 2014
Option Period: Two (2) One-Year Options
MIWIDBE Participation:
National Able Network
Direct:
MBE 
Indirect:

MBE 
Waiver (Yes/No)

50 Van 50w!) Sims! - Chicago, Illinois 506G5-I207 - (312} 742-8500 - may. ?re?ies?

Hiring Subcontracting Other Economic Opportunities 

MIWIDBE Participation:
De La Salle Institute - Tolton Center

Direct:

MBE 
Indirect:

MBE 
Waiver _(Yes/No)

Section 3:
Hiring Subcontracting (5) Other Economic Opportunities (S)

GENERAL BACKGROUND

Research shows that more than 600,000 adults in the Chicago area are below an eighth grade
literacy level, with very low-income adults making up nearly 50% of that population. Adults
with low literacy are more likely to earn lower wages, are less likely to engage in academic
activities with their children and are correlated to higher crime rates.

Literacy is also a barrier to employment and advancement for many CHA residents. Most
training programs (and many jobs) require at least a ninth grade reading level; however,
assessments show that many residents read below this level. The literacy services to be provided
by these programs will target residents with very low literacy levels, de?ned as being at or below
a sixth grade level, as determined by the Test of Adult Basic Education (TABE). It is the goal of
the program that participants will increase literacy levels with expectation that they will be able
to achieve goals related to ?rrther employment and education or training. A total of 300
residents will enroll in the programs, with a minimum of 200 participants successfully
completing the program. Any resident who is referred to Able or Tolton and tests above the
target literacy level prior to enrollment will be referred to additional services provided by the
respective agency adult education, employment assistance, GED programs).

National Able is a multi-state organization that provides individuals with employment
counseling, training and placement services, and in 2005 established the Able Career Institute in
response to the growing demand for adult remedial and bridge education opportunities. It is
through the Career Institute, in conjunction with funding through the Illinois Community College
Board (ICCB), that Able will serve CHA residents in its introduction to adult literacy program.

For more than 22 years the Tolton Center has provided adult education and family literacy
services to low-skilled and low-income adults. Tolton?s menu of programming includes literacy
training, adult basic education, English as a Second Language, family literacy and life skills
career planning, employability). The Tolton Center uses evidence-based models for their
literacy programs and has a signi?cant record of showing measurable gains in adult literacy.
Tolton will be increasing the capacity of its existing programs to serve CHA residents in its adult
literacy program.

The Board action recommended in this item complies in all material respects with all applicable
Chicago Housing Authority board policies and all applicable federal (HUD) procurement laws.

The EVP of Resident Services concurs with the recommendation to enter into contracts with
National Able Network and De La Salle Institute -Tolton Center to provide literacy services.

The CEO/President recommends the approval to enter into contracts with National Able Network
and De La Salle Tolton Center for adult literacy services in an aggregate amount not-to?exceed
$997, 143 for the period of December 19, 2012 through December 18, 2014, with two (2) one year
options for each respective contract reserved to the CHA to exercise at its discretion.

RESOLUTION NO. 2012-CHA-1 11

WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated December 12,
2012 entitled TO ENTER INTO CONTRACTS WITH
NATIONAL ABLE NETWORK AND DE LA SALLE INSTITUTE TOLTON
CENTER TO PROVIDE LITERACY 

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY

THAT the Board of Commissioners (?Board?) authorizes the Chief Executive Of?cer or
his designee to enter into contracts with National Able Network and De La Salle
Institute Tolton Center for adult literacy services in an aggregate amount not-to-
exceed $997, 143 for the period of December 19, 2012 through December 18, 2014,
with two (2) one year options for each respective contract reserved to the CHA to
exercise at its discretion.

These awards are subject to each Contractor?s compliance with the 
Section 3 resident hiring, and bonding and insurance requirements.

   
 

mummy?

6
Li

Board Commissioners

     
   

  

60 E. Van Sf??t?f' Chicago, Illinois $0605- 1207 - 742-8500 - 9mm, mechaaw

