ITEM NO. B6

May 12, 2010

REQUEST FOR
AUTHORIZATION TO ISSUE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
MULTI-FAMILY HOUSING REVENUE NOTES, SERIES 2010A AND SERIES 2010B
(POMEROY APARTMENTS); SUBMIT A MIXED FINANCE PROPOSAL,
EVIDENTIARIES AND DISPOSITION APPLICATION TO THE U.S. DEPARTMENT OF
HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT (“HUD”); LOAN GENERAL AND OTHER
FUNDS, EXECUTE A GROUND LEASE, SELL THE PROJECT BUILDING AND
FINANCE THE SALE THROUGH SELLER FINANCING TO POMEROY SENIOR
HOUSING LIMITED PARTNERSHIP; AND EXECUTE AND DELIVER SUCH
DOCUMENTS AND PERFORM SUCH ACTIONS AS MAY BE NECESSARY OR
APPROPRIATE TO IMPLEMENT THE FOREGOING

To the Honorable Board of Commissioners
RECOMMENDATION
It is recommended that the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority (“CHA”)
approve the attached Resolution authorizing the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to (1)
Execute and deliver the Notes, all Note related agreements, and such other documentation as is
contemplated by the foregoing and as authorized in the attached Resolution in order to issue and sell
not more than $23,000,000 aggregate principal amount of Chicago Housing Authority Multi-Family
Housing Revenue Notes (Pomeroy Apartments), Series 2010A and Series 2010B, (2) Submit a
Mixed Finance Proposal with Evidentiaries and Disposition Application to the U.S. Department of
Housing and Urban Development (“HUD”); (3) Loan General and Other Funds; (4) Execute a
Ground Lease of the project site with Pomeroy Senior Housing Limited Partnership; and (5) Sell the
project building and finance the sale through seller financing to Pomeroy Senior Housing Limited
Partnership. It is further recommended that the Chief Executive Officer or his designee be
authorized to execute all closing documents in connection with the Pomeroy Apartments renovation
project. All initially capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined shall have the meanings
ascribed to such terms in the Resolution.

FUNDING
Not Applicable
Compliance requirements will be met in accordance with commitments made under two separate
Board Resolutions for Pomeroy Apartments. See Board Resolutions for Selection of the General
Contractor and for Selection of the Owner’s Representative for Pomeroy Apartments.

60 East Van Buren Street, 12th Floor Chicago, Illinois 60605 · (312) 913-7282· www.thecha.org

1

 INFORMATION RELATING TO THE NOTE ISSUE
Maximum Principal Amount:

$23,000,000

Interest:

The Series 2010A Notes will bear interest at 30
day LIBOR plus 95 basis points, with the
aggregate interest rate not to exceed a maximum
rate established in the Resolution
The Series 2010B Notes will bear interest at 30
day LIBOR plus 200 basis points, with the
aggregate interest rate not to exceed a maximum
rate established in the Resolution.

Note Purchaser:

Bank of America, N.A. (or affiliated entity)

Maturity Date:

Series 2010A Notes- not to exceed twenty-four
(24) months (subject to one six (6) month
extension)
Series 2010B Notes- not to exceed twenty-four
(24) months
(subject to one six (6) month
extension)

Purpose:

To finance the rehabilitation of 104 units of
public housing and one manager’s unit for
residents of Pomeroy Apartments located at 5650
N. Kenmore Avenue, Chicago, IL

Primary Security for Notes:

Series 2010A—CHA Capital Funds Proceeds
funded primarily by the Capital Fund Recovery
Competitive Grant (IL00205800009G); Series
2010A Note proceeds; any other security as may
be required by Note Purchaser.
Series 2010B— First Mortgage; Equity
contributions received from Borrower’s limited
partner; and any other security as may be
required by Note Purchaser

Borrower(s)

Pomeroy Senior Housing Limited Partnership

Fiscal Agent:

Bank of America, N.A., (or affiliated entity)

Note Issuer’s Counsel and Note Counsel:

Greenberg Traurig, LLP and Albert, Whitehead,
P.C.

The Pomeroy Apartments Project, built in 1923, (“Pomeroy Apartments”) is a mixed-finance
renovation of a nine story building located in the Edgewater Community at 5650 N. Kenmore
Avenue, Chicago, Illinois. This senior-designated apartment building currently contains one hundred60 East Van Buren Street, 12th Floor Chicago, Illinois 60605 · (312) 913-7282· www.thecha.org

2

 twenty (120) units; the proposed unit mix includes 104 one bedroom public housing units, and a
manager’s unit. To facilitate the financing of the renovation of Pomeroy Apartments, a multi-tiered
financing approach will be utilized. The CHA will transfer the Pomeroy Apartments property to a
tax-credit limited partnership known as Pomeroy Senior Housing Limited Partnership, an Illinois
limited partnership (the “Owner”). The General Partner of the Owner is an Illinois limited liability
company known as Pomeroy Housing Development, LLC (the “General Partner”). The sole member
of the General Partner is the CHA. The General Partner is also the developer of the Project and will
manage the day to day affairs of the Owner. Pomeroy Apartments will provide 104 units of public
housing plus one manager’s unit. The CHA will lease the land underlying the building to the Owner
pursuant to a 99-year ground lease. The CHA will sell the building to the Owner and will finance the
sale of the building through seller financing. Pursuant to a Regulatory and Operating Agreement
between CHA and the Owner, the CHA will provide operating subsidy to pay the reasonable
expenses of operating the units.
One hundred-four (104) units will be ACC units and will be subject to low-income housing tax credit
restrictions. Additionally, the 104 units will be reserved for households earning no more than 60% of
AMI.
The direct costs for the renovation of the 104 rental units of the Pomeroy Apartments development
total an estimated $36,471,120 and are expected to be funded by the following approximate sources
of permanent financing:
1) $18,746,538 CHA funds: CHA will loan capital and other funds, primarily from the Capital
Fund Recovery Competitive Grant (IL00205800009G) in the approximate amount of
$18,746,538 to be secured by a first mortgage on the property. The loan term will be
approximately 42 years (inclusive of the construction period) and will bear no interest with
the loan amount due at maturity.
2) $11,841,611 Tax Credit Equity: Red Stone Equity Partners will provide tax credit equity in
the approximate amount of $11,841,611. Equity will be generated by the syndication of a
combination of Low Income Housing Tax Credits (LIHTC) and Federal Renewable Energy
Credits in the approximate amounts of $1,499,088 for LIHTC and $110,000 for Federal
Renewable Energy Credits.
3) $5,500,000 CHA Seller Financing: CHA will provide a Seller Financing Note in the
approximate amount of $5,500,000 for the sale of the building of the Project to the Owner,
Pomeroy Senior Housing Limited Partnership. The amount of this Seller Note will be
determined by an independent third party appraisal. The loan term will be approximately 42
years (inclusive of the construction period) and will bear interest at the applicable federal rate
in effect at the time of closing.
4) $102,011 CHA Interest Earnings: Approximately $102,011 in CHA Interest Earnings is
projected to be available for the development.
5) $280,860 Deferred Seller Financing Construction Period Interest: Approximately
$280,860 in Deferred Seller Financing Construction Period Interest is projected to be
available for the development.
6) $100 GP Capital Contribution
The Notes will be issued in two series pursuant to a Note Issuance Agreement and the proceeds
thereof will be loaned to the Owner, also known as the “Borrower”, pursuant to a Loan Agreement.
Bank of America, N.A. or an affiliated entity will purchase the Series 2010A and 2010B Notes in
60 East Van Buren Street, 12th Floor Chicago, Illinois 60605 · (312) 913-7282· www.thecha.org

3

 principal amounts of approximately $11,775,630 and $7,949,217, respectively. The Authority will
provide permanent financing through its loan of capital or other funds sufficient to retire the Series
2010A Notes (in return for the agreement of the Borrower to rent 104 units at the site to public
housing eligible tenants plus one manager’s unit). The Notes are not a debt of any city, village,
incorporated town or county, or the State of Illinois or any political subdivision thereof, other than
the Authority. The Notes are special limited obligations of the Authority payable solely from the
specific sources specified in the Note Issuance Agreement.

60 East Van Buren Street, 12th Floor Chicago, Illinois 60605 · (312) 913-7282· www.thecha.org

4

 RESOLUTION NO. 2010-CHA-66
WHEREAS,

the Chicago Housing Authority, a municipal corporation and a body politic
and corporate duly organized and validly existing under and by virtue of the
laws of the State of Illinois (the “Authority”), including without limitation the
Housing Authorities Act, 310 ILCS 10/1 et seq., and all laws amendatory and
supplemental thereto, including in particular the Local Government Debt
Reform Act, 30 ILCS 350/1 et seq. (the “Act”), is authorized by the laws of
the State of Illinois (the “State”), including without limitation in the Act, to
issue its revenue Bonds and Notes for the purposes set forth in the Act and to
permit the expenditure of the proceeds thereof to finance the cost of the
development, construction and renovation of multifamily rental housing
located in the jurisdiction of the Authority; and

WHEREAS,

Pomeroy Senior Housing Limited Partnership, an Illinois limited partnership
(the “Borrower”), proposes to rehabilitate the “Pomeroy Apartments”
Project consisting of the renovation of 104 rental units of public housing and
one manager’s unit in Chicago, Illinois (the “Project”); and

WHEREAS,

a portion of the costs of the Project will be financed through the issuance by
the Authority of its Multi-Family Housing Revenue Note, Series 2010A
(Pomeroy Apartments Project) (the “Series 2010A Note”) and its MultiFamily Housing Revenue Note, Series 2010B (Pomeroy Apartments Project)
(the “Series 2010B Note”) (collectively, the “Notes”); and

WHEREAS,

the proceeds of the Notes will be loaned to Borrower; and

WHEREAS,

the General Partner of Borrower is Pomeroy Housing Development, LLC, an
Illinois limited liability company (the “General Partner”); and

WHEREAS,

the sole member of the General Partner is the Authority; and

WHEREAS,

a determination has been made by the Authority that the Project constitutes
“multifamily rental housing” within the meaning of the Act and that the
financing thereof will meet the public purposes of the Act; and

WHEREAS,

pursuant to and in accordance with the provisions of the Act, the Authority is
now prepared to proceed with the financing of a portion of the costs of the
Project through the issuance and sale of the Notes pursuant to a Note Issuance
Agreement (the “Note Issuance Agreement”) among the Authority, Bank of
America, N.A., or an affiliated entity, as the purchaser of the Notes (the
“Note Purchaser”) and Bank of America, N.A., or an affiliated entity, as fiscal
agent (the “Fiscal Agent”); and

WHEREAS,

the proceeds of the Notes will be loaned by the Authority to the Borrower
pursuant to a Loan Agreement between the Authority and the Borrower (the

60 East Van Buren Street, 12th Floor Chicago, Illinois 60605 · (312) 913-7282· www.thecha.org

5

 “Loan Agreement”) and the obligations of the Borrower to pay debt service
under the Loan Agreement will be evidenced by a Note with respect to the
Series 2010A Note debt service (the “Series 2010A Borrower Note”) from the
Borrower to the Authority, and a Note with respect to the Series 2010B Note
debt service (the “Series 2010B Borrower Note” and, together with the Series
2010A Borrower Note, the “Borrower Notes”) from the Borrower to the
Authority, each of which will be assigned by the Authority to the Fiscal
Agent as security for the Notes; and
WHEREAS,

certain income and other rental restrictions required by Sections 42 and
142(d) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”)
related to the Project will be specified in one or more Regulatory Agreements,
Declarations of Restrictive Covenants and a Land Use Restriction Agreement
(each, collectively, the “Regulatory Agreement”) and

WHEREAS,

certain arbitrage requirements of Section 148 and related provisions of the
Code will be specified in one or more Arbitrage and Tax Certificates (the
“Arbitrage Certificates”) of the Authority and the Borrower; and

WHEREAS,

both series of Notes will be sold by private placement to the Note Purchaser
pursuant to the Note Issuance Agreement; and

WHEREAS,

the Borrower’s obligations under the Borrower Notes will be secured by one
or more mortgages, security agreements and/or collateral assignments with
respect to the Project (the “Collateral Documents”) from the Borrower to the
Authority or the Fiscal Agent and, if to the Authority, the rights of the
Authority to such instruments and, as applicable, the Borrower Notes may be
assigned by the Authority to the Fiscal Agent pursuant to an assignment (an
“Assignment”); and

WHEREAS,

the Authority will lease the site of the Project to the Borrower pursuant to a
99-year ground lease (the “Ground Lease”);

WHEREAS,

the Authority will sell the building of the Project to the Borrower and will
finance the sale of the building through seller financing for the approximate
price of $5,500,000, amount to be determined by an independent third party
appraisal.

WHEREAS,

the Series 2010A Note will be secured by and payable from certain Capital
Funds (“Capital Funds”) received by the Authority and deposited into escrow
pursuant to a Pledge Agreement (the “Pledge Agreement”) among the
Authority, the Borrower and the Fiscal Agent, as Escrow Agent, and such
Capital Funds, upon withdrawal from such escrow, will constitute a loan from
the Authority to the Borrower pursuant to a loan agreement (the “Capital
Funds Loan Agreement”) with the Borrower; and

60 East Van Buren Street, 12th Floor Chicago, Illinois 60605 · (312) 913-7282· www.thecha.org

6

 WHEREAS,

the Borrower will be required to operate 104 housing units within the Project
for the use and occupancy of public housing eligible individuals plus one
manager’s unit and, in connection therewith, the Borrower will enter into a
Regulatory and Operating agreement with the Authority, a Declaration of
Restrictive Covenants with the Authority and HUD, and a mortgage and other
collateral documents and related agreements and instruments (collectively,
and together with the Capital Funds Loan Agreement, the “Capital Funds
Borrower Agreements”); and

WHEREAS,

other funding for costs of the Project will be provided
contributions and other sources; and

WHEREAS,

the proceeds of the Notes and the other funding sources may be disbursed
pursuant to a disbursement or construction agreement (the “Disbursement
Agreement”); and

WHEREAS,

all or a portion of the expenditures relating to the Project (the “Expenditures”)
(i) have been paid within the sixty days prior to the passage of this Resolution
or (ii) will be paid on or after the passage of this Resolution; and

WHEREAS,

the Authority reasonably expects (based upon information supplied by the
Borrower, upon which it is reasonable and prudent for the Authority to rely)
to reimburse the Borrower for the Expenditures with proceeds of the Notes;
and

WHEREAS,

the City Council of the City of Chicago (the “City”) has approved (or is
expected to approve) the transfer to the Authority of a portion of the City’s
available unused volume cap for calendar years 2010 and /or subsequent
years pursuant to Section 146 of the Code for use by the Authority in
connection with the issuance of the Notes, and the City and the Authority
may enter into a volume cap transfer agreement (the “Cap Transfer
Agreement”) to reflect such transfer; and

WHEREAS,

the Authority will enter into a Mixed-Finance Amendment to the Annual
Contributions Contract with HUD; and

WHEREAS,

the Note Issuance Agreement, the Loan Agreement, the Notes, the Borrower
Notes, the Regulatory Agreement, the Arbitrage Certificates, the Assignment,
the Pledge Agreement, the Disbursement Agreement, the Ground Lease, the
Collateral Documents, the Cap Transfer Agreement and the Capital Funds
Borrower Agreements are referred to collectively herein as the “Authority
Agreements.”

pursuant to equity

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

Section 1.

The Authority is authorized to submit a Mixed Finance

60 East Van Buren Street, 12th Floor Chicago, Illinois 60605 · (312) 913-7282· www.thecha.org

7

 Proposal and amended Disposition Application to HUD in connection with
the Pomeroy Apartments project, to sell the building of the Project and to
finance the sale price through seller financing; and to enter into the Authority
Agreements with the other party or parties thereto in substantially the same
forms now before the Authority. The forms, terms and provisions of the
Authority Agreements be, and they hereby are, in all respects approved. The
Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer or his designee, or the Chief Financial
Officer of the Authority be, and each of them hereby is, authorized,
empowered and directed to execute and deliver, and, where necessary, the
Chief Executive Officer or his designee, or the Custodian and Keeper of
Records/Secretary, Board of Commissioners be and each of them hereby is,
authorized, empowered and directed to attest and to affix the official seal of
the Authority to, the Authority Agreements in the name, for and on behalf of
the Authority, and thereupon to cause the Authority Agreements to be
executed, acknowledged and delivered to the other party or parties thereto, in
substantially the forms now before the Authority or with such changes therein
as the individual executing the Authority Agreements on behalf of the
Authority shall approve, his or her execution thereof to constitute conclusive
evidence of such approval of any and all changes or revisions therein from the
forms of Authority Agreements now before the Authority. When the
Authority Agreements are executed, attested, sealed and delivered on behalf
of the Authority as hereinabove provided, they shall be binding on the
Authority. From and after the execution and delivery of the Authority
Agreements, the officers, employees and agents of the Authority are hereby
authorized, empowered and directed to do all such acts and things and to
execute all such documents as may be necessary to carry out and comply with
the provisions of the Authority Agreements as executed. The Authority
Agreements shall constitute, and hereby are made, a part of this Resolution,
and copies of the executed Authority Agreements shall be placed in the
official records of the Authority, and shall be available for public inspection
at the office of the Authority.
Section 2.
The Notes shall be issued in fully registered form, in an
aggregate principal amount not to exceed $23,000,000, in authorized
denominations as provided in the Note Issuance Agreement. The Notes shall
bear interest at a variable rate of interest as shall be set forth in the Note
Issuance Agreement, as executed, in no event to exceed the maximum rate set
forth in the Note Issuance Agreement. The Notes shall mature on such date
or dates as shall be set forth in the Note Issuance Agreement, as executed, but
in no event later than 4 years following the date of their initial issuance and
delivery to the initial purchasers thereof. The Notes shall be subject to
redemption prior to maturity as provided in the Note Issuance Agreement, as
executed.
Section 3.
The Notes and the interest thereon will be special, limited
obligations of the Authority, payable solely from the payments to be made by
60 East Van Buren Street, 12th Floor Chicago, Illinois 60605 · (312) 913-7282· www.thecha.org

8

 the Borrower under the Loan Agreement and from the other sources specified
or referred to in the Note Issuance Agreement, which shall be specifically
assigned and pledged to such purposes in the manner and to the extent
provided therein. The Notes and all other obligations of the Authority in
connection therewith shall not be a debt of the City or any other city, village,
incorporated town or county, the State of Illinois or any political subdivision
thereof and neither the City, nor any other city, village, incorporated town or
county, nor the State of Illinois or any political subdivision thereof shall be
liable thereon, nor in any event shall the Notes or such obligations be payable
out of any funds or properties other than those pledged under the Note
Issuance Agreement or those other agreements specifically securing the
Notes. The Notes shall not constitute an indebtedness within the meaning of
any constitutional or statutory debt limitation or restriction.
Section 4.
The forms of the Notes set forth in the Note Issuance
Agreement, subject to appropriate insertions and revisions in order to comply
with the provisions of the Note Issuance Agreement (as executed) be, and the
same hereby are approved. The Notes shall be executed in the name, for and
on behalf of the Authority with the manual or facsimile signature of its
Chairman or Chief Executive Officer or his designee (or such other officer
authorized by law to execute the Notes on behalf of the Authority) and
attested with the manual or facsimile signature of its Secretary or Assistant
Secretary (or such other officer authorized by law to execute the Notes on
behalf of the Authority) and the seal of the Authority shall be impressed or
imprinted thereon. The officers of the Authority shall cause the Notes, as so
executed and attested, to be delivered to the Fiscal Agent for authentication.
When the Notes shall be executed on behalf of the Authority in the manner
contemplated by the Note Issuance Agreement and this Resolution, they shall
represent the approved forms of Notes of the Authority.
Section 5.
The sale of the Notes to the Note Purchaser at a purchase
price of not less than 98% of the aggregate principal amount thereof plus
accrued interest, if any, to the date of delivery, is hereby approved.
Section 6.
The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or his designee, Chief
Financial Officer, and the Custodian and Keeper of Records/Secretary, Board
of Commissioners be, and each of them hereby is, authorized to execute and
deliver such documents, certificates, and undertakings of the Authority
(including, without limitation, environmental remediation agreements,
investment agreements, book-entry registration agreements, intercreditor
agreements and other agreements pertaining to the security of the Notes) and
to take such other actions as may be required or desirable in connection with
the execution, delivery and performance of the Authority Agreements, the
financing of costs of the Project, the Capital Funds and the issuance, sale and
delivery of the Notes. In addition, subsequent to the issuance of the Notes,
any of the foregoing officers of the Authority are hereby authorized to enter
60 East Van Buren Street, 12th Floor Chicago, Illinois 60605 · (312) 913-7282· www.thecha.org

9

 into amendments to the Authority Agreements or other agreements or
instruments entered into by the Authority in connection with the Notes
(without the necessity of obtaining approval by the Board of Commissioners
of the Authority to such action) which are not inconsistent with the
parameters set forth in this Resolution and which, in the judgment of the
officers executing the same, are not materially adverse to the interests of the
Authority.
Section 7.
All acts of the officers, employees and agents of the Authority
that are in conformity with the purposes and intent of this Resolution be, and
the same hereby are, in all respects, approved and confirmed.
Section 8.
The publication on behalf of the Authority of the notice of
public hearing pursuant to Section 147(f) of the Code and the conduct of such
public hearing by and on behalf of the Authority with respect to the issuance
of the Notes is hereby ratified, authorized and approved.
Section 9.
The Authority hereby allocates to the Notes the “volume cap”
reallocated or to be reallocated by the City to the Authority in an amount
equal to the aggregate principal amount of the Notes actually to be issued.
Section 10.
The Authority reasonably expects (based upon information
supplied by the Borrower, upon which it is reasonable and prudent for the
Authority to rely) to reimburse the Expenditures with proceeds of the Notes.
Section 11.
The Notes, or any one or more series thereof, may be, but are
not required to be, initially issued in book-entry form and registered in the
name of The Depository Trust Company, New York, New York (“DTC”), or
its nominee, as securities depository.
Section 12.
The provisions of this Resolution are hereby declared to be
separable and if any section, phrase or provision hereof shall for any reason
be declared to be invalid, such declaration shall not affect the validity of the
remainder of the sections, phrases and provisions of this Resolution.
Section 13.
All resolutions and orders, or parts thereof, in conflict
herewith are hereby superseded to the extent of such conflict.
Section 14.
This Resolution shall be in full force and effect immediately
upon its passage, as by law provided.

60 East Van Buren Street, 12th Floor Chicago, Illinois 60605 · (312) 913-7282· www.thecha.org

10

 