Planning and Stakeholder Relations Committee
Minutes
May 17, 2018
The meeting was called to order at 8;30 am in Port Authority’s Neal H. Holmes Board
Room at 345 Sixth Avenue, Fifth Floor, Pittsburgh, with the following in attendance:
Board Committee Members
John Tague, Jr., Chairman
Robert Kania

Board Members and Solicitor
Michelle Zmijanac
Joel Lennen

1. Opening Remarks
Mr. Tague, Committee Chair, opened the meeting and welcomed those in
attendance.
2. Approval of Minutes from the April 19, 2018 Planning and Stakeholder
Relations Committee Meeting
Mr. Tague asked Committee members if there were any corrections to the minutes.
There were none and members approved the minutes.
3. 2017 Annual Service Report Presentation (A. Silbermann)
Ms. Silbermann showed a PowerPoint presentation and give a brief overview of the
2017 Annual Service report. This is the third year that Port Authority has produced
the report.
• Ridership ‒ 63 million for calendar year 2017, down about 1% from 2016.
• On time performance ‒ is up over calendar year 2016. For calendar year
2017, the average was 67%. We have changed the definition of the on-time
performance. We used to consider a bus to be on-time from one minute early
to six minutes late. Many of our peer agencies use five minutes late. We
decided to adjust this accordingly, so we now are using one minute early to
five minutes late.
• Crowding – We are still seeing crowded buses with standees on about 6
percent of our trips. A couple of years back we put some resources into
addressing this. It has gone down from about nine percent of trips to about
six percent of trips.
• Equity metrics ‒ We now are looking at this system-wide and had not been
doing this before. Basically it is telling us that we are serving twice as many
high equity areas as low equity areas around the county. Just as a reminder
when we say equity that includes low income persons, minority race persons,
persons with disabilities, persons over age 65 and persons without access to
a vehicle.
• Evaluation ‒ We have received around 75 unique different requests to
significantly change a bus route. Bus route 21 runs Coraopolis and runs
through Sewickley. Proposing that every other trip on that bus route instead
of extending to Sewickley continue to Moon Township on University
Boulevard to terminate at our University Boulevard Park-N-Ride Lot. Moon

 Planning and Stakeholder Relations Committee
Minutes
May 17, 2018
Township has put in requests every year to have bus service. They don’t
have any bus service, with the exception of one of our express routes that
services the park and ride.
4. Preliminary FY2019 Operating and Capital Budget Presentation (P. Schenk)
Mr. Schenk gave a PowerPoint presentation. The first couple of slides shows our
vision and notes Ms. Kelleman’s 100 day plan. We now are in the process of setting
priorities for the next six months, in addition to looking at organizational priorities for
the next two to three years. There will be a community input along the way. This will
come in a form as a strategic and tactical plan that will be developed. FY2019 will
be a transitional year in terms of Ms. Kelleman wants to accomplish changes with all
of the divisions within Port Authority. Mr. Schenk reviewed the proposed budget with
the Committee. Copies were distributed to members.
5.

Tactical Goals (Ms. Kelleman) ‒ We previously had a strategic initiatives
document but it didn’t really give us something achievable. So we are moving from
this document to a tactical plan that we can share with our community to say
exactly what we are going to be accomplishing next year, how they can measure it
back on a quarterly basis. It lays the groundwork for a strategic plan to be
implemented in the next fiscal year.
• Customer Experience ‒ So what are the things we are looking to try to
do? Our goal should always be based on providing an excellent customer
experience.
• Employee Development ‒ We have a lot of programs across the agency
that support employee training or employee development. Next year we
will be pulling all of this together.
• Financial Stainability Plan ‒ Looking at things that we should use best
practices. This does not mean that what we are doing now is not
stainable, it just simple means codifying the things which we are doing.
For instance, this would involve board adoption of a policy of how often we
evaluate fares. Making sure that we can answer questions about how we
are spending taxpayer dollars. We have several safety programs. This will
pull them all together.
• Chief Information Officer – Will be starting on Monday, May 21, 2018, so
we can employ a strategic plan. An excellent customer experience
involves finding out what our customers want. That starts off with the voice
of a customer experience tool, this is a survey that will be on all of our bus
routes and all of our trains. It will tell us exactly what people are
developing and what people are valuing when it looks at service; how
much do people feel safe and how on-time do they think we really are. We
will start adding mobile apps for fare purchases and emails letting you
know when there is a detour.
• On-time Performance ‒ Today, one minute early to five minutes late is
67% on-time rate. We use this as an example, if we had someone that
was late one day out of three what would we do as employers, people
2

 Planning and Stakeholder Relations Committee
Minutes
May 17, 2018

•

•

deserve better. A 10 percent improvement on on-time performance gets
us to 73% and doesn’t sound like a lot but it is a 10 percent improvement.
The first indicator of being on-time is getting your bus off the yard on–time.
We will have a returned focus to maintenance that we had in the past but
through previous iterations and budgets cycles we have not focused on it
as much. You will see that in this new budget, which will include a facilities
and maintenance plan.
Employee Engagement Program ‒ What do we expect to see in the
employee engagement program? We have not done an employee
engagement survey in over a decade?
Community Oriented Police Programs ‒ Now that we are not going to
be using our police force for the primary fare enforcement on the trains,
it’s a good opportunity to work with our communities to say here is what
Port Authority can do and what our police department is able to focus on.

Questions from committee, board members and others
1. Mr. Craig Rizal, resident of Bloomfield, wanted an explanation regarding the 28X
extension. He also noted that the 58 Greenfield also has a layover in Oakland.
Last year there was a proposal to re-route the 74 through Shadyside.
• Ms. Silbermann answered that our Service Development team is
looking into opportunities for potentially re-routing the 58 layover. The
plan is to wait now for the Forbes Avenue Betterment Project to be
completed this fall and then if the 58 continues to be an issue the
service development department will look into alternatives.
2. Mr. Robinson asked what are the changes to the BRT budget
• Ms. Silbermann asked do you mean the changes to the operating
budget for BRT? She offered to speak with him after the meeting.

3

 