MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING
OF THE
COMMISSIONERS OF THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
January 14, 2009
The Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority held its Regular Meeting on Tuesday,
January 14, 2009, at approximately 2:35 p.m. at CHA Corporate Office, 60 East VanBuren,
Chicago, Illinois.
Due to the absence of Chairperson Nesbitt, Commissioner Michael Ivers called the meeting to
order and upon roll call, those present and absent were as follows:
Present:

Hallie Amey
Michael Ivers
Samuel Mendenhall
Bridget O’Keefe
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young

Absent:

Martin Nesbitt
Dr. Mildred Harris

Also present were Lewis Jordan, Chief Executive Officer, Kris Warren, Chief Operating Officer;
Scott Ammarell, General Counsel; Chicago Housing Authority Staff Members and the General
Public.
There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as
follows:
Upon Motion made and properly seconded the Commissioners adjourned to Executive Session.
Commission Ivers announced that pursuant to the Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2, the Board
would adjourn for approximately one (1) hour to possibly discuss pending, probable or imminent
litigation, personnel related matters, collective negotiating matters, purchase sale and lease of
real estate property; establishment of reserves and settlement of claims.
The Commissioners subsequently reconvened in Open Session and Commissioner Ivers
thereupon convened the Public Hearing portion and Business Sessions of the meeting.
Mr. Lewis Jordan, Chief Executive Officer commenced his monthly report by declaring that
under the direction of Mayor Richard M. Daley and the Board, CHA’s Plan for Transformation,
and its network of social, civic, philanthropic and community partner’s will continue to facilitate
change not only for CHA residents but for thousands of Chicagoans. Mr. Jordan then continued
with a brief recap of 2008 accomplishments and concluded his report with an update on holiday
initiatives hosted for CHA residents.
Commissioner Ivers then invited residents and the public at large to address the Board.
Immediately following the Public Hearing portion of the meeting, the Chairman introduced the
Resolution discussed in Executive Session.
Commissioner Young then presented a Motion for the approval of the amended resolution for
Executive Session Item 1 discussed in Executive Session. .

1

 Executive Session Item 1
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-1
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated January 2, 2009, requesting that the Board of Commissioners
approves the Personnel Actions Report for December 2008.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the Personnel Actions Report for
December 2008

The Motion to adopt resolution for Executive Session Items 1 was seconded by Commissioner
Mendenhall and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Hallie Amey
Michael Ivers
Samuel Mendenhall
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young
Nays:

Bridget O’Keefe

The Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried and said Resolution adopted.
Commissioner Young then presented a Motion for the approval of the resolution for Executive
Session Item 2.
Executive Session Item 2
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-2
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated January 14, 2009, entitled “Recommendation to Approve
Chairman’s Salary.”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners approves a monthly salary for the Chairman of the
Board of Commissioners, Martin Nesbitt, in the amount of six thousand two
hundred and fifty dollars ($6,250), to be paid monthly, for the twelve month
period of January 1, 2009 thru December 31, 2009 for an aggregate total of
seventy-five thousand ($75,000) and which may be renewed at the discretion of
the Board.

The Motion to adopt resolution for Executive Session Item 2 was seconded by Commissioner
Mendenhall and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Hallie Amey
Michael Ivers
Samuel Mendenhall
Bridget O’Keefe
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young

Nays:

None

The Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried and said Resolution adopted.
Commissioner Ivers, Chairperson of the Finance and Audit Committee, then presented his
monthly report. Per Commissioner Ivers, the Finance & Audit Committee held its regular
meeting on Wednesday, January 14, 2009 at 1:00 p.m. at the 60 East Van Buren Corporate
offices. The Chief Financial Officer and staff presented the Committee with the Treasury &
Cash Flow Report for the month of December 2008.

2

 Commissioner Ivers then introduced a Motion for the adoption of the Resolution for Items A1
thru A6, discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Finance and Audit
Committee.
(Item A1)
The resolution for Item A1 approves the Property Investment Initiative (PII). Over the past year,
thousands of homes in the City of Chicago have foreclosed due to job loss, the economic
recession, and a variety of other factors. Many of these foreclosed homes are vacant, vulnerable
to vandalism and deterioration, and negatively impact community safety and property values. In
addition, the slow-down in the real estate market has also produced an abundance of
conventional properties for sale at greatly reduced costs. The PII allows CHA to acquire and
rehabilitate both foreclosed and conventional properties with three or more bedrooms in order to
lease them to public housing families who maintain a Right of Return. The approval of this
resolution will provide funding for approximately 50 units with three or more bedrooms, which
will become part of CHA’s Scattered Site portfolio. The Habitat Company will purchase these
homes on behalf of the CHA. Properties acquired under the PII will be located primarily in
General Areas in accordance with the Gautreaux Court Order. CHA will provide the Board of
Commissioners with Quarterly Status Reports describing all properties acquired under the PII
including the acquisition strategies used, the price paid for each property and the cost and scope
of work for any property needing rehabilitation.
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-3
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board letter dated January 14, 2009, entitled “RECOMMENDEDATION TO
APPROVE THE PROPERTY INVESTMENT INITIATIVE TO ACQUIRE
UNITS WITH THREE OR MORE BEDROOMS IN AN AMOUNT NOT TO
EXCEED $16,637,750.00”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the recommendation to approve the
Property Investment Initiative to acquire units with three or more bedrooms in an
amount not to exceed $16,637,750.00 and authorizes the Chief Executive Officer
or his designee to execute all necessary documents to implement this initiative

(Item A2)
Since submission of the FY2009 MTW Annual Plan to HUD in October 2008, the CHA has
revised the scope of the project, which has been renamed the Property Investment Initiative (PII),
and determined the need to establish a reasonable cost formula for development, rehabilitation,
and redevelopment activities that will replace HUD’s Total Development Cost limits. Therefore,
the CHA must amend the FY2009 MTW Annual Plan in order to inform HUD of its plan to
carryout the PII as well as to invoke the authorization contained in Attachment C of the MTW
Agreement to establish reasonable cost formulas for development, rehabilitation, and
redevelopment activities that will replace HUD’s TDC limits. Accordingly, the resolution for
Item A2 approves Amendment No. 1 to the FY2009 Moving To Work Annual Plan, Plan For
Transformation Year 10. A 30-day public comment period was held from December 15, 2008
to January 13, 2009 and Notice was published in the Chicago Sun-Times, Chicago Defender, and
HOY newspapers, as well as posted on the CHA website and on site at the following Office(s):
Administrative, Central Advisory Council, HCV Satellite, Latino Site, and Property
Management. Consideration was given to comments received during the comment period and
hearing prior to finalization of Amendment No. 1 to the FY2009 MTW Annual Plan.

RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-4
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated January 14,
2009, entitled “Approval of Amendment No.1 to the FY2009 Moving to Work
Annual Plan – Plan for Transformation Year 10” hereto attached.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY

3

 THAT,

the Board of Commissioners approves Amendment No. 1 to the FY2009 Moving
to Work Annual Plan – Plan for Transformation Year 10, and grants authorization
to submit the document to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development.

(Item A3)
The resolution for Item A3 approves the First Amendment to the CHA’s Amended and Restated
Moving to Work Agreement (MTW) between HUD and the CHA. The CHA initially executed
the MTW Agreement on June 26, 2008. Thereafter, HUD drafted and submitted to public
housing authorities (PHAs) participating in the MTW Demonstration Program, Provisions 1-8 of
the First Amendment for review and execution. The CHA evaluated the text of the proposed
First Amendment to the MTW Agreement and determined it was in its best interest to adopt the
First Amendment. The CHA also negotiated with HUD and obtained approval to add Provision
9 to the First Amendment. Highlights of the First Amendment to the MTW Agreement are as
follows: Provision 1 discusses termination of the agreement and CHA’s opportunity to cure
defaults’ Provision 2 states that HUD must follow all applicable statutory and regulatory
requirements relating to any defaults and enforcement actions pertaining to the Agreement;
Provision 3 states that if developed by HUD, HUD’s evaluation plan for the MTW
Demonstration may be reviewed by the CHA in advance of implementation; Provision 4 permits
time extensions for MTW activities past the term of the MTW Agreement; Provision 5 deletes
Section I.E. of the Agreement, which stated that federal laws that change the terms or term of the
MTW Agreement supersede the MTW Agreement; Provision 6 outlines the local asset
management programs and various cost approaches available under OMB Circular A-87;
Provision 7 details financial reporting requirements; Provision 8 addresses other reporting
requirements, including the annual plan and the annual report; Provision 9 amends Attachment
D, Provision 1, to the MTW Agreement by modifying it to delete the words “former public
housing” from the second sentence. The CHA held a 30-day public comment period and a public
hearing was held on December 22, 2008 at the Charles Hayes Family Investment Center. Notice
for the 30-day public comment period was published in area newspapers, as well as posted on the
CHA website and on site at the following Office(s): Administrative, Central Advisors Council,
HCV Satellite, Latino Site, and Property Management. Consideration was given to any
comments received during the comment period and hearing prior to finalization of the First
Amendment.
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-5
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated January 14,
2009, requesting authorization to execute the First Amendment to the Chicago
Housing Authority’s Amended and Restated Moving to Work Agreement, dated
June 26, 2008 between the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development
and the Chicago Housing Authority, hereto attached.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the First Amendment to the
Chicago Housing Authority’s Amended and Restated Moving to Work
Agreement

THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby grants authorization to the Chief Executive
Officer to execute the First Amendment to the Chicago Housing Authority’s
Amended and Restated Moving to Work Agreement on behalf of the CHA.

(Item A4)
The resolution for Item A4 approves submittal of the FY2009 Performance Funding System
(PFS) Calculation to HUD. CHA is required to submit a PFS Calculation detailing the total
operating subsidy for fiscal year 2009. HUD uses the PFS to determine a public housing
authority’s eligibility for an operating subsidy. Based on the formula established by HUD as a
part of the Amended and Restated Moving-to-Work Demonstration Agreement, Memorandum of
Approval, Resident Protection Agreement - Attachment A-Operating Fund Agreement, the CHA
should request the operating subsidy in the amount of $172,192,459. This figure was determined
by using the formula described in Attachment A of the Amended and Restated MTW
Agreement. For fiscal years 2000-2017, CHA must prepare its request for operating funds by
making adjustments to the base year subsidy eligibility. Unlike the procedure used in prior years,

4

 HUD has requested each Authority to submit its PFS Schedule prior to the release of final prorations. This is being done in order to determine the overall need of Public Housing Authorities.
Upon release of the final pro-ration amount, the CHA’s FY2009 Comprehensive Budget will be
adjusted accordingly.
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-6
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners have reviewed the Board Letter dated January 14,
2009, requesting authorization to submit FY2009 Performance Funding System
Calculation to the Department of Housing and Urban Development and approval
of the FY2009 Performance Funding System Performance Calculation.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners approve the FY2009 Performance Funding System
Calculation and authorize the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to execute
and submit the Performance Funding System Calculation and all necessary related
documents to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development.

(Item A5)
The resolution for Item A5 approves exercising the option to extend Contract No. 5065 with
Windows of Opportunity for the period of January 1 to December 31, 2009. The purpose of
Windows is to address the needs of public and assisted housing residents through ongoing
communication between CHA residents and businesses, cultural, social, educational and
philanthropic organizations and communities. Exercising this option year will allow Windows to
continue performing these services for the CHA. At the end of the twelve-month option term,
recommendations will be made regarding the role Windows will fulfill in supporting the CHA’s
efforts to improve the quality of life of public and assisted housing residents. As a stated
condition of its contract, Windows will undergo a random audit of its programs, services, fiscal
practices and policies at the discretion of the CHA. During the term of contract, the CHA will
donate office space to Windows on an in-kind basis. Benchmarks in the following areas must
also be satisfied as a condition of the contract: Fundraising, Fiscal Management, Board
development, Communications, Staffing and Projects/Programming. In addition, the CHA will
require that Windows complete the following by May 31, 2009: address all fiscal controls and
reporting recommendations/findings listed in the most recent audit, and modify financial
reporting to meet industry standards/best practices. The CHA will now require a monthly written
report, specifying progress made in each area. The CHA will approve the format of the report
once a 3-year strategic plan, due by July 1, 2009, is approved. In addition, the CHA shall seek
oral and written presentations from Windows to be made to the CHA Board of Commissioners
on a quarterly basis. These requirements will be attached as an addendum to Windows contract.
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-7
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated December 14,
2009, “AUTHORIZATION TO EXERCISE THE OPTION TO EXTEND
CONTRACT NO. 5065 WITH WINDOWS OF OPPORTUNITY, INC.”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to exercise the option year to extend Contract No. 5065 with Windows
of Opportunity, Inc., for a period of January 1, 2009 to December 31, 2009, in an
amount not-to-exceed $215,898.00.

(Item A6)
To comply with the City of Chicago’s recycling ordinance, the CHA previously entered into
Intergovernmental Agreements with City of Chicago Department of Street and Sanitation
(CDSS) to administer the CHA’s Recycling Buy Back Program. The Program, working with
local resident organizations, provides direct payment to CHA residents for recyclable materials
collected in their homes and neighborhoods. During 2008, the CHA anticipated utilizing the
waste removal vendors that contracted with the private property management companies to

5

 handle CHA’s recycling requirements. A cost analysis proved the cost to be heightened in the
Family Portfolio to use private waste haulers. Therefore, with CDSS’s agreement, CHA will
realize a substantial savings and residents will continue to receive the direct benefit of food
vouchers as an incentive for participation in the Program. Accordingly, The resolution for Item
A6 approves an Intergovernmental Agreement with the for the Recycling Buy-Back Program for
a total amount not-to-exceed $346,011.00 for FY2009. The CHA financial commitment for
participation in the Program for FY 2009 increased from $267,178.00 per year to $346,011.00
per year, based on the City’s inability to financially contribute for CHA’s participation.
Although the CHA will increase its contribution, the CHA will still realize a substantial savings
by utilizing the City’s Program.
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-8
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated January 14, 2009, requesting “Authorization to enter into an
Intergovernmental Agreement with the City of Chicago Acting By and Through
Its Department of Streets and Sanitation for the Recycling Buy-Back Program”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into an Intergovernmental Agreement with the City of Chicago,
acting through its Department of Streets and Sanitation to continue the Recycling
Buy Back Program for a total amount not to exceed $346,011 for FY2009

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Item A1 thru A6 was seconded by Commissioner
Amey and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Hallie Amey
Michael Ivers
Samuel Mendenhall
Bridget O’Keefe
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Finance and Audit Committee report was also accepted in
total.
Commissioner Young, Chairperson of the Tenant Services Committee, then presented her
monthly report. Per Commissioner Young, the Tenant Services Committee meeting was held on
Wednesday, January 14 at approximately 1:30 p.m. at the 60 East Van Buren Corporate Offices.
Commissioner Young then introduced an Omnibus Motion for the adoption of Resolutions for
Item B1 thru B4 discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Tenant Services
Committee.
(Item B1)
The Resolution for Item B1 approves the Amendment to the Work Requirement Policy of the
FY2007 Admissions and Continued Occupancy Policy (ACOP). The ACOP governs the
selection of residents for and continued occupancy of units at public housing developments
owned by the CHA. The CHA is amending the Work Requirement Policy to ensure that the
language conforms to federal, state, and local law. The changes are as follows: added a victim of
violence, including but not limited to domestic violence, sexual violence, dating violence, and
stalking to the Safe Harbor eligibility standards; clarified that the Work Requirement applies to
all residents and adult authorized family members in order to coincide with the language used in
the FY2007 Residential Lease Agreement; extended the amount of time that volunteer or
community service hours could count towards 50% of the required hours from two years to three
years; removed the work requirement exemption for: “the primary caretaker of a child(ren) under
age 13 in households with two or more adults; One adult working exempts one other adult from
work to care for a child(ren) under age 13,” in an effort to ensure fair treatment for all public
housing residents; and the CHA clarified that the 90 days of Safe Harbor begins from the date of
the request and not from the date of the approval. A 30-day public comment period was held and

6

 a public comment hearing was held on December 22, 2008 at the Charles A. Hayes Family
Investment Center. Notice for the 30-day comment period was published in the area newspapers
as well as posted on the CHA website and several CHA sites. Consideration was given to
comments received during the comment period and hearing prior to finalization of the Work
Requirement Policy.
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-9
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated January 14,
2009, entitled “Approval of the Amendment to the Work Requirement Policy in
Section VIII of the FY2007 Admission and Continued Occupancy Policy.”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the Amendment to the Work
Requirement Policy in Section VIII of the FY2007 Admission and Continued
Occupancy Policy, and authorizes the Board Chairperson, Chief Executive
Officer, or his designee to approve any final changes to, and to amend the Work
Requirement Policy in Section VIII of the FY2007 Admissions and Continued
Occupancy Policy, which approval shall constitute conclusive evidence of the
Board’s approval of any and all such changes.

THAT,

this approval of the amended Work Requirement Policy in Section VIII of the
FY2007 Admissions and Continued Occupancy Policy supersedes any and all
conflicting language found in prior CHA policies and procedures and replaces any
and all previously board approved Work Requirement Policies.

THAT,

the Board Chairperson, the Chief Executive Officer, or his designee is hereby
authorized to approve final changes in this policy

(Item B2)
In July 2008, the Board of Commissioners authorized an amendment and extension of Contract
No. 6045 with Nan McKay and Associates (NMA) for twenty additional months to provide
extended services under the ongoing transition to the new operating model for the Housing
Choice Voucher Programs (HCVP). As expected with a transition of this magnitude, work still
needs to be completed in the area of program operations, business systems, and ensuring that the
CHA can adequately manage and monitor two vendors and two sub-contractors with major
administrative responsibilities. In September 2008, the CHA executed Amendment No. 3 in an
amount not to exceed $94,022.00, to provide support through a professional staffer who has
filled the role of the CHA’s HCVP director position on an interim basis. The resolution for Item
B2 approves the continued support for the temporary director position for a base term of three
months with three additional one month option periods in an amount not to exceed $193,484.00
and for additional professional service hours from NMA staff for ongoing technical assistance in
an amount not to exceed $68,733.00. The total compensation amount for this contract
amendment will be $262,217.00. At the end of the initial three month term for the temporary
director’s position, the CHA’s HCVP staff will assess the need to exercise any additional option
month included in this amendment.
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-10
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated January 14,
2009 entitled "RECOMMENDATION TO AMEND CONTRACT NO. 6045
WITH NAN MCKAY & ASSOCIATES, INC. FOR CONSULTING
SERVICES”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to amend Contract No. 6045 with Nan McKay & Associates, Inc. to
provide consulting services for CHA’s Section 8 Housing Choice Voucher
Program in an amount not to exceed $262,217.00.

7

 (Item B3)
During the term of Contract 6045 with Nan McKay and Associates (NMA), it was determined
that the CHA needed to develop augmented quality assurance methods and practices to maintain
compliance with its changing Housing Choice Voucher Program (HCVP) program and
additionally needed to develop a client management tracking system to more efficiently and
effectively manage the HCVP program. As the result of this determination the CHA entered into
a new agreement, Contract No. 8071, with NMA. CHA is in the process of hiring nine QA staff
to ensure that the HCVP is compliant with guidelines established by HUD. During this interim
period, the resolution for Item A3, approves a contract amendment and extension with NMA to
provide a Quality Assurance Analyst for a base term of three months, not-to-exceed $88,423.00
beginning in January 2009. In addition, the contract amendment will allow CHA to exercise an
extension option to secure up to three additional months of services for a full time QA analyst, in
an amount not-to-exceed $88,423.00; or up to three additional months of services for a part-time
QA analyst not-to exceed $26,126.00. Additionally, Resolution B3 approves an additional four
months extension to Contract No. 8071 so that NMA provides training to CHA’s QA staff.
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-11
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated January 14,
2009, entitled "RECOMMENDATION TO AMEND AND EXTEND
CONTRACT NO. 8071 WITH NAN MCKAY & ASSOCIATES, INC. FOR
QUALITY ASSURANCE”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to amend and extend Contract No. 8071 with Nan McKay & Associates,
Inc. for quality assurance support for CHA’s Section 8 Housing Choice Voucher
Program in an amount not to exceed $176,846.00

(Item B4)
The resolution for Item B4 approves extension of contract with BMT-1, LLC to provide
Community and Supportive Services to families relocating to the Robert Taylor Mixed-Income
Community. The Contract’s primary focus has been to assist CHA families that have chosen to
return to the Robert Taylor mixed income community. Services are specifically designed to
assist families in meeting the site specific criteria and maintaining housing eligibility at the new
mixed income developments. The provision of services at the redeveloped Robert Taylor
community, contemplated as part of the competitive procurement of the Developer, is dictated by
the Master Development Agreement governing this community. Based upon the availability of
funding and Brinshore’s performance of the Contract to date, the CHA desires to extend the
Contract for a fifth year. Over the past years, Brinshore has provided pre and post occupancy
services for families who have relocated to Mahalia Place, Hansberry Square, and Coleman
Place. The requested additional funding for the fifth one-year option period will allow Brinshore
to continue providing post occupancy services to the 83 families who moved into Hansberry
Square as well as the 52 families who moved into Coleman Place. The families residing at
Mahalia Place will be transferred to their regional FamilyWorks provider.
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-12
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated January 14,
2009, entitled “RECOMMENDATION TO EXTEND CONTRACT NO. 0576
WITH BMT-1, LLC TO PROVIDE COMMUNITY AND SUPPORTIVE
SERVICES TO FAMILIES RELOCATING TO THE ROBERT TAYLOR
MIXED-INCOME COMMUNITY”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to extend Contract No. 0576 (“Contract”) with BMT-1, LLC
(“Brinshore”) for a fifth year for the period of February 12, 2009 through February
11, 2010 and to increase the Contract’s funding in an amount not-to-exceed
$300,000.00 adding it to the carryover balance available at the end of the
Contract’s current term to continue to provide Community and Supportive

8

 Services (“CSS”) to CHA residents who have relocated to the Robert Taylor
mixed-income community. The Contract’s new aggregate not-to-exceed amount
will be $2,901,416.00
The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Item B1 and B4 was seconded by Commissioner
Mendenhall and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Hallie Amey
Michael Ivers
Samuel Mendenhall
Bridget O’Keefe
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, Commissioner Ivers thereupon declared said Motion
carried and said resolution adopted. The Tenant Services Committee report was also accepted in
total.
There being no further business to come before the Commissioners, upon Motion made,
seconded and carried, the meeting of the Board of Commissioners was adjourned at
approximately 3:45 p.m.

s/b:

s/b:

________________________
Lee Gill, Custodian and
Keeper of Records

9

_______________________
Michael Ivers
Acting Chairperson

 