Chicago Housing Authority
Board of Commissioners Public Session
Meeting of July 19, 2005
Abraham Lincoln Center, 3858 S. Cottage Grove, Chicago, IL
Residents
Name/Property/

Question/Comment

Status

1.

Deverra Beverly

Acknowledged Commissioners and staff for their
continuous support at ABLA.

Comments Noted.

2.

Cheryl Johnson

Would like management to reconsider issue of installation
of washers and dryers at Altgeld. According to
management an additional $6 - 9million would be needed
for installation of individual washers & dryers, what is the
cost of the proposed facilities under new construction?

The cost for the 7 proposed units at Altgeld is estimated at
$ 3,500,000 versus the estimated $7-9 million for individual laundry hookups.
Clearly, these figures represent over a 50% additional cost which as stated before
has not been budgeted for this purpose.

3.

Barbara Simmons

Is disabled and needs washer and dryer in her unit at
Altgeld.

4.

Roseitna Robinson

Requesting management to reconsider issue of
installation of washers and dryers at Altgeld.

In addition, The CHA does not typically have laundry hookups inside the individual
public housing units at any CHA housing development (this includes our senior
properties, all of which have a laundry facility on-site). According to the CHA
lease, major appliances are not to be hooked up by leaseholders or other unit
occupants
Referred to Debra Moo-Young, Manager ADA Compliance.
In order to allow all public housing residents access to the same amenities and
services, regardless of the development they live in, individual laundry facilities –
washer and dryer hookups – will not be provided in the apartments at Altgeld
Gardens when the rehab work is completed.
The cost to install laundry hookups for every apartment at Altgeld is estimated
between $7 million and $9 million – money which has not been budgeted for this
purpose.
The CHA does not typically have laundry hookups inside the individual public
housing units at any CHA housing development (this includes our senior
properties, all of which have a laundry facility on-site). According to the CHA
lease, major appliances are not to be hooked up by leaseholders or other unit
occupants.
However, the CHA is looking at creating multiple laundry facilities on-site in the
Altgeld Gardens development so that all residents will have laundry services
nearby. It is expected that these facilities would be contracted to a laundry
services professional through the procurement process.

5.

Idella Thomas

Rockwell residents from 2450 W. Monroe received notice
that building must be vacated by October 1, 2005 and
timeframe for relocation is unrealistic which a violation of
the Relocation Contract is.

In response to this request, the CHA’s Legal department has forwarded a written
response to the Rockwell RMC.

 6.

Patricia Henry

Concerned about the timeframe allocated to Rockwell
residents to relocate.

In response to this request, the CHA’s Legal department has forwarded a written
response to the Rockwell RMC.

7.

Mary Baldwin

Acknowledged Mr. Peterson and staff for meeting with
Rockwell residents and requested management to be

Comments Noted

8.

Clifton Cooper

The quality and look of redevelopment of Rockwell does
not compare to Cabrini or Wells redevelopment, as a
result no commercial development or residents will want
to move back into the new redeveloped Rockwell.

9.

Francine Washington

10.

Martha Marshall

Is appreciative of management’s effort to recognize LAC
Presidents but recognition should also go to other Council
members and staff.
Acknowledged CAC Board for progressive leadership.

Please note that the Development of Rockwell is in its early stages. Already
Phase 1a West End has been completed and the CHA units are fully leased.
Phase 1B (Jackson Square at West End) will have all masonry construction with
new building types that compare well with Madden and Roosevelt Square.
Commercial Redevelopment in the Rockwell area is being pursued by the City of
Chicago.
Comments Noted

11

Michelle Towns

Requesting new developer for Rockwell. Residents not
satisfied with redevelopment plans and existing
developer. Requested meeting with CEO.

Comments Noted
Please note that the Development of Rockwell is in its early stages. Already
Phase 1a West End has been completed and the CHA units are fully leased.
Phase 1B (Jackson Square at West End) will have all masonry construction with
new building types that compare well with Madden and Roosevelt Square.
Commercial Redevelopment in the Rockwell area is being pursued by the City of
Chicago

 