August-1?5, 2012 A i ITEM NO. B2

AUTHORIZATION TO EXECUTE A HOUSING ASSISTANCE PAYMENTS
CONTRACT WITH THRESHOLDS FOR EDGEWATER SHORES

To the Honorable Board of Commissioners:

Recommendation
It is recommended that the CHA execute a Housing Assistance Payments (HAP) Contract with
Thresholds for the following property:

0 8 studio units at Edgewater Shores for individuals needing mental health services
-) The purpose of this contract is to increase the supply of long-term, quality affordable
housing opportunities in healthy neighborhoods for households on CHA waiting lists.

Bac and on Pro Rental Assistance RA Pro at
The 8 units in this proposed HAP Contract will be administered as part of the Property Rental
Assistance (PRA) Program. PRA was launched in June 2010 to add 500-650 new CHA units per
year through an open web-based application process. PRA program goals are to:

1. Increase the number of affordable housing opportunities in healthy neighborhoods.

2. Ensure long-term affordability in opportunity areas.

3. Provide a?'ordable housing options for working families, seniors and special needs populations.

4. Provide owners with reliable and straightforward rental income for their properties.
All CHA-assisted PRA units count toward the overall 25,000 unit goal in the Plan for
Transformation. HUD and the CHA Board of Commissioners approved this designation as part
of Amendment 3 to the Amended and Restated MTW Agreement in March 2010.

PRA Evaluation Process
Complete applications for PRA assistance are evaluated in the order received as part of a twice-
evaluation committee process. The PRA evaluation committee is comprised of:

4 CHA staff representing Asset Management, Development Management, Finance and Resident
Services
1 staff from the Chicago Department of Housing and Economic Development (DHED)
1 staff from the Chicago Department of Families and Supportive Services (DFSS).
1 staff ?'om the Corporation for Supportive Housing (CSH)
Business and Professional People for the Public Interest (BPI) also provide non-voting participation
All applications are evaluated on 5 criteria: Property Characteristics, Neighborhood, Owner
Experience, Manager Experience, and Rent Structure.

PRA Status
The PRA portfolio currently includes 2,115 units in 96 developments. The program provides

$20.7 Million in annual HAP payments and currently has a 97.2% occupancy rate.

In 2010, PRA added 234 units in 9 developments;

In 2011, PRA added 569 units in 36 developments;

in 2012, PRA plans to add 650 units to achieve unit count goals in the 20l2 Annual Plan.
So far in 20l 2, 176 PRA units are under contract or in the pipeline-.-- 1' -. - ,2

act-n

Owner Manager Information
The development has been owned and managed by MSS Enterprises, Inc. (MSS) since 2004.

Thresholds will enter into a Master Lease with MSS for 8 studio apartment units in the building.
Thresholds will have no ownership interest in the property. The Master Lease provides that MSS
will be responsible for furnishing all utilities, maintenance and repairs, and H08 requirements.
MSS is a participant in the CHA Owner Excellence program, consistently meeting HQS.

Thresholds will provide supportive services for the 8 PRA units. Thresholds will provide a
comprehensive program of therapeutic support, case management, job training and placement.
Thresholds? was founded in 1959 for the purpose of delivering recovery services to people with
persistent mental illness. Thresholds has developed and currently owns and manages 36
residential properties consisting of 3 tax credit properties, 6 SROs, 19 group homes and II
apartment buildings all providing supportive housing and services to over 500 residents throughout
Chicago, Cook, Kankakee and McHenry Counties.

All owners in the PRA program are reviewed as part of a thorough due diligence process.

0 This review includes checks for building code violations, HUD debarred list, City of Chicago scofflaw,

criminal background, and other program participation.
0 No issues were identi?ed during the review of Thresholds or MSS.

Contract Information
0 Funding Source: Housing Choice Voucher Program (Property Rental Assistance)
0 Tenn: 15 Years (requested by owner)
0 Initial Annual Contract Amount: 
0 Total Base lS-Year Contract Amount: $1,180,800

Waiting List Occupangy Process
It is Thresholds? intent to lease the 8 units to eligible persons from CHA waiting list. In an effort

to accomplish this, Thresholds? will cross reference its? waiting list with waiting list.
Those persons identi?ed on both lists will receive a ?rst preference for the units. In an effort to
maintain a current cross-referenced waiting list of quali?ed applicants, the CHA and Thresholds,
will cross-reference Thresholds? list with list to identify applicants who meet the property
preference in regular intervals (estimated to occur on a quarterly basis). In the event that an
insu?icient number of applicants are identi?ed through the cross-referencing process, after 90
days of referrals to a vacant unit, Threshold may qualify applicants from its site-based waiting
list. The CI-IA waiting list of applicants or current participants that are also interested in housing
that provides mental health services will be exhausted prior to utilization of a site based waiting

list. 3:0 ?th?lu-nri?

Thresholds] Edgewater Shores Develogment
Information

The property is a six-story elevator building

containing 73 units located in the Edgewater
community area. The building serves single
adult households and small families with 50

studios, two-bedroom and 22 one-bedroom
apartments.

Since acquired in 2004, major capital
improvements have been made to the property. . .
This includes new boilers, high-ef?ciency hot - 

1

as E. Van sum Street- Ch?raga, Illinois 50665. 1207- (312) 742 3500- eschew

  

water heater, new plumbing lines throughout, a
new roof, extensive masonry work and tuck-pointing, plus substantial improvements to the units
(new ?oors, ?xtures, appliances, cabinets) and historic renovation of the lobby.

0 Address: 5326 N. Winthrop.

PRA Units: 8 studios - the HAP Contract
will initially consist of 3 units with the
remaining 5 coming on line over the next
nine months as units naturally turn over.

0 Population: Individuals in need of mental
health supportive services.

0 Total Units: 73 total units in building. Of
these, 7 units have HCV subsidies.

Subsidy Ratio: 20.5% of units in building
including HCV.

0 Unit Size: Approximate range 410 sq. it.

I Condition: Major capital improvements and
substantial unit upgrades in 2004.

I Amenities: 24 hour front desk, camera
security system in lobby and on each ?oor,
on-site management and service staff,
community room, building sponsored events
holiday parties, summer picnics) and
on-site laundry facilities.

0 Contract Rent: $820/per month includes
heat, cooking gas, electricity, water and
sewer. (Comparable with other units in
building neighborhood.)

0 Inspection Results: All of the proposed
units substantially comply with Housing
Quality Standards.

0 Overall: Stable building serving single adult
households and small families.

 

i
5326 N. Winthrop

Neighborhood Information

The Edgewater Community Area is a vibrant,

stable community bordering on the Lake. 5'

2.5 blocks from the CTA Red Line; 3 CTA
bus lines on Sheridan (2 blocks east)

0 1 block from a Jewel Grocery Store

0 3 blocks from the Lakefront Em

0 Low rate of subsidized housing in area E:
. Minimal crime activity 13.,
48?? Aldermanic Ward (Harry Ostermanwee?m a. 

 

 

3?0 5' Bursa I?ll/liars 00005-1207 $12) 745-5500 - ?ribi?cna. 013?

Conclusion on Thresholds for Edgewater Shores
It is recommended that the CHA execute a Housing Assistance Payments (HAP) Contract with

Thresholds for a term of 15 years for 8 studio apartments at Edgewater Shores. Threshold?s
proposal meets all four (4) of the PRA program goals:

1.
2.
3.

4.

Increase the number of affordable housing opportunities in healthy neighborhoods.
Ensure long-term affordability in opportunity areas.

Provide affordable housing options for working families, seniors and special needs
populations.

Provide owners with reliable and straightforward rental income for their properties.

so E. Van 5mm Garbage, Illinois 5053512074312) 7423500- 

RESOLUTION 2012-CHA-62

WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board letter dated August 15, 2012 requesting authorization to execute a Housing
Assistance Payments (HAP) Contract with Thresholds for 8 studio apartments at
Edgewater Shores;

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:

THAT, the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive O?icer or his
designee to (I) execute a Housing Assistance Payments (HAP) Contract with
Thresholds for eight (8) studio apartment units at Edgewater Shores; and (2)
execute all other documents as may be necessary or appropriate to implement the
foregoing. The term of the HAP Contract will be for 15 years.

i" 

   
   

 

Board of Commissioners

 

60 E. Van Ewan - Saharan. Ill/no]: If 92?2? - til-imbaorg

