Chicago Housing Authority
Board of Commissioners Public Session
April 21, 2015
Albany Terrace Apartments – 3030 W. 21st Place
Name

1

Evelyn Reid

2

Maner Wiley

3

4

George
Blakemore

Veronica
Butler

Question/Comment

Response

I am from Tips at 170 and I just want to make the Board aware of the
Medical Expense Reimbursement Plan which has been in corporate
America for more than a decade however is just coming to
municipalities within the last couple years. The purpose of MERP is to
lower your healthcare cost by 20% or more without additional cost to
your bottom line.
I am coming to ask Mr. Merchant would you please come to Hilliard and
walk with me? Nobody has come out to Hilliard, I would like you to
come out and walk with me so I can show you some things.
The last time I attended the meeting the timer was broken and you stole
my minutes and you apologized to me, that is unacceptable, I want my
minutes back, reparation. It was unacceptable, if I extend my two
minutes, perhaps you will give me my minutes I am entitled to receive.
You are supposed to educate people about their rights, these
intergovernmental agreements with the City telling people they would
come back, Cabrini is a good example, 1/3 of the residents are able to
move back, all of them should be able to move back. The people on
this Board are not working on your behalf. I am not a resident of CHA.
I am from Texas and I may have to go back. Give me back my
minutes.
I am a four year tenant of Trumbull Park and I have mold in my house
that have been there for two years. We have had headaches from the
mold, and they told me it was mildew and when they came to clean
they said it was the moisture in my house. I run my fan and my AC
constantly. It’s not mildew, it’s mold. I have pictures and my kids are
getting headaches, I went to the office and the LAC Office and they are
doing nothing.

1

Your comment has been received.

Mr. Merchant is currently planning a site visit to Hilliard.

When the timer previously malfunctioned, your two minutes
were monitored with a backup timer and you were not given
any less time to speak than you would have been given had the
timer functioned properly.

CHA staff conducted a visual inspection of the unit and has
directed the property manager to hire an environmental
specialist to conduct an air quality test to determine the
appropriate next steps.

 1) I am here complaining about Section 3, Rosenwald in particular. I
don’t know why they are working and residents are not getting jobs, and
I see Hispanics all over the place. Alderman Dowell said we need to be
union to work on the project. You need to put a halt to it.

5

6

Joseph
Watkins

Dennis Hood

2) I want you to look into the services of BPI as well, they are getting
guaranteed percentages of contracts and they are also violating the
Section 3 Program. I know that somebody just said your goal is to not
make us whole, because then you will not have a job. I want to make
sure that for the record you all halt the Rosenwald project until they hire
Section 3 residents.

I am a Resident Owned Business, we like some of the things you are
doing with Section 3, but there is more you have to do. It is too
competitive with the insurance. I will ask you again if you can help the
residents in the Section 3 Program. My insurance itself is tremendously
high, you talk about your payroll and overhead and you have nothing. If
you want residents to move on you have to do for them what you have
to do for them. I also want to say to Mr. Merchant, we have our
meeting in one week, we need to talk about some of this stuff, we do a
good job but it is hard without the help of CHA.

2

1) At Rosenwald the Prime Contractor has proposed to meet
the minimum Section 3 Business Concern subcontracting
requirement by submitting a Utilization Plan that sets a goal of
10.22% of the overall contract value. CHA’s Compliance
department will monitor the compliance once construction work
begins.
Section 3 Residents and Business Concerns are not required
to have union affiliations to participate in Section 3 Hiring and
Subcontracting opportunities with CHA. However, in the
Rosenwald mixed finance transaction involving multiple funding
sources, including City of Chicago Funding, City requirements
of union affiliation to work on this specific project site are
applicable.
2) BPI has no contracts with CHA that would require and entail
Section 3 commitments.
Your comment has been received.

 