Planning and Stakeholder Relations Committee
Minutes
June 21, 2018
The meeting was called to order at 8:30 am in Port Authority’s Neal H. Holmes Board
Room at 345 Sixth Avenue, Fifth Floor, Pittsburgh, with the following in attendance:
Board Committee Members
John Tague, Jr., Chairman
Ann M. Ogoreuc

Board Members and Solicitor
Michelle Zmijanac
Joel Lennen
Jennifer Liptak
Robert Vescio

1. Opening Remarks
Mr. Tague, Committee Chair, opened the meeting and welcomed those in
attendance.
2. Approval of Minutes from the May 17, 2018 Planning and Stakeholder
Relations Committee Meeting
Mr. Tague asked Committee members if there were any corrections to the minutes.
There were none and members approved the minutes.
3. Authorization to Adopt FY2019 Operating and Capital Budgets (P. Schenk)
Mr. Schenk reviewed a Tactical Plan, which identifies organizational goals. This will
address the next twelve months.
o
o
o
o
o

Goal: Deliver Excellent Customer Experience
Goal: Develop a Financial Sustainability Plan
Goal: Develop an Agency-Wide Safety Program
Goal: Develop an Employee Engagement Program
Goal: Improve Customer and Public Communications and better
engage communities.

Ms. Kelleman gave an update on the Light Rail Vehicle situation with the flooding that
occurred overnight. Mr. Miller, COO, is out assessing damage on the Library Line now.
At 2 a.m., things looked worse. There was a landslide and we had to close the Mt.
Washington tunnel but crews were able to open the tunnel in time for the morning
commute. There is good information on the website for our riders with updates. The
Overbrook line lost ballast so we do have exposed rail that will take around two weeks
to repair but the bigger issue is on the Library Line. Our engineers are out assessing the
damage. We were going to be graduating about 32 new operators tomorrow and we
pulled all of them to drive shuttle buses along the rail lines.
4. New Service Center Opening (P. Schenk)
• Customer Service Center scheduled to open on June 25, 2018.

 Planning and Stakeholder Relations Committee
Minutes
May 17, 2018
•
•
•
•
•

Official Grand Opening at a later date in summer.
Improved Customer Service
Access 24 hour TVM Machine
One-stop shop for Customers to purchase products, get information or file a
complaint
New space will be work space for approximately 27 Customer Service
employees and 7 Service Center employees

5. CTAA Conference Update
• Chairman, John Tague, Jr. discussed the conference, which was recently
hosted in Pittsburgh.

Questions from committee, board members and others
1. Ms. Liptak asked if we were able to use existing items in the new Service Center
to reduce cost.
a. Ms. Kelleman answered yes - we are recycling the old materials. Also, the
previous customer service space is being restructured so that we can
consolidate some of our departments.
2. Mr. Tague asked if we are going to paint the walls at the new Customer Service
Center.
a) Mr. Schenk answered the walls are a new wallpaper with a design.
3. Mr. Walsh asked if there is going to be a new policy that allows operators to be
early at a stop.
a) Ms. Kelleman answered we do encourage riders to get to a stop five
minutes early. That is a six-minute window, one minute early/five minutes
late
b) Mr. Ritchie answered that the Authority is not adopting a policy that allows
operators to be early or late. Rather, the discussion is about how the
Authority defines a vehicle that is early or late.
4. Mr. Robison asked if the 24-hour TVM machine will have cameras and/or other
monitoring of that space.
a). Mr. Cetra answered there will be cameras and police monitoring.

2

 