BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
Real Estate Operations Development Committee Meeting
Charles Hayes Family Investment Center, 4859 S. Wabash, Chicago, Illinois
November 20, 2018
9:20 am

AGENDA

I.

Roll Call

II.

Approval of minutes for the Real Estate Operations Development Committee meeting of
September 18, 2018

III.

Resolutions
Item No. 9

Authorization to enter into a Power Purchase and Lease Agreement with VLV
Development for the supply of renewable electricity at Dearborn Homes – Derek
Messier, Chief Property Officer

Item No. 10

Recommendation to execute a Housing Assistance Payments Contract under RAD2
for Mae Suites and Lawson House; Preliminary Commitment Letter for Lawson
House and a Housing Assistance Payments Contract for Focus Apartments – Derek
Messier, Chief Property Officer

Item No. 11

Authorization to submit a Demolition Application to HUD for property located at
1450 North Larrabee Street; enter into an Intergovernmental Agreement with the
City of Chicago; enter into an additional Services Agreement with Near North
Cabrini, LLC and enter into a Pre-development Loan Agreement with Near North
Cabrini, LLC in the amount not-to-exceed $1,500,000 – Ann McKenzie, Chief
Development Officer

Item No. 12

Authorization to submit a Disposition Application to HUD for property located at
955 E. 131st Street; enter into a lease for the Altgeld Family Resource Center and
enter into sub-leases between CHA and Center for New Horizons and the City of
Chicago – Ann McKenzie, Chief Development Officer

Item No. 13

Authorization to enter into an Intergovernmental Agreement between the CHA and
the City of Chicago for a land exchange within and nearby the former Stateway
Gardens Development area; submit Acquisition and Disposition Applications to HUD
to dispose of approximately 6.5 aces at 3833 S. Federal Street and acquire
approximately 6.7 aces at 3919 S. Federal Street – Ann McKenzie, Chief Development
Officer

Item No. 14

Authorization to approve the Tenant Selection Plan, Lease and Lease Riders for Harold
Ickes/Southbridge and loan approximately $3,560,000 in proceeds from the sale of
the Illinois Affordable Housing Tax Credits to the development – Ann McKenzie, Chief
Development Officer

 Item No. 15

IV.

Authorization to commit CHA Funds not-to-exceed $22,500,000 for Redevelopment
and Remediation activities for Parkside 4 Phase 2; submit a RAD Financing Plan to
HUD; execute RAD Project Based Voucher Housing Assistance Payments contracts for
up to 54 RAD units; loan approximately $4,781,804 in proceeds from the sale of the
Illinois Affordable Tax Credits to the development; enter into a 99-year ground lease
for the rental property with the Cabrini Green LAC Community Development
Corporation and deed the property planned to be for-sale to Parkside Old Town II, LLC
– Ann McKenzie, Chief Development Officer

Adjournment

2

 