PERFORMANCE OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE MEETING
Thursday, January 18, 2018

The meeting was called to order at 9:00 am. in Port Authority?s Neal H. Holmes Board Room
located on the fifth ?oor of the Heinz 57 Center with the following in attendance:

 

 

Board Committee Members Other Board Member
Michelle Zmijanac, Chair John Tague
Representative Dom Costa Ann Ogoreuc

Jeff Letwin

Jennifer Liptak

1. Approval of Minutes:

 

Minutes from the November 16, 2017 Performance Oversight Committee meeting were
approved.

Proposed Resolutions:

 

There were four resolutions reviewed at the meeting for consideration:

First, Mr. Trona reviewed 10 procurement items and the Performance Oversight
Committee found the bids to be in accordance with the Authority?s procurement policies
and procedures, the prices to be fair and reasonable, and the bidders to be responsive
and responsible. The Committee therefore recommends the 10 items outlined in the
resolution for award for the total amount of approximately $4.3 million.

The next resolution was presented by Mr. Wargo. He requested authorization to award
a construction contract to upgrade the existing electrical systems at six radio or
microwave tower sites and the South Hills Parking Garage, as well as replacing the
emergency batteries at five Traction Power Substations.

Mr. Wargo explained that after review of the bids received, it was determined that the
bid of Merit Electrical Group, Inc., in the amount of $979,000, is the lowest responsive
bid from a responsible bidder meeting the Authority?s speci?cations for the contract.

The Performance Oversight Committee agreed to recommend awarding the contract to
Merit Electrical in that amount, subject to completing all pre-award requirements.

The next resolution was presented by Mr. Adams. He requested authorization to enter
into an agreement with Commercial Consulting to provide Drug and Alcohol
Compliance Program services.

He explained that services under the proposed agreement will include, but not limited
to, program support services, mobile collection, collection facilities, medical specialists,
laboratory services, a medical review officer, a substance abuse professional, safety-

sensitive contract compliance, and training program development and implementation.
After review and evaluation of the proposals received, it was determined that
Commercial Consulting was the highest rated proposer to perform the services.

The Performance Oversight Committee agreed to recommend awarding the agreement
to Commercial Consulting, in an amount not-to?exceed $1,327,300, for an initial three?
year period, with the option to extend the term of the agreement up to an additional two
years at the sole discretion of the Authority.

Mr. Schenk presented the final resolution authorizing the Authority to apply for
Operating and Capital grants and enter into agreements for calendar year 2018.

He explained that on an annual basis, the Authority applies for grants with various
federal, state and local governments such as the FTA, the Federal Department of
Homeland Security, PennDot, Allegheny County and the Allegheny County Regional
Asset District. From time to time, the Authority is also eligible for various discretionary
grants that may become available throughout the year.

In many instances, the time period for developing and submitting the application for a
grant is limited requiring staff to move in order to timely submit the application
for the available funds.

This resolution will allow staff to submit applications for the grants that become available
in 2018 in a timely fashion and to enter into the necessary agreements to receive the
grants.

Mr. Schenk noted that this resolution also requires the Authority?s chief financial officer
to provide regular reports to the Performance Oversight Committee of all grants applied
for and awarded during 2018.

Financial Report:

Mr. Schenk continued reporting on various financial results. He reported that the total
operating revenues halfway through the ?scal year were approximately $3.7 million
higher than budget, principally due to higher passenger revenues. Mr. Schenk also
reported that total expenses midway through the fiscal year were approximately $11.98
million under budget and subsidies were approximately $757,000 over budget.

With no further business, the meeting was adjourned.

