MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING

OF THE

COMMISSIONERS OF THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
December 21, 2004

The Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority held its Regular Meeting on Tuesday,
December 21, 2004, at 8:30 a.m. at Altgeld Murray Community Building, 951 E. 132nd Place,
Chicago, Illinois.
The meeting was called to order by the Chairperson, and upon roll call, those present and absent
were as follows:
Present:
Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Lori Healey
Michael Ivers
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young
Mary Wiggins
Absent:

Martin Nesbitt

Also present were Terry Peterson, Chief Executive Officer; Gail Niemann, General Counsel;
Chicago Housing Authority Staff Members and the General Public.
There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as
follows:
Terry Peterson, Chief Executive Officer then presented his repot. Per Mr. Peterson, in a few
days, families all across Chicago will celebrate the holidays – whether it’s Christmas, Kwanzaa
or Hannukah. It’s a time for families to come together and for people of all ages to honor their
faith and their communities. As a result of the Plan for Transformation, public housing families
will celebrate the holidays in new apartments and new homes in neighborhoods throughout the
city. Many of these families will use brand new appliances to cook their first Christmas meal in
their new homes. A Christmas tree will brighten up their living rooms for the first time. It’s an
inspiring image – and one that should fill everybody with hope as we close out another year and
start a new one here at the Chicago Housing Authority. Mr. Peterson then highlighted several
important business items presented for approval at the final meeting of the year. Mr. Peterson
concluded his report by wishing everybody a safe and happy holiday. According to Mr.
Peterson, he is confident that the New Year will bring even more successes – both in terms of
bricks and mortar – and in human terms – more families with new homes – more adults and
young people with jobs – more children doing well in school and more seniors living in safety,
comfort and dignity.
The Chairperson then convened the Public Hearing portion of the meeting by inviting residents
and the public at large to address the Board.

1

 Immediately following the Public Hearing portion of the meeting, a Motion was introduced and
seconded to adjourn to Executive Session. The Chairperson announced that pursuant to the
Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2, the Board would adjourn for approximately one (1) hour to
discuss pending, probable or imminent litigation, collective negotiating matters, security and
personnel matters.
The Commissioners subsequently reconvened in Open Session and Chairperson Gilliam
thereupon introduced the Resolution discussed in Executive Session. Commissioner Ivers then
presented a Motion to approve Executive Session Item 1.
(Executive Session Item 1)
RESOLUTION NO. 2004-CHA-155
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated December 1, 2004 requesting that the Board of Commissioners
approves the Personnel Actions Reports for November 2004.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the Personnel Actions Reports for
November 2004.

The Motion to adopt Executive Session Item 1 was seconded by Commissioner Harris and the
voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Lori Healey
Michael Ivers
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young
Mary Wiggins
Nays:

None

The Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried and said Resolution adopted.
Commissioner Young, Chairperson of Tenant Service Committee then presented the Tenant
Service Committee report. Per Commissioner Young, the Tenant Services Committee held its
regularly scheduled meeting on Wednesday, December 15, 2004, at 1:00 p.m. at the 626
Corporate Office. No presentations were scheduled to come before the Committee.
Commissioner Young then introduced an Omnibus Motion for the adoption of Resolutions for
Items A1 through A8 discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Tenant
Services Committee.
(Item A1)
The resolution for Item A1 approves allocation of 313 Project-Based Housing Choice vouchers
to Developers of Low-Income Housing providing supportive services. Supportive Housing is a
very important part of the affordable housing strategy for the City of Chicago and the CHA. As
the Plan for Transformation and the City’s Plan to End Homelessness progress, some families
and individuals will have special needs that require more services than are available in public
housing and emergency or transitional shelters. In order to assist families in maintaining
housing, the City and CHA have worked to identify supportive housing opportunities. The
participating individuals and families will receive on-site services or access to other services
provided by the City’s extensive network of social service providers centering on issues that
affect lease compliance in traditional low-income or public housing programs.
RESOLUTION NO. 2004-CHA-156
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board letter dated November 17,
2004 entitled “Recommendation that the Chicago Housing Authority Allocate

2

 Project-Based Housing Choice Vouchers to Developers of Low-Income Housing
Providing Supportive Services” and authorize the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to take all actions and execute all documents with respect thereto.”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Chicago Housing Authority allocates 313 project-based housing choice
vouchers to various developers of low-income housing providing supportive
services and authorize the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to take all
actions and execute all documents with respect thereto.

(Item A2)
According to Federal regulations, the CHA is required to maintain an Administrative Plan for
Housing Choice Vouchers, Project-Based Vouchers and Moderate Rehabilitation Programs that
outlines the rules and procedures necessary to administer the voucher program. The
Administrative Plan is also used by the program administrator, CHAC, Inc., to ensure proper
administration of the voucher program according to the policies set by this Board of
Commissioners. Due to modifications to the administrative procedures of the Housing Choice
Voucher Program, and to bring the Administrative Plan into conformance with updates and
amendments to the Federal regulations, the CHA has amended the Administrative Plan. The
CHA released the draft Administrative Plan for public comment from November 19 through
December 20, 2004. Advertisements were placed in major newspapers encouraging all
interested parties to submit written comments or e-mail via the CHA Website. Information
regarding the public comment period and copies of the draft Administrative Plan was also
distributed to all CHA offices. Comments received during the public comment period will be
considered before finalizing the Administrative Plan. The resolution for Item A2 approves the
Administrative Plan for the Housing Choice Vouchers, Project Based Vouchers and Moderate
Rehabilitation Programs.
RESOLUTION NO. 2004- CHA -157
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated December 7,
2004 entitled “Approval of the Administrative Plan for the Housing Choice
Vouchers, Project-Based Vouchers and Moderate Rehabilitation Programs.”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners repeals and rescinds any and all previously adopted
administrative plans and resolutions related to the approval of such plans.

THAT

the Board of Commissioners adopts the revised Chicago Housing Authority
Administrative Plan for the Housing Choice Vouchers, Project-Based Vouchers
and Moderate Rehabilitation Programs dated December 7, 2004 attached hereto as
Exhibit A in substantially the form as attached.

THAT

the Chief Executive Officer, or his designee, is hereby authorized to approve and
incorporate final changes to the Administrative Plan including changes based
upon HUD requirements, or resulting from the applicable notice and comment
process.

THAT

the revised Administrative Plan for the Housing Choice Vouchers, Project-Based
Vouchers and Moderate Rehabilitation Programs dated December 7, 2004 shall be
effective January 15, 2005.

(Item A3)
The Resolution for Item A3 approves a Lease Agreement for the premises located at 1877 E. 71st
Street. The Housing Choice Voucher Program has over 35,000 participants in the City of
Chicago with over 11,000 of those participants living in the Eastern corridor of the City of
Chicago. In order to provide better service and access to Special Programs included in the
Housing Choice Voucher Program, the CHA has decided to open a Housing Choice Voucher
Program Satellite office on the Eastside of the City of Chicago. This office is a replacement from
a temporary location located at 2543 E. 75th Street to a permanent location. The CHA’s satellite
office will service families in this area by conducting workshops on Family Self Sufficiency

3

 (FSS), Choose to Own (CTO), the Mobility Program and landlord education. This site will also
be used by CHA/CHAC staff to assist clients with paperwork, respond to inquiries from both
tenants and landlords and refer families to supportive services on site. There will be staff
available from CHAC, Inc., the Service Connector Program which allows easy access to
counselors and/or staff for assistance in various areas. This site has ample parking and easy
access to public transportation to participants in the South Shore and Eastern corridor of the
Chicago Area.
RESOLUTION NO. 2004 – CHA-158
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated October 28,
2004, entitled “Authorization to Enter into a Lease Agreement for the Premises
Located at 1877 E. 71st Street, Chicago, Illinois 60649 ”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
Designee to enter into a Lease Agreement, substantially as attached, between
ProperTex, Inc. and the Chicago Housing Authority (CHA) for a cumulative 1800
square feet of office space for the premises known as 1877 E. 71st Street,
Chicago, Illinois 60649. The approval of this Lease Agreement will commit the
CHA to a two (2) year term lease at a Total Base Rent of $48,960 plus any
proportionate share of real estate taxes and operating expenses above the Total
Base Rent, and an option to extend for an additional year upon a 90 day advance
written notice at a monthly rental rate of $2,163.20.

(Item A4)
In December 2002, the Board of Commissioners authorized contracts with Reo Movers and Van
Lines, Inc. and Medley’s Moving and Storage, Inc. to provide resident relocation moving
services for a two (2) year base period. Each contract was for an amount of compensation notto-exceed $400,000.00. The CHA’s Contracting Officer authorized Amendment No. 1 to Reo
Movers contract in 2003. In November 2004, the Board authorized additional funding for both
Reo Movers and Storage and Medley’s Moving and Storage in an amount of $290,063.00 each.
The contracts expire on or about January 15, 2005. During the current term of these contracts,
the number of families that the Housing Choice Voucher Department has been requested to
relocate and the total number of moves has grown daily. The resolution for Item A4 approves
the first year contract extension with Medley Movers and Reo Movers to continue relocating
families without interruption due to uninhabitable units, building consolidation to ensure the
safety of families, and to conduct remaining moves for Phase IV of the Plan for Transformation.
Both of these contractors have either met or exceeded an acceptable level of performance.
RESOLUTION NO. 2004-CHA-159
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated December 15, 2004 entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO
EXERCISE THE FIRST YEAR OPTION TO EXTEND THE RESIDENT
RELOCATION MOVING CONTRACTS WITH MEDLEY MOVERS AND
STORAGE, INC. AND REO MOVERS AND STORAGE, INC.”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORIY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorize the Chief Executive Officer or his
Designee to exercise the first one (l)-year option of the contracts for resident
relocation moving services with Medley’s Moving and Storage, Inc. in the
amount of $990,045.00 and Reo Movers and Van Lines, Inc., in the amount of
$990,045.00 for an aggregate amount not-to-exceed $1,980,090.00 for both
contracts for the period of January 16, 2005 through January 15, 2006.

Due to a scrivener’s error, the Resolution for Item A4 is corrected by $90. The correct amount is
reflected as $1,980,090.00 not $1,980,000.00 which was approved by the Tenant Services
Committee.
(Item A5)
The resolution for Item A5 approves an Intergovernmental Agreement with the Chicago
Department of Public Health for Assessment, Referral and Treatment Services. As part of its

4

 historic Plan for Transformation, the CHA plans to build approximately 6,000 units of public
housing in various mixed-income communities. Many of these communities have developed
Tenant Selection Plans that dictate screening requirements that residents must meet before
moving into the community. Five of the mixed-income communities include drug testing as part
of their requirements for move-in. Residents who fail a drug test are given a second chance to
pass a drug screen, once they have successfully completed drug treatment. Given the scarcity of
drug treatment slots in drug abuse treatment programs in the City of Chicago and the long wait
lists associated with them, the CHA has partnered with CDPH to develop a program that will
increase CHA residents’ access to available slots in substance abuse treatment programs.
Pursuant to a City of Chicago competitive Request for Proposals, CDPH, along with input from
the CHA, has selected a vendor, Caritas Central Intake Unit (CI), to provide assessment, referral,
and placement in treatment slots in drug treatment programs for approximately 150 to 200 CHA
residents. CDPH will enter into a contract with CI to provide the required services, and will
manage CI and pay all invoices associated with this program. When a CHA resident fails a drug
screening test, he or she will be immediately referred to CI for assessment. CI, which is the
largest substance abuse intake center in Chicago, will complete an assessment to determine the
appropriate course of treatment for the resident. Then CI will refer the resident to a treatment
program slot at one of its many partnering drug treatment agencies. If a publicly-funded slot is
available, the resident will be referred to that slot. If a publicly funded treatment slot is not
available, CI will use the funds allocated under this IGA to purchase a slot. In addition to
assessment, referral, and treatment, CI will offer residents access to complete physical and lab
work through CI’s network of primary health and public health care services, including
psychiatric services. While this initiative will target CHA residents undergoing screening for
mixed-income communities, CI will also accept referrals from the general CHA population, who
are being serviced under the CDHS Service Connector Intergovernmental Agreement. This will
ensure that all residents have access to quality substance abuse services.
RESOLUTION NO. 2004-CHA-160
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated December 15,
2004 entitled “Authorization to Enter into an Intergovernmental Agreement with
Chicago Department of Public Health For Assessment, Referral and Treatment
Services”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOVLED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

The Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into an Intergovernmental Agreement with the Chicago
Department of Public Health to implement a substance abuse assessment, referral
and treatment program for CHA residents, with CHA’s costs for the program notto-exceed $250,000.00 for a one-year period.

(Item A6)
In May 2004, the Board approved a contract with Eastlake Management & Development
Corporation to Provide Community & Supportive Services to the Rockwell Gardens Community.
The resolution for Item A6 authorizes increasing the contract amount by $150,000.00 for a total
not-to-exceed amount of $400,000.00. The approved funding increase will support staff capacity
in order to provide expertise in job development and retention services and to provide direct
services in areas such as budgeting and credit counseling in order to meet the specific needs of a
family returning to the new mixed income community at Rockwell. The primary focus of the
CSS Agreement will be to assist CHA families that have chosen to return to the Rockwell
Gardens mixed income community. In the previous phase of development for Rockwell Gardens,
residents experienced significant challenges in meeting employment, credit, utility and other site
specific criteria which have made it necessary to allocate additional funding to address these
more focused and specialized service needs
RESOLUTION NO. 2004-CHA-161
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated December 15, 2004, entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO
AMEND RESOLUTION NO. 04-CHA-61 INCREASING THE CONTRACT
AMOUNT FOR ADDITIONAL COMMUNITY & SUPPORTIVE SERVICES
WITH EASTLAKE MANAGEMENT & DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
FOR THE ROCKWELL GARDENS COMMUNITY”.

5

 THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the amendment to Resolution No.
04-CHA-61 increasing the contract amount for additional community and
supportive services from $250,000 to an aggregate not-to-exceed amount of
$400,000 with Eastlake Management & Development Corporation for the
Rockwell Gardens community . The contract term remains for the one (1) year
period.

(Item A7)
The resolution for Item A7 approves the form of lease and admissions and continued occupancy
policy for Cabrini off-site replacement housing known as River Village North and South
development. The lease and policy have to accommodate various aspects of the multiple types
of tenants and characteristics of a mixed income transaction. The authorization of approval of the
form of lease and admissions and occupancy policy for the Cabrini off-site replacement housing
known as River Village North and South development is required at this time to facilitate the
closing of this development transaction. These documents have been subject to extensive
negotiation among the CHA, the Developer, Cabrini LAC, and Cabrini Working Group. Notice
for the public comment period will be given in accordance with applicable requirements and
consideration will be given to any forthcoming comments in finalizing the documents with the
Developer and Cabrini LAC.
RESOLUTION 2004-CHA-162
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated November 19,
2004, entitled “AUTHORIZATION FOR APPROVAL OF THE LEASE AND
ADMISSIONS AND CONTINUED OCCUPANCY POLICY FOR THE
CABRINI GREEN REPLACEMENT HOUSING AT THE PRIVATE OFF-SITE
DEVELOPMENT KNOWN AS RIVER VILLAGE NORTH AND SOUTH
AND TO AMEND THE CHA ADMISSION AND CONTINUED OCCUPANCY
POLICY TO INCORPORATE SUCH DOCUMENTS AS AN ADDENDUM
THERETO”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the attached admissions and
continued occupancy policy and form of lease in substantially the form presented
to the Board for the Cabrini Green replacement housing at the private off-site
development known as River Village North and South. The Chairman of the
Board or the Chief Executive Officer is hereby authorized to approve final
changes in these forms, including changes based on HUD requirements, or such
changes, if any, resulting from any applicable notice and comment process. Such
approval shall constitute conclusive evidence of the Board’s approval of any and
all such changes.

(Item A8)
The resolution for Item A8 approves the form of lease and admissions and continued occupancy
policy for the Park Boulevard and all future on-site and off-site phases (which is formerly known
as the Stateway Gardens Development). The lease and policy have to accommodate various
aspects of the multiple types of tenants and characteristics of a mixed-finance transaction. The
authorization of approval of the form of lease and admissions and occupancy policy for the
Park Boulevard is required at this time to facilitate the closing of this development transaction.
These documents have been subject to extensive negotiation among the CHA, the Developer,
Stateway LAC, and Stateway Working Group. Notice for the public comment period will be
given in accordance with applicable requirements and consideration will be given to any
forthcoming comments in finalizing the documents with the Developer and Stateway LAC.
RESOLUTION NO. 2004-CHA-163
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated November 19,
2004, entitled “AUTHORIZATION FOR APPROVAL OF THE LEASE AND
ADMISSIONS AND CONTINUED OCCUPANCY POLICY FOR THE PARK
BOULEVARD (INCLUDING ALL FUTURE PHASES) AND TO AMEND

6

 THE CHA ADMISSION AND CONTINUED OCCUPANCY POLICY TO
INCORPORATE SUCH DOCUMENTS AS AN ADDENDUM THERETO”
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the attached admissions and
continued occupancy policy and form of lease in substantially the form presented
to the Board for the Park Boulevard (including all future phases). The Chairman
of the Board or the Chief Executive Officer is hereby authorized to approve final
changes in these forms, including changes based on HUD requirements, or such
changes, if any, resulting from any applicable notice and comment process. Such
approval shall constitute conclusive evidence of the Board’s approval of any and
all such changes.

The Motion to adopt resolutions for Items A1 through A8 was seconded by Commissioner Harris
and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Lori Healey
Michael Ivers
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young
Mary Wiggins
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted.
Commissioner Gates, Chairperson of the Operations & Facilities Committee, then presented the
Operations & Facilities Committee Report. Per Commissioner Gates, the Operations and
Facilities Committee Meeting was held on Wednesday, December 15, 2004 at approximately
1:45 p.m. at the 626 corporate offices.
Commissioner Gates then introduced an Omnibus Motion for adoption of resolutions for Items
B1 through B4, discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Operations
Committee.
(Item B1
The Chicago Housing Authority is in the process of having the rehabilitation of its Wentworth
Housing Development done pursuant to the Plan for Transformation. The supply and delivery of
appliance for the rehabilitation project was identified as a possible opportunity for an alternative
procurement process under the HUD. In August 2004, the CHA published an Invitation for Bid
to solicit, from only certified Resident-Owned Businesses (“ROBs”), the supply and delivery of
appliances to the general contractor of the Wentworth rehabilitation project. Of the two firms
who submitted bids, it was determined that they both met the criteria of being responsive. Both
companies were contacted for an oral discussion of their financial status, proposed delivery
methods, and previous contracts performed in the area of appliance distribution. Accordingly,
the resolution for Item B1 approves award of contract to F.I.O.C. and P.R.S. Inc.
RESOLUTION NO. 2004-CHA -164
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated December 15, 2004
entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO EXECUTE CONTRACTS WITH F.I.O.C. and
P.R.S., Inc. FIRMS FOR THE SUPPLY AND DELIVERY OF APPLIANCES
DURING THE GENERAL REHABILITATION OF UNITS IN THE
WENTWORTH HOUSING DEVELOPMENT”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY

7

 THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute contracts to two (2) firms: F.I.O.C in the amount of $67,518
and P.R.S. in the amount of $80,388 for supply and delivery of a combined total
of 136 appliance sets subject to the Contractor’s compliance the CHA’s insurance
requirements. The contracts shall take effect on the dates of the individual
Notices to Proceed, and shall continue until the appliance supply requirements are
completed.

(Item B2)
In August 2004, the CHA advertised Invitation for Bid for general renovation of Senior Housing
Gen II B at Judge Green Apartments, 4030 S. Lake Park Ave. (IL2-055), Princeton Center
Apartments, 4250 S. Princeton Ave. (IL2-032), Lincoln Perry Apartments, 3245 S. Prairie Ave.
(IL2-063), and Lincoln Perry Annex, 243 E. 32nd St. (IL2-102d). The IFB was advertised in area
newspapers and the CHA also mailed flyers to fifty seven firms, including eighteen
MBE/WBE/DBE firms. Of the six bids opened, it was determined that Burling Builders was the
lowest responsive and responsible bidder. Accordingly, the resolution for Item B2 approves
award of contract to Burling Builders. The scope of work covers the general renovation of
specified interiors including, but not limited to, asbestos removal, patching, repair, replacement
and/or new walls, ceilings, floors, base board, caulking, painting, finishes, doors, door frames,
selected apartment units, casework, electrical, and signage in the Common areas. The general
renovation of specified exterior and site improvements including, but not limited to,
waterproofing of masonry walls, coating of concrete walls, plastering of soffit areas, painting,
finishes, caulking, security screens, electrical work, security, entry control system, and site and
landscaping improvements.
RESOLUTION NO. 2004-CHA -165
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated November 9, 2004
entitled “Authorization to execute a contract with Burling Builders for the
General Renovation of Senior Housing Gen IIB”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute a contract in the amount of $5,624,523.00 with Burling
Builders for general renovation of Senior Housing Gen II B at Judge Green
Apartments, 4030 S. Lake Park Ave. (IL2-055), Princeton Center Apartments,
4250 S. Princeton Ave. (IL2-032), Lincoln Perry Apartments, 3245 S. Prairie
Ave. (IL2-063), and Lincoln Perry Annex, 243 E. 32nd St. (IL2-102d). The
contract term will commence on the dates specified in the individual Notices to
Proceed. Work shall be completed at each location as shown in the following
table:

Judge Green Apts
Princeton Center Apts
Lincoln Perry Apts
Lincoln Perry Annex

Site
Improvements/
Landscaping
6 months
from NTP

Building
Common
Areas
5 months
from NTP

6 months
from NTP

5 months
from NTP

Underground
Storage Tank
Removal
6 months
from NTP

(Item B3)
The CHA advertised Invitation for Bid on May 19, 2004 for modernization of the Family
Housing at Wentworth Gardens (IL2-008), 3770 S. Wentworth Avenue. The IFB was advertised
in the Chicago Sun-Times, the Chicago Defender and El Dia. The CHA also mailed flyers on
May 19, 2004 to 24 firms, including 10 M/W/DBE firms. The CHA received and opened five
bids. The Board has previously conditionally authorized contract award to the apparent low
bidder for this solicitation. The apparent low bidder’s failure to satisfy the conditions of the
authorization caused staff to recommend that the Board authorize contract award to the second
apparent low bidder at its bid price of $18,150,773.00; however, the second apparent low bidder

8

 notified the CHA it could not honor its previously stated bid price. Re-bidding this project would
result in substantial delays in the renovation of this development, resulting in delayed unit
completion under the Plan for Transformation, with no assurance of any savings in cost to the
CHA. The Department of Procurement and Contracts contacted FHP Tectonics as the third
lowest bidder, and FHP Tectonics has agreed to hold their original price and has agreed to
mobilize within 30-60 days. Accordingly, the resolution for Item B3 approves award of contract
to FHP Tectonics. FHP Tectonics, as the General Contractor, will perform general
modernization of apartment units and common areas, façade repairs, and building site
improvements at Wentworth Gardens.
RESOLUTION NO. 2004-CHA-166
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated December 9, 2004
entitled “Authorization to execute a contract with FHP Tectonics General
Contractors for the Family Housing Modernization at Wentworth Gardens (IL2008)”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

that the Board of Commissioners authorize the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute a contract with FHP Tectonics General Contractors in the
amount of $18,286,000.00 for the Family Housing modernization at Wentworth
Gardens (IL2-008), 3770 S. Wentworth Avenue. This award is subject to the
Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident
hiring, and insurance requirements.

(Item B4)
The resolution for Item B4 approves an Intergovernmental Agreement for Land Transfer with the
City of Chicago. The City of Chicago intends to issue a Request for Proposals (RFP) for the
mixed-income redevelopment of the Franklin Boulevard Parcel and approximately eight
additional City-owned parcels. Under the RFP, it is anticipated that thirty-six of the mixedincome units will be public housing. The CHA will transfer the parcel needed for this RFP to the
City in exchange for City-owned parcels of approximately the equivalent square footage needed
to implement the CHA’s HOPE VI Redevelopment Plan for the Rockwell redevelopment. The
CHA parcel to be conveyed to the City’s Department of Planning and Development is located at
443 N. Albany/3045 W. Franklin/442 N. Whipple. The parcel is approximately 35,980 square
feet. On June 22, 2004, the land was appraised at $250,000 as vacant; however, there are three
buildings containing a total of thirty-six units on the site and the appraiser stated that the costs of
demolition may exceed the value of the site as if vacant. The three, twelve-unit buildings on the
site have been vacant since approximately 1997. Either the City or the successful respondent to
the City’s RFP will be responsible for the demolition of these buildings. The CHA’s and the
City’s parcels to be transferred are to be of a similar size. An environmental review is underway
for the City’s land to insure that no significant conditions have been identified. In addition, the
environmental review is underway for CHA’s land and to date, no significant conditions have
been identified. The transfer of land to the City is expected to be completed in early 2005,
pursuant to HUD and City Council approval, and the City will transfer the parcels to either the
Chicago Housing Authority or its designee as the parcels are ready for development.
RESOLUTION NO. 2004-CHA-167
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated September 13,
2004, entitled “Authorization to Enter into an Intergovernmental Agreement for
Land Transfer with the City of Chicago for City-Owned Parcels in the Rockwell
community in exchange for a CHA-owned parcel on Franklin Boulevard”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to: (1) negotiate and execute an Intergovernmental Agreement with the
City of Chicago to convey one CHA-owned parcel on Franklin Boulevard (443 N.
Albany/3045 W. Franklin/442 N. Whipple) in exchange for the conveyance of
City-owned parcels of approximately the equivalent square footage in the
Rockwell community to the Chicago Housing Authority or its designee; 2) submit
the necessary disposition and acquisition applications to the U. S. Department of

9

 Housing and Urban Development to implement this land transfer; and 3) execute
such other documents as may be required to implement the foregoing.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items B1 through B4 was seconded by
Commissioner Ponce and the voting was as follows:
Ayes: Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Lori Healey
Michael Ivers
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young
Mary Wiggins
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Operations Committee report was also accepted in total.
In the absence of Commissioner Nesbitt, Chairperson of the Finance and Audit Committee,
Commissioner Healey then presented the Finance and Audit Committee Report. Per
Commissioner Healey, the Operations and Facilities Committee Meeting was held on
Wednesday, December 15, 2004 at approximately 2:30 p.m. at the 626 corporate offices.
Commissioner Healey then introduced an Omnibus Motion for adoption of resolutions for Items
C1 and C2, discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Finance and Audit
Committee.
(Item C1)
Since 1998, the CHA’s Board of Commissioners has approved CMHDC’s full-time employee’s
participation in the CHA’s medical/dental/disability, Employee Assistance Program, deferred
compensation and retirement plans upon the condition that CMHDC make all appropriate
payments to the CHA for the costs of said benefits. The 1998 Resolution adopted by the Board
of Commissioners required annual approval by the Board for the continued participation of
CMHDC’s full time employees in the CHA’s employee benefit programs. CMHDC has been
responsible during these years for making payments to the CHA for the employee benefit plans
made available to its full-time employees. The resolution for Item C1 approves extension of
CMHDC’s full time employees’ participation in CHA’s employee benefit plans for 2005,
provided that CMHDC makes the requisite payments for the costs of the benefit plans to the
CHA on a timely basis.

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2004-CHA-168
the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter date
December 15, 2004 entitled “Request for Approval of Extension of
Employee Benefits for Chicago Metropolitan Housing Development
Corporation (“CMHDC”)”;

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AURHOTITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chicago Metropolitan Housing
Development Corporation’s (“CMHDC”) fulltime employees to continue
participation in all of the CHA’s benefit plans made available to the
CHA’s employees for 2005, provided CMHDC make all requisite
payments to the CHA on timely basis.

(Item C2)
In August 2004 the CHA advertised a Request for Proposal (RFP) to competitively solicit
qualified firms and/or individuals who could furnish security services to the CHA. Four
proposals were received and opened by Procurement and Contracts. An evaluation committee,

10

 chosen from the staff of the Facilities Management Department and Operations and Asset
Management, reviewed and scored each proposal based upon criteria set forth in the RFP. Two
respondents were determined to be in the competitive range and were asked to participate in
discussions and to submit Best and Final Offers. After verifying the proposed costs with the two
Respondents, it was determined that one of the Respondents only proposed costs for one year
rather than two. Therefore, based on the established evaluation scoring criteria and Best and
Final fee proposals, the CHA’s evaluation committee selected Digby’s Detective & Security
Agency, Inc. because it provided the CHA with the best overall proposal and cost. Accordingly,
the resolution for Item C2 award contract to Digby Detective Security Agency for security
services to the CHA.
RESOLUTION NO. 2004-CHA-169
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated December 15,
2004 entitled “Authorization to enter into a Contract with Digby’s Detective &
Security Agency, Inc. for Security Services”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to negotiate and enter into a firm fixed contract with Digby’s Detective
& Security Agency, Inc. for security services for an amount mot-to-exceed
$2,271,778.00 for a two-year base term with an option to extend said contract for
one (1) additional year.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items C1 and C2 was seconded by Commissioner
Gates and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Lori Healey
Michael Ivers
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young
Mary Wiggins

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Finance and Audit Committee report was also accepted in
total.
There being no further business to come before the Commissioners, upon Motion made,
seconded and carried, the meeting of the Board of Commissioners was adjourned.

S/B:
S/B:

Lee Gill, Custodian and
Keeper of Records

11

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Chairperson

 