2/23/18
J. Letwin
RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, the Port Authority of Allegheny County’s (Authority) Board has, as
permitted by Article II, Section 16 of the Authority’s By-Laws, created four standing
Board committees which consist of the Governance Committee, the Planning and
Stakeholder Relations Committee, the Performance Oversight and Monitoring
Committee, and the Financial Audit Committee; and
WHEREAS, the Board now desires to modify and expand the Board’s standing
committees; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to Article III, Section 3 of the Authority’s By-Laws, the
Chair of the Board previously created a temporary special purpose committee to
address various technology issues pertaining to the Authority’s fare system; and
WHEREAS, upon due consideration, the Board now desires to create a separate
standing committee to oversee and address various technology changes,
implementations and issues for the Authority, the Technology Committee.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, a new standing committee, the
Technology Committee, is hereby created to oversee the technology changes,
implementation and issues for the Authority.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the five standing
committees of the Board shall adhere to the amended committee descriptions that are
set forth in Exhibit “A” attached hereto and the amended organizational chart for the
Board and its standing committees is set forth in Exhibit “B” attached hereto.

 EXHIBIT “A”
STANDING COMMITTEE FUNCTIONAL DESCRIPTIONS
GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE
Headed by the Board Chair and consisting of the Chairs of the other three
standing Board committees and the Chief Executive Officer, the Governance Committee
is responsible for the effective functioning of the Port Authority of Allegheny County’s
(Port Authority) Board and for the maintenance and development of the Board-Chief
Executive Officer working relationship. In this capacity, it is accountable for:
•

Coordinating the functioning of the Port Authority Board and its three other
standing governing committees, and any ad hoc committees, keeping the
Board Governing Mission updated, setting Board member performance
standards, and monitoring Board member performance.

•

Recommending revisions to the Port Authority Bylaws in the interest of strong
governing and management of Port Authority affairs.

•

Developing and keeping an updated profile of preferred Board member
attributes and qualifications, and fashioning and executing strategies to
promote the appointment of qualified candidates to fill Board vacancies.

•

Developing and overseeing execution of a formal Board member capacity
building program, including such elements as orientation of new members,
continuing education and training, and a mentoring program pairing new
Board members with senior Board members.

•

Ensuring that the Chief Executive Officer position description is updated as
necessary to reflect changing Port Authority needs, priorities, and
circumstances.

•

Annually negotiating Chief Executive Officer performance targets and
annually or semi-annually evaluating the Chief Executive Officer’s progress in
achieving these targets.
PLANNING AND STAKEHOLDER RELATIONS COMMITTEE

The Planning and Stakeholder Relations Committee is accountable for
developing and leading the Board’s participation in all Port Authority short and longrange planning, including annual budget preparation, and for overseeing the
development of Port Authority’s financial resources. In addition, and as part of the
planning and resource development process, this Committee shall have primary
responsibility for engaging Port Authority’s customer, elected officials, other
1

 stakeholders and constituencies, and the general public.
accountable for:

In this capacity, it is

•

Reaching agreement with the Chief Executive Officer on the detailed design
of Port Authority’s planning and budget development cycle, with special
attention to the Board’s role in planning, and on the annual planning calendar
to ensure that the Board participates fully and proactively in the planning
process.

•

Overseeing preparation for, and hosting of, the periodic Board-Executive
Team strategic planning work session to commence the annual planning
cycle.

•

Recommending to the full Board the strategic issues on which Port Authority’s
strategic planning should focus, and reviewing and recommending to the
Board such critical planning products as updated values, vision, and mission
statements, operational planning priorities, the annual budget, and other
strategic and policy-level products that merit full Board attention. (Note that
the annual budget is a major operational planning product and, therefore, falls
under the Planning and Development Committee. CONTROL of the budget
after it has been adopted is a FINANCE function falling under the
Performance Oversight and Monitoring Committee.)

•

Ensuring, as part of the annual operational planning/budget preparation
process, that all program plans include both financial and operational
performance targets that the Performance Oversight and Monitoring
Committee can use in monitoring the operational and financial performance of
all of Port Authority’s programs and operating units.

•

Overseeing the development and implementation of strategies to foster a
positive public image for Port Authority, and for maintaining close, positive
relationships between Port Authority and its customers and its key external
stakeholders.

•

Overseeing the development and implementation of governmental relations
policies and strategies.

•

Recommending positions on legislative issues to the full Board.

•

Coordinating opportunities for Board members to speak on behalf of Port
Authority in appropriate forums.

•

Fashioning strategies and plans to enhance external communication.

•

Fashioning strategies and plans to promote community involvement in Port
Authority’s planning, service development, and operations.
2

 PERFORMANCE OVERSIGHT AND MONITORING COMMITTEE
The Performance Oversight and Monitoring Committee is responsible for
overseeing Port Authority’s operational and financial performance and for updating
operational policies and systems. In this capacity, it is accountable for:
•

Reaching agreement with the Chief Executive Officer on the key elements of
the operational and financial reporting process, including the content, format,
and frequency of performance reports to the Board, and overseeing
implementation of the process.

•

Reviewing performance reports in committee meetings and reporting
operational and financial performance to the full Board.

•

Reviewing operational policies meriting Board attention (such as policies to
govern Port Authority’s accounting system and practices), identifying the need
for their revision, and recommending those policy revisions to the full Board.

•

Presenting an overall assessment of the past year’s fiscal and program
performance.

•

Overseeing the administration of customer satisfaction surveys, reviewing
such surveys, and reporting survey results to the full Board as appropriate.

•

Providing counsel to the Chief Executive Officer on major internal
administrative system upgrades (e.g., a major MIS upgrade).

FINANCIAL AUDIT COMMITTEE
The Financial Audit Committee is responsible for overseeing Port Authority’s
external financial auditing process and reporting. In this capacity, it is accountable for:
•

Overseeing the process of selecting an external financial audit firm for Port
Authority.

•

Reviewing external financial audit reports.

•

Overseeing any necessary corrective actions resulting from the financial
auditing process.

•

Overseeing the confirmation of the accuracy of Port Authority’s financial
reporting and disclosures.

4

 TECHNOLOGY COMMITTEE
The Technology Committee is responsible for overseeing the use and
implementation of technology, technology changes and technology issues for Port
Authority. In this capacity, it is accountable for:
•

Analyzing and addressing the technology utilized by Port Authority and any
changes or modifications to the technology.

•

Making an overall assessment of Port Authority’s technology and technology
needs.

•

Reviewing and considering new technology that Port Authority may want to
procure and use for its operations.

•

Discussing and determining with the Chief Executive Officer the key elements of
the technology reporting process, and overseeing the implementation of the
process.

•

Reviewing technology performance reports in committee meetings and reporting
the performance to the full Board.

•

Providing counsel to the Chief Executive Officer on technology changes and
upgrades.

•

Recommending to the full Board technology and technology changes and
modifications for planning and procurement.

5

 EXHIBIT “B”
STANDING COMMITTEES ORGANIZATION CHART

Board

Governance

Technology

Committee

Planning and
Stakeholder
Relations

Financial

Audit

Performance
Oversight and
Monitoring

 