MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING
OF THE
COMMISSIONERS OF THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
October 21, 2014
The Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority held its Regular Meeting of the Board of
Commissioners on Tuesday, October 21, 2014, at approximately 8:40 a.m. at the CHA Corporate Offices,
60 E. Van Buren, 12th Floor Loft in Chicago, IL.
Chairwoman Z. Scott called the meeting to order and upon roll call, those present and absent were as
follows:
Present:
Matthew Brewer
Mark Cozzi
Dr. Mildred Harris
Harriet Johnson
Z. Scott
Rodrigo Sierra
Francine Washington
Absent:

Jack Markowski
Bridget Reidy

Also present were Michael Merchant, Chief Executive Officer; Scott Ammarell, Chief Legal Officer;
Chicago Housing Authority Staff Members and the General Public.
There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as follows:
Upon Motion made by Chairwoman Scott and properly seconded by Commissioner Brewer, the
Commissioners adjourned to Executive Session. Chairwoman Scott announced that pursuant to the Open
Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2, the Board would adjourn for approximately one hour to discuss personnel
related matters; purchase, sale and lease of real estate property; pending, probable or imminent litigation;
review of closed minutes and audit reviews.
Commissioner Markowski joined the meeting in session at approximately 8:42 p.m.
The Commissioners subsequently reconvened in Open Session at approximately 10:20 a.m. and upon roll
call, those present and absent were as follows:
Present:
Matthew Brewer
Mark Cozzi
Dr. Mildred Harris
Harriet Johnson
Jack Markowski
Z. Scott
Francine Washington
Absent:
Bridget Reidy
Rodrigo Sierra
1

 There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as follows:
After Motion made by Commissioner Markowski and properly seconded by Commissioner Washington the
Minutes for the Regular and Closed meetings of September 16, 2014, were unanimously approved as
submitted.
Commissioner Mildred Harris then presented the report of the Tenant Services committee. Per
Commissioner Harris, the Tenant Services Committee held its regularly scheduled meeting on Wednesday,
October 15, 2014, at approximately 1:00 p.m. at the CHA’s Corporate Offices, 12th Floor Loft. In addition
to Commissioner Harris, the following committee members were present as well: Commissioners Brewer
and Johnson. Commissioners Cozzi and Markowski were also present but were not counted as part of the
quorum. Committee members then discussed, voted, and recommended for approval the resolutions for
Items 1 and 2.
On behalf of the Tenant Services Committee, Commissioner Harris then presented an Omnibus Motion for
approval of Items 1 and 2.
(Item 1)
As part of CHA’s Section 3 policy and the 2013 Voluntary Compliance Agreement (VCA) with HUD
regarding Section 3, CHA is required to not only do business with Section 3 Business Concerns, but has
agreed to provide certain outreach and development support for resident owned businesses. As Resident
Services Division is charged with providing services that empower individuals for success in the global
economy, the modified Entrepreneurship Program with the Chicago Urban League will help meet CHA’s
Section 3 goals and fulfill its responsibilities under the VCA. CHA is able to leverage the Urban League’s
network of partners and programs to offer entrepreneurship development opportunities to qualified
residents. Under the modified Entrepreneurship Program, the Chicago Urban League will conduct outreach
to market its existing menu of programs to CHA residents. Residents will be assessed and referred to the
most appropriate Urban League program; those who do not currently meet eligibility for programs will be
referred to the Urban League’s external partners to build individual skills sets necessary to move toward
successful entrepreneurism. A portion of this agreement will be used to cover any fees associated with the
Urban League’s programs and approved external partner programs, including business incubator
opportunities, on a first-come-first serve basis. However, many of the Urban League’s programs are free of
charge to participants. In total, the Urban League will provide support and training to approximately 100
CHA residents during the first option year. Accordingly, the resolution for Item 1 approves the first one
year option contract with the Chicago Urban League, not-to-exceed $200,000, for the business and
entrepreneurship program for CHA residents.
Chairwoman Z. recused from voting on Item 1 only.
RESOLUTION NO. 2014-CHA-98
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated October 15, 2014 entitled
“AUTHORIZATION TO EXERCISE THE FIRST ONE YEAR OPTION WITH THE
CHICAGO URBAN LEAGUE”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to
exercise the first one-year option with the Chicago Urban League for the business and
entrepreneurship program for CHA residents in an amount not-to-exceed $200,000 for the
2

 period of December 1, 2014 through November 30, 2015. The new aggregate not-to-exceed
contract amount is $1,001,464.
This award is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE,
Section 3, and insurance requirements.
(Item 2)
CHA’s Resident Services Division is charged with engaging youth in out-of-school time and summer
activities to support their development and continues to invest in programs that provide some of the city’s
most vulnerable youth with a safe environment and that are capable of promoting career exploration and
educational advancement. Following yet another violent year in Chicago, providing CHA youth with
meaningful and unique opportunities continues to be of utmost importance to CHA youth and Resident
Services mission. CHA has contracted with After School Matters (ASM) since 2003 to ensure that ASM
delegate agencies make slots available for CHA youth ages 14-18 to participate in programming during the
year. CHA youth are able to apply for any of ASM’s 1,000 plus program offerings each year (spring,
summer, and fall sessions). This partnership will allow CHA and ASM to continue a data share agreement
for the new contract term that has proven to enhance opportunities for CHA youth every year. Through this
data share, CHA was able to determine, and locate, more than 2,100 ASM slots filled by CHA youth in the
Spring and Summer 2014 alone; however during these two sessions CHA funded only 235 slots. This
knowledge allows Resident Services and ASM to collaborate to specifically target youth for existing
programs, utilize CHA funding in the most advantageous way possible and contribute to CHA’s Plan
Forward goals. During the 2015-2016 contract terms, CHA will provide funding to support CHA youth in
556 ASM slots. However, based on recent program history, it is anticipated that more than 6,000 ASM
slots will be utilized by CHA youth during the two year contract term. Accordingly, the resolution for Item
2 approves contract with After School Matters, in an amount not-to-exceed $600,000 for two year base
term to provide pre-apprenticeship and apprenticeship youth employment opportunities for CHA Youth.
RESOLUTION NO. 2014-CHA-99
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated October 15, 2014 entitled
“AUTHORIZATION TO ENTER INTO A CONTRACT WITH AFTER SCHOOL
MATTERS TO PROVIDE PRE-APPRENTICESHIP AND APPRENTICESHIP YOUTH
EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITIES FOR CHA YOUTH”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee enter
into a contract with After School Matters to provide pre-apprenticeship and apprenticeship
youth employment opportunities for CHA youth ages 14-18 for a two (2) year base period
from January 1, 2015 through December 31, 2016, with three one-year options, in an
amount not-to-exceed $600,000 for the two-year base term.
This award is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE,
Section 3, and insurance requirements.

The Motion to adopt resolutions for Items 1 and 2 was seconded by Commissioner Cozzi and the voting
was as follows:
Ayes:

Matthew Brewer
Mark Cozzi
Dr. Mildred Harris
Harriet Johnson
3

 Jack Markowski
Z. Scott (Recused from voting on Item 1 only)
Francine Washington
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, Chairwoman Scott thereupon declared said Motion carried and said
resolutions adopted.
In the absence of Committee Chair Bridget Reidy, Commissioner Jack Markowski then presented the
report for the Operations and Facilities Committee. Per Commissioner Markowski, the Operations and
Facilities Committee meeting was held on October 15, 2014 at approximately 1:30 p.m. at the CHA’s
Corporate Offices, 12th Floor Loft. Commissioner Markowski chaired the meeting and in attendance was
committee member Dr. Harris. Although Commissioners Johnson, Brewer and Cozzi were present for this
meeting, they are not members of this committee and could not be counted toward the quorum. Because
there was no quorum, staff presented the items, commissioners had the opportunity to ask questions, and
the public was able to comment, but no votes were taken.
On behalf of the Operations and Facilities committees, Commissioner Markowski presented an Omnibus
Motion for the approval of Items 3, 4 and 5.
(Item 3)
The resolution for Item 3 approves CHA’s proposed FY2015 Moving to Work Annual Plan and grants
authorization to submit the document to HUD for approval. In April 2013, CHA unveiled a new strategic
plan, Plan Forward: Communities that Work, which outlines the agency’s newly articulated mission and
strategic goals that will guide CHA’s current and future work. As CHA implements Plan Forward
initiatives, the agency will continue to pursue the three statutory objectives of the MTW Demonstration
Program: MTW Statutory Objective I: Increase housing choices for low-income families; MTW Statutory
Objective II: Give incentives to families with children where the head of household is working, seeking
work, or is preparing for work by participating in job training, educational programs, or programs that
assist people to obtain employment and become economically self-sufficient; MTW Statutory Objective III:
Reduce costs and achieve greater cost effectiveness in federal expenditures. As part of the MTW
Agreement, CHA is required to submit an Annual Plan to HUD, due 75 days prior to the start of CHA’s
fiscal year. The MTW Annual Plan provides required information on planned operations and activities for
the fiscal year, including proposed new MTW activities that require HUD approval. In May 2013, HUD
issued a revised Form 50900 which outlines new requirements for the content of MTW Annual
Plans/Reports and for tracking the impact of MTW activities. CHA’s Proposed FY2015 MTW Annual Plan
is the first annual plan document in which CHA must fully adopt these new reporting requirements. Prior to
submission of the Proposed FY2015 MTW Annual Plan to the Board, a 30-day public comment period was
conducted. Announcements for the public comment process appeared on CHA’s website and in the
Chicago Defender and Chicago Sun-Times and Hoy newspapers. During the public comment period, both
residents and the public alike were able to submit comments orally and in writing, regarding the
information contained in the Proposed FY2015 MTW Annual Plan. CHA held two public hearings during
the comment period. Prior to finalizing the Proposed FY2015 MTW Annual Plan, CHA gave consideration
to comments received during the public comment period.
Commissioner Washington voted Nay on Item 3 only.
RESOLUTION NO. 2014-CHA-100
4

 WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated October 15, 2014
requesting approval of the Proposed FY2015 MTW Annual Plan, attached hereto;
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED BY CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the FY2015 MTW Annual Plan, and the form,
Certifications of Compliance with Regulations from Attachment B to the Amended and
Restated MTW Agreement.

THAT

the Board of Commissioners (“Board”) authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to approve any final changes to the Proposed FY2015 MTW Annual Plan. Such
approval shall constitute conclusive evidence of the Board’s approval of any and all such
changes.

THAT

this approval of the Proposed FY2015 MTW Annual Plan supersedes any and all conflicting
language found in prior CHA MTW Annual Plans.

THAT

the Board of Commissioners hereby grants authorization to submit the Proposed FY2015
MTW Annual Plan to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development by the
deadline of October 24, 2014.

(Item 4)
On October 18, 2011, the Board authorized the CHA to enter into a contract with American Surveying and
Engineering, P.C. (ASE) for a 2-year base term with two (2) 1-year options to provide survey services. The
original contract is for an amount not to exceed $845,000 for the two-year base term. During the term of
the current contract, ASE has provided satisfactory and timely surveying work. Since the contract’s
inception, the vendor has provided thirty-one surveys to date. The resolution for Item 4 approves the first
and second option years of contract with American Surveying and Engineering, P.C. for a total not to
exceed $627,404 for the two option years. ASE submitted fixed rate sheets for the base year and each of
the two-year option years. The base year and option years’ pricing are competitive and fair based on the
CHA Procurement standards and requirements
RESOLUTION NO. 2014-CHA-101
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated October 15, 2014 entitled
“Authorization to: 1) exercise the first and second option years of contract number 11056
with American Surveying and Engineering, P.C. for a total not to exceed $627,404 for the
two option years and 2) execute and deliver such documents and perform such actions as
may be necessary or appropriate to implement the foregoing.”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to:
1) exercise the first and second option years of contract number 11056 with American
Surveying and Engineering, P.C. for a total not to exceed $627,404 for the two option years
and 2) execute and deliver such documents and perform such actions as may be necessary or
appropriate to implement the foregoing.
This award is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE,
Section 3, and insurance requirements.
5

 (Item 5)
The resolution for Item 5 approves contract modifications for various CHA projects in the amount of
$220,181. The contract modification associated with the contracts address the following issues: relocation
of 8 electrical panels and re-routing of electrical circuits at the Lidia Pucinska Apartments; removal of
spalled concrete at the ADA entrance vestibule at the Judge Slater Apartments; replacement of the 13th
Floor Community Room storefront system at the Long Life Apartments; and installation of new combined
domestic/fire water services at the Las Americas Apartments. The Capital Construction Department has
verified that the amount to perform the work by the contractor was within an acceptable range of the
CHA’s Independent Cost Estimate.
RESOLUTION NO. 2014-CHA-102
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated October 15, 2014 entitled
“APPROVAL OF CONTRACT MODIFICATIONS FOR VARIOUS CHA PROJECTS”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

Board of Commissioners approves the attached Resolution to approve $220,181.31 of
contract modifications for various Chicago Housing Authority projects with the following
contractors:
Cumulative Change Order 
Total 

All Change Orders as a 
Cumulative % of Original 
Contract 

Cumulative Amount Over 
$100,000? 

Old Veteran 
Construction 
Company 

Current Contract 
Value  

% of Contract ‐ This Change 
Order 

Madison 
Construction 

Life Safety & 
Plumbing 
Riser 
Replacement 
@ Lidia 
Pucinska Apts. 
Façade 
Replacement 
and Interior 
Improvements 
at Judge 
Slater 

Original 
Contract Value 

Contract Modifications to 
be Approved (October 
Board) 

Project 

Contract 

General Contractor 

 

Revised 
Contract 
Amount 

11270 

$ 11,418,000.00 

$ 14,818,637.87 

$ 60,745.35 

.53% 

$ 3,461,383.22 

30.32% 

Yes 

$14,879,383.22 

11119 

$13,577,000.00 

$15,626,806.59 

$ 4,984.58 

0.04% 

$2,054,791.17 

15.13% 

Yes 

$15,631,791.17 

All Chicago, 
Inc. 

Life Safety & 
Mechanical 
Upgrades at 
Long Life Apts. 

11273 

$6,898,444.00 

$7,166,275.03 

$134,937.38 

1.96% 

$402,768.41 

5.84% 

Yes 

$7,301,212.41 

Oakley 
Construction 

Life Safety & 
ADA Upgrades 
at Las 
Americas 
Apts.  

11289 

$1,747,080.00 

$1,845,249.00 

$19,514.00 

1.12% 

$117,683.00 

6.74% 

Yes 

$1,864,763.00 

Cumulative Total   

$ 220,181.31 

The Motion to adopt resolutions for Items 3, 4 and 5 was seconded by Commissioner Johnson and the
voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Matthew Brewer
Mark Cozzi
6

 Dr. Mildred Harris
Harriet Johnson
Jack Markowski
Z. Scott
Nays:

Francine Washington

There being no questions or discussion, Chairwoman Scott thereupon declared said Motion carried and said
resolutions adopted by majority vote.
Commissioner Rodrigo Sierra joined the meeting in session at approximately 10:50 a.m.
Commissioner Jack Markowski, Chairman of the Real Estate Development committee then presented the
report for his committee.
Per Commissioner Markowski, the Real Estate Development Committee
meeting was held on Wednesday, October 15, 2014, at approximately 2:00 p.m. at the CHA Corporate
Offices, 60 E. Van Buren, 12th Floor Loft. There being a quorum present consisting of the following
committee members: Commissioners Brewer, Cozzi, Harris and Markowski the meeting was called to
order. Commissioner Johnson was also present but was not counted as part of the quorum.
On behalf of the Real Estate Development Committee, Commissioner Markowski then presented an
Omnibus Motion for the approval of Items 6 and 7.
(Item 6)
The resolution for Item 6 approves the submission of a Development Proposal and Evidentiary documents
to HUD; commit CHA funds not-to-exceed $4,472,050 for Casa Queretaro LP; approve the Tenant
Selection Plan, lease and lease riders and execute and perform such actions necessary to implement the
foregoing. Casa Queretaro will be a single phase, mixed-income rental development to be built upon a
vacant parcel of land owned by the City of Chicago located at 1614 S. Damen Avenue in the Pilsen
community. This development will be an extension of the developer’s broader affordable housing
commitment to create healthy communities for its residents through education, organizing, and community
development. Casa Queretaro will consist of 15 public housing units and 30 affordable units, with a total
of 45 units within a four-story elevator building. The developer for Casa Queretaro is The Resurrection
Project (TRP), an Illinois not-for-profit corporation. Casa Queretaro Apartments Corporation, NFP is the
general partner of the Owner Entity. An equity investment partnership owned or controlled by National
Equity Fund, Inc. (NEF) will be the Investor/Limited Partner. The total estimated development budget for
Casa Queretaro is approximately $15,460,187 and includes the CHA Loan of approximately $4,450,000 to
be funded with CHA MTW funds. Additional project sources include approximately $22,050 of CHA
MTW funds for CHA Administration and CHA Initial Operating Deficit Reserve.
RESOLUTION NO. 2014-CHA-103
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated October 15, 2014 entitled
“Authorization to: 1) Submit a Development Proposal and Evidentiary documents to the
United States Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD); 2) Commit Chicago
Housing Authority (CHA) funds not to exceed $4,472,050 to Casa Queretaro LP or related
entity; 3) Approve the Tenant Selection Plan, lease, and lease riders for the development to
be known as Casa Queretaro Apartments (Casa Queretaro), and amend the CHA Admissions
and Continued Occupancy Policy to incorporate such documents as an addendum thereto;
and 4) Execute and deliver such other documents and perform such actions as may be
necessary or appropriate to implement the foregoing.”
7

 THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to: 1)
Submit a Development Proposal and Evidentiary documents to the United States
Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD); 2) Commit Chicago Housing
Authority (CHA) funds not to exceed $4,472,050 to Casa Queretaro LP or related entity; 3)
Approve the Tenant Selection Plan, lease, and lease riders for the development to be known
as Casa Queretaro Apartments (Casa Queretaro), and amend the CHA Admissions and
Continued Occupancy Policy to incorporate such documents as an addendum thereto; and 4)
Execute and deliver such other documents and perform such actions as may be necessary or
appropriate to implement the foregoing
This award is subject to each Contractor’s compliance with CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE,
Section 3 resident hiring, bonding and insurance requirements.

(Item 7)
The resolution for Item 7 approves a Housing Assistance Payments Contract for Merrill Courts Apartments.
Merrill Courts Apartments is an occupied 4-story building containing 18 one-bedroom and 22 two-bedroom
apartments in the South Shore community area. The developer, The Community Builders (TCB), intends
to submit an application to HUD for the second component of the RAD program to convert the existing
Moderate Rehabilitation Program (Mod Rehab) contract to a long-term RAD PRA contract for all units.
HUD approval of the requested RAD conversion will require that a public housing authority administer the
resulting HAP contract. TCB has requested that CHA serve as the administrator for these new vouchers; the
HAP contract would only be for the number of units approved by HUD. Building amenities at Merrill
Courts Apartments include secured entries, laundry facilities, on-site management, storage and a private
interior courtyard. TCB will also manage the property. With the exception of one unit for an onsite staff
member, at turnover, it is the intent of the owner/manager of Merrill Court Apartments to lease all of the
PRA-RAD assisted units to eligible families from CHA’s waiting lists. CHA will refer working families
from the Public Housing and PRA waiting lists as well as families whose right of return under the
Relocation Rights Contract has not been satisfied. The CHA waiting lists will be exhausted prior to
utilization of a site-based waiting list. Initial contract rents will be determined by market comparable and
fair market rents applicable at the time the HAP contract is executed. All rent determinations will comply
with federal regulations and Chicago Housing Authority (CHA) policy.
RESOLUTION 2014-CHA-104
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the Board
letter dated October 15, 2014 requesting authorization execute a Housing Assistance
Payments contract under the second component of the United States Department of Housing
and Urban Development Rental Assistance Demonstration program for Merrill Court
Apartments;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to
authorize CHA to execute a Housing Assistance Payments contract under the second
component of the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development Rental
Assistance Demonstration program for Merrill Court Apartments.

The Motion to adopt resolutions for Items 6 and 7 was seconded by Commissioner Washington and the
voting was as follows:
8

 Ayes:

Matthew Brewer
Mark Cozzi
Dr. Mildred Harris
Harriet Johnson
Jack Markowski
Z. Scott
Rodrigo Sierra
Francine Washington

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, Chairwoman Scott thereupon declared said Motion carried and said
resolutions adopted.
Committee Chair, Mark Cozzi, then presented the report for the Finance & Personnel Committee.
Per
Commissioner Cozzi, the Finance & Personnel Committee meeting was held on Wednesday, October 15,
2014, at approximately 2:35 p.m. at the CHA Corporate Offices, 60 E. Van Buren, 12th Floor Loft. Present
at the meeting were Commissioners Brewer, Johnson, Markowski and Cozzi. At the request of staff, Item 8
was pulled from the Agenda. A presentation on Item 9 was made to Commissioners; however, voting on
Item 9 was deferred to today’s Board meeting. Committee members subsequently adjourned to closed
session to discuss Item 10 and then returned to open session and approved Item 10. Item 10 was also
discussed in today’s closed meeting.
On behalf of the Finance & Personnel Committee, Commissioner Cozzi then presented an Omnibus Motion
for the approval of Items 9 and 10.
(Item 8 – This Number Not Used)
(Item 9)
The resolution for Item 9 approves award of contract with Blue Cross Blue Shield and Guardian Life
Insurance for the CHA’s Employee Health Benefit Plan for a total amount of $7,061,846. The CHA’s
current contracts for employee healthcare plan benefits with Blue Cross and Guardian will terminate on
December 31st, 2014, and must be replaced on January 1st, 2015. These coverages are placed through
Mesirow Financial, CHA’s broker of record for employee benefit plans. HUD has previously authorized
the CHA to utilize a broker to procure its insurance coverages by soliciting competitive insurance bids on
behalf of CHA. Mesirow directly solicited requests for coverage from 11 health insurance providers, for
Medical, Dental, and Vision coverages. Bids for Life AD&D, Retiree Life, Short Term Disability, and
Long Term Disability were not solicited as the Board has previously authorized option years 2015 and
2016, which were guaranteed NTE rates. The incumbent insurer BCBS was asked to quote as expiring for
the employee census base of 420, along with options which could help the Authority save expense dollars.
Should the participation levels fluctuate, the expense would change proportionately. In keeping coverages
consistent as the previous year, BCBS quoted $6,491,672, an increase of 4.25% over the prior year’s
premium. Increases in the Healthcare Reform Tax attributed to 2.95% of the increase, with only 1.3%
attributed to rate increase. The expected increase for mid- and large-sized businesses averages over 5.5%
for the upcoming year. Other insurers declined to quote or their bids were higher than the incumbent. Bids
were solicited from three dental insurers. Guardian, our current insurer, quoted $283,078, an increase of
5.6% over the expiring premium was the lowest quote received. Rate guarantees for Life, AD&D Retiree
Life, STD and LTD are contingent upon bundling Dental coverage with Guardian. Bids were solicited
from four vision insurers. While the incumbent insurer Davis has more participating vendors than other
insurers, and coverage offered is better than other insurers as copays are lower for every covered service
9

 there was one insurer who’s pricing was slightly lower. Due to the minor cost differential CHA chose to
stay with the incumbent Davis. With regards to the Flexible Spending account, the incumbent, AmeriFlex,
offers a competitive rate structure and no additional set up fees, with an estimated expense of $14,425.
RESOLUTION NO 2014-CHA-105
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
memorandum dated October 15, 2014 entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO ENTER INTO
CONTRACTS WITH BLUE CROSS BLUE SHIELF (MEDICAL) AND GUARDIAN
(DENTAL, ACCIDENTAL DEATH & DISMEMBERMENT (AD&D), LIFE, SHORT
TERM DISABILITY (STD), AND LONG TERM DISABILITY (LTD) FOR THE
CHA’S EMPLOYEE HEALTH BENEFIT PLAN”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners (“Board” authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into contracts with the following insurance providers for the Chicago
Housing Authority’s (“CHA”) Employee Health Benefit Program covering eligible
participants of the CHA and eligible participants of the CHA’s affiliates for the benefit year
of 2015: (1) Blue Cross Blue Shield medical in a firm fixed rate contract calculated at
$6,491,671; and (2) Guardian Life Insurance Company of America in a firm fixed rate
contract for Dental insurance in the amount of $283,078; (3) AmeriFlex with a firm fixed
rate contract based on employee participation, calculated at $14,250; and (4) exercise the
first option with Guardian Life Insurance Company of America for AD&D, Life, STD and
LTD in an amount calculated at $228,020; for a total aggregate amount of $7,061,846 for
FY 2015.

(Item 10)
The resolution for Item 10 ratifies the following employment actions: 3 offers of employment to applicants
for the positions of Benefits Specialist; Director, Self-Sufficiency Programs and HR Generalist; and 3
promotions of employees to the positions of Assistant Director, HCV Initiatives; Capital Construction
Budget Manager; and Assistant Director, Diversity. The CEO certifies that all these actions were properly
vetted and evaluated pursuant to established CHA protocols.
RESOLUTION NO. 2014–CHA-106
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated October 15, 2014, entitled
“Approval of Personnel Actions”:
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the requested personnel actions.

The Motion to adopt resolutions for Items 9 and 10 was seconded by Commissioner Brewer and the voting
was as follows:
Ayes:
Matthew Brewer
Mark Cozzi
Dr. Mildred Harris
Harriet Johnson
Jack Markowski
Z. Scott
Rodrigo Sierra
10

 Francine Washington
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, Chairwoman Scott thereupon declared said Motion carried and said
resolutions adopted.
Michael Merchant, Chief Executive Officer then presented his monthly report to the Commissioners.
Chairwoman Scott then invited residents and the public at large to address the Board.
There being no further business to come before the Commissioners, upon Motion made and seconded, the
Regular board meeting of October 21, 2014, was adjourned.

s/b:

s/b:

Lee Chuc-Gill, Secretary
Custodian and Keeper of Records

11

Z. Scott
Chairwoman, Chicago Housing Authority

 