Chicago Housing Authority
Board of Commissioners Public Session
June 20, 2012
Kenmore Apartments – 5040 North Kenmore
Name

1

2

Olawale Idreez

Mary Gill

Question/Comment

Response

It gives me pleasure to come to this meeting. I have
been a resident at CHA for the last four years. Mayor
Emanuel is bringing jobs and money to Chicago, but
then I thought, what about residents of CHA, who
don't have jobs? Is it possible for CHA to promote
professional training so they can transition from $8 per
hour jobs, so they can transition out of housing?

Any public housing resident, like all residents of the city of
Chicago, can attend any one of the City of Chicago’s Workforce
Centers. In addition, all public housing residents have access to
employment services through their FamilyWorks provider.
Public housing residents can also attend the City Colleges of
Chicago at no cost (after financial aid). Residents interested in
these employment services should contact their FamilyWorks
provider.
Thank you for your comment and for providing this information.

I am an LAC representative for NE SS. Our
FamilyWorks provider is EES. I am here to speak
about jobs. I am told to pass the information out, but
this year's election for President is coming up and we
need judges at the polls. We have to break down the
voting machines so we need people for that too. The
jobs start at $14 per hour, at 69. W. Washington, that
is where you apply. We have opportunities for youth
ages 16 and 17 (with their parents permission) to be
trained as judges. Early voting starts in October.

1

 I am back here to talk about Caritas drug clinic. We
have residents in need of this program. We have a
resident at Dearborn who has not been given a fair
chance. Under ACOP, you are given a year to fix
your drug problem. Now, she is being evicted and I
would like to continue to work to help our residents
deal with drugs. Drug addiction does not discriminate,
it's a disease. I am willing to work pro bono. I have
LAC presidents willing to work with me. We are here
for the benefit of the residents.
3

Maner Wiley

1) For the management here, it's great to see that this
building is "green." I hope we can get something like
this at Lathrop. Back to CHA, I want to talk about the
election. I see our item got pulled today. I need some
clarity on this, is there going to be an election? There
are people who want to run against me, is this going
to happen?
4

Robert Davidson

FamilyWorks providers participate in monthly coordination
meetings to address all non-lease compliance issues. Each
week the FamilyWorks providers receive lease violations from
Property Managers and they offer assistance to residents to
resolve the issues. (FamilyWorks is a voluntary program and
not all residents accept services.)
Unless it is a property that requires drug testing (Dearborn does
not), residents do not receive a lease violation due to substance
abuse; rather it is the behavioral result of substance use that
could lead to a violation (e.g. non-payment of rent, anti-social
behavior). FamilyWorks offers to work with the resident to
explore what is going on that led to the violation and creates
strategies and plans to resolve the issue.
If a resident who has a lease violation due to a behavioral result
of substance abuse is not ready to quit or refuses to work with
the FamilyWorks provider, he/she would be told that continued
failure to cure the lease violation would lead to eviction. Neither
FamilyWorks nor the Caritas program can set aside substance
abuse treatment slots for residents. Thus, our FamilyWorks
clinical teams have become the de-facto intervention program
through group and individual counseling services.
1) Questions about LAC elections should be directed to the
CAC.

2) The other thing on my mind, how long will the head
of Resident Services be vacant?

2) Mary Howard is the acting Executive Vice President of
Resident Services.

3) School is out, and I need someone to tell me
something. When will we get moving with the summer
food program? What's going on with this?

3) The summer food program is currently open at sites across
the city, including 39 sites at CHA developments. To find a
Summer Meal site near your community, please visit
http://www.summerfeedingillinois.org, call the Illinois Hunger
Coalition Hotline at 1-800-359-2163, or text FoodIL to 877-877.

2

 