MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING

OF THE

COMMISSIONERS OF THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
August 16, 2005

The Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority held its Regular Meeting on
Tuesday, August 16, 2005, at 8:30 a.m. at the Racine Senior Apartments, 1611 South
Racine, Chicago, Illinois.
The meeting was called to order by the Chairperson, and upon roll call, those present and
absent were as follows:
Present:
Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Lori Healey
Michael Ivers
Sandra Young
Mary Wiggins
Absent:

Martin Nesbitt
Carlos Ponce

Also present were Terry Peterson, Chief Executive Officer; Gail Niemann, General
Counsel; Chicago Housing Authority Staff Members and the General Public.
There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as
follows:
Terry Peterson, Chief Executive Officer, then presented his monthly report. Mr. Peterson
started his report by highlighting the weekend’s activities which included the Bud Billiken
parade. According to Mr. Peterson, in his opinion, it is always one of Chicago’s proudest
moments – especially for the African-American community, and the CHA was wellrepresented. Mr. Peterson went on to say that the message of hope was everywhere and it
reminded him of CHA’s goals to rebuild communities where struggling families can reach
the highest rungs of the ladder of success from the safety and security of their CHA homes.
Per Mr. Peterson, the Plan is succeeding. Every family that relocates and finds a job is a
success story – and CHA has thousands of those already and thousands of others working
their way through the process. Mr. Peterson concluded his report by encouraging all
present to become active participants in CHA‘s effort to ensure the success of the Plan for
Transformation.
The Chairperson then convened the Public Hearing portion of the meeting by inviting
residents and the public at large to address the Board.
Immediately following the Public Hearing portion of the meeting, a Motion was introduced
and seconded to adjourn to Executive Session. The Chairperson announced that pursuant
to the Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2, the Board would adjourn for approximately one

1

 (1) hour to discuss pending, probable or imminent litigation, collective negotiating matters,
security and personnel matters.
The Commissioners subsequently reconvened in Open Session.
Chairperson Gilliam thereupon introduced the Resolution discussed in Executive Session.
Commissioner Gates then presented an Omnibus Motion to approve resolutions for
Executive Session Items 1 and 2.
(Executive Session Item 1)
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-117
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has
reviewed the Board Letter dated August 4, 2005 requesting that the Board
of Commissioners approves the Personnel Actions Report for July 2005.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the Personnel Actions Report
for July 2005.

(Executive Session Item 2)
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-118
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated August 3,
2005, requesting authorization to enter into a settlement agreement in the
amount of $150,000 in the matter Edward Johnson v. CHA, 98 WC 41443.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the General Counsel, or her
designee, to enter into a settlement agreement in the amount of $150,000 in
the case of Edward Johnson v. CHA, 98 WC 41443.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt Executive Session Items 1 and 2 was seconded by
Commissioner Young and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Lori Healey
Michael Ivers
Sandra Young
Mary Wiggins

Nays:

None

The Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried and said Resolutions adopted.
Chairperson Gilliam thereupon introduced for approval the Minutes of the Annual and
Regular Board Meetings held on July 19, 2005. Upon Motion made and properly
seconded, the Minutes were unanimously approved and accepted as submitted.
Commissioner Young, Chairperson of the Tenant Services Committee, then presented her
monthly report. Per Commissioner Young, the Tenant Services Committee held its
regularly scheduled meeting on Wednesday, August 10, 2005 at the 626 W. Jackson
Corporate Offices. Commissioner Young then introduced an Omnibus Motion for the
adoption of Resolutions for Items A1 through A3 discussed, voted and recommended for
Board approval by the Tenant Services Committee.
(Item A1)
The resolution for Item A1 approves the Lathrop Elderly Tenant Selection Plan (TSP)
Lease Agreement for City-State Properties. The Lathrop Elderly TSP, outline policies the
CHA has chosen to adopt for the admissions to, selection of tenants for, and occupancy of
2

 units at Lathrop Elderly. To produce the Lathrop Elderly Tenant Selection Plan Lease
Agreement for City-State Properties, the CHA identified the critical issues and topics that
need to be included and addressed in these policies such as eligibility requirements,
income limit, wait list management, admissions preferences, applicant screening criteria,
rent, tenant an landlord obligations and restrictions, and causes for lease termination. The
CHA presented the Lathrop Elderly Tenant Selection Plan Lease Agreement for City-State
Properties to CHA senior staff, department directors, and assistant directors which was
released for public comment from February 1 to March 2, 2005. Notification of the public
comment period was provided to current tenants and applicants of the affected properties
as well as announced in newspaper ads before the commencement of the comment period.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-119
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated July 21,
2005,* entitled “Authorization for approval of the Lathrop Elderly Tenant
Selection Plan and Lease Agreement for City-State Properties.”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the Lathrop Elderly Tenant
Selection Plan and Lease Agreement for City-State Properties, and
authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to approve the
Lathrop Elderly Tenant Selection Plan and Lease Agreement for City-State
Properties.

*Due to scrivener’s error, Board Letter date corrected in Resolution.
(Item A2)
According to Federal regulations, the Authority is required to maintain the Administrative
Plan for Housing Choice Vouchers, Project-Based Vouchers and Moderate Rehabilitation
Programs (Administrative Plan) that outlines the rules and procedures necessary to
administer the voucher program. The Administrative Plan is also used by the program
administrator, CHAC, to ensure proper administration of the voucher program according to
the policies set forth by the CHA Board. Based on modifications to the administrative
procedures to the Housing Choice Voucher (HCV) Program, and to bring the
Administrative Plan into conformance with updates and amendments to the Federal
regulations, the resolution for Item A2 approves amendment to the Administrative Plan.
The CHA released the draft Administrative Plan for public comment from July 6, 2005
through August 5, 2005. Advertisements were placed in major newspapers encouraging all
interested parties to submit written comments or email via the CHA Website. Information
regarding the public comment period and copies of the draft Administrative Plan were also
distributed to all CHA developments. All comments received through the public comment
period have been taken into consideration.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-120
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated July 11,
2005 entitled “Approval of the Administrative Plan for the Housing Choice
Vouchers, Project-Based Vouchers and Moderate Rehabilitation Programs.”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners repeals and rescinds any and all previously
adopted plans and resolutions related to the approval of such plan.

THAT,

the Board of Commissioners adopts the revised Chicago Housing Authority
Administrative Plan for the Housing Choice Vouchers, Project-Based
Vouchers and Moderate Rehabilitation Programs dated July 15, 2005,
attached hereto as Exhibit A.

THAT,

the revised Administrative Plan for the Housing Choice Vouchers, ProjectBased Vouchers and Moderate Rehabilitation Programs dated July 15, 2005
shall be effective August 16, 2005.

3

 (Item A3)
Major Adams Youth Academy (Major Adams) is a not-for-profit agency that provides a
variety of programs for the residents in the Henry Horner Homes community, primarily
focusing on after-school programs for children. Major Adams formerly operated out of a
CHA building, 1832 West Washington, which was demolished to make land available for
the redevelopment of the Henry Horner community. As part of its commitment to assist
those displaced, the CHA assisted Major Adams with its temporary move to Suder School.
The Board of Education of the City of Chicago is making space available at Suder School
on a temporary basis, pending Major Adams’ permanent move to the CHA building at 12325 North Hoyne. Such permanent move will not occur until completion by CHA of some
building repairs and upgrades projected to be completed by June, 2006. To facilitate the
continued availability of programs benefiting the Horner community during this interim
period, the resolution for Item A3 approves entering into a Memorandum of Agreement
with the Board of Education to pay the Board of Education a pro-rata share of the school’s
utilities, security, and custodial costs, which are attributable to the use of up to 9,532
square feet of the premises by Major Adams for a one-year period.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-121
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has
reviewed the Board Letter dated July 15, 2005 entitled “Request for
Authorization to Enter into a Memorandum of Agreement with the Chicago
Public Schools to Pay for Costs Associated with the Utilization of Space at
Suder School”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Chief Executive Officer
or his designee to enter into a Memorandum of Agreement with the Board
of Education of the City of Chicago to pay for costs associated with the
utilization of space at Suder School by a non-profit provider of various
programs to the Henry Horner Homes community in an amount not to
exceed $150,000 for the period June 1, 2005 through May 31, 2006.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items A1 through A3 was seconded by
Commissioner Amey and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Lori Healey
Michael Ivers
Sandra Young
Mary Wiggins

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion
carried and said resolutions adopted. The Tenant Services Committee report was also
accepted in total.
Commissioner Gates, Chairperson of the Operations & Facility Committee, then presented
the monthly report. Per Commissioner Gates, the Operations & Facility Committee held
its regularly scheduled meeting on Wednesday, August 10, 2005, at approximately 1:30
p.m. at the 626 W. Jackson Corporate Offices. There were no presentations to come before
the Committee.
Commissioner Gates then introduced an Omnibus Motion for adoption of resolutions for
Items B2 through B5, discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the
Operations Committee.
(Item B1 – THIS NUMBER NOT USED)
.
4

 (Item B2)
The resolution for Item B2 approves Contract Modification G-03 and 04 to Contract No.
0617, with George Solitt Construction Company. This modification provides for
additional labor and materials to perform the following needed work at Trumbull Park
Homes includes but is not limited to: revisions to storm trap system at boiler house and to
underground utilities, installation of additional hearing impaired devices in ADA units, gas
line repair, demolition of boiler house storage building, re-insulation of hot water tank,
ornamental fencing and installation of new windows. This additional work is required to
address discovered conditions, owner directed revisions, and design errors at the
development.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-122
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated August 10,
2005 entitled “Authorization to execute Modification Numbers G-03 and G04 to Contract No. 0617 with the George Sollitt Construction Company for
additional work related to the general rehabilitation at Trumbull Park
Homes (IL2-025)”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute Contract Modification Numbers G-03 in the amount of
$541,052.31 and G-04 in the amount of $3,790,856.98 to Contract No. 0617
with The George Sollitt Construction Company in the combined amount of
$4,331,908.79 to complete the intended scope of the general rehabilitation
of Trumbull Park Homes. The new total contract amount is $53,513,497.74.
These Contract Modifications are subject to the Contractor’s compliance
with the CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident hiring, and bonding
and insurance requirements.

(Item B3)
The resolution for Item B3 approves Contract Modification No. G-12 to Contract No. 0424
with G.F. Structures Corporation for the general rehabilitation of Sheridan and Devon
Apartments, 6400 N. Sheridan Road (IL2-073). This modification provides for additional
labor and materials to perform the following needed work and includes but is not limited
to: emergency and regular electrical work, installation of storefront doors, drywall, an
underground gas feed, and a waist high water riser for ADA acceptable kitchen sinks,
repair of floors in the maintenance room and residential unit, removal of insulation and
cleanup of “make-up” air ducts, repair of clogged vent stacks and damaged plumbing
chases and additional work to conform to ADA requirements. In addition, a credit will be
issued for the deletion of refrigerators from the base contract.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-123
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated August 10,
2005 entitled “Authorization to execute Modification No. G-12 to Contract
No. 0424 with G.F. Structures Corporation for additional work related to
the General Rehabilitation at Sheridan and Devon Apartments (IL2-073)”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute Contract Modification No. G-12 to Contract No. 0424
with G. F. Structures Corporation in the amount of $238,249.71 to complete
the intended scope of the general rehabilitation of Sheridan and Devon
Apartments. The new total contract amount is $ 15,705,742.88. This
Contract Modification is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the
CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident hiring, and bonding and
insurance requirements.

(Item B4)
The resolution for Item B4 approves Contract Modification G-04 to Contract No. 0388,
with Burling Builders. This modification provides for additional labor and materials to
perform the following needed work at Bridgeport Homes, 3175 S. Lituanica (IL2-004) and
5

 includes but is not limited to: extensive revisions to the electrical distribution system to
accommodate a Com Ed primary metering arrangement utilizing CHA owned distribution
transformers with CHA sub-metering, removal and replacement of moldy wallboard lining
the interior side of exterior walls, installation of insulation behind the new wallboard,
cleaning and disinfecting of exposed surfaces prior to installation of the new wall board,
installation of new wood window sills for six hundred seventy-two (672) windows. This
additional work is required to address owner directed revisions.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-124
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated August 10,
2005 entitled “Authorization to execute Modification No. G-04 to Contract
No. 0388 with Burling Builders, Inc. for additional work related to the
general rehabilitation at Bridgeport Homes (IL2-004)”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute Contract Modification No. G-04 to Contract No. 0388
with Burling Builders, Inc. in the amount of $1,266,320.00 to complete the
intended scope of the general rehabilitation of Bridgeport Homes. The new
total contract amount is $ 13,123,212.00. The contract completion date will
be extended by one hundred twenty-five (125) calendar days to December
31, 2006. This Contract Modification is subject to the Contractor’s
compliance with the CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident hiring,
and bonding and insurance requirements.

(Item B5)
The resolution for Item B5 approves Contract Modification G-02 to Contract No. 9700
with Walsh Construction. This modification provides for additional labor and materials to
perform the following needed work at Major Robert Lawrence Apartments, Shields
Apartments, and Flannery Apartments and includes but is not limited to: emergency brick
repairs, installation of baseboard heaters, additional plumbing work, tile abatement and
replacement, relocation of light switches, boiler repairs, including emergency work
installation of a temporary water heater flue, and additional elevator work. All three
developments also require new gas ranges for the ADA Units and conventional Units. This
additional work is required to address discovered conditions, design errors at the
development, owner directed changes, and to achieve compliance with the City of Chicago
Building Codes.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-125
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated August 10,
2005 entitled “Authorization to execute Modification No. G-02 to Contract
No. 9700 with Walsh Construction Company of Illinois for additional work
related to the general rehabilitation at Major Robert Lawrence Apartments,
Shields Apartments, and Thomas Flannery Apartments”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute Contract Modification No. G-02 to Contract No. 9700
with Walsh Construction Company of Illinois in the amount of $299,960.00
to complete the intended scope of the general rehabilitation of Major Robert
Lawrence Apartments, Shields Apartments, and Thomas Flannery
Apartments. The new total contract amount is $ 21,123,480.00. This
Contract Modification is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the
CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident hiring, and bonding and
insurance requirements.

6

 The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items B2 through B5 was seconded by
Commissioner Harris and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Lori Healey
Michael Ivers
Sandra Young
Mary Wiggins

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion
carried and said resolutions adopted. The Operations Committee report was also accepted
in total.
There being no further business to come before the Commissioners, upon Motion made,
seconded and carried, the meeting of the Board of Commissioners was adjourned.
_________________________
Sharon Gist Gilliam
Chairperson

________________________
Lee Gill, Custodian and
Keeper of Records

7

 