June 10, 2015

Item No. 1

RECOMMENDATION TO ENTER INTO A CONTRACT WITH THE CHICAGO COOK WORKFORCE
PARTNERSHIP TO PROVIDE EMPLOYMENT TRAINING AND PLACEMENT SERVICES
To the Honorable Board of Commissioners:
RECOMMENDATION
It is recommended that the Board of Commissioners ("Board") authorize the Chief Executive
Officer or his designee to enter into a contract with the Chicago Cook Workforce Partnership
(“CCWP”) to provide employment training and placement services for CHA residents in the
amount of $430,000 for a one-year base term, with three one-year options in the amount of
$430,000 for each option year, exercisable at the CEO or his designee's discretion, subject to
funding availability and satisfactory contract performance. The aggregate contract value for the
one-year base term and three one-year option periods is $1,720,000.
The Deputy Chief Housing Officer of Resident Services, the Office of the General Counsel and the
Department of Procurement and Contracts have completed all necessary due diligence to support
the submission of this initiative and recommend the approval of this item accordingly.
CORPORATE GOAL
The contract with CCWP supports CHA’s corporate goal of empowering individuals for success in
the global economy while providing targeted services to residents at critical milestones in their
lives, while living in a safe, decent and sustainable housing portfolio.
FUNDING
CHA General Funds
COMPLIANCE INFORMATION

Vendor
Cook County
Workforce Partnership

M/W/DBE
Participation
Waiver
Requested

Section 3 Contracting: Other Economic Opportunities
Section 3 Hiring
5 hires (Resource
Room Attendants)

Additional vocational training and employment
placement opportunities for CHA residents.

General Background
In 2012, CCWP was created as the local Workforce Investment Board in order to work cohesively
as a city to address the workforce development needs of low-income residents. CCWP operates
five (5) workforce centers in the city of Chicago that serve as community hubs where job seekers
can access skilled vocational counseling and technology to conduct their job search activities.
CCWP also offers workshops on interviewing skills, resume writing, labor market research and
other essential skills related to finding and keeping a job, and is the only public workforce center
in Chicago to deliver programs through the Workforce Investment Act, soon to become the

 Workforce Investment & Opportunities Act. In January 2014, CHA entered into a contract with
CCWP to provide workforce services for CHA residents; this agreement will expire on June 30,
2015.
CCWP Program Model
CCWP offers workshops on interviewing skills, resume writing, labor market research and other
essential skills related to finding and keeping a job. CCWP seeks to help improve skills and
increase exposure to workforce opportunities including, but not limited to, enrollment in
Workforce Investment Act programs (“WIA”), attending structured job clubs, enhancing
technology related job seeking skills, job readiness training and employment placement.
Additionally, CCWP will provide access to adult literacy services through assessment and
multifaceted instruction (e.g. technology based, direct instruction and referral). Through this
contract, CCWP will provide workforce services to CHA residents regardless of their eligibility for
WIA programs. It is ultimately the goal of CCWP to enroll at least 600 CHA residents in
employment training and placement services.
CCWP supports improving skills and increasing exposure to workforce opportunities through:
 Enrollment into WIA programs (for those who are eligible)
 Structured job clubs
 Enhancing technology related job seeking skills
 Job readiness training
 Employment placement
 Adult literacy services (direct instruction and referral)
The Board action recommended in this item complies in all material respects with all applicable
Chicago Housing Authority Board policies and all applicable federal (HUD) procurement laws.
The Deputy Chief Housing Officer of Resident Services concurs with the recommendation to enter
into a contract with CCWP to provide employment training and placement services.
The CEO/President recommends the Board authorize entering into a contract with the CCWP to
provide employment training and placement services for CHA residents in the amount of
$430,000 for a one-year base term, with three one-year options in the amount of $430,000 for
each option year, exercisable at the CEO or his designee's discretion, subject to funding
availability and satisfactory contract performance. The aggregate contract value for the one-year
base term and three one-year option periods is $1,720,000.

2

 RESOLUTION NO. 2015-CHA-45
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated June 10, 2015
entitled “RECOMMENDATION TO ENTER INTO A CONTRACT WITH THE CHICAGO COOK
WORKFORCE PARTNERSHIP TO PROVIDE EMPLOYMENT TRAINING AND PLACEMENT
SERVICES”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to
enter into a contract with the Chicago Cook Workforce Partnership in the amount of
$430,000 for a one-year base term, with three one-year options in the amount of
$430,000 for each option year, exercisable at the CEO or his designee's discretion,
subject to funding availability and satisfactory contract performance. The aggregate
contract value for the one-year base term and three one-year option periods is
$1,720,000.

3

 