 -. 

August 15, 2012 ITEM NO.B1

AUTHORIZATION TO EXECUTE AN AGREEMENT TO ENTER INTO A HOUSING
ASSISTANCE PAYMENTS CONTRACT WITH HOME FIRST ILLINOIS

To the Honorable Board of Commissioners:

3W
It is recommended that the CHA execute an Agreement to enter into a Housing Assistance Payments

(AHAP) Contract with Home First Illinois for:

10 units for people with physical disabilities (3 units at 1000 E. 53rd Street; 3 units at 5455 N.
Sheridan; 2 units at 5415 N. Sheridan; and 2 units at 420 W. Belmont).

-) The purpose of this contract is to increase the supply of long-term, accessible affordable
housing opportunities in healthy neighborhoods for individuals with physical disabilities exiting
nursing homesunits in this proposed AHAP Contract will be administered as part of the Property Rental
Assistance (PRA) Program. PRA was launched' in June 2010 to add 500-650 new CHA units per year
through an open web-based application process. PRA program goals are to:

1. Increase the number of affordable housing opportunities in healthy neighborhoods.

2. Ensure long-term affordability in opportunity areas.

3. Provide affordable housing options for working families, seniors and special needs populations.

4. Provide owners with reliable and straightforward rental income for their properties.
All CHA-assisted PRA units count toward the overall 25,000 unit goal in the Plan for Transformation.
HUD and the CHA Board of Commissioners approved this designation as part of Amendment 3 to the
Amended and Restated MTW Agreement in March 2010.

 

PRA Evaluation Process
Complete applications for PRA assistance are evaluated in the order received as part of a 

evaluation committee process. The PRA evaluation committee is comprised of:

4 CHA staff representing Asset Management, Development Management, Finance and Resident
Services
1 staff from the Chicago Department of Housing and Economic Development 
1 staff from the Chicago Department of Families and Supportive Services (DFSS).
1 staff from the Corporation of Supportive Housing (CSl-l)
Business and Professional People for the Public Interest also provide non-voting participation.
All applications are evaluated on 5 criteria: Property Characteristics, Neighborhood, Owner Experience.
Manager Experience, and Rent Structure.

PRA Pmram Status
The PRA portfolio currently includes 2,1 15 units in 96 developments. The program provides $20.7

Million in annual HAP payments and cun'ently has a 97.2% occupancy rate.

In 20 PRA added 234 units in 9 developments;

in 2011, PRA added 569 units in 36 developments;

In 2012, PRA plans to add 650 units to achieve unit count goals in the 2012 Annual Plan.
So far in 2012, I76 PRA units are under contract or in the pipeline.

6'05. Van 81!.an $17111?- 11" 31-1; 1:2 ?55} 111111511 131: 111::

Background on Home First Illinois

A 1999 US Supreme Court ruling (Olmstead vs.L. E. held that Title II of the Americans with Disabilities
Act (ADA) prohibits unjusti?ed segregation of people with disabilities. As a consequence, public entities
must administer their services, programs and activities in the ?most integrated setting appropriate to the

needs of the person with disabilities.?

At the state level,
there are three Olmstead
based class-action lawsuits in
which the State of Illinois
entered into Consent Decrees
regarding the rights of more
than 27,400 residents or
applicants living in Illinois
skilled nursing facilities,
Institutes for Mental Disease,
and Intermediate Care
Facilities for persons with
developmental disabilities.
Class members must be
assessed for their interest and
ability to live in community-
based housing of their
choice.l It is estimated that
50% of the members of the
three Olmstead classes are in
Chicago.

 

 

De-Institutional Class Action Lawsuits

27,400 people possibly needing supportive housing

 

I Williams v. Quinn: Institutes of

Mental Disease

Colbert v. Quinn: Cook County

Skilled Care Nursing Homes

Ligas v. Quinn (residents)

I Ligas v. Quinn (applicants)

 

As a component of the settlement of the Consent Decrees persons with disabilities moving to a
community integrated setting are offered person-centered services necessary to assist them in
transitioning from institutional to community settings.
In June 2012, HUD issued the following guidance via Public and Indian Housing Notice 12-31:

plays a role in furthering Olmstead implementation by helping persons with disabilities
access affordable, integrated housing opportunities. There are a variety of actions that PHAs may
take under currently existing authority to meet the housing needs of persons with disabilities
transitioning from institutions or at serious risk of institutionalization. These actions, identi?ed
below, may be taken whether or not the state or local public entity is subject to
outstanding Olmstead-related litigation, enforcement activities, or undertaking af?rmative
Olmstead planning and implementation efforts.?

The actions that HUD is encouraging housing authorities to implement include the following:

Establish local preferences for people with disabilities who are ready to leave nursing homes;
Barmark vouchers for non-elderly disabled persons and persons exiting institutions, and
allowing any of the turnover vouchers to remain in a pool for these speci?c groups; and

0 Partner with disability groups to provide services and develop a listing of accessible housing
available and listings for people with disabilities who are ready to leave institutions and those
who are in danger of being institutionalized.

 

. 
6'0 5 Van Burt?? 5389! Shimgo, Illinois 55595-1207 - (312) 742-8500; How. mechaarg

 

Owner I Information
The Home First Illinois proposal is for 10 PRA units in four (4) separate condominium properties, one of

which is in Hyde Park, two are in Edgewater and one is in Lakeview. (Property details begin on page 4).

Home First Illinois (I-IFI) is a subsidiary of (formerly known as Illinois Facility Fund) that was
created to develop and own integrated housing with access to services for very low-income people with
disabilities. The Illinois Housing Development Authority (IHDA) funded $5 million in State of Illinois
capital to I-IFI under its Build Illinois Bond Demonstration Program, and II-IDA has made a
conditional commitment to fund an additional $10 million in State capital funds to to implement the
Illinois Accessible Housing Initiative in its efforts to develop accessible housing for households referred
through the Money Follows the Person (MFP) program based upon its successful implementation of the
Demonstration Program The State has contracted with Access Living to transition MFP participants into
the community and coordinate the required access to supportive services. Services will include training in
independent living skills, provision of assistive equipment and devices, personal assistant management
training, transportation to Adult Day Care, home health aides, home delivered meals, personal assistants
to help with eating, bathing, personal hygiene, occupational, physical and speech therapy, and other
needs. These services are funded by Medicaid and the State of Illinois.

The units will be managed by Affordable Property Management Specialists, which has been in business
since 2006 for the express purpose of managing affordable housing for low-income households. APMS
currently manages four Low Income Housing Tax Credit projects, consisting of 10 buildings totaling 275
units located in four different areas of the City.

0 All owners in the PRA program are reviewed as part of a thorough due diligence process. This
includes review of code violations, HUD debarred list, City scofl?law, criminal background, 

program participation.

No issues were identi?ed during the review of Home First Illinois or IFF.

99::ng 
0 Funding Source: Housing Choice Voucher Program (Property Rental Assistance)

0 Term: 15 Years
0 Initial Annual Contract Amount: $125,076
0 lS?Year Base Contract Value: $1,876,140

Waiting List I ?gugng PM

Home First Illinois? Illinois Accessible Housing Initiative is designed to house extremely low income
individuals who receive Medicaid assistance and are transitioning from a nursing home (via Money
Follows the Person or the Colbert Consent Decree Implementation Program) who desire to live in
housing of their choice. The population includes people with physical disabilities who are able to live
independemly provided that affordable and accessible units with services are available. Currently, Money
Follows the Person is operational, with people actively being transitioned into the community. By
September 20, 2012, the Colbert Implementation Plan will be ?nalized, allowing members of that class to
also be transitioned to Illinois Accessible Housing Initiative units.

Individuals that are Money Follows the Person program participants and are also already on one of
waiting lists who meet the Tenant Selection Plan for the Illinois Accessible Housing Initiative
project will have ?rst priority for the 13 vacant units. CHA will cross-reference the entire Money
Follows the Person participant waiting list maintained by DRS against waiting lists
(approximately 85,000 applicants) prior to the leasing process for these properties, to identify those MFP
enrollees who are on existing CHA waiting lists. In the future, when the Colbert Implementation Plan is
?nalized, CHA will crossqeference the Colbert class waiting list, which contains 14,000 to 18,000
people, against its waiting lists prior to leasing new Illinois Accessible Housing Initiative units.

After the qualifying candidates from the CHA waiting list is exhausted, applicants for any remaining
vacant units will be referred through the Statewide Housing Referral Network that has been established
by the Of?ce of the Governor to coordinate housing referrals of MFP enrollees and the Colbert class
members who reside in nursing facilities and who desire to, and are deemed capable of living in a less
restrictive environment than a nursing facility.

Home First Illinois Development Information

The units are owned by Home First Illinois HFI acquired the units between May and July 2012 and
intends to substantially rehabilitate them to make the units fully accessible for wheelchair users. The
Hyde Park property contains a total of 144 condo units of which I one-bedroom and 2 two-bedroom units
are proposed to receive PRA subsidy. One of the Edgewater properties contains a total of 744 condo
units of which 2 one-bedroom units are proposed to receive PRA subsidy; the other Edgewater property
contains a total of 465 condo units of which 3 one-bedroom units are proposed to receive PRA subsidy.
The Lakeview property contains 206 units of which 1 studio and one-bedroom unit are proposed to
receive PRA subsidy.

Additional information regarding the 13 units is as follows:

 

Address: 1000 E. 53"Street

PRA Units: 1 one-BR and 2 two BR units

0 Population: People with disabilities

0 Total Units: I44

0 Subsidy Ratio: 2% of building

0 Unit Size: Approx. 850 to 1,020 sq. ft.

0 Condition: To be substantially rehabbed

0 Amenities: 100% accessible features, ?tness
center, enclosed large open courtyard, 24-
hour desk clerk, and parking garage with a
covered indoor parking space.

0 Contract Rent: 006 per month for the one-bedroom unit and $1,151 per month for the two-
bedroom units (the tenant will pay for gas heating and electric cooking and lights). Comparable with
units in building/neighborhood.

0 Inspection Results: Will occur at construction completion.

 

 

 

Address: 5415 N. Sheridan Rd

New PRA Units: 2 one?bedroom units

Population: People with disabilities

Total Units: 744

Subsidy Ratio:.03%

Unit Size: 850 sq. ft.

Condition: To be substantially rehabbed

Amenities: 1 00% accessible features, indoor

pool and hot tub, ?tness center, outdoor deck

and picnic area, community room, grocery

store and dry cleaner, receiving room,

doorman and bus tracker on lobby monitor.

0 Contract Rent: $970 per month (the tenant will pay for electric cooking and lights). Comparable
with units in the building/neighborhood.

0 Inspection Results: Will occur at construction completion.

 

I 60 Van Bursa Street - Chicago, Illinois 50605-1207 - (312?) 74.23500- W. meanders:

Address: 5455 N. Sheridan Rd

Address: 420 W. Belmont

Neighborhood 
Hyde Park: Hyde Park is a vibrant, stable community

area which offers a wide array of commercial shops,
restaurants, galleries, museums and businesses.
53"i Street 15 a major shopping thoroughfare.

Edgewater: Edgewater is a thriving, long established community 2
bordering Lake Michigan, approximately seven miles north of 
downtown Chicago. The properties are located adjacent to the 
Andersonviile neighborhood which offers an array of retail shops, 3
restaurants, galleries and businesses.

0

New PRA Units: 3 one-bedroom units
Population: People with disabilities

Total Units: 465

Subsidy Ratio: .02%

Unit Size: 970 sq. ft.

Condition: To be substantially rehabbed
Amenities: 100% accessible features,
swimming pool and sun deck, library, 2 party
rooms, common laundry room, barbeque and
picnic area, 24 hour desk clerk and on-site dry -:
cleaner. 2
Contract Rent: $970 per month (the tenant will pay for electric cooking and lights). Comparable
with units in the building/neighborhood.

Inspection Results: Will occur at construction completion

   

New PRA Units: 1 studio &1 one-bedroom unit
Population: People with disabilities

Total Units: 206

Subsidy Ratio: .005%

Unit Size: 900 sq. it.

Condition: To be substantially rehabbed

Amenities: 100% accessible; party room,

pool, 24-hour door staff, laundry room; very close to the beach.
Contract Rent: $937 for the studio and $1,328 for the one
bedroom per month (tenants will pay for electn'c cooking and
lights). Comparable with units in the building/neighborhood.
Inspection Results: Will occur at construction completion

 

 

The Street Metra Stop 15 0.75 miles from the property
and CTA bus lines run on 51? and 53rd Streets all providing

convenient and fast access to downtown Chicago
Treasure island Food Mart, Walgreens and Hyde Park 

"an:

in

i .
menu-As



Wm
m9
swims
W9

Produce are all within a few blocks of the property

Less than a mile from the University of Chicago, the University
University of Chicago Medical Center and Museum of
Science and Industry and Lake Michigan

Low rate of subsidized housing and crime 
Aldermanic Ward (William Burns) 5? 69

 

 

 

 

 

_2 blocks from the CT A Red Line 5%

60 Van Baron Shaet- Chicagb, 63505-1207 {312) 742?8500- Macks. org

3 CT A bus lines on Sheridan

2 blocks ?'om Dominick?s Grocery Store
Low rate of subsidized housing and crime
48th Aldermanic Ward (Harry Osterman)

Lakeview: Lakeview is a ?ourishing, robust community with a mix of residential, commercial and

institutional uses.

The property is less than a mile from Lake Michigan and has easy access to the lakefront via
pedestrian crossing under Lakeshore Drive.

It?s just blocks from Whole Foods, Jewel, Treasure Island and Walgreens.

The Belmont red, purple and brown lines plus the Belmont Bus and the Inner Lakeshore Drive buses

all provide convenient and fast access to downtown.

Low rate of subsidized housing and crime

44?h Ward (Thomas Tunney) for the Belmont building
46'? Ward (James Cappleman) for the Irving Park building

 

 

2 {if p-
22
Goif Cause
a
9% a 9.

an

rw veg/E 3 

F. (El 1? Rd

area an 

m2 000ng 3; @209 Cough

 

 

 

8:
Lara
E33:
Mm

.. 

El
*1 2 Bag-vag?fla?
it 

If:
. 4n"

039012 Goons

eta-45 

?3

.. @130

Ga

'3
new.

 

 

 

Conclugion on Home First Illinois
It is recommended that CHA execute an Agreement to enter into a Housing Assistance Payments Contract
with Home First Illinois to provide PRA subsidies for 10 units designated for people with disabilities in
the Hyde Park, Lakeview and Edgewater communities. The term of the Housing Assistance Payment
Contract will be for 15 years. Home First Illinois? proposal meets all four (4) of the PRA program goals:



Increase the number of affordable housing opportunities in healthy neighborhoods.

Ensure long-term affordability in opportunity areas.

Provide affordable housing options for working families, seniors and special needs populations.
Provide owners with reliable and straightforward rental income for their properties.

50 E. Van Bumn Samar Oil/4mg), saws 1207- (312) 7423509 - m; Mammary

 

RESOLUTION NO. 2012-CHA-61

WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board letter dated August 15, 2012 requesting authorization to execute an
Agreement to enter into a Housing Assistance Payments (AHAP) Contract with
Home First Illinois;

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:

THAT, the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to (I) execute an Agreement to enter into a Housing Assistance
Payments (AHAP) Contract with Home First Illinois for 10 units designated for
people with physical disabilities; and (2) execute all other documents as may be
necessary or appropriate to implement the foregoing. It is anticipated that the
Housing Assistance Payments Contract will be for a 15-year term.

  

Immoral; 

AUG 21 2012

Board of Commissioners

 
   

   

6?9 E: Van Buren Sow: - Chicago, Illinois 65665-1207 - 7423555 - mow. mama. org

