Chicago Housing Authority
Board of Commissioners Public Session
January 20, 2015
CHA Corporate Office – 60 E. Van Buren St.
Name

1

2

Felicia
Gardner

Jeffrey Hunter

Question/Comment

Response

The last Board meeting I came to was in August and you had Tim and
Mary assist me, and they put me in a program called Threshold, and
my living conditions have been hell ever since. They moved me over to
73rd and Phillips and people have been breaking into my apartment, I
have it all on tape. I went to the States Attorney, they had the police at
the building for about two weeks and they had someone come into the
building and they found out what I said was true. The elevator was
down for a month, and the police are scared over there. I am seeking
help now, I went to Roosevelt Square, and they asked if I was still with
Threshold, they didn’t want to deal with the programs. They said I
could get in if I had a voucher. I went to 60 Minutes, and the States
Attorney had me come to you.
My concern is of grave importance to me, my dream is for safe and
secure housing. I thought my Section 8 would assure me of this, but for
some reason I’ve been over 10 years in receiving my voucher, I have
yet to receive any confirmation that my voucher will be afforded to me.
I need to secure my voucher, it’s been 10 years. I came down
December 23 and they gave me a blank sheet of paper, so I decided to
come here today. One minute they told me I was going to get my
voucher, and then they told me I can’t get it anymore.

1

CHA has looked into Ms. Gardner’s concerns closely, and will
withhold specifics in this response in order to protect Ms.
Gardner’s right to privacy. The CHA has responded directly to
Ms. Gardner.

This matter has been resolved favorably for Mr. Hunter.

 1) I am here to talk about the recent violence at Altgeld. With the
number of cameras we have, we have been having shootings every
day, why aren’t these shooters being picked up? Have you thought
about hiring more people to monitor the cameras?
2) I want to talk about Resident Owned Businesses with no space, have
you come up with anything about incubators for residents to start their
businesses?
3

4

5

6

Bernadette
Williams

Noni Arnold

Barbara
Brandon

Perry Casey

I have some flyers I want to pass to the Commissioners, I have a
business at Altgeld Gardens, I work with a home daycare and I have
started picking up the children for free from school because it’s not safe
over there. I would like to partner with CHA, because I am doing this
from my home, it’s free for residents. My concern is the incubators, and
who do I talk to in order to partner up? I have 25 youth I am providing
this service for, I pick them up, and I serve them meals at my home.
Who should I speak with about a CHA partnership?
I am the LAC Vice President at Altgeld and I was following up with what
Bernadette and Noni were saying. The parents are very happy about
this program and they have said they don’t need to worry about their
kids safety when they are going to school. Is there another place
where we can have this program, because it’s getting bigger by the
day.
I am the LAC President for Senior Housing North, as you know, Mr.
Whitfield our former General Counsel retired last December. It gives
me pleasure to introduce to you the new General Counsel for the CAC.
We have retained the firm of Hughes Socol Piers Resnick Dym. They
have over 30 years of experience, and they have extensive experience
in litigation. Any legal matters concerning the CAC should be directed
to our attorneys.

2

1) CHA is actively working with CPD on implementing effective
strategies to patrol the Altgeld community. CHA has no control
regarding how or when police detain or arrest suspects. CHA
is able to retrieve and forward video footage to CPD within 36
hours and CHA is looking into hiring additional staff to monitor
activity via cameras and to reduce the amount of time required
to respond to video footage requests. Security at Altgeld
Gardens continues to be a priority for CHA and strategic
planning is ongoing between CHA, Local Advisory Council
(LAC), Altgeld Riverdale Consortium (ARC), Fifth Police
District, Roseland Cease Fire, and surrounding residential
developments.
2) Space for ROBs at Altgeld is unavailable right now.
However, assistance for businesses looking for incubator
space may be available pursuant to CHA’s agreement with the
Chicago Urban League. For more information, please contact
Jason William Johnson from the Chicago Urban League, at
773-451-3547.
CHA staff met with Ms. Arnold following the meeting and
advised her to contact the two existing early learning centers to
discuss possible partnerships. No other space is currently
available at Altgeld.

CHA staff spoke with Ms. Arnold about her services and
advised Ms. Arnold to contact the two existing early learning
centers to discuss potential partnerships.

Thank you for the information.

 7

8

9

Paul McKinley

Donald Becton

Joseph
Watkins

1) I have a letter that I would like to give to the Board, I would like to
bring up once again the issue about landscaping on all of the public
projects. It is a shame that we have an 87% African American
population in public housing, and 87% of the landscaping workers are
Hispanic. Section 3 is supposed to be race neutral, how is it race
neutral when CHA residents are not working on their own property? I
would like to give this complaint to the Board Secretary.
2) We would also like you to take these Board meetings to the
community, I got a ticket and I got my car towed coming down here.
This is economically hostile to the low-income people. We are asking
that this Board responds to this, these meetings should be held all
through the city. Section 3 is not working the way it’s supposed to be
working, so we don’t have the money to come down to these meetings.
I am the President of Minnie Riperton Senior Apartments, last week we
were relocated temporarily. The residents commented that they didn’t
like it, they loved it. They liked the way they were treated by Asset
Managers and Property Managers. If the meeting was some place
where they could have made it to, they would have come down. They
told me to come down here and be nice, and give everyone their props.
Whoever was the head of that did a fantastic job.
1) I have a couple of issues, I am disappointed that you gave Marianos
land, I hope it’s not etched in stone and we can protest it. Move the
Marianos to Altgeld, we don’t need it at Wells.
2) To piggyback on what Paul was saying, I am a Section 3 business
owner and we can’t get a contract. I notice in all the new
developments, I notice that Hispanics do all the work, and we can’t get
employment. Why are we not selected to be a part of the process? I
request you look into this. These new Section 3 business people fall
out of the sky, who is making these things happen, I think you are being
discriminatory to low-income Black people.

3

1) HUD’s Section 3 regulations and CHA’s Section 3 policy
determine eligibility based on income, not race.
You may report any issues regarding compliance with Section
3 at:
http://www.thecha.org/doing-business/compliancerequirements/
2) Board meetings are held at CHA’s main office (60 E. Van
Buren St.) as well as other locations throughout Chicago. Here
is a listing of locations for the next four Board meetings:
 March 17, 60 E. Van Buren
 April 21, Albany Terrace Apartments, 3030 W. 21st Pl.
 May 19, 60 E. Van Buren
 June 16, Wentworth Gardens, 3770 S. Wentworth
Thank you for your comment.

1) The proposed disposition of land at the northeast corner of
39th Street and King Drive was included in the Proposed
Amended FY2014 MTW Annual Plan Amendment (see
attachment after page 4). CHA held a public comment period
from June 27 – July 28, 2014, which included three public
hearings that were held on July 8, 9 and 15. The transaction
has received HUD approval and is moving forward. CHA
understands the concerns regarding grocery stores in the
Altgeld area and is studying potential solutions.
2) HUD’s Section 3 regulations and CHA’s Section 3 policy
determine eligibility based on income, not race.
You may report any issues regarding compliance with Section
3 at:
http://www.thecha.org/doing-business/compliancerequirements/

 10

Stacey
Lawrence

Carol Folkes
11

I am a 24 year resident of Altgeld Gardens, I want to make a statement
about the security over at Altgeld. Maverick is the security company
out there and they seem to be more of a gang than a security company.
It was a couple of years ago when I filed a lawsuit against Maverick for
jumping on my 22 year old son, I guess he was 17 at the time. My son
has a severe case of epilepsy. He was walking back to the house with
a few hundred dollars in his pocket and they jumped my son and he
had a seizure and left him in the street. If he didn’t have a friend with
him at the time, he possibly could have died. Maverick is still out there
and still provoking people. The gang members are challenging them.
Maverick should stop hanging out at the liquor store by Altgeld. We
need a security company out there that’s for the people.
1) Happy New Year to all. I am a 15 year resident of Vivian Harsh
senior campus. My one concern is regarding our life safety project that
was supposed to be completed in February 2014. Our residents have
been impacted by this project and it won’t be completed until February
2015. Manny Laud and Glenda Clark are doing their jobs, it’s not their
fault that these delays have happened. This is really impacting us and
it’s not finished.
2) I understand that work goes to the lowest bidder, but this is not
always good. Our floors and our cabinets are really atrocious. We
need to take a look at spending money on quality things that last.
3) Lastly, I have worked with youth all my life, CHA youth should
partner with CHA seniors.

CHA realizes it is important that residents have confidence in
the firms responsible for security at CHA developments,
including Altgeld. The procurement, hiring, and ongoing
performance evaluations of security firms are among the many
responsibilities of the property management firms. Your
comments and concerns will be passed on to Eastlake
Management, for further review.

1) CHA anticipates this project will be completed in March,
2015. CHA and the contractor are doing our best to limit the
inconvenience this project may cause for residents at Vivian
Gordon Harsh Apartments. However, as the scope of work for
this project is so large, residents will unfortunately encounter
inconveniences from time to time. We are working to complete
this project as quickly as possible, and we expect the end result
will offer residents a safer and more comfortable living
environment.
2) Upon completion of this specific project, CHA will review all
completed work to ensure the project adheres to specific
construction standards and to ensure that less expensive or
less durable materials have not been substituted for the
materials specified in the contract.
3) Thank you for your comment.

4

 