PORT AUTHORITY OF ALLEGHENY COUNTY
MINUTES OF THE REGULAR BOARD MEETING
FRIDAY, APRIL 27, 2018
The Regular Meeting of the Board of Port Authority of Allegheny County was held on Friday, April 27,
2018, at 9:30 a.m., at the Authority’s Administration Offices, 345 Sixth Avenue, Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania, 15222-2527, pursuant to due public notice given as required by law.
Board Members
Jeff Letwin, Chair
Jennifer Liptak
Senator Jim Brewster
Representative Dom Costa
Ann Ogoreuc
John Tague
Rob Kania
Stephanie Turman
D. Raja
Rob Vescio
Joel Lennen, General Counsel

Media
Ed Blazina, Post-Gazette
Theresa Clift, Tribune Review

Port Authority Staff
Katharine Kelleman, chief executive officer, Bill Miller, chief operations officer, Keith Wargo, assistant
general manager Engineering and Technical Support, Jim Ritchie, assistant general manager
Marketing, Planning and Communications, Ed Typanski, director Grants and Capital Programs,
Catherine Terrill, Professional Services contract specialist, Jerimaine Ward, manager Contract
Administration, Adam Brandolph, Public Relations representative, Darcy Cleaver, assistant manager
Passenger Amenities, Amy Silbermann, Manager of Data and Evaluation, Dana Barber, director
Benefits, Maria Nickerson, senior internal auditor, Tony Trona, director Procurement and Materials
Management, Jeff Faddis, Professional Services contract specialist, Sheila Dillard, director Internal
Audit, Diane Williamson, executive assistant.
Other
Rusty Loudermilk, speaker, James Love, speaker, Carolyn Lenigan, Brian Scholl, SAI, Laura Wiens,
PPT, Glenn Walsh, R. Robyak, MSI, LLC, Emily Gwash, ACCESS, Matt Sickles, Judi Anderson,
WSP, Donna Chappel.
The Chair called the April 27, 2018 Regular Meeting of the Board to order.
After the recital of the pledge of allegiance, a recommendation was made for approval of the minutes
of the March 23, 2018 Regular Meeting. A motion was made, seconded and unanimously passed.
The Chair called on Ms. Kelleman for a report of the Chief Executive Officer. Ms. Kelleman reported
that since our last Board meeting, we have held our first two BRT meetings in Rankin and in
Homestead. They have been very well-received, overall, with a more responsive proposal. We have
eight more meetings scheduled, and then we will continue to listen to suggestions over the summer
as we finalize proposals, bring them back to our Board for the next level of iteration and discussion,
making sure that our proposal is one that benefits everybody.
1

 Ms. Kelleman noted that she believes that Mr. Tague may be speaking more about the BRT project in
his report of the Planning Stakeholder Relations Committee.
In regard to fare enforcement on the light rail, Ms. Kelleman reminded everyone that this has been an
issue in front of us and a priority of hers since she joined the Authority in January. We have discussed
a few times that we have been monitoring the fare compliance rate on our light-rail trains. About 98
percent of our patrons are tapping a fare card. We find this to be a strong rate of fare compliance,
especially compared to many of other systems around the country. We see constantly that our
operators are collecting fares and handling issues dealing with the public, being excellent
ambassadors for transit. They can call for police in the rare situations that they do need their support
for any issue.
Ms. Kelleman continued reporting that using a cashless system with police doing primary
enforcement is not ideal. It creates barriers where we do not need them in our open system in
America’s most livable city. Ms. Kelleman stated that therefore, we will not be using our police
officers for primary fare enforcement. Ms. Kelleman noted that we have a highly-trained police
department, some of whom are here today. Port Authority officers are here to keep our riders,
employees and assets safe and they are going to be doing more of that in the future.
We will continue to monitor fare evasion. She also announced that we will be implementing a
marketing campaign to help remind riders that we are still tapping when entering either inbound or
outbound, so our patrons know exactly when they should be using their fare cards.
Ms. Kelleman took a moment to honor Port Authority employees and retirees who have passed in the
last month. They included retired operator, Thurman Keifer; retired heavy equipment maintainer,
Norman Geiger; retired automotive mechanic, George Klauss; and retired operator, Ronald Lutz.
That concluded the report of the Chief Executive Officer.
Before calling for the Performance Oversight Committee report, Mr. Letwin stated that he hopes the
public appreciates and understands that this Board and this organization is responsive to the public
and to our riders and we hear your concerns. Although it took a long time to come to this conclusion,
we think that this is the right step and we appreciate all of the input that we received from the public.
The Chairman called on Ms. Zmijanac, Chair of the Performance Oversight Committee, for the report
from the committee. Ms. Zmijanac reported that a meeting of the Performance Oversight Committee
was held on April 19, 2018 and the minutes from the previous meeting were approved by the
Committee.
At the meeting, it was reported that Total Operating Income through March was approximately $4.4
million higher than budget, principally due to higher Passenger Revenues. It was also reported that
Total Expenses were approximately $16 million under budget. Total Subsidies were approximately
$2.5 million under budget, and it was explained that it is a timing issue with State Operating
Assistance. It was also reported that subsidies should meet budget by fiscal year-end.
There were eight resolutions reviewed by the Performance Oversight Committee and are being
recommended for consideration by the Board.
2

 The Committee first reviewed two procurement items and found the bids to be in accordance with the
Authority’s procurement policies and procedures, the prices to be fair and reasonable, and the
bidders to be responsive and responsible. The Performance Oversight Committee therefore
recommends for award the two items for the total amount of $237,382 dollars.
On behalf of the Performance Oversight Committee, Ms. Zmijanac respectfully requested approval of
the resolution.
It was moved, seconded and unanimously agreed that the resolution be approved as presented.
Ms. Zmijanac presented the next resolution requesting authorization to enter into a Contribution
Agreement with the Pennsylvania Department of Transportation for the Kenmawr Bridge project.
PENNDOT is planning to rehabilitate and improve the Kenmawr Bridge located in the boroughs of
Swissvale and Rankin and adjacent to the East Busway. It was explained at the meeting that
PENNDOT’s design for the project includes the construction of an additional span on the bridge
replacement structure to accommodate potential future expansion and extension of the East Busway.
PENNDOT is willing to proceed with the construction of the additional span subject to the Authority
entering into a Contribution Agreement and agreeing to reimburse PENNDOT for the costs
associated with the construction of the span and the Authority conveying certain right-of-way
necessary for completion of the project.
The Performance Oversight Committee recommends the Contribution Agreement, as summarized in
Exhibit A to the resolution, for a total not-to-exceed amount of $1,460,000.
On behalf of the Performance Oversight Committee, Ms. Zmijanac respectfully requested approval of
the resolution.
It was moved, seconded and unanimously agreed that the resolution be approved as presented.
Ms. Zmijanac presented the next resolution authorizing the Authority to enter into an Agreement with
Ansaldo STS USA, Inc., for the procurement and replacement of an Automatic Trip Stop System on
the Authority’s light rail vehicles.
The Authority has determined that it needs to replace its existing Automatic Trip Stop System on its
entire LRV fleet. The Performance Oversight Committee recommends entering into the Agreement
with Ansaldo for a total not-to-exceed amount of $20,138,108.88.
On behalf of the Performance Oversight Committee, Ms. Zmijanac respectfully requested approval of
the resolution.
It was moved, seconded and unanimously agreed that the resolution be approved as presented.
Ms. Zmijanac presented the next resolution which would provide authorization to amend the
Agreement with CDM Smith, Inc. to Provide Bus Rapid Transit Management and Engineering
Services.
3

 It was explained at the meeting that the Authority previously entered into an Agreement with CDM
Smith to provide services which include completing preliminary engineering work in support of the
grant application for the BRT Project. The Agreement was awarded for an initial term of two years,
with the option to extend the Agreement up to one additional year.
To date, CDM Smith has performed the services in a satisfactory manner and assisted the Authority
in timely submitting a federal Small Starts grant application to the FTA in September 2017, which was
highly rated by the FTA, but no Small Starts funding was available for award at that time.
In order to continue to advance the BRT project and make a timely submission of an updated Small
Starts grant application, it is now necessary that the Agreement be extended one additional year
through November 15, 2019, and to increase the total not-to-exceed amount by $1,500,000.
On behalf of the Performance Oversight Committee, Ms. Zmijanac respectfully requested approval of
the resolution.
It was moved, seconded and unanimously agreed that the resolution be approved as presented.
Ms. Zmijanac presented the next resolution authorizing the Authority to amend its Agreement with
CHK America, Inc., to provide signage and wayfinding program services. The services for the
Wayfinding System consist of communicating consistent transit information to customers at all
passenger facilities and bus stops.
The term of the Agreement is currently scheduled to expire on April 30, 2018 and the Authority
desires to continue the Agreement in order for certain tasks to be performed, including designing
signage for major transfer locations and the various transit stops within the Authority’s service area.
The amendment to the Agreement would extend the Agreement to April 30, 2019 and increase the
total not-to-exceed amount by $1,300,000.
On behalf of the Performance Oversight Committee, Ms. Zmijanac respectfully requested approval of
the resolution.
It was moved, seconded and unanimously agreed that the resolution be approved as presented.
Ms. Zmijanac presented the next resolution which seeks authorization to amend the Agreement for
Employee Benefits Consulting. Ms. Zmijanac reported that the Board previously authorized the
award of the Agreement to Towers Watson Delaware, Inc., for an initial three-year term for a total notto-exceed amount of $1,000,000. The Agreement also contains two option years.
The consulting services provided by Towers Watson have been satisfactory to date and in
compliance with the Agreement. The Authority therefore desires to extend the term of the Agreement
for two additional years to July 31, 2020 and increase the total not-to-exceed amount by $700,000.
On behalf of the Performance Oversight Committee, Ms. Zmijanac respectfully requested approval of
the resolution.
It was moved, seconded and unanimously agreed that the resolution be approved as presented.
4

 Ms. Zmijanac presented the next resolution which seeks authorization to amend the Agreements for
Investigative Services.
In May 2015, the Board authorized the award of four Agreements to Specialty Private Investigators,
Inc.; CSI Corporate Security and Investigations, Inc.; Pittsburgh Information and Research Company;
and Investigations by King, LLC, to provide investigative services for an initial term of three years for
a total not-to-exceed amount of $300,000. The Agreements contain two option years.
Ms. Zmijanac noted that the Committee was advised at the meeting that Pittsburgh Information and
Research Company has ceased doing business. Therefore, the Authority recommends extending the
remaining three Agreements for an additional year to June 30, 2019 with no increase in the total notto-exceed amount of the Agreements.
On behalf of the Performance Oversight Committee, Ms. Zmijanac respectfully requested approval of
the resolution.
It was moved, seconded and unanimously agreed that the resolution be approved as presented.
Ms. Zmijanac president the final resolution being recommended by the Performance Oversight
Committee which seeks authorization to amend the Agreement with the University of Pittsburgh.
It was explained at the meeting that Port Authority and the University of Pittsburgh are parties to an
Agreement to provide eligible Pitt students, faculty and staff with access to and use of the Authority’s
public transit system. In exchange for this service, Pitt pays the Authority a fee of 50 percent of the
Authority’s base fare per card tap, which is currently $1.25 per card tap.
The Performance Oversight Committee recommends extending the Agreement for one additional
year to June 30, 2019. On behalf of the Performance Oversight Committee, Ms. Zmijanac
respectfully requested approval of the resolution.
It was moved, seconded and unanimously agreed that the resolution be approved as presented.
That concluded the report of the Performance Oversight Committee.
The Chairman then called on Mr. Tague for a report of the Planning and Stakeholder Relations
Committee.
Mr. Tague reported that the Planning and Stakeholder Relations Committee met last week and he
has a few items to report.
First, at the meeting, Ms. Amy Silbermann, led a presentation on the Bus Rapid Transit project and
provided an overview on the most recent changes. Mr. Tague reiterated Mr. Letwin’s remarks about
being responsive to our riders.
As a result of the meetings that have occurred, there has been some changes to the BRT. Mr. Tague
gave the example of the Mon Valley service that has been modified to improve frequency and reduce
transfers for riders. The BRT corridor would shift from three proposed routes to five proposed routes.
5

 Four local routes would turn around in Oakland and not travel to downtown. The P3 would terminate
in Wilkinsburg at a station instead of traveling to Swissvale and would also be extended to service
uptown and downtown. Mr. Tague reported that several meetings are scheduled through the month
of May and there will probably be additional changes to the BRT based on the public input received.
Mr. Tague next reported on two of Port Authority’s stakeholders. The Allegheny County Transit
Council and the Committee for Assessable Transportation. He reported that at their monthly meeting,
ACTC received a brief update from Port Authority’s Customer Service supervisor, Mr. Brian Dudas.
Mr. Dudas provided an overview of the Department, talked about the student ID program and
answered various questions from the group.
Ms. Kelleman attended the monthly CAT Committee meeting in Oakland. The Committee wants to
continue to work to improve accessibility features on our vehicles on any major capital procurement
projects that take place.
That concluded the report of the Planning and Stakeholder Relations Committee.
As there was no new business, the Chairman called on the first speaker, Mr. Rusty Loudermilk. Mr.
Loudermilk addressed the Board regarding two events that occurred while using the ACCESS
service. Mr. Loudermilk’s main issues were that he claimed that a call-taker asked him to take a trip
that was more than one hour past the time that is required and the other issue was another ACCESS
carrier required him to use the shoulder harness. All and all, Mr. Loudermilk reported that he is happy
with his ACCESS service recently.
The next speaker, Mr. James Love, addressed the Board regarding his concerns with the BRT project
and the six Class 3 mass transit systems overlapping Port Authority’s work and gave examples of
how many passengers they bring into the city.
There being no further business to conduct, the meeting was adjourned.
The next Regular Meeting of the Board will be Friday, May 25, 2018.

6

 