MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING

OF THE

COMMISSIONERS OF THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
May 20, 2008
The Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority held its Regular Meeting on Tuesday,
May 20, 2007, at 8:30 a.m. at the Charles A. Hayes Family Investment Center, 4859 S. Wabash,
Chicago, Illinois.
Chairperson Martin Nesbitt called the meeting to order and upon roll call, those present and
absent were as follows:
Present:

Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Samuel Mendenhall
Bridget O’Keefe
Carlos Ponce
Mary Wiggins
Sandra Young

Absent:

Michael Ivers

Also present were Lewis Jordan, Chief Executive Officer; Adrienne Minley, Chief of Staff;
Jorge Cazares, General Counsel; Chicago Housing Authority Staff Members and the General
Public.
There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as
follows:
Lewis Jordan, Chief Executive Officer, then presented his monthly report. Per Mr. Jordan the
Wait List for RentBetter closed on Friday, May 15, 2008. The next 30 days will be spent sorting
the 215,000 applications received and creation of the 40,000 person Wait List. Mr. Jordan
informed the Commissioners that the bifurcation of the HCV process is on target and the
companies are scheduled to start working together during the first week of June. Mr. Jordan
concluded his report by announcing that during this reporting period the FamilyWorks Program
was approved by City Council.
Commissioner Ivers then joined the meeting in session at approximately 8:36 a.m.
The Chairperson then convened the Public Hearing portion of the meeting by inviting residents
and the public at large to address the Board.
Immediately following the Public Hearing portion of the meeting, a Motion was introduced and
seconded to adjourn to Executive Session. The Chairperson announced that pursuant to the
Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2, the Board would adjourn for approximately one (1) hour to
discuss pending, probable or imminent litigation, collective negotiating matters, security and
personnel matters.
Chairperson Nesbitt departed the meeting at approximately 9:00 a.m.
The Commissioners subsequently reconvened in Open Session which was chaired by
Commissioner Ivers.
Upon Motion made and properly seconded the following Minutes were unanimously approved:
Special Meeting of April 9, 2008
Regular meeting of April 15, 2008
1

 Executive Session Minutes for April 15, 2008
Acting Chairman Ivers, thereupon introduced the Resolution discussed in Executive Session.
Commissioner Wiggins then presented a Motion to approve the following resolution for
Executive Session Item 1:
Executive Session Item 1
RESOLUTION NO. 2008-CHA-51
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated May 1, 2008, requesting that the Board of Commissioners
approves the Personnel Actions Report for April 2008.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the Personnel Actions Report for
April 2008.

The Motion to adopt resolution for Executive Session Item 1 was seconded by Commissioner
Harris and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Samuel Mendenhall
Bridget O’Keefe
Carlos Ponce
Mary Wiggins
Sandra Young

Nays:

None

Commissioner Ivers thereupon declared said Motion carried and said Resolution adopted.
Commissioner Harris then presented a motion to approve General Item No. 1.
General Item No. 1
In August 1999, in order to promote the most effective and efficient operation of the Chicago
Housing Authority Board of Commissioners, Committees of the Board were established to
consider matters of the CHA between meetings of the Board. The resolution for General Item
No. 1 approves revisions to the Committee Structure by increasing the number of regular
members of each Committee from five to six and to have the Tenant Organization Officer
Commissioner as a regular member of all three Committees.
RESOLUTION NO. 2008-CHA-52
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
recommendation dated May 14, 2008 titled “AUTHORIZATION TO APPROVE
THE REVISION OF THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS COMMITTEE
STRUCTURE”;
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has determined that this Resolution shall supersede
prior Resolution No. 2004-CHA-109 revising the Board of Commissioners
Committee structure, for the purpose of providing for an increase in the number of
regular members of each Committee, and making the Resident Commissioner
selected to the Board by virtue of such person’s status as an officer of a official
tenants’ association a regular member of each of the Finance & Audit Committee
the Operations and Facilities Committee and of the Tenant Services Committee
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has determined that this Resolution, taken in its
entirety, shall effectively supersede Resolution No. 2004-CHA-109.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY

2

 THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby adopts this Resolution which is deemed to
supersede Resolution No. 2004-CHA-109 in its entirety.

THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby provides for and establishes three
Committees of the Board of Commissioners with the titles and areas of
responsibilities as follows:
1.
Finance & Audit: the consideration of all matters related to the revenues
and outlays of the Authority, including all purchases and contracts, and the
policies and procedures related thereto.
2.
Operations & Facilities: the consideration of all matters related to the
operation, maintenance, and repair of facilities, and the redevelopment,
modernization, demolition and replacement of facilities, and the policies and
procedures related thereto.
3.
Tenant Services: the consideration of matters related directly to the social
and personal well being of residents, including tenant selection and retention,
security, youth programs, elderly programs, employment training and readiness
programs and other economic development issues.

THAT,

each committee may meet, when deemed necessary, prior to the monthly meeting
of the full Board of Commissioners to consider issues pertinent to such
Committee.

THAT,

each Committee shall establish annually a calendar of its regular meetings for the
next twelve months and that the Committee Chair, Chairman of the Board of
Commissioners (“Chairman”), or any two Committee members may call a special
meeting upon at least 48 hours prior notice.

THAT,

each Committee will report to the Board of Commissioners at its monthly meeting
and at any other Board meetings where the Board of Commissioners is
considering a determination or other action for the areas of responsibility of such
Committee.

THAT,

the Chairman and Vice Chairman shall be ex-officio voting members of each
Committee, but shall not be counted present for purposes of establishing a
quorum of such Committee.

THAT,

the Resident Commissioner who has been appointed to the Board by virtue of
being an Officer of a official Tenant’s Associations, (the “Tenants Association
Commissioner”) shall be designated a regular member of all three Committees,
Finance & Audit Committee, Operations & Facilities Committee, and Tenant
Services Committee;

THAT,

in addition to ex-officio members, each Committee shall consist of six
Commissioners as regular members, which shall include the Tenant’s Association
Commissioner and five Commissioners who shall be appointed by the Chairman
annually, with one being designated as Committee Chair; provided that each such
Commissioner shall be appointed to at least two Committees, and that a majority
of such six Committee members must be present to establish a quorum necessary
for a meeting of such Committee.

THAT,

any vacancy on a Committee created by a vacancy in any Commissioner’s office
shall be filled by the person succeeding to such Commissioner’s Office.

The Motion to adopt resolution for General Item 1 was seconded by Commissioner Young and
the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Samuel Mendenhall
Bridget O’Keefe
Carlos Ponce
3

 Mary Wiggins
Sandra Young
Nays:

None

Commissioner Ivers thereupon declared said Motion carried and said Resolution adopted.
Commissioner O’Keefe, Chairperson of the Finance and Audit Committee, then presented her
monthly report. Per Commissioner O’Keefe, the Finance & Audit Committee held its regular
meeting on Wednesday, May 14, 2008 at 1:00 p.m. at the 60 East Van Buren Corporate offices.
The Chief Financial Officer and her staff presented Committee with the Treasury & Cash Flow
Report for the month of April 2008, FY2007 Finance and Audit Report; FY08 1st Quarter
Financial Update and FY08 1st Quarter Grant Progress Report.
Commissioner O’Keefe then introduced an Omnibus Motion for adoption of the Resolutions for
Items A1 thru A4 discussed voted and recommended for Board approval by the Finance and
Audit Committee.
(Item A1)
The resolution for Item A1 accepts a Grant Award from HUD, in the amount of $53,044 and
approves entering into a sub-grant agreement with Heartland Human Care Services in order to
continue the implementation of the Family Self Sufficiency (FSS) Program. The FSS program
is to promote the development of local strategies to coordinate the use of accessible services
under the FSS program with public and private resources, enable participating families to
increase earned income, reduce or eliminate the need for welfare assistance, and make progress
toward achieving economic independence and housing self-sufficiency. The Chicago Housing
Authority is partnering with Heartland Human Care Services to provide job training, financial
education and incentives to increase assets earned through wage increases. The anticipated
outcome of the program is a transition from dependency on social services and public housing to
self-sufficiency.
RESOLUTION NO. 2008-CHA-53
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated May 14, 2008 entitled “RECOMMENDATION TO ACCEPT
A GRANT AWARD FROM THE U.S. DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND
URBAN DEVELOPMENT, ENTER INTO A SUB-GRANTEE AGREEMENT
WITH HEARTLAND HUMAN CARE SERVICES AND INCREASE THE
FY2008 COMPREHENSIVE BUDGET”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes Chief Executive Officer or his designee to
accept a grant award from HUD in the amount of $53,044.00, increase the FY2008
comprehensive budget, and enter into a sub-grant agreement with Heartland Human
Care Services.

(Item A2)
The resolution for Item A2 approves submission of a 2008 HOPE VI Revitalization Grant
Application to HUD for the Stateway Gardens/Park Boulevard Phase II Redevelopment in the
amount of $20 million. The award of the HOPE VI grant would allow development funds
currently planned for the Stateway revitalization to be re-budgeted to other currently planned but
unfunded mixed-income revitalization projects. The application deadline for this competitive
award is June 20, 2008. Stateway/ Park Boulevard’s Phase II planning is already in progress and
proposes to produce over 400 rental and for-sale units both on and off-site. Phase I on-site
development is currently under construction and will deliver 311 diverse mixed- income housing
units by the end of 2008. To date, the first 113 units have been completed and the first thirty
(30) former Stateway residents have returned home to the new Park Boulevard community.
RESOLUTION NO. 2008-CHA-54
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated May 14, 2008,
entitled Authorization to Submit a 2008 Hope VI Revitalization Grant Application
to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development for the Stateway
Gardens/Park Boulevard Phase II Redevelopment”;
4

 THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to submit a 2008 Hope VI Revitalization Grant application to the U.S.
Department of Housing and Urban Development for the Stateway Gardens/Park
Boulevard Phase II redevelopment and to execute such other documents and take
such other actions as may be necessary or appropriate to implement the foregoing.

(Item A3)
The Office of Information Technology Services is responsible for assuring the Authority’s
technical infrastructure and essential applications are continuously maintained to support the
agency’s operations. Prudent business practices dictate having maintenance and service
agreements in place to ensure critical business functions are maintained in good working order
on an ongoing basis and restored quickly and efficiently in the even of any disruption or other
impact. Accordingly, the resolution for Item A3 approves exercising the first year option
extension of Contract No. 6009 with Novanis for Hewlett Packard Equipment Maintenance
Services. Services provided by Novanis under the two year base term contract have been
satisfactory.
RESOLUTION NO. 2008-CHA-55
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated May 14, 2008,
entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO EXERCISE THE FIRST OPTION OF
CONTRACT NO. 6009 WITH NOVANIS FOR HEWLETT PACKARD
EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE SERVICES”,
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

The Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into the first one (1) year extension option with Novanis, for
Hewlett Packard Equipment Maintenance Services, in an amount not-to-exceed
$49,728.21.

(Item A4)
The resolution for Item A4 approves entering into a Cooperative Purchase Agreement with the
State of Illinois to utilize and enroll under its Microsoft Select Agreement and Microsoft
Enterprise Agreement for the supply and delivery of Microsoft software and related upgrade and
support services. CHA extensively utilizes Microsoft software in its daily operations therefore,
through the cooperative agreement, the CHA gains inclusion for Enterprise Agreement benefits
such as cost consideration for application licenses not included in the standard portfolio,
annualized software assurance and source code access. As CHA replaces or adds new computer
systems, additional Microsoft software and licenses will be required. The CHA must also
purchase additional software licenses over the next several years to maintain its data network
infrastructure and comply with software copyright laws. The State's Microsoft Agreements are
renewable, multi-year contracts. The discount level for Microsoft software under the State's
Microsoft Select Agreement is the highest discount level that is offered by Microsoft through its
resellers and is approximately 25% below standard retail pricing. Although the CHA could enter
into its own Microsoft Select Agreement, because of the much smaller volume of software
products and licenses required, the CHA could not achieve the same advantageous discount level
that has been obtained by the State through its volume license procurement.
RESOLUTION NO. 2008-CHA-56
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated May 14, 2008,
entitled "AUTHORIZATION TO ENTER INTO A COOPERATIVE
PURCHASING AGREEMENT WITH THE STATE OF ILLINOIS TO UTILIZE
AND ENROLL UNDER ITS MICROSOFT SELECT AGREEMENT NO.
01S6A084 AND ITS MICROSOFT ENTERPRISE AGREEMENT FOR THE
SUPPLY AND DELIVERY OF MICROSOFT SOFTWARE AND RELATED
UPGRADE AND SUPPORT SERVICES ".
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY

5

 THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into a cooperative purchasing agreement with the State of
Illinois to utilize and enroll in its Microsoft Select and Enterprise Agreements,
dated September 6, 2007 for supply and delivery of Microsoft software and
related maintenance and upgrade services at a not–to-exceed compensation
amount of $780,000 for a contract term of up to 36 months.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items A1 thru A4 was seconded by
Commissioner Young and the voting were as follows:
Ayes:

Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Samuel Mendenhall
Bridget O’Keefe
Carlos Ponce
Mary Wiggins
Sandra Young

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion Commissioner Ivers thereupon declared said Motion
carried and said resolutions adopted
(Item A5)
Windows of Opportunity, Inc. was founded in 1989 to facilitate ongoing communication
between CHA residents and business, cultural, social, educational and philanthropic
organizations and communities. Windows of Opportunity, Inc. additionally serves as a fiscal
administrator for grants and funds received from public, private, and corporate funds for the
designated CHA programs. The resolution for Item A5 will allow Windows of Opportunity to
continue to:(1) raise funds for new and ongoing resident initiatives (2) as requested by CHA,
serve as fiscal agent to the CHA; (3) form and maintain partnerships/linkages with outside
community groups, service providers, and funding sources; and (4) work closely with CHA staff
and residents to identify gaps in services and seek resources to fill those gaps. The option year
term of the Contract shall be for one year, effective as of January 1, 2008 and continuing through
December 31, 2008. Prior to the end of the twelve month option term, recommendations will be
made regarding CHA’s future funding, structure, and role of Windows of Opportunity. As a
stated condition of their contract, Windows will undergo random audits of their programs,
services, fiscal practices and policies at the discretion of the CHA. Payments made during the
extension contract term will be disbursed contingent upon the amount of funds raised by
Windows of Opportunity during the current term of the Contract. Performance and management
benchmarks must also be satisfied as conditions of the contract.
A Motion to adopt resolution for Item A5 was introduced by Commissioner Ivers.
RESOLUTION NO. 2008–CHA–57
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated May 14, 2008, entitled “Authorization to Exercise the Option
to Extend Contract No. 5065 with Windows of Opportunity, Inc.”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
Designee to exercise the option year to extend Contract No. 5065 with Windows
of Opportunity, Inc., for the period of January 1, 2008 through December 31,
2008, in an amount not-to-exceed $215,898.00, subject to the terms and
conditions established by the Chicago Housing Authority for the extension option
period.

Due to ongoing discussions and negotiations with CHA staff and Windows and prompted by
Commissioners concerns discussed at the Tenant Services Committee Meeting, Committee Chair
O’Keefe requested that a separate vote be taken on Item A5.

6

 The Board then heard different views from Commissioners as follows: Per Commissioner
O’Keefe, while she supports the mission of Windows, a Strategic Plan is not in place to
adequately move the program forward. Commissioner Ponce then requested additional
supporting documentation that will conscientiously and effectively address the mission and
direction of Windows organization. Commissioner Mendenhall then called the Boards attention
to Windows crucial mission of providing scholarships for CHA youths and requested CHA staff
to work with Windows to address and resolve concerns mentioned by both Commissioners
O’Keefe and Ponce.
Motion to adopt resolution for Item A5 was seconded by Commissioner Mendenhall and the
voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Samuel Mendenhall
Mary Wiggins
Sandra Young

Nays:

Bridget O’Keefe
Carlos Ponce

Commissioner Ivers thereupon declared said Motion carried and said resolution adopted. The
Finance & Audit Committee report was also accepted in total.
Commissioner Ponce, Chairperson of the Operations and Facilities Committee, then presented
the Committees’ monthly report. Per Commissioner Ponce, the Operations and Facilities
Committee held its regular meeting on Wednesday, May 14, 2008 at approximately 2:15 p.m. at
the 60 East Van Buren Corporate offices.
Commissioner Ponce then introduced an Omnibus Motion for adoption of the Resolutions for
Items B1thru B4.
(Item B1)
The resolution for Item B1 approves the third one-year option of the Intergovernmental
Agreement with the City of Chicago’s Mayor’s Office of People with Disabilities (MOPD) to
perform accessibility reviews. Under the IGA, MOPD has conducted accessibility reviews
during construction and rehabilitation of CHA units to ensure that all units are built or
rehabilitated in accordance with all applicable accessibility requirements. The CHA is
committed to expanding the availability of its housing in the form of accessible units for persons
with disabilities throughout its inventory. During the third one-year extension term, MOPD or
its approved sub-contractor will inspect up to 170 typical UFAS-Accessible Units. Inspections
will take place at differing intervals of the construction/rehabilitation phase in an effort to ensure
that a sufficient number of units meet UFAS requirements. In cases where MOPD or its
subcontractor discovers units or buildings are not in compliance with accessibility laws and
regulations, MOPD or its subcontractor will provide staff support to help determine and
implement suggested remedies in conjunction with CHA and its contractors. MOPD will also
update its database periodically with its findings and forward reports derived from its database to
the CHA’s ADA/Section 504 Compliance Manager periodically during the term of the
agreement.
RESOLUTION NO. 2008-CHA-58
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated May 14, 2008,
entitled “Authorization to Extend the Intergovernmental Agreement with the City
of Chicago Acting through the Mayor’s Office for People with Disabilities to
Perform Accessibility Reviews”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to extend the Intergovernmental Agreement (“IGA”) with the City of
Chicago, acting through the Mayor’s Office for People with Disabilities, for a
one-year term to provide an accessibility review program during the construction
7

 and rehabilitation of CHA units to ensure that all units are built or rehabilitated in
compliance with Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973’s Uniform Federal
Accessibility Standards for an amount not to exceed $120,000.00. The new total
aggregate amount of the IGA will be $360,000.00.
(Item B2)
The resolution for Item B2 approves entering into an Intergovernmental Agreement with the City
of Chicago Police Department (CPD) for supplemental police services at various CHA sites. In
accordance with prior IGA, CPD provided supplemental police services for CHA family,
developments, and senior buildings and CHA’s Scattered Sites and provided special policing
programs for the Henry Horner and the surrounding Westhaven Community, Cabrini-Green
Homes, and 1230 Burling. The new IGA with CPD will continue to provide for the specialized
policing programs at the above mentioned sites and for 2008 adds the Ickes development. It will
also allow the CHA and CPD to mutually agree to re-allocate police officers to other
developments when needed. These specialized services will include: dedicated watches for
CHA locations as needed; increase police services to include foot patrols; customize policing
strategy collaborated by CHA, CHA’s private property managers, and CPD; attend monthly
community security meetings and have a high visibility in the community; monitor and prevent
gang activities; monitor drug and other illegal activities and take appropriate action as necessary;
attend all court hearings for all arrests made by the police officers; respond to any acts of
domestic violence and respond to any unauthorized or unlawful activities or entries into
residences. In addition CPD will continue to provide statistics and relevant data including
reports of the activities of the assigned officers.
RESOLUTION NO. 2008-CHA-59
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letters dated May 14, 2008,
entitled, “AUTHORIZATION TO EXECUTE AN INTERGOVERNMENTAL
AGREEMENT WITH THE CITY OF CHICAGO POLICE DEPARTMENT
FOR SUPPLEMENTAL POLICE SERVICES”:
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into an Intergovernmental Agreement with the Chicago Police
Department for a one (l) year period from January 1, 2008 through December 31,
2008 for amount not-to-exceed $6,000,000.00, with two (2) one year extension
options to provide various CHA sites with supplemental police services.

(Item B3)
The resolution for item B3 approves extension of the Private Property Management Agreement
with H.J. Russell to manage William Green Homes, ABLA Homes and 1230 N. Burling. H. J.
Russell’s 2007 performance in lease management, financial accountability, risk management and
procurement/compliance was satisfactory. The current private property management agreement
with H. J. Russell was for a two year base term with three one-year options. This contract
extension exercises the second one-year option.
RESOLUTION NO. 2008-CHA-60
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated May 14, 2008,
titled, “Authorization to Extend The Private Property Management Agreement
With H. J. Russell To Manage William Green Homes, ABLA Homes and 1230
Burling”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to exercise its second one year option to extend the private property
management agreement with H. J. Russell for one year to manage William Green
Homes, ABLA Homes and 1230 Burling.

(Item B4)
The resolution for Item B4 approves an Intergovernmental Agreement with the City of Chicago
to acquire City-owned land located within the Horner Homes Phase IIC redevelopment area.
Phase IIC of the Horner redevelopment is the final development phase for the on-site Horner
8

 land. Phase IIC is expected to consist of approximately 203 units, of which approximately 103
will be rental and 90 will be for-sale. The Phase IIC site is located within the redevelopment
area bounded by Wolcott (e), Damen (w), Lake (n) and Washington (s). Upon acquisition by
CHA, it will be included in the Horner Phase IIC redevelopment and it is expected that it will be
ground leased to the owner entity, an affiliate of the Brinshore-Michaels development team, for
ninety-nine years when the Horner Phase IIC transaction closes.
RESOLUTION NO. 2008-CHA-61
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated May 14, 2008,
entitled “Approval of Intergovernmental Agreement for Land Transfer of City of
Chicago land within the Henry Horner Homes Phase IIC redevelopment area and
authorization for submission of any necessary acquisition or disposition
applications to the United States Department of Housing and Urban
Development” and concurs with the recommendations therein;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to: (1) execute an Intergovernmental Agreement with the City of
Chicago to acquire City-owned land located within the Henry Horner Homes
Phase IIC redevelopment area for purposes of the Henry Horner Homes Phase IIC
redevelopment; (2) submit any necessary acquisition or disposition applications to
the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development; and (3)
execute, deliver and perform any documents necessary or appropriate to
implement the foregoing.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items B1 thru B4 was seconded by Commissioner
Harris and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Samuel Mendenhall
Bridget O’Keefe
Carlos Ponce
Mary Wiggins
Sandra Young

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Operations and Facilities Committee report was also accepted
in total.
Commissioner Young, Chairperson of the Tenant Services Committee, then presented her
monthly report. Per Commissioner Young, the Tenant Services Committee meeting was held on
Wednesday, May 14, 2008 at approximately 2:55 p.m. at the 60 East Van Buren Corporate
Offices. Linda Kaiser, Managing Director of Resident Services, and representatives from Near
West Side and Project Match presented the Committee with an update on Supportive Services for
West Haven Park Community.
Commissioner Young then introduced an Omnibus Motion for the adoption of Resolutions for
Items C1 and C2 discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Tenant Services
Committee.
(Item C1)
In January 2008, the CHA advertised a Request For Proposal for employment, clinical and
supportive case management services to the West Haven Park Community in area newspapers
and on CHA’s website. The CHA also directly solicited fifty-seven vendors.
Of the three
proposal packages opened and evaluated, only one vendor, Near West, was determined to be
within the competitive range and determined to best meet CHA’s needs. Accordingly, the
resolution for Item C1 approves award of contract to Near West Side Community Development
Corporation. Near West will implement a one year pilot program to serve the families affected
9

 by the amended consent decree. The population to be served consists of approximately 747
families who have relocated into their final housing selection at West Haven Park, but who face
additional barriers to maintaining lease compliance or continuing to meet the modified site based
requirements included within the consent decree. The service model will focus on identifiable
outcomes, with an intensive concentration on lease compliance, financial literacy, employment
preparation and employment retention to meet the site based requirements for West Haven Park.
RESOLUTION NO. 2008-CHA-62
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated May 14, 2008,
entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO EXECUTE A CONTRACT WITH NEAR
WEST SIDE COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION FOR
EMPLOYMENT, CLINICAL, AND SUPPORTIVE CASE MANAGEMENT
SERVICES FOR THE WEST HAVEN PARK COMMUNITY”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into a contract with Near West Side Community Development
Corporation for a one-year base contract term in an amount not-to-exceed
$1,352,258.00, with a one-year option, to provide employment, clinical, and
supportive case management services for the West Haven Park Community.

(Item C2)
The resolution for Item C2 approves an increase in funding for the Intergovernmental Agreement
with the Chicago Department of Children and Youth Services (CYS). This request for increased
funding is to add a new program to the IGA, currently under negotiations with CYS, to focus on
children of CHA residents, ages 13 and 14, who are too old for the Chicago Park District
Services and too young for the summer youth workforce development programs. In light of the
recent increase in youth violence this year, it is particularly important to provide meaningful
alternatives to youth at this vulnerable age. CYS will implement a pilot initiative during the
summer of 2008 which will result in a minimum of 180 program slots. Identified youth will
engage in hands-on experiential learning as well as activities that will focus on improving study
skills, technology, mathematics, reading & science, career exploration and field trips. The
afternoons will involve experiential learning such as field trips with pre and post activities, hands
on learning with science and mathematics activities, and exercises in reading and writing. To
expose these children to a variety of careers, many of the field trips will be visits to employers in
industries with projected job opportunities into the future. The children will be placed in a sixweek program, five days a week for four to five hours per day, and will receive stipends. CYS
will, through its existing relationship with Chapin Hall Center for Children at the University of
Chicago, evaluate the success of the program. Additionally, CYS will leverage additional
programming for these same children this fall and next spring.
RESOLUTION NO. 2008-CHA-63
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated May 14, 2008,
entitled “RECOMMENDATION TO INCREASE FUNDING AND ADD NEW
PROGRAM TO THE INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT WITH THE
CHICAGO DEPARTMENT OF CHILDREN AND YOUTH SERVICES FOR
THE SCHOOL-AGE PROGRAMS AND A SUMMER FOOD PROGRAM”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOVLED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

The Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to increase the funding for the Intergovernmental Agreement (“IGA”)
with the Chicago Department of Children and Youth Services (“CYS”) in the
amount of $272,500.00 to add a new program for children of CHA residents, ages
13 and 14, during the summer of 2008. The IGA’s new not-to-exceed amount for
the twenty-two month (22-month) base-term of March 1, 2008 through December
31, 2009 will be $1,022,500.00.

The Motion to adopt resolutions for Items C1 and C2 was seconded by Commissioner
Mendenhall and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Hallie Amey
10

 Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Samuel Mendenhall
Bridget O’Keefe
Carlos Ponce
Mary Wiggins
Sandra Young
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, Commissioner Ivers thereupon declared said Motion
carried and said resolutions adopted. The Tenant Services Committee report was also accepted in
total.
There being no further business to come before the Commissioners, upon Motion made,
seconded and carried, the meeting of the Board of Commissioners was adjourned.

s/b:

s/b:

Lee Gill, Custodian and
Keeper of Records

11

Martin Nesbitt
Chairperson

 