MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING
OF THE
COMMISSIONERS OF THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
August 17, 2015
The Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority held its Regular Meeting of the Board of
Commissioners on Monday, August 17, 2015, at approximately 8:40 a.m. at the CHA Corporate
Offices located at 60 E. Van Buren, 12th Floor Loft in Chicago, IL.
Chairperson Z. Scott called the meeting to order and upon roll call those present and absent were as
follows:
Present:
Mark Cozzi
Dr. Mildred Harris
Harriet Johnson
Jack Markowski
Bridget Reidy
Z. Scott
Francine Washington
Absent:

Matthew Brewer
Rodrigo Sierra

Also present were Eugene Jones, Acting Chief Executive Officer; Scott Ammarell, Chief Legal
Officer; Chicago Housing Authority Staff Members and the General Public.
There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as follows:
Upon Motion made by Chairwoman Scott and properly seconded by Commissioner Washington, the
Commissioners adjourned to Executive Session. Chairwoman Scott announced that pursuant to the
Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2, the Board would adjourn for approximately one hour to discuss
personnel related matters; purchase, sale and lease of real estate property; pending, probable or
imminent litigation; review of closed meeting minutes and audit reviews.
The Commissioners subsequently reconvened in Open Session at approximately 10:15 a.m.
Chairwoman Scott then introduced and welcomed Mr. John Hooker who was recently appointed by
Mayor Rahm Emanuel as the new CHA Chairman. Per Madam Chair, Mr. Hooker’s long history of
civic and community building in Chicago will play a critical role in helping to lead CHA as the agency
works to meet the ongoing affordable housing needs for families throughout the city. Mr. Hooker
comes to the CHA after working at ComEd for 44 years. At ComEd he served as the executive vice
president of legislative and external affairs before retiring in 2012. A lifelong Chicagoan, Mr. Hooker
also served as a board member of the Peoples Consumer Cooperative which provided low-cost housing
for the elderly. Mr. Hooker’s confirmation by the City Council is expected in late September;
1

 therefore, he will be presiding over his first official Board meeting in October. Members of the Board
of Commissioners, CHA staff and the public then welcomed Mr. Hooker with warm applause.

Mr. Hooker thanked Madam Chair for the introduction and stated that he felt honored to be appointed
by the Mayor to continue the great work that Madam Chair and the Board has started. Mr. Hooker
concluded his comments by saying that he looks forward to working and engaging with residents and
community leaders to further the mission of the CHA.
Chairwoman Scott called the meeting to order and upon roll call those present and absent were as
follows:
Present:
Mark Cozzi
Dr. Mildred Harris
Harriet Johnson
Jack Markowski
Bridget Reidy
Rodrigo Sierra
Z. Scott
Francine Washington
Absent:

Matthew Brewer

There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as follows:
Madam Chair then announced that since Items 10 and 11 listed on the board meeting agenda were not
presented at the August committee meeting, a presentation by staff on both items would be the first
order of business. Comments from the audience would then be entertained immediately after
discussion by Commissioners.
(Item 10)
An Invitation for Bid (IFB) was released in June 2015 to solicit bids from well qualified security firms
experienced in residential housing security. A notice was advertised in the Chicago Sun-Times, Extra
and Chicago Defender. In addition to advertising, the IFB was placed on the CHA Web Site. Notices
were sent to 65 firms and a Pre-bid meeting was held at the CHA. Five bids were received on the due
date set for submissions. For property group 1, Kates Detective & Security Agency is recommended as
the second lowest responsive and responsible bidder. The lowest bidder for group 1 was deemed notresponsive. For property group 2, AGB Investigative Services, Inc. is the lowest responsive and
responsible bidder. For property group 3, Page Security, Inc. is recommended as the fourth lowest
responsive and responsible bidder due to the requirements of the IFB, which do not allow a firm to be
awarded more than one group. By the requirements of the IFB, if one company is the lowest
responsive and responsible bidder in more than one property group, that company will be awarded the
property group with the greatest number of projected hours. Of the three lower responsive and
responsible firms for property group 3, one was deemed non-responsive and two are being
recommended for award for groups 1 and 2 and therefore ineligible for award for group 3. Therefore,
it is determined that AGB Investigative Services Inc., Kates Detective & Security Agency, and Page
Security, Inc. would provide the best overall service and value to the CHA. Accordingly, the
resolution for Item 10 approves professional service agreements with AGB Investigative Services,
Inc., in an amount not-to-exceed $4,293,089, Kates Detective & Security Agency in an amount not-toexceed $4,754,394, and Page Security, Inc. an amount not-to-exceed $2,829,276 for security services
2

 at various CHA properties for a 6-month base period with an option to extend the contract on a month
to month basis for a period not-to-exceed 6-months for a total amount not-to-exceed $11,876,759.
Commissioner Mark Cozzie then presented a Motion for the approval of the following resolution for
Item 10:
RESOLUTION NO. 2015-CHA-59
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated August 17, 2015
entitled “RECOMMENDATION TO ENTER PROFESSIONAL SERVICE
AGREEMENTS FOR SECURITY SERVICES AT VARIOUS CHA PROPERTIES”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Acting Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”)
or his designee to enter into professional service agreements with AGB Investigative
Services, Inc. in an amount not-to-exceed $4,293,089, Kates Detective & Security
Agency in an amount not-to-exceed $4,754,394, and Page Security, Inc. an amount
not-to-exceed $2,829,276 for security services at various CHA properties for a 6month base period with an option to extend the contract on a month to month basis for
a period not-to-exceed 6-months for a total amount not-to-exceed $11,876,759.

The Motion to adopt resolution for Item 10 was seconded by Commissioner Johnson and the voting
was as follows:
Ayes:
Mark Cozzi
Dr. Mildred Harris
Harriet Johnson
Jack Markowski
Bridget Reidy
Rodrigo Sierra
Z. Scott
Francine Washington
Nays:

None

There being no further questions or discussion, Chairwoman Scott thereupon declared said Motion
carried and said resolution adopted.
Tim Veenstra, Deputy Chief Property Officer then presented Commissioners with an overview of Item
11.
(Item 11)
In May 2015 a Request for Proposal (RFP) was released to solicit proposals from well qualified
property management firms experienced in the management and operation of low-income, subsidized,
affordable, and/or public housing properties to provide property management services to CHA’s
residents. The scope of work expected of the selected respondent includes those services customarily
associated with third-party multifamily housing management including, but not limited to overseeing
occupancy/leasing, marketing, resident selection, resident relations, annual resident re-examinations,
lease enforcement, rent collection, evictions, routine and emergency maintenance and repairs,
management of the grounds and public spaces, budgeting, accounting and following CHA guidelines
regarding procurement, MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 and Davis Bacon requirements. Nine proposals
were received and evaluated by an evaluation committee consisting of nine members. The evaluators
3

 scored proposals on a two hundred point scale and analyzed eight components: proposed fee, corporate
experience in managing multi-family housing, management plan and approach, staffing, customer
service and community engagement, quality control, quality of their transition plan and innovation.
After the evaluation committee completed its analysis of the proposals, the Contracting Officer set the
competitive range for each region. Two firms were deemed non-responsible. Oral presentations were
held with seven of the firms, and best and final offers were requested and submitted by six of the firms.
Based upon the evaluations of the written proposals, oral presentations and best and final offers, it was
determined that The Habitat Company LLC, Realty & Mortgage Co., Woodlawn Community
Development Corporation, McCormack Baron Ragan Management Services, Inc., and Eastlake
Management Group, Inc. will provide the best overall service and value to the CHA. Accordingly, the
resolution for Item 11 approves award of contracts to the stated recommended firms for a three year
base period, with a two year option period, for an amount not-to-exceed $29,345,976 in property
management fees for the base period and $19,285,925.76 in property management fees for the option
period. A total of 5 contracts will be awarded, one for each region in the city. The contracts will
include management fees based on an incentive and disincentive fee structure. The management fees
are earned by the property manager each month based on performance. The total annual base fees are
approximately $29,345,976.00. The firms have the potential to earn $1,364,348 more if their company
exceeds established performance standards, and can lose up to $682,174 due to failure to meet
established performance standards. The base management fees are within the current management fee
structure.
Commissioner Cozzi then presented a Motion for the approval of the following resolution for Item 11:

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2015-CHA-60
the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated August 17, 2015
entitled “RECOMMENDATION TO AWARD CONTRACTS FOR PRIVATE
PROPERTY MANAGEMENT SERVICES AT CHA PROPERTIES”;

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Acting Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) or
his designee to enter into professional service agreements with The Habitat Company
LLC, Realty & Mortgage Co., Woodlawn Community Development Corporation,
McCormack Baron Ragan Management Services, Inc., and Eastlake Management
Group, Inc. for private property management services at CHA Properties and CHA
owned units in mixed-income communities for a three (3) year base period with one
(1) two-year option period, for an amount not to exceed $29,345,976.00 in property
management fees for the base period and $19,285,925.76 in property management fees
for the option period, based on final rates to be negotiated.

The Motion to adopt resolution for Item 11 was seconded by Commissioner Johnson and the voting
was as follows:
Ayes:
Mark Cozzi
Dr. Mildred Harris
Harriet Johnson
Jack Markowski
Bridget Reidy
Rodrigo Sierra
Z. Scott
4

 Abstain:

Francine Washington

Nays:

None

There being no further questions or discussion, Chairwoman Scott thereupon declared said Motion
carried and said resolution adopted.
After Motion made by Commissioner Markowski and properly seconded by Commissioner
Washington the Minutes for the Regular and Closed meetings of May 19 and June 16 and the Special
Meeting of June 22, 2015, were unanimously approved as submitted.
Pursuant to the Open Meeting Act 5 ILCS 120/2.06 under the exception 2(c) (21), the Commissioners
discussed in Closed Meeting the need for continued confidentiality with respect to items consisting of
verbatim transcripts of closed meetings, audio recordings of closed meetings, and portions of the
closed meeting minutes of the Board. The determination was made that the need for confidentiality still
exists as to the verbatim transcripts, the audio recordings, and certain portions of the closed meeting
minutes.
After motion made by Commissioner Sierra and properly seconded by Commissioner
Markowski board members unanimously voted to retain the confidentiality of the verbatim transcripts,
the audio recordings, and certain portions of the Closed Meeting Minutes of the Board.
Pursuant to the By-Laws, at the Annual Meeting of the Authority, the election of officers takes place.
Chairwoman Z. Scott then presented a Motion to nominate Commissioner Rodrigo Sierra to continue
to fill the positions of Vice-Chairman.
Per Madam Chair, Commissioner Sierra’s outstanding
leadership, commitment and tireless efforts to forward CHA’s mission make him the perfect candidate
for this position. There being no other nomination on the slate, nominations were then closed and upon
Motion made and properly seconded by Commissioner Washington the voting resulted in unanimous
approval for the re-election of Commissioner Sierra to the position of Vice-Chairman of the Chicago
Housing Authority.
Commissioner Harris then nominated Lee Chuc-Gill to fill the position of Secretary and Custodian of
Records. There being no other nomination on the slate, nominations were then closed and upon Motion
made and properly seconded by Commissioner Washington the voting resulted in unanimous approval
for the re-election of Lee Chuc-Gill as Secretary, Custodian and Keeper of Records for the Board of
Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority.
At this point in the meeting Commissioner Bridget Reidy left the meeting in session.
Per Chairperson Scott, during closed meeting, commissioners discussed matters relating to Item 1.
Commissioner Sierra then presented a motion for the approval of Item 1.
(Item 1)
RESOLUTION NO. 2015-CHA-61
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated August 17, 2015
entitled Settlement Agreement for Counts II and III in the matter of The Chicago
Housing Authority v. DeStefano Partners, Ltd. 08 L 008376Y.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the General Counsel, or his designee, to enter
into a settlement agreement in the amount of $320,000.00 to the Chicago Housing
5

 Authority for Counts II and III, in the matter of The Chicago Housing Authority v.
DeStefano and Partners, Ltd. 08 L 008376Y.
Item 2 – This Number Not Used)
The Motion to adopt resolution for Item 1 was seconded by Commissioner Washington and the voting
was as follows:
Ayes:
Mark Cozzi
Dr. Mildred Harris
Harriet Johnson
Jack Markowski
Rodrigo Sierra
Z. Scott
Francine Washington
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, Chairwoman Scott thereupon declared said Motion carried and
said resolution adopted.
Committee Chair, Dr. Mildred Harris, then presented the report of the Tenant Services committee. Per
Commissioner Harris, the Tenant Services Committee held its regularly scheduled meeting on
Wednesday, August 12, 2015, at approximately 1:05 p.m. at the CHA’s Corporate Offices, 12th Floor
Loft. In addition to Commissioner Harris, the following committee members were present as well:
Commissioners Brewer, Johnson, Sierra, and Washington. Committee members then discussed,
voted, and recommended for approval the resolution for Item 3.
On behalf of the Tenant Services Committee, Commissioner Harris then presented a Motion for
approval of Item 3.
(Item 3)
Transitional Jobs (TJ) programs are evidence-based programs that lead to sustained unsubsidized
employment. The TJ model is designed to address the employment needs of individuals who possess
little or no work history. TJ programs are intentionally designed to provide job experience to
participants who lack the skills needed to successfully attach to the workforce. TJ has distinct
differences from other jobs programs, including supportive services, a literacy component, subsidized
work experience, support during transition to unsubsidized employment and retention support after job
placement. The subsidized job period typically lasts six weeks, and wages are paid by CHA’s
workforce provider. The ultimate goal of TJ is to transition workers into unsubsidized positions.
CHA’s Resident Services Division is charged with helping families move along the path to selfsufficiency. In particular, a key deliverable in Plan Forward: Communities that Work is to help at least
1,500 adults find new or better jobs each year or 6,000 adults by the end of 2015. Through 2014, CHA
has attained 73% of the goal. To accomplish this goal, CHA requires specialized workforce
development services. Accordingly, the resolution for Item 1 approves the first one year option of
contracts with Centers for New Horizons (CNH) in the amount of $398,679 and with Employment and
Employer Services (EES) in the amount of $692,844 to provide Transitional Jobs programs to CHA
residents, for an aggregate amount of $1,091,523 for the first option year. Following an analysis of the
performance and expenditures to date, Resident Services has negotiated with CNH and EES to serve a
6

 total of 300 residents during the first option period for the same cost. The average cost per participant
decreased about 32%.

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2015-CHA-62
the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated August 12, 2015
entitled “RECOMMENDATION TO EXERCISE THE FIRST ONE YEAR OPTION
OF CONTRACTS WITH CENTERS FOR NEW HORIZONS AND
EMPLOYMENT AND EMPLOYER SERVICES TO PROVIDE TRANSITIONAL
JOBS PROGRAMS;”

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY;
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Acting Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to:
Exercise the first one year option of contracts with Centers for New Horizons in the
amount of $398,679 and with Employment and Employer Services in the amount of
$692,844 to provide Transitional Jobs programs to CHA residents, for an aggregate
amount of $1,091,523 for the first option year.
This award is subject to the Contractors’ compliance with the CHA’s
MBE/WBE/DBE/ Section 3 hiring and insurance requirements.

The Motion to adopt resolution for Item 3 was seconded by Commissioner Sierra and the voting was as
follows:
Ayes:
Mark Cozzi
Dr. Mildred Harris
Harriet Johnson
Jack Markowski
Rodrigo Sierra
Z. Scott
Francine Washington
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, Chairwoman Scott thereupon declared said Motion carried and
said resolution adopted.
In the absence of Committee Chair Bridget Reidy, Commissioner Jack Markowski presented the report
of the Operations and Facilities Committee. Per Commissioner Markowski, the Operations and
Facilities committee met on Wednesday, August 12, 2015 at the CHA Corporate Offices located at the
CHA Corporate Offices, 60 East Van Buren in Chicago. Commissioner Reidy chaired the meeting and
present also were Commissioners Harris, Markowski, Sierra and Washington. After presentation by
staff, committee members discussed and voted on items appearing on the agenda.
On behalf of the Operations & Facilities Committee, Commissioner Markowski then presented an
Omnibus Motion for the approval of Items 4 through 8.
(Item 4)
7

 The resolution for Item 4 approves a Sponsor Based Voucher Program and the Transition Aged Youth
Demonstration Program. CHA will issue a maximum of 350 vouchers to be used in a Sponsor Based
Voucher Program, subject to CHA funding availability and in accordance with the Housing Assistance
Payment (HAP) contract. A maximum of 50 of these vouchers will be reserved for a demonstration
program targeting 18-24 year old young adults who are currently involved in specific programming
and who will not come from CHA’s waitlist. Sponsor Agencies will submit a complete application to
the CHA that responds to all the requirements in the application. The sponsor agency must agree to
provide supportive services to a target population for the duration of the program. Upon approval by
the Chief Executive Officer, the Sponsor Agency would enter into a master lease agreement with an
owner and obtain Housing Assistance Payments for unit rental. Sponsor Agencies would then sublease a unit to a participant. While the Sponsor-Based program will be similar to the Property Rental
Assistance program, it will have a separate application with evaluation criteria that emphasizes the
focus on supportive services. Applications will be reviewed on a rolling basis until the maximum of
350 units through master leasing has occurred. HAP contracts would be issued for a maximum of
seven years, but no less than an initial two year term. CHA will provide a quarterly utilization report
to the Board of Commissioners.
RESOLUTION NO. 2015-CHA-63
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the Board
letter dated August 12, 2015 entitled: “RECOMMENDATION TO AUTHORIZATION
TO APPROVE A SPONSOR BASED VOUCHER PROGRAM AND THE
TRANSITION AGED YOUTH DEMONSTRATION PROGRAM”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to:
1) Approve the Sponsor Based Voucher Program utilizing up to 350 vouchers;
individual projects that meet all eligibility criteria shall be pursuant to approval by the
Chief Executive Officer or his designee; and 2) Approve the Transition Aged Youth
Demonstration Program to utilize 50 of the 350 vouchers in the Sponsor Based Voucher
Program under the Demonstration/Pilot Program Initiative process established and
approved by the Board of Commissioners in August 2014; transition aged youth (18-24
years old) may not be selected from CHA’s waiting list.

(Item 5)
The resolution for Item 5 approves CHA’s Proposed FY2015 Moving to Work (MTW) Annual Plan
Amendment and grants authorization to submit the documents to HUD for approval. Proposed Annual
Plan Amendments include the demolition of 182 offline units in blocks 15 and 16 of Murray Homes.
The demolition is part of the overall redevelopment plan for the Altgeld Murray community. The
amended Plan also include 17 additional phase 1 RAD sites and updated language to reflect that RADspecific resident policies were released for public comment in November 2014 and approved by the
Board in January 2015. A 30-day public comment period was conducted from July 6 through August
5, 2015. Announcements for the public comment process appeared on CHA’s website and in the
Chicago Defender (July 8 and July 15) and Chicago Sun-Times and Hoy newspapers (July 6-July 10).
During the public comment period, both residents and the public alike were able to submit comments
orally and in writing, regarding the information contained in the Proposed FY2015 MTW Annual Plan
Amendment. CHA held a public hearing during the 30-day comment period, on July 15, 2015. Prior to
finalizing the Proposed FY2015 MTW Annual Plan Amendment, CHA gave consideration to
comments received during the public comment period. CHA has complied with the requirements of
8

 the Amended and Restated MTW Agreement and HUD regulations regarding annual plans and
amendments.
RESOLUTION NO. 2015-CHA-64
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated August 12, 2015
requesting approval of the Proposed FY2015 MTW Annual Plan Amendment, attached
hereto;
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED BY CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the Proposed FY2015 Moving to Work
Annual Plan Amendment and grants authorization to the Chief Executive Officer, the
Board Chairperson, or their designee to make any final updates as deemed necessary.

THAT

this approval of the Proposed FY2015 MTW Annual Plan Amendment supersedes any
and all conflicting language found in prior CHA MTW Annual Plans.

THAT

the Board of Commissioners grants authorization to submit the Proposed FY2015 MTW
Annual Plan Amendment to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development
upon Board approval. Such approval shall constitute conclusive evidence of the Board’s
approval of any and all such changes.

(Item 6)
The resolution for Item 6 approves contract modifications to Oakley Construction in the amount of
$9,204 for Life Safety upgrades at Las Americas Apartment and Old Veteran Construction in the
amount of $475,285.52 for façade replacement and interior improvements at Judge Slater Apartments.
The contract modification at Las Americas Apartment include a new catch basin and extended piping
for the new catch basin. Modification at Judge Slater Apartments include removal of the existing
emergency generator; associated gas line; conduit and switches. The contractor will also enlarge the
existing enclosure to accommodate the larger generator and will install a new generator with a new
larger gas line and associated electrical work. Staff have verified that the amount to perform the work
by these contractors is within the acceptable range of the CHA’s Independent Cost Estimates for both
projects.
RESOLUTION NO. 2015-CHA-65
WHEREAS,
the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated August 12, 2015
“AUTHORIZATION TO EXECUTE CONTRACT MODIFICATIONS FOR
VARIOUS CHA PROJECTS”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Acting Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute contract modifications for the following Chicago Housing
Authority projects and contracts in the amount of $484,490.00:

Original
Contract Value

Current Contract
Value

Contract
Modifications
to be Approved
(August 2015
Board)

% of
Contract
- This
Change
Order

9

Cumulative
Change Order
Total

All Change
Orders as a
Cumulative
% of
Original
Contract

Cumulative
Amount
Over
$100,000?

Revised
Contract
Amount

 C-11289 Oakley Construction
Life Safety Upgrades at Las Americas Apartments (1611 S. Racine)

$ 1,747,080.00

$ 1,864,763.00

$ 9,204.00

0.53%

$126,887.00

7.26%

Yes

$ 1,873,967.00

C-11119 Old Veteran Construction
Façade Replacement & Interior Improvements at Judge Slater Apartments
(740 E. 43rd St.)
$ 13,577,000.00

$ 15,631,791.17

$ 475,285.52

3.50%

Cumulative Total

$2,530,076.69

18.64%

Yes

$ 16,107,076.69

$484,490

This item is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE,
Section 3 and insurance requirements.
(Item 7)
The resolution for Item 7 approves a Contract Amendment for Contract No. 9049 with Holabird and
Root, LLC in the not-to-exceed amount of $845,000. The contract amendment is required to provide
funding for potential task order modifications for architectural/engineering services until current
construction projects issued under existing task orders under the contract have been completed. This
increase in the NTE amount will allow additional capacity for the prime design consultant to address
potential design and/or construction administration issues related to: discovered conditions; scope
changes; construction time extensions and code compliance.

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2015-CHA-66
the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated August 12, 2015
entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO EXECUTE A CONTRACT AMENDMENT FOR
CONTRACT 9049 WITH HOLABIRD AND ROOT, LLC”;

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Acting Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute an amendment to Contract No. 9049 with Holabird & Root, LLC
to increase the not-to-exceed amount of the contract by $845,000.

(Item 8)
In September 2009, the CHA received official notice from HUD of multiple grant awards under
HUD’s Energy Efficient, Green Communities initiative, which had to be promptly executed by CHA
and returned to HUD. The 23 CHA efficiency projects at various CHA properties included one
property that was inadvertently referenced in CHA’s grant application by an inaccurate name and AMP
designation. Each of the 23 properties were slated by CHA for energy efficiency capital
improvements, but became eligible for funding under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of
10

 2009 (ARRA) as priority “shovel-ready” projects. During the CFRC grant closeout process for the 23
energy efficiency projects the erroneous listing of the one property that was not accurately referenced
in the CHA’s grant application was discovered. Despite CHA’s attempts to administratively correct
the error in the grant application, the stringent requirements of ARRA compliance did not permit the
correction, and HUD has required the adjustment of the grant award to recapture funds for the project
that was incorrectly referenced. The CFRC grant language does not allow for ARRA funding to be
used at CHA properties other than the properties specified in the grant agreement. While the CHA did
complete energy efficiency improvements at the intended 23 properties, only 22 of these properties
were correctly included in the CFRC grant agreement. Accordingly the resolution for Item 8 amends
the ratification of the Board’s previous Resolution in November of 2009 (Resolution No. 2009-CHA159), which ratified the acceptance of a HUD grant award for 23 CHA energy efficiency projects and
authorized a corresponding increase in the CHA’s FY2009 Comprehensive Budget.
The
recommended action would amend the 2009 ratification of the HUD grant award by reducing the
award amount from $22,240,736 to $21,741,330, and would authorize the Acting Chief Executive
Officer or his designee to execute the revised Capital Fund Program Amendment to the Annual
Contributions Contract C -1014 to memorialize the adjusted award.
RESOLUTION NO. 2015-CHA-67
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the Board
letter dated August 12, 2015, entitled “Resolution to amend the ratification of the 2009
HUD CFRC ENERGY EFFICIENCY grant award”, requesting authorization to
approve the attached Resolution to amend the Board’s prior 2009 ratification of a HUD
CFRC grant award under Resolution No. 2009-CHA-159, by reducing the award
amount from $22,240,736 to $21,741,330, and requesting the Board to authorize the
Acting Chief Executive Officer (CEO) or his designee to execute the Capital Fund
Program Amendment to the Annual Contributions Contract C -1014 to memorialize the
adjusted award.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners amends its prior authorization under Resolution No. 2009CHA-159 by reducing the CFRC energy efficiency grant award amount from
$22,240,736 to $21,741,330, and further authorizes the Acting Chief Executive Officer
or his designee to execute a Capital Fund Program Amendment to the Annual
Contributions Contract C -1014 to memorialize the adjusted CFRC energy efficiency
grant award, and to provide HUD with recaptured funds for the CFRC energy efficiency
grant in the amount of $499,406.

The Motion to adopt resolutions for Items 4 through 8 was seconded by Commissioner Sierra and the
voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Mark Cozzi
Dr. Mildred Harris
Harriet Johnson
Jack Markowski
Rodrigo Sierra
Z. Scott
Francine Washington
Nays:

None
11

 There being no questions or discussion, Chairwoman Scott thereupon declared said Motion carried and
said resolutions adopted.
(Item 9)
The resolution for Item 9 approves the second and third one-year extension options with Constellation
NewEnergy-Gas Division for the supply and delivery of natural gas to various CHA residential sites
and facilities in an amount not-to-exceed $8,168,449. The CHA is planning to utilize this contractual
capability and current low pricing in the energy market to lock in favorable natural gas commodity and
interstate pipeline delivery rates in an effort to decrease CHA’s exposure to market volatility since
market indicators suggest that the current natural gas commodity rates are expected to increase in the
next two years. The approval of this resolution also enables the CHA to more flexibly lock in current
rates for future usage instead of waiting for the expiration of the current term and only exercising a one
year extension option at that time. Under this contract, Constellation provides the supply and
interstate delivery of wholesale natural gas to the Chicago central utility gate. Peoples Gas then
delivers this natural gas to all CHA family, senior and scattered site properties in the CHA traditional
public housing portfolio, as well as four locations in the mixed income portfolio. The CHA continues
to utilize Peoples Gas for the distribution of natural gas from Chicago’s central delivery gate to actual
CHA buildings. The associated local distribution costs are not included within the scope or budget of
this contract and will continue to be billed separately.
Madam Chair then presented a Motion for the approval of Item 9.
RESOLUTION NO. 2015-CHA-68
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
memorandum dated August 12, 2015 - entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO EXERCISE
TWO ONE-YEAR EXTENSION OPTIONS WITH CONSTELLATION
NEWENERGY – GAS DIVISION FOR THE SUPPLY AND DELIVERY OF
NATURAL GAS TO VARIOUS CHA RESIDENTIAL SITES AND FACILITIES”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to
execute a contract amendment exercising both the second and third options reserved
under Contract #11228 with Constellation NewEnergy – Gas Division for the period
from April 1, 2016 through March 31, 2018, to purchase natural gas supply and delivery
services and to increase the existing not to exceed compensation amount under Contract
#11228 by an amount not to exceed $ 8,168,449, resulting in a new aggregate
compensation in an amount not to exceed $ 26,465,189.

The Motion to adopt resolution for Item 9 was seconded by Commissioner Johnson and the voting was
as follows:
Ayes:
Dr. Mildred Harris
Harriet Johnson
Jack Markowski
Rodrigo Sierra
Z. Scott
Abstained:

Mark Cozzi
Francine Washington
12

 Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, Chairwoman Scott thereupon declared said Motion carried and
said resolution adopted.
Jack Markowski, Chairman of the Real Estate Development committee, then presented his report. Per
Commissioner Markowski, the Real Estate and Development committee met on Wednesday, August
12, 2015 at the CHA Corporate Offices located at the CHA Corporate Offices, 626 W. Jackson in
Chicago. Present at the meeting were Commissioners Brewer, Cozzi, Harris, Reidy and I. Present also,
but not counted for the quorum were Commissioners Johnson and Washington. Committee members
then discussed the resolutions for the six items appearing on the Real Estate Development committee
agenda. After presentation by staff, Items 12 and 17 were deferred for vote to today’s board meeting,
pending clarification and follow-ups by staff. At the request of staff, Item 17 has been held.
Following the August 12th Real Estate Committee Meeting, Item #16 was amended to reflect that (1)
the HUD loan has not been pre-paid but has reached maturity; and (2) Residents do not have to choose
PRA for their unit to be part of the PRA program. HUD will issue up to 46 tenant protection vouchers
and current residents will remain in their units. The specific authorization that was approved by the
Real Estate Committee was not amended.
On behalf of the Real Estate Development Committee, Commissioner Markowski then presented an
Omnibus Motion for the approval of Items 12 through 15 and Amended Item 16.
(Item 12)
The resolution for Item 12 approves submittal of a development proposal and evidentiary documents to
the HUD; commits CHA funds not to exceed $5,778,500 for St. Edmund's Oasis, LLC or related
entity; approves the Tenant Selection Plan, lease, and lease riders for the St. Edmund's Oasis
development; and approves any such actions as may be necessary or appropriate to implement the
foregoing. St. Edmund’s Oasis (Oasis) is a single phase, mixed income rental development to be built
upon 4 vacant, City of Chicago-owned parcels located on Indiana and Prairie Avenues at 61st Street in
the Washington Park community. Located within the St. Edmund’s redevelopment area, Oasis is an
extension of St. Edmund’s broader affordable housing commitment to improve the quality of life for its
residents and community. Oasis will consist of 58 units comprised of 19 public housing units and 39
affordable units within four residential, three story walk up buildings. Of the 19 public housing units,
one (1) will be fully accessible and four (4) will be adaptable. St. Edmund’s Oasis MM, LLC is the
developer of St. Edmund’s Oasis. It is managed by affiliates of St. Edmund’s Redevelopment
Corporation and Tria Adelfi, LLC. St. Edmund’s Oasis II, Inc. and Tria on Prairie II, LLC are the
members, each having a 50% interest. St. Edmund’s Oasis, LLC, the owner of the development is
comprised of St. Edmund’s Oasis MM, LLC (managing member) with 0.01% interest and Investor
Members which are affiliates of Hunt Capital Partners, LLC. The Investor Member will hold a
99.99% interest in the owner entity and will be the tax credit investor. The total estimated
development budget for the Oasis rental development is approximately $20,533,420, including the
CHA Loan of approximately $5,750,000 to be funded with CHA MTW funds. Additional project
sources includes $28,500 of CHA MTW funds for CHA Administration and CHA Initial Operating
Deficit Reserve. It is understood that the developer has an interest and desire to implement its own
lease forms and policy that encourages consistent community standards for the effective management
of its development.

13

 WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2015-CHA-69
the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated August 12, 2015 entitled “Authorization to: 1) Submit a
Development Proposal and Evidentiary documents to the United States Department of
Housing and Urban Development; 2) Commit Chicago Housing Authority funds not to
exceed $5,778,500 for St. Edmund's Oasis, LLC or related entity; 3) Approve the
Tenant Selection Plan, lease, and lease riders for the St. Edmund's Oasis development;
and 4) Execute and deliver such other documents and perform such actions as may be
necessary or appropriate to implement the foregoing.”

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Acting Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to: 1) Submit a development proposal and evidentiary documents to the
United States Department of Housing and Urban Development; 2) Commit Chicago
Housing Authority funds not to exceed $5,778,500 for St. Edmund's Oasis, LLC or
related entity; 3) Approve the Tenant Selection Plan, lease, and lease riders for the St.
Edmund's Oasis development; and 4) Execute and deliver such other documents and
perform such actions as may be necessary or appropriate to implement the foregoing
This award is subject to each Contractor’s compliance with CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE,
Section 3 resident hiring, bonding and insurance requirements.

(Item 13)
The resolution for Item 13 ratifies the formation of Fannie Emanuel Housing Development, LLC and
Fannie Emanuel Senior Housing Limited Partnership with related documents needed for the formation
of said entities and to close the transaction for the rehabilitation of Fannie Emanuel Senior Apartments;
approves the issuance and sale of Multifamily Housing Revenue Notes (Fannie Emanuel Senior
Apartments), 2015 Series A, Series B, and Series C in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed
$35,000,000 (Notes); and approves execution and delivery of all note documents in connection with
the issuance and sale of the Notes; commits CHA funds not to exceed $23,500,000; submit a Rental
Assistance Demonstration (RAD) Finance Plan to HUD and enter into a RAD Conversion
Commitment with HUD for the Fannie Emanuel Senior Apartments (RAD Commitment) ; execute a
Housing Assistance Payments (HAP) Contract under the HUD Rental Assistance Demonstration
program and execute such other documents as may be required under RAD for the financing and
operation of the Fannie Emanuel Senior Apartments. Item 13 also approves the transfer of the Fannie
Emanuel property and finance the sale through seller financing to Fannie Emanuel Senior Housing
Limited Partnership and approves a contract with Gilbane Building Company for construction
management services. Fannie Emanuel, formerly known as Park View Apartments, is a CHA owned
senior property located at 3916 W. Washington Blvd. in the West Garfield Park community on the
City’s West side. This 20-story masonry structure was built in 1963 to house 181 apartment units.
The building was closed in 2007 due to significant mechanical system problems. The CHA controlled
entity, Fannie Emanuel Housing Development, LLC, acting as the developer, will redevelop the Fannie
Emanuel property to provide quality senior housing using a mixed-finance approach to leverage first
mortgage debt and private equity. The building will be renovated to a high and sustainable standard;
meeting life safety, accessibility and city energy codes. It will provide CHA senior residents with
modern conveniences, recreational spaces, and a 2.5 acre landscaped site that includes active walking
paths, gardens and other activity areas. The Fannie Emanuel redevelopment will return the original
181 quality housing units to CHA’s leasing portfolio. Most significant, it will provide CHA senior
residents with quality, safe, and dignified housing. The CHA controlled entity, Fannie Emanuel
14

 Housing Development, LLC, will serve as the developer and CHA has created a new ownership entity
known as Fannie Emanuel Senior Housing Limited Partnership. The purpose of the Partnership will be
to acquire, own, rehabilitate, and operate Fannie Emanuel Senior Apartments. As further set forth in
the partnership agreement, the General Partner will be responsible for managing the affairs of the
Partnership. The General Partner will also contract with the Partnership to provide development
services, for which the General Partner will be paid a development fee. The General Partner will
guarantee to the Limited Partner and/or the Partnership certain matters customary in tax credit
transactions. However, such guarantees will be satisfied solely from assets of the Partnership and
General Partner (including the development fee) and not from the assets of CHA. Pursuant to the
Operating Agreement governing the General Partner, the designated officers of the General Partner
will be the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, and the Chief Legal Officer,
respectively, of CHA. The General Partner Designated Officers will have authority to conduct the day
to day affairs of the General Partner subject to the control of the CHA Board of Commissioners. In
addition certain significant actions set forth in the Operating Agreement will require approval by the
CHA Board of Commissioners. CHA plans to issue approximately $35 million of tax-exempt bonds or
notes to provide interim and permanent financing for acquisition and rehabilitation. The bonds will be
issued in three series. The Series A bonds of approximately $6.95 million will fund a permanent first
lien position mortgage. The Series B bonds of approximately $10.35 million will be 100%
collateralized by cash or pledged securities provided by the CHA. The Series C bonds of
approximately $15.4 million will bridge equity proceeds and other financing sources, as required. The
total estimated budget of $59,591,824 includes the following from CHA: Loan of approximately $20.1
million, approximately $2.2 million derived from RAD Project-Based Voucher payments made during
the construction period, plus a CHA Seller Financing Loan of approximately $5 million as financing
for the sale of the property. The balance of the permanent budget will be funded primarily by a Bank
of America first mortgage loan of approximately $6.95 million and approximately $25.2 million tax
credit equity from the sale of the Low Income Housing Tax Credits (LIHTC). The purchase price
payable by the Partnership for the Property will be deferred and evidenced by a promissory note, the
CHA Purchase Loan. RAD will be used to provide a long-term rental assistance contract to leverage
debt and equity financing sources that will help fund the renovation of Fannie Emanuel’s 181 housing
units. Through the RAD program, HUD provides rental subsidies to the owners of properties pursuant
to a long-term HAP (Housing Assistance Payment) contract that will be renewed, for a total period of
forty years. This ensures the units remain affordable to low-income households. Residents continue to
pay 30% of their income towards rent. CHA will sell the Fannie Emanuel property to Fannie Emanuel
Senior Housing Limited Partnership. The Owner will be comprised of a Limited Partner represented by
a private tax credit investor, a Special Limited Partner, an affiliate of the Limited Partner, and a
General Partner represented by Fannie Emanuel Housing Development, LLC, of which CHA is the
sole member. The value and sale of the property will help leverage additional private investment
equity that helps fund the development budget. The $368,400 construction management service
contract was procured through a non-compete process in order to secure the current high tax credit
equity pricing and low construction and permanent interest rates and meet the 2015 development
transaction closing deadline. The contract will be funded directly from project loan and equity
proceeds during construction. The Gilbane Building Company (GBC) was selected based on their
proven CHA construction experience, specific knowledge and experience with the Fannie Emanuel
project, and its national industry recognition. These qualities provide CHA and the finance partners
with the confidence that GBC is the best construction management fit for the project and are therefore
being recommended for the contract

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2015-CHA-70
the Chicago Housing Authority, a municipal corporation and a body politic and
corporate duly organized and validly existing under and by virtue of the laws of the
15

 State of Illinois (the “Authority”), including without limitation the Housing Authorities
Act, 310 ILCS 10/1 et seq., and all laws amendatory and supplemental thereto,
including in particular the Local Government Debt Reform Act, 30 ILCS 350/1 et seq.
(the “Act”), is authorized by the laws of the State of Illinois (the “State”), including
without limitation in the Act, to issue its revenue Bonds and Notes for the purposes set
forth in the Act and to permit the expenditure of the proceeds thereof to finance the
cost of the development, construction and renovation of multifamily rental housing
located in the jurisdiction of the Authority; and
WHEREAS,

Fannie Emanuel Housing Limited Partnership, an Illinois limited partnership (the
“Borrower”), proposes to rehabilitate the “Fannie Emanuel Senior Apartments” Project
consisting of the renovation of 181 rental units of public housing in Chicago, Illinois
(the “Project”); and

WHEREAS,

a portion of the costs of the Project will be financed through the issuance by the
Authority of its Multi-Family Housing Revenue Note, Series 2015A (Fannie Emanuel
Senior Apartments Project) (the “Series 2015A Note”), its Multi-Family Housing
Revenue Note, Series 2015B (Fannie Emanuel Senior Apartments Project) (the “Series
2015B Note”), and its Multi-Family Housing Revenue Note, Series 2015C (Fannie
Emanuel Senior Apartments Project) (the “Series 2015C Note”) (collectively, the
“Notes”); and
the proceeds of the Notes will be loaned to Borrower; and

WHEREAS,
WHEREAS,
WHEREAS,

the General Partner of Borrower is Fannie Emanuel Housing Development, LLC, an
Illinois limited liability company (the “General Partner”); and
the sole member of the General Partner is the Authority; and

WHEREAS,

a determination has been made by the Authority that the Project constitutes
“multifamily rental housing” within the meaning of the Act and that the financing
thereof will meet the public purposes of the Act; and

WHEREAS,

pursuant to and in accordance with the provisions of the Act, the Authority is now
prepared to proceed with the financing of a portion of the costs of the Project through
the issuance and sale of the Notes pursuant to a Note Issuance Agreement (the “Note
Issuance Agreement”) among the Authority, Bank of America, N.A., or an affiliated
entity, as the purchaser of the Notes (the “Note Purchaser”) and Bank of America,
N.A., or an affiliated entity, as fiscal agent (the “Fiscal Agent”); and

WHEREAS,

the proceeds of the Notes will be loaned by the Authority to the Borrower pursuant to a
Loan Agreement between the Authority and the Borrower (the “Loan Agreement”) and
the obligations of the Borrower to pay debt service under the Loan Agreement will be
evidenced by a Note with respect to the Series 2015A Note debt service (the “Series
2015A Borrower Note”) from the Borrower to the Authority, a Note with respect to the
Series 2015B Note debt service (the “Series 2015B Borrower Note”), and a Note with
respect to the Series 2015C Note debt service (the “Series 2015C Borrower Note”)
and, together with the Series 2015A Borrower Note and the Series 2015B Borrower
Note, (the “Borrower Notes”) from the Borrower to the Authority, each of which will
be assigned by the Authority to the Fiscal Agent as security for the Notes; and

16

 WHEREAS,

certain income and other rental restrictions required by Sections 42 and 142(d) of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”) related to the Project will be
specified in one or more Regulatory Agreements, Declarations of Restrictive
Covenants and a Land Use Restriction Agreement (each, collectively, the “Regulatory
Agreement”); and

WHEREAS,

certain arbitrage requirements of Section 148 and related provisions of the Code will
be specified in one or more Arbitrage and Tax Certificates (the “Arbitrage
Certificates”) of the Authority and the Borrower; and

WHEREAS,

each series of Notes will be sold by private placement to the Note Purchaser pursuant
to the Note Issuance Agreement; and

WHEREAS,

the Borrower’s obligations under the Borrower Notes will be secured by one or more
mortgages, security agreements and/or collateral assignments with respect to the
Project (the “Collateral Documents”) from the Borrower to the Authority or the Fiscal
Agent and, if to the Authority, the rights of the Authority to such instruments and, as
applicable, the Borrower Notes may be assigned by the Authority to the Fiscal Agent
pursuant to an assignment (an “Assignment”); and

WHEREAS,

the Series 2015A Note will be secured by and payable from certain MTW Funds
(“MTW Funds”) received by the Authority and deposited into escrow pursuant to a
Pledge Agreement (the “Pledge Agreement”) among the Authority, the Borrower and
the Fiscal Agent, as Escrow Agent, and such MTW Funds, upon withdrawal from such
escrow, will constitute a loan from the Authority to the Borrower pursuant to a loan
agreement (the “MTW Funds Loan Agreement”) with the Borrower; and

WHEREAS,

the Borrower will be required to operate 181 housing units within the Project for the
use and occupancy of eligible individuals and, in connection therewith, the Borrower
will enter into a Housing Assistance Payment Contract with the Authority, and a
Rental Assistance Demonstration Use Agreement with HUD, and a mortgage and other
collateral documents and related agreements and instruments (collectively, and
together with the MTW Funds Loan Agreement, the “MTW Funds Borrower
Agreements”); and

WHEREAS,

other funding for costs of the Project will be provided pursuant to equity contributions
and other sources; and

WHEREAS,

the proceeds of the Notes and the other funding sources may be disbursed pursuant to a
disbursement or construction agreement (the “Disbursement Agreement”); and

WHEREAS,

all or a portion of the expenditures relating to the Project (the “Expenditures”) (i) have
been paid within the sixty days prior to the passage of this Resolution or (ii) will be
paid on or after the passage of this Resolution; and

WHEREAS,

the Authority reasonably expects (based upon information supplied by the Borrower,
upon which it is reasonable and prudent for the Authority to rely) to reimburse the
Borrower for the Expenditures with proceeds of the Notes; and

17

 WHEREAS,

the City Council of the City of Chicago (the “City”) is expected to approve the transfer
to the Authority of a portion of the City’s available unused volume cap for calendar
years 2015 and/or subsequent years pursuant to Section 146 of the Code for use by the
Authority in connection with the issuance of the Notes, and the City and the Authority
may enter into a volume cap transfer agreement (the “Cap Transfer Agreement”) to
reflect such transfer; and

WHEREAS,

the Authority will submit a Rental Assistance Demonstration (RAD) Finance Plan to
the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development; enter into a RAD
Conversion Commitment with HUD; execute a Housing Assistance Payments (HAP)
Contract under the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development
Rental Assistance Demonstration program; and execute such other documents as may
be required under RAD for the financing and operation of the Project, including but not
limited to amendment to the MTW Agreement Attachment A, as required by HUD
(referred to collectively herein as the “RAD Authority Documents”); and

WHEREAS,

the Authority will transfer Fannie Emanuel property and finance the sale through seller
financing to Fannie Emanuel Senior Housing Limited Partnership; and

WHEREAS,

the Authority will enter into a contract with Gilbane Building Company for
construction management services and assign the contract to the Partnership; and

WHEREAS,

the Note Issuance Agreement, the Loan Agreement, the Notes, the Borrower Notes, the
Regulatory Agreement, the Arbitrage Certificates, the Assignment, the Pledge
Agreement, the Disbursement Agreement, the Collateral Documents, the Cap Transfer
Agreement, the RAD Authority Documents and the MTW Funds Borrower
Agreements (or such similar documents as are generally used in similar financing
structures) are referred to collectively herein as the “Authority Agreements”.

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,
Section 1.
The Authority is authorized to submit a Rental Assistance Demonstration (RAD)
Finance Plan to the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development in
connection with the Fannie Emanuel Senior Apartments project, to sell the property and
to finance the sale price through seller financing; and to enter into the Authority
Agreements with the other party or parties thereto. The forms, terms and provisions of
the Authority Agreements be, and they hereby are, in all respects approved. The
Chairman, the Acting Chief Executive Officer or his designee, or the Chief Financial
Officer of the Authority be, and each of them hereby is, authorized, empowered and
directed to execute and deliver, and, where necessary, the Acting Chief Executive
Officer or his designee, or the Custodian and Keeper of Records/Secretary, Board of
Commissioners be and each of them hereby is, authorized, empowered and directed to
attest and to affix the official seal of the Authority to, the Authority Agreements in the
name, for and on behalf of the Authority, and thereupon to cause the Authority
Agreements to be executed, acknowledged and delivered to the other party or parties
thereto, in substantially the forms now before the Authority or with such changes
therein as the individual executing the Authority Agreements on behalf of the Authority
shall approve, his or her execution thereof to constitute conclusive evidence of such
approval of any and all changes or revisions therein from the forms of Authority
Agreements now before the Authority. When the Authority Agreements are executed,
18

 attested, sealed and delivered on behalf of the Authority as hereinabove provided, they
shall be binding on the Authority. From and after the execution and delivery of the
Authority Agreements, the officers, employees and agents of the Authority are hereby
authorized, empowered and directed to do all such acts and things and to execute all
such documents as may be necessary to carry out and comply with the provisions of the
Authority Agreements as executed. The Authority Agreements shall constitute, and
hereby are made, a part of this Resolution, and copies of the executed Authority
Agreements shall be placed in the official records of the Authority, and shall be
available for public inspection at the office of the Authority.
Section 2.

The Notes shall be issued in fully registered form, in an aggregate principal amount not
to exceed $35,000,000, in authorized denominations as provided in the Note Issuance
Agreement. The Notes shall bear interest at a variable rate of interest as shall be set
forth in the Note Issuance Agreement, as executed, in no event to exceed the maximum
rate set forth in the Note Issuance Agreement. The Notes shall mature on such date or
dates as shall be set forth in the Note Issuance Agreement. The Notes shall be subject to
redemption prior to maturity as provided in the Note Issuance Agreement, as executed.

Section 3.

The Notes and the interest thereon will be special, limited obligations of the Authority,
payable solely from the payments to be made by the Borrower under the Loan
Agreement and from the other sources specified or referred to in the Note Issuance
Agreement, which shall be specifically assigned and pledged to such purposes in the
manner and to the extent provided therein. The Notes and all other obligations of the
Authority in connection therewith shall not be a debt of the City or any other city,
village, incorporated town or county, the State of Illinois or any political subdivision
thereof and neither the City, nor any other city, village, incorporated town or county,
nor the State of Illinois or any political subdivision thereof shall be liable thereon, nor in
any event shall the Notes or such obligations be payable out of any funds or properties
other than those pledged under the Note Issuance Agreement or those other agreements
specifically securing the Notes. The Notes shall not constitute an indebtedness within
the meaning of any constitutional or statutory debt limitation or restriction.

Section 4.

The forms of the Notes set forth in the Note Issuance Agreement, subject to appropriate
insertions and revisions in order to comply with the provisions of the Note Issuance
Agreement (as executed) be, and the same hereby are approved. The Notes shall be
executed in the name, for and on behalf of the Authority with the manual or facsimile
signature of its Chairman or Acting Chief Executive Officer or his designee (or such
other officer authorized by law to execute the Notes on behalf of the Authority) and
attested with the manual or facsimile signature of its Secretary or Assistant Secretary
(or such other officer authorized by law to execute the Notes on behalf of the Authority)
and the seal of the Authority shall be impressed or imprinted thereon. The officers of
the Authority shall cause the Notes, as so executed and attested, to be delivered to the
Fiscal Agent for authentication. When the Notes shall be executed on behalf of the
Authority in the manner contemplated by the Note Issuance Agreement and this
Resolution, they shall represent the approved forms of Notes of the Authority.

Section 5.

The sale of the Notes to the Note Purchaser at a purchase price of not less than 98% of
the aggregate principal amount thereof plus accrued interest, if any, to the date of
delivery, is hereby approved.
19

 Section 6.

The Chairman, Acting Chief Executive Officer or his designee, Chief Financial Officer,
and the Custodian and Keeper of Records/Secretary, Board of Commissioners be, and
each of them hereby is, authorized to execute and deliver such documents, certificates,
and undertakings of the Authority (including, without limitation, environmental
remediation agreements, investment agreements, book-entry registration agreements,
intercreditor agreements and other agreements pertaining to the security of the Notes)
and to take such other actions as may be required or desirable in connection with the
execution, delivery and performance of the Authority Agreements, the financing of
costs of the Project, the MTW Funds and the issuance, sale and delivery of the Notes. In
addition, subsequent to the issuance of the Notes, any of the foregoing officers of the
Authority are hereby authorized to enter into amendments to the Authority Agreements
or other agreements or instruments entered into by the Authority in connection with the
Notes (without the necessity of obtaining approval by the Board of Commissioners of
the Authority to such action) which are not inconsistent with the parameters set forth in
this Resolution and which, in the judgment of the officers executing the same, are not
materially adverse to the interests of the Authority.

Section 7.

All acts of the officers, employees and agents of the Authority that are in conformity
with the purposes and intent of this Resolution be, and the same hereby are, in all
respects, approved and confirmed.

Section 8.

The publication on behalf of the Authority of the notice of public hearing pursuant to
Section 147(f) of the Code and the conduct of such public hearing by and on behalf of
the Authority with respect to the issuance of the Notes is hereby ratified, authorized and
approved.

Section 9.

The Authority hereby allocates to the Notes the “volume cap” reallocated or to be
reallocated by the City to the Authority in an amount equal to the aggregate principal
amount of the Notes actually to be issued.

Section 10.

The Authority reasonably expects (based upon information supplied by the Borrower,
upon which it is reasonable and prudent for the Authority to rely) to reimburse the
Expenditures with proceeds of the Notes.

Section 11.

The Notes, or any one or more series thereof, may be, but are not required to be,
initially issued in book-entry form and registered in the name of The Depository Trust
Company, New York, New York (“DTC”), or its nominee, as securities depository.

Section 12.

The formation of Fannie Emanuel Housing Development, LLC, and Fannie Emanuel
Senior Housing Limited Partnership with related documents needed for the formation of
said entities is hereby ratified; and authorization is hereby given for various significant
actions to be undertaken by the General Partner (either in its own capacity or as the
general partner of the Partnership). Such actions include the execution and delivery of
the operating agreement of the General Partner, the execution and delivery of the
amendment to the limited partnership agreement of the Partnership, the execution and
delivery of the development agreement, and the execution and delivery of various
financing, acquisition, and other development and/or management documents.

Section 13. The General Partner Designated Officers, and each of them hereby, is authorized to
execute and deliver such documents, certificates, and undertakings of the General
20

 Partner (either in its own capacity or as the general partner of the Partnership) as may be
required by this Resolution.
Section 14.

The Authority is authorized to enter into a RAD Conversion Commitment with HUD
for the Fannie Emanuel Senior Apartments (RAD Commitment).

Section 15.

The Authority is authorized to enter into a Housing Assistance Payments (HAP)
Contract under the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development
Rental Assistance Demonstration program and execute such other documents as may be
required under RAD for the financing and operation of the Project including but not
limited to amendment to the MTW Agreement Attachment A, as required by HUD.

Section 16.

The Authority is authorized to enter into a contract with Gilbane Building Company for
construction management services and assign the contract to the Partnership.

Section 17.

The provisions of this Resolution are hereby declared to be separable and if any section,
phrase or provision hereof shall for any reason be declared to be invalid, such
declaration shall not affect the validity of the remainder of the sections, phrases and
provisions of this Resolution.

Section 18.

All resolutions and orders, or parts thereof, in conflict herewith are hereby superseded
to the extent of such conflict.

Section 19.

This Resolution shall be in full force and effect immediately upon its passage, as by law
provided.
This award is subject to each Contractor’s compliance with CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE,
Section 3 resident hiring, bonding and insurance requirements.

(Item 14)
A Request for Proposal (RFP) was advertised in January 2015 for General Contractor Services at the
Fannie Emanuel Senior Apartments in area newspapers, CHA website and Strategic Sourcing. Three
proposals were received and evaluated by a cross-functional evaluation team. This interview
presentation and discussion was in accordance with the RFP proposal document and evaluation
criteria. The scope of work, team composition and experience, schedule and other project matters were
discussed. There was support for Old Veterans Construction, Inc. (OVC’s) high-rise capital
improvement experience, masonry trade expertise, strong subcontractor team’s expertise, and
experience with the project’s specialized Variable Refrigerant Flow (VRF) mechanical system and the
exterior metal panel system. Based on the RFP evaluation point criteria, OVC had the highest score.
Accordingly, the resolution for Item 14 approves contract award Old Veteran Construction, Inc. in the
amount of $39,089,027 for General Contractor Services at the Fannie Emanuel Senior Apartments and
to assign the contract from the Chicago Housing Authority to Fannie Emanuel Housing Development,
LLC.
RESOLUTION NO. 2015-CHA-71
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated August 12, 2015
entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO ENTER INTO A CONTRACT WITH OLD
VETERAN CONSTRUCTION, INC. FOR GENERAL CONTRACTOR SERVICES
AT FANNIE EMANUEL SENIOR APARTMENTS AND TO ASSIGN THE
21

 CONTRACT TO
PARTNERSHIP.”

FANNIE

EMANUEL

SENIOR

HOUSING

LIMITED

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners (“Board”) authorizes the Acting Chief Executive Officer
or his to designee to execute a firm fixed fee contract with Old Veteran Construction,
Inc. in the amount of $39,089,027 for General Contractor Services at Fannie Emanuel
Senior Apartments, a vacant senior high-rise building located at 3916 W. Washington
Street, for a 14 month construction period from the date set forth in the Notice to
Proceed, and assign the contract to Fannie Emanuel Senior Housing Limited
Partnership.
This award is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s
MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3, bonding and insurance requirements.

(Item 15)
The resolution for Item 15 approves a Housing Assistance Payments Contract (HAP) under the second
component of the HUD Rental Assistance Demonstration Program (RAD) for Miriam Apartments.
Miriam Apartments has been in CHA’s Mod Rehab portfolio since 1991. This is the Substantial
Rehabilitation of a 4-story elevator building containing 66 SRO units to be converted to 62 units. The
property has been consistently in good & stable condition throughout CHA’s Asset Management
Department reviews. The building is currently 100% occupied. Mercy Housing, Inc. (MHI) will
continue to service as the property manager. MHI was established in 1981 and has over 34 years of
experience in developing and managing affordable housing across the country. MHI’s national
portfolio consists of over 14,000 units within 230 communities. The RAD program requires that all
SRO conversions retain and preserve the original purpose of the Mod Rehab SRO properties, which is
to serve the homeless population that meets the HEARTH definition of homeless. As such, the owner
will continue to use the Central Referral System for tenant referrals. Initial contract rents will be
determined by market comparables and fair market rents applicable at the time the HAP contract is
executed. All rent determinations will comply with federal regulations and CHA policy.
RESOLUTION NO. 2015-CHA-72
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the Board
letter dated August 12, 2015 requesting authorization to execute a Housing Assistance
Payments Contract for Miriam Apartments;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Acting Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to 1.) execute a Housing Assistance Payments Contract (HAP) for Miriam
Apartments; and 2.) execute all other documents as may be necessary or appropriate to
implement the foregoing.

(Item 16)
The resolution for Item 16 approves a Housing Assistance Payments Contract (HAP) for Leigh
Johnson Apartments. Leigh Johnson Apartments is an existing development located in the Grand
Crossing community area. The development consists of seven two-story buildings totaling 77
residential units plus a property management office and a daycare space on the ground level. The
project contains 38 two-bedroom units and 39 three-bedroom units. The PRA unit mix will be up to 25
22

 two-bedroom and 21 three-bedroom units. The buildings were built in 1973 with HUD Section 236
financing, including a HAP contract for 31 units. The other 46 were rent restricted under the Section
236 affordability requirements. Due to the maturity of the HUD loan, HUD will issue up to 46 tenant
protection vouchers, which the owner has requested CHA administer as project-based vouchers. The
PRA contract will be funded by new HUD funds, not from CHA’s existing HCV allocation. The
owner has also been approved for an FHA loan to take out the balance of the existing first mortgage,
replenish the project’s replacement reserve and provide approximately $26,000 for minor building
repairs. According to the Project Capital Needs Assessment, the development is in good physical
condition because the ownership and management agent have taken consistent measurable effort and
provided capital improvements over the years to maintain the function and appearance of the buildings.
The Developer for this property is 73rd & Dobson Housing Corporation (DHC), a not-for-profit
corporation and is governed by a board of volunteers. For the last 20 years, Doris Leach has been the
president. This is the only property that the DHC owns. The project is managed by East Lake
Management (ELM), which has a long history of participation in HUD projects throughout the
Chicago metropolitan area as well as in Indiana and Ohio. ELM began managing HUD-projects in
1974, and since then its portfolio has grown to over 13,000 units, most of which are in HUD-related or
affordable projects including CHA. The building is currently fully occupied and current residents will
remain in their units. At turnover, it is the intent of the owner/manager of Leigh Johnson Apartments to
lease all of the PRA-assisted units to eligible families from CHA’s waiting lists. CHA will make these
referrals from the Public Housing and PRA waiting lists as well as to families whose right of return
under the Relocation Rights Contract has not been satisfied. CHA’s waiting lists will be exhausted
prior to utilization of a site-based waiting list. Initial contract rents will be determined by market
comparables and fair market rents applicable at the time the HAP contract is executed. All rent
determinations will comply with federal regulations and CHA policy.

RESOLUTION NO. 2015-CHA-73
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the Board
letter dated August 17, 2015 requesting authorization to execute a Housing Assistance
Payments Contract for Leigh Johnson Apartments;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Acting Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to 1.) execute a Housing Assistance Payments Contract (HAP) for Leigh
Johnson Apartments; and 2.) execute all other documents as may be necessary or
appropriate to implement the foregoing.

(Item 17 – This Number Not Used)
The Motion to adopt resolutions for Items 12 through 15 and Amended Item 16 was seconded by
Commissioner Harris and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Mark Cozzi
Dr. Mildred Harris
Harriet Johnson
Jack Markowski
Rodrigo Sierra
Z. Scott
23

 Francine Washington
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, Chairwoman Scott thereupon declared said Motion carried and
said resolutions adopted.
Committee Chairman Mark Cozzi then presented the report of the Finance & Personnel Committee
meeting. Per Commissioner Cozzi, the Finance & Personnel committee met on Wednesday, August
12, 2015 at the CHA Corporate Offices located at 60 E. Van Buren, 12th Floor Loft in Chicago. Present
at the meeting were Commissioners Brewer, Cozzi, Johnson and Markowski. Present also, but not
counted for the quorum was Commissioner Washington. Commissioners then adjourned to closed
session to discuss Item 20 - Personnel Actions. Commissioners then returned to open session and
approved the items appearing on the committee agenda.
On behalf of the Finance & Personnel Committee, Commissioner Cozzi then presented an Omnibus
Motion for the approval of Items 18 through 20.
(Item 18)
The resolution for Item 18 approves the second one-year option under the Actuarial Services contract
with Aon Risk Services, Inc., for the period of January 1, 2016 through December 31, 2016, in the
firm-fixed fee amount of $28,121.60, and the third and final one-year option under the contract, in the
firm-fixed fee amount of $29,246.60, for the period of January 1, 2017 through December 31, 2017,
based upon performance of the vendor and subject to the discretion of the CEO or his designee. Given
the scope and breadth of the CHA’s reserve fund for the payment of claims for which the authority
may be legally liable, it is essential that the CHA have an actuarial review process in place to ensure
the adequacy of reserving policies and practices. Responsibilities of the actuarial review include
determining an accurate estimate of liabilities for the CHA’s self- insured workers’ compensation,
public officials & employment practices liability, auto liability and general liability claims as of the
end of a calendar year. The review is performed using relevant Actuarial Standards of Practice.
RESOLUTION NO. 2015-CHA-74
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners has reviewed the memorandum dated August 12, 2015
entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO EXERCISE OPTION YEARS TWO AND THREE
WITH AON RISK SERVICES, INC. FOR ACTUARIAL SERVICES”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

The Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to
exercise the Second Option Year of the actuarial services contract Aon in the firm-fixed
fee amount of $28,121.60, and authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to
exercise the Third Option Year of the contract in the firm-fixed fee amount of
$29,246.26, based upon satisfactory performance of the vendor, at the discretion of the
CEO or his designee.

(Item 19)
The resolution for Item 19 approves participation in City Colleges of Chicago Contract for Compensation
and Classification Study, to have Deloitte Consulting, LLP perform such study for the CHA effective
August 19, 2015 in an amount not-to-exceed $149,500. It is critical that CHA provide a compensation
plan that has competitive salaries in order to attract and retain top talent. The existing method of
24

 compensation administration is no longer adequate. Typically companies perform market and
compensation analysis annually or bi-annually. The CHA has not conducted an authority-wide
compensation and classification study since 1996.
RESOLUTION NO. 2015-CHA-75
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the Board
letter dated August 12, 2015 entitled: “AUTHORIZATION TO PARTICIPATE IN
CITY COLLEGES OF CHICAGO CONTRACT FOR COMPENSATION AND
CLASSIFICATION STUDY”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to
participate in City Colleges of Chicago Contract for Compensation and Classification
Study, to have Deloitte Consulting LLP perform such study for the CHA effective
August 19, 2015 in an amount not-to-exceed $149,500.

(Amended Item 20)
The Board is required to ratify the selection, appointment and removal of employees below Grade 72.
Accordingly, Amended Item 20 ratifies the following employment actions: offer of employment for 9
employees; promotion of 12 employees; reclassification of 4 employees; 2 salary adjustments; 1 transfer of
employee; and provides for the continued retention of outside counsel. The CEO certifies that all these
actions were properly vetted and evaluated pursuant to established CHA protocols.
RESOLUTION NO. 2015–CHA-76
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated August 17, 2015,
entitled “Approval of Personnel Actions”

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the requested personnel actions.

The Motion to adopt resolution for Items 18, 19 and Amended Item 20 was seconded by
Commissioner Sierra and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Mark Cozzi
Dr. Mildred Harris
Harriet Johnson
Jack Markowski
Rodrigo Sierra
Z. Scott
Francine Washington
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, Chairwoman Scott thereupon declared said Motion carried and
said resolution adopted.

25

 In the absence of Committee Chair Matthew Brewer, Commissioner Mark Cozzi then presented the
report of the Audit Committee. On behalf of the Audit Committee, Commissioner Cozzi then
presented an Omnibus Motion for the approval of Items 21, 22 and 23.
(Item 21)
The Authority is required to submit the Single Audit report to HUD by September 30, 2015, nine
months after the end of its fiscal year, which is December 31. HUD requires public housing authorities
to annually publish a complete set of financial statements presented in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles and audited in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards
by a firm of licensed certified public accountants. For the year ended December 31, 2014, the
Authority engaged Ernst and Young to audit its results and issue the Comprehensive Annual Financial
Report in accordance with HUD requirements. Accordingly, the resolution for Item 21 accepts and

approves submittal to HUD the CHA's Single Audit Report, Financial Statement Audit
and Comprehensive Annual Financial Report for the year ended December 31, 2014
WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2015-CHA-77
the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated August 12, 2015 and
attached hereto entitled “Recommendation to Accept and Submit to HUD the Chicago
Housing Authority’s Single Audit Report, Financial Statement Audit and
Comprehensive Annual Financial Report for the Year Ended December 31, 2014”

THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE
CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT

The Board of Commissioners hereby accepts the Authority’s
o
o
o

THAT

2014 Single Audit Report,
2014 Financial Statement Audit, and
Comprehensive Annual Financial Report For The Year Ended December 31,
2014; and

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to submit the 2014 Single Audit Report, Financial Statement Audit and
Comprehensive Annual Financial Report for the Year Ended December 31, 2014 to the
U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development.

(Item 22)
At the request of the Audit Committee, the Inspector General amended the guidelines to be consistent
with the guidelines and policies set forth by the City of Chicago and the new CHA Ethics Policy. The
proposed amendments include the following: name change of the document from “Inspector General
Guidelines” to Inspector General Charter; provides that the OIG staff shall adhere to the OIG’s Rules
and Regulations and Standard of Conduct specifically related to OIG operations; extends the OIG’s
jurisdiction and powers and duties to sub-contractors, vendors and licensees of the Authority; provides
for the selection of an outside investigative company to investigate complaints made against the
Inspector General and the Deputy Inspector General and requires employees, officers, Board members,
agents, contractors, sub-contractors, vendors, and licensees of the Authority to cooperate with OIG
inquiries. Accordingly, the resolution for Item 22 approves the amended Inspector General Guidelines.
26

 RESOLUTION NO. 2015-CHA-78
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners hereby finds and determines that it is necessary and in the
best interests of the Authority to amend the Inspector General Guidelines by adopting
the Inspector General Charter as set forth in Exhibit A attached hereto;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
Section 1. Incorporation of Recitals. The recitals set forth above are hereby
found to be true and correct and are incorporated in their entirety as
if fully set forth in this Section 1.
Section 2. Approval and Adoption of the Inspector General Charter. The
Inspector General Charter in substantially the form attached hereto as
Exhibit A is hereby approved and adopted.
Section 3. Effective Date. This Resolution shall be in full force and effect after
its passage as provided by law.
(Item 23)
At the request of the Audit Committee, the Inspector General was requested to procure investigative
services to assist with the investigations of any entity receiving funds from CHA. These services may
include assistance in the areas of Digital Forensics, Forensic Accounting and Intelligence; and Due
Diligence. A Request for Proposal (RFP) was released in January 2015 to provide investigative
services to the Office of the Inspector General. Of the five proposals received, Deloitte Financial
Advisory Services LLP was recommended as the most responsive and responsible bidder to provide
investigative services to the Office of Inspector General in an amount not to exceed $250,000.00 for a
base period of two (2) years, with one (1) one-year option, which may be exercised at the discretion of
the Inspector General, subject to funding availability and satisfactory performance by the contractor.
Deloitte Financial Advisory Services is the world’s largest professional services firm with almost a
quarter million employees. They have extensive familiarity and experience supporting investigations
with HUD, as well as local, state and federal agencies including other Inspectors General. Their staff
contain a significant number of professionals who possess the skills responsive to each area of this
RFP. Deloitte’s Chicago-based engagement leads have extensive skills and experience managing this
talented and deep pool of professionals conducting Forensic Accounting, Digital Forensics and Due
Diligence and Business Intelligence, and are readily available to address any needs or issues.
RESOLUTION NO. 2015-CHA-79
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated August 12, 2015
entitled “AUTHORIZATION FOR THE CHA OFFICE OF THE INSPECTOR
GENERAL TO ENTER INTO A CONTRACT WITH DELOITTE FINANCIAL
ADVISORY SERVICES FOR INVESTIGATIVE SERVICES.”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Inspector General or her designee to enter
into a firm fixed rate contract with Deloitte Financial Advisory Services LLP for
investigative services in an amount not to exceed $250,000.00, and for a base term of
two (2) years, with one (1) one-year option. The one year option may be exercised at
the discretion of the Inspector General, subject to funding availability and satisfactory
performance by the contractor.
27

 This award is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE,
Section 3 requirements and insurance requirements.
The Motion to adopt resolution for Items 21 through 23 was seconded by Commissioner Washington
and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Mark Cozzi
Dr. Mildred Harris
Harriet Johnson
Jack Markowski
Rodrigo Sierra
Z. Scott
Francine Washington
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, Chairwoman Scott thereupon declared said Motion carried and
said resolution adopted.
Chairwoman Scott then invited residents and the public at large to address the Board.
There being no further business to come before the Commissioners, upon Motion made and seconded,
the Annual and Regular board meeting of August 18, 2015, was adjourned at approximately 11:55 a.m.

________________________________
Z. Scott
Chairwoman, Chicago Housing Authority
___________________________
Lee Chuc-Gill, Secretary
Custodian and Keeper of Records

28

 