PORT AUTHORITY OF ALLEGHENY COUNTY
MINUTES OF THE REGULAR BOARD MEETING
FRIDAY, MARCH 23, 2018
The Regular Meeting of the Board of Port Authority of Allegheny County was held on Friday, March
23, 2018, at 9:30 a.m., at the Authority’s Administration Offices, 345 Sixth Avenue, Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania, 15222-2527, pursuant to due public notice given as required by law.
Board Members:
Jeff Letwin, Chair
Jennifer Liptak
Senator Jim Brewster
Representative Dom Costa
Ann Ogoreuc
John Tague
Rob Kania
Stephanie Turman
Joel Lennen, General Counsel

Media
Ed Blazina, Post-Gazette
Theresa Clift, Tribune Review

Port Authority Staff:
Katharine Kelleman, chief executive officer; Bill Miller, chief operations officer; Keith Wargo, assistant
general manager Engineering and Technical Support; Barry Adams, assistant general manager
Human Resources; Jim Ritchie, assistant general manager Marketing, Planning and
Communications; Ed Typanski, director Grants and Capital Programs; Qazi Zahra, data analyst;
Catherine Terrill, Professional Services contract specialist; Jerimaine Ward, manager Contract
Administration; Fred Mergner, assistant manager Scheduling and Service Planning; Adam Brandolph,
Public Relations representative; Deborah Skillings, Community Outreach representative; Missy
Rubin, Public Relations coordinator; John DeAngelis, manager Contract Administrator; Breen
Masciotra, TOD Project Manager; Darcy Cleaver, assistant manager Passenger Amenities; Mike
Compel, manager Bus Operations; Amelia Keys, AFC Department; Diane Williamson, executive
assistant.
Other
Carolyn Lenigan; Chandana Cherukupalli, Pittsburghers for Public Transit; Jim Robinson, ACTC;
James Love, speaker; Brian Scholl, SAI; Laura Wiens, PPT; Glenn Walsh; R. Robyak, MSI, LLC
Kathryn Schlesinger, PCRG.
The Chair called the March 23, 2018 Regular Meeting of the Board to order.
After the recital of the pledge of allegiance, a recommendation was made for approval of the minutes
of the February 23, 2018 Regular Meeting. A motion was made, seconded and unanimously passed.
The Chair called on Ms. Kelleman for a report of the Chief Executive Officer. Ms. Kelleman opened
by remembering Port Authority retirees who have passed away this last month, operator, Thurman
Kiefer and heavy equipment maintainer, Norman Geeger.
After a moment of silence for the retirees and their families, Ms. Kelleman stated that when she was
hired, the Board made it very clear that there were a few items of priority, both to the Board, our
1

 community and elected officials. One was the service options related to BRT and one was options to
fare enforcement on the light rail.
First, Ms. Kelleman gave an update on BRT. She reported that since arriving in Pittsburgh, she has
heard a lot of feedback on this issue, not just in the Mon Valley, but throughout the system. She has
heard from community members that what we had delivered did not meet their expectations. She has
also heard from our elected officials, Representative Paul Costa, Senator Jim Brewster, who sits on
the Board, Senator Jay Costa, and newly-elected Representative Austin Davis. We have heard from
our County Executive’s office as well that this is an issue of priority and to make sure that we are
taking another look and addressing this issue.
The BRT team has developed a few revised service options for the BRT, based on feedback from last
year. We will be taking a few scenarios to community meetings around the area, anywhere from
eight to 12 community meetings. Many of these options look to us like they are creative ways to reap
the benefits of BRT but improve customer service. Ms. Kelleman stated, as she has said many times,
we run the service and our communities own it. So we need to make sure that we are hearing our
communities clearly, and that the options we have developed address their needs so that we can
provide a way to continue to get folks in the neighborhoods to the Oakland corridor and to downtown.
Ms. Kelleman announced that the first of our meetings will be held on April 12 at 6 p.m. in Rankin, at
the Rankin Christian Center. She continued that as we further our schedule, we will post this on our
website, and look to make sure we have this information on bus interior cards as well.
Ms. Kelleman noted that we are holding onto details of the plans until we have the meetings and it’s a
lot of information to get through. But, again, it is a time for us to reconvene in our community and
engage on this topic of how we can better provide service, address the costs for transfers in the
corridor and preserve as much services as we can for folks in these areas.
On the other topic, fare enforcement, Ms. Kelleman stated that as you’re aware, on her very first day,
she directed staff to get together and try to sample our data and see what kind of fare enforcement
compliance issue we thought we were facing. Based on our preliminary data, we thought we had a
96 percent tap rate. That means most of the ConnectCards are tapping 96 percent of the time.
We’ve subsequently done more analysis and it looks like we have a 98 percent tap rate; that means
98 percent of our folks boarding or riding our rail system have a fare card. This means two percent
are not taping. That does not mean it’s a two percent fare evasion.
Based on a 98 percent report, we are comfortable that we have good fare adherence on our system.
Next month, we will come back with a data sampling plan and a marketing plan so we can continue to
tell our patrons why it’s important to tap. We also will continue to look at the optimum way to employ
our police and our fare enforcement personnel as ambassadors in securing the system.
Ms. Kelleman noted that we have all the pieces together but we don’t have a final answer. She asked
for everyone’s patience in giving us another month to work this out and we’ll come back to you in
some form at the April Board meeting.
Ms. Kelleman concluded her report by thanking Port Authority’s Police Department who have been, in
addition to their regular shifts, focusing a lot of time and effort on the best use of police resources.
Chief Porter has made a lot of strides in this area. You will see police officers on the trains and buses
2

 more often. They are doing their job. They should be transit ambassadors answering questions and
paying attention to security. You will see them because that is a job of every Port Authority employee
to be out there within our community.
That concluded the report of the Chief Executive Officer.
In the absence of Ms. Zmijanac, the Chair called on Ms. Liptak for the report of the Performance
Oversight Committee. Ms. Liptak reported that a meeting of the Performance Oversight Committee
was held on March 15, 2018, and the minutes from the previous meeting were approved by the
Committee.
At the meeting, it was reported that the Total Operating Revenues through February of the fiscal year
were approximately $4.5 million dollars higher than budget principally due to higher Passenger
Revenues. Total Expenses midway through the fiscal year were approximately $14.5 million dollars
under budget. Total Subsidies were approximately $5.7 million dollars under budget, which is a
timing issue with operating assistance.
There were five resolutions reviewed by the Performance Oversight Committee and are being
recommended for consideration by the Board.
The Committee first reviewed three procurement items and found the bids to be in accordance with
the Authority’s procurement policies and procedures, the prices to be fair and reasonable, and the
bidders to be responsive and responsible. The Performance Oversight Committee therefore
recommends for award the three items outlined in the resolution for the total amount of $459,524.00.
On behalf of the Performance Oversight Committee, Ms. Liptak respectfully requested approval of the
resolution. It was moved, seconded and unanimously agreed that the resolution be approved as
presented.
The next resolution recommended by the Performance Oversight Committee was Authorization to
Extend and Amend Agreements to Provide Legislative Consulting Services.
Ms. Liptak explained that the Board previously authorized the award of two agreements to Greenlee
Partners, LLC and Buchanan Ingersoll & Rooney PC to provide the services. Subsequently, the
Board authorized the Authority to extend the term of the Agreements and to increase the total not-toexceed amount of the Agreements.
As the Agreements expire on March 31, 2018, the Performance Oversight Committee has determined
that it is in Authority’s best interest to further extend the term of the Agreements, on a month-to-month
basis, for a period not to exceed an additional one year through March 31, 2019, with an increase to
the total not-to-exceed amount of the Agreements of $204,000. Ms. Liptak noted that it was reported
at the meeting that the Authority shall maintain the ability to terminate the agreements on 10 days’
written notice.
On behalf of the Performance Oversight Committee, Ms. Liptak respectfully requested approval of the
resolution. It was moved, seconded and unanimously agreed that the resolution be approved as
presented.
3

 The next resolution recommended by the Performance Oversight Committee authorizes the Authority
to Enter into an Agreement with Clever Devices Ltd. for Automatic Vehicle Monitoring Reporting
System and Related Services.
Ms. Liptak reported that the Authority has previously and successfully implemented certain Clever
Devices’ software and hardware modules for performing the core functions of automated voice
announcements, automated passenger counter and automated vehicle monitoring for buses. As part
of the Authority’s ongoing initiative to enhance the Authority’s on-board Intelligent Transportation
System, the Authority desires to provide its Operations and Maintenance staff with real-time vehicle
health monitoring services. Ms. Liptak noted that it was reported at the meeting that Clever Devices’
software and related hardware are proprietary to Clever Devices and may only be purchased from,
integrated by, modified by and installed by Clever Devices.
The Performance Oversight Committee recommends entering into an Agreement with Clever Devices
for the purchase of these additional services for a total not-to-exceed amount of $1,732,489. On
behalf of the Performance Oversight Committee, Ms. Liptak respectfully requested approval of the
resolution. It was moved, seconded and unanimously agreed that the resolution be approved as
presented.
Ms. Liptak presented the next resolution authorizing the Authority to Amend its Agreement with GIRO,
Inc. She reported that the Board previously awarded an Agreement to GIRO to provide a software
system to replace the existing Bid Dispatch System and Customer Service Complaint System.
Staff reported at the Performance Oversight Committee meeting that to date, GIRO has performed
these services in a satisfactory manner and Authority has determined that it would benefit from
applying GIRO’s Bid and Bid-Web software to the Authority’s Maintenance Personnel Pick and Job
Vacancy Bidding process. Ms. Liptak noted that the software offered by GIRO is the only such
software which can readily and economically interface with the Authority’s existing Bid Dispatch
System and allow the Authority to maintain the integrity of its system.
The Performance Oversight Committee recommends amending the Agreement with GIRO to
increase the not-to-exceed amount of the Agreement by $472,091 to $4,000,263. On behalf of the
Performance Oversight Committee, Ms. Liptak respectfully requested approval of the resolution. It
was moved, seconded and unanimously agreed that the resolution be approved as presented.
The final resolution for consideration was Authorization to Award a Construction Contract for the
Embedded Light Rail Turnout Replacement project.
Ms. Liptak explained that the work includes removal of the existing rail turnout and pavement,
installation of a new supplied turnout, drainage, new reinforced concrete pavement and signal
modifications. Ms. Liptak noted that it was reported at the meeting by staff that this is a very
important turnout as it is the merging point between the Blue and Red lines.
The Performance Oversight Committee recommends awarding the contract to Delta Railroad
Construction, Inc., in the amount of $1,011,962.00, subject to completing all pre-award requirements.
On behalf of the Performance Oversight Committee, Ms. Liptak respectfully requested approval of the
resolution. It was moved, seconded and unanimously agreed that the resolution be approved as
presented.
4

 That concluded the report of the Performance Oversight Committee.
The Chair called on Mr. Tague for a report of the Planning and Stakeholder Relations Committee.
Mr. Tague reported that the Planning and Stakeholder Relations Committee met last week and he
had three updates to report.
First, Ms. Breen Masciotra presented a conceptual design for our Station Square Rail Station. The
station is served by four bus stops, three light rail routes and the Mon Incline. It is the third largest
station throughout the system with 5,800 riders daily.
Mr. Tague mentioned that staff had sought community input through community meeting and a
station user survey. The survey results indicate a desire for better design and safety enhancements.
The conceptual design process proposes enhancements such as wider sidewalks, improved light and
a landscaped buffer between pedestrians and traffic. The conception design also proposes
enhancements at the Incline, including the addition of a small plaza, additional ConnectCard
machines, entrance way improvements and creating a better access to the facility for Port Authority’s
Maintenance personnel.
Next, Mr. Tague updated the Board on the Allegheny County Transit Council. The ACTC group met
on February 21, 2018. Police Chief Matt Porter came to the meeting with another officer and gave a
presentation on Port Authority’s Police Department and its outreach activities. It is important to note
that it was reported at the meeting that the Department responds to an average of 8,000 incidents
each year. Mr. Tague reported that he had been told that the committee really enjoyed the
presentation. Mr. Tague acknowledged Mr. Jim Robinson, president of ACTC, who was in
attendance at today’s Board meeting.
The final subject pertained to the Committee for Accessible Transportation. Mr. Tague reported that
he attended the group’s quarterly meeting on March 1 at the School for the Blind in Oakland. Port
Authority’s CEO attended the meeting and was well received. The Committee spent some time
talking about the history of the Committee and how well CAT has worked with the Authority over the
years. It was their hope that Ms. Kelleman would continue that good-working relationship.
That concluded the report of the Planning and Stakeholder Relations Committee.
Under new business, the Chair presented a resolution to adopt Sponsorships and Charitable
Contributions Guidelines. The Chair stated that the Authority’s goal is to be a public transit leader,
supporting regional growth and prosperity by providing public transit services and by supporting and
participating in the communities of Allegheny County.
From time to time, the Authority is asked to make charitable contributions and/or provide
sponsorships with and for external organizations that directly and substantially relate to the operation
of the Authority and/or advance its overall mission. The Board has reviewed the attached proposed
guidelines.

5

 Mr. Letwin requested a motion to adopt the attached guidelines for charitable contributions and/or
sponsorships. It was moved, seconded and unanimously agreed that the resolution be approved as
presented.
The Chair then called on the first speaker under public comment. The first speaker, Mr. Keith Moses,
noted that the NAACP has organized multiple freedom rides, which are tours of prominent areas of
black influence and he would like to recreate this endeavor in the Pittsburgh region. Mr. Moses
requested that Port Authority provide a bus for the tours. He also requested that if Port Authority was
unable to provide a bus that perhaps it could advertise the event scheduled for mid-June.
He concluded by saying that he hopes to have the Board’s support as we move forward to educate
our youth about experiences past, present and future and how such events shape us moving forward.
The next speaker, Mr. James Love, addressed the Board regarding his concerns with the BRT project
and the six Class 3 mass transit systems overlapping Port Authority’s work.
The next speaker, Chandana Cherukupalli, thanked the Board for listening to PPT’s concerns around
the BRT proposal and the impacts on the Mon Valley community. Ms. Cherukupalli submitted a BRT
Organizational Sign-on Letter addressed to the URA, Allegheny County and Port Authority. The letter
reiterates some of the things the community has been asking for regarding this project. The letter was
signed by a total of 38 community organizations.
The final speaker Ms. Laura Wiens, from PPTA, also wanted to reiterate that PPT appreciates that
CEO Kelleman has been so responsive and timely in researching concerns around the fare
enforcement and BRT service.
Ms. Wiens then addressed the Board regarding PPT’s concerns with the Mon-Oakland Connector.
She stated that in the latest round of city-run community meetings, it was claimed that the MonOakland shuttle will serve as a first-last mile connection. It’s apparently going to be free public transit
for the discussed corridor. She said it is pretty distasteful that the city is proposing to offer fully
subsidized on-demand, state of the art public transit to tech employees that will presumably be
working at Hazelwood Green in a few years. As it is proposed, this on-demand micro transit ACV
shuttle would actually compete with existing public transit, and it does not seem to be connected in
any particular way to the BRT corridor in Oakland.
Ms. Wiens asked the Board to insist that the City not proceed with “public transit” projects without
having our public transit agency at the table from the outset.
There being no further business to conduct, the meeting was adjourned.
The next Regular Meeting of the Board will be Friday, April 27, 2018.

6

 