CHANGE.

CHICAGO HOUSING ?sl??l?HORT?j?

 

July 17, 2012



 

GENERAL ITEM NO. 1

RECOMMENDATION TO ENTER INTO TWO YEAR CONTRACTS WITH HOUSING
CHOICE PARTNERS OF ILLINOIS AND HOUSING OPPORTUNITIES UNLIMITED
TO PROVIDE MOBILITY COUNSELING PROGRAM

To the Honorable Board of Commissioners:

RE OMMENDATI 
It is recommended that the Board of Commissioners (?Board?) authorize the Chief Executive
Of?cer or his designee to enter into cost reimbursement contracts for a two (2) year base term
with Housing Choice Partners of Illinois in an amount not?to-exceed $1,436,435 for the
base term and Housing Opportunities Unlimited in an amount not-to-exceed
$1,281,258 for the base term, with each contract having one (1) additional l-year option, to
provide Mobility Counseling Program.

FUNDING SUMMARY
General Fund

Vendors:

Housing Choice Partners of Illinois

28 East Jackson Suite 1109

Chicago, Illinois 60604

Base Term Contract Amount: $1,436,435

Housing Opportunities Unlimited

50 Red?eld Street Suite 101

Boston, Massachusetts 02122

Base Term Contract Amount: $1,281,258

Specification No.: 12-00902

Contract Type: Cost Reimbursement
Contract Period: Two (2) Years
Agyegate Contract Amount: $2,777,515

Dates Advertised: 3/12, 14, 16/ 2-12
Pre-Proposal Conference: 3/26/2012

Date Proposals Due: 4/16/2012
Advertisement: Chicago Sun Times,
Chicago Defender, and Extra

Number of Pick-Ups: 16

Number of Proposals Received: 2
Number of Vendors Solicited: l3

MBE: 0 WBE: 6 DBE: 0

Notification to Assist Agencies: 64

Option Period: 1 - l-Year Option

Housing Choice Partners of Illinois: Waiver Approved
Section 3: Hiring Subcontracting Other Economic Opportunities

Housing Opportunities Unlimited: Partial Waiver Approved
1.6 (Indirect) 



Section 3: 2 Hiring Subcontracting Other Economic Opportunities

59 E. Van sum smet- ammc, Illinois 80605- :207- ?assoc - mow. (flee/13.023:

EXPLANATION

Mobility Counseling History
The impetus for the Program is to assist families receiving a Housing Choice Voucher 

subsidy in moving to an Opportunity Area within the city of Chicago. An Opportunity Area has
previously been de?ned as a community (census tract) with less than 23.49% of individuals
having income below poverty level and no more than 30% of resident families being African
American. Working closely with Business and Professional People for the Public Interest
CHA has re-de?ned Opportunity Area to communities that have no more than 20% of
individuals having income below poverty level and no more than 5% of the housing stock are
subsidized housing units. The Program?s goal of de-concentrating subsidized units and
encouraging families to move to Opportunity Areas is aligned with new corporate
strategies that focus on helping families maximize their potential, move toward economic
independence and creating complete, healthy and strong communities.

Supported by HUD as an effective means to meet the Quality Housing and Work Responsibility
Act of 1998, Mobility Program helps educate HCV tenants about relocation into
Opportunity Areas within the city of Chicago. Counseling agencies provide HCV families with
the tools needed to make informed choices on the neighborhoods that are best for their family
crime statistics, availability of transportation and information on local schools for their
children) and establish relationships with landlords to ensure quality units are available for HCV
families who desire to relocate to Opportunity Areas. Counseling agencies also work with
landlords to educate them on exception rents and promote HCV tax incentive options.
Ultimately, the Mobility Program seeks to increase the number of families receiving an HCV
subsidy in Opportunity Areas, while addressing the existing barriers of mobility. Any lease
compliant HCV family, currently not living in an Opportunity Area is eligible for services
through the Mobility Program.

From 2001 through 2010, the Program was administered by Quadel, former HCV
contractor. In January 2011, CHA took over direct administration of the Program by contracting
directly with counseling agencies that were already providing similar services to public housing
families impacted by relocation.

Since taking over direct administration of the Program, CHA has worked closely with advocates
to expand mobility services. CHA now offers more housing choices to participants moving to
Opportunity Areas by approving special exception payment standards up to 300% of the HUD
published Fair Market Rent for Chicago. From January 2011 through May 2012, the
Program has provided community tours to over 500 families and assisted 437 families move to
Opportunity Areas throughout the city of Chicago. This is more than a 50% increase in moves to
Opportunity Areas from 2010. It is anticipated that at least 400 families will move to an
Opportunity Area during the ?rst year of these agreements.

Mobilig Counseling Services
The target population for the Mobility Program includes:

0 current HCV participants not currently residing in an Opportunity Area;
0 new participants moving in from the HCV waitlist; and
HCV participants porting in from another housing authority.

 contracted counseling agencies will conduct outreach to HCV participants using a variety
of methods including, but not limited to: targeted outreach to families living in communities with
the highest level of subsidized units, presentations at HCV moving brie?ngs and special events,
and through website.

Interested families must ?rst attend an orientation conducted by one of the recommended
mobility counseling agencies. After completing the initial orientation, participants will be
engaged in enhanced mobility counseling workshops. The counseling sessions will include
topics such as: (1) housing search techniques, identifying appropriate neighborhoods and tenant
rights; (2) comparing schools, crime statistics, transportation options, employment opportunities,
etc.; (3) selecting schools using test scores, class sizes, dollars spent per pupil; and (4)
information on resources available in community areas, techniques for locating additional
community resources, what it means to be a good neighbor, etc.

Engaged families will also participate in community tours to Opportunity Areas and attend open
houses of available units. The counseling agencies will provide information and resources on
Opportunity neighborhoods including, but not limited to, public transportation, available
community and social services, day care facilities, schools and other resources that speci?cally
address the needs of the individual family. Once an appropriate unit has been selected, the
counseling agencies will assist in facilitating the process for a move with the HCV department
imit inspection, rent calculation, leasing process, move papers, etc.). Upon ?nalizing the
move to an Opportunity Area, HCV families will be eligible for a move incentive of up to $500
that may be utilized for security deposit assistance, new furniture or other costs associated with a
move.

Counseling agencies will provide follow-up services to families at 30 days and 180 days after the
move. Follow-up services may include: (1) verifying all school age family members are enrolled
in a school and provide additional services, if necessary, to help the family determine the most
appropriate school choices; (2) ensuring the family is aware of, and engaged where appropriate,
with available community and city services, including being referred to CHA supportive
services; and (3) coordinating with the owner and/or property manager on any issues that may
have arisen with the leaseholder since their move-in.

Contractor Backgmund
The two (2) selected vendors have a unique combination of experience to provide mobility

services. Following a competitive procurement process, CHA is recommending:

HCP has provided relocation services to CHA public housing families through the
relocation program since 2003 and mobility services to the HCV population since 2011.
In addition to the Program, HCP will continue to assist public housing families referred
by CHA for relocation services if the family is being required to relocate due to
scheduled building closure for rehabilitation or redevelopment, emergency situations or
special requests as determined by CHA. CHA has been satis?ed with 
performance.

I HOU has more than 30 years experience providing mobility counseling services, case
management, and resident services in more than IS states and the District of Columbia.
HOU has worked in a diverse range of experience working with low and mixed-income
communities. HOU specializes in assisting communities that are in transition due to
redevelopment"3a- 'Vf?14rl5irjl rim-.Procurement History
The CHA advertised the Request for Proposal No. 12-00902 on March 12, 2012 in the

Chicago Sun Times, Extra, and the Chicago Defender to solicit vendors to provide relocation and
mobility counseling services and educate CHA families on the bene?ts of moving into
Opportunity Areas. Additionally, 64 Assist Agencies received noti?cation of the solicitation,
and copies were made available at the CHA of?ces at 60 East Van Buren, 13th Floor. CHA also
directly solicited 13 ?rms, and posted the solicitation announcement on website and in
BuySpeed. A Pro-Proposal Conference was held on March 26, 2012 with representatives from 3
?rms in attendance. On April 16, 2012, the CHA received 2 proposals, from HOU and HCP. An
evaluation committee consisting of 3 members evaluated both proposals.

After the evaluation committee completed its analysis of the proposals, a competitive range was
set and approved by the Contracting Of?cer. Both ?rms were found to be within the competitive
range and were invited to participate in oral presentations on May 2, 2012. After the
presentations, and additional clari?cations via telephone, best and ?nal offers were requested and
submitted by both ?rms. Based upon the evaluations of the written proposals, oral presentations
and best and ?nal offers, it was determined that both vendors would provide the best overall
service and value to CHA.

Conclusion

Based upon the foregoing, it is in the best interest of CHA to authorize the Chief Executive
Of?cer, or his designee, to enter into cost reimbursement contracts for a two (2) year base term
with Housing Choice Partners of Illinois in an amount not-to-exceed $1,436,435 for the base
term and Housing Opportunities Unlimited in an amount not-to-exceed $1,281,258 for the base
term, with each contract having one (1) additional l-year option, to provide Mobility
Counseling Program.

RESOLUTION NO. 2012-CHA-52

WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated July 17, 2012, entitled TO ENTER
INTO TWO YEAR CONTRACTS WITH HOUSING CHOICE PARTNERS OF
ILLINOIS AND HOUSING OPPORTUNITIES UNLIMITED TO PROVIDE
MOBILITY COUNSELING 

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY

THAT, the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Of?cer or his
designee to enter into cost reimbursement contracts for a 2-year base term with
Housing Choice Partners of Illinois in an amount not-to-exceed $1,436,435 for
the base term and Housing Opportunities Unlimited in an amount not-to-exceed
$1,281,258 for the base term, with each contract having one (1) additional l-year
option, to provide Mobility Counseling Program.

Willi!

   
         

 



of Commissioners 

 

60 E. Van Saran 5311413."! . mirage Mei-:35 ii? ?Eli mm. arcane/g

