Chicago Housing Authority
Board of Commissioners Public Session
October 16, 2012
Ada McKinley Apartments – 661 E. 69th St.
Name

1

2

Cheryl Johnson

Francine Washington

Question/Comment

Response

I would like to address Mr. Woodyard. I read a couple
of articles – you mentioned that you were concerned
about Altgeld. Isolation can be good if we were like
we were 50 years ago. The murder you spoke of did
not happen in Altgeld. I read your letter to the Mayor.
My mother has a personal relationship with the Mayor.
Your response was like telling me that my people
cannot participate. My organization was founded by
my mother 30 years ago. We were honored by
Clinton and as a top environmental organization by
Bush. The current President used to sit at my
Mother’s table. I don’t think you should demolish a
place with so much history or where our President has
been. Are you telling me today that my organization
(People for Community Recovery) cannot participate
in our own community?
1) We met with HUD a month ago and they implied we
should give CHA a quarterly report. I want to talk
about 2.0. We were talking about these contracts you
just passed. The stakeholders have a bigger stake
than one agency.

The CHA is looking to improve the Altgeld community into one
that is economically diverse with quality housing, retail, jobs and
community space so that residents are provided opportunities to
achieve self-sufficiency. The CHA is excited to get the planning
process underway and work with the residents of Altgeld and
their neighbors throughout this process.

2) Are you working on refining the one-strike policy?
3) The waitlist opened in 2008 and 2009. We are
taking people off the waitlist now. Where do those
people stand on the waitlist from 3 years ago?
4) We are still waiting on the washers and dryers at
Park Boulevard. How long must they wait?

1

1) Your comment has been received.
2) The CHA abides by all HUD rules and regulations with
respect to lease terminations, however, is evaluating this policy.
3) CHA continues to facilitate lease up activity through the
management and maintenance of the public housing wait lists.
In FY2011, 20,290 applicants from all public housing wait lists
were referred to properties to undergo screening for a unit.
4) The developer anticipates receiving delivery of the washers
and dryers at Park Boulevard for the CHA units at 3506 S. State
rd
th
(3 and 4 floors) by the end of November. Assuming this
timeframe is met, installation will begin thereafter.

 1) To this beautiful panel sitting here, I heard you say
today is Boss' Day. Today is Boss Day and also
breast cancer month. If you don’t have anything pink,
get something for the remainder of the month. I’m
sure cancer has touched everyone in the U.S.
3

4

5

Mary Baldwin

Beatrice Jones

Karen Webster

2) A couple of months ago I came to talk about the
residents in Rockwell no longer paying for washers
and dryers. When I found out that was true, they
called me and thanked me. The residents have
confidence now that you will do what we ask of you.
Thank you from the bottom of my heart.
I have been a resident of this building for 12 or 13
years. It has been a pleasure. We are glad you are
here today and that you have good things planned for
CHA residents. A community is only as strong as its
leadership. We have good leadership. I have no
complaints. Our manager, clerk, LAC president, and
building president – I want to thank them for doing a
wonderful job. If we have problems, issues, or
concerns they are on hand to take care of them. They
are senior friendly which is very important.
I work for the service employees union local 73. I am
a representative for employees at CHA and CVR.
Negotiations have gone on for over a year now. They
were stalled with the last administration. CHA’s
negotiation team remained in place with the new
administration. We have made repeated attempts to
reach out to the new leadership. There is a lack of
communication between the leadership and the union.
It is creating unrest and uncertainty in the workplace.
This is similar with the unrest we have seen with CPS
and the subsequent teacher strike. CHA’s mission
cannot be separated from a responsibility to the CHA
employees that allow you to achieve that mission.
CHA cannot demand that employees give up their
bargaining rights. CHA cannot stick its head in the
sand when contractors like CVR violate workers’
rights. Certain facts have not been brought to Charles
Woodyard’s attention. CHA and CVR workers are
standing together. We would like to meet with Charles
Woodyard and look forward to your response.
2

Thank you for your comment.

Thank you for your comment.

CHA has contacted SEIU Local 73 to propose a compromise.

 6

7

8

Everyln Rodriguez and
Christina Velarosa

William Scott III

Carol Folkes

In light of the end of Hispanic Heritage month, we
appreciate the opportunity to support current CHA
residents in the Hispanic community. All of our
services are fully bilingual. Through our program CHA
has a wonderful opportunity to provide services in a
positive light in the Latino community. We strongly
believe that CHA has an opportunity to impact
perception through Plan 2.0 and to use Buen Hogar to
spread the message across Latino communities in
Chicago. We talk about CHA programs, how to
manage properties, tenant selection, tenant
requirement, etc. We are in talks with the Owner
Excellence Program. Owners can use our workshops
to continue their education. We are looking forward to
integrating the Buen Hogar program through all CHA
departments so that we can continue to assist CHA in
Latino communities.
I am here to speak about Learn and Earn. I have a
Masters in Administration and Supervision. I’ve been
on the frontline of education for 30 years. Whether it
is a leaky faucet or broken window, you nod to a CHA
staffer and it is taken care of right on the spot.
My idea about youth development is very serious. I
would like to see CHA youth at these meetings.
When you talk about stakeholders – they live there, go
to school there. I would like to hear what they have to
say about governance and hot topic issues.
I am a resident of Vivian Harsh. Our senior properties
really are beautiful. People are not acknowledging the
positives of staff. I would like to give credit to those
who step up to resolve the problems and issues:
Donna Dixon, Virginia Billings and Sondra Harris. We
have had issues and they have been worked on and
we are very grateful for that. When I was last here,
Tim sat with me and worked some things out and I am
very appreciative.

3

Thank you for your comment.

Thank you for your comment.

Thank you for your comment

 9

10

11

Juliana Gonzalez Cruci

Georgia Curtis

Willie McGee

I represent the Latino Policy Forum. I am here to
discuss problems with Latino access and inclusion
into CHA programs and housing. The Latino
community comprises 20% of the population eligible
for CHA programs, but participate at about ½ the rate
of eligibility. The Latino population is increasing and
we know that more than half of Latino households are
renters. More than half of those renters are rent
burdened. We also know that Latino homeowners
have suffered greatly in wealth tied closely to the drop
in home values. We would like to see Latino
participation increase by about 20%. We encourage
CHA to include an executive level staff member to be
responsible for the comprehensive Latino marketing
plan. We would like to see bilingual CHA regional
offices opened in highly concentrated Latino
neighborhoods like South Lawndale. We would like
you to consider these programs for your MTW plan or
any other plan under CHAs purview.
My question is that our LAC and PCR partner together
for a strategic plan for Altgeld with the CHA. I want to
thank you for coming out to hear our
concerns/complaints. At least you all listen. Change
can be a great thing and we all have to partner
together and get it together.
I’m speaking on behalf of Altgeld, where I’ve been a
resident all of my life. Currently I am not a resident,
but a next door neighbor at Golden Gates. Those
murders did not take place in Altgeld. Just so you
have an idea of what Altgeld is like – it is a very
formative place. It is not as isolated as you think.
People come from the surrounding areas. I had a
very promising and prominent childhood life there.
That’s why we speak about it. We don’t want that
area demolished. We want to save it. It is a
presidential area and we want to keep that area. We
ask you humbly to work with us. We would appreciate
if you would reconsider demolition.

4

Thank you for your comment.

Thank you for your comment.

The CHA is looking to improve the Altgeld community into one
that is economically diverse with quality housing, retail, jobs and
community space so that residents are provided opportunities to
achieve self-sufficiency. The CHA is excited to get the planning
process underway and work with the residents of Altgeld and
their neighbors throughout this process.

 12

Robert Davidson

I want to talk about the residents at Lathrop Homes.
At the September meeting you responded to people
who went to the microphone. My question is how
come you respond to them, but not to me. I’m the
LAC president over there. You say ultimately Lathrop
will be mixed-income. Why are you letting developers
and rich people decide Lathrop’s fate? Mr. Woodyard
I’m glad you remember when I said welcome to
stress. I intended for that to stick. We don’t need
market rate at Lathrop. It’s for poor people not rich
people. You need to rethink your concept of what you
are doing here.

5

The CHA is looking to improve the Lathrop community into a
community that is economically diverse with quality housing,
retail, jobs and community space so that residents are provided
opportunities to achieve self-sufficiency. The developer was
selected to partner with CHA to accomplish that goal.

 