Planning and Stakeholder Relations Committee
Minutes
April 20, 2018
The meeting was called to order at 8;30 am in Port Authority’s Neal H. Holmes Board
Room at 345 Sixth Avenue, Fifth Floor, Pittsburgh, with the following in attendance:
Board Committee Members
John Tague, Jr., Chairman
Ann M. Ogoreuc
Robert Kania
Stephanie Turman

Board Members and Solicitor
Michelle Zmijanac
Joel Lennen

1. Opening Remarks
Mr. Tague, Committee Chair, opened the meeting and welcomed those in
attendance.
2. Approval of Minutes from the March 15, 2018 Planning and Stakeholder
Relations Committee Meeting
Mr. Tague asked Committee members if there were any corrections to the minutes.
There were none and members approved the minutes.
3. Bus Rapid Transit Project (BRT) Updates (A. Silbermann)
Ms. Silbermann showed a PowerPoint presentation to give a brief overview of the
service changes made to the Bus Rapid Transit Project in which staff has been
working on over the last four months. We finished the first round of public outreach
in the fall. For the past six months we have been updating the service plan based on
the feedback we received.
•

We are sharing the updated service plan with the public through a second round
of public meetings.

•

BRT Staff kicked off this new round of public engagement last week in Rankin
and then had a second meeting Wednesday, April 18 in Homestead. There will
be eight more public meetings scheduled over the next four weeks.

•

The BRT Corridor consists of nine routes:
o Three of them become BRT routes and would have significant increases
in their frequency.
o Six of them remain local routes but short-turn in Oakland. They will no
longer travel all the way to Downtown. They would have a significant
reduction in frequency.
o The BRT routes would have upgraded vehicles, upgraded stations and
designated travel lanes.
o 61D was proposed to be short-turned on its outer end, it right now goes to
Waterfront and proposed to end in Greenfield instead.

 Planning and Stakeholder Relations Committee
Minutes
April 20, 2018
o P3 was proposed to terminate on its outer end at Wilkinsburg Station,
rather than traveling the full length of the East Busway out to Swissvale.

•

Staff heard from the community that the frequency loss was going to be too much
of a burden so they really challenged us to go back to the drawing board.

•

Ms. Kellerman requested staff to find alternatives.

•

Staff revisited the Bus Rapid Transit plans and sought alternatives.
o The three orange lines on the BRT Map represents the three BRT
corridors rather than routes we call the Squirrel Hill Branch.
o The bottom orange line which is the 61D now going to be comprised as
three different bus routes that will follow the Squirrel Hill Branch. Switching
out this route allows us to maintain frequency on all nine of the routes in
this corridor.
o The 61A and the 61B go into Braddock.
o The 61C goes down to the Mon Valley and McKeesport.
o The 71B and P3 have no changes from the original plan.
o These routes come every 15 minutes during rush hour and every 30
minutes during off peak times. Proposing this schedule does not change
what it is today.
o The 71A, C and D will short-turn in Oakland.

•

The new timeline and next-steps are as follows:
o We began gathering community input last week and will continue until the
end of May.
o Securing funding for final design for the project
o Will compile all of the community input, everything PAAC had heard so far
and over the next eight meetings.
o Update our application documents for the Small Starts application, which
needs to be re-submitted this fall.
•

Begin construction in 2019 which will take about two years to complete.

2

 Planning and Stakeholder Relations Committee
Minutes
April 20, 2018

Questions from committee and board members
1. Mr. Tague asked Ms. Kellerman if there is anything she would like to add.
• Ms. Kellerman responded – the meeting in Homestead had a very
knowledgeable and helpful staff. The attendees knew the staff and were very
engaging. The meeting had fewer people in attendance than in Rankin. The
first meeting had a lot interest and a lot of press. Ms. Silbermann was able to
get all of the information on the website with the help of Mr. Ritchie’s staff, so
folks who could not attend were able to get the information at their
convenience.
• Ms. Kellerman stated that she was in Washington D.C. on April 13 U.S.
Representatives, County Executive Rich Fitzgerald and spoke with senior
staff of the FTA. They were very interested in the BRT meetings. The FTA is
a small entity and the smallest portion of the D.O.T. and from Ms. Kellerman’s
experience they read all of the local news.
2. Ms. Turman wanted to commend the staff for excellent job with community
engagement. She recommended that PAAC have water and snacks at the
community meetings.
3. Ms. Ogoreuc asked what are the changes to 71’s and will they remain short-turned.
• Ms. Silbermann answered there are four 71 routes:
o The 71B Highland Park has been and will be the route we are
proposing to be a Bus Rapid Transit route.
o 71A has overlapping service that brings people into Downtown, up
into Highland Park and Morningside and then goes onto Center
Avenue as the 82 Lincoln.
o 71C is similar – it turns onto Penn Avenue and heads out to Point
Breeze before ending.
o 71D heads out to Homewood – it does not have another direct route
in Homewood on the same road, but in two directions.
o All of the 71 bus routes go into Downtown and they run seven days a
week.
4. Ms. Ogoreuc asked what the updated plan does to the bus routes going Downtown?
• Ms. Silbermann answered – currently for the peak there is one bus
every 1.9 minutes with Uptown and Downtown along the corridor. The
plan from last summer changed it to a bus every three minutes. Today
with this new plan we are looking at 2.8 minutes. Four bus routes that
come every 15 minutes. The P3 in peak will come every 10 minutes,
off peak will be every 30 minutes, divided by six routes will be every six
minutes.
3

 Planning and Stakeholder Relations Committee
Minutes
April 20, 2018
5. Ms. Zmijanac asked if the Committee has any way to track who sent in concerns.
• Ms. Silbermann answered all surveys are anonymous. We did not
have people identify themselves. The public meeting sign-in sheets
are not anonymous, we ask people sign in. PAAC can look at those
sheets and see if there are any repeats.
6. Mr. Tague asked are there any other questions.
• Mr. Walsh asked where will the funding be coming from?
o Ms. Silbermann answered federal funding and local match,
which will be put on Port Authority’s website.

4

 