CHANGE.

CHECAGQ 

 

 

 

.. 

October 9, 2012 ITEM NO. A3

AUTHORIZATION TO ENTER INTO A CONTRACT WITH
HEALTHWAYS, INC. TO PARTICIPATE IN
THE CITY OF EMPLOYEE WELLNESS
PROGRAM: CHICAGO LIVES HEALTHY

To the Honorable Board of Commissioners:

RECOMMENDATION

It is recommended that the Board of Commissioners authorize the Chief Executive Of?cer or his
designee to enter into a contract with Healthways, Inc. in an amount not-to-exceed $231,656.04 for
a three (3) year term to participate in the City if Chicago?s Employee Wellness Program: Chicago
Lives Healthy.

The Executive Vice-President of Finance/Chief Financial Officer and the Of?ce of the General
Counsel have completed all necessary due diligence to support the submission of this initiative and
recommend the approval of this item accordingly.

CORPORATE GOAL

To enhance the productivity of workforce by improving their overall health and
emotional well-being which will reduce the incidence of avoidable health problems.
Implementing an employee wellness programs will boost morale, decrease the rates of illness
and injuries, reduce employee absenteeism due to illness and reduce healthcare costs.

FUNDING: General Fund

Vendor: American Healthways Services, LLC (Healthways)
Charla Clarke
701 Cool Springs Boulevard
Franklin, TN 37067

Section 3:
Hiring Subcontracting Other Economic Opportunities (5)

GENERAL BACKGROUND

In October, 201] the CHA Board of Commissioners approved participation in the City of
Chicago Request for Proposal for an employee wellness program which was prepared and
released by the City. The City?s participating sister agencies, which include the Chicago Housing
Authority, Chicago Public Schools, City Colleges, Chicago Park District all had an opportunity
to review and cement on the RFP. After evaluating the proposals received in response to the
RFP, the City negotiated with Healthways and selected them as the best vendor to provide a
wellness program for employees and spouses/domestic partners of the City and participating
sister agencies.

6.9 E. Van 3mm Street - (Wang's, Ill/nals 60605 2307 - 742? seen - Mac/18.013?

The purpose of the wellness program is to promote a healthier workforce and counter rising
health insurance costs. On July 27, 2012, Mayor Emanuel kicked off the implementation of the
City of Chicago?s new wellness program which will be offered to more than 47,000 City and
participating sister agency employees and eligible spouses/domestic partners.

The city?s wellness program, which has been designed and will be managed by global well-being
leader, Healthways, offers a suite of innovative initiatives and is viewed as the largest, most
comprehensive government wellness program ever introduced, rivaling any private-sector
wellness program in its size, breadth of offerings and comprehensive approach.

As part of the ?Chicago Lives Healthy? program, employees and spouses are required to do any
one of these on-site/telephonic wellness events: attend an on-site educational seminar, complete
an on?site challenge, complete a health check-in call or complete a telephonic coaching call.
They are also required to participate in activities each month via Well-Being Connect?, an
online wellness portal that includes a personalized well-being plan, groups, challenges and robust
health information resources.

The Board action recommended in this item complies in all materialrespects with all applicable
Chicago Housing Authority board policies and all applicable federal (HUD) procurement laws.

The EVP concurs with the recommendation to enter into a contract with Healthways, Inc. to
participate in the City of Chicago?s Employee Wellness Program: Chicago Lives Healthy.

The CEO/President recommends the approval to enter into a contract with Healthways, Inc. to
participate in the City of Chicago?s Employee Wellness Program: Chicago Lives Healthy.

.- -- rm .
. 3217;: m? Lu?

RESOLUTION NO. 2012-CHA-81

WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated October 9,
2012, entitled TO ENTER INTO CONTRACT WITH
HEALTHWAYS, INC. TO PARTICIPATE IN THE CITY OF 
EMPLOYEE WELLNESS PROGRAM: CHICAGO LIVES 

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT the Board of Commissioners (?Board?) authorizes the Chief Executive Of?cer or
his designee to approve and provide funding in an amount not-to-exceed

$231,656.04 for a three (3) year term to participate in the City of Chicago?s
Employee Wellness Program: Chicago Lives Healthy, provided by Healthways.



   
    

 

Board 

 

00 E, Van Bum: Sigma!- L?h?mgo, Illinois 60605-1207 - (312) 742-3500- mm?l?eshamg'

