CHANGE.

CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY

 

March 13, 2013 ITEM NO. C7

AUTHORIZATION TO EXECUTE A CONTRACT WITH GENERAL ELECTRIC
COMPANY FOR SUPPLY AND DELIVERY OF VARIOUS APPLIANCES TO THE
CHA

March 13, 2013
To the Honorable Board of Commissioners:

RECOMMENDATION

It is recommended that the Board of Commissioners authorize the Chief Executive Of?cer or his
designee to execute a contract with General Electric Company (GE) for supply and delivery of
various appliances to the Chicago Housing Authority in an amount not-to-exceed
$2,500,000. The contract duration will for a 3-year base term with an option to extend
the contract for an additional year.

The Development Executive Vice President the Of?ce of the General Counsel and the
Department of Procurement and Contracts have completed all necessary due diligence to support
the submission of this initiative and recommend the approval of this item accordingly.

CORPORATE GOAL: Ensure portfolio is safe, decent and sustainable
FUNDING: General Fund - FY2013

SOLICITATION SUMMARY

Speci?cation No.: RFP 12 - 00990

Vendor No: General Electric Appliances
Rusha C. Miles, National Accounts Manager
307 N. Hurstbourne Parkway
Louisville, KY 40222

Contract Type: Supply and Delivery Solicitation Release Date: November 16,
2012

Base Contract Amount: $2,500,000 (NTE) Days Advertised: 33 business days

Base Contract Period: three (3) year Addendum(s): 1

Option Period: one (1), one (1) year Pre?Bid/Proposal Date: December 4, 2012

Publications: Chicago Sun-Times, Defender, Solicitation Due Date: January 2, 2013
Extra, CHA website, BuySpeed

Vendor List: 23 Assist Agencies: 64

Pick-Up List: 22 Respondents: 3

Participation: GE Waiver is approved

Section 3: Not applicable to supply and delivery contracts

60 E. Van 3m? Street- Chicago, Illinois 60605-1207- (312) 742-3500 . awn; thee/Ia. org

GENERAL BACKGROUND

For the past ?ve (5) years, the CHA has successfully utilized the goods and services of an
appliance manufacturer with delivery provided on a "just-in-time" basis. The ?just in time?
delivery model is a critical component because it requires minimal warehousing of the
appliances by the CHA and allows appliance to be delivered within a set time-frame. The
ability to procure appliances with an established contract unit pricing structure, below normal
market rates, has been advantageous and cost effective for the CHA. The CHA has the ability to
maintain cost effective control and ease of delivery when new appliances are required. It is the
CHA's intent to establish a new requirements contract for the purpose of purchasing appliances
from a quali?ed manufacturer.

The CHA is required by HUD regulations to ensure appliances, comply with U.S. Department of
Energy guidelines, and be rated. Additionally, select appliances will be designated
with the compliant certi?cation to serve our residents, as needed. The GE will deliver
appliances ordered by CHA on a ?just in time? basis. GE will provide an intemet based platform
for ordering, tracking and delivery of the appliances and will also provide a maintenance training
program to CHA.

The CHA intends to establish a new requirements contract for the purpose of purchasing
appliances from a quali?ed manufacturer that provides bene?ts to the CHA as follows:

1. Standardization of the appliances used throughout the CHA, limiting the amount of
mark-up on the pricing structure to a single entity

2. Ability to lock in initial unit prices, subject only to adjustments for increases in

refrigerator prices due to periodic Federal regulation changes, and all

appliances due to potential increases in the Producer Price Index (PPI) for metals,

plastic and rubber, over the length of a multiple year contract.

Ability to purchase a variety of appliances at a cost savings to the CHA.

4. Availability of all departments to use this annual requirements contract to

procure appliances as needed.

Ability to deliver appliances on a ?just-in?time? basis.

6. Ability to purchase, track the delivery and check availability of appliances through a
web based application.





The Board action recommended in this item complies in all material respects with all applicable
Chicago Housing Authority board policies and all applicable Department of Housing and Urban
Development procurement laws.

The EVP of Development concurs with the recommendation to enter in a contract with GE as the
lowest responsible, responsive, bidder for supply and delivery of various appliances to the CHA
in an amount not-to-exceed $2,500,000. The contract?s duration will be for a 3-year base term
with an option to extend the contract for an additional year.

The CEO/President recommends the approval to execute a contract with General Electric
Appliances for supply and delivery of various appliances to the CHA.

60 E. Van Buren Street - Chicago, Illinois 60605-1207- - wmic them. org

RESOLUTION NO. 2013-CHA-24

WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated March 13,

2013, entitled TO EXECUTE A CONTRACT WITH
GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY FOR SUPPLY AND DELIVERY OF
VARIOUS APPLIANCES TO THE 

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY

THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorize the Chief Executive Of?cer or his
designee to enter into a contract with General Electric Company for supply and
delivery of various appliances to the Chicago Housing Authority in an amount
not-to-exceed $2,500,000. The contract duration will be for a 3-year base term
with an Option to extend the contract for an additional year.

This award is subject to approval of a waiver to its 
requirements. Section 3 compliance is not applicable to supply and delivery
contracts.

   

 

Board inf?mmissitii?rs

5'0 E. Van Buren Street - Chicago, Illinois 60605 - 1207 - (312} 742-8500 - thecha.arg

