Chicago Housing Authority
Board of Commissioners Public Session
Meeting of September 21, 2004
CHAC, 1000 South Wabash, Chicago, IL
Residents
Name/Property/

Question/Comment

1.

Peggy Godfrey

Why are police being pulled out of Rockwell by month’s
end? According to information gathered at meeting,
police will be moved from Rockwell and Horner and sent
to Cabrini.

2.

Justean Gaines

Ceded her time to Ms. Deverra Beverly.

Status
The Henry Horner building located at 1850 W. Washington Blvd. is scheduled to close soon.
Therefore, the CPD Public Housing Unit Horner Station located within this building must
move. The CPD Horner Station will soon consolidate with the CPD Cabrini Station located
within the 365 W. Oak St. building. The CPD Public Housing Unit will continue to provide
police services to the residents of both Henry Horner and Rockwell Gardens. There is no
planned reduction in police services for any of these sites.
N/A

3.

Deverra Beverly

Acknowledged Commissioners and staff for continuous
support of ABLA residents.

Comments noted

4.

Esther Jackson

Would like to get back on Section 8 Program.

Referred to Bill Riley, CHAC Director.

5.

Rose Karasti

Representing Chicago Jobs Council (CJC). Would like to
caution the Authority’s position with regard to 30 hour
work requirement.

See answer below

6.

Mary Baldwin

Would like clarification on future plans for Rockwell.
Requesting meeting with Board of Commissioners.

A meeting was held with Ms. Baldwin to address concerns.

7.

Shanneta Johnson

Contracts are being given by Eastlake Management and
residents are not being hired. Requesting job training for
Rockwell residents.

8.

Rio Dunning

Does not agree with 30 hour work requirement.
Residents unable to find work, job training requested.

It is the CHA’s policy to encourage all contractors to provide economic opportunities for jobs,
job training and education through the Federal Section 3 program. More information about
current training and job opportunities can be found by contacting Cassandra Seawood,
Manager of the Section 3 Program, at 312-742-9547.
See answer below

9.

Dianah Canser

Discouraged with East Lake Management of Rockwell.
Not satisfied with unit size and quality of Phase 1.

The replacement units being built at Rockwell are comparable in size and quality to units
being built all across the City of Chicago, including affordable and market-rate units.

10.

Mildred Dennis

Referred to August Chidichimo and Bill Riley.

11

Brenda Bolden

Taylor residents are ready to move and Capital
Construction schedule is off track, Section 8 is late with
inspections.
Will City/State properties be included in LAC elections? If
not, what form of representation will residents have?

12.

Francine Washington

Does not agree with 30 hour work requirement.
Employers will not hire residents to work 30 hours since
they will be required to pay benefits.

See answer below

Per correspondence from HUD, City/State residents are not eligible to participate in the
current LAC election

 Answer to
comment # 5, 8 &
12

Work Requirements for Mixed-Income Housing
In order to encourage our residents to embrace self-sufficiency, CHA is implementing a 30-hour per week work policy (as part of the
MTSP – Minimum Tenant Selection Plan) for those residents who choose to live in the newly redeveloped mixed-income communities.
This policy specifically applies to units at the mixed-income sites and does not affect traditional public housing sites which will undergo
rehabilitation.
The work requirement indicates that residents either need to be working at least 30 hours per week or be engaged in a full-time
educational program. If a resident is not currently working 30 hours per week, they fall into the next category called ‘working to meet.’
This means that they are involved in job search and/or training, or another approved activity that can lead to economic self-sufficiency.
The residents in the ‘working to meet’ category can also be eligible to live in the mixed-income communities, with priority given to
residents currently working or enrolled in school full-time.
It is important to note that the public housing units being built in mixed-income communities make up about a quarter of the 25,000
units being built or rehabbed under the Plan for Transformation. We know that 33% of all leaseholders at CHA family developments
are currently working and another 17% would be exempt from the work requirement due to a disability. This means that today, about
half of CHA families already qualify to live in the mixed-income communities.
We have promised that we will go the extra mile to support our residents by connecting them to social services, job-training and
educational programs. We will ask employers to make jobs available and make our residents aware of those jobs. We will do
everything we can to help them access opportunities.
If, despite all these efforts, families cannot meet the work requirement, they are still eligible to live in rehabilitated traditional public
housing where they will continue to have access to supportive services in order to help them improve their lives.

 