Port

connecting pennle tn life

TO:

FROM:

DATE:

Performance Oversight Committee
Representative Dom Costa
Rob Vescio
Jen Liptak

Michelle Zmijanac, Committee Chair

March 12, 2018

SUBJECT: Performance Oversight Committee March 15. 2018

The next meeting of the Performance Oversight Committee is scheduled for Thursday,
March 15, 2018 at 9:00 am, in the fifth floor Board Room at Port Authority's offices. The
preliminary agenda is as follows:

1. Approval of Minutes of the February 15, 2018 Performance Oversight Committee
Meeting.

2. Proposed Resolutions:

a. Awarding of Bids (Tony Trona)
b.

Authorization to Extend and Amend Agreements with Greenlee Partners, LLC
and Buchanan lngersoll Rooney PC, to Provide Legislative Consulting
Services (Mike Cetra)

Authorization to Enter into an Agreement with Clever Devices Ltd., for Automatic
Vehicle Monitoring Reporting System and Related Services (Bill Miller)
Authorization to Amend Agreement with GIRO, Inc. (Bill Miller)

Authorization to Award Construction Contract for the Embedded Light Rail
Turnout Replacement Project (Keith Wargo)

3. Financial Statements (Pete Schenk)

4. Cash Flow (Pete Schenk)

cc: Other Port Authority Board Members

PERFORMANCE OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE MEETING
Thursday, February 15, 2018

The meeting was called to order at 9:00 am. in Port Authority?s Neal H. Holmes Board Room
located on the fifth floor of the Heinz 57 Center with the following in attendance:

 

 

Board Committee Members Other Board Member
Michelle Zmijanac, Chair John Tague

Jennifer Liptak Ann Ogoreuc

1. Approval of Minutes:

 

Minutes from the January 18, 2018 Performance Oversight Committee meeting were
approved.

Proposed Resolutions:
There were three resolutions reviewed by the Performance Oversight Committee for
recommendation.

Mr. Trona first reviewed eight procurement items and the Committee found the bids to
be in accordance with the Authority?s procurement policies and procedures, the prices
to be fair and reasonable, and the bidders to be responsive and responsible.

The Performance Oversight Committee agreed to recommend the eight items outlined
in the resolution for award for the total amount of $2.5 million.

Mr. Wargo presented the next resolution requesting authorization to award a
construction contract for the South Hills Junction Roof Preservation project. The
contractor will renovate and preserve the existing metal roofs on Port Authority?s South
Hills Junction Buildings 2, 4 and 5 and replace metal walkways, access ladders,
flashings, gutters and downspouts.

Mr. Wargo reported that bid documents were prepared and publicly advertised and five
bids were received. After review of the bids by staff and counsel, it has been determined
that the bid of Schultheis Roofing, Inc., in the amount of $887,135.00, is the lowest
responsive bid from a responsible bidder meeting the Authority?s specifications for the
contract.

The Performance Oversight Committee agreed to recommend that the contract be
awarded to Schultheis Roofing in that amount.

Mr. Schenk presented the final resolution to the Committee requesting authorization to
enter into an agreement for PeopleSoft Human Capital Management System Upgrade
Services.

The contractor would be responsible for developing implementation options, detailed
project plans, resource plans, schedules, training and supporting strategies to improve
the Authority?s PeopleSoft based Human Capital Management System, and to
implement selected customizations and modifications.

Mr. Schenk reported that a request for proposals was prepared and publicly advertised
and six proposals were received. The proposal submitted by GNC Consulting, Inc. has
been determined to be the highest rated proposal for the performance of the services.
A total not-to-exceed amount of up to $1,418,642 was recommended for approval.

The Performance Oversight Committee agreed to recommend the award of this
contract to GNC Consulting, Inc., in the amount of $1 ,418,642.

Financial Report:

Mr. Schenk reported that total operating revenues through January for FY 2018 were
approximately $4.38 million higher than budget mainly due to higher passenger
revenues. He also reported that total expenses for the fiscal year were approximately
$12.7 million under budget and total subsidies were approximately $345,000 under
budget, which is a timing issue.

With no further business, the meeting was adjourned.

Port Authority of Allegheny County

Procurement Summary

March 23, 2018

 

Item

Description

Number Of
Bids

Lowest Responsive Bidder

Award Amount

2nd Bidder
Amount

Annual Percentage Change to
Previous Purchase

 

Rail Flash Butt Welding

2

Holland LP

53 145 ,000.00

$172,500.00

no previous purchase

 

LRV Axle Replacement Parts

2

ORX

$138,160.00

n/a

18% increase

 

 

 

40 Foot Low Floor Transit Coaches (Change Order)

 

n/a

 

Gillig LLC

 

$176.364.00

 

n/a

 

 

Total Purchases:

$459,524.00

 

3/23/18
M. Zmijanac

AWARDING OF BIDS

1. RAIL FLASH BUTT 

This bid was publicly advertised and ebusiness documents were distributed. Two firms
accepted the invitation and two bids were received for rail flash butt welding used in the
mating of rail ends during track maintenance operations over a three?year period.

RECOMMENDATION: That a contract be awarded to the low responsible bidder that
submitted a responsive bid, Holland LP, in the estimated amount of $145,000.00.

There has been no previous purchase of these services, however, staff has determined
the pricing received to be fair and reasonable and consistent with the funds budgeted.

2. LRV AXLE REPLACEMENT PARTS

This bid was publicly advertised and ebusiness documents were distributed. Three firms
accepted the invitation and two bids were received for the purchase of LRV axle
replacement parts used in servicing the Authority?s light rail vehicle fleet over a one-year
penod.

The low bidder did not propose a product in compliance with the Steel
Procurement Act, and is therefore not eligible for award.

RECOMMENDATION: That a contract be awarded to the low responsible bidder that
submitted a responsive bid, ORX, in the estimated amount of $138,160.00.

This price represents a 18 percent increase over the previous bid price paid for these
items three years ago. Staff has determined the pricing received to be fair and reasonable
and consistent with the funds budgeted.

3. 40-FOOT LOW FLOOR TRANSIT COACHES (Chanqe Order)

At its June 2016 meeting, the Board authorized an agreement with Gillig, LLC. for the
purchase of 70 40?foot low floor coaches with an Option to purchase up to an additional
400 coaches over the next five years. At its October 2017 meeting, the Board authorized
a change order to this contract for 69 additional coaches, nine engine major component
packages, and nine transmission major component packages at the contract prices; as
well as changes to the composite flooring, spare wheels, an inset step heater and a
curbside rack which resulted in a credit of $863.00 per coach.

Staff has now identified that changes to add a horizontal shelf bracket behind the
operator?s seat to mount the safety triangle at a cost of $40.00 per coach; change the
curb side, street side, rear and route displays from amber to silver at a cost of $1,637.00
per coach; add two LED amber turn signal lights to the upper corners of the coach at a
cost of $150.00 per coach; change the tail light configuration from four?inch diameter
LEDs to seven-inch diameter LEDs for the brake and turn signals at a cost of $150.00 per
coach; change two of the four-inch brake/marker lights to LED strip lights at no additional
cost; add an exterior access speaker at a cost of $330.00 per coach; and add a bike rack
counter at a cost of $249.00 per coach. These changes would result in a cost increase of
$2,556.00 per coach.

RECOMMENDATION: That a contract amendment be executed with Gillig, LLC. in the
amount of $176,364.00, which will increase the not-to-exceed amount of the contract to
$66,451 ,01 1 .00 to include all of these additional items and modifications.

Staff has determined that the pricing for the proposed modifications are fair and
reasonable and consistent with the funds budgeted.

RESOLUTION

RESOLVED, that recommendations as set forth in the report are accepted and
that the chief executive officer or chief financial officer be, and hereby are, authorized and
directed to execute such documents on behalf of Port Authority of Allegheny County as
shall be required for the entry of proper contracts covering those items recommended for
acceptance.

SUMMARY OF RESOLUTION

Authorization to Extend and Amend Agreements with
Greenlee Partners, LLC and Buchanan Ingersoll Rooney PC,
to Provide Legislative Consulting Services

In accordance with its Board-adopted Procurement Policy and Procedures for
Competitive Negotiations for Professional and Technical Services, Port Authority of
Allegheny County (Authority) previously solicited proposals to obtain firms to provide
legislative consulting services to assist in representing the Authority before federal, state
and local political bodies and similar organizations as deemed necessary by the Authority
(Services).

The Authority?s Board previously authorized the award of two agreements
(Agreements) to Greenlee Partners, LLC (Greenlee) and Buchanan Ingersoll Rooney
PC (Buchanan) to provide Services for an initial term of two years. Subsequently, the
Board authorized the Authority to extend the term of Agreements and to increase the total
not-to?exceed amount of Agreements. Currently, Agreements expire on March 31, 2018,
and the current total not-to-exceed amount of Agreements is $918,000.

The Authority has determined that it is in its best interest to further extend the term
of Agreements, on a month?to-month basis, for a period not to exceed an additional one
year through March 31, 2019, with an increase to the total not-to-exceed amount of
Agreements of $204,000 in order for Services to continue to be provided. The Authority
shall maintain the ability to terminate Agreements, for its convenience, upon 10 days?
written notice.

The attached resolution authorizes amendments to Agreements with Greenlee and
Buchanan to extend the term of Agreements, on a month-to-month basis, for a period not-
to-exceed an additional one year through March 31, 2019, and to increase the previously
authorized total not-to-exceed amount of Agreements from $918,000 to $1,122,000.

3/23/18
M. Zmijanac

RESOLUTION

WHEREAS, Port Authority of Allegheny County?s (Authority) Board, following
issuance of Request for Proposals No. 13-05, in accordance with its Board-adopted
Procurement Policy and Procedures for Competitive Negotiations for Professional and
Technical Services, authorized the award of agreements (Agreements) to Greenlee
Partners, LLC (Greenlee) and Buchanan Ingersoll Rooney PC (Buchanan) to provide
legislative consulting services (Services); and

WHEREAS, subsequently, the Board authorized the Authority to amend
Agreements to extend the term of Agreements and to increase the previously authorized
total not-to-exceed amount of Agreements; and

WHEREAS, currently, Agreements expire on March 31, 2018, and the current total
not-to-exceed amount of Agreements is $918,000; and

WHEREAS, the Authority has determined that it is in its best interest to further
extend the term of Agreements with Greenlee and Buchanan, on a month-to-month basis,
for a period not-to-exceed an additional one year through March 31, 2019, with an
increase to the total not to exceed amount of Agreements of $204,000, in order for
Services to continue to be provided. The Authority will maintain the ability to terminate
Agreements, for its convenience, upon 10 days? written notice.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the chief executive officer, chief
financial officer and/or assistant general manager Marketing, Communications and
Planning be, and hereby are, authorized to execute amendments to Agreements with
Greenlee and Buchanan, in a form approved by counsel, to extend the term of
Agreements, on a month?to?month basis, for a period not-to-exceed an additional one
year through March 31, 2019, and to increase the previously authorized total not-to-
exceed amount for Agreements from $918,000 to $1,122,000 and to take all such other
actions as may be necessary and proper to carry out the purpose and intent of this
resolution.

SUMMARY OF RESOLUTION

Authorization to Enter into an Agreement with Clever Devices Ltd.,
for Automatic Vehicle Monitoring Reporting System and Related Services

Beginning in 2000, Port Authority of Allegheny County (Authority) began outfitting
new buses with Clever Devices Ltd?s (Clever Devices) SmartBus Intelligent Vehicle
Network (IVN) system incorporating on-board Automated Voice Annunciation (AVA), on-
board Automated Vehicle Monitoring (AVM) and Automated Passenger Counting (APC)
systems including wireless data communications. Currently, all of the Authority?s bus
and rail fleet is equipped with Clever Devices? IVN systems.

The Authority desires to enter into an agreement (Agreement) with Clever
Devices to purchase and provide implementation of additional Clever Devices? services
and software, which will provide for the deployment of real-time vehicle health
monitoring and other analytical information for the Authority?s bus system and related
intelligent transportation systems support services, including project management,
associated licenses, training, maintenance and other related services (Services).

The AVM component of the IVN system currently has the capacity to collect bus
maintenance/diagnostic data, but the Authority?s ability to effectively utilize the
information gathered from the AVM is hampered because it does not have compatible
software that assimilates and reports the information to relevant personnel. The
additional Clever Devices software referenced above can provide this functionality and
will allow the Authority to monitor the status of its bus fleet's critical on-board systems
(both mechanical and electronic) to identify and correct maintenance issues before they
cause vehicle breakdowns and service interruptions.

Services would be acquired as a sole source procurement as the software and
hardware are proprietary to Clever Devices and it is the only source from which the
Authority can, utilizing its current system, acquire the hardware and software that will
allow the Authority to advance to the next phase of enhancing the Authority's existing
on?board Intelligent Transportation System (ITS) and to provide the Authority?s
operations and maintenance staff with real-time vehicle health monitoring and other
analytical information for the Authority?s bus system and other related support services.
The new hardware and software must properly and economically interface with the
Authority?s existing system and allow the Authority to maintain the integrity of its system.
The Authority has determined that the pricing of Services is competitive and comparable
to prices charged to others.

In accordance with the Authority?s Limits of Authority Policy, the attached
resolution authorizes the Authority to enter into an agreement with Clever Devices Ltd.
for Services, for up to four years to install the software and provide training and
maintenance for the new software modules, at a total not?to?exceed amount of
$1,732,489.

3/23/18
M. Zmijanac

RESOLUTION

WHEREAS, Port Authority of Allegheny County (Authority) has previously and
successfully implemented certain Clever Devices Ltd. (Clever Devices) software and
hardware modules for performing the core functions of automated voice
announcements, automated passenger counting and automated vehicle monitoring for
buses;and

WHEREAS, Clever Devices? software and related hardware are proprietary to
Clever Devices and may only be purchased from, integrated by, modified by and
installed by Clever Devices; and

WHEREAS, Clever Devices currently provides other copyrighted software
modules and services that will further upgrade and expand the capabilities of the
Authority?s existing system; and

WHEREAS, as part of the Authority?s ongoing initiative to enhance the
Authority?s on-board Intelligent Transportation System (ITS), the Authority desires to
provide its Operations and Maintenance staff with real-time vehicle health monitoring
and other analytical information for the Authority?s bus system and related intelligent
transportation systems support services, including project management, associated
licenses, training, maintenance and other related services (Services); and

WHEREAS, the software and hardware offered by Clever Devices is the only
such software and hardware which can readily interface with the Authority?s existing
system and will allow the Authority to maintain the integrity of its system; and

WHEREAS, to allow Services to be performed by Clever Devices, the Authority
seeks authorization to enter into an agreement with Clever Devices for Services for up
to four years at the total not?exceed amount of $1,732,489.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the chief executive officer and/or
chief operations officer be, and hereby are, authorized to execute an agreement with
Clever Devices for Services, in a form approved by counsel, for the purchase of
Services for a total not-to-exceed amount of $1,732,489, and to take all such other
actions necessary and proper to carry out the purpose and intent of this resolution.

SUMMARY OF RESOLUTION
Authorization to Amend Agreement with GIRO, Inc.

In accordance with its Board-adopted Procurement Policy and Procedures for
Competitive Negotiations for Professional and Technical Services, Port Authority of
Allegheny County (Authority) previously solicited proposals to obtain the services of a
contractor to provide software design, installation, acceptance and testing services, a
one?year warranty and maintenance and support services for a software system to
replace the existing Bid Dispatch System (BDS) and Customer Service Complaint System
(CSCS) (Services). The new BDS and CSCS will replace an existing BDS and CSCS
that were no longer supported by the vendor and do not interface efficiently with other
Port Authority software. On January 22, 2016, the Authority?s Board authorized the award
of Agreement No. (Agreement) to GIRO, lnc./Le Groupe en Informatique et
Recherche Operationelle (GIRO) to provide Services.

GIRO commenced work in February 2016, has performed in a satisfactory manner,
and is expected to complete Services by mid-2018. The new BDS will be the official record
source for all light rail and bus operators performing daily and weekly schedules. The new
CSCS will handle customer inquiries and complaints in coordination with the latest customer
information systems.

Both the BDS and CSCS have been developed from software customized for the
Authority?s use and capable of interfacing and operating with other existing and anticipated
software of the Authority. Bid and Bid-Web software is also adaptable to other uses
of the Authority. Staff has determined that it would benefit from also applying this software
to the Maintenance personnel pick and job vacancy bidding process. The current
maintenance bidding software uses a 20?year old Microsoft database, is time-consuming,
not userfriendly, inefficient and is no longer supported by its vendor.

The software utilized in both the BDS and CSCS applications is proprietary to GIRO.
For adaptation of the BDS to maintenance personnel pick and job vacancy bidding, GIRO
has proposed increasing the maximum price of Agreement by $472,091, from $3,528,172
to $4,000,263. This increase would include added software licensing fees, costs of software
customization and maintenance support fees.

The proposed adaptation of BDS will be acquired as a sole source procurement as
the software is proprietary to GIRO and it is the only source from which the Authority can
utilizing its current system and acquire the software that will allow the Authority to expand
the Authority?s BDS application to maintenance personnel pick and job vacancy bidding.
The customized software must properly and economically interface with the Authority's
existing system and allow the Authority to maintain the integrity of its existing system. The
Authority has determined that the pricing of the proposed expansion of BDS is competitive
and comparable to prices charged to others.

In accordance with the Authority?s Limits of Authority Policy, the attached
resolution authorizes an amendment to Agreement with GIRO to add services which will
adapt its Bid and Bid-Web software to the Authority?s Maintenance personnel pick and job
vacancy bidding process and increase the maximum price of Agreement by $472,091, from
$3,528,172 to $4,000,263.

3/23/18
M. Zmijanac

RESOLUTION

WHEREAS, Port Authority of Allegheny County (Authority), in accordance with its
Board-adopted Procurement Policy and Procedures for Competitive Negotiations for
Professional and Technical Services, previously awarded Agreement No. R15-04
(Agreement) to GIRO, lnc./Le Groupe en lnformatique et Recherche Op?rationelle
(GIRO) to provide a software system to replace the existing operator Bid Dispatch System
(BDS) and Customer Service Complaint System (CSCS) (Services); and

WHEREAS, to date, GIRO has performed Services in a satisfactory manner; and

WHEREAS, proprietary Bid and Bid?Web software which is currently being
used for Services is adaptable to other uses of the Authority; and

WHEREAS, the Authority has determined that it would benefit from applying 
Bid and Bid-Web software to the Authority?s Maintenance personnel pick and job vacancy
bidding process; and

WHEREAS, the software offered by GIRO is the only such software which can
readily interface with the Authority?s BDS and allow the Authority to maintain the integrity
of its system; and

WHEREAS, as such, the Authority has determined that it is in its best interest to
amend Agreement with GIRO to add services which will adapt Bid and Bid-Web
software to the Authority?s Maintenance personnel pick and job vacancy bidding process;
and

WHEREAS, the Authority has also determined that an increase of $472,091 to the
previously-authorized total not-to-exceed amount of Agreement is necessary to perform
amended Services, which will increase the total not?to-exceed amount for Agreement to
$4,000,263.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the chief executive officer and/or
chief operations officer be, and hereby are, authorized to execute an amendment to
Agreement with GIRO, in a form approved by counsel, to increase the maximum price of
Agreement by $472,091, from $3,528,172 to $4,000,263, and to amend Services to include
adapting Bid and Bid-Web software to the Authority?s Maintenance personnel pick
and job vacancy bidding process, and to take all such other actions necessary and proper
to carry out the purpose and intent of this resolution.

SUMMARY OF RESOLUTION

Authorization to Award Construction Contract for the
Embedded Light Rail Turnout Replacement Project

Port Authority of Allegheny County?s (Authority) Contract SHJ-18-05 (Contract)
provides for the furnishing of engineering, labor, material, equipment, tools, supervision
and incidental items required to replace the embedded light rail turnout at the Authority?s
South Hills Junction. The work includes, but is not limited to, removal of the existing rail
turnout and pavement, installation of a new Authority supplied turnout, drainage, new
reinforced cement concrete pavement and signal modifications.

To perform the work for Contract, bid documents were prepared and publicly
advertised. On March 7, 2018, one bid was received and opened for Contract.

After review of the bid by the Authority?s staff, counsel and consulting engineer,
it has been determined that the bid of Delta Railroad Construction, Inc., in the amount of
$1,011,962.00, is the lowest responsive bid from a responsible bidder meeting the
Authority?s specifications for Contract.

It is recommended that Contract be awarded to Delta Railroad Construction,
Inc., in the amount of $1,011,962.00, subject to completing all the pre-award
requirements.

3/23/18
M. Zmijanac

RESOLUTION

WHEREAS, Port Authority of Allegheny County (Authority) is engaged in the
design and construction of the Embedded Light Rail Turnout Replacement Project
(Project); and

WHEREAS, the work for Project includes the furnishing of engineering, labor,
material, equipment, tools, supervision and incidental items required to replace the
Authority?s embedded light rail turnout at the South Hills Junction, including, but not
limited to, removal of the existing rail turnout and pavement, installation of a new
Authority supplied turnout, drainage, new reinforced cement concrete pavement and
signal modifications; and

WHEREAS, in order to perform the referenced work for Project, bid documents
were prepared for Contract SHJ-18-05, Embedded Light Rail Turnout Replacement
(Contract), and were made available to bidders in accordance with the provisions of the
Second Class County Port Authority Act, as amended; and

WHEREAS, one bid for Contract was received and opened on March 7, 2018;
and

WHEREAS, the bid of Delta Railroad Construction, Inc., in the amount of
$1,011,962.00, is the lowest responsive bid from a responsible bidder meeting the
Authority's specifications for Contract; and

WHEREAS, the bid of Delta Railroad Construction, Inc., has been reviewed by
the Authority?s staff and legal counsel and is recommended for award of Contract.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the chief executive officer and/or
assistant general manager Engineering and Technical Support be, and hereby are,
authorized to enter into an agreement, in a form approved by counsel, with Delta
Railroad Construction, Inc., in the amount of $1,011,962.00, for Contract, subject to
completing all pre-award requirements, and to take all such other actions necessary and
proper to carry out the purpose and intent of this resolution.

Port

Ad Revenue Received
{via Finance)

Ads Sold
{via Advertising Sales)

FY18 Revenue Goal

Port Authority - Advertising Sales
Performance Report

Month of February 2018

 

Year to Date

 

Budget Actual Variance Budget

$220,833 $197,887 -$22,946 $1,766,664

$220,833 $179,073 -$41,760 $1,766,664

$2,650,000

Actual

$2,219,600

$1,550,427

Variance

$452,936

-$216,237

