Chicago Housing Authority
Board of Commissioners Public Session

December 16, 2008
Board Meeting
Otta Henderson
Deverra Beverly

Gertte Smith

Robert Whitfield

Hank Browne

November 18, 2008
Board Meeting
Natalie Saffold

Lamont Alfred

Welcome Commissioners and Public at Large to
Meeting.
Acknowledged Commissioners, CEO, staff, and
resident leadership for continued support of ABLA
and Plan for Transformation.
On behalf of Eastlake Management,
complemented CHA divisions for assisting in a
successful lease-up Program in Altgeld.
According to Ms. Smith, 216 units have been
leased to date.
Acknowledged CEO’s prompt responses to all his
written concerns.
CAC not opposed to work requirements.
However, due to unemployment challenges
encourages CHA to continue to provide
educational programs for CHA residents.
T-C Scanner installed, however would like to
know what security measures are in place to
safeguard residents information since front desk is
sometimes left unattended.

What are the plans for LeClaire residents? Three
working group meetings held and resident’s vision
was related to CHA.
Front room of building not enclosed, no heat in
sun-room. 28 Residents unable to receive guests
due to Syntec not working properly.

Comments Noted
Comments Noted

Comments Noted.

Comments Noted.

Security issues addressed by staff. Follow-up call made to Mr.
Browne who indicated no further concerns at this time.

Staff continues to evaluate plans for LeClaire. Meetings will
continue to be held with LeClaire residents will be engaged.
Follow-up call made to Mr. Alfred. Issues were resolved
satisfactorily. No further concerns at this time.

 Chicago Housing Authority
Board of Commissioners Public Session

Deverra Beverly
Michael Watson

Jonnell Holley

October 21, 2008
Board Meeting
Catherine Beaty

Juanita Stevenson

Mary Baldwin

Dawn Hendon

Acknowledged CEO for town hall meeting held
with LeClaire Courts residents.
On behalf of Caritas, acknowledged Chicago
Police Department for community support and
outreach programs.
Encouraged CHA residents to attend Alcohol and
Substance Abuse treatment provided by Caritas.
Community support in LeClaire is important to her
and residents who would like to remain.
Encouraged residents to use the available
Supports Services and return to LeClaire
community.

Inspection challenges with McWright. Thoroughly
dissatisfied with McWright’s services.
Experienced 8 month delay with CHAC regarding
rent reduction concerns.
On behalf of Lathrop LAC and Logan Square
Neighborhood Association provided Vacant Unit
Proposal to Board.
Acknowledged CEO for meeting with Rockwell
Residents to discuss redevelopment plans and
also for providing residents opportunities to still
attend sports games.
Former resident and consultant of CHA. Would
like to take an active role in ensuring that CHA
resident’s capital development needs are met.

Comments Noted.
Comments Noted.

Comments Noted.

Referred to Kris Warren after meeting. Per the Chair, CHA is
committed to improving customer services. Follow-up call made
to Ms. Beaty, no further concerns at this time.

Meeting scheduled with CEO and staff to discuss proposal.

Comments Noted.

Ms. Hendon was referred to Linda Kaiser, Executive Vice
President for Resident Services.

 