PERFORMANCE OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE MEETING
June 21, 2018
The meeting was called to order at 9:00 a.m. in Port Authority’s Neal H. Holmes Board
Room located on the fifth floor of the Heinz 57 Center with the following in attendance:
Board Committee Members
Michelle Zmijanac, Chair
Jennifer Liptak
Rob Vescio
1.

Other Board Member
John Tague
Ann Ogoreuc

Approval of Minutes:
Minutes from the May 14, 2018 Performance Oversight Committee meeting were
approved.

2.

Proposed Resolutions:
There were four resolutions reviewed by the Performance Oversight Committee.
The Committee first reviewed four procurement items and found the bids to be in
accordance with the Authority’s procurement policies and procedures, the prices to be
fair and reasonable, and the bidders to be responsive and responsible.
The Performance Oversight Committee agreed to recommend for award the four
items discussed at the meeting for the total amount of $1,345,360.
The next resolution reviewed by the Performance Oversight Committee was
authorization to award a construction contract for the LED Lighting Upgrades project.
It was reported at the meeting that the Authority wishes to upgrade the existing
lighting systems in the maintenance and storage areas at South Hills Junction Building
#1 and the Ross, Collier and East Liberty Garages. The work would also include
upgrading high bay lighting at the Steel Plaza and Wood Street Stations.
Bid documents were prepared and publicly advertised and eight bids were received.
It has been determined that the bid of TSB, Inc., d/b/a Schultheis Electric, is the lowest
responsive bid from a responsible bidder meeting the Authority’s specifications.
The Performance Oversight Committee agreed to recommend awarding the contract
to Schultheis Electric, in the amount of $2,712,621, subject to completing all preaward requirements.
The next resolution reviewed by the Committee seeks authorization to amend the
Travel and Expense Reimbursement Policy. It was reported at the meeting that the
Authority maintains a set of guidelines and procedures for the reimbursement of travel
expenses incurred by employees in performing business-related activities.

 2
Management wishes to amend the policy to make various changes, including
requiring that the Authority book hotel and other lodging reservations for employees
traveling on business, ensuring employees utilize public transportation during out-oftown travel whenever feasible and making other administrative updates and
clarifications.
The Performance Oversight Committee agreed to recommend approving the
amended Travel and Expense Reimbursement Policy attached to the resolution as
Exhibit A.
The final resolution reviewed at the meeting was Authorization to Enter into an
Interagency Cooperation and Reimbursement Agreement with the Pennsylvania
Turnpike Commission to study transportation funding and develop options for the
future.
Pursuant to Act 89, the PA Turnpike Commission makes annual payments to the
Pennsylvania Department of Transportation, some of which supports transit programs.
The Authority has benefitted from Act 89 through a capital improvement program and
stable operating funding and wants to take proactive steps to ensure a reliable and
sustainable source of transportation funding exists in future years.
It was reported at the meeting that the Turnpike Commission wishes to work with the
Authority to study the state of transportation funding.
The Performance Oversight Committee agreed to recommend entering into the
Agreement with the Pennsylvania Turnpike Commission for the completion of the
study for a total not-to-exceed amount of $205,000.
3.

Financial Report:
CFO Peter Schenk reported that Total Operating Revenues through May were
approximately 5.1 million dollars higher than budget, principally due to higher
Passenger Revenues. It was reported that Total Expenses through May were
approximately 16.4 million dollars under budget. Total subsidies were approximately
$481,814 under budget, which is a timing issue with State Operating
Assistance. Subsidies should be on budget by fiscal year-end.
With no further business, the meeting was adjourned.

 