MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING
OF THE
COMMISSIONERS OF THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
March 16, 2010
The Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority held its Regular Meeting of the Board of
Commissioners on Tuesday, March 16, 2010, at about 8:45 a.m. at the Daniel Hudson
Apartments, 1930 W. Loyola, , Chicago, IL.
Chairman Nesbitt called the meeting to order and upon roll call, those present and absent were as
follows:
Present:
Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Deverra Beverly
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Bridget Reidy
Sandra Young
Absent:

Myra King
Carlos Ponce

Also present were Lewis Jordan, Chief Executive Officer; Kris Warren, Chief of Staff; Scott
Ammarell, General Counsel; Chicago Housing Authority Staff Members and the General Public.
There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as
follows:
Upon Motion made and properly seconded the Commissioners adjourned to Executive Session.
The Chairman announced that pursuant to the Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2, the Board
would adjourn for approximately one (1) hour to possibly discuss pending, probable or imminent
litigation, personnel related matters, collective negotiating matters, purchase, sale and lease of
real estate property; establishment of reserves and settlement of claims.
Commissioner Myra King joined the Commissioners in Executive Session at about 8:55 a.m.
The Commissioners subsequently reconvened in Open Session and the Chairman thereupon
convened the Public Hearing portion and Business Sessions of the meeting.
Lewis Jordan, Chief Executive Officer, then presented his monthly report. Per Mr. Jordan, CHA
together with Teresita Diaz, a Section 8 tenant, achieved a major milestone when Ms. Diaz
became the 300 person to secure a home through CHA’s Choose to Own Program. Ms. Diaz’s
accomplishment was lauded at a press conference which was attended by Mayor Daley and other
dignitaries. Mr. Jordan continued by saying that during this reporting period, six CHA residents
graduated from the Family Self Sufficiency Program and, to date, 600 CHA residents have
completed the program since its inception 10 years ago. Mr. Jordan then mentioned several
activities planned for CHA youth during the spring and summer breaks. Mr. Jordan concluded
his report by highly encouraging CHA residents to register and participate in the activities
planned for spring and summer breaks.
Chairman Nesbitt then invited residents and the public at large to address the Board.

1

 Immediately following the Public Hearing portion of the meeting, Chairman Nesbitt introduced
the two items discussed in Executive Session. Commissioner Young then presented an Omnibus
Motion for approval of Executive Session Items 1 and 2:
Executive Session Item 1
RESOLUTION NO. 2010-CHA-18
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated March 1, 2010, requesting that the Board of Commissioners
approves the Personnel Actions Report for February 2010.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the Personnel Actions Report for
February 2010.

Executive Session Item 2
RESOLUTION NO. 2010-CHA-19
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated March 16,
2010, requesting authorization to enter into a settlement agreement in the amount
of $150,000 in the matter of Lisette Berberena, as mother and next friend of
Tyrone Stoutmire, and Tyrone Stoutmire v. CHA, U.S. Dwellings Management &
Development, LLC. et al. 07 L 5178.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the General Counsel, or his designee, to
enter into a settlement agreement in the amount of $150,000.00 in the case known
as Lisette Berberena, as mother and next friend of Tyrone Stoutmire, and Tyrone
Stoutmire v. CHA, U.S. Dwellings Management & Development, LLC. et al. 07 L
5178.

The Motion to adopt resolutions for Executive Session Items 1and 2was seconded by
Commissioner Reidy and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Deverra Beverly
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Myra King
Bridget Reidy
Sandra Young

Nays:

None

The Chairman thereupon declared said Motion carried and said Resolutions adopted.
Commissioner Ivers, Chairman of the Finance and Audit Committee, then presented his monthly
report. Per Commissioner Ivers, the Finance and Audit Committee held its regular meeting on
Tuesday, March 10, 2010, at approximately 1:20 p.m. at the 60 East Van Buren Corporate
offices. Elias Rosario, Chief Financial Officer, and his staff presented the Committee with the
Treasury and Cash Flow Report for the month of February 2010.
Commissioner Ivers then presented an Omnibus Motion for adoption of Resolutions for Items
A1, A2 and A4 thru A6 discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Finance
and Audit Committee.
(Item A1)
In January 2009, Aon directly and indirectly solicited requests for insurance premium quotes from 9
insurance carriers. Aon received four quotes for General Liability and 3 quotes for Excess Liability.
Due to the new contracts with the Private Property Management firms, Workers Compensation,
Crime and Auto Liability insurance will not be included in the PMIP, but will instead be provided by
the individual firms. This was the first time in over ten years that multiple insurance carriers were
2

 willing to quote both the General and Excess Liability coverages. Last year, Aon was able to obtain
competitive quotes for only the General Liability. This year using CHA’s improving claims history
combined with the interest generated over the past several years by Aon, several insurance carriers
provided competitive quotes for both General and Excess Liability. The premiums offered by
Liberty Mutual, Illinois Union and AXIS provide a cost savings of 31% to the CHA from this past
year’s premiums; however, the retention level has been reduced from $750,000 to $250,000.
Accordingly, the resolution for Item A1 approves award of contract to Liberty Mutual, Illinois Union
and Axis Surplus Companies for the insurance coverage.

RESOLUTION NO. 2010-CHA-20
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated March 10, 2010,
entitled “Authorization to enter into contracts with Liberty Mutual Insurance,
Illinois Union and AXIS Surplus Insurance Companies for the Private Managers
Insurance Program’s General and Excess Liability Insurance Coverages”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to procure General Liability and Excess Liability Coverage for the
Private Managers Insurance Program through Aon Risk Services Central, Inc.
from Liberty Mutual Insurance (General Liability), Illinois Union and AXIS
Surplus Insurance Companies (Excess Liability) in the aggregate amount not-toexceed $1,129,759 for the period April 1, 2010 through March 31, 2011.

(Item A2)
The resolution for Item A2 approves a Housing Assistance Payment contract with WilsonYard
Senior Apartments to provide 20 Project Based Vouchers. Wilson Yard is located at 1036 West
Montrose in the Uptown community. The building is a 7-story building containing 98 onebedroom senior rental apartments. Building amenities include a community room, meeting
room, laundry facilities, bicycle storage, an exterior landscaped roof deck on the 7 th floor as well
as access to the common exterior roof deck shared with the Wilson Yard family apartments and
an attached parking deck containing 119 parking spaces which is also shared with the family
building. The building will be LEED certified at the Silver level and contain such features as
low-e glass, Energy Star appliances, high-efficiency building systems, a recycling room and
LEED compliant paint and floor coverings throughout. The senior apartments are adjacent to the
newly constructed Target store and within walking distance of the Wilson CTA Red Line, an
Aldi grocery store and a newly renovated Jewel. The apartments are also served by the
Montrose and Broadway bus routes and are less than one mile west of lakefront parks that are
easily accessible by foot or public transportation. In order to help make this housing opportunity
available to the widest range of low income seniors, the developer is seeking Project-based
Voucher assistance for 20 units. The Wilson Yard family building was awarded Project-based
Voucher assistance for 16 units in 2008 and is now in the lease-up process.
RESOLUTION NO. 2010-CHA-21
WHEREAS: the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board letter dated March 10, 2010,
requesting authorization to enter into a Housing Assistance Payment Contract to
provide 20 Project-Based Vouchers to Wilson Yard Senior Apartments and
authorization to execute all other documents as may be necessary or appropriate
to implement the foregoing.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer, or his
designee to enter into a Housing Assistance Payment Contract to provide 20
Project-Based Vouchers to Wilson Yard Senior Apartments, a low-income senior
housing development and to execute all other documents as may be necessary or
appropriate to implement the foregoing.

(ITEM A3 -THIS NUMBER NOT USED)
(Item A4)
The Plan for Transformation was approved by HUD and incorporated into a Moving to Work
(MTW) Agreement in February 2000. In June 2008, CHA executed an Amended and Restated
3

 MTW Agreement (Restated Agreement) which supersedes the original MTW Agreement and
extends CHA’s participation in the MTW program until 2018. The Restated Agreement
instituted new reporting requirements and subsequently HUD issued revised reporting
requirements. The FY2009 MTW Annual Report is the first report to follow the new reporting
requirements and has been streamlined to reflect these changes. Under the MTW Agreement,
CHA is required to produce and submit an Annual Report to HUD outlining the progress toward
commitments made in the original Plan for Transformation and each Annual Plan. HUD
requires this report to be submitted annually, along with a Board of Commissioners’ resolution
approving this report, no later than 90 days after the end of CHA’s fiscal year. Accordingly, the
resolution for Item A4 approves submission of the FY2009 Moving to Work annual Report to
HUD.
RESOLUTION NO. 2010-CHA-22
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated March 10,
2010, requesting approval of the FY2009 Moving to Work Annual Report,
attached hereto.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the attached FY2009 Moving to
Work Annual Report and grants authorization to the Chief Executive Officer, the
Board Chairperson, or their designee to make any final changes as deemed
necessary. Such approval shall constitute conclusive evidence of the Board’s
approval of any and all such changes.

THAT

the Board of Commissioners grants authorization to submit the FY2009 Moving
to Work Annual Report to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development on March 31, 2010.

(Item A5)
The resolution for Item A5 approves submittal to HUD of Amendment No. 3 to CHA’s
Amended and Restated Moving To Work Agreement. Amendment No. 3 allows CHA to count
units supported by Project Based Vouchers (PBVs) towards CHA’s Plan for Transformation goal
to replace or rehabilitate 25,000 units of public housing. CHA remains committed to the
delivery of 25,000 revitalized public housing units and through Amendment No. 3, seeks to
mitigate the effects that funding shortfalls may have on meeting the unit delivery goals of the
Plan. Amendment No. 3 positions CHA to acquire units through PBVs in other developing or
existing properties, which may have greater diversity in unit, bedroom sizes, and geographic
locale. This strategy better aligns the housing choices available to CHA residents with the needs
of current and prospective residents. Moreover, the location of PBV units are dispersed across
the city, many in opportunity areas, which further assists CHA’s efforts to deconcentrate poverty.
To date, CHA has completed 71% of the 25,000 units required to be replaced or modernized by
rehabilitating, redeveloping, or acquiring units over the course of the Plan. CHA remains
committed to continuing these efforts and delivering more revitalized public housing units each
remaining year of the Plan for Transformation.
RESOLUTION NO. 2010-CHA-23
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated March 10, 2010, entitled “RECOMMENDATION TO
APPROVE AMENDMENT NO. 3 TO CHA’S AMENDED AND RESTATED
MTW AGREEMENT.”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners approves Amendment No. 3 to CHA’s Amended and
Restated MTW Agreement and submission thereafter to HUD for execution.

(Item A6)
On February 22, 2010, the CHA received official written notice of an award of $56,274.00 from
HUD’s Public Housing Family Self-Sufficiency Program (FSS) to continue the implementation
of the Family Self-Sufficiency Program, a partnership with Heartland Human Care Services to
target 50 public housing program participants in mixed-income communities. The program has
been recently expanded to include 250 residents in mixed-income and family developments. This
4

 expansion is reflected in an amended Family Self-Sufficiency Plan that was submitted to HUD in
2009. The purpose of the Public Housing FSS program is to promote the development of local
strategies to coordinate the use of accessible services under the FSS program with public and
private resources, enable participating families to increase earned income, reduce or eliminate
the need for welfare assistance, and make progress toward achieving economic independence
and housing self-sufficiency. Accordingly, the resolution for Item A6 approves acceptance of
the FSS Grant Award from HUD.
RESOLUTION NO. 2010-CHA-24
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated March 10, 2010, entitled “RATIFICATION OF
ACCEPTANCE OF A RENEWAL GRANT AWARD FROM THE U.S.
DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT, AND
AUTHORIZATION TO ENTER INTO A SUB-GRANT AGREEMENT WITH
HEARTLAND HUMAN CARE SERVICES AND INCREASE THE FY2009
COMPREHENSIVE BUDGET
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners ratifies the acceptance a HUD grant award to
continue funding for the Public Housing Family Self-Sufficiency Program in the
amount of $56,274.00, and authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee
to increase the FY 2010 comprehensive budget and enter into a sub-grant
agreement with Heartland Human Care Services for $56,274.00 to continue the
implementation of the Family Self-Sufficiency Program.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items A1, A2 and A4 thru A6 was seconded by
Commissioner Young and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Deverra Beverly
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Myra King
Bridget Reidy
Sandra Young

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairman thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Finance and Audit Committee report was also accepted in
total.
In the absence of Commissioner Ponce, Chairman of the Operations and Facilities Committee,
Commissioner Bridget Reidy then presented the monthly report. Per Commissioner Reidy, the
Operations and Facilities Committee meeting was held on Wednesday, March 10th at
approximately 1:35 p.m. at the 60 East Van Buren Corporate offices.
Commissioner Reidy then presented an Omnibus Motion for adoption of the Resolutions for
Items B1 thru B5 discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Operations and
Facilities Committee.
(Item B1)
In March 2008, the Board of Commissioners approved an award of an agreement with Integrys
Energy Services, Inc. for the supply and delivery of natural gas to various CHA residential sites
and facilities for a base period of two (2) years. The current contract will expire on March 31,
2010. The Natural Gas Supply and Delivery Agreement offers CHA the opportunity to purchase
its gas needs at wholesale instead of retail, and enables the CHA to hedge against potential
market price fluctuations through use of multi-tiered price/risk management options. An
extension of the agreement would allow the CHA to continue to purchase natural gas supplies
from non-utility sources and thereby reduce the CHA’s overall gas costs. Based on the historical
consumption and management practices, the anticipated annual usage for the period of April 1,
5

 2010 through March 31, 2011, is projected at 12,334,819 therms. Based on proposed pricing for
the period, the projected cost to CHA would be $8,440,427.00. Accordingly, the resolution for
Item B1 approves the first option year extension with Integrys Energy Services.
RESOLUTION NO. 2010-CHA-25
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated March 10, 2009, entitled “Authorization to Exercise the First
One-Year Option with Integrys Energy Services, Inc. for the Supply and Delivery
of Natural Gas to Various CHA Residential Sites and Facilities”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to exercise the one-year option with Integrys Energy Services, Inc. for
the supply and delivery of natural gas to various CHA residential sites and
facilities in an amount not-to-exceed $8,440,427.00.

(Item B2)
The CHA advertised Invitation for Bid (IFB) in December 2009 for the renovation of 166 Family
Housing units, including the associated site work and landscaping, at Dearborn Homes (IL2–
009). This is Phase 5 of the ongoing renovation of this development and covers the buildings at
2840 S. State St., 2900 S. State St., 2901 S. Federal St., and 2910 S. Dearborn St. The IFB was
advertised in area newspapers and on CHA’s website. The CHA received and opened eight bids
and after reviewing the bid submittal materials, a pre-award survey meeting was held with the
three lowest apparent bidders. It was determined that Walsh is the lowest responsive and
responsible bidder at $29,927,000.00. Walsh has considerable experience as a general contractor
for CHA renovation efforts, including Altgeld Gardens and Philip Murray Homes. Walsh has
shown the ability to bring projects in on time and within budget, with few if any change orders.
Accordingly, the resolution for Item B2 approves award of contract to Walsh Construction for
the Family Housing Renovation at Dearborn Homes, Phase 5.
RESOLUTION NO. 2010-CHA-26
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated March 10,
2010, entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO EXECUTE CONTRACT WITH
WALSH CONSTRUCTION COMPANY OF IL FOR THE FAMILY HOUSING
RENOVATION AT DEARBORN HOMES (IL2–009) – PHASE 5”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

that the Board of Commissioners authorize the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute a contract with Walsh Construction Company of IL in the
amount of $29,927,000.00 for the renovation of one hundred sixty-six (166)
Family Housing units and the associated site work and landscaping at Dearborn
Homes (IL2-009) – Phase 5. The work will be performed at 2840 S. State St.,
2900 S. State St., 2901 S. Federal St., and 2910 S. Dearborn St.
The work at 2840 S. State St. and 2900 S. State St., comprising seventy-two (72)
units, is to be completed within two hundred ten (210) calendar days of the date
set forth in the Notice to Proceed. The work at 2901 S. Federal St. and 2910 S.
Dearborn St., comprising ninety-four (94) units, is to be completed within three
hundred (300) calendar days of the date set forth in the Notice to Proceed.
This award is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s
MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident hiring, and bonding and insurance
requirements.

(Item B3)
The CHA advertised Request for Proposal in November 2009 for Authority-wide construction
management services for the Plan for Transformation in area newspapers and on the CHA’s
website. The CHA also directly solicited 225 firms, including 39 M/W/DBE firms. Eighty-six
firms picked up copies of the solicitation. The CHA received eight proposals which were
evaluated and scored. Four respondents were found to be in the competitive range and were
invited to make presentations and hold discussions with the CHA. After further evaluations
6

 following the presentations and discussions with the four Respondents, the Contracting Officer
set a second competitive range narrowing the field to two respondents. Upon further
consideration following additional discussions with these two firms, staff concluded that
Partnership for Transformation provides the best overall combination of expertise, knowledge,
understanding, competence, ability and cost. Accordingly, the resolution for Item B3 approves
award of contract to Partnership for Transformation for Authority wide construction
management services. Partnership for Transformation is a joint venture consisting of McKissack
& McKissack Midwest, Inc., The Rise Group, LLC and URS Corporation.
RESOLUTION NO. 2010-CHA-27
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated March 10, 2010,
entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO EXECUTE A CONTRACT WITH
PARTNERSHIP FOR TRANSFORMATION FOR AUTHORITY-WIDE
CONSTRUCTION MANAGEMENT SERVICES”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute a contract for Authority-wide construction management
services with Partnership for Transformation for a one-year term in an amount
not-to-exceed $2,975,581.00, with two one-year options, subject to the Board’s
approval, for Authority-wide construction management services for the Capital
Construction Department’s rehabilitation, and capital maintenance activities
associated with the Capital Improvement Program.
This award is subject to the firm’s compliance with CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE,
Section 3 resident hiring, and bonding and insurance requirements.

(Item B4)
The resolution for Item B4 approves submission of an Acquisition Application to HUD and to
enter into a Purchase Agreement with RS Homes II LLC for a certain portion of land at the
Roosevelt Square Development. Related Midwest, Heartland Housing and Quest Development
were selected as the result of an RFP for the redevelopment of the ABLA site into a mixedincome community. The development of a community park was a critical component in the
community approval of the Roosevelt Square Redevelopment Plan. On behalf of the CHA, the
developer purchased Riis School from the Chicago Public Schools in July 2007 for the appraised
market value of $2,500,000 for future development of residential units and a 1.1 acre park for the
Roosevelt Square community. The CHA is legally obligated to the Chicago Park District (CPD)
under the 2003 FOSCO Park IGA to provide this land for development of the 1.1 acre park.
Through acquisition of this site, CHA will fulfill its obligation to CPD and the site will be
available for the Roosevelt Square community park. The subject property is approximately
1.414 acres located at 1109 south Throop Street, just south of Taylor Street (North), Grenshaw
Street (South), South Lytle Street (East) and South Throop Street (West). The appraised fair
market value for the land is $1,970,000. The full 1.414 acre site is slated for development of 21
townhome style units in addition to the new 1.1 acre community park. The community park will
house a group of seven, Works Progress Administration era animal sculptures by renowned artist
Edgar Miller, originally installed at the Jane Addams Homes that are currently in storage
awaiting restoration and reinstallation.
RESOLUTION NO. 2010-CHA-28
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated March 10, 2010,
requesting authorization to: 1) Submit an Acquisition Application to the United
States Department of Housing and Urban Development, 2) Enter into a Purchase
Agreement with RS Homes II LLC for a certain portion of land at the Roosevelt
Square development and 3) Execute such other documents as necessary to
implement the foregoing.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to: 1) Submit an Acquisition Application to the United States
Department of Housing and Urban Development, 2) Enter into a Purchase
Agreement with RS Homes II LLC for a certain portion of land at the Roosevelt
7

 Square development and 3) Execute such other documents as necessary to
implement the foregoing.
(Item B5)
The resolution for Item B5 approves a Predevelopment Loan Agreement with RS Homes II LLC
for the Roosevelt Square Phase IIA Development not-to-exceed $4,000,000. Roosevelt Square
Phase IIA (RS IIA) will provide a total of 185 rental units, including 49 units for public housing
residents. RS IIA will have multiple sub-phase developments in order to make it easier to
finance and market new units in the current real estate market. The multi phase RS IIA
developments are projected to include: 1) two, 64 unit market-rate rental buildings for a total of
128 units, 2) a Family Supportive Housing building with 30 total units, and 3) two rental
buildings with 27 total units. The building types include townhouses, six flats and two, five
story rental buildings. Each of the two 64 unit buildings will provide 8 units for public housing
families, for a total of 16 public housing units. The location of these buildings will be along
Roosevelt Road between Racine Avenue and Loomis Street.
The proposed CHA
predevelopment loan amount for these two buildings is approximately $1,723,826. The Family
Supportive Housing building and two additional rental buildings will provide a total of 57
affordable and public housing units and the proposed CHA predevelopment loan amount is
approximately $1,753,822. The Family Supportive Housing building will be located between
Throop Street (East), Blue Island (West), 15th Street (South) and north of the new proposed
Police Station along Blue Island. The other two rental buildings will be located on two separate
sites for a total of 27 units with 18 units proposed for public housing residents and 9 units for
affordable residents; the first building will be located along Roosevelt Road between Racine
Avenue and Throop Street; the second building is located along 13th Street between Blue Island
Avenue and Racine Avenue. This site is just north of the new Fire Station that was developed by
the PBC to serve the surrounding community. The developer plans to close on the first sub
phase of the two, 64 unit buildings by late summer, early fall 2010. The Family Supportive
Housing development plans to close early in 2011.
RESOLUTION NO. 2010-CHA-29
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated March 10,
2010, requesting authorization to: 1) Enter into a Predevelopment Loan with RS
Homes II LLC for the Roosevelt Square Phase IIA development in an amount not
to exceed $4,000,000 and 2) Execute such other documents as necessary to
implement the foregoing.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to: 1) Enter into a Predevelopment Loan with RS Homes II LLC for the
Roosevelt Square Phase IIA development in an amount not to exceed $4,000,000
and 2) Execute such other documents as necessary to implement the foregoing.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items B1 thru B5 was seconded by Commissioner
Harris and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Deverra Beverly
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Myra King
Bridget Reidy
Sandra Young

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairman thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted.
Commissioner Reidy than presented an Omnibus Motion for adoption of the Resolutions for
Items B6 and B7 discussed, but not voted upon at the Operations and Facilities Committee.
8

 (Item B6)
The CHA plans to open the General Family Public Housing Wait List in FY2010. The CHA is
required to duplicate and distribute applications and related materials to approximately 500
locations. These locations include all property management companies, partners, external
stakeholders, and a variety of public venues including libraries and community centers.
Examples of these documents include Public Housing Wait List Applications and Frequently
Asked Questions materials. Pitney Bowes was selected by exigency and sole source due to
inadequate competition since only one vendor submitted a proposal for review in response to the
Request For Proposal. Pitney Bows has extensive experience with scanning documents through
Optical Character Recognition. They have committed to duplicating and distributing materials
within a rapid development timeframe in conjunction with the needs of the project. Additionally,
the company has the equipment and infrastructure that will meet the high volume demands of the
project. Accordingly, the resolution for Item B6 approves award of contract to Pitney Bowes.
RESOLUTION NO. 2010-CHA-30
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated March 10, 2010, entitled “Recommendation to Award a
Contract for Duplication, Distribution and Optical Character Recognition Services
for the Opening of the General Family Waitlist”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into a service agreement with Pitney Bowes for duplication,
distribution and Optical Character Recognition services for a one year term in an
amount not to exceed $608,290.00, with one, one-year option.

(Item B7)
On January 2010, the CHA advertised a Request for Proposal (RFP) for the creation and
implementation of an online portal that will accept applications electronically as well as hosting
the portal website during the period in which open enrollment is active and until all applications
are processed. The RFP was advertised in area newspapers, as well as CHA’s website. In
addition, notification was sent to 44 Assist Agencies for provision to their member list. Of the
six proposals received, evaluated and scored, three proposals were found to be within the
competitive range. Individual discussions and clarification meetings were conducted with the
vendors and after their Best and Final Offers were received, it was determined that Model
Metrics, Inc. best exhibited the knowledge and expertise to provide the CHA with the requested
services at the most competitive price. Accordingly, the resolution for item B7 approves award
of contract to Model Metrics for a twelve monthly period at a firm, fixed price of $103,868.00.
RESOLUTION NO. 2010-CHA-31
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated March 10, 2010, entitled “Recommendation to Award a
Contract for Online Applicant System Services for the Opening of the General
Family Waitlist”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into a service agreement with Model Metrics for online
applicant system services for a twelve (12) month period in the firm, fixed amount
of $103,868.00.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items B6 and B7 was seconded by Commissioner
Young and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Deverra Beverly
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Myra King
Bridget Reidy
9

 Sandra Young
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairman thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Operations and Facilities Committee report was also accepted
in total.
Commissioner Young, Chairperson of the Tenant Services Committee then presented her
monthly report. Per Commissioner Young, the Tenant Services Committee held its regular
meeting on Tuesday, March 10, 2010 at 2:00 p.m. at the 60 East Van Buren Corporate offices.
Linda Kaiser, Vice President of Resident Services; Matt Weiss, Director of Workforce
Development, Heartland Human Care Services and Greg Sutton, Vice President, TEC Services,
Inc; presented the Committee with an update on the Transitional Jobs Program.
Commissioner Young then presented an Omnibus Motion for adoption of Resolutions for Items
C1 and C3 discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Tenant Services
Committee.
(Item C1)
The resolution for Item C1 approves exercising the first one-year option to extend the relocation
moving contracts with Big “O” Movers, REO Movers, Smith Movers, and Midway Movers to
provide moving services for families relocating under the Plan for Transformation. The current
contracts will expire on March 31, 2010 and continued services for families are necessary. Each
contractor has performed satisfactorily and met its contractual requirements during the base term
of the contracts. The maximum aggregate compensation amount for all of the contracts
combined is an amount not-to-exceed $5,039,616.
RESOLUTION NO. 2010-CHA-32
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated March 10, 2010,
entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO EXERCISE THE FIRST ONE-YEAR OPTION
TO EXTEND THE RESIDENT RELOCATION MOVING CONTRACTS WITH
BIG “O” MOVERS AND STORAGE. INC., REO MOVERS AND STORAGE,
INC., SMITH MOVERS INC. AND MIDWAY MOVING AND STORAGE, INC.,
TO PROVIDE MOVING AND RELOCATION SERVICES FOR FAMILIES
RELOCATING UNDER THE PLAN FOR TRANSFORMATION”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to exercise the first one-year option for resident relocation moving
services with Big “O” Movers and Storage, Inc., in the amount of $325,000, Reo
Movers and Storage, Inc., in the amount of $325,000, Smith Movers Inc. in the
amount of $325,000, Midway Moving and Storage, Inc., in the amount of
$325,000, and authorizes a contingency budget in the amount of $400,000 for a
total amount not-to-exceed $1,700,000 for all contracts. The maximum aggregate
compensation amount for all of the contracts combined is an amount not-toexceed $5,039,616.

(Item C3)
The resolution for Item C3 approves a contract amendment with Screening Reports, Inc., not-toexceed $140,000.00 for Tenant Screening Services for the Housing Choice Voucher (HCV)
Program. Under the HCV program, Tenant Screening Services will screen adult household
members for certain types of criminal activity before admission to the program. In addition,
adults that are added to the household or head of household changes will also be screened. The
background check is then provided to CHA for a final determination for assistance. As a result of
the additional volume that Screening Reports, Inc. will gain upon adding the HCV program to
the contract, the vendor has agreed to lower the current pricing per Complete
Criminal Background search report and Social Security Trace. Consequently, this permits
both the Public Housing side and the Housing Choice Voucher Program to pay the same amount
for the same report.

10

 RESOLUTION NO. 2010-CHA-33
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated March 10, 2020, entitled, “RECOMMENDATION TO
AUTHORIZE AN AMENDMENT TO CONTRACT NUMBER 9009 WITH
SCREENING REPORTS, INC. FOR TENANT SCREENING SERVICES FOR
THE HCV PROGRAM”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

The Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer, or his
designee, to amend the Contract Number 9009 with Screening Reports Inc. to
provide tenant services screening services to the HCV Program and to increase
funding under the Contract by an amount not to exceed $140,000.00. The
contract’s new aggregate not-to-exceed funding amount will be $382,000.00.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items C1 and C3 was seconded by Commissioner
King and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Deverra Beverly
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Myra King
Bridget Reidy
Sandra Young

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairman thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted.
Commissioner Young then presented a motion to approved Item C2 which was tabled at
Committee to address concerns raised by a Cabrini Resident. According to Commissioner Young
a meeting was held on Monday, March 15th and the resident’s issues were resolved.
(Item C2)
The resolution for Item C2 approves contract extension with Holsten Real Estate Development
Corporation for Community and Supportive Services at Parkside. In June 2005 the Board
authorized CHA to enter into a contract for redevelopment of Cabrini Green Extension North
with Parkside Associates, LLC. Parkside Associates is responsible for the overall redevelopment
process of Parkside and is also responsible for preparing funding applications, obtaining
financing, construction, and the coordination of community and supportive services. In
November 2005, pursuant to the CHA’s selection of the Development Team and the
representations made in its proposal that Holsten would provide CSS for the new mixed income
community, the Board authorized the CHA to negotiate and enter into a one-year contract with
two one-year options with Holsten. The current extension request and additional funding will
allow Holsten to continue providing post-occupancy services to those 107 families residing at
Parkside. CSS will remain focused on assessment and service planning, case management and
employment services. The post-occupancy services will include identifiable outcomes similar to
those of the FamilyWorks program. CHA staff will monitor and perform quality assurance of
the services provided through the review of monthly performance reports, quarterly monitoring
visits and participant file reviews.
RESOLUTION NO. 2010-CHA-34
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated March 10, 2010, entitled “RECOMMENDATION TO
EXTEND CONTRACT NO. 5164 WITH HOLSTEN REAL ESTATE
DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION TO PROVIDE COMMUNITY AND
SUPPORTIVE SERVICES TO CABRINI GREEN RESIDENTS”;

11

 THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to extend Contract No. 5164 (“Contract”) with Holsten Real Estate
Development Corporation for the period of April 1, 2010 through March 31,
2011, and to increase the Contract’s funding by an amount not-to-exceed
$400,000, adding it to the carryover balance available at the end of the current
contract term to provide community and supportive services to CHA families
residing in the Parkside of Old Town community.

The Motion to adopt resolution for Item C2 was seconded by Commissioner Ivers and the voting
was as follows:
Ayes:

Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Deverra Beverly
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Myra King
Bridget Reidy
Sandra Young

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairman thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolution adopted. The Tenant Services Committee report was also accepted in total.
There being no further business to come before the Commissioners, upon Motion made,
seconded and carried, the meeting of the Board of Commissioners was adjourned at
approximately 10:00 a.m.
_______________________________
Martin Nesbitt
Chairman

s/b:

s/b:

___________________________
Lee Gill, Custodian and
Keeper of Records

12

 