Planning and Stakeholder Relations Committee

Minutes
July 19, 2018

The meeting was called to order at 8:30 am in Port Authority?s Neal H. Holmes Board
Room at 345 Sixth Avenue, Fifth Floor, Pittsburgh, with the following in attendance:

 

 

Board Committee Members Board Members and Solicitor
John Tague, Jr., Chairman Michelle Zmijanac

Ann M. Ogoreuc Joel Lennen

Stephanie Turman

Robert Kania

1. Opening Remarks

Mr. Tague, Committee Chair, opened the meeting and welcomed those in
a?endance.

2. Approval of Minutes from the June 21, 2018 Planning and Stakeholder
Relations Committee Meeting

Mr. Tague asked Committee members if there were any corrections to the minutes.
There were none and members approved the minutes.

3. Voice of Customer Survey Presentation {Mark Aesch, Transpro)

0 Mr. Ritchie introduced Mr. Mark Aesch from Transpro who provided an
overview of a Voice of Customer survey. Mr. Aesch?s firm has completed the
first round of the surveys.

. Mr. Aesch explained the results from the survey and a PowerPoint
presentation displayed the key findings.

- TransPro?s findings for bus service included:

0 Port Authority?s Net Promoter Score (NPS) for Fixed Route Bus is
above the industry average at 45%.

On-Time Performance and Fares are the most important elements of
service to Fixed Route Bus customers.

0 Customers are most satisfied with the bus getting them to their
destination is a reasonable amount of time and customer
service representatives answering calls 

0 Customers are least satisfied with bus cleanliness and seating
availability/space on the bus 

. TransPro?s findings for light rail service included:

0 Port Authority?s Net Promoter Score (NPS) for Light Rail is above the
industry average at 51%.

On-Time Performance is the most important element of service to Light
Rail customers, followed by Fares and Travel Time.

Planning and Stakeholder Relations Committee
Minutes
June 20, 2018

0 Customers are most satisfied with the light rail getting them to their
destination is a reasonable amount of time and light rail lines
being conveniently located for them 

0 Customers are least satisfied with vehicle cleanliness and the
cost of fares 

Questions from committee. board members and others

1. Ms. Ogoreuc asked how often will TransPro conduct the survey?

a. Ms. Kelleman answered twice a year. This survey is now our baseline to
support communications. We need to make sure we budget appropriately
to conduct this research going forward. This PowerPoint presentation is
open to the public and it will be uploaded onto the Authority?s website.

2. Mr. Tague asked how long ago was this survey done?
a. Mr. Aesch answered five weeks ago.

3. Mr. Tague asked if TransPro captured any information on customers? attitude
towards other customers. Sometimes buses are not clean due to customers
leaving things on vehicles.

a. Mr. Aesch answered that the survey did not specifically address that.

