MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING
OF THE
COMMISSIONERS OF THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
March 17, 2009
The Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority held its Regular Meeting on Tuesday,
March 17, 2009, at 8:30 a.m. at the Eckhart Park Apartments, 638 North Nobel, Chicago,
Illinois.
Chairperson Nesbitt called the meeting to order and upon roll call, those present and absent were
as follows:
Present:
Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Samuel Mendenhall
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young
Absent:

Bridget O’Keefe

Also present were Lewis Jordan, Chief Executive Officer, Kris Warren, Chief Operating Officer;
Scott Ammarell, General Counsel; Chicago Housing Authority Staff Members and the General
Public.
There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as
follows:
Upon Motion made and properly seconded the Commissioners adjourned to Executive Session.
The Chairperson announced that pursuant to the Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2, the Board
would adjourn for approximately one (1) hour to possibly discuss pending, probable or imminent
litigation, personnel related matters, collective negotiating matters, purchase sale and lease of
real estate property; establishment of reserves and settlement of claims.
At approximately 10:30 a.m. the Commissioners subsequently reconvened in Open Session. Due
to a previously scheduled engagement, Commissioner Mendenhall left the meeting in session.
Chairman Nesbitt thereupon convened the Public Hearing portion and Business Sessions of the
meeting.
Mr. Lewis Jordan, Chief Executive Officer then presented his monthly activity report. Per Mr.
Jordan, at a recent press conference the Mayor announced the award of Stimulus Money allotted
to the CHA in the approximate amount of $144 million. According to Mr. Jordan, this money
will be earmarked to bring on line 918 units earlier than planned. Mr. Jordan then continued by
acknowledging Ms. Deverra Beverly and Martha Marshall for successfully hosting the first
annual volunteer lunch. Per Mr. Jordan, during this reporting period 59 new units were delivered,
41 new units were leased and 29 residents moved into new units. In addition, Parkside delivered
its first 60 units and Oakwood Shores delivered 3 units. Mr. Jordan concluded his report by
announcing the beginning of construction at the West Haven mixed income development.
Chairman Nesbitt then invited residents and the public at large to address the Board.
Immediately following the Public Hearing portion of the meeting, the Chairman introduced the
Resolutions discussed in Executive Session.
After Motion made by Commissioner Amey and properly seconded by Commissioner Harris,
Minutes for the Regular Meeting of October 21 and November 18, 2008 were unanimously
approved.

1

 Commissioner Ivers then presented an Omnibus Motion for the approval of resolutions for
Executive Session Item 1 thru 4.
Executive Session Item 1
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-27
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated March 2, 2009, requesting that the Board of Commissioners
approves the Personnel Actions Report for February 2009.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the Personnel Actions Report for
February 2009.

Executive Session Item 2
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-28
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated March 11, 2009
entitled “Recommendation to Amend Kutak Rock, LLP Legal Services Contract”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Chief Executive Officer, or
his designee to amend Contract No. 6066 with the law firm of Kutak Rock, LLP
by increasing the contract amount an additional amount not to exceed $100,000
for a total contract amount of $500,000, in order to pay for additional legal fees
and associated costs relative to the DOT Project.

Executive Session Item 3
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-29
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated March 11,
2009, requesting authorization to enter into a settlement agreement pursuant to
which Admiral Insurance Company will pay the CHA the amount of $425,000 in
the matter CHA v. Admiral Insurance Co., et al., 04 CH 12868, for the
termination of the CHA’s rights as to claims arising from or relating to Altgeld
Gardens housing development under the insurance policies provided by Admiral
Insurance Company to the CHA,
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the General Counsel, or his designee, to
enter into a settlement agreement pursuant to which Admiral Insurance Company
will pay the CHA the amount of $425,000 in exchange for the termination of the
CHA’s rights under the insurance policy as to claims arising from or relating to
Altgeld Gardens housing development provided by Admiral Insurance Company
as part of a settlement of the case of CHA v. Admiral Insurance Co., et al., 04 CH
12868.

Executive Session Item 4
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-30
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated March 11,
2009, entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO ENTER INTO A SETTLEMENT
AGREEMENT IN THE MATTER OF BURLING BUILDERS, INC. V.
CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into a settlement agreement in the amount of $1,150,000 for the

2

 matter known as Burling Builders, Inc. v. Chicago Housing Authority, AAA Case
No. 51 110 Y 00876 08. This settlement is subject to the Chicago Housing
Authority receiving approval from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development.
The Motion to adopt resolutions for Executive Session Items 1 thru 4 was seconded by
Commissioner Young and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young
Nays:

None

The Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried and said Resolution adopted.
Commissioner Ivers then presented a Motion for the approval of resolution for General Item 1.
General Item 1
The resolution for General Item 1 approves acceptance of a Grant Award, in the amount of
$143,913,180, from HUD for Capital Fund Formula Grant Funds Pursuant To the American
Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA), commonly referred to as the Economic Stimulus
Package of 2009. This resolution also ratifies the Annual Contribution Contract Amendment and
authorizes submission of a Capital Fund Annual Statement. Because ARRA requires HUD to
obligate the funds in 30 days, HUD has permitted the PHAs to sign and submit an ACC
Amendment for the funds and delayed the requirement of submission of a governing board
resolution accepting the funds to accompany the Capital Fund Annual Statement for this ARRA
Formula Grant Funds, which has to be submitted not later than April 10, 2009. There are certain
ARRA specific requirement for these funds, including additional reporting requirements beyond
the standard requirements for Capital Funds, prohibition of the transfer of these funds for
operations or rental assistance activities, the requirement that 100% of these funds be obligated
within one year of the effective date of the grant 60% of the grant amount be expended within
two years, and 100% expended within three years and if not so obligated or expended,
recaptured. HUD has indicated that it has no flexibility to extend or alter these deadlines.
Furthermore, CHA is to give priority to projects for which contracts can be awarded within 120
days of the grant effective date, priority consideration to rehabilitation of vacant units, and
priority to projects already underway. Grant funds are to be used to supplement rather than
supplant expenditures from other Federal, State or local sources. A physical needs assessment
will be a condition of receiving the funds. HUD has elected to invoke the authority granted by
ARRA to supersede any state and local procurement requirements for expenditure of ARRA
Capital Funds, but Federal procurement requirements will still apply until HUD publishes further
procurement guidance. The use of the ARRA funds will be highly beneficial in supplementing
funding for Authority’s achievement of the Plan for Transformation goals and offset some of the
challenges anticipated with respect to funding the Plan under current difficult economic
conditions.
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-31
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated March 17,
2009, entitled “Recommendation to Accept a Grant Award from the U.S.
Department of Housing and Urban Development for Capital Fund Formula Grant
Funds Pursuant To the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009,
(“ARRA”) Ratify the Annual Contribution Contract Amendment Therefor and
Authorize Submission of a Capital Fund Annual Statement Therefor;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the receipt of Capital Funds
Formula Funds from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development
pursuant to the American Recovery and Reinvestment act of 2009 (“ARRA”) in
the amount of One Hundred Forty Three Million Dollars Nine Hundred Thirteen
Thousand One Hundred Eighty Dollars ($143,913,180), ratifies the execution and

3

 delivery of the Annual Contribution Contract Amendment for such funds,
authorizes the submission to HUD of the Capital Fund Annual Statement for the
activities to be undertaken with the ARRA Capital Fund Formula Grant Fund and
authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to approve the submission
thereof with such changes as the Chief Executive Officer may deem necessary in
his reasonable judgment to comply with any rules or requirements that HUD may
establish for the Capital Fund Annual Statement for its submission by April 10,
2009.
The Motion to adopt resolution for General Item 1 was seconded by Commissioner Harris and
the voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young
Nays:

None

The Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried and said Resolution adopted.
General Item 2
During Closed Executive Session, Commissioners discussed alternative methods and processes
to approve items related to the economic stimulus opportunities under the American Recovery
and Reinvestment Act (General Item). Based on said discussion, Commissioner Young
presented a Motion to approve the following proposed resolution on the delegation of
discretionary powers to the Chairman, to be exercised for activities which would require
approval by the Board:
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-32
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners has recognized by Resolution 2007-CHA-167 that
pursuant to the By-laws of the Chicago Housing Authority that Martin H. Nesbitt
as Chairman of the Chicago Housing Authority has general supervisory authority
over the business and affairs of the Chicago Housing Authority and management
authority therefor, all to be exercised in accordance with the approved policies
and procedures of the Chicago Housing Authority; and that Martin H. Nesbitt in
his capacity as Chairman has signature authority to execute, including but not
limited to, bonds, leases, mortgages, contracts, grant applications, grants,
correspondence, payroll and operations/bank drafts, transfers of funds and other
legal and official documents necessary for the operation of the Chicago Housing
Authority; and
WHEREAS, In accordance with Article I Section 1 of the By-laws of the Chicago Housing
Authority, its Board of Commissioners may by resolutions make any delegation
of discretionary powers or ministerial duties, to be exercised in accordance with
standards, limitations and controls which shall be set up in such resolution and
which shall not be inconsistent with the “Act in Relation to Housing Authorities,”
to any committee or committees of one or more chosen from among their number;
and
WHEREAS, The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, the (“ARRA”) has been
enacted and provides 4 billion dollars of Public Housing Capital Funds, of which
3 billion dollars is to be distributed as Formula Grant Funds and the remainder
distributed through competitive process(es).
WHEREAS, ARRA provides that public housing authorities shall give priority to capital
projects that can award contracts based on bids within 120 days from the date the
funds are made available to the public housing authorities and the Secretary of
HUD shall make available $1,000,000,000 by competition for priority
investments and that the Secretary of HUD shall obligate such competitive
funding by September 30, 2009.

4

 WHEREAS, It is anticipated that there is a need to establish a delegation of authority for very
timely actions with respect to the requirements under ARRA in connection with
the Capital Fund Formula Grant Funds and especially with respect to the Capital
Funds to be awarded by competitive process(es) to be established for the
competitive funding which is to be obligated by September 30, 2009.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
That

the Board of Commissioners hereby establishes a committee of one, Martin H.
Nesbitt, the Chairperson, and delegates to such committee all discretionary
powers as necessary and consistent with the Act in Relation to Housing
Authorities for the Chicago Housing Authority under ARRA to participate in
activities pursuant thereto which would require approval by the Board of
Commissioners, when in the reasonable judgment of the Chairperson, the timing
of the actions required by HUD, ARRA or another ARRA authorizing authority
from which the CHA seeks funding under ARRA, would not permit action under
the Board review process or by a special meeting of the Board, provided that the
Board of Commissioners shall be provided a written and oral report of all such
activities at each regular meeting of the Board of Commissioners.

The Motion to adopt resolution for General Item 2 was seconded by Commissioner Ivers and the
voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young
Nays:

None

The Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried and said Resolution adopted and
requested that a copy of said resolution be made a part of the official minutes.
Commissioner Ivers then presented a motion to approve the resolution for General Item 3.
General Item 3
In October 2001, the Board approved the CHA Leaseholder Housing Choice and Relocation
Rights Contract which governs the process by which CHA residents are relocated from housing
units to allow for the units to be rehabilitated or demolished and by which such residents are
offered replacement units. In June 2008, the Board approved an amendment to Section 4(c) of
the Relocation Rights Contract to modify and approve the process for offering replacement
housing to residents covered by the Relocation Rights Contract. The HAP Contract for the
LeClaire City/State will expire on September 30, 2009. The resolution for General Item 3
approves the Addendum that would allow the CHA to grant limited relocation assistance and
replacement housing options to the LeClaire Court City/State Project-Based Leaseholders to help
their transition from the closing property.
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-33
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated March 11,
2009, entitled “Authorization to Approve An Addendum to The Relocation Rights
Contract To Incorporate Limited Relocation Assistance and Replacement Housing
Options to LeClaire Court City/State Project-Based Leaseholders”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the attached addendum to the
Relocation Rights Contract to incorporate limited relocation assistance and
replacement housing options to LeClaire Court City/State Project-Based
Leaseholders.

5

 THAT,

The Chairperson of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer or his designee is
hereby authorized to approve final changes in these forms, including, but not
limited to, changes based on HUD requirements, or resulting from any applicable
notice and comment process. Such approval shall constitute conclusive evidence
of the Board’s approval of any and all such changes

The Motion to adopt resolution for General Item 3 was seconded by Commissioner Young and
the voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young
Nays:

None

The Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried and said Resolution adopted.
Commissioner Ivers, Chairperson of the Finance and Audit Committee, then presented the
monthly report. Per Commissioner Ivers, the Finance & Audit Committee held its regular
meeting on Wednesday, March 17, 2009 at approximately 1:15 p.m. at the 60 East Van Buren
Corporate offices. The Chief Financial Officer and staff presented the Committee with the
Treasury & Cash Flow Report for the month of February 2009.
Commissioner Ivers then presented a Motion for the adoption of the Resolution for Item A1
which was tabled at Committee Meeting for presentation and approval by the full Board:
(Item A1)
The resolution for Item A1 approves submission of the FY2008 Moving to Work Annual Report
to HUD by March 31, 2009. Under the MTW Agreement, the CHA is required to produce and
submit an Annual Report to HUD outlining the progress toward commitments made in the
original Plan for Transformation and each Annual Plan. The FY2008 MTW Annual Report
provides information necessary for HUD to assess the CHA’s performance in 2008 regarding
both day-to-day operations and activities authorized by the MTW Demonstration Program.
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-34
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated March 11,
2009, requesting approval of the FY2008 Moving to Work Annual Report,
attached hereto.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the attached FY2008 Moving to
Work Annual Report and grants authorization to the Chief Executive Officer, the
Board Chairperson, or their designee to make any final changes as deemed
necessary.

THAT

the Board of Commissioners grants authorization to submit the FY2008 Moving
to Work Annual Report to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development on March 31, 2009. Such approval shall constitute conclusive
evidence of the Board’s approval of any and all such changes.

The Motion to adopt resolution for Item A1 was seconded by Commissioner Young and the
voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young

6

 Nays:

None

Commissioner Ivers then introduced an Omnibus Motion for the adoption of the Resolutions for
Items A2, A3, and A5 thru A7 discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the
Finance and Audit Committee.
(Item A2)
The resolution for Item A2 approves award of contract to Lexington Insurance Company,
National Union and ACE/USA for the Private Manager Insurance Program’s General and Excess
Liability Workers Compensation and Commercial Crime Insurance Coverage, in the aggregate
total amount of premiums not-to-exceed $1,869,723. As the Broker of Record, Aon has been
granted the authority to competitively solicit bids for insurance coverage on behalf of CHA.
Aon directly and indirectly (through one wholesaler) solicited requests for insurance premium
quotes from 34 insurance carriers in January. Aon received two quotes for General and Excess
Liability and Crime and only from the incumbent carrier for Worker Compensation. Auto
Liability was not quoted due to the disposition of the vehicles. This was the first time in almost
ten years that other insurance carriers were willing to quote the General and Excess Liability
coverages. Last year, Aon was able, through extensive lobbying and a tour of CHA properties,
to obtain competitive quotes for General Liability. This year, a Town Hall style of meeting was
held and over 25 underwriters and wholesalers attended. Many senior staff participated to
explain the Plan for Transformation including sharing the future of the Authority. Directly due
to this meeting, several insurance carriers expressed interest, which resulted in competitive
quotes for both General and Excess liability.
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-35
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated March 11, 2009
entitled “Authorization to enter into contracts with Lexington Insurance
Company, National Union, and ACE/USA for the Private Managers Insurance
Program’s General and Excess Liability, Workers Compensation and Commercial
Crime Insurance Coverages”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into a contracts with Lexington Insurance Company, National
Union, and ACE/USA for the Private Managers Insurance Program’s General and
Excess Liability, Workers Compensation and Commercial Crime Insurance
Coverages” in the aggregate amount not-to-exceed $1,869,723 for the period
April 1, 2009 through March 31, 2010.

(Item A3)
The resolution for Item A3 approves a Cooperative Purchasing Agreement with Chicago Public
Schools to utilize its Master Equipment Purchase Agreement with Dell for the supply, delivery
and installation of Dell Personal Computers and related support services. The majority of
CHA’s personal computers are five years old or older. Many of the units do not have sufficient
capacity or suitable specifications to run the current Microsoft productivity programs. Due to the
age of the computers they are failing more frequently, resulting in lost productivity, and they
require more resources and time to maintain. Although the CHA could enter into its own Master
Equipment Purchase Agreement, because of the much smaller volume of personal computers, the
CHA could not achieve the same advantageous discount levels that have been obtained by the
Chicago Public Schools through its volume master agreement.
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-36
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated March 11,
2009, entitled “Authorization To Enter Into A Cooperative Purchasing Agreement
With Chicago Public Schools To Utilize Its Master Equipment Purchase
Agreement With Dell For The Supply, Delivery And Installation Of Dell
Personal Computers And Related Support Services”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY

7

 THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into a cooperative purchasing agreement with the Chicago
Public Schools to utilize its Master Equipment Purchase Agreements, dated
February 2, 2009 for supply, delivery and installation of Dell personal computers
and related services at a not-to-exceed compensation amount of $850,000.00, for
a contract term of up to 36 months.

(Item A4 – THIS NUMBER NOT USED)

(Item A5)
The resolution for Item A5 approves revisions to the Chicago Metropolitan Housing
Development Corporation’s Articles of Incorporation. The purpose of this change is to allow
CMHDC to enter into transactions in the Chicago Metropolitan area. The current Articles are not
clear on CMHDC’s ability to own and operate affordable housing developments outside the
city’s boundaries. CMHDC desires to reflect in the revised Articles such ability and be ready to
expand their service area as opportunities become available. CMHDC was initially established to
further the mission of CHA by engaging and assisting in the financing and development of
housing for lower income persons and families in the City of Chicago. CMHDC must continue to
observe corporate formalities, in order to maintain its corporate existence. The original
documents creating CMHDC indicate that in order for CMHDC to make changes/revisions to
their respective Articles and By-Laws, the changes must be approved by the CMHDC Board,
CHA and the HUD.
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-37
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated March 11, 2009
entitled “Request for Approval of Revisions to Chicago Metropolitan Housing
Development Corporation’s (“CMHDC”) Articles of Incorporation.”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Chicago Housing Authority hereby approves CMHDC’s resolution No. 08CMHDC 034 revising the Articles of Incorporation; and

THAT,

such revisions shall become effective only upon approval of the U.S. Department
of Housing and Urban Development (“HUD”).

(Item A6)
The CHA advertised a Request For Proposal (RFP) in January 2009 to provide CHA with
assistance in the areas of public relations and communications. The RFP was advertised in area
newspapers and the CHA’s website. The CHA also directly solicited 13 firms, including six
MBE/WBE/DBE firms. Of the four bids received, two firms were found to be in the competitive
range. Oral presentations/discussions were held with these firms and best and final offers were
submitted by each firm. Following oral presentations and best and final offers, the Evaluation
Committee determined that MK Communications was best suited to assist CHA with its public
relations and communications needs. Accordingly, the resolution for Item A6 approves award of
contract to MK Communications, Inc. MK Communications, Inc. will work closely with CHA’s
Research, Reporting and Communications staff to execute CHA’s communication strategy and
translate CHA’s stated goals and objectives into understandable messages and measurements to
internal and external partners. MK Communications, Inc. will work with CHA to expand the
public understanding of CHA’s major initiatives as well as develop the public’s understanding of
CHA as a housing provider and its role as a development engine for community revitalization
and sustainability.

RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-38
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated March 11, 2009
entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO ENTER INTO A CONTRA CT WITH MK
COMMUNICATIONS,
INC.
TO
PROVIDE
COMMUNICATIONS
CONSULTING SERVICES”;

8

 THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into a contract with MK Communications, Inc. in an amount
not-to-exceed $1,098,950.00 for a term of two (2) years with two (2) one-year
options to provide communications consulting services to the CHA.

(Item A7)
The resolution for Item A7 amends Contract No. 8008 with Capstone Consulting Services, in the
amount of $157,320.00 for consulting services related to CHA’s Strategic Plan. Capstone
Consulting lead the effort in incorporating the vision of the Board and Staff in the creation of the
Strategic Plan as the roadmap to the successful completion of the Plan for Transformation. In
order to continue to monitor and enhance the successful implementation of the Strategic
Planning efforts, the following activities are required: Third party objective consulting services
are required for the purpose of completing confidential meetings with approximately 60 staff
members in an effort to assess the agency’s progress in relation to the Strategic Plan. The
information gathered from the analysis will initially be presented to the Chairman, and the CEO,
and will ultimately be presented to the Executive team and the Board of Commissioners. The
intent of the analysis is to outline significant improvements and challenges. It will be presented
by the consultant primarily in a two day summer retreat for all affected stakeholders; however,
the information gathered will be used to assess progress throughout the course of the option year,
via Staff/ Board meetings and retreats that will be held on a quarterly basis. Recommendations
for improvement will also be provided in collaboration with the Strategy Team, the CEO and the
Chairman. In addition to the facilitation of the above noted events, the consultant will also be
involved in Board Development activities that will allow the Board to better participate in their
oversight role of the Strategic Planning Process.
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-39
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated March 11, 2009,
entitled “Authorization to Amend and Exercise the Option Year for Contract No.
8008 with Capstone Consulting Services, LLC for Consulting Services Related to
CHA’s Strategic Plan.”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to amend and exercise the option year for Contract No. 8008 with
Capstone Consulting Services, LLP for consulting services related to CHA’s
Strategic Plan in an amount of $157,320.00 for a total contract amount not-toexceed $257,040.00.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Item A1 thru A4 was seconded by Commissioner
Young and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Tenant Services Committee report was also accepted in total.
Commissioner Ponce, Chairperson of the Operations Committee, then presented his monthly
report. Per Commissioner Ponce, the Operations and Facilities Committee held its regular
meeting on Wednesday, March 11, 2009 at approximately 1:35 p.m. at the 60 East Van Buren
Corporate Office. Commissioner Ponce then introduced an Omnibus Motion for the adoption of
Resolutions for Item B1 thru B3:

9

 (Item B1)
The CHA advertised an Invitation for Bid (IFB) in December 2008 to renovate units in the
Family Housing development at Washington Park Homes Low Rises (IL2-034). The renovation
work will be performed in seven (7) low rises at 5120 – 24 S. Blackstone, 5604 – 12 S.
Dorchester, 4010 – 24 S. Wabash, 4033 – 43 S. Wabash, 4023 – 25 S. Michigan, 1500 – 10 W.
62nd St. and 1512 – 18 W. 62nd St. The IFB was advertised in area newspapers and of the five
bids opened and reviewed Oakk Construction Co., Inc. was the lowest responsive the lowest
responsive and responsible bidder at $8,169,858.00. Accordingly, the resolution for Item B1
approves award of contract to Oakk Construction for the family housing renovation at
Washington Park Homes.
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-40
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated March 11,
2009, entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO EXECUTE CONTRACT WITH OAKK
CONSTRUCTION CO., INC. FOR THE FAMILY HOUSING RENOVATION
AT WASHINGTON PARK HOMES – LOW RISES (IL2-034)”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

that the Board of Commissioners authorize the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute a contract with Oakk Construction Co., Inc. in the amount of
$8,169,858.00 for the renovation of forty-two (42) units at Washington Park
Homes Low Rises (IL2-034), a Family Housing development. The work is to be
completed in seven (7) Phases by the following dates: Phase 1, consisting of six
(6) units located at 5120 – 24 S. Blackstone, is to be completed by August 28,
2009; Phase 2, consisting of six (6) units located at 5 604 – 12 S. Dorchester, is to
be completed by September 20, 2009; Phase 3, consisting of eight (8) units
located at 4010 – 24 S. Wabash, is to be completed by October 30, 2009; Phase 4,
consisting of six (6) units located at 4033 – 43 S. Wabash, is to be completed by
November 13, 2009; Phase 5, consisting of six (6) units located at 4023 – 25 S.
Michigan is to be completed by November 27, 2009; Phase 6, consisting of six (6)
units located at 1500 – 10 W. 62nd St., is to be completed by December 22, 2009;
and Phase 7, consisting of four (4) units located at 1512 – 18 W. 62nd St., is to be
completed by December 22, 2009.
This award is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s
MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident hiring, and bonding and insurance
requirements.

(Item B2)
The resolution for Item B2 approves submission of a Demolition Application to HUD for the
demolition of 4 sixty-five unit buildings (2222, 2310, 2350 and 2450 S. State) and 2 one
hundred thirty-eight unit buildings (2240–50 and 2420–30 S. State) in Harold Ickes Homes
(IL2-016). Per the MTW, the CHA is required to submit an annual plan to HUD outlining the
steps it will take during the applicable fiscal year to achieve the goals and commitments of the
Plan for Transformation. The FY2009 Annual Plan was approved by the Board of
Commissioners in October 2008 and included the intention to demolish selected properties as
part of the process of the revitalization of Harold Ickes Homes.
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-41
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated March 11, 2009,
entitled “REQUEST FOR AUTHORIZATION TO SUBMIT A DEMOLITION
APPLICATION TO THE U.S. DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN
DEVELOPMENT FOR THE DEMOLITION OF SIX (6) PROPERTIES IN
HAROLD L. ICKES HOMES AND TO DEMOLISH SAID PROPERTIES”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to submit a demolition application to the U.S. Department of Housing

10

 and Urban Development (“HUD”) for the demolition of four (4) sixty-five (65)
unit buildings (2222, 2310, 2350 and 2450 S. State St.) and two (2) one hundred
thirty-eight (138) unit buildings (2240–50 and 2420–30 S. State St.) in Harold L.
Ickes Homes (IL2-016), and to demolish said properties upon receipt of approval
from HUD.
(Item B3)
A Request for Proposal (RFP) was released in October 2008 for Professional Environmental
Consulting Service for various CHA and Mixed Finance Developments. Thirty-two vendors
downloaded the solicitation from BuySpeed Online. The RFP was advertised in area newspapers
and of 13 proposals received seven firms scored within the competitive range and were asked to
come in for oral presentations. Based on the Evaluation Committee’s recommendation, the
resolution for Item B3 approves award of contracts to the following five firms: Camp, Dresser &
McKee Inc, Carnow, Conibear & Associates, Environmental Design International, URS
Corporation, and Weston Solutions, in the not to exceed amount of $2,681,800. Additionally,
the resolution for Item B3 approves $263,350 for Illinois Environmental Protection Agency fees
and $39,231.34 for Environmental Work currently in progress under existing contracts for a total
authorization request of an amount not to exceed $2,984,381.
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-42
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated March 11, 2009,
entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO EXECUTE AND FUND CONTRACTS FOR
PROFESSIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL CONSULTING SERVICES FOR
VARIOUS CHA AND MIXED FINANCE DEVELOPMENTS"
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute contracts with Environmental Design International; Weston
Solutions; URS Corporation; Carnow Conibear, and Associates and Camp
Dresser and McKee; for professional environmental consulting services for
various CHA and Mixed-Finance Developments and authorize funding in an
amount not to exceed 2,984,381 for environmental investigations and targeted
remediation for new and existing projects. Each contract will be awarded for a
two (2) year base period with two (2) one (1) year renewal options and the
aggregate amount of the base contracts are not to exceed $2,681,800. Additional
funding is also required in an amount not to exceed $263,350 for Illinois
Environmental Protection Agency fees and $39,231.34 for Environmental Work
currently in progress under existing contracts for a total authorization request of
an amount not to exceed $2,984,381.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items B1 thru B3 was seconded by Commissioner
Young and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Operations and Facilities Committee report was also accepted
in total.
Commissioner Young, Chairperson of the Tenant Services Committee, then presented her
monthly report. Per Commissioner Young, due to a lack of quorum, the regularly scheduled
Tenant Services Committee meeting was not held on Wednesday, March 11, 2009.
Commissioners, however, received an update on Opportunity Chicago from Linda Kaiser,
Executive Vice President of Resident Services and Maria Hibbs of Opportunity Chicago.
Commissioners were also briefed on items listed on the Agenda, but no vote was taken.

11

 Commissioner Young then introduced an Omnibus Motion for the adoption of Resolutions for
Items C1 thru C3.
(Item C1)
The resolution for Item C1 approves an Intergovernmental Agreement with the City of Chicago’s
Department of Administrative Hearing (DoAH) to continue to permit CHA to participate in
formal grievance hearings before independent hearing officers at DoAH. This IGA will allow
the CHA to continue to implement its Grievance Procedure. Under the CHA’s Resident
Grievance Procedure and the 2004 IGA, independent hearing officers contracted by DoAH
adjudicate residents’ formal grievances rather than CHA attorneys. The CHA and the Central
Advisory Council jointly agreed upon a pool of DoAH hearing officers who presently adjudicate
the formal resident grievances. The CHA will continue to train this pool of hearing officers
regarding applicable HUD regulations, federal statutes, and CHA policies and procedures,
including but not limited to, the CHA’s Resident’s Grievance Procedure and the CHA
Leaseholder Housing Choice and Relocation Rights Contract 10/1/99, and its applicable
amendments.
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-43
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board letter dated March 11, 2009,
entitled “Authorization to Negotiate and Enter into an Intergovernmental
Agreement between the Chicago Housing Authority and the City of Chicago’s
Department of Administrative Hearings,”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to negotiate and enter into an Intergovernmental Agreement between the
Chicago Housing Authority ("CHA") and the City of Chicago Department of
Administrative Hearings (“DoAH”) to permit the CHA and its residents to use
DoAH’s facilities and independent hearing officers for the formal hearing portion
of the CHA’s Grievance Procedure for a term of three years with one two-year
option for an amount not-to-exceed $75,000 for the initial term.

(Item C2)
In June 2005 the Board authorized the CHA to enter into a contract for redevelopment of Cabrini
Green Extension North with Parkside Associates, LLC. Parkside Associates is comprised of
Holsten Real Estate Development Corporation, Kimball Hill Urban Centers Chicago One, LLC
and the Cabrini Green Local Advisory Council’s Community Development Corporation.
Parkside Associates is responsible for the overall redevelopment process of Parkside and is also
responsible for preparing funding applications, obtaining financing, construction, and the
coordination of community and supportive services (CSS). The resolution for Item C2 extends
the existing contract with Holsten Real Estate Development to continue to provide CSS to
Cabrini Green Residents. Case management services were designed to address the barriers a
family may face in meeting the site specific criteria allowing them to return to Parkside. Holsten
provided services to approximately 525 Cabrini families in 2008 in preparation for occupancy of
the 97 units available in Parkside. The extension of the agreement and additional funding will
allow Holsten to continue providing supportive services to the 525 families currently being
screened for move-in, in addition to providing post-occupancy services for those 24 families
currently residing at Parkside. Those families leasing the 83 units available throughout 2009 will
receive post-occupancy services upon move-in. A total of 107 Parkside families will receive
post-occupancy services in 2009. CSS will remain focused on assessment and service planning,
case management, and employment services, and Holsten will continue to support families
throughout the screening and leasing process by providing these services to assist families in
meeting the site specific criteria, and provide post-occupancy support to families to assist them
in continuing to meet the criteria at Parkside.
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-44
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated March 11, 2009, entitled “RECOMMENDATION TO
EXTEND CONTRACT NO. 5164 WITH HOLSTEN REAL ESTATE

12

 DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION TO PROVIDE COMMUNITY AND
SUPPORTIVE SERVICES TO CABRINI GREEN RESIDENTS”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to extend Contract No. 5164 (“Contract”) with Holsten Real Estate
Development Corporation for the period of April 1, 2009 through March 31, 2010
and to increase the Contract’s funding by an amount not-to-exceed $550,000
adding it to the carryover balance available at the end of the current contract term
to provide community and supportive services to Cabrini Green families returning
to the new mixed income community at Parkside of Old Town

Item C3)
Similar to Item C2, Item C3 extends contract with Stateway Associates, LLC to continue to
provide Community and Supportive Services to the Revitalized Stateway community. Based
upon the availability of funding and Stateway Associates’ performance of the Contract to date,
the CHA desires to extend the Contract for the period of May 1, 2009 to April 30, 2010 to
provide post occupancy services to the families who have returned to Stateway Gardens mixedincome community (47 families at Park Boulevard and 27 families at The Pershing), and
screening services for units anticipated to become available in 2009. The requested additional
funding for the one-year extension will allow Stateway Associates to provide screening services
to approximately 400 families eligible for new units at Park Boulevard, but will primarily focus
on post occupancy services to the families who have already relocated to Park Boulevard to
ensure families remain lease compliant and continue to meet the site based criteria. Stateway
Associates has delivered 47 units to date and is expected to deliver additional units during the
second quarter of 2009.
On May 18, 2004, the Board authorized the CHA to negotiate and enter into a contract with
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-45
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated March 11,
2009, entitled "AUTHORIZATION TO EXTEND CONTRACT NO. 5059 WITH
STATEWAY ASSOCIATES, LLC TO PROVIDE COMMUNITY AND
SUPPORTIVE SERVICES TO THE REVITALIZED STATEWAY GARDENS
COMMUNITY”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to extend Contract No. 5059 with Stateway Associates, LLC
(“Contract”) for the period of March 12, 2009 through April 30, 2010 and to
increase the Contract’s funding by an amount not-to-exceed $360,000.00 adding it
to the carryover balance available at the end of the current contract term to
provide community and supportive services to CHA residents relocating to the
revitalized Stateway Gardens community (Park Boulevard). The Contract’s new
aggregate total not-to-exceed contract amount will be $2,790,200.00.

The Motion to adopt resolutions for Item C1 thru C3 was seconded by Commissioner Ponce and
the voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young
Nays:
None
There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Tenant Services Committee report was also accepted in total.

13

 There being no further business to come before the Commissioners, upon Motion made,
seconded and carried, the meeting of the Board of Commissioners was adjourned.

s/b:

s/b:

________________________
Lee Gill, Custodian and
Keeper of Records

14

________________________
Martin Nesbitt
Chairperson

 