MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING
OF THE
COMMISSIONERS OF THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
February 16, 2010
The Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority held its Regular Meeting of the Board of
Commissioners on Tuesday, February 16, 2010, at about 8:45 a.m. at Trumbull Park District
Fieldhouse, 2400 East 105th Street, Chicago, IL.
Chairman Nesbitt called the meeting to order and upon roll call, those present and absent were as
follows:
Present:
Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Deverra Beverly
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Bridget Reidy
Sandra Young
Absent:

Myra King
Carlos Ponce

Also present were Lewis Jordan, Chief Executive Officer; Kris Warren, Chief of Staff; Scott
Ammarell, General Counsel; Chicago Housing Authority Staff Members and the General Public.
There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as
follows:
Upon Motion made and properly seconded the Commissioners adjourned to Executive Session.
The Chairman announced that pursuant to the Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2, the Board
would adjourn for approximately one (1) hour to possibly discuss pending, probable or imminent
litigation, personnel related matters, collective negotiating matters, purchase, sale and lease of
real estate property; establishment of reserves and settlement of claims.
Commissioner Sandra Young departed the meeting at about 8:30 a.m.
Commissioner Myra King joined the Commissioners in Executive Session at about 8:55 a.m.
The Commissioners subsequently reconvened in Open Session and the Chairman thereupon
convened the Public Hearing portion and Business Sessions of the meeting.
Lewis Jordan, Chief Executive Officer, then presented his monthly report.
Mr. Jordan
commenced his report by highlighting accomplishments for 2009. According to Mr. Jordan,
2009 marked the10th anniversary of the Plan For Transformation. Events culminated with a
Symposium that was well attended by present and former CHA executive staff, CHA residents,
City of Chicago Sister Agencies, community partners and academia. Mr. Jordan then continued
his report by informing Commissioners and the public at large that the CHA has completed
construction and rehabilitation of 17,812 units or 71% of the 25,000 public housing units
anticipated under the Plan. CHA also received $210 million through the Stimulus Act and these
funds will be used to accelerate purchase and installation of cameras throughout CHA properties,
complete energy efficient improvement projects and accelerate demolition and rehabilitation of
family housing. According to Mr. Jordan, another major accomplishment for 2009 included the
consolidation of private management roster from 14 to five firms. Mr. Jordan then proudly
announced that CHA has received superior credit rating of AA- from Standard and Poor for its
strong management and superior strategic plan. In addition, CHA, along with Fitzgerald
Associates Architects and Holsten Real Estate Development, was also recognized by the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency, as one of the four national winners of the 2009 National
1

 Smart Growth Achievement Award for transforming an aging isolated public housing
development into the successful integrated Parkside of Old Town community. Mr. Jordan
concluded his report by announcing the completion of the boiler replacement program at 21
senior properties and the $10 million new decentralized boiler system at Trumbull Park Homes.
Chairman Nesbitt then invited residents and the public at large to address the Board.
Immediately following the Public Hearing portion of the meeting, Chairman Nesbitt introduced
the items discussed in Executive Session. Commissioner Ivers then presented an Omnibus
Motion to approve Items 1 and 2 discussed in Executive Session.
Executive Session Item 1
RESOLUTION NO. 2010-CHA-6
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated February 1, 2010, requesting that the Board of Commissioners
approves the Personnel Actions Report for January 2010.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the Personnel Actions Report for
January 2010.

Executive Session Item 2
RESOLUTION NO. 2010-CHA-7
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board letter dated February 16,
2010, requesting authorization to enter into negotiations for an Intergovernmental
Agreement between the Chicago Housing Authority and the Chicago Park District
for a land exchange;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into negotiations for an Intergovernmental Agreement (“IGA”)
with the Chicago Park District (the “Park District”) under which the Chicago
Housing Authority (“CHA”) will convey land to the Park District for the
construction of a recreational center and the Park District will convey land that it
owns either of equal or greater acreage which is acceptable to CHA to further its
redevelopment efforts of certain public housing communities. Upon finalizing the
terms of the IGA, subsequent Board authorization will be requested to execute the
same and to submit the necessary acquisition and disposition applications to
HUD.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Executive Session Items 1and 2was seconded by
Commissioner Harris and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Deverra Beverly
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Myra King
Bridget Reidy

Nays:

None

The Chairman thereupon declared said Motion carried and said Resolutions adopted.
In the absence of Committee Chair Ponce, Commissioner Ivers, presented the Operations and
Facilities Committee report. Per Commissioner Ivers, the Operations Committee held its regular
meeting on Wednesday, February 10, 2010, at approximately 1:15 p.m. at the 60 East Van Buren
Corporate offices.
2

 Commissioner Ivers then presented an Omnibus Motion for adoption of Resolutions for Items
A1 thru A6 discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Operations
Committee.
(Item A1)
ACE Coffee Bar, Inc. was awarded a contract to install, supply and maintain vending machine
facilities and services at 59 CHA locations for a base period of two years. The vending machines
offer soft drinks and snacks at competitive vending machine prices. The current contract will
expire on March 16, 2010. Accordingly, the Resolution for Item A1 approves one year extension
option for Ace which would continue the revenue sharing agreement and allow CHA residents to
utilize the convenience of the vending machines close to their places of residence.
RESOLUTION NO. 2010-CHA-8
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated February 10, 2010, entitled “Recommendation to Exercise the
One Year Extension Option with ACE Coffee Bar, Inc. for the Supply and
Maintenance of Vending Machines at CHA Developments”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to exercise the one year extension option with ACE Coffee Bar, Inc. for
the supply and maintenance of vending machines at CHA developments.

(Item A2)
The resolution for Item A2 approves a one-year option with Spanish Coalition for Housing to
provide Latino Site offices for marketing, intake and outreach services for the CHA. In 1996,
the CHA reached a settlement in a class action lawsuit that charged the CHA and HUD with
discrimination against Latinos in Chicago’s public housing programs. The court found that
Latinos had been deprived of housing assistance caused by actions and inactions on the part of
the CHA and HUD. The settlement resulted in the Latino Consent Decree which, among other
requirements, required the CHA to have two site offices, staffed at all levels with bilingual
personnel, to assist individuals seeking information about or wishing to register for CHA
programs. Though the 10-year agreement, Latino Consent Decree has been lifted for over 6
years, CHA has incorporated the strategies and experience developed over the years and in spirit
of the progress gained under the Latino Consent Decree and good-faith, the CHA continues to
take affirmative actions in the form of marketing, intake and outreach to the Latino community
for all its services and programs. Over the past year, Spanish Coalition for Housing has provided
the CHA with outstanding service in Spanish and English to the Latino and greater community
and has utilized its’ expertise, experience and know-with-all to assist over 1200 individuals and
families with critical services on behalf of the CHA. Spanish Coalition for Housing is willing to
provide services for the next contract term, under the same terms and conditions as provided in
the base contract.
RESOLUTION NO. 2010-CHA-9
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
memorandum dated February 10, 2010 entitled, “AUTHORIZATION TO
EXERCISE ONE-YEAR OPTION FOR CONTRACT NUMBER 9011 WITH
SPANISH COALITION FOR HOUSING TO PROVIDE LATINO SITE
OFFICES-MARKETING, INTAKE AND OUTREACH SERVICES FOR THE
CHA”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to exercise the one-year option to extend Contract No. 9001 with
Spanish Coalition for Housing for the period of March 1, 2010 through February
28, 2011 to operate two (2) bilingual (Spanish) Latino Site Offices in the Latino
community to provide marketing, intake and outreach services related to CHA
programs for a total amount not-to-exceed $501,045.00.

3

 (Item A3)
In 2000, the Board of Commissioners approved the Plan for Transformation, which upon
approval by HUD was incorporated into a Moving to Work (MTW) Agreement. Per the MTW,
the CHA is required to submit an annual plan to HUD outlining the steps it will take during the
applicable fiscal year to achieve the goals and commitments of the Plan for Transformation. The
Board previously approved and HUD agreed to the demolition of six dwelling buildings, which
was completed in 2009. The FY2010 Annual Plan was approved by the Board of
Commissioners on October 20, 2009, and included the intention to demolish the remaining
properties as part of the process of the revitalization of Harold L. Ickes Homes. Per HUD
regulations, permission to demolish all or a portion of a development must include a copy of a
resolution by the Authority’s Board of Commissioners approving the application. Accordingly,
the resolution for Item A3 approves submission of a Demolition Application to HUD for the
demolition of two dwelling and 4 non-dwelling properties at Ickes Homes.
RESOLUTION NO. 2010-CHA-10
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the board letter dated February 10,
2010, entitled “REQUEST FOR AUTHORIZATION TO SUBMIT A
DEMOLITION APPLICATION TO THE U.S. DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING
AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT FOR THE DEMOLITION OF TWO (2)
DWELLING AND FOUR (4) NON-DWELLING PROPERTIES IN HAROLD
L. ICKES HOMES AND TO DEMOLISH SAID PROPERTIES”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to submit a demolition application to the U.S. Department of Housing
and Urban Development (“HUD”) for the demolition of one (1) dwelling building
totaling 138 units located at 2320-30 S. State St., one (1) sixty-five (65) unit
dwelling building located at 44 W. 24th St., and four (4) non-dwelling buildings
(2325 S. Federal St., 2400 S. State St., 2402 S. State St. and 2326-28 S. Dearborn
St.) in Harold L. Ickes Homes (IL2-016), and to demolish said properties upon
receipt of approval from HUD.

(Item A4)
The resolution for Item A4 approves the Tenant Selection Plan, Lease, Lease Riders and Bylaws
for Rockwell Gardens Replacement Housing at the On-site Development known as West End
Phase 2 and to amend the Admissions and Continued Occupancy Policy (ACOP) to incorporate
such documents. This authorization is required at this time to facilitate the development of the
units at West End. These documents have been reviewed by CHA, the Developer, Working
Group, and Resident Leadership representing the interest of residents from Rockwell Gardens,
who recommend the documents as acceptable. A public comment period was held from
December 9, 2009 through January 7, 2010. A public comment hearing was held on December
16, 2009, at Grant School Campus. Due to low resident turnout, it was requested that CHA host
another hearing. A town hall meeting was held on January 23, 2010, at Grant School Campus.
The comment period was extended and the CHA accepted comments until January 25, 2010.
Notice for the 30-day comment period was published in the Chicago Sun-Times, Chicago
Defender, and Extra newspapers, as well as posted on the CHA website and on site at the
following Office(s): CHA Administrative Office, Central Advisory Council, and West End
Management Office. Consideration was given to any forthcoming comments prior to finalizing
the documents.
RESOLUTION NO. 2010-CHA-11
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated February 10,
2010, entitled “AUTHORIZATION FOR APPROVAL OF THE TENANT
SELECTION PLAN, LEASE, LEASE RIDERS, AND BYLAWS FOR
ROCKWELL GARDENS REPLACEMENT HOUSING AT THE ON-SITE
DEVELOPMENT KNOWN AS WEST END PHASE 2 AND TO AMEND THE
CHA ADMISSIONS AND CONTINUED OCCUPANCY POLICY TO
INCORPORATE SUCH DOCUMENTS AS AN ADDENDUM THERETO”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY

4

 THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the attached Tenant Selection Plan,
lease, lease riders, and bylaws in substantially the form presented to the Board for
the Rockwell Gardens replacement housing at the development known as West
End Phase 2. The Chief Executive Officer is hereby authorized to approve final
changes in these forms, including, but not limited to, changes based on HUD
requirements, or resulting from any applicable notice and comment process. Such
approval shall constitute conclusive evidence of the Board’s approval of any and
all such changes.

(Item A5)
The resolution for Item A5 approves the Intergovernmental Agreement with the Public
Commissioner to provide management services for CHA’s 2010 Surveillance Camera Initiative.
The purpose of the Surveillance Cameras Initiative is to improve the CHA’s property
management capabilities by leveraging state of the art surveillance technologies for improved
investment protection and operational security at CHA’s residential developments. The CHA
entered into an agreement with Siemens Building Technologies, Inc. in December 2009 for this
initiative. The vendor is currently doing field survey work for the assessment and design stages
of the project and the Public Building Commission (PBC) will serve in the capacity of Owner’s
Representative, Project Management, and Quality Control oversight for CHA. The PBC project
team brings a unique combination of experiences in these areas based on their ability to leverage
learning and synergies from other surveillance camera initiatives that are in progress across the
City of Chicago.
RESOLUTION NO. 2010-CHA-12
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated February 10, 2010, entitled “Recommendation to Enter into an
Intergovernmental Agreement with the City of Chicago Acting by and through its
Public Building Commission for Supporting Project Management of Surveillance
Camera Systems”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into an Intergovernmental Agreement with the City of Chicago,
acting through its Public Building Commission, for supporting project
management of surveillance camera systems for CHA Family and Senior
Portfolios in a total amount not-to-exceed $1,622,293.00 for sixteen (16) months.

(Item A6)
The resolution for Item A6 approves the Intergovernmental Agreement with the Public Building
Commission (PBC) to provide project management services for the Wide Area Network
implementation. Siemens Building Technologies, Inc. is currently doing field survey work for
the assessment and design stages of the Surveillance Camera Initiative. An upgrade to our
existing wide area network (WAN) is necessary to provide sufficient bandwidth and integral
infrastructure required to support the video surveillance project. To deliver high quality real
time video to the Office of Emergency Management and Communications (OEMC), each CHA
remote location’s infrastructure and electronic communications equipment must be upgraded.
The WAN upgrade project is a critical prerequisite to implementing a successful video
surveillance solution. The video surveillance and WAN projects are tightly coupled, and to
ensure their success it is prudent to have the PBC coordinate both implementations.
RESOLUTION NO. 2010-CHA-13
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated February 10, 2010, entitled “Recommendation to Enter into an
Intergovernmental Agreement with the City of Chicago, Acting by and through its
Public Building Commission to provide Project Management Services for the
Wide Area Network Telecommunications Initiative.”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into an Intergovernmental agreement (“IGA”) with the City of
5

 Chicago, acting through its Public Building Commission to provide project
management services for CHA Administrative Offices and Traditional Housing
Portfolios in a total amount not-to-exceed $370,000.00 for a term of sixteen (16)
months.
The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items A1 thru A6 was seconded by
Commissioner Harris and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Deverra Beverly
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Myra King
Bridget Reidy

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairman thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Operations Committee report was also accepted in total.
Commissioner Ivers then presented the monthly report for the Finance and Audit Committee.
Per Commissioner Ivers, the Finance and Audit Committee meeting was held on Wednesday,
February 10th at approximately 1:50 p.m. at the 60 East Van Buren Corporate offices. The Chief
Financial Officer and staff presented the Committee with the Treasury and Cash Flow report for
the month of January and the 2010 Annual Cash Flow Forecast.
Commissioner Ivers then presented an Omnibus Motion for adoption of the Resolutions for
Items B1 thru B4 discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Operations and
Facilities Committee.
(Item B1)
The resolution for Item B1 approves the submittal of the FY2010 Performance Funding System
(PFS) Calculation to HUD. HUD uses the PFS to determine a public housing authority’s
eligibility for an operating subsidy. Based on the formula established by HUD as a part of the
Amended and Restated Moving-to-Work Demonstration Agreement, the CHA should request the
operating subsidy in the amount of $174,119,556. For fiscal years 2000-2017, CHA must
prepare its request for operating funds by making adjustments to the base year subsidy eligibility.
Unlike the procedure used in prior years, HUD has requested each Authority to submit its PFS
Schedule prior to the release of final pro-rations. This is being done in order to determine the
overall need of Public Housing Authorities. Upon release of the final pro-ration amount, the
CHA’s FY2010 Comprehensive Budget will be adjusted accordingly.
RESOLUTION NO. 2010-CHA-14
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners have reviewed the Board Letter dated February 10,
2010, requesting authorization to submit FY2010 Performance Funding System
Calculation to the Department of Housing and Urban Development and approval
of the FY2010 Performance Funding System Performance Calculation.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners approves the FY2010 Performance Funding System
Calculation and authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to execute
and submit the Performance Funding System Calculation and all necessary related
documents to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development.

(Item B2)
The CHA receives hundreds of checks during the course of monthly business. These checks are
received from both internal and external sources. Many are billed directly to the third party
payer through an automated non dwelling rental billing procedure established by the Finance
Department. In an effort to formalize the collection, accounting and monitor and control of these
funds the Collection/Depository Policy has been revised. The primary revision revolves around
the migration to an automated remote deposit function from the old CHA lockbox procedures.
6

 The revised policy also provides a framework and procedures for new revenue items and the
ability to codify and manage the collection, accounting and reconciliation of CHA miscellaneous
income sources. Accordingly, the resolution for Item B2 approves the Revised CHA Treasury
Collection/Depository Policy.
RESOLUTION NO. 2010-CHA-15
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated February 10,
2010, requesting adoption of a revised collection/depository policy and concurs in
the recommendation contained therein;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners repeals and rescinds any and all previously adopted
collection/depository policies, and resolutions related to the approval of such
policy.

THAT,

the Board of Commissioners adopts the revised Chicago Housing Authority
Collection/Depository Policy dated December 31, 2009 attached hereto as Exhibit
1.

THAT,

the revised Collection/Depository Policy dated December 31, 2009 shall be
effective immediately.

(Item B3)
In November 2009, the CHA released a Request for Proposal for Strategic Planning Consulting
Services. The RFP was advertised in area newspapers and on the CHA’s Website. Eight firms
were directly solicited, including one WBE firm. Thirty-four firms downloaded the solicitation
and one firm picked up a copy of the RFP. One proposal was received which was evaluated by
an evaluation committee comprised of five. After the evaluation committee completed its
analysis, the firm was invited to discuss their proposal and to negotiate pricing. Based upon the
evaluation of the written proposal and information gathered from discussions, it was determined
to award the contract to Pedelty Enterprises, LLC. Pedelty Enterprises will be responsible for
ensuring that the following objectives are accomplished: continue Executive Coaching for the
team members reporting to the Chief Executive Officer to further the success of the agency’s
strategic alignment; provide for tactical and strategic planning intervention when necessary to
support the executive team and their divisions in order to comply with federal, city and other
mandates and initiatives and facilitate Leadership and Board of Commissioner quarterly retreats
to assist in the effective communication of the implementation of the Strategic Plan.
Accordingly, the resolution for Item B3 approves award of contract to Pedelty Enterprises for
consulting services related to CHA’s Strategic Plan.
RESOLUTION NO. 2010-CHA-16
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated February 10, 2010,
entitled “Authorization to enter into a contract with Pedelty Enterprises, LLC for
consulting services related to CHA’s Strategic Plan in a not to exceed amount of
$480,000.00 for a two year term.”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into a contract with Pedelty Enterprises, LLC for consulting
services related to CHA’s Strategic Plan in a not to exceed amount of
$480,000.00 for a two year term,” with a one year option subject to Board
approval.

(Item B4)
The resolution for Item B4 approves contract with Windows of Opportunity to continue
performing services to and on behalf of the CHA and CHA residents. The purpose of Windows
of Opportunity, Inc. is to address the needs of public and assisted housing residents through
ongoing communication between CHA and residents, and other businesses, cultural, social,
educational and philanthropic organizations and communities. Windows serves as a fiscal
agent/administrator for grants and funds received from public, private, and corporate funds for
the CHA. This contract will authorize Windows to continue to raise funds for new and ongoing
7

 resident initiatives; form and maintain partnerships/linkages with outside community groups,
service providers, and funding sources; and work closely with CHA staff and residents to
identify gaps in services and seek resources to fill those gaps in line with Windows’ mission. The
term of the contract shall be for twenty four months, beginning January 1, 2010, and continuing
through December 31, 2011, and the contract shall remain subject to extension at the CHA’s
election through two (2) one-year options subject to funding availability and CHA Board
approval. At the end of the twenty four - month contract term, recommendations will be made
regarding the role Windows will fulfill in supporting the CHA’s efforts to improve the quality of
life of public and assisted housing residents. The CHA shall receive oral and written
presentations from Windows to be made to the CHA Board of Commissioners on a quarterly
basis.

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2010-CHA-17
the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated February 10,
2010, “AUTHORIZATION TO ENTER INTO A CONTRACT WITH
WINDOWS OF OPPORTUNITY, INC.”

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into a contract with Windows of Opportunity, Inc., in an amount
not to exceed $330,000.00 annually for a two year term with two (2) one-year
extension options, subject to Board Approval.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items B1 thru B4 was seconded by Commissioner
King and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Deverra Beverly
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Myra King
Bridget Reidy

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairman thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Finance Committee report was also accepted in total.
There being no further business to come before the Commissioners, upon Motion made,
seconded and carried, the meeting of the Board of Commissioners was adjourned.

s/b:

s/b:

___________________________
Lee Gill, Custodian and
Keeper of Records

8

_______________________________
Martin Nesbitt
Chairman

 