PORT AUTHORITY OF ALLEGHENY COUNTY
MINUTES OF THE REGULAR BOARD MEETING
FRIDAY, JANUARY 26, 2018
The Regular Meeting of the Board of Port Authority of Allegheny County was held on Friday, January
26, 2018, at 9:30 a.m., at the Authority’s Administration Offices, 345 Sixth Avenue, Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania, 15222-2527, pursuant to due public notice given as required by law.
Board Members:
Jeff Letwin, Chair
Jennifer Liptak
Senator Jim Brewster
Ann Ogoreuc
John Tague
Rob Vescio
Rob Kania
Michelle Zmijanac
D. Raja
Stephanie Turman
Joel Lennen, General Counsel

Media:
Kate Giammarise, Post-Gazette
Ed Blazina, Post-Gazette
Meg Schiller, KDKA
Theresa Clift, Tribune Review

Port Authority Staff:
Katharine Kelleman, chief executive officer, Bill Miller, chief operations officer, Keith Wargo, assistant
general manager Engineering and Technical Support, Barry Adams, assistant general manager
Human Resources, Ed Typanski, director Grants and Capital Programs, Catherine Terrill,
professional Services contract specialist, Jerimaine Ward, manager Contract Administration, Chris
Walker, Associate service planner. Inez Colon, director Employment, John DeAngelis, manager
Contract Administration, Tony Trona, director Purchasing and Materials Management, Fred Mergner,
assistant manager Scheduling and Service Planning, Adam Brandolph, Public Relations
representative, Deborah Skillings, Community Outreach representative, Diane Williamson, executive
assistant.
Other
Stuart Strickland, ACTC and Speaker, Donna Dzurilla, Speaker, Annie Regan, Speaker, Cindy
Paulding, Speaker, Debra Green, Speaker, Tyrone Green, Speaker, Franya Hutchins, Speaker,
Glenn Walsh, Speaker, Nica Ross, Speaker, James Love, Speaker, Jonah McAllister-Erickson,
Speaker, Kate Grannemann Coluccio, Speaker, Karen Warman, Speaker, Laura Wiens, Speaker, Jim
Bonner, Speaker, Tom Conroy, Speaker, Rashad Colvin, Speaker, Krystle Knight, Speaker, Helen
Gerhardt, Just Harvest and Paul O’Hanlon, Speaker.
The Chair called the Regular Meeting of the Board to order. A recommendation was made for
approval of the minutes of the December 8, 2017 Regular Meeting. A motion was made, seconded
and unanimously passed.
The Chair called on Ms. Kelleman for a report of the Chief Executive Officer. Ms. Kelleman started
her report by thanking Mr. Donahoe on behalf of the staff, for stepping into the breach, which he has
a habit of doing, and doing an excellent job learning all about transit. She added that when we are
1

 hiring planners in the near future, she will be calling him because he learned so much and has so
much passion for the organization.
Ms. Kelleman introduced herself as Port Authority’s new CEO. She stated that if you don’t know her,
she has 20 years in transit and has been in Dallas, Baltimore and Tampa. Transit and getting people
to where they want to go is her passion and she is excited, honored at the opportunity to come to
what is truly a fantastic city with such a warm welcome. We have been invited to churches, we have
been to play dates and her children love the snow, though they don’t know what it is, and her
husband’s family is from Pennsylvania. We are very happy to be in the county where our kids are
going to graduate from high school.
She stated, as a transit professional, Port Authority is a fantastic opportunity. We are a top 25 transit
property, and we will feel that way again starting with our customer experience inside and out. We
run the service, but our communities own the service and have the opportunity to make sure that we
are exceeding expectations and delivering excellent service from bus stop design to schedules and
leveraging all the really fantastic things happening in Pittsburgh. It is a dream come true, and she is
excited to be on this team.
Ms. Kelleman noted that she has been here officially for about a week and a half. It’s been a busy
week and a half. She stated that she knows we have a lot to tackle and the people in the back of the
room are not here in this weather because you wanted to see me. There are issues ranging from fare
enforcement to service in the Mon Valley to making sure it is easy to get on with your ConnectCard to
getting home on weekends that we will be focusing on working with our Board and coming out to the
communities.
Ms. Kelleman said that she was delighted to start at the Spirit of King event that Port Authority
sponsors, honoring Ms. Everette-Johnson. It was a remarkable event and a fantastic opportunity to
learn about the good things that Port Authority has done in the past and the strong partnership with
the Kingsley Association, Pittsburgh Pirates and New Pittsburgh Courier.
Ms. Kelleman concluded her report by stating that on January 5, 2018, we lost one of our operators, a
long-time employee, Mr. Daniel Amato. As Mr. Amato was driving a 71C Point Breeze bus through
Oakland by the Pitt Campus, he called dispatch notifying them that he felt unwell, and pulled his bus
over. He left the bus and collapsed on the sidewalk and ultimately passed away from a heart attack.
First, we extend our condolences to his family. We cannot stress enough our deep belief that Mr.
Amato saved our passengers by pulling over and getting off the bus, making one of his last actions
taking care of our transit family. Ms. Kelleman stated that she is saddened by this loss, but heartened
that this is the team that we have serving Pittsburgh.
That concluded the report of the Chief Executive Officer.
The Chair then called on Ms. Zmijanac for a report of the Performance Oversight Committee.
Ms. Zmijanac reported that a meeting of the Performance Oversight Committee was held on
Thursday, January 18, 2018 and the minutes from the previous meeting were approved by the
Committee.

2

 Various financial results were reported at the meeting. It was reported that the total Operating
Revenues halfway through the fiscal year were approximately $3.7 million dollars higher than budget,
principally due to higher Passenger Revenues. It was also reported that total Expenses midway
through the fiscal year were approximately $11.98 million dollars under budget and subsidies were
approximately $757,000 over budget.
Ms. Zmijanac stated that there were four resolutions reviewed by the Performance Oversight
Committee and recommended for consideration by the Board.
The Committee first reviewed 10 procurement items and found the bids to be in accordance with the
Authority’s procurement policies and procedures, the prices to be fair and reasonable, and the
bidders to be responsive and responsible.
The Performance Oversight Committee therefore recommends the 10 items outlined in the resolution
for award for the total amount of approximately $4.3 million dollars. On behalf of the Performance
Oversight Committee, Mrs. Zmijanac respectfully requested approval of the resolution.
It was moved, seconded and unanimously agreed that the resolution be approved as presented.
The next resolution recommended by the Performance Oversight Committee was authorization to
award a construction contract to upgrade the existing electrical systems at six radio or microwave
tower sites and the South Hills Parking Garage, as well as replacing the emergency batteries at five
Traction Power Substations.
After review of the bids received, it was determined that the bid of Merit Electrical Group, Inc., in the
amount of $979,000, is the lowest responsive bid from a responsible bidder meeting the Authority’s
specifications for the contract. The Performance Oversight Committee recommended awarding the
contract to Merit Electrical in that amount, subject to completing all pre-award requirements. On
behalf of the Performance Oversight Committee, Mrs. Zmijanac respectfully requested approval of the
resolution.
It was moved, seconded and unanimously agreed that the resolution be approved as presented.
The next resolution recommended by the Performance Oversight Committee was authorization to
enter into an agreement with Commercial Consulting to provide Drug and Alcohol Compliance
Program services. Services under the proposed agreement will include, but are not limited to,
program support services, mobile collection, collection facilities, medical specialists, laboratory
services, a medical review officer, a substance abuse professional, safety-sensitive contract
compliance, and training program development and implementation.
After review and evaluation of the proposals received, it was determined that Commercial Consulting
was the highest rated proposer to perform the services. The Performance Oversight Committee
recommended awarding the agreement to Commercial Consulting, in an amount not-to-exceed
$1,327,300, for an initial three-year period, with the option to extend the term of the agreement up to
an additional two years at the sole discretion of the Authority.
On behalf of the Performance Oversight Committee, Mrs. Zmijanac respectfully requested approval of
the resolution.
3

 It was moved, seconded and unanimously agreed that the resolution be approved as presented.
The final resolution recommended by the Performance Oversight Committee was authorization to
apply for Operating and Capital grants and enter into agreements for calendar year 2018.
On an annual basis, the Authority applies for grants with various federal, state and local governments
such as the FTA, the Federal Department of Homeland Security, PennDot, Allegheny County and the
Allegheny County Regional Asset District. From time to time, the Authority is also eligible for various
discretionary grants that may become available throughout the year. In many instances, the time
period for developing and submitting the application for a grant is limited requiring staff to move
promptly in order to timely submit the application for the available funds.
This resolution will allow staff to submit applications for the grants that become available in 2018 in a
timely fashion and to enter into the necessary agreements to receive the grants. This resolution also
requires the Authority’s chief financial officer to provide regular reports to the Performance Oversight
Committee of all grants applied for and awarded during 2018.
On behalf of the Performance Oversight Committee, Mrs. Zmijanac respectfully requested approval of
the resolution.
It was moved, seconded and unanimously agreed that the resolution be approved as presented.
That concluded the report of the Performance Oversight Committee.
The Chair called on Mr. John Tague for a report of the Planning and Stakeholder Relations
Committee.
Mr. Tague reported that the Planning and Stakeholder Relations Committee did not meet in the
month of January, so there will be no report. He stated, however, that for future reference, there will
be a report every month whether we meet or not. Mr. Tague thinks it is important that the Committee
have a report every month.
That concluded the report of the Planning and Stakeholder Relations Committee.
Before calling on the first speaker, Mr. Letwin stated that, in order to give everybody a fair chance to
be heard with respect to the time frame, we’re asking everybody to keep their comments within the
three-minute allotment.
The first speaker, Mr. Stu Strickland, current treasurer and past president of ACTC, welcomed Ms.
Kelleman and thanked her for attending ACTC’s general meeting last Wednesday. Mr. Strickland
proposed that each member write down their own suggestions for the direction they would like to see
Ms. Kelleman take Port Authority in the coming years. ATCT will compile these in the coming weeks
and present the top entries in each category.
There were several speakers at the meeting with concerns that bus service to the Mon Valley will be
reduced once a Bus Rapid Transit System is built. Speakers urged officials to maintain bus routes
that allow riders to travel from the Mon Valley and Swissvale to downtown without transferring.
4

 There being no further business to conduct. The meeting was adjourned.
The next Regular Meeting of the Board will be Friday, February 23, 2018.

5

 