November 16, 2010 Board Meeting
Regular Meeting of the Board of Commissioners

1.

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

6.

CHA Central Offices
60 E. Van Buren Street, Room 304
Resolutions
Approval of Personnel Action Reports for the month of October 2010.
Finance & Audit Committee Report
Recommendation to approve contract awards to implement a Client Management Tracking
System. Recommended Awardees: Model Metrics and Salesforce.com.
Recommendation to award contract for Microsoft SharePoint Implementation Services.
Recommended Awardee: Rightpoint Consulting, LLC.
Recommendation to award contract for support and maintenance services of Oracle database
software. Recommended Awardee: Oracle Corporation.
Recommendation to award contract to support and maintain the Lawson System.
Recommended Awardee: Lawson Software, Inc.
Ratification of Acceptance of a Grant Award from the Illinois Department of Commerce and
Economic Opportunity to implement the LeClaire Courts Demolition and Environmental Cleanup
Project.
Recommendation to increase funding to Humana HealthCare contract for CHA Employees’
Medical Coverage.

Operations and Facilities Committee Report
Recommendation to award contract for rooftop equipment replacement at Harry J. Schneider
Apartments, 1750 W. Peterson. Recommended Awardee: All Chicago, Inc.
2.
Recommendation to award contract for Demolition Services at LeClaire Courts Extension,
Group 4. Recommended Awardee: Delta Demolition.
3.
Recommendation to award contract for Demolition Services at LeClaire Courts Extension,
Group 5. Recommended Awardee: Delta Demolition.
4.
Recommendation to award contract for Demolition Services at LeClaire Courts, Group 6.
Recommended Awardee: NF Demolition Inc.
5.
Recommendation to award contract for Demolition Services at LeClaire Courts, Group 7.
Recommended Awardee: NF Demolition, Inc.
6.
Recommendation to award contract for Demolition Services at LeClaire Courts, Group 8.
Recommended Awardee: Omega Demolition.
7.
Recommendation to award contract for Demolition Services at LeClaire Courts, Group 9.
Recommended Awardee: Omega Demolition.
8.
Recommendation to award contract for Demolition Services at LeClaire Courts, Group 10.
Recommended Awardee: Omega Demolition.
9.
Recommendation to approve an Intergovernmental Agreement, between CHA and the Chicago
Police Department for supplemental police services at various CHA sites.
10.
Recommendation to approve the second three-year option to renew the Intergovernmental
Agreement, with the City of Chicago, Fleet Management Department for fueling and car washes.
1.

 11.

1.
2.

Recommendation to approve the Intergovernmental Agreement between CHA and the Housing
Authority of Cook County to perform unit inspections.

Tenant Services Committee Report
Recommendation to approve an Intergovernmental Agreement with the Department of Family
and Support Services to provide supportive services to CHA residents.
Recommendation to approve an Intergovernmental Agreement with the Chicago Park District
to provide year-round access to recreational programs for CHA youth.

 