Chicago Housing Authority
Board of Commissioners Public Session
Meeting of August 15, 2006
LeClaire Fieldhouse, 5120 West 44th Street, Chicago, IL
Residents
Name/Property/
1.

Maddie Saffold

2.

Commander James Carroll

3.

Shirley Collins

4.

Jane Huynh

Question/Comment

Status

Welcomed Commissioners and general public to
LeClaire Courts. Acknowledged CEO Peterson for
his continued support and reinstatement of
programs at LeClaire.
Highlighted Security Initiatives for LeClaire area.

Comments Noted.

Comments Noted.

There are no blinds for over half of her building.
Residents have been in this building for up to 5
years w/out blinds. Movers damaged her floor and
repairs have not been completed.

The management company is nearly finished installing mini
blinds at 6360 S. Minerva.

On behalf of Metroplex Inc., acknowledged CHA
for opportunity to work at LeClaire. Assured the
Board that they would do their best to make
LeClaire residents proud of their living
environment.

Comments Noted

1

A work order will be developed and the tiles will be replaced
within 10 days.

 5.

Cheryl Johnson

1. Altgeld Phase I has an additional cost of $20
million – why?
2. Since CHA sold bonds to raise $100 million to
continue capital improvement, why couldn’t some
of this money be use for washers/dryers
hookups?

The additional monies were needed to complete the basic scope
of rehab of the residential units.

The cost for the 7 proposed units at Altgeld is estimated at
$ 3,500,000 versus the estimated $7-9 million for individual
laundry hookups. Clearly, these figures represent over a 50%
additional cost which as stated before has not been budgeted
for this purpose.
In addition, The CHA does not typically have laundry hookups
inside the individual public housing units at any CHA housing
development (this includes our senior properties, all of which
have a laundry facility on-site). According to the CHA lease,
major appliances are not to be hooked up by leaseholders or
other unit occupants

6.

Deverra Beverly

7.

Isaac Jackson

3. Has there been any sewer line, drainage,
infrastructure upgrades, replacement or repairs
done in Phase I and when will it be done for entire
development?
4. Since Phase I started, parking lots, front and
back yards flood during heavy rains and melting
snow, what is cause of poor drainage system?
Acknowledged Commissioner Young, Harris and
staff for assistance and support in resolving ABLA
issues.

As each area of the site is rehabbed, the appropriate
infrastructure improvements will be made.

On visiting CHA’s HR Department, he found out
that during the relocation process when residents’
leases are terminated from the old unit to the new
unit the database does not automatically update
information. Therefore residents are waiting to be
called and are not in the database. Would like to
know why residents were not notified of this
process.

The Chicago Housing Authority is aware of this matter and is
currently working to resolve it.
A mass mailing was sent out to contact CHA residents who may
have been affected.

2

This is a structural question and has been referred to H&R
Architects.
Comments Noted.

 8.

Veronica James

9.

Oneika Owens

Is trying to renew lease, but management
company tells her that son, who is away in
college, has to be present.
What are the future plans for LeClaire Courts?

This matter was resolved with Metroplex, PM One and the CHA
recertification manager.

How many residents will be allowed to return?
What kind of Job Training Program will be
available for LeClaire Residents?

A Service Connector is on site at LeClaire. Residents can speak
with them to obtain information and to enroll in any of the job
training programs in the City. Additionally, the service connecter
can link residents with CHA’s Bridges to Careers program at the
City Colleges or CHA’s transitional jobs program.

3

Currently, there are no concrete plans for LeClaire Courts

 