2
1

   
   

ANNUAL   AND   REGULAR   MEETING   

   

   

OF   

   
   

   

   

THE   BOARD   OF   COMMISSIONERS   

Chicago   Corporate   Offices,   60   East   Van   Buren,   12th   Floor   Loft,   Chicago,   Illinois   
   
Tuesday,   July   15,   2014               
8:30   a.m.                                                                                 
                                 

   AGENDA   

I.
   
II.

III.
   
IV.
   
V.
   
VI.
VII.

Roll   Call   
Closed   Meeting   
•
Commissioners    will    vote    on    whether    to    go    into    closed    meeting    pursuant    to    the    Open   
Meetings   Act,   5   ILCS   120/2,   to   possibly   discuss   matters   under   the   following   exceptions:   
personnel   related   matters   under   (c)(1);   purchase,   sale   and   lease   of   real   estate   property   
under    (c)(6);    pending/imminent/probable    litigation    under    (c)(11);    review    of    closed   
meeting   minutes   under   (c)(21)   and   audit   reviews   under   (c)(29).   
   
Open   Session   -­‐   Roll   Call   
Centering   Thoughts   –   Commissioner   Mildred   Harris   
Approval   of   Closed   and   Open   Minutes   for   the   meetings   of   June   17,   2014.   
Election   of   Officers:   Vice-­‐Chairman   and   Secretary,   Custodian   and   Keeper   of   Records   
   
Presentation   of   Resolutions   and   Committee   Reports      
Closed   Meeting   Resolution   
1.
This   Number   Not   Used.   
   
Joint   Tenant   Services   and   Operations   Committee   Report   -­‐   Bridget   Reidy,   Chairperson   
2.
Authorization    to    award    contract    to    provide    CHA's    Mobility    Counseling    Program.      
Recommended    Awardee:    Housing    Choice    Partners    of    Illinois    in    an    amount    not-­‐to-­‐
exceed    $2,945,263    -­‐    Ellen    Sahli,    Chief    Housing    Officer;    Mary    Howard,    Deputy    Chief,   
Resident   Services.   
   
3.
Authorization    to    award    contract    for    Modernization    Upgrades    at    1254    Loomis    St.,   
Chicago   IL   (Jane   Addams   Community   Center).      Recommended   Awardee:   All   Chicago,   
Inc.    in    the    firm    fixed    amount    of    $4,489,614    plus    a    not-­‐to-­‐exceed    amount    of   
$269,373.84    in    contingency    -­‐    Scott    Ammarell,    Chief    Legal    Officer;    Rod    Thomas,   
Deputy   Chief,   Capital   Construction   
   
   

 4.

VIII.
IX.
X.

Authorization   to   award   contract      for   Asset   Assessment   and   Strategic   Plan   Consulting   
Services.        Recommended    Awardee:        Clampett    Industries,    LLC    (d/b/a    EMG)    in    the    firm   
fixed    amount    of    $1,388,715    -­‐    Scott    Ammarell,    Chief    Legal    Officer;    Rod    Thomas,   
Deputy   Chief,   Capital   Construction   
   
5.
Authorization    to    award    contracts    to    organizations    to    provide    Wait    List    Lottery   
Outreach,    Registration    and    Technical    Assistance    and    to    increase    compensation   
amounts    and    amend    existing    CHA    contracts    to    provide    additional    Wait    List    Lottery   
Registration   Services   -­‐   Ellen   Sahli,   Chief   Housing   Officer;   Katie   Ludwig;   Deputy   Chief,   
HCV   
   
   Real   Estate   Development   Committee   Report   -­‐   Jack   Markowski,   Chairman   
6.
Authorization   to   execute   an   agreement   to   enter   into   a   Housing   Assistance   Payments   
Contract   for      Milwaukee   Avenue   Apartments   -­‐   Ellen   Sahli,   Chief   Housing   Officer   
   
7.
Authorization    to    execute    a    Housing    Assistance    Payments    Contract    for    Illinois   
Accessible    Housing    Initiative    Phase    II    -­‐    Ellen    Sahli,    Chief    Housing    Officer      
      
Finance   &   Personnel   Committee   Report   -­‐   Mark   Cozzi,   Chairman   
8.
Authorization   to   enter   into   a   Cooperative   Purchasing   Agreement   with   Chicago   Public   
School   to   utilize   its   Master   Equipment   Purchase   Agreement   with   Dell   Marketing   L.P.   
for    the    supply,    delivery    and    installation    of    personal    computers,    mobile    equipment,   
server    storage    and    related    support    services    in    the    amount    not-­‐to-­‐exceed    $1.9    M    -­‐   
Linda    Riley    Mitchell,    Chief    Financial    Officer;    Bryan    Land,    Director,    Senior    Vice   
President,   ITS   
   
9.
Authorization    to    award    contract    for    Energy    Policy    Act    Coordinator    Services.      
Recommended   Awardee:   Efficiency   Energy   LLC   -­‐   Linda   Riley   Mitchell,   Chief   Financial   
Officer;   Danita   Childers,   Director,   Financial   Strategy   
   
10.    Approval   of   Personnel   Actions   -­‐   Linda   Riley   Mitchell,   Chief   Financial   Officer;   Marilyn   
Jefferson,   Vice   President,   Human   Resources      
   
   
Report   from   Chief   Executive   Officer   –   Michael   Merchant   
   
Public   Participation   
   
   
Adjournment               

2   
   

 