MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING
OF THE
COMMISSIONERS OF THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
February 18, 2014
The Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority held its Regular Meeting of the Board of
Commissioners on Tuesday, February 18, 2014 at approximately 8:45 a.m. at the Charles Hayes
Family Investment Center located at 4859 S. Wabash in Chicago, IL.
In the absence of Chairwoman Z. Scott, Vice Chairman Rodrigo Sierra called the meeting to
order and upon roll call, those present and absent were as follows:
Present:
Rodrigo Sierra
Mark Cozzi
Dr. Mildred Harris
Harriet Johnson
Myra King
Jack Markowski
Absent:

Matthew Brewer
Z. Scott
Bridget Reidy

Also present were Amy Degnan, Chief of Staff; Scott Ammarell, Chief Legal Officer; Chicago
Housing Authority Staff Members and the General Public.
There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as
follows:
Upon Motion made by Acting Chairman Sierra and properly seconded by Commissioner
Markowski, the Commissioners adjourned to Executive Session. Acting Chairman Sierra
announced that pursuant to the Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2, the Board would adjourn for
approximately one hour to discuss personnel related matters, pending, probable or imminent
litigation and audit reviews.
The Commissioners subsequently reconvened in Open Session and upon roll call, those present
and absent were as follows:
Present:
Rodrigo Sierra
Mark Cozzi
Dr. Mildred Harris
Harriet Johnson
Myra King
Jack Markowski
Absent:

Matthew Brewer
Z. Scott
Bridget Reidy

There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as
follows:
After Motion made by Commissioner Markowski and seconded by Commissioner Cozzi,
minutes for the Regular and Closed meetings of January 21, 2014 were unanimously approved as
submitted.
Chairman Sierra then introduced Item 1 discussed in Closed Meeting and Commissioner Cozzi
presented a Motion for approval of Item 1:

1

 (Item 1)
RESOLUTION NO. 2014–CHA-14
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated February 10,
2014, entitled “Approval of Personnel Actions”:
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the requested personnel actions.

The Motion to adopt resolution for Item 1 was seconded by Commissioner Markowski and the
voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Mark Cozzi
Dr. Mildred Harris
Harriet Johnson
Jack Markowski
Myra King
Rodrigo Sierra
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, Chairman Sierra thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolution adopted.
Commissioner Mildred Harris, Chairwoman of the Tenant Services Committee, then presented
her report. Per Commissioner Harris, the Tenant Services Committee met on Wednesday,
February 12, 2014 at approximately 1:15 p.m. at the 60 E. Van Buren Corporate Offices, 3rd
Floor. Present at the meeting was commissioner Cozzi, Johnson and Sierra. The Committee
then discussed, voted and recommended for approval Item 2.
On behalf of the Tenant Services Committee, Commissioner Harris presented a Motion for the
approval of Item 2.
(Item 2)
The resolution for Item 2 approves two, one-year options with Summer Advantage for the Learn
and Earn Summer Youth program in an amount not-to-exceed $1,700,000 for each option year.
The Learn and Earn program takes place at college campuses throughout Chicago and provides
academic enrichment and career development opportunities for approximately 700 youth
between the ages of 13-15. The Learn and Earn program addresses the learning loss that often
occurs during the summer months. In 2013, youth showed average gains of 2 months of learning
in math and no summer learning loss in reading. The Learn and Earn program also contributes to
the outcomes of One Summer Chicago, the initiative coordinated by the City and County that
provided more than 17,000 youth opportunities last summer. Summer Advantage will be
responsible for staffing, managing and implementing the approved curriculum at each Learn and
Earn site where youth will be attending for 30 hours per week for 6 weeks. During the program,
youth will participate in a morning academic enrichment session based on the provided
curriculum that focuses on reading and math proficiency. In the afternoon session, youth will
participate in career development that includes industry and career awareness, exploration and
preparation activities. Youth will receive a stipend of up to $600 based on attendance and
participation.
RESOLUTION NO. 2014-CHA-15
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated February 12,
2014 entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO EXERCISE TWO, ONE-YEAR
OPTIONS WITH SUMMER ADVANTAGE FOR THE LEARN AND EARN
PROGRAM”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to exercise the second one-year option of Contract No. 11105 with
Entrepreneurial Ventures in Education, Inc. d/b/a Summer Advantage (“Summer
Advantage”) in an amount not-to-exceed $1,700,000, and authorizes the exercise
2

 of the third and final one-year option, at the discretion of the Chief Executive
Officer or his designee, subject to funding availability and satisfactory contract
performance, in an amount not-to-exceed $1,700,000, to provide the Learn and
Earn summer youth program. The aggregate total requested for approval of the
second and third one-year option periods is an amount not to exceed $3,400,000.
The new aggregate contract total, including the base term, first option year, and
final two one-year options will be an amount not-to-exceed amount $5,441,598.
This award is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s
MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 hiring, and insurance requirements.
The Motion to adopt resolution for Item 2 was seconded by Commissioner Johnson and the
voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Mark Cozzi
Dr. Mildred Harris
Harriet Johnson
Jack Markowski
Myra King
Rodrigo Sierra
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, Chairman Sierra thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolution adopted.
Commissioner Mark Cozzi then presented the report of the Joint Operations and Finance
Committee meeting. Per Commissioner Cozzi, since there was not a quorum on Wednesday,
February 12, the Joint Operations and Finance Committee meeting was not officially held,
however, Commissioners and the public were briefed on the nine items appearing on the agenda,
and the items were open to comments and questions from Commissioners and the public, but for
the record, no vote was taken.
Commissioner Cozzi then presented an Omnibus Motion for the approval of Items 3 through 11.
(Item 3)
As part of the Capital Improvement Program, Contract No. 0638 was executed between the
Chicago Housing Authority and Holabird & Root (H&R) for Prime Design Consultant services
at Altgeld Gardens. The resolution for Item 3 approves Modification No. 5 to Contract 0638 to
increase the design fees for H&R related to additional Prime Design Consultant Services at
Altgeld Gardens and modify the contract to refocus on unit rehabilitation. In 2013, CHA secured
an Urban Planner to develop a comprehensive master-site plan and started a robust master
planning process. A Preferred Design Concept plan was presented to the residents and
community at a September 30, 2013 Town Hall meeting. The Preferred Design Concept includes
the rehabilitation of approximately 509 off-line units, renovation and/or new construction of
community facilities, new commercial space, a new green boulevard and outdoor recreation
spaces. H&R is the Architect of Record for the rehabilitation program at Altgeld-Murray.
Currently H&R has two contracts 0638 and 0651; Contract 0638 is for Altgeld and Contract
0651 is for Murray from their previous rehabilitation work prior to the master planning process
that will be used to implement the proposed rehabilitation work in the recently developed
Preferred Design Concept plan.
RESOLUTION NO. 2014-CHA-16
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated February 12,
2014 entitled, “Authorization to execute Contract Modification No. 05 to Contract
No. 0638 with Holabird & Root LLC for the provision of Additional Prime
Design Consultant services at Altgeld Gardens.”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

It is recommended that the Board of Commissioners authorize the CEO or his
designee to enter a Modification No. 5 to Contract No. 0638 with Holabird and
Root LLC., (H&R) for the modification and provision of Additional Prime Design
3

 Consultant Services at Altgeld Gardens and increase the not-to-exceed contract
amount by $213,736.00. The new total contract value of Contract No. 0638 is notto-exceed $9,207,755.00.
This award is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s
MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 and insurance requirements.
(Item 4)
The resolution for Item 4 approves a Predevelopment Loan Agreement with BMH-1, LLC;
amends the Master Development Agreement; commits up to $750,000 of CHA funds for Predevelopment work at the Horner Superblock and approves submission of a Disposition
application to HUD. The original Henry Horner (Horner) site was developed between 1957 thru
1969 and was comprised of 1,765 public housing units. The redevelopment of Horner began
with Phase I in the late 1990's. The redevelopment of Phase I was comprised of 552 units, of
which 260 are scattered site, 90 are at the Annex and 201 are at the Superblock. Phase I was
completed in 2000. In 1996 Horner was awarded a HOPE VI grant for $18.4MM for the
redevelopment of Phase II, introducing a true mixed-income/finance community. The HOPE VI
plan calls for three major redevelopment phases comprised of 764 mixed income units of which
271 are public housing, 132 are affordable and 361 are market rate units. To date, a total of 547
mixed-income units have been delivered (408 rental and 139 for-sale). Two-hundred thirtyseven are public housing, 109 are affordable and 201 are market rate units. In November 2013,
after 3 years of negotiations among CHA, the HRC, BPI, and HUD, including the filing of a
motion to allow amendment of the Consent Decree, Judge Zagel signed an Agreed Order for the
redevelopment of the Superblock. The Superblock Redevelopment Plan included redevelopment
of the existing site from 100% public housing into a mixed-income rental community that will
co-exist with the surrounding mixed-income Westhaven Park community. The outcome of the
negotiations and surveys has resulted in a mixed-income rental phase comprised of: 95 public
housing units; 50 affordable units and 55 market rate units. At least fifty (50) off-line units will
be used as a temporary relocation resource for Superblock families who elected to remain on the
Superblock after redevelopment. On April 16, 2013, a town hall meeting was held for all
Superblock families to explain the terms of the proposed settlement agreement and address any
questions and concerns. In addition, smaller community meetings were conducted on April 29,
April 30 and May 1, 2013 to discuss the issues and for residents to complete and submit their
Housing Preference Sheets.
RESOLUTION NO. 2014-CHA-17
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated February 12,
2014 entitled 1) Enter into a Predevelopment Loan Agreement with BMH-I, LLC;
2) Amend the Master Development Agreement; 3) Commit Chicago Housing
Authority Funds up to $750,000 for pre-development work at the Horner
Superblock; 4) Submit a Disposition Application to the United States Department
of Housing and Urban Development; and 5) Execute and deliver such other
documents and perform such actions as may be necessary or appropriate to
implement the foregoing.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to 1) Enter into a Predevelopment Loan Agreement with BMH-I, LLC;
2) Amend the Master Development Agreement; 3) Commit Chicago Housing
Authority Funds up to $750,000 for pre-development work at the Horner
Superblock; 4) Submit a Disposition Application to the United States Department
of Housing and Urban Development; and 5) Execute and deliver such other
documents and perform such actions as may be necessary or appropriate to
implement the foregoing.
This award is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s
MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 and insurance requirements.

(Item 5)
The CHA requires environmental consulting (EC) services for 2014 through 2018 to satisfy
CHA’s need for environmental compliance requirements for construction, capital maintenance
4

 and environmental due diligence projects to comply with environmental and related federal
(including HUD) State and local laws, regulations, ordinances and guidelines. The current EC
contracts will terminate March 31, 2014. These EC services have been customarily performed
by environmental consultants since the passage of applicable environmental laws and regulations
in the mid-1970s. The 4 recommended firms' proposals, which were evaluated and scored both
on the business technical factors and price, received the highest scores out of the 7 proposals
received and were determined to be in the competitive range after which best and final pricing
was requested. Three of the recommended firms, Carnow Conibear and Associates, Ltd.,
Environmental Design International and GSG Consultants, Inc. are currently under contract to
provide EC services, and CCD and ODM have had a positive experience with these three firms,
who have provided EC services for CHA in a timely, professional and cost effective manner.
Although the CHA has not previously worked with Terracon Consultants Inc., their references
and the recommendations received from other City agencies, along with their proposal's score
justify that they be included as one of the recommended respondents for contract award.
RESOLUTION NO. 2014-CHA-18
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated February 12,
2014 entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO ENTER INTO FOUR (4) CONTRACTS
FOR AUTHORITY-WIDE ENVIRONMENTAL CONSULTING SERVICES”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners Board of Commissioners authorize the Chief
Executive Officer (“CEO”) or his designee to enter into four (4) master
competitive task order based contracts (technically known as Indefinite delivery
Indefinite Quantity contracts) for Authority-wide Environmental Consulting
services with Carnow Conibear and Associates, Ltd., Environmental Design
International, GSG Consultants, Inc. and Terracon Consultants, Inc. in an amount
not-to-exceed $1,000,000 for a two (2) year term and two (2) one-year options,
with each contract having a minimum guaranty of $50,000. The total aggregate
not-to-exceed amount of the 4 contracts will be $4,000,000.
This award is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s
MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3, and insurance requirements.

(Item 6)
Based on the structural assessments of the building located at 3605 West Douglas Boulevard
(Scattered Sites) to determine its structural stability and make recommendations as to its viability
for occupancy, the assessments revealed that the interior of the building has been so severely
damaged and vandalized that it would require gut rehabilitation of all units, as well as
modifications for current building code and ADA compliance for it to be viable. The
architectural and rehabilitation costs needed to make the building viable for habitation exceed the
Total Development Costs (TDC) allowed by HUD for these types of structures. Accordingly, the
resolution for Item 6 approves submission of a Demolition Application to HUD for the
demolition of the Scattered Site structure located at 3605 West Douglas.
RESOLUTION NO. 2014-CHA-19
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated February 12,
2014, entitled “REQUEST FOR AUTHORIZATION TO SUBMIT A
DEMOLITION APPLICATION TO THE U.S. DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING
AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT FOR THE DEMOLITION OF A SCATTERED
SITES DWELLING STRUCTURE LOCATED AT 3605 WEST DOUGLAS
BOULEVARD AND TO DEMOLISH SAID PROPERTY”;
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to submit a demolition application to the U.S. Department of Housing
and Urban Development (“HUD”) for the demolition of a six (6) unit dwelling
structure located at 3605 West Douglas Boulevard, and to demolish said property
upon receipt of approval from HUD.

5

 (Item 7)
During the renovation of Lidia Pucinska for the life safety upgrades and plumbing riser
replacement, the contractor discovered the heat risers were leaking from virtually every
mechanical joint causing substantial moisture and mold behind the walls. The mold represents a
potential health threat to the tenants and the numerous leaks indicate the heating system is
operating at a much less than optimum efficiency. The pervasiveness of the leaks could also lead
to the complete failure of the system. In addition, the contractor also discovered that the
bedroom walls were built using 1 5/8” studs on 24” center, which is inconsistent with building
codes and insufficient to properly support drywall. The Capital Construction Department has
verified that the amounts proposed to perform the work by the contractors are within an
acceptable range of the CHA’s Independent Cost Estimates. Accordingly, the resolution for Item
7 approves a Contract Modification for Madison Construction, in the amount of $3,140,527 for
Life Safety & Plumbing Riser Replacement at Lidia Pucinska Apartments. In order to complete
the project, residents must be relocated throughout the duration of the project. The relocation
expenses associated with the construction project are estimated to be: $180,000.
RESOLUTION NO. 2014-CHA-20
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated February 18,
2014 entitled “APPROVAL OF CONTRACT MODIFICATIONS FOR LIFE
SAFETY & PLUMBING RISER REPLACEMENT @ LIDIA PUCINSKA
APTS”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY

$11,591,277.26

$3,140,527.30

27.51%

$3,313,804.56

Cumulative Amount
Over $100,000?

$11,418,000

Cumulative Change
Order Total

Current
Contract Value

% of Contract - This
Change Order

Original
Contract
Value

All Change Orders as a
Cumulative % of
Original Contract

Madison
Construction

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves a $3,140,527 of contract
modification to Contract No. 11270 with Madison Construction for the Life and
Safety work at Lidia Pucinska Apartments, and $180,000 necessary resident
relocation expenses necessitated by the project.
Life Safety & Plumbing Riser Replacement @ Lidia Pucinska Apts.
Construction Contract
Modifications to be
Approved (February
Board)

General Contractor

THAT

29.02%

Yes

Revised Contract Amount

$14,731,804.56

This item is subject to each Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s
MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 and insurance requirements.
(Item 8)
The resolution for Item 8 approves a new Intergovernmental Agreement with the City of Chicago
Department of Administrative Hearing (DoAH) to continue to provide formal administrative
hearings for CHA residents. This will be the third IGA with DoAH since 2004 and will allow
the CHA to continue its formal Grievance Procedure that was implemented in 2004, utilizing
DoAH’s impartial administrative hearing officers. Specifically, the IGA continues to allow CHA
residents to participate in formal grievance hearings before independent hearing officers at
DoAH’s offices. The IGA utilizes DoAH’s existing administrative procedures to schedule and
hold the hearings as well as report the results to CHA and residents. The average cost of an
administrative hearing through DoAH has been approximately $375 based on 5 hours for the
hearing officer at $60 per hour plus a $75 filing fee for each case. Over the past 5 years, CHA
has averaged approximately 40 - 60 formal grievance hearings with DoAH per year.
RESOLUTION NO. 2014-CHA-21
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board letter dated February 12,
2014 entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO ENTER INTO A NEW
INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT WITH THE CITY OF CHICAGO’S
DEPARTMENT OF ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
6

 THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into a new intergovernmental agreement (“IGA”) with the City
of Chicago’s Department of Administrative Hearings (“DoAH”) to provide
formal administrative hearings for CHA residents for the period of April 1, 2014
through March 31, 2017 for an amount not-to-exceed $75,000, and at the
discretion of the Chief Executive Officer or his designee, subject to funding
availability and satisfactory contract performance, exercise the IGA’s one 2-year
option term for an amount not-to-exceed $50,000 for the period of April 1, 2017
through March 31, 2019.

(Item 9)
In January 2010, the CHA was awarded a two year $250,000 award from ICJIA through the
Edward Byrne Recovery Act Grant Program. The purpose of the funding was to implement
community based youth violence prevention through Gang Resistance Education and Training
(G.R.E.A.T.) and the Youth Courts. The Altgeld-Riverdale Consortium (ARC) Partnership
created a community partnership and increased resident awareness of violence prevention at
community schools. On December 10, 2013, the CHA received official written notice of a third
award of $335,051 from the ICJIA through the Edward Byrne Recovery Act Grant Program.
CHA is required to provide matching funds of $111,684 (mostly in-kind). Accordingly, the
resolution for Item 9 approves acceptance of a Grant Award from ICJIA and also approves SubGrant Agreements with UCAN, Chicago Police Department; Roseland Ceasefire, 000
Multimedium, Social Impact and Community Justice for Youth.
UCAN will leverage its capabilities to provide case management support in identifying and
reaching out to appropriate families to benefit from the ARC and services made available
through the grant. G.R.E.A.T. (Gang Resistance Education and Training) is an evidence-based
prevention program that addresses aggression, gang activity, conflict resolution and interpersonal
skills issues as experienced by boys and girls age nine to seventeen in urban settings. Uniformed
CPD officers will conduct G.R.E.A.T. youth and family programming during the 2014 academic
school year and over the summer. Roseland CeaseFire will leverage its work in the 5th Police
District and analyze crime hot spot and time-of-day data to determine when/where it will place
part-time Violence Interrupters to intervene when conflicts arise and train others in Interrupter
techniques. OOO Multimedium will conduct an interactive music course focused on violence
prevention and Social IMPACT Research Center will conduct an evaluation of changes in
resident perception of safety as a result of the ARC activities and crime statistics between 20122014.
RESOLUTION NO. 2014-CHA-22
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated February 12, 2014 entitled “ACCEPTANCE OF A GRANT
AWARD FROM THE ILLINOIS STATE CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY AND AUTHORIZATION TO ENTER INTO
SUB-GRANT AGREEMENTS WITH UCAN, THE CHICAGO POLICE
DEPARTMENT, ROSELAND CEASEFIRE PROJECT INC., OOO
MULTIMEDIUM, SOCIAL IMPACT AND COMMUNITY JUSTICE FOR
YOUTH INSTITUTE”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorize the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to accept a grant award from and enter into a grant agreement with the
Illinois State Criminal Justice Information Authority in the amount of $335,051
and authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to enter into sub-grant
agreements with Uhlich Children’s Advantage Network, the Chicago Police
Department, Roseland Ceasefire Project, OOO Multimedium, Social IMPACT
and Community Justice for Youth to provide support services in an aggregate
amount not-to-exceed $299,255 for the period of January 1, 2014 through
December 30, 2014 (or by September 30, 2014 in the event ICJIA is unable to
receive an extension of time as to when the grant scope of work must be
completed).

7

 (Item 10)
In September, 2013, the CHA advertised an Invitation for Bid to procure toner cartridges and
supplies. The basis for strategic sourcing was due to the desire to secure these goods at the best
price utilizing the volume created by the needs of the Authority as a whole. The pricing received
from this process was deemed to be advantageous in the area of cost-savings as well as contract
administration. Of the four responses received, two vendors’ submissions were deemed nonresponsive and the remaining vendors were evaluated based on their ability to meet the CHA’s
requirements. Upon review of the bids, it was determined that Warehouse Direct was the lowest,
responsive and responsible bidder for toner cartridges and supplies for the Authority-wide
initiative. Accordingly, the resolution for Item 10 approves award of contract to Warehouse
Direct in an amount not-to-exceed $360,000.
RESOLUTION NO. 2014-CHA-23
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter February 12, 2014
entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO ENTER INTO A TWO (2) YEAR
CONTRACT WITH TWO (2) ONE-YEAR OPTIONS WITH WAREHOUSE
DIRECT FOR SUPPLY AND DELIVERY OF TONER CARTRIDGES AND
SUPPLIES”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into a contract with Warehouse Direct for the supply and
delivery of toner cartridges and supplies, in an amount not-to-exceed $180,000 for
a base term of two (2) years, with two (2) additional one-year options which may
be exercised at the discretion of the CEO or his designee, subject to funding
availability and satisfactory contract performance, in an amount not-to-exceed
$90,000 for each option term, for a total aggregate contract amount not-to-exceed
$360,000.00.

(Item 11)
CHA’s Resident Services Division is charged with helping families move along the path to selfsufficiency. To accomplish this goal, CHA is seeking to participate in an Earned Income Tax
Credit (EITC) pilot initiative that will provide early tax refund loans to up to 500 CHA
participants who are eligible for the EITC pilot in 2014. This initiative supports CHA’s Plan
Forward goals, and housing in general, by providing a quarterly early tax credit refund loan that
will assist families in maintaining lease compliance (e.g. assist in timely rent and utility
payments). In January 2014, CHA received notice of the EITC pilot contemplated by the
Mayor’s Office through their agreement with CEP. CEP is a local expert on helping low-income
working families move towards financial security through a variety of financial literacy services
including, but not limited to: tax clinics and preparation assistance, financial education
workshops and individual financial coaching. The pilot, which includes a research component,
seeks to test the benefit of receiving quarterly cash advances of the Earned Income Tax Credit
for working families in easing the difficulties that result when families have limited cash on
hand. CEP will facilitate the administration and disbursement of the tax credit pilot. CEP will
determine the advance loan amount by conducting a thorough review of participants’ current
income and an analysis of past taxes to project the estimated 2014 tax refund for EITC.
Participants will receive no more than 50% of their projected tax credit in quarterly loan
payments. CHA will leverage the existing service providers to facilitate recruitment and
enrollment of eligible CHA residents. CEP has been contracted by the Chicago Department of
Family and Support Services (DFSS) to facilitate the EITC pilot. CEP will utilize the non-federal
funds provided by CHA to make the early tax refund as a loan to CHA participants. DFSS will
pay all of CEP's administrative and related service fees directly to CEP.
RESOLUTION NO. 2014-CHA-24
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated February 12,
2014 entitled “RECOMMENDATION TO ENTER INTO A CONTRACT WITH
THE CENTER FOR ECONOMIC PROGRESS FOR THE EARNED INCOME
TAX CREDIT PILOT”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY

8

 THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into a contract with the Center for Economic Progress, which
will provide early tax refund loans to up to 500 CHA residents who enroll in the
Earned Income Tax Credit pilot in an amount not-to-exceed $575,000 for the
period of March 1, 2014 through June 30, 2015.

The Motion to adopt resolutions for Items 3 through 11 was seconded by Commissioner
Markowski and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Mark Cozzi
Dr. Mildred Harris
Harriet Johnson
Jack Markowski
Myra King
Rodrigo Sierra
Nays:

Myra King (on Item 3 only)

There being no questions or discussion, Chairman Sierra thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted.
Amy Degnan, Chief of Staff, then presented the CEO’s monthly report.
Chairman Sierra then invited the residents and the public at large to address the Board.
There being no further business to come before the Commissioners, upon Motion made by
Commissioner Markowski, seconded by Commissioner Cozzi, the February 18, 2014 meeting of
the Board of Commissioners was adjourned.

s/b:

s/b:

______________________________________
Rodrigo Sierra
Acting Chairman, Chicago Housing Authority

_____________________________
Lee Chuc-Gill, Secretary
Custodian and Keeper of Records

9

 