CHICAGO PLAN COMMISSION
121 North LaSalle Street
Council Chambers - 2nd Floor, City Hall
Chicago, Illinois 60602
October 16, 2014
10:00 A.M.
MINUTES
PRESENT

ABSENT

Martin Cabrera
Les Bond
Olga Camargo
Doris Holleb
Patricia Scudiero
Rebekah Scheinfeld
Daniel Sih
Andrew Mooney
Smita Shah
Linda Searl
Bishop John R. Bryant
Alderman Edward Burke
Alderman Walter Burnett
Alderman Ray Suarez
Alderman Thomas Tunney
Alderman Joseph Moore

Michael Kelly
Euclid Walker
Terry Peterson
George Migala
Alderman Daniel S. Solis

I

The Vice-Chairman called the meeting to order at 10:10 AM and then undertook a roll
call to establish the presence of a quorum. The hearing commenced with seven
members present.

II.

A court reporter was present to record the proceedings. A transcript is available for the
purpose of pursuing all matters in greater detail and is a part of the permanent public
record of the Regular Hearing of the Chicago Plan Commission held on October 16,
2014.

III.

The Minutes of the September 18, 2014 Hearing were approved unanimously.

IV.

The following inter-agency items numbered 1 through 4 under Adjacent
Neighbors, item number 5 under Sealed Bid, and items numbered 6 through 8
under Negotiated Sales were approved by an omnibus vote of 7-0
Adjacent Neighbors

1.

A resolution recommending a proposed ordinance authorizing the sale of City-owned
land under the Adjacent Neighbors Land Acquisition Program for the property located at
3336 South Giles Avenue.

2.

A resolution recommending a proposed ordinance authorizing the sale of City-owned
land under the Adjacent Neighbors Land Acquisition Program for the property located at
1452 South Kostner Avenue/4405 West 15th Street.

 3.

A resolution recommending a proposed ordinance authorizing the sale of City-owned
land under the Adjacent Neighbors Land Acquisition Program for the property located at
5438 South Laflin Street.

4.

A resolution recommending a proposed ordinance authorizing the sale of City-owned
land under the Adjacent Neighbors Land Acquisition Program for the property located at
323 West 111th Street.
Sealed Bid

5.

A resolution recommending a proposed ordinance authorizing the sealed-bid sale of
City-owned land for the property located at 4404-14 South Greenwood Avenue.
Negotiated Sales

6.

A resolution recommending a proposed ordinance authorizing the negotiated sale of
City-owned land for the property located at 3151 West Washington Street.

7.

A resolution recommending a proposed ordinance authorizing the disposition of two
City-owned parcels of land to the Chicago Park District for the construction of the
Morgan Park Sports Center for the property generally located at 11445 South Western
Avenue, 2330 West 115th Street and 11505 South Western Avenue.

8.

A resolution recommending a proposed ordinance authorizing the disposition of Cityowned parcels to various property owners/applicants under The Large Lot Pilot Program
Within the “Green Healthy Neighborhoods Plan” Area for the properties generally
located at: 4643 South Prairie Avenue, 917 West 53 rd Place, 6323 South Champlain
Avenue, 1759 West Garfield Boulevard, 6349 South Greenwood Avenue, 5700 South
Martin Luther King Jr. Drive, 5643 South Prairie Avenue, 6421 South Parnell Avenue
and 7300 South Harvard Avenue.

D.

MATTERS SUBMITTED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAKE MICHIGAN AND
CHICAGO LAKEFRONT PROTECTION ORDINANCE AND/OR THE CHICAGO
ZONING ORDINANCE:

1.

A proposed Planned Development submitted by 4K Diversey Partners, LLC, for the
property generally located at 4000-4180 West Diversey and 4029-4153 West George
Street. The site is currently zoned M1-1, Limited Manufacturing/ Business Park District.
The applicant proposes to reclassify the site from the M1-1, Limited Manufacturing/
Business Park District to a C2-2, Motor Vehicle Related Commercial District prior to
establishing the Planned Development. The applicant proposes to rehab a 6-story
masonry industrial warehouse building with industrial, commercial, retail uses, Business
Live / Work Units and accessory parking. The property is improved by three industrial
masonry buildings and a parking lot. PD Approved 10-0-1 with Commissioner
Suarez recusing himself. Yeas – Commissioners Bond, Bryant, Mooney, Moore,
Scheinfeld, Scudiero, Shah, Sih, Tunney and Cabrera.
Map Amendment Approved 10-0-1 with Commissioner Suarez recusing himself.
Yeas – Commissioners Bond, Bryant, Mooney, Moore, Scheinfeld, Scudiero,
Shah, Sih, Tunney and Cabrera.

2.

The Metra Typology study is intended as a guide for future private development and
public investment around Chicago's 77 Metra stations. The 2009 Transit Friendly

 Development Guide classified each CTA train station into one of seven different
typologies to outline expectations about the scale and mix of uses for development in
proximity to these transit stations. The Metra Typology study adds two additional
typologies and categorizes the Metra stations in the city according to one of these nine
classifications. In addition, the plan serves as a resource to those seeking to improve
public, private or railroad-owned property around the stations and provides data on
current ridership and mode of access by commuters. Approved 11-0. Yeas –
Commissioners Bond, Bryant, Mooney, Moore, Scheinfeld, Scudiero, Searl, Shah,
Sih, Tunney and Cabrera.
3.

A proposed amendment to PMD #8, Stockyards Planned Manufacturing District
submitted by Alderman James Balcer(11th Ward.) The proposed amendment would
create two Subdistricts within the PMD. Subdistrict A would govern all areas within the
boundaries of the existing PMD, except for the areas in the new Subdistrict B, which is
generally bounded by South Ashland Avenue, West 35 th Street, South Iron Street, West
36th Street, approximately South Laflin Street, West 37th, a line 543 feet east of and
parallel to Ashland Avenue, and West 38th Street. The new Subdistrict B would expand
the commercial and office uses in this area of the PMD; the uses in Subdistrict A would
remain the same. Approved 10-0. Yeas – Commissioners Bond, Bryant, Mooney,
Moore, Scudiero, Searl, Shah, Sih, Tunney and Cabrera.

4.

Lake Michigan and Chicago Lakefront Protection Ordinance Application No. 643,
submitted by Buckingham Development Group, LLC, for the property generally located
at 549 West Roscoe Street within the Private-Use Zone of the Lake Michigan and
Chicago Lakefront Protection District. The applicant proposes to construct a four-story,
four-unit residential building with seven enclosed parking spaces. The property is
currently zoned RM-5 (Residential Multi-Unit District). Approved 9-0-1 with
Commissioner Tunney recusing himself. Yeas – Commissioners Bond, Bryant,
Mooney, Moore, Scudiero, Searl, Shah, Sih, and Cabrera.

5.

A zoning map amendment in the Brighton Park Industrial Corridor submitted by
Alderman Edward M. Burke (14th Ward) for the property generally located at 4849
South Kedzie Avenue. The application proposes to rezone the property from M2-2 Light
Industry District to C3-1 Commercial, Manufacturing and Employment District. The
application proposes to develop the site as part of a restaurant facility. Approved 13-01 with Commissioner Burke recusing himself. Yeas – Commissioners Bond,
Bryant, Burnett, Comargo, Holleb, Mooney, Moore, Scheinfeld, Scudiero, Shah,
Sih, Tunney and Cabrera.

6.

A Residential Business Planned Development application submitted by SP Riverwest,
LLC for the property generally located at 1001 West Chicago Avenue. The applicant
proposes to construct two mixed-use towers of 14 and 15 stories, respectively, with a
combined 363 residential units, approximately 35,000 square feet of ground floor retail
space, and at least 318 accessory parking spaces on an approximately 1.88-acre site.
The applicant proposes to rezone the property from M1-3 Limited
Manufacturing/Business Park District to B3-5 Community Shopping District prior to
establishing the Business Planned Development. Approved 12-0-1 with
Commissioner Burnett recusing himself. Yeas – Commissioners Bond, Bryant,
Comargo, Holleb, Mooney, Moore, Scheinfeld, Scudiero, Searl, Sih, Tunney and
Cabrera.

 7.

A Residential Business Planned Development application submitted by Ryan
Companies US, Inc. for the property generally located at 801-833 North Clark Street
and 77 West Chestnut Street. The applicant proposes to construct a thirty-three story
mixed-use building with 392 residential dwelling units, ground floor commercial space,
and 154 off-street accessory parking spaces. The site is currently zoned DX-5,
Downtown Mixed-Use District and DX-7, Downtown Mixed-Use District. The applicant
proposes to rezone the site to a unified DX-7, Downtown Mixed-Use District prior to
establishing the Residential Business Planned Development. The site is currently
improved by a commercial bank building and an accessory parking lot. . Approved 120-1 with Commissioner Searl recusing herself. Yeas – Commissioners Bond,
Bryant, Burnett, Comargo, Holleb, Mooney, Moore, Scheinfeld, Scudiero, Sih,
Tunney and Cabrera.

8.

A proposal for an amendment to planned development #1105, submitted by the
Chicago Board of Education, for the property generally located at 2231 North Central
Avenue. The Applicant is proposing to amend the boundaries of the existing planned
development #1105 to include additional land which will allow for the construction of a
modular classroom on the site, all other aspects of the previously approved planned
development will remain unchanged and as previously approved. Applicant is
requesting to rezone the property from PD #1105 (Institutional Planned Development) to
PD #1105 (Institutional Planned Development) as amended. Approved 13-0. Yeas –
Commissioners Bond, Bryant, Burnett, Comargo, Holleb, Mooney, Scheinfeld,
Scudiero, Searl, Shah, Sih, Tunney and Cabrera.

9.

A proposal for a planned development, submitted by FRC 1850 Chicago, LLC, for the
property generally located at 1850 West Chicago Avenue. The Applicant is proposing
to construct a 4 story mixed-use building with 14,656 square feet of retail space on the
ground floor and 59 dwelling units above. Additionally, the project will provide 2 loading
berths and 52 parking spaces. The Applicant is requesting to rezone the property from
B3-2 (Community Shopping District) to a B3-3 (Community Shopping District) and then
to a Residential Business Planned Development. . Approved 14-0. Yeas –
Commissioners Bond, Bryant, Burnett, Comargo, Holleb, Mooney, Moore,
Scheinfeld, Scudiero, Searl, Shah, Sih, Tunney and Cabrera.

E.

MATTERS DEFERRED IN ACCORDANCE WITH SECTION 17-13-0108 OF THE
CHICAGO ZONING ORDINANCE:

1.

A proposed amendment to Residential-Business Planned Development No. 1121
submitted by Harbor Point Venture, LLC, for the property generally located at 4000 East
134th Street. The applicant proposes to amend the Planned Development to expand an
existing mobile home park to no more than 747 manufactured homes/recreation
vehicles with related and accessory uses and facilities. Deferred to date certain of
11/20/2014

2.

A proposed Amendment to Planned Development No. 44, submitted by Host Hotels &
Resorts, Inc., for the property generally located at 8535 West Higgins Road. The
Applicant is proposing to amend the existing planned development #44 to reconfigure
the Sub-Areas and to construct approximately 750,000 square feet of office space
within Sub-Area B. The project will provide a total of 8 loading berths and a minimum of
2,000 parking spaces. . Deferred to date certain of 11/20/2014.

Adjournment: 2:30 PM

 