GÞ
r:.,j

ffi
AF

c)

A SUMMARY OF REPORTS OF THE
COMMITTEE ON THE BUDGET
AND GOVERNMENT OPERATIONS
TO BE SUBMITTED TO THE CITY COL]NCIL
AT THE MEETING OF
Novernber 7,2018

...,(

t:"

!.

I

'j

'l

(fi

1

--- il:l
.'.',., ."t
-1'"

Tf'l

"Ð

f\)

1.

An ordinance authorizing sundry amendments to the Municipal Code of Chicago
ne c e s s ary for the or ganization, reorgani zatioî, and j uri s diction o f various
departments and other matters necessary for the conduct of government including
the establishment of the Department of Housing (management ordinance).

2.

An ordinance authonzing sundry amendments to the Municipal Code of Chicago
necessaryto correct andlor update various sections.

3. An ordinance authorizing the execution

of an intergovernmental agreement
between the City of Chicago, the County of Cook, and the Chicago Transit
Authority necessary for the allocation of motor fuel tax funds pursuant to the
Regional Transportation Authority Act.

4.

An ordinance authorizing the allocation of motor fuel tax funds necessary for
various activities and improvements to streets, county or state highways during

20t9.

5. A report approving

the appointment of lvy walker as a member of the Chicago
Public Llbrary Board for a term to expire June 30, 202L.

6. A report approving

the appointment of Kelley Gandurski as Executive Director
Chicago Animal Care and Control.

of

l.

An ordinance amending the XLIV Community Development Block Grant
ordinance within the Department of Public Health.

8.

An ordinance amending section l-22 and section 2-60 of the Municipal Code of
Chicago relating to False Claims and Consumer Fraud.

9.

An ordinance authorizing a supplemental appropriation and an amendment to the
year 2018 Annual Appropriation Ordinance necessary to reflect an increase in the
amount of funds received from Federal, State, public andlor private agencies.

10.

An ordinance authorizing the execution of an Intergovernmental Agreement
between the City of Chicago and the Cook County Sheriff to provide equipment
for the Sheriff s Work Alternative Program ("SWAP").
1

'

i.,iì

i 'l l

l'r'ì
i il

 11.

An ordinance authorizing the execution of an Intergovernmental Agteement
between the City of Chicago and the Chicago Housing Authority (CHA)
conceming the Homemod Program under the CHA Housing Choice Voucher
Program.

12. Anordinance authorizing a transfer of funds within the City Council Committee
on Human Relations.
13. Reports recommending to the City Council the adoption of a series of corrections
and revisions to the proposed 2019 anrnal appropriation ordinance transmitted

herewith; and the adoption of the proposed 2019 annual appropriation ordinance,
as amended.

14. Reports recommending to the City Council the adoption of a series of corrections
and revisions to the proposed year XLV Community Development Block Grant

Ordinance transmitted herewith: and the adoption of the proposed Year
Community Development Block Grant ordinance, as amended.

)

XLV

 