CHICAGO CITY COUNCIL

Council Chamber, Second Floor
City Hall, 121 N. LaSalle St.
Chicago, IL 60602

City Council Regular Meeting Agenda*
*Agenda items are shown in bold font. Text not in bold font is explanatory, for the
convenience of the reader.
In accordance with Rule 3 of the City Council Rules of Order and Procedure, the
following is the agenda and order of business for regular City Council meetings:

1. Call to order by the Mayor.
The Mayor, or in his or her absence the President Pro Tempore, calls the City
Council to order to begin the meeting.
2. Call of the roll.
The City Clerk calls the roll of members present beginning with the 1st Ward.
3. Determination of Quorum.
If a quorum is present, the Council may proceed. A quorum consists of the
majority of the members of the City Council, including the Mayor. If no quorum is
present, the City Council shall, by majority vote of the members present, move to
recess or adjourn.
4. Pledge of Allegiance.
The Pledge of Allegiance is recited by the members of the City Council and
assembled guests.
5. Invocation.
An invocation is given.

*The committee agendas/reports posted on the Chicago City Council Calendar list the items that may be called for
a vote at the City Council meeting and are considered to be part of the City Council meeting agenda.

 6. Public Comment.
Members of the general public may address the City Council on subject matters
appearing on meeting agenda.
7. Reports and Communications from the Mayor.
Reports and communications from the Mayor and City departments are
announced into the record by the City Clerk and sent to the appropriate
committee unless there is 2/3 vote to Suspend the City Council’s Rules of Order
and Procedure and consider them immediately. The Mayor or Presiding Officer
may also present resolutions or proclamations.
8. Communications from the City Clerk.
The City Clerk apprises the City Council of communications from various
departments and agencies that were filed in his or her office from the time of the
previous meeting. The City Clerk also notes the publication of the previous City
Council Journal and other documents required or requested to be published.
Matters submitted to the City Clerk by members of the general public or other
entities requiring City Council approval are also introduced and referred to the
appropriate committee for deliberation.
9. Reports of Standing Committees.**
Standing committee chairmen report out to the full City Council the
recommendations of the membership on matters under their consideration. Joint
committees comprising two or more standing committees also report their
recommendations at this time.
**The committee agendas/reports posted on the Chicago City Council
Calendar(link is external) list the items that may be called for a vote at the City
Council meeting and are considered to be part of the City Council meeting
agenda.
10. Reports of Special Committees.
Special committee chairmen present their reports. Special committees are
created by resolution adopted by 2/3 affirmative vote of the aldermen entitled by
law to be elected.
11. Agreed Calendar.
Non-controversial resolutions honoring or paying tribute to individuals or
organizations or ceremonial in nature are considered under the Agreed Calendar
and on recommendation of the Chairman of the Committee on Finance, they are
voted upon as a group by the full City Council. The Agreed Calendar is also
commonly referred to as the Consent Calendar.

 12. Presentation of petitions, communication, resolutions, orders, and
ordinances introduced by Aldermen.
The City Clerk will "Call the Wards" and read into the record new legislative
proposals (ordinances, orders, petitions, resolutions, or other original matters)
introduced by aldermen on a variety of topics including but not limited to
Municipal Code amendments, traffic regulations, zoning matters, licensing
requirements, etc. The order of presentation alternates each meeting beginning
with the 1st Ward on one meeting, then the 50th Ward on the next succeeding
meeting, and so forth.
Under City Council Rules, all legislative matters introduced are automatically
referred to a City Council Committee without debate, unless there is a 2/3 vote of
the members (34 votes are required) to suspend the rules to allow immediate
consideration of the matter in question.
Matters may be referred to a Joint Committee for consideration; however, if two
or more committees are called, the subject matter is referred, without debate, to
the Committee on Committees, Rules and Ethics.

13. Correction and approval of the Journal of the Proceedings of the last
preceding meeting or meetings.
Corrections to the Journal of Proceedings are presented and referred to the
Committee on Committees, Rules and Ethics for review. The Chairman of the
Committee on Finance will also recommend that the full City Council approve of
the Journal(s) of the last preceding regular meeting, as corrected, as well as any
special meetings which occurred from the time of the last City Council meeting.
14. Unfinished Business.
Aldermen may request that the City Council call up for consideration previously
deferred items. Notification of intentions to consider such matter(s) must be given
to all aldermen and must clearly identify the item intended to be called up for a
vote.
15. Miscellaneous Business.
At this point in the meeting, any alderman may motion to discharge a committee
from further consideration of a matter which has been pending in committee for
more than 60 days. The motion to discharge requires a majority vote of all
aldermen (26 votes are required).

 16. Ordinance setting the next regular meeting.
An ordinance is presented setting the date and time of the next regular meeting
of the City Council. If no meeting date is set, then in accordance with the
Municipal Code, the regular meeting shall be held at 10:00 a.m. of every second
and fourth Wednesday of each calendar month.
17. Roll call on omnibus.
An omnibus vote is a single roll call vote taken and applied to all items not voted
upon separately, or for which another vote was not employed during the course
of the meeting.
18. Adjournment.
If no further business is to be considered and the meeting is concluded, then a
motion is made to adjourn.

  

 

Committee on Finance

 

 

 

AGENDA
COMMITTEE ON FINANCE
NOVEMBER 5, 2018
9:00 A.M.

COUNCIL CHAMBER

OFFICE BUDGET AND MANAGEMENT
A communication recommending a proposed ordinance concerning the authority to
approve the levy of real estate taxes for the City of Chicago for the year 2019.

02018-8064

Amount of Tax Levy: $1,474,222,000

A communication recommending a? proposed ordinance authorizing amendments to

various sections of the Code of Chicago, which relate to revenue derived from
certain taxes, ?nes, and fees.

02018-8065

NE

1?




i- 

?15 *1 EH




 

 

Committee on the Budget and
Government Operations

 

 

 

5:1; .


#3

2913 ON THE BUDGET AND

GOVERNMENT OPERATIONS

{211 November 5, 2018
1:00 PM.

City Council Chamber

Office of the Mayor

 

1. A communication recommending a proposed ordinance concerning sundry
amendments to the Municipal Code of Chicago necessary for the organization,
reorganization, and jurisdiction of various departments and other matters
necessary for the conduct of government including the establishment of the
Department of Housing.

2. A communication recommending a proposed ordinance concerning sundry
corrections to the Municipal Code of Chicago.

3. A communication recommending a proposed ordinance concerning the execution
of an intergovernmental agreement between the City of Chicago, the County of
Cook, and the Chicago Transit Authority necessary for the allocation of motor
fuel tax funds pursuant to the Regional Transportation Authority Act.

4. A communication recommending a proposed ordinance concerning the allocation
of motor fuel tax funds necessary for various activities and improvements to
streets, county or state highways during 2019.

PROJECTS AMOUNT
A. (1) Traffic Signal and Street Lighting Maintenance 21,531,695.
(2) Bridge maintenance and pavement maintenance 12,988,858.
B. Engineering maintenance and inspection 900,000.
C. Snow and Ice Removal 13,052,000.
D. Chicago Transit Authority Allocation 3,000,000.
E. Debt Service Payment and related costs and fees 18,436,000.

5. A communication concerning the appointment of Ivy Walker as a member of
the Chicago Public Library Board for a term to expire June 30, 2021.

Office of the Mayor

 

6. A communication concerning the appointment of Kelly Gandurski as
Executive Director of Chicago Animal Care and Control.

7. A communication recommending a proposed amendment to the, XLIV
community Development Block Grant ordinance Within the Department of
Public Health.

8. A communication recommending a proposed amendment to section 1?22 and
section 2?60 of the Municipal Code of Chicago concerning False Claims and
Consumer Fraud.

9. A communication recommending a proposed ordinance concerning a
supplemental appropriation and an amendment to the year 2018 Annual
Appropriation Ordinance necessary to re?ect an increase in the amount of
funds received from Federal, State, public and/or private agencies.

10. A communication recommending a proposed ordinance concerning a
supplemental appropriation and an amendment to the year 2018 Annual
Appropriation Ordinance necessary to re?ect an increase in the amount of
funds received from Federal, State, public and/or private agencies.

11. A communication recommending a proposed ordinance authorizing the
execution of an Intergovernmental Agreement between the City of Chicago
and the Cook County Sheriff to provide equipment for the Sheriff?s Work
Alternative Program 

12. A communication recommending a proposed ordinance authorizing the
execution of an Intergovernmental Agreement between the City of Chicago
and the Chicago Housing Authority (CHA) concerning the Homemod
Program under the CHA Housing Choice Voucher Program.

Office of Budget Management

 

13. A series of proposed corrections and revisions to the proposed 2019 Annual
Appropriation Ordinance.

14. A communication recommending a proposed ordinance concerning the
adoption of the proposed 2019 Annual Appropriation Ordinance.

15. A series of proposed corrections and revisions to the proposed Year XLV
Community Development Block Grant Ordinance.

16. A communication recommending a proposed ordinance concerning the
adoption of the proposed Year XLV Community Development Block Grant
Ordinance.

Qty Council

17. A proposed ordinance concerning a transfer of funds within the City Council
Committee on Human Relations.

 

 

Committee on Committees,
Rules Ethics

 

 

 

MICHELLE HARRIS COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIPS

ALDERMAN: 8TH WARD COMMITTEES, RULES AND ETHICS
(CHAIRMAN)

PUBLIC SERVICE OFFICE

8359 SOUTH COTTAGE AVENUE. SUITE A BUDGET AND GOVERNMENT OPERATIONS

CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 60619 NANCE
TELEPHONE: (773) 874-3300 I

FAX: (773) 224?2425

LICENSE AND CONSUMER PROTECTION

 

PUBLIC SAFETY
MICHELLE A. HARRIS
ZONING, LANDMARKS AND BUILDING STANDARDS

CITY HALL, ROOM 200
121 NORTH LASALLE STREET
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 60602
TELEPHONE: 312?744?3075

November 1, 2018
NOTICE AND AGENDA OF MATTERS TO BE CONSIDERED
BY THE
COMMITTEE ON COMMITTEES, RULES AND ETHICS

Notice is hereby given that the Chicago City Council Committee on Committees, Rules and
Ethics, will meet Monday, November 5, 2018 at 2:45 p.m. in City Hall Room 201A to
consider appropriate committee jurisdiction regarding the following items:

1. (R2018-1148) Submission of public question by referendum to Chicago voters at February 26,
2019 election to increase City of Chicago?s real estate transfer tax for the bene?t of Firemen?s
Annuity and Bene?t Fund of Chicago and Policemen?s Annuity and Benefit Fund of Chicago

Re?referral to Committee on Committees, Rules and Ethics

2. (R2018-1144) Submission of public question by referendum to Chicago voters at February 26,
2019 election seeking to impose in Chicago?s portion of real estate transfer tax for purpose of
retrofitting and remediating Chicago?s water delivery pipes and infrastructure to eliminate lead

and other harmful contaminants
Re-referral to Committee on Committees, Rules and Ethics

(R2018-1149) Submission of public question by referendum to Chicago voters at February 26,
2019 election proposing to increase City of Chicago real estate transfer tax bene?t of providing

resources for housing and services to combat homelessness
Re-referral to Committee on Committees, Rules and Ethics

Copies of this Agenda will be available in the of?ce of the Committee on Committees, Rules and
Ethics, Room 200, Of?ce 4 City Hall.

Sincerely, 93
mmam 
Michelle Harris .1. 

Chairman, Committee on Committees, Rules and Ethics

L2 =2 In
0:3

