5:1;  .
"ff

#3

ON THE BUDGET AND

   GOVERNMENT OPERATIONS

{211 3:5,:ng November 5, 2018
1:00 PM.

City Council Chamber

Office of the Mayor

 

1. A communication recommending a proposed ordinance concerning sundry
amendments to the Municipal Code of Chicago necessary for the organization,
reorganization, and jurisdiction of various departments and other matters
necessary for the conduct of government including the establishment of the
Department of Housing.

2. A communication recommending a proposed ordinance concerning sundry
corrections to the Municipal Code of Chicago.

3. A communication recommending a proposed ordinance concerning the execution
of an intergovernmental agreement between the City of Chicago, the County of
Cook, and the Chicago Transit Authority necessary for the allocation of motor
fuel tax funds pursuant to the Regional Transportation Authority Act.

4. A communication recommending a proposed ordinance concerning the allocation
of motor fuel tax funds necessary for various activities and improvements to
streets, county or state highways during 2019.

PROJECTS AMOUNT
A. (1) Traffic Signal and Street Lighting Maintenance 21,531,695.
(2) Bridge maintenance and pavement maintenance 12,988.85 8.
B. Engineering maintenance and inspection 900,000.
C. Snow and Ice Removal 13,052,000.
D. Chicago Transit Authority Allocation 3,000,000.
E. Debt Service Payment and related costs and fees 18,436,000.

5. A communication concerning the appointment of Ivy Walker as a member of
the Chicago Public Library Board for a term to expire June 30, 2021.

Office of the Mayor

 

6. A communication concerning the appointment of Kelly Gandurski as
Executive Director of Chicago Animal Care and Control.

7. A communication recommending a proposed amendment to the, XLIV
community Development Block Grant ordinance Within the Department of
Public Health.

8. A communication recommending a proposed amendment to section 1?22 and
section 2?60 of the Municipal Code of Chicago concerning False Claims and
Consumer Fraud.

9. A communication recommending a proposed ordinance concerning a
supplemental appropriation and an amendment to the year 2018 Annual
Appropriation Ordinance necessary to re?ect an increase in the amount of
funds received from Federal, State, public and/or private agencies.

10. A communication recommending a proposed ordinance concerning a
supplemental appropriation and an amendment to the year 2018 Annual
Appropriation Ordinance necessary to re?ect an increase in the amount of
funds received from Federal, State, public and/or private agencies.

11. A communication recommending a proposed ordinance authorizing the
execution of an Intergovernmental Agreement between the City of Chicago
and the Cook County Sheriff to provide equipment for the Sheriff?s Work
Alternative Program 

12. A communication recommending a proposed ordinance authorizing the
execution of an Intergovernmental Agreement between the City of Chicago
and the Chicago Housing Authority (CHA) concerning the Homemod
Program under the CHA Housing Choice Voucher Program.

Office of Budget Management

 

13. A series of proposed corrections and revisions to the proposed 2019 Annual
Appropriation Ordinance.

14. A communication recommending a proposed ordinance concerning the
adoption of the proposed 2019 Annual Appropriation Ordinance.

15. A series of proposed corrections and revisions to the proposed Year XLV
Community Development Block Grant Ordinance.

16. A communication recommending a proposed ordinance concerning the
adoption of the proposed Year XLV Community Development Block Grant
Ordinance.

Qty Council

17. A proposed ordinance concerning a transfer of funds within the City Council
Committee on Human Relations.

