CHICAGO CITY COUNCIL

 

Council Chamber, Second Floor
City Hall, 121 N. LaSalle St.
Chicago, IL 60602

City Council Regular Meeting Agenda*

*Agenda items are shown in bold font. Text not in bold font is explanatory, for the
convenience of the reader.

In accordance with Rule 3 of the City Council Rules of Order and Procedure, the
following is the agenda and order of business for regular City Council meetings:

1. Call to order by the Mayor.
The Mayor, or in his or her absence the President Pro Tempore, calls the City
Council to order to begin the meeting.

2. Call of the roll.
The City Clerk calls the roll of members present beginning with the 1st Ward.

3. Determination of Quorum.
If a quorum is present, the Council may proceed. A quorum consists of the
majority of the members of the City Council, including the Mayor. If no quorum is
present, the City Council shall, by majority vote of the members present, move to
recess or adjourn.

4. Pledge of Allegiance. 
The Pledge of Allegiance is recited by the members of the City Council and
assembled guests.

5. Invocation.
An invocation is given.

*The committee agendas/reports posted on the Chicago City Council Calendar list the items that may be called for
a vote at the City Council meeting and are considered to be part of the City Council meeting agenda.

Public Comment.
Members of the general public may address the City Council on subject matters
appearing on meeting agenda.

Reports and Communications from the Mayor.

Reports and communications from the Mayor and City departments are
announced into the record by the City Clerk and sent to the appropriate
committee unless there is 2/3 vote to Suspend the City Council?s Rules of Order
and Procedure and consider them immediately. The Mayor or Presiding Officer
may also present resolutions or proclamations.

Communications from the City Clerk.

The City Clerk apprises the City Council of communications from various
departments and agencies that were filed. in his or her office from the time of the
previous meeting. The City Clerk also notes the publication of the previous City
Council Journal and other documents required or requested to be published.
Matters submitted to the City Clerk by members of the general public or other
entities requiring City Council approval are also introduced and referred to the
appropriate committee for deliberation.

Reports of Standing Committees.**

Standing committee chairmen report out to the full City Council the
recommendations of the membership on matters under their consideration. Joint
committees comprising two or more standing committees also report their
recommendations at this time.

**The committee agendas/reports posted on the (lineage City Council

 

Council meeting and are considered to be part of the City Council meeting
agenda.

10. Reports of Special Committees.

11

Special committee chairmen present their reports. Special committees are
created by resolution adopted by 2/3 affirmative vote of the aldermen entitled by
law to be elected.

.Agreed Calendar.

Non-controversial resolutions honoring or paying tribute to individuals or
organizations or ceremonial in nature are considered under the Agreed Calendar
and on recommendation of the Chairman of the Committee on Finance, they are
voted upon as a group by the full City Council. The Agreed Calendar is also
commonly referred to as the Consent Calendar.

12.Presentation of petitions, communication, resolutions, orders, and
ordinances introduced by Aldermen.
The City Clerk will ?Call the Wards" and read into the record new legislative
proposals (ordinances, orders, petitions, resolutions, or other original matters)
introduced by aldermen on a variety of topics including but not limited to
Municipal Code amendments, traffic regulations, zoning matters, licensing
requirements, etc. The order of presentation alternates each meeting beginning
with the 1st Ward on one meeting, then the 50th Ward on the next succeeding
meeting, and so forth.

Under City Council Rules, all legislative matters introduced are automatically
referred to a City Council Committee without debate, unless there is a 2/3 vote of
the members (34 votes are required) to suspend the rules to allow immediate
consideration of the matter in question.

Matters may be referred to a Joint Committee for consideration; however, if two
or more committees are called, the subject matter is referred, without debate, to
the Committee on Committees, Rules and Ethics.

13.Correction and approval of the Journal of the Proceedings of the last
preceding meeting or meetings.
Corrections to the Journal of Proceedings are presented and referred to the
Committee on Committees, Rules and Ethics for review. The Chairman of the
Committee on Finance will also recommend that the full City Council approve of
the Journal(s) of the last preceding regular meeting, as corrected, as well as any
special meetings which occurred from the time of the last City Council meeting.

14. Unfinished Business.
Aldermen may request that the City Council call up for consideration previously
deferred items. Notification of intentions to consider such matter(s) must be given
to all aldermen and must clearly identify the item intended to be called up for a
vote.

15. Miscellaneous Business.
At this point in the meeting, any alderman may motion to discharge a committee
from further consideration of a matter which has been pending in committee for
more than 60 days. The motion to discharge requires a majority vote of all
aldermen (26 votes are required).

16.0rdinance setting the next regular meeting.
An ordinance is presented setting the date and time of the next regular meeting
of the City Council. If no meeting date is set, then in accordance with the
Municipal Code, the regular meeting shall be held at 10:00 am. of every second
and fourth Wednesday of each calendar month.

17.Roll call on omnibus.
An omnibus vote is a single roll call vote taken and applied to all items not voted
upon separately, or for which another vote was not employed during the course
of the meeting.

18.Adjournment.
If no further business is to be considered and the meeting is concluded, then a
motion is made to adjourn.

