SUMMARY OF REPORTS OF
THE COMMITTEE ON HUMAN RELATIONS
TO BE SUBMITTED TO THE CITY COUNCIL
AT THE MEETING OF
SEPTEMBER 20, 2018

 

Committee Meeting held August 13, 2018:

1. A communication from the Honorable Rahm Emanuel, Mayor, reappointing the
following as members of the Chicago Commission'on Human Relations for a term
effective immediately and expiring July 1, 2021:



Naderh H. Elrabadi
- Stephanie A. Kanter
0 David J. Mussatt

Nabeela Rasheed

2. A Resolution, introduced by Alderman Maldonado (26th Ward), Alderman Sadlowski
Garza (10th Ward), Alderman Santiago (31St Ward), Alderman Solis (25th Ward) and
Alderman Lopez (15th Ward), calling fOr US. Congress to pass legislation providing visas
to undocumented or TPS recipient parents of US. citizen children or DACA eligible
children which allows them and their children to stay and work in the United States.
R2018-675

Page 1 of 1

Chicago City Council Co?Sponsor Form

DocumentNo.: r? 3: I - .

Subject: LLB. +0 pegs fisl?m?f? WW3 41) bm

010 lack or W5  Parana Ugh W1
- ?3 n. 

QM 3mm whim the. {Judd gum

 

Please ADD (Io-Spengoljfs) Shown Below (Principa! Sponsor '3 Consem Required}

Aldennagrxg??mu  It Ward)

3 (Signature)

Alderman ,1 (3 

ignature)


Alderman (025 Ward)
Al - . 

ffgnature)?
Ward)

(W

Date Filed: AD  Principal Sponsor: 

(Signature)

 

 

 

?Rerneving -- - 
Please REMOVE Below (Principal Sponsor '3 Consent NOT Required)

Alderman Ward)
(Signature)

Alderman Ward)
(Signature)

Date Filed:

Final Copies to be ?led with:
0 Chairman of Committee to which Legislation was referred
0 City Clerk

Co-Sponsnr Form OCC 9.2016

 solution; and 

Committee on Human Relations

RESOLUTION

WHEREAS, the separation of chiidren from their mother or father or from both is a violation of the
human rights that should be afforded to all children; and

WHEREAS. the just struggle to protect the right of children to stay with their families is at the core of
the struggle in this country to complete our imperfect but developing democracy from its original
perpetration during the genocide of the native American and the holocaust of slavery when children
were ripped from their mother's breast and the guidance of their fathers; and

WHEREAS. this struggle is inspired by both our spiritual. cultural and democratic ideals of what is right
and just; and .

WHEREAS, in the reality of the failure of the US. Congress this City Council had urged Barack
Obama. then President of the United States. to issue executive orders to at least temporarily prevent
deportations that separate families with US. born children ?or DACA eligible children;

WHEREAS. the alternative to separation is the de facto deportation of U.S. citizen children. and
children raised side by side with US. citizens for the greatest part of their young lives. to countries they
know nothing about and in which they are placed in the most disadvantaged and dangerous positions.
denying their rights as US. citizens and their universal rights as children; and 

WHEREAS. President Obama did indeed issue executive orders which provided the deferral of
deportation and the provision of work permissions for undocumented individuals brought to this country
as minors and which also provided the same deferrals of deportation and working permissions to
undocumented parents of US. citizen children or such minors and further established the practice of
prosecutorial discretion to defer such deportations in order to prevent the unjust separation of families
or the de facto deportation of US. citizen children until the Congress could arrive at a permanent

 

WHEREAS. the courts reached no ?nal resolutions on the constitutionality of these executive orders.
and while the Congress has not reached any comprehensive solution for millions of families caught in
the system of undocumented labor which has operated for decades in this nation; and -

WHEREAS. in spite of the continuing threat of injustice to. children. the current administration has
cancelled those executive orders without Congress having established any alternative; and

WHEREAS. these provisions previously adopted to protect the right of children to have the support of
their parents represented a just and much needed temporary adjustment and should be restored by act
of Congress; and -

WHEREAS, those in government who looked the other way at this system. and those companies who
used undocumented labor and those who bene?tted from the billions of dollars collected from the
paychecks of undocumented workers to ?ll the coffers of social security have been asked to pay no
me: and

 _childnen_to stay and in this_c_ountry to provide for the'economio. physical and_spiritual__ 

WHEREAS. the children of those undocomented workers. who came and worked honestly in this
country. formed families and raised children. are the least culpable and the most vulnerable victims of
the system of undocumented labor and are being forced every day to endure the unimaginable pain
and damage of family separation or de facto deportation; and 

WHEREAS. those parents with U.S. citizen children who were given protected status through
prosecutorial discretion and who reported regularly to ICE as they were required were among the first
to be deported under this administration; and

WHEREAS. there has been a 250% increase over the last year in deportations of those with no
criminal records. most of which have families and children. with the likelihood that these numbers will
continue and increase; and 

WHEREAS, at least 325.000 Salvadorans. Nicaraguans. Hondurans. and'Haitians have lived in this
country for many years and have established families with 273.000 U.S. born citizen children. as well
as other children brought here at an early age (22% of original entrants were under 16). who have
.known no other country. now face the cancellation of Temporary Protected Status (T PS) and are being
deported. separating children from their parents or de facto departing U.S. citizen children; and .

WHEREAS. U.S. policies have contributed to the continuing and still existing conditions of instability.
poverty and violence in those countries to which these children of TPS families shoutd not be morally.
returned to endure; and

WHEREAS, the educational. health. economic and mortality effects 'of separation from
their parents or their de facto removal from this country are documented violations of the human rights
accorded universally to children; and

WHEREAS. the separation of families at the. border for those seeking asylum is a violation of human
rights; 'and

WHEREAS. the passage of a clean DACA bill will further prevent the separation of families.

NOW. THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Mayor and City Council of the City of Chicago
resolve this day that Congress should pass legislation that provides the right to visas for the
undocumented parents of U.S. citizen children or DACA eligible children and TPS recipient parents with
U.S. citizen children or children brought here before the age of sixteen which allows them and their

security and development of those children; and

BE FURTHER IT RESOLVED. those visas and work permits should be issued on proof that there are
no criminal convictions of these individuals and proof of the existence in residence of U.S. citizen or
DACA eligible children under the age of 25; and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED. that these Visas should be renewable every three years on proof of the
continued veri?cation of the original conditions of issue; and

BE RESOLVED. that the City Council of Chicago urge our congressional representatives
to pass such legislation with all deliberate speed to stop immediately this violation of the human rights
of children and their rights as US. citizens and children of God;_and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED. that ?ve million U.S. citizen children and two million children brought to
this nation as infants. and raised here among U.S. citizens. should g_o_t be deprived of the sacred right
to family and parental?guidance and support because of the nation's political paralysis in correcting and
taking responsibility for past mistakes of immigration policy and practice. but. instead. should be

protected and afforded the most basic human right to God's love, which is afforded through the creation
of family and guaranteed by the innate and irreplaceable responsibility of parents; and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED. that Congress should pass a clean DACA bill that gives eligible
recipients immediate security and a road to citizenship; and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the city of Chicago urges the Congress to maintain and extend
family based legal immigration; and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the city of Chicago support every effort be made to establish a civic
organization and local government task force between the US. and the five c0untries of Haiti, El
Salvador, Honduras, Guatemala. and Mexico to seek and propose solutions to the current and
underlying conditions of migration; and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED. that the City of Chicago join with other cities to seek the good of?ces of
the United Nations to bring about the study and dialogue necessary to prepose solutions to the migrant
crisis between the five nations in Central America and the Caribbean. and Mexico with the United

QMMW

Roberto Maldonado?
Alderman. 26th Ward

 

 

 

 

