Commissioners

Marisei A. Hernandez, Chairwoman
William J. Kresse, Commissioner/Secretary
Jonathan T, Swain, Commissioner

Lance Gough, Executive Director

Board of Election Commissioners

Board of Election Commissioners for the City of Chicago
Regular Board Meeting
July 24, 2018, 9:30 a.m.
69 West Washington Street, 8th Floor Conference Room, Chicago, Illinois 60602

Board Members:

Marisei A. Hernandez, Chairwoman

William J. Kresse, Commissioner/Secretary
Jonathan T. Swain, Commissioner
Staff:

Lance Gough, Executive Director [absent]
Adam W. Lasker, General Counsel
Charles Holiday, Assistant Executive
James P. Allen, Communications Director
Bill Perez, Coordinator Hispanic Outreach
Peter Peso, Deputy Chief Administrative Officer
Lorel Blameuser, Purchasing Agent
Sarita Villarreal, Consultant
Geneva Morris, Videographer
Irish Sheehy
Guests:

Sandy Hed, Election Works

Helene Gabelnick, League of Women Voters of Chicago(LWV Chicago)
Rachel Leven, Better Government Association (BGA)

I.
II.
III.
IV.

Call to Order: The Chairwoman called the meeting to order at 9:35 AM.
Roll Call: All members were present.
Consideration of Agenda: The agenda was accepted as presented.
Approval of Minutes:
A.
Minutes of the Regular Board Meeting of June 12, 2018. Commissioner Swain
moved to approve the Minutes of the Regular Board Meeting of June 12, 2018.
Commissioner Kresse seconded the motion. The motion passed and the minutes were
approved by a 3:0 vote of the Board.

V.
Executive Director's Report[Mr. Gough was absent from the meeting]. Assistant
Executive Director, Charles Holiday presented a combined Executive Director's Report and
Assistant Executive Director's Report:
69 West Washington Street, Suites 600/800, Chicago IL 60602• 1.312.269.7900•fax 1.312.263.3649 • TTY 1.312,269.0027
chicagoelections.com • email; cboe@chicagoelections.net

 Regular Board Meeting -July 24. 2018
Chicago Board of Election Commissioners

• Yesterday, Mr. Holiday and other Board staff and contractors had a meeting with heads
of various City Departments regarding the Americans with Disabilities Act(ADA).
o We went over the Department of Justice's(DoJ)ADA Checklist of Polling Places.

o We had short term and long term list ofthat the City Departments can help us
with,

o General Counsel Adam Lasker added to Mr. Holiday's report: This[ADA

compliance of polling places] has been a large project. The meeting yesterday
was a major step forward. Mr. Lasker was pleased that every department
showed up, including the Corporation Counsel and the Budget Department.
o Mr. Lasker shared the following highlights from the meeting:

■

We were given a firm commitment from Fleet and Facility Management
(2FM)that they will take care of parking signs permanently before the
November 2018 election

■

We're starting to get some feedback, communications are moving in both
directions between the Board of Elections and the City, and therefore
with the DoJ.

■ The Park District thinks that they have already remedied approximately
50 violations that still appear the DoJ list as non-compliant.The Park
District will send the list to us and maybe we can resurvey those locations
and then they will be done.

■

We have another meeting with the DoJ today.

o Communications Director Jim Allen said that we had a good exchange and
wanted to express a special thanks to the Office of Budget, Benjamin Dieterich in
particular.

A.

Assistant Executive Director(see Executive Director's report,above)

B.

Communications Director

o We are moving ahead on the mall canvass. That should be ready ahead of

schedule; It is scheduled to drop August 1^ or 2"**, maybe sooner. Already
discussed this with the Post Office and provided samples.
o We have our specifications out for printing of various items including signs,
forms,envelopes, wrist bands, provisional ballot envelopes and other items for

the next three elections. Mr. Allen pointed out that many staff and managers
worked hard on this. Special thanks to those who helped including Charles
Holiday and Clint Hurde. We were invited to a meeting of The Just Democracy
Coalition, which is headed by the Illinois Coalition for Political Campaign Reform.
The Law Firm of Latham and Watkins reported on case studies on Vote Centers.

The audience included the Better Government Association (BGA),the League of
Women Voters(LWV),The Chicago Lawyers'Committee on Civil Rights Under
Page 2 of5

 Regular Board Meeting -July 24, 2018
Chicago Board of Election Commissioners

Law,and Operation PUSH and several others. We received some interesting
feedback. Several were very interested in Denver Model.
VI.

Old Business

A.
Infrastructure Projects and Changes in Election Administration: still in the
process of assessing.

B.

Electronic Poll Book: still in process of assessing.

C.

Voting Equipment:still in the process of assessing.

D.

Legislation (General Counsel Adam Lasker)

• No action on a bill requiring schools to close on Election Day.
• Governor vetoed the bill on the Electronic Registration Information Center
(ERIC). That was the bill that would have prohibited the State from

participating in Cross Check and mandating that the State participate in ERIC.
With the Governor vetoing the bill, it means that we will continue using both
Cross Check and ERIC.

• The Governor did sign into law the bill on equipment disclosures to the

Illinois State Board of Elections (ISBE), Public Act 100-0623,formerly Senate
Bill 2651. We are now going to report every 2 years to the ISBE certain
election information including:

o The age and functionality of each item of voting equipment and
general description of the status of the voting equipment.The
election authority's perceived need for new voting equipment, and
the cost associated with obtaining new equipment.
o The Public Act has some slight new rules for Vote by Mail applications
sent out by a political organization or individual.
VII.

New Business:

A.

Approval of an amendment to the Board's contract with Veritext Corporation for
court reporting services in relation to the 2019 municipal and aldermanic
elections

Mr. Lasker reported that things went well with Veritext,the staff said scheduling
was easy,there wasn't any tardiness or no shows in the hearings. Things worked
smoothiy for the objection hearings for the March Primary. We are now gearing
up for the 2019 elections. The contract allows for an extension at the same rates.
This item is for the Board to approve the extension with the same rates to
include the November 2018 and the 2019 elections.

Commissioner Swain asked if the dollar amount would be sufficient for the

number of objections expected. Jim Allen stated that we had 425 objections in
2011(the high water mark)and we will probably have a similar amountfor the

2019 round. Mr. Lasker said that he is still discussing with Veritext whether they
will have enough reporters or if they will have to subcontract. We may have to
Page 3 of5

 Regular Board Meeting -July 24, 2018
Chicago Board of Election Commissioners

come back to amend the amount; it's dependent on how many petitions come
In, etc. Commissioner Swain made a motion to approve Amendment number 1
to the Board's contract with Verltext Corporation for Court Reporting Services in
relation to the 2019 Municipal and Aldermanic Elections with a term of
September 27,2018 through September 27,2019 In an amount not to exceed

$500,000. Commissioner Kresse seconded the motion. The motion passed, and
Vlil.

Amendment #1 was approved by unanimous vote of the Board.
Legal Report

• Status of Segovia vs. United States. The Board and Rock Island County Clerk are nominal
parties to the case.

o The U.S. Supreme Court has requested/ordered us to file a response. We have
contacted the Illinois Attorney General, who has the duty to represent and
defend the State and the People in any legal matter before the U.S. Supreme
Court. The Attorney General has again declined.

o We will be filing our response letter this Friday informing the Supreme Court that
we notified the Attorney General and that the Attorney General is not going to
defend the State law and,as we had previously done, we will provide history on
how the law works and how we operate under the law, but we are not taking a
stand for or against it.

iX.

Financial Report

A.

Balance Sheet and Voucher Listings for the City of Chicago-2018 Appropriation
-18-06 dated July 24, 2018 in the amount of $349,608.38

Commissioner Kresse moved to approve the Balance Sheet and Voucher Listings
for the City of Chicago- 2018 Appropriation -18-06 dated July 24, 2018 in the
amount of $349,608.38. Commissioner Swain seconded the motion. The motion
passed by unanimous vote ofthe Board.

B.

Balance Sheet and Voucher Listings for the County of Cook-2018 Appropriation
-18-06 dated July 24, 2018 in the amount of $372,569.69

Commissioner Swain moved to approve the Balance Sheet and Voucher Listings
for the County of Cook -2018 Appropriation -18-06 dated July 24, 2018 in the
amount of $372,569.69. Commissioner Kresse seconded the motion. The motion
passed by a 3:0 vote of the Board.
X.

Public Comment: None

Xi.

Executive Session: None

Page4 of5

 Regular Board Meeting -< July 24, 2018
Chicago Board of Election Commissioners

Xil.

Adjournment: Commissioner Swain moved to adjourn until the next regularly scheduled

meeting on August 14,2018 at 9:30. Commissioner Kresse seconded the motion. The motion

passed by unanimous vote of the Board. The meeting was adjourned at 9:57 AM
Submitted,

Commissioner William J. Kresse
Secretary

Page 5 of5

 