Commissioners

Marisei A. Hernandez, Chainvoman
William J. Kresse, Commissioner/Secretary
Jonathan T. Swain, Commissioner

Lance Gough, Executive Director

 

 

Board of Election Commissioners

Board of Election Commissioners for the City of Chicago
Minutes of the Regular Board Meeting
December 26, 2017

69 West Washington Street, 8th Floor Conference Room, Chicago, Illinois 60602
Board Members:
Ma risel A. Hernandez, Chairwoman
William J. Kresse, Commissioner/Secretary
Jonathan T. Swain, Commissioner

Staff:
Lance Gough, Executive Director
Adam W. Lasker, General Counsel
Charles Holiday, Assistant Executive
James P. Allen, Communications Director
Bill Perez, Coordinator Hispanic Outreach
Delores Vega, Purchasing Department
Geneva Morris, Videographer
Trish Sheehy

Helene Gabelnick, League of Women Voters of Chicago
Susan Garza

Ziff Sistrunk, Green Slate

William Calloway

Felicia Bullock

l. Call to Order: The Chairwoman called the meeting to order at 9:12 am.
II. Roll Call: All members were present.
ill. Consideration of Agenda: The agenda was accepted as presented
IV. Approval of Minutes:
A. Minutes of the Regular Board Meeting of November 14, 2017

Commissioner Swain moved to approve the Minutes of the Regular Board
Meeting of November 14, 2017. Commissioner Kresse seconded the
motion and the Minutes were approved by unanimous vote of the Board.

V. Executive Director?s Report
0 Mr. Gough has been working with the Council of States Governments on the
Federal Voter Assistance Program to help military and overseas voters. There will
soon be new procedures to streamline military and overseas voting. There are

69West Washington Street, Suites 600/800, Chicago iL 60602 - 1.312.269.7900 - fax 1.312.263.3649 - TTY 1.312.269.0027
chicagoeiectionscom a email: cboe@chicagoeiections.net

 

 

 

approximately 1.5 Million Armed Service people who use overseas voting. [Mr. .
Gough provided the Board members with copies ofthe report]

Reviewing the ballot(s) for the upcoming election, it looks like there will be an
estimated 391 ballot styles (391 Democratic and 391 Republican). This number is
a little high, but that?s due to referenda.

The office is working on Early Voting sites. We have had to change about 4 Early
Voting sites to new locations. This will require notice to all voters: Also, we will
not have 15 West Washington site (the former Walgreen?s space) that we used
for Early Voting in 2016 that worked so well. There is space at 16 W. Adams that
we may be able use instead (another vacant Walgreens location).

The Board offices are very busy, working 7 days a week. We?ve scheduled weekly
ma nagers meetings up through to the election

Commissioner Swain asked about the status of discussions with regards to voting
at Cook County Jail and returning citizens? voting. Mr. Gough replied that we have
had some meetings and have another meeting scheduled for January 4th with the
Sheriff?s Office and several other groups, and we hope to come up with a plan.
Operation PUSH has gone to the Jail, as was reported in the media, and they
registered a lot of pretrial detainees.

Mr. Gough has been speaking with the Department ofJustice about polling place
accessibility and those negotiations are going very well. Hopefully we will be
meeting with different agencies where we house our polling places to see if we
can get them all 100% accessible. All Early Voting sites are accessible. .

Assistant Executive Director (Charles Holiday)

Mr. Holiday reported:

0 That since our last meeting we have started 15 Records Exams, we
had 3 withdrawals, 2 final [records exam] reports have been printed
and there are 4 Records Exams waiting to be reviewed by our forensic
handwriting examiner.

- The second notice canvass mailing was sent out and we have 56,000
notices that were returned. We are currently going through those
notices and where those notices can be used to change addresses or
cancel the voters for moving out of the City the Registration
Department is working on doing so. The Chairwoman asked
approximately how long that would take. Mr. Holiday responded that
it should take only a couple of weeks. it's a fairly simple process once
the notices are in house. We have some staff working on this project,
while the rest of the staff is working on records exams.

Communications Director (Jim Allen)
Mr. Allen reported:
0 Online vote by mail system went live last week,

Minutes of Chicago Board of Elections .
Regular Board Meeting
of December 26, 2017 . Page 2 of 7

 

 

 

 

- We?re starting to take delivery on forms including the Vote by Mail
applications. Campaigns are asking for those.

0 We have materials ready for voting at 17. Voter registration outreach
to all high schools is underway. This year Mikva Challenge is going to
help us identify many of the Civics instructors and/or leaders at each
high school so that we can get them the materials to help as many 17
year olds who will be 18 by November 6th to register and ready to
vote,

a We are preparing a pre-election mailing for voters to address some of
the things that Mr. Gough also referenced with changes in Early Voting
sites and Polling Places.

VI. Old Business

Vll.

A. Infrastructure Projects and Changes in Election Administration: Mr. Gough
stated that there is nothing new to report, we are still reviewing new voting
equipment.

B. Electronic Poll Books: Mr. Gough stated that Mr. Holiday had reported on
the last test that we had, it went very well.

C. Voting Equipment: We?re still in the process of evaluating.
D. Legislation nothing to report at this time.
New Business

A. 2018 Calendar of Board Meetings. All Regular Board Meetings of the
Chicago Board of Elections are scheduled to begin at 9:30 am. on the second and
fourth Tuesdays of each month except for the month of December, but schedule
is subject to change. The motion to approve the 2018 calendar was made by
Commissioner Kresse, seconded by Commissioner Swain and approved by
unanimous vote of the Board.

B. Approval of Contract for Forensic Document Examiner Consultant
(Handwriting Expert) between the Chicago Board of Elections and Ellen Mulcrone
Schuetzner with a term of December 18, 2017 February 28, 2019 at a rate of
S300/hr not to exceed $45,000 over the length of the term. Commissioner Kresse
made a motion to approve the contract, Commissioner Swain seconded the
motion and the contract was approved by 320 vote of the Board.

C. Approval of Contracts for Cartage of Election Equipment, Geographical
Areas Miscellaneous Runs for the 2018 Elections in the City of Chicago:
Mr. Gough clarified that the City, for ca rtage purposes, is divided in to 4
geographic areas (GA) and 1 miscellaneous area, and that a cartage company may
receive more than 1 agreement if selected for more than one GA or a GA and the

Minutes of Chicago Board of Elections
Regular Board Meeting
of December 26, 2017 Page 3 of 7

 

 

miscellaneous area. The cartage is of equipment, big blue boxes, to all 2,069 .
precincts.

The Chairwoman pointed out that it was a long bid process and after a thorough
evaluation by our Purchasing Manager, she has provided the Board with all the
contracts and bids. Each contract is awarded to the lowest qualified bidder per
geographic area.

1. Contract between the Chicago Board of Elections and Midwest Moving for
Geographic Area (GA) A. A motion to award a contract to Midwest Moving in an
amount not to exceed $300,000 for the ca rtage of election equipment for the
2018 Primary and General Elections under the terms stated in the invitation for
bid (IFB) for Geographical Area A was made by Commissioner Kresse, seconded by
Commissioner Swain and approved by unanimous vote of the Board.

2. A motion to award a contract to Big Movers, in the amount not to
exceed $300,000 for the cartage ofelection equipment for the 2018 Primary and
General Elections under the terms stated in the invitation for bids for Geographic
Area (GA) was made by Commissioner Swain and seconded by Commissioner
Kresse. The motion was approved by a 3:0 vote of the Board,

3. A motion to award a contract to Big Movers in an amount not to exceed
$300,000 for the cartage of election equipment for the 2018 Primary and General
Elections under the terms stated in the invitation for bids for Geographical Area 
was made by Commissioner Kresse and seconded by Commissioner Swain the
Board approved the agreement by unanimous vote. .
4. A motion to award a contract to Midway Movers, Inc. in an amount not to
exceed $300,000 for the cartage of election equipment for the 2018 Primary and
General Elections under the terms stated in the invitation for bids for
Geographical Area 0 was made by Commissioner Swain, seconded by
Commissioner Kresse and approved by 3:0 vote of the Board.

5. Commissioner Kresse moved to award a contract to Midwest Movers in an
amount not to exceed $300,000 for the ca rtage of election equipment for the
2018 Primary and General Elections under the terms stated in the invitation for
bids or Geographical Area Miscellaneous w?Citywide, Commissioner Swain
seconded, the motion was approved by unanimous vote of the Board.

0. Approval of Contracts for Printing of Forms, Envelopes, Signs and
Handbook, 2018 Primary Election. A solicitation for bids for these items was sent
out and as a result of the solicitation the lowest qualified bidder per category is as
follows:
1. A motion to approve a contract with JJ Collins for the printing of forms for
the 2018 Primary Election in the amount of $81,460 was made by Commissioner
Swain, seconded by Commissioner Kresse and approved by 3:0 vote of the Board.

Minutes of Chicago Board of Elections .
Regular Board Meeting
of December 26, 2017 Page 4 of 7

 

 

 

2. The Board voted unanimously to approve the motion to award a contract
to Palmer Printing for the printing of envelopes for the 2018 Primary Election in
the amount of 103,593.50. The motion was made by Commissioner Kresse and
seconded by Commissioner Swain.

3. A motion to approve a contract with Cardinal Color Group for the printing
of signs for the 2018 Primary Election in the amount of $11,176.50 was made by
Commissioner Swain, seconded by Commissioner Kresse and approved by
unanimous vote ofthe Board.

4. Commissioner Kresse made a motion to approve a contract with Lake
County Press for the printing of handbooks for the 2018 Primary Election in the
amount of $49,962.50. Commissioner Swain seconded the motion and the Board
approved the motion by a 3:0 vote.

E. Approval of Emergency Contract for Temporary Staffing Services,
Warehouse and Housekeeping Services for the 2018 elections between the
Chicago Board of Election and EXECS, LLC in an amount not to exceed
$300,000 for the term of December 26, 2017 through December 31, 2018. This
item had been previously discussed. Commissioner Kresse made a motion to
approve the emergency contract as stated, Commissioner Swain seconded the
motion and the motion was approved by the unanimous Board.

F. Approval of contracts between the Board and election judge trainers for the 2018
primary and general elections, the vote on these agreements were made in
groups:

1. Commissioner Swain made a motion to enter into Professional Service
Agreements with Joan Agnew, Luis Martinez, Ed MazurofThe Mazur Group and
Timothy Thomas for the purpose of training Judges of Election for the 2018
Primary and General Elections with contracts terms ofJanuary 1, 2018 through
December 31, 2018 at the rate of $65/hour not to exceed $25,000 per contract.
Commissioner Kresse seconded the motion and the Board voted unanimously and
the motion passed and the contracts were approved.

2. Commissioner Kresse moved to approve Professional Service Agreements
with Carmen Triche-Colvin, Susan Garza and Michael Murphy for the purpose of
training Judges of Election for the 2018 Primary and General Election with
contract terms ofJanuary 1, 2018 through December 31, 2018 at the rate of
SSD/hour not to exceed $25,000 per contract. Commissioner Swain seconded the
motion. The motion was passed and the contracts were approved by a 3:0 vote of
the Board.

Minutes of Chicago Board of Elections
Regular Board Meeting
of December 26, 2017 Page 5 of 7

 

 

 

3. Commissioner Kresse moved to approve Professional Service Agreement .
with Colin Loftin for the purpose of training Election Coordinators for the 2018

Primary and General Election with a contract term ofJanuary 1, 2018 through

December 31, 2018 at the rate of not to exceed a total of $55,000 over

the term of the contract. Commissioner Swain seconded the motion. The motion

was passed and the contract was approved by unanimous vote of the Board.

G. Approval of contract with Lake County Press for the printing of ballots. The
awarding of this agreement is based on Lake County Press? ability to print the
ballot on the special stock paper required and because Lake County Press is
certified by the company that supplies our voting equipment. This contract is only
for the Primary, as we may have some new equipment for November that may
require different printing specifications. Lake County Press is the only company
certified in the State of Illinois for printing the ballots required.

The contract was presented with both Primary and General Election
printing, but should have been only for the Primary. The Board agreed
to approve the printing for the 2018 Primary only, and if need be would
amend and approve for the General election at a future date.

A motion to approve a contract with Lake County Press for ballot

printing services for the 2018 Primary in the estimated amount of .
$933,260 was made by Commissioner Kresse, Commissioner Swain

asked to amend the motion to define the term of the agreement.

Commissioner Kresse amended the motion to set the term of the

agreement through April 30, 2018. Commissioner Swain seconded the

amended motion and the motion carried by a 3:0 vote of the Board

Legal Report: none
IX. Financial Report

A. Balance Sheet and Voucher Listings for the City of Chicago 2017
Appropriation 17-11 dated December 26, 2017 in the amount of $289,995.18.
Commissioner Kresse moved to approve the report, Commissioner Swain
seconded the motion and the motion was approved by unanimous vote of the
Board.

B. Balance Sheet and Voucher Listings for the County of Cook 2017
Appropriation 17?06 dated December 26, 2017 in the amount 
Commissioner Swain moved to approve the report, Commissioner Kresse
seconded the motion and the motion was approved by unanimous vote ofthe
Board.

Minutes of Chicago Board of Elections .
Regular Board Meeting
of December 26, 2017 Page 6 of 7

 

 

 

 

. X. Public Comment

Ziff Sistrunk of Green Slate commented on the subject of the process to get on the
ballot. Mr. Sistrunk also stated that he was appalled at the spending that he
witnessed at this meeting. He further asserted that the 1964 Voting Rights Act is
being violated on the 6th floor.

Xl. Executive Session - none

Xll. Adjournment. Commissioner Kresse moved to adjourn to the next Regular
Meeting, Commissioner Swain seconded the motion and the meeting was adjourned
at 9:43 am.
. Minutes of Chicago Board of Elections

3 Regular Board Meeting

of December 26, 2017 Page 7 of 7




