Commissioners

Marisel A. Hernandez, Chairwoman

William J. Kresse. Commissioner/Secretary
Jonathan T. Swain, Commissioner

Lance Gough, Executive Director

Board of Eledkxi Commissioners

Board of Election Commissioners for the City of Chicago
Regular Board Meeting
April 10, 2018,9:30 a.m.
69 West Washington Street, 8th Floor Conference Room, Chicago, I llinois 60602

Board Members:

Marisel A. Hernandez, Chairwoman

William J. Kresse, Commissioner/Secretary
Jonathan T. Swain, Commissioner
Staff:

Lance Gough, Executive Director
Adam W. Lasker, General Counsel

Charles Holiday, Assistant Executive
James P. Allen, Communications Director
Bill Perez, Coordinator Hispanic Outreach
Peter Peso, Deputy Chief Administrative Officer
LaCretia Dandridge, Manager Human Resources
Lorel Blameuser, Purchasing Agent
Gary Rycyzyn, Consultant
Geneva Morris, Videographer
Irish Sheehy
Guests:

Judd Ryan, ES&S
Claire Tobin, Illinois Ballot Integrity
Helene Gabelnick, League of Women Voters of Chicago
C. Betty Magness, Rainbow PUSH Coalition
Tracy Hartlieb, Equip For Equality
Sandy Hed, Election Works
Janette Wilson, PUSH

I.

Call to Order: The Regular Board meeting was called to order by the Chairwoman at
9:33a.m.

II.
III.
IV.

Roll Call: All Board members were present.
Consideration of Agenda: The agenda was accepted as presented.
Approval of Minutes:
A. Minutes of the Regular Board Meeting of March 13, 2018 Commissioner Swain moved

69 West Washington Street, Suites 600/800, Chicago IL 60602• 1.312.269.7900 •fax 1.312.263.3649• TTY 1.312.269.0027
chicagoelections.com •email: cboe@chicagoeiections.net

 Board of Election Commissioners for the City of Chicago
Regular Board Meeting Minutes of April 10,2018

to approve the Minutes of The Regular Board Meeting of March 13, 2018.
Commissioner Kresse seconded the motion. The Minutes were approved by
unanimous vote of the Board.

V.

Executive Director's Report(Lance Gough)
• Board staff has begun work for the November 2018 election and for the 2019
election(s).
• While we are closing out this primary election, Mr. Gough noted some things that
went really well. In 2017 we had 16 Board employees retire. We filled those vacancies
from within the office. All the people who were put in new positions stepped up to
the plate. The amount of work and hours that Board staff put in was incredible. Mr.
Gough is having the managers provide a list of employees who worked above their
regular hours.
• Mr. Gough thanked Charles Holiday who did an excellent Job. This was his first
election as Assistant Executive Director. Clinton Hurde took over Dawn Down's

division when she retired. Mr. Gough was impressed by Mr. Hurde and the work his
division did. Sandra Aspera, Assistant Manager to Mr. Hurde did an excellent job. We
had an issue regarding who was going to fill Charles Holiday's spot in Registration, Jim
Carii took over and is doing an excellent job. The staff impressed Mr. Gough this last
election. Of course, there are things can be improved.
• Mr. Gough then introduced Tracey Hartlieb of Equip for Equality to provide a report,
o Tracey Hartlieb:

■

On Election Day, Equip for Equality sent out 157 individuals to survey
approximately 353 polling places for accessibility issues. We chose new,
first time polling places and a few polling places that we had previously
reviewed that we believed were more accessible than the original survey
showed.

■

Some things became more of an issue this time. Parts of the survey
require that we take photos of areas that are not in compliance. We had
some push back from polling places. Equip for Equality has asked the
Board to issue polling place credentials to the surveyors that indicate that
they are required to take photos, and to provide a wearable badge to all
the Equip for Equality volunteers and staff so that It's clear to anyone
that they are official. Equip for Equality is starting to analyze the survey
results.

■

Overall, Equip for Equality is pleased with the survey tool.

■

Next round we plan to send volunteers to places where temporary
remedies were used to make them accessible.

Page 2 of8

 Board of Election Commissioners for the City of Chicago
Regular Board Meeting Minutes of April 10,2018

■

Commissioner Kresse agrees that a badge would be helpful and alleviate
some of the anxiety that some voters may have seeing the surveyors
looking around and taking pictures in the polling place. Ms. Hartlieb
explained that the surveyors are instructed not to take pictures while
people are voting.

• Mr. Gough said that the Board and Equip for Equality had a good meeting with the
Department of Justice (DoJ). There were several polling places that were listed as
inaccessible, but were actually accessible. Because of the placement of signage they
were listed as inaccessible. We are reworking this aspect and giving better direction
on how/where to place signage.

We are going to send out a letter to all of the Judges of Election Informing them that
Equip for Equality and the Justice Department will be going out and conducting
surveys on Election Day.
We are going to set up meetings with the City's Department of Fleet and Facility
Management{2FM)and other departments. The meetings could improve the
percentage of accessible polling places (possibly a 25% increase for November and
even more in 2019).
• We are moving in a positive direction, but there are some polling places that will
never be accessible, e.g., firehouses, so we took all firehouses off the list.
A. Assistant Executive Director(Charles Holiday)
• Yesterday we completed the 5% audit
• Thank you to all the staff who worked with him, as it was his first 5% audit as
Assistant Executive Director. Thanks to Adam Lasker, Joan Agnew, Ron Boyd,the IT
Department, Keith Carter and Derrick Hurde and the entire Warehouse staff for all
their help.
• To correct a misunderstanding of one of the audit observers: The audit teams
were given pre-printed sheets with all candidate names. These sheets did not
contain any vote total numbers. The audit teams never received a printout with
the number that was recorded. They are only told if the tally matches the
recorded number, yes or no.

B. Communications Director(Jim Allen)
Early Voting and Vote by Mali numbers exceeded any previous mid-term primary
election. Our success in Vote by Mail gave us insight into what we might do better.
An example of a success story is that we were able to send out emails to voters who
applied for Vote by Mail online. These emails notified voters when we: received their
application, maiied out their ballot, and received their ballot. This reduces the number of
calls and emails that we receive. Now we are reviewing the rejected Vote by Mall ballots
and are finding that the most common reason for rejection is that the voter failed to sign

Page 3 of 8

 Board of Election Commissioners for the City of Chicago
Regular Board Meeting Minutes of April 10,2018

the certification on the outer envelope. Historically, we have sent out rejection notices by
nnail, and we are looking to add that to our email list so that we can inform these voters
that they could still use Early Voting or Election Day voting. Alternatively, we may send an
email with the certification to mail back, and then we marry it to their mailed in ballot,
which would allow us to count the ballot

• We are in the process of Improving and updating all the pages on the website for the
November election. We have added the notice, requested by members of the Board,
regarding the CityKey on home page as well as the "news page" on our website and there
is a link there with our statement. We are having it translated into the other languages
for our website.

• Chairwoman and I have been talking about possible new measure with youth voter
engagement and we're able to move forward on several of those plans, especially those
held in conjunction with the summer concert series in the city. We will follow up and
have more information on that.
The Chairwoman stated that this has been one of the most difficult elections that we have ever

had. Mr. Gough and staff did a tremendous Job and the Chairwoman commended Mr. Gough for
the work that he and his staff had done, along with Mr. Holiday, Mr. Allen, the managers, and
the workers who stepped up. With so many people having retired, people had to step up and
they did. The Chairwoman thanked Mr. Lasker for all of his work. She pointed out that it doesn't
matter what hurdles we face, we find a way to overcome them and move on. We had a great
election.

Commissioner Kresse pointed out that even though approximately 12-15% of the staff was
missing due to retirement and unfilled vacancies the office still did a great Job.
VI.

Old Business

A. Infrastructure Projects and Changes in Election Administration: In process.
B. Electronic Poll Books: Mr. Holiday reported that we are still having weekly meetings
with ES&S regarding e-poll books.
C. Voting Equipment

D. Legislation: Mr. Lasker reported that the bills we are tracking are still in committee.
The committee meetings are starting tomorrow so we should have more information
at the next meeting.
VII.

New Business:

A. Agreement with Hall's Rental Service, Inc.for Furniture Rental Services, 2018 Primary
and General Elections

Purchasing Agent, Lorel Blameuser reported that the office did issue a small bid for
furniture rental for the Judges of election training along with other events that would
need furniture. When we initially started to receive quotes the number was under

$25,000. Since then, with the increase of usage, the cost exceeds the $25,000 mark
and that is why it is being presented to the Board. The number we are presenting now

Page 4 of8

 Board of Election Commissioners for the City of Chicago
Regular Board Meeting Minutes of April 10, 2018

not only Includes the past primary election, but the upcoming General Election as
well, so that we do not have to bring It back to the Board. The cost for the Primary was
just over $101,000; the estimated cost for the General Election Is 102,000. We are
submitting the estimated 205,000 for both elections.
Mr. Gough commented that In 2019 we will go out to bid for tables and chairs. For as
long as Mr. Gough has been here. Halls has always provided tables and chairs because
no one wants to bid against them. They are the biggest, but there are other companies
that we are looking to and will be bidding for 2019.
Ms. Blameuser pointed out that In the last bid other companies were notified Including
Marquee Rental (formerly Classic Rental), Triple-A Rental and of course Hall's Rental.
Commissioner Swain noted that Marquee, Classic and Triple-A have combined to form
one company.

Ms. Blameuser pointed out that she checks with the City to see If they have any
agreements to which we could be added. If they do not have any, Ms. Blameuser
checks the MBE/WBE directory to see If there are any firms that would qualify for the
program for which we are seeking bids. She does this for the solicitations for any and
all of our projects.
Commissioner Swain wanted some clarity regarding the large difference between what
was bid and what the cost was. The bid was at or below $25,000 yet we spent
$102,000, and you're now asking for authorization of $206,000. Why is there such a
large delta? Ms. Blameuser explained that she failed to take Into account the polling
place furniture rental and delivery In the bid. Polling places Included 750 stops and
cost approximately $88,000.
Commissioner Kresse moved to approve a rental agreement with Hall's Rental Services
for the term of April 10, 2018 through December 31,2018 in an amount not to exceed

$205,000. Commissioner Swain seconded the motion and the Board passed the
motion approving the agreement by unanimous vote.

B. Agreement with Arrow Messenger Service, Inc.for Driver and Transportation Services,
2018 Primary and General Elections
Ms. Blameuser explained that this agreement was for transportation services and use
of drivers prior to Election Day (Early Voting) and Election Day use. Arrow Messenger
has been the past provider. We utilize them under an existing City contract which Is
purchase order 26518 which Is due to expire on June 30, 2018. In reference to the past
contract the price is competitive. Seeking approval of a grand total of $640,000. This
amount Is based off of an estimate for the November election the actual cost of the

primary was $318,123.94. This Item was not approved prior to the primary.
Commissioner Kresse moved to approve the agreement In an amount not to exceed

$640,000 for transportation services for both the 2018 Primary and General elections.
Commissioner Swain seconded the motion and the motion carried by a unanimous
vote of the Board.

Page 5 of8

 Board of Election Commissioners for the City of Chicago
Regular Board Meeting Minutes of April 10, 2018

C. Amendment of Ballot Fulfillment Contract with SXData to include cost increase, 2018
Primary
Ms. Biameuser explained that the ballot fulfillment agreement for Vote by Mail ballots

for the 2018 primary was approved by the Board on February 13^^ in the amount of
$153,698. Because of court rulings the adjustment to fulfillment, with on/off
candidates, increased by approximately 46% thus far the increase was more than
$71,000. Because it exceeds the approved amount by more than 10% Ms. Biameuser
said that it had to be brought in front of the Board to approve the increase.
Mr. Gough pointed out that it is not just the lateness of the ballots or the court issues
that caused the price increase. There was an increase in the number of Vote by Mail
ballots which we did not anticipate. Mr. Allen noted that in 2010 we had 13,000 Vote
by Mail voters; in 2014 there were 8,200; this time we had 40,000 Vote by Mail. Each
of these elections had "no excuse" Vote by Mail (i.e., not the old absentee voting.
Commissioner Kresse wanted to know what it was about the court order that caused

the expense. In addition to the sheer number of vote by mail ballots. Mr. Gough stated
that having to insert court ordered notices,then take the notices out,then put the
other notice in had the company working constantly to keep up with the changes.
Also, in November we anticipate an increase in Vote by Mail.
Commissioner Swain moved to amend the ballot fulfillment contract with 3XData

maximum from the previously approved $153,698 to $224,898.50 for the 2018
Primary. Commissioner Kresse seconded the motion. The motion was passed and the
amendment approved by unanimous vote of the Board.
D. Emergency Amendments to cartage contracts
Mr. Gough explained that Big 0 Movers had been awarded a contract for the cartage
of two Board defined areas,"Area B" and "Area C". After discussions between Mr.
Gough, Board Logistics Division Manager Clinton Hurde and Big 0 Movers it was
determined that Big 0 Movers along with its sub-contractors would not be able to
meet the deadlines for the delivery of election equipment in "Area B". This was the
first time that Big 0 Movers was awarded 2 areas.
Further discussions determined that Midway Moving and Storage would be able to
handle the cartage for the area that they had been awarded along with "Area B".
Midway Moving and Storage has handled multiple areas in past cycles.
Mr. Gough explained that these amendments would remove "Area B" from Big 0
Movers and award "Area B" to Midway Moving and Storage to ensure that the election
equipment is timely picked up from the Board's warehouse, delivered to the polling
places in the area and returned to the Board's warehouse on deadline.

All services have and will still be performed at the same pricing as was previously
approved in the original contracts.

Page 6 of 8

 Board of Election Commissioners for the City of Chicago
Regular Board Meeting Minutes of April 10,2018

Commissioner Swain expressed his concern that part of the contract(s) were taken
from a Minority Business Enterprise(MBE)and its MBE subcontractors and awarded to
a non-MBE company, and suggested that Mr. Gough encourage Midway Moving and
Storage to engage MBE subcontractors if subcontracting is necessary.
Commissioner Swain moved to amend the cartage contract with Big 0 Movers to
reduce the scope of services to a level within the contractor's ability to perform.
Commissioner Kresse seconded the motion. The motion was passed by unanimous
vote of the Board

Commissioner Kresse made a motion to approve the amendment to the cartage
contract with Midway Moving and Storage to increase the scope of services to include
additional services provided as needed and requested by the Board. Commissioner
Swain seconded the motion. The motion passed by a 3:0 vote of the Board.

E. Approval of the 2019 Election Information Pamphlet & Calendar for the upcoming City
of Chicago elections.
General Counsel Lasker presented the 2019 elections calendar and pamphlet.
The Municipal and Aldermanic elections will be on Tuesday, February 26, 2019 and any

run-off or supplementary elections will be on April 2"^- if necessary.
The minimum signature requirement is 12,500 for citywide offices {Mayor, City Clerk
and City Treasurer), and 473 for all aldermanic candidates.
Mr. Lasker will get this material translated and posted on the Board website.
Commissioner Swain pointed out that there had been legal referral information, such
as to the (CBA)Chicago Bar Association's Attorney Referral Service, in past pamphlets
and asked if this information is in this document.

The recommendation that interested parties seek legal counsel is in this version, but
the references to the CBA or other organizations is not.

Mr. Allen pointed out that it had been in the 2016 calendar, and probably failed to
bring it over to the Municipal calendar, as the basis for this document was the 2015
Municipal calendar/pamphlet.
Mr. Lasker will have the attorney referral verbiage added before distributing the
calendar/pamphlet.
Commissioner Kresse moved to approve the 2019 Information Pamphlet and Calendar,
as amended. Commissioner Swain seconded the motion. The motion was approved by
unanimous vote of the Board.

VIII.

Legal Report
No legal report to present at this time. However, Mr, Lasker stated that working with
Board staff on this election cycle has been a real learning experience for him, and that he
has to compliment everybody for helping the new General Counsel.

Page 7 of8

 Board of Election Commissioners for the City of Chicago
Regular Board Meeting Minutes of April 10,2018

IX.

Financial Report: none

X.

Public Comment: none

XI.

Executive Session: none

XII.

Adjournment:
Commissioner Swain moved to adjourn. Commissioner Kresse seconded the motion. The
motion to adjourn was passed by unanimous vote of the Board. The Board adjourned at
10:09 a.m.

Submitted,

Commissjpner William J. Kresse
Secretarv^

Page 8 of8

 