Commissioners

Marisel A. Hernandez, Chairwoman
William J, Kresse, Commissioner/Secretary
Jonathan T. Swain, Commissioner

Lance Gough, Executive Director

Board of Election Commissioners

Board of Election Commissioners for the City of Chicago
Minutes of Special Board Meeting
Tuesday, March 20,2018
7:00 a.m.

Room 800, Chairwoman's Office
69 West Washington Street
Chicago, Illinois 60602
Board Members:

Marisel A. Hernandez, Chairwoman

William J. Kresse, Commissioner/Secretary
Jonathan T. Swain, Commissioner
Staff:

Lance Gough, Executive Director
Adam W. Lasker, General Counsel
Charles Holiday, Assistant Executive Director
James P. Allen, Communications Director
Irish Sheehy
Guests:

Judd Ryan, ES&S
I.

Call to Order: The Chairwoman called the meeting to order at 8:05 a.m.

II.

Consideration of Agenda: The agenda was approved as presented.

III.

Election Day
A. Possible removal ofjudges of election: None at this time.
B. Possible court action to address late polling place openings: General Counsel
Lasker reported that there are none at this time. While some polling places have
opened late, they all report that they did not turn anyone away.

IV.

Public Comment:

Judd Ryan reported:

E poll books seem to be working well. There have been 3,650 smart updates
successfully completed and 410 not attempted.

69 West Washington Street. Suites 600/800, Chicago IL 60602• 1.312.269.7900•fax 1.312.263.3649 • TTY 1.312.269.0027
chicagoelections.com • email: cboe@chicagoelectjons.net

 Board of Election Commissioners for the City of Chicago
Special Board Meeting of March 20,2018

Election Day data "push" includes Early Voting and Vote by Mail. 126,025 updates
were pushed to the e-poll books.[Updates include whether a person has voted or
applied for a vote by mail ballot or registered during the Grace Period]
Election Day 32,250 in voter turnout as of @ 8:00 a.m.

Some precincts have not yet attempted "smart update". These precincts will be
contacted and "rovers" will travel to the polling places.
V.

Recess: Commissioner Kresse moved to recess until call of the Chair. Commissioner Swain

seconded and the motion was approved by unanimous vote of the Board. Recess began
at 8:08 a.m.

VI.

The Board returned to open session at 1:48 p.m.
All Commissioners were present. Executive Director Lance Gough, General Counsel Adam

Lasker were also present and Communications Director Jim Allen joined shortly after the
meeting began.

VII.

Removal of Judges of Election:

General Counsel Lasker reported that there were two cases for the removal of Judges of
Election to be considered by the Board at this time:

A. Democratic Judge of Election (assigned to the 14*^ Precinct of the 32"'' Ward), Kathy Ann
Carlisle was extremely disruptive to the voting process. She was In a verbal disagreement
that escalated into a shouting match which caused a voter to intervene. After instruction

by a Board Investigator, she continued to refuse to cooperate with others in the polling
place. Commissioner Swain move to remove Kathy Ann Carlisle,for cause, as Judge of
Election. Commissioner Kresse seconded the motion. The motion passed, and The Order
and Notice of Removal as Judge of Election of Kathy Ann Carlisle as Judge of Election was
executed by the Board.

B. Republican Judge of Election (assigned to the 2"'' Precinct of the 4*'' Ward), Kathryn M.
Bascom, had left the polling place and abandoned her duties as Judge of Election. While
checking in at her precinct, a Board Investigator discovered her absence. He was

informed that she had left for a break and had not returned. The Investigator contacted
Judge Bascom via cell phone and she said that she would return to the polling place in 10
minutes, but over an hour later she had yet to return. Ms. Bascom later called the

Investigator and stated,"Who told on me?" and "You can just pay me for two hours."
Refusing to respond as to whether she would return to the polling place, Ms. Bascom
asked for the Investigator's Supervisor. Ms. Bascom did not return to the polling place
while the Investigator was at the polling place. Commissioner Kresse moved to remove
Kathryn M. Bascom,for cause, as Judge of Election. Commissioner Swain seconded the

motion. The motion passed and The Order and Notice of Removal as Judge of Election of
Kathryn M. Bascom as Judge of Election was executed by the Board.

Page 2 of5

 Board of Election Commissioners for the City of Chicago
Special Board Meeting of March 20,2018
Viil.

Recess: Commissioner Kresse moved to recess until call of the Chair. Commissioner Swain

seconded and the motion was approved by unanimous vote of the Board. Recess began
at approximately 2:20 p.m.
IX.

The Board returned to open session at 3:50 pm
All Commissioners were present. Executive Director Lance Gough, General Counsel Adam
Lasker were also present.

X.

Removal of Judges of Election:

General Counsel Lasker reported that there was a case for the removal of a Judge of
Election to be considered by the Board at this time:
A. Republican Judge of Election (assigned to Precinct 21 of Ward 42), James Winston, was
combative to fellow election judges and made statements such as "[he] wanted to
prevent voter fraud so that people like Trump won't get into office". Mr. Winston had
expressed his personal opinions in a confrontational manner. Mr. Winston had fallen
asleep at the polls and had taken frequent breaks. Mr. Winston had limited the work that
he would perform to little more than placing applications for ballot on a spindle.
Commissioner Kresse move to remove James Winston,for cause, as a Judge of Election.
The motion was seconded by Commissioner Swain. The motion passed and The Order
and Notice of Removal as Judge of Election of James Winston as Judge of Election was
executed by the Board.
XI.

Recess: Commissioner Swain moved to recess until call of the Chair. Commissioner Kresse

seconded and the motion was approved by unanimous vote of the Board. Recess began
at approximately 3:52 p.m.
XII.

The Board reconvened at 7:11 p.m.

All Commissioners were present. Executive Director Lance Gough and General Counsel
Adam Lasker were also present
XIII.

Removal of Judges of Election:

A. Consideration of removal for cause of Antonio Slay, Democratic Judge of Election
(assigned to Precinct 27 of Ward 31). Mr.Slay was verbally abusive to poll workers and
others at the polling place. It was reported by multiple people that Mr. Slay exhibited
signs of inebriation and that his pants were worn so low as to be considered

inappropriate by several people at the polling place. Mr. Slay left the polling place prior
to 3:13 p.m. and abandoned his duties as Judge of Election. Commissioner Kresse moved

to remove Antonio Slay, for cause, as a Judge of Election. The motion was seconded by
Commissioner Swain. The motion was passed and The Order and Notice of Removal as

Judge of Election of Antonio Slay as Judge of Election was executed by the Board.

Page 3 of5

 Board of Election Commissioners for the City of Chicago
Special Board Meeting of March 20,2018

B. Consideration of removal for cause of Carol E. Contreras, Democratic Judge of Election
{assigned to Precinct 9 of Ward 48). Ms. Contreras was unprofessional and uncooperative
while serving as a Judge of Election. The Board's investigator observed her yelling at the
other poll workers and prevented others from doing their jobs. Commissioner Swain
move to remove Carol E. Contreras,for cause, as Judge of Election. Commissioner Kresse
seconded the motion. The motion passed and The Order and Notice of Removal as Judge
of Election of Carol E. Contreras as Judge of Election was executed by the Board.
C. Consideration of removal for cause of Michelle Townsend, Republican Judge of Eiection
(assigned to Precinct? of Ward 2). Ms.Townsend was excessively absent from the polling
place. She entered into verbal arguments with the poll workers of the neighboring
precinct. Ms. Townsend was escorted out of the polling place by 14th District Chicago
Poiice Officers who were summoned to the scene. Commissioner Kresse moved to

remove Michelle Townsend,for cause, as a Judge of Election. The motion was seconded
by Commissioner Swain. The motion passed and The Order and Notice of Removal as
Judge of Election of Michelle Townsend as Judge of Election was executed by the Board.
XIV.

Recess: Commissioner Swain moved to recess until call of the Chair. Commissioner Kresse

seconded and the motion was approved by unanimous vote of the Board. Recess began
at 7:17 p.m.(March 20, 2018)
XV.

The meeting was reconvened on April 10, 2018 at 9:32 a.m. The Chairwoman expiained
that this was the continuation of the Special Board Meeting of March 20, 2018(Election
Day)and that the meeting needed to be officially adjourned.

XVI.

Present during this segment of the meeting were:
Board Members:

Marisei A. Hernandez, Chairwoman

Wiiliam J. Kresse, Commissioner/Secretary
Jonathan T. Swain, Commissioner
Staff:

Lance Gough, Executive Director
Adam W. Lasker, Generai Counsei
Charles Holiday, Assistant Executive Director
James P. Alien, Communications Director
Gary Rycyzyn, Consultant
Trish Sheehy
Guests:

Judd, ES&S

Claire Tobin, Illinois Ballot Integrity
Helene Gabelnick, League of Women Voters of Chicago
C. Betty Magness, Rainbow PUSH Coalition
Tracy Hartiieb, Equip For Equality
Sandy Hed, Eiection Works

Page 4 of5

 Board of Election Commissioners for the City of Chicago
Special Board Meeting of March 20,2018

XVII.

Adjournment: Commissioner Swain moved to adjourn the Special Board Meeting of
March 20, 2018. Commissioner Kresse seconded the motion and the Special Board
Meeting of March 20, 2018 was adjourned at 9:33 a.m. on April 10, 2018

Submitted,

Commiffilo^er William J. Kresse

Secretal

Page 5 of5

 