Commissioners
Martsel A. Hernandez, Chairwoman

William J. Kresse, Commissioner/Secretary
Jonathan T. Swain. Comrrvssioner

Lance Gough, Executive Director

Board of Election Commissioners

Board of Election Commissioners for the City of Chicago
Minutes of Special Board Meeting
October 30, 2018,10:30 a.m.

69 West Washington Street, 8th Floor Conference Room, Chicago, Illinois 60602

Board Members:

Marisei A. Hernandez, Chairwoman

William J. Kresse, Commissioner/Secretary
Jonathan T. Swain, Commissioner
Staff:

Lance Gough, Executive Director
Adam W. Lasker, General Counsel

Charles Holiday, Assistant Executive
JoanT. Agnew, Counsel
James P. Allen, Communications Director

Peter Peso, Deputy Chief Administrative Officer
Amanda Robelo, Purchasing

Gary Rycyzyn, Consultant
Michal Czech, Videographer
Trupti Patel

Irish Sheehy
Guests:

Helene Gabelnick, League of Women Voters of Chicago (LWV Chicago)
Judd Ryan, ES&S

I.

Call to Order: The Chairwoman called the meeting to order at 10:34 a.m.

II.

Roll Call: All members were present

III.

Consideration of Agenda: The agenda was accepted as presented

IV.

Approval of Minutes: Minutes of prior Board meetings were not presented for approval

at this meeting.
V.

Executive Director's Report(Mr. Lance Gough)

• The online Vote by Mail(VBM)application system will close at 5:00 p.m. on Thursday. Mr.
Gough is concerned with the U.S. Postal service. 3XData Is doing an excellent job with
processing the ballots. We have put notices in all emails and on our website encouraging
voters to apply early for VBM ballots and to return them as swiftly as possible.
69 West Washington Street. Suites 600/800, Chicago IL 60602• 1.312.269.7900•fax 1.312.263.3649•TTY 1.312.269.0027

chicagoeiections.com • email: cboe@chicagoelections.net

 Special Board Meeting
October 30,2018

Additional warnings will be added to social media telling voters if they have not received
their VBM ballot they may still use Early Voting.
So far, the VBM applications are running high and the returns are good. Assistant
Executive Director Charles Holiday will provide more details.

This election cycle we have received calls regarding persons going to their assigned
polling place thinking that it is an Early Voting Site. Commissioner Kresse would like to

add a sign listing the locations of Early Voting sites to the signs sent to Election Day
polling places. Mr. Gough pointed out that the signs sent to the Election Day polling
places are usually not displayed until just a few days before the election.

Purchasing Agent Lorel Blameuser has left the Election Board. Mr. Gough Introduced
Amanda Robledo;she will be filling that position until a replacement for the Purchasing
Agent is made. General Counsel Adam Lasker stated that he and Mr. Holiday have been
working with Ms. Robledo and Sherry Zabel, both long term Board employees,to
continue with procurements in the interim.

A notice of the Job opening has been posted on our website. Deadline for application is
November 9^^.

A.

Assistant Executive Director(Mr. Charles Holiday)
Registration is closed and all registrations processed.

To date we have had 548 voters use Grace Period Registration and voting at Early
Voting Sites. 278 were new registrations and 270 were change of address

Early Voting (EV) numbers:86,975 total as of yesterday. 14,195 voted yesterday
alone.

Public test is undenway on the 6^^ floor
Warehouse deliveries are on schedule

Mr. Holiday reiterated that he and Mr. Lasker are working with purchasing In the
absence of a Purchasing Agent.
Poll book testing has been undenway.

Staff members are readying for Election Day.
There are 4 polling place vacancies; hopefully these will be placed today.

B.

Communications Director(Mr.Jim Allen)
• Early Voting is approximately 62% ahead of the 2014 Midterm Election, and Vote
By Mail is approaching the 1944 all-time record of more than 116,000
applications
• Messaging on VBM will now shift to advising voters on how to return ballots on
time or to go to their respective polling places If they had not received their VBM
ballots.

Page 2of7

 special Board Meeting
October 30,2018

• Instructing Election Central on instructions for when people try to drop off VBM
ballots at the polling places.

• There will be a press conference on Monday.

• Commissioner Swain asked Mr. Allen about projected turnout. Mr. Allen repeated
that VBM Is 62% ahead of 2014, but lower than 2016. However, it's not possible
to project turnout based on VBM or EV.

• The VBM applications are three times what they were in 2014.The VBM numbers
may cut back the number of voters who use EV.
Vi.

Old Business

A.

Infrastructure Projects and Changes in Election Administration: planning on
addressing this after the April Election.

Mr. Alien would like authorization to publish, on the website, the

amendment or addendum to the long-range plan that he had previously
sent to Board members.The members stated that they would like to review
and discuss this further.

B.

Electronic Poll Books: Mr. Judd Ryan of ES&S reported that the Pre-election
Logistics and Accuracy Test(Pre-LAT)should be completed at the
warehouse today; no problems have been reported so far.

C.

Voting Equipment: This will be discussed in more detail after the election.

D.

Legislation: General Counsel Adam W. Lasker plans to monitor the veto
session in November to determine whether the election-related bills that

we are watching will be revisited by the General Assembly.
VII.

New Business:

A.

Removal of Judge of Election Alva Ruffin:
Board Counsel Joan T. Agnew requested the Board order the removal of
Judge of Election Alva Ruffin. Ms. Ruffin reportedly appeared to be
intoxicated at the training session.
One of our experienced trainers, Ms. Morris,found that Ms. Ruffin was
having difficulties during a training class; she smelled of alcohol and was
slurring her speech.

Commissioner Swain moved to approve the removal of Alva Ruffin as Judge
of Election based on the information presented. Commissioner Kresse
seconded the motion. The motion carried by unanimous vote of the Board.
A Notice and Order of Removal of Judge of Election Alva Ruffin was
authorized.

Pages of7

 Special Board Meeting
October 30,2018

B.

Judges of Election Post-Hearing Removal:
1.

Carol E. Contreras

Counsellor Agnew presented.
In March, the Board executed an Order to Remove Ms. Contreras as a

Judge of Election. Ms.Contreras had been calling Election Central to
complain about the other judges. The Board investigator reported to the
polling place and found that it was Ms. Contreras, not the otherjudges,
who was uncooperative and unprofessional: yelling at people in the
polling place and preventing other poll workers from doing their jobs.

Ms. Contreras requested reconsideration. Ms.June Brown was assigned as
a Hearing Officer in this matter. Ms. Brown recommended sustaining the
Board's Order to permanently removal of Ms. Contreras as a Judge of
Election.

Commissioner Kresse moved to adopt Ms. Brown's recommendation and
sustain the Board's previous Order. Commissioner Swain seconded the
motion.The Board voted unanimously to sustain the order of removal.
2.

Kathy A. Carlisle
Counsellor Agnew presented.

In March,the Board ordered Kathy A. Carlisle be removed as a Judge of
Election for having been extremely disruptive to the voting process. She
reportedly got into a verbal disagreement that escalated into a shouting
match which caused a voter to intervene. Even after instruction by the
Board Investigator,she continued to refuse to cooperate with others in
the polling place.

Ms. Carlisle requested reconsideration. Ms.June Brown was assigned as
the Hearing Officer in this matter.

Ms, Brown found that Judge of Election Kathy A. Carlisle was disruptive at
the precinct, but found mitigating circumstance, specifically, Ms. Carlisle's
hearing. Ms. Carlisle was not wearing her hearing aids election morning.
Ms.Agnew stated that while she is em pathetic to Ms. Carlisle's hearing
issue, she does not think that the Board should go back on their ruling to
remove. Both Audra Lewicki, Manager of the Community Services Division,
and Ms. Agnew request that the board overrule Hearing Officer Brown's
recommendation and remove Ms. Carlisle permanently.
• Commissioner Swain expressed concerns that the Hearing Officer
recommends one way and Ms. Agnew recommends the opposite.
Commissioner Swain asked if Ms. Carlisle has any opportunity to present
to the Board. For that matter, would she feel a need to if she followed our

rules, sought reconsideration and then saw the Hearing Officer
Page4 of7

 Special Board Meeting
October 30,2018

recommend that she be reinstated? Commissioner Swain stated that he is

sympathetic to a pro se litigant in such matters.

• Ms.Agnew pointed out that the Administrative Code does not allow her to
come back beyond the reconsideration ~ her due process flows before the
Hearing Officer. Ms. Agnew and Mr. Lasker have spoken before about the
Board's Administrative Code, and this is something that we need to
address.

• Commissioner Swain stated that this is unfair to Judges of Election, as they
may not feel they need to come before the Board since the Hearing
Officer ruled in their favor. Commissioner Swain stated that it would not

be right to override the Hearing Officer. Mr. Lasker and Ms. Agnew
recommend a rewrite of the Administrative Code.

• Commissioner Kresse pointed out that the Hearing officer recommended a
conditional reinstatement with training.
• The Chairwoman pointed out that Ms. Carlisle arrived at 4:50 a.m. and
only had problems after 7:00 am. When another Judge of Election noticed
her initializing ballots without the voters being present, that's when she
became disruptive. The hearing problem wasn't a problem until this time.
This gives Ms. Carlisle less credibility with the mitigating factor and the
Chairwoman feels that the Judge of Election should be removed.
• General Counsel Lasker agrees because of the concern that she had been

pre-initialing ballots and responded to correction by being disruptive.
Commissioner Swain, in response, noted that Ms. Carlisle has been a

serving as a Judge of Election for more than 20 years.
• Commissioner Kresse stated that he fee is that the Board should only
overrule a Hearing Officer's recommendation If the Hearing Officer abused
his or her discretion. As no such abuse of discretion is asserted here.
Commissioner Kresse would recommend that we follow the Hearing
Officer's recommendations.

• Commissioner Kresse moved to adopt the Hearing Officer's
recommendation. Commissioner Swain seconded the motion.The motion

was passed and the Hearing Officer's recommendations were adopted by
a 2:0 vote of the Board.

C.

Approval of SCYTL Subscription Agreement for online pollworker training
software

• Mr. Lasker thanked Amanda Robledo,Sherry Zabel and Audra Lewicki for
having brought this agreement together.

• Since this is a sole source provider, Mr. Lasker proposes a 2 year
agreement.The pricing is similar. Commissioner Swain inquired as to

whether this program was this designed for us and if we paid the company
Page5 of7

 special Board Meeting
October 30,2018

to develop it. If so, we should own the product. It was explained that they
modified a program to meet our content specifications.
• The agreement would be for 2019-2020, with a 2021 extension option
with the rate locked-in, in the amount of $62,976.

• Commissioner Kresse moved to approve the 2019-202012 year)
agreement with SCYTLE. Commissioner Swain seconded the motion. The

motion passed and the agreement was approved by unanimous vote of
the Board.

D.

Adoption of 2019 advisory referenda guidelines
• Mr. Lasker reported that there were no substantive changes to the
guidelines,just updating names and dates of the elections.
• Commissioner Swain moved to amend the information with where to seek

legal counsel, specifically the Chicago Bar Association Lawyer Referral
Service.

• Commissioner Kresse moved to approve the guidelines, as amended.

Commissioner Swain seconded the motion and the motion was approved
by unanimous vote of the Board.
VIII.

Legal Report

Twenty-six attorneys are set to serve at Election Central on Election Day.The Election
Central hotline number is(312) 269- 7870

Three attorneys will be working the Nursing Home hotline during Nursing home voting
Forty-three attorneys are on the Electoral Board review list to be potential Hearing
Officers. Approximately 1/3 would be new Electoral Board Attorneys.
The plan is to begin Electoral Board hearings on December 10.

We do not have yet a decision from Chicago Public Schools regarding pollwatcher
background check requirements. Pollwatcher Credentials have been issued to qualified
organizations; statute prohibits us from asking for the names of the individuals who will
be given the credentials by the authorizing organizations or candidates.

The response brief in the Citywide referendum case is due today. A reply brief Is due on
Friday.

Regarding the Purchasing Department, Mr. Lasker will be working with the Department
to make sure that all procurements are processed. The Job posting for Purchasing Agent
is posted; the application deadline is November 9.

November 26 is the deadline for nomination filings, objections have until December 3^'^.

The Board will remain open until 5 on the last day; no other time is defined by law.

Page6 of7

 Special Board Meeting
October 30,2018

IX.

Financial Report

A.

Balance Sheet and Voucher Listings for the City of Chicago- 2018
Appropriation -18-08 dated October 30, 2018 in the amount of

$1,263,858.22. Commissioner Swain moved to approve. Commissioner
Kresse seconded the motion.The Balance Sheet and Voucher listing was
approved by unanimous vote of the Board.

B.

Balance Sheet and Voucher Listings for the County of Cook-2018
Appropriation -18-08 dated October 30, 2018 in the amount of

$2,511,065.77: Commissioner Kresse moved to approve. Commissioner
Swain seconded the motion. The Balance Sheet and Voucher listing was
approved by unanimous vote of the Board.
X.

Public Comment: None.

XI.

Executive Session: None needed.

XII.

Adjournment: Commissioner Swain moved to adjourn until Nov 6th at 7:00 a.m.

Commissioner Kresse seconded the motion; approved by unanimous vote of the Board.

Submitted,

Commlfision,er William J. Kresse
Secretai

Page7of7

 