Commissioners

Marisel A. Hernandez, Chairwoman

William J. Kresse, Commissioner/Secretary
Jonathan T. Swain. Commissioner

Lance Gough, Executive Director

Board of ElecUoa Commissioners

Minutes Regular Board Meeting
July 10, 2018,9:30 a.m.

69 West Washington Street, 8th Floor Conference Room, Chicago, Illinois 60602

Board Members:

Marisel A. Hernandez, Chairwoman

William J. Kresse, Commissioner/Secretary
Jonathan T. Swain, Commissioner
Staff:

Lance Gough, Executive Director
Adam W. Lasker, General Counsel

Charles Holiday, Assistant Executive
James P. Allen, Communications Director

Bill Perez, Coordinator Hispanic Outreach

Peter Peso, Deputy Chief Administrative Officer
Lorel Blameuser, Purchasing Agent
Sarita Villarreal, Consultant

Geneva Morris, Videographer

Irish Sheehy
Guests:

Sandy Hed, Election Works
Helene Gabelnick, League of Women Voters of Chicago(LWV Chicago)
Judd Ryan, ES&S
C. Betty Magness, Rainbow PUSH Coalition
Tracy Hartlieb, Equip For Equality (EFE)
Waldeep Singh, Dominion Voting Systems(DVS)
John Poulos, Dominion Voting Systems(DVS)
Eric Coomer, Dominion Voting Systems(DVS)
Sheannse Smith, Dominion Voting Systems(DVS)
Rachel Leven, Better Government Association (BGA)

I.
II.
III.

Call to Order: The Chairwoman called the meeting to order at 9:44 a.m.
Roll Call: All members were present.
Consideration of Agenda: The agenda was approved as presented.

IV.

Approval of Minutes: No Minutes of past meetings were presented for approval.

69 West Washington Street, Suites 600/800, Chicago IL 60602• 1,312.269.7900 •fax 1.312,263.3649•TTY 1.312,269.0027
chicagoelections.com • email; cboe@chicagoelections,net

 Board of Election Commissioners for the City of Chicago
Regular Board Meeting of July 10,2018

V.

Executive Director's Report

• Executive Director Gough distributed to the Board a letter from the U. S. Department of
Justice (DoJ)to the City of Chicago's Corporation Counsel dated June 18, 2018. Mr.

Gough reported that he and staff have been working with the DoJ and Equip for Equality
on Polling Place accessibility. We are trying to set up a meeting with all the different
relevant City Departments and the DoJ. Mr. Gough then introduced Tracy Hartlieb of
Equip for Equality to give a status report on the polling place accessibility project.
o Ms. Hartlieb reported:

■

She and Mr. Gough attended the National Disability Rights Network
(NDRN)conference in Baltimore. During the conference EFE had a table

where we demonstrated the electronic surveys that we are using in
Chicago. People were able to work on a test survey using Ms. Hartlieb's
cell phone and call it up on the computer. It seems no one had seen
anything like this before.They could see how helpful this could be in the
field rather than carrying paper surveys.

■

Equip for Equality is continuing regular meetings with the Board. They will
be meeting tomorrow with Adam Lasker and Deborah Moss to continue

the work to provide accessibility to the polling places in the City of Chicago
■

Equip for Equality Is trying to expand this program, and is working with the
ISBE to see if they can get more polling places throughout the state and
focusing on methods similar to those that we are using in Chicago because
Chicago has been so successful.

o Commissioner Kresse noted that the letter from the DoJ was dated June 18*^ and

asked Ms. Hartlieb if they had received a response from the Corporation Counsel.
Mr. Gough replied that the Corporation Counsel has not responded to the letter
and that Mr. Gough has reached out to the Corporation Counsel.

• There is an ISBE Board meeting today at 10:30 and several agenda items involve the
Board:

o Approval of a 2-year certification of our voting system. The public hearings on
Automatic Voter Registration (AVR); we had hosted one of the meetings In our
lower level.

o The recent Cybersecurity Conference.
• Cybersecurity conference {Mr. Gough called upon Assistant Executive Director Charles
Holiday to report on the conference)

o Mr. Holiday reported that he, along with Information Technology Department
Manager Matt Lin, attended a Cybersecurity conference hosted by the Illinois
Association of County Clerks and Recorders in Bloomington, ILJune 19-21. The
conference discussed what is at stake and how to secure our systems from
attacks. It was a very informative and they are planning another conference.
Page 2 of 7

 Board of Election Commissioners for the City of Chicago
Regular Board Meeting of July 10,2018

Commissioner Kresse said that the Secretary of State has sent out a notice that they are starting
to roll out the AVR from the Secretary of State and asked is we have gotten any ofthe
applications. Mr. Gough said yes, we have received our first batch of registration applications
through the AVR program.

A.

Assistant Executive Director's Report (Charles Holiday)

Mr. Holiday reported:

The agency has begun using the AVR system and we are processing those
registration applications through the AVR system.
The paper version of the Judge of Election application is available at our office.
The online application will be available July 16

On Saturday,June

Mr. Holiday attended the Cook County Democratic Party's

training for new Committeemen at the International Brotherhood of Electrical

Workers(IBEW) Local 134 hall along with the Board's Manager of Community
Services Department, Audra Lewicki. Ms. Lewicki gave insight to the
Committeemen on how to assign Judges of Election on the chipollworker site.
Once they are registered, committeemen can track as Judges' applications are
added.

On Saturday,June 30^^ Mr. Holiday attended the 9*^ Ward's kick-off for
Republican election judge sign-ups at Trumble Park along with MIshonda Tarver
from our Community Services Department and Commissioner Kresse.
We are continuing with the day to day operations of the office and preparing staff
for the November elections

B.

Communications Director(Jim Allen)

Mr. Allen reported:

• He and staff members are meeting tomorrow with officials of the Chicago Public
Schools(CPS)to assess different outreach opportunities for the Fall and Spring.
We are moving ahead on the mail canvass that we do every year. As discussed at
the last meeting, due to some Issues with card stock, we are going with a folded
mail piece.(Mr. Allen gave the Board members sample).The piece has
information about the upcoming elections and an indicator that there's a "voter

card" inside so people will be less inclined to discard it. Again,the key to this
mailing is not so much to get cards to the voters, but to get the return mail which
helps us to clean up the voter rolls.

• We went through a very competitive bid process for the canvass printing. We
have made some progress in moving all of our email and websites to a ".gov" URL.
There was a delay due to the time needed for the General Services Administration

(GSA)and Verisign to understand the unique statutory status of the Chicago
Board of Election Commissioners.They finally understood and we are now

Page 3 of 7

 Board of Election Commissioners for the City of Chicago
Regular Board Meeting of July 10,2018

proceeding. We only have a few more hurdles to overcome and then we will
convert to .gov. Once we are finished with the conversion we will have all of the
emails and the website all under a ".gov" URL.

• We are doing the conversion to ".gov" because It will give an added layer of
security to our website. While we do not have anything on our website that ties
Into our balloting/voting or voter registration systems, but in the event of a DDoS
(dedicated denial of service) attack this Is just one more layer of protection.
Commissioner Kresse pointed out that the ".gov" sites are monitored more.
VI.

Old Business

A.

Infrastructure Projects and Changes In Election Administration
• Mr. Gough stated that we are reviewing voting.

B.

Electronic Poll Books

• Mr.Judd Ryanof ES&S re ported that things a re going fine with the e-pol I
books.There Is not a lot of activity right now.
C.

Voting Equipment
• Waldeep Singh of Dominion reported that he and the others from Dominion

who were In attendance at this meeting, were going to the ISBE meeting later
today for the certification of the Dominion equipment. The Chairwoman
stated that she Is looking fonward to recertiflcation.

D.

Legislation (General Counsel Adam Lasker)
• Mr. Lasker reported on three bills that are awaiting the Governor's signature
or veto:

o HB4469,the bill on pretrlal detainees voting, was sent on June 21 to
the Governor,so he has until August 20- 2018 to veto it or It will
become law on that day.

o SB2273 passed both Houses and was sent to the Governor on May
18**'. Thus, July 17^^ is the veto deadilne or It becomes law. That bill
would require the iSBE to use the ERIC, and not use Crosscheck,for
getting voter registration Information from other states.
o SB2651 passed both Houses a nd was sent to the Governor on June

29*"^. The veto deadilne Is August 28*^. This bill would require us 1) as
an election authority, to provide a report to the ISBE every 2-years
regarding our election equipment, its status, and what we are using
(we would then have to post It on our website, and the ISBE will post
the information from all election authorities on their website); 2)to
tight the timeframe for Vote by Mall applications received by thirdparties to be turned over to the election authority.(There are thirdparty organizations that send outvote by Mail applications and have

Page 4 of 7

 Board of Election Commissioners for the City of Chicago
Regular Board Meeting of July 10,2018

them sent back to the organization; this would give the third parties
seven days from the time they receive them back to turn them over to
us, but within 14 days of the election they would have two days.The
third-parties also have to have their name and phone numbers on the
applications that they send out. Mr. Lasker reported that there were
several other bills pending that would require the third-parties who
send out applications to provide postage pre-paid envelopes the
election authority's address printed on them, however the legislature
decided to go with this version. The veto deadline for SB2651 is August
28^^

Discussion ensued between Commissioner Kresse, Mr. Lasker and Mr.
Allen.
VII.

New Business:

A.

Award of Contract for Printing & Mailing of August 2018 Full Voter Canvass
to Cardinal Color Group
Purchasing Agent Lorel Blameuser reported that we issued a competitive IFB for

this project. The original low bidder was not able to meet the price they initially
offered and rescinded their bid.

Cardinal Color Group confirmed that they will be able to meet the obligations of
the contract with the pricing they originally offered, including the paper stock
requirements.

Commissioner Kresse made a motion to approve a contract with Cardinal Color
Group. For the period July 10, 2018 through December 31,2018 in the amount of

$98,000. Commissioner Swain seconded the motion.The motion was approved
by unanimous vote of the Board.
VIII.

Legal Report(General Counsel Adam Lasker)

• Mr. Lasker reported that he and Mr. Gough are going to the University of
Wisconsin-Madison to participate In the Second Annual Election Sciences, Reform
& Administration (ESRA)conference. There will be presentations and discussions
by both election professionals and academics from around the country. Messrs.
Gough and Lasker will participate In two roundtable discussions. One will be on
Managing Voter Registration, including implementation of Election Day
Registration in Illinois and Chicago. The other panel will be on the Management of
Voter

• Mr. Lasker reported on a lawsuit in which we are Defendants-Segovia, et al vs.
the United States. This case is against the United States, the Chicago Board of
Elections and Rock Island County, Illinois. This case has gone up to the U.S.
Supreme Court on a Petition for a Writ of Certiorari. We had originally filed a

Waiver of Response, which is very customary, but the Court has actually asked
that each of the respondents file a Response Brief. The Board has previously
entered into a contract with outside counsel regarding this case; outside counsel

Page 5 of 7

 Board of Election Commissioners for the City of Chicago
Regular Board Meeting of July 10,2018

has experience at the Supreme Court level. Mr. Lasker has put In a request to the
Illinois Attorney General to finally appear and defend this State law.She had
declined to do so at both the District Court and the Appellate Court. Mr. Lasker
pointed out that this case Involves Plaintiffs challenging a State and a federal law
that deals with people who are U.S. Citizens who move to certain U.S. Territories.

For certain U.S. Territories you can still vote, but for other territories you cannot.
The Board has not taken a position on this law, as it is not our law to defend, so
he hopes that the State Attorney General will step in. The Chairwoman asked
what we will do If the State does not step In. Mr. Lasker said that we will do as we
did In the courts below,for example, at the District Court we were ordered to file
a Response Brief, so we filed a Response Brief. Now the Supreme Court Is
requesting us to file a Response Brief so we will file a Response Brief, as
requested by the Court. The responses to the lower courts were done before Mr.
Lasker became the Board's General Counsel, but upon reviewing our briefings Mr.
Lasker thinks that we did a good Job of explaining the history of the law and
explaining how we operate under It. What we have not done - and the Plaintiffs

keep asking - is explain what was/Is the legislative Intent or purpose.That Is really
for the State to answer; we are not in a position to say.So we will file a Response
Brief explaining the history of the law and how we operate under It; that Is all that
we can do.The United States Solicitor General Is defending the federal law.The

Chairwoman asked If the Illinois State Board of Elections is a Party to the case. Mr.
Lasker answered that they are not. The Plaintiffs just happen to have lived in

Chicago and Rock Island County and only named those two election authorities;
that Is why we are In the case. We would be "proper parties" for Injunctlve
purposes If the Court were to tell us to stop operating under that law. While we
would be a proper party, we are a "nominal party"; this is why we are asking the

State to step In and defend Its own law. Mr. Lasker does not understand why the
State Is not attending, since the United States Is.
IX.

Financial Report

A.

Balance Sheet and Voucher Listings for the City of Chicago-2018
Appropriation -18-05, dated June 26, 2018 In the amount of $466,600.63
Commissioner Swain moved to approve the Balance Sheet and Voucher Listings
for the City of Chicago-2018 Appropriation -18-05,dated June 26,2018 in the
amount of $466,600.63. Commissioner Kresse seconded the motion.The motion
passed by unanimous vote of the Board.

B.

Balance Sheet and Voucher Listings for the County of Cook- 2018
Appropriation -18-05, dated June 26, 2018 In the amount of $311,863.87
Commissioner Kresse moved to approve Balance Sheet and Voucher Listings for
the County of Cook -2018 Appropriation -18-05, dated June 26, 2018 In the
amount of $311,863.87. Commissioner Swain seconded the motion and the
motion was approved by a 3:0 vote of the Board.

Page 6 of 7

 Board of Election Commissioners for the City of Chicago
Regular Board Meeting of July 10,2018
X.

Public Comment:

Communications Director Allen wanted to relay to the Board, we have received through
email and a subsequent phone call a request from the Better Government Association (BGA)
that for the 2019 Municipal Elections that on the Board's website when we list the
candidates or provide a sample ballot that we provide certain contact information for each
candidate. Discussion between Mr. Allen and the Commissioners ensued.
XI.

Executive Session: None needed.

XII.

Adjournment: Commissioner Swain moved to adjourn until the next Regular Board

Meeting of July 24**^. Commissioner Kresse seconded the motion. The motion was approved by
unanimous vote of the Board.The meeting adjourned at 10:12 a.m.

Submitted,

Commlssiot)er wliam J. Kresse
Secretary

Page 7 of 7

 