Commissioners
Marisel A. Hernandez, Chairwoman
William J, Kresse, Commissioner/Secretary
Jonathan T. Swain, Commissioner

Lance Gough, Executive Director

Board of ElecUoo Commissioners

Board of Election Commissioners for the City of Chicago
Minutes of Special Board Meeting
January 16, 2018

69 West Washington Street, 8th Floor Conference Room, Chicago, Illinois 60602
Board Members:
Marisel A. Hernandez, Chairwoman

William J. Kresse, Commissioner/Secretary (present by other means {telephone), due to
Illness)

Jonathan T. Swain, Commissioner
Staff:

Lance Gough, Executive Director
Charles Holiday, Assistant Executive Director
Adam W. Lasker, General Counsel
James P. Alien, Communications Director

Peter Peso, Deputy Chief Administrative Officer
Lorel Blameuser, Manager - Purchasing
Irish Sheehy, Videographer
Guests:

C. Betty Magness, Rainbow PUSH Coalition

I.

Call to Order: The Chairwoman called the meeting to order at 11:00 a.m.

II.

Roll Call: Chairwoman Hernandez and Commissioner Swain were present in the
room. Commissioner Kresse was present by other means (conference telephone)
due to illness.

III.

Consideration of Agenda: No change to the agenda.

IV.

Approval of Minutes: No minutes to approve at this time.

V.

Executive Director's Report: Nothing to report at this time.
A. Assistant Executive Director (Mr. Charles Holiday)
We have finished all of the Chicago Board of Elections - Electoral Board records exams
and are working on Cook County Electoral Board records exams. Only Cook County
judicial cases' records exams are on the docket, and they are expected to finish
sometime next week.

B. Communications Director (Mr. James P. Allen)
Nothing new to report at this time.

69 West Washington Street, Suites 600/800, Chicago IL 60602• 1.312.269.7900•fax 1.312.263.3649 • TTY 1.312.269.0027

chicagoelections.com • email: cboe@chicagoelections.net

 Minutes of Regular Board Meeting
January 16, 2018
VI.

Old Business

A. Infrastructure Projects and Changes in Election Administration: Ongoing.
B. Electronic Poll Books: Nothing at this time.
C. Voting Equipment: Ongoing.

D. Legislation: General Counsel Adam Lasker said that there was nothing to report.
VII.

New Business

A. Approval to renew contract between the Chicago Board of Election and J. J.
Collins' Sons Inc. in accordance with section 4.24 of the agreement for the
Printing/Mailing of July 2017 Full Voter Canvass
Mr. Allen reported that he had earlier submitted a memorandum requesting the
renewal of the contract. When we originally bid this contract, we added language to
allow for renewal for two purposes; to entice a better price, and to encourage excellent
performance during the original contract period. In this case, the contractor did perform
well and met or exceeded all of our requirements for the canvass mailing. This is a
comparable mailing at a comparable price for the pre-election mailing for March. As
such, Mr. Allen is asking for a renewal of this contract,Just for this one time.
Motion to approve the renewal of the contract with J. J. Collins,for the printing and
mailing of the 2017 full-voter canvass, until June 2019 for the sole purpose of the
printing and mailing of the pre-election mailing for the 2018 Primary Election, at a cost
not to exceed $45,100 was made by Commissioner Swain,seconded by Commissioner
Kresse and motion passed and the renewal was approved by unanimous vote of the
Board.

VIII. Legal Report: Mr. Lasker requested a short Executive Session to discuss pending
litigation.
IX.

Financial Report: None

X.

Public Comment: No Request for Public Comment.

XI.

Executive Session: The Chairwoman asked for a motion to enter into Executive

Session stating that no action will be taken during Executive Session, and that any
action that needed to be taken will be taken when the Board returns to open
session. Commissioner Swain moved to enter into Executive Session. Commissioner

Kresse seconded the motion. The Board voted unanimously to enter into Executive
Session. Executive Session was entered into at 10:57 a.m.

The Board returned to Open Session at 11:07 a.m. The Board took no action during
Executive Session. There Is no action that needs to be taken in Open Session as a result of
Executive Session.

Page 2 of 3

 Minutes of Regular Board Meeting
January 16, 2018

Xil. Adjournment: Motion to adjourn until the next regularly scheduled meeting of
January 23, 2018 at 9:30 a.m. was made by Commissioner Swain. The motion was
seconded by Commissioner Kresse and passed by unanimous vote of the Board.
The Board adjourned at 11:08 a.m.

Submitted,

Commissio^jfr William J. Kresse
Secretary

Page 3 of 3

 