Commissioners

Marisel A. Hernandez, Chairwoman

William J. Kresse, Commissioner/Secretary
Jonathan T. Swain, Commissioner

Lance Gough. Executive Director

Board of Electkm Coounissionen

Board of Election Commissioners for the City of Chicago
Minutes Regular Board Meeting
August 14, 2018,9:30 a.m.
69 West Washington Street,8th Floor Conference Room,Chicago, Illinois 60602
Board Members:

Marisel A. Hernandez, Chairwoman

William Kresse, Commissioner/Secretary
Jonathan T. Swain, Commissioner
Staff:

Lance Gough, Executive Director
Adam W. Lasker, General Counsel

Charles Holiday, Assistant Executive [Absent]
James P. Allen, Communications Director
Bill Perez, Coordinator Hispanic Outreach
Lorel Blameuser, Purchasing Agent
Matt Lin, Manager Information Technology
Sarita Villarreal, Consultant

Gary Rycyzyn, Consultant
Geneva Morris, Videographer
Trupti Patel
Trish Sheehy
Guests:

Madeleine Doubek, Better Government Association (BGA)
Sandy Hed, Election Works

Helene Gabelnick, League of Women Voters of Chicago(LWV Chicago)
C. Betty Magness, Rainbow PUSH Coalition
Tracy Hartlieb, Equip For Equality

Madeleine Doubek,Better Government Association [BGA)
Jennifer Lagoni,CDWG
Tony Ameri, Dell EMC
Ashley Everhart, Dell EMC
B. A. Sheriff, NAACP

I.

Call to Order; The Chairwoman called the meeting to order at 9:34 a.m.

II.

Roll Call: All members were present.

III.

Consideration of Agenda: The agenda was accepted as presented.

69 West Washington Street, Suites 600/800, Chicago IL 60602• 1,312,269,7900•fax 1.312,263,3649•TTY 1.312.269.0027
chicagoelections.com •email: cboe@chicagoelections.net

 Minutes of August 14,2018
Regular Board Meeting

IV.

Approval of Minutes:
A. Minutes of the Regular Board Meeting of July 10,2018 - Commissioner Swain

moved to approve the Minutes of the Regular Board Meeting ofJuly 10,2018.
The motion was seconded by Commissioner Kresse.The motion passed,the
Minutes were approved by a 3:0 vote of the Board.

V.

Executive Director's Report
Executive Director Gough reported:

• Illinois State Board of Elections(ISBE) has been looking into working with Equip for
Equality(EFE).Also,the ISBE is starting to work on a survey tool like the one that
we are using.The ISBE is producing a survey to send out to all the jurisdiction

throughout Illinois. The ISBE version is slightly different than ours and Mr. Gough
and EFE are not sure why it differs. Mr. Gough and EFE are going to meet with the
ISBE regarding this matter.

• We are having our Polling Place Administrators(PPA)complete the in depth survey
(distributed to the Board] on Election Day.

• We had previously reduced the pay of our Polling Place Administrators and Mr.
Gough would like to increase their pay. Completing the surveys is an increase to
their duties and they now will be receiving additional training on working with
persons with disabilities at the polling place locations. Each PPA has 2 days of
training and a test that they have to pass,plus Election Day. Mr.Gough asked for a
$100 increase per PPA bringing their pay from $350 to $450. General Counsel Adam
Lasker pointed out that the training includes setting up temporaiy remedies which
is all part of our agreement with the U.S. Department ofJustice (DoJ),so the Election

Coordinators(also known as. Polling Place Administrators] are going to be helping
us set up ADA remedies in the polling places.

• The Election Coordinators will not have to deal with the measurement/ratio
portions ofthe survey. EFE and DoJ have surveyors going to the polling places to
deal with these aspects of the survey,along with taking pictures on Election Day.
They will be carrying credentials and the Judges of Election are being made aware of
that surveyors will be coming to the polling place and are authorized to take
pictures ofthe polling places. It is also stated in the handbooks.

• There is a Women's march scheduled in October,and we are getting ready for it. We
expect that many of those participating will be coming to our Early Voting Supersite
after the march. It looks like the Supersite will be at 114 S. State. The site will be

ready for early voting,and will be available through April,including a period when
we can use it for Judges of Election Training for the 2019 elections.

Page 2 of8

 Minutes of August 14,2018
Regular Board Meeting

• Mr. Gough asked EFE representative Tracey Hartlieb to address the Board.

o Ms. Haitiieb reiterated many ofthe statements regarding PPA/Election
Coordinators,Investigators and surveys that were made in Mr. Cough's
report.

o EFE is still sending out surveyors to polling places to clear up any
discrepancies that appeared on prior surveys.

o EFE will start recruitment once the new polling places are put online.
• Mr.Gough presented a draft ofthe ballot for next election. The mockup was created
to see if we would have enough room and how we could lay outthe ballot We will

need two 21-inch ballots printed on both sides. Commissioner Kresse expects that
the voters'time in the voting booth will be increased. General Counsel Lasker

pointed out that fact will make this is a great time for voters to use Vote by Mail

fVBM)or Early Vote. Communications Director Allen will touch on that in his report
• Mr. Gough and Mr. Lasker were on an election security panel earlier this month as

part ofthe the American Bar Association(ABA]Annual Meeting. Commissioner
Kresse also attended and stated that it was good to hear how far ahead the CBEC is
comparted to the rest ofthe nation,

A. Assistant Executive Director[Mr. Charles Holiday was absentfrom this meeting]
B. Communications Director [Jim Allen]
• The Board has finished its mail canvass. 1.5 million voters should have

received their canvass mailing. Because of the change in paper stock,we
were able to use the back of the mailer to promote VBM.

• The Vote by Mail application went on-line last Wednesday,90 days before
Election Day. We have already received 588 applications as of yesterday
morning.That is many more than we have ever had this far in advance ofan
election.

• The Board is about to start printing the Judges of Election and Election

Coordinator recruitment posters and mailings. We are going to target
barbershops and beauty salons(as suggested by Commissioner Swain at an
earlier meeting]in this mailing,as well.

• Along with the printing which is on the agenda,we are going to put outfor
bid a pre-election household mailing.As mentioned,this election is going to
have an extremely long ballot, with approximately 16 screens on

touchscreens,so we are going to be promoting VBM in this mailing. VBM is
going to be the smoothest way for everyone to get through this election. With
the bid,it would allow for extension of award,if needed.

• We have received approval from the U.S. General Services Administration

(GSA]for the use of Chicagoelections.gov.The transition will be under way in
die next month or so. Discussion ensued about the security advantages ofthe
".gov" and retention of".net" and ".com" domains.
Pages of8

 Minutes of August 14,2018
Regular Board Meeting

• Mr.Allen asked if Madeline Doubeck ofthe Better Government Association

(BOA],who had requested to make public comment at this meeting,could
speak at this time rather than wait for the Public Comment Segment ofthis
meeting. Commissioner Kresse moved to go out of agenda order.
Commissioner Swain seconded the motion. The motion was approved by
unanimous vote ofthe Board.
o

Ms. Madeline Doubeck - BGA:

■

The BGA is asking that the Board provide Municipal Election
candidates the option to have their email,phone and website
address posted on the Board's website. This would allow the
public and the media to contact candidates directly. Right now
the candidates are only required to file a home address. In this
day and age,email,phone and website addresses should be a
better way to engage civic-minded citizens.

There was discussion on the subject and the Members
expressed various concerns regarding including this
information on the Board's website and determined that

further consideration is necessary.

• Discussion about the length oftime a person spends in line on the last day of
Early Voting versus the amount oftime a person spends in line at the polling
place. As the deadline approaches the participation increases. With the new

Supersite we will have approximately 150 voting units,as there are enough
electrical outlets.

VI.

Old Business

A. Infrastructure Projects and Changes in Election Administration: continues.

B. Electronic Poll Books: Community Services and Training Manager Audra Lewicki
is meeting with ES&S regarding upgrades.
C. Voting Equipment: our current equipment has been recertified.

D. Legislation: no substantive moves on the legislative items that we are tracking.
VII.

New Business:

A. Approval of a Lease Agreement with 108 North State Street(Chicago] Owner
LLC - "Block 37"for Poll worker training. Commissioner Kresse moved to
approve the agreement Commissioner Swain seconded the motion. The motion

passed and the Lease Agreement was approved by unanimous vote of the Board

B. Approval of Contract for Server Virtualization and Backup and Disaster Recovery
Services with CDW Governmental LLC.

Information Technology Manager Matt Lin explained that we will be replacing a
12-year old server,for which we have had difficulty getting replacement parts.
Mr. Gough said that we have been tiying to use Help America Vote Act(HAVA)
money,but the ISBE has been holding up the money so we are using the City of
Chicago Agreement with CDW to obtain the system.
Page 4 of8

 Minutes of August 14, 2018
Regular Board Meeting

The services include secure, multiple application and multiple servers that we
can upgrade and patch without disrupting services.
Commissioner Kresse moved to approve the 36-month contract(8/14/208 8/13/2021]. Commissioner Swain seconded the motion.The motion and
contract were approved by unanimous vote of the Board

C. Approval of contract for ballot printing services with Lake County Press Inc.for
the November 2018,February 2019 and April 2019 Elections.

Lake County Press has been our printer because there are very few certified in
the country,and they are the only certified company to print ballots in Illinois.
Mr. Lasker pointed out that they had been tremendously flexible with last
minute changes during the Primary.

Ballot printing costs for each election: November 6,2018 = $586,713,combined
2019 elections(February and April]= $474,428.Estimated grand total for ballot
printing for the next three elections is $1,061,141.00

Term of the agreement is August 14,2018 through May 31,2019.

Mr. Gough added that Lake County Press has the paper in stock(a concern was
expressed at previous meetings ofthe Board].

Commissioner Swain moved to approve the contract for ballot printing services
with Lake County Press,Inc. Commissioner Kresse seconded the motion.The

Motion passed,and the contract was approved by unanimous vote ofthe Board.
D. Approval of Contracts from Invitations for Bid (IFB]: Printing of Forms,

Envelopes,Signs, Handbook,Banners,Wristbands,Hybrid Form/Envelope 276P
to the following Contractors for the November 2018,February 2019 and April
2019 elections

Purchasing Agent Lorel Blameuser reported that awarded contracts were

determined through competitive bids,and the bidders included Minority
Business Enterprises and Women Owned Enterprises(MBE/WBE].Some oflow
bidders were not selected for failure to follow the requirements ofthe bid. The
proposed awarded contract recipients, and the respective awarded group,are as
follows:

1.

Elk Grove Graphics
Group A: Dated Forms
Group C: Envelopes
Group D: Dated Signs
Group F: Banners

$194,380.00
$166,647.95
$20,589.59
$3,218.00
$384,835.54

Page 5 of8

 Minutes of August 14,2018
Regular Board Meeting

Commissioner Swain moved to approve the contract with Elk Grove Graphics for
printing of groups A,C, D and F. Commissioner Kresse seconded the motion.The
motion was approved by a 3:0 vote of the Board.
2.

Cardinal Color Group
Group B: Generic Forms
Group E: Generic Signs

$17,022.00
$15,440.00
$32,462.00

Commissioner Kresse moved to approve the contract with Cardinal Color Group
for the printing of Groups B and E. Commissioner Swain seconded the motion.
The motion was approved by unanimous vote of the Board.
3.

JJ Collins &Sons
Group G:Judges Handbook
Group H:*T VOTED"Wristbands
Group 1: Hybrid Form/Envelope 276P

$120,000.00
$43,900.00
$60,000.00

$223,900.00
Commissioner Swain moved to approve the contract with JJ Collins & Sons for
the printing of Groups G,H and I. Commissioner Kresse seconded the motion.
The motion was approved by unanimous vote of the Board.

E. Approval of contracts for Election Judge Election Trainers for the 2018 general
election with:

George Munoz- trainer

Commissioner Kresse moved to approve the Professional Service
Agreement with George Munoz at a rate of$65/hour not to exceed

$25,000 over the term ofthe agreement for the training ofelection
judges for the 2018 General Election. Commissioner Swain seconded

the motion.The motion passed,and the agreement was approved by
unanimous vote ofthe Board
Alicia Beal - trainer

Commissioner Swain moved to approve the Professional Service
Agreement with Alicia Beal at a rate of$50/hour not to exceed

$25,000 over the term ofthe agreement for the training of election
judges for the 2018 General Election. Commissioner Kresse seconded

the motion.The motion passed and the agreement was approved by
unanimous vote ofthe Board.

Page 6 of8

 Minutes of August 14,2018
Regular Board Meeting

F. Approval ofIncreases to poll worker compensation: Judge of Election by $10.00;
from $190- 200

Executive Director Gough requested that the Board table this item as the Judge of
Election rate is still under review. The Board agreed to postpone a vote on this
matter.

G. Approval ofincreases to poll worker compensation Election Coordinator by
$100.00 per Polling Place Administrator(Election Coordinator)-from $350 $450.This compensation includes training,setting up temporary remedies to
ADA,and performing other Election Day duties. Commissioner Swain moved to

approve the increase to Election Coordinator compensation by $100/Election
Coordinator. Commissioner Kresse seconded the motion.The motion was

approved by a 3:0 vote ofthe Board.

VIII. Legal Report(General Counsel Adam Lasker)
• The ISBE Motion to Dismiss in the Acevedo case was approved.The Acevedo
case was dismissed.The case involved a challenge to counlywide office
signature requirements.The Court decision will uphold the signature
requirements.

Mr. Lasker and Mr. Gough attended a forum and participated in a panel at the
University of Wisconsin- Madison sponsored by Election Sciences,Reform,&
Administration(ESRA)

o Professors and PhD students conducted presentations on their
research projects of which their papers are in an "editing process".
o Part of one panel discussed research papers on Voter ID and how
Wisconsin's new law,elderly and disabled,and voter suppression.

o Mr. Lasker hopes the Board will continue to support the ERSA group and their research into important topics that they are looking at in
depth.

We received only 2 objections for the Electoral Board concerning referenda
for November.As there was close to 86,000 signatures on one objected
petition,the potential records exam will be extensive.

• The new Electoral Board case management system will be a parallel system
this round.

IX.

Financial Report: No report

X.
Public Comment- Madeline Doubeck - BGA(See Communications Director
Report above)
XI.

Executive Session: none

Page 7 of8

 Minutes of August14,2018

Regular Board Meeting

XII. Adjournment: Commissioner Swain moved to adjourn until either the next
scheduled Regular Board Meeting or the call ofthe Chair. Commissioner Kresse
seconded the motion. The meeting was adjourned at 10:33 a.m.

Submitted

Commisaoorer William J. Kresse
Secretary

Page 8 of8

 