Commissioners

MARISEL A. HERNANDEZ, Chairwoman
WILLIAM J. KRESSE, Commissioner/Secretary
JONATHAN T. SWAIN. Commissioner
LANCE GOUGH, Executive Director

Board of Election Commissioners

Board of Election Commissioners for the City Of Chicago
Acting as the Canvassing Board
For the Canvass of the Returns of the

March 20,2018

General Primary Election
Held in the City of Chicago
Minutes of the Meeting
Tuesday, March 20, 2018
7:00 p.m.
Room 800

69 West Washington Street

Chicago, Illinois 60602
Board Members:

Marisel A. Hernandez, Chairwoman

William J. Kresse, Commissioner/Secretary
Jonathan T. Swain, Commissioner
Staff:

Lance Gough, Executive Director
Adam W. Lasker, General Counsel

Irish Sheehy
Guests:
None

I. Call to order; At 7:05 p.m. the Chairwoman called to order, in the Chairwoman's office, the
meeting of the Chicago Board of Election Commission, acting as the Canvassing Board for the
March 20, 2018 General Primary Election, pursuant to Sections 7-56 and 22-8 of the Election
Code (10 ILCS 5/7-56 and 5/22-8).
II. Roll Call: All members were present.

III. Consideration and adoption of Rules governing the Canvass of Returns of the March 20, 2018
General Primary Election in the City of Chicago

69 West Washington Street. Suites 600/800. Chicago IL 60602• 1.312.269.7900 •fax 1.312.263.3649•TTY 1.312.269.0027
chicagoelections.com • email: cboe@chicagoelectjons.net

 Minutes of the March 20,2018

Meeting ofthe Board of Election Commissionersfor the City Of piicago
Acting as the Canvassing Board

The Chairwoman confirmed with General Counsel that the ''Rules Governing the Canvass of the
Returns of the March 20,2018 General Primary Election In the City of Chicago" were distributed
to civic organizations and were,and remain, available to any interested party at the Board's

information desks(on the 6^^ and 8^*^ floor offices of the Board) and on-line.
The General Counsel responded to questions by the Board as to any substantive changes to the
Rules and any changes to the five percent audit procedures. General Counsel Lasker pointed out
that any changes to the 5 percent audit procedures are reflected in the related documents in the
"canvass packet" of documents but not in the Rules governing the canvass. The five percent
audit is separate from the canvass as It does not affect or change any results of the election. The
procedures for the five percent audit are Included in the "canvass packet" that was distributed
and is available at our Information desks and on line. There is no substantive change to the Rules,

other than the date of the elections as the equipment and ballot types have not changed.
Commissioner Kresse asked if there were any major substantive changes to the documents in the
"canvass packet", Mr. Lasker stated that he was unaware of any major substantive changes to
any of the documents In the packet, that the staff had reviewed the forms and documents and,
for the most part, only dates were changed on these documents and forms. And that they are all
in conformity with Articles 7 and 22 of the Election Code.

Commissioner Swain moved to adopt the "Rules Governing the Canvass of the Returns of the
March 20,2018 General Primary Election In the City of Chicago" as presented. Commissioner

Kresse seconded the Rules. The motion was passed and the Rules were adopted by unanimous
vote of the Board and were signed in open session.
IV. Recess: Commissioner Kresse moved to recess the Board until call of the Chair. Commissioner
Swain seconded the motion. The motion was approved by a 3:0 vote of the Board. The Board
recessed at 7:07 p.m.

Page 2of4

 Minutes of the March 20,2018

Meeting of the Board of Election Commissionersfor the City Of Chicago
Acting asthe Canvassing Board

V. The Chairwoman reconvened the meeting of the Chicago Board of Election Commission, acting as
the Canvassing Board for the March 20,2018 General Primary Election, on April 10,2018 at 9:00
a.m. in the Board's

floor conference room.

VI. Present at this time:
Board Members:

Marisel A. Hernandez, Chairwoman
William J. Kresse, Commissioner/Secretary
Jonathan T.Swain, Commissioner
Staff:

Lance Gough, Executive Director
Adam W. Lasker, General Counsel

Charles Holiday, Assistant Executive Director
James P. Allen, Communications Director
Bill Perez, Coordinator Hispanic Outreach
Peter Peso, Deputy Chief Administrative Officer
Lorel Blameuser, Purchasing Agent
Gary Rycyzyn, Consultant
Irish Sheehy
Guests:

Helene Gabelnick, League of Women Voters(LWV)Chicago
Michael Fiores, DePaul University
Nathaniel Wingert, DePaul University
Ken Menzel, Illinois State Board of Elections
Andrea Raila, Democratic Candidate for County Assessor
Connie Anderson, Ballot Democracy
Clare Tobin, Illinois Bailot Integrity
Doris Davenport,Taxpayers to Elect Andrea Raila
C. Betty Magness, RPC
Sandy Hed, Election Works
Tracy Hartlieb Equip for Equality
Judd Ryan ES&S
Ryan Grundtisch, DePaul University
Janette Willson, PUSH
VII.

Public comment:
a.

Andrea Raila:

Democratic Candidate for County Assessor Raila stated that there were irregularities
in her election contest both before and on Primary Election Day.
Ms. Raila asked that the results of the County Assessor race not be certified until an
investigation has been approved and started.

b. Clare Tobin, Illinois Ballot Integrity Project:
Ms.Tobin stated that she had participated at the 5% audit and wanted to thank Mr.

Gough, Adam Lasker and Joan Agnew for wonderful cooperation to participants in
the audit.

Page 3 of4

 Minutes of the March 20,2018
Meeting of the Board of Election Commissionersfor the City Of Chicago
Acting asthe Canvassing Board

However, Ms.Tobin said that the 5% audit Is a monumental task, especially with the
Early Voting machines.

Ms.Tobin reiterated that she thought that Board staff was great and that the
bottom line is the Board staff conducted a fair audit.

c. Doris Davenport,Taxpayers to Elect Andrea Raila

Ms. Davenport stated that she believed that there were widespread Election Day
irregularities in the County Assessor race.

She also expressed complaints about the petition challenge process, stating that the
days and weeks spent in records checking and hearings is a disservice to voters.
Ms. Davenport stated that she has asked this Board and other authorities to
investigate this particular race.

General Counsel Lasker pointed out that the Board had previously explained,step by step, what was done
regarding this particular race; this was done in prior Board meetings. General Counsel Lasker noted that
videos of those meetings are available on YouTube. General Counsel Lasker also noted that the Board has
no authority to investigate the County.
III.

Consideration of "Tabulated Statement of the Returns and Proclamation of the Results of the

Canvass of the Election Returns for the March 20,2018 General Primary Election Held in the City
of Chicago":
Commissioner Kresse moved to Approve and Adopt the "Tabulated Statement of the Returns and

Proclamation of the Results of the Canvass of the Election Returns for the March 20,2018
General Primary Election Held in the City of Chicago" as presented. There was no further
discussion on the motion. Commissioner Swain seconded the motion to approve and adopt. The
Board, by unanimous vote, approved and adopted the "Tabulated Statement of the Returns and
Proclamation ofthe Results of the Canvass of the Election Returns for the March 20,2018
General Primary Election Held In the City of Chicago"
The document was signed in open session

IV.

Adjournment: Commissioner Swain moved to adjourn this canvassing board meeting.
Commissioner Kresse seconded the motion. The motion was passed by 3:0 vote of the Board. The
meeting was adjourned at 9:25 a.m.
Submitted,

CommissioiT^fer William J. Kresse

SecretarV'^

Page4 of4

 