May 13, 2015

Item No. 9

AUTHORIZATION TO EXECUTE AN AGREEMENT TO ENTER INTO A HOUSING ASSISTANCE PAYMENTS
CONTRACT FOR JEFFERY TOWERS
To the Honorable Board of Commissioners:
RECOMMENDATION
It is recommended that the Board of Commissioners (Board) approve the attached Resolution
authorizing the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) or his designee to 1.) execute an Agreement to enter into
a Housing Assistance Payments Contract (AHAP) for Jeffery Towers; 2.) execute a Housing Assistance
Payments Contract (HAP) for Jeffery Towers; and 3.) execute all other documents as may be necessary
or appropriate to implement the foregoing.
CORPORATE GOAL
The proposed contract supports Plan Forward Goal #1: coordinating public and private investment to
develop healthy, vibrant communities.
This contract will result in more affordable housing opportunities for individuals by providing Property
Rental Assistance (PRA) for 43 apartments as detailed below.
FUNDING: Housing Choice Voucher Program (HCV)

PROPERTY SUMMARY
Development
Name
Jeffery Towers

Community /
Ward /
Alderman
South Shore/ 5th
Ward/ Leslie
Hairston

Developer / Owner

Target
Population

PRA
Units

Total Units

Interfaith Housing
Development
Corporation

Individuals &
Families

43

135

Initial
Estimated
Contract
$360,000/
year

Total
Estimated
Contract
$6,225,630
(15 years)

Application
Received

CONTRACT SUMMARY
Development
Name

Funding

Contract
Term

Contract
Type

Jeffery Towers

HCV

15 Years

AHAP/HAP
Contract

May 2014;
Updated
November
2014

Initial contract rents will be determined by market comparables and fair market rents applicable at the
time the HAP contract is executed. All rent determinations will comply with federal regulations and
Chicago Housing Authority (CHA) policy.

 Proposed Development: Jeffery Towers
 Jeffery Towers is the substantial rehabilitation of a 7-story elevator building located in the
South Shore community area, containing 135 units consisting of 54 studio and 81 one-bedroom
apartments for individuals and families. The PRA unit mix will be 10 studios and 33 onebedroom apartments.
 The scope of work includes replacement of all major building systems including plumbing,
heating, electrical, elevators and sprinklers, total replacement of all kitchen fixtures and
appliances, restoration or total replacement as needed of all bathroom fixtures and restoration
or replacement of drywall and flooring throughout.
 Building amenities include a community room for tenant meetings and social functions, laundry
facilities, covered parking and on-site property management and security.
 Social services will be available; assistance will include employment, legal aid, and medical care.
Funding is available on an annual basis and the developer commits to seek service partners
and/or funding for the duration of the PRA contract.
 The developer has secured support letters from the Jackson Park Highlands Association, the
adjacent Bryn Mawr Community Church, the South Shore Planning Coalition, and the University
of Chicago.
Developer Background: Interfaith Housing Development Corporation
 Interfaith Housing Development Corporation (IHDC) is a non-profit corporation whose mission
is to create and preserve affordable housing for low-income families who are homeless or at
risk of homelessness.
 Since being established in 1992, IHDC has created 13 developments across Chicago producing
over 600 units of affordable and supportive housing.
 In 2012, IHDC established its own property management company, IMS, LLC, which is approved
by DPD, IHDA, HUD and the National Equity Fund as a certified property manager. To date IMS
manages 8 of 13 IHDC developments, including Branch of Hope and SaNkofa House, both of
which are PRA assisted. IMS’ property management team consists of 42 full and part-time staff.
Development Financing
 Citi First Mortgage: $6.5M
 Citi Subordinate Loan: $1.5M
 LIHTC Equity: $6M
 Deferred Developer Fee: $1.3M
 FHLB/AHP: $1M
 DPD MAUI: $500K
 Owner Cash Equity: $148K
Waiting List / Occupancy Process
The owner/manager of Jeffery Towers will lease all of the PRA-assisted units to eligible individuals and
families from CHA’s waiting lists. CHA will make these referrals from the Public Housing and PRA waiting
lists as well as individuals and families whose right of return under the Relocation Rights Contract has
not been satisfied. CHA’s waiting lists will be exhausted prior to utilization of a site-based waiting list.
2

 Conclusion
The Board action recommended in this item complies in all material respects with all applicable CHA
board policies and all applicable federal laws.
The CEO/President recommends the approval to execute an AHAP and HAP contract for Jeffery Towers.

3

 RESOLUTION NO. 2015-CHA-43

WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the Board
letter dated May 13, 2015 requesting authorization to execute an Agreement to Enter into
a Housing Assistance Payments Contract for Jeffery Towers;

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:

THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to 1.)
execute an Agreement to enter into a Housing Assistance Payments Contract (AHAP) for
Jeffery Towers; 2.) execute a Housing Assistance Payments Contract (HAP) for Jeffery
Towers; and 3.) execute all other documents as may be necessary or appropriate to
implement the foregoing.

4

 