Chicago Housing Authority
Board of Commissioners Public Session
May 19, 2015
CHA Corporate Office – 60 E. Van Buren
Name

1

Charlie Barlow

Question/Comment

Response

1) I have two letters to hand out to the Board, the first is dated Tuesday,
February 3, and calls for the review of record management practices at
CHA following the loss of documents I requested via FOIA related to
Lake Parc Place. It’s important to be open and transparent. Also I sent
a separate request to CHA and the Park District for an identical record,
what was striking to me is that the response was different.

1) Your comment has been received. In terms of the two FOIA
requests you reference, CHA provided you with any and all
documents within CHA’s possession, responsive to your
requests, in accordance with 5 ILCS 140.

2) The second letter is dated May 14, 2015 and I sent another FOIA
request asking for several Plan Forward deliverables from the Authority.
These documents were promised in Plan Forward, which came out in
April 2013 – and to date they have not been published, which is
concerning. I find it worrisome that CHA every month votes on striving
to bring a re-imagination of the final phase of the Plan for
Transformation to develop healthy and vibrant communities without
these three things, which are: 1) The blueprint for 25,000 units 2) a
comprehensive analysis if desired components for the development of
vibrant communities and 3) an annual community engagement plan and
community governance strategy customized to each mixed-income
property. These missing deliverables are at the foundation of Plan
Forward and I think it’s a failure to have gone more than two years
without publishing these documents, and that failure is on all of you.

1

2) CHA received your May 14 letter and we are working to
provide you with a response to your concerns.

 2

Lindsay
Graves

This is about senior housing and the RAD program. It is commendable
in its concept, however the implementation is problematic. The catch
word for the day is diversity in the city. We are now being called
Chiraq, people are dying. The concept of trying to move people into
housing is commendable, but the areas where the voucher system and
RAD program is, is right in the middle of the gentrification process. I
would not like to see what happened with Cabrini, where the people
who lived there are no longer there. We need to be careful with how
we implement this program. As seniors, we are being told we have
building project vouchers, meaning we can’t move around as we once
did. There are unanswered questions with this voucher system, there
will be out of pocket costs.

Will the rent calculation be the same as they are now when we become
RAD? Will we still get our medical deductions and will we still get our
utility allowance?
3

4

Linda Dent

David
Schlessinger

Most of you know me so I don’t need to introduce myself. I commend
this gentleman for what he said because I too have a similar concern
about CHA being open and honest. For the past ten years I have been
complaining that CHA has been wasting funds and the inspection
companies have been conducting erroneous inspections with
unqualified inspectors. CVR is not qualified either. I am sure you also
know that several years ago after giving CHA years to correct these
issues, I filed a federal lawsuit which has been pending for three years
and is about to go to jury. My attorneys, some of them, are Alderman
Howard Brookins, Senator Michael Nolan and the former head of the
Philadelphia HA. Pursuant to our discovery we found out, through one
of the testimonies which was public, one of your former managers of
enforcement testified in an open deposition that there were millions of
dollars of public funds wasted because of erroneous reports
(thousands), and Ana Vargas the President and CEO refused four
requests to provide this information to HUD, so HUD never knew about
this, but I am sure they will once it goes to trial.

2

Residents that live in buildings that are part of the RAD
program are eligible for a new benefit that permits more options
for moves as well as the existing transfer process. After one
year of living in a RAD-converted property, a resident has the
option to request a tenant-based voucher. With a tenant-based
voucher, a resident may choose to relocate to a qualified rental
property in Chicago or other parts of the country. While it is
CHA’s desire that senior residents choose to stay in the
buildings, the tenant-based voucher is a new option that is
available to them.
There will be no new costs to residents that live in buildings
that are part of the RAD program. Rent will still be calculated
the same (30% of household income) and all existing
deductions will continue under RAD. For more information see
Chapter 18 of the 2015 Administrative Plan:
http://www.thecha.org/file.aspx?DocumentId=1499
Rent will continue to be calculated the same (30% of household
income). Residents that currently pay flat rent will pay 30% of
their household income, but any increase in rent will be phased
in over five years. Medical deductions and utility allowances
will continue to apply to residents living in RAD buildings, the
same as in public housing. . For more information see Chapter
18 of the 2015 Administrative Plan:
http://www.thecha.org/file.aspx?DocumentId=1499
CHA does not comment on ongoing litigation.

 5

Mary Gill

I am here to make a confirmation with Mr. Merchant on our meeting
which will be in June. I requested through email with Ms. Jones, and
she stated sometime in June, I would like confirmation please. And the
next item I would like to discuss is thank you, I appreciate housing. I
have been going through some troubled times and I want to thank the
resident services at CHA, Andy Teitelman, Glenda Clark and Brian Witt,
have been very supportive of me and my condition. And last I would
like to commend my management, Woodlawn, Mr. Dupont and Tina
Tanner. They are outstanding. If you have any ideas to remove them,
please don’t, they work very well with residents.

3

Due to the change in CHA leadership, new arrangements will
need to be made.

 