November 14th, 2018 Chicago Transit Board Regular Meeting Minutes.
Noticed for 2:30 PM; Commenced at 2:34 PM.

AGENDA: The posted agenda for the meeting is available at www.transitchicago.com
, “Chicago Transit
Board”, “Meeting Notices, Agendas, and Minutes”, (11/14/2018)(Regular Board Meeting),”Agenda

ROLL CALL: Directors Terry Peterson (Chairman), Alejandro Silva, Kevin Irvine, Johnny Miller, Andre
Youngblood, Robert Patterson. Arabel Alva Rosales was absent.
CAB Report: CAB Chairman Lester Barclay presented the CAB report.
PUBLIC COMMENT: David Dalka.

Chairman Peterson asked for a motion to recess the Board meeting, so that the Finance, Audit, an
Budget Committee could conduct its meeting. After the motion was moved and seconded, the mo
was approved with six yes votes.

After the conclusion of the Finance, Audit, and Budget Committee meeting, Chairman Peterson ask
for a motion to re-convene into Open Session. The motion was moved, seconded, and approved w
yes votes.

MINUTES: Chairman Peterson next asked for a motion to approve the regular board meeting minu
th
October 10
, 2018. The motion was moved, seconded, and approved with six yes votes.
EXECUTIVE SESSION: None

COMMITTEE ON FINANCE, AUDIT, AND BUDGET: Committee Chairman Alejandro Silva presented t
report. The committee reviewed the monthly (November) report on Finance, and approved the Oc
10th, 2018 committee meeting minutes. Mr. Silva also stated that all other Committee agenda ite
listed on the Committee Agenda, were presented, reviewed, discussed, placed on the omnibus, an
recommended for Board approval. Mr. Silva concluded his report.

Chairman Peterson asked for a motion to approve the omnibus as stated by Director Silva. After b
moved and seconded, the motion was approved with six yes votes.
All approved November 2018 Board ordinances are available on-line, at www.transitchicago.com
,
“Chicago Transit Board”, “Board Ordinances”, Ordinance Numbers 018-98 through 018-109.

CONSTRUCTION REPORT: Chief Infrastructure Officer Carole Morey presented the Construction Re
The report is available on-line at www.transitchicago.com
, “Chicago Transit Board”, “Presentations
made to the Chicago Transit Board”, (November 2018), “Construction Report”.
NEW BUSINESS: None

1

 th
MOTION TO ADJOURN: Chairman Peterson asked for a motion to adjourn the
, 2018
November 14
Chicago Transit Board meeting. That motion was moved and approved by unanimous voice vote.

2

 