COOK COUNTY

HEALTH

.IOHN JAY SHANNON, MD

CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

COOK COUNTY HEALTH

REPORT TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
DECEMBER 21, 2018

 

Employee Recognition

The High Reliability trainers collectively educated 6,460 clinical, ancillary, physician and leadership staff across the CCH
enterprise regarding error-prevention team skills, behaviors and tools. This was done simultaneously in four-hour
classroom training sessions held across the system over the past six months. Irene Marks and Kisonah Smith, the High
Reliability Education project leaders, coordinated these efforts. There were more than 50 trainers throughout the

system.

More than 98% of staff have completed customer service training. Much appreciation goes to Patty Looker, Director of
Patient Experience and a team of 25 trainers who gave their time and energy to the project. They provided tools and
techniques that will make patient and family experience enhancement a reality throughout CCH. Customer service

training will be ongoing for new employees.

Annie Peterson, Ellen Greene, Carla Salvo, Mabrey Simpson, Gwendolyn Williams, Beronica Woodson worked
together to operationalize the new Professional Building. They were willing to jump in and perform any task needed,
including acting as guides and assisting with patient access. They are on site each day to ensure the registration staff

have the necessary support.

Three CCH oncology certified nurses received awards at the Chicago Chapter Oncology Nursing Society (ONS) meeting.
Marciana Bowen, nurse coordinator for chemotherapy and infusion unit was awarded a 5500 professional development
scholarship. Linda Liu, nurse coordinator for medical surgical unit, was awarded free re-certification for her Oncology
Nursing Certification. Elizabeth Vaclavik, director of ambulatory procedure units, was awarded a $1500 scholarship to

attend the National 0N5 Congress meeting.

The Associate Board of the Cook County Health Foundation is comprised of a number of young professionals committed
to assisting CCH meets its mission. The Associate Board (AB) was founded in 2015 by Josh Sorin and Lindsay Zimmerman
and has steadily matured into an organization that has raised nearly $100,000 for Cook County Health or our partners
such as The Greater Chicago Food Depository. For the past year, Lindsay has also served as the President of the AB. In
this capacity, she has recruited and mentored new leaders, held a series of mini-events to raise CCH awareness among
young people, volunteered at the CCH Foundation gala and much more. Lindsay?s commitment to the Foundation is
unmatched. While Lindsay?s term as President is expiring, she will remain actively engaged mentoring the new
leadership and representing the A3 with West Side United.

Paul Langlois, APN, CCRN, CCNS master of clinical care, was the recipient of the Power of Nursing
Leadership SAGE Award. This award honors the hard work, commitment and dedication necessary to serve the health
care needs of the people of through supremely skilled leadership and the courage to break through barriers.

Donna Hart, who has served as Chief Information Officer for CCH is retiring on December 31 after more than 22 years
with CCH. She began her CCH career at Provident Hospital as a data operations manager and was instrumental in
consolidating the lT departments from Stroger, Provident and Oak Forest into one lT Department. When Ms. Hart was
appointed CIO, she led the launch of a comprehensive patient portal MyCookCountyHealth. She also led CCH in both the
inpatient and outpatient setting achieve Healthcare information and Management Systems Society?s Stage 7-

paving the way toward achieving a paperless medical record environment. Only six percent of US. hospitals have
reached Stage 7.

Martin Grant, who has served as the director of clinical applications for the CCH IT department is retiring on December
31. Prior to his appointment in IT, Mr. Grant served as the first system pharmacy director for CCH, where he initiated the
standardization of pharmacy management software systems, robotics and processes. As a special honor, Mr. Grant was
the 1996 recipient of the Cook County Board Superior Service Award for establishing the 340b drug discount program,
and again by the Cook County Board Office of the President in 2008 for saving tens of millions of dollars due to the
integration of Cook County Health pharmacy operations. Mr. Grant?s leadership was critical in the achievement of HIMSS
Level 7.

Dr. Edward Linn, who has served as the chair of the department and obstetrics and gynecology is retiring on December
31. Since 2008, Dr. Linn has been responsible for directing and coordinating the provision of obstetrical and
gynecological services throughout all of the System?s facilities. Dr. Linn has significantly contributed to the obstetrical
and gynecological scientific literature and has extensively lectured locally and nationally on a wide range of OB-Gyne
topics with a focus on hormone replacement and contraception modalities. He has been the principal and co-principal
investigator on a number of important research grants, has served on community service organizations and journal
editorial boards and has participated in a wide range of university and hospital committees.

Activities and Announcements

0 Food As Medicine Update

Through December Fresh Truck partnership with the Greater Chicago Food Depository (GCFD) has
resulted in 152 visits to 12 CCH health centers Austin, Cicero, the CORE Center, Cottage Grove, Englewood,
Logan Square, Near South, Oak Forest, Prieto, Robbins, Woodlawn, and Provident/Sengstacke. The move to a
permanent Vista Health Center location has delayed the staff training and start date for the Fresh Truck, which is
now expected to take place by the end of (11 of 2019.

Collectively, the Fresh Truck distributions have resulted in the provision of fresh fruits and vegetables to 19,579
individuals, representing 64,640 household members, totaling more than 415,000 pounds of fresh produce.
Most of the individuals benefiting from the Fresh Truck screened positive for food insecurity at a CCH health
center visit.

CCH is hosting a virtual holiday food drive, in order to support our partnership With the Greater Chicago Food
Depository. CCH seeks to raise $15,000, which will help GCFD provide 45,000 meals to food insecure families
throughout Cook County. Donations may be made online at 
through January 15, 2019.

 

CCH Fresh Markets have moved indoors for the winter. The Fresh Market schedule is listed below, note updated
dates and times:

0 Oak Forest Health Center on Wednesdays, 9am-2pm

0 Robbins Health Center on Thursdays, llam?3pm

0 Cottage Grove Health Center on Fridays, Qam-me

Fresh produce is supplied by Black Oaks Center, a nonpro?t that seeks to create a just, holistic, and local food
system through education, entrepreneurship, and access to healthy, affordable foods. CCH partners with
Experimental Station?s Link Up Illinois Link Match program to offer SNAP users with a match on all purchases at
Fresh Markets, up to $20/market/week.

IMPACT 2020 Objectives 1.1, 6.2, 6.3, 7.4

2 Page

 The Cottage Grove and Englewood Health Centers hosted their second Advisory Councils meetings this month.
Dr. Shannon and Ambulatory COO Iliana Mora attended the Cottage Grove meeting and were able to share their
vision on Cook County Health and ambulatory medical practices with attendees. Dr. Shannon indicated that in
2019, Cook County Health will embark on its next strategic planning process and that community input,
especially input from advisory council members is necessary to formulate the plan. At the Englewood meeting,
we were joined by CCH physician Dr. Brian Humphrey who is starting 3 Men?s Health support group. The new
Arlington Heights (formerly Vista) Health Center Advisory Council will meet in January once the new facility

opens to the public.
IMPACT 2020 Objective 7.4
On Friday, December Dr. Claudia Fegan, Chief Medical Officer, joined President Preckwinkle, members of

our congressional delegation including Senator Richard Durbin and County Board members at a press
conference encouraging individuals to sign up for marketplace plans before the open enrollment deadline of

December 
IMPACT 2020 Objective 7.1

More than 95% of the workforce met the December 15?t deadline for compliance with the CCH's Annual
Influenza Vaccine Policy, up from 92% last year. Discipline is underway for those who did not comply with the

policy by the deadline.
IMPACT 2020 Objectives 1.1, 7.5

(Select materials and media clips attached)

3 Page

Legislative Update

Local
0

State

Federal

On Tuesday, December 4, the Cook County Board approved Committee assignments. Commissioner Dennis
Deer (2nd District) was selected to serve as Chairman of the County Board?s Health and Hospitals Committee and
Commissioner Luis Arroyo (ii!th District) was selected to serve as Vice Chair. The Chairman of the Cook County
Board?s Health and Hospitals Committee also serves as a Director on the Cook County Health Board.

At the December 12th Cook County Boa rd meeting Commissioners approved the re-appointment of Heather
Prendergast, MD, MS, MPH to a full term on the Cook County Health Board of Directors. At the same meeting,
President Preckwinkle?s recommendation of Michael Koetting to serve on the Cook County Health Board of
Directors was referred to the Legislation Committee for consideration. The full Cook County Board is expected
to approve the appointment at their January 24, 2019 Board meeting.

Doug Elwell, CCH Deputy CEO for Finance and Strategy has joined Governor-elect Pritzker?s Healthy Children and
Families Transition Committee. .CCH Board Director David Munar co-chairs this committee along With State
Senator Heather Steans and Nancy Ronquillo of Children?s Home and Aid.

Two ?lame duck? session days are scheduled forJanuary 7 and 8, 2019 that will allow members of the 100th
General Assembly to take action prior to members of the 1015t General Assembly being sworn in on January 
The Governor, Lieutenant Governor and state constitutional officers will be sworn in on January 14, 2019.

Congress returned from the Thanksgiving recess with two weeks until its stopgap funding measure keeping the
government open would expire, at midnight December 7. The main impediment to moving the remaining
appropriations bills remains funding for the president?s border wall in the Homeland Security bill.?However, the
death of former president George H.W. Bush and the state funeral observances in Washington which followed,
prompted Congress and the White House to agree to another continuing resolution (CR) that would keep the
agencies open until December 21. In the intervening weeks the sides appear to be no closer to a deal.
Fortunately for CCH, Medicaid funding is mandatory and does not require an appropriation. Furthermore,
funding for the other federal health programs was approved with the enactment of the Labor-HHS-Education
appropriations bill in September.

Texas v. United States: Late in the day on Friday, December 14, U.S. District Judge Reed O?Connor in the
Northern District of Texas handed down a ruling in the lawsuit brought by the Texas Attorney General and
several of his Republican state colleagues challenging the constitutionality of the Affordable Care Act. Judge 
O?Connor?s declarative judgment agreed with the plaintiffs? argument that when Congress passed the Tax Cuts
and Jobs Act in December 2017, repealing the ACA penalty for not carrying health insurance, it rendered the
entire ACA unconstitutional. They argued that this was because the U.S. Supreme Court had upheld the
constitutionality of the ACA on the basis of the penalty being a constitutional exercise of the power of Congress
to levy taxes. The judge also ruled that the entire ACA was thereby rendered unconstitutional, not only the
consumer protections like guaranteed issue and community rating, but also the Medicaid expansion, the
Prevention and Pubiic Health Fund, permitting young people to stay on their parents insurance up to age 26 and
all the other programs and provisions. It is noteworthy that the decision was a declarative judgment and did not
include an injunction.

The judge has ordered the parties to submit briefs on the other claims in the suit, indicating that he is not
finished ruling on it. It is likely that it will be some time before it will be ripe for appeal. Nevertheless, the
Democratic state attorneys general who have intervened to defend the ACA in the case, led by California
Attorney General Xavier Becerra, have announced their intention to appeal. Shortly after the Texas Attorney

4-IPage

General filed the lawsuit, Illinois Attorney General Lisa Madigan joined the case in defense of the ACA, and CCH
provided an affidavit in support of her filing.

House Democratic Leader and incoming Speaker Nancy Pelosi has announced that the House will also move to
intervene in the case and defend the ACA in the appeals process. While Senate Democratic Leader Chuck
Schumer has also called on the Senate to intervene, it is unlikely that the Republican majority would allow such
a politically awkward vote. Incoming Senate Finance Committee chair Chuck Grassley has suggested that he
would hold hearings on the issue next year, though legislation is unlikely to be in the offing, since Democrats
would view legislation to the ACA as muddying the legal waters while the Texas case is under appeal.

Ultimately the Texas case could end up before the recently reconfigured Supreme COurt.

0 House Democrats are pledging to move gun safety legislation early in the 116th Congress. The likely next Energy
and Commerce Committee chairman, Rep. Frank Pallone has announced that he plans to authorize

legislation to fund gun violence research.

a On December 4, The American Hospital Association, the Association of American Medical Colleges and three
hospitals ?led suit against the CMS rule finalizing the cuts to hospital outpatient clinics. Last month, CMS
announced its site-neutral payments rule, which reduces Medicare payments for visits to satellite clinics to bring
them in line with rates for visits to doctors? offices. CMS estimates the cuts will save Medicare $380 million next

yea r.

On December 4, Senators Chuck Grassley (R?lowa) and Ron Wyden (D-Ore.) introduced a bill to prevent drug
companies from overcharging Medicaid. The "Right Rebate Act of 2018" would authorize HHS to fine drug
companies that deliberately misclassify products in Medicaid and recover rebate payments that are due. The bill
responds to Mylan?s misclassification of the EpiPen as a generic drug for Medicaid and paying lower rebates
than it would have if it had been properly classified as a branded product.

0 On December 11, the House passed the IMPROVE Act, H.R. 7217, a package of non-controversial, bi-partisan
Medicaid provisions, including new penalties for pharmaceutical companies that overcharge the program. The
bill includes a program to improve care for children with complex medical conditions, and it extends some
Medicaid payment policies. it is not clear if the Senate will be able to move it in the lame duck, but Sens.

Grassley and Wyden have indicated their support.

a On December 12, HR 2422, the ?Action for Dental Health Act of 2018" by Rep. Robin Kelly was signed into law by
the president. The bill authorizes new programs to improve access to oral health care for low-income
individuals. Under the law, local health departments can apply for grants with non-pro?t community

organizations to expand access.

0 On December 13, the Congressional Budget Of?ce issued its annual report of options to reduce the federal
de?cit. Converting Medicaid to capped or block grant system featured prominently, once again.

0 On December 17, Sen. Lamar Alexander (R-Tenn.) announced that he is not running for re?election in 2020. As
chairman of the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee he has shown a willingness to negotiate

health care and education laws with ranking Democrat Sen. Patty Murray 

Protection of Medicaid remains a key priority for at both the State and Federal level.

5 Page

Community Outreach

January 5

January 9

January 12

January 14

January 16

January 19

January 26

January 29

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the New Year's Gladiator Fitness Expo which
is sponsored by Gladiator Powerlifting will take place at Universal Entertainment Center located
at 11901 South Loomis Boulevard in Chicago. The Gladiator Fitness Expo was derived from an
idea to introducing fitness on a beginner, intermediate and advanced Level. Organizers plan to
have 10?12 of the top fitness instructors in the world at the event and give them the platform to
teach fitness classes on all levels. Participants will have all the resources to attain and maintain a
healthy lifestyle when they leave the Expo.

promotion at the Marillac St. Vincent Family Services - Marillac Social Center Pantry and
Resource Fair that is sponsored by the Marillac Social Center and takes place at the Center
located at 212 S. Francisco in Chicago

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the Winter Resource Fair which is co-hosted
by Peoples Gas, ComEd, and CEDA and will take place at the Mark T. Skinner Classical School
located at 1260 W. Adams Street in Chicago. This is our 5th year participating in this event which
provides families with health screenings and information about services and programs including
primary and preventative health care.

promotion at the Marillac St..Vincent Family Services - Marillac Social Center Pantry and
Resource Fair that is sponsored by the Marillac Social Center and takes place at the Center
located at 212 S. Francisco in Chicago

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at DCFS Resource Fair which will take at the
DCFS Harvey Office located at 15115 S. Dixie Highway in Harvey. DCFS sponsors these Resource
Fairs throughout the year to assist people and staff in obtaining information and resources that
will strengthen families.

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the State Representative Chris Welch?s New
Year, New You which will take place at the Lindopp Middle School, 2400 S. 18th Avenue in
Broadview. Representative Welch will bring a local trainer that will help find the right health and
fitness activities to make a 2019 brand new you. The event will also provide with Healthy
refreshments, health and fitness resources and specially information on how to access insurance
and medical services.

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the 3rd Veteran Women Health Wellness
Day which is hosted by Illinois Department of Employment Security will take place at Instituto de
Progresso Latino located at 2520 S. Western Avenue in Chicago. This event is meant to celebrate
and thank the women veteran community for all they have sacrificed, while providing them with
the services they need they the event will provide our veteran women with free health
screenings, free Vet Pampering, Veteran resources and make sure that they have information on
how their families can access medical services and health insurance.

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at Community Health Fair which is hosted by the
LEARN Charter School at the Foglia Center located at 212 S. Francisco Avenue in Chicago.

6 Page

