HOUSING AUTHORITY OF THE CITY OF PITTSBURGH
BOARD MEETING
June 28, 2018
AGENDA
1.

Roll call.

2.

Motion to approve the April 26, 2018 HACP Board of Commissioners Meeting Minutes.

3.

Motion to approve the Monthly Activity Report for April and May 2018.

4.

Presentation of Check to 412 Food Rescue.

5.

Tenant Council Presidents, HCV/Section 8 Representatives and Public Comments.
(Comments are limited to three (3) minutes per individual).

6.

A Resolution - Authorizing the Executive Director or his Designee to enter into a Professional
Services contract with Emergent for Investment Advisor Services, LLC for the Housing
Authority of the City of Pittsburgh.

7.

A Resolution - Authorizing the Executive Director or his Designee to Award Contracts to J&S
Handyman Services and Dream Chasers Painting LLC for the priming and painting of
occupied units, and for the priming and painting of common areas for the Housing Authority of
the City of Pittsburgh.

8.

A Resolution - Authorizing the Executive Director or his Designee to enter into a contract with
Horizon Information Systems to provide Security Camera System Maintenance.

9.

A Resolution - Authorizing the Executive Director or his Designee to amend an existing
contract with Johnson Controls, Inc. to provide additional funds for maintenance services for
the video camera surveillance system, and to support installation of security camera
infrastructure for the Northview Heights Police Mini-station.

10.

A Resolution - Amending Resolution No. 1 of 2018 Authorizing the Executive Director or his
Designee to Make an Additional Investment of Loan Funds for the City’s Edge
Project-Based Voucher (PBV) and Gap Financing Project.

11.

A Resolution - Authorizing the Commitment of PBV Units and Allocation of Funds for the
Western Restoration PBV and Gap Financing Project.

12.

A Resolution - Authorizing the Commitment of PBV Units and Allocation of Funds for the
Lemington Senior Housing PBV and Gap Financing Project.

13.

A Resolution - Authorizing the Executive Director or his Designee to Enter into a General
Construction Contract with Plavchak Construction Co., Inc. and an Electrical Construction
Contract with Brodner Technical Services, Inc. for Interior Renovations (Community Room &
Hallway Renovations) at Caliguiri Plaza, AMP-41.

14.

A Resolution – Authorizing the Executive Director or his Designee to Enter into a General
Construction Contract with Iron City Contracting Interior Renovations (Community Room &
Hallway Renovations) at Carrick Regency, PA-46.

HACP Agenda – JUNE 2018

Page 1 of 2

 15.

A Resolution - Authorizing the Executive Director or his Designee to Enter into an Electrical
Construction Contract with Merit Electrical Group, Inc. for Emergency Generator
Replacement at Finello Pavilion, AMP-44.

16.

A Resolution - Authorizing the Executive Director or his Designee to Enter into a General
Construction Contract with Plavchak Construction Co., Inc. and an Electrical Construction
Contract with Allegheny City Electric for Improvements at Bedford Hope Center, AMP-02.

17.

A Resolution - Authorizing the Commitment of Funds for Bedford Dwellings Predevelopment
Activities.

18.

A Resolution - Authorizing the Executive Director to Contract for Fort Pitt Playground Courts
Renovation at Garfield Heights, AMP-12.

19.

A Resolution – Ratifying the Execution of Collective Bargaining Agreements with the Housing
Authority of the City of Pittsburgh Collective Bargaining Units which include Teamsters Local
250; the Teamsters Local 249; and Service Employees International Union (SEIU) Local 32BJ.

20.

A Resolution – Ratifying the Execution of Collective Bargaining Agreements with the Housing
Authority of the City of Pittsburgh Collective Bargaining Units including the Building and
Construction Trades Council; Painters Local #6; and the Operating Engineers Local 95-95A.

21.

Executive Report.

22.

New Business.

23.

Adjournment.

HACP Agenda – JUNE 2018

Page 2 of 2

 