DETROIT LAND BANK AUTHORITY

 

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
GUARDIAN BUILDING

500 Griswold St, Suite 1200 0 Detroit, Michigan
(Belle Isle Conference Room)

Tuesday, April 19, 2016
2:00 PM

MINUTES

Present: Erica Ward?Gerson
Richard Hosey
Larry Lipa
Rasul Raheem
Patricia PernelI-Shelton

Others Present: Detroit Land Bank Authority (DLBA) staff

CALL TO ORDER
Chairperson Ward?Gerson called the April 19, 2016 meeting to order at 2:02 PM.

ROLL CALL
All Board members were present and a quorum was met.

ADOPTION OF THE AGENDA
Chairperson Ward Gerson called for the adoption of the agenda, Motion by Member Hosey to adopt
the agenda. Supported by Member Bruhn. MOTION APPROVED.

REVIEW AND APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Motion by Member PerneII-Shelton to adopt the March 15, 2015 minutes. Supported by Member Lipa.
MOTION APPROVED.

PUBLIC COMMENT
Chairperson Ward Gerson opened the floor to public comment, noting none was offered.

EXECUTIVE DIRECT REPORT

Carrie Lewand-Monroe, Executive Director, provided an update to the Board. Mrs. Lewand?Monroe
noted the major items over the past month have included: the restructuring of departments,
focus on improved customer service and addition of new Disposition Director, Reginald Scott.
Mrs. Lewand-Monroe additionally noted a ?mini-move? within the office to reflect the recent
department restructuring and to organize teams in order of work-flow. Mrs. Lewand-Monroe then
reported the submission of its latest Quarterly Report to City Council. This quarter?s report also
focused on organizational structure and engagement of its employees. Member PerneII-Shelton
for suggested conducting an employee engagement survey; Mrs. Lewand-Monroe agreed the Human
Resources team will conduct this survey in the near future.

Inventory

Mrs. Lewand-Monroe reported that the Inventory Department?s current focus is on assessing all
DLBA-owned structures in the expanded HHF boundary areas. There are a total of 17,680 structures
within the expanded HHF boundary, of which 16,792 have already received a site assessment.
Demolition

Mrs. Lewand-Monroe reported that the DLBA was recently awarded $41,901,646.50 of Hardest Hit
Funds for Round 4. The DLBA strategic plan has been submitted to MSHDA and the Blight Partner
agreement will be signed in the coming weeks. MHSDA also submitted an application to the U.S.
Department of Treasury for an additional and the DLBA hopes to receive a portion of the
allocation awarded to the State. The award announcement is expected to take place before the end
of the month.

Disposition

Mrs. Lewa nd-Monroe reported that the Occupied Property pilot has enrolled 32 households to date,
noting many recent process improvements that have assisted in increasing enrollment. Charity
Dean, Sales and Programs Manager, is partnering with Bloomberg Associates to find additional ways
to improve the pilot and expand opportunities for participants, including a potential Detroit
Employment Solutions fast track option. Ms. Lewand-Monroe provided other Disposition program
metrics and reported specifically on Rehabbed Ready?s success to date, including 10 closings since
inception and with 8 more homes under contract.

Lego!

Mrs. Lewand-Monroe reported that the Quiet Title team has been reorganized and is expanding to
meet the growing demand for title clearance necessary for Disposition?s program ramp-ups.
Rebecca Camargo has been promoted to Principal Attorney to lead this effort. The Legal Department
has been involved with a few different pieces of legislation related to the work. House Bill
4984 recently passed the House 108-0,- this would treat the 5/50 tax as a general property tax for
purposes of collection and enforcement.

Public Affairs

Mrs. Lewand-Monroe reported that the Public Affairs Department is continually looking for new
ways to improve customer service and will be undergoing an extensive training to address issues
such as working with clients that come into the office and phone inquiries. Rochelle Smith was
named as Marketing and Client Services Manager and as of April 25, 2016 the Client Services team
will consist of 5 full time staff.

STANDING COMMI1TEE REPORTS

Finance and Audit.

Member Hosey provided the Finance and Audit Committee update. Member Hosey reported that the
committee's focus remains on current financials and providing Board Members resources to interpret
governmental accounting metrics. Member Hosey noted that the RFP for auditor was posted yesterday
and Mrs. Story-Stewart, Chief Financial Officer, discussed the timeline for RFP. Chairperson Ward Gerson
requested that members forward any suggestions for prospective auditors to Mrs. Story-Stewart, and
Mrs. Story?Stewart confirmed the RFP was sent directly to any known potential candidates already.
Member Raheem requested a copy prior years? audits from Mrs. Story-Stewart. Chairperson Ward
Gerson further announced that DLBA received a $25,000 grant from Citizens Bank for homebuyer
counseling, thanks to grant-writing team, led by Mrs. Story-Stewart.

Project Review.
Member Lipa provided the Project Review update. Member Lipa reported that the committee met last
week, reviewed 3 community partner projects and was excited about the opportunities.

Community Engagement.

Member Pernell-Shelton provided the Community Engagement update. Member Pernell-Shelton
expressed concern about the phone system and hopes customer service will improve. Mrs. Lewand?
Monroe commented that the addition to the Client Intake staff and extensive training will help to
improve. Member Raheem inquired about who would be conducting the customer service training and
suggested use of technology to help manage walk-in traffic. Craig Fahle, Public Affairs Director, will
research ways to solve. Chairperson Ward Gerson requested progress reports and would like to
measure total call and wait times in the future.

REPORT

Michelle Story-Stewart, Chief Financial Officer, distributed the March 2016 Financial report, provided an
overview to the group and discussion ensued. The group requested the measures of unrestricted cash
be sent via email to the group and the Actual Revenues-to-Budget graph be revised. Mrs. Story-Stewart
reported that the RFP process for Auditors will be presented to Board Members via email and expressed
an interest in having the auditor chosen by August 2016. Mrs. Lewand-Monroe reported to the group
that the City Council Budget approved voting on next fiscal year's budget next month.

OLD BUSINESS
Chairperson Ward Gerson opened the floor for any Old Business. None was outstanding.

NEW BUSINESS

Resolutions.

Resolution 04-01-2016, Resolution approving Executive Director to enter into the first amendment to
purchase agreement. Luke Polcyn, Staff Attorney, provided background on the resolution. Motion by
Member Bruhn. Supported by Member Lipa. MOTION APPROVED.

Resolution 04-02?2016, Resolution authorizing the creation of a LLC. Michael Brady, General Counsel,
provided background on the resolution. Member Lipa requested the Operating Agreement be sent to all
Members for review. Motion by Member Hosey. Supported by Member Lipa. MOTION APPROVED.

Election of Officers
Chairperson Ward Gerson pr0posed the nomination of Member Raheem to be Secretary. Motion by
Member Hosey. Supported by Member Lipa. MOTION APPROVED.

Committee Assignments

Chairperson Ward Gerson proposed the Board Committees to be restructured as follows:
Finance Committee: Richard Hosey, Rasul Raheem

Community Engagement Committee: Patricia Pernell-Shelton, Larry Lipa

Projects Review Committee: Larry Lipa, Patricia Pernell-Shelton

Legal Committee: Patricia Parnell-Shelton, Rasul Raheem

Motion by Member Hosey. Supported by Member Lipa. MOTION APPROVED.

ADJOURNMENT
There being no further business, Chairperson Ward Gerson adjourned the meeting at 3:08 pm.

