HOUSING AUTHORITY OF THE CITY OF PITTSBURGH
BOARD MEETING
April 26, 2018

AGENDA
1.

Roll call.

2.

Motion to approve the March 22, 2018 HACP Board of Commissioners Meeting Minutes.

3.

Motion to approve the Monthly Activity Report for March 2018.

4.

Tenant Council Presidents, HCV/Section 8 Representatives and Public Comments.
(Comments are limited to three (3) minutes per individual).

5.

A Resolution - Authorizing the Executive Director or his Designee to Award a Contract
to American Photocopy Equipment Company of Pittsburgh LLC/dba Amcom Office
Systems for Copier Machines and Maintenance for the Housing Authority of the City of
Pittsburgh.

6.

A Resolution - Authorizing the Executive Director or his Designee to Award a Contract to Ford
Business Machines Inc. for Copier Machine Maintenance for the Housing Authority of the
City of Pittsburgh.

7.

A Resolution - Authorizing the Executive Director or his Designee to Award Contracts to
Continental Flooring, Interboro Packaging Corporation, Houston Starr Co. Appliance
Division, Nicklas Supply, Water Heater Distributors, HD Supply, 84 Lumber Company,
Sherwin Williams, L.M. Colker, Taylor Distribution Group, George M. Hall Co., PPG
Architectural Finishes Inc., and Equiparts Co. for maintenance materials for the Just-in-Time
Inventory System for the Housing Authority of the City of Pittsburgh.

8.

A Resolution - Authorizing the Executive Director or his Designee to enter into a contract or
contracts for purchase and installation of Bullet Resistant Glass at Housing Authority of the
City of Pittsburgh Locations.

9.

A Resolution - Authorizing the Executive Director or his Designee to enter into a 60 month
lease contract with Pitney Bowes for term rental services of mailing equipment.

10.

A Resolution - Authorizing the Executive Director or his Designee to Award Contracts to
Pittsburgh A. Philip Randolph Institute Education Fund and Community Empowerment
Association for Construction Trades Training and Job Readiness Training Services for the
Housing Authority of the City of Pittsburgh.

11.

A Resolution - Ratifying the Authorization of the Exigency for the Undertaking of
Emergency Work to Stabilize and Remediate a Landslide by Frank J. Zottola
Construction Inc. at Fairmont Apartments, AMP-86.

12.

A Resolution - Authorizing the Executive Director or his Designee to Undertake
Improvements by Force Account Labor for the Creation of a Pittsburgh Police
Substation at Northview Heights, AMP-09.

13.

A Resolution - Authoring the Executive Director to Submit an Inventory Removal
Application to HUD for Disposition of 3 Vacant Parcels at Bedford Dwellings, AMP-0.

HACP Agenda – APRIL 2018

Page 1 of 2

 14.

A Resolution - Authorizing the Commitment of Funds for Larimer/East Liberty Phase III
Predevelopment Activities.

15.

A Resolution - Authorizing the Commitment of Funds for Larimer/East Liberty Phase IV
Predevelopment Activities.

16.

A Resolution - Requesting to increase budget to account for transfer tax for the
Acquisition/Rehabilitation & Turnkey Development of Twenty (20) New Construction Units on
Scattered Sites.

17.

Executive Report.

18.

New Business.

19.

Introduction to Mayor's Tree Protection Task Force.

20.

Adjournment.

HACP Agenda – APRIL 2018

Page 2 of 2

 