 

Official Report of the Proceedings
of the

BOARD OF EDUCATION

of the City of Chicago

 

Regular Meeting-Wednesday, June 28, 2017
10:30 AM. a
(42 West Madison Street)

 

Published by the Authority of the Chicago Board of Education

Frank M. Clark Estela G. Beltran
President Secretary

June 28, 2017
ATTEST:

Secretary of the Board of Education
of the City of Chicago
President Clark took the Chair and the meeting being called to order there were then:

PRESENT: Mr. Rivera, Mr. Guzman, Dr. Hines, Ms. Ward, Fr. Garanzini, and President
Clark 6

ABSENT: Mr. Furlong -1

ALSO PRESENT: Mr. Forrest Claypool, Chief Executive Of?cer, Mr. Ronald Marmer, General
Counsel, Dr. Janice Jackson, Chief Education Officer, and Mr. Jorge Macias, Chief Language and
Cultural Education Of?cer.

The Honorary Student Board Member position is currently vacant.
ABSENT: None

President Clark thereupon opened the ?oor to the Honoring Excellence segment of the
Board Meeting.

President Clark thereupon opened the ?oor to the CEO report segment of the Board
meeting. Mr. Forrest Claypool, Chief Executive Officer, provided remarks on the accomplishments
of CPS students despite the continued budget constraints due to the State?s lack of funding. Dr.
Janice Jackson, Chief Education Officer, provided remarks on CPS high school students being
accepted into universities such as Harvard, Yale, and one high school student receiving the
Chick Evans Scholarship; and the improvements made by policy changes such as (1) (2)
Learn, Plan, Succeed (3) CPS Score and (4) Three year vision. Ms. Jadine Chou, Chief Safety and
Security Of?cer, provided a presentation on safety updates and follow up on issues brought up at
the May 24, 2017 Board meeting.

President Clark thereupon opened the floor to the Public Participation segment of the
Board Meeting.

President Clark thereupon opened the floor to the Discussion of Public Participation.
President Clark thereupon opened the floor to the Discussion of Public Agenda Items.
President Clark proceeded to entertain a Motion to go into Closed Session.

Board Member Dr. Hines presented the following Motion:

17-0628-MO1
MOTION TO HOLD A CLOSED SESSION
MOTION ADOPTED that the Board hold a closed session to consider the following
subjects:
(1) information, regarding appointment, employment, compensation discipline, performance,

or dismissal of employees pursuant to Section of the Open Meetings Act;
(2) collective negotiating matters between the public body and its employees or their
representatives, or deliberations concerning salary Schedules for one or more classes of

employees pursuant to Section of the Open Meetings Act;

(1)

(2)

(3)

June 28, 2017

(3) A the purchase or lease of real property for the use of the Board pursuant to Section
of the Open Meetings Act;

(4) the setting of a price for the sale or lease of real property owned by the Board pursuant
to Section of the Open Meetings Act;

(5) security procedures and the use of personnel and equipment to respond to an actual, a
threatened, or a reasonably potential danger to the safety of employees, students, staff,
the public, or public property pursuant to Section of the Open Meetings Act;

(6) matters relating to individual students pursuant to'Section 2(c)(10) of the Open Meetings
Act;

(7) pending litigation and litigation which is probable or imminent involving the Board
pursuant to Section 2(c)(11) of the Open Meetings Act; and

(8) discussion of closed session minutes pursuant to Section 2(c)(21) of the Open Meetings

Act, including audio tapes created pursuant to Section 2.06 of the Open Meetings Act.
Board Member Rivera moved to adopt Motion 17-0628-M01.
The Secretary called the roll and the vote was as follows:
Yeas: Mr. Rivera, Mr. Guzman, Dr. Hines, Ms. Ward, Fr. Garanzini, and President Clark 6
Nays: None
President Clark thereupon declared Motion 17-0628-M01 adopted.

CLOSED SESSION
RECORD OF CLOSED SESSION

The following is a record of the Board's Closed Session:

The Closed Meeting was held on June 28, 2017, beginning at 1:35 pm. at the CPS Loop
Office, 42 W. Madison Street, Garden Level, Conference Room GC-116, and Chicago Illinois
60602.

PRESENT: Mr. Rivera, Mr. Guzman, Dr. Hines, Ms. Ward, Fr. Garanzini, and President Clark
6

ABSENT: Mr. Furlong 1

Counsel Retention
Other Reports

. Warning Resolutions
Terminations
Personnel
Collective Bargaining
Real Estate
Security
Closed Session Minutes
Individual Student Matters



No votes were taken in Closed Session.

After Closed Session the Board reconvened.

June 28, 2017

Members present after Closed Session: Mr. Rivera, Mr. Guzman, Dr. Hines, Ms. Ward,
Fr. Garanzini, and President Clark 6

Members absent after Closed Session: Mr. Furlong - 1
President Clark thereupon proceeded with Agenda Items.

17-0628-A R2

AUTHORIZE RETENTION OF THE LAW FIRM
BURKE BURNS 8; PINELLI, LTD

THE GENERAL COUNSEL REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Retention of the law ?rm Burke Burns Pinelli, Ltd.

DESCRIPTION: The General Counsel requests authority to retain the law ?rm Burke Burns Pinelli, for
representation related to pension matters ?nancings, disclosure and various other transactional matters.
Authorization Is requested for the ?rm? 5 services for $10,000. As invoices are received they will be reviewed by
the General Counsel and if satisfactory, processed for payment.

LSC REVIEW: LSC approval is not applicable to this report.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION STATUS: None.

FINANCIAL: Charge $10,000.00 to Law Department - Professional Services:
Budget Classi?cation Fiscal Year 2-01 1021 0-115

GENERAL CONDITIONS:
Inspector General Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 ILCS 5?34-
13.1, the Inspector Generai of the Chicago Board of Education has- the authority to conduct certain

investigations and that the inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel necessary to
conduct those investigations.

Con?icts The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the provisions
of 105 5134-213 which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to, former Board members
during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of office.

Indebtedness The Board?s Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 1996 as amended from
time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics- The Board' 5 Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 (11-0525-P02), as amended from time to time,
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability - The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the'current ?scal
year is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in the subsequent ?scal year 

17-0628-AR3

AUTHORIZE CONTINUED RETENTION OF THE LAW FIRM
LEAHY, EISENBERG FRAENKEL, LTD.

THE GENERAL COUNSEL REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Continued retention of the law firm Leahy, Eisenbe'rg Fraenkel, Ltd.

DESCRIPTION: The General Counsel has continued retention of the law ?rm Leahy, Eisenberg raenkel,
Ltd. for representation in workers? compensation claims and such other legal matters as determined by the
General Counsel. Additional authorization is requested in the amount of $350,000 for the ?rm?s
services. As invoices are received, they will be reviewed by the General Counsel and, if satisfactory,
processed for payment.

LSC REVIEW: LSC approval is not applicable to this report.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION STATUS: None.

FINANCIAL: Charge $350,000.00 to Talent Of?ce Professional Services:
Budget Classi?cation Fiscai Year 12470-1 15

June 28, 2017

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

inspector General Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 ILCS
5134-131, the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the InSpector General shalt have access to all information and personnel necessary
to conduct those investigations.

Con?icts The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 ILCS 5134-213 which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of office.

Indebtedness - The Board's Indebtedness Poiicy adopted June 26, 1996 (96-0626-PO3), as amended from
time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics - The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 as amended from time to time,
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current fiscal
year is deemed a contingent subject toappropriation in the subsequent ?scal year budget(s).

17-0628-AR4

AUTHORIZE CONTINUED RETENTION OF THE LAW FIRM
ICE MILLER LLP

THE GENERAL COUNSEL REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Continued retention of the law ?rm Ice Miller LLP.

DESCRIPTION: The General Counsei has continued retention of the law ?rm Ice Miller LLP to represent
the Board on transactional and such other legal matters as determined by the General Counsel. Additional
authorization is requested in the amount of $150,000 for the ?rm?s services. As invoices are received, they
will be reviewed by the General Counsei and, if satisfactory, processed for payment.

LSC REVIEW: LSC approval is not applicable to this report.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION STATUS: None.

FINANCIAL: Charge $150,000.00 to Law Department Professional Services:
Budget Classi?cation Fiscal Year 2018 . 1021 0?1 15

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 ILCS
5134?1 3.1, the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel necessary
to conduct those investigations.

Con?icts The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 ILCS 5134?213 which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of of?ce.

Indebtedness The Board?s Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 1996 (96-0626-P03), as amended from
time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics? The Board?s Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 (11- -0525- -P02), as amended from time to time,
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current ?scal
year is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in the subsequent ?scal year budget(s).

The Secretary called the roll and the vote was as follows:
Yeas: Mr. Rivera, Mr. Guzman, Dr. Hines, Ms. Ward, Fr. Garanzini, and President Clark - 6
Nays: None

President Clark thereupon declared Board Reports 17-0628-AR2 through 17-0628-AR4
adopted.

