 

Official Report of the Proceedings
ofthe

BOARD OF EDUCATION

of the City of Chicago

 

Regular Meeting-Wednesday, April 25, 2018
10:30 AM.
(42 West Madison Street)

 

Published by the Authority of the Chicago Board of Education

Frank M. Clark Estela G. Beltran
President Secretary

April 25, 2018
ATTEST:

M. 

Secretary of the Board of Education
of the City of Chicago

President Clark took the Chair and the meeting being called to order there were then:
PRESENT: Mr. Furlong, Ms. Garza, Mr. Guzman, Dr. Hines, and President Clark? 5* 
One vacancy exists on the Board.

ABSENT: Ms. Ward 1

ALSO PRESENT: Dr. Janice Jackson, Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Joseph Moriarty, General
Counsel, Ms. LaTanya McDade, Chief Education Officer, Ms. Elizabeth Keenan, Chief of Diverse
Learner Support and Services, William Cryer, Honorary Student Board Member, and Aysha Ahmad,
Shadow Student.

ABSENT: None

President Clark thereupon opened the floor to the CEO report segment of the Board
meeting. Dr. Janice Jackson, Chief Executive Officer, provided remarks on release of FY19'budgets
and Special Education. Ms. Mary Bradley, Executive Director of Innovation and Incubation,
provided a presentation on Charter and Contract School Amendments through
Mr. Arnie Rivera, Chief Operating Officer, and Ms. Leslie Fowler, Chief of Nutrition
and Facility Operations, provided a presentation on Facilities Update.

President Clark thereupon opened the floor to the Public Participation segment of the
Board Meeting.

President Clark thereupon opened the floor to the Discussion of Public Participation.
President Clark thereupon opened the floor to the Discussion of Public Agenda Items.
President Clark proceeded to entertain a Motion to go into Closed Session. 
Board Member Dr. Hines presented the following Motion: 4
18-0425-M01
MOTION TO HOLD A CLOSED SESSION

MOTION ADOPTED that the Board hold a closed session to consider the following

subjects:

(1) information, regarding appointment, employment. compensation discipline, performance,
or dismissal of employees or legal counsel for the public body pursuant to Section 
of the Open Meetings Act;

(2) collective negotiating matters between the public body and its employees or their
representatives, or deliberations concerning salary schedules for one or more classes of
employees pursuant to Section of the Open Meetings Act;

(3) the purchase or lease of real property for the use of the Board pursuant to Section 

of the Open Meetings Act;






and Pr

April 25, 2018

(4) the setting of a price for the sale or lease of real property owned by the Board pursuant to
Section of the Open Meetings Act;

(5) security procedures and the use of personnel and equipment to respond to an actual, a
threatened, or a reasonably potential danger to the safety of employees, students, staff,
the public, or public property pursuant to Section of the Open Meetings Act;

(6) matters relating to individual students pursuant to Section 2(c)(10) of the Open Meetings
Act;

(7) pending litigation and litigation which is probable or imminent involving the Board pursuant
to Section 2(c)(11) of the Open Meetings Act; and

(8) discussion of closed session minutes pursuant to Section 2(c)(21) of the Open Meetings

Act.
Board Member Garza moved to adopt Motion 18-0425-M01.
The Secretary called the roll and the vote was as follows:
Yeas: Mr. Furlong, Ms. Garza, Mr. Guzman, Dr. Hines, and President Clark 5
Nays: None
President Clark thereupon declared Motion 18-0425-MO1 adopted.

CLOSED SESSION
RECORD OF CLOSED SESSION

The following is a record of the Board's Closed Session:

The Closed Meeting was held on April 25, 2018, beginning at 2:16 pm. at the CPS Loop
Office, 42 W. Madison Street, Garden Level, Conference Room GC-116, and Chicago Illinois
60602.

PRESENT: Mr. Furlong, Ms. Garza, Mr. Guzman, Dr. Hines, and President Clark 5
ABSENT: Ms. Ward 1

Counsel Retention

Other Reports

Warning Resolutions
Terminations

Personnel

Collective Bargaining
Real Estate

Security

Closed Session Minutes
Individual Student Matters



No votes were taken in Closed Session.
After Closed Session the Board reconvened.

Members present after Closed Session: Mr. Furlong, Ms. Garza, Mr. Guzman, Dr. Hines,
esident Clark 5

Members absent after Closed Session: Ms. Ward 1

2

