 

Official Report of the Proceedings
of the

BOARD OF EDUCATION

of the City of Chicago

Special Meeting-Wednesday, November 9, 2011
9:30 AM.
(125 South Clark Street)

 

Published by the Authority of the Chicago Board of Education

David J. Vitale Estela G. Beltran
President Secretary

November 9. 2011
ATTEST:

mam

Secretary of the Board of Education
of the City of Chicago

President Vitale took the Chair and the meeting being called to order there were then:

PRESENT: Mr. Bienen, Dr. Hines", Mr. Ruiz, Ms. Pritzker, Mr. Sierra*, Ms. Zopp. and
President Vitale 7

ABSENT: None
*Dr. Hines and Mr. Sierra entered the meeting after the roll was called.

ALSO PRESENT: Jean Claude Brizard, Chief Executive Officer. Ms. Noemi Donoso. Chief
Education Officer, and Mr. Patrick J. Rocks, General Counsel.

President Vitale thereupon opened the meeting.

Jean Claude Brizard, Chief Executive Officer, and Mr. Calvin Davis, Director of Sports
Administration gave a presentation regarding the High School Physical Education Waiver
Proposal. See Board Report to Approve Application for a Two Year Renewal of School Code
Waiver Regarding Physical Education for Eleventh and Twelfth Grade Students 

President Vitale thereupon opened the floor to the Public Participation segment of the
Board Meeting.

11-1109-EX1

APPROVE APPLICATION FOR A TWO YEAR RENEWAL OF A SCHOOL CODE WAIVER
REGARDING PHYSICAL EDUCATION FOR ELEVENTH AND TWELFTH GRADE STUDENTS

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER RECOMMENDS:

That the Board approve an application for a two year renewal of a waiver from School Code
requirements regarding physical education for eleventh and twelfth grade students.

CURRENT WAIVER: The Board?s current physical education waiver for eleventh and twelfth
grade students covers a five-year period commencing with the 2007-2008 school year expires at the end
of the 2011-2012 school year.

PHYSICAL EDUCATION REQUIREMENT: The Illinois School Code requires daily P.E but permits a
school board to excuse. on an individual basis. eleventh and twelfth graders when helshe demonstrates
any of the following:

1. ongoing participation in an interscholastic athletic program;

2. a need to enroll in academic classes for admission to an institution of higher learning, provided
that failure to take such classes will result in the pupil being denied admission to the institution of
his or her choice; or

3. a need to enroll in academic classes for graduation from high school, provided that failure to take
such classes will result in the pupil being unable to graduate

DISTRICT WAIVER REQUIREMENT: Section 2-3 259 of the School Code permits districts to request
waivers of School Code mandates when the applicant district demonstrates that it can address the intent
of the mandate in a more effective. ef?cient or economical manner or when necessary to stimulate
innovation or improve student performance. The Illinois State Board of Education (ISBE) submits waivers
requested by districts to the General Assembly If the General Assembly fails to disapprove a waiver
request within 60 days. the waiver is deemed granted. Effective January 1. 2008. Section 2-3259 of the
School Code restricts waivers of physical education mandates to a matiimum of three two-year waiver
periods.

PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICES: Section of the minds School Code requires the Board to
convene a Special Board Meeting to consider a PE. waiver renewal application and hear testimony from
staff as well as interested parents and students. Notice of this Special Board Meeting was published in a
Chicago newspaper and provided to state legislators representing Chicago and collective bargaining
agents at least seven days in advance of this meeting.

November 9, 2011

WAIVER TERM: The waiver application requests a two-year renewal period which covers the 2012-2013

and 2013-2014 school years.

DESCRIPTION OF WAIVER APPLICATION: The application enumerates the reasons for seeking the

waiver. namely to improve student performance by providing access to higher level courses and

opportunities to satisfy graduation requirements. Further. a two-year waiver renewal supports the CEO's

goal of transitioning PE 3 and 4 into the longer school day model for high schools.

AUTHORIZATION: Authorize the Chief Executive Officer to exeCUte the physical education waiver

application described above and submit it to in accordance wath Section 23.259 of the School
Code.

Vice President Ruiz moved to adopt Board Report 11-1109-EX1 and was seconded by
Board Member Zopp.

The Secretary called the roll and the vote was as follows:

Yeas: Mr. Bienen, Mr. Ruiz, Ms. Pritzker, Mr. Sierra, Ms. Zopp, and President Vitale 6
Abstained: Dr. Hines - 1

Nays: None

President Vitale thereupon declared Board Report 11-1109-EX1 with the noted abstention,
adopted.

Dr. Hines presented the following Motion:

11-1109-MO1
MOTION TO HOLD A CLOSED SESSION
MOTION ADOPTED that the Board hold a closed sessmn to consader the followmg SubleCiS
(1) Self evaluation. practices and procedures or professronal ethics. when meeting With a
representative of a stateWIde assomation which the public body is a member purSuanl to Secuon
2(c)(16) of the Open Meetings Act; and
(2) Collective negotiating matters between the public body and its employees or their

representatives. or deliberations concerning salary schedules for one or more classes of

employees pursuant to Section of the Open Meetings Act
Mr. Sierra moved to adopt Motion 11-1109-M01.

Note: See Supplemental Record Provided by the Secretary of the Board regarding the vote
for Board Report 11-1109-M01 below.

Board of Education City of Chicago
Special Board Meeting
Held On
November 9, 201 1
Supplemental Record Provided by the Secretary of the Board

This supplemental record is provided by the Secretary of the Board to be included in the
stenographic report of proceedings. The motion to close was moved and seconded but not
subject to a roll call vote. As the closed session was beginning, the Board was notified by the

General Counsel of the need to vote on the motion to close. As a result, the Board returned to
open session and proceeded as follows.

November 9, 2011

Let the record reflect that the board members returned to the Board Chamber to proceed with the
relevant vote on the motion to close to go into closed session. The vote was taken and proceeded
as follows:

Secretary Beltran: Mr. Bienen?

Member Bienen: Aye.

Secretary Beltran: Dr. Hines?

Dr. Hines: Aye.

Secretary Beltran: Vice President Ruiz?

Vice President Ruiz: Aye.

Secretary Beltran: Ms. Pritzker?

Member Pritzker: 

Secretary Beltran: Mr. Sierra?

Member Sierra: Aye.

Secretary Beltran: Ms. Zopp?

Member Zopp: Aye.

Secretary Beltran: President Vitale

President Vitale: Aye.

Secretary Beltran: Seven ayes, zero nays.

President Vitale: We will return to closed session.

CLOSED SESSION
RECORD OF CLOSED SESSION

The following is a record of the Board's Closed Session:
(1) The Closed Meeting was held on November 9, 2011, beginning at approximately 9:45 a.m.
at the Central Service Center, 125 South Clark Street, and President?s Conference Room

6th Floor, and Chicago Illinois 60603.

(2) PRESENT: Mr. Bienen, Dr. Hines, Mr. Ruiz, Ms. Pritzker, Mr. Sierra, Ms. Zopp, and
President Vitale - 7

A. Board Self Evaluation
B. Collective Bargaining

No votes were taken in Closed Session.
After Closed Session the Board reconvened.

Members present after Closed Session: Dr. Hines, Mr. Ruiz, Ms. Pritzker, Mr. Sierra,
Ms. Zopp, and President Vitale 6

Members absent after Closed Session: Mr. Bienen - 1

November 9, 2011

OMNIBUS
At the Special Board Meeting of November 9, 2011 the foregoing motions, reports and
other actions set forth from number 11-1109-M01 and 11-1109-EX1 except as otherwise indicated.
were adopted as the recommendations or decisions of the Chief Executive Officer and General
Counsel.
Dr. Hines abstained on Board Report 11-1109-EX1.
ADJOURNMENT

President Vitale moved to adjourn the meeting, and it was so ordered by a roll call vote as
follows:

The Secretary called the roll and the vote was as follows:

Yeas: Dr. Hines, Mr. Ruiz, Ms. Pritzker, Mr. Sierra, Ms. Zopp, and President Vitale 6

Nays: None

President Vitale thereupon declared the Board Meeting adjourned.

I, Estela G. Beltran, Secretary of the Board of Education and Keeper of the records thereof,
do hereby certify that the foregoing is a true and correct record of certain proceedings of said
Board of Education of the City of Chicago at its Special Board Meeting of November 9, 2011 held
at the Central Service Center 125 South Clark Street, Board Chamber, Chicago, Illinois, 60603.

Estela G. Beltran
Secretary

November 9, 2011
INDEX

EX- REPORTS FROM THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
11-1109-EX1 Approve Application for a Two Year Renewal of School Code Waiver Regarding
Physical Education for Eleventh and Twelfth Grade Students 1, 2

MO - MOTION
11-1109-M01 Motion to Hold a Closed Session 2

