Allegheny County Council
436 Grant Street
Pittsburgh, PA 15219
Phone (412) 350-6490
Fax (412) 350-6499

Meeting Minutes
Thursday, June 14, 2018
4:00 PM

Conference Room 1

Committee on Economic Development & Housing
Dewitt Walton, Chair; Tom Baker, Patrick Catena, Sam DeMarco, Nick Futules, Bob
Macey and John Palmiere, Members

 Meeting Minutes

Committee on Economic
Development & Housing

June 14, 2018

I. Call to Order
The meeting was called to order at 4:03.

Invited Guests:
William D. McKain, CPA, Allegheny County Manager or designee(s)
Robert Hurley, Director, Allegheny County Department of Economic Development
Mr. McKain was present from the Office of the County Manager.
Mr. Hurley was present from the Department of Economic Development.
Mr. Janoszco was present from the Law Department.
Ms. Soroka was present from the Department of Budget & Finance.
Mr. Barker was present from the Office of County Council.

II. Roll Call
Members Present:

3-

Bob Macey,DeWitt Walton andSue Means

Members Absent:

3-

Sam DeMarco ,Nick Futules andJohn Palmiere

Members Phone:

2-

Tom Baker andPatrick Catena

III. Approval of Minutes

10664-18

Motion to approve the minutes of the May 31, 2018 meeting of the Committee on
Economic Development and Housing.
A motion was made by Macey, seconded by Catena, that this matter be Passed.
The motion carried by a unanimous vote.

IV. Agenda Items
Ordinances

10662-18

Allegheny County Council

Authorizing the incurring of lease rental debt not to exceed an aggregate amount of
$2,600,000 by entering into a debt service reserve fund replenishment guaranty
agreement. Ordinance of the County of Allegheny, Pennsylvania (the “County”)
determining to incur debt in an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,600,000 in
connection with a project to be undertaken by the Allegheny County Industrial
Development Authority (the “Authority”) on behalf of Residential Resources, Inc.,
Residential Resources Southwest, Inc. and Residential Resources Development
Corporation; determining that such debt shall be incurred as lease rental debt to be
evidenced by a debt service reserve fund guaranty agreement (the “Guaranty”) by the
County relating to the authority’s lease revenue bonds, series of 2018 (Residential
Resources Inc. Project), to be authorized and to be issued by said authority; briefly
describing the project; authorizing and directing the preparation, certification and filing
Page 1

Printed on 9/6/2018

 Meeting Minutes

Committee on Economic
Development & Housing

June 14, 2018

of the debt statement, the borrowing base certificate to be appended to the debt
statement, and other appropriate documents required by the local government unit
debt act [53 Pa.C.S.A §8001 et seq.]; issuing, upon receipt of approval of the
Pennsylvania Department of Community and Economic Development, the guaranty;
authorizing delivery of the guaranty to the trustee under a trust indenture; specifying
the amount of the guaranty obligations of the County pursuant to the guaranty;
guaranteeing replenishment of the debt service reserve fund in an aggregate amount
not to exceed $2,600,000 and making certain covenants with respect thereto;
authorizing the execution and delivery of a reimbursement agreement and related
documents; and providing for proper officers of the County to take all other required,
necessary or desirable related action in connection with said project.
Sponsors: Chief Executive

At the request of the Chair, the clerk read the title of the bill, and Mr. McKain
summarized its provisions, noting that the bill would function to re-establish the
guaranteed debt service replenishment fund associated with an existing bond issuance
that would be refinaned through a new issuance. Mr. McKain provided detail regarding
the role and function of Residential Resources entities and the history of the original
bond issuance, noting that the County's guarantee was sought in order to obtain better
debt service terms. Mr. McKain indicated that the 2001 issuance was refinanced in
2006, and that this resulted in significant savings, and that the current refinancing
endeavor is expected to accomplish the same, which will lower the County's debt service
guarantee amount from over $2.7 million to $2.6 million. Mr. McKain noted that virtually
all of the tenants in the properties maintained by Residential Resources receive at least
some services from the County's Department of Human Services.
Ms. Soroka noted that the guarantee has been in place for years, and that no County
funding has ever been used to make up for debt service payments at any time.
Mr. Hurley noted that the term of the bond issuance will not change, and will still end in
2031, and that the money saved through the refinancing will actually make it less likely
that the County's guarantee would ever be needed, because the debt service payments
will drop as a result of the refinancing. Mr. hurley indicated that the County's obligation
would only be in place for one year, because should Residential Resources be unable to
meet its debt service obligations, after one year, they would be required to begin selling
properties in order to raise the necessary revenue.
In response to questions from Mr. Macey, Mr. McKain noted that the services provided by
Residential Resources relate to providing single family homes in various neighborhoods,
which is not a service that the County itself would provide, so they function in a
complimentary fashion. Mr. Hurley and Ms. Soroka discussed the value and type of
services provided, and Mr. McKain noted that Washington and Westmoreland Counties
also provide funding for the residential services provided by Residential Resources there.
In response to questions from Ms. Means, Mr. Hurley noted that the absolute maximum
County expenditure after the refinancing would be $2.6 million in one calendar year and
indicated that Residential Resources in a solid financial position, as evidenced by
financial institutions being willing to entertain the debt issuance.
A motion was made by Macey, seconded by Catena, that this matter be
Affirmatively Recommended. The motion carried by a unanimous vote.
Allegheny County Council

Page 2

Printed on 9/6/2018

 Committee on Economic
Development & Housing

Meeting Minutes

June 14, 2018

V. Adjournment
The meeting was adjourned at 4:17.

Allegheny County Council

Page 3

Printed on 9/6/2018

 