Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Minutes of the Contract Compliance Committee
Tuesday, September 11, 2018

1:15 PM

Cook County Building, Board Room
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

ATTENDANCE
Present:

Moore, Silvestri, Arroyo, Butler, Deer, Moody, Sims and Tobolski (8)

Absent:

García (1)
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Chairman Moore asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public speakers, in accordance
with Cook County Code.

1. George Blakemore
2. Hedy Ratner
3. John R. Dallas, Jr.
4. Mae Whiteside
5. Sheila McNary
6. Lynn Sutton
7. Ian Wylie Hedrick
8. Mary Kay Minahan
9. Jose M. Wilson

 Contract Compliance Committee

Committee Minutes

September 11, 2018

18-5796
COMMITTEE MINUTES

Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 04/24/2018
A motion was made by Vice Chairman Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Deer, to approve
18-5796. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

Moore, Silvestri, Arroyo, Butler, Deer, Moody, Sims and Tobolski (8)

Absent:

García (1)
18-4541

Sponsored by: STANLEY MOORE, PETER N. SILVESTRI, LUIS ARROYO JR, JERRY
BUTLER, JOHN P. DALEY, DENNIS DEER, EDWARD M. MOODY, DEBORAH SIMS and
JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI, Cook County Board Of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE
SMALL BUSINESS COMMISSION FOR COOK COUNTY
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter 2 Administration,
Article III, County Board, Division sections 2-84 through 2-86 of the Cook County Code, is hereby
enacted as Follows:
Sec. 2-84. Short Title.

This Division shall be known and may be cited as the “Cook County Commission on Small Business
and Supplier Diversity.
Sec. 2-85. Policy and Purpose.

(a) There is hereby created a Commission to help create sustainable small business initiatives that
promote business opportunities, financial growth and further development and expansion of small and
minority businesses and businesses that are owned by people with disabilities.
(b) Explore issues and barriers that prevent small businesses, women owned businesses, businesses
owned by people with disabilities and minority owned businesses from being successful.
(c) Meet and exceed procurement existing procurement goals. Research and promote best practices
that facilitate meeting contracting and subcontracting goals.

Page 2 of 4

 Contract Compliance Committee

Committee Minutes

September 11, 2018

(d) Review compliance code and compliance of Cook County Agencies.
(e) Review and recommend best practices to reduce access to capital challenges faced by minority,
women owned businesses and businesses owned by people with disabilities.
(f) Review and make recommendations on how Cook County Hospital System and other County
agencies can increase the participation of minority, women owned businesses and businesses owned by
people with disabilities.
Cook County Commission on Small Business.

(a) The Commission will have eleven (11) members including: two (2) Commissioners who were the
original co-sponsors of the ordinance who shall serve as Chair and Co-Chair of the Commission. Four (4)
of the Commission members shall be selected by the Chair and Co-Chair and must be certified MBE or
WBE business owners certified by Cook County. Five (5) members of the Commission shall be appointed
by the President of the Cook County Board of Commissioners and may include but not be limited to:
representatives of Cook County Agencies, civic leaders, majority contractors or private sector
representatives who have established excellent diversity practices. All shall be confirmed by the Cook
County Board.
(b) Non-elected Board Members will serve for two (2) years and can be reappointed for consecutive
terms. Commissioners who are appointed shall serve (4) year terms that coincides with election cycles of
commissioners.
(c) The Commission has the authority to review and make recommendations on approval or reversal
of certification appeals.
(d) The Commission will advise the President’s office and Board of Commissioners not less than
quarterly on its recommendations.
(e) The Commission shall have Four (4) Committees 1. Compliance Monitoring, 2. Certification
Advisory Team 3. Outreach/Mentoring and Training 4. Capital Access/Banking
All meetings of the Commission will be open to the public.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption
A motion was made by Commissioner Deer, seconded by Commissioner Butler, to recommend
for approval 18-4541. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes:

Moore, Silvestri, Arroyo, Butler, Deer, Moody, Sims and Tobolski (8)

Absent:

García (1)
Page 3 of 4

 Contract Compliance Committee

Committee Minutes

September 11, 2018

ADJOURNMENT
A motion was made by Commissioner Tobolski, seconded by Commissioner Moody, to adjourn
the meeting. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

Moore, Silvestri, Arroyo, Butler, Deer, Moody, Sims and Tobolski (8)

Absent:

García (1)

Respectfully submitted,

Chairman

Secretary

A video recording of this meeting is available at https://cook-county.legistar.com.

Page 4 of 4

 Contract Compliance Committee Committee Minutes September 11, 20I8

 

ADJOURNMENT

A motion was made by Commissioner Tobolski, seconded by Commissioner Moody, to adjourn
the meeting. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Moore, Silvestri, Arroyo, Butler, Deer, Moody, Sims and Tobolski (8)
Absent: Garcia (1)

Respectfully submitted,

,5 m, 75. ?ea

Chairman Secretary

 

 

A Video recording of this meeting is available at 

Page 4 of4

