Community Meeting #2
Proposed Reassignment Boundary Change of Theodore Roosevelt High School,
Patrick Henry Elementary School, and Helge A Haugan Elementary School
Wednesday, January 17, 2018
4250 N St. Louis Avenue, Chicago Illinois 60618
6:00 PM - 8:00 PM
CPS Staff in Attendance
Lela Majstorovic, Anna Alvarado, Julie McGlade, Les Kniskern, Angelica Moya, Ed
Camacho, Luis Garcia-Juarez, Alex Lopez, Michael Nick, Dan Kramer,

CPS Presentation (deck used for presentation)
Lela Majstorovic provided a welcome to all participants and walked through the process
of the meeting and its tie into CPS Board voting on the proposal
Anna Alvarado walked through an overview of the proposal for all three schools.
Henry/Haugan extending their enrollment from K-6 to K-7 in SY19 and K-8 in SY20.
Then to have Roosevelt HS reduce its enrollment from its current grade 7-12 to 8-12 in
SY19 and 9-12 in SY20.
Lela explained the protocol for public comments. In the interest of time CPS will not be
responding to comments during this meeting.
Public Comments
Deb Mell (Alderman 33rd ward): Roosevelt HS is in the 33rd ward. She attended the
Haugan meeting last week and felt it was positive. Feels supporting local schools is
essential. Voiced concern for teacher positions that will be lost at Roosevelt and hopeful
that teachers will be assisted in finding new positions, possibly given priority at Haugan
and Henry.
Januario Gutierrez (Principal at Henry) - Very excited to potentially expand. This has
been a hope for Henry for a long time.
Dan Kramer (Principal at Roosevelt) - Here to speak support for all three schools. Says
it is important to note that there are exemplary teachers and students in middle school

 at Roosevelt and want to continue to support those families. Excited about what is
offered at Roosevelt and is always looking to support students in the community.
Luis Avila (AP Haugan Elementary): He is in support of adding 7th and 8th grade to
Haugan. Said Haugan has worked hard to provide a high quality education for their
students and can continue the coherence of learning by providing a middle school that
can successfully transition students to high school.
Sharyzid Baldoky (president of LSC @ Henry) - Wants everyone to know that this is an
excellent school. The programs at Henry are high quality, the school is safe, and she is
happy to not have to look for a new school after 6th grade. Her daughter, who has
autism, has received a great education and she is excited at the possibility of staying at
Henry.
Steve Livingston (retired CPS teacher) - Has serious reservations about the proposal. It
appears to fit in with real estate trends in the neighborhood. Newer more expensive
homes may result in families moving out and therefore not attending Roosevelt. He
states it appears the Board and City would like the neighborhood to go this way and is
not as concerned with the quality of education for the families, much like how schools
are being closed in Englewood.
Clara Velazquez (mother of Henry students) - Her children likes it at Henry and they are
excited to possibly have them stay here.
Neal Resnikoff (Albany Park Neighbors for Peace and Justice) - Says there seems to be
an effort to stop public education and to give schools to private organizations. To empty
Roosevelt HS is part of a pattern. Private schools are interested in making a profit off
the students. We should oppose any proposal that reduces Roosevelt's enrollment.
J.Q. (6th grade student at Henry) - Wants to have 7th grade at Henry so that it will not
be hard to adjust at Roosevelt and a big high school. Is worried about high school
bullying for a 7th grader. Also Henry is closer to his house and not as far as Roosevelt.
Y.R. (Henry student) - Wants 7th grade because teachers are good at Henry.
A.B. (Henry student) - Wants to have 7th grade because teachers at Henry are good.
Does not want to travel to HS and doesn’t want parents to have to look for new schools.
T.R. (Henry parent) - In favor of proposal since it is closer, and the school is good.

 Lourdes Benitez (parent 1st and 3rd grader at Henry) -- Moved back from suburbs and
took a gamble on Henry but was concerned about no 7th and 8th grade. Her daughters
like Henry because of the excellent teachers. Believes there is wonderful staff. Thinks
students at Henry are at a disadvantage without middle school. Roosevelt is not
necessarily receiving these student so they are not ready to make a school choice or
navigate that process.
Lisa Cantu (Henry teacher) - Says teachers work hard at Henry and is in favor of middle
school.
D.G. (6th grader at Henry) - His little sister is a 1st grader and it is easier for his family
to be at the same school longer. Henry is like a second home to him, the teachers are
very helpful. He can walk his sister home for an additional 2 years.
Katherine Prasko Holod (Henry teacher) - Product of CPS, alumni of Roosevelt, 24 year
CPS teacher. In favor of proposal. 7th and 8th graders will have leadership
opportunities at Henry and that will benefit the school.
J.B. (6th grade Henry student) - In favor - Says Henry taught her well through
personalized learning.
S.L. (6th grade Henry student) - In favor - Says Henry is like a second home. Henry has
shown her how to build independence through personalized learning.
B.F. (6th grade Henry student) First year at Henry. In favor. Says she feels safe at
Henry and enjoys the personalized learning.
J.E. (6th grade student) - In favor - She is worried about being distracted by bad
behavior at Roosevelt HS.
A.V. (Henery student) - She would like to keep family together since her younger
siblings are at Henry.
E.A. (Henry Student) - In favor.
Maria (mother of two at Henry) - She have been hoping for a long time to have 7th and
8th grade here. She knows it will be a big challenge but also knows the school will do a
great job.

 Lucy Marchan (Henry parent) - In favor, has wanted 7th and 8th grade for a long time.
Says so many community members have shown up to support and they want this to
pass. Says they have proven their worth with the SQRP score.
A.M. (former Henry student) - In favor - Patrick Henry helped her grow. She felt anxiety
in 6th grade knowing she would have to switch schools and did not understand why.
Feels teachers were amazing and always went to the extra mile. Never felt the same
way again.
Y.P. (6th grade Henry student) - In favor. The school has helped her through a lot of
issues. After school Ms. Rodriguez helped her to dance.
Kayla Jaffe (DL teacher at Henry, 1st year) - Has been supported by school teachers,
admin, and families. In favor, since the transition to an outside middle school is very
hard on students, especially students with diverse learner needs.
M.V(Henry student) - In favor.
Maryanne Munozmacel (AP at Henry) - She is proud of students, teachers, and parents
for voicing their opinions here tonight. A pillar at Henry is to voice your choice and it is
wonderful to see them demonstrate that tonight. Thank you for letting us voice or
opinion.
V.E. (Henry student) - In favor - Wants to have 7th and 8th at Henry so her mom will not
have to spend more money. The teachers at Henry help her a lot. Wants to stay with
principal and teachers two more years.
Isela Luna (Henry 3rd grade teacher) - In favor. Wants to keep supporting students
through 8th grade. Recognizes that a lot of families have left Henry because of the lack
of middle school.
Lucy Marchan (Henry parent) - Says the security at Henry is so good. They know the
parents and intervene to avoid potential incidents after school.
J.R.-(Henry student) - Says kids have fun at the school.
Celena (Henry parent) - In favor. She is happy at Henry and wants her children to be
able to stay. It will help since her child has a younger brother and being at the same
school will be easier and safer.

 M.P. (5th grade Henry student) - Says the staff at Henry is very helpful.
Dama Avali (Henry parent) - Says staff helps students and knows that it will continue
through middle school. Says staff has taken care of bullying and that shows how helpful
this school is.
J.Q. (Henry student) - In favor. A student since PK. Does not want to start over meeting
new classmates in middle school. Would miss favorite teachers.
AJ Taylor (community rep on Roosevelt LSC) - Says great work being done at Henry
and great work being done at Roosevelt. Roosevelt presents a great opportunity like
being able to offer middle school students advanced courses so they are ahead of track
for college. He hopes the LSC can build a strong relationship with LSC at Haugan and
Henry.
P.A. (Henry Student) - Wants to stay in same school as her brother.
L.R. (6th grade Henry student) - In favor - Says he feels comfortable at Henry.
Lisa Garner (DL teacher at Henry) - Former teacher at Marshall Middle - Knows the
benefit of having students that can be leaders in the school - want to continue with girls
on the run program through middle school.
Community was informed that additional speakers could register to speak. The meeting
concluded at 8 p.m.

 