  
  
42  W.  Madison  Street  •  Chicago,  Illinois  60602  
Telephone:  773/553-­1600    

   
December   1,   2017   
Parent   or   Guardian   of   a   Student   at      
Edward   Jenner   Elementary   Academy   of   the   Arts   
1119   North   Cleveland   Avenue   

Parent   or   Guardian   of   a   Student   at   
Ogden   International      School   of   Chicago   
24   West   Walton   Street   

   
Re:    Proposed    Consolidation    of    Edward    Jenner    Elementary    Academy    of    the    Arts    into    Ogden   
International   School   of   Chicago   
      
Dear   Parent   or   Guardian:   
   
Chicago   Public   Schools   (CPS)   is   committed   to   providing   every   child   from   every   community   with   a   
high   quality   education   that   prepares   them   for   success   in   college   and   in   life.   CPS   students   continue   to   
make    record-­‐‑breaking    academic    progress    in    every    part    of    the    city.    Our    vision    is    that    all    CPS    schools   
can   build   on   this   progress   by   offering   high   quality,   rigorous   instruction   from   talented   educators   that   
help   put   Chicago   students   on   a   path   to   lasting   success.      
   
Two   years   ago,   the   Local   School   Councils   at   Edward   Jenner   Elementary   Academy   of   the   Arts   (Jenner)   
and    Ogden    International    School    of    Chicago    (Ogden)    requested    that    a    consolidation    of    Jenner    and   
Ogden   be   considered.      At   that   time,   CPS   declined   to   propose   the   consolidation   of   Jenner   and   Ogden   
and    instead    sought    additional    community    engagement    to    address    Jenner    and    Ogden’s    unique   
academic    and    utilization    concerns.        A    Jenner/Ogden    Community    Steering    Committee    (JOCSC)    was   
formed,   comprised   of   parents   and   community   members   representing   Jenner   and   Ogden,   and   they   
have   led   a   community-­‐‑driven   approach   to   merge   the   two   schools.   JOCSC   hired   NextLevel   NPO,   LLC   
(NextLevel)   to   prepare   a   report   evaluating   options   to   address   Ogden’s   overcrowding   and   Jenner’s   
underutilization.    NextLevel’s    report    supports    the    proposal    to    merge    Jenner    and    Ogden,    providing   
Jenner    students    with    an    access    to    an    International    Baccalaureate    Programme,    addressing    both   
schools’   enrollment   concerns   and   creating   an   integrated,   diverse   school.         
   
For   the   reasons   outlined   above,   I   am   proposing   the   consolidation   of   Jenner   into   Ogden.      I   will   also   
propose    Jenner    and    Ogden’s    attendance-­‐‑area    boundaries    be    merged    into    one    attendance    area   
boundary.   
   
This    proposal    is    consistent    with    the    Chief    Executive    Officer’s    Guidelines    for    School    Actions   
(Guidelines)   because   it   is   a   proposal   requested   by   parents   or   community   members   via   the   process   to   
request   proposals   outlined   in   the   Guidelines.   Specifically,   we   have   heard   the   request   for   this   proposal   
from   the   JOCSC,   various   community   meetings   held   earlier   this   year   and   a   letter   dated   November   15,   
2017   from   the   JOCSC.   This   proposal   is   also   consistent   with   the   Guidelines   because   the   resulting   space   
utilization   after   the   consolidation   will   not   exceed   the   facilities’   enrollment   efficiency   range,   as   defined   
by   the   CPS’   Space   Utilization   Standards.   Finally,   the   students   impacted   by   this   proposed   consolidation   

   

   

   
  
42  W.  Madison  Street  •  Chicago,  Illinois  60602  
Telephone:  773/553-­1600    

   
are    being    provided    the    option    to    enroll    at    Ogden,    a    higher    performing    school,    as    defined    by    the   
Guidelines.   
   
If    this    proposal    is    approved    by    the    Board    of    Education    of    the    City    of    Chicago    (Board),    Jenner    and   
Ogden   will   consolidate   and   Jenner   students   will   be   transferred   to   Ogden,   effective   July   1,   2018.   As   
part   of   the   proposed   consolidation,   CPS   proposes   locating   the   Kindergarten   -­‐‑   4th   grades   in   the   24   W.   
Walton   building   and   5th-­‐‑   8th   grades   at   the   1119   N.   Cleveland   building.   
   
If    you    would    like    more    detail    about    the    proposed    consolidation,    please    refer    to    the    Draft    Transition   
Plan   that   is   included   with   this   letter.   
   
As    a    next    step,    CPS    will    hold    two    community    meetings    and    one    public    hearing    to    hear    further   
feedback   on   CPS’   proposal   (meeting   information   is   below).   Following   the   meetings   and   hearing,   the   
Board   of   Education   may   vote   on   this   proposal   as   early   as   February   of   2018.   
   
Public   Comment   on   this   Proposal   
I    invite    you    to    share    your    feedback    on    the    proposed    consolidation    and    attendance-­‐‑area    boundary   
change   during   the   following   two   community   meetings   and   one   public   hearing   outlined   below:   
   
Community   Meeting   1                                                      Community   
                                       
Meeting   2   
Public   Hearing   
January   9,   2018                                          
January   16,   2018                                          
January   25,   2018   
6   to   8   p.m.   
6   to   8   p.m.   
4:30   to   6:30   p.m.   
Ogden   International   School   of    Edward   Jenner   Elementary   
CPS   Central   Office   
Chicago   
Academy   of   the   Arts   
24   West   Walton   Street   
1119   North   Cleveland   Avenue   
42   West   Madison   Street   
   
If    you    wish    to    comment    at    the    community    meetings    or    hearing,    please    adhere    to    the    following   
procedures.      You   must   sign   up   to   speak   on   the   day   of,   at   the   designated   location,   beginning   one   hour   
before    the    designated    start    time    and    ending    one    hour    after    the    start    of    the    meeting    or    hearing.        You   
will    have    two    minutes    to    speak,    unless    the    hearing    officer    or    meeting    organizer    provides    an   
extension.      The   hearing   will   conclude   at   the   stated   end   time   or   following   the   comments   of   the   last   
person   who   has   signed   up   to   speak,   whichever   occurs   first.   
   
Thank   you   in   advance   for   your   feedback   as   we   work   to   provide   all   Chicago   Public   School   students   
with   the   high   quality   education   they   deserve.      After   the   community   meetings   and   public   hearing,   I   
will    review    a    written    report    from    the    hearing    officer    and    at    that    time,    I    may    recommend    that    the   
Board   consider   and   approve   the   consolidation   of   Jenner   and   Ogden.   
   
   
   
   
   
   

   

   
  
42  W.  Madison  Street  •  Chicago,  Illinois  60602  
Telephone:  773/553-­1600    

   
Further   questions   and   concerns   
All   of   this   information   can   be   found   at   CPS.edu/Transitions.      If   you   have   any   questions   or   concerns   
regarding    this    proposal    and    the    Draft    Transition    Plan,    please    email    transitions@cps.edu    or    call   
Chicago   Public   Schools   at   (773)553-­‐‑1500.   
   
Sincerely,   
   
   
   
Forrest   Claypool   
   
   
   
Chief   Executive   Officer      
   
   
Chicago   Public   Schools      
   
   

   

   

 