DETROIT LAND BANK AUTHORITY

 

BOARD OF DIRECTORS SPECIAL MEETING
GUARDIAN BUILDING

500 Griswold St, Suite 1200 Detroit, Michigan
(Rouge Conference Room)

Tuesday, May 9, 2017
12:00 PM
MINUTES
Present: Erica Ward-Gerson

Richard Hosey
Rasul Raheem
Patricia PerneII-Shelton

Others Present: Detroit Land Bank Authority (DLBA) staff

CALL TO ORDER
Chairperson Ward-Gerson called the May 9,2017 meeting to order at 12:18 pm.

ROLL CALL
Chairperson Ward-Gerson called roll for each board member. All Board members were present and a
quorum was met.

ADOPTION OF THE AGENDA

Chairperson Ward Gerson requested comments from the Members of the Board for the Agenda as
distributed. Noting none, a Motion by Member Hosey to adopt the agenda. Supported by Member
Raheem. MOTION APPROVED.

PUBLIC COMMENT
Chairperson Ward Gerson opened the floor to public comment. None present.

NEW BUSINESS

Resolutions.

Resolution 05?01-2017

RESOLUTION ADOPTING EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR JOB DESCRIPTION

Chairperson Ward Gerson welcomed (via phone) Christopher Trebilcock from Miller Canfield; and Gloria
Mirrione, Andrea Forrest, Tyler Manning and Kate Koehler from Korn Ferry and thanked them for their
work on the Executive Director draft job description. Chairperson Ward Gerson stated that there had
not been any discussions about the draftjob description between board members since the creation of
the draftjob description, and thus would like for the group to use this time to review it together.
Members reviewed the description and discussion ensued. Chairperson Ward?Gerson first asked the
board members to review and focus on the "required? qualifications. There was substantial discussion
as to whether a master?s degree should be "required? or ?desirable.? The board members then
discussed the minimum length of time for executive level management. After discussing the potential

pros and cons of a longer or shorter minimum level of experience, the board members decided to go
with five years. After discussing other language in the "required? qualifications section, Chairperson
Ward-Gerson asked the board what might be missing from the job description. Board members then
discussed the second to last bullet point beginning with ?Must be able and willing to The board then
discussed whether the job description should formally require knowledge of land banks. The consensus
was that while this may be helpful, it need not be required because an otherwise strong candidate can
learn about land banks and because there are already many people with deep knowledge of land banks
on staff. Board members then discussed the ?desirable? qualifications section, specifically the value of
Detroit residency as well as experience within government. Board members asked Korn Ferry
representatives for the rationale behind the ?One-Year Critical Success Factors" section. Korn Ferry
responded that they find it to be helpful for some candidates. After review and discussion, all members
were in agreement of adopting the job description. A Motion by Member Raheem to Adopt the
Executive Director job description. Supported by Member Hosey. MOTION APPROVED.

Chairperson Ward Gerson requested that Korn Ferry proceed with posting the job description and asked
that they send the link to Michael Brady, General Counsel to also allow for posting with the DLBA HR
department. Chairperson Ward Gerson also encouraged board members and the Executive team to
send recommendations for desired candidates to Korn Ferry. Andrea Forrest from Korn Ferry
commented that all recommendations for candidates could be sent directly to her.

ADJOURNMENT
There being no further business, A Motion by Member Hosey to adjourn the meeting. Supported by
Member Raheem. MOTION APPROVED.

Chairperson Ward Gerson adjourned the meeting at 12:49 pm.

