Metropolitan Water Reclamation
District of Greater Chicago

100 East Erie Street
Chicago, IL 60611

Meeting Minutes
Special Meeting

Chairman of Finance Frank Avila, Commissioner Kenneth
Dunkin, Commissioner Martin J. Durkan, Vice-President
Barbara J. McGowan, Commissioner Josina Morita,
Commissioner Debra Shore, Commissioner Kari K. Steele,
Commissioner David J. Walsh, President Board of
Commissioners Mariyana T. Spyropoulos
Monday, December 3, 2018

9:00 AM

Board Room

Call Meeting to Order
President Mariyana T. Spyropoulos presiding, called the meeting to order at 9:10
a.m.

Roll Call
Present:

9-

Frank Avila; Kenneth Dunkin; Martin J. Durkan; Barbara J. McGowan; Josina Morita;
Debra Shore; Kari K. Steele; David J. Walsh; and Mariyana T. Spyropoulos

Approval of Previous Board Meeting Minutes
A motion was made by Kenneth Dunkin, seconded by Martin J. Durkan, that the
minutes from the Special Meetings of November 1, 14, 15, 16, 18, and 29, 2018, be
approved without having to read them into the record. The motion carried by
acclamation. Chorus of ayes - No nays

Public Comment
None

Clerk to Read Call of the Meeting

Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago

Page 1

 Special Meeting

1

Meeting Minutes

18-1278

December 3, 2018

To the Honorable President and
Members of the Board of Commissioners
of the Metropolitan Water Reclamation
District of Greater Chicago
Ladies and Gentlemen:
At the direction of President Mariyana T. Spyropoulos, there will be a Special
Meeting of the Board of Commissioners of the Metropolitan Water Reclamation
District of Greater Chicago on Monday, December 3, 2018 at 9:00 a.m. in the
Board Room, 100 East Erie Street, Chicago, Illinois.
The purpose of the Special Meeting is to appoint the Executive Director of the
Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago.
/s/ Jacqueline Torres
Clerk
A motion was made by Debra Shore, seconded by David J. Walsh, that this
Report be Published and Filed. The motion carried by acclamation. Chorus of
ayes - No nays

2

18-1279

MOTION to appoint an Executive Director
A motion was made by Barbara J. McGowan, seconded by Frank Avila, that this
Motion be Adopted. The motion carried by the following roll call vote:
Aye:

3

18-1280

9-

Frank Avila; Kenneth Dunkin; Martin J. Durkan; Barbara J. McGowan; Josina Morita;
Debra Shore; Kari K. Steele; David J. Walsh; Mariyana T. Spyropoulos

MOTION to reconsider the vote on the motion to appoint an Executive Director
A motion was made by Barbara J. McGowan, seconded by Kenneth Dunkin, that
this Motion be Adopted. The motion failed. The motion carried by the following
roll call vote:
Nay:

9-

Frank Avila; Kenneth Dunkin; Martin J. Durkan; Barbara J. McGowan; Josina Morita;
Debra Shore; Kari K. Steele; David J. Walsh; Mariyana T. Spyropoulos

Open Discussion
Adjournment
A motion was made by Martin J. Durkan, seconded by Kenneth Dunkin, that this
Special Meeting be Adjourned. The motion carried by the following roll call vote:
/s/ Jacqueline Torres, Clerk
Aye:

9-

Frank Avila; Kenneth Dunkin; Martin J. Durkan; Barbara J. McGowan; Josina Morita;
Debra Shore; Kari K. Steele; David J. Walsh; Mariyana T. Spyropoulos

Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago

Page 2

 Special Meeting

Meeting Minutes

December 3, 2018

APPROVAL:
In accordance with the provisions of 70ILCS 2605/4, each of the foregoing agenda
items duly adopted by the Board of Commissioners of the Metropolitan Water
Reclamation District of Greater Chicago this December 3, 2018, are hereby approved.
APPROVED:
/s/ Mariyana T. Spryopoulos
President Board of Commissioners of the
Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago
December 3, 2018

Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago

Page 3

 