   
   

   
   
   

DRAFT   TRANSITION   PLAN   
For   the   Proposed   Reassigned   Boundary   Change   of      
National   Teachers   Academy   
   

   
I.  

Introduction   
   
Chicago   Public   Schools   (CPS)   is   committed   to   providing   every   child   from   every   community   with   a   
high   quality   education   that   prepares   them   for   success   in   college   and   in   life.   CPS   students   continue   to   
make    record-­‐‑breaking    academic    progress    in    every    part    of    the    city.    Our    vision    is    that    all    CPS    schools   
can   build   on   this   progress   by   offering   high   quality,   rigorous   instruction   from   talented   educators   that   
help   put   Chicago   students   on   a   path   to   lasting   success.   
   
In   May   2017,   in   response   to   community   requests   to   strengthen   educational   options   in   the   Near   South   
area,   CPS   introduced   a   preliminary   framework   to   expand   high   quality   neighborhood   options   from   
pre-­‐‑K    through    high    school    in    the    Near    South    area    by    expanding    the    boundaries    of    South    Loop   
Elementary    School    (South    Loop)    and    converting    National    Teachers    Academy    (NTA)    to    a   
neighborhood   high   school.   This   preliminary   framework   was   designed   to   address   key   priorities   in   the   
Near    South    community,    including    providing    a    continuum    of    high    quality    neighborhood    school   
options   for   all   students   from   pre-­‐‑K   through   high   school   graduation,   as   well   as   building   diverse   school   
communities.      
   
With   a   new   facility   under   construction   to   relieve   overcrowding   at    South   Loop   Elementary   School,   
CPS   is   proposing   expanding   South   Loop’s   boundaries   south    to   include   the   entire   National   Teachers   
Academy’s   boundary.   This   will   increase   access   to   this   new,   state-­‐‑of-­‐‑the-­‐‑art   school   facility   and   create   
one   of   the   most   racially   and   economically   diverse   schools   in   the   city.   In   addition,   expanding   South   
Loop’s   boundaries   seeks   to   right   a   historical   wrong   in   the   Near   South   area   by   including   students   who   
were   previously   excluded   from   South   Loop.   As   CPS   noted   in   a   letter   to   Near   South   families   earlier   
this   year:   “Years   ago,   when   South   Loop   Elementary   School   was   built,   boundaries   were   drawn   that   
excluded    and    separated    low-­‐‑income    black    children    from    their    peers.    This    was    wrong    then,    and    it    is   
wrong   now,   and   this   recommendation   will   right   a   historical   wrong.”      
   
Additionally,   gradually   converting   NTA   to   a   neighborhood   high   school   seeks   to   increase   high   quality,   
neighborhood    high    school    seats    in    the    Near    South    area.    Current    high    school    students    in    the    Near   
South    area    have    very    few    nearby    high    school    options.    Currently,    only    8    percent    of    high    school   
students   in   the   Near   South   area   attend   their   neighborhood   high   school   and,   as   a   result,   57   percent   of   
high    school    students    in    the    Near    South    area    travel    more    than    three    miles    to    attend    high    school.      
Introducing   a   high   quality,   neighborhood   high   school   option   close   to   home   will   create   a   continuum   
of   high   quality   options   for   Near   South   students   in   pre-­‐‑K   through   high   school   graduation.      
   
After    introducing    this    proposal    to    the    Near    South    community    in    May,    CPS    conducted    extensive   
community   engagement   to   seek   further   feedback   on   the   preliminary   framework.   This   engagement   
included   three   community   meetings,   more   than   25   small   group   meetings   with   various   stakeholders   
in   the   Near   South   and   collecting   over   900   e-­‐‑mails   from   various   parents   and   community   members.   As   
a   result   of   this   feedback,   CPS   amended   its   proposal   to   better   serve   the   community.   In   particular,   CPS   
drafted   a   more   gradual   conversion   timeline   for   NTA   students   so   that   the   vast   majority   of   existing   
NTA   students   could   continue   their   academic   careers   at   NTA   as   the   high   school   expands.      
1   
   

    
   
   
Based   on   additional   input   from   community   members,   CPS   also   adjusted   its   proposal   so   that   South   
Loop’s   boundaries   will   expand   further   south   than   22nd   street,   to   incorporate   the   entirety   of   NTA’s   
current   boundary   and   a   high   school   boundary   will   be   determined   in   coming   weeks.   Moving   forward,   
we   will   continue   to   work   with   all   stakeholders   to   ensure   that   all   children   receive   the   best   possible   
education   from   pre-­‐‑K   through   high   school   graduation.   
   
As    part    of    this    process,    CPS    formed    a    Near    South    Community    Leadership    Steering    Committee,   
comprised    of    community    leaders,    educators    and    parents    who    will    provide    critical    input    as    the   
process    moves    forward.    CPS    has    engaged    the    Steering    Committee    to    discuss    transition    supports   
needed   to   ensure   success   of   this   proposal.   The   Steering   Committee’s   recommendations   have   been   
incorporated    in    the    transition    supports    below.    Should    this    proposal    move    forward,    the    Steering   
Committee    will    play    a    vital    role    in    helping    CPS    and    the    community    as    we    move    into    the   
implementation   phase,   including   developing   recommendations   on   plans   for   the   new   high   school.   
   
   
II.  
Summary   of   Action   
   
CPS   is   proposing   to   reassign   National   Teachers   Academy’s   boundary   and   students   over   time,   starting   
in   the   fall   of   2019.   National   Teachers   Academy   is   a   K-­‐‑8   elementary   school   located   at   55   W   Cermak   
Road   that   currently   serves   729   students.   National   Teachers   Academy   has   a   pre-­‐‑K   program   as   well   as   
a   Regional   Gifted   Center   program   for   students   in   grades   K-­‐‑5.   South   Loop   Elementary   School   is   a   K-­‐‑8   
elementary   school   located   at   1212   South   Plymouth   Ct.   that   currently   serves   783   students.   South   Loop   
previously   had   a   pre-­‐‑K   program   located   at   its   Early   Childhood   Center,   located   at   1915   S   Federal   St.   
However,   due   to   overcrowding   issues   over   the   past   five   to   10   years,   South   Loop   had   to   cut   its   pre-­‐‑K   
program    and    use    the    space    for    additional    kindergarten    classrooms.    South    Loop    also    has    an    RGC   
program   currently   serving   students   in   grades   6-­‐‑8.   
   
In   the   fall   of   2018,   all   students   attending   National   Teachers   Academy   can   remain   at   NTA.   The    pre-­‐‑K   
program   currently   at   NTA   will   remain   at   NTA   for   the   2018-­‐‑19   school   year.   In   addition,   there   will   be   
no   changes   to   the   boundaries   of   NTA   and   South   Loop   for   the   2018-­‐‑19   school   year.      
   
In   the   fall   of   2019,   NTA   students   in   grades   3   and   below   will   be   transferred   to   South   Loop   Elementary   
School.   These   students   will   also   have   the   option   to   transfer   to   a   different   elementary   school,   including   
their   neighborhood   elementary   school.   The   RGC   program   for   grades   K-­‐‑3   will   re-­‐‑locate   to   South   Loop   
and   phase   in   grades   over   time.   In   addition,   the   pre-­‐‑K   program   currently   at   NTA   will   relocate   to   South   
Loop.   In   the   fall   of   2019,   NTA   students   in   grades   4   and   above   will   have   the   option   to   either   remain   at   
NTA   through   elementary   school   and   high   school   or   transition   to   South   Loop   Elementary   School.   
   
In    the    fall    of    2019,    students    living    in    the    current    NTA    boundary    will    be    zoned    to    South    Loop   
Elementary   School.   The   re-­‐‑assignment   of   school   boundaries   will   occur   over   the   following   timeline:   
   
●   Effective   fall   of   2019-­‐‑20,   for   grades   K-­‐‑3,   current   NTA   boundary   will   be   zoned   to   South   Loop.   
Students   living   in   the   current   NTA   boundary   in   grades   4-­‐‑8   will   remain   zoned   to   NTA.   
●   Effective   fall   of   2020-­‐‑21,   for   grades   K-­‐‑4,   current   NTA   boundary   will   be   zoned   to   South   Loop.   
Students   living   in   the   current   NTA   boundary   in   grades   5-­‐‑8   will   remain   zoned   to   NTA.   
●   Effective   fall   of   2021-­‐‑22,   for   grades   K-­‐‑5,   current   NTA   boundary   will   be   zoned   to   South   Loop.   
Students   living   in   the   current   NTA   boundary   in   grades   6-­‐‑8   will   remain   zoned   to   NTA.   
●   Effective   fall   of   2022-­‐‑23,   for   grades   K-­‐‑6,   current   NTA   boundary   will   be   zoned   to   South   Loop.   
Students   living   in   the   current   NTA   boundary   in   grades   7-­‐‑8   will   remain   zoned   to   NTA.   
2   
   

    
   
●   Effective   fall   of   2023-­‐‑24,   for   grades   K-­‐‑7,   current   NTA   boundary   will   be   zoned   to   South   Loop.   
Students   living   in   the   current   NTA   boundary   in   grade   8   will   remain   zoned   to   NTA.   
●   Effective   fall   of   2024-­‐‑25,   for   grades   K-­‐‑8,   current   NTA   boundary   will   be   zoned   to   South   Loop.      
   
Starting   in   SY   2019-­‐‑20,   NTA   will   simultaneously   begin   phasing   in   high   school   grades   and   phasing   
out   the   remaining   elementary   school   grades,   eventually   converting   to   a   9-­‐‑12   neighborhood   high   
school   serving   students   in   Near   South   Area,   including   Chinatown,   Bridgeport,   North   Bronzeville   and   
South   Loop.   The   timeline   for   this   conversion   will   be   as   follows:   
   
●   In   SY   2019-­‐‑20,   NTA   will   contain   students   in   grades   4-­‐‑9   
●   In   SY   2020-­‐‑21,   NTA   will   contain   students   in   grades   5-­‐‑10   
●   In   SY   2021-­‐‑22,   NTA   will   contain   students   in   grades   6-­‐‑11   
●   In   SY   2022-­‐‑23,   NTA   will   contain   students   in   grades   7-­‐‑12   
●   In   SY   2023-­‐‑24,   NTA   will   contain   students   in   grades   8-­‐‑12   
●   In   SY   2024-­‐‑25   and   beyond,   NTA   will   contain   students   in   grades   9-­‐‑12   
   

   
   
The   proposed   re-­‐‑assignment   of   NTA’s   boundary   meets   the   criteria   of   the   Chief   Executive   Officer’s   
Guidelines    for    School    Actions    (Guidelines)    because    it    is    a    proposal    requested    by    parents    or   
community   members   via   the   process   to   request   proposals   outlined   in   the   Guidelines.      Specifically,   we   
have    heard    the    request    for    this    proposal    from    recommendations    by    public    officials,    parents,   
community    members    and    community    groups    in    the    Near    South    area    in    the    form    of    petitions,    e-­‐‑mail   
and   statements   at   community   meetings.   This   proposal   is   also   consistent   with   the   Guidelines   because   
the    resulting    space    utilization    after    the    reassignment    boundary    change    will    not    exceed    any    affected   
schools’   enrollment   efficiency   range   as   defined   by   CPS’   Space   Utilization   Standards.      Finally,   the   NTA   

3   
   

    
   
students    impacted    by    this    proposed    re-­‐‑assignment    boundary    change    are    being    provided    the    option   
to   enroll   at   South   Loop   Elementary   School,   a   higher   performing   school,   as   defined   by   the   Guidelines.   
   
CPS   has   set   aside   approximately   $3.5   million   to   support   the   transition   of   current   NTA   students   until   
they   graduate.   These   funds   will   go   toward   supports   and   resources   for   students   and   families   in   order   
to   ensure   a   smooth   transition   into   one,   unified   school   community.   
   
The   transition   plan   outlined   below   summarizes   what   will   be   provided   to   support   the   transition   of   
NTA   and   South   Loop   students   and   families   into   one   school   community.   Throughout   this   plan,   we   will   
be    offering    answers    to    key    questions    and    considerations    that    parents    and    community    members   
raised    throughout    the    community    engagement    process    CPS    held    earlier    this    year.    We    expect    to   
provide   additional   information   as   transition   plans   are   finalized   in   partnership   with   the   community   
and   school   administrations.   
   
   
III.  
Community   Building   and   Culture   Integration   
   
One    of    the    major    benefits    of    this    proposal    is    the    opportunity    to    create    a    more    integrated    school   
community,    not    just    among    students    but    among    parents    and    the    broader    community    as    well.   
Successful    integration    requires    time,    effort    and    resources    to    unite    communities    around    a    shared,   
cohesive    identity.    Though    students    from    NTA    would    not    transition    to    South    Loop    until    the    fall    of   
2019,    the    process    to    bring    these    two    communities    will    start    this    school    year,    should    the    Board   
approval    this    proposal.    These    supports    may    be    further    customized    as    feedback    is    obtained    at   
community   meetings   and   a   public   hearing   regarding   this   proposal.   Additionally,   resources   may   be   
adjusted   to   meet   the   unique   needs   of   affected   students   if   deemed   necessary.   
   
●   Provide   stipends   for   the   creation   of   a   joint   Culture   and   Climate   Team,   with   representation   
from    principals,    teachers,    staff,    parents    and    students    at    both    NTA    and    South    Loop,   
responsible   for:   
o   Developing   a   shared   vision   and   set   of   values   for   the   culture   at   South   Loop;   
o   Identifying    any    programs,    curriculum,    or    other    activities    in    school    to    achieve    the   
vision;   
o   Identifying   potential   professional   development   or   training   opportunities   for   teachers   
and   staff,   in   accordance   with   vision;   
o   Developing    a    schedule    of    activities,    prior    to    the    fall    of    2019,    to    bring    school   
communities   together;   
o   Create   a   schedule   of   activities,   with   input   from   the   transition   committee,   for   students   
and   families   to   come   together.   Such   activities   could   include   pool   parties,   board   game   
nights,    merging    of    existing    events    at    each    school,    tour    of    the    new    elementary    school   
facility   in   SY   2018-­‐‑19,   specific   events   and   forums   for   parents,   mutual   service   project,   
pen    pals    and/or    book    share,    opportunities    for    communities    to    learn    about    each   
other’s   
culture,   
etc.   
   
●   Provide    funding    for    activities    through    which    NTA    and    South    Loop    students    and    parents    can   
come    together    prior    to    fall    of    2019.    The    schedule    of    activities    will    be    determined    with    input   
from   the   joint   Culture   and   Climate   team   and   may   include   activities   such   as:   
o   Pool   parties,   board   game   nights,   cook-­‐‑outs,   joint   talent   shows   and   similar   events;   
o   NTA   invitations   to   SL   to   attend   their   events   and   vice   versa;   
o   Students    and    families    tour    the    new    facility    together    once    it    is    available    (mid-­‐‑year    SY   
2018-­‐‑19);   
4   
   

    
   
Specific   events   and   forums   just   for   parents;   
Kids   work   on   a   service   project   together;   
Joint   leadership   committees   among   students;   
Book   
share   
or   
pen   
pals.   
   
●   Provide    funding    for    professional    development    and/or    training    opportunities    for    students,   
parents   and   other   community   members,   designed   to   help   bring   students   and   families   from   
different    backgrounds    together    (e.g.    cultural    and    racial    awareness    trainings).   
   
●   Explore   options   to   provide   affordable   after   school   program   options   at   South   Loop   Elementary   
School   (e.g.   Park   District   run   after   school   programs,   such   as   the   program   currently   located   at   
NTA).   
   
●   Launch   a   community-­‐‑requested   Racial   Equity   Analysis   to   ensure   that   students   and   families   
from   all   backgrounds   would   be   treated   equitably   in   the   transition   and   the   years   to   come.   CPS   
has   
budgeted   
roughly   
$85,000   
for   
a   
third   
party   
study.      
   
   
IV.  
Safety   and   security   
   
Through   various   community   meetings   and   comments   made   at   CPS   board   meetings,   CPS   has   collected   
feedback   from   the   community   on   the   safety   supports   regarding   this   proposal.   These   supports   may   
be   further   customized   as   feedback   is   obtained   at   community   meetings   and   a   public   hearing   regarding   
this   proposal.   Additionally,   resources   may   be   adjusted   to   meet   the   unique   needs   of   affected   students   
if   deemed   necessary.   
   
●   Examine   any   existing   Safe   Passage   routes   and   determine   the   need   to   expand   Safe   Passage   to   
support   student   travel   to   South   Loop   Elementary   School;   
●   Expand   the   use   of   crossing   guards   as   needed   to   ensure   safety   among   students   crossing   the   
street;   
●   Provide   a   shuttle   bus   for   NTA   students   who   transition   to   South   Loop   elementary   school;   
●   Work    with    the    community    to    identify    and    address    the    any    additional    safety    or    travel   
concerns;   
●   Review   Security   Officer   Staffing   levels   based   on   approved   action.   
   
   
V.  
Supports   for   Students   and   Schools         
   
CPS   is   committed   to   ensuring   a   successful   transition   during   this   process.      To   accomplish   this,   CPS   will   
provide    the    following    supports    to    meet    the    academic,    social    and    emotional,    and    specific    learning   
needs   of   affected   students.      These   resources   may   be   further   customized   as   feedback   is   obtained   at   
community   meetings   and   a   public   hearing   regarding   this   proposal.   Additionally,   resources   may   be   
adjusted   to   meet   the   unique   needs   of   affected   students   if   deemed   necessary.   
   
Support   for   Students’   Academic   Needs   
To    ensure    students    are    academically    prepared    and    supported    with    high-­‐‑quality    instruction   
throughout   the   transition,   CPS   will   provide   the   following   academic   supports:   
   
●   A   Principal   Transition   Coordinator   (PTC)   will   be   assigned   during   the   School   Year   2018-­‐‑2019   
and    will    be    maintained    at    least    through    the    2019-­‐‑20    school    year.    PTCs    are    former   
o  
o  
o  
o  

5   
   

    
   

●  

●  
●  
●  

administrators    (principals,    APs,    Chiefs)    who    in    many    cases    have    helped    ensure    smooth   
transitions   following   school   actions.      The   PTC   will   support   the   NTA   and   South   Loop   school   
administrations   in   handling   the   additional   work   that   comes   with   school   transitions,   including   
administrative   support   such   as   helping   the   NTA   administration   close   out   school   records   and   
accounts    for    transitioning    students    and    transferring    those    records    and    accounts    to    South   
Loop.   
A   school-­‐‑based   transition   coordinator   will   be   assigned   during   the   2018-­‐‑19   school   year   and   
will   be   maintained   at   least   through   the   2019-­‐‑20   school   year.   The   school-­‐‑based   administrator   
will    be    responsible    for    ensuring    transitioning    students    are    supported    throughout    the   
transition    process.    The    school-­‐‑based    transition    coordinator    will    act    as    a    point    of    contact    for   
transitioning    students    and    families,    helping    to    answer    questions    and    direct    them    to   
resources.   In   addition,   the   school-­‐‑based   transition   coordinator   will   work   with   the   principals   
to    assist    in    the    implementation    of    new    programs    or    other    supports    designed    to    support   
students    following    the    transition    (e.g.    supports    identified    by    the    joint    Culture    and    Climate   
team).   
Students   and   parents   will   be   given   the   opportunity   to   meet   with   school   staff   at   South   Loop   
Elementary   School,   including   teachers,   principals   and   other   staff,   prior   to   the   beginning   of   
the   2019-­‐‑20   school   year.   
School   communities   will   work   with   CPS   to   determine   any   additional   academic   supports   for   
transitioning   students.   
CPS    will    provide    comprehensive    data    on    all    transitioning    students    to    the    schools    where   
students   transition.      

   
Support   for   Students’   Social   and   Emotional   Needs   
CPS    understands    that    whenever    students    transition    into    new    situations    and    environments,   
additional   support   is   needed   to   help   them   adjust.   CPS   and   the   Office   of   Social   Emotional   Learning   
(OSEL)    will    consult    with    the    NTA    and    South    Loop    school    communities    to    evaluate    existing    SEL   
supports    and    determine    additional    resource    needs    for    a    school-­‐‑specific    plan    that    may    include    the   
following:   
   
●   Implementing   restorative   practices   (such   as   talking   circles   and   peer   councils)   to   encourage   
peer-­‐‑to-­‐‑peer   problem-­‐‑solving   and   resolution;   
●   Developing    behavioral    health    systems    to    identify    when    students    have    higher    levels    of    social   
and    emotional    need,    connect    them    to    targeted    interventions    and    track    their    progress    to   
ensure   success;   
●   Implementing    targeted    small    group    supports    or    circles    aimed    at    helping    students    work   
through   concerns   associated   with   transition   as   needed;   
●   Access    to    social    &    emotional    or    trauma    interventions    for    students    in    need    of    more   
individualized   attention;   
●   Transition   Team   will   work   with   OSEL   to   develop   Student   Leadership   and   Culture-­‐‑Building   
Activities   to   ensure   students   feel   welcome   in   schools   they   transition   to;   
●   Providing    professional    development    and    training    opportunities    in    trauma-­‐‑sensitive   
practices,   restorative   practices,   social   emotional   learning   and   other   relevant   topics   to   staff   at   
schools   where   students   transition.      
   
   
   
   
   
   
6   
   

    
   
Support   for   Specific   Students’   Needs   
   
Support   for   Diverse   Learners   
Students   with   disabilities   and   their   families   will   be   supported   in   the   transition   process   through   clear   
communication,   continual   support   for   academic   instruction   and   ensuring   that   transition   schools   are   
fully   able   to   implement   student   Individual   Education   Programs   (IEPs).   Students   with   disabilities,   as   
with   all   students   impacted   by   school   actions,   will   receive   intensive   support   to   ensure   their   academic   
and    social-­‐‑emotional    needs    are    met.        Students    with    disabilities    will    also    receive    the    following   
categories   of   support,   adjustable   to   individual   student/family   need:   
   
Current   students   with   disabilities   will   continue   to   receive   the   following   supports,   required   by   law:   
   
●   A   free   and   appropriate   public   education   (FAPE)   
●   The   implementation   of   the   student’s   IEP   in   the   least   restrictive   environment   (LRE)      
●   A   focus   on   student   academic   and   social   emotional   progress   
   
In    addition,    a    district    representative    from    the    Office    of    Diverse    Learner    Supports    and    Services   
(ODLSS)   will   be   assigned   to   work   with   families   and   students   to   support   them.   Specifically,   the   district   
representative   
will:   
   
●   Work   with   teachers   on   appropriate   programming   to   support   the   diverse   learners.   
●   Make   sure   classrooms   are   appropriately   set   up   for   the   students   with   diverse   learning   needs.   
●   NTA   families   can   reach   their   District   Representative,   Shani   Boone,   at   saboone@cps.edu.   
●   South    Loop    families    can    reach    their    District    Representative,    Sarah    Briggs,    at   
srbriggs@cps.edu.   
   
Support   for   Students   in   Temporary   Living   Situations   
●   The   CPS   Office   of   Students   in   Temporary   Living   Situations   (STLS)   will   continue   the   supports   
currently    provided    to    Students    in    Temporary    Living    Situations    (STLS)    as    required    by   
law.        These    include    free    school    meals,    enrollment    support,    provision    of    required    school   
uniforms   and   school   supplies   as   needed,   transportation   assistance   when   eligible,   and   waiver   
of   all   school   related   fees.   
●   Students   in   Temporary   Living   Situations   will   be   encouraged   to   attend   any   events   in   which   
they   can   meet   with   school   staff   and/or   learn   about   schools   to   transition   to.   
●   For   those   students   who   had   been   homeless   prior   to   the   2019-­‐‑2020   school,   their   school   of   
origin   will   become   the   first   school   they   enroll   in   for   the   2019-­‐‑2020   school   year.   
●   Students   in   Temporary   Living   Situations   will   have   the   opportunity   to   meet   with   STLS   staff,   in   
addition    to    other    staff    on    the    Transition    Team,    to    discuss    their    options,    develop    academic   
readiness   plans   and   safety   plans   to   support   them   throughout   the   transition   period.   
●   For   families   currently   enrolled   in   the   STLS   program,   younger   siblings   may   attend   the   same   
school    that    their    older    sibling    elects    under    this    proposed    action    (assuming    the    younger    and   
older   siblings   are   both   in   high   school).   
●   Additionally,   CPS   will   provide   professional   development   and   support   to   staff   on   providing   
transition   services   for   STLS   students.   
   
Support   for   English   Learners      
●   Current    and    future    English    Language    Learners    (ELs)    will    receive    state    mandated    bilingual   
services    (Transitional    Bilingual    Education    (TBE)    or    Transitional    Program    of    Instruction   
(TPI)),    as    required.        English    as    a    Second    Language    (ESL)    instruction    provided    by    an    ESL-­‐‑
endorsed   teacher   is   part   of   both   programs.         
7   
   

    
   
●   Meaningful    access    to    the    core    curriculum    is    provided    to    TBE    students    through    native   
language   instruction   in   the   core   content   (language   arts,   math,   science,   and   social   studies).   
●   For   TPI   students,   meaningful   access   to   core   curriculum   is   delivered   through   sheltered   English   
content   instruction   and   native   language   supports,   based   on   the   individual   student’s   need,   and   
provided    by    appropriately    endorsed    (bilingual-­‐‑    or    ESL-­‐‑endorsed)    teacher(s).   
   
Support   for   Students’   Transportation   Needs   
●   Provisions    for    specific    student    populations    (i.e.,    student    with    disabilities,    Students    in   
Temporary    Living    Situations    and    NCLB    qualifying    students),    as    determined    by    the    CPS   
transportation   policy,   will   continue   to   apply.   
   
VI.  
The   Teachers   and   Staff   
   
A   major   factor   in   the   proposed   re-­‐‑assigned   boundary   change   of   NTA   schools   is   the   desire   to   retain   
all   of   the   exceptional   teachers   and   staff   that   currently   teach   our   students.   We   know   this   is   a   priority   
for   the   school   communities.   
   
VII.   Additional   Logistical   Information   
   
Information   Regarding   Choice   of   Schools   
   
CPS   is   committed   to   providing   educational   options   that   fit   each   student’s   unique   learning   needs   and   
each   family’s   priorities.      To   support   families   in   understanding   their   enrollment   options,   information   
from   the   Office   of   Access   &   Enrollment   is   available:   
●   Online   (www.cps.edu   or   www.cpsoae.edu),   
●   By   email   (oae@cps.edu),   
●   By   phone   (773-­‐‑553-­‐‑2060),   and   
●   In   person   (42   W.   Madison   St.   Chicago,   IL   60602).   
   
Public   Comment   
   
Community   Meetings   and   Public   Hearing:   
CPS   will   hold   two   community   meetings   and   one   formal   public   hearing   regarding   this   proposed   action.   
Public   comment   will   be   accepted   during   each   meeting   or   hearing.   CPS   is   committed   to   considering   
community   feedback   and   will   amend   this   draft   transition   plan   accordingly.   
   
Community   Meeting   1   
Community   Meeting   2   
Public   Hearing   
January   9,   2018                                  
January   16,   2018                                  
January   29,   2018   
6   to   8   p.m.   
6   to   8   p.m.   
6   to   8:30   p.m.   
Illinois   Institute   of   Technology   
Second   Presbyterian   Church   
CPS   Central   Office   
(Hermann   Hall   Auditorium)   
3241   South   Federal   Street   
1936   South   Michigan   Avenue   
42   West   Madison   Street   
   
   
Further   Questions   and   Concerns:   
All   of   this   information   can   be   found   at   CPS.edu/Transitions.   If   you   have   any   questions   or   concerns   
regarding   this   proposal   and   the   draft   transition   plan,   please   call   Chicago   Public   Schools   at   (773)   553-­‐‑
1500   or   email   Transitions@cps.edu.   
   
8   
   

 