MINUTES OF MEETING
WAYNE COUNTY ELECTION COMMISSION
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 22, 2016 – 11:30 A.M.
COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL BUILDING - ROOM 700A
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

Call to Order:

The meeting was called to order at 11:43 a.m., Wednesday, June 22,
2016.

Members present: Honorable Freddie G. Burton, Jr., Chief Judge, Probate Court
Honorable Cathy M. Garrett, Secretary- Wayne County Clerk
Honorable Eric Sabree, Member – Wayne County Treasurer
Members absent: None
Also present:

Janet Anderson-Davis, Assistant Corporation Counsel
Delphine G. Oden, Director, Wayne County Elections
Jennifer Redmond
Greg P. Mahar
Kevin Kavanagh
Jina Sawani

Agenda item:

Consideration of Agenda approval.
Board action on agenda item: Chair Burton requested a motion
to approve the agenda. Member Garrett, duly supported by Chair
Burton, moved to adopt the agenda as submitted. The motion was
adopted unanimously by a voice vote.

Agenda item:

Approval of Minutes of June 7, 2016
Board action on agenda item: Chair Burton requested a motion
to approve the minutes of the meeting held on June 7, 2016.
Member Garrett, duly supported by Member Sabree, moved to
approve the minutes of the meeting held on June 7, 2016. The
motion was adopted unanimously by a voice vote.

Agenda item:

Berry V. Garrett et al Opinion
Chair Burton indicated that the purpose of the meeting was to
discuss the Court of Appeals decision for Berry V. Garrett et al. He
further stated that in the opinion the appeals court ruled that the
Wayne County Clerk had a legal duty to correct an error. Asst.
Corporation Counsel Anderson-Davis advised the commission that
there is the option to appeal or request a clarification. She further

 indicated that there had not been any requests filed for stay of
proceedings and that both candidates had already filed write-in
declarations of intent and it appears there is no intent to appeal.
She advised that with both candidates filing as a write-in candidate,
there should be a vote to remove the names from the ballot.
Board action on agenda item: Chair Burton requested a motion
regarding the opinion and order from the Court of Appeals. Member
Sabree duly supported by Member Garrett moved to remove the
names of both candidates and reprint the ballots. The motion was
adopted unanimously by a voice vote.
Agenda item:

New Business None.

Agenda item:

Public Comment. None.

Agenda item:

Adjournment.
Board action on agenda item: Chair Burton requested a motion
to adjourn. Member Sabree, duly supported by Member Garrett,
moved to adjourn the meeting. The motion was adopted
unanimously by a voice vote.
Meeting adjourned at 12 noon.

 