   
   
   
   
   
DRAFT   TRANSITION   PLAN   
For   the   Proposed   Consolidation   of   
Edward   Jenner   Elementary   Academy   of   the   Arts   into   
Ogden   International   School   of   Chicago   
   
   
I.   Introduction   
   
Chicago   Public   Schools   (CPS)   is   committed   to   providing   every   child   from   every   community   with   a   
high   quality   education   that   prepares   them   for   success   in   college   and   in   life.   CPS   students   continue   
to   make   record-­‐‑breaking   academic   progress   in   every   part   of   the   city.   Our   vision   is   that   all   CPS   
schools   can   build   on   this   progress   by   offering   high   quality,   rigorous   instruction   from   talented   
educators   that   help   put   Chicago   students   on   a   path   to   lasting   success.      
   
Two   years   ago,   the   Local   School   Councils   at   Edward   Jenner   Elementary   Academy   of   the   Arts   
(Jenner)   and   Ogden   International   School   of   Chicago   (Ogden)   requested   that   a   consolidation   of   
Jenner   and   Ogden   be   considered.      At   that   time,   CPS   declined   to   propose   the   consolidation   of   Jenner   
and   Ogden   and   instead   sought   additional   community   engagement   to   address   Jenner   and   Ogden’s   
unique   academic   and   utilization   concerns.   A   Jenner/Ogden   Community   Steering   Committee   (JOCSC)   
was   formed,   comprised   of   parents   and   community   members   representing   Jenner   and   Ogden   and   
they   have   led   a   community-­‐‑driven   approach   to   merge   the   two   schools.   JOCSC   hired   NextLevel   NPO,   
LLC   (NextLevel)   to   prepare   a   report   evaluating   options   to   address   Ogden’s   overcrowding   and   
Jenner’s   underutilization.   NextLevel’s   report   supports   the   proposal   to   merge   Jenner   and   Ogden,   
providing   Jenner   students   with   an   access   to   an   International   Baccalaureate   Programme,   addressing   
both   schools’   enrollment   concerns   and   creating   an   integrated,   diverse   school.         
   
Throughout   the   summer   and   fall   of   2017,   CPS   assembled   a   transition   team   of   CPS   officials,   
principals   and   assistant   principals   from   both   schools,   along   with   teachers   and   staff,   and   began   to   
draft   a   transition   plan   with   these   principles:      
●   Jenner   and   Ogden   students   alike   should   be   exposed   to   high-­‐‑quality   academic   programs   and   
supports   that   provide   rigor   and   growth;      
●   Each   school   has   a   strong   culture   and   history,   both   of   which   will   continue   to   be   honored,   and   
blended   into   a   shared   and   inclusive   community   culture;   
●   The   merger   of   these   two   schools   is   about   more   than   facilities   and   is   indeed   about   our   
current   students   and   those   who   will   follow;   
●   We   are   committed   to   supporting   our   best   assets   –   the   teachers   –   to   be   the   best   they   can   be   
for   our   students.   
   
On   November   15,   2017,   pursuant   to   the   2017-­‐‑2018   Chief   Executive   Officer’s   Guidelines   for   School   
Actions   (Guidelines),   the   JOCSC   renewed   a   request   that   the   CEO   propose   consolidate   Jenner   into   
Ogden,   the   result   of   which   would   include   merging   Jenner   and   Ogden’s   attendance-­‐‑area   boundaries   
into   one   attendance   area   boundary   to   create   a   new   inclusive   boundary.   
   
   

   

1   

    
II.   Summary   of   Proposed   Action   
   
The   proposal   to   consolidate   Jenner   and   Ogden   includes   the   following   proposed   elements:   
   
●   Consolidate   the   Jenner   and   Ogden   attendance   boundaries   into   one   attendance   boundary   
(see   image   below).   
●   The   newly   combined   K-­‐‑12   school   will   operate   from   three   different   facilities/campuses   and   
all   three   of   the   facilities   are   projected   to   be   efficient   according   to   the   efficiency   range   as   
defined   by   CPS’   Space   Utilization   Standards.   
a.   24   W.   Walton   Street   (K-­‐‑4th   grade)   
b.   1119   N.   Cleveland   Avenue   (5th-­‐‑8th   grade)   
c.   1250   W.   Erie   Street   (9-­‐‑12th   grade)   
   
   

   
   
CPS   has   set   aside   approximately   $1.8   million   over   the   next   3   ½   years   to   support   the   transition   of   
students   into   the   newly   consolidated   school.   The   communities   of   Jenner   and   Ogden   have   worked   
closely   together   for   roughly   three   years   to   develop   a   unique   and   customized   transition   plan   for   the   
schools.      
   
The   transition   plan   outlined   below   summarizes   what   will   be   provided   by   Jenner,   Ogden   and   CPS   to   
ensure   a   smooth   transformation   from   two   schools   into   one.   Throughout   this   plan,   we   will   be   
offering   our   answers   to   the   key   questions   and   considerations   that   parents   and   community   
members   raised   throughout   the   community   engagement   process   CPS   held   earlier   this   year.   We   will   
be   addressing   academic   programming,   operation,   staffing,   as   well   as   school   climate   and   culture   of   
the   three-­‐‑building   footprint.      Please   note:      additional   work   will   be   done   by   CPS   and   both   school   
Administrations   to   finalize   this   transition   plan   if   the   consolidation   is   approved   by   the   Board   of   
Education   (BOE).   
   
Space   and   Facilities   Utilization   
   
CPS   is   proposing   to   consolidate   Jenner   into   Ogden.      Jenner   is   an   attendance-­‐‑area/neighborhood   arts   
magnet   school   located   at   1119   N.   Cleveland   Avenue   that   serves   grades   Kindergarten   through   eighth   

   

2   

    
grade,   with   a   pre-­‐‑kindergarten   program.   Ogden   is   an   attendance-­‐‑area   /   neighborhood   IB   school   
that   serves   kindergarten   through   twelfth   grade.   Ogden’s   kindergarten   through   fifth   grades   are   
located   at   24   W.   Walton   Street   and   its   sixth   through   twelfth   grades   are   located   at   1250   W.   Erie   
Street.   Jenner   currently   serves   250   students   and   Ogden   currently   serves   1,690   students.      The   
proposal   would   allow   for   Jenner   and   Ogden’s   elementary   school   attendance-­‐‑area   boundaries   to   be   
merged   into   one   attendance   area   boundary   and   serve   a   combined   enrollment   of   Jenner   and   Ogden   
pre-­‐‑K   to   8th   grade   of   1,441   students.         
   
This   proposal   is   consistent   with   the   Chief   Executive   Officer’s   Guidelines   for   School   Actions   
(Guidelines)   because   it   is   a   proposal   requested   by   parents   or   community   members   via   the   process   
to   request   proposals   outlined   in   the   Guidelines.   Specifically,   we   have   heard   the   request   for   this   
proposal   from   the   JOCSC,   various   community   meetings   held   earlier   this   year   and   a   letter   dated   
November   15,   2017   from   the   JOCSC.   This   proposal   is   also   consistent   with   the   Guidelines   because   
the   resulting   space   utilization   after   the   consolidation   will   not   exceed   the   facilities’   enrollment   
efficiency   range,   as   defined   by   the   CPS’   Space   Utilization   Standards.   Finally,   the   students   impacted   
by   this   proposed   consolidation   are   being   provided   the   option   to   enroll   at   Ogden,   a   higher   
performing   school,   as   defined   by   the   Guidelines.   
   
●   The   1119   N.   Cleveland   Avenue   (Jenner)   and   the   24   W.   Walton   Street   (Ogden   East)   facilities   
have   sufficient   space   to   accommodate   this   proposed   consolidation.         
○   CPS   proposes   locating   the   K-­‐‑4   grades   in   the   24   W.   Walton   building.         
■   Ideal   capacity   is   810.   
■   The   combined   current   enrollment   of   Jenner   and   Ogden’s   K-­‐‑4th   grades   is   810   
students   and   would   operate   efficiently.      
○   The   5th-­‐‑   8th   grades   would   be   located   in   the   1119   N.   Cleveland   building.      
■   Ideal   capacity   is   690.   
■   The   combined   current   enrollment   of   the   Jenner   and   Ogden’s   5th-­‐‑   8th   grades   
total   is   581   students   and   would   operate   efficiently.         
   
Pre-­‐‑Kindergarten   
   
The   JOCSC   and   CPS   continue   to   support   easy   and   equitable   access   to   early   childhood   education   for   
all   area   families.   There   are   currently   many   affordable   Pre-­‐‑K   options   in   the   area,   including   the   well-­‐‑
established   CPS   dual   language   Pre-­‐‑K   program   at   nearby   Ruben   Salazar   school.   The   Salazar   program   
provides   free   and   sliding   scale   Pre-­‐‑K   to   many   current   area   residents.      Additionally,   Cornerstone   
Center   at   1111   N.   Wells   has   a   sliding   scale   Pre-­‐‑K   program   that   many   other   Near   North   
side   residents   use   and   there   is   a   new   daycare/Pre-­‐‑K   going   into   the   1200   N.   Clybourn   building   that   
will   open   at   a   later   date.   This   new   program   is   designed   to   serve   residents   that   live   in   the   area   with   
mixed   income   housing.   Also,   throughout   the   Near   North   side   there   are   many   private   fee-­‐‑based   Pre-­‐‑
K   options   for   families   to   choose   from.   Discussions   are   underway   regarding   if   a   Pre-­‐‑K   option   will   be   
available   at   the   merged   school.
   
Current   8th   Grade   Transition   
   
The   JOCSC   and   CPS   agree   that   all   students   who   graduate   eighth   grade   from   Jenner   in   the   2017-­‐‑2018   
year   will   have   the   opportunity   to   attend   Ogden   High   School   if   they   so   choose.   
   
Start   and   End   Times   of   School   Day   
   
The   school   Administration   suggests   the   following   staggered   school   day   hours:   

   

3   

    
●   K-­‐‑4th:   8   a.m.   –   3   p.m.      
●   5th-­‐‑8th:   8:30   a.m.   –   3:30   p.m.   
●   9th-­‐‑12th:      8:30   a.m.   –   3:45   p.m.   

   
The   school   is   open   to   reasonably   accommodating   students   that   need   to   wait   for   siblings   from   
another   campus   in   exigent   or   unforeseen   circumstances.   
   
Administration      
The   Administration   of   the   consolidated   school   will   be   as   follows:   
●   Principal   of   overall   school   
●   Assistant   Principal,   K-­‐‑4th      
●   Assistant   Principal,   5th-­‐‑8th   
●   Assistant   Principal,   9th-­‐‑12th   
   
The   foundation   positions   to   be   provided   to   the   consolidated   school   will   be   as   follows:   
●   School   Counselor,   K-­‐‑4th      
●   School   Counselor,   5th-­‐‑8th   
●   School   Counselor,   9th-­‐‑12th   
   
●   School   Clerk,   K-­‐‑4th   
●   School   Clerk,   5th-­‐‑8th   
●   School   Clerk,   9th-­‐‑12th   
   
Overall   Curriculum/Educational   Focus      
The   newly   consolidated   school   will   continue   to   be   a   K-­‐‑12   International   Baccalaureate   (IB)   Full   
Continuum   World   School.   Ogden   will   continue   to   operate   as   a   certified   IB   school.   Per   the   request   of   
the   JOCSC,   the   Administration   and   teachers/staff   will   work   together   to   honor   the   N.E.S.T.   
philosophy   that   began   at   Jenner   by   Dr.   Robert   Croston.   
   
Budget   
CPS   acknowledges   the   potential   challenge   of   the   middle   school   grades   separating   from   the   high   
school   causing   a   change   in   per   pupil   funding   rate   for   the   middle   school   students,   because   Ogden   
6th-­‐‑8th   grade   students   are   funded   at   the   high   school   rate.   Additionally,   the   consolidated   school   
likely   will   not   qualify   for   Title   I   funding,   which   Jenner   has   relied   on   as   a   source   of   critical   funding.   
To   ensure   a   smooth   transition   CPS   will   consider   these   factors,   so   that   during   the   2018-­‐‑19   school   
year,   the   consolidated   school   will   not   have   decreases   in   funding   levels.      
●   CPS   acknowledges   the   first   year   is   critical   as   students   and   families   learn   to   work   together   
and   build   trust.   CPS   will   consider   allocating   a   FY19   Budget   for   Ogden   K-­‐‑12   that   allows   for   
the   following   positions   to   be   funded   to   ensure   a   smooth   transition:   
o   Full-­‐‑time   social   worker   to   support   the   needs   of   students   dealing   with   trauma,   and   to   
train   teachers   how   to   identify   and   support   students   dealing   with   trauma;      
o   Two   Youth   Advocate   Specialists   to   support   restorative   practices   to   resolve   issues   
and   differences   of   perception   between   stakeholders;      
o   Parent   Support   Specialist   to   ensure   parents’   concerns   are   addressed   effectively   and   
efficiently;      
o   Stipends   to   pay   teachers   to   work   on   the   Culture   and   Climate   team   and   ensure   a   
positive   and   supportive   learning   environment   for   all   students;      
o   Funding   for   A   Single   Story,   Inc.,   for   ongoing   consultation   and   diversity   training   for   
teachers,   staff,   parents,   and   students,   so   that   an   inclusive   learning   environment   is   
fostered   to   value   all   perspectives;      

   

4   

    
o   Tuition   stipends   for   teachers   to   increase   the   number   of   ESL   endorsements,   so   
English   Language   Learners   are   dispersed   across   multiple   classrooms,   instead   of   
having   a   single   ESL   classroom   in   each   grade.      

   
   
III.  Safety   and   Security   
   
At   the   present   time,   there   are   no   recognized   CPS   safety   concerns   at   either   school.      The   CPS   Office   of   
Safety   &   Security   will   work   with   the   Administrations   of   Jenner   and   Ogden   to   review   each   school’s   
safety   and   security   plan.      A   variety   of   supports   for   students   and   the   nearby   community   will   be   
considered   as   a   formal   plan   is   developed.   These   supports   will   include   the   following:   
   
●   First   and   foremost,   CPS   will   hold   safety   planning   meetings   to   ensure   that   all   safety   efforts   
are   coordinated   between   CPS,   Administration,   Parents   and   the   Chicago   Police   Department;   
●   Review   the   need   for   the   Safe   Passage   Program   for   student   traveling   to   their   new   school;   
●   Review   and   adjust   security   protocols   and   standardize   protocols   across   both   campuses;      
●   Review   and   adjust   existing   safety   technology   across   both   campuses;   
●   Examine   the   current   use   of   crossing   guards   and   explore   the   need   to   include   Oak   Street   
between   the   two   campuses;      
●   Create   and   enhance   safety   plans   for   parents   who   drive   their   children   to   school,   including   
drop-­‐‑off/pick-­‐‑up   procedures   such   as   ‘Kiss   and   Go’   programs;   
●   Review   Security   Officer   Staffing   levels   based   on   approved   action.   
   
IV.   Supports   for   Students   and   Schools   
   
Support   for   Students’   Transportation   Needs   
CPS   acknowledges   that   transportation   logistics   are   of   great   importance   to   families   in   both   school   
communities.   Below   are   transportation   considerations   that   will   support   our   families   and   students   
and   successfully   get   them   to   and   from   the   three   school   buildings.   Additional   discussions   will   occur   
as   the   transition   plan   is   finalized.   
●   Continue   to   apply   provisions   for   specific   student   populations   (i.e.,   students   with   disabilities,   
Students   in   Temporary   Living   Situations   (STLS),   and   NCLB   qualifying   students),   as   
determined   by   the   CPS   transportation   policy;   
●   Cease   the   current   shuttle   bus   used   between   Ogden   East   and   West   campuses;   
●   Shuttle   students   between   the   Cleveland   (current   Jenner)   campus   and   the   Walton   (current   
Ogden   East)   campus   beginning   in   the   2018-­‐‑19   school   year;   
●   Stagger   campus   start   times   to   provide   an   opportunity   for   older   siblings   to   accompany   
younger   siblings   to   the   appropriate   campus   as   mentioned   above;   
●   Explore   efforts   to   create   a   ‘walking   school   bus’   or   Student   Walking   Ambassador   Program   
utilizing   community   partners   (Moody   Bible   College,   etc.)   to   accompany   students   traveling   
between   campuses.   
   
Support   for   Students’   Academic   Needs   
CPS   is   committed   to   ensuring   a   successful   transition   of   a   Board-­‐‑approved   proposal.   To   accomplish   
this,   CPS   (with   the   help   of   the   current   Ogden   and   Jenner   administrations)   proposes   the   following   
supports   to   meet   the   academic,   social   and   emotional,   and   specific   learning   needs   of   affected   
students.      These   resources   may   be   further   customized   as   feedback   is   obtained   at   community   
meetings   and   a   public   hearing   regarding   this   proposal.   Additionally,   resources   may   be   adjusted   to   
meet   the   unique   needs   of   affected   students   if   deemed   necessary.   
   

   

5   

    
●   The   consolidated   school   will   continue   to   be   the   only   full-­‐‑continuum   IB   school   in   the   State   of   
Illinois   and   will   therefore   adopt   IB   aligned   curriculum,   teaching   to   the   Common   Core   State   
Standards,   Next   Generation   Science   Standards,   or   the   Illinois   State   Standards,   depending   on   
the   discipline   or   subject.      
   
●   Instructional   practices   will   be   aligned   to   the   IB   philosophy   of   teaching   and   learning,   which   
is   based   on   constructivist   theories   of   education   ensuring   a   student-­‐‑centered   learning   
environment   in   which   all   students   have   multiple   pathways   for   success,   grounded   in   a   global   
context.      
   
●   Provide   trainings   for   any   teachers   not   previously   trained   in   IB.   The   Office   of   Teaching   &   
Learning,   Dept.   of   MTSS   will   also   be   extending   support   to   administration   and   teacher   teams   
on   identifying   students   that   will   benefit   from   tiered   academic   supports   and   the   resources,   
instructional   strategies,   and   structures   necessary   to   promote   student   success   beyond   the   
school   transition   period.   
   
●   Explore   the   need   for   additional   IB   supports   to   assist   teachers   in   learning   to   teach   the   
requisite   curriculum,   i.e.   an   additional   IB   coordinator.   
   
●   Expand   after-­‐‑school   offerings   through   Out-­‐‑of-­‐‑School   (OST)   programming   to   include   
academic   tutoring   from   CPS   teachers   using   targeted   interventions   for   identified   areas   of   
need.      
   
●   A   Principal   Transition   Coordinator   (PTC)   will   help   support   the   transition.   PTCs   are   former   
administrators   (principals,   APs,   Chiefs)   who   in   many   cases   have   helped   ensure   smooth   
transitions   to   the   welcoming   school.   The   PTC   will   assist   the   Ogden   and   Jenner   school   
administrations   in   maintaining   academic   quality   by   conducting   regular   check-­‐‑ins   with   
administrators   and   staff   to   understand   their   needs   and   provide   guidance   where   necessary.      
The   PTC   will   also   provide   administrative   support,   helping   the   Jenner   administration   to   
respectfully   and   responsibly   close   out   the   school   records   and   accounts   for   transitioning   
students.      
   
●   A   school-­‐‑based   transition   coordinator   will   support   the   transition.   The   school-­‐‑based   
administrator   will   be   responsible   for   ensuring   transitioning   students   are   supported   
throughout   the   transition   process.   The   school-­‐‑based   transition   coordinator   will   act   as   a   
point   of   contact   for   transitioning   students   and   families,   helping   to   answer   questions   and   
direct   them   to   resources.   In   addition,   the   school-­‐‑based   transition   coordinator   will   work   
with   the   principals   to   assist   in   the   implementation   of   new   programs   or   other   supports   
designed   to   support   transitioning   students.   
   
●   Partnerships   with   local   organizations   to   offer   academic   tutoring   and   mentoring   to   all   
students   who   are   below   grade   level.   Potential   partners   include   Sinai,   LaSalle   Street   Church,   
Harvest   Bible   Church,   and   Park   Community   Church.   
   
   
Support   for   Students’   Social   and   Emotional   Needs   
CPS   understands   that   when   students   transition   into   new   situations   and   environments,   additional   
support   is   needed   to   help   them   adjust.   CPS   and   The   Office   of   Social   Emotional   Learning   (OSEL)   will   
consult   with   the   Ogden   and   Jenner   school   communities   to   provide   resources   and   design   a   school-­‐‑
specific   program   of   support.   In   addition,   CPS   will   consult   with   the   Jenner   and   Ogden   school   

   

6   

    
communities   to   ensure   the   FY19   Ogden   K-­‐‑12   budget   is   sufficient   to   provide   resources   and   for   a   
school-­‐‑specific   program   of   support   that   follows   the   following   strategies:   
   
●   Develop   a   Campus   Ambassadors   Program:   The   Campus   Ambassador   Program   identifies   
students   from   Jenner   and   Ogden   as   liaisons   for   the   two   schools.   The   liaisons   will   be   
identified   as   student   leaders   next   year   (School   Year   2018-­‐‑19)   to   support   the   transition.         
●   Develop   a   joint   Climate   &   Culture   team:   CPS   will   support   staff   representatives   from   both   
schools   to   develop   a   combined   Climate   &   Culture   team,   which   will   lead   the   planning   of   
school-­‐‑wide   policies   and   practices   to   promote   positive   relationships   and   a   welcoming,   
supportive   school   environment.   This   includes   developing   clear   expectations   and   restorative   
discipline   strategies   for   the   combined   school   and   cultivating   a   sense   of   community   between   
all   staff   and   students.   CPS   will   provide   stipend   rates   for   the   joint   Climate   and   Culture   Team.   
●   Develop   a   joint   Behavioral   Health   Team:   Both   Jenner   and   Ogden   will   put   systems   in   place   
prior   to   the   consolidation   to   identify   when   students   have   higher   levels   of   social   and   
emotional   need,   connect   them   to   targeted   interventions   and   track   their   progress   to   ensure   
success.   Guiding   practices   will   be   established   through   collaboration   to   prepare   for   students   
who   may   need   additional   social   and   emotional   supports.   Training   will   be   supported   by   the   
Office   of   Social   Emotional   Learning   (OSEL).   
   
●   Implement   Responsive   Classroom   for   grades   5-­‐‑8,   and   continue   SELF   (Social   Emotional   
Learning   First)   for   grades   K-­‐‑4   to   ensure   a   supportive   learning   environment   that   promotes   
students’   social   &   emotional   competencies.   
   
●   Continue   MTSS   processes   to   identify   students’   needs,   creating   interventions   and   supports   to   
ensure   all   students   have   multiple   pathways   and   opportunities   of   success.   
   
●   Support   Jenner   and   Ogden   staff   in   expanding   programs   and/or   curriculum   school-­‐‑wide   in   
order   to   provide   students   with   a   shared   language   and   foundational   social   &   emotional   skills.   
Currently,   Responsive   Classroom   at   Jenner   and   Everyday   SEL   at   Ogden   will   be   shared   so   
that   best   practices   can   continue.         
●   CPS   will   support   professional   development   for   all   teachers   and   staff   to   help   them   develop   
skills   and   resources   that   support   all   students.      
●   Restorative   practice   coach   from   Central   Office   will   be   in   school   at   least   once   a   week.   
●   Continue   the   work   that   has   been   started   at   both   Jenner   and   Ogden,   focusing   on   diversity,   
inclusion,   and   cultural   and   racial   awareness,   including   full   staff   training   from   Central   Office.      
   
Support   for   Specific   Students’   Needs      
   
To   ensure   that   students   who   have   unique   needs   or   circumstances   are   adequately   supported   in   this   
transition,   we   have   developed   the   following   educational   “draft   blueprints:”   
   
Support   for   Diverse   Learners   
Students   with   disabilities   and   their   families   will   be   supported   in   the   transition   process   through   
clear   communication,   continual   support   for   academic   instruction   and   ensuring   that   transition   
schools   are   fully   able   to   implement   students’   Individual   Education   Programs   (IEPs).   Students   with   

   

7   

    
disabilities,   as   with   all   students   impacted   by   school   actions,   will   receive   intensive   support   to   ensure   
their   academic   and   social-­‐‑emotional   needs   are   met.   Students   with   disabilities   will   also   receive   the   
following   categories   of   support,   adjustable   to   individual   student/family   need:   
   
Current   students   with   disabilities   will   continue   to   receive   the   following   supports,   required   by   law:   
●   A   free   and   appropriate   public   education   (FAPE)   
●   The   implementation   of   the   student’s   IEP   in   the   least   restrictive   environment   (LRE)   
●   A   focus   on   student   academic   and   social   emotional   progress   
   
In   addition,   a   district   representative   from   the   Office   of   Diverse   Learner   Supports   and   Services   
(ODLSS)   will   be   assigned   to   work   with   families   and   students   to   support   them   throughout   the   
process   of   transitioning   to   their   new   school   for   the   2018-­‐‑19   school   year.   Specifically,   the   district   
representative   will:   
●   Work   with   teachers   on   appropriate   programming   to   support   the   transitioning   diverse   
learners.   
●   Make   sure   classrooms   are   appropriately   set   up   for   the   newly   transitioning   students   with   
diverse   learning   needs.   
●   Families   can   reach   their   District   Representative,   Sarah   Briggs,   at   srbriggs@cps.edu.      
   
Support   for   English   Learners      
●   Current   and   future   English   Language   Learners   (ELs)   will   receive   state   mandated   bilingual   
services   (Transitional   Bilingual   Education   (TBE)   or   Transitional   Program   of   Instruction   
(TPI)),   as   required.      English   as   a   Second   Language   (ESL)   instruction   provided   by   an   ESL-­‐‑
endorsed   teacher   is   part   of   both   programs;   
●   Meaningful   access   to   the   core   curriculum   is   provided   to   TBE   students   through   native   
language   instruction   in   the   core   content   (language   arts,   math,   science,   and   social   studies);      
●   For   TPI   students,   meaningful   access   to   core   curriculum   is   delivered   through   sheltered   
English   content   instruction   and   native   language   supports,   based   on   the   individual   student’s   
need,   and   provided   by   appropriately   endorsed   (bilingual-­‐‑   or   ESL-­‐‑endorsed)   teacher(s).   
   
Support   for   Students   in   Temporary   Living   Situations   
●   The   CPS   Office   of   Students   in   Temporary   Living   Situations   (OSTLS)   will   continue   the   
support   provided   to   Students   in   Temporary   Living   Situations   (STLS)   as   required   by   law.      
These   include   free   school   meals,   enrollment   support,   provision   of   required   school   uniforms   
and   school   supplies   as   needed,   transportation   assistance   when   eligible,   and   waivers   of   all   
school   related   fees;   
●   Under   the   approved   consolidation,   returning   STLS   students   may   choose   to   attend   Ogden   or   
meet   with   OSTLS   staff   to   identify   enrollment   options,   develop   academic   readiness   plans   and   
safety   plans   to   support   them   throughout   the   transition   period;   
●   STLS   staff   is   available   if   the   student   wishes   to   learn   about   additional   schools   to   transition   to;   
●   For   those   students   who   had   been   homeless   before   the   2018-­‐‑19   school   year,   their   school   of   
origin   will   become   the   first   school   where   they   enroll   for   the   2018-­‐‑19   school   year;   
●   For   families   currently   enrolled   in   the   STLS   program,   younger   siblings   may   attend   the   same   
school   that   their   older   sibling   elects;   
●   Additionally,   CPS   will   provide   professional   development   and   support   to   staff   on   providing   
transition   services   for   STLS   students.      
   
   
   
   

   

8   

    
V.   Culture   and   Climate   
   
Being   sensitive   to   the   cultural   integration   of   the   combined   school   is   absolutely   critical   to   the   
success   of   this   consolidation.   CPS   will   support   the   continuation   of   the   efforts   of   the   JOCSC   that   
began   in   2015,   working   to   bring   thoughtful   programming   and   events   to   the   students,   
parents/caregivers,   Administration,   and   teachers/staff   as   highlighted   below.   This   is   just   a   sampling   
of   the   extensive   work   that   is   being   done   to   promote   strong   culture   and   climate   within   the   new   
school.   The   JOCSC   will   continue   to   work   with   CPS   and   the   school   Administration   to   identify   
additional   opportunities   for   activities   and   provide   support   for   those   activities   during   the   transition   
and   beyond.   
   
●   JOLT:   Student   integration   efforts   have   been   implemented   since   2015   for   Jenner   and   Ogden   
students   to   get   to   know   each   other   through   cultural   integration   events   and   a   program   called   
“JOLT”   -­‐‑   "Jenner   Ogden   Learning   Together.”   
•   Student   leadership   meet   and   greet,   shared   lunch   outing   2014   
•   5th   grade   pen   pal   program   from   the   fall   of   2014   to   the   spring   of   2015   
•   MLK   community   concert   at   Park   Community   Church   in   January   of   2016   
•   Shared   Cubs   baseball   game   experience   in   May   of   2016   and   early   August   of   2017   
•   SMART   Museum   field   trips   for   1st   through   6th   graders   started   in   June   2017   
•   JOLT   choir   planned   for   the   winter   of   2018   
•   JOLT   running   club   planned   for   the   spring   of   2018   
   
●   SEED   (Seeking   Educational   Equity   &   Diversity)   Project:   In   August   2017,   the   JOCSC   
contracted   with   Single   Story,   Inc.   to   build   trust   and   collaboration   with   the   stakeholders   of   
each   school   community.   Specifically,   JOCSC   and   Single   Story,   Inc.   have   agreed   to:   
•   Facilitate   and   manage   a   Jenner/Ogden   Parent/Caregiver   SEED   session   each   
month   between   September   2017   and   May   2018   for   a   minimum   of   15   
parents/caregivers   (currently   40+   parents/caregivers   are   participating).   
•   Facilitate   and   manage   a   Jenner/Ogden   Teacher/Staff   SEED   session   each   month   
between   September   2017   and   May   2018   for   a   minimum   of   15   teachers/staff   
(currently   40+   teachers/staff   are   participating).   
•   Provide   support   for   the   Ogden   Diversity   Committee   between   September   2017   
and   May   2018   to   include:   
•   Minimum   of   one   meeting   per   quarter;   will   share   meeting   results   with   
entire   faculty   and   staff   
•   Minimum   of   5   team   members      
•   Establish   a   Jenner   Diversity   Advocacy   Team   with   specific   committee   topics   and   
provide   ongoing   support   between   November   2017   and   May   2018   to   include:   
•   A   minimum   of   4   team   members   
•   Outlined   outcomes/activities   
•   Monthly   meetings   
•   Conduct   the   Assessment   of   Inclusivity   and   Multiculturalism   (AIM)   survey   
between   December   2017   and   March   2018   to   inform   the   Jenner/Ogden   Diversity   
Integration   Plan   with   a   minimum   of   200   parent   and   50   staff   responses.   
•   Conduct   the   following   focus   groups   to   inform   the   Jenner/Ogden   Diversity   
Integration   Plan   by   March   2018:   
•   Teachers/staff   (minimum   of   10)   
•   Students   (minimum   of   10)   
•   Parents/caregivers   (minimum   of   10)   

   

9   

    
•   Develop   a   Jenner/Ogden   Diversity   Integration   Plan   by   April   2018   that   includes:   
•   A   two-­‐‑year   timeline   to   effectively   integrate   the   two   schools   
•   Steps   to   integrate   the   two   school’s   diversity   committees   
•   Identification   of   key   diversity   initiatives,   including   speakers   and   
professional   development   opportunities   
•   Facilitate   1   day-­‐‑long   “Implicit   Bias”   workshop   for   a   minimum   of   20   
Jenner/Ogden   teachers/staff   
•   Facilitate   ½   day-­‐‑long   “Politics   of   Location”   workshop   for   a   minimum   of   20   
Jenner/Ogden   teachers/staff   
   
VI.   The   Teachers   and   Staff   
A   major   factor   in   the   consolidation   of   Jenner   into   Ogden   school   is   the   desire   to   retain   all   of   the   
exceptional   teachers   and   staff   that   currently   teach   our   students.   We   know   this   is   a   priority   for   the   
school   communities.   
VII.     Additional   Logistical   Information   
   
Information   Regarding   Choice   of   Schools   
The   approved   proposal   would   allow   students   attending   Jenner   currently   to   be   enrolled   at   Ogden.      
CPS   is   committed   to   providing   educational   options   that   fit   each   student’s   unique   learning   needs.      To   
support   families   in   understanding   their   enrollment   options,   information   from   the   Office   of   Access   &   
Enrollment   is   available:   
●   Online   (www.cps.edu   or   www.cpsoae.edu),   
●   By   email   (oae@cps.edu),   
●   By   phone   (773-­‐‑553-­‐‑2060)   
●   At   an   information   session   to   be   scheduled   at   a   future   date   if   the   Board   approves   the   
proposal.   
   
Community   Meetings   and   Public   Hearings   
CPS   will   hold   two   community   meetings   and   one   formal   public   hearing   regarding   this   proposed   
action.   Public   comment   will   be   accepted   during   each   meeting   or   hearing.   CPS   is   committed   to   
considering   community   feedback   and   will   amend   this   draft   transition   plan   accordingly.   
   
Community   Meeting   1                                                      Community   
                                       
Meeting   2   
Public   Hearing   
January   9,   2018                                          
January   16,   2018                                          
January   25,   2018   
6   to   8   p.m.   
6   to   8   p.m.   
4:30   to   6:30   p.m.   
Ogden   International   School   of    Edward   Jenner   Elementary   
CPS   Central   Office   
Chicago               
Academy   of   the   Arts   
24   West   Walton   Street   
1119   North   Cleveland   Avenue   
42   West   Madison   Street   
   
   
Further   Questions   and   Concerns:   
All   of   this   information   can   be   found   at   CPS.edu/Transitions.   If   you   have   any   questions   or   concerns   
regarding   this   proposal   and   the   draft   transition   plan,   please   call   Chicago   Public   Schools   at   (773)   
553-­‐‑1500   or   email   Transitions@cps.edu.   

   

10   

 