MINUTES OF MEETING
WAYNE COUNTY ELECTION COMMISSION
TUESDAY, JUNE 7, 2016 – 11:30 A.M.
COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL BUILDING - ROOM 705
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

Call to Order:

The meeting was called to order at 11:36 a.m., Tuesday, June 7, 2016.

Members present: Honorable Freddie G. Burton, Jr., Chief Judge, Probate Court
Honorable Cathy M. Garrett, Secretary- Wayne County Clerk
Honorable Eric Sabree, Member – Wayne County Treasurer
Members absent: None
Also present:

Janet Anderson-Davis, Assistant Corporation Counsel
Delphine G. Oden, Director, Wayne County Elections
Christine Ferretti
John D. Pirich
Jennifer Redmond

Agenda item:

Consideration of Agenda approval.
Board action on agenda item: Chair Burton requested a motion
to approve the agenda. Member Garrett, duly supported by
Member Sabree, moved to adopt the agenda as submitted. The
motion was adopted unanimously by a voice vote.

Agenda item:

Approval of Minutes of May 26, 2016
Board action on agenda item: Chair Burton requested a motion
to approve the minutes of the meeting held on May 26, 2016.
Member Sabree, duly supported by Member Garrett, moved to
approve the minutes of the meeting held on May 26, 2016. The
motion was adopted unanimously by a voice vote.

Agenda item:

Determination of Clarity – Mike Duggan, Mayor, City of Detroit
Chair Burton asked Assistant Corporation Counsel Janet AndersonDavis to remind the commission of its role in determining clarity.
Assistant Corporation Counsel Anderson-Davis reminded the
commission of its role and duties for a determination of clarity.
Reason for recall as printed on the Recall Petition 5A-1 for Mike
Duggan:

 “Mayor Mike Duggan is being investigated by the FBI for allegedly
pressuring certain officials at the Detroit Land Bank Authority to
approve inflated and over-priced contracts for certain contractors
who contributed to his 2013 Detroit Mayoral Campaign.”
Mr. John Pirich, attorney for Mayor Mike Duggan, spoke in
opposition to the petition and stated there are no facts to support
the claim, the statement is unclear, and requested a motion to
reject the petition.
Board action on agenda item: Chair Burton, duly supported by
Member Sabree, moved to reject the petition language for
Determination of Clarity filed by Desmond M. White, based on the
advice of counsel and the representations offered by Mr. Pirich on
behalf of Mayor Duggan. The motion was adopted unanimously by
a voice vote.
Agenda item:

New Business None.

Agenda item:

Public Comment. None.

Agenda item:

Adjournment.
Board action on agenda item: Chair Burton requested a motion
to adjourn. Member Sabree, duly supported by Member Garrett,
moved to adjourn the meeting. The motion was adopted
unanimously by a voice vote.
Meeting adjourned at 11:42 a.m.

 