 

Official Report of the Proceedings
of the

BOARD OF EDUCATION

of the City of Chicago

 

Regular Meeting-Wednesday, October 26, 2016
10:30 AM.
(42 West Madison Street)

 

Published by the Authority of the Chicago Board of Education

Frank M. Clark Estela G. Beltran
President Secretary

October 26, 2016
ATTEST:



Secretary of the Board of Education
of the City of Chicago

President Clark took the Chair and the meeting being called to order there were then:

PRESENT: Mr. Furlong, Ms. Jordan Turner, Mr. Guzman, Dr. Hines*, Ms. Ward, and
President Clark 6

Board Member Dr. Hines was not present when roll called and joined the meeting at
approximately 12:20 pm.

ABSENT: Fr. Garanzini -1

ALSO PRESENT: Mr. Forrest Claypool, Chief Executive Of?cer, Mr. Ronald Marmer, General
Counsel, Dr. Janice Jackson, Chief Education Of?cer, Ms. LaTanya McDade, Chief Teaching and
Learning Officer, and Dariana Walker, Honorary Student Board Member.

ABSENT: None

President Clark thereupon opened the floor to the Honoring Excellence segment of the
Board Meeting.

President Clark thereupon opened the floor to the CEO report segment of the Board
meeting. Mr. Forrest Claypool, Chief Executive Officer, provided remarks on reaching a tentative
agreement with the Chicago Teachers Union; amending the FY17 Budget; announcements of
upcoming budget hearings in November; and expansion of the sports program in elementary
schools. Dr. Janice Jackson, Chief Education Of?cer, provided remarks on principal appreciation
month. Mr. Randy Ernst, Executive Director of Sports Administration, and Mr. Mickey Pruitt,
Deputy Executive Director of Sports Administration, provided a presentation on the Elementary
Sports Program 

President Clark thereupon opened the floor to the Public Participation segment of the
Board Meeting.

President Clark thereupon opened the floor to the Discussion of Public Participation.
President Clark thereupon opened the floor to the Discussion of Public Agenda Items.
President Clark proceeded to entertain a Motion to go into Closed Session.

Board Member Dr. Hines presented the following Motion:

16-1026-MO1
MOTION TO HOLD A CLOSED SESSION
MOTION ADOPTED that the Board hold a closed session to consider the following
subjects:
(1) information, regarding appointment, employment, compensation discipline, performance,

or dismissal of empioyees pursuant to Section of the Open Meetings Act;
(2) collective negotiating matters between the public body and its? employees or their
representatives, or deliberations concerning salary schedules for one or more classes of

employees pursuant to Section of the Open Meetings Act;

October 26, 2016

(3) the purchase orlease of real property for the use of the Board pursuant to Section
of the Open Meetings Act;

(4) the setting of a price for the sale or lease of real property owned by the Board pursuant
to Section of the Open Meetings Act; .

(5) security procedures and the use of personnel and equipment to respond to an actual, a
threatened, or a reasonably potential danger to thesafety of employees, students, staff,
the public, or public property pursuant to Section of the Open Meetings Act;

(6) matters relating to individual students pursuant to Section 2(c)(10) of the Open Meetings
Act; -

(7) pending litigation and litigation which is probable or imminent involving the Board
pursuant to Section 2(c)(11) of the Open Meetings Act; and

(8) discussion of closed session minutes pursuant to Section 2(c)(21) of the Open Meetings

Act, including audio tapes created pursuant to Section 2.06 of the Open Meetings Act.
Board Member Ward moved to adopt Motion 16-1026-MO1.
The Secretary called the roll and the vote was as follows:

Yeas: Mr. Furlong, Ms. Jordan Turner, Mr. Guzman, Dr. Hines, Ms. Ward, and President

Ciark 6

(1)

(2)

(3)

Nays: None
President Clark thereupon declared Motion 16-1026-M01 adopted.

CLOSED SESSION
RECORD OF CLOSED SESSION

The following is a record of the Board's Closed Session:

The Closed Meeting was held on October 26, 2016, beginning at 1:06 pm. at the CPS Loop
Office, 42 W. Madison Street, Garden Level, Conference Room GC-116, and Chicago Illinois
60602.

PRESENT: Mr. Furlong, Ms. Jordan Turner, Mr. Guzman, Dr. Hines, Ms. Ward, and
President Clark 6

ABSENT: Fr. Garanzini - 1

Counsel Retention

Other Reports

Warning Resolutions
Terminations

Personnel

Collective Bargaining
Real Estate

Security

Closed Session Minutes
Individual Student Matters

erapwmopwa

No votes were taken in Closed Session.

October 26, 2016

After Closed Session the Board reconvened.

Members present after Closed Session: Mr. Furlong, Ms. Jordan Turner, Mr. Guzman,
Dr. Hines, Ms. Ward, and President Clark 6

Members absent after Closed Session: Fr. Garanzini -1
President Clark thereupon proceeded with Agenda Items.

16-1026-AR6

AUTHORIZE RETENTION OF THE LAW FIRM
ENGLER CALLAWAY BAASTEN SRAGA, LLC.

THE GENERAL COUNSEL REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Authorize retention of the law ?rm EngEer Callaway Baasten Sraga, LLC.

DESCRIPTION: The General Counsel requests authority to retain the law ?rm Engler Callaway Baasten 
Sraga, LLC to advise and represent the Board on school law issues and such other legal matters as
determined by the General Counsel. Authorization is requested for the ?rm?s services for $100,000. As
invdices are received, they will be reviewed by the General Counsel and, if satisfactory, processed for
payment. . 

LSC REVIEW: LSC approvalis not applicable to this report.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION STATUS: None.

FINANCIAL: Charge $100,000.00 to Law Department - Professional Services:
Budget Classi?cation Fiscal 15-54125-231 101-000000

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that. in accordance with 105 ILCS
5134-1 3.1, the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education? has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel necessary
to conduct those investigations.

Con?icts The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered Into in violation of the
provisions of 105 ILCS 5f34-21.3 which restricts the empioyment of, or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of of?ce.

Indebtedness ?The Board?s lndebted ness Policy adopted June 26. 1996 (96-0626-P03), as amended from
time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics The Board?s Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 (11-0525-P02), as amended from time to time,
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current ?scal
year is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in the subsequent ?scal year budget(s).

16-1026-AR7

AUTHORIZE RETENTION OF THE LAW FIRM
LEAHY, EISENBERG FRAENKEL, LTD.

THE GENERAL COUNSEL REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Authorize retention of the law ?rm Leahy, Eisenberg 8: Fraenkel, Ltd.

DESCRIPTION: The General Counsel requests authority to retain the law ?rm Leahy, Eisenberg 
Fraenkel, Ltd, for representation intworkers? compensation claims and such other legal matters as
determined by the General Counsel. Authorization is requested for the ?rm?s services for $250,000. As
invoices are received, they will be reviewed by the General Counsel and, if satisfactory, processed for
payment.

LSC REVIEW: LSC approval is not applicable to this report

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION STATUS: None.

October 26, 2016

FINANCIAL: Charge $250,000.00 to Talent Of?ce A Professional Services:
Budget Classi?cation Fiscal Year 2017 12470-115-54125-231602?000000

GENERAL CONDITIONS: .

Inspector General Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 ILCS
5/34?1 3.1, the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel necessary
to conduct those investigations.

Con?icts The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Beard if entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 ILCS which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of of?ce.

Indebtedness The Board?s Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 1996 as amended from
time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics - The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 (11-0525-P02), as amended from time to time,
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current ?scal
year is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in the subsequent ?scal year budget(s).

16-1026-AR8

AUTHORIZE CONTINUED RETENTION OF THE LAW FIRM
BROTHERS THOMPSON, P.C.

THE GENERAL COUNSEL REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:
Continued retention of the law ?rm Brothers Thompson, P.C.

DESCRIPTION: The General Counsel has continued retention of the law ?rm Brothers Thompson, P.C. to
represent a former Board agent in the matter of Henson v. CBOE et at, Case No. 15 10056, to represent the
Board in property tax appeals matters, in tenured teacher dismissal cases, and to provide counseling and
representation in other matters as determined by the General Counsel. Additional authorization is requested in the
amount of $75,000 for the ?rm?s services. As invoices are received, they will be reviewed by the General Counsel
and, if satisfactory, processed for payment.

 

LSC REVIEW: LSC approval is not applicable to this report.
AFFIRMATIVE ACTION STATUS: This ?rm is a MBE. 

FINANCIAL: Charge $75,000.00 to Law Department - Legal and Supportive Services Professional Services:
Budget Classi?cation Fiscal Year 2017 10210?115?54125-231101-000000

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 ILCS 5/344 3.1 the
Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain investigations and that the
Inspector General shall have access to at: information and personnel necessary to conduct those investigations.

Con?icts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board it entered into in vioiation of the provisions of 105
ILCS 5134?21 .3 which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to, former Board Members during the
one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of of?ce.

Indebtedness - The Board?s Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 1996, as amended from time to
time, is hereby incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics - The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25, as amended from time to time, is hereby
incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability - The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current ?scal year is
deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in the subsequent ?scal year budget(s).

October 26, 2016

16-1026-AR9

AUTHORIZE CONTINUED RETENTION OF THE LAW FIRM
PUGH JONES JOHNSON 8: QUANDT, P.C.

THE GENERAL COUNSEL REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:
Continued retention of the law ?rm Pugh Jones Johnson Quandt, P.C.

DESCRIPTION: The General Counsel has continued retention of the law ?rm Pugh Jones Johnson Quandt,
P.C. The ?rm will represent the Board'in Pat Quinn, et al. v. Board of Education. provide legal services to the
Board and the CEO in the preparation of tax ?lings and provision of related services associated with computer
and copier leasing, and such other legal matters as determined by the General Counsel. Additional authorization
for the ?rms services is requested in the amount of $175,000. As invoices are received, they will be reviewed by
the General Counsel and if satisfactory, processed for payment.

LSC REVIEW: LSC approval is not applicable to this report.
AFFIRMATIVE ACTION STATUS: This ?rm is a MBE.

FINANCIAL: Charge $175,000.00 to Law Department? Legal and Supportive Service Professional Services:
Budget Classi?cation Fiscal Year 2017 10210-115-54125-231101?000000

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 
the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain investigations and
that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel necessary to conduct those
investigations.

Con?icts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the provisions of
105 5134-213 which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to, former Board Members during
the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of of?ce.

Indebtedness The Board's Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 1996, (96-0626-PO3), as amended from time
to time, is hereby incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics - The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011, as amended from time to time, is hereby
incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability - The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current ?scal year
is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in the subsequent ?scal year budget(s).

16-1026-AR10

AUTHORIZE CONTINUED RETENTION OF THE LAW FIRM
QUINTAIROS, PRIETO, WOOD 8: BOYER

THE GENERAL COUNSEL REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:
Continue retention of the law ?rm Quintairos, Prieto, Wood Boyer.

DESCRIPTION: The General Counsel has continued retention of the law ?rm Quintairos, Prieto, Wood Boyer
to represent the Board and it agents relating to legal matters including Biayiock, ef al. v. Board, at al., Case No.
15 011182, and other matters as determined by the General Counsel. Additional authorization is requested in
the amount of $250,000 for the ?rm?s services to represent the Board in workers? compensation matters. As
invoices are received, they will be reviewed by the General Counsel and, if satisfactory, processed for payment.

LSC REVIEW: LSC approval is not applicable to this report.
AFFIRMATIVE ACTION STATUS: The ?rm is a MBE.

FINANCIAL: Charge $250, 000.00 to Talent Off ce Professional Services:
. Budget Classi?cation Fiscal Year 2017.. 115-54125- 231602-000000

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 5134?1 3.1,
the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain investigations and
that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel necessary to conduct those
investigations.

Conflicts The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the provisions of
105 5l34-21.3 which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to, former Board Members during
the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of of?ce.

October 26, 2016

Indebtedness The Board's Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 1996, as amended from time
to time, is hereby incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics ?The Board?s Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011, (11-0525-P02), as amended from time to time, is hereby
incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability - The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current ?scal year
is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in the subsequent ?scal year budget(s).

The Secretary called the roll and the vote was as follows:

Yeas: Mr. Furlong, Ms. Jordan Turner, Mr. Guzman, Dr. Hines, Ms. Ward, and President
Chm-6

Nays: None

President Clark thereupon declared Board Reports 16-1026-AR6 through 16-1026-AR10
adopted.

16-1026-AR11

COMPENSATION - PAYMENT FOR LUMP SUM SETTLEMENT FOR
GEORGE GOLLIAS - CASE N05. 04 WC 1563 and 07 WC 14542

THE GENERAL COUNSEL REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Authorize settlement of the Workers' Compensation claim for George Gollias, Case Nos. 04 WC 1563
and 0? WC 14542 and subject to the approval of the Iilinois Workers? Compensation Commission, in the
amount of $350,000.00.

DESCRIPTION: In accordance with the provisions of the Workers? Compensation Act, the General
Counsel has determined that this settlement is in the Board?s best interests.

REVIEW: Locai school council approval is not applicable to this report.
AF FIRMATIVE ACTION STATUS: Not applicable.

FINANCIAL: Charge to Workers? Compensation Fund General Fixed Charges Account #12470-210?
57605-119004-000000 FY 2017 $350,000.00

PERSONNEL IMPLICATIONS: None
GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector Generai Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 ILCS
5l34-13.1, the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shaii have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations.

Con?icts The agreement shall not beilegaliy binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 ILCS 5I34-21.3 which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of
of?ce.

Indebtedness The Board?s Indebtedness Policy.adopted June 26,1996 (96-0626-P03), as amended
from time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics The Board's Ethics Code adOpted May 25, 2011 as amended from time to time.
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current
?scal year is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in,the subsequent ?scal year
budget(s).

October 26, 2016

16-1026-AR12

PERSONAL INJURY - AUTHORIZE PAYMENT OF SETTLEMENT FOR
ESTEFANY SALCEDO - CASE NO. 14 003470

THE GENERAL COUNSEL REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Authorize settlement of the personal injury suit of Estefany Salcedo v. Board of Education of the City of
Chicago, et al., Case No. 14 003470 for $100,000.00.

DESCRIPTION: The General Counsel has determined that this settlement is in the Board?s best interests.
LSC REVIEW: Local school council approval is not applicable to this report.
AFFIRMATIVE ACTION STATUS: Not applicable.

FINANCIAL: Charge to Litigated Tort Claims: Account #12460-210-54530?231 112?000000 FY 2017 
. $100,000.00

PERSONNEL IMPLICATIONS: None
GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 ILCS
the inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnei
necessary to conduct those investigations.

Conflicts The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 5/34?213 which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of
of?ce.

Indebtedness The Board's Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26,1996 as amended
from time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 as amended from .time to time,
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability - The agreement shall contain the ciause that any expenditure beyond the current
?scal year is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in the subsequent ?scal year
budgetls). 

16-1026-AR13

APPROVE PAYMENT OF PROPOSED SETTLEMENT REGARDING ETHAN C.
THE GENERAL COUNSEL REPORTS THE FOLLOWING SETTLEMENT:

DESCRIPTION: Subject to Board approval, the Board and minor Ethan C.?s parents (Merari C. and Victor
C.), individually and as next friend of Ethan C. have reached a settlement, disposing of all Ethan C.'s and
his parents' claims for attomeys? fees and costs associated with the underlying special education due
process proceeding. The General Counsel recommends approval of the settlement, which includes the
payment of one hundred sixteen thousand dollars for all of Ethan C. and his parents? claims
for attorneys? fees and costs.

LSC REVIEW: LSC approval is not applicable to this report.
AFFIRMATIVE ACTION STATUS: None.

FINANCIAL: Charge $116,000.00 as described above to the Law Department 7 
Budget Classi?cation Fiscal year 201 7.. . . .. 15-54530-231 122-000000

AUTHORIZATION: Authorize the General Counsel to execute the Settlement Agreement, and all anciilary
documents related thereto.

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, inaccordance with 105 
the inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education'has the-authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the inspector Genera! shall have access to all information and personnel necessary
to conduct those investigations.

Con?icts The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board it entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 5134-21 .3 which restricts the employment of or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of of?ce.

October 26, 2016

Indebtedness The Board?s Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 1996 (96-0626-PO3), as amended from
time to time shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics The Board?s Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 (11-0525-P02), as amended from time to time,
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current ?scal
year is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in the subsequent ?scal year budget(s).



APPROVE SETTLEMENT OF JONES v. BOARD, 2013 7003, IL APP. 1-15-3100,
BROUGHT BY FORMER CUSTODIAL WORKER, JOHNNY JONES

THE GENERAL COUNSEL REPORTS THE FOLLOWING PROPOSED SETTLEMENT:

DESCRIPTION: Johnny Jones ?led suit Board for retaliation based upon a workers?
compensation claim. The parties reached a settlement agreement which requires reinstatement and
payment of $70,000 in pensionable back pay less legally required deductions for the period
January 24, 2012 through October 31, 2016; $15,233.00 in compensatory damages; and $39,534.00 in
attorneys? fees).

LSC REVIEW: LSC approval is not applicable to this report.
AFFIRMATIVE ACTION STATUS: Af?m'lative Action review is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL:

1. Charge a pensionable back pay payment not in excess of $15,233.00, as described above to
12470-115?51130?119004-000000.

Charge $15,233.00 in compensatory damages. 

3. Charge $39,534.00 in attorney's fees.

AUTHORIZATION: Authorize the General Counsel to execute the Approved Payment and all ancillary
documents related thereto. 

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 ILCS
SIM-13.1, the inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations.

Conflicts The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 ILCS 5134-213 which restricts the employment of or the letting of contracts to former
Board member during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of office.

Indebtedness The Board?s Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 1996 as amended
from time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics - The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 (11-0525-P02), as amended from time to time,
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability -- The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current
?scal year is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in the subsequent ?scal year
budget{s).

President Clark indicated that if there are no objections, Board Reports 16-1026-AR11
through 16-1026-AR14 would be adopted by the last favorable roll call vote, all members voting
therefore.

President Clark thereupon declared Board Reports 16-1026-AR11 through 16-1026-AR14
adopted.

16-1026-AR15

October 26, 2016

APPOINT ASSISTANT GENERAL COUNSEL
DEPARTMENT OF LAW
(MIGUEL E. LARIOS)

THE GENERAL COUNSEL REPORTS THE FOLLOWING RECOMMENDATION:

Appoint the following named individual to the position listed below effective October 3, 2016.

DESCRIPTION:
NAME:

Miguel E. Larios

FROM:

New Employee

TO:

Functional Title: Professional IV
External Title: Assistant General Counsel
Pay Band: A06

Department of Law

Position No. 245047

Flat rate

Annual Salary: $72,000.00

LSC REVIEW: LSC approval is not applicable to this report.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION STATUS: Not applicable.

FINANCIAL: The expenditure involved in this report is not in excess of the regular budget appropriation.

PERSONNEL IMPLICATIONS: The position to be affected by approval of this action is contained in the FY17

School budget.

16-1026-AR16

APPOINT ASSISTANT GENERAL COUNSEL
DEPARTMENT OF LAW
(ASHLEY SEALES)

THE GENERAL COUNSEL REPORTS THE FOLLOWING RECOMMENDATION:

Appoint the following named individual to the position listed below effective September 26, 2016.

DESCRIPTION:
NAME:

Ashley Seales

FROM:

New Employee

TO:

Functional Title: Professional IV
External Title: Assistant General Counsel
Pay Band: A06

Department of Law

Position No. 245051

Flat rate

Annual Salary: $72,000.00

LSC REVIEW: LSC approval is not applicable to this report.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION STATUS: applicable.

FINANCIAL: The expenditure involved in this report is not in excess of the regular budget appropriation.

PERSONNEL IMPLICATION3: The position to be affected by approval of this action is contained in the FY17

School budget. 

October 26, 2016
16-1026-AR17

APPOINT ASSISTANT GENERAL COUNSEL
DEPARTMENT OF LAW
(CHERYL A. 
THE GENERAL COUNSEL REPORTS THE FOLLOWING RECOMMENDATION:

Appoint the following named individual to the position listed below effective October.3, 201'6


NAME: FROM: TO:
Cheryl A - New Employee Functional Title: Professional IV

External Title: Assistant General counsel

Pay Band: A06

Department of Law

Position No. 245030

Flat rate I

Annual Salary: $80,000.00
LSC REVIEW: LSC approval is not applicable to this report
AFFIRMATIVE ACTION STATUS: Not applicable.
FINANCIAL: The expenditure involved in this report is not in excess of the regular budget appropriation.
PERSONNEL IMPLICATIONS: The position to be affected by approval of this action is contained in the FY17
School budget.

President Clark indicated that if there are no objections, Board Reports 16-1026-AR15
through 16-1026-AR17 would be adopted by the last favorable roll call vote, all members voting
therefore.

President Clark thereupon declared Board Reports 16-1026-AR15 through 16-1026-AR17
adopted.

16-1026-EX5

PRINCIPAL CONTRACT (RENEWAL ALSC)
THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:
Approve the contract of the principal listed below selected by the Chief Executive Of?cer after receiving the
recommendation of the Social Justice High School appointed Local School Council pursuant to Section 5/34-
2.4b of the Illinois School Code. 

DESCRIPTION: Employ the individual named below to the?position of principal subject to the Uniform
Appointed Principal?s Performance Contract and Principal Eligibility Policy 

The Talent Office has veri?ed that the following individual has met the requirements for eligibility.

 

NAME FROM 19
Kathy Farr Contract Principal Contract Principal
Social Justice H.S. Social Justice H.S.
Network: 7
PM. 126201

Commencing: 10l23l16
Ending: 10/22/20

AUTHORIZATION: Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant items and conditions in the written
agreements. Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the agreement.

LSC REVIEW: The- appointed Local School Council has been advised of the Chief Executive Of?cer's
selection of the named individual as contract principal of Social Justice High School.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION STATUS: None.

FINANCIAL: The salary of the named individual will be established in accordance with the provisions of the
Administrative Compensation Plan.

10

October 26, 2016

PERSONNEL IMPLICATIONS: The position to be affected by approval of this action is contained in
the 2016-2017 school budget.

16-1026-EX6

TRANSFER AND APPOINT CHIEF POLICY OFFICER EFFECTIVE SEPTEMBER 5, 2016 AND RATIFY ALL
LAWFUL ACTIONS TAKEN AS CHIEF POLICY OFFICER SINCE SEPTEMBER 5, 2016
BILECKI)
THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER RECOMMENDS THAT THE BOARD:

(1) Transfer and appoint Francis Bilecki to the position of Chief Poiicy Of?cer, effective September 5, 2016, at
the salary set forth below. 

(2) Ratify, adopt, and assume all lawful acts taken by Francis Bilecki as Chief Policy Of?cer between 12:00
am. September 5, 2016 and the Board?s approval of this Board Report.

DESCRIPTION:

 

NAME FROM 
Francis Biiecki External Title: Chief of Public Affairs Extemal Title: Chief Policy Of?cer
Functional Title: Chief Functional Title: Of?cer
Position No: 472519 Position No: 523049
Basic Salary: $140,000.00 Basic Salary: $165,000.00
Pay Band: A09 Pay Band: A10
Budget Classi?cation:
10450.115.52100.2330010
FINANCIAL: The expenditure involved in this appointment is not in excess of the regular budget
appropriation. The position approved by this action shall be included in the FY17
department budget. 

President Clark indicated that if there are no objections, Board Reports 16-1026-EX5 and
16-1026-EX6 would be adopted by the last favorable roll call vote, all members voting therefore.

President Clark thereupon declared Board Reports 16-1026-EX5 and adopted.
16-1026-EX7

WARNING RESOLUTION TRISTA HARPER,
PRINCIPAL, MANLEY ACADEMY HIGH SCHOOL

TO THE CHICAGO BOARD OF EDUCATION
THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER RECOMMENDS THE FOLLOWING:

That the Chicago Board of Education adopts a Warning Resolution for
.Trista Harper and that a copy of this Board Report and Warning
Resolution be served upon Trista Harper.

DESCRIPTION: Pursuant to the provisions (if 105 ILCS 5134-85, the applicable statute of
the State of Illinois, and the Rules of the Board of Education of the City of
Chicago, a Warning Resolution must be adopted and issued to Trista
Harper, Principal, to- inform her that she has engaged in unsatisfactory
conduct.

The conduct outlined in the Warning Resolution will result in the preferring
of dismissal charges against Trista Harper pursuant to the Statute, if said
'conduct is not corrected immediately, and maintained thereafter in a
satisfactory fashion following receipt of the Warning Resolution.
Directives for improvement of this. conduct are contained in the Warning
Resolution.

LSC REVIEW: LSC review is not applicable to this report.

11

October 26, 2016

AFFIRMATIVE

ACTION REVIEW: None.

FINANCIAL: This action is of no cost to the Board.
PERSONNEL

IMPLICATIONS: Nona.
16-1026-EX8

WARNING RESOLUTION - LATANYA JACKSON, TENURED TEACHER,
ASSIGNED TO WACKER ELEMENTARY SCHOOL

TO THE CHICAGOBOARD OF EDUCATION
THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER RECOMMENDS THE FOLLOWING:

That the Chicago Board of Education adopts a Warning Resolution for
Latanya Jackson and that a copy of this Board Report and Warning
Resolution be sewed upon Latanya Jackson.

DESCRIPTION: Pursuant to the provisions of 105 ILCS 5134-85, the applicable statute of
the State of Iliinois, and the Rules of the Board of Education of the City of
Chicago, a Warning Rosolution be adopted and issued to Latanya
Jackson, Teacher, to inform her that she has engaged in unsatisfactory
conduct.

The conduct outlined in the Warning Resolution wiil result in the preferring
of dismissal charges against Latanya Jackson, pursuant to the Statute, if
said conduct is not corrected immediately and maintained thereafter in a
satisfactory fashion following receipt of the Warning Resolution.
Directives for improvement of this conduct are contained in the Warning

Resolution.
LSC REVIEW: review is not applicable to this report.
AFFIRMATIVE 
ACTION REVIEW: None.
FINANCIAL: This action is of no cost to the Board.
PERSONNEL

IMPLICATIONS: None.

President Clark indicated that if there are no objections, Board Reports 16-1026-EX7 and
16-1026-EX8 would be adopted by the last favorable roll call vote, all members voting therefore.

President Clark thereupon declared Board Reports 16-1026-EX7 and 16-1026-EX8 adopted.
16-1026-RS5

RESOLUTION BY THE BOARD OF EDUCATION OF THE CITY OF CHICAGO REGARDING THE
DISMISSAL OF JOSIE BERRY, TENURED TEACHER, ASSIGNED TO JACKIE ROBINSON
ELEMENTARY SCHOOL

WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 34?85 of the Illinois School Code, 105 ILCS 5/34?85, a
hearing was conducted before an impartial hearing of?cer, Lisa Salkovitz Kohn, certi?ed by the
lilinois State Board of Education; and

WHEREAS, after the conclusion of the dismissal hearing afforded to Josie Berry, the 
Hearing Of?cer made written ?ndings of fact and conclusions of iaw. and recommended the
discharge of Ms. Berry; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Education of the City of Chicago has reviewed the post-hearing
briefs and hearing transcript and exhibits along with the findings of fact, conclusions of
law, and recommendation of Hearing Officer Kohn regarding the dismissal charges preferred
against Josie Beny; and

12

16-1026-RSB

October 26, 2016

WHEREAS, the parties were given an opportunity to submit exceptions and a
memorandum of law in support of or in opposition to the Board?s adoption of Hearing Of?cer
Kohn?s recommendation; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Education of the City of Chicago accepts the factual ?ndings
and conclusions of the hearing of?cer, and concludes that the record establishes suf?cient cause
for dismissal of Mrs. Berry. - -

NOW THEREFORE, be it resolved by the Board of Education of the City of Chicago, as follows:
Section After'considering the Hearing Of?cer?s ?ndings of fact, conclusions of law and
recommendation, the record of the dismissal hearing, and any exceptions and memoranda
of law submitted by the parties, the Board of Education of the City of Chicago accepts the
Hearing Of?cer's ?ndings of fact, legal conclusions and recommendation for discharge.

Section 2: Josie Berry is hereby dismissed from her employment with the Board of Education of
the City of Chicago effective October 26, 2016.

Section 3: This Resolution shall take full force and effect upon its adoption.

THEREFORE, this Resolution is hereby adopted by the members of the Board of Education of
the City of Chicago on October 26, 2016.

RESOLUTION APPROVING CHIEF EXECUTIVE RECOMMENDATION
TO DISMISS EDUCATIONAL SUPPORT PERSONNEL

WHEREAS, on October 21, 2016 the Chief Executive Of?cer submitted a written recommendation,
including the reasons for the recommendation, to the Board to dismiss the foiiowing educational support
personnel pursuant to Board Rule 4-1:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Name School Effective Date
Ismail Ali John Greenleaf Whittier Elementary School October 26, 2016
Nicole Collins Carrie Jacobs Bond Elementary School October 26, 2016
Dewoyne Lampkin Northside College Preparatory'High School October 26, 2016
Ryan Lawrence James Weldon Johnson Elementary School October 26, 2016
Eddie Niles John Harlan Community Academy High School October 26, 2016
Daryl Thornton Charles Henderson Elementary School October 26, 2016

 

WHEREAS, the Chief Executive Of?cer followed theprocedu-res established by him prior to making the
recommendation;

WHEREAS, the Board has reviewed the reasons for the Chief Executive Officer?s recommendation;

WHEREAS, the Chief Executive Of?cer or his designee has previously notified the affected educational
support personnel of their pending dismissal;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED:

1.

That pursuant to Board Rule 4-1, the above?referenced educational support personnel are dismissed

from Board employment effective on the date set opposite their names.

2. The Board hereby approves all actions taken by the Chief Executive Of?cer or his designee to
effectuate the dismissal of the above-named educational support personnel.

3. The Chief Executive Of?cer or his designee shall notify the above-named educational support
personnel of their dismissal.

13

October 26, 2016



RESOLUTION APPROVING CHIEF EXECUTIVE RECOMMENDATION
TO DISMISS PROBATIONARY APPOINTED TEACHERS

WHEREAS, on October 21, 2016, the Chief Executive Of?cer submitted written recommendations, includ-
ing the reasons for the recommendations, to the Board to dismiss the following probationary appointed
teachers pursuant to Board Rule 4-1 and 105 5/34-84:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Name School Effective Date
Roseleen Carney Molnor Orozco Fine Arts Sciences Elementary School October 26, 2016
Matthew Lucchin?i Josephine Locke Elementary School October 26, 2016

 

WHEREAS, the Chief Executive Of?cer followed the procedures established by him prior to making the
recommendation;

WHEREAS, the Board has reviewed the reasons for the Chief Executive Of?cer's recommendation;

WHEREAS, the Chief Executive Officer or his designee has previously notified the affected probationary
appointed teachers of their pending dismissal;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED:

1. That pursuant to Board Rule 4-1 and 105 5/34?84, the above?referenced probationary appointed
teachers are dismissed from Board employment effective on the date set opposite their names.

2. The Board hereby approves all actions taken by the Chief Executive Of?cer or his designee to effec?
tuate the dismissal of the aboiie-named probationary appointed teachers.

3. The Chief Executive Of?cer or his designee shall notify the above-named probationary appointed
teachers of their dismissal.

The Secretary presented the following Statement for the Public Record:

I would like to note for the record that on October 21, 2016, the Board members and the
Office of the Board received the CEO's recommendation to dismiss a Probationary Appointed
Teachers pursuant to Board Rule 4-1 and 105 ILCS 5/34-84. His recommendation included the
names of the teachers affected and the reasons. He also noted that the teachers affected will be
notified of their dismissal after adoption of the Resolution.

President Clark indicated that if there are no objections, Board Reports 16-1026-RS5
through 16-1026-RST would be adopted by the last favorable roll call vote, all members voting
therefore.

President Clark thereupon declared Board Reports 16-1026-RS5 through 16-1026-RST
adopted.

Vice President Guzman presented the following Motion:

16-1026-M02

MOTION RE: ADOPT AND MAINTAIN AS CONFIDENTIAL

CLOSED SESSION MINUTES FROM SEPTEMBER 28, 2016
that the Board adopt the minutes of the closed session meeting of
September 28, 2016 pursuant to Section 2.06 of the Open Meetings Act. Board Members
reviewed these minutes and determined that the need for con?dentiality exists. Therefore, the
minutes of the closed session meeting held on September 28, 2016 shall be maintained as

confidential and not available for public inspection.

Board Member Jordan Turner moved to adopt Motion 16-1026-M02.

14

October 26, 2016

The Secretary called the roll and the vote was as follows:

Yeas: Mr. Furlong, Ms. Jordan Turner, Mr. Guzman, Dr. Hines, Ms. Ward, and President
Clark 6

Nays: None

President Clark thereupon declared Motion 16-1026-M02 adopted.

Board Member Furlong presented the following Motion:
16-1026-M03

MOTION RE: APPROVAL OF RECORD-OF PROCEEDINGS OF MEETING
OPEN To THE PUBLIC SEPTEMBER 28, 2016
MOTION ADOPTED that the record of proceedings of the Regular Board Meeting of
September 28, 2016 prepared by the Board Secretary be approved and that such records of
proceedings be posted on the Chicago Board of Education website in 

of the Open Meetings Act.
Board Member Ward moved to adopt Motion 16-1026-MO3.
The Secretary called the roll and the vote was as follows:

Yeas: Mr. Furlong, Ms. Jordan Turner, Mr. Guzman, Dr. Hines, Ms. Ward, and President
Clark 6

Nays: None
President Clark thereupon declared Motion 16-1026-M03 adopted.
16-1026-RS1

FINAL

RESOLUTION PROVIDING FOR THE ISSUE OF ONE OR MORE
SERIES OF CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT BONDS OF
TIIE BOARD OF EDUCATION OF THE CITY OF CHICAGO IN AN
AGGREGATE AMOUNT NOT TO EXCEED $840,000,000

WHEREAS, pursuant to the provisions of Article 34 of the School Code, 105 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5 (the ?School Code?), the City of Chicago (the ?City?), having a population
exceeding 500,000, constitutes one school district (the ?School District?), which is a body
politic and corporate by the name of the ?Board of Education of the City of Chicago? (the
?Board?); and

WHEREAS, the Board is governed by the seven?member Chicago Board of Education, as
successor to the Chicago School Reform Board of Trustees (the ?School Board?); and

WHEREAS, the School Board has heretofore determined that it is advisable, necessary and
in the best interests of the Board and the residents of the School District to construct, acquire and
equip school and administrative buildings, site improvements and other real and personal
property in and for the School District (the ?Project?), all in accordance with the estimates of
cost, including the Board?s Capital Improvement Program, as heretofore approved and from time
to time amended by the Board; and

15

October 26, 2016

WHEREAS, for the purpose, among others, of providing funds to pay a portion of the cost
of the Project, including legal, ?nancial, bond discount, capitalized interest, printing and
publication costs, reserves and other expenses, and in accordance with the provisions of the
Local Government Debt Reform Act, 30 Illinois Compiled Statutes 350 (the the School
Board, on August 24, 2016, adopted a resolution (the ?2016 Authorization?) authorizing the
issuance of alternate bonds, being general obligation bonds (the ?Alternate Bonds?) in an
aggregate principal amount not to exceed $945,000,000 (the ?2016 Authorization Bonds?); and

WHEREAS, the Alternate Bonds to be issued pursuant to the 2016 Authorization may be
payable from various revenue sources including proceeds of all or any portion of a capital
improvement tax levied and extended, and to be levied and extended, by the Board pursuant to
Section 34-53.5 of the School Code (the ?Capital Improvement Tax?); and

WHEREAS, pursuant to and in accordance with the Act and the 2016 Authorization, the
Board caused to be published on August 26, 2016 in The Chicago Sun-Times, a newspaper of
general circulation within the School District (the a copy of the 2016
Authorization and a notice that the Alternate Bonds are subject to a ?back?door referendum?
under the Act; and

WHEREAS, no petition asking that the issuance of the 2016 Authorization Bonds be
submitted to referendum has ever been ?led with the Secretary of the Board (the ?Secretary?)
and the 2016 Authorization Bonds have been authorized to be issued; and

pursuant to and in accordance with ?the provisions of the Bond Issue
Noti?catiou Act, 30 Illinois Compiled Statutes 352, the Board called a public hearing (the
?Hearing?) for August 24, 2016, concerning the intent of the Board to sell up to $945,000,000 of
the 2016 Authorization Bonds from time to time in one or more series; and

WHEREAS, notice of the Hearing was given by publication at least once not less than
seven (7) nor more than thirty (30) days before the date of the Hearing in the Sun-Times and by
posting a copy of the notice at least forty-eight (48) hours before the Hearing at the principal
o?ice of the Board; and

WHEREAS, the Hearing was held on August 24, 2016 and at the Hearing, the Board
explained the reasons for the proposed bond issue and permitted persons desiring to be heard an
opportunity to present written or oral testimony within reasonable time limits; and

WHEREAS, the Hearing was ?nally adjourned on August 24, 2016; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to the 2016 Authorization, the Board may issue Alternate Bonds (the
?2016 Authorization Bonds?); and

WHEREAS, the Alternate Bonds to be issued pursuant to this Resolution in accordance
with the 2016 Authorization are herein referred to as the ?Alternate Bonds?; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 34?535 of the School Code, the Board is authorized to
levy, and for the tax levy years 2015 and 2016 has levied, the Capital Improvement Tax for the
flmding of certain capital improvements, including capital improvements that are costs of the
Project; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to paragraph of Section 34-535, the Board may issue bonds, for
?nancing the capital improvement purposes authorized by Section 34?535 and such bonds may
be issued as ?Alternate Bonds? pursuant to Section 15 of the Act or as bonds (?Dedicated Tax
Bonds?) issued pursuant to the Act and payable from any revenues to be collected from the
Capital Improvement Tax; and

WHEREAS, the Board desires at this time, pursuant to the School Code and the Act and
the 2016 Authorization, to adOpt this Resolution providing for the issuance of ?Alternate Bonds"
for the purpose of paying capital improvements that are costs of the Project, (ii) capitalized
interest on such ?Alternate Bonds?, and costs of issuance of such ?Alternate Bonds?,
including the cost of bond insurance or other credit enhancement, all on the terms and conditions
set forth in this Resolution; and

WHEREAS, the Alternate Bonds and any additional 2016 Authorization Bonds, shall not
exceed $945,000,000 in aggregate principal amount; and

16

October 26, 2016

WHEREAS, the Alternate Bonds will be payable ?'om the revenues derived and to be
derived by the Board from the imposition of the Capital Improvement Tax in accordance with
Section 34-535 of the School Code to the extent determined by a Designated Of?cial (as
hereinafter de?ned) at the time of sale of such Alternate Bonds (the ?Pledged Capital
Improvement Taxes?) and (ii) the ad valorem taxes levied or to be levied against all of the
taxable property in the School District without limitation as to rate or amount pursuant to
Section 3 of this Resolution (the ?Pledged Debt Service Taxes?), for the purpose of providing
funds in addition to the Pledged Capital Improvement Taxes to pay the principal of and interest
on the Alternate Bonds; and

WHEREAS, the Board also desires at this time, pursuant to Section 34-535 of the School
Code and the Act, to adopt this Resolution providing for the issuance of Dedicated Tax Bonds,
payable from the Pledged Capital Improvement Taxes to the extent determined by a Designated
Of?cial, for the purpose of paying (1) capital improvements that are costs of the Project,
(ii) capitalized interest on such Dedicated Tax Bonds and costs of issuance of such
Dedicated Tax Bonds, including the costs of bond insurance or other credit enhancement, all on
the terms and conditions set forth in the Resolution; and

WHEREAS, the maximum aggregate principal amount of Alternate Bonds and Dedicated
Tax Bonds authorized to be issued under this Resolution is $840,000,000; and

WHEREAS, the Alternate Bonds and the Dedicated Tax Bonds (herein collectively called
the ?Bonds?) may be issued from time to time in one or more series (each a ?Series?); and

WHEREAS, the Bonds of each Series will be issued under and secured by a Trust
Indenture (each, an ?Indenture?) between the Board and such bank, trust company or national
banking association appointed to serve as trustee under the Indenture as provided in Section 2(a)
hereof (the ?Trustee?); and

WHEREAS, the Bonds will be ?irther secured by the Funds, Accounts and Sub?Accounts
established and pledged pursuant to the applicable Indenture; and

WHEREAS, the Pledged Capital Improvement Taxes constitute a ?revenue source?
pursuant to the Act; and

WHEREAS, the Board has determined that the Pledged Capital Improvement Taxes, will
provide in each year an amount not less than 1.25 times annual debt service on the Alternate
Bonds, which determination will be supported by the audit of the School District for the year
ended June 30, 2016 (the ?Audit?), or will be supported by the report of a feasibility analyst with
a national reputation for expertise applicable to such revenue source (the ?Feasibility Report?)
demonstrating the projected suf?ciency of the Pledged Capital Improvement Taxes to provide
the School District with tax revenues, in an amount not less than 1.25 times annual debt service
on the Alternate Bonds to be paid from Pledged Capital Improvement Taxes which Audit,
when accepted and approved by the Board or (ii) which Feasibility Report, when accepted and
approved on behalf of the Board by either the Senior Vice President of Finance (including any
interim Senior Vice President of Finance) of the Board (the ?Senior Vice President of
Finance?) or the Chief Financial Of?cer of the Board (the ?Chief Financial Officer?) prior to
the issuance of any Alternate Bonds; and

WHEREAS, the Bonds of a Series may be sold (1) to an underwriter or. a group of
underwriters (the ?Underwriters?) to be designated by the Senior Vice President of Finance
with respect to one or more Series of the Bonds pursuant to a separate Contract of Purchase
(each, a ?Bond Purchase Agreement?) between the Underwriters end the Board, (ii) in a private
placement with an individual investor or group of investors to be designated by the Senior Vice
President of Finance (the ?Placement Purchasers?) with respect to one or more Series of the
Bonds pursuant to a separate Placement Agreement between the Placement Purchasers and the
Board or other similar agreement for the sale and purchase of the Bonds (each, a ?Placement
Agreement?) or following distribution of a Notice of Sale and a competitive bidding
process, to a bidder or syndicate submitting an offer to purchase one or more Series of the Bonds
determined by the Senior Vice President of Finance to be in the best ?nancial interest of the
Board (the ?Competitive Purchasers? and, together with the Underwriters and the Placement
Purchasers being referred to herein as the ?Purchasers?) pursuant to an agreement between the
Competitive Purchasers and the Board (each, a ?Competitive Sale Agreement? and, together
with the Bond Purchase Agreement and the Placement Agreement, a ?Purchase and Sale
Agreement?); and

17

October 26, 2016

WHEREAS, it is necessary for the Board to authorize the sale and issuance of the Bonds
and to approve and to authorize and direct the sale of the Bonds pursuant to one or more of the
methods described above, together with the execution of the Indentures, the Purchase and Sale
Agreements and certain other agreements and the performance of acts necessary or convenient in
connection with the implementation of this Resolution and the issuance of the Bonds:

NOW, THEREFORE, Be It Hereby Resolved by the Chicago Board of Education of the
Board of Education of the City of Chicago, as follows:

Section 1. Incorporation of Preambles. The preambles of this Resolution are hereby
incorporated into this text as if set out herein in full.

Section 2. Issuance ofBonds. There shall be authorized the borrowing for and on
behalf of the Board of the aggregate principal amount of not to exceed $840,000,000 for the
purpose of paying costs of the Project that are ?Capital Expenditures? and ?Permitted
Expenditures" each as de?ned in the applicable Indenture, (ii) capitalized interest on the Bonds,
and costs of issuance of the Bonds, including the cost of bond insurance or other credit
enhancement. The Bonds are hereby authorized to be issued in an aggregate principal amount
not to exceed $840,000,000. The Bonds may be issued ??om time to time, as Alternate Bonds, as
Dedicated Tax Bonds or as a combination of Alternate Bonds and Dedicated Tax Bonds, in one
or more Series, in said aggregate principal amount, or such lesser aggregate principal amounts,
as may be determined by either the President of the School Board (the ?President?), or
(ii) the Vice President of the School Board (the ?Vice President?) or any Member of the Board
who is authorized to execute documents or take action in lieu of the President, the Chief
Executive O?icer, (iv) the Senior Vice President of Finance or the Chief Financial Officer
(each, a ?Designated Of?cial?). The Bonds of each Series shall be distinguished from each
other Series by a designation or title, with such Series designation and with such additions,
modi?cations or revisions as shall be determined to be necessary by any Designated Official at
the time of the sale of such Bonds to re?ect the order of sale of such Bonds, whether such Bonds
are Capital Appreciation Bonds, Current Interest Bonds or Convertible Bonds (each as de?ned
herein) and any other authorized features of such Bonds determined by any Designated Of?cial
as desirable to be re?ected in the title of the Bonds being issued and sold as part of such Series.
The Designated Of?cials are each hereby authorized to appoint a Trustee for each Series of the
Bonds so issued; provided, that such Trustee shall be a bank, trust company or national banking
association doing business and having a corporate trust office in the State of Illinois and having
capital and undivided surplus aggregating at least $15,000,000 or shall be a Wholly-owned
subsidiary of such an entity. The Bonds of each Series shall be issued and secured pursuant to
the terms of an Indenture authorizing Capital Appreciation Bonds, Current Interest Bonds or
Convertible Bonds, as appropriate. Each of the Designated Of?cials is hereby authorized to
execute and deliver, and the Secretary is hereby authorized to attest to an Indenture on behalf of
the Board, such Indenture to be in substantially the form attached hereto as Exhibit A, but with
such changes therein as shall be within the authorizations granted by this Resolution as shall be
approved by the Designated Of?cial executing the same, with such execution to constitute
conclusive evidence of such Designated Of?cial?s approval and this Board?s approval of any
changes or revisions therein from theform of Indenture authorized hereby.

The details of the sale of the Bonds as described in the noti?cation of sale of such Bonds
delivered by a Designated Of?cial pursuant to Section 5(e) hereof and all provisions relating to
the authorized denomination, registration, transfer and redemption of such Bonds, within the
limitations set forth herein, shall be set forth in each Indenture executed and delivered by a
Designated Of?cial as described herein.

In order to secure the payment of the principal of, redemption price of, interest on
and the Compound Accreted Value (as hereinafter de?ned) of each Series of the Alternate
Bonds, the Board hereby authorizes the inclusion in each Indenture securing Alternate Bonds of
a pledge of all or a portion of the Pledged Capital Improvement Taxes to the payment of such
Series. In accordance with Section 15 of the Act, the Board covenants and agrees to provide for,
collect and apply such Pledgcd Capital Improvement Taxes, to the payment of the Alternate
Bonds of such Series and the provision of an additional .25 times annual debt service. The
determination of the sufficiency of the Pledged Capital Improvement Taxes pledged pursuant to
this paragraph is supported by the Audit or the Feasibility Report, as applicable, and
acceptance of the Audit by the Board or of the Feasibility Report by the Senior Vice President of

18

October 26, 2016

Finance or the Chief Financial Of?cer, on behalfof the Board, if applicable, shall constitute
conclusive evidence that the conditions of Section 15 of the Act have been met. Each of the
Designated Of?cials is authorized to allocate all or a portion of the Pledged Capital Improvement
Taxes to the payment of the principal of, redemption price of, interest on and the Compound
Accreted Value of each Series of the Alternate Bonds and the Indenture purSUant to which such
Series of Alternate Bonds is issued and the noti?cation of sale of such Series of the Alternate
Bonds delivered by the Designated Of?cials pursuant to Section 5(e) hereof shall identify the
speci?c Pledged Capital Improvement Taxes allocated to such Series. Once issued, the Alternate
Bonds shall be and forever remain until paid or defeased the general obligation of the Board, for
the payment of which its full faith and credit are pledged, and shall be payable, in addition to the
Pledged Capital Improvement Taxes, from the levy of the Pledged Debt Service Taxes as
provided in the Act and as set forth in Section 3 hereof.

In order to secure the payment of the principal of, redemption price of, interest on
and the Compound Accreted Value (as hereinafter de?ned) of each Series of the Dedicated Tax
Bonds, the Board hereby authorizes the inclusion in each Indenture securing Dedicated Tax
Bonds of a pledge of all or a portion of the Pledged Capital Improvement Taxes to the payment
of such Series. The Board covenants and agrees to provide for, collect and apply such Pledged
Capital Improvement Taxes, to the payment of the Dedicated Tax Bonds of such Series. Each of
the Designated Of?cials is authorized to allocate all or a portion of the Pledged Capital
Improvement Taxes to the payment of the principal of, redemption price of, interest on and the
Compound Accreted Value of each Series of the Dedicated Tax Bonds and the Indenture
pursuant to which such Series of Dedicated Tax Bonds is issued and the noti?cation of sale of
such Series of the Alternate Bonds delivered by the Designated Of?cials pursuant to Section 4(e)
hereof shall identify the speci?c Pledged Capital Improvement Taxes allocated to such Series.
Each Dedicated Tax Bond shall be a limited obligation of the Board payable from the Pledged
Capital Improvement Taxes as provided in the Indenture pursuant to which such Series is isSued.
Neither the full faith and credit of the Board nor the general taxing power of the Board (other
than the Capital Improvement Tax) shall be pledged or otherwise available for the payment of
Dedicated Tax Bonds. The payment of Dedicated Tax Bonds shall be secured by a pledge of and
security interest in Capital Improvement Taxes pursuant to Section 34-535 and Section 13 of the
Act. In connection with the issuance of a Series of Dedicated Tax Bonds, the form of the
Indenture attached hereto as Exhibit A shall be modi?ed to re?ect the fact that the Dedicated Tax
Bonds are limited obligations of the Board and are not ?Alternate Bonds? issued pursuant to
Section 15 of the Act.

All or any portion of the Bonds may be issued as bonds payable in one payment
on a ?xed date (the ?Capital Appreciation Bonds?). Any Bonds issued as Capital Appreciation
Bonds shall be dated the date of issuance thereof and shall also bear the date of authentication,
shall be in fully registered form, shall be numbered as determined by the Trustee and shall be in
denominations equal to the original principal amounts of such Capital Appreciation Bonds or any
integral multiple thereof, each such original principal amount representing Compound Accreted
Value (as hereinafter de?ned) at maturity (the ?Maturity Amount?). . As used herein, the
?Compound Accreted Value? of a Capital Appreciation Bond on any date of determination
shall be an amount equal to the original principal amount plus an investment return accrued to
the date of such determination at a semiannual compounding rate which is necessary to produce
the yield to maturity home by such Capital Appreciation Bond.

All or any portion of the Bonds may be issued as Bonds bearing interest at ?xed rates and
paying Interest semiannually (the ?Current Interest Bonds?). The Current Interest Bonds shall
be dated such date as shall be agreed upon by a Designated Of?cial and the purchasers of the
Current Interest Bonds, shall be in fully registered form, and shall be numbered as determined by
the Trustee.

The Bonds may be initially issued as Capital Appreciation Bonds containing provisions
for the conversion of the Compound Accreted Value of such Bonds into Current Interest Bonds
(the ?Convertible Bonds?) at such time following the initial issuance as shall be approved by a
Designated Of?cial. While in the form of Capital Appreciation Bonds, such Convertible Bonds
shall be subject to all of the provisions and limitations of this Resolution relating to Capital
Appreciation Bonds and while in the form of Current Interest Bonds, such Convertible Bonds
shall be subject to all of the provisions and limitations of this Resolution relating to Current
Interest Bonds. In connection with the issuance and sale of any Convertible Bonds, the terms
and provisions relating to the couversion of the Compound Accreted Value of such Convertible
Bonds into Current Interest Bonds shall be contained in the Indenture executed and delivered by
a Designated Of?cial at the time of sale of such Cenvertible Bonds.

19

October 26, 2016

The Bonds shall be dated as of a date not earlier than October 1, 2016, as determined by a
Designated Official at the time of sale thereof. The principal of the Bonds shall become due and
payable on any 'date not earlier than December 1, 2016 and not later than December 1, 2055.
The Bonds shall be issued in such denominations as permitted under the applicable Indenture
securing such Bonds. 

Any Bonds issued as Current Interest Bonds, Capital Appreciation Bonds or Convertible
Bonds shall bear interest (computed upon the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months)
payable at a rate or rates not to exceed 9 percent per annum for any Bonds issued as tax-exempt
Bonds or 13.5 percent per annum for any Bonds issued as taxable Bonds, all as shall be
determined by a Designated Of?cial at the time of sale of such Bonds. The interest on such
Bonds shall be payable on such dates as determined in the applicable Indenture.

The Bonds of each Series may be redeemable prior to maturity at the option of the
Board, in whole or in part on any date, at such times and at such redemption prices as shall be
determined by a Designated Of?cial at the time of the sale thereof. The Bonds of each Series
may be made subject to extraordinary redemption prior to maturity, in whole or in part on any
date, at such times and at such redemption prices and upon the occurrence of such conditions, all
as shall be determined by a Designated Of?cial at the time of the sale thereof. The Bonds of
each Series may also be made subject to sinking fund redemption, at par and accrued interest to
the date ?xed for redemption, as determined by a Designated Of?cial at the time of the sale
thereof; provided, that such Bonds shall reach ?nal maturity not later than the date set forth in
Section 2(d) hereof.

The Bonds of each Series may initially be issued in book-entry only form as
provided in the applicable Indenture. The Bonds shall be executed by the manual or duly
authorized facsimile signature of the President or Vice President and attested by the manual or
duly authorized facsimile signature of the Secretary or her designee and prepared in the
respective forms as provided in the applicable Indenture. The applicable Indenture may also
require or permit the additional manual or duly authorized facsimile signature of the Chief
Executive Of?cer or the Senior Vice President of Finance.

All or any portion of the' Bonds may be issued as bonds bearing interest at
variable rates (?Variable Rate Bonds?) adjustable and payable at any time. The interest on
Variable Rate Bonds shall be payable on such dates as determined in the applicable Indenture.
The maximum rate on any Variable Rate Bond shall not exceed the maxirnum rate permitted by
law for obligations of the Board, but in no event more than 15 percent per annum. The method
of determining the interest rate to be home from time to time by Variable Rate Bonds shall be
determined by a Designated Official at the time of the sale of the Variable Rate Bonds and
speci?ed in the applicable Indenture if Variable Rate Bonds are to be issued, the form of
Indenture attached hereto as Exhibit A shall be modi?ed to incorporate terms and provisions
previously included in indentures securing variable rate bonds of the Board.

Section 3. Tax Levy For Alternate Bonds; Pledged Debt Service Taxes. For the
purpose of providing?funds in addition to the Pledged Capital Improvement Taxes to pay the
principal of and interest on the Alternate Bonds, there is hereby levied upon all of the taxable
property within the School District, in the years for which any of the Alternate Bonds are
outstanding, a direct annual tax for each of the years while the Alternate Bonds or any of them
are outstanding, in amounts suf?cient for that purpose, and there be and there hereby is levied
upon all of the taxable property in the School District the following direct annual taxes:

FOR THE LEVY YEAR A TAX SUFFICIENT T0 PRODUCE THE SUM OF:

2016 35,996,400
2017 38,318,400

2018 - 38,318,400
2019 38,318,400
2020 38,318,400
2021 38,318,400 
2022 38,318,400
2023 - 38,318,400
2024 38,318,400

20

October 26, 2016

2025 38,318,400
2026 38,318,400
2027 38,318,400
2028 38,318,400
2029 38,318,400
2030 38,318,400
2031 38,318,400
2032 104,938,272
2033 104,938,272
2034 104,938,272
2035 104,938,272
2036 104,938,272
2037 104,938,272
2038 104,938,272
2039 104,938,272
2040 104,93 8,272
2041 104,938,272
2042 104,938,272
2043 104,938,272
2044 104,938,272
2045 104,938,272
2046 104,93 8,272
2047 104,938,272
2048 104,938,272
2049 104,93 8,272
2050 104,938,272
2051 104,938,272
2052 104,93 8,272
2053 104,93 8,272
2054 104,93 8,272

(the taxes levied pursuant to this Section being the ?Pledged Debt Service Taxes?).

After this Resolution becomes effective and a Series of Alternate Bonds is sold, a
copy of this Resolution, certi?ed by the Secretary, shall be ?led with each of the County Clerks
of The Counties of Cook and DuPage, Illinois (the ?County Clerks?); and the County Clerks
shall in and for each of the years required, ascertain the rate percent required to produce the
aggregate Pledged Debt Service Taxes hereinbefore provided to be levied in each of said years;
and the County Clerks shall extend the same for collection on the tax books in connection with
other taxes levied in said year in and by the Board for general corporate purposes of the Board;
and in said year the Pledged Debt Service Taxes shall be levied and collected by and for and on
behalf of the Board in like manner as taxes for general corporate purposes of the Board for said
years are levied and collected, and in addition to and in excess of all other taxes, and when
collected, if required pursuant to any escrow or similar agreement executed and delivered
pursuant to Section 6 hereof, the taxes hereby levied shall be deposited with the designated bank,
trust company or national banking association.

At the time and in the manner set forth in each Indenture securing Alternate
Bonds, the Board shall direct the abatement of the Pledged Debt Service Taxes in whole or in

part.

The noti?cation of sale of any Series of the Alternate Bonds delivered by the 
Designated Of?cials pursuant to Section 5(6) hereof may provide for the allocation of all or a
portion of the Pledged Debt Service Taxes levied for any year pursuant to this Resolution to the
payment of the principal and redemption price of and interest on such Series of the Alternate
Bonds.

Section 4. Tax Levy For Dedicated Tax Bands and Alternate Bonds; Pledged Capital
Improvement Taxes. For the purpose of providing funds to pay the principal of and interest
on the Dedicated Tax Bonds and the Alternate Bonds, and to provide for the debt service
coverage required for the Alternate Bonds by Section 15 of the Act, there is hereby levied upon
all of the taxable property within the School District, in the years for which any of the Dedicated
Tax Bonds or Alternate Bonds are outstanding, a direct annual tax for each of the years while the
Dedicated Tax Bonds or Alternate Bonds or any of them are outstanding, in amounts suf?cient
for those purposes, and there be and there hereby is levied upon all of the taxable property in the
School District the following direct annual taxes:

21

October 26, 2016

FOR THE LEVY YEAR A TAX IN THE SUM OF:
2017 47,898,000
2018 47,898,000
2019 47,898,000
2020 47,898,000
2021 47,898,000
2022 47,898,000
2023 47,898,000
2024 47,898,000
2025 47,898,000
2026 47,898,000
2027 47,898,000
2028 47,898,000
2029 47,898,000
2030 47,898,000
2031 131,172,840
2032 131,172,840
2033 131,172,840
2034 131,172,840
2035 131,172,840
2036 131,172,840
2037 131,172,840
2038 131,172,840
2039 131,172,840
2040 131,172,840
2041 131,172,840
2042 131,172,840
2043 131,172,840
2044 131,172,840
2045 131,172,840
2046 131,172,840
2047 131,172,840
2048 131,172,840
2049 131,172,840
2050 131,172,840
2051 131,172,840
2052 131,172,840
2053 131,172,840

(the taxes levied pursuant to this Section being the ?Pledged Capital Improvement
Taxes?). In no event may the annual levy for the Pledged Capital Improvement Taxes exceed
the maximum annual amount of the Capital Improvement Tax authorized by Section 34-535 of
the School Code (or any successor act authorizing the Capital Improvement Tax).

Cb) After this Resolution becomes effective and a Series of Dedicated Tax Bonds or
Alternate Bonds is sold, a copy of this Resolution, certi?ed by the Secretary, shall he ?led with
each of the County Clerks; and the County Clerks shall in and for each of the years required,
ascertain the rate percent required to produce the aggregate Pledged Capital Improvement Taxes
hereinbefore provided to be levied in each of said years; and the County Clerks shall extend the
same for collection on the tax books in connection with other taxes levied in said year in and by
the Boardfor general corporate purposes of the Board; and in said year the Pledged Capital
Improvement Taxes shall be levied and collected by and for and on behalf of the Board in like
manner as taxes for general corporate purposes of the Board for said years are levied and 
collected, and in addition to and in excess of all other taxes, and when collected, if required
pursuant to any escrow or similar agreement executed and delivered pursuant to Section 6
hereof, the taxes hereby levied shall be deposited with the designated bank, trust company or
national banking association.

To the extent and in the manner permitted in each Indenture securing Dedicated
Tax Bonds or Alternate Bonds, the Board may direct the abatement of the Pledged Capital
Improvement Taxes in whole or in part. 

22

October 26, 2016

The noti?cation of sale of any Series of Dedicated Tax Bonds or Alternate Bonds
delivered by the Designated Of?cials pursuant to Section 5(e) hereof may provide for the
allocation of all or a portion of the Pledged Capital Improvement Taxes levied for any year
pursuant to this Resolution to the payment of the principal and redemption price of and interest
on such Series of the Dedicated Tax Bonds or Alternate Bonds and, with respect to any Series of
Alternate Bonds, to the provision of debt service coverage.

As provided in Section 15(e) of the Act, the imposition of the Pledged Capital
Improvement Taxes in the armual amounts levied pursuant to Section 4(a) hereof shall constitute
a continuing obligation of the Board with respect to such imposition and a continuing
appropriation of the receipts derived from the Pledged Capital Improvement Taxes for the
punctual payment of the principal of and interest on the Alternate Bonds and the provision of an
additional .25 times annual debt service.

Section 5. Sale of the Bonds, Purchase and Sale Agreements. Each Series of the
Bonds shall be sold and delivered to the Purchasers thereof, subject to the terms and conditions
of the applicable Purchase and Sale Agreement; provided, that the aggregate purchase price of
any Current Interest Bonds paid by the Purchaser shall be not less than 97 percent of the
principal amount thereof to be issued (less any original issue discount used in the marketing
thereof) plus accrued interest from their date to the date of delivery thereof, (ii) that the
aggregate purchase price of any Capital Appreciation Bonds or Convertible Bonds paid by the
Purchaser shall not be less than 97 percent of the aggregate original principal amount thereof and
that the compensation paid to the Purchasers in connection with the sale of any Variable
Rate Bonds shall not exceed 3 percent of the principal amount thereof. Each of the Senior Vice
President of Finance and the Chief Financial Of?cer are hereby authorized to execute and deliver
on behalf of the Board a Purchase and Sale Agreement with reSpect to the sale of the Bonds of
each Series, which in the case of a Bond Purchase Agreement shall be in substantially the
form used in previous ?nancings of the Board and (ii) in the case of a Placement Agreement or a
Competitive Sale Agreement shall contain terms and provisions no less favorable to the Board as
those contained in a Bond Purchase Agreement. Any such Purchase and Sale Agreement shall
contain such ?nal terms as shall be approved by the Senior Vice President of Finance or the
Chief Financial Of?cer, such approval to be evidenced by such Senior Vice President of
Finance?s or Chief Financial Of?cer?s execution thereof, and the Senior Vice President of
Finance or the Chief Financial Of?cer is also authorized to do all things necessary and essential
to effectuate the provisions of such Purchase and Sale Agreement, as exeCuted, including the
execution of anyrdocurnents and certi?cates incidental thereto or necessary to carry out the
provisions thereof. The Senior Vice President of Finance shall make a finding in connection
with the execution of each Purchase and Sale Agreement that the Bonds sold thereunder have
been sold at such price and bear interest at such rate that neither the true interest cost (yield) nor
the net interest rate received upon the sale of such Bonds exceeds the maximum rate otherwise
authorized by applicable law, and (ii) that no person holding any of?ce of the Board, either by
election or appointment is in any manner interested, either directly or indirectly, in his or her
own name, in the name of any other person, association, trust or corporation, in the Indenture,
any escrow or similar agreement executed and delivered pursuant to Section6 hereof, the
applicable Purchase and Sale Agreement or any agreement with a Bond Insurer, Debt Reserve
Credit Facility Provider or Credit Provider authorized by paragraphs and of this
Section, or in the issuance and sale of such Bonds, in accordance with the laws of the State of
Illinois and the Code of Ethics of the Board (Board Rule No. 11-0525-P02, as amended).

In connection with any sale of the Bonds of each Series, each of the Designated
Of?cials is hereby authorized to obtain a bond insurance policy from such recognized bond
insurer as such Designated Of?cial shall determine (the ?Bond Insurer?) if said Designated
Of?cial determines 'such bond insurance policy to be desirable in connection with the sale of
such Series of Bonds, or with respect to speci?ed or designated maturities of such Series of
Bonds. Each Designated Official is also authorized to enter into such agreements and make such
covenants with any Bond Insurer that such Designated Of?cial deems necessary and that are not
inconsistent with the terms and provisions of this Resolution and to pay upfront or annual fees to
the Bond Insurer in connection therewith.

23

October 26, 2016

In lieu of, or in addition to, the deposit of proceeds of the Bonds of any Series or
other funds into a debt service reserve fund as authorized in paragraph of this Section, each of
the Designated Of?cials is hereby authorized to obtain a debt reserve credit facility from such
recognized provider as such Designated Of?cial shall determine (the ?Debt Reserve Credit
Facility Provider?) if such Designated Of?cial determines such debt reserve credit facility to be
desirable in providing for the funding of any required debt service reserve fund. Each
Designated Of?cial is also authorized to enter into such agreements and make such covenants
with any Debt Reserve Credit Facility Provider that such Designated Of?cial deems necessary
and that are not inconsistent with the terms and provisions of this Resolution, including the
payment of reasonable fees to any Debt Reserve Credit Facility Provider.

In connection with the sale of the Bonds of any Series, to provide additional
security and liquidity for such Bonds, each of the Designated Of?cials is hereby authorized to
obtain a letter of credit, line of credit or other credit or liquidity facility, including similar
agreements with or facilities issued by a Bond Insurer (a ?Credit Facility?), if detennined by
such Designated Of?cial to be desirable in connection with such sale of Bonds. Each of the
Designated Of?cials is hereby further authorized to appoint one or more banks, Bond Insurers or
other ?nancial institutions to issue such Credit Facility (the ?Credit Provider?) and to execute
and deliver on behalf of the Board a credit, reimbursement or similar agreement (the ?Credit
Agreement?) providing for the issuance of the Credit Facility and the obligation of the Board to
repay funds borrowed under the Credit Facility or advances made by the Credit Provider under
the Credit Facility with respect to such Bonds. The Credit Facility may be in a form that
provides for the purchase of such Bonds by the Credit Provider (any such Bond so purchased
being referred to as a ?Bank Bond?) and the Indenture as executed and delivered shall re?ect the
terms and provisions of such Bank Bonds. 'Any Bonds outstanding as Bank Bonds shall be
secured as provided in the applicable Indenture. The annual fee paid to any Credit Provider for
the provision of a Credit Facility'shall not exceed 3 percent of the amount available to be drawn
or advanced under such Credit Facility.

The Credit Agreement may provide that alternative interest rates or provisions will apply
during such times as the Bonds constitute Bank Bonds or the Board has outstanding repayment
obligations to the Credit Provider (the ?Credit Provider Rate? which Credit Provider Rate
shall not exceed the maximum permitted by law, but in no event more than 15 percent per annum
(the ?Maximum Credit Provider Rate?). The Credit Agreement may further provide that to
the extent the Credit Provider Rate determined at any time pursuant to the Credit Agreement
exceeds the Maximum Credit Provider Rate, such excess may accrue at the then-applicable
Credit Provider Rate (but in no event may such excess accrue at a rate in excess of 25 percent per
annum) and be added to the Credit Provider Rate at such time or times thereafter as the Credit
Provider Rate shall be less than the Maximum Credit Provider Rate; provided, that at no time
shall the Credit Provider Rate per annum exceed the Maximum Credit Provider Rate.

Any Credit Facility obtained as provided herein shall cause the Bonds secured thereby to
bear an investment grade rating from at least two nationally recognized rating services.

Subsequent to the sale of the Bonds of any Series, any one or more of the
Designated Of?cials shall ?le in the of?ce of the Secretary a noti?cation of sale directed to the
Board setting forth whether such Series is a Series of Alternate Bonds or a Series of
Dedicated Tax Bonds, (ii) the aggregate original principal amount of, maturity schedule,
redemption provisions and interest rates for the Bonds sold, a description of the speci?c
Pledged Capital Improvement Taxes pledged to the payment of the principal of, redemption price
of, interest on and the Compound Accreted Value of the Bonds of such Series, (iv) the principal
amounts of the Bonds sold as Current Interest Bonds, Capital Appreciation Bonds and
Convertible Bonds, respectively, in the case of Bonds sold as Capital Appreciation Bonds and
Convertible Bonds, (A) the Original Principal Amounts of and Yields to Maturity on the Capital
Appreciation Bonds and Convertible Bonds being sold, and (B) a table of Compound Accreted
Value per $5,000 Maturity Amount for any Capital Appreciation Bonds and Convertible Bonds
being sold, setting forth the Compound Accreted Value of each such Capital Appreciation Bond
and Convertible Bonds on each semiannual compounding date, (vi) the interest rates on the
Current Interest Bonds sold, (vii) debt service schedules for the Bonds, demonstrating (A) in-the
case of Alternate Bends, that the Pledged Capital Improvement Taxes are expected to be in an
amount suf?cient to provide the debt service coverage described in Section 2(b) hereof and
(B) in the case of Dedicated Tax Bonds, that the Pledged Capital Improvement Taxes are
expected to be su?icient to provide for the punctual payment of the debt service on the Series of
Dedicated Tax Bonds, the terms and provisions for the conversion of the Compound

24

October 26, 2016

Accrued Value of any Convertible Bonds issued hereunder into Current Interest Bonds, (ix) the
application of the proceeds of such Bonds for the purposes and within the limitations set forth in
paragraph of this Section, if a bond insurance policy is obtained as authorized herein, the
identity of the Bond Insurer issuing the bond insurance policy and the premium and any fees
required to be paid thereto, (xi) if a debt reserve credit facility is obtained as authorized herein,
the identity of the Debt Reserve Credit Facility Provider issuing the debt reserve credit facility,
(xii) if a Credit Facility is obtained as authorized herein, the identity of the Credit Provider
issuing the Credit Facility, and a copy of the Credit Agreement between the Board and such
Credit Provider shall be attached to said noti?cation of sale, the identity of the Trustee
designated pursuant to Section 2 hereof with respect to the Bonds, (xiv) if an escrow or other
similar agreement is to be executed and delivered as authorized in Section 6 hereof, the identity
of any bank, trust company or national banking association selected by a Designated Of?cial to
serve as escrow agent thereunder pursuant to the authorization granted in said Section 6, and a
copy of such agreement shall be attached to said noti?cation of sale and (xv) the identity of and
the compensation paid to the Purchasers in connection with such sale.

In the event that the Designated Of?cial executing such noti?cation of sale with respect
to Alternate Bonds determines that the Alternate Bonds have been sold in such principal amount
or maturing or hearing interest so as to require the levy of Pledged Debt Service Taxes in any
year less than the amount speci?ed therefor in Section 3(a) hereof, then such Designated Of?cial
shall include, in the noti?cation of sale described in this Section, the amount of reduction in the
amount levied in Section 3(a) hereof for each year resulting from such sale, and in addition,
either or both of the Designated Of?cials shall ?le in the respective of?ces of the County Clerks
certi?cates of tax abatement for such years. No such reduction in the amounts levied in
Section 3(a) hereof need be made nor must any certi?cate of tax abatement be ?led as described
in the preceding sentence until any one or more of the Designated O?cials have determined that
any amount so levied in Section 3(a) hereof will not be needed to secure the Alternate Bonds
being sold at that time or any Series of Alternate Bonds to be sold in the future. Any certi?cate
of abatement delivered pursuant to this paragraph shall refer to the amount of Pledged Debt
Service Taxes levied pursuant to Section 3(a) hereof, shall indicate the amount of reduction in
the amount of Pledged Debt Service Taxes levied by the Board resulting from the sale of such
Alternate Bonds, which reduced amount is to be abated from such Pledged Debt Service Taxes,
and shall further indicate the remainder of such Pledged Debt Service Taxes which is to be
extended for collection by the County Clerks. Each of the Designated Of?cials is also
authorized to ?le in the respective of?ces of the County Clerks certi?cates of tax abatement that
re?ect the refunding of any obligations of the Board.

In the event that the Designated Of?cial executing such noti?cation of sale with respect
to Alternate Bonds or Dedicated Tax Bonds determines that the Alternate Bonds or Dedicated
Tax Bonds have been sold in such principal amount or maturing or hearing interest so as to
require the levy of Pledged Capital Improvement Taxes in any year less than the amount
speci?ed therefor in Section 4(a) hereof, then such Designated Of?cial shall include, in the
noti?cation of sale described in this Section, the amount of reduction in the amount levied in
Section 4(a) hereof for each year resulting from such sale, and in addition, either or both of the
Designated Of?cials shall ?le in the respective of?ces of the County Clerks certi?cates of tax
abatement for such years. No such reduction in the amounts levied in Section 4(a) hereof need
be made nor must any certi?cate of tax abatement be ?led as described in the preceding sentence
until any one or more of the Designated Of?cials have determined that any amount so levied in
Section 4(a) hereof will not be needed to secure the Alternate Bonds or Dedicated Tax Bonds
being. sold at that time or any Series of Alternate Bonds or Dedicated Tax Bonds to be sold in the
?iture. Any certi?cate of abatement delivered pursuant to this paragraph shall refer to the
amount of Pledged Capital Improvement Taxes levied pursuant to Section 4(a) hereof, shall
indicate the amount of reduction in the amount of Pledged Capital Improvement Taxes levied by
the Board resulting from the sale of such Alternate Bonds or Dedicated Tax Bonds, which
reduced amount is to be abated from such Pledged Capital Improvement Taxes, and shall further
indicate the remainder of such Pledged Capital Improvement Taxes which is to be extended for
collection by the County Clerks. Each of the Designated Of?cials is also authorized to ?le in the
respective of?ces of the County Clerks certi?cates of tax abatement that re?ect the refunding of
any obligations of the Board. Any abatement or reduction of Pledged Capital Improvement
Taxes shall not constitute a reduction in the annual amount of Capital Improvement Tax that the
Board is authorized to levy pursuant to Section 34-535 of the School Code

25

October 26, 2016

The distribution of a Preliminary Of?cial Statement, Private Placement
Memorandum, Limited Offering Memorandum or Notice of Public Sale relating to each Series of
the Bonds (the ?Disclosure Document?) in substantially the respective forms delivered in
connection with previous issues of Bonds, but with such changes as shall be approved by a
Designated Of?cial to re?ect the terms of the Bonds preposed to be sold and the method of sale
of such Bonds, is hereby in all respects, rati?ed, authorized and approved and shall be ?deemed
?nal? for purposes of Rule 15c2-12, adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission under
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (?Rule and the proposed use by the
Underwriters or the Competitive Purchasers of a ?nal Of?cial Statement (in substantially the
form of the Preliminary Of?cial Statement but with appropriate variations, omissions and
insertions to re?ect the ?nal terms of the Bonds being sold or (ii) authorized herein for a
Preliminary Of?cial Statement if none is used in the marketing of the Bonds being sold) is
hereby approved. Each Designated Of?cial is hereby authorized and directed to execute the?nal
Of?cial Statement or other Disclosure Document on behalf of the Board. A Designated Of?cial
may also cause the preparation and circulation of a Disclosure Document with respect to short-
tenn borrowings of the Board for secondary market purposes that have been previously
authorized by the Board.

If determined to be necessary by a Designated Of?cial in connection with the initial sale
or subsequent reoffering of any obligations previously authorized by this Board, the preparation,
use and distribution of a Disclosure Document relating to such obligations is hereby authorized
and approved. The Designated Of?cials are each hereby authorized to execute and deliver such
Disclosure Document on behalf of the Board. The Disclosure Document herein authorized shall
contain a description of the terms and provisions of, and security for, such obligations, the use of
proceeds of such obligations, ?nancial information relating to the Board, and such other
information as any Designated Of?cer determines to be advisable under the circumstances.

In connection with the sale of a Series of the Bonds, the Designated Of?cials are hereby
authorized to provide to prospective Placement Purchasers such information regarding the
Board?s operations and ?nances as would typically be included in a Disclosure Document and to
enter into such discussions and negotiations with such prospective Placement Purchasers as such

Designated Of?cials shall deem appropriate. In addition, the Designated Of?cials are hereby
authorized to prepare a Notice of Sale for distribution to potential bidders in connection with a
public, competitive sale of a Series of the Bonds and to take all actions necessary to conduct any
such sale. 

The proceeds from the sale of each Series of the Bonds shall be applied to the
payment of (1) costs of the Project that are ?Permitted Expenditures? and ?Capital Expenditures?
as de?ned in the Indenture securing such Series, (ii) such interest to become due on such Bonds
for such period not to exceed the greater of 2 years or a period ending 6 months after the
estimated date of completion of the acquisition and construction of the Project as shall be
determined by the Senior Vice President of Finance or the Chief Financial Officer, and the
payment of the expenses related to the issuance of such Bonds, including, without limitation,
fees to be paid to Bond Insurers or Credit Providers, and such proceeds shall be applied as
provided in the applicable Indenture. In addition, proceeds from the sale of a Series of the Bonds
in the amount of not to exceed 10% of the principal amount thereof may be deposited into a debt
service reserve fund to be held under the applicable Indenture upon the direction of the Senior
Vice President of Finance or the Chief Financial Officer if it is determined that the creation of
such debt service reserve fund is necessary and required in connection with the sale of such
Bonds. All of such proceeds are hereby appropriated for the purposes speci?ed in this

paragraph.

Each of the Senior Vice President of Finance and the Chief Financial Of?cer is
hereby authorized to enter into or approve such agreements with investment providers as shall be
necessary or advisable in connectiou with the investment of any funds on deposit under the
Indenture, to the extent such investments are authorized under the terms of the Indenture, the
Investment Policy of the Board and applicable law, as in effect from time to time.

Section 6. Escrow of Pledgea? Capital Improvement Taxes and Pledged Debt Service
Taxes. If deemed necessary and desirable to provide additional security for any Bonds, each of
the Designated Of?cials is hereby authorized to execute and deliver on behalf of the Board, and
the Secretary is authorized to attest, a form of escrow or other similar agreements with a bank,
trust company or national banking association having the same quali?cations as those set forth in

26

October 26, 2016

Section 2(a) for a Trustee, re?ecting the issuance of the Bonds and such segregation of Pledged
Capital Improvement Taxes and, in the case of Alternate Bonds, Pledged Debt Service Taxes as
the Designated Of?cial executing such agreement shall deem appropriate.

Section 7. Escrow Directions. Each of the Designated Of?cials is hereby authorized,
pursuant to authority contained in Section 20-90 of the Property Tax Code, 35 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 200, to execute a written direction to the County Collectors of The Counties of Cook
and DuPage, Illinois (the ?County Collectors?), to deposit the collections of the Pledged
. Debt Service Taxes as and when extended for collection directly with such escrow agent
designated pursuant to Section 5 in order to secure the payment of the principal of and interest on
the Alternate Bonds, and (ii) to the extent necessary, advising the County Collectors of the
abatement of the Pledged Debt Service Taxes. Each of the Designated Of?cials is hereby
authorized pursuant to the authority contained in Section 20-90 of the Property Tax Code to
execute a written direction to the County Collectors, to deposit the collections of the Capital
Improvement Taxes as and when extended for collection directly with such escrow agent
designated pursuant to Section 6 in order to secure the payment of the principal of and interest on
the Bonds and to provide for the disPosition of the Pledged Capital Improvement Taxes and
(ii) to the extent necessary, advising the County Collectors of the abatement of Pledged Capital
Improvement Taxes. The-Designated Of?cials are directed to ?le a certi?ed copy of this
Resolution with each of the County Collectors.

Section 8. Tax-Exemption and Non-Arbitrage. Each of the Designated Of?cials is
hereby authorized to take any other actions and to execute any other documents and certi?cates
necessary to assure that the interest payments with respect to the Bonds of each Series are
excludable ?'om gross income for federal income tax purposes, to assure that the Bonds do not
constitute ?arbitrage bonds? or ?private activity bonds? under the Internal Revenue Code of
1986, as amended, and to effectuate the issuance and delivery of the Bonds; provided, however,
that any of the Bonds may be issued as Bonds the interest on which is includible in the gross
income of the owner thereof for federal income tax purposes if determined by a Designated
Of?cial to be bene?cial to the Board.

Section 9. Continuing Disclosure Undertaking. Each of the Designated Of?cials is
hereby authorized to execute and deliver one or more Continuing Disclosure Undertakings (each,
a ?Continuing Disclosure Undertaking?) evidencing the Board?s agreement to comply with the
requirements of Section of Rule lSc2?12, as applicable to the Bonds of each Series.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Resolution or any Indenture, the sole remedies for
any failure by the Board to comply with a Continuing Disclosure Undertaking shall be the ability
of the bene?cial owner of any Bond to seek mandamus or speci?c performance by court order to
cause the Board to comply with its obligations under the applicable Continuing Disclosure
Undertaking. Each Continuing Disclosure Undertaking shall be in substantially the form used in
previous ?nancings of the Board, but with such changes therein as shall be approved by the
Designated Of?cial executing the same, with such execution to constitute conclusive evidence of
such of?cial?s approval and this Board?s approval of any changes or revisions therein from such
form of Continuing Disclosure Undertaking.

Section 10. Further Acts. Each of the Designated Of?cials, of?cials or of?cers of the
Board are hereby authorized to execute and deliver such other documents and agreements and
perform such other acts as may be necessary or desirable in connection with the Bonds,
including, but not limited to, the exercise following the delivery date of the Bonds of any power
or authority delegated to such of?cial under this Resolution with respect to the Bonds upon
original issuance, but subject to any'limitations on or restrictions of such power or authority as
herein set forth.

The General Counsel is hereby authorized to select and engage attorneys and other
professionals to provide services related to the transactions described in?this Resolution. The
General Counsel may make such selection of professionals based upon substantial demonstrated
prior experience in addition, each of the Designated Of?cials is hereby authorized to execute and
deliver any supplements or amendments deemed necessary in connection with the issuance, sale
and delivery of the Bonds and other obligations of the Board which have heretofore been
authorized, sold or delivered.

All actions of the of?cials or of?cers of the Board that are in conformity with the
purposes and intent of this Resolution are hereby in all resPects rati?ed, approved, and
con?rmed.

27

October 26, 2016

Section II. Expiration of Authority For Alternate Bonds. The Alternate Bonds
authorized by this Resolution may not be issued after the date three years following the end of
the petition period pursuant to the backdoor referendum with respect to the 2016 Authorization
as provided in Section 17.5(a) of the Act. 

Section 12. Sever-ability. The provisions of this Resolution are hereby declared to be
severable; and if any section, phrase, or provision shall for any reason be declared to be invalid,
such declaration shall not affect the validity of the remainder of the sections, phrases, or
provisions.

Section 13. Repeater and Effective Date. All resolutions or parts of resolutions in
con?ict herewith are, to the extent of such con?ict, hereby repealed. This Resolution is effective
immediately upon its adoption.

THIS SPACE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK

28

October 26, 2016

 

 

TRUST INDENTURE

by and between

BOARD OF EDUCATION OF THE CITY OF CHICAGO

and

as Trustee

datedasof 1,2016

securing
$__,000,000
Dedicated Capital Improvement Tax Bonds, Series 2016C

 

 

29

October 26, 2016

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Page
ARTICLE I De?nitions and Construction 4
Section 101. De?nitions 4
Section 102. Miscellaneous De?nitions 11
Section 103. Authority of Of?cers 12
ARTICLE II Authorization and Issuance of Series 2016C Bonds 12
Section 201. Authorization of Series 2016C Bonds 12
Section 202. Issuance of Series 2016C Bonds 12
Section 203. Execution and Authentication 14
Section 204. Exchangeability of Series 2016C Bonds 15
Section 205. Negotiability, Transfer and Registration 15
Section 206. Provisions with Respect to Exchanges and Transfers 15
Section 207. Bonds Mutilated, Destroyed, Stolen or Lost 16
Section 208. Temporary Series 2016C Bonds 16
Section 209. Delivery of Series 2016C Bonds 17
ARTICLE Application of Funds 17
ARTICLE IV Redemption of Series 2016C 18
Section 401. Optional Redemption of Series 2016C Bonds 13
Section 402. Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption 18
Section 403. Redemption Procedures 19
SectiOn 404. Notice of Redemption 20
Section 405. Payment ofRedeemed Bonds 20
ARTICLE Revenues and Establishment of Funds and Applications Thereof 21
Section 501. The Pledge Effected by this Indenture 21
Section 502. Establishment of Project Fund 22
Section 503. Establishment of Debt Service Fund and Accounts 24
Section 504. Debt Service Fund 24
Section 505. f" Purchase of Term Bonds for Cancellation 27
ARTICLE VI Investment of Funds and Swap Agreements 27
Section 601. Investment of Moneys 2 7
Section 602. Valuation and Sale of Investments 28
Section 603. Swap Agreements 29



30

October 26, 2016

 

ARTICLE VII Particular Covenants and Representations of the Board 29
Section 701. Payment of Series 2016C Bonds 29
Section 702. Further Assurance 30
Section 703. Power to Issue Series 2016C Bonds and Pledge Trust Estate 30
Section 704. Indebtedness and Liens 30
Section 705. Covenants Regarding Pledged Capital Improvement Taxes 31
Section 706. Covenants Regarding Pledged Debt Service Taxes 31
Section 707. Accounts and Reports 32
Section 708. Tax Covenants 32
ARTICLE Defaults and Remedies of Owners 33
Section 801. Events of Default 33
Section 802. Proceedings Brought by Trustee 33
Section 803. Restriction on Owners? Actions 36
Section 804. Remedies Conferred By the Act 36
Section 805. Remedies Not Exclusive 36
Section 806. Effect of Waiver and Other Circumstances 36
ARTICLE IX Regarding the Fiduciaries . 37
Section 901. Trustee; Appointment and Acceptance of Duties 37
Section 902. Paying Agents; Appointment and Acceptance of Duties 37
Section 903. Registrar; Appointment and Acceptance of Duties 37
Section 904. Responsibilities of Fiduciaries 37
Section 905. Evidence on Which Fiduciaries May Act 39
Section 906. . Compensation; Indemni?cation 40
Section 907. - Certain Permitted Acts 40
Section 908. Resignation of Trustee 41
Section 909. Removal of Trustee; Consent of Owners 41
Section 910. Appointment of Successor Trustee 41
Section 911. Transfer of Rights and Property to Successor Trustee 42?
Section 912. Merger or Consolidation 42
Section 913. Adoption of Authentication 42
Section 914. Resignation or Removal of Paying Agent and Appointment of Successor 42
Section 915. Resignation or Removal of Registrar and Appointment of Successor 43
Section 916. Trustee Not Deemed to Have Notice of Default 43
Section 917. Report by Trustee 43
ARTICLE Supplemental Indentures 4-4
Section 1001. Supplemental Indentures Not Requiring Consent of Owners 44
Section 1002. Supplemental Indentures E?fective Upo'n Consent of Owners 44
Section 1003. Filing of Counsel?s Opinion 44
(ii)

31

October 26, 2016

 

 

 

 

 

ARTICLE XI Amendments 45
Section 1101. Mailing 45
Section 1102. Powers of Amendment 45
Section 1103. Consent of Owners 45
Section 1104. Modi?cations by Unanimous Action 46
Section 1105. Exclusion of Series 2016C Bonds 47
Section 1106. Notation on Series 2016C Bonds 47
ARTICLE XII Defeasance 47
Section 1201. Defeasance 47
ARTICLE Miscellaneous 50
Section 1301. Evidence of Signatures of Owners and Ownership of Series 2016C Bonds 50
Section 1302. Moneys Held for Particular Series 2016C Bonds 50
Section 1303. Preservation and Inspection of Documents 50
Section 1304. Cancellation and Destruction of Series 2016C Bonds 50
Section 1305. Parties? Interest Herein 51
Section 1306. No Recourse on the Series 2016C Bonds. ..51
Section 1307. Successors and Assigns 51
Section 1308. Severability of Invalid Provisions 52
Section 1309. Notices 52
Section 1310. Construction 52
Section 1311. Headings Not a Part of this Indenture 52
Section 1312. Multiple Counterparts - 53

Exhibit A Form of Series 2016C Bonds



32

October 26, 2016

THIS TRUST INDENTURE dated as of 1, 2016 (the ?Indenture?), by

and between the Board of Education of the City of Chicago, a school district organized and
existing under the laws of the State of Illinois, and a

 

state banking corporation duly organized, existing .and authorized to accept and execute trusts of
the character herein set out as trustee (the rustee?);

WTNESSETH:

WHEREAS, pursuant to the provisions of Article 34 of the School Code, 105 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/34 (the ?School Code?), the City of Chicago constitutes one school district
(the ?School District?), which is a body politic and corporate by the name of the ?Board of
Education of the City of Chicago,? governed by the Chicago Board of Education (the ?Boarcf?);
and

WHEREAS, in accordance with the provisions of the Local Government Debt Reform Act,
30 Illinois Compiled Statutes 350 (the the Board, on the 24Lb day of August, 2016
adOpted Resolution No. 16-0824-RS5 (the ?20] 6 Authorizing Resolution?) authorizing the
issuance of Alternate Bonds (as hereina?er de?ned), in an amount not to exceed $935,000,000,
and with respect to such Alternate Bonds has completed the backdoor referendum
proceedings required by Section 15 of the Act and (ii) the notice and hearing requirements of the
Bond Issue Noti?cation Act, 30 Illinois Compiled Statutes 352, thereby authorizing the Board to
issue such Alternate Bonds in said amount not to exceed $935,000,000 (the ?2016
Authorization?); and

WHEREAS, to avail itself of the 2015 Authorization, the Board adopted Resolution No.
on October 26, 2016 (the ?Bond Resolution?) authorizing the issuance, ?om time
to time, in one or more series, of its Dedicated Capital Improvement Tax Bonds in an aggregate
principal amount not to exceed $800,000,000 for the purpose of ?nancing capital improvements
authorized by the 2016 Authorizing Resolution; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to the Bond Resolution, the Board has duly authorized the issuance
of its Dedicated Capital Improvement Tax Bonds, Series 2016C, in the aggregate principal
amount of $_,000,000 (the ?Series 2016C Bonds?), for the purpose of providing funds to
pay Capital Expenditures (as herein de?ned) that are Permitted Expenditures (as herein
de?ned) of Projects (as hereinafter de?ned), (ii) pay certain interest to become due on the Series
2016C Bonds to and including [December 1, 2017] and pay costs of issuance of the Series
2016C Bonds; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to the Bond Resolution, the Board has appointed
I to act as Trustee under this Indenture; and

WHEREAS, the Series 2016C Bonds are secured by and will be payable from a pledge of
the Pledged Capital Improvement Taxes and the Pledged Debt Service Taxes (each as hereinafter
de?ned) and will be further secured by the other moneys, securities and funds pledged under this
Indenture; and

WHEREAS, no bonds or other obligations have heretofore been issued pursuant to the
2016 Authorizing Resolution or the Bond Resolution; and

33

October 26, 2016

WHEREAS, for the 2015 tax levy year and for the 2016 tax levy year the Board has levied
taxes upon all taxable property located in the School District for capital improvement purposes
as authorized by Section 34-535 of the School Code (the ?Capital Improvement Tax?); and

WHEREAS, the 2015 tax levy year was the initial year that the Board elected to levy the
Capital Tax and such levy was approved by a resolution adopted by the City
Council of the City of Chicago;

WHEREAS, the Board is authorized to levy annually the Capital Improvement Tax for the
2017 tax levy year and for each subsequent tax levy year; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Section of the School Code the Board may issue
bonds, in accordance with the Local Government Debt Reform Act, including Section 15 of that
Act, against any revenues to be collected from the Capital Improvement Tax in any year or years
and may pledge, pursuant to Section 13 of the Local Government Debt Reform Act, those
revenues as security for the payment of any such bonds; and

WHEREAS, the Board has determined that the Pledged Capital Improvement Taxes will
provide in each year an amount not less than 1.25 times the debt service on the Series 2016C
Bonds, which determination is supported by the report of Public Financial Management, Inc., an
independent feasibility analyst having a national reputation for expertise in the areas of public
?nance and the financing of capital improvements for public schools, that is not otherwise
involved in the projects being ?nanced with the proceeds of the Series 2016C Bonds; and

WHEREAS, all things necessary to make the Series 2016C Bonds, when authenticated by
the Trustee and issued as in this Indenture provided, the valid, binding and legal obligations of
the Board according to the import thereof, and to constitute this Indenture a valid pledge of and
lien on and security interest in each of the Pledged Capital Improvement Taxes and the Pledged
Debt Service Taxes to secure the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on
the Series 2016C Bonds have been done and performed, in due form and time, as required by
law; and

WHEREAS, the execution and delivery of this Indenture and the execution and issuance of
the Series 2016C Bonds, subject to the terms hereof have in all respects been duly authorized.

GRANTING CLAUSES
NOW, THEREFORE, THIS TRUST INDENTURE WITNESSETH:

That in order to secure the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on
all Series 2016C Bonds issued hereunder, according to the import thereof, and the performance
and observance of each and every covenant and condition herein and in the Series 2016C Bonds
contained, and for and in consideration of the premises and of the acceptance by the Trustee of
the trusts hereby created, and of the purchase and acceptance of the Series 2016C Bonds by the
respective Owners (as hereinafter de?ned) thereof, and for other good and valuable
consideration, the suf?ciency of which is hereby acknowledged, and for the purpose of ?xing
and declaring the terms and conditions upon which the Series 2016C Bonds shall be issued,
authenticated, delivered, secured and accepted by all Persons (as hereinafter de?ned) who shall

-2-

34

October 26, 2016

from time to time be or become Owners thereof, the Board does hereby pledge and grant a lien
and security interest upon the following Trust Estate to the Trustee and its successors in trust and
assigns, for the bene?t of the Owners and any Swap Providers (as hereinafter de?ned), to the
extent provided in this Indenture:

The Pledged Capital Improvement Taxes and the Pledged Debt Service
Taxes; provided that the pledge of the Pledged Capital Improvement Taxes to the
payment of the Series 2016C Bonds is on a parity with the pledge of such taxes to the
payment of any Additional Bonds (as hereinafter de?ned) that may be hereafter issued;

All moneys and securities and earnings thereon in all Funds, Accounts and
Sub-Accounts established pursuant to this Indenture except the Swap Payment Account
(as hereinafter de?ned); and

Any and all other moneys, securities and property furnished from time to
time to the Trustee by the Board or on behalf of the Board or by any other Persons to be
held by the Trustee under the terms of this Indenture.

BUT IN TRUST NEVERTHELESS, and except as herein otherwise provided, for the
equal and proportionate bene?t and security of the Series 2016C Bonds issued hereunder and
secured by this Indenture, without preference, priority or'distinction as to participation in the
lien, bene?t and protection hereof of any one Series 2016C Bond over any Other or from the
others by reason of priority in the issue or negotiation thereof, or for any other reason
whatsoever, so that each and all of the Series 2016C Bonds shall have the same right, lien and
privilege under this Indenture and shall be equally secured hereby, with the same effect as if the
same had all been made, issued and negotiated upon the delivery hereof.

PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that the Board has reserved the right, upon compliance with
the provisions of Section 70413) hereof to issue Additional Bonds on a parity with and sharing
ratably and equally in the Pledged Capital Improvement Taxes with the Series 2016C Bonds.

PROVIDED FURTHER, HOWEVER, that these presents are upon the condition that, if
the Board, or its successors, shall well and truly pay or cause to be paid, or provide for the
payment of all principal, premium, if any, and interest on the Series 2016C Bonds due or to
become due thereon, at the times and in the manner stipulated therein and herein, then this
Indenture and the rights hereby granted shall cease, terminate and be void, but shall otherwise be
and remain in full force. 

AND IT IS HEREBY COVENANT ED AND AGREED by and among the Board, the
Trustee and the Owners of the Series 2016C Bonds from time to time, that the terms and
conditions upon which the Series 2016C Bonds are to be issued, authenticated, delivered,
secured and accepted by all Persons who shall from time to time be or become the Owners
thereof and the trusts and conditions upon which the moneys and securities hereby pledged are to
be held and disposed of which trusts and conditions the Trustee hereby accepts, are as follows:

35

October 26, 2016

ARTICLE I
De?nitions and Construction

Section 101. De?nitions. The following terms shall, for all purposes of this
Indenture, have the following meanings unless a different meaning clearly appears ??om the
context:

?Act? means the Local Government Debt Reform Act, 30 Illinois Compiled Statutes 350.
?Additional Bonds? means any Alternate Bonds issued in the future in accordance with
the provisions .of the Act on a parity with and sharing ratably and equally in all or any portion of

the Pledged Capital Improvement Taxes with the Series 2016C Bonds as authorized by
Section 704131. 

?Alternate Bonds? means general obligation bonds payable from any revenue source as
provided ?by the Act, particularly Section l5 thereof.

?Annual Debt Service Requirement? means, for any Bond Year, the sum of the interest on
and principal of the Series 2016C Bonds that will become due and payable, whether at maturity
or upon mandatory sinking fund redemption, during such Bond Year.

?Authorized Denominations? means $100,000 and any multiple of $5,000 in excess
thereof.

?Authorized O?icer? means any Designated Of?cial, (ii) the Controller and Chief
Operating Of?cer of the Board acting together or any other of?cer or employee of the Board
authorized to perform speci?c acts or duties hereunder by resolution duly adopted by the Board.

?Board? means the Board of Education of the City of Chicago, as governed by the
Chicago Board of Education, created and established pursuant to Article 34 of the School Code.

?Bond Counsel? means any nationally recognized ?rm(s) of municipal bond attorneys
approved by the Board.

?Bond Payment Amount? means the Bond Payment Account established in Section 503.

?Bond Resolution? means Resolution No. adopted by the Board on
October 26, 2016, authorizing the issuance of the Series 2016C Bonds.

?Bond Year? means each annual period beginning on December 2 of a calendar year to
and including December 1 of the next succeeding calendar year.

?Bonds? means the Dedicated Capital improvement Tax Bonds, Series 2016C, of the
Board issued pursuant to this Indenture.

?Business Day? means any day which is not a Saturday, a Sunday, a legal holiday or a
day on which banking institutions in the city where the designated corporate trust of?ce of any

.4-

36

October 26, 2016

Fiduciary is located are authorized by law or executive order to close (and such Fiduciary is in
fact closed).

?Capital Expenditure? means an authorized expenditure of the Board that is or may be
capitalized under generally accepted accounting practices applicable to the Board and is made
with respect to a project or system of the Board. This de?nition may be revised to re?ect the
requisites of ?projects and systems? as such term is used in Section 902 of the U.S. Bankruptcy
Code (11 U.S. Code 902).

?Capital Improvement Tax? means the tax that the Board is authorized to levy annually
pursuant to Section 34-535 of the School Code.

?Capital Improvement Taxes? means the revenues derived and to be derived by the Board
from the imposition of the Capital Improvement Tax, including but not limited to, regular tax
receipts and late payment interest and penalties.

?Capital Improvement Program? means the Capital Improvement Program of the Board,
as from time to time approved and amended by the Board and on ?le in the of?ce of the
Secretary of the Board. 7

?Code? means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.

?Code and Regulations? means the Code and the regulations promulgated or proposed
pursuant thereto as the same may be in effect from time to time.

?Counsel ?3 Opinion? or ?Opinion of Counsel? means an opinion signed by an attorney or
?rm of attorneys of recognized standing in the area of law to?which the opinion relates, who may
be counsel to the Board (including the General Counsel to the Board) or Bond Counsel.

?County Clerks? means, collectively, the County Clerks of The Counties of Cook and
DuPage, Illinois.

?County Collectors? means, collectively, the County Treasurers of The Counties of Cook
and DuPage, Illinois, in their respective capacities as county collector, or, respectively, such
other of?cer as may be law?illy appointed in the future to serve as county collector in either of
said counties.

?Debt Service und? means the Debt Service Fund established in Section 503.

?Defeasance Government Obligations? means Government Obligations which are not
subject to redemption other than at the option of the holder thereof.

?Defeasance Obligations? means Defeasance Government Obligations and (ii) Pre-
refunded Municipal Obligations.

?Deposit Date? means February 15 of each year or such earlier date as may be necessary
to permit the Board to lawfully make the abatement of taxes described in Section and
Section 706(31.

-5-

37

October 26, 2016

?Designated Of?cial? the President of the Board, (ii) the Senior Vice President of
Finance or any other of?cer of the Board authorized to perform Speci?c acts and duties
hereunder by resolution duly adopted by the Board.

means The Depository Trust Company, New York, New York, as securities
depository for the Series 2016C Bonds. . .

Participant? means any securities broker or dealer, bank, trust company, clearing
corporation or other organization depositing Bonds with DTC pursuant to the book entry only
system described in Section 2021G1.

?Escrow Agent? means 1, as escrow agent under
the Escrow Agreement, and any successor or successors appointed thereunder.

?Escrow Agreement" means the First Amended and Restated School Capital
Improvement Tax Levy Escrow Agreement, dated as of 2016 by and
between the Board and the Escrow Agreement, as ?om time to time herea?er supplemented and
amended as provided therein. 

 

?Event of Default? means any event so designated and speci?ed in Section 801.

?Fiduciary? or ?Fiduciaries? means the Trustee, the Registrar and any Paying Agent, or
any or all of them, as may be appropriate.

?Forward Supply Contract? means any contract entered into between the Board and a
supplier of Investment Securities selected by or pursuant to the direction of the Board (a
?Counterparty?) pursuant to which the Counterparty agrees to sell to the Board (or to the Trustee
on behalf of the Board) and the Board (or the Trustee on behalf of the Board) agrees to purchase'
speci?ed Investment Securities on speci?c dates at speci?c purchase prices, all as established at
the time of the execution and delivery of such contract and as set forth in such contract. Any
amounts due and owing ?'om the Board to the Counterparty pursuant to any Forward Supply
Contract'(other than the speci?ed purchase prices of the Investment Securities set forth therein)
shall be treated as currentoperating expenses of the Board subject to annual appropriation, and
shall not constitute indebtedness of the Board.

?Government Obligations? means any direct obligations of, or obligations the
principal of and interest on which are unconditionally guaranteed by, the United States of
America and (ii) certi?cates of ownership of the principal of or interest on obligations of the type
described in clause (it of this de?nition which obligations are held in trust by a commercial
bank which is a member of the Federal Reserve System in the capacity of a custodian, the
owner of which certi?cate is the real party in interest and has the right to proceed directly and
individually against the obligor of the underlying obligations and for which the underlying
obligations are held in safekeeping in a special account, segregated harm the custodian?s general
assets, and are not available to satisfy any claim of the custodian, any Person claiming through
the custodian, or any Person to whom the custodian may be obligated.

?Indenture? means this Trust Indenture, dated as of 1, 2016, by and
between the Board and the Trustee, as ?om time to time amended and supplemented.

-5-

38

October 26, 2016

[?Initial Board Funds? means the lawfully available funds of the Board in the amount of
for application pursuant to Article 

?Interest Payment Date? means each June 1 and December 1, commencing
1,2017. 

?Interest Sub-Account? means the Sub-Account of that name in the Bond Payment
Account established in Section 503.

?Investment Policy? means the Investment Policy approved by the Board, as currently in
effect and as may be amended from time to time.

?Investment Securities? means any of the following securities authorized by law and the
Investment Policy as permitted investments of Board funds at the time of purchase thereof:

Government Obligations;

(ii) Obligations of any of the following federal agencies which obligations
represent the full, faith and credit of the United States of America, including:

Export Import Bank

Farm Credit System Financial Assistance Corporation

Farmers Home Administration

- General Services Administration

U.S. Maritime Administration

4 Small Business Administration

- Government National Mortgage Association (GNMA)

U.S. Department of Housing Urban Development 
Federal Housing Administration;

Senior debt obligations issued by Fannie Mac or the Federal Home Loan
Mortgage Corporation or senior debt obligations of other government agencies;

(iv) U.S. dollar denominated deposit accounts, federal funds and banker?s
acceptances with domestic commercial banks (including the Trustee and its af?liates)
which have a rating on their short term certi?cates of deposit on the date of purchase of
no less than or by and by Moody?s and maturing no more than
360 days after the date of purchase (Ratings on holding companies are not considered as
the rating of the bank);

Commercial. paper which is rated at the time of purchase no less than
or or above by and by Moody?s and which matures not more
than 180 days after the date of purchase;

(vi) Investments in a money market fund which at the time of purchase is rated
or or better by including those for which the Trustee or an

39

October 26, 2016

af?liate performs services for a fee, whether as a custodian, transfer agent, investment
advisor or otherwise;

(vii) - Repurchase agreements of gOVemment securities having the meaning set
out in the Government Securities Act of 1986 subject to the provisions of said Act and
the Regulations issued thereunder. The government securities that are the subject of such
repurchase agreements, unless registered or inscribed in the name of the Board, shall be
purchased through banks or trust companies authorized to do business in the State of
Illinois;

Pre-re?mded Municipal Obligations; and
(ix) Any Forward Supply Contract;

?Letter of Representations? means the Blanket Issuer Letter of Representations dated
March 15, 2002, between the Board and DTC, relating to the book entry only system for the
Series 2016C Bonds described in Section 

?Outstanding? means, as of any date, all Series 2016C Bonds theretofore or thereupon
being authenticated and delivered under this Indenture except:

Any Series 2016C Bonds canceled by the Trustee at or prior to such date;

(ii) Series 2016C Bonds (or portions of Series 2016C Bonds) for the payment
or redemption of which moneys and/or Defeasance Obligations, equal to the principal
amount or Redemption Price thereof, as the case may be, with interest to the date of
maturity or date ?xed for redemption, are held in trust under this Indenture and set aside
for such payment or redemption (whether at or prior to the maturity or redemption date),
provided that if such Series 2016C Bonds (or portions of Series 2016C Bonds) are to be
redeemed, notice of such redemption shall have been given as in Article IV provided or
provision satisfactory to the Trustee shall have been made for the giving of such notice;

Series 2016C Bonds in lieu of or in substitution for which other Series
2016C Bonds shall have been authenticated and delivered pursuant to Article II
Section 405 or Section 1106; and

 

(iv) Series 2016C Bonds deemed to have been paid as provided in
Section 1201(3).

?Owner? means any Person who shall be the registered owner of any Series 2016C Bond
or Bonds.

?Paying Agent? means the Trustee and any other bank, national banking association or
trust company designated by a Designated Of?cial as paying agent for the Series 2016C Bonds,
and any successor or successors appointed by a Designated Of?cial under this Indenture.

?Permitted Expenditures? means expenditures for capital improvement purposes,
including without limitation the construction and equipping of a new school building or

-3-

40

October 26, 2016

buildings or an addition or additions to an existing school building or buildings, (ii) the purchase
of school grounds on which any new school building or an addition to an existing school
building is to be constructed or located, both items and (ii) of this de?nition, or (iv) the
rehabilitation, renovation, and equipping of an existing school building or buildings. This
de?nition may be revised to re?ect any amendment of Illinois law pertaining to permitted uses of
the Capital Improvement Taxes.

?Person? means and includes an association, unincorporated organization, a corporation,
a limited liability company, a partnership, a joint venture, a business trust, or a government or an
agency or a political subdivision thereof, or any other public or private entity, or a natural
person.

?Pledged Capital Improvement Taxes? means the Capital Improvement Taxes, in
amounts each year as shall provide for the payment of the Series 2016C Bonds and the provision
of not less than an additional 025 times such amounts in such years, and pledged under this
Indenture as security for the Series 2016C Bonds.

?Piedged Capital Improvement Taxes Account? means the account of that name in the
Debt Service Fund established in Section 503.

?Pledged Debt Service Taxes? means the ad valorem taxes levied against all of the
taxable property in the School District without limitation as to rate or amount and pledged under
this Indenture as security for the Series 2016C Bonds.

?Pledged Debt Service Taxes Account? means the account of that name in the Debt
Service Fund established in Section 503.

?Pre-re?znded Municipal Obligations? means any bonds or other obligations of any state
of the United States of America or of any agency, instrumentality or local governmental unit of
any such state which are not callable at the option of the obligor prior to maturity or as to which
irrevocable instructions have been given by the obligor to call on the date speci?ed in the notice,
and

(A) which are rated at the time of purchase, based on an irrevocable escrow
account or fund, in the highest rating category Of and Moody?s or any successors
thereto; or

(B) which are fully secured as to principal and interest and redemption
premium, if any, by an escrow consisting only of cash or Government Obligations, which
escrow may be applied only to the payment of such principal of and interest and
redemption premium, if any, on such bonds or other obligations on the maturity date or
dates thereof or the speci?ed redemption date or dates pursuant to such irrevocable
instructions, as appropriate, and (ii) which escrow is suf?cient, as veri?ed by a nationally
recognized independent certi?ed public accountant, to pay principal of and interest and
redemption premium, if any, on the Series 2016C Bonds or other obligations described in
this paragraph on the maturity date or dates speci?ed in the irrevocable instructions
referred to above, as appropriate.

-9-

41

October 26, 2016

?Principal Sub-Account? means the Sub-Account of that name in the Bond Payment
Account established in Section 503. 

?Project? means the construction, acquisition and equipping of school buildings, site
improvements and other real and personal property in and for the School District, all in
accordance with the Capital Improvement Program.

?Project Costs? means the cost of acquisition, construction and equipping of the Project,
including the cost of acquisition of all land, rights of way, property, rights, easements and
interests acquired by the Board for such construction, the cost of demolishing or removing any
buildings or structures on land so acquired, including the .cost of acquiring any lands to which
such buildings or structures may be moved, the cost of all machinery and equipment determined
to be necessary and desirable by the Board, the costs of issuance of the Series 2016C Bonds,
?nancing charges, ?nancial advisory fees, consultant fees, the cost of engineering and legal
expenses, plans, speci?cations, estimates of cost and revenues and other expenses necessary or
incident to determining the feasibility or practicability of cons1ructing any portion of the Project.

?Project Fund? means the fund of that name established in Section 502.

?Rating Services? means the nationally recognized rating services, or any of them, that
shall have assigned ratings to any Series 2016C Bonds Outstanding as requested by or on behalf
of the Board, and which ratings are then currently in effect.

?Record Date? means, with respect to any Interest Payment Date for the Series 2016C
Bonds, the 15th day (whether or not a Business Day) of the Calendar month next preceding such
Interest Payment Date.

?Redemption Price? means, with respect to any Series 2016C Bond, the amount payable
upon the date ?xed for redemption.

- ?Registrar? means the Trustee and any other bank, national banking association or Bust
company appointed by a Designated Of?cial under this Indenture and designated as registrar for
the Series 2016C Bonds, and its successor or successors.

?School District? means the school district constituted by the City of Chicago, Illinois
pursuant to Article 34 of the School Code and governed by the Board.

?Senior Vice President of Finance? means the Senior Vice President of Finance
(including any interim Senior Vice President of Finance) of the Board.

?Series 2016C Capitalized Interest Account? means the Account of that name established
within the Debt Service Fund pursuant to the provisions of Section 1.

means United States Treasury Certi?cates of Indebtedness, Notes and Bonds 
State and Local Government Series. .

?State? means the State of Illinois.

-10-

42

October 26, 2016

?Supplemental Indenture? means any Supplemental Indenture between the Board and the
Trustee authorized pursuant to Article hereof.

?Swap Agreement? means any agreement between the Board and a counterparty or Swap
Provider, the purpose of which is to provide to the Board an interest rate basis, cash ?ow basis or
other basis different ?om that provided in the Series 2016C Bonds for the payment of interest.

?Swap Payment? means, with respect to each Swap Agreement, each periodic scheduled
net payment owing to the Swap Provider made with respect to the notional amount identi?ed in
Such Swap Agreement. For purposes of this Indenture, ?Swap Payment? excludes any non-
scheduled payments, including but not limited to termination payments, indemni?cation
payments, tax gross up payments, expensed and default interest payments.

?Swap Payment Account? means the Account of that name in the Debt Service Fund
established in Section 503.

?Swap Payment Date? has the meaning set forth in Section 504(51.
?Swap Provider? means any counterparty to a Swap Agreement.

?Tax Agreement? means the Tax Exemption Certi?cate and Agreement by and between
the Board and the Trustee relating to the Series 2016C Bonds.

?Term Bonds? has the meaning set forth in Section 

?Trustee? means Chicago, Illinois, and any
successor or successors appointed under this Indenture as hereinafter provided. The ?designated
corporate trust of?ce? of the Trustee means 30 North LaSalle Street, 38th Floor, Chicago, Illinois
60602 or such other address as is provided by the Trustee]

?Trust Estate? means the Pledged Capital Improvement Taxes, the Pledged Debt Service
Taxes and all other property pledged to the Trustee pursuant to the Granting Clauses of this
Indenture.

?2016 Authorization? means the authorization adopted by the Board pursuant to
Resolution No. on August 24, 2016, authorizing the issuance of alternate bonds
pursuant to the Act in an amount not to exceed $935,000,000.

?Year? or ?year? means a calendar year.

Section 102. Miscellaneous De?nitions. As used herein, and unless the context shall
otherwise indicate, the words ?Bond,? ?Owner? and ?Person? shall include the plural as well as

the singular number.

As used herein, the terms ?herein,? ?hereunder,? ?hereby,? ?hereto,? ?hereof? and any
similar terms refer to this lndenture.



43

October 26, 2016

Unless the context shall otherwise indicate, references herein to articles, sections,
subSections, clauses, paragraphs and other subdivisions refer to the designated articles, sections,
subsections, clauses, paragraphs and other subdivisions of this Indenture as originally executed.

Section 103. Authority of Of?cers. Under this Indenture, theVice-President of the
Board may exercise all of the powers and perform all of the duties of the President of the Board
in the case of the absence or disability of the President or if there be a vacancy in the of?ce of
the President. The Assistant Secretary of the Board may perform the duties of the Secretary of
the Board under this Indenture in the case of the Secretary?s absence or inability to act.

ARTICLE II 
Authorization and Issuance of Series 2016C Bonds

Sectiou 201. Authorization of Series 2016C Bonds. The Board shall not issue any
Series 2016C Bonds under the provisions of this Indenture except in accordance with the
provisions of this Article II. The total principal amount of Series 2016C Bonds that may be
issued hereunder is expressly limited to $_,000,000 (other than Series 2016C Bonds issued in
lieu of or in substitution for which other Series 2016C Bonds shall have been authenticated and
delivered pursuant to this Article II, Section 405 or Section 1106).

Section 202. Issuance of Series 2016C Bonds. (A) The Series 2016C Bonds in the
aggregate principal amount of $_,000,000, which shall be designated as f?Dedicated Capital
Improvement Tax Bonds, Series entitled to the bene?t, protection and security of this
Indenture are hereby authorized and shall be issued pursuant to the authority of the Act, the 2016
Authorization and the Bond Resolution. 

(B) The Series 2016C Bonds shall mature on December 1 in each year shown in the
following table in the respective principal amount set forth opposite each such year and the
Series 2016C Bonds maturing in each such year shall be interest at the rate per annum set forth
opposite each such ?year in the following table.

 

 

Year Principal Amount Interest Rate
20_ . 
20_

. (C) The Series 2016C Bonds shall be issued only in fully registered form without
coupons and shall be dated the date of issuance thereof. Each Series 2016C Bond shall bear
interest from the Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid as of the date on which it
is authenticated or if it is authenticated prior to the ?rst date on which interest is to be paid, from
its dated date, which interest shall be payable on June 1 and December 1 of each year,

commencing l, 20_, computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of
twelve 30-day months.

-12-

44

October 26, 2016

(D) The Series 2016C Bonds shall be issued in Authorized Denominations and shall
be numbered consecutively, but need not be authenticated or delivered in consecutive order. The
Series 2016C Bonds and the Trustee?s Certi?cate of Authentication shall be in substantially the
form set forth in ExhibitA attached hereto and by reference made a part hereof with such
variations, omissions or insertions as are required or permitted by this Indenture.

(E) The principal and Redemption Price of the Series 2016C Bonds shall be payable
at the designated corporate trust of?ce of the Trustee, as Paying Agent, and at such of?ces of any
co-Paying Agent or successor Paying Agent or Paying Agents appointed pursuant to this
Indenture for the Series 2016C Bonds. Interest on the Series 2016C Bonds shall be payable by
check or bank draft mailed or delivered by the Trustee to the Owners as the same appear on the
registration books of the Board maintained by the Registrar as of the Record Date or, at the
option of any Owner of $1,000,000 or more in aggregate principal amount of Series 2016C
Bonds, by Wire transfer of immediately available funds to such bank in the continental United
States as said Owner shall request in writing to the Registrar no later than the Record Date. The
Series 2016C Bonds shall be payable, with reSpect to interest, principal and redemption premium
(if any) in any coin, or currency of the United States of America which at the time of payment is
legal tender for the payment of public and private debts.

The net proceeds of the Series 2016C Bonds, upon receipt, shall be applied as
provided in Article hereof.

(G) The Series 2016C Bonds shall be initially issued in the form of a single fully
registered Series 2016C Bond for each maturity of the Series 2016C Bonds. Upon initial
issuance, the ownership of each Series 2016C Bond shall be registered in the registration books
kept by the Trustee in the name of Cede Co., as nominee of DTC, and except as hereinafter
provided, the ownership of all of the Series 2016C Bonds shall be registered in the name of Cede
Co., as nominee of DTC.

With respect to Series 2016C Bonds registered in the name of Cede Co., as nominee of
DTC, the Board and the Trustee shall have no responsibility or obligation to any DTC Participant
or to any Person on behalf of whom such a DTC Participant holds an interest in the Series 2016C
Bonds. Without limiting the immediately preceding sentence, the Board and the Trustee shall
have no responsibility or obligation with respect to the accuracy of the records of DTC, Cede
Co. or any DTC Participant with respect to any ownership interest in any Series 2016C Bond,
(ii) the delivery to any DTC Participant or any other Person, other than the Owner of any Series-
Bond, of any notice with respect to such Series 2016C Bond, including without limitation
any notice of .redemption or the payment to any DTC Participant or any other Person, other
than the Owner of any Series 2016C Bond, of any amount with respect to the principal or
Redemption Price of, or interest on, such Series 2016C Bond. Notwithstanding any other
provision of this Indenture to the contrary, the Board, the Trustee and each other Paying Agent,
if any, shall be entitled to treat and consider the Person in whose name each Series 2016C Bond
is registered as the absolute owner of such Series 2016C Bond for the purpose of payment of the
principal or Redemption Price of and interest with reSpect to such Series 2016C Bond, for the
purpose of giving notices of redemption, for the purpose of registering transfers with respect to
such Series 2016C Bond and for all other purposes whatsoever. The Trustee and each other
Paying Agent, if any, shall pay all principal or Redemption Price of and interest on the Series

-13-

45

October 26, 2016

2016C Bonds only to or upon the order of the respective Owners thereof, or their respective
attorneys duly authorized in writing, and all such payments shall be valid and effective to satisfy
and discharge fully the Board?s obligations with respect to payment of the principal or
Redemption Price of and interest on the Series to the extent of the sum or sums So
paid. No Person other than an Owner of a Series 2016C Bond shall receive a Series 2016C Bond
certi?cate evidencing the obligation of the Board to make payments of the principal or
Redemption Price of and interest on the Series 2016C Bonds pursuant to this Indenture.

The Owners of the Series 2016C Bonds have no right to the appointment or retention of a
depository for the Series 2016C Bonds. DTC may resign or be removed as securities depository
in accordance with its customary procedures. In the event of any such resignation or removal,
the Board shall appoint a successor securities depository, quali?ed to act as such under
Section 17(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, notify DTC and the Trustee
in writing of the appointment of such successor securities depository and transfer or cause the
transfer of one or more separate Series 2016C Bond certi?cates to such successor securities
depository or (ii) notify DTC of the availability through the Trustee of Series 2016C Bond
certi?cates and transfer or cause the transfer of one or more separate Series 2016C Bond
certi?cates to DTC Participants having Bonds credited to their DTC accounts. In such event, the
Series 2016C Bonds shall no longer be restricted to being registered in the name of Cede Co.,
as nominee of DTC, but may be registered in the name of the successor securities depository, or
its nominee, or in whatever name or names the DTC Participants receiving Series 2016C Bonds
shall designate, in accordance with the provisions of this Indenture.

The Board and DTC have executed the Letter of Representations. Notwithstanding any
other provision of this Indenture, so long as DTC, or its designee, is the Owner of all Series
2016C Bonds, the arrangements referred to in the Letter of Representations shall apply to the
redemption of any Series 2016C Bonds and to the payment of the principal or Redemption Price
of and interest on the Series 2016C Bonds, including without limitation, that: presentatiOn of
Series 2016C Bonds to the Trustee upon redemption or at maturity shall be deemed made to the
Trustee when the right to exercise ownership rights in the Series 2016C Bonds through DTC or
Participants is transferred by DTC on its books; and DTC may present notices,
approvals, waivers or other Communications required or permitted to be made by Owners of
Series 2016C Bonds under this Indenture on a ?actionalized basis on behalf of some or all of
those Persons entitled to exercise ownership rights in the Series 2016C Bonds through DTC or
Participants.

So long as the Series 2016C Bonds are registered in the name of Cede Co., as nominee
of DTC, the Trustee agrees to comply with the terms and provisions referred to in the Letter of
Representations. References to Cede Co. mean and include any other nominee required by
DTC.

Section 203. Execution and Authentication. (A) The Series 2016C Bonds shall be
executed in the name of the Board by the manual or facsimile signatures of its President and
Secretary. In case any one or more of the of?cers who shall have signed any of the Series 2016C
Bonds shall cease to be such officer before the Series 2016C Bonds so signed shall have been
authenticated and delivered by the Trustee, such Series 2016C Bonds may, nevertheless, be
authenticated and delivered as herein provided, and may be issued as if the Persons who signed

-14-

46

October 26, 2016

such Series Bonds had not ceased to hold such of?ces. Any Series 2016C Bond may be
signed on behalf of the Board by such persons who at the time of the execution of such Series
2016C Bond shall hold the proper of?ce of the Board, although at the date of such Series 2016C
Bond such persons may not have been so authorized or have held such of?ce.

(B) The Series 2016C Bonds shall bear a certi?cate of authentication, in the form set
forth in Exhibit/i attached hereto, executed manually by the Trustee. Only such Series 2016C
Bonds as shall bear such certi?cate of authentication shall be entitled to any right or bene?t
under this Indenture, and no such Series 2016C Bond shall be valid or obligatory for any purpose
until such certi?cate of authentication shall have been duly executed by the Trustee. Such
certi?cate of the Trustee upon any such Series 2016C Bond executed on behalf of the Board
shall be conclusive evidence that the Series 2016C Bond so authenticated has been duly
authenticated and delivered under this Indenture and that the Owner thereof is entitled to the
bene?ts of this Indenture. 

Section 204. Exchangeability of Series 2016C Bonds. Subject to the provisions of
Section 206 any Series 2016C Bond, upon surrender at the principal of?ce of the Registrar with
a written instrument of transfer satisfactory to the Registrar, duly executed by the Owner or its
duly authorized attorney, may, at the option of the Owner and upon payment of any taxes, fees or
charges as provided in Section 206, be exchanged for an equal aggregate principal amount of
fully registered Series 2016C Bonds of the same tenor of any other Authorized Denominations.

 

Section 205. Negotiability, Transfer and Registration. (A) Each Series 2016C
Bond shall be transferable only upon the registration books of the Board, which shall be kept for
that purpose by the Registrar, by the Owner in person or by its attorney duly authorized in
writing, upon surrender thereof with a written instrument of transfer satisfactory to the Registrar,
duly executed by the Owner or its duly authorized attorney. Upon the transfer of any such Series
2016C Bond, the Board shall issue in the name of the transferee a new Series 2016C Bond or
Bonds in Authorized Denominations of the same aggregate principal amount.

(B) The Board and each Fiduciary may deem and treat the person in whose name any
Series 2016C Bond shall be registered upon the registration books of the Board as the absolute
owuer of such Series 2016C Bond, whether such Series 2016C Bond shall be overdue or not, for
the purpose of receiving payment of, or on account of, the principal and Redemption Price, if
any, of and interest on, such Series 2016C Bond and for all other purposes, and all such
payments so made to any such Owner or upon its order shall be valid and effectual to satisfy and
discharge the liability upon such Series 2016C Bond to the extent of the sum or sums so paid,
and neither the Board nor any Fiduciary shall be affected by any notice to the contrary. -

. Section 206. Provisions with Respect to Exchanges and Transfers. In all cases in
which the privilege of transferring or exchanging Bonds is exercised, the Board shall execute and
the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver Bonds in accordance with the, provisions of this
Indenture. All Series 2016C Bonds surrendered in any such exchanges shall forthwith be
canceled by the Trustee. For any exchange or transfer of Series 2016C Bonds, whether
temporary or de?nitive, the Board, the Trustee or the Registrar may make a charge suf?cient to
reimburse it for any tax, fee or other governmental charge required to be paid. Neither the
Trustee nor any Registrar shall be required to make any registration, transfer or exchange of any

-15-

47

October 26, 2016

Series 2016C Bond after such Series 2016C Bond has been called for redemption or, in the case
of any proposed redemption of Series 2016C Bonds, during the 15 days next preceding the date
of ?rst giving notice of such redemption. 

Section 207. Bonds Mutilated, Destroyed, Stolen or Lost. In case any Series 2016C
Bond shall become mutilated or be destroyed, stolen or lost, the Board shall execute, and
thereupon the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, a new Series 2016C Bond of like principal
amount as the Series 2016C Bonds so mutilated, destroyed, stolen or lost, in exchange and
substitution for such mutilated Bond, upon surrender and cancellation of such mutilated Bond or
in lieu of and substitution for the Series 2016C Bond destroyed, stolen or lost, upon ?ling with
the Trustee evidence satisfactory to the Board and the Trustee that such Series 2016C Bond has.
been destroyed, stolen or lost and proof of ownership thereof, and upon furnishing the Board and
the Trustee with indemnity satisfactory to them and complying with such other reasonable
regulations as the Board or the Trustee may prescribe and paying such expenses as the Board and
Trustee may incur. All Series 2016C Bonds so surrendered to the Trustee shall be canceled by
the Trustee in accordance with Section 1304 hereof. Any such new Series 2016C Bonds issued
pursuant to this Section in substitution for Bonds alleged to be destroyed, stolen or lost shall
constitute original additional contractual obligations on the part of the Board, whether or not the
Series 2016C Bonds so alleged to be destroyed, stolen or lost shall be found at any time or be
enforceable by anyone, shall be entitled to equal and proportionate bene?ts with all other Series
2016C Bonds issued under this Indenture and shall be equally secured by the moneys or
securities held by the Trustee for the bene?t of the Owners.

Section 208. Temporary Series 2016C Bonds. (A) Until the de?nitive Series
2016C Bonds are prepared, the Board may execute, in the same manner as is provided in
Section 203, and, upon the request of the Board, the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, in lieu
of de?nitive Series 2016C Bonds, but subject to the same provisions, limitations and conditions
as the de?nitive Series 2016C Bonds except as to exchangeability, one or more temporary Series
2016C Bonds substantially of the tenor of the de?nitive Series 2016C Bonds in lieu of which
such temporary Series 2016C Bond or Bonds are issued, in Authorized Denominations, and with.
such omissions, insertions and variations as may be appropriate to such temporary Series 2016C
Bonds. The Board shall prepare and execute and, upon the surrender of such temporary Series
2016C Bonds, the Trustee Shall authenticate and, without charge to the OWner thereof, deliver in
exchange therefor, de?nitive Series 2016C Bonds of the same aggregate principal amount as the
temporary Series 2016C Bonds surrendered in Authorized Denominations. Until so exchanged,
the temporary Series 2016C Bonds shall in all respects be entitled to the same bene?ts and
security as de?nitive Series 20160 Bonds authenticated and issued pursuant to this Indenture.

(B) The Owner of any temporary Series 2016C Bond or Bonds may, at its option,
surrender the same to the Trustee in exchange for another temporary Series 2016C Bond or
Bonds of like aggregate principal amount of any Authorized Denominations, and thereupon the
Board shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and, in exchange for the temporary Series
2016C Bond or Bonds so surrendered and upon payment of the taxes, fees and charges provided
for in Section 206 shall deliver a temporary Series 2016C Bond or Bonds of like aggregate
principal amount in such other Authorized Denominations as shall be requested by such Owner.

 

-16-

48

October 26, 2016

(C) All temporary Series 2016C Bonds surrendered in exchange either for another
temporary Series 2016C Bond or Bonds or for a de?nitive Series 2016C Bond or Bonds shall be
forthwith canceled by the Trustee.

Section 209. Delivery of Series 2016C Bonds. Upon the execution and delivery of
this Indenture, the Board shall execute and deliver to the Trustee. and the Trustee shall
authenticate the Series 2016C Bonds to be issued in the aggregate principal amount of
$_,000,000 and shall deliver them to or upon the orderrof the Board as hereinafter provided in
this Section 209.

'Prior to the delivery by the Trustee of any of the Series 2016C Bonds there shall be ?led
with the Trustee:

copies, duly certi?ed by the Secretary of the Board, of the 2015
Authorization, (2) the Bond Resolution and (3) the Investment Policy;

(ii) original executed counterparts of this Indenture, the Escrow Agreement
and the Tax Agreement;

an Opinion of Bond Counsel as to the validity and the tax-exempt status of
the interest on the Series 2016C Bonds;

(iv) an Opinion of Counsel for the Board in form and substance satisfactory to
Bond Counsel and the purchasers of the Series 2016C Bonds;

a written direction from the Board to the Trustee requesting the Trustee to
authenticate and deliver the Series 2016C Bonds upon payment to the Board of the sum
speci?ed such written direction; and

(vi) such other instruments, documents and showings as may be required by
the Board, the Trustee or Bond Counsel in connection with the issuance of the Series
2016C Bonds. 1

The proceeds of sale of the Series 2016C Bonds shall be paid over to the Trustee and
deposited to the credit of various funds as hereinafter provided under Article 

ARTICLE 
Application of Funds
At the time of issuance of the Series 2016C Bonds, the Board shall cause the deposit with
the Trustee of (the ?Bond Proceeds?) re?ecting the principal amount of
less original issue discount used in the marketing of the Series 2016C Bonds
of and net of the underwriters? discount of and (ii) the

Initial Board Funds. The Trustee shall deposit the Bond Proceeds as follows:

-17-

49

October 26, 2016

(1) The amount of shall be deposited to the credit of the
Series 2016C Capitalized Interest Account to be applied to the payment of certain interest
to accrue on the Series 2016C Bonds as provided in Section 504(51.

7(2) The amount of ?35 shall be deposited to the credit of the
Project Fund to be disbursed by the Trustee as provided in Section 502.

(3) The amount of 3% shall be paid to the Board as
reimbursement for the prior payment of Project Costs that are Permitted Expenditures and
Capital Expenditures.

[The Initial Board Funds shall be deposited to the credit of the Pledged Capital
Improvement Taxes Sub?Account to be applied in accordance with Section 

ARTICLE IV
Redemption of Series 2016C Bonds

Section 401. Optional Redemption of Series 2016C Bonds, The Series 2016C
Bonds maturing on or after December 1, 20_ are subject to prior redemption at the option of the
Board, in whole or in part {and if in part, in an Authorized Denomination), in such principal
amounts and ?om such maturities as the Board shall determine and within any maturity by lot,
on any date on or after December 1, 20_, at the Redemption Price of par plus accrued interest
thereon to the date ?xed for redemption. 

Section 402. Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption. (A) The Series 2016C Bonds
maturing on December 1, 20_ are also subject to mandatory redemption prior to maturity, in
part, at a Redemption Price equal to the principal amount thereof plus accrued interest, by
application by the Trustee in accordance with Section 504(21 of funds on deposit to the credit of
the Principal Sub?Account. Deposits shall be made into the Principal Sub-Account in amounts
which will make possible the retirement by redemption of Series 2016C Bonds on December 1
of the years and in the aggregate principal amounts set forth in the following table (each
constituting a sinking fund installment), as adjusted pursuant to (B) of this Section:

-13-

50

October 26, 2016

Redemption Dates
(December 1) Principal Amount

 

20* 
20_

(B) At its option, to be exercised on or before the 60th day next preceding any
mandatory sinking fund redemption date for the Series 2016C Bonds, the Board may deliver
to the Trustee for cancellation Series 2016C Bonds or portions thereof in Authorized
Denominations or (ii) receive a credit in resPect of its mandatory sinking fund redemption
obligation for such Series 2016C Bonds or portions thereof in Authorized Denominations, which
prior to said date have been redeemed (otherwise than through the operation of such mandatory
sinking fund redemption) and canceled by the Trustee and not theretofore applied as a credit
against any mandatory sinking fund redemption obligation. Each such Series 2016C Bond or
portion thereof subject to mandatory sinking fund redemption so delivered or previously
redeemed shall be credited against future mandatory sinking fund redemption obligations on
Series 2016C Bonds in'such order as the Board shall designate, or if no such designation is
made, in chronological order, the principal amount of such Series 2016C Bonds to be redeemed
by operation of such mandatory redemption to be accordingly reduced.

Section 403. Redemption Procedures. (A) In the case of any redemption of Series
2016C Bonds at the option of the Board, the Board shall give written notice to the Trustee of its
election or direction so to redeem, of the date ?xed for redemption, and of the principal amount
of'the Series 2016C Bonds to be redeemed. Such notice shall be given at least 45 days prior to
the speci?ed redemption date or such shorter period as shall be acceptable to the Trustee. In the
event notice of redemption shall have been given as in Section 404 provided, there shall be
paid on or prior to the speci?ed redemption date to the Trustee an amount in cash and/or
Government Obligations maturing on or before the speci?ed redemption date which, together
with other moneys, if any, available therefor held by the Trustee, will be suf?cient to redeem all
of the Series 2016C Bonds to be redeemed on the speci?ed redemption date at their Redemption
Price plus interest accrued and unpaid to the date ?xed for redemption; such amount and moneys
shall be held in a separate, segregated account for the bene?t of the Owners of the Series 20160
Bonds so called for redemption, or (ii) in the case of an optional redemption pursuant to
Section 401, such redemption notice given under Section 404 may state that any redemption is
conditional on such ?mds being deposited on the redemption date, and that failure to deposit
such funds shall not constitute an Event of Default under this Indenture.

-19-

51

October 26, 2016

(B) Whenever the Trustee is required to redeem the Series 2016C Bonds pursuant to
the mandatory sinking fund provisions of Section 402 the Trustee shall select the Series 2016C
Bonds to be redeemed, give the notice of redemption and pay the Redemption Price thereof, in
accordance with the terms of Articles TV and 1 hereof, without ?rrther direction from the Board.

 

(C) Whenever Series 2016C Bonds are redeemed, whether pursuant to mandatory
sinking ?lnd redemption, or optional redemption, the particular Bonds or portion thereof to be
redeemed shall be selected as follows: any Series 2016C Bond of a denomination of more
than $100,000 shall be in the principal amount of an Authorized Denomination and (ii) in
selecting portions of such Series 2016C Bonds for redemption, the Trustee shall treat each such
Series 2016C Bond as representing that number of Series 2016C Bonds which is obtained by
dividing the principal amount of such Series 2016C Bond to be redeemed, in part by $100,000.
No such redemption shall cause the remaining principal amount of Series 2016C Bonds of any
maturity outstanding to be less than $100,000. If all Series 2016C Bonds are held in book-entry
only form, the particular Bonds or portions thereof to be redeemed shall be selected by the
securities depository for the Series 2016C Bonds in such manner as such securities depository
shall determine.

Section 404. Notice of Redemption. When the Trustee shall receive notice from the
Board of its election to redeem Series 2016C Bonds pursuant to Section 401 and when the
Trustee is required to redeem Series 2016C Bonds pursuant to Section 402, the Trustee shall give
notice, in the name of the Board, of the redemption of such Series 2016C Bonds, which notice
shall specify the maturities of the Series 2016C Bonds to be redeemed, the date ?xed for
redemption and the place or places where amounts due upon such date ?xed for redemption will
be payable and, if less than all of the Series 2016C Bonds of like maturity are to be redeemed,
the letters and numbers or other distinguishing marks of such Series 2016C Bonds so to be
redeemed, and, in the case of Series 2016C Bonds to be redeemed in part only, such notice shall
also specify the respective portions of the principal amount thereof to be redeemed. Such notice
shall further state whether the redemption is conditioned upon suf?cient moneys being available
on the redemption date as provided in Section 4031A), or any other conditions. Such notice shall
further state that on such date there shall become due and payable the Redemption Price of each
Series 2016C Bond to be redeemed, or the Redemption Price of the speci?ed portions of the
principal thereof in the case of Series 2016C Bonds to be redeemed in part only, together with
interest accrued to the date ?xed for redemption, and that from and after such date interest
thereon shall cease to accrue and be payable. The Trustee shall mail copies of such notice by
?rst?class mail, postage prepaid, not less than 30 days and not more than 60 days before the date
?xed for redemption to the Owners of the Series 2016C Bonds to be redeemed at their addresses
as shown on the registration books of the Board maintained by the Registrar; provided, that if all
Series 2016C Bonds are held in book-entry only form, such notice may be given pursuant to the
thenaexisting agreement with the securities depository for the Series 2016C Bonds. The failure
of the Trustee to give notice to an Owner of any Series 2016C Bond or any defect in such notice
shall not affect the validity of the redemption of any other Series 2016C Bonds as to which
proper notice was given.

 

Section 405. Payment of Redeemed Bonds. Notice having been given in the manner
provided in Section 404 the Series 2016C Bonds or portions thereof so called for redemption
shall become due and payable on the date ?xed for redemption at the Redemption Price therein

 

-20-

52

October 26, 2016

speci?ed and, upon presentation and surrender thereof at any place speci?ed in such notice, such
Series 2016C Bonds, or portions thereof, shall be paid at said Redemption Price, plus interest
accrued and unpaid to such date. If there shall be called for redemption less than all of a Series
2016C Bond, the Board shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, upon the
suTander of such Series 2016C Bond, without charge to the Owner thereof, for the unredeemed
balance of the principal amount of the Series 2016C Bond so surrendered, fully registered Series
2016C Bonds in any Authorized Denominations; provided, that such exchange need not be made
with respect to any Series 2016C Bonds in book-entry only form held by the Trustee pursuant to
an agreement with the securities depository for the Series 2016C Bonds. If, on the date ?xed for
redemption, moneys for the redemption of Series 2016C Bonds or portions thereof to be
redeemed, together with interest to such date, shall be held by the Trustee so as to be available
therefor on said date and if notice of redemption shall have been given as aforesaid, then, from
and after the date ?xed for redemption, interest on such Series 2016C Bonds or portions thereof
called for redemption shall cease to' accrue and become payable. If said moneys shall not be so
available on the date ?xed for redemption, such Series 2016C Bonds or portions thereof shall
continue to bear interest until paid at the same rate as they would have borne had they not been
called for redemption.

ARTICLE 
Revenues and Establishment of Funds and Applications Thereof

Section 501. The Pledge Effected by this Indenture. (A) There are hereby pledged
for the payment of the principal and Redemption Price of, and interest on, the Series 2016C
Bonds in accordance with their terms and the provisions of this Indenture, and a lien and security
interest is hereby granted for such purpose, for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set
forth in this Indenture, on the Trust Estate as described in the Granting Clauses hereto. There are
hereby further pledged for the payment of the Swap Payments, and a lien and security interest is
hereby granted for such purpose on, amounts on deposit in the Swap Payment Account on the
terms and conditions set forth in this Indenture; provided, however, that the pledge of and lien on
any such amounts shall be subordinate to the lien of the Series 2016C Bonds, and, to, the extent
Pledged Capital Improvement Taxes are on deposit in the Swap Payment Account, subordinate
to the lien of any Additional Bonds issued pursuant to Section 704.

(B) The Series 2016 Bonds are general obligations of the Board and the full faith and
credit of the Board is irrevocably pledged to the punctual payment of the principal of and interest
on the Series 2016C Bonds. Pursuant to Section 13 of the Act, the moneys, securities and funds
hereby pledged and received by or on behalf of the Board, shall immediately be subject to the
lien and pledge hereof without any physical delivery or further act, and the lien and pledge
hereof shall be valid and binding as against all parties having claims of any kind in tort, contract
or otherwise against the Board, irrespective of whether such parties have notice hereof.

(C) The Series 2016C Bonds do not represent or constitute a debt of the Board within
the meaning of any constitutional or any statutory limitation unless the Pledged Debt Service
Taxes shall have been extended for collection, in which case the Outstanding Series 2016C
Bonds shall to the extent required by law be included in the computation of indebtedness of the

-21-

53

October 26, 2016

Board for purposes of all statutory provisions or limitations until-such time as an audit'of the
Board shows that the Series 2016C Bonds have been paid from the Pledged Capital Improvement
Taxes for a complete ?scal year of the Board.

Section 502. Establishment of Project Fund. (A) The Project Fund is hereby
established with the Trustee to be held and applied in accordance with the terms and provisions
of this lndenture. There shall be paid into the Project Fund the amount required to be so paid by .
the provisions of Article of this Indenture and such funds as may be deposited therein from
time to time by the Board at its option.

(B) Moneys on deposit in the Project Fund may be paid to the Board from time to
time for the payment or reimbursement of Project Costs that are Permitted Expenditures and
Capital Expenditures, but only upon the ?ling by the Board with the Trustee of the following
items:

(1) its requisition therefor, stating in respect of each payment to be made:
the name of the person, ?rm or corporation to whom payment is due, the amount
to be paid, and in reasonable detail the purpose for which the obligation was incurred;
and -

(2) its certi?cate attached to the requisition certifying: that obligations in
the stated amounts have been incurred by the Board, and that each item thereof is a
proper charge against the Project Fund; (ii) is a pr0per Capital Expenditure; is a
proper Permitted Expenditure and (iv) has not been previously paid or previously
reimbursed from the Project Fund or the Escrow Account under the Escrow Deposit
Agreement; that there has not been ?led with or served upon the Board notice of any
lien, right to lien, or attachment upon, or claim affecting the right to receive payment of,
any of the moneys payable under such requisition, or if any such lien, attachment or
claim has been ?led or served upon the Board, that such lien, attachment or claim has
been released or discharged, and that such requisition contains no item representing
payment on account of any retained percentages which the Board is at the date of such
certi?cate entitled to retain.

Upon receipt of each such requisition and accompanying certi?cates the Trustee shall transfer
from the Project Fund to the credit of a special account in the Project Fund in the name of the
Board, an amount equal to the total of the amounts to be paid as set forth in such requisition, the
amounts in Such special account to be held solely for the payment of the obligations set forth in
such requisition. In making such transfer, the Trustee may rely upon such requisition and
certi?cates. Each such obligation shall be paid by check or wire transfer drawn
on such special account to the order of the person named in and in accordance with the 
requisition. Moneys deposited to the credit of such special sub-account shall be deemed to be a
part of the Project Fund until paid out as above provided.

(C) The Trustee shall pay from the Project Fund to the Board, upon its requisitions
therefor, at one time or from time to time, a sum or sums aggregating not more than $5,000,000,

exclusive of and in addition to reimbursements paid pursuant to paragraph of this Section,
such sums and such reimbursements to be used by the Board as a revolving fund for the payment

-22-

54

October 26, 2016

of Project Costs that are both Capital Expenditures and Permitted Expenditures that cannot
conveniently be paid as otherwise provided in paragraph (C1 of this Section. Such revolving
fund shall be reimbursed by the Trustee from time to time for such expenses so paid, by
payments ?'om the Project Fund upon requisitions of the Board accompanied by its certi?cate
specifying the payee and the amount and particular purpose of each payment from such
revolving fund for which such reimbursement is requested and certifying that each such amount
so paid was necessary for the payment of an expense constituting a Project Cost,?a Capital
Expenditure and a Permitted Expenditure and that such expense could not conveniently be paid
except from such revolving ?rnd. In making such reimbursements the Trustee may rely upon
such requisitions and accompanying certi?cates. The revolving fund maintained by the Board
pursuant to this Section shall be held separate and apart ?om all other funds and accounts of the
Board including, but not limited to, the General Fund and the amounts held in the revolving fund
may only be used for payments to vendors for Project Costs that are both Capital Expenditures
and Permitted Expenditures or for the reimbursement of the Board for prior payments to vendors
of Project Costs that are both Capital Expenditures and Permitted Expenditures. Each transfer to
the revolving fund maintained by the Board pursuant to this Section 502 may not exceed the
aggregate amountof the vendor invoices to be paid or reimbursed with respect to the revolving
fund, and may only be made after a careful review by the Board to con?rm that all transfers to
the revolving fund match invoiced amounts for Project Costs that are both Capital Expenditures
and Permitted Expenditures.

(D) Moneys in the Project Fund shall be invested at the written direction of a
Designated Of?cial to the fullest extent practicable in Investment Securities maturing in such
amounts and at such times as may be necessary to provide ?uids when needed to pay Project
Costs or such other costs as may be required to be paid from such moneys. The Board may, and
to the extent required for payments from the Project Fund shall, direct the Trustee in writing to
sell any such Investment Securities at any time, and the proceeds of such sale, and of all
payments at maturity and upon redemption of such investments, shall be held in the Project
Fund. Earnings received on moneys or securities in the Project Fund shall be retained therein
and applied to the purposes for which moneys in the Project Fund are otherwise held.

(E) The completion, substantial completion or abandonment of the Project shall be
evidenced by a certi?cate of an Authorized Officer of the Board, which shall be ?led 
with the Trustee,rstating the date of such completion, anticipated completion or abandonment
and the amount, if any, required in the opinion of the signer of such certi?cate for the payment of
any remaining part of the Project Costs. Upon the ?ling of such certi?cate, the balance in the
Project Fund in excess of the amount, if any, stated in such certi?cate of the Board as necessary
to complete the Project shall be deposited into such accounts of the Debt Service Fund as shall
be directed in such certi?cate.

(F) The Trustee shall rely fully on any certi?cate of an Authorized Oi?cer of the
Board delivered pursuant to paragraph (B) or paragraph (C) of this Section above and shall not
be required to make any investigation in connection therewith.

-23-

55

October 26, 2016

Section 503. Establishment of Debt Service Fund and Accounts. The Debt Service
Fund and the following Accounts within the Debt Service Fund are hereby established with the
Trustee to be held and applied in accordance with the provisions of this Indenture:

Pledged Capital Improvement Taxes Account, consisting of (1) the
Interest Deposit Sub-Account and (2) the Pledged Capital Improvement Taxes Sub-
Account; . . i

(ii) Series 2016C Capitalized Interest Account; 
Pledged Debt Service Taxes Account;

(iv) Bond Payment Account, consisting of (1) the Interest Sub-Account and
(2) the Principal Sub-Account; and

Swap Payment Account.
Section 504. Debt Service Fund.

(A) Pledged Capital Improvement Taxes Account. The Trustee shall deposit to the
credit of the Interest Deposit Sub-Account any payments made by Swap Providers, if any, under
Swap Agreements to the extent set forth in a certi?cate of a Designated Of?cial ?led with the
Trustee.

All Pledged Capital Improvement Taxes received by the Trustee from the Escrow Agent
shall be deposited upon receipt into the Pledged Capital Improvement Taxes Sub-
Account as shall be necessary and sufficient to cause the amount on deposit in said Sub?Account
on the Deposit Date to equal, when combined with amounts on deposit and available to be
transferred by the Trustee during the then-current Bond Year from the Series 2016C Capitalized
Interest Account pursuant to Section the Annual Debt Service Requirement for such
Bond Year. Once such deposit has been made, the Board shall, pursuant to Section 70613:, take
such actions as are necessary to abate in full the Pledged Debt Service Taxes levied for the
calendar year next preceding the calendar year of such Deposit Date. The Board shall make the
deposits required pursuant to this paragraph on such earlier date as may be necessary in the
future to permit the Board to make the abatement of taxes described in the preceding sentence.

In the event that on any Deposit Date there has been deposited to the credit of the
Pledged Capital Improvement Taxes Sub-Account an amount, when combined with amounts
available to be transferred from the Series 2016C Capitalized Interest Account as described in
the preceding paragraph, insuf?cient to satisfy the Annual Debt Service Requirement for that
Bond Year, the Board shall, pursuant to Section 706112), take such actions as are necessary to
cause the extension of the Pledged Debt Service Taxes levied for the calendar year next
preceding the calendar year of such Deposit Date in an amount suf?cient, when added to the
amount then on deposit in the Pledged Capital Improvement Taxes Sub-Account and (ii) the
amounts on deposit and available to be transferred by the Trustee during the then-current Bond
Year from the Series 2016C Capitalized Interest Account pursuant to Section 504; 3, to provide
funds suf?cient to satisfy the Annual Debt ServiCe Requirement for such Bond Year.

-24-

56

October 26, 2016

All amounts on deposit in the Pledged Capital Improvement Taxes Sub-Account on
December 2 of each Year, following the transfers required to be made to the Bond Payment
Account pursuant to paraggaph (D1 of this Section and the Swap Payment Account pursuant to
paragraph of this Section, may be withdrawn ?'om such Sub-Account and paid to the Board
free and clear of the lien of this Indenture for the purpose of the payment or the reimbursement
of Capital Expenditures that are Permitted Expenditures in the same manner as moneys are
requisitioned and paid from the Project Fund pursuant to Section 502.

(B) Series 2016C Capitalized Interest Account. Moneys on deposit in the Series
2016C Capitalized Interest Account shall be withdrawn by the Trustee on the Business Day prior
to each of the following Interest Payment Dates and deposited to the credit of the Interest Sub-
Account and applied to the payment of the interest due on the Series 2016C Bonds on such
Interest Payment Dates in the amounts as follows:

 

 

Interest Payment Date Amount of Interest to be Paid
1, 20_ 
1, 
1, 20_

Any amount remaining in the Series 2016C Capitalized Interest Account on December 2,
20 shall be withdrawn therefrom and, at the direction of the Board, be deposited into the
Project Fund for application in accordance with Section 502 or (ii) the Interest Sub?Account of
the Bond Payment Account and applied to the payment of the next interest to become due on the
Series 2016C Bonds.

(C) Pledged Debt Service Taxes Account. As described in Section 7 061A), the Board
has directed the County Collectors to deposit all collections of the Pledged Debt Service Taxes,
if and when extended for collection, directly with the Trustee for application in accordance with
the provisions of this Indenture. A11 Pledged Debt Service Taxes received by the Trustee shall
be deposited upon receipt into the Pledged Debt Service Taxes Account and
(ii) applied to the payment of the interest on and principal of the Series 2016C Bonds due during
the Year in which said Pledged Taxes are collected. All amounts remaining in the Pledged Debt
Service Taxes Account on December 2 of any Year shall be transferred to the Board and the
Board shall deposit such moneys into the Educational Fund of the Board and apply such moneys
to the abatement of the ?rst Educational Fund tax levy for which the County Clerks will accept
an abatement.

(D) Bond Payment Account. The Trustee shall deposit to the. credit of the Interest
Sub-Account amounts transferred ?om the Series 2016C Capitalized Interest Account as
required by paragraph of this Section and (ii) any amounts directed by the Board to be
deposited into such Sub-Account. The Trustee shall also transfer, from time to time, to the credit
of the Interest Sub-Account all other amounts so directed by the Board to be transferred into such
Sub-Account.

There shall be transferred ?rst from moneys on deposit in the Pledged Debt Service
Taxes Account, second from moneys on deposit in the Interest Deposit Sub-Account and third

-25-

57

October 26, 2016

from moneys on deposit in the Pledged. Capital Improvement Taxes Sub-Account: ?rst, to the
Interest Sub-Account on or before each Interest Payment Date for any of the Outstanding Series
2016C Bonds, the amount required for the interest payable on such date, less the amount then on
deposit in the Interest Sub?Account and available for such payment and (ii) second, to the
Principal Sub-Account on or before each December 1 on which Bonds mature or are subject to
mandatory sinking fund redemption pursuant to Section 402 hereof, the amount required for the
payment of the principal or the principal portion of the Redemption Price of such Series 2016C
Bonds then to be paid or redeemed less the amount then on deposit in the Principal Sub-Account
and available for such payment.

The Trustee shall pay to the reSpective Paying Agents in immediately available funds on
or before each date on which interest or principal is due on the Series 2016C Bonds the
respective amounts on deposit in the Interest Sub-Account and the Principal Sub-Account
described in clauses 1i) and (Li) abOve necessary to pay such debt service. Such amounts shall be
paid to the Owners of the Outstanding Series 2016C Bonds by the Paying Agents for the
aforesaid purposes on the due dates thereof.

(E) Swap Payment Account. After deducting the amount then required to be
transferred to the Principal Sub?Account and provided the Board is not in default with resPect to
the payment of interest on the Series 2016C Bonds, there shall be transferred into the Swap
Payment Account on each June 1 and December 1, or such other dates speci?ed in the relevant
Swap Agreements which the Board shall identify in a written notice delivered to the Trustee
(each, a ?Swap Payment Date?), ?rst from moneys on deposit in the Pledged Debt Service Taxes
Account, second from moneys on deposit in the Interest Deposit Sub-Account, and third from the

Pledged Capital Improvement Taxes Sub-Account, an amount equal to the sum of the Swap
Payment then owing under such Swap Agreement on such Swap Payment Date. The Trustee
shall pay each Swap Provider on each Swap Payment Date from amounts then on deposit in the
Swap Payment Account pursuant to payment instructions speci?ed in the relevant Swap
Agreements and provided to the Trustee and the Board by such Swap Provider. On or prior to
December 1, 2016' and each December 1 thereafter, the Board shall provide the Trustee with
written notice of the amount of each Swap Payment owing to such Swap Provider on each Swap
Payment Date for the succeeding Bond Year. The Board shall notify the Trustee in
writing if the amount of any Swap Payments shall change from the amounts identi?ed in such
notice. Notwithstanding anything in this Indenture to the contrary, all payments of Swap
Payments to be paid from Pledged Debt Service Taxes shall be subordinate to the payment of
principal of and interest on the Series 2016C Bonds and all payments of Swap Payments to be
paid from Pledged Capital Improvement Taxes shall be subordinate to the payment of principal
of and interest on the Series 2016C Bonds and any Additional Bonds.

(F) Board Payments to Cure De?ciencies. If on any Interest Payment Date the
amount held in the Interest Sub-Account is less than the interest payable on the Outstanding
Series 2016C Bonds on such Interest Payment Date, then the Board shall immediately pay over
to the Trustee for deposit to the credit of the Interest Sub?Account, the sum required to cure such
de?ciency. If on any December 1, the amount held in the Principal Sub-Account is less than the
amount required to pay the principal amount of Outstanding Series 2016C Bonds maturing on
that December 1 or the principal portion of the Redemption Price of Outstanding Series 2016C
Bonds required to be redeemed on that December 1 by the application of sinking fund

-26-

58

October 26, 2016

installments pursuant to Section 402, then the Board shall immediately pay over to the Trustee
for deposit to the credit of the Principal Sub-Account, the sum required to cure such de?ciency.
If on any Swap Payment Date (as de?ned in subsection of this Section) the amount held in
the Swap Payment Account is less than the Swap Payments then owing under the Swap
Agreements, then the Board shall immediately pay over to the Trustee for deposit to the credit
Swap Payment Account, the sum required to cure such de?ciency.

Section 505. Purchase of Term Bonds for Cancellation. On or before the 60?11 day
next preceding any mandatory sinking fund redemption date for the Series 2016C Bonds, at the
written direction of the Senior Vice President of Finance, moneys held in the Pledged Capital
Improvement Taxes Account or the Pledged Debt Service Taxes Account for the mandatory
sinking fund redemption of Series 2016C Bonds on such date may be applied to the purchase of
Series 2016C Bonds subject to mandatory sinking fund redemption on such date in a principal
amount not exceeding the principal amount of Series 2016C Bonds subject to mandatory
redemption on such date. Series 2016C Bonds so purchased shall be delivered to the Trustee and
canceled. Each such Series 2016C Bond or portion thereof so purchased, delivered and canceled
shall be credited against the mandatory sinking fund redemption obligation of the Board on such
date.

The purchase price paid by the Trustee (excluding accrued interest but including any
brokerage or other changes) for any Series 2016C Bond shall not exceed the principal amount of
the Series 2016C Bond and shall be paid ?rst from the Pledged Debt Service Taxes Account, to
the extent of any amount then held therein, and then from the Pledged Capital Improvement
Taxes Sub-Account.

Subject to the limitations set forth in this Section, the provisions of any Forward Supply
Contract relating to the investment of moneys in the Debt Service Fund, and to the further
requirement that no Series 2016C Bond may be purchased during any period in which the
aggregate sum held in the Debt Service Fund is less than the principal of and interest on the
Series 2016C Bonds to become due on or prior to the next December 1, the Trustee shall
purchase Series 2016C Bonds at such times, for such prices, in such amounts and in such manner
(whether after advertisement for tenders or otherwise) as directed in writing by the Senior Vice
President of Finance of the Board.

Accrued interest on the Series 2016C Bonds purchased pursuant to this Section shall be

paid ?rst from the Pledged Debt Service Taxes Account, to the extent of any amount then held
therein, and then from the Pledged Capital Improvement Taxes Account.

ARTICLE VI
Investment of Funds and Swap Agreements
Section 601. - Investment of Moneys. (A) Moneys held in the several Accounts and
Sub-Accounts of the Debt Service Fund shall be invested and reinvested by the Trustee at the

written direction of a Designated. Of?cial in Investment Securities within the parameters of this
Indenture and the Investment Policy which mature no later than necessary to provide moneys

-27-

59

October 26, 2016

when needed for payments to be made from such Fund or Account. The Trustee may
conclusively rely upon the Designated Of?cial?s written instructions as to both the suitability and
legality of the directed investments. Ratings of Investment Securities shall be determined at the
time of purchase of such Investment Securities. In the absence of written investment instructions
from the Board, the Trustee shall not be responsible or liable for keeping the moneys held by it
hereunder fully invested in Investment Securities, but shall immediately notify the Board in the
event moneys are being held uninvested hereunder. Nothing contained in this Indenture shall be
construed to prevent such Designated Of?cial from directing the Trustee to make any such
investments or reinvestments through the use of a Forward Supply Contract, to the extent
permitted by Illinois law and the Investment Policy, and the Trustee shall comply with the terms
and provisions of any such Forward Supply Contract. The Trustee may make any and all such
investments through its trust department or the bond department of any bank (including the
Trustee) or trust company under common control with the Trustee. The Board has provided a
certi?ed copy of the Investment Policy to the Trustee in connection with the initial delivery of
the Series 2016C Bonds and the Board covenants and agrees to provide to the Trustee in a timely
fashion any amendments to or revisions of such Investment Policy. The Trustee shall be entitled
to conclusively rely on the Investment Policy provided to it by the Board as the Investment
Policy in effect at the time any investment is made. All investment income shall be retained in
the Fund or Account to which the investment is credited from which such income is derived.

(B) All investments made under this Indenture shall be consistent with the
expectations expressed in the Tax Agreement.

(C) The Trustee may trade with itself in the purchase and sale of securities for such
investment. The Trustee shall not be liable or responsible for the performance or adverse
consequences of any investment made pursuant to this Section. Although the Board recognizes
that they may obtain a broker con?rmation or written statement containing comparable
information at no additional cost, the Board hereby agrees that con?rmations of Investment
Securities are not required to be issued by the Trustee for each month in which a 
statement is rendered. No statement need be rendered for any fund or account if no activity
occurred in such fund or account during such month.

Section 602. Valuation and Sale of Investments. (A) Investment Securities in any
Fund, Account or Sub-Account created under the provisions of this Indenture shall be deemed at
all times to be part of such Fund, Account or Sub?Account and any pro?t realized from the
liquidation of such investment shall be credited to such Fund, Account or Sub-Account and any
loss resulting from liquidation of such investment shall be charged to such Fund, Account or
Sub?Account.

(B) Valuations of Investment Securities held in the Funds, Accounts and Sub-
Accounts established hereunder shall be made by the Trustee as often as may be necessary or
requested by the Board to determine the amounts held therein. In computing the amounts in such
Funds, Accounts and Sub-Accounts, Investment Securities therein shall be valued as provided in
paragraph (C1 of this Section 602.

(C) The value of Investment Securities shall mean the fair market value thereof,
provided, however, that all SLGS shall be valued at par and those obligations which are

-23-

60

October 26, 2016

redeemable at the option of the holder shall be valued at the price at which such obligations are
then redeemable.

(D) Except as otherwise provided in this Indenture, the Trustee at the written direction
of a Designated Of?cial shall sell at the best price reasonably obtainable, or present for
redemption, any Investment Securities held in any Fund, Account or Sub-Account held by the
Trustee whenever it shall be necessary to provide moneys to meet any payment or transfer from
such Fund, Account or Sub-Account as the case may be.

Section 603. Swap Agreements. With respect to the Series 2016C Bonds, the Board
may enter into one or more of the agreements authorized by Section 7 of the Bond Authorization
Act, 30 Illinois Compiled Statutes 305. The Board may designate any such agreement as a Swap
Agreement by ?ling with the Trustee an executed counterpart of such agreement and (ii) a
written notice that such agreement has been designated as a Swap Agreement for the purposes of
this Indenture. Each Swap Payment under a Swap Agreement shall be payable from the Swap
Payment Account. The stated notional amount under all such Swap Agreements shall not in the
aggregate exceed the then outstanding principal amount of the Series 2016C Bonds (net of
offsetting Swap Agreements). Each Swap Agreement shall satisfy the following conditions
precedent: each Rating Service (if such Rating Service also rates the unsecured obligations of
the proposed Swap Provider or any Person who guarantees the obligations of the Swap Provider
under the Swap Agreement) shall have assigned the unsecured obligations of the Swap Provider
or such guarantor, as of the date the Swap Agreement is entered into, a rating that is equal or
higher than the rating then assigned to the Outstanding Series 2016C Bonds by such Rating
Service, and (ii) the Board shall have noti?ed each Rating Service (whether or not such Rating
Service also rates the unsecured obligations of the Swap Provider or its guarantor, if any, under
the Swap Agreement) in writing, at least ?fteen (15) days prior to executing and delivering the
Swap Agreement of its intention to enter into the Swap Agreement and has received from such
Rating Service a written indication that the entering into the Swap Agreement by the Board will
not in and of itself cause a reduction or withdrawal by such Rating Service of its unenhanced
rating on the Outstanding Series 2016C Bonds.

ARTICLE VII
Particular Covenants and Representations of the Board

Section 701. Payment of Series 2016C Bonds. (A) The Board covenants and agrees
that it will pay-or cause payment to be made of the principal of every Outstanding Series 2016C
Bond and the interest thereon, at the places, on the dates and in the manner provided in this
Indenture and in the Series 2016C Bonds.

(B) Once issued, the Series 2016C Bonds shall be at all times an Outstanding general
obligation of the Board, for the payment of which its full faith and credit are pledged, and shall

be payable from, in addition to the Pledged Capital improvement Taxes, the Pledged Debt
Service Taxes, as described herein.

-29-

61

October 26, 2016

(C) If the maturity of any Series 2016C Bond or installment of interest shall be
extended pursuant to the written consent of the Owner thereof, such Series 2016C Bond or
installment of interest shall not be entitled, in case of any default under this Indenture, to the
bene?t of this Indenture or to payment out of the Trust Estate (except moneys held in trust for
the payment of such Series 2016C Bond or installment of interest) until the prior payment of the
principal of all Series 2016C Bonds Outstanding the maturity of which has not been extended
and of such portion of the accrued interest on the Series 2016C Bonds as shall not be represented
by such extended claims for interest. 

Section 702. Further Assurance. At any and all times the Board shallauthorized by law, pass, make, do, execute, acknowledge and deliver, all and every such
further indentures, acts, deeds, conveyances, assignments, transfers and assurances as may be
necessary or desirable for the better assuring, conveying, granting, pledging, assigning and
con?rming, all and singular, the rights, and the Pledged Capital Improvement Taxes, the Pledged
Debt Service Taxes and other moneys, securities and funds hereby pledged or assigned, or which
the Board may become bound to pledge or assign. 

Section 703. Power to Issue Series 2016C Bonds and Pledge Trust Estate. The
Board is duly authorized under all applicable laws to issue the Series 2016C Bonds, to execute
and deliver this Indenture, to pledge the Pledged Capital Improvement Taxes, the Pledged Debt
Service Taxes and other moneys, securities and funds pledged by this Indenture and to grant the
lien and security interest granted by this Indenture thereon in the manner and to the extent
provided in this Indenture. Except as provided in Section 70415) with respect to future parity
pledges of the Pledged Capital Improvement Taxes, the Pledged Debt Service Taxes and the
Pledged Capital Improvement Taxes and other moneys, securities and funds so pledged, and
subject to such liens, are and will be free and clear of any pledge, lien, charge or encumbrance
thereon or with respect thereto prior to, or of equal rank with, the pledge and lien created by this
Indenture, and all action on the part of the Board to that end has been and will be duly and
validly taken. The Series 2016C Bonds and the provisions of this Indenture are and will be valid
and legally enforceable obligations of the Board in accordance with their terms and the terms of
this Indenture, except to the extent enforceability may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency and
other laws affecting conditions, rights or remedies and the availability of equitable remedies
generally. The Board covenants that upon the date of issuance of any of the Series 2016C
Bonds, all conditions, acts and things required by the Constitution and laws of the State of
Illinois and this Indenture to exist, to have happened and to have been performed precedent to or
in the issuance of such Series 2016C Bonds shall exist, have happened and have been performed.
The Board shall at all times, to the extent permitted by law, defend, preserve and protect the
pledge of and lien on and security interest in the Pledged Capital Improvement Taxes, Pledged
Debt Service Taxes and other moneys, securities and funds pledged under this Indenture and all
the rights of the Owners in and to such Pledged Capital Improvement Taxes, the Pledged Debt
Service Taxes and other moneys, securities and ?mds pledged under this Indenture against all

7 claims and demands.

Section 704. Indebtedness and Liens. (A) Except as provided in paragLaphs (B) and
(Q of this Section 704 the Board shall not hereafter issue any bonds or other evidences of
indebtedness, other than the Series 2016C Bonds, which are secured by a pledge of or lien on the
Pledged Capital Improvement Taxes, the Pledged Debt Service Taxes or the moneys, securities

 

-30-

62

October 26, 2016

or funds held or set aside by the Board or by the Trustee under this Indenture, and shall not,
except as expressly authorized in this Indenture, create or cause to be created any lien or charge
on the Pledged Capital Improvement Taxes, the Pledged Debt Service Taxes or such moneys,
securities or funds.

(B) The Board reserves the right to issue Additional Bonds from time to time payable
from 8.11 or any portion of the Capital Improvement Taxes or (ii) any other source of payment
which may be pledged under the Act, and any such Additional Bonds shall share ratably and
equally in the Capital Improvement Taxes with the Series 2016C Bonds; provided, however, that
no Additional Bonds shall be issued except in accordance with the provisions of the Act as in
existence on the date of issuance of the Additional Bonds.

(C) The Board reserves the right to issue bonds payable from Capital Improvement
Taxes provided that any application in any year of Capital Improvement Taxes to pay such bonds
shall be junior and subordinate to the pledge of, lien on and security interest in the Capital
Improvement Taxes securing the payment of the Series 2016C Bonds and any Additional Bonds.

Section 705. Covenants Regarding Pledged Capital Improvement Taxes. (A)
Pursuant to the Escrow Agreement1 the Board has executed and delivered a written direction to
each of the County Collectors to deposit all collections of the Capital Improvement Taxes in
each Year, directly with the Escrow Agent for application in accordance with the provisions of
the Escrow Agreement. So long as any of the Series 2016C Bonds remain Outstanding, the
Board will not agree to amend or supplement the Escrow Agreement so as to authorize the
modi?cation or amendment of such direction, except for such modi?cations or amendments as
may be necessitated by changes in State law or (ii) necessary in connection with the issuance
of Additional Bonds; provided, that no such modi?cation or amendment shall provide for the
deposit with the Escrow Agent of less than all of the Capital Improvement Taxes to be paid to
the Board during any Year."

(B) - Pursuant to Section 15(6) of the Act the Board hereby covenants, so long as there
are any Outstanding Series 2016C Bonds, to provide for, collect and apply the Pledged Capital
Improvement Taxes to the payment of the Series 2016C Bonds and any Additional Bonds and
the provision of not less than an additional .25 times debt service on the Series 2016C Bonds and
any Additional Bonds.

(C) The Board will take all actions necessary to cause the annual levy and
extension of the Capital Improvement Tax for collection on a timely basis in an annual amount
not less than the amount required to satisfy the covenant in Section 705(3) and (ii) Capital
Improvement Taxes, when collected, to be deposited directly with the Escrow Agent for
application in accordance with the Escrow Agreement. The Board and its of?cers will comply
with all present and future applicable laws in order to assure that the Capital Improvement Tax is
levied annually and that the Capital Improvement Taxes are collected and paid to the Escrow
Agent for application in accordance with the Escrow Agreement.

Section 706. Covenants Regarding Pledged Debt Service Taxes. (A) The Board
has directed the County Collectors to deposit all collec?ons of the Pledged Debt Service Taxes,
if and when extended for collection, directly with the Trustee for application in accordance with

-31-

63

October 26, 2016

the provisions of this Indenture. As long as any of the Series 2016C Bonds remain Outstanding,
the Board will not modify or amend such deposit direction, except for such modi?cations or
amendments as may be necessitated by changes in State law, procedures, rules or regulations
thereunder with respect to the collection and distribution of ad valorem property taxes; provided
that no such modi?cation or amendment shall provide for the deposit with the Trustee of less
than all of the Pledged Debt Service Taxes to be collected in any Year. The Board shall deliver
an executed copy of any modi?cation or amendment to such deposit direction permitted by the
preceding sentence to the Trustee at the same time such modi?cation or amendment is provided
to the County Collectors.

(B) As described in Section 5041A) hereof, the Board shall direct such abatement of
the Pledged Taxes in whole or in part as may be required by said Section, and proper noti?cation
of any such abatement shall be ?led with the County Clerks, in a timely manner to effect such
abatement, and (ii) the County Collectors, so as to advise such of?cers of the amount of the
Pledged Debt Service Taxes to be extended for the relevant levy year.

(C) As long as there are any Outstanding Series 2016C Bonds, the Board and its
of?cers will comply with all present and future applicable laws in order to assure that the
Pledged Debt Service Taxes may be levied and extended and collected and deposited to the
Pledged Taxes Account as described herein.

(D) In furtherance of the general obligation, full faith and credit promise of the Board
to pay the principal and Redemption Price of and interest on the Series 2016C Bonds, as
described in Section 7011A), and in furtherance of the covenant of the Board to pay the Swap
Payments, the Board will take all actions necessary to cause the levy and extension of Pledged
Debt Service Taxes, including any Pledged Debt Service Taxes required to be levied in excess of
those levied pursuant to the Bond Resolution, for collection on a timely basis to make all such
payments and (ii) to cause such Pledged Debt Service Taxes when extended for collection to be
deposited directly with the Trustee for application pursuant to this Indenture.

Section 707. Accounts and Reports. The Board shall keep proper books of record
and account (separate from all other records and accounts) in which complete and correct entries
shall be made of its transactions relating to the Pledged Capital Improvement Taxes, the Pledged
Debt Service Taxes and the Funds, Accounts and Sub-Accounts established by this indenture,
and which, together with all other books and ?nancial records of the Board, shall at all
reasonable times be available for the inspection of the Trustee and the Owners of not less than
twenty ?ve perdent in aggregate principal amount of Outstanding Series 2016C Bonds or their
representatives duly authorized in writing.

Section 708. Tax Covenants. The Board shall not take, or omit to take, any action
lawful and within its power to take, which action or omission would cause interest on any Series
2016C Bond to become subject to federal income taxes in addition to federal income taxes to
which interest on such Series 2016C Bond is subject on the date of original issuance thereof.

The Board shall not permit any of the proceeds of the Series 2016C Bonds, or any
facilities ?nanced with such proceeds, to be used in any manner that would cause any Series
2016C Bond to constitute a ?private activity bond? within the meaning of Section 141 of the

-32-

64

October 26, 2016

Code. The Board shall not permit any of the proceeds of the Series 2016C Bonds or other
moneys to be invested in any manner that would cause any Series 2016C Bond to constitute an
?arbitrage bond? within the meaning of Section 148 of the Code or a ?hedge bond? within the
meaning of Section 149(g) of the Code. The Board shall comply with the provisions of Section
148(f) of the Code relating to the rebate of certain investment earnings at periodic intervals to the
United States of America.

ARTICLE 
Defaults and Remedies of Owners

Section 801. Events of Default. Each of the following events is hereby declared to be
an ?Event of Default? 

(A) If a default shall occur in the due and punctual payment of interest on any
Series 2016C Bond when and as such interest shall become due and payable;

(B) If a default shall occur in the due and punctual payment of the principal or
Redemption Price of any Series 2016C Bond when and as the same shall become due and
payable, whether at maturity or by call for redemption or otherwise;

(C) If a default (other than a default resulting from an action described in
Section or Section shall occur in the performance or observance by the
Board of any other of the covenants, agreements or conditions in this Indenture or in the
Series 2016C Bonds contained, and such default shall continue for a period of 60 days
a?er written notice thereof to the Board by the Trustee or after written notice thereof to
the Board and to the Trustee by the Owners of not less than a majority in aggregate
principal amount of the Outstanding Series 2016C Bonds, provided that if the nature of
the default is such that it cannot be cured within the 60 day period but can be cured
within a longer period, no event of default shall ocCur if the Board institutes corrective
action within the 60 day period and diligently pursues suCh action until the default is
corrected (provided such default is correctable);

(D) If the Board shall modify or amend the deposit direction described in
Section in a manner contrary to the provisions of Section 

(E) 4 If the Board shall modify or amend the deposit direction described in
Section in a manner contrary to the provisions of Section 706 A or

(F) If the Board shall ?le a petition seeking a composition of indebtedness
under the federal bankruptcy laws or under any other applicable law or statute of the
United States of America or of the State.

Section 802. Proceedings Brought by Trustee. (A) If an Event of Default shall
happen and shall not have been remedied, then and in every such case, the Trustee, by its agents

and attorneys, may proceed, and upon identical written request of the Owners of not less than a
majority in aggregate principal amount of the Series 2016C Bonds Outstanding and upon being

.33-

65

October 26, 2016

indemni?ed to its satisfaction .shall proceed, to protect and enforce its rights and the rights of the
Owners of the Series 2016C Bonds under the Series 2016C Bonds on this Indenture forthwith by
a suit or suits in equity or at law, whether for the speci?c performance of any covenant herein
contained, or in aid of the execution of any power herein granted, or for an accounting against
the Board as if the Board were the trustee of an express trust, or in the enforcement of any other
legal or equitable right as the Trustee, being advised by counsel, shall deem most effectual to
enforce any of its rights or to perform any of its duties under this Indenture or enforcing any of
the rights on interests of the Owner of the Series 2016C Bonds under the Series 2016C Bonds on
this Indenture.

(B) All rights of action under this Indenture may be enforced by the Trustee without
the possession of any of the Series 2016C Bonds or the production thereof in any suit or other
proceeding, and any such suit or other proceeding instituted by the Trustee shall be brought in its
name.

(C) 'All actions against the Board under this Indenture shall be brought in a state or
federal court located in the State.

(D) The Owners of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the
Series 2016C Bonds at the time Outstanding may direct the time, method and place of
conducting any proceedings to be taken in connection with the enforcement of the terms and
conditions of this Indenture or for the enforcement of any remedy available to the Trustee, or for
the exercise of any trust or power conferred upon the Trustee, provided that the Trustee shall .
have the right to decline to follow any such direction if the Trustee shall be advised by counsel
that the action or proceeding so directed may not law?illy be taken, or if the Trustee in good
faith shall determine that the action or proceeding so directed would involve the Trustee in
personal liability or be unjustly prejudicial to the Owners not parties to such direction.

(E) Upon commencing any suit at law or in equity or upon commencement of other
judicial proceedings by the Trustee to enforce any right under this Indenture, the Trustee shall be
entitled to exercise any and all rights and powers conferred 1n this Indenture and provided to be
exercised by the Trustee upon the occurrence of any Event of Default.

(F) Regardless of the happening of an Event of Default, the Trustee shall have power,
but unless requested in writing by the Owners of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the
Series 2016C Bonds then Outstanding and ?nnished with reasonable securityand indemnity,
shall be under no obligation to institute and maintain such suits and proceedings as may be
necessary or expedient to prevent any impairment of the security under this Indenture and to
preserve or protect its interests and the interest of the Owners.

(G) During the continuance of an Event of Default, the Trustee shall apply- all
moneys, securities, funds, Pledged Capital Improvement Taxes and Pledged Debt Service Taxes
and the income therefrom (other than any amounts not constituting part of the Trust Estate) as
follows and in the following order:

To the payment of the reasonable and proper charges and expenses of the
Trustee, including the reasonable fees and expenses of counsel employed by it;

-34-

66

October 26, 2016

(ii) To the payment of the principal of, Redemption Price and interest on the
Series 2016C Bonds then due, as follows:

First: to the payment to the Persons entitled thereto of all installments of
interest then due on the Series 2016C Bonds in the order of the maturity of such
installments, together with accrued and unpaid interest on the Series 2016C Bonds
theretofore called for redemption, and, if the amount available shall not be
suf?cient to pay in full any installment or installments of interest maturing on the
same date, then to the payment thereof ratably, according to the amounts due
thereon, to the Persons entitled thereto, without any discrimination or preference;
and

Second: to the payment to the Persons entitled thereto of the unpaid
principal or Redemption Price of any Series 2016C Bonds which shall have
become due, whether at maturity or by call for redemption and, if the amount
available shall not be suf?cient to pay in full all the Series 2016C Bonds due on
any date, then to the payment thereof ratably, according to the amounts of
principal or Redemption Price due on such date, to the Persons entitled thereto,
without any discrimination or preference; and

To the payment of Swap Payments.

(H) If and whenever all overdue installments of principal and Redemption Price of
and interest on all Series 2016C Bonds, together with the reasonable and proper charges and
expenses of the Trustee, and all other overdue sums payable by the Board under this Indenture,
including the overdue principal and Redemption Price of and accrued unpaid interest on all
Series 2016C Bonds held by or for the account of the Board, or provision satisfactory to the
Trustee shall be made for such payment, and all defaults under this lndenture or the Series
2016C Bonds shall be made good or secured to the satisfaction of the Trustee or provision
deemed by the Trustee to be adequate shall be made therefor, the Trustee shall pay over to the
Board all moneys, securities and then remaining unexpended in the hands of the Trustee
(except moneys, securities and funds deposited or pledged, or required by the terms of this
Indenture to be deposited or pledged, with the Trustee), and thereupon the Board, the Trustee and
the Owners shall be restored, respectively, to their former positions and rights under this
Indenture. No such payment to the Board by the Trustee nor such restoration of the Board and
the Trustee to their former positions and rights shall extend to or affect any subsequent default
under this Indenture or impair any right consequent thereon.

(I) Whenever moneys are to be applied pursuant to the provisions of this Section, the -
Trustee may, in its discretion, establish and maintain a reserve for ?lture fees and expenses, and
may apply moneys to be distributed at such times, and from time to time, as the Trustee shall
determine, having due regard for the amount of such moneys available for application and the
likelihood of additional moneys becoming available for such application in the ?iture. Whenever
the Trustee shall apply such funds, it shall ?x a date upon which such application is to be made
and upon such date interest on the amounts of principal to be paid on such dates, and for which
moneys are available, shall cease to accrue. The Trustee shall also select a Record Date for such
payment date. The Trustee shall give such notice as it may deem appropriate of the deposit with

-35-

67

October 26, 2016

it of any moneys and of the ?xing of any such Record Date and payment date, and shall not be
required to make payment to the holder of any Series 2016C Bond until such Series 2016C Bond
shall be presented to the Trustee for appropriate endorsement or for cancellation if fully paid.

Section 803. Restriction on Owners? Actions. (A) No Owner of any Series 2016C
Bond shall have any right to institute any suit or proceeding at law or in equity for the
enforcement or violation of any provision of this Indenture or the execution of any trust under
this Indenture or for any remedy under this Indenture, unless such Owner shall have previously
given to the Trustee written notice of the happening of an Event of Default, as providedin this
Article, and the Owners of at least a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Series 2016C
Bonds then Outstanding shall have ?led a written request with the Trustee, and shall have
offered it reasonable opportunity either to exercise the powers granted in this Indenture or by the
laws of the State or to institute such suit or proceeding in its own name, and unless such Owners
shall have offered to the Trustee adequate security and indemnity against the costs, expenses and
liabilities to be incurred therein or thereby, and the Trustee shall have refused or failed to comply
with such request within 60 days a?er receipt by it of such notice, request and offer of
indemnity, it being understood and intended that no one or more Owners of Series 2016C Bonds
shall have any right in any manner whatever by its or their action to affect, disturb or prejudice
the pledge created by this Indenture or to enforce any right under this Indenture, except in the
manner herein provided; and that all proceedings at law or in equity to enforce any provision of
this Indenture shall be instituted, had and maintained in the mannerprovided in this Indenture
and for the equal bene?t of all Owners of the Outstanding Series 20160 Bonds.

(B) Nothing in this Indenture or in the Series 2016C Bonds contained shall affect or
impair the general obligation of the Board to pay at the respective dates of maturity and places
therein expressed the principal of and interest on the Series 20160 Bonds to the respective

Owners thereof, or affect or impair the right of action of any Owner to enforce such payment of
its Series 2016C Bond from the sources provided herein.

Section 804. Remedies Conferred By the Act. The Board and the Trustee each
acknowledge that Section 15(e) of the Act provides that all covenants of the Board relating to the
issuance of the Series 2016C Bonds as Alternate Bonds pursuant to Section 15 of the Act and the
conditions and obligations imposed by said Section 15 are enforceable by any Owner of the
Series 2016C Bonds, any taxpayer of the Board and the people of the State acting through the
Attorney General of the State or any designee, and in the event that any such action results in an
order ?nding that the Board has not properly collected and applied the Pledged Capital
Improvement Taxes as required by the Act, the plaintiff in any such action shall be awarded
reasonable attorneys? fees.

Section 805. Remedies Not Exclusive. No remedy by the terms of this Indenture
conferred upon or reserved to the Trustee or the Owners is intended to be exclusive of any other
remedy, but each remedy shall be cumulative and shall be in addition to every other remedy
given under this Indenture or existing at law or in equity or by statute on or after the date of the
execution and delivery of this Indenture.

Section 806. Effect of Waiver and Other Circumstances. (A) No delay or
omission of the Trustee or any Owner to exercise any right or power arising upon the happening

-36-

68

October 26, 2016

of an Event of Default shall impair, any right or power or shall be construed to be a waiver of
any such Event of Default or be an acquiescence therein.

(B) The Owners of not less than two-thirds in aggregate principal amount of the
Series 2016C Bonds at the time Outstanding, or their attomeys-in-fact duly authorized, may, on
behalf of the Owners of all of the Series 2016C Bonds, waive any past default under this
Indenture and its consequences, except a default in the payment of interest on or principal or
Redemption Price of any of the Series 2016C Bonds when due. No such waiver shall extend to
any subsequent or other default or impair any right consequent thereon.

ARTICLE IX
Regarding the Fiduciaries

Section 901. Trustee; Appointment and Acceptance of Duties. The Trustee hereby
accepts and agrees to the trusts hereby created, but only upon the additional terms set forth in this
Article, to all of which the Board agrees and the reSpective Owners of the Series 2016C Bonds,
by their purchase and acceptance thereof agree. Except during the continuance of an Event of
Default, the Trustee undertakes such duties and only such duties as are speci?cally set forth in
this Indenture, and no implied duties shall be read into this Indenture against the Trustee.

Section 902. Paying Agents; Appointment and Acceptance of Duties. (A) The
Trustee is hereby appointed Paying Agent for the Series 2016C Bonds. The Board may at any
time or from time to time appoint one or more other Paying Agents having the quali?cations set
forth in Section 914 for a successor Paying Agent.

(B) The Trustee hereby accepts the duties and obligations imposed upon it as Paying
Agent by this Indenture. Each other Paying Agent shall signify its acceptance of the duties and
obligations imposed upon it by this Indenture by executing and delivering to the Board and to the
Trustee a written acceptance thereof.

(C) Unless otherwise provided, the principal or corporate trust of?ces of the Paying
Agents are desigiated as the respective of?ces or agencies of the Board for the payment of the
principal or Redemption Price of the Series 2016C Bonds.

Section 903. Registrar; Appointment and Acceptance of Duties. (A) The Trustee
is hereby appointed Registrar for the Series 2016C Bonds. The Board may at anytime or from
time to time appoint one or more other Registrars having the quali?cations set forth in
Section 915 for a successor Registrar.

(B) The Trustee hereby accepts the duties and ?obligations imposed upon it as
Registrar by this Indenture. Each other Registrar shall signify its acceptance of the duties and
obligations imposed upon it by this Indenture by executing and delivering to the Board and to the
Trustee a written acceptance thereof

Section 904. Responsibilities of Fiduciaries. (A) The recitals of fact herein and in
the Series 2016C Bonds contained shall be taken as the statements of the Board and no Fiduciary

-37-

69

October 26, 2016

assumes any responsibility for the correctness of the same. No Fiduciary makes any
representations as to the validity or suf?ciency of this Indenture or of any Series 2016C Bonds
issued hereunder or as to the security a?orded by this Indenture, and no Fiduciary shall incur any
liability in respect thereof. The Trustee shall, however, be responsible for any representation
contained in its authentication certi?cate on the Series 2016C Bonds. No Fiduciary shall be
under any responsibility or duty with respect to the application of any moneys paid to the Board
or to any other Fiduciary. No Fiduciary shall be under any obligation or duty to perform any act
which would involve it in expense or liability or to institute or defend any suit in respect hereof,
or to advance any of its own moneys, unless properly indemni?ed. Subject to the provisions of
paragraph 1 B: of this Section, no Fiduciary shall be liable in connection with the performance of
its duties hereunder except for its own negligence or willful misconduct.

(B) In case an Event of Default has occurred and has not been remedied, the Trustee

shall exercise such of the rights and powers vested in it by this Indenture, and shall use the same

- degree of care and skill in their exercise as a prudent person would exercise or use under the

circumstances in the conduct of his or her own affairs. Any provision of this Indenture relating

to action taken or to be taken by the Trustee or to evidence upon which the Trustee may rely
shall be subject to the provisions of this Section.

(C) The Trustee is under no obligation to exercise any of the rights or powers vested
in it by this Indenture at the request or direction of any of the Owners of the Series 2016C Bonds
unless such Owners have offered to the Trustee security or indemnity satisfactory to the Trustee
as to its terms, coverage, duration, amount and otherwise with respect to the costs, expenses and
liabilities which may be incurred by it in compliance with such request or direction, and the
provision of such indemnity shall be mandatory for any remedy taken upon direction of the
holders of 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Series 2016C Bonds.

(D) The Trustee is not required to make any inquiry or investigation into the facts or
matters stated in any resolution, certi?cate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice,
request, direction, consent, order, approval, bond, debenture or other paper or document but the
Trustee, in its discretion, may make such further inquiry or investigation into such facts or
matters as it may see fit and, if the Trustee determines to make such further inquiry or
investigation, it is entitled to examine the books, records and premises of the Board, in person or
by agent or attorney. 7 

(E) The Trustee may execute any of its trusts or powers or perform any duties under
this Indenture either directly or by or through agents or attorneys, and may in all cases pay,
subject to reimbursement as provided in Section 906, such reasonable compensation as it deems
proper to all such agents and attorneys reasonably employed or retained by it, and the Trustee
shall not be responsible for any misconduct or negligence of any agent or attorney appointed
with due care by it.

(F) The permissive right of the Trustee to do things enumerated in this Indenture shall
not be construed as a duty and the Trustee shall not be answerable for other than its negligence or
willful misconduct. .

-38-

70

October 26, 2016

(G) Notwithstanding the effective date of this Indenture or anything to the contrary in
this Indenture, the Trustee shall have no liability or responsibility for any act or event relating to
this Indenture which occurs prior to the date the Trustee formally executes this Indenture and
commences acting as Trustee hereunder.

(H) The Trustee shall have no responsibility with respect to any information,
statement or recital in any of?cial statement, offering memorandum or any other disclosure
material prepared or distributed with respect to the Series 2016C Bonds, except for any
information provided by the Trustee, and shall have no responsibility for compliance with any
state or federal securities laws 1n connection with the Series 2016C Bonds.

(1) None of the provisions of this Indenture shall require the Trustee to expend or risk
its own funds 'or otherwise to incur any liability, ?nancial or otherwise, in the performance of
any of its duties hereunder, or in the exercise of any of its rights or powers if it shall have
reasonable grounds for believing that repayment of such funds or indemnity satisfactory to it
against such risk or liability 15 not assured to it.

(I) The Trustee shall have the right to accept and act upon instructions or directions
pursuant to this Indenture sent by unsecured e-mail, facsimile transmission or other similar
unsecured electronic methods, provided, however, that the Board shall provide to the Trustee an
incumbency certi?cate listing designated persons with the authority to provide suchinstructions
and containing specimen signatures of such designated persons, which incumbency certi?cate
shall be amended whenever a person is to be added or deleted from the listing. If the Board
elects to give the Trustee e-mail or facsimile instructions (or instructions by a similar electronic
method) and the Trustee in its discretion elects to act upon such instructions, the Trustee?s
understanding of such instructions shall be deemed controlling. The Trustee shall not be liable
for any losses, costs or expenses arising directly or indirectly ?om the Trustee?s reliance upon
and compliance with such instructions notwithstanding such instructions con?ict or are
inconsistent with a subsequent written instruction. The Board agrees: to assume all risks
arising out of the use of such electronic methods to submit instructions and directions to the
Trustee including without limitation the risk of the Trustee acting on unauthorized instructions,
and the risk of interception and misuse by third parties; (ii) that it is fully informed of the
protections and risks associated with the various methods of transmitting instructions to the 
Trustee and that there may be more secure methods of transmitting instructions than the
method(s) selected by the Board; and that the security procedures (if any) to be followed in
connection with its transmission of instructions provide to it a commercially reasonable degree
of protection in light of its particular needs and circumstances.

Section 905. Evidence on Which Fiduciaries May Act. (A) Each Fiduciary shall be
protected in acting or the refraining from acting upon any notice, resolution, request, consent, .
order, certi?cate, report, opinion (including a Counsel?s Opinion), bond or other paper or
document furnished to it pursuant to and conforming to the requirements of this Indenture, and
believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or presented by the proper party or parties.

(B) Whenever any Fiduciary shall deem it necessary or desirable that a matter be
proved or established prior to taking or suffering any action under this Indenture, such matter
(unless this Tndenture speci?cally requires other evidence thereof) may be deemed to be

-39-

71

October 26, 2016

conclusively proved and established by a certi?cate of a Designated Of?cial, but in its discretion
the Fiduciary may in lieu thereof accept other evidence of such fact or matter or may require
such further or additional evidence as it may deem reasonable.

(C) Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Indenture, any request, order,
notice or other direction required or permitted to be ?imished by the Board to any Fiduciary shall
be suf?ciently executed if signed by a Designated Official.

(D) The Trustee may consult with Counsel and the written advice of such Counsel or
an opinion of Counsel shall be full and complete authorization and protection for any action
taken, suffered or omitted by it in good faith and in accordance with such advice or opinion.

(E) In the event the Trustee receives inconsistent or con?icting requests and
indemnity from two or more groups of Owners of Series 2016C Bonds, each representing less
than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Series 2016C Bonds Outstanding, pursuant
to the provision of this Indenture, the Trustee, in its sole discretion, may determine what actions,
if any, shall be taken.

Section 906. Compensation; Indemni?cation. Each Fiduciary shall be entitled to
payment and/or reimbursement for reasonable fees and for its services rendered hereunder and
all advances, counsel fees and other expenses reasonably made or incurred by such Fiduciary in
connection with such services and in connection with entering into this Indenture; provided, any
such fees and expenses are incurred in connection with actions that are customarily taken in the
administration Of an estate substantially similar to the estate established by this Indenture. Upon
an Event of Default, but only upon an Event of Default, each Fiduciary shall have a right of
payment prior to payment on account of interest or principal of, or premium, if any, on any
Series 2016C Bond for the foregoing advances, fees, costs and expenses incurred. When the
Trustee incurs expenses or renders services after the occurrence of an Event of Default, such
expenses and the compensation for such services are intended to conStitute expenses of
administration under any federal or state bankruptcy, insolvency, arrangement, moratorium
reorganization or other debtor relief law.

If the Trustee renders any service hereunder not provided for in this Indenture, or the
Trustee is made a party to or intervenes in any litigatidn pertaining to this Indenture or institutes
interpleader proceedings relative hereto, the Trustee shall be compensated reasonably by the
Board for such extraordinary services and reimbursed for any and all reasonable expenses,
including out-of-pocket and incidental expenses and legal fees and expenses occasioned thereby
in accordance with the reasonable and customary administration of this Indenture, if noti?ed in
writing prior to the performance of those services or incurring such reasonable expenses so as to
allow the Board to appropriate suf?cient funds for their payment and; provided, that such
compensation, fees and expenses do not result from negligence or willful misconduct on the part
of the Trustee.

Section 907. Certain Permitted Acts. Any Fiduciary may become the OWner of any
Series 2016C Bonds, with the same rights it would have if it were not a Fiduciary. To the extent

permitted by law, any Fiduciary may act as depositary for, and permit any of its of?cers or
directors to act as a member of, or in any other capacity with respect to,any committee formed to

-40-

72

October 26, 2016

protect the rights. of Owners or to effect or aid in-any reorganization growing out of the
enforcement of the Series 2016C Bonds or this lndenture, whether or not any such committee
shall represent the Owners of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Series 2016C
Bonds then Outstanding.

Section 908. Resignation of Trustee. The Trustee may at any time resign and be
discharged of the duties and obligations imposed upon it by this Indenture by giving not less than
60 days written notice to the Board, all Owners of the Series 2016C Bonds and the other
iduciaries, and such resignation shall take effect upon the day speci?ed in such notice but only
if a successor shall have been appointed by the Board or the Owners as provided in Section 910
and accepted such appointment, in which event such resignation shall take effect immediately on
the acceptance of such appointment by such successor whether or not the date speci?ed for such
resignation to take effect has arrived. If a successor Trustee shall not have been appointed and
accepted such appointment within a period of 60 days following the giving of notice, then the
Trustee shall be authorized to petition any court of competent jurisdiction to appoint a successor
Trustee as provided in Section 910.

Section 909. Removal of Trustee; Consent of Owners. The Trustee may be -
removed at any time by an instrument in writing approved by and executed in the name of the
Board and delivered to the Trustee; provided, however, that if an Event of Default shall have
occurred and be continuing, the Trustee may be so removed by the Board only with the written
concurrence of the Owners of a majority in aggregate principal amount of Series 2016C Bonds
then Outstanding (excluding any Series 2016C Bonds held by or for the account of the Board).
The Trustee may be removed at any time by the Owners of a majority in aggregate principal
amount of the Series 2016C Bonds then Outstanding, excluding any Series 2016C Bonds held by
or for the account of the Board, by an instrument or concurrent instruments in writing signed and
duly acknowledged by such Owners or their attorneys-in?fact duly authorized, and delivered to
the Board. Copies of each such instrument shall be delivered by the Board to each Fiduciary.

Section 910. Appointment of Successor Trustee. (A) In case at any time the
Trustee shall resign, be removed or become incapable of acting, or shall be adjudged a bankrupt
or insolvent, or if a receiver, liquidator or conservator of the Trustee, or of its property, shall be
appointed, or if any public of?cer or court shall take charge or control of the Trustee, or of its
property or affairs, the Board shall appoint a successor Trustee. The Board shall cause notice of
any such appointment made by it to be mailed to all Owners of the Series 2016C Bonds.

(B) If no appointment of a Trustee shall be made by the Board within 60 days
following such resignation or renewal pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this Section 910,
the Trustee or the Owner of any Series 2016C Bond Outstanding hereunder may apply to any
court of competent jurisdiction to appoint a successor Trustee. Such court may thereupon, after
such notice, if any, as such court may deem proper and prescribe, appoint a successor Trustee.

(C) Any Trustee appointed under the provisions of this Section in succession to the
Trustee shall be a bank, trust company or national banking association, doing business and
having a corporate trust of?ce in the State,_and having capital stock and surplus aggregating at
least $15,000,000, or shall be a wholly owned subsidiary of such an entity, if there be such a
bank, trust company, national banking association or subsidiary willing and able to accept the

-41-

73

October 26, 2016

of?ce on reasonable and customary terms and authorized by law to perform all the duties
imposed upon it by this Indenture.

Section 911. Transfer of Rights and Property to Successor Trustee. Any
successor Trustee appointed under this lndenture shall execute, acknowledge and deliver to its
predecessor Trustee, and also to the Board, an instrument accepting such appointment, and
. thereupon such successor Trustee, without any further act, deed or conveyance, shall become
fully vested with all moneys, estates, properties, rights, powers, duties and obligations of such
predecessor Trustee; but the predecessor Trustee shall nevertheless, on the written request of the
Board or of the successor Trustee, execute, acknowledge and deliver such instruments of
conveyance and further assurances and do such other things as may reasonably be required for
more fully and certainly vesting and con?rming in such successor Trustee all its right, title and
interest in and to any property held by it under this Indenture, and shall pay over, assign and
deliver to the successor Trustee any money or other property subject to the trusts and conditions
herein set forth. Should any deed, conveyance or instrument ?om the Board be required by such
successor Trustee for more fully and certame vesting in and con?rming to such successor
Trustee any such moneys, estates, properties, rights, powers and duties, such deed, conveyance
or instrument shall be executed, acknowledged and delivered by the Board. Any such successor
- Trustee shall notify any other Paying Agent or Registrar of its appointment as Trustee.

Section 912. Merger or Consolidation. Any company into which any Fiduciary may
be merged or converted or with which it may be consolidated or any company resulting from any
merger, conversion or consolidation to which it shall be a party Or any company to which all or
substantially all of the corporate trust business of any Fiduciary may be sold or transferred, shall
be the successor to such Fiduciary and be bound to the obligations and duties of such Fiduciary

hereunder without the execution or ?ling of any paper or the performance of any further act,
unless such successor delivers written notice of its resignation pUrsuant to the provisions of this
Article; provided, however, that such company shall be a bank or trust company organized under
the laws of any state of the United States or a national banking association and shall be
authorized by law to perform all the duties imposed upon it by this lndenture.

Section 913. Adoption of Authentication. In case any of the Series 2016C,Bonds
shall have been authenticated but not delivered, any successor Trustee may adopt the certi?cate
of authentication of any predecessor Trustee so authenticating such Series 2016C Bonds and
deliver such Series 2016C Bonds so authenticated; and in case any of the said Series 2016C
Bonds shall not have been authenticated, any successor Trustee may authenticate such Series
2016C Bonds in the name of the predecessor Trustee or in its own name.

Section 914. Resignation or Removal of Paying Agent and Appointment of
Successor. (A) Any Paying Agent may at any time resign and be discharged of the duties and
obligations imposed upon it by this Indenture by giving at least 60 days written notice to the
Board and the other Fiduciaries. Any Paying Agent may be removed at any time by an
instrument signed by a Designated Of?cial and ?led with such Paying Agent and the Trustee.
Any successor Paying Agent shall be appointed Board and shall be a bank or trust
company organized under the laws of any state of the United States or a national banking
association, having capital stock and surplus aggregating at least $15,000,000, or shall be a
wholly owned subsidiary of such an entity, willing and able to accept the of?ce on reasonable

-42-

74

October 26, 2016

and customary terms and authorized by law to perform all the duties imposed upon it by this
Indenture.

(B) In the event of the resignation or removal of any Paying Agent, such Paying
Agent shall pay over, assign and deliver any moneys held by it as Paying Agent to its successor,
or if there be no successor, to the Trustee and shall be subject to audit of all of its books, records
and accounts with respect to the Series 2016C Bonds. In the event that for any reason there shall
be a vacancy in the office of any Paying Agent, the Trustee shall act as such Paying Agent.

Section 915. Resignation or Removalof Registrar and Appointment of Successor.
(A) Any Registrar may at any time resign and be discharged of the duties and obligations
imposed upon it by this Indenture by giving at least 60 days written notice to the Board and the
other iduciaries. Any Registrar may be removed at any time by an instrument signed by a
Designated O?icial and ?led with such Registrar and the Trustee. Any successor Registrar shall
be appointed by the Board and shall be a bank, trust company or national banking association
doing business and having an of?ce in the State of Illinois or in the Borough of Manhattan, in the
City and State of New York, if there be such a bank, trust company or national banking
association willing and able to accept the of?ce on reasonable and customary terms and
authorized by law to perform all the duties imposed upon it by this Indenture.

(B) In the event of the resignation or removal of any Registrar, such Registrar shall
deliver all books, records and other property including the bond register of the Board to its
successor, or if there be no successor, to the Trustee. In the event that for any reason there shall
be a vacancy in the of?ce of any Registrar, the Trustee shall act as. such Registrar. 

Section 916. Trustee Not Deemed to Have Notice of Default. The Trustee shall not
be deemed to have notice of any default hereunder except a default under Section 801 A or
Section 8015 B) or the failure of the Board to file with the Trustee any document required by this
Indenture unless any officer in the designated corporate trust of?ce shall have actual knowledge
thereof or the Trustee shall be speci?cally noti?ed in writing of such default by the Board or by
the Owners of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Series 2016C Bonds
Outstanding; and all notices or other instruments required by this Indenture to be delivered to the
Trustee must, in order to be effective, be delivered at the corporate trust of?ce of the Trustee.

Section 917. Report by Trustee. Within twenty days after the end of each
calendar month, the Trustee shall prepare a written report for each Fund, Account and Sub-
Account held by it pursuant to the provisions of this Indenture. Such report shall set out the
receipts and disbursements, both principal and income, and shall list the Investment Securities
held by the Trustee at the end of the month. A copy of each such report shall be furnished to the
Board and any Persons designated by the Board.

In addition, the Trustee shall, at any time when requested, furnish to the Board and any
Persons designated by the Board a report of the amount of moneys, including. Investment
Securities, held in each Fund, Account or Sub-Account by the Trustee. For purposes of this
certi?cation, the Investment Securities in each such Fund, Account and Sub-Account shall be
treated as having a value equal to their aggregate market value as of the date of the request.

-43-

75

October 26, 2016

ARTICLE 
Supplemental Indentures
Section 1001. Supplemental Indentures Not Requiring Consent of Owners. The
Board and the Trustee may without the consent of, or notice to, any of the Owners, enter into a
Supplemental Indenture or Supplemental Indentures as shall not be inconsistent with the terms

and provisions hereof for any one or more of the following purposes: 

To impose additional covenants or agreements to be, observed by the
Board;

(ii) To impose other limitations or restrictions upon the Board;

To surrender any right, power or privilege reserved to or conferred upon
the Board by this Indenture;

(iv) To con?rm, as ?lrther assurance, any pledge of or lien upon the Pledged
Capital Improvement Taxes, the Pledged Debt Service Taxes or any other moneys,
securities or funds;

To make any necessary amendments to or to supplement this lndenture in
connection with the issuance of Additional Bonds as authorized herein;

(vi) To cure any ambiguity, omission or defect in this Indenture;
(vii) To provide for the appointment of a successor securities depository;
To provide for the appointment of any successor Fiduciary; and

(ix) To make any other change which, in the judgment of the Trustee, does not
materially adversely affect the rights of the Trustee or the Owners.

Section 1002. Supplemental Indentures E??ective Upon Consent 01' Owners. Any
Supplemental Indenture not effective in accordance with Section 1001 shall take effect only if
permitted and approved and in the manner prescribed by Article XI.

Section 1003. Filing of Counsel?s Opinion. Each Supplemental Indenture described
in Section 1001 shall be accompanied, when ?led with the Trustee, by a Counsel?s Opinion to
the effect that such Supplemental Indenture has been duly authorized by the Board in accordance
with the provisions of this Indenture, is authorized or permitted by this Indenture and, when
executed and delivered, will be valid and binding upon the Board, the Owners and the Trustee.

-44-

76

October 26, 2016

ARTICLE XI
Amendments

Section 1101. Mailing. Any provision in this Article for the mailing of a notice or
other information to Owners shall be fully complied with if it is mailed by ?rst class mail,
postage prepaid or delivered only to each Owner of Series 2016C Bonds then Outstanding at its
address, if any, appearing upon the registration books of the Board kept by the Trustee or (ii) if
all of the Series 2016C Bonds are at the time held in book-entry only form, if such notice or
other information is delivered in accordance with the agreement with the securities depository
for the Series 2016C Bonds.

Section 1102. Powers of Amendment. Exclusive of Supplemental Indentures covered
by Section 1001 and subject to the terms and provisions contained in this Section 1102 and not
otherwise, the Owners of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Series
2016C Bonds then Outstanding shall have the right, from time to time, anything contained in this
Indenture to the contrary notwithstanding, to consent to and approve the execution by the
Board and the Trustee of such other indenture or indentures supplemental hereto as shall be
deemed necessary and desirable by the Board for the purpose of modifying, altering, amending,
adding to or rescinding, in any particular, any of the terms or provisions contained in this
Indenture or in any supplemental indenture, or (ii) 'waive or consent to the taking by the Board of
any action prohibited, or the omission by the Board of the taking of any action required, by any
of the provisions of this Indenture or of any indenture supplemental hereto; provided, however,
that nothing in this Section 1102 or in Section 1001 contained shall permit or be construed as
permitting, an extension of the stated maturity or reduction in the principal amount of, or
reduction in the rate or extension of the time of paying of interest on, or reduction of any
premium payable on the payment or redemption of any Series 2016C Bond, without the consent
of the Owner of such Series 2016C Bond, except for the pledge of the Pledged Capital
Improvement Taxes in connection with the issuance of Additional Bonds, the creation of any lien
prior to or on a parity with the lien of this Indenture, without the consent of the Owners of all the
Series 2016C Bonds at the time Outstanding, a reduction in the aforesaid aggregate principal
amount of Series 2016C Bonds, the Owners of which are required to consent to any such waiver
or Supplemental Indenture, without the consent of the Owners of all the Series 2016C Bonds at
the time Outstanding which would be affected by the action to be taken, a modi?cation of the
rights, duties or immunities of the Trustee, without the written consent of the Trustee, or with
respect to the Series 2016C Bonds, the loss of the exclusion from federal gross income of the
Owners of the interest paid on such Series 2016C Bonds held by a non-consenting Owner to the
extent otherwise afforded under the Code and Regulations.

 

Section 1103. Consent of Owners. The Board may at any time authorize the
execution and delivery of a Supplemental Indenture making a modi?cation or amendment
permitted by the provisions of Section 1102, to take effect when and as provided in this Section.
Upon the authorization of such Supplemental Indenture, a copy thereof shall be delivered to and
held by the Trustee for the inspection of the Owners. A copy of such Supplemental Indenture (or
summary thereof or reference thereto in form approved by the Trustee) together with a request to
OWners for their consent thereto in form satisfactory to the Trustee, shall be mailed to the
Owners, but failure to mail such copy and request shall not affect the validity 'of such

-45-

77

October 26, 2016

Supplemental Indenture when consented to as in this Section provided. Such Supplemental
Indenture shall not be effective unless and until, and shall take effect in accordance with its terms
when there shall have been ?led with the Trustee the written consents of the Owners of the
required aggegate principal amount of Outstanding Series 2016C Bonds, and (ii) a Counsel?s
Opinion stating that the execution and delivery of such Supplemental Indenture has been duly
authorized by the Board in accordance with the provisions of this Indenture, is authorized or
permitted by this Indenture and, when effective, will be valid and binding upon the Board and
the Trustee, and a notice shall have been delivered as hereinafter in this Section provided. A
certi?cate or certi?cates by the Trustee delivered to the Board that consents have been given by
the Owners of the Series 2016C Bonds described in such certi?cate or certi?cates of the Trustee
shall be conclusive. Any such consent shall be binding upon the Owner of the Series 2016C
Bonds giving such consent and upon any subsequent Owner of such Series 2016C Bonds and of
any Series 2016C Bonds issued in exchange therefor or replacement thereof whether or not such
subsequent Owner has notice thereof; provided, however, that any consent may be revoked by
any Owner of such Series 2016C Bonds by ?ling with the Trustee, prior to the time when the-
Trustee?s written statement hereafter in this Section referred to is ?led, a written revocation, with
proof that such Series 2016C Bonds are held by the signer of such revocation. The fact that a
consent has not been revoked may be proved by a certi?cate of the Trustee to the effect that no
revocation thereof is on ?le with it. Any consent, or revocation thereof, may be delivered or
?led prior to any mailing or publication required by this Article and shall not be deemed
ineffective by reasou of such prior delivery or ?ling. Within 30 days of any date on which the
consents on ?le with the Trustee and not theretofore revoked shall be sufficient under this
Section, the Trustee shall make and deliver to the Board a written statement that the consents of
the Owners of the required aggregate principal amount of Outstanding Series 2016C Bonds have
been ?led with the Trustee. Such written statement shall be conclusive that such consents have
been so ?led. Any time thereafter notice, stating in substance that the Supplemental Indenture
has been consented to by the Owners of the required principal amount of Outstanding Series
2016C Bonds and-will be effective as provided in this Section, shall be given by mailing to the
Owners (but failure to mail such notice or any defect therein shall not prevent such Supplemental
Indenture from becoming effective and binding). The Trustee shall deliver to the Board proof of
the mailing of such notice. A record, consisting of the information required or permitted by this
Section to be delivered by or to the Trustee, shall be proof of the matters therein stated.

Section 1104. Modi?cations by Unanimous Action. The Indenture and the rights and
obligations of the Board and of the Owners of the Series 2016C Bonds may be modi?ed or
amended in any respect by a Supplemental Indenture e?ecting such modi?cation or amendment
and with the consents of the Owners of all the Series 2016C Bonds then Outstanding, each such
consent to be accompanied by proof of the holding at the date of such consent of the Series
2016C Bonds with respect to which such consent is given. Such Supplemental Indenture shall 
take effect upon the ?ling with the Trustee of a copy thereof, (ii) such consents and
accompanying proofs and the Counsel?s Opinion referred to in Section 1103 and with the
Board of the Trustee?s written statement that the consents of the Owners of all Outstanding
Series 2016C Bonds have been ?led with it. No mailing or publication of any Supplemental
Indenture (or reference thereto or summary thereof) or of any request or notice shall be required.
No such modi?cation or amendment, however, shall change or modify any of the rights or
obligations of any Fiduciary without its written consent thereto.

-46-

78

October 26, 2016

Section 1105. Exclusion of Series 2016C Bonds. Unless all Series 2016C Bonds are
owned or held by or for the account of the Board, Series 2016C Bonds owned or held by or for,
the account of the Board shall not be deemed Outstanding and shall be excluded for the purpose
of any calculation required by this Article. At the time of any consent or other action taken
under this Article, the Board shall furnish the Trustee a certi?cate of a Designated Of?cial, upon
which the Trustee may rely, identifying all Series 2016C Bonds so to be excluded.

Section 1106. Notation on Series 2016C Bonds. Series 2016C Bonds authenticated
and delivered after the effective date of any action taken as in Article or this Article provided
may, and if the Trustee so determines shall, bear a notation by endorsement or otherwise in form I
approved by the Board and the Trustee as to such action, and upon demand of the Owner of any
Series 2016C Bond Outstanding at such effective date and presentation of its Series 2016C Bond
to the Trustee, suitable notation shall be made on such Series 2016C Bond by the Trustee as to
any such action. If the Board or the Trustee shall so determine, new Series 2016C Bonds so
modi?ed which, in the opinion of the Trustee and the Board, conform to such action may be
prepared, authenticated and delivered, and upon demand of the Owner of any Series 2016C Bond
then Outstanding shall be exchanged, without cost to such Owner, for such Series 2016C Bond
then Outstanding. 

ARTICLE XII
Defeasance

Section 1201. Defeasance. (A) Ifthe Board shall pay or cause to be paid or there shall
otherwise be paid to the Owners of all Series 2016C Bonds the principal or Redemption Price, if
applicable, and interest due or to become due thereon, at the times and in the manner stipulated
therein and in this Indenture, then the pledge of the Trust Estate under this Indenture and all
covenants, agreements and other obligations of the Board to the Owners shall thereupon be
discharged and satis?ed. In such event, the Trustee, upon request of the Board, shall provide an
accounting of the assets managed by the Trustee to be prepared and ?led with the Board for any
year or part thereof requested, and shall execute and deliver to the Board all such instruments as
may be desirable to evidence such discharge and satisfaction, and the Paying Agent shall pay
over or deliver to the Board all moneys and securities held by it pursuant to this Indenture which
are not required for the payment of Series 2016C Bonds not previously surrendered for such
payment or redemption. If the Board shall pay or cause to be paid, or there shall otherwise be
paid, to the Owners of all or a portion of the Outstanding Series 2016C Bonds (which portion
shall be selected by lot by the Trustee in the manner provided in Section 4031C) for the selection
of Series 2016C Bonds to be redeemed in part), the principal or Redemption Price, if applicable,
thereof and interest due or to become due thereon, at the times and in the manner stipulated
therein and in this Indenture, such Series Bonds shall cease to be entitled to any lien,
bene?t or security under this Indenture, and all covenants, agreements and obligations of the
Board to the Owners of such Series 2016C Bonds and to the Trustee shall thereupon be
discharged and satis?ed.

(B) Series 2016C Bonds or interest installments for the payment or redemption of
which moneys shall have been set aside and held in trust by the Trustee at or prior to their

-47-

79

October 26, 2016

maturity or redemption date shall be deemed to have been paid within the meaning of and with
the effect expressed in this Section 1201 if the Board shall have delivered to or deposited with
the Trustee irrevocable instructions to pay or redeem all of said Series 2016C Bonds in

speci?ed amounts no less than the respective amounts of, and on speci?ed dates no later than the
respective due dates of, their principal, irrevocable instructions to mail the required notice of
redemption of any Series 2016C Bonds so to be redeemed, either moneys in an amount which
shall be suf?cient, or Defeasance Obligations the principal of and the interest on which when due
will provide moneys which shall be suf?cient, without further reinvestment to pay when due the
principal or Redemption Price, if applicable, and interest due and to become due on said Series
2016C Bonds on and prior to each speci?ed redemption date or maturity date thereof, as the case
may be, and if any of said Series 2016C B0nds are not to be redeemed within the next
succeeding 45 days, irrevocable instructions to mail to all Owners of said Series 2016C Bonds 9.
notice that such deposit has been made with the Trustee and that said Series 2016C Bonds are
deemed to have been paid in accordance with this Section and stating the maturity or redemption
date upon which moneys are to be available for the payment of the principal or Redemption
Price, if applicable, of said Series 2016C Bonds. The Defeasance Obligations and moneys
deposited with the Trustee pursuant to this Section shall be held in trust for the payment of the
principal or Redemption Price, if applicable, and interest on said Series 2016C Bonds. No
payments of principal of any such Defeasance Obligations or interest thereon shall be withdrawn
or used for any purpose other than the payment of such principal or Redemption Price of or
interest on said Series 2016C Bonds, unless after such withdrawal the amount held by the
Trustee and interest to accrue on Defeasance Obligations so held shall be suf?cient to provide
fully for the payment of the principal of or Redemption Price and interest on said Series 2016C
Bonds, at- maturity or upon redemption, as the case may be.

(C) The Defeasance Obligations (or any portion thereof) held for the payment of the
principal and Redemption Price of and interest on said Series 2016C Bonds pursuant to
paragraph (B) of this Section may not be sold, redeemed, invested, reinvested or removed from
the lien of this Indenture in any manner or other Defeasance Obligations substituted therefor (any
such direction to sell, redeem, invest, reinvest, remove or substitute to be referred to as a
?Subsequent Action?) unless prior to the taking of such Subsequent Action, the Trustee shall
have received the following: either a certi?ed copy of the proceedings of the Board
authorizing the Subsequent Action, or an Opinion of Counsel for the Board to the effect that
such Subsequent Action has been duly authorized by all necessary action on the part of the
Board; (ii) an opinion from a nationally recognized ?rm of independent public accountants to the
effect that the Defeasance Obligations and cash available or to be available for payment of the
Series 2016C Bonds after the taking of the Subsequent Action will remain suf?cient to pay,
without any further reinvestment thereof, the principal and Redemption Price of and interest on
said'Series 2016C Bonds, the Series 2016C Bonds at or prior to their maturity in the manner
provided in paragraph (B: of this Section; an Opinibn of Bond Counsel to the effect that the
Subsequent Action will not adversely affect any exemption from federal income tax of the
interest paid on the Series 2016C Bonds to which such Series 2016C Bonds are otherwise
entitled; and (iv) such other documents and showings as the Trustee may reasonably require.

(D) Amounts deposited with the Trustee for the payment of the principal of and
interest on any Series 2016C Bonds deemed to be paid pursuant to this Section 1201 if so
directed by the Board, shall be applied by the Trustee to the purchase of such Series 2016C

 

-43-

80

October 26, 2016

Bonds in accordance with this subsection. Series 2016C Bonds for which a redemption date has
been established may be purchased on or prior to the 45th day preceding the redemption date.
The principal amount of Series 2016C Bonds to be redeemed shall be reduced by the principal
amount of Series 2016C Bonds so purchased. Series 2016C Bonds which mature on a single
future date may be purchased at any time prior to the maturity date. All such purchases shall be
made at prices not exceeding the applicable principal amount or Redemption Price established
pursuant to paragraph 1B) of this Section 1201 plus accrued interest, and such purchases shall be
made in such manner as the Trustee shall determine. No purchase shall be made by the Trustee
pursuant to this subsection if such purchase would result in the Trustee holding less than the
moneys and Defeasance Obligations required to be held for the payment of all other Series
2016C Bonds deemed to be paid pursuant to this Section 1201.

 

(E) The Board may purchase with any available funds any Series 2016C Bonds
deemed to be paid pursuant to this Section 1201 in accordance with this subsection. Series
2016C Bonds for which a redemption date has been established may be purchased by the Board
on or prior to the 45th day preceding the redemption date. 011 or prior to the 45th day preceding
the redemption date the Board shall give written notice to the Trustee of its intention to surrender
such Series 2016C Bonds on the redemption date. The Trustee shall proceed to call for
redemption the remainder of the Series 2016C Bonds due on the redemption date and shall pay to
the Board ,on the redemption date the Redemption Price of and interest on such Series 2016C
Bonds upon surrender of such Series 2016C Bonds to the Trustee. Series 2016C Bonds which
mature on a single future date may be purchased at any time prior to the maturity date. The
Trustee shall pay to the Board the principal amount of and interest on such Series 2016C Bonds
upon surrender of such Series 2016C Bonds on the maturity date.

(F) Any time after any Series 2016C Bonds are deemed to be paid pursuant to this
Section 1201, the Board shall not at any time permit any of the proceeds of the Series 2016C
Bonds or any other funds of the Board to, be used directly or indirectly to acquire any securities
or obligations the acquisition of which would cause any Series 2016C Bond to be an ?arbitrage
bond? as de?ned in the Code and Regulations.

(G) Each Fiduciary shall continue to be entitled to reasonable compensation for all
services rendered under this Indenture, notwithstanding that any Series 2016C Bonds are deemed
to be paid pursuant to this Section 1201. Such compensation shall be paid by the Board ?'om
lawfully available funds and no Fiduciary shall have a claim against the Trust Estate for such
compensation except as may be expressly provided herein.

(H) Any moneys held by the Trustee or any Paying Agent in trust for the payment and
discharge of any of the Series 2016C Bonds which remain unclaimed for two years after the date
when such Series 2016C Bonds have become due and payable, either at the stated maturity date
or by call for earlier redemption, if such moneys were held by the Trustee or such Paying Agent
at such date, or for two years after the date of deposit of such moneys if deposited, with the
Trustee or such Paying Agent after the said date =when such Series 2016C Bonds become due and
payable, shall, at the written request of the Board, be repaid by the Trustee or such Paying Agent
to the Board, as its absolute property and ?'ee ?om trust, and the Trustee or such Paying Agent
shall thereupon be released and discharged with respect thereto and the Owners of such Series
2016C Bonds shall look only to the Board for the payment of such Series 2016C Bonds.

-49-

81

October 26, 201 6

ARTICLE 
Miscellaneous

Section 1301. Evidence of Signatures of Owners and Ownership of Series 2016C
Bonds. (A) Any request, consent, revocation of consent or other instrument which this
Indenture may require or permit to be signed and executed by the Owners may be in one or more
instruments of similar tenor, and shall be signed or executed by such Owners in person or by
their attorneys appointed in writing. Proof of the execution of any such instrument, or of an
instrument appointing any such attorney, or (ii) the holding by any Person of the Series 2016C
Bonds shall be suf?cient for any purpose of this Indenture (except as otherwise herein expressly
provided) if made in the following manner, or in any other manner satisfactory, to the Trustee, 
which may nevertheless in its discretion require further or other proof in cases where it deems -
the same desirable:

The fact and date of the execution by any Owner or its attorney of such
instruments may be proved by a guarantee of the signature thereon by a bank, national
banking association or trust company or by the certi?cate of any notary public or other
of?cer authorized to take acknowledgments of deeds, that the Person signing such
request or other instruments acknowledged to that Person the execution thereof or by an
affidavit of witness of such execution, duly sworn to before such notary public or other
of?cer. Where such eXecution is by an of?cer of a corporation or association or a
member of a partnership, on behalf of such corporation, association or partnership, such
signature guarantee, certi?cate or affidavit shall also constitute suf?cient proof of
authority.

(ii) The ownership of Series 2016C Bonds and the amount, numbers and other
identi?cation and date of holding the same shall be proved by the registration book
maintained by the Trustee or any Registrar.

(B) Any request or consent by the Owner of any Series 2016C Bond shall bind all
future Owners of such Series 2016C Bond in respect of anything done or suffered to be done by
the Board or any Fiduciary in accordance therewith.

Section 1302. Moneys Held for Particular Series 2016C Bonds. The amounts held
by the Trustee or any Paying Agent for the payment of interest, principal or Redemption Price,
due on any date with respect to particular Series 2016C Bonds shall, on and after such date and
pending such payment, be set aside on its books and held in trust by it for the Owners of the
Series 2016C Bonds entitled thereto. .

Section 1303. Preservation and Inspection of Documents. All documents received
by any Fiduciary under the provisions of this Indenture, shall be retained in its possession and
shall be subject at all reasonable times to the inspection of the Board, any other Fiduciary, and
any Owner and their agents and their representatives, any of whom may make copies thereof.

Section 1304. Cancellation and Destruction of Series 2016C Bonds. All Series
2016C Bonds paid or redeemed, either at or before maturity, and all mutilated Bonds surrendered

_5o_

82

October 26, 2016

 

pursuant to Section 207 shall be delivered to the Trustee when such payment or redemption is
made or upon surrender, as the case may be, and such Series 2016C Bonds, together with all
Series 2016C Bonds purchased by the Trustee, shall thereupon be canceled. Series
2016C Bonds so canceled may at any time be destroyed by the Trustee, who shall execute a
certi?cate of destruction in duplicate by the signature of one of its authorized o?icers describing
the Series 2016C Bonds so destroyed, and one executed certi?cate shall be delivered to the
Board and the other retained by the Trustee.

Section 1305. Parties? Interest Herein. Nothing in this Indenture expressed or
implied is intended or shall be construed to confer upon, or to give to, any Person, other than the
Board, the Fiduciaries and the Owners of the Series 2016C Bonds, any right, remedy or claim
under or by reason of this lndenture or any covenant, condition or stipulation thereof; and all the
covenants, stipulations, promises and agreements in this Indenture contained by and on behalf of
the Board shall be for the sole and exclusive bene?t of the Board, the Fiduciaries and the Owners
of the Series 2016C Bonds.

Section 1306. No Recourse on the Series 2016C Bonds. (A) No recourse shall be
had for the payment of the principal or Redemption Price of or interest on the Series 2016C
Bonds or for any claim based thereon or on this Indenture against any past, present or future
member, director, of?cer, employee or agent of the Board, or any successor, public body or any
Person executing the Series 2016C Bonds, either directly or through the Board, under any rule of
law or equity, statute or constitution or otherwise, and all such liability of any such of?cers,
directors, members, employees or agents as such 1s hereby expressly waived and released as a
condition of and consideration for the execution of this Indenture and the issuance of the Series
2016C Bonds.

(B) No member, of?cer, director, agent or employee of the Board shall be
individually or personally liable for the payment of the principal or Redemption Price of or
interest on the Series 20160 Bonds; but nothing herein contained shall relieve any such member,
of?cer, director, agent or employee from the performance of any of?cial duty provided by law.

(C) All covenants, stipulations, obligations and agreements of the Board contained in
this Indenture shall be deemed to be covenants, stipulations, obligations and agreements of the
Board to the full extent authorized and permitted by the Constitution and laws of the State of
Illinois, and no covenants, stipulations, obligations or agreements contained herein shall be
deemed to be a covenant, stipulation, obligation or agreement of any present or future member,
of?cer, director, agent or employee of the Board in his or her individual capacity, and no of?cer
executing the Series 2016C Bonds shall be liable personally 0n the Series 2016C Bonds or be
subject to any personal liability or accountability by reason of the issue thereof. No member,
of?cer, director, agent or employee of the Board shall incur any personal liability in acting or
proceeding or in not acting or not proceeding in accordance with the terms of this Indenture.

Section 1307. Successors and Assigns. Whenever in this Indenture the Boardis
named or referred to, it shall be deemed to include its successors and assigns and all the

covenants and agreements in this Indenture contained by or on behalf of the Board shall bind and
inure to the bene?t of its successors and assigns whether or not so expressed.

-51-

83

October 26, 2016

Section 1308. Severability of Invalid Provisions. If any one or more of the covenants
or agreements provided in this Indenture on the part of the Board or any Fiduciary to be
performed should be contrary to law, then such covenant or covenants or agreement or
agreements shall be deemed severable from the remaining covenants and agreements, and shall
in no way affect the validity of the other provisions of this Indenture.

Section 1309. Notices. Any notice, demand, direction, request or other insnuments
authorized or required by this Indenture to be given to, delivered to or ?led with the Board or the
Trustee shall be deemed to have been suf?ciently given, delivered or ?led for all purposes of the
Indenture if and when sent by registered mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested:

To the Board, if addressed to: Board of Education of the City of Chicago
42 West Madison Street
Floor
Chicago, Illinois 60602
Attention: Senior Vice President of Finance

With a copy to: Board of Education of the City of Chicago
42 West Madison Street
2nd Floor
Chicago, Illinois 60602
Attention: Treasurer

and

Board of Education of the City of Chicago
42 West Madison Street

Chicago, Illinois 60602

Attention: General Counsel

or at such other address as may be designated in writing by the Board to the Trustee; and

To the Trustee, if addressed to: 

 

 

 

Attention: Corporate Trust Department]
or at such other address as may be designated in writing by the Trustee to the Board.

Section 1310. Construction. The Indenture and all Supplemental Indentures shall be
construed in accordance with the provisions of Illinois law.

Section 1311. Headings Not a Part of this Indenture. Any headings preceding the
texts of the several Articles and Sections hereof, and any Table of Contents appended to cepies

hereof are solely for convenience of reference and do not constitute a part of this Indenture, nor
do they affect its meaning, construction or effect.

-52-

84

October 26, 2016

Section 1312. Multiple Counterparts. The Indenture may be executed in multiple
counterparts, each of which shall be regarded for all purposes as an original; and all such
counterparts shall constitute but one and the same instrument.

[The Remainder of this Page Intentionally Left Blank]

-53-

85

October 26, 2016

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Board of Education of the City of Chicago has caused this
Indenture to be executed in its name and its behalf by its Senior Vice President of Finance and
attested by its Secretary and 1 has caused this Indenture to
be executed in its behalf by its Authorized Of?cer and attested by its Authorized Of?cer, 8131 as
of the day and year ?rst above written;

BOARD OF EDUCATION OF THE CITY OF CHICAGO

By:
Senior Vice President of Finance
Board of Education of the City of Chicago

 

Attest:

 

Secretary, Chicago Board of Education,
Board of Education of the City of Chicago

By: 
Authorized Of?cer

 

Attest:

 

Authorized Of?cer

[Signature Page to Trust Indenture]

86

October 26, 2016

EXHIBIT A
FORM OF SERIES 2016C BOND
[Form of Series 2016C Bond Front Side]

- REGISTERED REGISTERED
N0. 

BOARD OF EDUCATION OF THE CITY OF CHICAGO
DEDICATED CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT TAX BOND,

 

 

 

SERIES 2016C
Interest Rate Maturity Date Dated Date CUSIP
. December 1, 20_ 2016
REGISTERED OWNER:
PRINCIPAL AMOUNT:

THE BOARD OF EDUCATION OF THE CITY OF CHICAGO (the ?Board?), for value
received, hereby promises to pay to the Registered Owner identi?ed above or registered assigns,
upon presentation and surrender hereof, the Principal Amount identi?ed above on the Maturity
Date speci?ed above, unless this Bond shall have been previously called for redemption and
payment of the redemption price shall have been duly made or provided for, and to pay interest
on said Principal Amount from the interest payment date next preceding the date of
authentication and delivery of this Bond, unless this Bond is authenticated and delivered on an
interest payment date to which interest has been paid or provided for, in which event this Bond
shall bear interest from such interest payment date, or unless this Bond is authenticated and
delivered prior to 1, 20_, in which event this Bond shall bear interest frOm
its Dated Date, or unless, as shown by the records of the hereina?er described Trustee, interest
on this Bond shall be in default, in which event this Bond shall bear interest from the last date to
which interest has been paid. Interest on this Bond (computed on the basis of a 360-day year
consisting of twelve 30-day months) is payable on June 1 and December 1 of each year,
commencing 1, 20_, until the payment in full of such Principal Amount,
except as provisions hereinafter set forth with respect to redemption prior to maturity become
applicable hereto.

The principal of this Bond is payable in lawful money of the United States of America at
the designated corporate trust of?ce of l, as trustee, or its
successor in trust (the ?Trustee?) and Paying Agent and payment of the interest hereon shall be
made to the person in whose name this Bond is registered at the close of business on the ?fteenth
(15m) day of the calendar month next preceding each interest payment date (the ?Record Date?)
by check or bank draft mailed by the Trustee to such_Registered Owner at such Registered
Owner?s address as it appears on the registration books of the Board maintained by the Trustee,
as Registrar (the ?Registrar?) or, at the option of any Registered Owner of $1,000,000 or more in
aggregate principal amount of Series 2016C Bonds, by wire transfer of immediately available

 

A-l

87

October 26, 2016

funds to such bank in the continental United States as said Registered?Owner shall request in
writing to the Registrar prior to the Record Date.

Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Bond on the reverse hereof and
such further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.

It is hereby certi?ed, recited and declared that this Bond is issued in part pursuant to the
Local Government Debt Reform Act, that all acts and conditions required to be performed
precedent to and in the execution and delivery of the Indenture and the issuance of this Bond
have been performed in due time, form and manner as required by law; that the indebtedness of
the Board, including the issue of Series 2016C Bonds of which this is one, does not exceed any
limitation imposed by law; and that provision has been made for the collection of the Pledged
Capital Improvement Taxes and the Pledged Debt Service Taxes to pay the interest hereon as it
falls due and also to pay and discharge the principal hereof at maturity.

This Bond shall not be valid or become obligatory for any purpose or be entitled to any
security or bene?t under the Indenture until the Certi?cate of Authentication hereon shall have
been duly executed by the Trustee.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Board of Education of the City of Chicago has caused this
Bond to be signed in its name and on its behalf by the manual or duly authorized facsimile
signatures of its President and its Chief Executive Of?cer and to be attested by the manual or
duly authorized facsimile signature of its Secretary, all as of the Dated Date identi?ed above.

BOARD OF EDUCATION OF THE CITY OF CHICAGO

By:
President, Chicago Board of Education,
Board of Education of the City of Chicago

 

By:
Chief Executive Of?cer,
Board of Education of the City of Chicago

 

Atte st 

 

Secretary, Chicago Board of Education,
Board of Education of the City of Chicago



88

October 26, 2016

[Form of Certi?cate of Authentication]
CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION

This Bond is one of the Dedicated Capital Improvement Tax Bonds, Series 2016C,
described in the within-mentioned Indenture.

Date of Authentication and Delivery: I 1

By:

 

Authorized Signatory

89

October 26, 2016

[Form of Series 2016C Bond Reverse Side]

This Bond is one of a duly authorized issue of $#,000,000 aggregate principal amount
of Dedicated Capital Improvement Tax Bonds, Series 20160, of the Board (the ?Series 2016C
Bonds?), issued pursuant to, under authority of and in full compliance with the Constitution and
laws of the State of Illinois, including the Local Government Debt Reform Act (the ?Act?) and a
Trust Indenture dated as of l, 2016 (the ?Indenture?), by and between the
Board and the Trustee, for the purpose of raising moneys to pay Permitted Expenditures (as
de?ned in the Indenture), (ii) fund certain interest to become due on the Series 2016C Bonds and
pay costs of issuance of the Series 2016C Bonds. The Series 2016C Bonds are ?alternate
bonds? issued pursuant to Section 15 of the Act. Copies of the Indenture are on ?le at the
designated corporate trust of?ce of the Trustee and reference is hereby made to the Indenture for
a de5cription of the provisions, among others, with respect to the nature and extent of the security
for the Series 2016C BOnds and the rights, duties and obligations of the Board, the Trustee and
the Owners of the Series 2016C Bonds. 

The Series 2016C Bonds are payable ratably and equally from the Pledged Capital
Improvement Taxes (as de?ned in the Indenture) and (ii) ad valorem taxes levied against all of
the taxable property in the school district governed by the Board without limitation as to rate or
amount for the payment of the Series 2016C Bonds (de?ned in the Indenture as the ?Pledged
Debt Service Taxes?). The Series 2016C Bonds are further secured by the other moneys,
securities and funds pledged under the Indenture. For the prompt payment of this Bond, both
principal and interest at maturity, the full faith, credit and resources of the Board are hereby
irrevocably pledged. The Indenture provides that Additional Bonds may be issued from time to
time in the future on a parity with this Bond to share ratably and equally in all or any portion of
the Pledged Capital Improvement Taxes upon compliance with certain requirements contained in
the Indenture and the Act.

This Bond is transferable, as provided in the Indenture, only upon the registration books
of the Board maintained by the Registrar by the Registered Owner hereof in person, or by its
duly authorized attorney, upon surrender hereof with a written instrument of transfer satisfactory
to the Registrar duly executed by the Registered Owner or its duly authorized attorney, and
thereupon a new registered Series 2016C Bond or Bonds, in the same aggregate principal
amount, shall be issued to the transferee. The Board, the Trustee, the Registrar and any Paying
Agent may deem and treat the pers0n in whose name this Bond is registered as the absolute
owner hereof for the purpose of receiving payment of, or on account of, the principal or
redemption'price hereof and interest due hereon and for all other purposes.

The Series 2016C Bonds are issuable in the form of fully registered bonds in the
denomination of $100,000 and any multiple of $5,000 in excess thereof (each, an ?Authorized
Denomination?). Subject to the conditions and upon the payment of the charges provided in the
Indenture, Series 2016C Bonds may be surrendered (accompanied by a written instrument of
transfer satisfactory to the Registrar duly executed by the Registered Owner or its duly
authorized attorney) in exchange for an equal aggregate principal amount of Series 2016C Bonds
of any other authorized denominations.

90

October 26, 2016

The Series 2016C Bonds maturing on or after December 1, 20_ are subject to prior
redemption at the option of the Board, in whole or in part (and if in part, in an Authorized
Denomination), in such principal amounts and ?'om such maturities as the Board shall determine
and within any maturity by lot, on any date on or after December 1, 20_, at the Redemption
Price of par plus accrued interest thereon to the date ?xed for redemptiOn.

The Series 2016C Bonds maturing on December 1, 20_ are also subject to mandatory
redemption prior to maturity, in part, at a redemption price equal to the principal amount thereof,
plus accrued interest, in the aggregate principal amounts set forth in the following table:

Redemption Dates
(December 1) Principal Amount

 

20_ 

The Registered Owner of this Bond shall have no right to enforce the provisions of the
Indenture or to institute action to enforce the covenants therein, or to take any action with respect
to any event of default under the Indenture, or to institute, appear in or defend any suit or other
proceedings with respect thereto, except as provided in the Indenture.

Modi?cations or alterations of the Indenture, or of any supplements thereto, may be made
only to the extent and in the circumstances permitted by the Indenture.



91

October 26, 2016

[Form of Assignment]
ASSIGNMENT
FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned sells, assigns and transfers unto

 

(Name and Address of Assignee)

 

(Please insert Social Security or other identifying number of Assignee)

the within Bond and does hereby irrevocably constitute and appoint

 

5

 

Attorney to transfer the said Series 2016C Bond on the books kept for registration thereof with
full power of substitution in the premises.

Dated: 

 

Signature Guaranteed:

 

NOTICE: The signature to this assignment must correspond with the name as it appears
upon the face of the within Bond in every particular, without alteration or
enlargement or any change Whatever. 

NOTICE: Signature(s) must be guaranteed by an eligible guarantor institution participating
in a Securities Transfer Association recognized signature guarantee program.



92

October 26, 2016

16-1026-R32

RESOLUTION PROVIDING FOR THE ISSUE OF UNLIMITED TAX GENERAL
OBLIGATION REFUNDING BONDS (DEDICATED REVENUES), OF THE BOARD OF
EDUCATION OF THE CITY OF CHICAGO IN AN AGGREGATE PRINCIPAL AMOUNT
NOT TO EXCEED $160,000,000, FOR THE PURPOSE OF PAYING THE COST OF
REFUNDING CERTAIN OUTSTANDING BONDS OF SAID BOARD OF EDUCATION

WHEREAS, pursuant to the provisions of Article 34 of the School Code of the State of Illinois, as
amended (the ?School Code?), the City of Chicago, having a population exceeding 500,000, constitutes
one school district (the ?School District"), which is a body politic and corporate by the name of the
?Board of Education of the City of Chicago? (the ?Board"); and

WHEREAS, the Board is governed by the seven-member Chicago Board of Education, as
successor to the Chicago School Reform Board of Trustees (the ?School Board"); and

WHEREAS, the School Board has heretofore determined that it is advisable, necessary and in
the best interests of the Board and the residents of the School District to construct, acquire and equip
school and administrative buildings, site improvements and other real and personal property in and for the
School District (the ?Prior Project?), as heretofore approved and amended by the Board; and

WHEREAS, for the purpose, among others, of providing funds to pay a portion of the cost of the
Prior Project and the cost of refunding certain obligations of or issued on behalf of the Board, including
bonds issued for the aforesaid purposes, and in accordance with the provisions of the Local Government
Debt Reform Act of the State of Illinois, as amended (the ?Debt Reform Act?), the Board has heretofore
authorized and issued several series of alternate bonds, being general obligation bonds payable from any
revenue source as provided by the Debt Reform Act (?Alternate Bonds?), including the'Unlimited Tax
General Obligation Refunding Bonds (Dedicated Revenues), Series 20110-1, of the Board (the ?Series
20110-1 Bonds?) and the Unlimited Tax General Obligation Refunding Bonds (Dedicated Revenues),
Series of the Board (the ?Series 2013A-1 Bonds"); and

WHEREAS, $43,600,000 principal amount of the Series 20110-1 Bonds are outstanding and
$89,900,000 principal amount of the Series Bonds are outstanding; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to this resolution the Board determines to authorize the refunding of the all

of the outstanding Series 2011C-1 Bonds and the outstanding Series Bonds; and

WHEREAS, Section 15(e) of the Debt Reform Act provides that Alternate Bonds may be issued
to refund or advance refund alternate bonds without meeting any of the conditions set forth in Section 15
of the Debt Reform Act, except that the term of the refunding bonds shall not be longer than the term of
the refunded bonds and that the debt service payable in any year on the refunding bonds shall not
exceed the debt service payable in such year on the refunded bonds; and

WHEREAS, the Series 20110-1 Bonds were authorized pursuant to Resolution No. 09-0722-
R811 (the ?2009 Authorization?) adopted by the Board on July 22, 2009 (the ?2009 Authorization?)
and Resolution No. 11-1026-RS4 adopted by the Board on October 26, 2011 (the ?Series 20110-1 Bond

Resolution?); and

93

October 26, 2016

WHEREAS, pursuant to the 2009 Authorization and the Series 20110-1 Bond Resolution, the
Series 2011C-1 Bonds, on a parity with other Alternate Bonds issued pursuant to the 2009 Authorization,
are payable from and secured by a pledge of and lien on not more than $300,000,000 of State Aid
payments to be made to the Board in any year pursuant to Article 18 of the School Code, or such
successor or replacement act as may be enacted in the future (the 2009 Pledged Revenues?); and

WHEREAS, the Series Bonds were authorized pursuant to Resolution No. 08,022?-
RS13 (the ?2008 Authorization?) adopted by the Board on February 28, 2008 (the ?2008
Authorization?) and Resolution No. adopted by the Board on April 3, 2013 (the ?Series
2013A-1 Bond Resolution?); and

WHEREAS, pursuant to the 2008 Authorization and the Series Bond Resolution, the
Series 201 3A-1 Bonds, on a parity with other Alternate Bonds issued pursuant to the 2008 Authorization,
are payable from and secured by a pledge of and lien on not more than $225,000,000 of State Aid
payments to be made to the Board in any year pursuant to Article 18 of the School Code, or such
successor or replacement act as may be enacted in the future (the ?2008 Pledged Revenues? and
together with the 2009 Pledged Revenues, the ?Pledged 

WHEREAS, the Board desires at this time, pursuant to Section 15(e) of the Debt Reform Act, to
adopt this Resolution providing for the issuance of Alternate Bonds in an aggregate amount not to exceed
$160,000,000 for the purpose of refunding the outstanding Series 2011C-1 Bonds and the outstanding
Series Bonds (collectively, the ?Refunding?), all on the terms and conditions set forth in this
Resolution; and

WHEREAS, the Alternate Bonds to be issued pursuant to this Resolution are herein referred to as
the "Bonds?; and

WHEREAS, the Bonds may be issued in two series (the Refunding Bonds" and the
Refunding Bonds", respectively, and each, a ?Series"); and

WHEREAS, the Series 20110-1 Refunding Bonds will be payable from such of the 2009
Pledged Revenues as are currently pledged to the payment of the outstanding Series Bonds
and (ii) the ad valorem taxes levied or to be levied against all of the taxable property in the School District
without limitation as to rate or amount pursuant to Section 3 of this Resolution (the ?Pledged Taxes?),
for the purpose of providing funds in addition to the 2009 Pledged Revenues and investment earnings

thereon to pay the principal of and interest on the 20110-1 Bonds; and

WHEREAS, the Series Refunding Bonds wili be payable from such .of the 2008
Pledged Revenues as are currently pledged to the payment of the outstanding Series 2013A-1 Bonds
and (ii) the Pledged Taxes, for the purpose of providing funds in addition to the 2008 Pledged Revenues
and investment earnings thereon to pay the principal of and interest on the 2013A-1 Bonds; and

WHEREAS, the Bonds of each Series will be issued under and secured by one or more Trust
lndentures (each, an ?lndenture") between the Board and such bank, trust company or national banking
association appointed to serve as trustee under the indenture as provided in Section 2(a) of this

Resolution (the ?Trustee?); and

94

October 26, 201 6

WHEREAS, the Bonds will be further secured by the Funds, Accounts and Sub-Accounts
established and pledged pursuant to the applicable  ndenture; and

WHEREAS, the Board may elect to pay the debt service on the Bonds from time to time in the
future from certain interest income, certain property tax revenues and other budgetary sources and in
accordance with Section 13 of the Act, the Board may elect to pledge additional moneys of the Board,
which may be deposited into one or more special funds of the Board, to pay the debt service on the

Bonds; and

WHEREAS, the 2008 Pledged Revenues and the 2009 Pledged Revenues constitute a
"governmental revenue source" pursuant to the Debt Reform Act; and

WHEREAS, the Bonds of a Series may be sold to an underwriter or a group of underwriters
(the ?Underwriters?) to be designated by the Senior Vice President of Finance of the Board (the ?Senior
Vice President of Finance?) with respect to one or more Series of the Bonds pursuant to a separate
Contract of Purchase (each, a ?Bond Purchase Agreement?) between the Underwriters and the Board,
(ii) in a private placement with an individual investor or group of investors to be designated by the Senior
Vlce President of Finance (the ?Placement Purchasers?) with respect to one or more Series of the
Bonds pursuant to a separate Placement Agreement betWeen the Placement Purchasers and the Board
or other similar agreement for the sale and purchase of the Bonds (each, a ?Placement Agreement") or
following distribution of a Notice of Sale and a competitive bidding process, to a bidder or syndicate
submitting an offer to purchase one or more Series of the Bonds determined by the Senior Vice President
of Finance to be in the best ?nancial interest of the Board (the ?Competitive Purchasers? and, together
with the Undenrvriters and the Placement Purchasers being referred to herein as the "Purchasers?)
pursuant to an agreement between the Competitive Purchasers and the Board (each, a ?Competitive
Sale Agreement? and, together with the Bond Purchase Agreement and the Placement Agreement, a
?Purchase and Sale Agreement?); and -

WHEREAS, it is necessary for the Board to authorize the sale and issuance of the Bonds and to
approve and to authorize and direct the sale of the Bonds pursuant to one or more of the methods
described above, together with the execution of the Indenture, the Purchase and Sale Agreement and
certain other agreements with respect to each Series and the performance of acts necessary or
convenient in connection with the implementation of this Resolution and the issuance of the Bonds:

NOW, THEREFORE, Be It Hereby Resolved by the Chicago Board of Education of the Board of
Education of the City of Chicago, as follows:

1. incorporation of Preambfes. The preambles of this Resolution are hereby incorporated
into this text as if set out herein in fuli.

2. Issuance of Bonds. There shall be authorized the borrowing on the credit of and for

and on behalf of the Board the aggregate principal amount of not to exceed $160,000,000 for the

purposes of paying the costs of the Refunding. The Bonds of each Series shall be designated "Unlimited
Tax General Obligation Refunding Bonds (Dedicated Revenues), Series with such additions,

modi?cations or revisions as shall be determined to be necessary by any one of the President of the

95

October 26, 2016

Board, the Senior Vice President of Finance or the Chief Financial Of?cer of the Board (the ?Chief
Financial Of?cer") (each a, ?Designated Official?), the Designated Officials at the time of the sale of
such Bonds to re?ect the order of?sale of such Bonds, whether such Bonds are Capital Appreciation
Bonds, Current interest Bonds, Convertible Bonds or Variable Rate Bonds (each as de?ned herein) and
any other authorized features of such Bonds determined by any of the Designated Of?cials as desirable
to be reflected in the title of the Bonds being issued and sold as part of such Series. The Designated
Of?cials are each hereby authorized to appoint a Trustee for each Series of the Bonds so issued;
provided, that such Trustee shall be a bank, trust company or national banking association doing
business and having a corporate trust of?ce in the State of Illinois and having capital and undivided
surplus aggregating at least $15,000,000 or shall be a wholly owned subsidiary of such an entity. The
Bonds of each Series shall be issued and secured pursuant to the terms of an lndenture authorizing
Capital Appreciation Bonds, Current interest Bonds, Convertible Bonds (a ?Fixed Rate lndenture?) or (ii)
authorizing Variable Rate Bonds (a ?Variable Rate lndenture?). Each of the Designated Of?cials is
hereby authorized to execute and deliver, and the Secretary is hereby authorized to attest, each Fixed
Rate lndenture or Variable Rate lndenture on behalf of the Board, each such lndenture to be in
substantially the respective form executed and delivered in connection with previous issues of Fixed Rate
Bonds and Variable Rate Bonds and previous issues secured by some or all of the 2008 Pledged
Revenues or the 2009 Pledged Revenues, as applicable, but with such changes therein as shall be within
the authorizations granted by this Resolution as shall be approved by the Designated Of?cial executing
the same, with such execution to constitute conclusive evidence of such Designated Official?s approval
and this Board?s approval of any changes or revisions therein from the respective forms of Fixed Rate
lndenture and Variable Rate lndenture authorized hereby.

The details of the sale of each Series of the Bonds as described in the noti?cation of sale of such
Bonds delivered by a Designated Of?cial pursuant to Section 4(a) of this Resolution and all provisions
relating to the authorized denomination, registration, transfer and redemption of such Bonds, within the
limitations set forth herein, shall be set forth in the applicable lndenture executed and delivered by a
Designated Of?cial as described herein.

Either of the Designated Officials is hereby authorized to determine the redemption date of each
Series 20110-1 Bond and Series 2013A-1 Bond to be redeemed.

In order to secure the payment of the principal of, redemption price of, interest on and the
Compound Accreted Value (as hereinafter defined) of each Series of the Bonds, the Board hereby
pledges the 2009 Pledged Revenues and the 2008 Pledged Revenues, as appropriate, to the payment
thereof, and the Board covenants and agrees to provide for, collect and apply such Pledged Revenues,
together with investment earnings thereon and moneys held in the funds and accounts pursuant to the
applicable lndenture, to the payment of such Series of the Bonds and the provision of an additional .10
times annual debt service of such Series of the Bonds. Each of the Designated Officials is authorized to

allocate all or a portion of the 2009 Pledged Revenues and the 2008 Pledged Revenues, as appropriate

96

October 26, 2016

to the payment of the principal of, redemption price of, interest on and the Compound Accreted Value of
the applicable Series of the Bonds and the Indenture pursuant to which such Series of Bonds is issued
and the noti?cation of sale of such Series of the Bonds delivered by the Designated Of?cials pursuant to
Section 4(e) of this Resolution shall identify the speci?c Pledged Revenues allocated to such Series.
Once issued, the Bonds shall be and forever remain until paid or defeased the general obligation of the
Board, for the payment of which its full faith and credit are pledged, and shall be payable, in addition to
the 2009 Pledged Revenues and the 2008 Pledged Revenues, as appropriate, and investment earnings
as described herein, from the levy of the Pledged Taxes as provided in the Debt Reform Act and in
Section 3 of this Resolution.

All or any portion of the Bonds may be issued as bonds payable in one payment on a
?xed date (the ?Capital Appreciation Bonds?). Any Bonds issued as Capital Appreciation Bonds shall
be dated the date of issuance thereof and shall also bear the date of authentication, shall be in fully
registered form, shall be numbered as determined by the Trustee and shall be in denominations equal to
the original principal amounts of such Capital Appreciation Bonds or any integral multiple thereof, each
such original principal amount representing Compound Accreted Value (as hereinafter defined) at
maturity (the "Maturity Amount?) of $5,000 or any integral multiple thereof. As used herein, the
?Compound Accreted Value" of a Capital Appreciation Bond on any date of determination shall be an
amount equal to the original principal amount plus an investment return accrued to the date of such
determination at a semiannual compounding rate which is necessary to produce the yield to maturity
borne by such Capital Appreciation Bond.

All or any portion of the Bonds may be issued as Bonds bearing interest at ?xed rates and paying
interest semiannually (the ?Current Interest Bonds"). The Current Interest Bonds shall be dated such
date as shall be agreed upon by a Designated Of?cial and the purchasers of the Current Interest Bonds,
shall be in fully registered form, shall be in denominations of $5,000 each and any integral multiple
thereof, and shall be numbered as determined by the Trustee.

The Bonds may be initially issued as Capital Appreciation Bonds containing provisions for the
conversion of the Compound Accreted Value of such Bonds into Current Interest Bonds (the
?(Convertible Bonds") at such time following the initial issuance as shall be approved by a Designated
Of?cial. While in the form of Capital Appreciation Bonds, such Convertible Bonds shall be subject to all of
the provisions and limitations of this Resolution relating to Capital-Appreciation Bonds and while in the
form of Current Interest Bonds, such Convertible Bonds shall be subject to all of the provisions and
limitations of this Resolution relating to Current interest Bonds. In connection with the issuance and sale
of any Convertible Bonds, the terms and provisions relating to the conversion of the Compound Accreted
Value of such Convertible Bonds into Current Interest Bonds shall be contained in the Fixed Rate
Indenture executed and delivered by a Designated Official at the time of sale of such Convertibie Bonds.

All or any portion of the Bonds may be issued as bonds bearing interest at variable rates
adjustable and payable from time to time, including, but not limited to, bonds bearing interest at variable
rates that are adjusted and reset from time to time as may be necessary to cause such Bonds to be

remarketable from time to time (the ?Variable Rate Bonds"). The Variable Rate Bonds shall be dated

97

October 26, 201 6

such date as shall be agreed upon by a Designated Of?cial and shall be numbered as determined by the
applicable Trustee. All references herein to the payment of principal of any Variable Rate Bonds shall
also include the payment of tender or purchase price of such Bonds as shall be speci?ed in the Variable
Rate lndenture executed and delivered by a Designated Official pursuant to which such Variable Rate
Bonds are issued.

The Bonds shall be dated as of a date not earlier than November 1, 2016, as determined by a
Designated Official at the time of sale thereof. The principal of the 20110-1 Refunding Bonds shall
become due and payable on any date not later than March 1, 2032 and the principal of the 2013A-1
Bonds shall become due and payable on any date not later than March 1, 2026, and, if issued as Current
Interest Bonds, Capital Appreciation Bonds or Convertible Bonds, such Bonds shall bear interest at a rate
or rates not to exceed 9 percent per annum (computed upon the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day
months) and payable on such dates as shall be determined by a Designated Official at the time of sale
thereof, all as shall be determined by a Designated Of?cial at the time of sale of such Bonds.

The Variable Rate Bonds shall bear interest from time to time at such rates determined by
such remarketing or other indexing agent as shall be selected by a Designated Of?cial for that purpose or
(ii) pursuant to such index or indices as shall be selected by a Designated Of?cial for that purpose, which
interest rate or rates shall not exceed the maximum permitted by- law for obligations of the Board, but in
no event more than 15 percent per annum, subject to the provisions of Section 4(d) of this Resolution.
The method of determining the interest rate to be borne from time to time by the Variable Rate Bonds of
any Series shall be Speci?ed in the applicable Variable Rate Indenture. Each Variable Rate Bond shall
bear interest at such rates payable on such dates as shall be determined by a Designated Of?cial at the
time of sale of such Bonds and specified in the applicable Variable Rate Indenture.

The Bonds of each Series may be redeemable prior to maturity at the option of the
Board, in whole or in part on any date, at such times and at such redemption prices (to be expressed as a
percentage of the principal amount of such Bonds being redeemed, plus accrued interest to the date of
redemption), as shall be determined by a Designated Of?cial at the time of the Sale thereof. The Bonds
of each Series may be made subject to sinking fund redemption, at par and accrued interest to the date
?xed for redemption, as determined by a Designated Of?cial at the time of the sale thereof; provided, that
such Bonds shall mature not later than the respective date set forth in Section 2(c) of this Resolution.

Any Variable Rate Bonds may be made subject to optional or mandatory tender for purchase by
the owners thereof at such times and at such prices (to be expressed as a percentage of the principal
amount of such Bonds being tendered for purchase) as shall be determined by a Designated Official at

the time of sale of such Variable Rate Bonds and speci?ed in the applicable Variable Rate lndenture. In

connection with the remarketing of any Variable Rate Bonds so tendered for purchase under the terms
and conditions speci?ed in the applicable Variable Rate lndenture, each of the Designated Of?cials is
hereby'authon'zed to execute on behalf of the Board one or more remarketing agreements with such
national banking associations, banks, trust companies, investment bankers or other ?nancial institutions
as shall be selected by a Designated Official re?ecting the terms and provisions of the Variable Rate
Bonds and containing such provisions as the Designated Official executing the same shall determine are

necessary or desirable in connection with the sale of some or all of the Bonds as Variable Rate Bonds.

98

October 26, 2016

The Bonds of each Series may initially be issued in book-entry only form as provided in
the applicable lndenture. The Bonds shall be executed by the manual or duly authorized facsimile
signature of the President of the Board and attested by the Secretary of the Board by the manual or duly
authorized facsimile signature of the Secretary and prepared in the respective forms as provided in the
applicable lndenture. The applicable lndenture may also require or permit the additional manual or duly
authorized facsimile signature of the Chief Executive Of?cer, the Senior Vice President of Finance or the
Chief Financial Of?cer.

All of the outstanding Series 20110-1 Bonds and Series 2013A?t Bonds shall be
refunded pursuant to and in accordance with Section 15(e) of the Debt Reform Act. The determination
that the term of the applicable Series of Bonds is not longer than the term of the Series 20110-1 Bonds or
the Series Bonds, as applicable, and that the debt service payable in any year on such Bonds
does not exceed the debt service payable in such year on the Series 20110-1 Bonds or the Series
Bonds, as applicable, shall be made by a Designated Official, who shall also execute a
certi?cation attesting to said determination.

3. Tax Levy; Pledged Taxes. For the purpose of providing funds in addition to the
Pledged Revenues to pay the principal of and interest on the Bonds, there is hereby levied upon all of the
taxable property within the School District, in the years for which any of the Bonds are outstanding, a
direct annual tax for each of the years while the Bonds or any of them are outstanding, in amounts
suf?cient for that purpose, and there be and there hereby is levied upon all of the taxable property in the

School District the foliowing direct annual taxes:

FOR THE LEVY YEAR A TAX SUFFICIENT TO PRODUCE THE SUM OF
2015 $22,398,100
2017 22,319,350
2018 21,873,850
2019 21,397,100
2020 20,782,900
2021 20,233,700
2022 19,549,600
2023 18,932,800
2024 13,502,950
2025 5,198,000
2025 5,110,000
2027 5,104,000
2028 4,971,000
2029 4,820,000
2030 4,251,000

provided, that in connection with the issuance of Variable Rate Bonds, in furtherance of the general
obligation full faith and credit promise of the Board to pay the principal and redemption price of and
interest on the Bonds, the Board will take all actions necessary to levy upon all of the" taxable property
within the School District, in the years for which any of the Bonds are outstanding, a direct annual tax,
including any direct annual tax required to be levied in excess of that levied in this Resolution, for
collection on a timely basis to make such payments (the taxes levied or to be levied pursuant to this

Section being referred to herein as the ?Pledged Taxes?).

99

October 26, 2016

After this Resolution becomes effective, a copy hereof, certi?ed by the Secretary of the
Board, shall be ?led with each of the County Clerks of The Counties of Cook and DuPage, (the
?County Clerks?); and the County Clerks shall in and for each of the years required, ascertain the rate
percent required to produce the aggregate Pledged Taxes hereinbefore provided to be levied in each of
said years; and the County Clerks shall extend the same for collection on the tax books in connection with
other taxes levied in said year in and by the Board for general corporate purposes of the Board; and in
said year the Pledged Taxes shall be levied and collected by and for and on behalf of the Board in like
manner as taxes for general corporate purposes of the Board for said years are levied and collected, and
in addition to and in excess of all other taxes, and when collected, if mquired pursuant to any escrow or
similar agreement executed and delivered pursuant to Section 5 of this Resolution, the taxes hereby

levied shall be deposited with the designated bank, trust company or national banking association.

At the time and in the manner set forth in each lndenture, the Board shall direct the
abatement of the Pledged Taxes in whole or in part.

The noti?cation of sale of any Series of the Bonds delivered by the Designated Of?cials
pursuant to Section 4(e) of this Resolution may provide for the allocation of all or a portion of the Pledged
Taxes levied for any year pursuant to this Resolution to the payment of the principal and redemption price
of and interest on such Series of the Bonds.

4. Sale of the Bonds, Purchase and Sale Agreements. Each Series of the Bonds shall
be sold and delivered to the Purchasers, subject to the terms and conditions of the applicable Purchase
and Sale Agreement; provided, that the aggregate purchase price of any Current Interest Bonds or
Variable Rate Bonds shall be not less than 97 percent of the principal amount thereof to be issued (less
any original issue discount used in the marketing thereof) plus accrued interest from their date to the date
of delivery thereof, (ii) that the aggregate purchase price of any Capital Appreciation Bonds or Convertible
Bonds shall not be less than 97 percent of the aggregate original principal amount thereof and (ill) that the
compensation paid to the Purchasers in connection with the sale of any Variable Rate Bonds shall not
exceed 3 percent of the principal amount thereof. The Senior Vice President of Finance and the Chief
Financial Of?cer each individually are hereby authorized to execute and deliver on behalf of the Board a
Purchase and Sale Agreement with respect to the sale of the Bonds of each Series, which in the case
of a Bond Purchase Agreement or a Placement Agreement shall be in substantially the form used in
previous and similar ?nancings of the Board and (ii) in the case of a Competitive Sale Agreement shall
contain terms and provisions no less favorable to the Board as those contained in a Bond Purchase
Agreement or Placement Agreement. Any such Purchase and Sale Agreement shall contain such ?nal
terms as shall be approved by the person executing such document, such approval to be evidenced by
such person?s execution thereof, and the Senior Vice President of Finance and the Chief Financial Of?cer
are each also individually authorized to do all things necessary and essentiai to effectuate the provisions
of such Purchase and Sale Agreement, as executed, including the execution of any documents and
certi?cates incidental thereto or necessary to carry out the provisions thereof. The Senior Vice President
of Finance or the Chief Financial Officer shall make a ?nding in connection with the execution of each

Purchase and Sale Agreement that the Bonds sold thereunder have been sold at such price and bear

100

October 26, 2016

interest at such rate that neither the true interest cost (yield) nor the net interest rate received upon the
sale of such Bonds exceeds the maximum rate otherwise authorized by applicable law, and (ii) that no
person holding any of?ce of the Board, either by election or appointment, is in any manner interested,
ei'mer directly or indirectly, in his or her own name, in the name of any other person, association, trust or
corporation, in the applicable lndenture, any escrow or similar agreement executed and delivered
pursuant to Section 5 of this Resolution, the applicable Purchase and Sale Agreement or any agreement
with a Bond Insurer, Debt Reserve Credit Facility Provider or Credit Provider authorized by paragraphs
and of this Section, or in the issuance and sale of such Bonds, in accordance with thelaws of
the State of Illinois and the Code of Ethics of the Board (Board Rule No. as amended).

In connection with any sale of the Bonds of each Series, each of the Designated Of?cials
is hereby authorized to obtain a bond insurance policy from such recognized bond insurer as such
Designated Of?cial shall determine (the ?Bond Insurer") if said Designated Official determines such
bond insurance policy to be desirable in connection with the sale of such Series of Bonds. Each
Designated Of?cial is also authorized to enter into such agreements and make such covenants with any
Bond Insurer that such Designated Of?cial deems necessary and that are not inconsistent with the terms
and provisions of this Resolution and to pay upfront or annual fees to the Bond Insurer in connection
therewith.

In lieu of, or in addition to, the deposit of proceeds of the Bonds of any Series or other
funds into a debt service reserve fund as authorized in paragraph (g)of this Section, each of the
Designated Of?cials is hereby authorized to obtain a debt reserve credit facility from such recognized
provider as such Designated Of?cial shall determine (the ?Debt Reserve Credit Facility Provider?) if
such Designated Of?cial determines such debt reserVe credit facility to be desirable in providing for the
funding of any required debt service reserve fund. Each Designated Of?cial is also authorized to enter
into such agreements and make such covenants with any Debt Reserve Credit Facility Provider that such
Designated Of?cial deems necessary and that are not inconsistent with the terms and provisions of this
Resolution, including the payment of reasonabie fees to any Debt Reserve Credit Facility Provider.

In connection with the sale of the Bonds of any Series, to provide additional security and
liquidity for such Bonds, each of the Designated Of?cials is hereby authorized to obtain a letter of credit,
line of credit or other credit or liquidity facility, including similar agreements with or facilities issued by a
Bond Insurer (a ?Credit Facility"), if determined by such Designated Of?cial to be desirable in
connection with such sale of Bonds. -Each of the Designated Of?cials is hereby further authorized to 
appoint one or more banks, Bond Insurers or other ?nancial institutions to issue such Credit Facility (the
?Credit Provider") and to execute and deliver on behalf of the Board a credit, reimbursement or similar
agreement (the "Credit Agreement") providing for the issuance of the Credit Facility and the obligation
of the Board to repay funds borrowed under the Credit Facility or advances made by the Credit Provider
under the Credit Facility with respect to such Bonds. The Credit Facility may be in a form that provides

for the purchase of such Bonds by the Credit Provider (any such Bond so purchased being referred to as

101

October 26, 2016

a ?Bank Bond?) and the lndenture as executed and delivered shall reflect the terms and provisions of
such Bank Bonds. Any Bonds outstanding as Bank Bonds shall be secured as provided in the applicable
lndenture. The annual fee paid to any Credit Provider for the provision of a Credit Facility shall not
exceed 3 percent of the amount available to be drawn or advanced under such Credit Facility.

The Credit Agreement may provide that alternative interest rates or provisions will apply during
such times as the Bonds constitute Bank Bonds or the Board has outstanding repayment obligations to
the Credit Provider (the ?Credit Provider Rate"), which Credit Provider Rate shall not exceed the
maximum permitted by law, but in no event more than 15 percent per annum (the ?Maximum Credit
Provider Rate?). The Credit Agreement may further provide that to the extent the Credit Provider Rate
determined at any time pursuant to the Credit Agreement exceeds the Maximum Credit Provider Rate,
such excess may accrue at the then-applicable Credit Provider Rate (but in no event may such excess
accrue at a rate in excess of 25 percent per annum) and be added to the Credit Provider Rate at such 
time or times thereafter as the Credit Provider Rate shalt be less than the Maximum Credit Provider Rate;
provided, that at no time shall the Credit Provider Rate per annum exceed the Maximum Credit Provider
Rate.

Subsequent to thesale of the Bonds of any Series, any Designated Officials shall ?le in
the Of?ce of the Secretary of the Board a noti?cation of sale directed to the Board setting forth the
aggregate original principal amount of, maturity schedule, redemption provisions and interest rates for the
Bonds of each Series sold, (ii) a description of the speci?c Piedged Revenues pledged to the payment of

the principal of, redemption price of, interest on?and the Compound Accreted Value of the Bonds of such
Series, the principal amounts of the Bondsof each Series sold as Current interest Bonds. Capital
Appreciation Bonds, Convertible Bonds and Variable Rate Bonds, respectively, (iv) in- the case of Bonds
sold as Capital Appreciation Bonds and Convertible Bonds, (A) the Original Principal Amounts of and
Yields to Maturity on the Capital Appreciation Bonds and Convertible Bonds being sold, and (B) a table of
Compound Accreted Value per $5,000 Maturity Amount for any Capital Appreciation Bonds and
Convertible Bonds being sold, setting forth the Compound Accreted Value of each such Capital
Appreciation Bond and Convertible Bonds on each semiannual compounding date, the interest rates
on the Current interest Bonds sold or, in the case of Variable Rate Bonds. a description of the method of
determining the interest rate applicable from time to time to such Variable Rate Bonds, (vi) debt service
schedules for the Bonds of each Series, together with determinable investment earnings from the
investment of moneys held in the funds and accounts pursuant to the applicable lndenture. demonstrating
that the Pledged Revenues and said investment earnings and moneys held in the funds and accounts
pursuant to such indenture, are expected to be in an amount suf?cient to provide the debt service
coverage described in Section 2(b) of this Resolution, (vii) the terms and provisions for the conversion of

the Compound Accrued Value of any Convertible Bonds issued hereunder into Current interest Bonds,

the application of the proceeds of such Bonds for the purposes and within the limitations set forth in
paragraph (9) of this Section, (ix) if a bond insurance policy is obtained as authorized herein, the identity
of the Bond insurer issuing the bond insurance policy and the premium and any fees required to be paid

thereto, if a debt reserve credit facility is obtained as authorized herein. the identity of the Debt

102

October 26, 2016

Reserve Credit Facility Provider issuing the debt reserve credit facility, (xi) if a Credit Facility is obtained
as authorized herein, the identity of the Credit Provider Issuing the Credit Facility, and a copy of the
Credit Agreement betWeen the Board and such Credit Provider shall be attached tosaid noti?cation of
sale, (xii) the identity of the Trustee designated pur5uant to Section 2 of this Resalution with respect to 
the Bonds of such Series, the applicable redemption date or dates of the Series 2011C-1 Bonds and
Series Bonds being refunded, (xiv) the identity of any bank or trust company selected bya
Designated Of?cial to serve as Refunding Escrow Agent pursuant to the authorization granted in
paragraph of this Section, (xv) if an escrow or other similar agreement is to be executed and delivered
as authorized in Section 5 of this Resolution, 6 copy of such agreement shall be attached to said
noti?cation of sale and (xvi) the identity of and the compensation paid to the Purchasers in connection
with such sale.

In the event that the Designated Of?cial executing such notification of sale determines that the
Bonds have been sold in such principal amount or maturing or bearing interest so as to require the levy of
taxes in any' year- less than the amount speci?ed therefor in Section 3(a) of this Resolution, then such
Designated Official shall include, in the noti?cation of sale described in this Section, the amount of
reduction in the amount levied in Section 3(a) of this Resolution for each year resulting from such sale,
and in addition, any one or more of the Designated Officials shall ?le in the respective of?ces of the
County Clerks certi?cates of tax abatement for such years. In the case of Variable Rate Bonds, such
amounts to be abated from taxes levied may be determined by reference to any projections of debt
service on such Variable Rate Bonds provided to the Board at the time of sale of such Bonds. No such
reduction in the amounts levied in Section 3(a) of this Resolution need be made nor must any certi?cate
of tax abatement be ?led as described in the preceding sentence untilleither or both of the Designated
Of?cials have determined that any amount so levied in Section 3(a) of this Resolution will not be needed
to secure the Bonds being sold at that time or any Series of Bonds to be sold in the future. Any certi?cate
of abatement delivered pursuant to this paragraph shall refer to the amount of taxes levied pursuant to
Section 3(a) of this Resolution, shall indicate the amount of reduction in the amount of taxes levied by the
Board resulting from the sale of such Bonds, which reduced amount is to be abated from such taxes, and
shail further indicate the remainder of such taxes which is to be extended for collection by the County
Clerks. Each of the Designated Of?cials is also authorized to file in the respective of?ces of the County
Clerks certi?cates of tax abatement re?ecting the refunding of the Series 20110-1 Bonds and the Series
Bonds.

The distribution of a Preliminary Of?cial Statement, Private Placement Memorandum or
Notice of Public Sale relating to each Series of the Bonds (the ?Disclosure Document?) in substantially
the respective forms delivered in connection with previous issues of Fixed Rate Bonds and Variable Rate
Bonds and previous issues secured by some or all of the Pledged Revenues, but with such changes as

shalt be approved by a Designated Of?cial to reflect the terms of the Bonds proposed to be sold and the

103

October 26, 2016

method of sale of such Bonds, is hereby in all respects, rati?ed, authorized and approved and shail be
?deemed ?nal? for purposes of Rule 15c2-12, adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission under
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (?Rule and the proposed use by the Underwriters or the
Competitive Purchasers of a ?nal Of?cial Statement (in substantially the form of the Preiiminary Of?cial
Statement but with appropriate variations, omissions and insertions to reflect the finai terms of the Bonds
being sold or (ii) authorized herein for a Preliminary Official Statement if none is used in the marketing of
the Bonds being sold) is hereby approved. Each Designated Of?cial is hereby authorized and directed to
execute the ?nal Of?cial Statement or other Disclosure Document, as appropriate, on behalf of the Board.

In connection with the sale of a Series of the Bonds, the Designated Of?cials are hereby
authorized to provide to prospective Private Purchasers such information regarding the Board's
operations and ?nances as would typically be included in a Disclosure Document and to enter into such
discussions and negotiations with such prospective Private Purchasers as such Designated Of?cials shall
deem appropriate. In addition, the Designated Of?cials are hereby authorized to prepare a Notice of Sale
for distribution to potential bidders in connection with a public, competitive sale of a Series of the Bonds
and to take all actions necessary to conduct any such sale.

(9) The proceeds from the sale of each Series of the Bonds shall be applied to the payment
of costs of the Re?mding, and such proceeds shall also be applied as provided in the applicable
lndenture. All of such proceeds are hereby appropriated for the purposes speci?ed in this paragraph.

The Senior Vice President of Finance and the Chief Financial Of?cer are hereby each
authorized individually to enter into or approve such agreements with investment providers as shall be
necessary or advisable in connection with the investment of any funds on deposit under the lndenture, to
the extent such investments are authorized under the terms of the lndenture, the investment Policy of the
Board and applicable law, as in effect from time to time.

For the purpose of providing for the Refunding, each of the Designated Of?cials is hereby
authorized to execute and?deliver one or more refunding escrow agreements (each, a ?Refunding
Escrow Agreement") on behalf of the Board, attested by the Secretary of the Board, such Refunding
Escrow Agreements to be in substantiaily the form executed and delivered in connection with previous
refundings of obligations issued by or on behalf of the Board, but with such changes therein as shall be
approved by the Designated Of?cial executing the same, with such execution to constitute conclusive
evidence of such official's approval and this Board?s approval of any changes or revisions therein from
such form of Refunding Escrow Agreement. Each of the Designated Of?cials is hereby authorized to
designate a bank or trust company to act as Refunding Escrow Agent under each Refunding Escrow
Agreement. Each Refunding Escrow Agreement may include, to the extent permitted by iaw, agreements
entered into between the Board and providers of securities under which agreements providers agree to
purchase from or sell to the Board speci?ed securities on speci?c dates at predetermined prices, all as
established at the time of execution of any such agreement

5. Escrow of 'Pledged Revenues. If deemed necessary and desirable to provide additional
security for any Bonds, each of the Designated Of?cials is hereby authorized to execute and deliver on

behalf of the Board, and the Secretary is authorized to attest, a form of escrow or other similar agreement

104

October 26, 2016

with a bank, trust company or national banking association having the same quali?cations as those set
forth in Section 2(a) of this Resolution for a Trustee, re?ecting the issuance of the Bonds and such
segregation of Pledged Revenues and Pledged Taxes as the Designated Of?cial executing such
agreement shalt deem appropriate.

6. Pledged Taxes Escrow Direction. Each of the Designated Of?cials is hereby authorized,
pursuant to authority contained in Section 20-90 of the Property Tax Code of the State of Illinois, as
amended, to execute a written direction to the County Collectors of The Counties of Cook and DuPage,
Illinois (the ?County Collectors?), to deposit the collections of the Pledged Taxes as and when
extended for coliection directly with such escrow agent designated pursuant to Section5 of this
Resolution in order to secure the payment of the principal of and interest on the Bonds, and (ii) to the
extent necessary, advising the County Collectors of the abatement of the Pledged Taxes. The
Designated Of?cials are authorized to ?le a certi?ed copy of this Resolution with each of the County
Collectors.

7. Tax-Exemption and Non-Arbitrage. Each of the Designated Of?cials is hereby authorized
to take any other actions and to execute any other documents and certi?cates necessary to assure that
the interest payments with respect to the Bonds of each Series are excludabie from gross income for

Federal income tax purposes, to assure that the Bonds do not constitute "arbitrage bonds? or "private

activity bonds? under the lntemalRevenue Code of 1986, as amended, and to effectuate the issuance
and delivery of the Bonds. including but not iimited to the execution and deliVery of a Tax Agreement;
provided, however. that any of the Bonds may be issued as Bonds the interest on which is inciudible in
the gross income of the owner thereof for federal income tax purposes if determined by a Designated
Of?cial to be bene?ciai to the Board.

8. Continuing Disclosure Undertaking. Each of the Designated Of?cials is hereby
authorized to execute and deliver oneor more Continuing Disclosure Undertakings (each, a ?Continuing
Disclosure Undertaking?) evidencing the Board's agreement to comply with the requirements of
Section of Rule 15c2-12, as applicable to the Bonds of each Series. Notwithstanding any other
provision of this Resolution or any lndenture, the sole remedies for any failure by the Board to 
with a Continuing Disclosure Undertaking shall be the ability of the bene?cial owner of any Bond of the
applicable Series to seek mandamus or speci?c performance by court order to cauSe the Board to comply
with obligations under such Continuing Disclosure Undertaking. Each Continuing Disclosure
Undertaking shall be in substantially the form used in previous ?nancings of the Board, but with such
changes therein as shall be approved by the Designated Of?cial executing the same, with such execution
to constitute conclusive evidence of such of?cial's approval and this Board?s approval of any changes or

revisions therein from such form of Continuing Disclosure Undertaking.

9. Further Acts. Each of the Designated Of?cials, of?cials or of?cers of the Board are
hereby authorized to execute and deliver such other documents and agreements and perform such other
acts as may be necessary or desirabie in connection with the Bonds, including, but not limited to, the

exercise following the delivery date of the Bonds of any power or authority delegated to such of?cial

105

October 26, 2016

under this Resolution with respect to the Bonds upon original issuance, but subject to any limitations on
or restrictions of such power or authority as herein set forth.

All actions of the of?cials or officers of the Board that are in conformity with the purposes and
intent of this Resolution are hereby in all respects rati?ed, approved, and con?rmed.

10. Severabr'lihr. The provisions of this Resolution are hereby declared to be severable; and
if any section, phrase, or provision shall for any reason be declared to be invalid, such declaration shall
not affect the validity of the remainder of the sections, phrases, or provisions.

11. Repeater and Effective Date. All resolutions or parts of resolutions in con?ict herewith
are, to the extent of such con?ict, hereby repealed. This Resolution is effective immediately upon its

adoption.
16-1026-RS3

RESOLUTION TO ESTABLISH THE ELEMENTARY SCHOOL SPORTS PROGRAM
AT CHICAGO PUBLIC SCHOOLS

WHEREAS, developing the values, skills and abilities learned from participation in athletics -
sportsmanship, teamwork, problem-solving, self-con?dence, accountability - is an essential component of
an lndividual's success during life and the mission of Chicago Public Schools and

WHEREAS, the Board of Education of the City of Chicago (the "Board") dedicates itself to
establishing and maintaining the highest standards of good sportsmanship, fair play and citizenship so
that students? participation in athletics enriches their educational experience; and

WHEREAS, the Board seeks to provide as many students as possible the opportunity to benefit
from participation in individual andlor team sports; and

WHEREAS, historically, CPS elementary schools have not been able to accommodate all
students who express interest in participating in afterschool athletics, and the manybene?ts of youth
sports have only been afforded to a small number of the highest performing student-athletes.

NOW, THEREFORE, Be It and It is Hereby Resolved by the Board as follows:

The Board establishes the Elementary School Sports Program, a district-wide
interscholastic athletics program for CPS elementary school students in grades five (5) through eight (8).

2. The Chief Executive Officer is authorized to take all actions consistent with this
Resolution, the Chicago Public Schools Athletics Constitution and Bylaws, and other Board Rules and
Policies to implement, administer and operate the Elementary School Sports Program.

3. The Chief Executive Officer is authorized to pursue public-private partnerships, working
with CPS alumni, volunteers, sister agencies, sports organizations, professional sports teams, the
corporate community and/or other interested individuals or organizations, to facilitate the implementation,
administration and operation of the Elementary School Sports Program.

4. CPS will provide all ?fth through eighth grade students who express an interest
in participation in a sport the opportunity to participate in the sport under the supervision of a committed

coach who will promote an inclusive athletics culture.

106

October 26, 2016

5. Elementary sports coaches will ensure minimum playing time, so each participating
student has the opportunity to practice and play during contests.

6. The Chief Executive Of?cer is authorized to establish conferences organized around CPS
elementary schools and high schools.

7. Participating'high schools will host elementary contests in high school facilities, allowing
for the development of stronger community relationships between high school and elementary school
employees, students, community members and other stakeholders.

8. The Elementary School Sports-Program will provide additional engagement and
development opportunities for student volunteers and other non?student volunteers by
allowing volunteers to perform contest duties, such as scorekeeping, scoreboard operation and
timekeeping.

9. When possible, contests will occur on weekends at high school facilities and practices will
occur-on weekdays at elementary schools. Partners will provide supplemental facilities to ensure there
are enough locations for contests and practices. 

10. The principals of participating elementary schools must identify a school representative to
be responsible for assisting with program activities, including but not limited to overseeing student
registration and tracking participation.

11. The Elementary School Sports Program. shall be the framework for interscholastic athletic
league play of sports administered by CPS. Elementary schools that choose not to participate in the
Elementary School Sports Program may organize intramural athletics within their schools.

12. The Elementary School Sports Program shall be consistently delivered across the district.

16-1026-RS4

RESOLUTION
AUTHORIZE APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS
TO LOCAL SCHOOL COUNCILS TO FILL VACANCIES

WHEREAS, the School Code, 105 ILCS 5l34-2.1, authorizes the Board of Education of the
City of Chicago ('Board') to appoint the teacher, non-teacher staff and high school student members of local
school councils of regular attendance centers to ?ll mid-term vacancies after considering the preferences
of the schools? staffs or students, as appropriate, for candidates for appointment as ascertained through
non?binding advisory polls;

WHEREAS, the Governance of Altemative and Small Schools Policy, B. R. 07-0124-P02
(?Governance PoiicY?), authorizes the Board to appoint all members of the appointed local school councils
and boards of governors of alternative and small schools (including military academy to ?ll
mid-ten'n vacancies after considering candidates for appointment selected by the following methods and
the Chief Executive Of?cer's recommendations of those or other candidates:

Membership Categog Method of Candidate Selection
Parent Recommendation by serving LSC or Board
Community Recommendation by serving LSC or Board
Advocate Recommendation by serving LSC or Board
Teacher Non-binding Advisory Staff Poll
Non-Teacher Staff Member Non?binding Advisory Staff Poll
JROTC Non-binding Advisory Staff Poll (military academy high
schools only)
Student Non?binding Advisory Student Poll or Student Serving

as Cadet Battalion Commander or Senior Cadet
(military academy high schools)

WHEREAS, the established methods of selection of candidates for Board appointment to ?ll mid?
term vacancies on local school councils, appointed local school councils andlor boards of governors were
employed at the schoots identi?ed on the attached Exhibit A and the candidates selected thereby and any
other candidates recommended by the Chief Executive Of?cer have been submitted to the Board for
consideration for appointment in the exercise of its absolute discretion; 

107

October 26, 2016

WHEREAS, the Ellinois School Code and the Governance Policy authorize the Board to exercise
absolute discretion in the appointment process;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF EDUCATION OF THE CITY OF

CHICAGO: .

The individuals identi?ed on the attached Exhibit A are hereby appointed to serve in the speci?ed
categories on the local ?school councils, appointed local schools and/or boards of governors of the
identi?ed schools for the remainder of the current term of their respective of?ces.

2. This Resolution shall be effectiVe immediately upon adoption.

TEACHER MEMBER
Pamela Minnie?eld
Margaret Burke
Jeanine Cahill
Concepcion Moreno
llona Bibrowicz
Justin Altay

Vicki Bakis

Ashley Reyes

Jen Alper
Bernadette Shields
Lori Koziana

Brian Brennan
Derrick Bullie

David Taylor

NON-TEACHER MEMBER

Jose Raditla

ADVOCATE MEMBER
Juenell D. Jackson

16-1026-PO1

Exhibit A

NEW APPOINTED LSC MEMBERS

 

REPLACING

Matthew C. Cunningham

Position Vacant
Suzanne Schroeder
Alison L. KOOI
Sonia E. Ramos
Karyn A. Keenan
Joan Petrakos
Karina P. Rice
Linda Hunt

Sandra Brown
Homero Penuelas
Position Vacant
Kevin R. Samerson
Position Vacant

REPLACING
Position Vacant

REPLACING
Position Vacant

SCHOOL 
Chopin E. S.
Ebinger E. S.
Edison Park E. S.
Galileo E. S. 
Greeley E. S.
LaSaIle E. S.

McCutcheon E. S.

Saucedo E. S.

O. A. Thorp E. S.
Wentworth S.
Cun'e Metro H. S.
Kelvyn Park H. S.
Uplift H. S.

Uplift H. S.

SCHOOL
Kelvyn Park H. 8.

SCHOOL 
Raby H. s.

RESCIND BOARD REPORT 12-0822-PO1
AND ADOPT A NEW CHICAGO PUBLIC SCHOOLS ATHLETICS CONSTITUTION AND BYLAWS

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 

That the Board rescind Board Report Chicago Public High Schools Athletic Association
Constitution and Bytaws, and adopt a newChicago Public Schools Athletics Constitution and Bylaws.

ARTICLE I NAMES:

CHICAGO PUBLIC SCHOOLS ATHLETICS
CONSTITUTION

Chicago Public Schools Athletics encompasses the Chicago Public League and the Elementary School

Sports Program.

ARTICLE II - STATEMENT OF PURPOSE:

The fundamental purpose of Chicago Public Schools Athletics shall be to promote interscholastic athletics
for students in Chicago public schools and participating Chicago charter schools so that participants will
enjoy the bene?ts of physical ?tness, teamwork and discipline that involvement in athletics can bring.
Chicago Public Schools recognizes athletics as an extracurricular activity and asserts that participation in
athletics is a privilege and not a right for those student-athletes who take part in the variety of sports
offered by Chicago Public Schools.

Chicago Public Schools dedicates itself to establishing and maintaining the highest standards of good
sportsmanship. fair play and citizenship so that students? participation in athletics programs enriches their
educational experience. Chicago Public Schools also commits itself to a principle of equal access to its
interscholastic programs for all Chicago public school students that takes into consideration factors that
affect the ability of students to safely participate in sponsored athletic events.

108

October 26, 2016

Chicago Public Schools shalt fully execute the requirements of the Chicago Public Schools Athletics
Constitution and Bylaws and promote compliance by all student-athletes, coaches, athletic directors,
principals, other school officials and third-party partners. In addition, Chicago Public Schools may issue
future regulations which further define and interpret provisions of the Chicago Public Schools Athletics
Constitution and Bylaws. -

Chicago Public Schools also commits to abide by the rules and regulations promulgated by the Illinois
High School Association In those instances-where the rules of Chicago Public Schools are
stricter than those of the the rules of Chicago Public Schools will govern.

ARTICLE - MEMBERSHIP:

Membership in the Chicago Public League or the Elementary School Sports Program shall be limited to
high schools or elementary schools under the supervision of the Board of Education of the City of
Chicago ("Board?) and any charter schools authorized by the Board which elect to become members of
these organizations.

ARTICLE IV - MANAGEMENT:
Section 1 - Chief Executive Of?cer

The Chief Executive Of?cer has final decision authority over at] matters relating to the administration,
organization, delivery and operation of Chicago Public Schools interscholastic athletics.

Section 2 - The Office of Sports Administration
The Of?ce of Sports Administration shalt be responsible for:

A. The administration, organization, delivery and operation of Chicago Public Schools Athletics and
any underlying activities;

B. Providing oversight for and monitoring compliance with applicable rules and regulations; 

C. The administration of all individuallteam sports committees and the recommendation of
membership;

D. 'The determination of all actions regarding rule interpretations, protests, violations andlor eligibility
after full investigation;

E. Advising the Chief Executive Of?cer on all matters regarding interscholastic athletics; and
F. Communicating academic eligibility rules and requirements for student-athietes.

Section 3 - School Principals

School principals are ultimately accountable for the local administration of athletics programs and other
related activities at their schools. Principals are responsible for ensuring compliance with athletics rules
and regulations at their schools.

Principals may designate an of?cial representative to be responsible for coordinating local athletics
programs and to serve as the primary liaison between their school and the Of?ce of Sports
Administration. A school principal may serve as the of?cial representative for his or her school or identify
an appropriate representative, such as an assistant principal orrathletic director. While a principal may
delegate responsibilities to an of?cial representative, principals remain ultimately accountable for ensuring
compliance with all athletics rules and regulations at their schools.

Section 4 Eiementary and High School Athletics Advisory Councils

Two representative councils of school principals shall be established to advise the Of?ce of Sports
Administration on matters related to the administration and operation of interscholastic athletics at
Chicago Public Schools and review appeals in a manner consistent with Article Section 2 of the
Chicago Public Schools Athletics Bylaws. One council shall be comprised of elementary school principals
who represent the interests of schools that participate in the Elementary Schools Sports Program and one
council shall be comprised of high school principals who represent the interests of schools that participate
in the Chicago Public League.

The Elementary and High School Athletics Advisory Councils shall be responsible for".
A. Advising the Of?ce of Sports Administration on matters related to the administration, organization,

delivery and operation of interscholastic athletics at Chicago Public Schools;

B. Reviewing appeals in a manner consistent with Article VII Section 2 of the Chicago Public
Schools Athletics Bylaws; and

109

October 26, 2016

C. Issuing appeal recommendations in a manner consistent with Article VII Section 2 of the Chicago
Pubiic Schools Athletics Bylaws. 

During the ?rst meeting of each Athletics Advisory Council. members shall select an individual member
who shall serve as the Chairperson for their respective council. Each Chairperson shall be responsible
for administering council meetings and activities in a manner consistent with the responsibilities identi?ed
in the Chicago Public Schools Athletics Constitution and Bylaws and any direction received from the Chief
Education Officer.

Section 5 Chief Education Of?cer
The Chief Education Of?cer shall be responsible for:

A. Establishing the membership structure for the Athletics Advisory Councils in a manner that
promotes equitable representation for participating schools;

B. Establishing procedures for the selection of Athletics Advisory Council members and for the
replacement of members in the event of member vacancy or incapacitation; and

C. Establishing the membership duration for all members of the Athletics Advisory Councils.

D. Advising the Of?ce of Sports AdminiStration on matters regarding academic eligibility rules and
requirements for studentjathletes.

Section 6 lndividualf'l'eam Sports Administration

The Of?ce of Sports Administration shall be responsible for the administration and operation of all
approved sports offered through the Chicago Public League and the Elementary School Sports Program.
The Of?ce of Sports Administration may identify individuals from its staff to be responsible for planning
and coordinating the activities of speci?c sports, including the establishment of contest schedules.

The Office of Sports Administration may establish a representative committee of coaches to assist with
the operation of activities pertaining to each sport. Coach committees shall be responsible for:

A. Supporting the Of?ce of Sports Administration with the administration and Operations of their
sport;

B. Making recommendations to the Office of Sports Administration regarding the administration and
operation of their sport;

C. Sewing as the collective voice for the broader coaching community for their sport; and

D. Promoting the professional development of other coaches within their sport.

. CHICAGO PUBLIC SCHOOLS ATHLETICS
BYLAWS

AR 1 ICLE I - CHICAGO PUBLIC SCHOOLS ATHLETICS BYLAWS AND IHSA:

Chicago Public Schools commits to abide by the rules and regulations promulgated by the Illinois High
School Association In those instances where the rules of Chicago Public Schools are stricter
than those of the IHSA, the rules of Chicago Public Schools will govern.

ARTICLE II - SPECIFIC RESPONSIBILITIES OF SCHOOL PRINCIPALS:
Section 1 Constitution and Bylaws Distribution

Principals shall issue an electronicor hard copy of the Chicago Pubiic Schoois Athletics Constitution and
Bylaws and any regulations promulgated in conjunction therewith to all coaches, student-athletes and
other school representatives participating in Chicago Public Schools Athletics.

Section 2 Coach Oversight

Principals shall ensure that all paid and volunteer coaches are properly staffed and certi?ed prior to
working with any students. Principals are responsible for maintaining an accurate roster of all paid and
volunteer coaches and reporting this information to the Of?ce of Sports Administration. The Office of
Sports Administration shall issue requirements and procedures for maintaining coaching records.
Principals shall be responsible for ensuring that their school complies with the record keeping and
reporting requirements established by the Of?ce of Sports Administration.

110

October 26, 2016

Section 3 - Safety and Security

Principals shail assign a Concussion Oversight Supervisor (COS) to monitor and enforce the ConcUssion
Management Policy of the Board of Education of the City of Chicago.

Principais shail submit to the Office of Safety and Security a crowd controi/secun'ty plan and an
emergency action plan for the scheduled competitions of each sport prior to the commencement of the
season.

Principals shall see that there is suf?cient faculty and/or police supervision at all contests and activities to
properly handle the spectators.

Section 4 Student-Athlete Eligibility

Principals are ultimately respOnsible for ensuring that all students from their school who participate in
athletic activities satisfy all eligibility rules and requirements.

ARTICLE SPECIFIC RESPONSIBILITIES OF COACHES:
Section 1 - High School Coach Staf?ng and Professional Credentials
In order to serve as a paid or volunteer high school athletic coach, an individual must:

A. Satisfy all CPS staf?ng requirements, which include but are not limited to an online application,
background check and drug test;

B. Complete an IHSA-approved Coaches Certi?cation program;

C. Complete the concussion management training speci?ed by the Of?ce of Sports Administration;

D. Satisfy annual professional development and training requirements specified by the Of?ce of
Sports Administration; and

E. Be well versed in the latest edition of the National Federation of High Schools (NFHS) rules and
regulations for the sport that they are coaching, the IHSA Constitution and Bylaws, and the
Chicago Public Schools Athletics Constitution and Bylaws.

Section 2 - Coaches as Role Models

Coaches are role models to players students staff and the general public and shall conduct themselves
accordingly at all times. Coaches shall be attentive to the academic progress of their students and
display good sportsmanship and respect for institutions school of?cials spectators fans, opposing teams
and students at all times. Coaches shall not engage in any acts that vioiate these Bylaws or any other
Board rule or policy.

Section 3 - Behavior

Coaches shall not engage in unsportsmanllke conduct, including but not limited to:

A. Use of profane or abusive language directed at players, of?cials, coaches or spectators.
Disrespect of of?cials.


C.I Taunting of opposing players, of?cials, coaches or spectators.
D. I Throwing objects.



. Any actions before, during or after an athletic contest that are intended to provoke hostility
towards an opposing team's players, coaches, school of?cials or students.

F. Other conduct that a reasonable person would consider unprofessional.
Section 4 Behavior with Of?cials

Coaches shall not visibly, audibly or in any other manner display disrespect for the decisions of officials
during the contest or in any place where a crowd or player might see andIor hear a coach.

Section 5 Attire

Coaches shall inspire respect by wearing appropriate attire. Therefore, professional or team-related attire
should be worn by coaches during contests.

Section 6 Smoking and Drinking

Coaches shall not smoke or drink alcoholic beverages or be under the in?uence of alcoholic beverages or
any illegal substance at any time while performing their coaching duties.

111

October 26, 2016

Section 7 - Student-Athlete Eligibility

Coaches are responsible for maintaining awareness of the individual eligibility status of student athletes
on their team. Coaches are responsible for assisting school administrators, including principals and
athletic directors, with monitoring student-athlete compiiance with eiigibility rules and requirements.
Coaches shall not permit any student to participate in any practices or contests if:

A. The student does not have medical clearance from a healthcare professional.

B. The student is serving a suspension under the Student Code of Conduct.
Coaches shall not permit any high school student to participate in contests if:

A. The student Is academically ineligible as defined by Board rules and policies, or other
requirements communicated by the Of?ce of Sports Administration.

B. The student has not received approval from the Of?ce of Sports Administration following a school
transfer as defined in Article VI Section 3. 

Section 8 - Computer-Generated Eligibility Sheets

High school coaches are responsible for assisting school administrators, including principals and athletic
directors, with preparing student-athlete records and of?ciai computer-generated eligibility sheets to
establish that participants are eligible to compete.

Section 9 Participant-Safety

Coaches are responsible .for ensuring that participants wear proper safety equipment, where applicable,
and for requiring players to remove any items that have been ?agged as potentially dangerous by the
contest?s of?cials.

Section 10 Concussion Management

Coaches shall comply with the Board?s Concussions Management Policy, including but not limited to, the
removal from participation, students' return to play, and all reporting and documentation requirements.

Section 11 Respect for Colors

Coaches shall instruct their players to be available and to cease pre-contest team activities warm-
up activity) when the colors are presented at the opening of a contest

Section 12 - Lockers'tl Security

The coach of the home team shall ensure the visiting team has access to lockers and/or other secure
accommodations.

Section 13 Entering the Playing Field

Coaches shall not go onto the ?eld or playing area during a contest except with the permission of an
of?cial.

Section 14 - Timeliness 8. Forfeitures

Coaches shall make every effort to be on time to ascheduled contest. If a coach or team is knowingly
unable to arrive on time or be ready to play within 30 minutes of a scheduled contest, the coach shall
notify the coach of the opposing team and the Of?ce of Sports Administration. In the event either team is
unable to play after 30 minutes of a scheduled contest, both coaches are responsible for contacting the
Of?ce of Sports Administration. The Office of Sports Administration shall be the sole arbiter of
disagreements an'sing in these cases and shall be the sole entity responsible for declaring a forfeiture.

Section 15 Assistance for Of?cials

The coach of the home team shall assign a school representative to meet of?cials before a contest. The
school representative shall be responsible for arranging for the privacy of the of?cials before, during and

after the Contest. The school representative shall provide for any concerns of the of?cials related to the
contest.

Section 16 Recruiting

Coaches, as well as other individuals formally or informally af?liated with the school, are strictly prohibited
from recruiting or exerting undue in?uence, or attempting to do so, on any person, including student-
athletes and their parents or legal guardians, to secure or retain the attendance of a student for purposes
of athletic participation at the coach?s school. This prohibition pertains to activities undertaken by or on
behalf of a coach throughout the year and notjust the school year.

112

October 26, 2016

Section 17 Corporal Punishment Prohibited

The use of corporal punishment on students is strictly prohibited. Corporal punishment is the deliberate
use of physical force on a student slapping, hitting, pushing, shaking, twisting, pinching, choking,
swatting, head banging, paddling or use of any type of object or instrument that has contact with a
student) or requiring a student to take an action solely for the purpose of causing the student physical
pain forcing a student to stand or kneel for an inordinate period of time, forcing a student into a
physical position that causes pain). Coaches, assistant coaches and athletic directors, whether they are
employees or volunteers, are strictly prohibited from in?icting corporal punishment ofany kind upon
students. This rule shall not be construed to prohibit the use of drills, conditioning and other acceptable
coaching methods designed to develop athletic skills, teamwork, physical endurance and strength.

Section 18 Reporting of infractions
Coaches who know of any rule infractions or violations of the Chicago Public Schools Athletics
Constitution or these Bylaws must report the alleged infraction or violation to the Of?ce of Sports
Administration as soon as they learn of the alleged infraction or violation. Coaches who delay the
reporting of alleged infractions or violations may cause their teams to forfeit at least one contest, and their
school may be ?ned at the discretion of the Of?ce of Sports Administration.
Section 19 - Compliance with Board Rules and Policies
Coaches shall comply with all Board rules and policies, including, but not limited to, the following:

A. Chicago Public Schools Athletics Constitution and Bylaws.

B. No-Pass, No-Play Policy

C. Board Rule 6-21 which prohibits, inter alia, the deliberate use of force, in particular, the use of any
type of object or instrument to paddle a student and/or slapping, hitting, pushing, shaking,
twisting, pinching, choking, or swatting a student, including a student-athlete.
Employee Discipline and Due Process Policy.
Student Code of Conduct.
Policy on Reporting Child Abuse and Neglect.

Student Travel Poiicy.



Policy on Momentary Student Interventions.

Policy on Student Searches and Seizures.

J. Concussion Management Policy.

ARTICLE IV APPROVED SPORTS AND THEIR MANAGEMENT:
Section 1 Approved Sports
The O?ice of Sports Administration is responsible for communicating the approved list of sports or
activities offered through the Chicago Public League and the Elementary School Sports Program.
Schools may submit a formal written request to expand the list of approvedsports or activities. The Of?ce
of Sports Administration reserves the authority to adest the list of approved sports offered through the
ChicagoPublic League and the Elementary School Sports Program.
Section 2 High School Sports Seasons
The formal seasons for high school sports are determined according to the IHSA calendar and will
conclude with the Chicago Pubiic League Championship contest or meet, with the exception of those
teams involved with IHSA tournaments or other'authorized contests.
Section 3 - Elementary School Sports Program
The Elementary School Sports Program shall provide elementary students with the opportunity to
participate in organized interscholastic league play. The Of?ce of Sports Administration shall be
responsible for establishing and promulgating rules and regulations for the administration, organization,
delivery and operation of the Elementary School Sports Program.
The Of?ce of Sports Administration?s powers include:

A. Selecting which approved sports shall be part of the program;

B. Creating elementary sports leagues, teams, schedules and seasons;

0. Designing and facilitating the implementation of a coaching staf?ng model;

113

October 26, 2016

D. Selecting facilities for practices and contests; and

E. Such other actions that are consistent with the Chicago Public Schools Athletics Constitution,
these Bylaws and which are necessary for the administration. organization, delivery and
operation of the Elementary School Sports Program.

Section 4 - Non-League Contests

For all contests hosted by or involving Chicago Public Schools, all participating teams must be either
members of the Chicago Public League, the Elementary School Sports Program, the or an
equivalent association from their home state. 

Non-league high school contests shall not be allowed to con?ict with the Chicago Public League

schedule: All non-league contests shall be submitted to the Of?ce of Sports Administration prior to the
contest for informational purposes. The Of?ce of Sports Administration reserves the right to prohibit the
participation of member schools in non-league contests.

On the day of the Chicago Public League Championship game or contest in any one sport, no other high
school game or contest in that sport shall be conducted unless approved by the Office of Sports
Administration.

Non? league high school contests or any other activities practices scrimmages) are prohibited with
any team which is under the ban of Chicago Public Schools and/or the IHSA,

Section 5 School Representative

Any contest in which two schools are participating shall not begin until the coach or a school
representative from each of the contesting schools is present. In contests where more than two schools
are participating, each school shall have a coach or school representative.

In the event of a non-appearance of the coach or school representative within the forfeit time limit of that
sport, the offending school shall forfeit the contest;

In the event the coach or school representative fails to remain through thecontest, the offending school
shall forfeit the contest.

Section 6 - Exchange of Official Computer-Generated Eligibility Sheets
The following requirements pertain to high school contests:

A. Of?cial computer-generated eligibility sheets serve as the documents listing information regarding
the students that are eligible for interscholastic participation as indicated by a computer review of
eligibility criteria;

B. Only official computer-generated eligibility sheets will be accepted for purposes of de?ning
eligibility for participants in interscholastic contests involving Chicago Public Schools;

C. Of?cial computer-generated eligibility sheets may not be altered with additional names that
weren't originally printed. Of?cial computer-generated eligibility sheets may be duplicated but
signatures must be original Prior to the commencement of a contest teams shall exchange
eligibility sheets, which identify all the players that are eligible to participate in the contest;

D. The participation of a player whose name does not appear on an of?cial computer-generated
eligibility sheet may be cause for the forfeiture of the contest;

E. The participation of an ineligible player, even if his or her name appears on the computer-
generated eligibility sheet, may be cause for forfeiture of the contest. In the instance where his or
her name is on the official computer-generated eligibility sheet the name should be flagged or
crossed out and the change initialed by a school representative. Under no circumstances should
an ineligible student participate In any athletics contest; and

F. Any clerical or system error, as determined by the Of?ce of sports Administration, may result in a
determination to waive the designated penalty.

Section 7 Report of Chicago Public League Contests
The following requirements pertain to high school contests:

A. A school representative shall keep all completed of?cial computer?generated eligibility sheets on
?le at the school and shall produce them to the Of?ce of Sports Administration upon request;

B. A school representative must communicate the results of all contests to the Of?ce of Sports

Administration as soon as practicable according to the procedures established by the Of?ce of
Sports Administration; and

114

October 26, 2016

C. In individual sports, where a number of schools are competing, the host school of that event shall
send the of?cial computer-generated eligibility sheets and a report of the contest to the Of?ce of -
Sports Administration.

Section 8 Alumni Contests and Games
Alumni contests and games are prohibited in all sports.
Section 9 Ticket Practices and Post-Season Seating Arrangements
A. The Of?ce of Sports Administration is responsible for establishing ticket practices and prices for
all athletics contests between schools of the Chicago Public League and schools of the

Sports Program.

B. The Of?ce of Sports Administration is responsible for determining seating arrangements for all
post-season contests that occur at neutral locations.

C. For any Chicago Public League semi-?nal or championship game, the schools of participating
teams are entitled to an equal proportion of tickets available for purchase. 

 

ARTICLE RECORDS OF HIGH SCHOOL ELIGIBILITY:
Section 1 - Central Of?ce Record Sheet
The Central Of?ce Record Sheet is an electronic roster of the players who participate on a team. Each
school that participates in the Chicago Public League is required to populate a Central Of?ce Record
Sheet for each participating team prior to the ?rst contest of the season. Schools are required tomaintain
the accuracy of the information contained on the Central Of?ce Record Sheet during the season. The
Central Of?ce Record Sheet shall include the following information for each player:

A. Player's full name.

B. Identification number,

C: Date of birth.

D. Home address, including zip code.

E. Number-of semesters of high school attendance.
Participation of a player whose name does not appear on the Central Of?ce Record Sheet at the time of
participation may result in the forfeit of the game or contest in which the player participated. Upon
conclusion of each season, schools must provide a signed copy of the ?nal Central Office Record Sheet
to the Of?ce of Sports Administration. The ?nal copy of each Central Of?ce Record Sheet must be signed
by the principal, athletic director and coach of the associated school. Upon request, the Of?ce of Sports
Administration shall make available the Central Of?ce Record Sheets provided by schools.
Section 2 - Player?s Record Packet 
Before eligibility is established and before participation in any practice or contest, each participant in the
Chicago Public League shall submit a completed player record packet. A school representative 
athletic director, coach) is responsible for securing the packet from the participant and the high school
athletic director is responsible for recording the information in the IMPACT sports module and ?ling these
packets at their school. The principal is ultimately responsible for ensuring all participating student?
athletes have a completed player record packet on ?le at their school.
A complete player record packet shall include:

A. Date and evidence of birth.

B. Athletic participation history.

C. Certi?cate of physical ?tness dated within 395 calendar days, including a physician?s permission
to participate, as attested to by signature.

Written consent of a parent or guardian for athletic participation and acknowledgement of risk.
IHSA Concussion Awareness Form.

Acknowledgement of receipt of the Chicago Public Schocls Athletics Constitution and Bylaws.



Signature of student.

115

 October 26, 2016

ARTICLE VI ELIGIBILITY:
Section 1 ~Academic Eligibility Rules and Requirements

The Board of Education of the City of Chicago has established academic eligibility rules and requirements
for student-athletes who wish to participate in school-sponsored athletics or related extracurricular 
activities. The Of?ce of Sports Administration shall communicate academic eiigibility rules and
requirements to member schools of the Chicago Public League and the Elementary School Sports
Program. Coaches are responsible for maintaining awareness of the individual eligibility status of student
athletes on their team. Coaches are responsible for assisting school administrators, including principals
and athletic directors, with monitoring student?athlete compliance with eligibility ruies and requirements.
Principals are ultimately responsible for ensuring that all students from their school who participate in
athletic activities Satisfy all eligibility rules and requirements.

Section 2 Age

For varsity competition, a student shall be eligible through age nineteen (19-) unless the student shall
become twenty (20} during the sport season in which event eligibility shall terminate on the ?rst day of
such season, as the season is de?ned in the IHSA Bylaws.

For sophomore competition, the student shall be eligible in the ?rst or second year in attendance and
shall not have reached the seventeenth (17th) birthday prior to September 1 of the current school year.

For freshmen-competition, the student shall be eligible in the first year in attendance and shall not have
reached the sixteenth (16th} birthday prior to September 1 of the current school year.

The Office of Sports Administration shall establish the age eligibility requirements for elementary school
sports. -

Foreign exchange students must abide by all student requirements contained in these Bylaws, including
the age requirements.

Section 3 Transfers

All students who transfer to a Chicago Public Schools high school will be ineligible to compete in athletics
for a period of one calendar year from the date of enrollment in the new school or until they have received
approval for athletic eligibility from the Office of Sports Administration, as described below.

Transfer students, working with the administrators at their school, may file a request for eligibility with the
Of?ce of Sports Administration by submitting a completed transfer packet. The Of?ce of Sports
Administration shall communicate the requirements of the transfer packet. The Of?ce of Sports
Administration shall communicate the deadlines for submitting transfer packets in order to receive a ruling
prior to a season. It is the responsibility of the school on behalf of the student to submit all required

documentation to the Of?ce of Sports Administration. Any insuf?cient or incomplete documentation may
delay the eligibility decision made by the Of?ce of Sports Administration.

The ?Of?ce of Sports Administration's decision will be based on the following criteria:
A. Chicago Public Schools adheres to IHSA rules regarding the eligibility of transfer students.

B. in all cases, the Office of Sports Administration?s decision shall be given consistent with Article Vi
and academic eligibility standards established by the Board.

C. in determining whether a student will be deemed eligible for participation, the Of?ce of Sports
Administration will consider whether: -

- 'There is evidence that the transfer was for primarily athletic reasons; or

- There is evidence that the transfer was the result of undue in?uence.
D. The decision will indicate whether a student will be deemed:

. Immediately eligible to participate in athletics; or

0 . Ineligible to participate in athletics for a period not to exceed one calendar year from the
date of enrollment; or

Ineligible to participate in a specific sport basketball) for a period not to exceed one
calendar year from the date of enrollment.

116

October 26, 2016

Section 4 Amateur Standing

Once enrolled, all students, including foreign exchange students, are designated as amateurs and must
maintain their amateur status.

A. De?nitions.

a.

f.

Amateur. An amateur is an individual who has never used his or her knowledge of
athletics or athletic skill for pay in any form, and has never played on any team on which
there are paid players.

Athletic award, gift, amenity, gratuity or bene?t. An athletic award, gift, amenity, gratuity,
or bene?t includes, but is not limited to: money, extension of credit, meals, trips, free
summer or off?season training or instructional camps for which other participants pay a
fee, use of vehicles, promise of athletic scholarships, promise or receipt of anything of
value in excess of $75.00.

Media. Media includes but is not limited to programs, commercials, promotions, or
messages, whether broadcast by radio, teievision, videos, telephone, Internet, cable, or
satellite, or published in newspapers, magazines, posters, newsletters, or books. Media
does not include news coverage of any kind. 

Pay. Pay is the receipt of any athletic award, gift, amenity, gratuity, or bene?t. for the
student?s participation in athletics'not expressly permitted by these bylaws. Pay does not
include an athletic scholarship or a promise of an athletic scholarship to a college or
university, provided, that the scholarship is offered through a duly recognized
representative of the college or university the student-athlete will'attend.

Student-athlete. For purposes of this sectionja student-athlete is a student who is
eligible to and participates in a particular sport at Chicago Public Schools.

Amateur Status. All student?athletes must be amateurs.

B. Prohibited Compensation. A student shall not be eligible for competition in a particular sport if the
individual: - 

3.

Uses his or her athletic skill. whether directly or indirectly, for pay in any form in that
sport; .

Accepts a promise to pay even if such pay is to be received following completion of high
school athletics participation;

Signs 8 contract or commitment of any kind to play professional athletics, regardless of
its legal enforceability or any consideration received;

Competes on any professional athletics team and knows (or had reason to know) that the
team is a professional athletics team, even if no pay or remuneration for expenses was
received.

C. investigation. An investigation will be conducted by Chicago Public Schools for any impropriety
related amateur status. Violation of this section will result in the immediate revocation of a
student's eligibility status.

D. Athletic Awards. These rules shall not be interpreted to prohibit the acceptance of letters,
medals, cups. or trophies by participants for winning or placing in athletic meets or tournaments in
which three or more high schools participate and which are limited to high school students or to
participants in non-interscholastic contests on equat terms, provided that in either case the
awards must be made by either the Of?ce of Sports Administration, the school, or the
organization fostering the contest or meet. 

E. Prohibited Acts.

a.

No personnel may provide, directly or indirectly, or solicit others to provide, to any
student?athlete any athletic award, gift, amenity, gratuity, free summer or off-season 
training or instructional camps for which other participants pay a fee, or bene?t having a
value of more than seventy-?ve dollars ($75.00) as a reward for or as an encouragement
to engage in athletic participation at any high school of the Chicago Public Schools.

Chicago Public Schools employees determined to have violated this section will be
subject to disciplinary action in accordance with Chicago Board of Education Employee
Discipline and Due Process Policy as it exists now or as it may hereafter be amended.

F. Promotional Activities. After becoming a?student-athlete, a student-athlete shall not be eligible for
competition in a particular sport if the student~athlete:

a. Accepts any remuneration for or permits the use of his or her name or picture to

advertise, recommend, or promote directly the sale or use of a commercial product or
service of any kind;

117

October 26, 2016

b. Received remuneration for endorsing a commercial product or service through .the
individual's use of such product or service;

c. Appears or permits the use of his or her name, picture, or likeness in any media, the
purpose of which is to advance a commercial interest without the prior written
lauthorizatiOn of the Board; or

d. If a student-athlete?s name -or picture appears on commercial items or is used to promote
a commercial product sold by an individual or agency Without the student-athlete's
knowledge or permission, the student?athlete (or the school acting on behalf of the
student-athlete) is required to take steps to stop such an activity in order to retain his or
her eligibility for competition in a particular sport. 

Section 5 Falsifying Statements

Any individual who knowingly and intentionally has made a false statement in answering any verbal or
written questions or requests for information of any authorities of the Chicago Public Schools shall be
declared ineligible to represent the school or any other Chicago public school in all sports for a period of
time not to exceed one calendar year from the date the Of?ce of Sports Administration issues its
determination. In addition. interscholastic team contests in which student is engaged may be forfeited or
individual team meets placement may be forfeited and awards returned.

Section 6 - Other Af?liations

While a member of a schoolteam, an athlete shall not represent any out-of-school organizations in the
sport during that sports season.

Section 7 Student Disciplinary Suspensions

A student-athlete serving an out-of?school suspension for an act of misconduct may not attend school-
sponsored events, including athletic competitions, and may not attend activities on school grounds,
including team practices, during the term of the suspension.

ARTICLE VII - INVESTIGATIONS, HEARINGS AND APPEALS:
Section 1 Investigations

investigations by the Of?ce of Sports Administration of any action regarding rule interpretations, eligibility,
?nes, terms, conditions or other matters affecting Chicago Public Schools interscholastic athletics shall be
commenced as follows: .

A. All requests for an investigation or a determination must be made in writing and directed to the
attention of the Of?ce of Sports Administration. The Of?ce of Sports Administration may also
initiate or direct the initiation of an investigation if it observes potential misconduct or any violation
of athletics rules and regulations.

B. .If the Of?ce of Sports Administration receives a proper written request for a determination or
investigation of an alleged impropriety that may give rise to a vioiation of the Constitution or
Bylaws, the Of?ce of Sports Administration shall decide if the request reasonably warrants a
determination or an investigation. If an investigation or determination is warranted, the Of?ce of
Sports Administration shall conduct an investigation or, if no investigation is required, make a
determination on the issue.

C. If deemed necessary, a hearing may be conducted by the Of?ce of Sports Administration for the

sole purpose of gathering relevant and material information concerning the issue under
consideration. The Of?ce of Sports Administration is responsible for determining appropriate
attendees for the hearing given the nature of each investigation and submitting a written request
to attendees, which includes the hearing procedures.

D. The Of?ce of Sports Administration will issue written?ndings from the investigation and/or
hearing to the requesting party and to other persons affected by the ?ndings as soon as
practicably possible. The Of?ce of Sports Administration retains the right to amend its written
?ndings should further evidence arise after an investigation.

Section 2 - Appeal Hearings

Anyone affected by the Of?ce of Sports Administration's written findings may appeal the decision. All
requests for appeal must be made in writing to the Chairperson of the reapective Elementary or High
School Athletics Advisory Council within ?ve school days from the date of the decision. The appellant?s
request must include the full factual basis and supporting evidence for the appeal. The Chairperson shall
fonivard copies of the appeal and supporting evidence to the Athletic Advisory Council, the principals of
the affected schools, the Office of Sports Administration and any other affected-parties in a timely
manner. Affected parties have ?ve days to submit a written response to the appeal.

118

October 26, 2016

In the event that an appeal involves the Chairperson?s school or a student or a coach at the school of
another Athletic Advisory Council member, the Chairperson, or other Athletic Advisory Council member
shall excuse himlherself from the proceedings and another Athletic Advisory Council member shall be
appointed by the Chief Education Officer to preside over or participate during the appeal.

The Athletic Advisory Council shali vote on whether to grant the appellant a hearing or_base its decision
on the written appeal and supporting evidence. The Athletic Advisory Council will grant an appeal
hearing unless a majority of all of the Councilmembers vote against granting a hearing. The
Chairperson, or presiding Athletic Advisory Council member, is responsible for communicating the
council?s decision on whether to conduct a hearing within ?ve school days of receiving the written appeal.
If the council decides to hear the appeal, the Chairperson, or presiding Athletic Advisory Council member
is responsible for notifying affected parties and scheduling the appeal to be conducted before a majority
of the councii within 10 school days.

The Chairperson, or presiding Athletic Advisory Council member, shall conduct the appeal hearing. The
purpose of the appeal hearing is for the Athletic Advisory Council to gather information that will allow it to
make informed, reasoned recommendations on the appeal. The student-athlete, his or her parents or
guardians, or an appropriate representative of the Student-athlete, or in the case of a coach who is
appealing a decision to impose a penalty, the coach, must have an Opportunity to present information that
is relevant and material to the issue under consideration.

The Chairperson, or presiding Athletic Advisory Council member, shall arrange to have the hearing
proceedings documented and made available upon request to the parties involved in the hearing.

The Chairperson shall issue the Athletic Advisory Council?s written recommendations to the Office of
Sports Administration. The Of?ce of Sports Administration may choose to amend its original ruling based
on the recommendation of the Athletic Advisory Council or provide the original ruling with the council's
recommendation to the Chief Executive. Officer or their designee within 24-hours of the appeal hearing.
No later than two school days after receiving the recommendation, the Chief Executive Officer or their
designee shall issue a ?nal decision on the appeal, and notify the parties to the appeal of the decision,
and also provide the parties with a written copy of the determination.

ARTICLE RETURN OF ATHLETIC EQUIPMENT:

 

Section 1 - Return of Athletic Equipment
At the request of school of?cials, student-athletes must return ali athletic equipment in their possession

that is school property or they must compensate or replace the equipment with equipment of
commensurate kind and quality if lost, stolen or damaged.

Section 2 - Failure to Return Athletic Equipment

Failure to comply with Article Section 1 shall result' In a student being barred from interscholastic
sports and in a withholding of athletic honors until compliance' is met.

- INDIVIDUAL ATHLETIC AWARDS:

Section 1 - Determination of Individual Athletics Awards

Each school shall determine appropriate types of school athletics awards.

Each school shall determine the standards on which school athletics awards are based.

Individual awards may be given to Chicago Public League and Elementary School Sports Program
championship teams as determined by the Of?ce of Sports Administration.

ARTICLE CANCELLATIONS AND 0F CONTESTS:

Section 1 - Inclement Weather Cancellations

Cancellation decisions based on inclement weather should be made two hours before the scheduled start
time of a contest between all involved parties in conjunction with the Of?ce of Sports Administration.
Contests that are cancelled in this manner do not result in a forfeiture.

Section 2 - Failure to Arrive for Scheduled Contests

A school that does not arrive for a league or non-league contest is subject to forfeit that game or contest
and can be liable for all expenses incurred in providing for that contest, if notice of intention not to

participate was not given in time to cancel arrangements, The Of?ce of Sports Administration will make
the ?nal determination of the status of forfeitures and expense liability.

119

October 26, 2016

Section 3 Forfeitures

A school forfeiting two or more league contests in any sport may stand suspended for the succeeding
season in that sport. The Of?ce of Sports Administration will notify the school of the impending
suspension with by letter to the principal. Upon completing the suspension period, the school must apply
for readmission to the Elementary Sports Program or the Chicago Public League. Teams forfeiting IHSA
tournament contests will be ?ned by the reimburse the host for non-cancelable costs and
expenses and may also be subject to additional sanctions at the discretion of the Office of Sports
Administration. The suspension?may be contested in accordance with the appeal provisions contained in
Article VII Section 2.

ARTICLE XI - 0R PROTESTS:

This section shall govern all protests by andlor between schools regarding an irregularity or infraction
occurring during a particular game or contest.

Section 1 - Protests

A protest is a report referred to the Of?ce of Sports Administration regarding some irregularity or infraction
occurring during a particular contest. 

Section 2 - Protest Procedures

This procedure should be used in situations that arise during regular season or post-season play. If the
protest involves a clear violation of Chicago Public Schools Athletics Bylaws or IHSA rules and
regulations and supporting evidence exists, the principal or another of?cial representative of the

protesting school may contact the Office of Sports Administration to determine if the protest procedure 
steps need to be followed.

The steps of the protest procedures are as follows:

1. Disagreements shall be taken up ?rst by the school representatives, including administrators, of
the involved schools. A special effort must be made not to delay the regular or post-season
schedules.

2. if the schools concerned are unable to reach an agreement by 12:00 pm. on the ?rst school day
following the game or contest under protest, the protest then must be registered by phone or in
person to the Of?ce of Sports Administration by the principal or school representative in charge of
the protesting school.

3. A school representative of theprotesting school will follow up Step 2 with written documentation
outlining the facts of the protest. The principal or school representative of the protesting school
will hand deliver a $50.00 school check to the Of?ce of Sports Administration by 1:00 pm. of the
same day. The Of?ce of Sports Administration will investigate the matter and will reach a decision
before thefnext affected game or contest.

4. If the protest is upheld, the school ruled against will forfeit the game or contest in question. In the
case of a protest occurring during post-season. the school winning the protest will continue to
compete in the post-season.

5. if the school ruled against disagrees with the decision, the principal or school representative of
that school'may request an appeal hearing before the Athletic Advisory Council by following the
procedure in Article VII Section 2. Post-season contests will not be delayed. The appropriate
Athletics Advisory Council will make every attempt to expedite its recommendation in the event
that the ?nal decision affects post-season contest(s).

Section 3 Protest Fee

The $50.00 fee will be returned to the protesting school if the protest is won. If the protest is denied, the
check is deposited in the Of?ce of Sports Administration's general fund.

Section 4 Protests Involving Eligibility

Protests involving eligibility may be made at any time.

Section 5 - Investigation Expense

The expense of the investigation shall be borne by the Office of Sports Administration.
ARTICLE Xli - SPECIAL RULINGS:

Notwithstanding anything in the Bylaws to the contrary, the following special rules shall apply.
Section 1 Athletic Tournaments Organized by Schools -

A. Any athletic tournament organized by a school must be authorized by the school principal. The

sponsoring principal or of?cial representative should notify the Office of Sports Administration of
the tournament.

120?

October 26, 2016

B. The individual school responsible for the athletic tournament may appoint a faculty'member other
than the coach to take charge of all arrangements.

C. The tournament shall be composed entirely of schools who are members of the or an
equivalent association from their home state.

D. All and Chicago Public Schools Athletics rules and regulations shall govern eligibility and
play. For all games and contests between Chicago Public League schools, the exchange of
of?cial computer-generated eligibility sheets is required.

E. Principals are responsible for following Board rules and policy and CPS guidance regarding
school facilities when organizing non-league athletic events. -

F. Pn'ncipals are responsible for following Board policy and CPS guidance regarding ?nancial
accounting and reporting for non-league athletic events.

I G. Broadcasting or sponsorship or acceptance of funds from outside agencies must be in
accordance with Illinois High School Association regulations and must also be authorized in
accordance with Board rules and policies.

Section 2? Football

A. No contests or scrimmages with other schools shall be permitted before the official Opening
of a season.

B. Football helmet equipment, including chin straps and face masks, must be examined every year
prior to the beginning of the season for condition issues. At a minimum, football helmets must be
reconditioned after every two seasons. The coach shall comply with all football helmet equipment
inSpection, reconditioning and documentation requirements established by the Of?ce of Sports
Administration.

C. The Of?ce of Sports Administration is responsible for determining which teams within the Chicago
Public League will be eligible to enter into the tournament.

Section 3 Track
A citywide indoor track and ?eld competition shall be held during the month of March.
Section 4? Lacrosse

Lacrosse helmet equipment must be examined every year prior to the beginning of the season for
condition issues. At a minimum, Lacrosse helmets must be reconditioned after every two seasons. The
coach shall comply with all helmet equipment inspection, reconditioning and documentation requirements
established by the Of?ce of Sports Administration.

ARTICLE PENALTY FOR ING BYLAWS AND RULES:

Any violation of the Chicago Public Schools Athletics Constitution and Bylaws or of any Board rule or
policy by schools, administrators, coaches or students shall be reported to the Of?ce of Sports
Administration. The Of?ce of Sports AdminiStration shall conduct or initiate an investigation into all
alleged violations of the Chicago Public Athletics Constitution and Bylaws or Board rules or policies and
make appropriate ?ndings pursuant to the procedures-set forth in Article VII Section 1 of these Bylaws.
The ?ndings may include sanctions or penalties on schools, administrators, coaches or students of
offending schools. Penalties may include written warnings, ?nes, suspensions, removal from duty,
termination or a temporary or permanent ban from coaching depending on the severity and history of
violations. Appeals of penalties may be taken in accordance with Article VII Section 2.

No action taken pursuant to these Bylaws shall preclude or in any way limit the authority of the Board, the
Chief Executive Of?cer or a principal. from imposingadditional discipline pursuant to the Employee

Discipline and Due Process Policy or other applicable Board rules or policies which penalties may include
a lifetime ban from coaching.

ARTICLE XIV - CHARTER SCHOOL PARTICIPATION AND COMPLIANCE:

Charter schools that elect to participate in Chicago Public Schools Athletics do so under the condition that
the school abides by and complies with the Chicago Public Schools Athletics Constitution and Bylaws.
This policy is intended to establish uniform eligibility requirements for participation in the Chicago Public
League and to establish unifonn standards of conduct for school administrators, students and coaches. It
shall not be interpreted to require a charter school to adopt any Board policies it has not othenivise
adopted. Nothing herein shall be construed to limit or prohibit the imposition of penalties or sanctions
authorized under these Bylaws, such as ?nes, suspension from contests or temporary or permanent ban,
against a charter school and their coaches and students for violation of the Bylaws and rules.

President Clark indicated that if there are no objections, Board Reports 16-1026-RS1

through 16-1026-RS4, and 16-1026-PO1 would be adopted by the last favorable roll call vote, all
members voting therefore.

121

October 26, 2016

President Clark thereupon declared Board Reports 16-1026-RS1 through 16-1026-RS4, and
16-1026-P01 adopted.

16-1026-001

COMMUNICATION RE: LOCATION OF
BOARD MEETING OF DECEMBER 7, 2016

Frank M. Clark President, and
Members of the Board of Education
Mark F. Furlong
Rev. Michael J. Garanzini, S.J.
Jaime Guzman
Dr. Mahalia A. Hines
Dominique Jordan Turner
Gail D. Ward

This is to advise that the Regular Meetings of the Board Of Education scheduled for Wednesday,
November 16, 2016 and December 21, 2016 will be consoiidated and Rescheduled to Wednesdayl
December 7, 2016 and will be held at:

CPS Loop Of?ce
42 W. Madison Street, Garden Level, Board 
Chicago, 60602

The Board Meeting will begin at'10130 a.m.
Public Participation Guidelines are available on or by calling (773) 553-1600.

For the December 7; 2016 Board Meeting, advance registration to speak and observe will be available
beginning Monday, December 5th at 10:30 am. and will close on Tuesday, December 6th at 5:00 pm. or until all
slots are ?lled. You can advance register during the registration period by the foilowing methods:

Online: (recommended)
Phone: (773) 553-1600
In Person: 1 North Dearborn, Suite 950

The Public Participation segment of the meeting will begin as indicated in the meeting agenda and
proceed for' no more than 60 registered speakers for the two hours. 

16-1026-C02

COMMUNICATION RE: REAPPOINTMENT 0F TRUSTEE
TO SERVE ON THE PUBLIC SCHOOL PENSION
AND RETIREMENT FUND OF CHICAGO
(GAIL D. WARD)

TO THE MEMBERS OF THE BOARD OF EDUCATION
OF THE CITY OF CHICAGO:

have reappointed Gail D. Ward to serve as a Trustee on the Public School
Tea?chers' Pension and Retirement Fund of Chicago. Ms. Ward?s reappointment term will
commence November 2016 and will expire November 2018.

Respectfully submitted,

Frank M. Clark
President

122

October 26, 2016



TRANSFER OF FUNDS
Various Units and Objects

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER RECOMMENDS THE FOLLOWING:

The various transfers of funds were requested by the Central Of?ce Departments during the month of September.
All transfers are budget neutral. A brief explanation of each transfer is provided below:

1. ransfer from Earl Coile eand Career~Ci Wide to Dish [1 a net School

20170011300
Rationale: For purchase of software for CTE Computer Programming program
Transfer From: Transfer To:
1372? Early College and Career- City Wrde 26921 Disney ll Magnet Sd'rool
369 Triie I - School Improvement Carl Perkins 360 Title I - School Improvement Cari Perkins
53405 Commodities - Supp?es 53307 Commodities: Software Licenses (Instructional)
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous 140006 Cte - Hospitality
322021 Career 6. Technical Educ. Improvement Grant (Cten 322021 Career 5. Teci'rniml Educ. improvement Grant (Cte?)

Amount: $1.000

 

 

2.
201 7001 1489
Rationaie: TJansferfunds to process approved purchase order request for Private Schools Title programs
Transfer From: Transfer To: 7
12625 Grant Funded Programs Of?ce City Wrde 70140 Independent Schoois Of Chicago
353 Title II - Teacher Quality 353 Trtie II - Teacher Quaiity
5915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects 54205 Travel Expense
28958 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Cathoilc) 228950 Federal - Nonpublic inst (Independent)
494-059 Titie lia - Ardtdiocese Of Chgo.- Suppl. Servo. 494060 True lia Other Private Supplementary Serve
Amount: $1.000
3.
201 70011500
Rationale: PD host
Transfer From: Transfer To:
10871 Science. Technology. Engineering. and Math (STEM) 46611 Sarah Goode High School
programs
115 Genera! Education Fund 115 General Eduration Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects 57940 Miscellaneous Charges
241016 Instructional Administration 241016 Instructional Administration
008011 Stem Programs 006011 Stem Programs
Amount: $1,000

4. Transfegfrom Early College and Career - Cit! Wlde to Earm Cotige and Career- cry Wide

201 70013095
Rationale: Transfer funds for auto reimbursement.
Transfer From: Transfer To:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide 13727 Earty College and Career - City Wide
124 Sd'rooi Special Income Fund 124 School Special Income Fund
534-05 Commodities - Supplies 54220 Auto Reimbursement
140060 Police And Fire Training - Voc 140060 Poiice And Fire Training - Voc
000369 Cte Programs 000389 Cte Programs

Amount $1,000

5. Transfer from Early Cgliege and Career - Gig Wide to Early College and Career - cry Wide

20170014290
Rationale: Transfer to open CPFTA budret
Transfer Fmrn: Transfer To:
13727 Early College and Career - City IMde 13727 Earty College and Career - City Wide
124 School Special Income Fund 124 School Special Income Fund
53405 Commoditia - Supplies 51320 Bucket Position Pointer
14-0060 Police And Fire Training Voc 290001 General Salary 5 Bid
000389 Cte Programs 000309 Cte Programs

Amount: 51.000

123

2773.

2774.

2775.

October 26, 2016

a t' I ooltc Educa ion Gene -Cl do
20170014722
Rationale: Transfer needed to clean conversion issue.
Transfer From: Transfer To:
24671 Florence Nightingale School 12670 Eduation General- City Wide
362 Early Childhood Development 362 Eariy Childhood Development
52800 Career Service Salaries - Adjustments 57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projegis
112501 Teacher Assistant Credentials 600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
510224 Headstart?Child Development 410008 Contingency For Project Expan
Amount: $1.000
nsfer rorn James Ids Elements on to ducaticn Ge - Cl Wi 
20170014723
Rationale: Transfer needed to clean conversion issue.
Transfer From: Transfer To:
25361 James Shields Elementary School 12670 Edumtion General - City Wide
362 Early Childhood Development 362 Early Childhood Development
52800 Career Senrice Salaries - Adjustments 57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
112501 Teacher Assistant Credentials 600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
510224 Headstart-Chiid Development 410008 Contingency For Projed Expan
Amount: $1,000
la 5 on -
20170014740
Rationale: Transfer needed to clean conversion issue.
Transfer From: Transfer To:
2411 Edmund Burke Elementary School 12670 Education General - City Wide
362 Early Childhood Development 362 Early Childhood Development
52600 Career Service Salaries - Adjustments 57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
112501 Teadrer Assistant Credentials 600002 Contingency For Protect Expansion
510224 Headstart?Child Development 410003 Contingency For Project Expan
Amount: $1,000
fr erations - Ci Wide to John
201 70012793
Rationale: Funds Transfer From Award# 2017-485-00-01 To Projechit Change Reason NA
Transfer From: Transfer To:
12150 CapitaliOperations - City Wide 23001 John Dore School
485 CIT Project 485 CW Project
56310 Capitalized Construction 56310 Capitalized Construction
253544 Child Award 009441 New School Openings
000000 Default Value 000000 Default Value

Amount: $1 ?81,044

 

201 70014599
Rationale: Transfer to mntingency line. from which funds will be distributed based on approved grant applimtion.
Transfer From: Transfer To:
10575 Citywide Student Support and Engagement 10675 Citywide Student Support and Engagement
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State 8: Loml Grants 324 Miscellaneous Federal. State a Local Grants
54125 Services - ProfessionalIAdministrative 57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
119035 other instruction Purposes Miscellaneous 119035 Other Purposes Miscellaneous
442157 21 st Century Community Learning Centers 442157 21 st Century Community Learning Centers

Amount: 52.140.056

ttalIO rations - ct WI South Loo cho 1
20170012803
Rationale: Funds Transfer From Award# 2017-436?00-01 To Project# 2017-23751-NSC Change Reason NA
Transfer From: Transfer To: .
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide 23751 South Loop School
436 Miscellaneous Capital Fund 436 Miscellaneous Capital Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction 56310 Capitalized Construction
253544 Child Award 009441 New Sdaool Openings
000000 Default Value 000000 Default Value

Amount: $2,329,226

124

October 26, 2016

2776. ce - Ci cc of Catholic hoo 
201 70014253
Rationale: Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Private Schools IDEA programs
Transfer From: - Transfer To:
12625 Grant Funded Programs O?ioe - City Wide 69510 Of?ce of Catholic Schools
220 Federal Special Education IDEA Programs 220 Federal Special Education IDEA Programs
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects 54125 Services - ProfessionallAdministrative
370004 Nonpublic instructional a. Support Services 228958 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
462066 Lea Flowthni - Nonpublic 462068 Lea Fiowthru Instruction - Nonpublic
Amount: $2,737,268
2777. Childhoo Develo merit - Wide 1 cation Ge eral - Cl Wide
20170014675 
Rationale: Transfer needed to clean conversion issue.
Transfer From: Transfer To:
11355 Early Childhood Development - City Wide 12670 Edu-tion General City Wide

362 Early Childhood Development
51300 Regular Position Pointer
290001 General Salary 5 Bid
510224 Headstart?Child Development

Amount $2,813,765

362 Earty Childhood Development
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion

410003 Contingency For Project Expan

*[Note: The complete document will be on File in the Office of the Board]



APPROVE ENTERING INTO AN INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT WITH
THE CHICAGO PARK DISTRICT IN SUPPORT OF THE ELEMENTARY SCHOOL SPORTS
PROGRAM

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Approve entering into an lntergovemmental Agreement with the Chicago Park District ("Park District?) to
screen, hire, train and supervise Park District staff that will act as coaches and of?cials in support of the
Chicago Public Schools' Elementary School Sports Program at an annual estimated cost set forth in the
compensation section of this report. A written agreement is currently being negotiated. No services shall
be provided by and no payment shall be made to the Park District prior to execution of the agreement.
The authority granted herein shall automatically rescind in the event a written agreement is not executed
within 120 days of the date of this Board Report. Information pertinent to this agreement is stated below.
AGENCY: Chicago Park District

541 North Fairbanks Court

Chicago, Illinois 60611

Alonzo Williams, Chief Program Officer
312-742-5091

USER: Sports Administration

2651 Washington 
Gar?eld Park Of?ces

Chicago, Illinois 60612

Randy Emst, Executive Director
773-534-0700

DESCRIPTION: The Board of Education for the City of Chicago (?Board?) and the Park District desire to
work together to develop and implement the CPS Elementary School Sports Program for 5lh through 8?h
grade students in Chicago Public Schools (the "Program"). The intergovernmental Agreement will provide
for cooperation between the agencies to ensure the success of the Program and to maximize the scope
and quality of student involvement in interscholastic sports.

TERM: The term of the agreement shall commence upon its execution and have an initial term of three
years, with the parties having two (2) automatically renewing option periods of one (1) year each. The
Board and the Park District can terminate the agreement prior to the end of its term by giving proper
notice.

COMPENSATION: The Park District shall be paid as set forth in the agreement. The estimated annual
costs are $2,000,000. The total amount authorized by this Board Report is $6,000,000.

It is the Board's expectation that grants, fundraising and third-party donations will substantialty offset the
costs associated with this Board Report.

RESPONSIBILITIES OF PARTIES: The Board will develop, implement and raise the resources
necessary to fund the Program. The Park District will provide qualified coaches and of?cials to the
Program and provide supplemental facilities for the use of the Board. Both agencies will provide the
managerial and administrative resources necessary to support the Program.

125

October 26, 2016

AUTHORIZATION: Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant terms and conditions in the
written agreement, including terms requiring the Board to indemnify the Park District. Authorize the
President and Secretary to execute the agreement. Authorize the Chief Financial Officer to execute ali
ancillary documents required to administer or effectuate this agreement.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION: Pursuant to Section 5.2 of the Remedial Program for Minority and Women
Owned Business Enterprise Participation in Goods and Services Contracts, provisions of the
Program do not apply to transactions where the vendor providing services operates as a Not-for-Pro?t
organization. 

LSC REVIEW: Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL: Charge to Sports Administration
Amount: Up to $3,500,000 per Fiscal Year for duration of agreement.
Budget Classi?cation: To Be Determined by the Chief Financial Of?cer
Source of Funds: Operating

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

inspector General Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 
5134-131, the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shalI have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations.

Conflicts The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 ILCS SIM-21.3 which restricts the employment of, or the Ietting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of
office.

Indebtedness The Board?s Indebtedness Policy .adopted June 26, 1996 (96-0626-P03), as amended
from time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics The Board?s Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 (11-0525-P02), as amended from time to time,
shatl be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement. 

Contingent Liability The agreement shalt contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current
?scal year is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in the subsequent ?scal year
budget(s).

16-1026-OP1

AMEND BOARD REPORT 
TRANSFER OF VARIOUS PROPERTIES TO
THE CITY OF CHICAGO AND THE CHICAGO PARK DISTRICT

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

That the Board request the City of Chicago, in Trust for Use of Schools andlor the Public Building
Commission as necessary, convEy to the City of Chicago (?the City?) and the Chicago Park
District (?Parks") various properties as further described herein (?Properties?). Information pertinent to the
transfers is stated below.

This October 2016 amendment corrects legal descriptions and inciudes release language to be included
in the deeds for the Properties numbered 1 through 6 on Exhibit A attached hereto.

 

TRANSFEREES:

City of Chicago

Department of Housing Economic Deveiopment

121 North LaSalle Street, Room 1003

Chicago, Illinois 60602

Contact: Robert McKenna, Assistant Commissioner Karen Bielarz, Senior Counsel
Phone: (312) 744-5892 I (312) 744-6910

Chicago Park District

541 North Fairbanks Court

Chicago, Illinois 60611

Contact: Michael Kelly, CEO 8: Superintendent
Phone: (312) 742-4300

PROPERTY INFORMATION, LEGAL DESCRIPTIONS PINS: See the attached Exhibit A. (Amended)

126

October 26, 2016

RECOMMENDATION: The Properties are not needed for school use and will be repurposed by the City
and Parks. The Properties to be transferred are described in Exhibit A. The Properties described on lines
?transferred to Parks; the remaining Properties are to be transferred to the
City. The transfer of property from CPS to other governmental agencies is pursuant to the Local
Government Property Transfer Act (50 ILCS 60510.01, et. seq.). All of the Properties on Exhibit A are to
be conveyed in condition. The deeds for Properties numbered 1 through 6 on Exhibit
A shall provide that the Board is to be released and discharged from any and all future responsibility or
liabilig with respect to the Propertv?s thsic_a_l_a_nd environmental condition.

AUTHORIZATION: Authorize the City of Chicago, in Trust for Use of Schools and/or the PBC, as
necessary, to issue deeds in favor of the City and Parks. Authorize the General Counsel to take any and
ail actions required to effectuate these transactions. Authorize the General Counsel and Chief Operating
Of?cer to execute any and all ancillary documents required to administer or effectuate these transactions.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION: Exempt.
LSC REVIEW: Local School Council approval is not applicable to these transactions.

FINANCIAL: None.

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General Each party to the agreement snail acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 ILCS
5134-131, the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the inspector General shall have access to ail information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations.

Con?icts The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 ILCS 5134-213 which restricts the employment of or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of
of?ce.

Indebtedness The Board?s Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26 1996 (96-0626- P03) as amended
from time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics? The Board? 5 Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 as amended from time to time
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability - The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current
?scal year is deemed a contingent iiability, subject to appropriation in the subsequent ?scal year
budget(s).

THIS SPACE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK

127

128

EXHIBIT A

PROPERTIES

The Board reserves the right to make changes as necessary to clarify or correct property information. -

 

Farmer Facility
Name or?
Property Type

PINS

LegaI Description

 

Former Attacks

17-33-421-047,


PARCEL 1: A
LOTS 1 To 43, IN BLOCK 6 SCAMMONS SUBDIVISION 0F BLOCK 32 OF THAT PART LYING EAST OF AND
ROCK ISLAND AND PACIFIC RAILROAD OF BLOCK 31 IN SUBDIVISION OF SECTION 33, TOWNSHIP
39 NORTH, RANGE 14, EAST OFTHE THIRD PRINCIPAL MERIDIAN, IN COOK COUNTY, ILLINOIS AND VACATED ALLEY
AND PART OF VAC-ITED WEST 38?? STREET.

PARCEL 2: A
VACATED NORTH AND SOUTH 16 FOOT ALLEY LYING WEST AND ADJOINING WEST LINE OF LOTS 1 TO 24 AND
LYING EAST AND ADJOINING EAST LINE OF LOTS 25 T0 43 IN BLOCK 6 AFORESAID. 

PARCEL 3: 
THE SOUTH 33 FEET OF VACATED 38TH STREET NORTH AND ADJOINING PARCEIS 1 AND 2 IN COOK COUNTY,
ILLINOIS.

 

Former Davis
Developmental

25-01-400-055,
254014004364

LOTS 38 TO 48, INCLUSIVE, IN BLOCK 8 IN SOUTH EAST GROSS CALUMET HEIGHTS ADDITION TO SOUTH CHICAGO,
A SUBDIVISION OF THE SOUTH EAST QUARTER OF SECTION 1, TOWNSHIP 37 NORTH, RANGE 14, EAST OF THE
THIRD PRINCIPAL MERIDIAN, IN COOK COUNTY, ILLINOIS.

 

 

 

Former Powell
(currently occupied
by Camelot-Excel
Academy)

 

 

7530 5 South Shore Dr

nan-201-020,
21-30?201?028,
21-30-201-029,
21-30201?030,
21-30201?031,
21-3ozo1-032,
21-30201-033.
21?3ozo1-034,
21-30201-035,
21?3o201-036,
21?30-201?048,
21-30201?049

 

LOTS 60, 61, 64 AND 65 IN DIVISION 3 IN THE SOUTH SHORE SUBDIVISION OF THE NORTH FRACTIONAE HALF
SECTION OF SECTION 30, TOWNHSIP 38 NORTH, RANGE 15, EAST OF THE THIRD PRINCIPAL MERIDIAN, TOGETHER
WITH A RESUBDIVISION OF LOTS 1, 2, 4, 64, 66, 125, 127 AND 128 IN DIVISION 1 OF SUBDIVISION OF
208 ACRES BEING THE EAST HALF OF THE SOUTH WEST QUARTER AND THE SOUTH EAST FRACTIONAL QUARTER
OF SECTION 30, TOWNSHIP 38 NORTH, RANGE 15, EAST OF THE THIRD PRINCIPAL ALL IN COOK
COUNTY, ALSO,

THE SOUTH HALF OF 65 (EXCEPT THE EAST 80 FEET OF THE SOUTH 25 FEET OF SAID LOT 65) IN DIVISION 1 OF
SUBDIVISION OF 208 ACRES BEING THE EAST HALF OF THE SOUTH WEST QUARTER AND THE
SOUTHEAST FRACTIONAL QUARTER OF SECTION 30, TOWNSHIP 38 NORTH, RANGE 15, EAST OF THE THIRD
PRINCIPAL ALL IN COOK COUNTY, ILLINOIS.

 

 

October 26, 2016

129

EXHIBIT A

PROPERTIES

The Beard reserves the right to make changes as necessary to clarity or correct property information.

 

Former 
Name or
Property Type

Address

Legal DescrIption

 

Former Von
Humboldt CPC
{annex}

1345 Rockwelt St

 

15-01-218-003-0000,
16?01-218-004?0000,

16-01-218-006-0000,
16-01-218-007-0000,
16-01-218-008-0000


LOTS 49 T0 46 IN BLOCK 4 IN WINSLOW AND JACOBSON SUBDIVISION OF THE SOUTHEAST QUARTER OF THE
NORTHEAST QUARTER OF SECTION 1, TOWNSHIP 39 NORTH, RANGE 13, EAST OF THE THIRD PRINCIPAL
MERIDIAN, IN COOK COUNTY, ILLINOIS. I 

 

116th 81 Oakley

549-3090010000

LOTS 1 THROUGH 30 IN RESUBDIVISION or BLOCKS A, AND IN RESUBDIVISION 0F BLOCKS AND LOTS 1 TO 10 INCLUSIVE, AND LOTS 17 To 24, INCLUSIVE, IN BLOCKS 
LOTS 1 TO 17, INCLUSIVE AND 24 To 32, INCLUSIVE, IN BLOCK 11, ALL IN MORGAN PARK WASHINGTON HEIGHTS,
BEING A SUBDIVISION OF PART OF THE SOUTHWEST 1/4 OF SECTION 18, TOWNSHIP 37 NORTH, RANGE 14 WEST
OF PROSPECT AVENUE, EAST OF THE THIRD PRINCIPAL ERIDIAN, IN COOK COUNTY, ILLINOIS.

 

 

 

Vacant Land

Vacant Land

 

92Lst Vanderpoel

 

25-05405-0270000,
25-06405-0130000,
25-05405-0140000

 

PARCEL 1: .

LOTS 1 TO 14, BOTH INCLUSIVE, IN BLOCK 1 IN BEVERLY HIUS SUBDIVISION OF BLOCKS 22HILLIARD B: DOBBINS AND BLOCKS 1 TO 5 OF A. SUBDIVISION 0F BLOCKS 10, 11 AND 12 OF SAID
HILLIARD 8: DOBBINS SUBDIVISION IN SECTION 6, TOWNSHIP 37 NORTH, RANGE 14, EAST OF THE THIRD
PRINCIPAL MERIDIAN, LYING WEST OF THE PITTSBURGH, CINCINNATI AND ST. LOUIS RAILROAD (EXCEPT THE
WEST 1/2 OF THE NORTHWEST 1/4 AND THE WEST 1/2 OF THE SOUTHWEST U4 OF SAID SECTION 6), IN COOK
COUNTY, ILLINOIS.

 

 

 

October 26, 2016

130

EXHIBIT A

PROPERTIES

The Board reserves the right to make changes as necessary to clarify or correct property information.

 

Former Facility
Name or

Property Type Address

PINS

Legal Description

 

Vacant Land 12423 Eggleston Ave

25-28~315m4-0000

LOT 4 IN BLOCK 1 IN HURD AND ANDREWS SUBDIVISION OF LOTS 5 AND 6 OF ANDREWS SUBDIVISION OF THE
EAST 1/2 OF THE SOUTHWEST 1/4 AND THE SOUTHEAST FRACTIONAL 1/4 NORTH OF INDIAN BOUNDARY LINE OF
SECTION 28, TOWNSHIP 37 NORTH, RANGE 14, EAST OF THE THIRD PRINCIPAL MERIDIAN, (EXCEFTTHE NORTH 33
FEET OF SAID LOT 5) IN COOK COUNTY, ILLINOIS (COMMONLY KNOWN AS 12423 SOUTH EGGLESTON AVENUE,
PERMANENT INDEX NO. 

 

Vacant land 12333 Parnell Ave

25-28-305?019-0000

LOT 19 IN BLOCK 3- IN HARVEY E. ADDITION TO WEST PULLMAN SUBDIVISION OF LOTS 4 ANDS IN
SUBDIVISION OF THE EAST 1/2 OF THE 1/4 OF THE SOUTHEAST FRACTIONAL 1/4 OF
SECTION 28, TOWNSHIP 37 NORTH, RANGE 14, EAST OF THE THIRD PRINCIPAL MERIDIAN, IN COOK COUNTY,
ILLINOIS (COMMONLY KNOWN AS 1835 SOUTH PARNELL AVENUE, PERMANENTTAX NO. 

 

Vacant Land 12326 Parnell Ave

25-28-304030?0000

LOT 41 IN BLOCK 4 IN HARVEY B. ADDTTION TO WEST PULLMAN, BEING A SUBDIVISION OF LOTS 4 AND 5
IN SUBDIVISION OF THE EAST 1/2 OF THE SOUTHWEST 114 AND OF THE SOUTHEAST FRACHONAL
1/4 OF SECTION 28, TOWNSHIP 37 NORTH, RANGE 14, EAST OF THE THIRD PRINCIPAL MERIDIAN, NORTH OF THE
INDIAN BOUNDARY LINE, AS PER PLAT RECORDED JANUARY 26, 1895 IN BOOK 61 OF FLATS, PAGE 42 AS
DOCUMENT #2166510, IN COOK COUNTY, ILLINOIS (COMMONLY KNOWN AS 11326 SOUTH PARNELL AVENUE,
PERMANENTTAX N0. 25-28-304030].

 

10

Vacant Land 6523 5 Langley Ave

20?22?222n009?0000.

20?22?222?010-0000

LOTS 40 AND 41 IN BLOCK 7 IN OAKWOOD SUBDIVISION OF THE NORTH HALF OF THE SOUTH HALF OF THE
NORTHEAST QUARTER OF SECTION 22, TOWNSHIP 38 NORTH, RANGE 14, EAST OF THE THIRD PRINCIPAL
COOK COUNTY, ILLINOIS.

 

11

Vacant Land 25 113th Pl

25-21?223-034?0000

THE EAST 1/2 OF LOT 44, LOTS 45 TO 50, AND LOT 51 THE EAST 10 FEET) IN THE RESUBDIVISION OF
BLOCK 6 IN THE FIRST ADDITION TO PULLMAN, A SUBDIVISION OF THE EAST 775.5 FEET OF THE EAST 1/2 OF THE
NORTHEAST 1/4 OF SECTION 21, TOWNSHIP 37 NORTH, RANGE 14 EAST OF 11-IE THIRD PRINCIPAL MERIDIAN,
(EXCEPT THAT PART SHOWN AS OCCUPIED BY THE CHICAGO AND WISCONSIN ILLINOIS RAILROAD), IN COOK
COUNTY, ILLINOIS.

 

 

12

 

Vamnt land 7034 5 Princeton Ave

 

 

20-21-420-031?0000

 

LOT 1 IN SUBDIVISION OF LOTS 1 AND 2 THE SOUTH 33 FEET THEREOF) IN IN
NORMAL SCHOOL SUBDIVISION OF THE WEST HALF OF THE SOUTH EAST QUARTER OF SECTION 21, TOWNSHIP 38
NORTH, RANGE 14, EAST OF THE THIRD PRINCIPAL MERIDIAN, IN COOK COUNTY, ILLINOIS.

 

 

October 26, 2016

October 26, 2016

16-1026-OP2

AMEND BOARD REPORT 15-0527-OP3
APPROVE RENEWAL LEASE AGREEMENT WITH
EPIC ACADEMY CHARTER HIGH SCHOOL
FOR THE SOUTH CHICAGO SCHOOL BUILDING AT 8255 SOUTH HOUSTON AVENUE

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Approve entering into a renewal lease agreement with Epic Academy Inc., for the South Chicago School
building located at 8255 South Houston Avenue in Chicago, Illinois for use as a charter school. A written
lease agreement is currently being negotiated. The authority granted herein shall automatically rescind in
the event a written lease agreement is not executed within 90 days of the date of this amended Board
Report. -

This October 2016 amendment is necessary to correct the number of years for the renewal term from 5
years to 3 years to coincide with the term of the charter.

TENANT: Epic Academy Inc.
8255 South Houston Avenue
Chicago, 60617
Contact: Joshua Milberg, Board President
Phone: 773-535-7930

LANDLORD: Board of Education of the City of Chicago

PREMISES: Tenant shall be the sole occupant of the former South Chicago School building, located at
8255 South Houston Avenue, as set forth in the lease agreement. Tenant?s current Charter School
Agreement was authorized by the Boardon May 27, 2015. 

USE: Tenant shall use the Premises to operate a charter school and related educational and community
programs and for no other purpose.

ORIGINAL TERM: The original lease term, authorized by Board Report 10-0224-OP2, commenced on
July 1, 2010, and ends June 30, 2015. lf Tenant?s Charter School Agreement is terminated, the lease
shall also terminate.

RENEWAL TERM: The term of the lease renewal shall be g5 years, commencing on July 1, 2015, and
ending on June 30, 2018. If Tenant?s Charter School Agreement is terminated, the lease shall also
terminate.

RENT: One dollar per year.

OPERATING AND UTILITIES EXPENSES: Tenant shall procure all operating services from Landlord,
unless othenlvise permitted by Landlord. Tenant shall reimburse Landlord for operating services provided
by Landlord at Landlord's then current-rates and costs and in accordance with Landlord?s then-current
procedures. The charterwill be assessed to reflect this option.

AUTHORIZATION: Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant terms and conditions in the
written lease agreement. Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the lease agreement.
Authorize the Chief Operating Of?cer to execute any and all ancillary documents related to the lease
agreement.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION: Exempt.
LSC REVIEW: Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL: Rent payable to the General Fund.

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 
5134-131 the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the InSpector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations.

Conflicts The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 5134?213 which restricts the employment of or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of
of?ce.

131

October 26, 2016

Indebtedness The Board's Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 1996 (96-0626-P03), as amended
from time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement

Ethics? The Board?s Ethics Code adopted May 25 2011 (11- -0525- -P02), as amended from time to time
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current
?scal year is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in the subsequent ?scal year
budgetls)

16-1026-OP3

AMEND BOARD REPORT 
APPROVE RENEWAL LEASE AGREEMENT WITH
URBAN PREP ACADEMIES INC.
FOR THE MEDILL SCHOOL BUILDING, 1326 WEST 14*" PLACE

THE INTER-WI CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Approve entering into a renewal lease agreement with Urban Prep Academies for the Medili School
building located at 1326 West 14th Place for its Urban Prep Academy for Young Men Charter School 
West Campus. A written lease agreement is currently being negotiated. The authority granted herein
shall automatically rescind in the event a written lease agreement is not executed within 90 days of the
date of this amended Board Report.

This October 2016 amendment is necess_arv to corTect the number of vears for the renewal term from 5
years to 3 years to coincide with the term of the charter.

TENANT: Urban Prep Academies Inc.
420 North Wabash Avenue
Chicago, Illinois 60611
Contact: Tim King, Founder and Chief Executive Of?cer
Phone: 312-276-0259

LANDLORD: Board of Education of the City of Chicago

PREMISES: Tenant shall use the former Medill Schdol main building, located at 1326 West 14th Street,
as set forth in the lease agreement. Tenant shall be the sole occupant of the former Medill School main
building but shall share the school campus with Chicago Technology Academy High School, which
occupies the annex building, located at 1301 West 14?h Street. Tenant?s current Charter School
Agreement was 'authon'zed by the Board on May 27, 2015.

USE: Tenant shall use the Premises to operate a charter school and related educational and community
programs and for no other purpose.

ORIGINAL TERM: The term of the lease, authorized by Board Report 12-0328-OP2 commenced on
August 24, 2011, and ends on June 30, 2015. If Tenant?s Charter School Agreement is terminated, the
lease shall also terminate.

RENEWAL TERM: The term of the lease renewal shall be 5 years, commencing on July 1, 2015, and
ending on June 30, 2018. if Tenant?s Charter School Agreement is terminated, the lease shall also
terminate.

RENT: One dollar per year.

OPERATING AND UTILITIES EXPENSES: Tenant shall procure all operating services from Landlord,
unless otherwise permitted by Landlord. Tenant shall reimburse Landlord for operating services provided
by Landlord at Landlord's then-current rates and costs and in accordance with Landlord?s then-current
procedures. The charter will be assessed to re?ect this option.

AUTHORIZATION: Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant terms and conditions in the
written lease agreement. Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the lease agreement.
Authorize the Chief Operating Of?cer to execute any and all ancillary documents related to the lease
agreement.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION: Exempt.

LSC REVIEW: Locai School Council approval is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL: Rent payable to the General Fund.

132

October 26, 2016

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 ILCS
51344 3.1, the Inspector General or the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shalt have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations.

Con?icts The agreement shall 'not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the .
provisions of 105 ILCS which restricts the employment of or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of
of?ce.

Indebtedness The Board's Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 1996 (96-0626-PO3), as amended
from time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 as amended from time to time,
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current
?scal year is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in the subsequent ?scal year
budget(s). 

16-1 026-0 P4

AMEND BOARD REPORT 
APPROVE RENEWAL LEASE AGREEMENT WITH
URBAN PREP ACADEMIES INC.
FOR THE ENGLEWOOD SCHOOL BUILDING AT 6201 SOUTH STEWART AVENUE

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Approve entering into a renewal lease agreement with Urban Prep Academies for the Englewood School
building located at 6201 South Stewart Avenue for its Urban Prep Academy for Young Men Charter
School. A written lease agreement is currently being negotiated. The authority granted herein shall
automatically rescind in the event a wntten lease agreement is not executed within 90 days of the date of
this amended Board Report.

This October 2016 amendment is necessag to correct the number of years for the renewal term from 5
years to 3 years to coincide with the term of the charter.

TENANT: Urban Prep Academies Inc.
420 North Wabash Avenue
Chicago, Illinois 60611
Contact Tim King, Founder and Chief Executive Of?cer
Phone: 312-276?0259

LANDLORD: - Board of Education of the City of Chicago

PREMISES: Tenant shall use a portion of the Englewood School building, located at 6201 South Stewart
Avenue, as set forth in the lease agreement. Tenant shall share the premises with TEAM Englewood
Community Academy High School. Tenant's current Charter School Agreement was authorized by the
Board on May 27, 2015. 

USE: Tenant shall use the Premises to operate a charter school and related educational and community
programs and for no other purpose.

ORIGINAL TERM: The term of the lease, authorized by Board Report 11-0622-OP8 commenced on July
1, 2011, and ends on June 30, 2015. If Tenant?s Charter School Agreement is terminated, the lease
shall also terminate.

RENEWAL TERM: The term of the lease renewal shall be 5 years, commencing on July 1, 2015, and
ending on June 30, 2018. If Tenant?s Charter School Agreement is terminated, the lease shall also
terminate.

RENT: One dollar per year.

OPERATING AND UTILITIES EXPENSES: Tenant shall procure all operating services from Landlord,
unless otherwise permitted by Landlord. Tenant shall reimburse Landlord for operating services provided
by Landlord at Landlord?s then-current rates and costs and in accordance with Landlord?s then-current
procedures. The charter will be assessed to re?ect this option.

AUTHORIZATION: Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant terms and conditions in the
written lease agreement. Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the lease agreement.
Authorize the Chief Operating Officer to execute any and all ancillary documents related to the lease
agreement.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION: Exempt.

133

October 26, 2016

LSC REVIEW: Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL: Rent payable to the General Fund.

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 
the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations. 

Con?icts The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 ILCS which restricts the employment of or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of
of?ce. . . .

Indebtedness The Board?s Indebtedness Policy adopted June 25, 1996 as amended
from time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics The Board?s Ethics Code adopted May'25, 2011 (11-0525-P02), as amended from time to time,
shall be incorporated into and made'a part of the agreement

Contingent Liability The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current
?scal year is deemed a contingent liability. subject to appropriation in the subsequent ?scal year
budget(s). 

16-1026-AR1

DEBARMENT ALBERT AND MID-CITY VENDING
THE CHIEF ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE REPORTS THE FOLLOWING RECOMMENDATION:

That the Board of Education of the City of Chicago (?Board") permanently debar Albert ?Al" Antonucci and
Mid-City Vending (hereinafter ?Respondents") from doing any business with the Board.

Following the Of?ce of the Inspector General?s recommendations in Report 15-00396, the Board's Chief
Procurement Of?cer served Respondents with a Notice of Proposed Debarment ("Notice") on July 22, 2016,
initiating a debarrnent proceeding against them, based upon Respondents? attempt to bribe a CPS employee
in order to get him to convince a charter school to enter into additional vending contracts with the
Respondents thereby violating sections 6, 7and 2(k) of the Board's Debarment Policy (?Policy?).
The Respondents submitted their written response pursuant to section 4.5(d) of the Policy. The Chief
Administrative Of?cer has reviewed the record (as de?ned in section 4.5(10) of the Policy), and after
consideration ?nds that that Respondents have not met their burden of identifying mitigating factors that
suggest debarrnent is inappropriate.

Based on the facts set forth in the record as de?ned in section 4.5(10) of the Policy, the CA0 recommends
that the Board adopt the ?ndings of the Inspector General and permanently debar Respondents from doing
any business with the Board effective immediately. Furthermore, all existing contracts between the Board
and Respondents are terminated. Respondents are also ineligible to act as a subcontractor or supplier to
any existing or future Board contracts.

LSC REVIEW: LSC approval is not applicable to this report.

AFFIRMATIVE
ACTION STATUS: Af?rmative Action review is not applicable to this report.
FINANCIAL: None.
GENERAL
CONDITIONS: None.
16-1026-AR2

DEBARMENT ERIC MCEWEN, UBS PROMOTIONALS, APEX GROUP OF ILLINOIS, INC., ETAJ
WEARABLES, INC., PERFORMACE AWARDS, INC. AND BAG NATION, INC.

THE CHIEF ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE REPORTS THE FOLLOWING. RECOMMENDATION:
That the Board of Education of the City of Chicago debar Eric McEwen, UBS

Promotionals, Apex Group of Illinois, Inc., ETAJ Wearables, Inc., Performance Awards, Inc. and Bag
Nation, Inc. (hereinafter "Respondents") from doing any business with the Board.

134

October 26, 2016

Following the Of?ce of the Inspector General?s recommendations in Report Board?s Chief
Procurement Of?cer served ReSpondents with a Notice of Proposed Debarment ("Notice") on July 21, 2016,
initiating a debarment proceeding against them, based upon evidence that Eric McEwen was acting as ?ve
different vendors that sell the same biddable products across various vender numbers and units so as to
avoid the unit?spending limits established by Procurement thereby violating section 2(e) of the Boards
Debarment Policy Policy The Chief Administrative Of?cer has reviewed the record (as de?ned In section
4. 5(1 0) of the Policy) and recommends debarment

Based on the facts set forth in the record as de?ned in section 4.5(10) of the Policy, the CA0 recommends
that the Board adopt the ?ndings of the Inspector General and permanently debar Respondents from doing
any business with the Board effective immediately. Furthermore, all existing contracts between the Board
and Respondents are terminated. Respondents are also ineligible to act as a subcontractor or supplier to
any existing or future Board contracts.

LSC REVIEW: LSC approval is not applicable to this report.


ACTION STATUS: Af?rrnative Action review is not applicable to this report.
FINANCIAL: None.

GENERAL

CONDITIONS: None.

16-1026-AR3

DEBARMENT OF PAWEL FLIS, VISION PAINTING 8: FLOORING, MIECZSLAW FLIS AND HARDWOOD
FLOORING BY PAUL

THE CHIEF ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE REPORTS THE FOLLOWING RECOMMENDATION:

That-the Board of Education of the City of Chicago (?Board?) permanently debar Pawel Flis, Vision Painting 
Flooring, Mieczsiaw His and Hardwood Flooring by Paul (hereinafter ?Respondents") from doing any
business with the Board.

Following the Of?ce of the Inspector General?s recommendations in Report 14-01202 the Boards Chief
Procurement Of?cer served Respondents with a Notice of Proposed Debarment ("Notice" on September 1
2016 initiating a debarment proceeding against them, based upon ?ndings that the ReSpondents were
engaged in stringing purchase orders thereby violating section 2(e) of the Boards Debarment Policy
("Policy" The Chief AdministIative Of?cer has reviewed the record (as de?ned in section 4. 5(10) of the
Policy) and recommends debarment. .

Based on the facts set forth in the record as de?ned in section 4. 5(10) cf the Policy. the CA0 recommends
that the Board adopt the ?ndings of the Inspector General and permanently debar Respondents from doing
any business with the Board effective immediately. Furthermore, all existing contracts between the Board
and Respondents are terminated. Respondents are also ineligible to act as a subcontractor or supplier to
any existing or future Board contracts.

LSC REVIEW: LSC approval is not applicable to this report.
AFFIRMATIVE
ACTION STATUS: Af?rmative Action review is not applicable to this report.
FINANCIAL: NOne.
GENERAL
CONDITIONS: None.

1 6-1 026-AR4

DEBARMENT OF PRASAD CHANDRA AND HITALENTS, INC.
THE CHIEF ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE REPORTS THE FOLLOWING RECOMMENDATION:

That the Board of Education of the City of Chicago (?Board") permanently debar Prasad Chandra and
HiTaIents, Inc. (hereinafter ?Respondents") from doing any business with the Board.

Following the Office of the Inspector General?s recommendations in Report 09-8593. the Board?s Chief
Procurement Of?cer served Respondents with a Notice of Proposed Debarment ("Notice") in early 2014,
initiating a debarment proceeding against them, based upon Respondents? involvement in a bribery scheme
with a former CPS employee thereby violating sections 5) and 2(k) of the Board?s Debarment Policy
The Chief Administrative Of?cer has reviewed the record (as de?ned in section 4.5(10) of the
Policy) and recommends debarment.

135

October 26, 2016

Based on the facts set forth in the record as de?ned in section 4.5(10) of the Policy, the CA0 recommends
that the Board adopt the ?ndings of the Inspector General and permanently debar Respondents'from doing
any business with the Board effective immediately. Furthermore, ali existing contracts between the Board
and Respondents are terminated. Respondents are also ineligible to act as a subcontractor or supplier to
any existing or future Board contracts.

LSC REVIEW: LSC approval is not applicable to this report.
AFFIRMATIVE
ACTION STATUS: Af?rmative Action review is not applicable to this report.
FINANCIAL: None. 
GENERAL
CONDITIONS: None.

1 6-1 026-PR1

AUTHORIZE A NEW AGREEMENT WITH AMERICAN INSTITUTES FOR RESEARCH (AIR) FOR
EVALUATION CONSULTATION SERVICES.

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Authorize a new agreement with American Institutes for Research in the Behavioral Sciences dlb/a
American Institutes for Research to provide evaluation consultation services to Chicago Public Schools'
Of?ce of Social and Emotional Learning (OSEL) under the Healing Trauma Grant at an estimated annuai
cost set forth in the Compensation Section of this report. Vendor was selected on a non-competitive
basis. This request was presented to the Non-Competitive Procurement Review Committee and approved

by the Chief Procurement Of?cer. Upon approval as a single source, this item was published on the
Procurement website on September 30. 2016, found here: The item
will remain on the Procurement website until the October 26, 2016 meeting. This process complies with
the independent consultant's recommendations for single source procurements and the Board's
SinglelSole Source Committee Charter. A written agreement for Vendor's services is currentty being
negotiated. No services shall be provided by Vendor and no payment shalt be made to Vendor prior to the
execution of their written agreement. The authority granted herein shall automatically rescind in the event
a written agreement is not executed within 90 days of the date of this Board Report. Information pertinent
to this agreement is stated below.

Contract Administrator: Janus, Ms. Rene I 773-553-3241

VENDOR:

1) Vendor 6869?
AMERICAN INSTITUTES FOR RESEARCH
IN THE BEHAVIORAL SCIENCES DBA
AMERICAN FOR RESEARCH
(AIR) .
1000 THOMAS JEFFERSON STRET., NW
WASHINGTON, DC 20007

Sarah Storm
202 403?5086

Ownership: Not For Pro?t
USER INFORMATION 

Contact:
10870 - College and Career Success Of?ce

42 West Madison Street
Chicago, IL 60602
Mather, Mr. Alan Wesley

773-535-5100

136

October 26, 2016

Project .
Manager: 10895 - Social and Emotional Learning
42 West Madison
Chicago, IL 60602
Smith, Ms. Mashana 
773-553-1828
TERM:

The term of this agreement shall commence on November 1, 2016 and shall end September 30, 2018.
This agreement shall have no options to renew.

EARLY TERMINATION RIGHT:
The Board shall have the right to terminate this agreement with 30 days written notice.

SCOPE OF SERVICES: 

AIR will design and implement a two-year evaluation of Healing Trauma Together as part of the
proposed Promoting Student Resilience grant. AIR will conduct a formative assessment in Year 1 and a
summative assessment in Year 2, using a quasi-experimental propensity-matched design to assess
outcomes associated with implementing HTT in 10 treatment schools. AIR will provide project
management, data collection, data analysis, and reporting services. Speci?cally, AIR will assess training
and implementation (on usability, feasibility, and ?delity) of universal and targeted trauma supports, Data
will be collected to (1) examine implementation of the HTT project. (2) assess school-level (Tier 1) and
student-level (Tier II and change in student outcomes related to student resilience, and (3) inform
re?nement and replication. OSEL plans to use these services to guide improvement of the HTT program
in Years 1 and 2, and evaluate the effects of the program in Year 2. AIR has been strategically selected
based on AlR's history of providing high quality evaluation to the district.

OUTCOMES:

Vendor's services will result in an evaluation that will ensure proper data collection and data analysis for
all stated outcomes and goals. AIR will design instruments for primary data collection activities; submit an
annual IRB and district research application; conduct all data collection and data analyses as detailed in
the evaluation plan for this proposal; author technical and nontechnical summaries of study ?ndings; and
collaboratively disseminate the results of this study to the district and participating schools.

COMPENSATION:

Vendor shall be paid as follows:

Estimated annual costs for the twenty three (23) month term is set forth below:
$133,510.40, FY17

$181,954.00, FY18

$63,675.60, FY19

REIMBURSABLE EXPENSES:
None.

AUTHORIZATION:

Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant terms and conditions in the written agreement.
Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the agreement. Authorize the Chief Officer from the
Office of College and Career Success to execute all ancillary documents required to administer or
effectuate this agreement.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION:

Pursuant to the RemediaiPrograrn for Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise Participation
(MIWBE Program), there were no MWBE goals set for this agreement, since non-profit organizations are
exempt. Therefore, no MNVBE goals apply.

LSC REVIEW:
Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL:

Fund 324 US Department of Education Grant, Of?ce of Social and Emotional Learning, Unit 10898
$133, 510. 40, FY17

$181, 954. 00, FY18

$63, 675. 60, FY19

Not to eXceed $379 140.00 for the twenty three (23) month term. Future year funding' Is contingent upon
budget appropriation and approval

Not Applicable

137

October 26, 2016

. GENERAL CONDITIONS:
Inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 ILCS
5134-13. 1. the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations.

Con?icts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 ILCS which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of
of?ce.

Indebtedness- The Board' Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26,1996 as amended
from time to time shail be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics - The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 as amended from time to time,
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability - The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current
?scal year is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in the subsequent ?scal year
budget(s).

16-1026-PR2

AMEND BOARD REPORT 16-0622-PR9
AMEND BOARD REPORT 16-0127-PR3
AMEND BOARD REPORT 15-1028-PR3
AUTHORIZE THE PRE-QUALIFICATION STATUS OF AND NEW AGREEMENTS WITH VARIOUS
VENDORS TO PROVIDE PROFESSIONAL SERVICES

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Authorize the pre-quali?cation status of and new agreements with various Vendors to provide professional
services to central of?ce management at an estimated annual cost set forth in the Compensation Section
of this report. Vendors were selected on a competitive basis pursuant to Board Rule 7-2. Written master
agreements for Vendors' servicesare currently being negotiated. No services shall be provided by and no
payment shall be made to any Vendor prior to the exchtion of their written master agreement. The
authority granted herein shall automatically rescind as to each Vendor in the event their master
agreement is not executed within 120 days of the date of this amended Board Report. Information
pertinent to these master agreements is stated below. 

This January 2016 amendment is necessary to add ?ve (5) new vendors to the attached list and
prequalify one existing vendor in additional categories of services. Written master agreements with the
new Vendors are currently being negotiated. No services shall be provided by and no payment shall be
made to any new Vendor prior to execution of their master agreement.

This'June 2016 amendment is necessary to i) identify the correct vendor (STV Construction, inc. (Vendor
#16673? and ratify execution of their agreement, and ii) delete the incorrect vendor (STV Architects. Inc.

(Vendor #96146?.
[his Ogoper 2916 amengment is necessary t9 appLQiLe an increase in the 39119 eageedamgum by
5 0. or eremain er ofthe te 
iit Ti'sntr i itheue'fund eref?cien trate iesthatwillena leC i realizi 3 
balance the FY 01 iv im .N written am 
Miami.

Contract Administrator Knowles, Mr. Jonathan I 773?553-2280

USER INFORMATION 

Project 10710 - Executive Of?ce

Manager: 42 West Madison Street
Chicago, IL 60602
l-Iolloway', Mr. Andreil T.
773-553?1500

TERM:

The term of this pre-qualif cation period and each master agreement shall commence on November 1,
2015 and shall end on October 31, 2018. The term for the ?ve new vendors will commence upon
execution and shall end on October 31, 2018.

EARLY TERMINATION RIGHT:
The Board shall have the right to terminate each agreement with 30 days written notice.

138

October 26, 2016

SCOPE OF SERVICES:

Vendors will provide professional services and/or staff augmentation correlated to the categories for
which they submitted and won pre-quali?cation status. Categories of services include: (1) Construction
and Facilities Management, (2) Data Analytics, (3) Finance, (4) lnfonnation Technology, (5) Internal Audit,
(6) Organization and Management Consulting, (7) Project Management, and (8) Risk Management. The
category for which each Vendoris pre-quali?ed is identi?ed on the attached list. A summary of the
forecasted'category spend for the ?rst year is attached to this Board Report as Appendix A.

DELIVERABLES:

The vendors will provide, on an as needed basis, to central of?ce management, quali?ed individuals to
perform professional services and/or staff augmentation, allowing the Board needed resources to meet
strategic, operational, ?nancial, and compliance objectives.

OUTCOMES:

Vendors' services will result' In the attainment of strategic, operational,I ?nancial, and compliance
objectives such as cost savings eff improved internal controls, and improver ?nancial and budget
managementprocesses.

COMPENSATION.

Vendors shall be paid at a maximum hourty rate negotiated per project, which may be reduced on a
project basis. The sum of payments to all pre?qualIf ed vendors for the term shall not exceed
$25,500,000 cg 
and forecasted pool utilization shalt be reported to the Board on a
quarterly basis pursuant to Board Rule 7- 8

REIMBURSABLE EXPENSES:
None.

AUTHORIZATION:

Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant terms and conditions in the written master
agreements. Authorize the President and SecretaIy to execute the master agreements. Authorize the
Chief Internal Auditor, Senior Vice President of Finance, Chief Administrative Of?cer, Chief of Staff to the
Chief Executive Of?cer, or the designee of any one of these individuals to execute all ancillary
documents, including scopes of work, required to administer or effectuate the agreements. Authorize the
President to execute all scopes of work that have projected spend over $750,000.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION:

The MBEIWBE goals for this agreement were set at 30% total MBE and 7% total WBE participation.
Pursuant to the Remedial Program for Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise Participation in
Goods and Services Contracts, contracts for subsequent vendors from the pool created by this
agreement wili be subjected to aggregated compliance reviews and monitored on a basis.

LSC REVIEW:
Locai Schooi Council approval is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL:
Various funds and units will be authorized to use this board report across central and network of?ces.
Spend across the four ?scal years may vary dependent upon need of services.

Not to exceed WW $5,500,000.00 for the three (3) year term.
Future year funding is contingent upon budget appropriation and approval.

Not Applicable

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General- Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 ILCS
5134? 13. 1, the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations.

Con?icts ?'The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
provisions of 1 OS 5134-213 which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to, former

Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of
of?ce.

Indebtedness - The Board's Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 1996 (96-0626-P03), as amended
from time to time, shall be incorporated Into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics The Board?s Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 as amended from time to time,
shall be Incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability - The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current

?scal year is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in the subsequent ?scal year
budget(s).

139



2)

3)

4)

5)

Vendor 36659
ACCENTURE LLP

161 CLARK ST
CHICAGO, IL 60601
Robert Freiss

877 226-5659

CategoriesOwnership: No
Shareholder Holds More Than 10% Interest

6)
Vendor 16662 .
AMD BUSINESS SOLUTIONS

1921 RIDGE ROAD

HOMEWOOD. IL 60430

Lisa . Harrell
708 377-2950

Categories: 3, 5, 6, 7 Ownership: 51% Lisa
Harrell, 49% Douglas Harrell

7)
Vendor 16553
ANALYTIC INNOVATIONS LLC

211 WACKER DRIVE
CHICAGO, IL 60606
Stuart Taylor

312 803-5655

Categories: 2, 4, 6, 7 Ownership: 100% Owned
By Stuart Taylor Ii

8)
Vendor# 31341
BZB STRATEGIC SOLUTIONS INC

150 MICHIGAN AVE
CHICAGO, IL 60601
Donna Bryant

312 368-1700

Category: 6 Ownership: 100% Donna C. Bryant

140

October 26, 2016

Vendor#31413 . -
BENFORD BROWN ASSOCIATES LLC

8334 s. STONY ISLAND AVE.
CHICAGO, IL 60617

Watson

773 731-1300

Category: 5 Ownership: 52.5%Kimi L. Ellen,
37.5% Timothy 8. Watson, 10% Alyssia
Benford

Vendor 96356
BRAILSFORD 8r DUNLAVEY INC

444 NORTH MICHIGAN AVENUE
CHICAGO, IL 60611

Greg Wachalski

312 799?4600

Category: 7 Ownership: 60% Paul A Brailslford,
40% Christopher S. Dunlavey

Vendor 96159
BRONNER LLC

120 NORTH LASALLE STREET
CHICAGO, IL 60602

Don Davis

312 759-5101

Categories: 3, 5, 6, 7 Ownership: 100% Gila J.
Bronner

Vendor 29230
CATALYST CONSULTING GROUP, INC

211 WACKER DRIVE
CHICAGO, 
Timothy Smith

312 629-0750

Categories: 4, 6, 7 Ownership: 100% Arvind K.
Talwar

9)

10)

11)

12)

13)
Vendor 16663 -
CHICAGO ADVISORS LLC
1440 SHERIDAN ROAD
WILMETTE, IL 60091
Baruna Singh

310 691-0503

Categories: 2, 4 Ownership: 51% Baruna
Singh, 49% Satyajit Singh

14)
Vendor 63035
CLARITY PARTNERS, LLC

20 N. CLARK ST, STE 3600
CHICAGO, IL 60602
Rodney Zech

312 920-0550

Categories: 4, 6, 7 Ownership: 51% David. C.
Namkung, 49% Rodney S. Zech

Vendor 91172
CROWE HORWATH LLP

225 WACKER DRIVE 15)
CHICAGO, IL 60606 

Bert Neuhring

310 899-8346

Categories: 3, 4 Ownership: No Shareholder
Holds More Than 10% Interest

Vendor 29159
ERNST YOUNG U.S. LLP

5 Times Square

New York, NY 10036

Gaurav Maihotra 15)
212 773-2716

CategoriesOwnership: No
Shareholder Holds More Than 10% Interest

141

October 26, 2016

Vendor 16547
EXPERIS US INC

525 MONROE STREET -
CHICAGO, IL 60661

Bernard Brainin

312 730-1857

Categories: 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 Ownership: 100%
Owned By Manpowergroup

Vendor# 27991
GLOBETROTTERS ENGINEERING
CORPORATION

300 WACKER DRIVE
CHICAGO, IL 60606
Ajay Shah

312 922-6400

Category: 4 Ownership: 53.3% Niranjan S.
Shah, 46.7% Trust A Shah 2011 Gift Trust
-Trustee: Pratima Shah, Bene?ciary: Ajay
Shah

Vendor 34970

GLOBETROTTERS INTERNATIONAL INC
300 WACKER DRIVE

CHICAGO, IL 60606

Michael J. McMurray

312 922-6400

Category: 3 Ownership: 51% Niranjan S. Shah,
30% TrustA CIU Shah 201 Gift Trust (Trustee:
Pratima Shah, Bene?ciary: Ajay Shah), 19%
Trust A Shah 201 1 Gift Trust (Trustee:
Pratima Shah, Bene?ciary: Smita Shah)

Vendor# 16664

HEERY INTERNATIONAL INC
999 PEACHTREE STREET NE

ATLANTA, GA 30309

Ron Marsh
312 663-4704

Category: 7 Ownership: 100% Balfour Beatty,
Lic

17)

13)

19)

20)

21)
Vendor 95011
INFORMITY 

333 MICHIGAN AVE
CHICAGO, IL 60601
Edita Arambulo

312 361-6524

Category: 5 Ownership: 100% Edita?Arambqu

Vendor 23326 22)
KPMG LLP

200 RANDOLPH STREET.
CHICAGO, IL 60601

James Czarnecki

312 665-3428

CategoriesOwnership: No
Shareholder Holds More Than 10% Interest

Vendor 94758 23)
KRISTINE FALLON ASSOCIATES INC

11 E-ADAMS ST
CHICAGO, IL 60603
Kristine K. Fallon
312 360-9600

Category: 7 Ownership: 100% Kristine K.
Fallon

Vendor 16573
LARRY BRANNON CPA LLC 24)

'540 168TH STREET

SOUTH HOLLAND, IL 60473
Larry Brannon
312 236-8859

Category: 5 Ownership: 100% Larry Brannon

142

October 26, 2016

Vendor 38626 
LEVEL-1 GLOBAL SOLUTIONS LLC

233 WACKER DRIVE
CHICAGO, IL 60606
Thomas McElroy

312 202-3300

Category: 4 Ownership: 100% Thomas
Mcelroy, 15% Angela O'Banion

Vendor 46685
MCKISSACK MCKISSACK MIDWEST INC

205 NORTH MICHIGAN AVE
CHICAGO, IL 60601

Hansel Whiteurst

312 751-9800

Categories: 1, 7 Ownership: 100% Deryl
Mckissack .

Vendor 87711 
MIRAGE SOFTWARE INC DBA BOURNTEC
SOLUTIONS INC

1701 EAST WOODFIELD RD
SCHAUMBURG, IL 60173

Sn' Surya

224 232-5090

Categories: 4, 7 Ownership: 100% Srujana
Gudur

Vendor 16667
PLANTE MORAN PLLC

27400 NORTHWESTERN HWY
SOUTHFIELD, MI 48034

Judy Wright

248 223-3304

Categories:3, 4, 5, 6, 7 Ownership: No
Shareholder Holds More Than A 10% interest

25)

26)

27)

28)

29)
Vendor 63093
POINT B, INC

200 SOUTH WACKER DRIVE
CHICAGO, IL 60606

Michael Roberts

312 962-1410

Categories: 6, 7 Ownership: 100% Point 3
Esop

Vendor 26818 - 30)
PRADO RENTERIA CPAS PROF CORP

1837 MICHIGAN AVENUE
CHICAGO, IL 60616

Maria de J. Prado

312 567-1330

Categories: 3, 5 Ownership: 50% Maria De J.
Prado, 50% Hilda S. Renteria

Vendor #16669 31)
PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS PUBLIC
SECTOR LLP

1800 TYSONS BOULEVARD
MCLEAN, VA 22102

Kevin Sanders

571 766-9220

CategoriesOwnership: 99%

Pricewaterhousecoopers Llp, 1%
Holding 
32)

Vendor #16668
PUBLIC SERVICES PS INC

111 WASHINGTON ST
CHICAGO, IL 60601

Paul Stepusin

312 405-0239

CategoriesOwnership: 100%
Paul L. Stepusin

143

October 26, 2016

Vendor 68985
RINGOLD FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
SERVICES, INC

850 SOUTH WABASH AVENUE
CHICAGO, IL 60605

Michelle Ringold

312 566-9705

Categories: 3, 5, 6 Ownership: 51% Michelle
Ringold, 49% Rick Ringold

Vendor# 22804
SENRYO TECHNOLOGIES INC

387 SHUMAN BOULEVARD
NAPERVILLE, IL 60563
Jose Blanco

630 355-7429

Categories: 2, 4, 6, 7 Ownership: 100% Dinkar
Karumun'

Vendor 16441
SIKICH LLP

123 WACKER DRIVE
CHICAGO, IL 60606
Mary O'Connor

312 648-6666

Category: 5 Ownership: No Shareholder Holds
More Than 10% Interest

Vendor 85402
SOFEIANG, LLC

17 STATE STREET
CHICAGO, IL 60602
AI Pomerantz

312 279-0430 

Category: 4 Ownership: 51% Rajinder Duggal,
49% Manmohan Duggal

33)

34)

35)

35)

37)
Vendor 16673
SW CONSTRUCTION INC

200 WEST MONROE STREET
CHICAGO, IL 60606

Jan Turner

312 553-4167

Categories: 1, 7 Ownership: 100% Owned By
Group Incorporated

38)
Vendor 16670
UCG ASSOCIATES INC
409 WEST HURON
CHICAGO, IL 60654
Danielle Holmes
312 988-3360

Category: 3 Ownership: 24.64% Yovette Drake,
34.34% Anthony Drake, 15.57% Sharon
Sarmiento, All Other Shareholders Hold Less
Than A 10% Interest 39)

Vendor 31259
VANTAGE SOLUTIONS, LLC

430 WEST ERIE ST
CHICAGO, IL 60654
Vanessa Smith

312 440-0602

Category: 6 Ownership: 100% Vanessa L.
Smith 40)

Vendor #16671
VERSIFIT TECHNOLOGIES LLC

103 COLLEGE AVE
APPLETON, WI 54911
Michael RestIe

920 882-1904

Categories: 2, 4 Ownership: 100% Atomic
Holdings, One 

144

October 26, 2016

Vendor 90597
VIVA USA, INC

3601 ALGONQUIN., STE 425
ROLLING MEADOWS, IL 60008
Jacob Verghese

847 368-0860

Categories: 2, 4 Ownership: 70% Vasanthi
Ilangovan, 30% Ilango Radhakrishnan

Vendor 63090
ENTEPRISES, LLC

55 W. WACKER DRIVE
CHICAGO, IL 60601
David R. Andalcio

312 256-9090

Categories: 7 Ownership: 100% David R.
Andalcio

Vendor 90339
THE BOSTON CONSULTING GROUP INC

300 LASALLE STREET
CHICAGO, IL 60654
Kedra Newson

312 627-2617

Categories: 2,3,6] Ownership: No Shareholder
Holds More Than 10% Interest

Vendor 35971
ELECTRIC KNOWLEDGE INTERCHANGE
COMPANY 

33 MONROE
CHICAGO, IL 60603
Robert Biackweil Jr
312 236-0903

Categories: 2, 3, 6, 7 Ownership: 100% Robert
Blackwetl Jr

October 26, 2016

41)
Vendor 17117 
KELEHER 8: ASSOCIATES LLC

3220 ST NW
WASHINGTON, DC 20007
Julie Keleher

'202 309-8595

Categories: Ownership: 100% Julie Keleher -

42)
Vendor 34134
NAVIGANT CONSULTING INC

30 WACKER DRIVE
CHICAGO, IL 60606
Kevin McHugh
646227-4701

CategoriesOwnership: No
Shareholders Holds More Than A 10% Interest

43) .
Vendor #17118
TEMBO INC

1639 HANCOCK
PHILADELPHIA, PA 19122
Meg Towle

215 427-3608

Category: 2 Ownership: 100% David Stewart

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Estimated
Gamers Spend
4 
2 saga?Anew ?$359,400
a Finesse $3,999,999
4 tnfermatien?Ieehnetegy 
5 IntemaMedit' ?3473505999
6 
.7: "53597999
a Risk?Management 42542?999

 

Board Member Ward abstained on Board Report 16-1026-PR2.
16-1026-PR3

AMEND BOARD REPORT 15-1028-PR2
AUTHORIZE A NEW AGREEMENT WITH GEMCAP INC DBA HAYES SOFTWARE SYSTEMS FOR
AN ASSET MANAGEMENT SOLUTION

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Authorize a new agreement with Gemcap Inc dba Hayes Software Systems to provide an Asset
Management Solution to all departments and schools at an estimated annual cost set forth in the
Compensation Section of this report. Vendor was selected on a competitive basis pursuant to Board Rule
7?2. A written agreement for Vendor?s services is currently being negotiated. No services shall be
provided by Vendor and no payment shall be made to Vendor prior to the execution of their written
agreement. The authority granted herein shall automatically rescind in the event a written agreement is
not executed within 90 days of the date of this amendeg Board Report. Information pertinent to this
agreement is stated below.

145

October 26, 2016

i cobr mn in 1rev' rmand ud ettoali w't 

imnlementatign timeline and 2) increase the compensation amount for additional services including

sicalinvento rl assets rovide RFID sand barcodes as needed.

Contract Administrator Janus. Ms. Rene I 773-553-3241
VENDOR:

1) Vendor 36706
GEMCAP INC DBA HAYES SOFTWARE


12007 RESEARCH BLVD
AUSTIN, TX 78759

Matt Winebright

512 219-7610

Ownership: 45% Eugene Hayes, 55%
Michael Hayes

USER INFORMATION 

Contact: 14010 - Chief Administrative Of?cer
42 West Madison Street
Chicago, IL 60602
De Hoyos?Acosta, Mr. Jose Alfonso
773-553-4224

Project 12410 - Accounting
Manager: 42 meg Madison Street
hi a I 0602

Fraze, Mr. Larry
113-553-2710

TERM: .
The term of this agreement shall commence on December 1, 2615-2918 and shall end November 30,
2020 2021. This agreement shall have two (2) options to renew for periods of two (2) years each.

EARLY TERMINATION RIGHT:
The Board shall have the right to terminate this agreement with 30 days written notice.

scope OF SERVICES: 
Vendor will complete an initial inventory of the district's instructional materials IT A and facility
assets. Vendor will manage the tracking, compliance and reporting of inventory for the district's

instructional materials, facility and technological assets. Vendor witl also supply REID tags and namgges
nee .
DELIVERABLES: 

Vendor will provide and software licenses to all CPS schools and departments, as
well as ongoing hosting and software maintenance. Vendor will also manage the initial physical inventory
at all CPS schools, to be completed within 18 months of contract execution. Vendor will provide ongoing
project management personnel, systems integration personnel and will guide the creation of policies and
procedures for the project.

OUTCOMES:

Vendor's services will result in the following:

Maximizing usage of existing resources, through reduction of loss and ability to locate and transfer
assets . 
-Reduction of staff time and labor needed to manually track inventory with decentralized systems
-Ability to accurately report on current assets

- ncreased compliance with Grant requirements to track and locate assets

COMPENSATION:
Vendor shall be paid in accordance with the prices contained in the agreement.

Estimated annual costs for the ?ve (5) year term are set forth below:
WW FY17

W6: 3 245 000 FY18

3506:0130: 51m FY19

W066: 64 00 FY20

$45,000, E121

146

October 26, 2016

REIMBURSABLE EXPENSES:
None.

AUTHORIZATION: .

Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant terms and conditions in the written agreement.
Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the agreement. Authorize Chief Administrative Of?cer to
execute all ancillary documents required to administer or effectuate this agreement.

AFFERMATIVE ACTION:

This agreement is in full compliance with the 25%- MBE and 5% WBE goals required by the
Remedial Program for Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise Participation in Goods and
Services Contracts.

The Vendor has scheduled the following:

Total MBE- 26% 

ProBar

621 Admiral Drive, Suite 408
Annapolis, MD 21401

Contact: Michael Moss
Ownership: Carol Bondurant 100%

Total WBE - 5% 

Integrated Asset Management, Inc.
43 Redwood Road .

Sevema Park, MD 21146

Contact: Marla Williams
Ownership: Marla Williams 100%

L86 REVIEW:
Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL:
Various Funds'and Units will be authorized to use this board report across central and network of?ces.

$3,190,000, FY17
$909,090, ?3 245,000, FY18
650970007 $1,055,000, FY19
3500;0007 $645,000, FY20
$645,000, FY21
Not to exceed $8,780,000 for the ?ve (5) year term.
Future year funding is contingent upon budget appropriation and approval.

CFDM: Not Applicable

GENERAL CONDITIONS: 

Inspector General Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 ILCS
5/34?1 3.1, the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel necessary
to conduct those investigations.

Conflicts The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into'in violation of the
provisions of 105 11.08 which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or othertermination of their terms of office.

indebtedness - The Board's Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 1996 (96-0626-PO3), as amended from
time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics - The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25r 2011 as amended from time to time,
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability - The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current ?scal
year is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in the subsequent ?scal year budget(s).

147

October 26, 2016

16-1026-PR4

REPORT ON THE AWARD OF CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTS AND CHANGES TO CONSTRUCTION
CONTRACTS FOR THE BOARD OF CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

This report details the award of Capital Improvement Program construction contracts in the total amount
of $821,056.72 to the respective lowest responsible bidders for various construction projects, as listed in
Appendix A of this report. These construction contracts shall be for projects approved as part of the
Board?s Capital Improvement Program. 'Work involves all labor, material and equipment required to
construct new schools, additions, and annexes, or to renovate existing facilities, all as called for in the
plans and speci?cations for the respective projects. Proposals, schedules of bids, and other supporting
documents are on ?le in the Department of Operations. These contracts have been awarded in
accordance with section 7-3 of the Rules of the Board of Education of the City of Chicago.

This report also details changes to existing Capital Improvement Program construction contracts, in the
amount of $681 ,873.74 as listed in the attached October Change Order Log. These construction contract
changes have been processed and are being submitted to the Board for approval in accordance with
section 7-15 of the Rules of the Board of Education of the City of Chicago, since they require an
increased commitment necessitated by an unforeseen combination of circumstances or conditions calling
for immediate action to protect Board property to prevent interference with school sessions.

REVIEW: Local School Councii approval is not applicabie to this report.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION: The General Contracting Services Agreements entered into by each of the pre?
quali?ed general contractors and other miscellaneous construction contracts awarded outside the pre-
quali?ed general contractor program for new construction awards and changes to existing construction
contracts shall be subject to the Board?s Business Diversity Program for Construction Projects and any
revisions or amendments to that policy that may be adopted during the term of any such contract.

FINANCIAL: Expenditures involved in the Capital improvement Program are charged to
the Department of Operations, Capital Improvement Program.

Budget classi?cation: Fund 436, 468, 476, 477, 479, 480, 481, 482,483, 484
will be used for all Change Orders (October Change Order Log); Funding source for new
contracts is so indicated on Appendix A

Funding Source: Capital Funding

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 ILCS
5I34-1 3.1, the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Educationhas the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations.

Conflicts The agreement shall not be legally binding "on the Board if entered into in vioiation of the
provisions of 105 ILCS 5/34?213 which restricts the employment of or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of
of?ce.

lndebtedness? The Board?s Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 1996 (96-0626-P03), as amended
from time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement. 

Ethics The Board?s Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 (11-0525-P02), as amended from time to time,
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current

?scal year is deemed a contingent subject to appropriation in the subsequent ?scal year
budget(s). - 

148

SCHOOL CONTRACTOR CONTRACT CONTRACT

ll METHOD

CONTRACT
AWARD

BUCKEYE
CONSTRUCTION CO
TNC

Courtenay 3205043 VT 63,700.00

BUCKEYE
CONSTRUCTION CO
in?:

Juarez 3205972 VT 5 103,100.00

TYLER LANE
CONSTRUCTION 

3210213 3 300,000.00

Scion-2 3210220 100 222,000.00

KR MILLER
CONTRACTORS INC

Tanner 3205900 3: 52256.72

149

AWARD
DATE

8/22/2016

8/24/2016

9/2/2015

9/2/2015

0/24/2015

ANTICIPATED
COMPLETION
DATE

10/15/2015

10/30/2015

10/30/2015

10/30/2015

9/30/2015

Appendix A
October2016

FISCAL
YEAR

2016

2016

2016

2016

2017

AFHRM.

AA

20

ACTION





WBE

?78

PROJECT SCOPE AND NOTES REASONS FOR

PROIECT

Convert existing toilet room into accessible unisex restroom. Including 6
full renovation for accessibility, with mechanical, electrical and plumbing
improvements. Relocate existing mural at CPC building to the Main

Language Arts Center.

Tree, shrub and brush removal, clearing and grubbing, strip laWn and 2
topsoil, earth excavation and disposal at a approved waste facility, non-

woven geotextlie fabric, compacted aggregate base material, fencing

removal and replacement, and concrete boilards.

This Is a life safety issue requiring an emergency JOC project. The 50W is 2
emergency masonry and roof repairs to stop water in?ltration In

numerous locations at the roof. parapots and structural elements of the

building. Interior scope includes the mitigation and plaster repair of both

lead and and non-leaded painted surfaces impacted by water leaks.

Rolnediate environmental concerns with the pigeon population atSchurz. 

The scope ofwurk for this emergency JOC prolect is to replace the 2
plumbing risers servicing the drinking fountains in the classroom

wing. The cold water main in the crawl space servicing the classroom

wing will also be replaced as partofthis scope. Four new drinking 
fountains will be installed at the South riser. Four new drinking fountains

will be installed at the North riser. New Pre-K and Elementary height

drinking fountains will he installed in the 1 North hallway. Work may

include expedited lead and ACM mitigation. Work is to be completed,

?ushed and tested prior to the return ofteachers.

 

821,056172

Reasons:

1. Safety

2. Code Compliance

3. Fire Code Violations

4. Detel'lorated Exterior Conditions

5. Priority Mechanical Needs

6. ADA Compliance

7. Support for Educational Portfolio Strategy

 

Fl. Support for other District Initiatives
9. External Funding Provided

10f]

October 26, 2016

150

CPS - October 2016

Chicago Public Schools
. These change order approval cycles range lrom
Ca. ital Imurovement Pro; am -

to 08/31/2016
CHANGE ORDER LOG

Original Number of Total Ravlaed Total
School Vendor Project Number Contract Change Change Contract of
Amount Orders Order: Amount Contract

    
     

 

Ernst 

2016 BLR 2016-25031-BLR -
Frledler Construc?don Co. $1,146,800.00 7 $34,485.39 $1,181,285.39 3.01%

Change Date Apr; Date Chan Order Descri tions Reason gode

 

08/24/16 08/26/ 16 Contractor to provide labor and material for abatement of lead paint in the vestibule. School Request

08/24/16 08/25/16 Contractor to provide labor and material for installing proper sealing and pressurization at new door AOR
locations.

10/18/16
Prue 1 of 8

Oracle Board Number
PO Number

31 17362
$4,446.70

$1,693.70

 

Cesar Chavez Multicultural Academic Center

2015 Chavez NPL 2015-25151-NPL
Frledler Conslruction CO. $224,600.00 4 $76,981.95 $301,781.95 34.24%

Qhange Date Apr; Date Cha 6 Order Descri ?ons Reason Code

 

08/03/16 .08/11/16 Contractor to provide labor and material to remove the pavement between the proposed concrete Owner Directed
sldewatlr along the wast side, provide expansion Joints around the perlmeter of each existing fence
foundation and against the existing sidewalk.

Proiect Total: $6,140.40

31 18449
$2,106.00

 

Jonathan Scammon School

2015 Scamrnon ROF-1 
K.R. Miller Contractors, $6,647,700.00 5 $110,487.23 $6,758,187.23 1.66%

Change Date Aug Date Cha Order Descrl tlons Reason Code

 

08/09/ 16 08/15/16 Contractor to provide labor and material to remove unsuitable soil and debris and properly back?ll Discovered Conditions
area.

08/09/16 08/ 15/16 Contractor to provide labor and material to Install required flush valve devices. Error - Architect

08/09/16 08111116 Contractor to provide labor and material for removal of concrete debris in basement area of school. Discovered Conditions

Project Total: $2,106.00

3033919
$37,905.02

$4,562.24

$1,683.49

 

Project Total: $44,150.75

 

The following change orders have been approved and are bean reported to the Board in arrears.

October 26, 2016

151

CPS October 2016

Chicago Public Schools - 10/18/16
. These change order approval cycles range from
Cain 1ta1 Im movement Pro am

08l01l2016 to 03r31r2010 Pa 1e 2 of 8
CHANGE ORDER LOG

Original Number of Total Revised Total
School Vendor Project Number Contract Change Change Contract at Oracle Board Number
Amount Orders Order: Amount Contract PO Number

   

      

 

   

Stephen Gale Community Academy
2016 Gale FAS 2016-31081-FA5

Broadway Electric $129,600.00 2 -$3.800.00 $125,300.00 ?2.93%0
Change Date Agg Date Chan Order Descri tlons

 

Reason Code
3050201

03/09l16 08I11l16 Contractor to provide a credit related to the City tie ?re alarm box. Allowance Credit 

 

Project Total: $7,360.00

 

The following change orders have been approved and are belng to the Board In arrears.

October 26, 2016

152

CPS I October 2016

Chicago Public Schools 10/18/16

. These change order approval cycles range from
Ca_-1ta1Im-rovement Pro am 0310112010 to 08/31/2016 Pa1e 3 of 8

CHANGE ORDER LOG
Original Number of Total Revised Total
School Vendor Project Number Contract Change change Contract of Oracle Board Number
Amount Orders Orders Amount Contract PO Number

     

 

    
  

Jose De Diego Community Academy

2016 De Diego MCR 2016-31261-MCR .
Madison Construction Company $10.840,540.00 21 $172,484.71 1.58% 

Change Date App Date iron 6 0rd rDescrI tions Reason Code

 

3093138
07/25/16 08/04/16 Contractor to provide labor and material to demolish two existing deteriorated skylights and provide Discovered Conditions - $16,140.31
metal decking and insulation; provide new or repair skylight framing at select locations. - - -

08/02'16 08/23/16 Contractor to provide labor and material to install extended lighting fixture at facade cornice for proper Discovered Conditions $669.92
exterior lighting.

08/08/16 08/15/16 Contractor to provide credit for not installing parapet wall blocking due to current roofing system. Discovered Conditions $5,962.50
08/09/16 08/15/16 Contractor to provide labor and material for installing additional blocking at select skylight openings. Discovered Conditions $4,699.62
08/02/16 08/03/16 Contractor to provide credit for no steel lintel installatic'rn required at arched window heads. Discovered Conditions 

08/04/16 08/10/16 Time and Materials work to remove additional clay tile structure discovered at skylights 10 b6 Discovered Conditions $33,126.59
demolished.

08/12/16 08/15/16 Contractor to provide labor and material to remove and replace modified bitumen ?ashing membrane Discovered Conditions $13,988.82
at select locations, and provide copper coping and comics to match adjacent cornice system.

03/02/16 08/03/16 Contractor to provide labor and matedal to remove existing skylight and curb and seal roof drain, Discovered Conditions $17,030.72
provide wood framing to span skylight opening, extend metal roo?ng system, and provide metal
flashing drip edge.

07/25/16 08/04/16 Contractor to provide labor and materiat for additional electrical line shielding by ComEd on east Discovered Conditions $19,342.46
facade restoration work for safety reasons.

(18/01/16 08l15/ 16 Contractor to provide labor and material for repair on masonry and brick cracks. Discovered Conditions $17,025.27

08/09/16 08/15/16 Contractor to provide labor and material for repairing existing roof cupola. Discovered Conditions $5,445.33

 

Protect Total: $68,099.70

 

The following change orders time been approved and are being reported to the Board In arrears.

October 26, 2016

153

 

CPS October 2016

Chicago Public Schools

. These change order approval cycles range from
Ca_- Ital Imp rovement Pro ,1 am 0310112913 to 08I31I2016

CHANGE ORDER LOG

Original Numberof Tolnl . Revised Total
School Vendor Proiect Number Contract Change Change Contract "501?

Amount Orders Orders Amount Contract

  
     

 

Roaid Amundsen High School
2016 Amundsen CAR 2016-46031-CAR

Reiieble s. Associates $322,300.00 5 $18,285.39 $340,585.39 5.67%
Change Date, App Date 

 

Reason Code

07i25116 08/08l16 Contractor to provide labor andmaien'ai for the relocation of wiring service through new raceway at

Discovered Conditions
select classrooms.

10/18/Oracle Board Number
PO Number

3116997 .
$2,493.13

 

Project Total: $2,493.13

 

The following change orders have been approved and are being reported lo the Board in arrears.

October 26, 2016

154

CPS

Chicago Public Schools
Ca_- ital Imnrovcment Pro am

 

School

Vendor

October 2016

These change order approval cycles range from
08/01/2016 to 08/31/2016

CHANGE ORDER LOG

Original Number of

          
      

  

Total

. Revised Total
Project Number Contract Change Change Contract %ol?

  

Amount Orders Order: . Amount Contract

Albert Lane Technical High School

2015 Lane Tech MCR 2015-46221-MCR .
Tyler Lane Construction. Inc. $50.164,330.00 101 51.939.909.49 $2,104,239.49 3.37%

Change Date
07/27/16

07/20/16

08/03/16
08/03/18
07/27/16
08/15/16
07/13/16
07/20/16
07/27/16
08/11/16

08/11/16

App Date

08/03/16

08/01/16

08/04/16
08/04/16
08/01/16
08/17/16
08/01/16
08/01/16
08/03/16
08/15/16

08/15/16

Cha eOrderDescri tions

 

Contractor to provide labor and material to replace all glass at transom windows with impact resistant
laminated glazing.

Contractor to provide labor and materlal to remove lhe existing east skylight including trim, and curb in?

room 154, provide new steel support and metal decking. and provide new steel supports for exhaust
fan.

Contractor to provide labor and material to hand excavate and expose pipe in un?nished plpe space,
verify condition of pipe, and install new pipe as necessary.

Contractor to provide labor and material to install new motor starter for new exhaust fan. and two cover
mounted pllot lights. 

Contractor to provide labor and materiat to remove. patch interior ?nishes to match at the existing
exterior door in room 153.

Contractor to provide labor to scrape. prep, prime and paint the existing railings, posts and associated
components at the school entrances.

Contractor to provide labor and material to install a new manual switch tied into the Fire Alarm System
to bypass the damper activation.

Conlractor to provide labor and material to remove and dispose of asbestos containing materials, as
required to complete the flooring scope at select classrooms.

. Contractor to provide labor and material to supply an additional batten for the existing stage

equipment electric line

Contractor to provide labor and material to remove the deteriorated transom windows and associated
frames. and provide new aiuminum frame windows at select locations.

Contractor to provide labor and material to furnish and install new doors and aluminum tubing framing
at existing masonry opening.

Reason Code

Oracle
PO Number

2867615 I 3002938 3060061

Dice-ovared Conditions

Discovered Conditions

Discovered Conditions
Discovered Conditions
Discovered Conditions
Owner Directed

Code Compliance
Discovered Conditions
Discovered Conditions
Discovered Conditions

Discovered Conditions

10/18/16
Page 5 of 8

Board Number

11-0525-PR8
$29,734.00

$22,735.00

$9684.00
$1 163.00
$797.00
$16,274.00
$8,763.00
$56,624.00
$3,873.00
$5,910.00

$6,336.00

October 26, 2016

155

CPS - October 2016

Chicago Public Schools 10/18/16

. These change order approval cycles range from 
Cautal 11n- rovement Pro ,ram 0810112016 to 0013112016 Pa;e 6 of 8

CHANGE ORDER LOG
. Original Number of Total Revised Total
School Vendor Project Number Contract Change Change Contract of Oracle Board Number
Amount Orders Order: Amount Contract PO Number

     

 

   

     

  

06103116 08104116 Contractor to remove and re?install intrusion detection door contacts at exterior doors and roof access Discovered Conditions $9,314.00
points.

06117116 06116116 Contractor to provide labor and material to replace worn and damaged gulderails, rods and hardware, Discovered Conditions . $15,226.00
center the arbor and curtain to hang and travel plumb between the guideraiis, and provide afunciional
?re curtain.

08103116 06100116 Contractor to provide labor and matedal re-attach the existing loose counter tops and back sptashes in Discovered Conditions $6,912.00
select classrooms.

06103116 08111116 Contractor to provide labor and material to remove existing sealant and debris at copings, grind and Discovered Conditions $11,945.00
provide epoxy atjoinis and cracks, level and prime deck surface, and install ttquld applied 
waterproofing roof system. 

 

Project Total: $205,342.00

Dunbar Vocational Career Academy

2016 Dunbar CAR 2016-53021-CAR
Wight 8. Company $3,409,000.00 18 33.406.306.44 008%

Change Date App Date Season Code

 

30841661 3200402
07126116 - 06104116 Contractor to provide labor and material for additional steel plate to be Welded to existing steel beam, Discovered Conditions $4,826.23
provide new paint for the metal panels above the door opening.

 

Project Total: $4,826.23

 

The following change orders have been approved and are being reported to the Board in arrears.

October 26, 2016

156

CPS October 2016

Chicago Public Schools 10/13/16

. These change order approval cycles range from
Cautal Improvement Pro; am 08/01/2016 to 08/31/2016 . Page 7 0f 8 

CHANGE ORDER LOG
Original Number of Total Revised Total
School Vendor Project Number Contract Change Change Contract of Oracle Board Number
Amount Orders Orders Amount Contract PO Number

     

 

    

    

Dyett High School

2016 Dyett CSP 2016-66021-CSP
Wight 8- Company $1 1,050,000.00 38 $1,155,139.93 $12,205,139.93 10.45%

Change Date Agg Date Chan Order Descri tions Reason Code

 

 

3078956

07/23/16 08/26/16 Contractor to provide labor and material to provide generator rental for?temporary power during Owner Directed $16,090.80
. ComEd shut-down.

08/17/16 08/23/16 Contractor to provide labor and material to replace two failed condenser fans, thermal expansion valve Discovered Conditions $11,241.62
powerhead, gas valve and modulating regulator, and leaking plug valves. -

07/28/16 08/04/16 Contractor to provide labor and material to relocate pull stations from select locations, and revise fire Permit Code Change $10,425.48
alarm and detection system per City of Chicago Fire Prevention Bureau requirements.

07/29/16 06/23/1 6 Contractor to provide labor and material to repair damaged terrazzo floor, install new re?circulating Omission $154,020.39
pump and associated piping in Kitchen and remove and replace conduit, wiring, transformers and
panels in Kitchen

07/25/16 08/04/16 Contractor to provide labor and material to provide sheet metal cover to conceal baseboard radiation Other I $2,179.73
actuators at select locations.

07/11/16 08/15/16 Contractor to provide labor and material to add electrostatic painting tor new factory-?nish Omission DM $98,423.31-
lockers.

03/04/16 08/08/16 Contractor to provide labor and material to install a new fire suppression leak-proof storage tank and Site Inspect Direction $9,616.05
nozzles, provide stainless steel splash guard for three compartment sink and prep table with sink, and 
provide all connections necessary for proper operation for addi?onal hand sink.

06/23/16 08/26/16 Contractor to provide labor and material to remove and replace and repair existing ductwork, conduit, Omission $22,662.63
and piping for access of the shear head scope of work. 

07/28/16 00/04/16 Contractor to provide labor and material to remove and re-install existing ?nned tube radiation (FFR) Omission - $19,311.27
and localized valving on top of new elevated ?ooring in select rooms, add a manual air ventin each
elevated section, and reinstall covers. remove and replace existing floor grilles In select rooms, and
provide adapter floor transition.

 

Project Total: $343,971.20

 

The following change orders have been approved and are being reported to the Board in arrears.

October 26, 201 6

157

CPS A October 2016

Chicago Public Schools 10/18/16

These change order approval cycles range from
Capltal Im-rovement Pro :ram 0810112016 to 0013112016 Pa 16 3 0f 3

CHANGE ORDER LOG
Original Number of Total Revised Total
School Vendor Project Number Contract Change Change Contract of Oracle Board Number

Amount Orders Orders Amount Contract P0 Number

   

 

  

Walter Payton College Preparatory HS
2016 Payton PKG 2016-70020-PKG
Elanar Construction $758,000.00 6 $17,684.67 $785,634.67 2.30%
Change Date App Date 

 

Reason Code

. 3000885

07/28/15 03124116 . Contractor to provide labor and material to install new ballast and lamps at two existing wall mounted School Request $3,958.57
light fixtures on the south side of the school.

06124116 03123116 contractor to provide labor and material to Install condult from the bullding to the area north of the Owner Directed . $8,145.60
out?eld fence and PVC sleeve under the sidewalk.

 

Project Total: $12,104.17

Total Change Orders for this Period $681,873.74

 

The following change orders have been approved and are being reported to the Board In arrears.

October 26, 2016

October 26, 2016

16-1026-PR5

AUTHORIZE THE PRE-QUALIFICATION STATUS OF AND NEW AGREEMENTS WITH VARIOUS
CONTRACTORS TO PROVIDE GENERAL CONTRACTING SERVICES

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Authorize the pre-quali?cation status of and new agreements with various contractors to provide general
contracting services at an estimated annual aggregate cost set forth in the Compensation Section of this
report and authorize a written master agreement with each vendor. Vendors were selected on a
competitive basis pursuant to Board Rule 7-2. Written master agreements for vendors are currently being
negotiated. No services shall be provided by and no payment shall be made to any vendor prior to the
execution _of their written master agreement. The pre?quali?cation status approved herein for each vendor
shall automatically rescind in the event such vendor fails to execute the Board's master agreement within
120 days of the date of this Board Report. Information pertinent to this master agreement is stated below.

Speci?cation Number 16?350036 

Contract Administrator: Hernandez, Miss Patricia 773-553-2280

USER INFORMATION 

Contact:
11860 - Facility Operations Maintenance
42 West Madison Street
Chicago, IL 60602
De Runtz, Ms. Mary
773-553-2960
TERM:

The term of this pre?quali?cation period and each master agreement is for three (3) years, effective
January 1. 2017 and ending December 31, 2019. The Board shall have the right to renew the
pre-quali?cation period and each master agreement for two (2) additional one (1) year periods.

SCOPE OF SERVICES:

Contractors shall perform the following services:

Perform general construction contracting services required by the scope of work identi?ed in the bid
solicitation in compliance with applicable laws, rules, codes and regulations;

Procure all permits, licenses, and approvals;

Plan, coordinate, administer, and supervise the work;

Procure all materials, equipment, labor and vendor services required for each awarded project in
accordance with the Board's Multi-Project Labor Agreement;

Provide required documents for the required insurance and provide the payment and performance bonds
required for each awarded project;

Perform change order, corrective work and closeout completion;

Comply with Board directives, and policies regarding each project;

Prepare and submit timely status and progress reports and update project completion schedules When
requested by the Board;

Meet with Board representative(s) regularly as required to discuss work in progress and other matters;
and .

Provide all required MIWBE documentation when responding to a speci?c bid solicitation.

COMPENSATION:

Contractors shall be paid based upon projects awarded as agreed to in their master services agreements.
Estimated amounts tor the sum of payments to all pre?qualitied vendors for the three (3) year
pre-qualification term shall not exceed $350,000,000, FY17, FY18, FY19, FY20.

USE OF POOL:

The Board is authorized to receive services from the pool as follows: the Board shall soiicit
sealed bids for each project from the pre?quali?ed pool of contractors. The pre?quali?ed contractors will
be requested to furnish a lump-sum quotation in response to an invitation to bid for scope of
work. Each project shall be awarded to the lowest responsible, responsive bidder. A notice of award for
each project shall be issued by the Chief Procurement Of?cer and such award shall be ratified by the
Board at the Board meeting immediately following such award. All awards and any change orders will be
subsequently presented to the Board for approval. -

158

October 26, 2016

AUTHORIZATION:

Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant terms and conditions in the written master
agreements. Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the master agreements. Authorize Chief
Facilities Of?cer to execute all ancillary documents required to administer or effectuate the master
agreements.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION:

Pursuant to the Remedial Program for Minority'and Women Business Enterprise participation in
Construction Projects (MIWBE Program), the MIWBE goals for this contract include 30% total MBE and
7% total WB E. Aggregated compliance with the Contractors in the pool will be reported on a quarterty
basis.

LSC REVIEW:
Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL:

Fund: Various Capital Funds

Charge to Facilities: Parent Unit 12150

FY17, FY18, FY19, FY20 not to exceed $350,000,000 in the aggregate.
Future year funding is contingent upon budget appropriation and approval.

Not Applicable

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 
the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations.

Con?icts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of
of?ce. 

Indebtedness - The Board's Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 1996 as amended
from time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics - The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 (11-0525-P02), as amended from time to time,
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability - The agreement shat! contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current
?scal year is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in the subsequent ?scal year
budget(s).

THIS SPACE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK

159

1)

2)

3.)

4)
Vendor 23048

A.G.A.E Contractors. Inc
4549 NORTH MILWAUKEE AVE.

CHICAGO, IL 60630

Robert C. Miezio

773 777-2240

Ownership: Julie Peric - 100%

5)
Vendor 81957

COMPANY
145 TOWER DRIVE

BURR RIDGE, IL 60527

Thomas W. Girouard

630 6558567

Ownerhsip: Thomas W. Girouard- 100%

Vendor# 31784 6)

BLINDERMAN CONSTRUCTION CO., INC
224 DESPLAINES ST
CHICAGO, IL 60661

Steven Blinderman

312 982?2602

Ownership: Steven Blinderman 50% And
David Blinderman - 50%

160

October 26, 2016

Vendor 89364

BULLEY ANDREWS, LLC
1755 WEST ARMITAGE AVE.

CHICAGO, IL 6062

Tim Puntilio

773 235-2433

Ownership: Allan E. Bulley Ii - 50%, Allan E.
Bulley Ill.- 25% And Susan Bulley - 25%

Vendor 59564 

CMM GROUP, INC
17704 PAXTON AVE.

LANSING, IL 60438

Michael D. Bergin

708 251-5910

Ownership: Michael E. Bergin - 34%, Robert
R. Gates - 33% And Brenda L. Bergin - 33%
Vendor 12083

Cornerstone Contracting Inc
831 Oakton St Suite A

Elk Grove Village, IL 6000?

Christian D. Blake

847 593-0010

Ownership: John R. Oehler - 79% And
Christian D. Blake - 21%

7)

8)

9)

10)
Vendor 17543

DEVELOPMENT SOLUTIONS INC
20 NORTH STREET, SUITE 2550

CHICAGO, IL 60602

James J. Karcz

312 629-2800 x:1012

Ownership: Craig Manska- 40%, Daniel
Mazeiro - 40%, Ivan Katlan - 10%, Michael

Nolan - 5% And Martin Moran - 5% 11)
Vendor 64950

ELANAR CONSTRUCTION COMPANY
6620 WEST BELMONT AVE.

CH ICAGO. IL 60634-3934

Ross Burns

773 628-7011

OwnerShip: Ross M. Burns - 100%

12)
Vendor 76326

F.H. PASCHEN, S.N. NIELSEN 8:

ASSOCIATES, LLC
5515 N. EAST RIVER RD.

CHICAGO, IL 60656

Robert F. Zitek

773 444-3474

Ownership: th Tr Trust No 1 65%, James V.
Blair - 18%. James J. - And 3
Other Members With Less Than 4% Interest.

161

October 26, 2016

Vendor 41829

FRIEDLER CONSTRUCTION COMPANY
1001 N. MILWAUKEE AVE. STE 402

CHICAGO, IL 60642

Eric M. Friedler

. 773 661 -5720

Ownership: Eric M. Friedler .- 100%

Vendor 13288

IDEAL HEATING COMPANY
9515 SOUTHVIEW AVE

BROOKFILED, 60513

Charles M. Usher Jr

708 680-5000

Ownership: Charles M. Usher Jr. 52%,
Andrew L. Usher - 24%. And Edward M. Usher
- 240/0 .
Vendor# 23996

K.R. MILLER CONTRACTORS, INC.
1624 COLONIAL PARKWAY
INVERNESS, IL 6006?

Keith .R. Miller

847 358-6400

Ownership: Keith R. Miller- 100%

13)

14)

15)

16)
Vendor 17538

KEE CONSTRUCTION LLC
11002 WHIPPLE

CHICAGO, IL 60655

Greta Keranen

773 809-3118
Ownership: Greta Keranen - 100%

Vendor# 45621 17)

MURPHY 8: JONES CO INC
4040 N. NASHVILLE AVENUE

CHICAGO, IL 60634

Ed Latko

773 794-7900 
Ownership: Ed Latko - 100%

Vendor 65706

18)
MZI BUILDING SERVICES INC
1937 FULTON ST

CHICAGO. IL 60612

Arthur Miller

312 492-8740

Ownership: Arthur Miller - 100%

162

October 26, 2016

Vendor# 37757

OAKLEY CONSTRUCTION CO. INC.
7815 SOUTH CLAREMONT AVENUE

CHICAGO, IL 60620

Augustine Afriyie

773 434-1616

Ownership: Augustine Afriyie - 50% And Mary
Kwateng - 50%

Vendor 31792

OCA CONSTRUCTION, INC
8434 CORCORAN RD

WILLOW SPRINGS, lL'60480

Kelly Heneghan

708 839-5605

Ownership: Kelly Heneghan - 51 And John
O'Connor - 49% .

Vendor 11067

OLD VETERAN CONSTRUCTION. INC
10942 SOUTH HALSTED STREET

CHICAGO, IL 60628

Jose Maldonado

- 773 821 ?9900

Ownership: Jose Maldonado - 100%

19)

20)

21)

22)
Vendor 69883

POWERS SONS CONSTRUCTION

COMPANY, INC
2636 WEST 15TH AVE.

GARY. IN 46404

Kelly Powers Bana

219 949-3100

Ownership: Mamon Powers Jr - 50% And
Claude Powers - 50% 23)

Vendor 68006

R.J. OLMEN COMPANY
3200 WEST LAKE AVE

GLENVIEW, IL 60026

Stan Olmen

847 724-0994

Ownership: Stanley J. Olmen- 41%, Wendy L.
Olmen 41% And Patricia M. Olmen - 18% 24)
Vendor 27686

RELIABLE ASSOCIATES CONSTRUCTION

COMPANY 
4106 EMERALD AVE

CHICAGO, IL 60609

Mark Giebelhausen

312 666-3626

Ownership: Linval J. Chung - 100%

163

October 26, 2016

Vendor 12831

REYES GROUP LTD.
15515 S. CRAWFORD AVENUE

MARKHAM, IL 60428

Marcos Reyes

708 596-7100
OwnerShip: Marcos G. Reyes - 100%

Vendor 16324

SIMPSON CONSTRUCTION CO.
701 25TH AVENUE

BELLWOOD, IL 60104

Robert E. Hansen

708 544-3800

Ownership: Robert E. Hansen - 67%1And
Company Owned Stock 33%

Vendor 20152

THE GEORGE CONSTRUCTION

COMPANY
790 CENTRAL AVE

WOOD DALE, IL 60191

John Pridmore
630 860-7333
Ownership: The George Sollitt Construction

Company Employee Stock OwnerShip Plan -
100%

October 26, 2016

25) 28)
Vendor 13330 Vendor 97145
THE LOMBARD COMPANY WIGHT CONSTRUCTION SERVICES, INC
4245 W. 123RD STREET 2500 FRONTAGE-RD 
IL 60803 DARIEN, IL 60561
Daniel J. Lombarg Kenneth Osmun
708 389-1060 312 261-5700
Ownership: Lombard Investment Co - 100% Ownership: Mark Wight - 100%
26)

Vendor 15399

TYLER LANE CONSTRUCTION, INC.
999 EAST TOUHY AVENUE

DES PLAINES, IL 60018

Lany Vacala

847 813-6820

Ownership; Larry Vacala - 100%

.27)
Vendor 41437

UJAMAA CONSTRUCTION INC
7744 S. STONY ISLAND AVE.
CHICAGO, IL 60649

Jimmy Akintonde

773 602-1100

Ownership: Jimmy Akintonde - 100%

16-1026-PR6

AUTHORIZE A NEW AGREEMENT WITH THE CONCORD CONSULTING GROUP OF ILLINOIS, INC.
FOR COST ESTIMATING SERVICES

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Authorize a new agreement with The Concord Consulting Group of Illinois. Inc. to provide cost estimating
services to the Department of Facilities at an estimated annual cost set forth in the Compensation Section
of this report. Vendor was selected on a competitive basis pursuant to Board Rule 7-2. A written
agreement for Vendor?s services is currently being negotiated. No services shall be provided by Vendor
and no payment shall be made to Vendor prior to the execution of their written agreement. The authority
granted herein shall automatically rescind in the event a written agreement is not executed within 90 days
of the date of this Board Report. Information pertinent to this agreement is stated below.

Specification Number: 16-35003?

Contract Administrator: Hemandez,Miss Patriciai773-553-2280
VENDOR:

1) Vendor 46678
CONCORD CONSULTING GROUP OF
ILLINOIS INC, THE
55 EAST MONROE STREET
CHICAGO, IL
Eamon Ryan
312 424-0250

Ownership: Edward Strich - 80%, Eamon
Ryan - 10% And John Duggan - 10%

164

October 26, 2016

USER INFORMATION 

Contact:
11860 - Facility Operations Maintenance
42 West Madison 'Street
Chicago, IL 80602
De Runlz, Ms. Mary
- 773553-2960
TERM:

The term of this agreement shall commence on January 1, 201 and shall end December 31, 2019. This
agreement shall have two (2) Options to renew for periods of one (1) year each.

EARLY TERMINATION RIGHT:
The Board shall have the right to terminate this agreement with 30 days written notice.

SCOPE OF SERVICES.

Vendor will provide cost estimating services for all work associated with school construction projects,
whether by Operations and Maintenance, Capital or Public Building Commission including, but not limited
to the following:

Provide on-screen and digitizer take-offs and pricing including escalation rates/factors.

Derive material quantities and productivity units form Building Information Modeling (BIM) design
environment.

Provide estimates at various milestdnes of design life cycle, such as transfer estimates, 75% design,
100% design, and out? to-bid estimates.

Provide assessment and costing tables to supplement the CPS biannual assessment tool to assist with
long term capital plan

Review Job Order Costing Proposal for accuracy.

Provide accurate estimates including statistical analysis with respect to construction trends, material price
changes, Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design requirements, environmental, labor
disputes, and other in?uences In the market place.

Provide Schedule of Values for bid estimates and identify areas that might require increased
project control efforts to mitigate front-end loading and over expenditures.

Review all change order using Oracle Contracts Manager.

DELIVERABLES:

Vendor will provide cost estimating services for demolition, renovation, new construction and utilities for
entirety of the Board's portfolio, as required during various phases of design and during construction to
review and validate cost implications associated with the base work and change management. The
estimates will be organized by the 2010 Construction Standards Institute Master Format.
Vendor?s services will be delivered in a client focused manner, seamlessly and within a web-based
integrated program management environment.

OUTCOMES:
Vendor's services will result in accurate cost d'ata and analysis which will enable the effective and ef?cient
management of the Board's Capital Improvement Program and Operations and Maintenance Program.

COMPENSATION:
Vendor shall be paid as agreed upon in the agreement. Estimated annual costs for the three (3) year
term are set forth below: $600,000, FY17, FY18 and FY19.

REIMBURSABLE EXPENSES:
None.

AUTHORIZATION:

Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant terms and conditions in the written agreement.
Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the agreement. Authorize Chief Facilities Of?cer to
execute all ancillary documents required to administer or effectuate this agreement.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION:

Pursuant to the Remedial Program for Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise Participation
(MIWBE Program) in Goods and Services Contracts, this contract is in full compliance with the proposed
goals of 30% MBE and 7% WBE and will be monitored on a quarterly basis.

The vendor has scheduled the following ?rms:

Total MBE: 30%

Spaan Tech, inc.

311 S. Wacker Dr., Suite 2400
Chicago, IL 60606
Ownership: Smita N. Shah

165

October 26, 2016

Total 7%
Coordinated Construction Project Control Services
18W140 Butter?eid Road
Oakbrook Terrace, IL 60181
Ownership: Jacqueline Doyle

LSC REVIEW:
Local School Council approval is not applicable to? this report.

FINANCIAL:
Various Capital Funds
Unit numbers 12150, 11880
$600,000 FY17, FY18, FY19
Not to exceed $1,800,000 for the three year term.
Future year funding is contingent upon budget appropriation and approval.

Not Applicable

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance, with 105 ILCS
5134-131, the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations. -

Con?icts 7- The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of 
of?ce. 

Indebtedness - The Board's Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26. 1996 (96-0626-P03), as amended
from time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics - The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 (11-0525-P02), as amended from time to time,
shail be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

COntingent Liability - The agreement shall contain "the clause that any expenditure beyond the current
?scal year is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in the subsequent ?scal year
budget(s).

16-1026-PR7

AUTHORIZE THE SECOND RENEWAL AGREEMENT WITH TRIMARK MARLINN, LLC FOR
THE PURCHASE OF FOOD SERVICE EQUIPMENT AND RELATED INSTALLATION SERVICES

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Authorize the second reneWaI agreement with Trimark Marlinn, LLC for the purchase of food service
equipment and related installation services to Nutrition Support Services and Early College and Career at
an estimated annual cost set forth in the Compensation Section of this report. A written document
exercising this option is currently being negotiated. No payment shall be made to Trimark Marlinn, LLC
during the option period prior to execution of the written document. The authority granted herein shall
automaticalty rescind in the event a written document is not exe0uted within 90 days of the date of this
Board Report. lnforrnation pertinent to this option is stated below.

Contract Administrator Knowles, Mr. Jonathan 1773-553?2280
VENDOR:

1) Vendor 94592
TRIMARK MARLINN, LLC
6100 WEST 73RD STREET

BEDFORD PARK, IL 60638

Debbie Moutry
708 496-5772

Ownership: Tn'mark Usa, - Majority, For

Pro?t Company - No Shareholder Has More
Than 10% Interest

166

October 26, 2016

USER INFORMATION 

Project
Manager: 12010 - Nutrition Support Services

42 West Madison Street
Chicago, IL 60602
Fowler, Mrs. Leslie A.
773-553-2830

ORIGINAL AGREEMENT:

The original agreement (authorized by Board Report 1) in the amount of $7,300,000 was for
a term commencing December 3, 2013 and ending December 2, 2015 with the Board having 3 options to
renew for 1 year terms. The agreement was renewed (authorized by Board Report 15-1028-PR17) in the
amount of $1,500,000.00 for a term commencing December 3, 2015 and ending December 2, 2016. The
?rst renewal agreement was amended (authorized by Board Report 16-0525-PR14) to increase the not to
exceed from $1,500,000.00 to $3,000,000.00. The original agreement was awarded on a competitive
basis pursuant to Board Rule 7-2.

OPTION PERIOD:
The term of this agreement is being renewed for 1 year commencing December 3, 2016 and ending
December 2, 2017.

OPTION PERIODS REMAINING:
There is 1 option period for a 1 year term remaining.

SCOPE OF SERVICES:

Vendor will continue to provide food service and culinary lab equipment on an as-needed basis. Goods
are as follows: Category 1 - Refrigeration Equipment, Category 2 - Heating and Sewing Equipment,
Category 3 Cooking Preparation Equipment, Category 4 - Oven and Holding Equipment, Category 5-
Steamers and Pans, Category 6 - Shelving, and Category 7 - Culinary Lab Equipment.

DELIVERABLES:
Vendor will continue to provide food service equipment and related installation services.

OUTCOMES: 
These purchases will result in standardization across the district and have the potential to realize volume
discounts.

COMPENSATION:

Vendor shall be paid during'this option period as speci?ed in the agreement; total cost not to exceed
$3,000,000.00. Estimated annual costs for this Option period are set forth below:

FY1 7: $1,750,000.00 

FY18: $1,250,000.00

AUTHORIZATION:

Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant terms and conditions in the written option
document. Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the option document. Authorize the Chief
Procurement Of?cer to execute all ancillary documents required to administer or effectuate this option
agreement.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION:

This agreement is in full compliance with the goals required by the Remedial Program for Minority and
Women Owned Business Enterprise Participation in Goods and Services Contracts. The goals
for this agreement include 30% total MBE and 15% total WBE participation.

LSC REVIEW:
Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL: 

Fund 312 - Nutrition Support Services City Wide, Unit 12050:
FY17: $1,633,333.33

FY18: $1,116,666.66

Not to exceed $2,800,000 for the one year term.

Fund 312 - Early College and Career Education - City Wide, Unit 13727:
FY17: $100,000

FY18: $100,000

Not to exceed $200,000 for the one year term.

Future year funding is contingent upon budget appropriation and approval.

Not Applicable

167

October 26, 2016

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 ILCS
5134-131 the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations.

Con?icts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the 
provisions of 105 ILCS which restricts the employment of. or the letting of contracts to, former

Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of
of?ce. -

Indebtedness - The Board's Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 1996 as amended
from time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics - The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 as amended from time to time,
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability - The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current
?scal year is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in the subsequent ?scal year
budget(s).

16-1026-PR8

AUTHORIZE A NEW AGREEMENT WITH BSN SPORTS LLC FOR THE PURCHASE OF PHYSICAL
EDUCATION SUPPLIES AND EQUIPMENT

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Authorize a new agreement with BSN Sports LLC for the purchase of physiCaI education supplies and

. equipment to all schools and departments at an estimated annual cost set forth in the Compensation
Section of this report. Vendor was selected on a competitive basis pursuant to a Request for Proposal
(#16?07) issued by Region 4 Education Service Center (ESC) as the Lead Public Agency. with the
assistance of The Purchasing Cooperative Network (T CPN). Subsequently, BSN Sports LLC entered into
a Vendor Contract with Region 4 E80 and TCPN The Board desires to purchase physical
education supplies and equipment based upon that Vendor Contract pursuant to Board Rule 7?2.7, which
authorizes the Board to purchase non-biddable and biddable items through government purchasing
cooperative contracts. Awn?tten agreement for this purchase is currently being negotiated. No goods may
be ordered or received and no payment-shall be made to Vendor prior to the execution of their written
agreement. The authority granted herein shall automatically rescind in the event a written agreement is
not exeCUted within 90 days of the date of this Board Report. lnforrnation pertinent to this- agreement is
stated below.

Contract Administrator: . Knowles, Mr. Jonathan] 773-553-2280
VENDOR:

1) Vendor# 22464
BSN SPORTS LLC FORMERLY KNOWN
AS BSN SPORTS INC
1901 DIPLOMAT DRIVE

FARMERS BRANCH, TX 75234

Brad Ciesielski
972 884-7210

Ownership: 100% Owned By Varsity Brands
Holdings 00., Inc

USER INFORMATION 
Project
Manager: 12210 - Procurement and Contracts Of?ce
42 West Madison Street

Chicago, IL 60602

Norgren, Mrs. Leslie

773-553-2280
TERM:

The term of this agreement shall commence on November 1, 2016 and shall end on October 31, 2019.
This agreement shall have two (2) options to renew for periods of one (1) year each.

168

October 26, 2016

EARLY TERMINATION RIGHT:
The Board shall have the right to terminate this agreement with 30 days written notice.

OUTCOMES:
This agreement will result in the District?wide purchase of physical education supplies and equipment.

COMPENSATION:

Vendor shall be paid in accordance with the unit prices contained in the agreement; Estimated annual
costs for the three (3) year term are set forth below:

FY17 $1,333,333.33

FY18 $2,000,000.00

FY19 $2,000,000.00

FY20 $666,666.67

AUTHORIZATION:

Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant terms and conditions in the written agreement.
Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the agreement. Authorize Chief Procurement Of?cer to
execute all ancillary documents required to administer or effectuate this agreement.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION:
Pursuant to the Remedial Programs for Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise 
Participation, the goals for this award are 18% MBE. 

LSC REVIEW:
Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL:
Charge to various schools and departments.

FY17 $1,333,333.33

FY18 $2,000,000.00

FY19 $2,000,000.00

FY20 $666,666.67

Not to exceed $6,000,000.00 for the three (3) year term.

Future year funding is contingent upon budget appropriation and approval.

Not Applicable

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 ILCS
the inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel
neCessary to conduct these investigations.

Conflicts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 ILCS which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of
office.

Indebtedness - The Board's Indebtedness Policy'adopted June 26, 1996 (96-0626-P03), as amended
from time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics - The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 as amended from time to time,
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability . The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current
?scal year is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in the subsequent ?scal year
budget(s). .

16-1026-PR9

AUTHORIZE A NEW AGREEMENT WITH FIT KIDS, INC DBA STRETCH AND GROW NORTH INC
FOR RECESS SERVICES AT DISNEY AND HIBBARD ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Authorize a new agreement with Fit Kids, Inc. DBA Stretch-N-Grow North Inc. to provide recess services
to Disney and Hibbard elementary schools at an estimated annual cost set forth in the
Compensation Section of this report. Vendor was selected on a competitive basis pursuant to Board Rule
7-2. A written agreement for Vendor?s services is currently being negotiated. No services shail be
provided by Vendor and no payment shall be made to Vendor prior to the execution of their written 
agreement. The authority granted herein shall automatically rescind in the event a written agreement is.
not executed within 90 days of the date of this Board Report. Information pertinent to this agreement is
stated below.

169

October 26, 2016

Contract Administrator Hubbard. Ms. Carisa Ann I 773-553-2280
CPOR Number 16-0926-CPOR-1799

VENDOR:
1) Vendor# 55040
FIT KIDS, INC DBA STRETCH-N-GROW

NORTH. INC
1737 N. PAULINA., STE 112

CHICAGO, IL 60622

Michelle Glick
773 4866540

Ownership: Michelle Glick - 100%
USER INFORMATION 

Project 
Manager: 14050 - Of?ce of Student Health 8: Wellness

42 West Madison Street
Chicago, IL 60602
Declemente, Mrs. Tarrah K.

773-553-1886

PM Contact: 
12010 - Nutrition Support Services
42 West Madison Street
Chicago, IL 60602
Fowler, Mrs. Leslie A.
773653?2830

TERM:

The term of this agreement shall commence on November 1, 2016 and shall and June 30, 2017. This
agreement has one (1) option to renew for a period of tweive (12) months.

EARLY TERMINATION RIGHT:
The Board shall have the right to terminate this agreement with 30 days written notice.

SCOPE OF SERVICES:

Vendor will pr0vide an unstructured recess program representative of deveiopmentally appropriate play,
order, fun, choice, and well-being. Vendor's coaches will work with lunch staff and security staff to ensure
a safe and effective lunch recess program.

DELIVERABLES:

The Vendor will provide coaches to ensure that students practice. appropriate behavior while transitioning,
standing in lunch lines. walking in the hallway, and while interacting at recess. Coaches will communicate
daily with school staff to ensure student safety and well-being.

OUTCOMES:
Vendor's services will result in schools increased capacity and provide critical services for daily recess.

COMPENSATION:
Vendor shall be paid as follows: Estimated annual cost not to exceed $161,806.00, FY17

REIMBURSABLE EXPENSES:
None

AUTHORIZATION: .

Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant terms andconditions in the written agreement.
Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the agreement. Authorize the Executive Director of
Nutrition Support Services to execute all ancillary documents required to administer or effectuate this
agreement.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION:
Pursuant to the Remedial Programs for Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise (MIWBE)
Participation, the goals for this award are 100% WBE.

170

October 26, 2016

LSC REVIEW:
Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL:

Various Funds

28801,William Hibbard School

2081, George Elementary School
29401, Walt Disney Magnet School

$161,806.00, FY17
Not to exceed $161,806.00

Not Applicable

GENERAL CONDITIONS: 

Inspector General - Each, party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 ILCS
the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Educationhas the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that thelnspector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations.

Con?icts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 ILCS which restricts the employment of. or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of
of?ce. 

Indebtedness - The Board's Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 1996 as amended
from time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics - The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 (11-0525-P02), as amended from time to time,
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability - The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current
?scal year is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in the subsequent ?scal year
ibudget(s).

16-1026-PR10

AUTHORIZE A NEW AGREEMENT WITH BLAIDA AND ASSOCIATES, LLC FOR LOBBYING
SERVICES .

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Authorize a new agreement with Blaida and Associates, LLC to provide lobbying services to the Public
Policy Department at an estimated annual cost set forth in the Compensation Section of this report.
Vendor was selected on a non-competitive basis. This request was presented to the Non-Competitive
Procurement Review Committee and approved by Chief Procurement Of?cer. Upon- approval as a single
source, this item was published on the Procurement website on October 12, 2016, found here:
The item will remain on the Procurement website until the October 26,
2016 meeting. This process complies with the independent consultant's recommendations for single
source procurements and the Board's Single/Sole Source Committe Charter. A written agreement for
Vendor's services is currently being negotiated. No services shall be provided by Vendor and no payment
shall be made to Vendor prior to the execution of their written agreement. The authority granted herein
shall automatically rescind in the event a written agreement is not executed within 90 days of the date of
this Board Report. Information pertinent to this agreement is stated below.

Contract Administrator Knowles, Mr. Jonathan I 773-553-2280

VENDOR:
1) Vendor 16062

Blaida and Associates LLC
30 North LaSalle St Suite 2800

Chicago, IL 60602

Derek Blaida
312 714?5172

Ownership Information: 100% Derek Blaida

171

October 26, 2016

USER INFORMATION 

Project

Manager: 10450 - Intergovernmental Relations
42 West Madison Street
Chicago, IL 60602
Bilecki, Mr. Francis William
773-535-5100

TERM:

The term of this agreement shall commence on November 1, 2016 and shall end October 31, 2017. This
agreement shall have two (2) options to renew for periods of one (1) year each.

EARLY TERMINATION RIGHT:
The Board shall have the right to terminate this agreement with 30 days written notice.

SCOPE OF SERVICES:

- Lobby to pass legislation that allows the state to contribute $215 million to the Chicago Teachers'
Pension Fund.

- Lobby to pass legislation to restore the Chicago Teachers' Pension Fund prOperty tax, outside of
Property Tax Extension Law Limit (PTELL) tax caps.

- Lobby to pass legislation to revise the illinois Charter School Commission.

- Lobby to pass legislation that adjusts the state's funding formula for public education to ensure students
in high poverty and high need receive the necessary funds.

OUTCOMES:
Vendor's services will result In accomplishing legislative agenda items for veto session, occurring in

November and December. Given signi?cant budget pressures and anticipated heavy legislative lifts. we
require regular advice and assistance

COMPENSATION:

Vendor shall be paid as follows:

$8,000.00 per month OVer the one (1) year term
FY17, $64,000.00

FY18. $32,000.00

Not to exceed: $96,000.00

REIMBURSABLE EXPENSES:
None

AUTHORIZATION:

Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant terms and conditions in the written agreement.
Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the agreement. Authorize Chief Policy Of?cer to
execute all ancillary documents reCluired to administer or effectuate this agreement.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION:
Pursuant to the Remedial Program for Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise Participation
(MIWBE Program). there are no MIWBE goals set for this,?scope is not further divisible.

LSC REVIEW:
Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL:

10450 - Intergovernmental Relations Fund 115

FY17 $32,000.00

FY18 $64,000.00

Not to exceed: $96,000.00

Future year funding is contingent upon budget appropriation and approval.

CF Not Applicable

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General? Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 ILCS
the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations.

Con?icts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 ILCS which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to, former

Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of
of?ce.

172

October 26, 2016

Indebtedness - The Board's Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 1996 (96-0626-PO3), as amended
from time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics - The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 (11-0525-P02), as amended from time to time,
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability - The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current
?scal year is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in the subsequent ?scal year
budget(s).

16-1 026-PR11

AMEND BOARD REPORT 
AMEND BOARD REPORT 16-0427-PR12
AUTHORIZE THE EXTENSION OF THE AGREEMENT WITH SEVERIN INTERMEDIATE HOLDINGS,
LLC DBA POWERSCHOOL GROUP LLC (AS SUCCESSOR-IN-INTEREST TO MAXIMUS K-12
EDUCATION, INC. DBA MAXIMUS INC.) FOR LICENSE AND MAINTENANCE OF STUDENT
SERVICES MANAGEMENT SOFTWARE 

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Authorize the extension of the agreement with Severin lnterrnediate Holdings, LLC DBA PowerSchool
Group LLC, (as successor-in?interest to MAXIMUS Education, Inc. DBA MAXIMUS, Inc.) to provide
maintenance and support for the Student Services Management (SSM) solution at an estimated annual
cost set forth in the Compensation section of this report. A written extension document is currently being
negotiated. No payment shall be made to Powerschool Group LLC during this extension period prior to
execution of their written document. The authority granted herein shall automatically rescind in the event
a written document is not executed within 90 days of the date of this amended Board Report. Information
pertinent to this extension is stated below.

- This September 2016 amendment is necessary to i) increase the compensation amount by $25,000 and
ii) approve the assignment of the original software maintenance and support agreement as extended to
PowerSchool Group LLC.

this October 2016 amendment is nemssam 19 increase the compensation amount by $50,000.00 to
te ara rofession i?c ti form roces .

Contract Administrator Knowles, Mr. Jonathan I 773?553-2280

2) Vendor 16589
SEVERIN INTERMEDIATE HOLDINGS. LLC
DBA POWERSCHOOL GROUP LLC
0 BOX 398408
SAN FRANCISCO, CA 94139-8408
Jim Swaney
888 265-7641

Ownership: Pn Holdings, Inc. - 100%
(Publicly Traded)

USER INFORMATION 

Project 12510 - Information Technology Services
Manage" 42 West Madison Street

Chicago, IL 60602

Gallagher, Mr. Patrick F.

773-553-1300

ORIGINAL AGREEMENT:

The original Agreement (authorized by Board Report in the amount of $540,000.00 was
for a term commencing November 1, 2009 and ending October 31, 2011, with the Board having three (3)
options to renew for one (1) year each. The original agreement was renewed (authorized by Board
Report in the amount of $300,000.00 for a term commencing November 1, 2011 and
ending October 31, 2012. Board Report was amended by Board Report 
to increase the amount to $321,000.00. ,The agreement was further renewed (authorized by Board
Report#12-0925-PR6) in the amount of $325,000.00 for a term commencing November 1, 2012 and
ending October 31. 2013 and again renewed (authorized by Board Report for a term
commencing November 1, 2013 and ending October 31, 2014. The agreement was further renewed
(authorized by Board Report for a term commencing November 1, 2014 and ending June
30, 2016. The original agreement was awarded on a non-competitive basis: the soie-somce request was
presented to the Non?Competitive Procurement Review Committee and approved by the Chief
Procurement Of?cer.

173

October 26, 2016

EXTENSION PERIOD:
The term of this agreement' IS being extended for 12 months commencing July 1, 2016 to June 30 2017

SCOPE OF SERVICES:

Vendor will continue to provide uniimited licenses to the Board to use the Student Services Management
software module for tracking clinical services and special education case management. Vendor will
provide maintenance and support for this licensed software. 

DELIVERABLES:

Vendor will continue to provide maintenance which consists of program corrections and enhancements
that Vendor may develop dunng this renewal term as long as the Board's annual maintenance fee' Is
current. Maintenance will also include any changes required by the Board as a result of new or modi?ed
State or Federal requirements regarding special education. Vendor will also provide support on this
licensed software, which consists of resolving trouble tiCkets, corrective maintenance, knowledge
management, and knowledge transfer. In addition, Vendor will provide:

Continued development-and customization of special education and health service electronic documents,
including the individualized Education Program, 504 Plan, Health Care Plan, and Placement;

Enhanced calendar and communication modules to facilitate staff-parent meetings; .

Enhanced clinician service capture module to facilitate reporting of reimbursement for services provided
by clinicians;

Enhanced calendar and communication modules to facilitate staff-parent meetings;

Enhanced technical support tools, allowing help desk agents to log in as a user and identify the issue;
and Upgrade to TIeNet version 16.0 (2016).

OUTCOMESI
Vendors services will result in enhancing educational opportunities and overall education processes,
enabling new application development, and allowing for future growth. The database and enterprise

software program will further automate the Board's Individualized Education Program process and will
enhance the Board's ability to effectively educate students.

COMPENSATION:
Vendor shall be paid during this option period as follows:
Estimated annual costs for the 12 month term are set forth below:

AUTHORIZATION:

Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant terms andconditions in the written extension 
document. Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the extension document. Authorize Chief
Information Of?cer to execute all ancillary documents required to administer or effectuate this option
agreement.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION: .
Pursuant to Section 9. 5 of the Remedial Program for Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise
Participation (MIWBE Program), there were no MWBE goals set for this solicitation which Is proprietary
software, scope is not further divisible.

LSC REVIEW.
Local School Council approvat' Is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL:

Fund 1 15

Information-Technology Services, Unit 12510
Diverse Learner Supports and Services, Unit 11670


a - 1


Not to Exceed: . 4 4 71 .00
Future year funding is contingent upon budget appropriation and approval.

Not Applicable

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 ILCS
the Inspector General of the Chicago'Board of Education has the authority to conduct cenain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations.

Con?icts The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 ILCS 5/34? 21. 3 which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of
of?ce. I

174

October 26, 2016

Indebtedness - The Board's Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 1996 (96-0626-P03), as amended
from time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics - The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 (11-0525-P02), as amended from time to time.
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement. 

Contingent Liability - The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current
?scal year is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in the subsequent ?scal year
budget(s). 

16-1026-PR12

AMEND BOARD REPORT 1S-0824-PR13
AUTHORIZE A NEW AGREEMENTSWITH BLUE CROSS BLUE SHIELD OF ILLINOIS FOR
HMO AND PPO HEALTHCARE ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES MEDICAL AND ANCILLARY MEDICAL
SERVICES AND AUTHORIZE FUNDING OF HEALTH SAVINGS ACCOUNTS AND AGREEMENT WITH
WEBSTER N.A. (HSA BANK, A DIVISION OF WEBSTER BANKI NA.I

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

 

Authorize a new agreements with Blue Cross Blue Shield of Illinois (BCBSIL) to provide HMO and PPO
healthcare administrative services for CPS medical plans and ancillary medical plans and authorize funding
of health savings accounts and agreement with Webster Bank. NA Bank. a Division of Webster
Bank, N.A.1- at an estimated annuai cost set forth in the Compensation Section of this report. Vendor was
selected on a competitive basis pursuant to Board Rule 7?2. A?Written agreements for Vendor's services is
currently being negotiated. No services shall be provided by Vendor and no payment shall be made to
Vendor prior to the execution of their written agreements. The authority granted herein shall automatically
rescind in the event a he written agreements: is arg not executed within 90 days of the date of this Board
Report. Information pertinent to this ti? agreements is stated below.

This October 2016 amendment is necessagr to clari? that there are separate contracts for the PPO and
HMO administrative services and to authorize funding of employee health savings accounts at Webster
Bank. Bank. a Division of Webster Bank. MAL

Contract Administrator Hubbard, Ms. Carisa Ann I 773?553-2280
VENDOR:

1) Vendor 36410
HEALTH CARE SERVICE 
DIBIA BLUE CROSS BLUE SHIELD OF
ILLINOIS

300 E. RANDOLPH
CHICAGO. IL 60601
Miles Dean

312 653-4581

Ownership: Mutual Legal Reserve Company
(Hcsc) There Are No Owners With Greater
Than 10% Ownership

Vendor 17792

2) WEBSTER BANK NA HSA BANK A
DIVISION OF WEBSTER BANK NA

605 N. 8TH ST

SHEBOYGAN WI 53081

Sarah Oomen

920 803-4197

Ownership: Owned By Webster Bank

 

USER INFORMATION 

Project 11010 Talent Of?ce

Manager: 42 West Madison Street
Chicago, IL 60602
Lyons, Mr. MatthewA

PM Contact: 11010 Talent Of?ce
42 West Madison Street
Chicago, IL 60602
Fairhall, Ms. Gait A

175

October 26, 201 6

TERM:

The term of this each BCBSIL agreement shall commence on January 1, 2017 and shall end December 31,

2019. This The BCBSIL __agreements shall have three (3) options to renew for periods of twelve (1 2) months
each. Jhe agreement with Webster Bank, N. A. Bank, a Division of Webster Bank, A. will be for a
term to be negotiated.

EARLY TERMINATION RIGHT: 7
The Board shall have the right to terminate this each agreement withSQ-days upon written notice.

SCOPE OF SERVICES:

Vendor will provide the administrative services for the following CPS medical plans and ancillary medical
plans in support of Board employees and their families: Preferred Provider Organization (PPO), Health

Maintenance Organization (HMO), Health Savings Plan (HSA), Wellness Program, Disease Management,
Utilization Management, Mental Health, Substance Abuse, and Employee Assistance Program (EAP).

DELIVERABLES:

Vendor will provide the administrative services for the following CPS medical plans and ancillary medical
plans in support of Board employees and their families: Preferred Provider Organization (PPO). Health
Maintenance Organization (HMO), Health Savings Plan (HSA), Wellness Program, Disease Management,
Utilization Management, Mental Health, Substance Abuse, and Employee Assistance Program (EAP).

OUTCOMES:

Vendor's services will result in comprehensive and affordable healthcare for the Board's self-insured
medical benefits program for Chicago Public Schools employees. By consolidating medical and
healthcare provider pool, it will provide cost-savings on administrative fees and lower the costs for the
district while maintaining "best in class? healthcare services for CPS employees and their families. Since
the implementation of the Affordable Healthcare Act (ACA), medical insurance carriers are mandated to
provide mental health parity and utilization services. Hence, medical insurance carriers now have the
expertise in providing ancillary plans at a reduced cost which are bundled with medical insurance plans.

COMPENSATION:

Vendor shall be paid as follows: Estimated annual costs for the three (3) year term are set forth below. M3.
amounts below are aggregate amounts for all contracts with Vendor. Webster Bank. NA. (HSA Bank, a
Division of Webster Bank, NA.) will provide services at no cost to the Board. Webster Bank, NA. (HSA

Bank a Division of WebsterB nk N.A. will be aid fees from. atIn em lo ee savrn saccounts.

   

$37,160,092 FY17
$74,320,184 FY18
$74,320,184 FY19
$37,160,092 FY20

REIMBURSABLE EXPENSES:
None

AUTHORIZATION: 

Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant terms and conditions in the written agreement?,_
including any indemnification to be provided to Webster Bank. MA. I HSA Bank. a Division of Webster Bank
NA). Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the agreemeng. Authorize Chief Of?cer of Talent
to execute all ancillary documents required to administer or effectuate this th_eagreement?.

 

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION: 

Pursuant to the Remedial Program for Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise Participation in
Goods and Services Contracts, the Per Contract method for MNVBE participation will be utilized. Thus,
vendor will adhere to the required goals of 30% MBE and 7% WBE participation.

LSC REVIEW:
Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL:

Fund 115 Pensi0n Liability-City Wide, Unit 12470

$37,160,092 FY17

$74,320,184 FY18

$74,320,184 FY19

$37,160,092 FY20

Future year funding is contingent upon appropriation and approval.

Not Applicable

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 ILCS
5134-131, the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel necessary
to conduct those investigations

176

October 26, 2016

Con?icts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 ILCS 5134-213 which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or_other termination of their terms of of?ce.

Indebtedness - The Board?s Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 1996 (96-0626-PO3), as amended from
time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics - The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 as amended from time to time,
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability - The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current ?scal
year is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in the subsequent ?scal year budget(s).

16-1026-PR13

AUTHORIZE NEW AGREEMENTS WITH VARIOUS VENDORS FOR DEFINED CONTRIBUTION
RETIREMENT SERVICES

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Authorize new agreements with various vendors to provide De?ned Contribution Retirement services to
the Talent Of?ce at no cost to the Board. Vendors were selected on a competitive basis pursuant to
Board Rule 7?2. Written agreements for Vendors' services are currently being negotiated. No services
shall be provided by and no payment shall be made to any Vendor prior to execution of their written
agreement. The authority granted herein shall automatically rescind as to each Vendor in the event their
written agreement is not executed within 90 days of the date of this Board Report. Information pertinent to
the agreements is stated below.

Speci?cation Number 15~350035

Contract Administrator Hubbard, Ms. Carisa Ann I 773-553-2280
VENDOR:

1) Vendor 69802
GREAT-WEST LIFE ANNUITY
INSURANCE COMPANY
8515 EAST ORCHARD RD

GREENWOOD VILLAGE, CO 80111

Daniel Morrison
303 737-6992

Ownership: No Shareholder Owns Shares
Equal Or In Excess Of 10%

2) Vendor 23624
VARIABLE ANNUITY LIFE INSURANCE
COMPANY (VALIC)
2929 ALLEN PARKWAY, STE L6-30

HOUSTON, TX 77019

Torn Goodwin
713 831-4070

Ownership: No Shareholder Owns Shares
Equal Or In Excess Of 10%

3) Vendor# 91417
Voya Retirement Insurance and Annuity
Company 
ONE ORANGE WAY

WINDSOR, CT 06095

Carol B. Keen
860 580-1651

Ownership: No Shareholder Owns Shares
Equal Or In Excess 0f 10%

177

October 26, 2016

USER INFORMATION 

Contact:
11010 - Talent Of?ce
42 West Madison Street
Chicago, IL 60602
Lyons, Mr. MatthewA
77 3-553-2520

Project

Manager: 12440 - Treasury
42 West Madison Street
Chicago, IL .60602 1
Bennett, Ms. dennie 
773-890-8790

TERM:
The term of each agreement shall commence on January 1, 2017 and shall end December 31, 2019. The
agreements shall have two (2) options to renew for periods of two (2) years each.

EARLY TERMINATION RIGHT:
The Board shall have the right to terminate each agreement with 30 days written notice.

SCOPE OF SERVICES:

Vendors shall provide comprehensive de?ned contribution retirement services which include:
-Management of investment options (either proprietary, non-proprietary or a combination)
-Participation Communication

-AdministrationIRecord keeping

-Participant Education

~Vendors shall only provide those products and services within the product line for which they were
originally selected.

DELIVERABLES: -

Vendors shall provide periodic reports related to program activities, including enrollment, vendor
performance, investment performance and participant services. Vendors shall develop communication
materials. conduct education seminars and provide training materials for staff.

OUTCOMES:
Vendors' services will result in a program that provides quality investment products and services, with
cost effective fees that enhance the Board of Education's de?ned contributions retirement program.

COMPENSATION:
Vendors shall be paid through service fee deductions from the investment accounts of participating Board
Employees with no cost to the Board.

REIMBURSABLE EXPENSES:
None

AUTHORIZATION:

Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant terms and conditions in the written agreements.
Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the agreements. Authorize the Chief Talent Of?cer to
execute all ancillary documents required to administer or effectuate the agreements.

AF FIRMATIVE ACTION:
Pursuant to the Remedial Program for Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise Participation in

Goods and Services Contracts, it has been determinedthat the goals for this agreement are 15% total
MBE and 5% WBE.

LSC REVIEW:
Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL: .
Vendors shall bepaid through service fee deductions from the investment accounts of participating Board
Employees with no cost to the Board.

Not Applicable

178

October 26, 2016

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 ILCS
the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations.

Con?icts The agreement shall not be legally binding on the' Board if entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 ILCS 5/34-213 which restricts the employment of, orthe letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of
of?ce.

Indebtedness - The Board's Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 1996 as amended
from time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

. Ethics - The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 as amended from time to time,
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability - The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current
?scal year is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in the subsequent ?scal year
budget(s).

President Clark indicated that if there are no objections, Board Reports 16-1026-EX1,
16-1026-EX2, 16-1026-OP1 through 16-1026-OP4, 16-1026-AR1 through 16-1026-AR4, and
through 16-1026-PR13, with the noted abstention, would be adopted by the last
favorable roll call vote, all members voting therefore.

President Clark thereupon declared Board Reports 1 6-1026-EX1, 1 6-1 026-EX2, 16-1 026-OP1
through 16-1026-OP4, 16-1026-AR1 through 16-1026-AR4, and 16-1026-PR1 through 16-1026-PR13
adopted.

16-1026-EX3

REPORT ON PRINCIPAL CONTRACTS (NEW)
THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING:

Accept and ?le a copy of the contracts with the principals listed below who were selected by the Local
School Councils pursuant to the Illinois School Code and the Uniform Principal?s Performance Contract


DESCRIPTION: Recognize the selection by the local school councils of the individuals listed below to the
position of principal subject to the Principal Eligibility Policy, and approval of any
additional criteria by the General Counsel for the purpose of determining consistency with the Uniform
Principal?s Performance Contract, Board Rules, and Law.

The Talent Of?ce has veri?ed that the following individuals have met the requirements for eligibility.

NAME FROM

Patricia Brekke Interim Principal

Back of Yards

Rhonda Butler interim Principal

Black

Kelly Dean ISL
Network 3 Of?ce

179

IQ

Contract Principal
Back of Yards
Network: 8

P. N. 488233
Commencing: 9/1/16
Ending: 3/31/20

Contract Principal
Black

Network: 12

P. N. 299917
Commencing: 8/1/16
Ending: 7/31/20

Contract Principal
Spencer

Network: 3

RN. 117132
Commencing: 8/8/16
Ending: 8/7/20

Sherisse Freeney

Kevin Gallick

Wayne Issa

Shannae Jackson

Mary Beth Padezanin

Armando Rodriguez

Brian Tennison

Paulette Williams

Assistant Principai
Kellman

Contract Principal
Washington H.S.

Interim Principal 
Sayre

Interim Principal
Brooks H.S.

Assistant Principal
Claremont

lnte?n?m Principal
Goode

Assistant Principal
Taft H.S.

Interim Principal
Colemon

October 26, 2016

Contract Principal
Kellman

Network: 5

P.N. 141538
Commencing: 9/2/16
Ending: 9/1/20

Contract Principal
Washington H.S.
Network: 13

P.N. 479003
Commencing: 7/29/16
Ending: 7/28/20

Contract Principal
Foreman

Network: 3

P.N. 118379
Commencing: 8/8/16
Ending: 8/7/20

Contract Principal
Brooks H.S.
Network: 13

P.N. 125933
Commencing: 8/3/16
Ending: 8/2/20

Contract Principal
Claremont

Network: 10

P.N. 131014
Commencing: 8/16/16
Ending: 8/15/20

Contract Principal
Goode

Network: 10

P.N. 471786

- Commencing: 7/25/16

Ending: 7/24/20

Contract Pn'ncipal
Lane H.S.

Network: 4

P.N. 119995
Commencing: 8/22/16
Ending: 8/21/20

Contract Principal
Network: 13

P.N. 127648
Commencing: 8/2/16
Ending: 8/1/20

LSC REVIEW. The respective Local School Councils has executed the Uniform Principal?s Performance

Contract with the individuals named above.

ACTION STATUS: None.

FINANCIAL: The salaries of these individuals will be established in accordance with the provisions of the
Administrative Compensation Plan.

PERSONNEL IMPLICATIONS: The positions to be affected by approval of this action are contained in the
2016-201 7 school budget.

180

October 26, 2016
16-1026-EX4

REPORT ON PRINCIPAL CONTRACTS (RENEWAL)
THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING:

Accept and ?le copies of the contracts with the principals listed below whose contracts were renewed by
the Local School Councils pursuant to the Illinois School Code and the Uniform Principal?s Performance
Contract and 2.

Recognize the selection by local school councils of the individuals listed below to the
position of principal subject to the Principal Eligibility Policy, and approval of any additional
criteria by the General Counsel for the purpose of determining consistency with the Uniform Principal's
Performance Contract, Board Rules, and Law.

The Administrators Academy has veri?ed that the following principals have completed 20 hours of
Professional DeveIOpment. The RENEWAL contracts commence on the date specified in the contract and
terminates on the date speci?ed in the contract.

NAME FROM .. 
Scott Ahlman Contract Pn?ncipal Contract Principal
Hibbard Hibbard
Network: 1
RN. 117631

Commencing: 7/1/17
Ending: 6/30/21

DaWn Caetta Contract Principal Contract Principal
Kinzie Kinzie
Network: ISP

Commencing: 7/1/17
Ending: 6/30/21

Patrick MacMahon Contract Principal Contract Principal
Barnard Barnard
Network: 10
RN. 17400

Commencing: 2/8/17
Ending: 2/7/21

Patricia Davis McCann Contract Principal Contract Principal
Mays Mays
Network: 11
RN. 121053

Commencing: 7/1/17
Ending: 6/30/21

Antonio Ross Contract Principal Contract Principal
Hyde Park H.S. Hyde Park H.S.
Network: 9
PM 113065

Commencing: 7/1/17
Ending: 6/30/21

LSC REVIEW: The respective Local School Councils have executed the Uniform Principal?s Performance
Contract with the individuals named above.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION STATUS: None.

FINANCIAL: The salary of these individuals will be established in accordance with the provisions of the
Administrative Compensation Plan.

PERSONNEL IMPLICATIONS: The positions to be affected by approval of this action are contained in the
2016-2017 school budgets.

181

October 26, 2016

16-1026-AR5

REPORT ON BOARD REPORT RESCISSIONS
THE GENERAL COUNSEL REPORTS THE FOLLOWING:

l. Extend the rescission date of October 26, 2016 for the following Board Reports to
December 7, 2016, because the parties remain involved in good faith negotiations which
are likely to result in an agreement and the user group(s) concurs with this extension:

1. 11-0928-OP1: Reaf?n'n Board Report Authorize Entering into a Lease
Agreement with the Chicago Park District for Gately Stadium.

User Group: Of?ce of Real Estate

Services: Lease Agreement

Status: In negotiations

2. 11-1214-OP1: Amend Board Report 10-1215-OP1: Amend Board Report 10-0825-OP1:
Approve Entering into an Intergovernmental Agreement to Exchange Land, an Amendment to the
Lease Between the Public Building Commission and the Board, a Shared Use and Temporary
License Agreement with the Chicago Park District Each in Connection with an Addition to the
Edgebrook School.

Services: Lease Agreement

User Group: Real Estate

Status: In negotiations

3. 15-0527-OP2: Approve Renewal Lease Agreement with Academy for Global Citizenship
Charter School for the Hearst Annex School Building at 4941 was1h Street. 

Services: Lease Agreement

User Group: Real Estate

Status: In negotiations

4. 15-0527-OP4: Approve Renewal Lease Agreement with Legacy Charter School for the Mason
School Building at 4217 West 18?? Street.

Services: Lease Agreement

User Group: Real Estate

Status: In negotiations

5. 15-0527-OP5: Approve Renewal Lease Agreement with Northwestern University Settlement
Association for the Use of The Lozano School Building at 1424 North Cleaver Street.

Services: Lease Agreement

User G'r?0up: Real Estate

Status: In negotiations

6. 15-0527-OP6: Approve Renewal Lease Agreement with Urban Prep Academies Inc. for the
Dooiittle West School Building, 521 East Street, and A Portion of the Doolittie East Building,
535 East 35?h Street.

Services: Lease Agreement

User Group: Reai Estate

Status: In negotiations

7. Approve Renewal Lease Agreement with Urban Prep Academies Inc. for the
Medill School Building, 1326 West 1ft"I Place. 
Services: Lease Agreement

User Group: Real Estate

Status: In negotiations

8: 15-0527-0P8: Approve Renewal Lease Agreement with Urban Prep Academies Inc. for the
Englewood School Building, 6201 South Stewart Avenue.

Services: Lease Agreement

User Group: Real Estate

Status: In negotiations

9. 15-1118-PR5: Amend Board Report 14-0326-PR13: Authorize The Final Renewai Agreement
with Oracle America, Inc. to Provide Talent Acquisition and On-Boarding Implementation
Services. -

Services: On-Boarding Implementation Services

User Group: information 8r Technology Services

Status: In negotiations 

10. 16-0127-PR14: Authon?ze the Third Renewal Agreement with Recall Total Information
Management, Inc. for Offsite Record Storage Services.

Services: Offsite Record Storage Services

User Group: Law Department

Status: In negotiations

182

October 26, 2016

11. 16-0323-PR5: Authorize the First Renewal Agreement with Constellation Newenergy, Inc. for
The Supply of Electricity.

Services: Supply of Electricity 

User Group: Facility Operations Maintenance

Status: In negotiations

12. 16-0323-PR8: Authorize the Second Renewal Agreement with Constellation Energy
Services Natural Gas, LLC to Supply Natural Gas.

Services: Supply Natural Gas

User Group: Facility Operations 8. Maintenance

Status: In negotiations

13. 16-0323-PR13: Authorize New Agreements with Various Vendors for Teacher Referral and
Support Services.

Services: Teacher Referral and Support

User Group: Talent Of?ce

Status: 2 of 3 agreements have been fully executed; the remainder is in negotiations

14. 16-0427-EXS: Authorize Renewal of the LEARN Charter School Agreement with Conditions.
Services: Charter School

User Group: Of?ce of Innovation and Incubation

Status: In negotiations

15. 16-0427-EX7: Authorize Renewal Agreement with Banner Learning Corp, - Chicago with
Conditions for Alternative Learning Opportunities Program Services.

Services: Charter?SchooI

User Group: Of?ce of Innovation and Incubation

Status: In negotiations

16. 16-0427-EXQ: Amend Board Report 15-0527-EX27: Amend Board Report 14-0723-EX4:
Amend Board Report Amend Board Report 13-0724-EX3: Amend Board Report
13-0522-EX3: Approve Entering into Agreements with Various Providers for Alternative Learning
Opportunities Program Services.

Services: Charter School

User Group: Office of Innovation and Incubation

Status: In negotiations

17. 16-0427-EX11: Amend Board Report Amend Board Report 14-0528-EX5:
Amend Board Report 13-0424-EX14: Amend Board Report 13-0227-EX10: Approve the
Renewal of the Charter School Agreement with UNO Charter School.

Services: Charter School

User Group: Of?ce of Innovation and Incubation

Status: In negotiations

18. Amend Board Report 15-0527-EX11: Authorize Renewal of the Rowe
Elementary Charter Schooi Agreement.

Services: Charter School

User Group: Of?ce of Innovation and Incubation

Status: In negotiations 

19. 16-0427-EX10: Amend and Ratify Board Report 15-1216-EX2: Amend Board Report 15?
0527-EX22: Amend Board Report 14-1022-EX4: Amend Board Report Approve
the Renewal of the Charter School Agreement with Chicago Charter School Foundation (Chicago
International Charter School.)

Services: Charter School

User Group: Of?ce of Innovation and Incubation

Status: In negotiations

20. 16-0427-EX13: Amend Board Report Amend Board Report 
Approve the Renewal of the School Management and Performance Agreement with Chicago High
School for the Arts. and Illinois Not?For?Pro?t Corporation.

Services: Charter School

User Group: Of?ce of Innovation and Incubation

Status: In negotiations

21. Amend Board Report Amend'Board Report 15-0624-EX7:
Amend Board Report 14-0423-EX9: Amend Board Report 14-0226-EX9: Approve the Renewal
of the Charter School Agreement with Noble Network of Charter Schools.

Services: Charter School

User Group: Of?ce of Innovation and Incubation

Status: In negotiations

183

October 26, 2016

22. 16-0427-EX15: Amend Board Report 14-0528-EX6: Amend Board Report 13-0522-EX102:
Amend Board Report 11-0223-EX2: Approve the Granting of a Charter and Entering into a
Charter School Agreement with the Montessori Network, Inc., an Illinois Not For Pro?t
Corporation.

Services: CharterSchooI

User Group: Of?ce of Innovation and Incubation

Status: In negotiations

23.- Amend Board Report Amend Board Report 14-0924-EX3:
Amend Board Report Authorize the Establishment of Excel Academy and
Woodlawn (Now Known as Excel Academy of South Shore) and Entering into a School
Management and Performance Agreement with Camelot Alt Ed-IlIinois. LLC, an Illinois Liability
Company

Services: Charter School

User Group: Of?ce of Innovation and Incubation

Status: In negotiations

24. 16?0427- EX19: Amend Board Report 15-0527-EX12: Authorize Renewal of the Legacy
Charter School Agreement.

Services: Charter School

User Group: Office of Innovation and Incubation

Status: In negotiations

25. 16-0427-EX20: Amend Board Report 15-0527-EX18: Amend Board Report 12-0328-EX12:
Approve the Renewal of the Charter School Agreement with Perspectives Charter School.
Services: Charter School

User Group: Office of Innovation and Incubation

Status: In negotiations

26. Amend Board Report 15-0929-EXS: Amend Board Report 15-0527-EX24:
Authorize Renewal of the Youth Connection Charter School Agreement.

Services: Charter School

User Group: Office of Innovation and Incubation

Status: In negotiations 

27. 16-0427-EX22: Amend Board Report Amend Board Report 
Amend Board Report 14-0122-EXT: Amend Board Report 13-0522-EX104: Amend Board
Report 13-0424-EX7: Amend Board Report 12-0328-EX9: Amend Board Report 
Approve the Renewal of the Charter School Agreement with Academy of Communications and
Technology Charter Schc'ml/KIPP Chicago Schools (KIPP Chicago Charter Schools).

Services: Charter School

User Group: Of?ce of Innovation and Incubation

Status: In negotiations

28. 16- 0525- 0P1: Renew Lease Agreement with Messiah Lutheran Church and School for
Space at 6200 Pattersan Ave. for Smyser Elementary.

Services: Lease Agreement

User Group: Of?ce of Real Estate

Status. In negotiations

29. Renew License Agreement with the Boys Girls Club for Space at 2950 W.
25"1 St for Spry Community Links High School.

Services: License Agreement

User Group: Of?ce of Real Estate

Status: In negotiations

30. 16-0525-PR2: Authorize the First Renewal Agreements with Vendors to Provide
Supplemental ln-School Arts Education Services.

Services: In-School Arts Education Services

User Group: Teaching and Learning Of?ce

Status. 36 of 58 agreements have been executed; the remaining agreements are in negotiations.

31. Authorize the Final Renewal Agreement with the College Board for Advanced
Placement Exam Services.

Services: Advanced Placement Exam Services

User Group: Teaching and Learning Office

Status: In negotiations

32. Authorize the Extension of the Agreement with Northwest Evaluation
Association for Adaptive Growth Assessment,

Services: Adaptive Growth Assessment

User Group: Teaching and Learning Of?ce

Status: In negotiations

184

October 26, 2016

33. 16-0525-PR5: Authorize A New Agreement with Amplify Education Inc. and Northwest
Evaluation Association for the Purchase of an Early Grades Assessment System.

Services: Early Grades Assessment System

User Group: Teaching and Learning Of?ce

Status: In negotiations

34. 16-0525-PR11: Authorize the Second Renewal Agreement with True North Logic to Provide
Software and Support Services.

Services: Software Products and Support Services

User Group: Information Technology Services

Status: In negotiations

35. 16-0525-PR12: Authorize the Third Renewal Agreement with Various Vendors for the
Purchase of Chromebook Computing Devices.

Services: Purchase of Chromebook Computing Devices

User Group: Information Technology Services

Status: 1 of 2 agreements have been executed; the remaining agreement is in negotiations

36. 16-0727-OP1: Approve Entering intoan Intergovernmental Agreement with the County of
Cook for the Lease of the Hanson Park Fieldhouse Site Located at Approximately 5501 W.
Fullerton Avenue and Authorize Public Building Commission to Convey Title of the Hanson Park
Property to the City of Chicago in Trust for Use of Schools. .

Services: Lease Agreement

User Group: Real Estate

Status: In negotiations

37. Authorize a New Software License Agreement with Faria Systems for
lntemational Baccalaureate Managebac Software. 

Services: Software License Agreement

User Group: Teaching and Learning Of?ce

Status: In negotiations

38. 16-0727-PR2: Authorize a New Agreement with Illinois Institute of Technology for Testing
Administration.

Services: Testing Administration

User Group: Access and Enrollment

Status: In negotiations

39. 16-0727-PR3: Amend Board Report 15-1028-PR14: Authorize New Agreements with
Various Vendors for Integrated Pest Management Services.

Services: Integrated Pest Management

User Group: Facility Operations Maintenance - .
Status: In negotiations 

40. 16-0727-PR4: Authorize the First Renewal Agreement with Canon Business Process
Services, Inc. forCentraI Office MailfReceiving Room Management Services.

Services: Central Of?ce Mail/Receiving Room Management

User Group: Operations Maintenance

Status: In negotiations

41. Authorize the First Renewal Agreement with CBRE, Inc. for Real Estate
Brokerage Services. -

Services: Brokerage Services

User Group: Facility Operations Maintenance

Status: In negotiations

42. Authorize a New Agreement with Simpexgrinnell, LP for the Fire Alarm
Testing and Repair Services.

Services: Fire Alarm Testing and Repair Services

User Group: Facility Operations Maintenance

Status: In negotiations

43. Ratify Second Renewal Agreement with Autoclear, LLC for the Purchase of
Portable X-Ray Machines and Related Installation, Maintenance and Training Services.

Services: Purchase of Portable X-Ray Machines and Related Installation, Maintenance and
Training Services.

User Group: Schooi Safety and Security Of?ce

Status: In negotiations 

44. 16-0727-PR13: Authorize New Agreements with Of?ce Depot and CDW-G for the Purchase
of Audio Visual and Interactive Whiteboard Equipment.

Services: Purchase of Audio Visual and Interactive Whiteboard Equipment

User Group: Information Technology Services

Status: in negotiations

185

October 26, 2016

45. 16? 0727- PR14: Authorize a New Agreement with Payflex Systems USA, Inc. for Cobra
Administration Services

Services: Cobra Administration Services

User Group: Talent Of?ce

Status: In negotiations

Extend the rescission date of November 16, 2016 for the following Board Reports to
January 25, 2017, because the parties remain involved in good faith negotiations which are
likely to result in an agreement and the user groupts) concurs with this extension:

Approve Renewal Lease Agreement With North Lawndale College Preparatory 
Charter High School for a Portion of Collins High School, 1313 S. Sacramento Drive
User Group. Real Estate

Services. Rental of school facilities

Status: in negotiations

2. Authorize a New Agreement with Caremark PCS Health LLC for Pharmacy
Bene?t Management (PBM) Services

Services: Pharmacy Benefit Management (PBM) Services

User Group: Talent Of?ce

Status: In negotiations

3. Amend Board Report Amend Board Report 13-0522-EXZ:
Approve Entering into an Alternative Safe School Program Agreement with Camelot Alt Ed-
LLC.

Services: Charter School

User Group: Innovation and Incubation

Status: In negotiations

4. 15-0624-OP1: Approve New Lease Agreement with KIPP Chicago Schools for a Portion of
Penn School, 1616 South Avers Avenue.

Services: Rental of school facilities

User Group: Real Estate

Status: In negotiations

5. 15-0624-OP2: Amend Board Report Approve Renewal of Lease Agreement
with Chicago Charter School Foundation (Chicago International Charter School) Chicagoquest for
Lease of a Portion of the Truth School.

Services: Rental of school facilities

User Group: Real Estate

Status: In negotiations

6. Authorize Lease Agreements with the Catholic Bishop of Chicago.
Services: Rental of Chicago Archdiocese school sites

User Group: Real Estate

Status: In negotiations

7. Authorize New Agreements with Aetna-Life Insurance Company and Cannon
Cochran Management Services, Inc. for Third Party Claims Administration Services and Life
Insurance.

Services: Claims Administration Services

User Group: Talent Off ce

Status: The agreement with Cannon Cochran Management Services, Inc. has been executed;
the remaining agreement Is in negotiations

8. Authorize Third Renewal Agreement with Aramark Educational Services, LLC
d/b/a Aramark Education for Food Services Management Services.

Services: Food Services Management Services

User Group. Nutrition Support Services

Status: Business terms are being developed; agreement will be drafted after business terms are
negotiated.

9. 16-0224? PR2. Authorize the First Renewal Agreement with Various Vendors fer the Purchase
of Specialized Adapted Equipment, Testing Materials, Maintenance, Training and Warranty
Services.

Services: Purchase of Specialized Adapted Equipment, Testing Materials, Maintenance, Training
and Warranty Services

User Group: Diverse Learner Supports Services

Status: 8 of 13 agreements are signed. The remaining agreements are with the respective
vendors for signature.

186

October 26, 2016

10. 16-0224-PR6: Authorize New Agreements with Various Vendors-for General Repair and
Preventive Maintenance of Kitchen Equipment and Culinary Labs.

Services: for General Repair and Preventive Maintenance of Kitchen Equipment and Culinary
Labs.

User Group: Nutrition Support Services

Status: In negotiations

11. Authorize New Agreements with Various Vendors for Arts and Cultural
Enrichment Academic Support and Student Health and-
Wellness (In?School, Out-of-School, Recess) Services. 

Services: Recess and Out of School Time Services

User Group: Student Support and Engagement

Status: 9 of 39 agreements are signed The remaining agreements are with the respective
vendors for signature.

12. Authorize The Final Renewal Agreements with Various Vendors for Social
Emotional Learning Services.

Services: Social Emotional Learning Services

User Group: Social Emotional Learning

Status: 43 of 69 agreements are signed. The remaining agreements are with the respective
vendors for signature.

13. 16-0427-OP1: Approve Renewal Lease Agreement with Architecture, Construction and
Engineering Charter School Tech?) for the Former Terrell Building at 5410 South State
Street. 

Services: Charter School Lease

User Group: Real Estate

Status: in negotiations

14. 16-0427-OP2: Approve Renewal Lease Agreement with Lawndale Educational Regional
Network Charter School, Inc. for A Portion of the Thorp-School Building at 8914
South Buffalo Avenue.

Services: Charter School Lease

UserGroup: .Real Estate

Status: In negotiations

15. Approve New Lease Agreement with KIPP Chicago Schools for the Orr
School Building at 730 North Pulaski Road.

Services: Charter School Lease

User Group: Real Estate

Status: In negotiations

16. 16-0427-PR1: Amend Board Report Authorize New Agreements with Various
Vendors for Coilege and Career Readiness Services.

Services: College and Career Readiness Services

User Group: College and Career Suc'cess Office

Status: In negotiations

17. 16-0427-PR4: Authorize A New Agreement with International Baccalaureate Americas to
Provide Professional Development, StudentAssessments and Related School Services.
Services: Professional Development, Student Assessments and Related School Services

User Group: Teaching and Learning Of?ce

Status: in negotiations

18. 16-0525-OP2: Approve Renewal of Intergovermental Agreement with City Colieges for Use
of the Building Located at 3400 N. Austin Ave.

Services: Lease Agreement

User Group: Real Estate

Status: In negotiations

19. Authorize the First Renewal Agreements with Vendors to Provide
Supplemental ln?SchOol Arts Education Services.

Services: Arts Education Services

User Group: Teaching and Learning Of?ce

Status: 35 of 58 are signed. The remainder are in negotiations

20. 16-0622-OP1: Approve Renewal of Lease Agreement with Noble Network of Charter
Schools for Lease of a Portion the Truth School and Annex, Located at 1409 and 1443 Ogden
Ave.

Services: Lease Agreement

UserGroup: Real Estate

Status: In negotiations

187

0ctober26, 2016

21. 16- Approve New Lease Agreement With the Montessori Network Inc for the
John 5 School Building at 6936 S. Hermitage.

Services: Lease Agreement

User Group: Real Estate

Status: In negotiations

22. 16-0622-PR3: Authorize a New Agreement with National Charter Schools Institute for a
School Oversight System.

Services: School Oversight System

UserGroup: Network Support

Status: Business terms are being developed; agreement wili be drafted after business terms are
negotiated.

23. 16-0622-PR6: Authorize Annuai Renewal Agreement with Oracle America, Inc,
Services: Technical Support

User Group: Information Technology Services

Status: In negotiations

24.? 16- 0622- PR7: Authorize a New Agreement with Sentinel Technologies Inc. for Virtual
Private Networking Replacement Services. 
Services. Virtual Private Networking Replacement Services

User Group: Information Technologies Services

Status: In negotiations

25. 16-0622-PR8: Authorize a New Agreement with Kerry's Autobody, Inc. for Vehicle
Maintenance and Service Services

Services: Vehicle Maintenance and Service

User Group: Student Transportation

Status: In negotiations

26. 16-0727-EXE: Ratify The Renewal of School Management Consulting Agreement with the
Academy for Urban School Leadership to Provide School Turnaround Services at William T.
Sherman School of Excellence.

Services: School Turnaround Services

User Group: Chief Network Of?ce

Status: In negotiations

27. 16- 0727? PR6: Authorize Second and Final Renewal Agreements for Pre-Qualit? cation Status
with Various Contractors to Provide Mechanical Electrical, and Plumbing (MEP) Engineering
Services.

Services: Mechanical, Electrical, and Plumbing (MEP) Engineering Services

User Group: Facility Operations Maintenance

Status: In negotiations

28. Authorize Entering into Agreements for Qualified Independent Hearing
Of?cers

Services: Independent Hearing Of?cers

User Group: Law Department

Status: In negotiations

29. Authorize A New Agreement with AARP Foundation for School Based
Tutoring and Mentoring Services.

Services: Mentoring Services

User Group: Network Support

Status: In negotiations

30. 16-0824-PR2: Authorize New Agreements with Various Vendors for Personalized Learning
Professional Development Services.

Services: Personalized Learning Professional Development Services

User Group: Talent Of?ce 

Status: In negotiations

31. Authorize the Final Renewal Agreement with'LEAP Innovations for
Personalized Learning Research and Development Services

Services: Personalized Learning and Development Services

User Group: TaientOf?ce

Status: In negotiations

32. Amend Board Report Amend Board Report 
Amend Board Report 15- 0624- PR17: Authorize the Pre- Quali?cation Status of and New
Agreements with Various Vendors to Provide Educational Products. 

Services: Provide Educational Products

User Group: Teaching and Learning Of?ce

Status: 13 of 19 agreements have been executed; the remaining agreements are in negotiations.

188

October 26, 2016

33. Authorize the First Renewal Agreement with Premier Facility Solutions for
Cleanliness Audit Services at Various Schools.

Services: Cleanliness Audit Services

User Group: Facility Operations Maintenance

Status: In negotiations

34. Authorize the First Renewal Agreement with and Plumbing, Inc. for
Back?ow Device Maintenance and Testing

Services: Back?ow Device Maintenance and Testing

User Group: Facility Operations Maintenance

Status: In negotiations

35. Ratify New Agreement with Buzz Sawyer for Consulting Services
Services: Consulting Services

User Group: Finance

Status: in negotiations

Extend the rescission date of October 26, 2016 for the following Board Reports to
December 31, 2016:

1. 13-0925-PR13: Authorize New Agreement with Health Care Service Corporation d/b/a Blue
Cross Blue Shield of Illinois for (PPO) Medical Plan Services.

Services: PPO Medical Plan Services

User Group: Of?ce of Human Capital 

Action: The initial term will expire as of December 31, 2016. Rescind authority in part as to
requirement for written agreement; the authorization for payments under the Board Report
remains in effect through December 31, 2016.

2. Authorize a New Agreement with Health Care Service Corporation d/bla Blue
Cross Blue Shield of Illinois for HMO Medical Plan Services. 
Services: HMO Medical Plan Services

User Group: Talent Of?ce

Action: This Board Report authorized an agreement for a term commencing January 1, 2016 and
ending December 31, 2018. The Board subsequently awarded a global agreement to vendor that
encompasses both PPO and HMO services. The new agreements comprising that global award
were authorized under Board Report 16-0824-PR13 and will be for a term commencing January
1, 2017 and ending December 31, 2019. As a result, the authority under Board Report 15-0929-
PR7 is rescinded in part as to the requirement for a written agreement; authorization for
payments under that Board Report remains in December 31, 2016.

IV. Rescind the following Board Reports in part or in full for failure to enter into an agreement
with the Board, after repeatedattempts, and the user groups have been advised of such
rescission: 

None.

President Clark thereupon declared Board Reports 16-1026-EX3, 16-1026-EX4, and

16-1026-AR5 accepted.
OMNIBUS

At the Regular Board Meeting held on October 26, 2016 the foregoing motions, reports and
other actions set forth from number 16-1026-M01 through 16-1026-M03 except as otherwise
indicated, were adopted as the recommendations or decisions of the Chief Executive Of?cer and
General Counsel.

Board Member Ward abstained on Board Report 16-1026-PR2.

ADJOURNMENT

President Clark moved to adjourn the meeting, and it was so ordered by a voiCe vote, all
members present voting therefore.

President Clark thereupon deciared the Board Meeting adjourned.

189

October 26, 2016

I, Estela G. Beltran, Secretary of the Board of Education and Keeper of the records thereof,
do hereby certify that the foregoing is a true and correct record of certain proceedings of said
Board of Education of the City of Chicago at its Regular Board Meeting held on October 26, 2016

held at the CPS Loop Office, 42 W. Madison Street, Garden Level, Board Room, Chicago, Illinois,
60602.

Estela G. Beltran
Secretary

190

October 26, 2016
INDEX

AR REPORTS FROM THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Debarment of Albert Antonucci and Mid-City Vending 134
16-1026-AR2 Debarment of Eric McEwen, UBS Promotionals, Apex Group of Illinois, lnc.,

ETAJ Wearables, Inc., Performance Awards, Inc. and Bag Nation, Inc. 134, 135
16-1026-AR3 Debarment of Pawel Flis, Vision Painting 8: Flooring, Mieczslaw Flis and

Hardwood Flooring by Paul 135
16-1026-AR4 Debarment of Prasad Chandra and HiTalents, Inc. 135, 136
Report on Board Report Rescissions 182 - 189
Authorize Retention of The Law Firm Engler Callaway Baasten Sraga, LLC. 3
16-1026-AR7 Authorize Retention of The Law Firm Leahy, Eisenberg Fraenkel, Ltd. 3, 4
16-1026-AR8 Authorize Continued Retention of The Law Firm Brothers Thompson, P.C. 4
16-1026-AR9 Authorize Continued Retention of The Law Firm Pugh Jones Johnson 8:

Quandt, P.C. 5
16-1026-AR10 Authorize Continued Retention of The Law Firm Quintairos, Prieto,

Wood Boyer 5, 6
Workers? Compensation Payment for Lump Sum Settlement for George

Gollias Case Nos. 04 WC 1563 and 07 WC 14542 6
16-1026-AR12 Personal Injury Authorize Payment of Settlement for Estefany Salcedo

Case No. 14 003470 7
Approve Payment of Proposed Settlement Regarding Ethan C. 7, 8
16-1026-AR14 Approve Settlement of Jones v. Board, 2013 7003, IL APP. 1-15-3100,

Brought by Former Custodial Worker, Johnny Jones 8
Appoint Assistant General Counsel Department of Law (Miguel E. Larios) 9
16-1026-AR16 Appoint Assistant General Counsel Department of Law (Ashley Seales) 9

16-1026-AR17 Appoint Assistant General Counsel Department of Law (Cheryl A. 10

CO COMMUNICATIONS
16-1026-CO1 Communication Re: Location of Board Meeting of December 7, 2016 - 
CPS Loop Of?ce, 42 W. Madison, Garden Level, Board Room, Chicago, IL 60602*

*[Note: The Regular Meetings scheduled for November 16, 2016 and
December 21, 2016 will be Consolidated and Rescheduled to Wednesday,

December 7, 2016] 122
16-1026-C02 Communication Re: Reappointment of Trustee to Serve on the Public
School Teachers? Pension and Retirement Fund of Chicago (Gail D. Ward) 122

EX REPORTS FROM THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
16-1026-EX1 Transfer of unds*
*[Note: The complete document will be on File in the Office of the Board] ..123 - 125

16-1026-EX2 Approve Entering Into an Intergovernmental Agreement with the Chicago
Park District in Support of the Elementary School Sports Program 125, 126

16-1026-EX3
16-1026-EX4

16-1026-EX5

October 26, 2016

Report on Principal Contracts (New) 179, 180
Report on Principal Contracts (Renewal) 181
Principal Contract (Renewal ALSC) (Kathy Farr) 10, 11

REPORTS FROM THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER (Continued)

16-1026-EX6

Transfer and Appoint Chief Policy Of?cer Effective September 5, 2016
and Ratify all Lawful Actions Taken as Chief Policy Of?cer Since

September 5, 2016 (Francis Bilecki) 11
16-1026-EX7 Warning Resolution Trista Harper, Principal, Manley Academy High

School 11, 12
16-1026-EX8 Warning Resolution Latanya Jackson, Tenured Teacher, Assigned to

Wacker Elementary School 12
MO mus .
16-1026-MO1 Motion to Hold a Closed Session 1, 2



16-1026-MO3

Motion Re: Adopt and Maintain as Con?dential Closed Session Minutes from

September 28, 2016 14
Motion Re: Approval of Record of Proceedings of Meeting Open to the Public
September 28, 2016 15

OP - REPORTS FROM THE CHIEF ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER

16-1026-OP1

16-1026-OP2

16-1026-0P3

16-1026-OP4

PO - POLICY
16-1026-PO1

Amend Board Report 16-0127-OP1 Transfer of Various Properties to the
City of Chicago and the Chicago Park District 126 - 130

Amend Board Report 15-0527-OP3 Approve Renewal Lease Agreement
with Epic Academy Charter High School for the South Chicago School
Building at 8255 South Houston Avenue 131, 132

Amend Report 15-0527-OP7 Approve Renewal Lease Agreement
with Urban Prep Academies Inc. for the Medill School Building, 1326
West 14th Place 132, 133

Amend Board Report 15-0527-OP8 Approve Renewal Lease Agreement
with Urban Prep Academies Inc. for the Englewood School Building at 6201
South Stewart Avenue 1 33, 134

Rescind Board Report 12-0822-PO1 and Adopt a New Chicago Public
Schools Athletics Constitution and Bylaws 108 - 121

PR REPORTS FROM THE CHIEF PROCUREMENT OFFICER

16-1026-PR1

16-1026-PR2

16-1026-PR3

16-1026-PR4

Authorize a New Agreement with American Institutes for Research (AIR)
for Evaluation Consultation Services 136 - 138

Amend Board Report 16-0622-PR9 Amend Board Report 16-0127-PR3

Amend Board Report 15-1028-PR3 Authorize the Pre-Qualification Status

of and New Agreements with Various Vendors to Provide Professional

Services 138 145

Amend Board Report 15-1028-PR2 Authorize a New Agreement with
Gemcap Inc. DBA Hayes Software Systems for an Asset Management
Solution 145 - 147

Report on the Award of Construction Contracts and Changes to
Construction Contracts for the Board of Education's Capital Improvement
Program 148 - 157

October 26, 2016

16-1026-PR5 Authorize the Pre-Qualification Status of and New Agreements with
Various Contractors to Provide General Contracting Services 158 - 164

PR REPORTS FROM THE CHIEF PROCUREMENT OFFICER (Continued)
16-1026-PR6 Authorize a New Agreement with The Concord Consulting Group of

Illinois, Inc. for Cost Estimating Services 164 - 166

16-1026-PR7 Authorize the Second Renewal Agreement with Trimark Marlinn, LLC for
the Purchase of Food Service Equipment and Related Installation
Services 166 - 168

Authorize a New Agreement with BSN Sports LLC for the Purchase of
Physical Education Supplies and Equipment 168, 169

16-1026-PR9 Authorize a New Agreement with Fit Kids, Inc. DBA Stretch and
Grow North Inc. for Recess Services at Disney and Hibbard
Elementary Schools 169 - 171

16-1026-PR10 Authorize a New Agreement with Blaida and Associates, LLC for
Lobbying Services 171 - 173

16-1026-PR11 Amend Board Report 16-0928-PR5 Amend Board Report 16-0427-PR12
Authorize the Extension of the Agreement with Severin Intermediate
Holdings, LLC DBA PowerSchool Group LLC (As Successor-in-Interest
to Maximus K-12 Education, Inc. DBA Maximus, Inc.) for License and
Maintenance of Student Services Management Software 173 - 175

16-1026-PR12 Amend Board Report 16-0824-PR13 Authorize a New Agreements with
Blue Cross Blue Shield of Illinois for HMO and FPO Healthcare Administrative
Services Medieal and Ancillary Medical Services and Authorize Funding of

Health Savings Accounts and Agreement with Webster Bank, N.A.
(HSA Bank, a Division of Webster_?ank. Nil 175 - 177

16-1026-PR13 Authorize New Agreements with Various Vendors for Defined
Contribution Retirement Services 177 179

RS RESOLUTIONS
16-1026-RS1 Resolution Providing for the Issue of One or More Series of Capital
Improvement Bonds of the Board of Education of the City of Chicago in
an Aggregate Principal Amount Not to Exceed $840,000,000 15 - 92

16-1026-RSZ Resolution Providing for the Issue of Unlimited Tax General Obligation
Refunding Bonds (Dedicated Revenues), of the Board of Education of the
City of Chicago in an Aggregate Principal Amount Not to Exceed
$160,000,000, for the Purpose of Paying the Cost of Refunding Certain
Outstanding Bonds of Said Board Of Education 93 - 106

16-1026-RS3 Resolution to Establish the Elementary School Sports Program at Chicago
Public Schools 106, 107

16-1026-RS4 Resolution Authorize Appointment of Members to Local School Councils
to Fill Vacancies 107, 108

RS REPORTS FROM THE BOARD OF EDUCATION

16-1026-R55 Resolution by the Board of Education of the City of Chicago Regarding the
Dismissal of Josie Berry, Tenured Teacher, Assigned to Jackie Robinson
Elementary School 12, 13

October 26, 2016

RS REPORTS FROM THE BOARD OF EDUCATION (Continued)
16-1026-R86 Resolution Approving Chief Executive Of?cer?s Recommendation to Dismiss

Educational Support Personnel 13

16-1026-RST Resolution Approving Chief Executive Of?cer?s Recommendation to Dismiss
Probationary Appointed Teachers 14

