MINUTES OF MEETING
WAYNE COUNTY ELECTION COMMISSION
THURSDAY, MAY 26, 2016 – 1:30 P.M.
COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL BUILDING - ROOM 705
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

Call to Order:

The meeting was called to order at 1:32 p.m., Thursday, May 26, 2016.

Members present: Honorable Freddie G. Burton, Jr., Chief Judge, Probate Court
Honorable Cathy M. Garrett, Secretary- Wayne County Clerk
Honorable Eric Sabree, Member – Wayne County Treasurer
Members absent: None
Also present:

Janet Anderson-Davis, Assistant Corporation Counsel
Delphine G. Oden, Director, Wayne County Elections
Jennifer Redmond
Bruce Hack

Agenda item:

Consideration of Agenda approval.
Board action on agenda item: Chair Burton requested a motion
to approve the agenda. Member Sabree, duly supported by
Member Garrett, moved to adopt the agenda as submitted. The
motion was adopted unanimously by a voice vote.

Agenda item:

Approval of Minutes of May 17, 2016
Board action on agenda item: Chair Burton requested a motion
to approve the minutes of the meeting held on May 17, 2016.
Member Sabree, duly supported by Chair Burton, moved to
approve the minutes of the meeting held on May 17, 2016. The
motion was adopted unanimously by a voice vote.

Agenda item:

Acceptance of the August 2, 2016 Primary Candidate list as
presented by the Wayne County Clerk
Asst. Corporation Counsel Anderson-Davis provided updates to the
Commission regarding the Berry case. She indicated there was an
Order to Show Cause signed by Judge Murphy that could be
construed as an injunction to imply the County Clerk could not
certify the candidate list. Discussion ensued between Corporation
Counsel and the Commission. Judge Burton stated it doesn’t
appear the order precludes this body from certifying the candidate
list.

 Board action on agenda item: Chair Burton requested a motion
to accept the August 2, 2016 Primary Candidate list as presented
by the Wayne County Clerk. Chair Burton, duly supported by
Member Sabree, moved to accept the August 2, 2016 Primary
Candidate list as presented by the Wayne County Clerk. YEAS:
Burton, Sabree. Abstained: Garrett
Agenda item:

Approval of Ballot Printing for the August 2, 2016 Primary
Election
Director Oden indicated the State Board of Canvassers met earlier
today, and candidate Darnella Denise Williams was disqualified and
will not be printed on the ballot.
Board action on agenda item: Chair Burton requested a motion
for approval of the ballot printing for the August 2, 2016 Primary
Election. Member Garrett, duly supported by Member Sabree,
moved to approve ballot printing for the August 2, 2016 Primary
Election with removal of Darnella Denise Williams. The motion was
adopted unanimously by a voice vote.

Agenda item:

New Business None.

Agenda item:

Public Comment. Bruce Hack, from Inland Press, made a public
comment. He thanked the commission for renewing the ballot
printing contract. Corporation Counsel Anderson-Davis provided
the commission with copies of the contracts already signed by the
printer for signing by the Election Commission members.

Agenda item:

Adjournment.
Board action on agenda item: Chair Burton requested a motion
to adjourn. Member Sabree, duly supported by Chair Burton,
moved to adjourn the meeting. The motion was adopted
unanimously by a voice vote.
Meeting adjourned at 1:48 p.m.

 