   

  

  
  

DRAFT   TRANSITION   PLAN   
For   the   Proposed   Closure   of      
TEAM   Englewood   Community   Academy   High   School   
   

   

I.   Introduction   
   
Chicago   Public   Schools   (CPS)   is   committed   to   providing   every   child   from   every   community   with   a   
high   quality   education   that   prepares   them   for   success   in   college   and   in   life.   CPS   students   continue   
to   make   record-­‐‑breaking   academic   progress   in   every   part   of   the   city.   Our   vision   is   that   all   CPS   
schools   can   build   on   this   progress   by   offering   high   quality,   rigorous   instruction   from   talented   
educators   that   help   put   Chicago   students   on   a   path   to   lasting   success.      
   
Under-­‐‑enrolled   schools   face   challenges   in   providing   a   well-­‐‑rounded   education   for   their   students,   
particularly   in   offering   robust   program   options   for   students   and   recruiting   staff.   In   turn,   this   makes   
it   difficult   to   provide   the   high   school   experience   that   students   deserve.      
   
   
The   Englewood   community   has   recognized   that   these   challenges   are   taking   place   in   four   existing   
neighborhood   schools:   Hope,   Harper,   Robeson   and   TEAM   Englewood.   Over   the   past   10   years,   each   
of   these   schools   have   seen   declines   in   enrollment   of   70   to   85   percent,   with   current   enrollment   
between   90   and   135   students   at   each   school.   At   TEAM   Englewood   Community   Academy   High   
School   (TEAM   Englewood),   696   students   were   enrolled   in   the   fall   of   2006   while   88   students   were   
enrolled   in   fall   of   2017.   As   a   result   of   these   trends,   the   Englewood   Community   Action   Council   (CAC)   
recommended   that   CPS   create   a   state-­‐‑of-­‐‑the-­‐‑art   neighborhood   high   school   in   Englewood   and   
consolidate   existing   neighborhood   high   schools   in   Englewood.   In   turn,   in   June   2017,   CPS   followed   
through   on   the   recommendation   by   formally   proposing   an   investment   to   create   a   state-­‐‑of-­‐‑the-­‐‑art   
neighborhood   high   school,   now   worth   $85   million.      
   
Following   the   Englewood   CAC’s   recommendation,   CPS   also   formed   a   Community   Leadership   
Steering   Committee   to   work   through   the   details   of   this   proposal,   including   planning   for   the   new   
high   school   and   developing   a   plan   for   the   current   Englewood   high   schools   and   students.   Over   
multiple   meetings   between   the   Steering   Committee   and   CPS   leadership   as   well   as   tours   of   the   
existing   Englewood   high   schools,   a   variety   of   options   were   considered   for   the   current   Englewood   
high   schools,   including   closure   and   multi-­‐‑year   phase   outs.   Ultimately,   a   vote   was   taken   on   two   
options   and   the   majority   vote   of   the   Steering   Committee   was   to   close   the   high   schools,   including   
TEAM   Englewood,   at   the   end   of   2017-­‐‑18   school   year   and   provide   robust,   individualized   support   to   
transition   current   students   to   other   higher   performing   high   schools   that   are   a   good   match   for   their   
needs.      
   
The   rationale   for   this   action   includes   the   following:   
      
●   If   the   high   schools   were   to   phase   out   over   several   years,   the   problems   associated   with   
declining   enrollment   would   continue   and   the   risk   of   diminished   programs   and   staffing   
challenges   would   increase,   potentially   worsening   educational   opportunities   for   students.   
●   If   the   high   schools   were   to   phase   out   and   certain   students   wanted   to   transfer   before   school   
closure,   they   would   not   be   eligible   to   play   sports   the   year   they   transfer   as   per   the   guidelines   
of   the   Illinois   High   School   Association   (IHSA),   which   governs   participation   in   sports   in   the   
state.   

    

●   More   than   90   percent   of   students   who   currently   live   in   Englewood   now   choose   to   attend   
non-­‐‑neighborhood   high   schools   
●   With   the   right   individualized   transition   supports,   students   from   TEAM   Englewood   could   
have   a   better   high   school   experience,   be   better   prepared   to   graduate   high   school   and   better   
prepared   for   college   and   career.   
   
The   proposed   closure   of   TEAM   Englewood   meets   the   criteria   of   the   Chief   Executive   Officer’s   
Guidelines   for   School   Actions   (Guidelines)   because   it   is   a   proposal   requested   by   community   
members.      Specifically,   we   have   heard   the   request   for   this   proposal   from   the   Englewood   
Community   Action   Council   and   at   a   meeting   of   the   Englewood   Community   Leadership   Steering   
Committee   in   calendar   year   2017.      
   
   

II.   Summary   of   Action   
   
TEAM   Englewood   is   a   neighborhood   high   school   in   Englewood   located   at   6201   S   Stewart   Ave   in   the   
Englewood   neighborhood   and   CPS’   Network   11.   TEAM   Englewood   currently   serves   88   students   in   
grades   9-­‐‑12.      CPS   is   proposing   to   close   TEAM   Englewood   High   School   at   the   end   of   this   school   year   
(school   year   2017-­‐‑2018),   effective   June   2018.   
   
As   a   result   of   this   action,   all   current   students   and   families   at   TEAM   Englewood   will   receive   
significant   enrollment   support   to   choose   the   school   that   they   will   attend   in   the   following   school   
year,   based   on   their   individual   educational   needs   and   priorities   (see   Section   IV.   Enrollment   Support   
below).   As   part   of   this   process,   every   student   will   be   given   numerous   options   and   individualized   
attention   in   order   to   attend   a   higher   performing   school   based   on   the   School   Quality   Rating   Policy   
(SQRP).      
   
CPS   has   set   aside   approximately   $8.3   million   over   the   next   3   ½   years   to   support   the   transition   of   
students   from   the   four   proposed   closure   schools   (Harper,   Hope,   Robeson,   Team   Englewood)   to   new   
schools.   Beginning   in   January   2018,   principals   at   Harper,   Hope,   Robeson   and   Team   Englewood   will   
work   to   implement   the   principles   set   out   in   the   transition   plan   outlined   below.      
   
Starting   in   the   fall   of   2018,   each   school   welcoming   students   from   these   four   high   schools   will   also   
follow   a   plan   for   providing   additional   supports   for   these   students,   funded   by   CPS.   Funds   will   be   in   
place   through   the   spring   semester   of   the   2020-­‐‑21   school   year,   when   the   current   students   from   all   
four   Englewood   high   schools   will   graduate.      
   
The   transition   plan   outlined   below   summarizes   what   will   be   provided   by   CPS   for   transitioning   
Englewood   students   to   ensure   a   smooth   transition.   We   have   separated   the   transition   plan   based   on   
supports   that   will   be   provided   to   transitioning   students   before   the   fall   of   2018   (i.e.   before   students   
transition   to   a   different   school)   and   ongoing   supports   that   will   be   provided   from   fall   2018   through   
Spring   2021   (i.e.   after   students   transition   to   a   different   school).   Throughout   this   plan,   we   will   be   
offering   answers   to   key   questions   and   considerations   that   parents   and   community   members   raised   
throughout   the   community   engagement   process   CPS   held   earlier   this   year.   We   expect   to   provide   
additional   information   as   transition   plans   are   finalized   in   partnership   with   the   community   and   
school   administrations.   
   
   
   
   

    

III.  Transition   Supports   Before   Fall   2018:   
   
Transition   Teams   
   
CPS   will   fund   additional   staff   to   support   students   with   individualized   academic   and   safety   plans   as   
they   transition   from   their   current   school   to   a   different   school.   The   team   will   consist   of   several   key   
positions   including:   
   
●   Principal   Transition   Coordinator:   The   Principal   Transition   Coordinator   (PTC)   will   be   
responsible   for   overseeing   the   transition   team   and   transition   supports   for   current   students   
from   TEAM   Englewood.   The   PTC   will   be   responsible   for   holding   all   members   of   the   
transition   team   accountable   for   achieving   key   milestones   along   each   student’s   transition   
(i.e.   choosing   the   school   each   student   will   transition   to,   preparing   an   academic   plan   and   
preparing   a   safety   plan).   The   PTC   will   also   be   responsible   for   overseeing   administrative   
needs   such   as   transferring   all   student   records.   In   addition,   the   PTC   will   provide   support   to   
administrators   and   school   staff   at   transition   schools   to   ensure   they   are   prepared   to   
welcome   transitioning   students.   Principal   Transition   Coordinators   will   be   former   or   current   
CPS   Principals.   
   
●   School-­‐‑Based   Transition   Coordinators:   The   School-­‐‑Based   Transition   Coordinators   will   be   
the   central   point   of   contact   for   TEAM   Englewood   students   and   their   families.   In   the   spring   
of   2018,   CPS   will   provide   this   additional   staffing   capacity   to   support   current   school   
counselors   to   meet   with   students   to   create   individualized   transition   plans,   including   
choosing   a   transition   school,   creating   academic   readiness   plans   and   safety   plans,   as   well   as   
ensuring   each   student   is   supported   by   coordinating   with   staff   at   transition   schools.      
   
●   Student   Outreach   and   Re-­‐‑engagement   Center   (SOAR):   Before   students   transition   to   
their   new   schools,   CPS   SOAR   Center   staff   will   play   a   role   in   supporting   students   who   have   
dropped   out,   do   not   consistently   attend   school   or   are   significantly   behind   in   obtaining   
credits.   They   will   be   focused   on   supporting   students   in   enrolling   and   attending   a   transition   
school.   In   the   2018-­‐‑19   school   year,   the   SOAR   Center   will   follow   up   with   all   transitioning   
students   from   TEAM   Englewood   High   School   to   track   attendance   and   enrollment   and   
ensure   student   engagement   in   learning.   Early   interventions   will   be   identified   for   students   
who   demonstrate   disengagement.   
   
General   Supports   for   Students   and   Families   
   
Students   in   schools   undergoing   transition   will   receive   a   variety   of   supports,   including   access   to   high   
quality   academics,   remedial   support   for   literacy   and   math   skills,   counseling   and   social   supports   and   
student   safety   support.   CPS’   goal   is   to   ensure   that   students   and   their   families   receive   access   to   high   
quality   instruction,   understand   their   rights   to   available   school   options   and   are   safe   and   secure   
through   the   transition   process.   
   
Supporting   TEAM   Englewood   Students’   School   Choices   for   2018-­‐‑19      
   
Recognizing   that   many   families   would   have   applied   for   other   options   if   they   had   known   their   school   
was   going   to   be   affected   by   school   actions,   we   will   assign   additional   staff   to   each   school   in   the   
spring   semester   to   help   students   determine   their   preference   of   transition   schools   (as   detailed   
above).   To   support   this   process,   CPS   will   provide   information   on   open   seats   and   performance   at   
CPS   schools   to   support   students   and   their   families   in   selecting   their   school.   If   students   choose   not   to   

    

develop   a   preference   list   for   transition   schools,   they   will   be   reassigned   to   a   higher   performing   
neighborhood   school.   The   proposed   process   and   the   resources   provided   may   be   further   customized   
as   feedback   is   obtained   at   community   meetings   and   a   public   hearing   regarding   this   proposal.   
Additionally,   resources   may   be   adjusted   to   meet   the   unique   needs   of   affected   students   if   deemed   
necessary.   
   
Timeline   for   Supporting   Students   
   
●   [By   January   30]   Provide   support   for   students   to   apply   for   transfer   to   selective   enrollment   
schools   
●   [By   January   30]   Hold   informational   sessions   for   students   and   families   to   learn   about   the   
process   and   options   
●   [By   February   15]   Hold   high   school   fair   for   transitioning   families   so   they   can   learn   about   
other   high   school   options   
●   [By   March   15]   Hold   meetings   with   each   student   to   identify   top   10   schools   to   transition   to;   
submit   preference   list   
●   [By   April   15]   Students   informed   about   the   school   they   will   transition   to   in   the   2018-­‐‑19   
School   Year      
●   [By   May   30]   Finalize   academic   readiness   plans   to   prepare   for   transition   
●   [By   May   30]   Finalize   safety   plans   to   ensure   students   travel   safely   to   school      
●   [By   May   30]   Provide   “academic   resumes”   for   each   student   to   schools   those   students   will   
transition   to   in   the   2018-­‐‑19   School   Year,   so   that   students’   academic   progress   is   not   
interrupted   and   academic   needs   are   met            
   
Support   for   Families   
   
The   Network   office   will   host   informational   sessions   at   TEAM   Englewood   in   the   spring.   Families   who   
are   looking   for   additional   guidance   on   school   options   to   should   attend   one   of   these   sessions.   For   
families   unable   to   attend   the   informational   sessions,   the   Network   office   will   conduct   office   hours   to   
help   families   navigate   the   process.   Please   contact   your   Network   for   specific   timing.   
   
●   Email:   Network11@cps.edu      
●   Phone   number:   773-­‐‑535-­‐‑8230   
   
Safety   and   Security   
   
Before   the   start   of   the   2017-­‐‑18   school   year,   School-­‐‑Based   Transition   Coordinators,   with   support   
from   the   Office   of   Safety   and   Security   and   the   SOAR   team,   will   be   responsible   for   meeting   with   each   
student   individually   to   discuss   safety   supports   and   ensure   they   have   an   individualized   plan   to   get   to   
and   from   school   safely   once   they   transition   to   a   different   school   in   the   fall   of   2018.      
   
The   section   of   this   transition   plan   related   to   the   fall   of   2018   through   2021   provides   additional   
detailed   information   on   supports   for   safety   and   security,   based   on   conversations   with   community   
members.      
   
Support   for   Students’   Social   and   Emotional   Needs   
   
Students   will   be   supported   in   the   transition   process   through   the   proactive   support   of   students’   
social,   emotional   and   behavioral   needs.   CPS   Office   of   Social   and   Emotional   Learning   (OSEL)   will   
work   with   school   administrations   and   the   community   to   develop   specific   plans   for   schools   and   

    

individual   students.   This   will   ensure   students   understand   the   proposed   change   and   how   it   will   
affect   them.   CPS   will   also   work   with   school   principals,   School-­‐‑Based   Transition   coordinators   and   
other   school   staff   to   define   students’   potential   needs   and   develop   a   plan   for   supports   to   address   
these   needs,   such   as   implementing   a   seminar   curriculum   to   support   students   as   they   transition.   
   
Support   for   Students’   Academic   Needs   
      
CPS   will   allocate   funds   for   the   upcoming   semester   to   support   TEAM   Englewood   in   providing   
academic   supports   to   students   to   best   equip   them   for   a   smooth   transition.   These   supports   will   
include:   
   
●   Additional   resources   in   schools   this   year   to   help   students   prepare   academically;   
●   School-­‐‑Based   Transition   Coordinators   who   will   work   individually   with   students   to   conduct   
a   credit   audit   and   create   an   academic   readiness   plan   to   ensure   they   are   prepared   as   they   
transition.   During   the   summer   of   2018,   based   on   their   academic   readiness   plans,   students   
will   have   the   opportunity   to   participate   in   credit   recovery   programs   to   make   up   credits;      
●   “Academic   resumes”   for   each   student   (created   by   School-­‐‑Based   Transition   Coordinators),   
informed   by   the   academic   readiness   plan,   that   will   be   provided   to   the   school   where   
students   transition   so   that   students’   academic   progress   is   not   interrupted;      
●   Comprehensive   data   on   all   transitioning   students   to   the   schools   where   students   transition;      
●   Monitoring   instructional   quality   through   regular   visits   to   closing   schools   from   Network   staff   
to   ensure   that   students   continue   to   progress   academically   in   their   classrooms;      
●   Meetings   with   school   staff   at   transition   schools,   including   teachers,   principals   and   coaches,   
before   the   beginning   of   the   2018-­‐‑19   school   year   (e.g.   over   the   summer).      
   
Support   for   Specific   Students’   Needs   
   
Support   for   Diverse   Learners   
   
Students   with   disabilities   and   their   families   will   be   supported   in   the   transition   process   by   the   Office   
of   Diverse   Learner   Supports   and   Services   (ODLSS)   through   clear   communication,   continual   support   
for   academic   instruction   and   ensuring   that   transition   schools   are   fully   able   to   implement   students’   
Individual   Education   Programs   (IEPs).   Students   with   disabilities,   as   with   all   students   affected   by   
school   actions,   will   receive   intensive   support   to   ensure   their   academic   and   social-­‐‑emotional   needs   
are   met.   Students   with   disabilities   will   also   receive   the   following   categories   of   support,   adjustable   
to   individual   student/family   need:   
   
Current   students   with   disabilities   will   continue   to   receive   the   following   supports,   required   by   law:   
   
●   A   free   and   appropriate   public   education   (FAPE)   
●   The   implementation   of   the   student’s   IEP   in   the   least   restrictive   environment   (LRE)      
●   A   focus   on   student   academic   and   social   emotional   progress   
   
In   addition,   to   ensure   that   instructional   quality   is   maintained,   CPS   will   provide   the   following   
support:   
   
●   As   students   move   through   this   process,   a   district   representative   from   the   Office   of   Diverse   
Learner   Supports   and   Services   (ODLSS)   will   be   assigned   to   TEAM   Englewood   to   work   with   
families   and   students   to   ensure   they   are   informed   about   their   options   and   support   them   

    

   

throughout   the   process   of   transitioning   to   their   new   school   for   the   2018-­‐‑19   school   year.   
Specifically   the   district   representative   will:   
o   Review   all   IEPs   at   TEAM   Englewood   and   support   decision-­‐‑making   on   the   best   
school   for   students   in   the   2018-­‐‑19   school   year      
   
●   To   support   the   transition,   ODLSS   has   appointed   a   District   Representative   to   serve   as   the   
point   a   contact   for   all   students   and   families.   TEAM   Englewood   families   can   reach   their   
District   Representative,   Hope   Sharp,   at   hmsharp@cps.edu.         

   
Support   for   Students   in   Temporary   Living   Situations   
   
●   The   CPS   Office   of   Students   in   Temporary   Living   Situations   (STLS)   will   continue   the   supports   
currently   provided   to   Students   in   Temporary   Living   Situations   (STLS)   as   required   by   
law.      These   include   free   school   meals,   enrollment   support,   provision   of   required   school   
uniforms   and   school   supplies   as   needed,   transportation   assistance   when   eligible,   and   
waiver   of   all   school-­‐‑related   fees.   
●   Students   in   Temporary   Living   Situations   will   be   encouraged   to   attend   any   events   in   which   
they   can   meet   with   school   staff   and/or   learn   about   schools   where   they   can   transition.   
●   For   those   students   who   had   been   homeless   before   the   2018-­‐‑19   school   year,   their   school   of   
origin   will   become   the   first   school   where   enroll   in   the   2018-­‐‑19   school   year.   
●   Students   in   Temporary   Living   Situations   will   have   the   opportunity   to   meet   with   STLS   staff,   
in   addition   to   other   staff   on   the   Transition   Team,   to   discuss   their   options,   develop   academic   
readiness   plans   and   safety   plans   to   support   them   throughout   the   transition   period.   
●   For   families   currently   enrolled   in   the   STLS   program,   younger   siblings   may   attend   the   same   
school   that   their   older   sibling   elects   under   this   proposed   action   (assuming   the   younger   and   
older   siblings   are   both   in   high   school).   
●   Additionally,   CPS   will   provide   professional   development   and   support   to   staff   on   providing   
transition   services   for   STLS   students.   
   
Support   for   English   Learners      
   
●   Current   and   future   English   Language   Learners   (ELs)   will   receive   state   mandated   bilingual   
services   (either   Transitional   Bilingual   Education   (TBE)   or   Transitional   Program   of   
Instruction   (TPI),   as   required.         
●   English   as   a   Second   Language   (ESL)   instruction   provided   by   an   ESL-­‐‑endorsed   teacher   is   
part   of   both   programs.      
●   Meaningful   access   to   the   core   curriculum   is   provided   to   TBE   students   through   native   
language   instruction   in   the   core   content   (language   arts,   math,   science,   and   social   studies).      
For   TPI   students,   meaningful   access   to   core   curriculum   is   delivered   through   sheltered   
English   content   instruction   and   native   language   supports,   based   on   the   individual   student’s   
need,   and   provided   by   appropriately   endorsed   (bilingual-­‐‑   or   ESL-­‐‑endorsed)   teacher(s).      
   
Support   for   Students’   Transportation   Needs   
   
●   Provisions   for   specific   student   populations   (i.e.,   student   with   disabilities,   Students   in   
Temporary   Living   Situations   and   NCLB   qualifying   students),   as   determined   by   the   CPS   
transportation   policy,   will   continue   to   apply.   
   
   

    

IV.  Ongoing   Transition   Supports   From   Fall   2018   Through   Spring   2021   
   
CPS   will   guarantee   the   Principal   Transition   Coordinator   position   through   at   least   the   end   of   School   
Year   2018-­‐‑19,   to   ensure   a   smooth   transition   process   through   the   first   transition   year.   For   
additional   supports,   CPS   will   work   with   each   school   welcoming   students   from   TEAM   Englewood   to   
finalize   a   plan   to   support   transitioning   students,   including   meeting   their   academic   and   social-­‐‑
emotional   needs.   CPS   will   then   provide   sufficient   funds   to   fulfill   the   plans,   basing   some   share   of   the   
funding   on   a   proportional   calculation   of   incoming   transitional   students.   These   funds   will   be   
adjusted   each   semester,   based   on   the   number   of   transitioning   students   present   at   each   school   in   
that   semester.   Each   plan   will   include:   
   
Safety   and   Security   
   
The   CPS   Office   of   Safety   &   Security   has   engaged   the   Englewood   community,   including   the   
Community   Leadership   Steering   Committee   and   its   members,   on   transitioning   student   safety.   The   
Office   of   Safety   &   Security   will   continue   to   work   with   TEAM   Englewood   and   the   Englewood   
community   to   ensure   their   safety   and   security   plans   are   appropriate   for   this   proposed   closure   and   
transition   of   students.   These   supports   may   be   further   customized   as   feedback   is   obtained   at   
community   meetings   and   the   public   hearing   for   this   proposal.   Additionally,   resources   may   be   
adjusted   to   meet   the   unique   needs   of   affected   students   (if   deemed   necessary).      
   
Safety   supports   discussed   to   date   include:      
   
●   Review   existing   Safe   Passage   routes   and   adjust   routes   as   appropriate   based   on   an   
assessment   of   the   schools   where   students   will   be   transitioning;      
●   Partner   with   CTA   to   review   potential   staging   of   buses   to   facilitate   safe   and   smooth   
dismissals;         
●   Evaluate   transportation   support,   including   distribution   of   limited-­‐‑use   CTA   cards   for   
transitioning   students   based   on   their   individualized   safety   plans;      
●   Review   security   staffing   and   adjust   staffing   as   appropriate   in   schools   where   students   will   be   
transitioning;      
●   Evaluate   security   systems   and   technology   in   schools   where   students   transition.      
   
Support   for   Students’   Social   and   Emotional   Needs   
   
CPS   understands   that   when   students   transition   into   new   situations   and   environments,   additional   
support   is   needed   to   help   them   adjust.   CPS   and   the   Office   of   Social   Emotional   Learning   (OSEL)   will   
consult   with   schools   that   receive   transitioning   Englewood   students   to   evaluate   existing   SEL   
supports   and   determine   additional   resource   needs   for   a   school-­‐‑specific   plan.   These   plans   may   
include   the   following:   
   
●   Establishing   a   climate   &   culture   team   to   lead   the   planning   of   school-­‐‑wide   practices   to   
promote   positive   relationships   and   a   welcoming,   supportive   and   trauma-­‐‑sensitive   school   
environment;   
●   Implementing   restorative   practices   (such   as   talking   circles   and   peer   councils)   to   encourage   
peer-­‐‑to-­‐‑peer   problem-­‐‑solving   and   resolution;      
●   Developing   behavioral   health   systems   to   identify   when   students   have   higher   levels   of   social   
and   emotional   need,   connecting   them   to   targeted   interventions   and   tracking   their   progress   
to   ensure   success;   

    

●   Implementing   targeted   small   group   supports   or   circles   aimed   at   helping   students   work   
●  
●  
●  
●  

through   concerns   associated   with   transition   as   needed;      
Access   to   social   &   emotional   or   trauma   interventions   for   students   who   need   more   
individualized   attention;      
Developing   Student   Leadership   and   Culture-­‐‑Building   Activities   to   ensure   students   feel   
welcome   in   schools   where   they   transition;      
Ensuring   continuity   of   existing   mentorship   programs   (e.g.   BAM   and   WOW)   to   serve   
students   throughout   the   transition   process;      
Providing   professional   development   and   training   opportunities   in   trauma-­‐‑sensitive   
practices,   restorative   practices,   social   emotional   learning   and   other   relevant   topics   to   staff   
at   schools   where   students   transition.   

   
Support   for   Students’   Academic   Needs   
   
The   principal   and   other   school   leaders   at   transition   schools   will   receive   individualized   “academic   
resumes”   for   each   transitioning   student.   CPS   will   provide   additional   funds   for   academic   supports   to   
schools   receiving   transitioning   students.   CPS   will   work   with   school   leaders   to   determine   how   to   
best   allocate   these   funds   in   order   to   provide   supports   and   resources   for   transitioning   students.   
These   supports   could   include:   
   
●   Academic   remediation   and   intervention   supports   such   as   tutoring   and   credit   recovery;      
●   Additional   staffing   to   support   students   in   classrooms.      
●   Office   hours   and   other   opportunities   to   meet   with   school   principals,   administrators   and   
staff   
   
   
Support   for   Specific   Students’   Needs   
   
Support   for   Diverse   Learners   
   
Students   with   disabilities   and   their   families   will   be   supported   in   the   transition   process   by   the   Office   
of   Diverse   Learner   Supports   and   Services   (ODLSS)   through   clear   communication,   continual   support   
for   academic   instruction   and   ensuring   the   schools   where   students   transition   are   fully   able   to   
implement   student   Individual   Education   Programs   (IEPs).   Students   with   disabilities,   as   with   all   
students   impacted   by   school   actions,   will   receive   intensive   support   directly   after   announcement   of   
a   proposed   school   action,   to   ensure   their   academic   and   social-­‐‑emotional   needs   are   met.   Students   
with   disabilities   will   also   receive   the   following   categories   of   support,   adjustable   to   individual   
student/family   need:   
   
Current   students   with   disabilities   will   continue   to   receive   the   following   supports,   required   by   law:   
   
●   A   free   and   appropriate   public   education   (FAPE)   
●   The   implementation   of   the   student’s   IEP   in   the   least   restrictive   environment   (LRE)      
●   A   focus   on   student   academic   and   social   emotional   progress   
   
In   addition,   to   ensure   that   instructional   quality   is   maintained,   CPS   will   additionally   provide   the   
following   support:   
   
●   As   students   move   through   this   process,   a   district   representative   from   the   Office   of   Diverse   
Learner   Supports   and   Services   (ODLSS)   will   be   assigned   to   students   transitioning   from   

    

TEAM   Englewood   to   work   with   families   and   students   to   ensure   they   are   informed   on   their   
options   and   support   them   throughout   the   process   of   transitioning   to   their   new   school   for   
the   2018-­‐‑19   school   year.   Specifically   the   district   representative   will:   
o   Review   all   IEPs   with   the   school   students   transition   to   ensure   implementation   and   
provide   observations   of   classrooms   when   school   has   started   and   train   staff   on   
specialized   equipment   for   specific   student   needs   
   
Support   for   Students   in   Temporary   Living   Situations   
   
●   The   CPS   Office   of   Students   in   Temporary   Living   Situations   (STLS)   will   continue   the   supports   
currently   provided   to   Students   in   Temporary   Living   Situations   (STLS)   as   required   by   
law.      These   include   free   school   meals,   enrollment   support,   provision   of   required   school   
uniforms   and   school   supplies   as   needed,   transportation   assistance   when   eligible,   and   
waiver   of   all   school   related   fees;      
●   Students   in   Temporary   Living   Situations   will   be   encouraged   to   attend   any   events   in   which   
they   can   meet   with   school   staff   and/or   learn   about   schools   where   they   can   transition;      
●   For   those   students   who   had   been   homeless   before   the   2018-­‐‑19   school,   their   school   of   origin   
will   become   the   first   school   where   they   enroll   for   the   2018-­‐‑19   school   year;   
●   Students   in   Temporary   Living   Situations   will   have   the   opportunity   to   meet   with   STLS   staff,   
in   addition   to   other   staff   on   the   Transition   Team,   to   discuss   their   options,   develop   academic   
readiness   plans   and   safety   plans   to   support   them   throughout   the   transition   period;   
●   For   families   currently   enrolled   in   the   STLS   program,   younger   siblings   may   attend   the   same   
school   that   their   older   sibling   elects   under   this   proposed   action   (assuming   the   younger   and   
older   siblings   are   both   in   high   school);   
●   Additionally,   CPS   will   provide   professional   development   and   support   to   staff   on   providing   
transition   services   for   STLS   students.   
   
Support   for   English   Learners      
   
●   Current   and   future   English   Language   Learners   (ELs)   will   receive   state-­‐‑mandated   bilingual   
services   (Transitional   Bilingual   Education   (TBE)   or   Transitional   Program   of   Instruction   
(TPI)),   as   required;      
●   English   as   a   Second   Language   (ESL)   instruction   provided   by   an   ESL-­‐‑endorsed   teacher   is   
part   of   both   programs;         
●   Meaningful   access   to   the   core   curriculum   is   provided   to   TBE   students   through   native   
language   instruction   in   the   core   content   (language   arts,   math,   science,   and   social   studies).      
For   TPI   students,   meaningful   access   to   core   curriculum   is   delivered   through   sheltered   
English   content   instruction   and   native   language   supports,   based   on   the   individual   student’s   
need,   and   provided   by   appropriately   endorsed   (bilingual-­‐‑   or   ESL-­‐‑endorsed)   teacher(s).      
   
Support   for   Students’   Transportation   Needs   
●   Provisions   for   specific   student   populations   (i.e.,   student   with   disabilities,   Students   in   
Temporary   Living   Situations   and   NCLB   qualifying   students),   as   determined   by   the   CPS   
transportation   policy,   will   continue   to   apply.   
   
   
V.   Additional   Logistical   Information   
   
Information   Regarding   Choice   of   Schools   

    

CPS   is   committed   to   providing   educational   options   that   fit   each   student’s   unique   learning   needs.      To   
support   families   in   understanding   their   enrollment   options,   information   from   the   Office   of   Access   &   
Enrollment   is   available:   
●  
●  
●  
●  

Online   (www.cps.edu   or   www.cpsoae.edu),   
By   email   (oae@cps.edu),   
By   phone   (773-­‐‑553-­‐‑2060)   
At   an   information   session   to   be   scheduled   at   a   future   date   if   the   Board   approves   the   
proposal.   

   
Public   Comment   
   
CPS   will   hold   two   community   meetings   and   one   formal   public   hearing   regarding   the   proposed   
closure   of   Englewood   High   Schools.   Public   comment   will   be   accepted   during   each   meeting   or   
hearing.   CPS   is   committed   to   considering   community   feedback   and   will   amend   this   draft   transition   
plan   accordingly.   
Community   Meeting   1   

Community   Meeting   2   

Public   Hearing   

January   10,   2018                                 
6   to   8   p.m.   
Kennedy   King   College      
(Great   Hall,   U   Building)   
740   W   63   St   

January   17,   2018   
6   to   8   p.m.   
Hamilton   Park   Fieldhouse   

January   30,   2018   
5:30   to   8   p.m.   
CPS   Central   Office   

513   W   72nd   St   
42   West   Madison   Street      
   
Further   Questions   and   Concerns:   
   
All   of   this   information   can   be   found   at   CPS.edu/Transitions.   If   you   have   any   questions   or   concerns   
regarding   this   proposal   and   the   draft   transition   plan,   please   call   Chicago   Public   Schools   at   (773)   
553-­‐‑1500   or   email   Transitions@cps.edu.   
   

 