  
  
  
   

DRAFT   TRANSITION   PLAN   
For   the   Proposed   Consolidation   of      
Rosario   Castellanos   Elementary   School   into   
Lazaro   Cardenas   Elementary   School   
   

   
I.   Introduction   
   
Chicago   Public   Schools   (CPS)   is   committed   to   providing   every   child   from   every   community   with   a   
high   quality   education   that   prepares   them   for   success   in   college   and   in   life.   CPS   students   continue   to   
make    record-­‐‑breaking    academic    progress    in    every    part    of    the    city.    Our    vision    is    that    all    CPS    schools   
can   build   on   this   progress   by   offering   high   quality,   rigorous   instruction   from   talented   educators   that   
help   put   Chicago   students   on   a   path   to   lasting   success.   
   
   
Before    the    start    of    the    2017-­‐‑18    school    year,    the    Local    School    Council    at    Rosario    Castellanos   
Elementary    School    (Castellanos)    voted    to    request    that    the    principal    at    Lazaro    Cardenas    Elementary   
School    (Cardenas)    serve    as    principal    of    Castellanos,    in    addition    to    his    leadership    as    principal    of   
Cardenas.        On    August    22,    2017,    the    principal    of    Cardenas    begin    serving    as    the    principal    of    both   
Cardenas   and   Castellanos.      On   November   2,   2017,   the   Local   School   Councils   at   both   Castellanos   and   
Cardenas    requested    that    a    full    consolidation    of    the    two    schools    be    considered    by    Chicago    Public   
Schools   (CPS).            
   
Pursuant   to   the   Chief   Executive   Officer’s   Guidelines   for   School   Actions   (Guidelines),   Castellanos’   and   
Cardenas’   Local   School   Councils   have   requested   that   a   consolidation   of   Castellanos   and   Cardenas   be   
considered.   
   
In   line   with   this   community-­‐‑driven   request,   the   Chief   Executive   Officer   (CEO)   of   CPS   is   proposing   to   
consolidate   Castellanos   into   Cardenas.   
   
The   proposal   to   consolidate   Castellanos   into   Cardenas   involves   the   following   changes:   
   
●   Cardenas   will   operate   from   three   different   facilities:   the   current   Cardenas   facilities   at   2345   S.   
Millard    Avenue    and    2406    S.    Central    Park    Avenue    (Kindergarten    to    3rd    grade)    and    the   
Castellanos   facility,   2524   S.   Central   Park   Avenue   (4th   to   8th   grade).      
   
The    transition    plan    outlined    below    summarizes    supports    that    will    be    provided    by    Castellanos,   
Cardenas   and   CPS   to   ensure   a   smooth   transformation   from   two   schools   into   one.   
   
   
II.   Summary   of   Proposed   Action   
   
CPS    is    proposing    to    consolidate    Castellanos    into    Cardenas.    Castellanos    is    an    attendance    area    school   
located   at   2524   S.   Central   Park   Avenue   that   serves   4th   through   8th   grade.   Cardenas   is   an   attendance   
area    school    located    at    2345    S.    Millard    Avenue    and    2406    S.    Central    Park    Avenue    that    serves   
Kindergarten    through    3rd    grade.    Castellanos    currently    serves    601    students    and    Cardenas    currently   
serves    555    students.            If    this    proposal    is    approved,    Castellanos’    and    Cardenas’    attendance    areas    will   
be   unaffected,   since   both   schools   already   have   the   same   a   designated   attendance   area.   
   

   
  
  
This    proposal    is    consistent    with    the    Chief    Executive    Officer’s    Guidelines    for    School    Actions   
(Guidelines)   because   it   is   a   proposal   requested   by   parents   or   community   members   via   the   process   to   
request   proposals   outlined   in   the   Guidelines.   Specifically,   the   Local   School   Councils   for   both   Cardenas   
and   Castellanos   submitted   a   letter   on   Nov.   2,   2017   requesting   the   consolidation   of   these   two   schools.   
The    resulting    space    utilization    after    the    consolidation    will    not    exceed    the    facility’s    enrollment   
efficiency    range,    as    defined    by    the    CPS’    Space    Utilization    Standards.    Additionally,    the    students   
impacted   by   this   proposed   consolidation   are   being   provided   the   option   to   enroll   at   Cardenas,   a   higher   
performing   school,   as   defined   by   the   Guidelines.   
   
The    combined    enrollment    of    Castellanos    and    Cardenas    pre-­‐‑kindergarten    through    8th    grades    total   
1,156    students.    Thus,    the    resulting    space    utilization    after    the    consolidation    will    not    exceed    the   
facilities’   enrollment   efficiency   range.   
   
   
III.  Safety   and   Security   
   
At   the   present   time,   there   are   no   recognized   CPS   safety   concerns   at   either   school.      If   this   proposal   is   
approved,    the    CPS    Office    of    Safety    &    Security    will    work    with    the    administrations    of    Castellanos    and   
Cardenas   to   review   each   school’s   safety   and   security   plan.      A   variety   of   supports   for   students   and   the   
community   nearby   will   be   considered   with   feedback   from   parents.      These   supports   may   include   the   
following:   
   
●   First   and   foremost,   CPS   will   hold   safety   planning   meetings   to   ensure   that   all   safety   efforts   are   
coordinated   between   CPS,   Administration,   Parents   and   the   Chicago   Police   Department;   
●   Examine    current    Safe    Passage    Program    and    need    for    additional    supports    for    those    students   
who   walk   to   school;   
●   Safety   plans   for   parents   who   drive   their   children   to   school   will   be   created;   
●   A    review    of    safety    technology    will    be    conducted    to    determine    whether    existing    safety   
technology    needs    to    be    enhanced.        This    review    will    include    cameras    installed    at    Castellanos   
and   screening   protocols;   
●   Review   Security   Officer   Staffing   levels   based   on   approved   action.   
   
   
IV.   Supports   for   Students   and   Schools         
   
CPS    is    committed    to    ensuring    a    successful    transition    if    the    Board    approves    this    proposal.        To   
accomplish   this,   CPS   proposes   the   following   supports   to   meet   the   academic,   social   and   emotional,   
and    specific    learning    needs    of    affected    students.        These    resources    may    be    further    customized    as   
feedback    is    obtained    at    community    meetings    and    a    public    hearing    regarding    this    proposal.   
Additionally,    resources    may    be    adjusted    to    meet    the    unique    needs    of    affected    students    if    deemed   
necessary.   
   
Support   for   Students’   Academic   Needs   
To    ensure    students    receive    high-­‐‑quality    academic    instruction    throughout    the    transition,    the   
following   will   occur:   
   
●   Academic   Planning   Teams:   Castellanos   and   Cardenas   will   designate   teachers   to   form   joint   
Academic    Planning    Teams.        Academic    Planning    Teams    consisting    of    teachers    from    both   
schools,   grouped   by   subject   and   grade   level,   will   meet   to   plan   the   curriculum,   which   will   ease   
the   transition.            

   
  
  
●   Common    Scheduling/Enrichment:        Both    Castellanos    and    Cardenas    will    outline    the   
programs    at    each    school    and    discuss    how    the    programs    at    each    school    can    be    preserved,   
enhanced   and   incorporated   into   the   schedule   for   the   next   academic   year.   
●   Assess    the    need    for    Professional    Development:    Since    the    two    school    populations    are   
similar,   professional   development   would   be   focused   on   integrating   the   staff   to   ensure   that   
the   academic   environment   provides   for   a   strong,   continuous   educational   focus   and   students   
transition   to   the   new   building.      
   
Support   for   Students’   Social   and   Emotional   Needs   
CPS    understands    that    when    students    transition    into    new    situations    and    environments,    additional   
support   is   needed   to   help   them   adjust.   CPS   and   the   Office   of   Social   Emotional   Learning   (OSEL)   will   
consult   with   the   Castellanos   and   Cardenas   school   communities   to   continue   existing   SEL   supports   and   
determine   the   need   for   additional   resources   for   a   school-­‐‑specific   plan   that   may   include   the   following:   
●   Assess    the    need    to    develop    a    Campus    Ambassadors    Program    that    would    identify    students   
from   Cardenas   and   Castellanos   as   liaisons   for   the   two   schools.      The   liaisons   will   be   identified   
as   student   leaders   next   year   to   support   the   transition.   
●   Assess   the   need   for   a   Climate/culture   team   that   may   consist   of   a   group   of   representative   staff   
(including   administrators,   teachers,   counselors,   and   security   officers)   from   both   schools   to   
develop    a    combined    climate    &    culture    team,    which    will    lead    the    planning    of    school-­‐‑wide   
policies   and   practices   to   promote   positive   relationships   and   a   welcoming,   supportive   school   
environment.   This   includes   cultivating   a   sense   of   community   between   all   staff   and   students.      
●   Assess    the    need    for    a    Behavioral    Health    Team    to    support    both    schools    in    ensuring    their   
existing    systems    identify    when    students    have    higher    levels    of    social    and    emotional    need,   
connect   them   to   targeted   interventions   and   track   their   progress   to   ensure   success.   Guiding   
practices    will    be    established    through    collaboration    to    prepare    for    students    who    may    need   
additional   social   and   emotional   support.   Training   will   be   supported   by   CPS   and   the   Office   of   
Social   Emotional   Learning.   
●   Assess   the   need   for   additional   professional   development   for   all   teachers   to   help   them   develop   
skills   and   resources   that   support   all   students.   
   
Support   for   Specific   Students’   Needs   
   
Support   for   Diverse   Learners   
   
Students   with   disabilities   and   their   families   will   be   supported   in   the   transition   process   through   clear   
communication,   continual   support   for   academic   instruction   and   ensuring   that   Cardenas   is    fully   able   
to   implement   students’   Individual   Education   Programs   (IEPs).      Students   with   disabilities,   as   with   all   
students    impacted    by    school    actions,    will    receive    intensive    support    to    ensure    their    academic    and   
social-­‐‑emotional   needs   are   met.      Students   with   disabilities   will   also   receive   the   following   categories   
of   support,   adjustable   to   individual   student/family   need:   
   
Current   students   with   disabilities   will   continue   to   receive   the   following   supports,   required   by   law:   
●   A   free   and   appropriate   public   education   (FAPE)   
●   The   implementation   of   the   student’s   IEP   in   the   least   restrictive   environment   (LRE)   
●   A   focus   on   student   academic   and   social   emotional   progress   
   
Currently   each   school   has   a   counselor/case   manager.   The   caseload   with   the   consolidation   is   anticipated   
to    remain    the    same    as    what    currently    exists    at    both    schools.    The    school    will    receive    consistent    staffing   
support   to   ensure   the   IEP   process   continues   smoothly   for   the   2018-­‐‑19   school   year.   

   
  
  
   
In    addition,    a    district    representative    from    the    Office    of    Diverse    Learner    Supports    and    Services   
(ODLSS)   will   be   assigned   to   work   with   families   and   students   to   support   them   throughout   the   process   
of    transitioning    to    their    new    school    for    the    2018-­‐‑19    school    year.        Specifically,    the    district   
representative   will:   
●   Work    with    teachers    on    appropriate    programming    to    support    the    transitioning    diverse   
learners.   
●   Make    sure    classrooms    are    appropriately    set    up    for    the    newly    transitioning    students    with   
diverse   learning   needs.   
●   Families   can   reach   their   District   Representative,   Ines   Castaneda,   at   icastaneda2@cps.edu.   
   
Support   for   Students   in   Temporary   Living   Situations   
   
●   The   CPS   Office   of   Students   in   Temporary   Living   Situations   (OSTLS)   will   continue   the   support   
provided    to    Students    in    Temporary    Living    Situations    (STLS)    as    required    by    law.        These   
include   free   school   meals,   enrollment   support,   and   provision   of   required   school   uniforms   and   
school    supplies    as    needed,    transportation    assistance    when    eligible    and    waivers    of    all    school   
related   fees;   
●   Under    the    proposed    consolidation,    returning    STLS    students   may   choose   to   attend   Cardenas   
or   meet   with   OSTLS   staff   to   identify   enrollment   options,   develop   academic   readiness   plans   
and   safety   plans   to   support   them   throughout   the   transition   period;   
●   STLS   staff   is   available   if   the   students   wish   to   learn   about   additional   schools   to   transition   to;   
●   For   those   students   who   had   been   homeless   before   the   2018-­‐‑19   school,   their   school   of   origin   
will   become   the   first   school   where   they   enroll   for   the   2018-­‐‑19   school   year;   
●   For   families   currently   enrolled   in   the   STLS   program,   younger   siblings   may   attend   the   same   
school   that   their   older   sibling   elects.   
   
Additionally,   CPS   will   provide   professional   development   and   support   to   staff   on   providing   transition   
services   for   STLS   students.      
   
Support   for   English   Learners      
   
●   Current    and    future    English    Language    Learners    (ELs)    will    receive    state    mandated    bilingual   
services    (Transitional    Bilingual    Education    (TBE)    or    Transitional    Program    of    Instruction   
(TPI)),    as    required.        English    as    a    Second    Language    (ESL)    instruction    provided    by    an    ESL-­‐‑
endorsed   teacher   is   part   of   both   programs;   
●   Meaningful    access    to    the    core    curriculum    is    provided    to    TBE    students    through    native   
language   instruction   in   the   core   content   (language   arts,   math,   science,   and   social   studies);      
●   For   TPI   students,   meaningful   access   to   core   curriculum   is   delivered   through   sheltered   English   
content   instruction   and   native   language   supports,   based   on   the   individual   student’s   need,   and   
provided   by   appropriately   endorsed   (bilingual-­‐‑   or   ESL-­‐‑endorsed)   teacher(s);   
●   Additionally,   CPS   would   allow   for   the   current   positions   provided   to   Castellanos   and   Cardenas   
by   CPS   through   OLCE   to   stay   in   place   for   the   2018-­‐‑19   school   year.      
   
   
Support   for   Students’   Transportation   Needs   
   
●   Provisions    for    specific    student    populations    (i.e.,    student    with    disabilities,    Students    in   
Temporary    Living    Situations    and    NCLB    qualifying    students),    as    determined    by    the    CPS   
transportation   policy,   will   continue   to   apply.   
   

   
  
  
   
V.   Additional   Logistical   Information   
   
Information   Regarding   Choice   of   Schools   
   
If    this    proposal    is    approved,    students    attending    Castellanos    will    be    enrolled    at    Cardenas.        CPS    is   
committed   to   providing   educational   options   that   fit   each   student’s   unique   learning   needs.      To   support   
families    in    understanding    their    enrollment    options,    information    from    the    Office    of    Access    &   
Enrollment   is   available:   
●   Online   (www.cps.edu   or   www.cpsoae.edu),   
●   By   email   (oae@cps.edu),   
●   By   phone   (773-­‐‑553-­‐‑2060)   
●   At    an    information    session    to    be    scheduled    at    a    future    date    if    the    Board    approves    the   
proposal.   
   
Public   Comment   
   
Community   Meetings   and   Public   Hearings:   
   
CPS   will   hold   two   community   meetings   and   one   formal   public   hearing   regarding   this   proposed   action.   
Public   comment   will   be   accepted   during   each   meeting   or   hearing.   CPS   is   committed   to   considering   
community   feedback   and   will   amend   this   draft   transition   plan   accordingly.   
   
Community   Meeting   1   

Community   Meeting   2   

Public   Hearing   

January   9,   2018   
6   to   8   p.m.   
Rosario   Castellanos      
Elementary   School   
2524   S   Central   Park   Ave   

January   16,   2018   
6   to   8   p.m.   
Rosario   Castellanos         
Elementary   School   
2524   S   Central   Park   Ave   

January   25,   2018   
7   to   8   p.m.   
CPS   Central   Office   
42   West   Madison   Street   

Further   Questions   and   Concerns:   
   
All   of   this   information   can   be   found   at   CPS.edu/Transitions.   If   you   have   any   questions   or   concerns   
regarding   this   proposal   and   the   draft   transition   plan,   please   call   Chicago   Public   Schools   at   (773)   553-­‐‑
1500   or   email   Transitions@cps.edu.   
   
   

 