 

Official Report of the Proceedings
of the

BOARD OF EDUCATION

of the City of Chicago

 

Rescheduled Meeting-Wednesday, April 3, 2013
10:30 AM.
(125 South Clark Street)

 

Published by the Authority of the Chicago Board of Education

David J. Vitale Estela G. Beltran
President Secretary

April 3, 2013
ATTEST:

mam

Secretary of the Board of Education
of the City of Chicago

President Vitale took the Chair and the meeting being called to order there were then:
PRESENT: Dr. Hines, Mr. Ruiz, Ms. Zopp, Dr. Azcoitia, and President Vitale 5*
One vacancy exists on the Board.

ABSENT: Dr. Bienen ?1

ALSO PRESENT: Dr. Barbara Byrd-Bennett, Chief Executive Officer, Mr. James Bebley,
General Counsel, Marquis D. Watson, Honorary Student Board Member, and Khedoni Tyler,
Shadow Student.

ABSENT: None

President Vitale thereupon opened the floor to the Honoring Excellence segment of the
Board Meeting.

President Vitale thereupon opened the floor to the CEO Report segment of the Board
Meeting. Dr. Byrd-Bennett, Chief Executive Officer, proceeded with a presentation on the
proposed school actions.

President Vitale thereupon opened the floor to the Public Participation segment of the
Board Meeting.

President Vitale thereupon opened the floor to the Discussion of Public Participation.
President Vitale thereupon opened the floor to the Discussion of Public Agenda items.
President Vitale proceeded to entertain a Motion to go into Closed Session.

Dr. Hines presented the following Motion:

13-0403-MO1
MOTION TO HOLD A CLOSED SESSION
MOTION ADOPTED that the Board hold a closed session to consider the following

subjects:

(1) information, regarding appointment. employment, compensation discipline, performance,
or dismissal of employees pursuant to Section of the Open Meetings Act;

(2) collective negotiating matters between the public body and its employees or their
representatives, or deliberations concerning salary schedules for one or more classes of
employees pursuant to Section of the Open Meetings Act;

(3) the purchase or lease of real property for the use of the Board pursuant to Section
of the Open Meetings Act;

(4) the setting of a price for the sale or lease of real property owned by the Board pursuant

to Section of the Open Meetings Act;







April 3, 2013

(5) security procedures and the use of personnel and equipment to respond to an actual, a
threatened, or a reasonably potential danger to the safety of employees, students, staff,
the public, or public property pursuant to Section of the Open Meetings Act;

(6) matters relating to individual students pursuant to Section 2(c)(10) of the Open Meetings
Act;

(7) pending litigation and litigation which is probable or imminent involving the Board
pursuant to Section 2(c)(11) of the Open Meetings Act; and

(8) discussion of closed session minutes pursuant to Section 2(c)(21) of the Open Meetings

Act, including audio tapes created pursuant to Section 2.06 of the Open Meetings Act.
Vice President Ruiz moved to adopt Motion 13-0403-M01.
The Secretary called the roll and the vote was as follows:
Yeas: Dr. Hines, Mr. Ruiz, Ms. Zopp, Dr. Azcoitia, and President Vitale 5
Nays: None
President Vitale thereupon declared Motion 13-0403-MO1 adopted.

CLOSED SESSION
RECORD OF CLOSED SESSION

The following is a record of the Board's Closed Session:

The Closed Meeting was held on April 3, 2013, beginning at 1:25 p.m. at the Central
Service Center, 125 South Clark Street, and President?s Conference Room 6th Floor, and
Chicago Illinois 60603.

PRESENT: Dr. Hines, Mr. Ruiz, Ms. Zopp, Dr. Azcoitia, and President Vitale - 5*
One vacancy exists on the Board.
ABSENT: Dr. Bienen - 1

Other Reports

Warning Resolutions
Terminations

Personnel

Collective Bargaining
Real Estate

Security

Closed Session Minutes
Individual Student Matters



No votes were taken in Closed Session.
After Closed Session the Board reconvened.

Members present after Closed Session: Dr. Hines, Mr. Ruiz, Ms. Zopp, Dr. Azcoitia, and

President Vitale - 5*

*Note: One vacancy exists on the Board.

Members absent after Closed Session: Dr. Bienen - 1

April 3, 2013
President Vitale thereupon proceeded with Agenda Items.

1 3-0403-AR2

COMPENSATION - PAYMENT FOR LUMP SUM SETTLEMENT FOR
CHARLENE CRUZ - CASE NO. 08 WC 49172

THE GENERAL COUNSEL REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Authorized settlement of the Workers' Compensation claim of Charlene Cruz. Case No. 08 WC 49172
and subject to the approval of the Commission, in the amount of $102,847.50.

DESCRIPTION: In accordance with the provisions of the Workers' Compensation Act. the General
Counsel has determined that this settlement is in the Board's best interests.

LSC REVIEW: Local school council approval is not applicable to this report.
AFFIRMATIVE ACTION STATUS: Not applicable.

FINANCIAL: Charge to Workers' Compensation Fund General Fixed Charges Account #12470-210-
57605-119004-000000 FY 2013 510284750

PERSONNEL IMPLICATIONS: None

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that. in accordance with 105 ILCS
5134-131 the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain

investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations.

Conflicts The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 ILCS 5134-213 which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to, former
Board member during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of of?ce.

Indebtedness The Board's Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26,1996 (98-0626-P03). as amended
from time to time. shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 (11-0525-P02), as amended from time to time.
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement

Contingent Liability The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current

?scal year is deemed a contingent liability. subject to appropriation in the subsequent ?scal year
budgetis).

13-0403-AR3

COMPENSATION - PAYMENT FOR LUMP SUM SETTLEMENT FOR
MARIE E. MIMS - CASE NO. 10 WC 31831

THE GENERAL COUNSEL REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Authorized settlement of the Workers' Compensation claim of Marie E. Mims, Case No. 10 WC 31831
and subject to the approval of the Illinois Commission. in the amount of $57,948.00.

DESCRIPTION: In accordance with the provisions of the Workers' Compensation Act. the General
Counsel has determined that this settlement is in the Board's best interests.

LSC REVIEW: Local school council approval is not applicable to this report.
AF FIRMATIVE ACTION STATUS: Not applicable.

FINANCIAL: Charge to Workers' Compensation Fund - General Fixed Charges Account #12470-210-
57605-119004-000000 FY 2013 . $57.948.00

PERSONNEL IMPLICATIONS: None

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 ILCS
5i34?13.1, the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations.

Conflicts The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board it entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 ILCS 5134-213 which restricts the employment of. or the letting of contracts to. former
Board member during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of of?ce.

April 3, 2013
Indebtedness The Board's Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26,1996 (96-0826-P03), as amended
from time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 (11-0525-P02), as amended from time to time,
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current

fiscal year is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in the subsequent ?scal year
budget(s).

13-O403-AR4

COMPENSATION - PAYMENT FOR LUMP SUM SETTLEMENT FOR
EVELYN RIVERA - CASE NO. 09 WC 26793

THE GENERAL COUNSEL REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Authorized settlement of the Workers' Compensation claim of Evelyn Rivera, Case No. 09 WC 26793 and
subject to the approval of the Illinois Commission, in the amount of $140,000.00.

DESCRIPTION: In accordance with the provisions of the Workers? Compensation Act, the General
Counsel has determined that this settlement is in the Board's best interests.

LSC REVIEW: Local school council approval is not applicable to this report.
AFFIRMATIVE ACTION STATUS: Not applicable.

FINANCIAL: Charge to Workers' Compensation Fund - General Fixed Charges Account #12470-210-
57605?119004-000000 FY 2013 $140,000.00

PERSONNEL IMPLICATIONS: None

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 ILCS
the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain

investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations

Con?icts The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 ILCS 5134-213 which restricts the employment of. or the letting of contracts to, former
Board member during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of office.

Indebtedness The Board's Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26,1996 as amended
from time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics - The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 as amended from time to time,
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current

?scal year is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in the subsequent ?scal year
budget(s).

13-0403-AR5
APPROVE SETTLEMENT RECOMMENDATION IN BEVERLY KELLEY (CASE NO. 10?7875)

THE GENERAL COUNSEL REPORTS THE FOLLOWING SETTLEMENT:
DESCRIPTION: Law Department attorneys have tentatively reached a settlement. subject to Board approval,
in connection with a federal lawsuit ?led by former tenured teacher. Beverly Kelley disposing of all Kelley's
claims. attorneys' fees and costs associated with the underlying lawsuit. The General Counsel recommends
approval of the settlement, which calls for the payment of THREE HUNDRED THIRTY FIVE THOUSAND
DOLLARS for all of Beverly Kelley's claims. including attorneys' fees and costs.
LSC REVIEW: LSC approval is not applicable to this report.
AFFIRMATIVE ACTION STATUS: Af?rmative Action review is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL: Charge $335,000.00 to Law Department
Budget Classi?cation Fiscal Year 2013 12670415-54530231122-000000

AUTHORIZATION: Authorize the General Counsel to execute the Settlement Agreement, and all ancillary
documents related thereto.

April 3, 2013

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 
5134-131. the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel necessary to
conduct those investigations,

Conflicts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 ILCS which restricts the employment of. or the letting of contracts to, former
Board Members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of of?ce.

Indebtedness - The Board's indebtedness Policy adopted June 26. 1996 as amended from
time to time. is hereby incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics The Board?s Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 as amended from time to time,
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability - The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current fiscal
year is deemed a contingent liability. subject to appropriation in the subsequent ?scal year budget(s).

The Secretary called the roll and the vote was as follows:
Yeas: Dr. Hines, Mr. Ruiz, Ms. Zopp, Dr. Azcoitia, and President Vitale 5
Nays: None

President Vitale indicated that if there were no objections, Board Reports 13-0403-AR2
through 13-0403-AR5 would be adopted by the roll call vote, all members present voting therefore.

President Vitale thereupon declared Board Reports 13-0403-AR2 through 13-O403-AR5
adopted.
13-0403-AR6
APPOINT SENIOR ASSISTANT GENERAL COUNSEL
DEPARTMENT OF 
(WILLIE F. LEWIS, JR.)
THE GENERAL COUNSEL REPORTS THE FOLLOWING RECOMMENDATION:

Appoint the following named individual to the position listed below effective March 25. 2013.

DESCRIPTION:

NAME: FROM: TO:

Wiliie F. Lewis, Jr. New Employee Functional Title: Professional 
External Title: Senior Assistant General Counsel
Pay Band: 7

Department of Law
Position No. 243837
Flat rate
Annual Salary: $97,000.00
LSC REVIEW: LSC approval is not applicable to this report.
AFFIRMATIVE ACTION STATUS: Not applicable.
FINANCIAL: The expenditure involved in this report is not in excess of the regular budget appropriation.

PERSONNEL IMPLICATIONS: The position to be affected by approval of this action is contained in the FY13
School budget.

13-0403-AR7

APPOINT ASSISTANT GENERAL COUNSEL
DEPARTMENT OF LAW
(SANAT RANGANATHAN)
THE GENERAL COUNSEL REPORTS THE FOLLOWING RECOMMENDATION:

Appoint the following named individual to the position listed below effective March 13. 2013.

April 3, 2013

DESCRIPTION:
NAME: FROM: TO:

SanatRanganathan New Employee FunctiOnal Title: ProfessionalV
External Title: Assistant General Counsel
Pay Band: 7
Department of Law
Position No. 245050
Flat rate
Annual Salary: $80,000.00

LSC REVIEW: LSC approval is not applicable to this report.
AFFIRMATIVE ACTION STATUS: Not applicable.
FINANCIAL: The expenditure involved in this report is not in excess of the regular budget appropriation.

PERSONNEL IMPLICATIONS: The position to be affected by approval of this action is contained in the FY13
School budget.

13-0403-AR8

AUTHORIZE THE RETENTION OF THE PRE-OUALIFIED POOL OF APPRAISERS TO ACT AS
EXPERT WITNESSES IN CONNECTION WITH PROPERTY TAX APPEAL CASES

THE GENERAL COUNSEL REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Authorize Law Department. Chief Purchasing Of?cer and Of?ce of Business Diversity to retain the pre-
quali?ed pool of appraisers listed on Exhibit A to act as expert witnesses in property tax appeals pending
before the Illinois Property Tax Appeal Board. the Cook County Board of Review and the Circuit Court of
Cook County, Illinois. To the extent practicable. the Law Department will share the costs the Board incurs
in retaining these experts with the City of Chicago?s Law Department.

DESCRIPTION: The General Counsel has determined that retaining these appraisers is in the Board's
best interests.

LSC REVIEW: Local school council approval is not applicable to this report.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION STATUS: Appraisers on Exhibit A which are WBEIMBE are indicated.
FINANCIAL: Charge $50,000.00 to Fiscal Year 2013 10455?115-54125-231101-000000
PERSONNEL IMPLICATIONS: None

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 ILCS
5/34-131 the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations.

Con?icts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 ILCS 5134-213 which restricts the employment of. or the letting of contracts to. former
Board Members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of
of?ce.

Indebtedness - The Board's indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 1996 (96-0626-P03), as amended
from time to time. is hereby incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics The Board?s Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 (11-0525-P02), as amended from time to time.
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability - The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current
?scal year is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in the subsequent ?scal year
budget(s).

Exhibit A

Mary P. Wagner. MAI WBE
Appraiser

Midwest Appraisal Company, Inc.
3055 w. 111?? Street

Chicago. IL 60655

Kathleen M. Dart, MAI

KMD Valuation Group, LLC

751 South Clark Street. Suite 203
Chicago. Illinois 60605

Michael S. MaRous MAI
MaRous 8. Company

116 South Prospect Avenue
Park Ridge, IL 60068

Anthony J. Uzemack, MAI
Appraisal Systems

15 South Prospect Avenue
Park Ridge, IL 60068

Lorraine M. Apiecionek, MAI WBE
Principal

LM. Apiecionek 8. Assoc.

2020 Lincoln Park West, Ste. 14M

Chicago. IL 60614

Randal D. Dawson, MAI MBE
Director

Cushman Wake?eld

455 N. Cityfront Plaza Dr.. Ste. 2800
Chicago, IL 60611-5555

Neal Renzi, MAI

Toby J. Sorenson, MAI
Renzi 8. Associates

1300 S. Paulina 3rd Floor
Chicago, Il 60608

Susan A. Enright, MAI WBE
William J. MAI

Vice President

Appraisal Associates. Inc.

53 West Jackson Boulevard, Suite 1527
Chicago, IL 60604

Richard G. Griego, MAI MBE
President

Frontera Realty Consultants. Inc.

203 N. Wabash Ave. Suite 1500

Chicago, IL 60601

Eric W. Dost, MAI

Dost Valuation Group. Ltd.
419 South Ave.
LaGrange, IL 60525

James Gibbons, MAI

Brian Fahey. Staff Appraiser
Gibbons 8. Sidhu

401 South LaSalle Street
Suite 604

Chicago. IL 60605

Janet E. Sallander. MAI WBE
General Appraiser

Cushman Wake?eld of Illinois, Inc.

6133 N. Riber Rd.

Rosemont. IL 60018

Susan 2. Ulrnan, MAI WBE
General Appraiser

President

Zimmerman Real Estate Group, Ltd.

111 W. Washington St. Ste. 902

Chicago, IL 60602

J. Neal Friedman, MAI
CB Richard Ellis

233 N. Michigan

Suite 2350

Chicago, IL 60601

April 3, 2013

April 3, 2013

Brian F. Aronson, MAI
Aronson and Associates, Ltd.
100 Village Green, Suite 230
Lincolnshire, IL. 60069

Cheryl MAI WBE
The Inghram Company

201 North Westshore Drive

Suite 301

Chicago, IL 50601

lvette Glotzer Collins, MAI WBE
Dearbom Valuation Services, LLC

868 South Park Terrace

Chicago, IL 60605

Kevin Byrnes, MAI
Byrnes Walsh LLC

20 East Jackson Blvd.
Suite 650

Chicago, II 60604

Vice President Ruiz abstained on Board Report 13-0403-AR8.

President Vitale indicated that if there were no objections, Board Reports 13-0403-AR6
through 13-0403-AR8, with the noted abstention, would be adopted by the last favorable roll call
vote, all members present voting therefore.

President Vitale thereupon declared Board Reports 13-0403-AR6 through 13-0403-AR8
adopted.

13-0403-EX4

PRINCIPAL CONTRACT (D)
THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Approve the employment of the principal listed below selected by the Chief Executive Of?cer after
receiving the recommendation of the Chicago Military Academy High School appointed Local School
Council pursuant to Section 5134-2?: of the Illinois School Code.

DESCRIPTTON: Employ the individual named below to the position of principal subject to Resolution
and Policy on Requirements for the Selection of Chicago Public Schools Principals, #08-
1217-P02, dated December 17, 2008.

The Talent Of?ce has veri?ed that the following individual has met the requirements for eligibility.
NAME FROM 12

Richard Miller Interim Principal Contract Principal
Chiwgo Military Academy Chicago Military Academy
Network: South Side High School
P. N. 1 12848
Commencing: July 1. 2013
Ending: June 30, 2017

AUTHORIZATION: Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant items and conditions in the
written agreement. Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the agreement

REVIEW: The appointed Local School Council has been advised of the Chief Executive Officer's
selection of the named individual as contract principal of the Chicago Military Academy High School.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION STATUS: None.

FINANCIAL: The salary of the named individual will be established in accordance with the provisions of
the Administrative Compensation Plan.

PERSONNEL IMPLICATIONS: The position to be affected by approval of this action is contained in the
2012-2013 school budget.

13-0403-EX5

April 3, 2013

WARNING RESOLUTION DEREK JORDAN,

CONTRACT PRINCIPAL, ASSIGNED TO ADAM CLAYTON POWELL PAIDEIA

COMMUNITY ACADEMY ELEMENTARY SCHOOL

TO THE CHICAGO BOARD OF EDUCATION

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER RECOMMENDS THE FOLLOWING:

DESCRIPTION:

LSC REVIEW:

AFFIRMATIVE
ACTION REVIEW:

FINANCIAL:

PERSONNEL
IMPLICATIONS:

13-0403-EX6

That the Chicago Board of Education adopts 3 Warning Resotution for
Derek Jordan and that a copy of this Board Report and Warning
Resolution be served upon Derek Jordan.

Pursuant to the provisions of 105 ILCS 5/34-85, the applicable statute of
the State of Illinois, the Rules of the Board of Education of the City of
Chicago, and the Employee Discipline and Due Process Policy, Board
Report No 04-0728-P01, a Warning Resolution be adopted and issued to
Derek Jordan, Contract Principal, to inform him that he has engaged in
unsatisfactory conduct.

The conduct outlined in the Warning Resolution will result in the preferring
of dismissal charges against Derek Jordan, pursuant to the Statute, if said
conduct is not corrected immediately, and maintained thereafter in a
satisfactory fashion following receipt of the Warning Resolution.

Directives for improvement of this conduct are contained in the Warning
Resolution.

LSC review is not applicable to this report.

None.

This action is of no cost to the Board.

None.

WARNING RESOLUTION NANCY PAULETTE,

PRINCIPAL, OROZCO FINE ARTS 8- SCIENCES ELEMENTARY SCHOOL

TO THE CHICAGO BOARD OF EDUCATION

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER RECOMMENDS THE FOLLOWING:

DESCRIPTION:

LSC REVIEW:

AFFIRMATIVE
ACTION REVIEW:

That the Chicago Board of Education adopts a Warning Resolution for
Nancy Paulette and that a copy of this Board Report and Warning
Resolution be served upon Nancy Paulette.

Pursuant to the provisions of 105 ILCS 5134-85, the applicable statute of
the State of Illinois, the Rules of the Board of Education of the City of
Chicago, and Board Report 04-0728-P01, a Warning Resolution must be
adopted and issued to Nancy Paulette, Principal, to inform her that she
has engaged in unsatisfactory conduct.

The conduct outlined in the Warning Resolution will resuit in the referring
of dismissal charges against Nancy Paulette pursuant to the Statute. if
said conduct is not corrected immediatety, and maintained thereafter in a
satisfactory fashion following receipt of the Warning Resolution.
Directives for improvement of this conduct are contained in the Warning
Resolution.

LSC review is not applicable to this report.

None.

FINANCIAL:

PERSONNEL
IMPLICATIONS:

13-0403-EX7

April 3, 2013

This action is of no cost to the Board.

None.

WARNING RESOLUTION -- PERCY CRAWFORD, TENURED TEACHER,
ASSIGNED T0 BURNSIDE ELEMENTARY SCHOLASTIC ACADEMY

TO THE CHICAGO BOARD OF EDUCATION

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER RECOMMENDS THE FOLLOWING:

DESCRIPTION:

LSC REVIEW:

AF FIRMATIVE

ACTION REVIEW:

FINANCIAL:

PERSONNEL
IMPLICATIONS:

13-0403-EX8

That the Chicago Board of Education adopts 3 Warning Resolution for
Percy Crawford and that a copy of this Board Report and Warning
Resolution be served upon Percy Crawford.

Pursuant to the provisions of 105 5134?85, the applicable statute of
the State of Illinois and the Rules of the Board of Education of the City of
Chicago. 3 Warning Resolution be adopted and issued to Percy
Crawford, Teacher, to inform him that he has engaged in unsatisfactory
conduct.

The conduct outlined in the Warning Resolution will result in the preferring
of dismissal charges against Percy Crawford, pursuant to the Statute, if
said conduct is not corrected immediately and maintained thereafter in a
satisfactory fashion following receipt of the Warning Resolution.
Directives for improvement of this conduct are contained in the Warning
Resolution.

LSC review is not applicable to this report.

None.

This action is of no cost to the Board.

None.

WARNING RESOLUTION JULIA HOCK,

TENURED TEACHER, ASSIGNED TO MAYO ELEMENTARY SCHOOL

TO THE CHICAGO BOARD OF EDUCATION

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER RECOMMENDS THE FOLLOWING:

DESCRIPTION:

LSC REVIEW:

AFFIRMATIVE
ACTION REVIEW:

That the Chicago Board of Education adopts a Warning Resolution for
Julia Hook and that a copy of this Board Report and Warning Resolution
be sewed upon Julia Hock.

Pursuant to the provisions of 105 ILCS 5134-85, the applicable statute of
the State of Illinois. and the Rules of the Board of Education of the City of
Chicago. a Warning Resolution be adopted and issued to Julie Hock,
Teacher, to inform her that she has engaged in unsatisfactory conduct.

The conduct outlined in the Warning Resolution will result in the preferring
of dismissal charges against Julia Hock, pursuant to the Statute. if said
conduct is not corrected immediately, and maintained thereafter in a
satisfactory fashion following receipt of the Warning Resolution.
Directives for improvement of this conduct are contained in the Warning
Resolution.

LSC review is not applicable to this report.

None.

10

April 3, 2013

FINANCIAL: This action is of no cost to the Board.

PERSONNEL
IMPLICATIONS: None.

President Vitale indicated that if there were no objections, Board Reports 13-0403-EX4
through 13-0403-EX8 would be adopted by the last favorable roll call vote, all members present
voting therefore.

President Vitale thereupon declared Board Reports 13-O403-EX4 through 13-0403-EX8
adopted.

13-0403-EX9

ADOPT FINDING THAT FORMER PUPIL WAS A NON-RESIDENT
OF THE CITY OF CHICAGO INDEBTED TO THE
CHICAGO PUBLIC SCHOOLS FOR NON-RESIDENT TUITION

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER RECOMMENDS THE FOLLOWING:

That the Chicago Board of Education: ?nd that the custodial parents of former CPS pupil (ID
42074993) were non-residents of the City of Chicago from the time they enrolled the pupil
through the 2008-2009 academic school year, for the time that the identi?ed students attended
CPS schools; (ii) hold the pupil's custodial parents accountable as indebted to the Board for
non-resident tuition for the pupil's attendance in the Chicago Public Schools for the student's
respective times of enrollment, which occurred between 2002 through 2009. in the total amount
of $57,948.89; reject any objections by the parent to the Board's ?ndings; and (iv) bar the
pupil from continued and/or future attendance in the Chicago Public Schools unless and until all
non-resident tuition owed is paid in full.

DESCRIPTION:

Sections 10?20.12a and 10-20.12b (105 ILCS and 10?20.12b) of the Illinois School
Code and Board Rule 5-12 authorize and empower the Board to charge tuition, not exceeding
110% of the per capita cost of maintaining its schools during the preceding school year, to
pupils enrolled in the Chicago Public Schools determined to be non-residents of the City of
Chicago. Further, section 10~20.12b provides that a hearing be held, when requested by the
person who enrolled the pupils, to determine whether or not a pupil who is believed to be a non-
resident resides within the City of Chicago. If after notice of the initial determination of non-
residency, the person who enrolled the pupil does not request a hearing or, if requested, the
hearing results in a ?nding that the pupil does not reside in the district, the person who enrolled
the pupil shall be charged tuition for the period of non-resident school attendance and the pupil
shall be barred from attending school in the district unless the required tuition is paid for the

pupil.
LSC REVIEW: LSC review is not applicable to this report.

AFFIRMATIVE
ACTION REVIEW: Af?rmative action review is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL: If the pupil is found to have been a non-resident during any time the pupil
attended the Chicago Public Schools, the person(s) who enrolled the
pupil shall be charged tuition for that time.

PERSONNEL
IMPLICATIONS: None.

13-0403-EX10

ADOPT FINDING THAT PUPILS WERE NON-RESIDENT 
OF THE CITY OF CHICAGO INDEBTED TO THE
CHICAGO PUBLIC SCHOOLS FOR NON-RESIDENT TUITION

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER RECOMMENDS THE FOLLOWING:

That the Chicago Board of Education: ?nd that the custodial parents of CPS pupils (ID #43053590, l.D.
43053620, I.D. 42385182) were non-residents of the City of Chicago from the time they enrolled the
pupils through the 2011-2012 academic school year, for the time that the identi?ed students attended
CPS schools; (ii) hold the pupils? custodial parents accountable as indebted to the Board for non-resident
tuition for the pupils? attendance in the Chicago Public Schools for the pupils' respective times of
enrollment, which occurred behNeen 2009 through 2012, in the total amount of $92,465.44; and reject
any objections by the parents to the Board?s ?ndings.

11

April 3, 2013

DESCRIPTION:

Sections 10-20.12a and 10-20.12b (105 ILCS and 10-2012b) of the Illinois School Code and
Board Rule 5-12 authorize and empower the Board to charge tuition, not exceeding 110% of the per
capita cost of maintaining its schools during the preceding school year. to pupils enrolled in the Chicago
Public Schools determined to be non-residents of the City of Chicago. Further, section 10-20.12b
provides that a hearing be held, when requested by the person who enrolled the pupils, to determine
whether or not a pupil who is believed to be a non-resident resides within the City of Chicago. If after
notice of the initial determination of non-residency, the person who enrolled the pupil does not request a
hearing or, if requested, the hearing results in a ?nding that the pupil does not reside in the district, the
person who enrolled the pupil shall be charged tuition for the period of non?resident school attendance
and the pupil shall be barred from attending school in the district unless the required tuition is paid for the

pupil.

LSC REVIEW: LSC review is not applicable to this report

AFFIRMATIVE

ACTION REVIEW: Af?rmative action review is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL: If the pupil is found to have been a non-resident during any time the pupil
attended the Chicago Public Schools, the person(s) who enrolled the pupil shail
be charged tuition for that time.

PERSONNEL

IMPLICATIONS: None.

President Vitale indicated that if there were no objections, Board Reports and
13-0403-EX10 would be adopted by the last favorable roll call vote, all members present voting
therefore.

President Vitale thereupon declared Board Reports and 13-0403-EX10
adopted.

1 3-0403-RS4

RESOLUTION APPROVING CHIEF EXECUTIVE RECOMMENDATION
TO DISMISS EDUCATIONAL SUPPORT PERSONNEL

WHEREAS, on March 14, 2013 the Chief Executive Of?cer submitted a written recommendation,
including the reasons for the recommendation. to the Board to dismiss the following educational support
personnel pursuant to Board Policy 04-0728-PO1:

 

 

 

 

 

 

Name School Effective Date
ldris Bridgeforth Ashbum Community Elementary School April 3, 2013
Bryant Jessup Cameron Elementary School April 3. 2013
Edward Johnson Hyde Park Career Academy April 3, 2013
Adrienne Porter Biedler Elementary School April 3, 2013
Rukiya Thurmond James McPherson School April 3, 2013

 

 

 

 

 

WHEREAS, the Chief Executive Of?cer followed the procedures established by him prior to making the
recommendation;

WHEREAS, the Board has reviewed the reasons for the Chief Executive Of?cer?s recommendation;

WHEREAS, the Chief Executive Of?cer or his designee has previously notified the affected educational
support personnel of their pending dismissal;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED:

1. That pursuant to Board Policy 04-0728-PO1, the above-referenced educational support personnel are
dismissed from Board employment effective on the date set opposite their names.

2. The Board hereby approves all actions taken by the Chief Executive Of?cer or his designee to
effectuate the dismissal of the above-named educational support personnel.

3. The Chief Executive Of?cer or designee shall notify the above-named educational support personnel
of their dismissal.

12

April 3, 2013

13-0403-RSS

RESOLUTION APPROVING CHIEF EXECUTIVE RECOMMENDATION
TO DISMISS PROBATIONARY APPOINTED TEACHERS

WHEREAS, March 14. 2013, the Chief Executive Of?cer submitted written recommendations, including
the reasons for the recommendations. to the Board to dismiss the following probationary appointed
teachers pursuant to Board Rule and 105 5/34-84:

 

 

 

 

 

 

Name School Effective Date
Armel Peel George Westinghouse High School April 3, 2013
Jerrold Sims Elaine 0 Goodlow Magnet School April 3, 2013

 

 

WHEREAS. the Chief Executive Officer followed the procedures established by him prior to making the
recommendation;

WHEREAS, the Board has reviewed the reasons for the Chief Executive Of?cer's recommendation;

WHEREAS, the Chief Execmive Of?cer or his designee has previously notified the affected probationary
appointed teachers of their pending dismissal;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED:

1. That pursuant to Board Rule and 105 ILCS 5/3484, the above-referenced probationary
appointed teachers are dismissed from Board employment effective on the date set opposite their names.

2. The Board hereby approves all actions taken by the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to
effectuate the dismissal of the above-named probationary appointed teachers.

3. The Chief Executive Officer or designee shall notify the above-named probationary appointed
teachers of their dismissal.

The Secretary presented the following Statement for the Public Record:

I would like to note for the record that on March 14, 2013, the Board Members and the
Office of the Board received the Recommendation to Dismiss Probationary Appointed
Teachers Pursuant to Board Rule and 105 ILCS 5/34-84. Her recommendation included
the names of the Teachers affected and the reasons. She also noted that the Teachers affected
will be notified of their dismissal after adoption of the resolution.

President Vitale indicated that if there were no objections, Board Reports 13-0403-RS4 and
13-0403-R85 would be adopted by the last favorable roll call vote, all members present voting
therefore.

President Vitale thereupon declared Board Reports and 13-0403-R85
adopted.

Vice President Ruiz presented the following Motion:

13-0403-M02

MOTION RE: ADOPT AND MAINTAIN AS CONFIDENTIAL
CLOSED SESSION MINUTES FROM FEBRUARY 27, 2013

MOTION ADOPTED that the Board adopt the minutes of the closed session meeting of
February 27. 2013 pursuant to Section 2.06 of the Open Meetings Act. Board Members reviewed these
minutes and determined that the need for con?dentiality exists. Therefore. the minutes of the closed
session meeting held on February 27. 2013 shall be maintained as confidential and not available for

public inspection.

Board Member Zopp moved to adopt Motion 13-0403-M02.

13

April 3, 2013

The Secretary called the roll and the vote was as follows:

Yeas: Dr. Hines, Mr. Ruiz, Ms. Zopp, Dr. Azcoitia, and President Vitale - 5
Nays: None

President Vitale thereupon declared Motion 13-0403-M02 adopted.

Board Member Zopp presented the following Motion:



MOTION RE: APPROVAL OF RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS OF
MEETING OPEN TO THE PUBLIC FEBRUARY 27, 2013
MOTION ADOPTED that the record of proceedings of the Regular Board Meeting of February 27,
2013 prepared by the Board Secretary be approved and such record of proceedings be posted on the

District's website in accordance with Section 2.06(b) of the Open Meetings Act.
Vice President Ruiz moved to adopt Motion 13-0403-MO3
The Secretary called the roll and the vote was as follows:
Yeas: Dr. Hines, Mr. Ruiz, Ms. Zopp, Dr. Azcoitia, and President Vitale 5
Nays: None
President Vitale thereupon declared Motion 13-0403-M03 adopted.



RESOLUTION PROVIDING FOR THE ISSUE OF UNLIMITED TAX GENERAL
OBLIGATION REFUNDING BONDS (DEDICATED REVENUES), SERIES 2013, OF
THE BOARD OF EDUCATION OF THE CITY OF CHICAGO IN AN AGGREGATE
PRINCIPAL AMOUNT NOT TO EXCEED $600,000,000, FOR THE PURPOSE OF
PAYING THE COST OF REFUNDING CERTAIN OUTSTANDING BONDS OF SAID
BOARD OF EDUCATION

WHEREAS, pursuant to the provisions of Article 34 of the School Code of the State of Illinois, as
amended (the ?School Code"), the City of Chicago. having a population exceeding 500,000, constitutes
one school district (the ?School District"), which is a body politic and corporate by the name of the
"Board of Education of the City of Chicago? (the ?Board?); and

WHEREAS, the Board is governed by the seven-member Chicago Board of Education, as
successor to the Chicago School Reform Board of Trustees (the "School Board"); and

WHEREAS. the School Board has heretofore determined that it is advisable. necessary and in
the best interests of the Board and the residents of the School District to construct. acquire and equip
school and administrative buildings, site improvements and other real and personal property in and for the
School District (the ?Project"), all in accordance with the estimates of cost, including the Board's Capital

Improvement Program, as heretofore approved and amended by the Board; and

WHEREAS, for the purpose. among others. of providing funds to pay a portion of the cost of the
Project, the cost of funding obligations or purchasing related investments of the Board and the cost of

refunding certain obligations of or issued on behalf of the Board, including bonds issued for the aforesaid

14

April 3, 2013

purposes. and in accordance with the provisions of the Local Government Debt Reform Act of the State of
Illinois, as amended (the ?Debt Reform Act"), the Board has heretofore authorized and issued several
series of alternate bonds. being general obligation bonds payable from any revenue source as provided
by the Debt Reform Act (?Alternate Bonds"). having series designations and outstanding in the amounts
as set forth in Exhibit I attached hereto (collectively, the ?Outstanding Bonds"); and

WHEREAS. for the purpose, among others. of providing funds to pay a portion of the cost of the
Project and of refunding certain obligations of or issued on behalf of the Board and in accordance with the
provisions of the Debt Reform Act, the School Board, on September 15, 2012r adopted a resolution (the

?2012 Authorization") authorizing the issuance of Alternate Bonds in an aggregate principal amount of

not to exceed $750,000,000 (the ?2012 Authorization Bonds") payable from any and all of the following
revenue sources: not more than $150,000,000 of the State Aid payments to be made to the Board in
any year pursuant to Article 18 of the School Code. or such successor or replacement act as may be
enacted in the future, (ii) amounts allocated and paid to the Board from the Personal Property Tax
Replacement Fund of the State of Illinois pursuant to Section 12 of the State Revenue Sharing Act of the
State of Illinois. as amended, or from Such successor or replacement fund or act as may be enacted in
the future, proceeds of all or any portion of a capital improvement tax levied and extended, and to be
levied and extended by the Board pursuant to Article 34 of the School Code. (iv) any monies lawfully
available to and validly accepted by the Board pursuant to any intergovernmental agreement by and
between the School District and the City of Chicago. lilinois (the "City?) (including, but not limited to, tax
increment ?nancing), or pursuant to an agreement with the Chicago Infrastructure Trust, school
construction project or debt service grants to be paid to the Board pursuant to the School Construction
Law of the State of illinois or such successor or replacement act as may be enacted in the future.
(vi) investment returns and earnings from funding obligations or investments of the Board and the
investment of any of the foregoing sources, (vii) rental income derived from Board prOperty. and
and other payments to be paid to the Board by the United States of America or any
department, agency or instrumentality thereof (collectively. the ?Pledged Revenues?); and

WHEREAS. pursuant to and in accordance with the Act and the 2012 Authorization, the Board
has caused to be published on September 28, 2012. in the Chicago Sun-Times. a newspaper of general
circulation within the School District, a copy of the 2012 Authorization and a notice that the 2012
Authorization Bonds are subject to a ?back-door referendum? under the Act; and

WHEREAS. no petition asking that the issuance of Alternate Bonds pursuant to the 2012
Authorization be submitted to referendum has ever been ?led with the Secretary of the Board; and

WHEREAS, the Board is authorized to issue the 2012 Authorization Bonds to the amount of
3750000000; and

WHEREAS. pursuant to the 2012 Authorization, the Board has previously issued its
$109.825.000 Unlimited Tax General Obligation Bonds (Dedicated Revenues), Series 20128 (the
"Series 20128 Bonds"); and

WHEREAS, the Bonds authorized hereunder. the Series 20128 Bonds and any additional 2012

Authorization Bonds. shall not exceed $750,000,000; and

15

April 3, 2013

WHEREAS, the Board desires at this time, pursuant to the 2012 Authorization, to adopt this
Resolution providing for the issuance of Alternate Bonds in an aggregate amount not to exceed
$600,000,000 for the purposes of paying the costs of refunding all or a portion of the Outstanding
Bonds, which costs may include the payment of any settlement, breakage or termination amount payable
by the Board as the result of the termination, amendment or modification of any interest rate hedge
agreement in connection with the refunding (collectively, the ?Refunding?), (ii) funding capitalized
interest on such Alternate Bonds and paying the costs of issuance of such Alternate Bonds, including
the cost of bond insurance or other credit enhancement. all on the terms and conditions set forth in this
Resolution; and

WHEREAS, the Alternate Bonds to be issued pursuant to this Resolution in accordance with the
2012 Authorization are herein referred to as the "Bonds?; and

WHEREAS, the Bonds may be issued from time to time in one or more series (each, a ?Series")
and the Bonds of each Series will be payable from such of the Pledged Revenues as shall be
determined by a Designated Of?cial (as hereinafter de?ned) at the time of sale of such Bonds and (ii) the
ad valorem taxes levied or to be levied against all of the taxable property in the School District without
limitation as to rate or amount pursuant to Section 3 of this Resolution (the "Pledged Taxes"), for the
purpose of providing funds in addition to the Pledged Revenues and investment earnings thereon to pay
the principal of and interest on the Bonds; and

WHEREAS. the Bonds of each Series will be issued under and secured by a Trust Indenture
(each, an ?lndenture?) between the Board and such bank, trust company or national banking association
appointed to serve as trustee under the Indenture as provided in Section 2(a) hereof (the "Trustee");
and

WHEREAS, the Bonds will be further secured by the Funds, Accounts and Sub-Accounts
established and pledged pursuant to the applicable lndenture; and

WHEREAS, the Board may elect to pay the debt service on the Bonds from time to time in the

future from certain interest income, certain property tax revenues and other budgetary sources and in

accordance with Section 13 of the Act, the Board may elect to pledge additional moneys of the Board,
which may be deposited into one or more special funds of the Board, to pay the debt service on the
Bonds; and

WHEREAS. certain of the Pledged Revenues constitute a "governmental revenue source"
pursuant to the Debt Reform Act; and

WHEREAS, the Board has determined that the Pledged Revenues, together with estimated
investment earnings thereon and moneys held in the funds and accounts pursuant to the Indenture, will
provide in each year an amount not less than 1.10 times annual debt service on the Bonds to be paid
from such governmental revenue sources and 1.25 times annual debt service on the Bonds to be paid
from any Pledged Revenues that do not constitute a governmental revenue source as described above.
which determination is supported by the audit of the School District for the year ended June 30, 2012
which has been accepted by the Board (the ?Audit?), or is alternatively supported by the report of a

feasibility analyst with a national reputation for expertise applicable to such revenue source (the

16

April 3, 2013

?Feasibility Report"), demonstrating the projected suf?ciency of the Pledged Revenues to provide the
School District with revenues. including without limitation amounts available to the School District in later
years and estimated investment earnings thereon and moneys held in the funds and accounts pursuant to
the lndenture, in an amount not less than 1.10 times annual debt service on the Bonds to be paid from
governmentai revenue sources and 1.25 times annual debt service on the Bonds to be paid from Pledged
Revenues that do not constitute a governmental revenue source. which Audit the Board has heretofore
accepted and approved and which Feasibility Report shail be accepted and approved on behalf of the
Board by the Chief Financial Of?cer (as de?ned herein) prior to the issuance of any Bonds supported by a
revenue source not supported by the Audit; and

WHEREAS. the Bonds of a Series may be sold to an underwriter or a group of undenvriters
(the "Underwriters") to be designated by the Chief Financial Of?cer of the Board (the ?Chief Financial
Officer?) with respect to one or more Series of the Bonds pursuant to a separate Contract of Purchase
(each, a ?Bond Purchase Agreement") between the Underwriters and the Board. (ii) in a private
placement with an individual investor or group of investors to be designated by the Chief Financial Of?cer

(the ?Placement Purchasers") with respect to one or more Series of the Bonds pursuant to a separate

Placement Agreement between the Placement Purchasers and the Board or other similar agreement for
the sale and purchase of the Bonds (each. a ?Placement Agreement") or following distribution of a
Notice of Sale and a competitive bidding process. to a bidder or syndicate submitting an offer to purchase
one or more Series of the Bonds determined by the Chief Financial Of?cer to be in the best financial
interest of the Board (the "Competitive Purchasers? and, tagether with the Undenrvriters and the
Placement Purchasers being referred to herein as the ?Purchasers") pursuant to an agreement between
the Competitive Purchasers and the Board (each. a ?Competitive Sale Agreement" and. together with
the Bond Purchase Agreement and the Placement Agreement. a "Purchase and Sale Agreement?);
and

WHEREAS, it is necessary for the Board to authorize the sale and issuance of the Bonds and to
approve and to authorize and direct the sale of the Bonds pursuant to one or more of the methods
described above, together with the execution of the lndenture, the Purchase and Sale Agreement and
certain other agreements and the performance of acts necessary or convenient in connection with the

implementation of this Resolution and the issuance of the Bonds:

NOW, THEREFORE. Be It Hereby Resolved by the Chicago Board of Education of the Board of
Education of the City of Chicago. as follows:

1. incorporation of Preambies. The preambles of this Resolution are hereby incorporated
into this text as if set out herein in full.

2. issuance of Bonds. There shall be authorized the borrowing on the credit of and for
and on behalf of the Board the aggregate principal amount of not to exceed $600,000.000 for the
purposes of paying the costs of the Refunding. (ii) funding capitalized interest on the Bonds and
paying the costs of issuance of the Bonds. including the cost of bond insurance or other credit
enhancement and the Bonds may be issued from time to time, in one or more Series. in said aggregate

principal amount. or SuCh lesser aggregate principal amounts. as may be determined by either the

17

April 3, 2013

President of the Board or the Chief Financial Of?cer (each. a ?Designated Of?cial?). The Bonds of each
Series shall be designated ?Unlimited Tax General Obligation Refunding Bonds (Dedicated Revenues),
Series such additions. modi?cations or revisions as shall be determined to be necessary by

either of the Designated Of?cials at the time of the sale of such Bonds to re?ect the order of sale of such

Bonds. whether such Bonds are Capital Appreciation Bonds. Current Interest Bonds. Convertible Bonds
or Variable Rate Bonds (each as de?ned herein) and any other authorized features of such Bonds
determined by either of the Designated Of?cials as desirable to be re?ected in the title of the Bonds being
issued and sold as part of such Series. The Designated Of?cials are each hereby authorized to appoint a
Trustee for each Series of the Bonds so issued; provided. that such Trustee shall be a bank. trust
company or national banking association doing business and having a corporate trust office in the State
of Illinois and having capital and undivided surplus aggregating at least $15.000.000 or shall be a wholly
owned subsidiary of such an entity. The Bonds of each Series shall be issued and secured pursuant to
the terms of an Indenture authorizing Capital Appreciation Bonds, Current Interest Bonds. Convertible
Bonds (a "Fixed Rate Indenture?) or (ii) authorizing Variable Rate Bonds (a ?Variable Rate
lndenture?). Each of the Designated Of?cials is hereby authorized to execute and deliver, and the
Secretary is hereby authorized to attest. each Fixed Rate Indenture or Variable Rate Indenture on behalf
of the Board, each such lndenture to be in substantially the respective form executed and delivered in
connection with previous issues of Fixed Rate Bonds and Variable Rate Bonds and previous issues
secured by some or all of the Pledged Revenues. but with such changes therein as shall be within the
authorizations granted by this Resolution as shall be approved by the Designated Of?cial executing the
same, with such execution to constitute conclusive evidence of Such Designated Of?cial?s approval and
this Board?s approval of any changes or revisions therein from the respective forms of Fixed Rate
Indenture and Variable Rate Indenture authorized hereby.

The details of the sale of the Bonds as described in the noti?cation of sale of such Bonds
delivered by a Designated Of?cial pursuant to Section 4(e) hereof and all provisions relating to the
authorized denomination. registration, transfer and redemption of such Bonds. within the limitations set
forth herein. shall be set forth in each Indenture executed and delivered by a Designated Of?cial as
described herein.

Either of the Designated Of?cials is hereby authorized to select the particular Outstanding Bonds
to be refunded. to select the particular Outstanding Bonds to be redeemed. and to determine the

redemption date of each Outstanding Bond to be redeemed.

In order to secure the payment of the principal of. redemption price of. interest on and the
Compound Accreted Value (as hereinafter de?ned) of each Series of the Bonds. the Board hereby
pledges the Pledged Revenues to the payment thereof, and the Board covenants and agrees to provide
for. collect and apply Such Pledged Revenues. together with investment earnings thereon and moneys
held in the funds and accounts pursuant to each Indenture. to the payment of the Bonds and the provision
of an additional .10 times annual debt service in the case of Bonds to be paid from a governmental

revenue source or an additional .25 times annual debt service in the case of Bonds to be paid from

18

April 3, 2013

Pledged Revenues that do not constitute a governmental revenue source. The determination of the
suf?ciency of the Pledged Revenues and estimated investment earnings pursuant to this paragraph is
supported by the Audit or the Feasibility Report. as applicable. and acceptance of the Audit by the Board
and of the Feasibility Report by the Chief Financial Officer, on behalf of the Board. constitutes conclusive
evidence that the conditions of Section 15 of the Debt Reform Act have been met. Each of the
Designated Of?cials is authorized to allocate all or a portion of the Pledged Revenues to the payment of
the principal of. redemption price of, interest on and the Compound Accreted Value of each Series of the
Bonds and the lndenture pursuant to which such Series of Bonds is issued and the noti?cation of sale of
such Series of the Bonds delivered by the Designated Of?cials pursuant to Section 4(a) hereof shall
identify the speci?c Pledged Revenues allocated to such Series. Once issued. the Bends shall be and
forever remain until paid or defeased the general obligation of the Board. for the payment of which its full
faith and credit are pledged. and shall be payable, in addition to the Pledged Revenues and investment
earnings as described herein, from the levy of the Pledged Taxes as provided in the Debt Reform Act and
as set forth below.

All or any portion of the Bonds may be issued as bonds payable in one payment on a
?xed date (the "Capital Appreciation Bonds?). Any Bonds issued as Capital Appreciation Bonds shall
be dated the date of issuance thereof and shall also bear the date of authentication. shall be in fully
registered form, shall be numbered as determined by the Trustee and shall be in denominations equal to
the original principal amounts of such Capital Appreciation Bonds or any integral multiple thereof. each
such original principal amount representing Compound Accreted Value (as hereinafter de?ned) at

maturity (the ?Maturity Amount?) of $5.000 or any integral multiple thereof. As used herein, the

?Compound Accreted Value? of a Capital Appreciation Bond on any date of determination shall be an
amount equal to the original principal amount plus an investment return accrued to the date of such
determination at a semiannual compounding rate which is necessary to produce the yield to maturity
borne by such Capital Appreciation Bond.

All or any portion of the Bonds may be issued as Bonds bearing interest at ?xed rates and paying
interest semiannually (the ?Current Interest Bonds?). The Current interest Bonds shall be dated such
date as shall be agreed upon by a Designated Official and the purchasers of the Current Interest Bonds.
shall be in fully registered form. shall be in denominations of $5.000 each and any integral multiple

thereof. and shall be numbered as determined by the Trustee.

The Bonds may be initially issued as Capital Appreciation Bonds containing provisions for the
conversion of the Compound Accreted Value of such Bonds into Current Interest Bonds (the
?Convertible Bonds") at such time following the initial issuance as shall be approved by a Designated
Of?cial. While in the form of Capital Appreciation Bonds. such Convertible Bends shall be subject to all of
the provisions and limitations of this Resolution relating to Capital Appreciation Bonds and while in the
form of Current Interest Bonds, such Convertible Bonds shall be subject to all of the provisions and
limitations of this Resolution relating to Current interest Bonds, In connection with the issuance and sale

of any Convertible Bonds. the terms and provisions relating to the conversion of the Compound Accreted

19

April 3, 2013

Value of such Convertible Bonds into Current Interest Bonds shall be contained in the Fixed Rate
lndenture executed and delivered by a Designated Official at the time of sale of such Convertible Bonds.

All or any portion of the Bonds may be issued as bonds bearing interest at variable rates
adjustable and payable from time to time. including, but not limited to, bonds bearing interest at variable
rates that are adjusted and reset from time to time as may be necessary to cause such Bonds to be
remarketable from time to time (the ?Variable Rate Bonds?). The Variable Rate Bonds shall be dated
such date as shall be agreed upon by a Designated Official and shall be numbered as determined by the
applicable Trustee. All references herein to the payment of principal of any Variable Rate Bonds shall
also include the payment of tender or purchase price of such Bonds as shall be specified in the Variable
Rate lndenture executed and delivered by a Designated Of?cial pursuant to which such Variable Rate
Bonds are issued.

The Bonds shall be dated as of a date not earlier than April 1, 2013, as determined by a
Designated Of?cial at the time of sale thereof. The principal of the Bonds shall become due and payable
on any date not later than December 1, 2036. and, if issued as Current interest Bonds, Capital
Appreciation Bonds or Convertible Bonds, such Bonds shall bear interest at a rate or rates not to exceed
9 percent per annum (computed upon the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months) and payable
on such dates as shall be determined by a Designated Official at the time of sale thereof, all as shall be
determined by a Designated Of?cial at the time of sale of such Bonds

The Variable Rate Bonds shall bear interest from time to time at such rates determined by
such remarketing or other indexing agent as shall be selected by a Designated Of?cial for that purpose or
(ii) pursuant to such index or indices as shall be selected by a Designated Of?cial for that purpose, which
interest rate or rates shall not exceed the maximum permitted by law for obligations of the Board. but in
no event more than 15 percent per annum. subject to the provisions of Section 4(d) hereof. The method
of determining the interest rate to be borne from time to time by the Variable Rate Bonds of any Series
shall be speci?ed in the applicable Variable Rate lndenture. Each Variable Rate Bond shall bear interest
at such rates payable on such dates as shall be determined by a Designated Of?cial at the time of sale of
such Bonds and speci?ed in the applicable Variable Rate lndenture.

The Bonds of each Series may be redeemable prior to maturity at the option of the
Board, in whole or in part on any date? at such times and at such redemption prices (to be expressad as a
percentage of the principal amount of such Bonds being redeemed. plus accrued interest to the date of
redemption), as shall be determined by a Designated Of?cial at the time of the sale thereof. The Bonds
of each Series may be made subject to sinking fund redemption, at par and accrued interest to the date
?xed for redemption, as determined by a Designated Of?cial at the time of the sale thereof; provided. that
such Bonds shall mature not later than the date set forth in Section 2(a) hereof.

Any Variable Rate Bonds may be made subject to optional or mandatory tender for purchase by
the owners thereof at such times and at such prices (to be expressed as a percentage of the principal
amount of such Bonds being tendered for purchase) as shall be determined by a Designated Official at
the time of sale of such Variable Rate Bonds and speci?ed in the applicable Variable Rate lndenture. In

connection with the remarketing of any Variable Rate Bonds so tendered for purchase under the terms

20

April 3, 2013

and conditions specified in the applicable Variable Rate Indenture. each of the Designated Of?cials is
hereby authorized to execute on behalf of the Board one or more remarketing agreements with such
national banking associations. banks. trust companies. investment bankers or other ?nancial institutions
as shall be selected by a Designated Official reflecting the terms and provisions of the Variable Rate
Bonds and containing such provisions as the Designated Of?cial executing the same shall determine are
necessary or desirable in connection with the sale of some or all of the Bonds as Variable Rate Bonds.

The Bonds of each Series may initially be issued in book-entry only form as provided in
the applicable Indenture. The Bonds shall be executed by the manual or duly authorized facsimile
signature of the President of the Board and attested by the Secretary of the Board by the manual or duly
authorized facsimile signature of the Secretary and prepared in the respective forms as provided in the
applicable Indenture.

For any Outstanding Bonds refunded pursuant to and in accordance with Section 15(e) of
the Debt Reform Act. the determination that the term of suoh refunding bonds is not longer than the term
of the Outstanding Bonds so refunded and that the debt service payable in any year on the refunding
bonds does not exceed the debt service payable in such year on the Outstanding Bonds so refunded
shall be made by either of the Designated Of?cials, who shall also execute a certi?cation attesting to said
determination. In the event that a refunding of any or all Outstanding Bonds is undertaken by this
paragraph either Designated Official is hereby authorized to pledge as payment for said refunding
bonds any revenue sources identi?ed in the 2012 Authorization. provided that any such pledge shall be
consistent with existing bond covenants and restrictions and Board policies.

3. Tax Levy; Pfedged Taxes. For the purpose of providing funds in addition to the
Pledged Revenues to pay the principal of and interest on the Bonds, there is hereby levied upon all of the
taxable property within the School District, in the years for which any of the Bonds are outstanding. a
direct annual tax for each of the years while the Bonds or any of them are outstanding, in amounts
suf?cient for that purpose. and there be and there hereby is levied upon all of the taxable property in the

School District the following direct annual taxes:

FOR THE LEW YEAR A TAX SUFFICIENT TO PRODUCE THE SUM OF
2013 65,000,000
2014 67,000,000
2015 67,000,000
2016 66,000,000
2017 67,000,000
2018 67,000,000
2019 66,000,000
2020 65,000,000
2021 65,000,000
2022 72,000,000
2023 71,000,000
2024 69,000,000
2025 68,000,000
2026 67,000,000
2027 65,000,000
2028 63,000,000
2029 62,000,000
2030 58,000,000
2031 45,000,000
2032 43,000,000
2033 42,000,000
2034 24,000,000
2035 24,000,000

21

April 3, 2013

provided. that in connection with the issuance of Variable Rate Bands, in furtherance of the general
obligation full faith and credit promise of the Board to pay the principal and redemption price of and
interest on the Bonds. the Board will take all actions necessary to levy upon all of the taxable property
within the School District, in the years for which any of the Bonds are outstanding. a direct annual tax.
including any direct annual tax required to be levied in excess of that levied in this Resolution. for
collection on a timely basis to make such payments (the taxes levied or to be levied pursuant to this
Section being referred to herein as the ?Pledged Taxes").

After this Resolution becomes effective, a copy hereof. certi?ed by the Secretary of the
Board. shall be ?led with each of the County Clerks of The Counties of Cook and DuPage, (the
?County Clerks"); and the County Clerks shalt in and for each of the years required. ascertain the rate
percent required to produce the aggregate Pledged Taxes hereinbefore provided to be levied in each of
said years; and the County Clerks shall extend the same for collection on the tax books in cennection with
other taxes levied in said year in and by the Board for general corporate purposes of the Board; and in
said year the Pledged Taxes shall be levied and collected by and for and on behalf of the Board in like

manner as taxes for general corporate purposes of the Board for said years are levied and collected. and

in addition to and in excess of all other taxes. and when collected. if required pursuant to any escrow or
similar agreement executed and delivered pursuant to Section 5 hereof. the taxes hereby levied shall be
deposited with the designated bank. trust company or national banking association.

At the time and in the manner set forth in each lndenture. the Board shall direct the
abatement of the Pledged Taxes in whole or in part.

The notification of sale of any Series of the Bonds delivered by the Designated Of?cials
pursuant to Section 4(9) hereof may provide for the allocation of all or a portion of the Pledged Taxes
levied for any year pursuant to this Resolution to the payment of the principal and redemption price of and
interest on such Series of the Bonds.

4. Sale of the Bonds, Purchase and Sale Agreements. (3) Each Series of the Bonds shall
be sold and delivered to the Purchasers, subject to the terms and conditions of the appiicable Purchase
and Sale Agreement: provided. that the aggregate purchase price of any Current interest Bonds or
Variable Rate Bonds shall be not less than 97 percent of the principal amount thereof to be issued (less
any original issue discount used in the marketing thereof) plus accrued interest from their date to the date
of delivery thereof. (ii) that the aggregate purchase price of any Capital Appreciation Bonds or Convertible
Bonds shall not be less than 97 percent of the aggregate original principal amount thereof and that the
compensation paid to the Purchasers in connection with the sale of any Variable Rate Bonds shall not
exceed 3 percent of the principal amount thereof. The Chief Financial Of?cer is hereby authorized to
execute and deliver on behalf of the Board a Purchase and Sale Agreement with respect to the sale of
the Bonds of each Series. which in the case of a Bond Purchase Agreement shall be in substantially
the form used in previous ?nancings of the Board and (ii) in the case of a Placement Agre9ment or a
Competitive Sale Agreement shall contain terms and provisions no less favorable to the Board as those
contained in a Bond Purchase Agreement. Any such Purchase and Sale Agreement shall contain such

?nal terms as shall be approved by the Chief Financial Of?cer. such approval to be evidenced by such

22

April 3, 2013

Chief Financial Officer?s execution thereof. and the Chief Financial Of?cer is also authorized to do all
things necessary and essential to effectuate the provisions of such Purchase and Sale Agreement. as
executed, including the execution of any documents and certificates incidental thereto or necessary to

carry out the provisions thereof. The Chief Financial Of?cer shall make a ?nding in connection with the

execution of each Purchase and Sale Agreement that the Bonds sold thereunder have been sold at
such price and bear interest at such rate that neither the true interest cost (yield) nor the net interest rate
received upon the sale of Such Bonds exceeds the maximum rate otherwise authorized by applicable law.
and (ii) that no person holding any of?ce of the Board. either by election or appointment, is in any manner
interested. either directly or indirectly, in his or her own name, in the name of any other person,
association. trust or corporation, in the lndenture, any escrow or similar agreement executed and
delivered pursuant to Section 5 hereof. the applicable Purchase and Sale Agreement or any agreement
with a Bond Insurer. Debt Reserve Credit Facility Provider or Credit Provider authorized by paragraphs
and of this Section, or in the issuance and sale of such Bonds. in accordance with the laws of
the State of Illinois and the Code of Ethics of the Board (Board Rule No. as amended).

In connection with any sale of the Bonds of each Series. each of the Designated Officials
is hereby authorized to obtain a bond insurance policy from such recognized bond insurer as such
Designated Of?cial shall determine (the ?Bond Insurer") if said Designated Of?cial determines such
bond insurance policy to be desirable in connection with the sale of such Series of Bonds. Each
Designated Of?cial is also authorized to enter into such agreements and make such covenants with any
Bond Insurer that such Designated Of?cial deems necessary and that are not inconsistent with the terms
and provisions of this Resolution and to pay upfront or annual fees to the Bond insurer in connection
therewith.

In lieu of. or in addition to. the deposit of proceeds of the Bonds of any Series or other
funds into a debt service reserve fund as authorized in paragraph (9) of this Section. each of the
Designated Of?cials is hereby authorized to obtain a debt reserve credit facility from such recognized
provider as such Designated Official shall determine (the ?Debt Reserve Credit Facility Provider") if
such Designated Of?cial determines such debt reserve credit facility to be desirable in providing for the
funding of any required debt service reserve fund. Each Designated Of?cial is also authorized to enter
into such agreements and make Such covenants with any Debt Reserve Credit Facility Provider that euch
Designated Of?cial deems necessary and that are not inconsistent with the terms and provisions of this

Resolution. including the payment of reasonable fees to any Debt Reserve Credit Facility Provider.

in connection with the sale of the Bonds of any Series. to provide additional security and
liquidity for such Bonds. each of the Designated Of?cials is hereby authorized to obtain a letter of credit.
line of credit or other credit or liquidity facility. including similar agreements with or facilities issued by a
Bond Insurer (a ?Credit Facility?). if determined by such Designated Of?cial to be desirable in
connection with such sale of Bonds. Each of the Designated Of?cials is hereby further authorized to
appoint one or more banks. Bond lnsmers or other ?nancial institutions to issue such Credit Facility (the
"Credit Provider") and to execute and deliver on behalf of the Board a credit. reimbursement or similar

agreement (the ?Credit Agreement") providing for the issuance of the Credit Facility and the obligation

23

April 3, 2013

of the Board to repay funds borrowed under the Credit Facility or advances made by the Credit Provider
under the Credit Facility with respect to such Bonds. The Credit Facility may be in a form that provides
for the purchase of such Bonds by the Credit Provider (any such Bond so purchased being referred to as
a ?Bank Bond?) and the lndenture as executed and delivered shall re?ect the terms and provisions of
such Bank Bonds. Any Bonds outstanding as Bank Bonds shall be secured as provided in the applicable
Indenture. The annual fee paid to any Credit Provider for the provision of a Credit Facility shall not
exceed 3 percent of the amount available to be drawn or advanced under such Credit Facility.

The Credit Agreement may provide that alternative interest rates or provisions will apply during
such times as the Bonds constitute Bank Bonds or the Board has outstanding repayment obligations to
the Credit Provider (the ?Credit Provider Rate?), which Credit Provider Rate shall not exceed the
maximum permitted by law. but in no event more than 15 percent per annum (the ?Maximum Credit
Provider Rate") The Credit Agreement may further provide that to the extent the Credit Provider Rate
determined at any time pursuant to the Credit Agreement exceeds the Maximum Credit Provider Rate,
such excess may accrue at the then-applicable Credit Provider Rate (but in no event may such excess
accrue at a rate in excess of 25 percent per annum) and be added to the Credit Provider Rate at such
time or times thereafter as the Credit Provider Rate shall be less than the Maximum Credit Provider Rate;
provided. that at no time shall the Credit Provider Rate per annum exceed the Maximum Credit Provider
Rate.

Any Credit Facility obtained as provided herein shall cause the Bonds secured thereby to bear an

investment grade rating from at least two nationally recognized rating services.

Subsequent to the sale of the Bonds of any Series, either or both of the Designated
Of?cials shall ?le in the Of?ce of the Secretary of the Board a noti?cation of sale directed to the Board
setting forth the aggregate original principal amount of, maturity schedule, redemption provisions and
interest rates for the Bonds sold, (ii) a description of the speci?c Pledged Revenues pledged to the
payment of the principal of, redemption price of, interest on and the Compound Accreted Value of the
Bonds of such Series, the principal amounts of the Bonds sold as Current Interest Bonds. Capital
Appreciation Bonds. Convertible Bonds and Variable Rate Bonds. respectively, (iv) in the case of Bonds
sold as Capital Appreciation Bonds and Convertible Bonds. (A) the Original Principal Amounts of and
Yields to Maturity on the Capital Appreciation Bonds and Convertible Bonds being sold, and (B) a table of
Compound Accreted Value per $5,000 Maturity Amount for any Capital Appreciation Bonds and
Convertible Bonds being sold, setting forth the Compound Accreted Value of each such Capital
Appreciation Bond and Convertible Bonds on each semiannual compounding date, the interest rates
on the Current Interest Bonds sold or, in the case of Variable Rate Bonds, 3 description of the method of
determining the interest rate applicable from time to time to such Variable Rate Bonds, (vi) debt service
schedules for the Bonds, together with determinable investment earnings from the investment of moneys

held in the funds and accounts pursuant to the Indenture. demonstrating that the Pledged Revenues and

said investment earnings and moneys held in the funds and accounts pursuant to the lndenture, are
expected to be in an amount suf?cient to provide the debt service coverage described in Section 2(b)

hereof, (vii) the terms and provisions for the conversion of the Compound Accrued Value of any

24

April 3, 2013

Convertible Bonds issued hereunder into Current interest Bonds, the application of the proceeds of
such Bonds for the purposes and within the limitations set forth in paragraph (9) of this Section, (ix) if a
bond insurance policy is obtained as authorized herein, the identity of the Bond insurer issuing the bond
insurance policy and the premium and any fees required to be paid thereto, if a debt reserve credit
facility is obtained as authorized herein. the identity of the Debt Reserve Credit Facility Provider issuing
the debt reserve credit facility, (xi) if a Credit Facility is obtained as authorized herein, the identity of the
Credit Provider issuing the Credit Facility. and a copy of the Credit Agreement between the Board and
such Credit Provider shall be attached to said notification of sale, (xii) the identity of the Trustee
designated pursuant to Section 2 hereof with respect to the Bonds, the identi?cation of the
Outstanding Bonds being refunded with proceeds of the Bonds and the applicable redemption date or
dates of the Outstanding Bonds being refunded, (xiv) the identity of any bank or trust company selected
by a Designated Of?cial to serve as Refunding Escrow Agent pursuant to the authorization granted in
paragraph of this Section, (xv) if an escrow or other similar agreement is to be executed and delivered
as authorized in Section 5 hereof, a copy of such agreement shall be attached to said noti?cation of sale
and (xvi) the identity of and the compensation paid to the Purchasers in connection with such sale.

In the event that the Designated Official executing such noti?cation of sale determines that the
Bonds have been sold in such principal amount or maturing or bearing interest so as to require the levy of
taxes in any year less than the amount speci?ed therefor in Section 3(3) hereof, then such Designated
Of?cial shall include. in the notification of sale described in this Section, the amount of reduction in the
amount levied in Section 3(a) hereof for each year resulting from such sale, and in addition, either or
both of the Designated Of?cials shall ?le in the respective of?ces of the County Clerks certi?cates of tax
abatement for such years. in the case of Variable Rate Bonds, such amounts to be abated from taxes
levied may be determined by reference to any projections of debt service on such Variable Rate Bonds
provided to the Board at the time of sale of such Bonds. No such reduction in the amounts levied in
Section 3(a) hereof need be made nor must any certi?cate of tax abatement be ?led as described in the
preceding sentence until either or both of the Designated Of?cials have determined that any amount so
levied in Section 3(a) hereof will not be needed to secure the Bonds being sold at that time or any Series
of Bonds to be sold in the future. Any certi?cate of abatement delivered pursuant to this paragraph shall
refer to the amount of taxes levied pursuant to Section 3(a) hereof, shall indicate the amount of reduction
in the amount of taxes levied by the Board resulting from the sale of such Bonds, which reduced amount
is to be abated from such taxes, and shall further indicate the remainder of such taxes which is to be
extended for collection by the County Clerks. Each of the Designated Of?cials is also authorized to ?le in
the respective of?ces of the County Clerks certificates of tax abatement re?ecting the refunding of the
Outstanding Bonds.

The distribution of a Preliminary Of?cial Statement, Private Placement Memorandum or
Notice of Public Sale relating to each Series of the Bonds (the ?Disclosure Document") in substantially

the respective forms delivered in connection with previous issues of Fixed Rate Bonds and Variable Rate

Bonds and previous issues secured by some or all of the Pledged Revenues, but with such changes as

shall be approved by a Designated Official to re?ect the terms of the Bonds proposed to be sold and the

25

April 3, 2013

method of sale of such Bonds, is hereby in all respects. ratified. authorized and approved and shall be
"deemed ?nal" for purposes of Rule 15c2-12. adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission under
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 ("Rule and the proposed use by the Underwriters or the
Competitive Purchasers of a ?nal Official Statement (in substantially the form of the Preliminary Official
Statement but with appropriate variations. omissions and insertions to re?ect the final terms of the Bonds
being sold or (ii) authorized herein for a Preliminary Of?cial Statement if none is used in the marketing of
the Bonds being sold) is hereby approved. Each Designated Official is hereby authorized and directed to
execute the ?nal Official Statement or other Disclosure Document. as appropriate, on behalf of the Board.

in connection with the sale of a Series of the Bonds. the Designated Of?cials are hereby
authorized to provide to prOSpective Private Purchasers such information regarding the Board's
operations and ?nances as would typically be included in a Disclosure Document and to enter into such
discussions and negotiations with such prospective Private Purchasers as such Designated Of?cials shall
deem appropriate. In addition. the Designated Officials are hereby authorized to prepare a Notice of Sale
for distribution to potential bidders in connection with a public. competitive sale of a Series of the Bonds
and to take all actions necessary to conduct any such sale.

(9) The proceeds from the sale of each Series of the Bonds shall be applied to the
payment of costs of the Refunding. (ii) the funding capitalized interest on such Bonds and the
payment of the expenses related to the issuance of such Bonds. including. without limitation. fees to be
paid to Bond Insurers. Credit Providers or remarketing or other agents retained in connection with the
issuance of Variable Rate Bonds, and such proceeds shall be applied as provided in the applicable
lndenture. in addition. proceeds from the sale of a Series of the Bonds in the amount of not to exceed
10% of the principal amount thereof may be deposited into a debt service reserve fund to be held under
the applicable lndenture upon the direction of the Chief Financial Officer if it is determined that the
creation of such debt service reserve fund is necessary and required in connection with the sale of Such

Bonds. All of such proceeds are hereby appropriated for the purposes specified in this paragraph.

The Chief Financial Of?cer of the Board is hereby authorized to enter into or approve
such agreements with investment providers as shall be necessary or advisable in connection with the
investment of any funds on deposit under the Indenture. to the extent such investments are authorized
under the terms of the lndenture. the investment Policy of the Board and applicable law. as in effect from
time to time.

Either of the Designated Of?cials is hereby authorized to execute and deliver from time to
time one or more agreements with counterparties selected by either of the Designated Officials. the
purpose of which is to provide to the Board an interest rate basis. cash flow basis or other basis from that
provided in the Bonds for the payment of interest. The stated aggregate notional amount under all such

agreements authorized hereunder shall not exceed the principal amount of the Bonds issued hereunder

(net of offsetting transactions entered into by the Board). For purposes of the immediately preceding
sentence. "offsetting transactions? shall include any transaction which is intended to hedge, modify or

otherwise affect another outstanding transaction or its economic results. The offsetting transaction need

26

April 3, 2013

not be based on the same index or rate option as the related Bonds or the transaction being offset and
need not be with the same counterparty as the transaction being offset. Examples of offsetting
transactions include, without limitation, a floating-to-fixed rate interest rate swap being offset by a ?xed-to-
floating rate interest rate swap, and a ?xed?to?floating rate interest rate swap being offset by a ?oating-to-
?xed rate interest rate swap or an interest rate cap or floor or a ?oating?to-fioating interest rate swap,

Any such agreement to the extent practicable shall be in substantially the form of either the Local
Currency?Single Jurisdiction version or the Multicurrency-Cross Border version of the current ISDA
Master Agreement accompanied by the US. Municipal Counterparty Schedule published by the
International Swap Dealers Association (the or any successor form to either published by the
ISDA. and in the appropriate confirmations of transactions governed by that agreement, with such
insertions, completions and modi?cations thereof as shall be approved by the appropriate Designated
Of?cial executing the same, such execution to constitute conclusive evidence of Board's approval of such
insertions, completions and modifications thereof. Amounts payable by the Board under any such
agreement shall be payable solely and only from the sources actually pledged to the payment of the

Bonds as described in Section 2(b) of this Resolution, or (ii) constitute operating expenses of the Board

payable from any moneys, revenues, receipts, income, assets or funds of the Board available for such
purpose, as shall be determined by the Designated Of?cial executing the same. Nothing contained in this
Section 4(i) shall limit or restrict the authority of any of?cer of the Board to enter into such agreements
pursuant to prior or subsequent authorization of the Board.

0) For the purpose of providing for the Refunding, each of the Designated Of?cials is hereby
authorized to execute and deliver one or more refunding escrow agreements (each, a ?Refunding
Escrow Agreement?) on behalf of the Board, attested by the Secretary of the Board. such Refunding
Escrow Agreement to be in substantially the form executed and delivered in connection with previous
refundings of obligations issued by or on behalf of the Board, but with such changes therein as shall be
approved by the Designated Of?cial executing the same, with Such execution to constitute conclusive
evidence of such of?cial's approval and this Board's approval of any changes or revisions therein from
such form of Refunding Escrow Agreement. Each of the Designated Of?cials is hereby authonZed to
designate a bank or trust company to act as Refunding Escrow Agent under the Refunding Escrow
Agreement. Each Refunding Escrow Agreement may include, to the extent permitted by law, agreements
entered into between the Board and providers of securities under which agreements providers agree to
purchase from or sell to the Board Specified securities on speci?c dates at predetermined prices, all as

established at the time of execution of any such agreement

5. Escrow of Pledged Revenues. If deemed necessary and desirable to provide additional
security for any Bonds, each of the Designated Of?cials is hereby authorized to execute and deliver on
behalf of the Board, and the Secretary is authorized to attest, a form of escrow or other similar agreement
with a bank, trust company or national banking association having the same Quali?cations as those set
forth in Section 2(a) for a Trustee, re?ecting the issuance of the Bonds and such segregation of Pledged

Revenues and Pledged Taxes as the Designated Of?cial executing such agreement shall deem

appropriate.

27

April 3, 2013

6. Pledged Taxes Escrow Direction. Each of the Designated Of?cials is hereby authorized.
pursuant to authority contained in Section 20-90 of the Property Tax Code of the State of Illinois, as
amended, to execute a written direction to the County Collectors of The Counties of Cook and DuPage,

(the ?County Collectors?), to deposit the collections of the Pledged Taxes as and when

extended for collection directly with such e5crow agent designated pursuant to Section 5 in order to
secure the payment of the principal of and interest on the Bonds, and (ii) to the extent necessary.
advising the County Collectors of the abatement of the Pledged Taxes. The Designated Officials are
authorized to ?le a certified copy of this Resolution with each of the County Collectors.

7. Tax-Exemption and Non-Arbitrage. Each of the Designated Of?cials is hereby authorized
to take any other actions and to execute any other dOCuments and certi?cates necessary to assure that
the interest payments with respect to the Bonds of each Series are excludable from gross income for
Federal income tax purposes. to assure that the Bonds do not constitute "arbitrage bonds? or "private
activity bonds? under the internal Revenue Code of 1986. as amended, and to effectuate the issuance
and delivery of the Bonds. including but not limited to the execution and delivery of a Tax Agreement;
provided, however, that any of the Bonds may be issued as Bonds the interest on which is includible in
the gross income of the owner thereof for federal income tax purposes if determined by a Designated
Official to be bene?cial to the Board

8. Continuing Disclosure Undertaking. Each of the Designated Officials is hereby
authorized to execute and deliver one or more Continuing Disclosure Undertakings (each. a ?Continuing
Disclosure Undertaking") evidencing the Board's agreement to comply with the requirements of
Section of Rule 15c2-12, as applicable to the Bonds of each Series Notwithstanding any other
provision of this Resolution or any lndenture, the sole remedies for any failure by the Board to comply
with a Continuing Disclosure Undertaking shall be the ability of the bene?cial owner of any Bond to seek
mandamus or speci?c performance by court order to cause the Board to comply with Its obligations under
the applicable Continuing Disclosure Undertaking. Each Continuing Disclosure Undertaking shall be in
substantially the form used in previous financings of the Board. but with such changes therein as shall be
approved by the Designated Of?cial executing the same, with such execution to constitute conclusive
evidence of such of?cial's approval and this Board?s approval of any changes or revisions therein from
such form of Continuing Disclosure Undertaking.

9. Further Acts. Each of the Designated Of?cials, of?cials or officers of the Board are
hereby authorized to execute and deliver such other documents and agreements and perform such other

acts as may be necessary or desirable in connection with the Bonds, including. but not limited to, the

exercise following the delivery date of the Bonds of any power or authority delegated to such official
under this Resolution with respect to the Bonds upon original issuance, but subject to any limitations on
or restrictions of such power or authority as herein set forth.

All actions of the of?cials or officers of the Board that are in conformity with the purposes and
intent of this Resolution are hereby in all respects rati?ed. approved. and con?rmed.

10. Severability. The provisions of this Resolution are hereby declared to be severable; and
if any section? phrase, or provision shall for any reason he declared to be invalid. such declaration shall

not affect the validity of the remainder of the sections, phrases, or provisions.

28

April 3, 2013

11. Repeater and Effective Date, All resolutions or parts of resolutions in conflict herewith
are. to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed. This Resolution is effective immediately upon its
adoption.

EXHIBIT I

Chicago Board of Education
Outstanding Alternate Bonds to be Refunded
As of March 2, 2013

Original Principal

 

Currently Outstanding

Unlimited Tax General Obligation Bonds

(Dedicated Revenues). Series 20008 $91,400,000
Unlimited Tax General Obligation Refunding Bonds

(Dedicated Revenues). Series 2009A $122,605,000
Unlimited Tax General Obligation Refunding Bonds

(Dedicated Revenues), Series 20098 $75,410,000
Unlimited Tax General Obligation Refunding Bonds

(Dedicated Revenues), Series 2010A $48,910,000
Unlimited Tax General Obligation Refunding Bonds

(Dedicated Revenues), Series 201GB $157,055,000
Unlimited Tax General Obligation Refunding Bonds

(Dedicated Revenues), Series 20110 $95,000.000

13-0403-RSZ

RESOLUTION RE:
APPOINTMENT OF APPOINTED REPRESENTATIVES
OF ELECTED LOCAL SCHOOL COUNCILS
TO FILL VACANCIES FOR THE CURRENT TERM OF OFFICE

WHEREAS, pursuant to the Illinois School Code, 105 ILCS 5134-21, the Board of Education of
the City of Chicago is authorized to appoint teacher representatives, non-teaching staff representatives
and high school student representatives to elected local school councils after considering the preferences
of the schools? staffs and students. as appropriate. as ascertained through non-binding advisory polls and
exercises absolute discretion in the appointment process;

WHEREAS, pursuant to the Illinois School Code, 105 mid-term vacancies in those
of?ces are to be ?lled in the same manner as the original appointments;

WHEREAS, non-binding advisory polls of the staffs or students, as appropriate. of the schools
identi?ed on the attached Exhibit A have been conducted concerning the appointment of teacher, non-

teaching staff and/or student representatives to the schools' local school councils to fill vacancies for the
current term of of?ce;

WHEREAS, the results of the non-binding advisory polls have been forwarded to the Board for its
consideration in its exercise of absolute discretion in the appointment process; and

WHEREAS, the current term of of?ce for teacher and non-teaching staff representatives expires
on June 30, 2014 and for high school student representatives expires on June 30. 2013:

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF EDUCATION OF THE CITY OF
CHICAGO:

1. The individuals named on the attached Exhibit A are hereby appointed to serve in the speci?ed
categories on the local school councils of the identi?ed schools for the current term of of?ce.

2. This Resolution is effective immediately upon adoption.

29

April 3, 2013

 

ELM

APPOINTED TEACHER
REPRESENTATIVE REPLACING SCHOOL
Rochelle Ingram Position Vacant Delano E. S.
Jacqueline Cuisinier Andre Smith Dett E. S.
Joseph Linehan Yolanda Johnson Eberhart E. S.
Laura Smith Candace Meizger Esmond E. 8.
Kyle Konecnik Antonio Rivera Kilmer E. S.
Brian Graves Ned Brooks Murray Language E. 8.
Daniel Lambert Shawn Espinosa Bowen H. S.
Vt?llard Brooks Position Vacant Michele Clark H. S.
Diane DiMaria Pinter Nancy Wiley Hubbard H. S.
APPOINTED NON-TEACHING
STAFF REPRESENTATIVE REPLACING SCHOOL
Blessing Akinola Adewunmi Adenuga Brennemann E. S.
Clovise Phillips-Everett Patricia Reed Colemon E. S.
Juan Morales Steven James N. Davis E. 8.
Florence Wright Position Vacant Dett E. S.

1 

RESOLUTION RE:
APPOINTMENTS TO APPOINTED LOCAL SCHOOL COUNCILS
TO FILL VACANCIES FOR THE CURRENT TERM OF OFFICE

WHEREAS, on January 24. 2007, the Board adopted a Policy on the Governance of Attemative
and Small Schools. Board Report (?Governance Policy');

WHEREAS. the Governance Policy establishes requirements for the appointment by the Board of
Local School Councils for those Chicago Public Schools designated as either Small or Alternative
Schools;

WHEREAS, Appointed Local School Councils are established as a means to involve
parents, community members. school staff and high school students in the activities of Small and
Attemative Schools as speci?ed in the Illinois School Code, 105 ILCS 

WHEREAS, the schools identi?ed on the attached Exhibit A operate with 

WHEREAS, the Governance Policy authorizes ALSCs to recommend candidates to ?ll parent.
community or advocate representative vacancies and authorizes schools to conduct staff or student polls
to ?ll staff or high school student representative ALSC vacancies;

WHEREAS, the Governance Policy authorizes the Chief Executive Of?cer to recommend to the
Board for appointment to ALSCs to ?ll vacancies the candidates recommended by the ALSCs or in the
staff or student polls or any other candidates identi?ed by the Chief Executive Officer;

WHEREAS, pursuant to the Governance Policy, the Chief Executive Of?cer has recommended
the candidates identi?ed on the attached Exhibit A to the Board for its consideration in its exercise of
absolute discretion in making appointments to the ALSCs of the identi?ed schools to ?ll vacancies for the
current term of of?ce:

WHEREAS, the current term of of?ce for parent. community. advocate and school staff ALSC
representatives expires on June 30. 2014 and for high school student ALSC representatives expires on
June 30, 2013:

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO BOARD OF EDUCATION:

1. The candidates named on the attached Exhibit A are appointed to serve as members of
the Appointed Local School Councils of the identi?ed schools in the speci?ed categories.
2. This Resolution is effective immediately upon adoption.
azaleas
APPOINTED
REPRESENTATIVE REPLACING CATEGORY SCHOOL
Robert Anderson Sabrina Walker Teacher In?nity H. S.
Carina Martinez Yuridia Espinosa Teacher World Language H. 
Ruben Morado Raquiyah Rahman-Aquil Teacher Worid Language H. 

President Vitale indicated that if there were no objections, Board Reports 13-0403-RS1
through 13-0403-RS3 would be adopted by the last favorable roll call vote, all members present
voting therefore.

30

April 3, 2013

President Vitale thereupon declared Board Reports 13-0403-RS1 through 13-0403-RS3
adopted.

13-0403-CO1

RE: LOCATION OF
BOARD MEETING OF APRIL 24, 2013

David J. Vitale President, and
Members of the Board of Education
Dr. Carlos M. Azcoitia
Dr. Henry S. Bienen
Dr. Mahalia A. Hines
Jesse H. Ruiz
Andrea L. Zopp

This is to advise that the Regular Meeting of the Board of Education scheduled for Wednesday.
April 24, 2013 and will be held at:

The Central Administration Building
125 South Clark Street
Chicago. Illinois 60603
Board Chamber - 5'h Floor
The Board Meeting will begin at 10:30 am.
Public Participation Guidelines are available on or by calling (773) 5534600.
For the April 24, 2013 Board Meeting, advance registration will be available beginning Monday. April ?15th at
8:00 am. and close Friday, April 19m at 5:00 pm, or when all 60 speaking slots are ?lled. You can advance register
during the registration period by the following methods:
Online: (recommended)
Phone: (773) 553-1600
in Person: 125 South Clark Street, Floor

The Public Participation segment of the meeting will begin as indicated in the meeting agenda and proceed
for no more than 60 registered speakers for the two hours.

13-0403-EX1

TRANSFER OF FUNDS
Various Units and Objects

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER RECOMMENDS THE FOLLOWING:
The various transfers of funds were requested by the Central Office Departments during the month of February. All

transfers are budget neutral. A brief explanation ofeach transfer is previdcd below:

1. Transfer for Special Education Supports Of?ce

 

Rationale: Funds to pay for consultant travel accommodations.

Transfer From: Unit Special Education Supports Of?ce 1 16l0
Fund Special Education Fund 14
Account Commodities - Postage 53510
Program Spec Ed Pupil Support-Admin 233004
Grant Default Value 000000

Transfer to: Unit Special Education Supports Of?ce l6l0
Fund Special Education Fund l4
Account Travel Expense 54205
Program Spec Ed Pupil Support-Admin 233004
Grant Default Value 000000

Amount:  ,000.00

31

2. Transfer for Magnet, Gifted and Talented

Rationale:

Transfer From:

Transfer to:

Amount:

Food being provided for teachers at PDS

Unit Magnet, Gifted and Talented

Fund Miscellaneous Federal State Block Grants
Account Travel Expense

Program Advanced Placement Program

Grant Advance Placement lncentivr:
Unit Magnet, Gifted and Talented
l-?und MiscellaneOus Federal State Block Grants

Account Commodities - Food Supplies
Program Advanced Placement Program
Grant Advance Placement incentive

$1,000.00

3. Transfer from Academic Learning Support - City Wide to Little Village Academy

Rationale:

Transfer From:

Transfer to:

Amount:

Supplies for afterschool programs.

Unit Academic [seaming Support - City Wide
Fund General Education Fund

Account Miscellaneous Charges

Program Community School Initiative

Grant Other Gen Ed Funded Programs
Unit Little Village Academy
Fund General Education Fund

Account Commodities - Supplies
Program Community School Initiative
Grant Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

$1,000.00

4. Transfer from Academic Learning and Support to Morgan Park High School

Rationale:

Transfer From:

Transfer to:

Amount:

'l?ransfer for MS Debate T4-Faci1ities.

Unit Academic Learning and Support
Fund General Education Fund
Account Services - Space Rental
Program Debate-Critical Thinking

Grant Default Value
Unit Morgan Park High School
Fund General Education Fund

Account Services - Space Rental
Program Debate-Critical Thinking
Grant Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

31.000.00

5. Transfer from Academic Learning:I and Support to Louisa May Alcott School

Rationale:

Transfer From:

Transfer to:

Amount:

Transfer for MS Debate T4-Facilities.

Unit Academic Learning and Support
Fund General Education Fund
Account Services - Space Rental
Program Debate-Critical Thinking

Grant Default Value
Unit Louisa May Alcott School
Fund General Education Fund

Account Services - Space Rental
Program Debate?Critical Thinking
Grant Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

$1,000.00

32

10845
324
54205

1 1 1036
54721 1

10845
324
53205

1 1 1036
54 721 

1390
1 15
57940
39001 I
000901

22521
1 15
53405
39001 1
000901

11375
115
57705
111016
000000

46251
115
57705
111016
000901

11375
115
57705
111016
000000

22041

1 15
57705
111016
000901

April 3, 2013

April 3, 2013

495. Transfer from Consolidated Pointer Line Unit to Education General - City Wide

Rationale: Returning excess funds that were originally transferred to open full school day positions.
Transfer From: Unit Consolidated Pointer Line Unit 12690
l-?und General Education Fund 1 15
Account Regular Position Pointer 51300
Program General Salary 3 290001
Grant Supplemental Ancillary Teaching Positions 000900
'l?ransfer to: Unit Education General - City Wide 12670
Fund General Education Fund 1 15
Account Teacher Salaries - Regular 51 100
Program Other Programs 1 19010
Grant Default Value 000000
Amount: $1,850,000.00

496. Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to William Jones College Prep High School

 

Rationale: Funds Transfer From Awardlt 2013-436-00-08 To Project# 2010-47021-NSC Change
Reason NA.

Transfer From: Unit Capital/Operations - City Wide 12150
Fund Miscellaneous Capital Fund 436
Account Capitalized Construction 56310
Program Child Award 253544
Grant Default Value 000000

Transfer to: Unit William Jones College Prep lligh School 4702]
Fund Miscellaneous Capital Fund 436
Account Capitalized Construction 56310
Program Modern Schools Across Chicago Expansion 253534
Grant Default Valuc 000000

Amount: $4,251,399.25

Transfer from James Farnsworth School to Capital/Operations City Wide

 

Rationale: Funds Transfer From Project? 2010-23161-NAB To Awardtt 2010-481-00-02 Change
Reason NA.

Transfer From: Unit James Fanisworth School 23161
Fund BABS - Cll? Series 20100 481
Account Capitalized Construction 56310
Program Environment 253522
Grant Build America Bonds (Babs) 610000

Transfer to: Unit (Capital/Operations - City Wide l2150
l-?und BABS - CIP Series 20100 481
Account Capitalized Construction 56310
Program American Disabilities Act/Ada 253530
Grant Build America Bonds (Babs) 610000

Amount: $4,416,539.10

498. Transfer from Capital/Operations - Citv Wide to James Famsworth School

Rationale: Funds Transfer Front Awardil 2013-436-00-07 To Projectli Change
Reason NA.

Transfer From: Unit Capital/Operations - City Wide l2150
Fund Miscellaneous Capital Fund 436
Account Capitalized Construction 56310
Program Faa/Ada 009565
Grant Noise Mitigation Project 52501 1

Transfer to: Unit James Famsworth School 23161
Fund Miscellaneous Capital Fund 436
Account Capitalized Construction 56310
Program Environment 253522
Grant Noise Mitigation Project 525011

Amount: $4,491,539.10

*[Note: The complete document will be on File in the Office of the Board]

33

April 3, 2013



APPROVE ENTERING INTO AN AGREEMENT WITH PHONAK, LLC FOR THE PURCHASE OF
HEARING ASSISTIVE TECHNOLOGY (HAT) AND FREQUENCY MODULATION (FM) EQUIPMENT

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Approve entering into an agreement with Phonak, LLC for the purchase of Hearing Assistive Technology
(HAT) and Frequency Modulation (FM) equipment for the Of?ce of Special Education and Supports at a
total cost not to exceed $150,000.00. Vendor was selected on a competitive basis pursuant to Board
Rule 7-2. A written agreement for this purchase is currently being negotiated. No goods may be ordered
or received and no payment shall be made to Vendor prior to execution of the written agreement. The
authority granted herein shall automatically rescind in the event a written agreement is not executed
within 90 days of the date of this Board Report. Information pertinent to this agreement is stated below.

Speci?cation Number 12-250047
Contract Administrator Escareno, Miss Masocorro I 773-553-2280
VENDOR:

1) Vendor 89878
PHONAK. LLC

4520 WEAVER PARKWAY
WARRENVILLE. IL 60555
Aggie Henry

630 821 -5205

USER INFORMATION 

Contact: 11670 Special Education Supports City Wide
125 South Clark Street 8th Floor
Chicago. lL 60603
Lofton. Miss Eboney Lian
773-553-1800

TERM:
The term of this agreement shall commence on the date the agreement is signed and shall end 24
months thereafter. This agreement shall have 1 option to renew tor a period of 12 months.

EARLY TERMINATION RIGHT:
The Board shall have the right to terminate this agreement with 30 days written notice.

DESCRIPTION OF PURCHASE:

Hearing Assistive Technology (HAT) and Frequency Modulation (FM) equipment to be purchased include
the following: Category 1 - body worn. ear level, neck loop, receiver with audio shoe, semi integrated,
bundled semi integrated. cochlear implant, programming transmitter, basic transmitter. and integrated
multitalker, and Category 2 - classroom speakers.

OUTCOMES:

Vendor HAT products will result in students that are classified as deaf or hard of hearing using the
devices to improve hearing capacity, with the goal of improved learning. HAT products and FM receivers
provided by vendor are designed to complement existing therapies in children with minimal or unilateral
hearing loss, auditory processing disorders and learning disabilities.

COMPENSATION:
Vendor shall be paid as follows: as invoices are submitted and veri?ed in accordance with the
prices set forth in the written agreement; total not to exceed $150,000.00 during the initial two year term.

AUTHORIZATION:

Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant terms and conditions in the written agreement.
Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the agreement. Authorize the Chief Of?car of Special
Education and Supports to execute all ancillary documents required to administer or effectuate this
agreement.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION:

The MBEIWBE goals for this agreement include 15% total MBE and 5% total WBE participation.
However, the Of?ce of Business Diversity recommends that a full waiver of the goals, as required by the
Remedial Program for Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise Participation in Goods and
Services Contracts be granted. as the equipment being purchased under this agreement is not further
divisible.

34

April 3, 2013

LSC REVIEW:
Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL:

Charge to the Of?ce of Special Education and Supports: $150,000.00

Fiscal Years 2013 and 2014.

Future year funding is contingent upon budget appropriation and approval.

Fund 220, Of?ce of Special Education and Supports - City Wide. 11600. FY13 $75,000
Fund 220. Of?ce of Special Education and Supports - City Wide. 11600, FY14 $75,000

Not Applicable

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that. in accordance with 105 ILCS
the inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations.

Con?icts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of
of?ce.

indebtedness - The Board's Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26. 1996 (96-0626-P03). as amended
from time to time. shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25. 2011 as amended from time to time.
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability - The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current
?scal year is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in the Subsequent ?scal year
budget(s).

1 3-0403-P R2

APPROVE ENTERING INTO AN AGREEMENT WITH GLOBAL WORKPLACE SOLUTIONS, LLC FOR
LOGISTIC MANAGEMENT SERVICES

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Approve entering into an agreement with Global Workplace Solutions. LLC to provide Lagistic
Management Services to the Of?ce of Strategy Management at a total cost not to exceed $14,200,000.
Vendor was selected on a competitive basis pursuant to Board Rule 7-2. A written agreement for
Vendor?s services is currently being negotiated. No services shall be provided by Vendor and no payment
shall be made to Vendor prior to execution of the written agreement. The authority granted herein shall
automatically rescind in the event a written agreement is not executed within 90 days of the date of this
Board Report. Information pertinent to this agreement is stated below.

Speci?cation Number: 13-250023
Contract Administrator Hernandez. Miss Patricia I 773-553-2280
VENDOR:
1) Vendor 94831
GLOBAL WORKPLACE SOLUTIONS. LLC
9823 CINCINNATI DAYTON RD.
WEST CHESTER, OH 45069
Steve Lewey
317 363-1552
BSD-8516819

USER INFORMATION 

Contact:
14010 - Chief Administrative Of?cer

125 Clark Street - 16th Floor
Chicago. IL 60603
Tyrrell, Mr. Tom L.

773-553-4224

35

April 3, 2013

TERM:
The term of this agreement shall commence on April 5, 2013 and shall end on April 30, 2014. This
agreement shall have 1 option to renew for a period of 12 months.

EARLY TERMINATION RIGHT:
The Board shall have the right to terminate this agreement with 30 days written notice.

SCOPE OF SERVICES:
Vendor will deliver and manage relocation and decommissioning services for the Board school
consolidations.

DELIVERABLES:

Vendor will implement the plan set forth by the Board and provide overall management and services to
complete the relocation, removal of contents, furnishings and equipment and securing all schools affected
as speci?ed in the agreement that will be executed with the Board.

OUTCOMES:

Vendor?s services will result in every student affected by a school action to be seamlessly integrated into
his/her new school. The project goal is to foster a transitional environment that is positive, nurturing and
respectful. and provide for maximum continuity.

COMPENSATION:
Vendor will be paid in accordance with the pricing set forth in the written agreement; total compensation
not to exceed the sum of $14,200,000.

REIMBURSABLE EXPENSES:
None

AUTHORIZATION:

Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant terms and conditions in the written agreement.
Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the agreement. Authorize Deputy Chief Administrative
Of?cer to execute all ancillary documents required to administer or effectuate this agreement.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION:

This contract is in partial compliance with the 30% MBE and 7% WBE goals required by the Remedial
Program for Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise Participation in Goods and Services
Contracts (MIWBE Program). The awarded vendor has scheduled the following ?rms and has also
committed to additional MBE participation throughout the life of the contract.

Total MBE: 19%

828 Strategic Solutions
150 N. Michigan Ave.
Chicago, IL 60601

Total 13%

Corporate Facility Solutions
1827 W. Melrose

Chicago. IL 60657

LSC REVIEW:
Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL:

Fund 115. Of?ce of Strategy Management, 15500. $7.1 million total not to exceed amount in 
Fund 115. Of?ce of Strategy Management. 15500. 37.1 million total not to exceed amount in FY14.
All future year funding is contingent upon budget appropriation and approval.

Not Applicable

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 ILCS
the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations.

Conflicts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board it entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 ILCS which restricts the employment of. or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of
of?ce.

Indebtedness - The Board's Indebtedness Policy adopted June 25. 1996 as amended
from time to time. shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics - The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25. 2011 as amended from time to time.
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

36

April 3, 2013

Contingent Liability - The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current
?scal year is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in the subsequent ?scal year
budgetis).



APPROVE ENTERING INTO AGREEMENTS WITH VARIOUS VENDORS
FOR LANDSCAPE MAINTENANCE SERVICES

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Approve entering into agreements with various vendors to provide landscape maintenance services to
schools, campus parks and athletic ?elds at a total cost not to exceed $4,400,000. Vendors were selected
on a competitive basis pursuant to Board Rule 7-2. Written agreements for Vendors? services are available
for signature. No services shall be provided by and no payment shall be made to any Vendor prior to
execution of their written agreement. The authority granted herein shall automatically rescind as to each
Vendor in the event their written agreements is not executed within 90 days of the date of this Board Report.
Information pertinent to these agreements is stated below.

Speci?cation Number: 13-250002
Contract Administrator Hernandez, Miss Patricia I 773-553-2280
USER INFORMATION:

Contact: 11860 - Facility Operations Maintenance
125 Scuth Clark Street 16th Floor
Chicago, IL 60603
Taylor. Ms. Patricia 
773-553-2960

Contact: 11860 - Facility Operations 8. Maintenance
125 South Clark Street 16th Floor
Chicago, IL 60603
Mcguffage, Mr. Terrence William
773-553-2960

TERM:
The term of each agreement shall commence on April 15, 2013 and shall end on April 14, 2015. Each
agreement shall have 2 options to renew for a period of 12 months each.

EARLY TERMINATION RIGHT:
The Board shall have the right to terminate this agreement with 30 days written notice.

SCOPE OF SERVICES:

Each vendor shall provide landscape maintenance services at those schools identi?ed in the Bid
Solicitation (Speci?catiOn No. 13-250002) for the areals) awarded to each vendor. The areas awarded to
each vendor are indicated on the attachment. The goal is practical maintenance and maximum
enhancement of the aesthetics and functional aspects of the landscaping. The services shall include, but
are not limited to mowing, trimming, mulching, pruning, fertilizing. weeding, disease and insect control, and
maintenance of athletic ?elds.

DELIVERABLES:
Vendors shall maintain the health and attractiveness of landscaping. athletic ?elds and campus parks at
Chicago Board of Education sites.

OUTCOMES:
Vanders' services will result in landscape maintenance and beauti?cation of venous school sites, athletic
?elds and campus parks.

COMPENSATION:
Vendors shall be paid as follows: in accordance with the pricing set forth in their respective agreement; total
not to exceed the sum of $4,400,000 in the aggregate for all vendors.

REIMBURSABLE EXPENSES:
None

AUTHORIZATION:

Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant terms and conditions in the written agreements.
Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the agreements. Authorize Chief Operating Officer to
execute all ancillary documents required to administer or effectuate these agreements.

37

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION:
Pursuant to the Remedial Program for Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise Participation in
Goods and Services Contracts, the aggregate method for MNVBE participation will be utilized. Thus,
contracts for subsequent vendors in the pool created by this agreement will be subjected to compliance
reviews on an aggregate basis. Aggregated compliance of the vendors in the pool will be reported on a
basis. The participation goals for this agreement are 25% total MBE and 15% total WBE
participation.

LSC REVIEW:
Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report

FINANCIAL:

Fund: 230

Parent Unit: 11880

Charge to the Department of Facilit
FY13: $2,200,000

FY14: $2,200,000

CFDM:

Not Applicable

GENERAL CONDITIONS:
Inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 ILCS
5134-131, the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel necessary
to conduct those investigations.

April 3, 2013

Operations Maintenance: not to exceed $4,400,000

Conflicts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 5134-213 which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of of?ce.

Indebtedness - The Board's Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 1996 (96-0626-P03), as amended from
time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics - The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 (11-0525-P02), as amended from time to time,
shatl be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability - The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current ?scal
year is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in the subsequent ?scal year budget(s).

1)

2)

3)
Vendor 29091

CHRISTY WEBBER COMPANY
2900 WEST FERDINAND AVE.
CHICAGO. IL 60612

Christy Webber

773 533-0477

Awarded Collaborative: Nortthorthwest And
South West

4)
Vendor 97430

A SAFE HAVEN FOUNDATION
2750 WEST ROOSEVELT RD.
CHICAGO, IL 60608

Kris Sokol

773 435-8300

Awarded Collaborative: West 1, West 2, South
2, And Far South 2

38

Vendor 97431

LAWN CARE, LLC

710 EAST 47TH STREET, 305W
CHICAGO, IL 60653

Libra \Mley

773 45143321

Awarded Collaborative: South 1 And Far South
1

Vendor 67057

R. ROJAS LANDSCAPE, INC
5124 SOUTH TRIPP
CHICAGO, IL 60632

Ramiro Rojas

773 443-2021

Awarded: Gwendolyn Brooks Campus

April 3, 2013

13-0403-P R4

APPROVE ENTERING INTO AGREEMENTS WITH VARIOUS CONTRACTORS FOR CLASSROOM,
MUSIC. EARLY CHILDHOOD, AND LIBRARY FURNITURE AND DELIVERYIINSTALLATION
SERVICES

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Approve entering into agreements with various vendors to provide Classroom, Music. Early Childhood, and
Library furniture and delivery and installation services to Chicago Public Schools at an aggregate total cost
not to exceed 530.500.000.00. Vendors were selected on a competitive basis pursuant to Board Rule 7-2.
Written agreements for Vendors' services are available for signature. No services shall be provided by and
no payment shall be made to any Vendor prior to execution of their written agreement. The authority
granted herein shall automatically rescind as to each Vendor in the event their written agreement is not
executed within 90 days of the date of this Board Report. Information pertinent to these agreements is
stated below.

Specification Number: 12-250055

Contract Administrator: Matthews, Ms. Trineda L. I 773-553-2280
VENDOR:

1) Vendor 20899
HARRISON AND COMPANY
2421 SOUTH 25TH AVE
BROADVIEW. IL 60155
Mary Grace Harrison
888 345-4005

Early Childhood

2) Vendor 33924
LOWERY MC DONNELL COMPANY
255 MITTEL DRIVE
WOOD DALE. IL 60191
Scott Mills
630 227?1000x237

Classroom And Library

3} Vendor 32014
HERTZ FURNITURE SYSTEM CORP
0 BOX 803
MAHWAH, NJ 07430
David Azer
800 526-4677

Music
USER INFORMATION 

Contact: 11860 - Facility Operations Maintenance
125 South Clark Street 161h Floor
Chicago. IL 60603
Rappe, Ms. Grace K.
773-553-2960

Contact: 11860 - Facility Operations 8 Maintenance
125 South Clark Street 16th Floor
Chicago, IL 60603
Taylor, Ms. Patricia 
773-553-2960

TERM:
The term of each agreement shall commence on April 15, 2013 and shall end on April 14, 2015. The Board
shall have two (2) options to renew the agreements for a period of twelve (12) months each.

EARLY TERMINATION RIGHT:
The Board shall have the right to terminate each agreement with 30 days written notice.

39

April 3, 2013

SCOPE OF SERVICES:

Vendors shall provide Classroom, Early Childhood. Library and Music Furniture and delivery and
installation services to Chicago Public Schools. Vendors shall also provide repair and maintenance
services. The category awarded to each Vendor is indicated above in the Vendor section.

DELIVERABLES:

Vendors will supply Classroom. Early Childhood. Library and Music furniture and provide delivery and
installation of services as set forth in their agreement. The category awarded to each Vendor is indicated
above in the Vendor section.

OUTCOMES:
Vendors' services will result in furniture delivery and installation services to all Chicago Public Schools.

COMPENSATION:
Vendors shall be paid as set forth in their agreements. The compensation payable to all Vendors. inclusive
of labor. materials. supplies. and delivery shall not exceed 530.500.000.00 in the aggregate for all Vendors.

REIMBURSABLE EXPENSES:
None.

AUTHORIZATION:

Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant terms and conditions in the written agreements.
Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the agreements. Authorize Chief Operating Of?cer to
execute all ancillary documents required to administer or effectuate these agreements.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION:

The MBENVBE goals for this agreement are 25% total MBE and 5% total WBE participation. Thus,
pursuant to the Remedial Program for Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise Participation in
Goods and Services Contracts, contracts for subsequent vendors from the pool created by this agreement
will be subjected to aggregated compliance reviews and monitored on a basis.

The awarded vendors will comply with the MBENVBE requirements through the utilization of the following
MBENVBE subcontractors:

Total MBE - 25%

Leeway Furniture Company
21700 S. Cicero Avenue
Matteson. IL 60443
Contact: Lee Haggard

lnline Designs Of?ce Solutions
6846 S. Paxton Avenue
Chicago, IL 60649

Contact: William Cooper

Midwest Moving 8. Storage
1255 Tonne Road

Elk Grove. IL 60067
Contact: Luis Toledo

Total WBE - 5%

Harrison and Company (WBE Owned Prime)
2421 S. 25th Avenue

Broadview. IL 60155

Contact: Mary Grace Harrison

Architectural Fixtures
630 Anthony Trail

IL 60062
Contact: Laurie Reid

Discovery Promotions Merchandise
3108 8. Route 59. Suite 124-153
Naperville. IL 60564

Contact: Marsuzette Walker

LSC REVIEW:
Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL:

Charge to Various Capital Improvement and Various School Funds: 530.500.000.00 Parent Unit Number:
11880 Fiscal Year: FY2013, FY2014 and FY2015. Future year funding is contingent upon budget
appropriation and approval. Source of Funds: Various Capital Funds and School Funds

40

April 3, 2013

Not Applicable

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that. in accordance with 105 ILCS
5134-131. the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel necessary
to conduct those investigations.

Conflicts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 ILCS SIM-21.3 which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to. former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of of?ce.

Indebtedness - The Board?s Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 1996 (96-0626-P03). as amended from
time to time. shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics - The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25. 2011 as amended from time to time,
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability - The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current fiscal
year is deemed a contingent liability. subject to appropriation in the subsequent ?scal year budget(s).

13-0403-PR5

APPROVE ENTERING INTO AN AGREEMENT WITH STAPLES CONTRACTS AND COMMERCIAL,
INC. FOR OFFICE FURNITURE, AND DELIVERYIINSTALLATION SERVICES

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Approve entering into an agreement with Staples Contract and Commercial Inc. (Staples) to provide of?ce
furniture, delivery and installation services to Chicago Public Schools at a total cost not to exceed
$4,500,000.00. Vendor was selected on a competitive basis pursuant to an RFP issued by National Joint
Powers Alliance (NJPA). Subsequently. Staples and NJPA entered into a Master Agreement (contract
number 031210-SCC). Pursuant to Board Rule 7-2.7. the Board is authorized to purchase biddable items
through the Illinois School Purchasing Network or a governmental purchasing cooperative contract A
written agreement for these purchases is currently being negotiated. No goods may be ordered or received
and no payment shall be made to Vendor prior to execution of the written agreement. The authority granted
herein shall automatically rescind in the event a written agreement is not executed within 90 days of the
date of this Board Report. Information pertinent to this agreement is stated below.

Contract Administrator Matthews. Ms. Trineda L. I 773-553-2280
VENDOR:

1) Vendor 31975
STAPLES CONTRACTS COMMERCIAL, INC
665WEST NORTH AVE, STE 200
LOMBARD, IL 60148
Karen Volner
630 282-1272

USER INFORMATION:

Contact: 11860 - Facility Operations Maintenance
125 South Clark Street 16th Floor
Chicago, IL 60603
Rappe, Ms. Grace K.
773-553-2960

Contact 11860 - Facility Operations Maintenance
125 South Clark Street 16th Floor
Chicago. IL 60603
Taylor. Ms. Patricia 
773-553-2960

TERM:
The term of this agreement shall commence upon execution and shall end 24 months later. The Board shall
have two (2) options to renew the agreement for periods of twelve (12) months each.

EARLY TERMINATION RIGHT:
The Board shall have the right to terminate this agreement with 30 days written notice.

SCOPE OF SERVICES:

Vendor shall provide of?ce furniture, delivery and installation services to Chicago Public Schools. Vendor
shall also provide repair and maintenance services.

41

April 3, 2013

DELIVERABLES:
Vendor will supply office furniture and delivery and installation services as set forth in the agreement.

OUTCOMES:
These purchases will result in furniture delivery and installation services to all Chicago Public Schools.

COMPENSATION:
Vendor shall be paid in accordance with the unit pricing contained in the agreement (which pricing includes
delivery and installation); total not to exceed the sum of $4,500,000.00.

REIMBURSABLE EXPENSES:
None

AUTHORIZATION:

Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant terms and conditions in the written agreement.
Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the agreement. Authorize the Chief Operating Of?cer to
execute all ancillary documents required to administer or effectuate this agreement.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION:

Pursuant to Board Rule 7-2.7. the Board is authorized to purchase these biddable items through the 
School Purchasing network or a governmental purchasing cooperative contract. This agreement shall be
bound to the provisions that were set in the Master Agreement (contract number 031210-800)
between Staples and NJPA.

LSC REVIEW:
Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report

FINANCIAL:

Charge to: Various Capital Improvement and VariOus School Funds: $4,500,000.00
Parent Unit Number: 11880 Fiscal Year: FY2013, FY2014, and FY2015

Future year funding is contingent upon budget appropriation and approval.

Source of Funds: Various Capital Funds and School Funds

Not Applicable

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that. in accordance with 105 ILCS
5134-1 3.1. the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel necessary
to conduct those investigations.

Con?icts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 5134-213 which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of of?ce.

Indebtedness - The Board's Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 1996 (96-0626-PO3). as amended from
time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics - The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 (11-0525-P02), as amended from time to time,
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability - The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current ?scal
year is deemed a contingent liability. subject to appropriation in the subsequent fiscal year budget(s).

Vice President Ruiz abstained on Board Report 13-0403-PR5.

1 3-0403-P R6

APPROVE THE AWARD OF CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTS AND APPROVE CHANGES TO
CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTS FOR THE BOARD OF CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT
PROGRAM

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Approve the award of Capital Improvement Program construction contracts in the total amount of
$5,628,075.44 to the respective lowest responsible bidders for various construction projects, as listed in
Appendix A of this report. These construction contracts shall be for projects approved as part of the
Board's Capital Improvement Program. Work involves all labor, material and equipment required to
construct new schools, additions. and annexes, or to renovate existing facilities, all as called for in the
plans and speci?cations for the respective projects. Proposals, schedules of bids, and other supporting
documents are on ?le in the Department of Operations. These contracts have been awarded in
accordance with section 7-3 of the Rules of the Board of Education of the City of Chicago.

42

April 3, 2013

Approve changes to existing Capital Improvement Program construction contracts. in the amount of
$1.401.321.78 as listed in the attached March Change Order Log. These construction contract changes
have been processed and are being submitted to the Board for approval in accordance with section 7-15
of the Rules of the Board of Education of the City of Chicago. since they require an increased
commitment necessitated by an unforeseen combination of circumstances or conditions calling for
immediate action to protect Board property to prevent interference with school sessions.

LSC REVIEW: Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION: The General Contracting Services Agreements entered into by each of the pre-
quali?ed general contractors and other miscellaneous construction contracts awarded outside the pre-
quali?ed general contractor program for new construction awards and changes to existing construction
contracts shall be subject to the Board's Business Diversity Program for Construction Projects and any
revisions or amendments to that policy that may be adopted during the term of any such contract

FINANCIAL: Expenditures involved in the Capital improvement Program are charged to
the Department of Operations. Capital Improvement Program.

Budget classi?cation: Fund 436, 468. 476, 477. 479. 480. 481, 482
will be used for all Change Orders (March Change Order Log); Funding source for new
contracts is so indicated on Appendix A

Funding Source: Capital Funding

GENERAL CONDITIONS:
Inspector General Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that. in accordance with 105 ILCS
5134-131. the inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the lnSpector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations.

Conflicts The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 ILCS 5134-213 which restricts the employment of or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of
of?ce.

indebtedness The Board's indebtedness Policy adopted June 26. 1996 (96-0626-P03). as amended
from time to time. shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics - The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25. 2011 as amended from time to time.
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current
?scal year is deemed a contingent liability. subject to appropriation in the subsequent ?scal year
budget(s).

THIS SPACE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK

43

44

SCHOOL CONTRACTOR

Beasley School All-Bry Constructlon

Company

Bridge School Reliable Associates

Camras School Wight a Company

Clark HS Frredler Construction

Co.

Parker School All-Bry Construction

Company

Roosevelt 115 Tyler lane

Construction. Inc,

Walter Payton F.11.Pasr:hen.SN.
8r Associates.

LLC

CONTRACT 

2481442

2483560

2483868

2472.140

2483862

2172345

2472341

CONTRACT
METHOD

ICC

810

HID

1111)

1110

810

810

3

3





3



5

CONTRACT
AWARD

70.21 4.44

415.800.00

2.835.000.00

1,234,800.00

509,500.00

370,761,011

192.000.00

AWARD DATE

Zia/2013

2/15/2013

2/15/2013

1/18/2013

2/15/2013

1/18/2013

1/18/2013

Appendix A
March 2013

ANTICIPATED
COMPLETION DATE

t/c/zoia

4/26/2013

10/14/2013

3/19/2013

8/26/2013

8/11/2013

7/19/2013

FISCAL
YEAR

2012

2013

2013

2013

2013

2013

2013

AFFIRM. ACTION

PROIECT SCOPE AND NOTES

Beasley school needs immediate work due to building code Violations
Create an area well to supply combustion air lor(2) existing domestic gas
?red walerheelers and (1) pool heater. Repetrone concrete column in the
coroner

Scope is to demolish moor poruon ol stack abdue existing cell morph-tent.
demolish preaching ga'u'ery. provide new solid concrete cap, repair
remaining masonry at chimney, and reroute current exhaust through root
at boner house via new noes.

Replace the existing steam batters and associated condensate Irencter
pumps and barter feed puntps Provide proper thermostats oonlrot vetues
at all existing radiators and replace pneumatic temperature control system
unth a new standalone electronic temperature oonuol system Replace
select sections at existing condensate thee that are leaking and replace
tailed traps Relurpish exist'ng AHU systems. Replace portion of root and
rebwld perapets? Promde new root mounted lighting at Incohons at root
replacement Select masonry improvement at locations of 1a11uf8_

the scope of this protect is to provide IT lens standard computer tabs
(2). auditorium improvements, girl's locker room renovation for
accessibility. boy?s locker room renovation for accessibility new
unisex todrer room, select cooking fountain and tealet room
improvements tor 

Address the displaced masonry lor the incinerator chimney at Francis
PARKER Community Academy. The monomer is no longer in use and
no other sen/ices appearto vent into that stock We recommend that the
chimney be demolished down to the lowerrool Inc. cupped and the
adjacent root areas recon?gured

Reconfigure three (3) erecting classrooms on the third tloor (331. 333 and
335) to provide two (2) new medical and health career classrooms on
either side of a new medvcel demostratron area Wont shell provrde tor
installation of accessible water ctoset ?ush verve. soap and
vertical grab bar at each or the student tonal rooms. replacement of select
existing drinking lourltains With new drinking fountains, and
new cane detection at select existing drinking launtains.

Replace portion ol existing metal roof system. including redrused hash?mg
and counter flashing at clerestory head. replace tie-oft boots. and add
snow melt system at gutters.

REASONS FOR

PROIECT

2

 

Reasons:
1, Safety
2. Code Compliance
7 Fire Code Violations
Exterior Conditions
Priority Mechanical Needs
ADA Compliance
7? Support for Educational Portfolio Strategy
8. Support for other District 
9. External Funding PtOvidcd







5.628.075!?

April 3, 2013

45

CPS

Chicago Public Schools
Capital Improvement Program

These change order dates range from 06/18/12 to 02/14/13 and Date: 2? 8,2013
approval cycles range from 01/15/1310 02/14/13 Page: 1 of 20

CHANGE ORDER LOG

 

School Vendor Project Number Original Numbar Total Revised Total Oracle
Contract Change Change Contract ol PO
Amount Orders Order: Amount Contract Number

Board Number

Richard Crane Tech Prep Comm On School
2012 Crane CSP 2012-46081?051?
F.H. Paschen. SN. Nielsen 8. Assoc 32.737.000.00 30 $831,507.36 33.368.507.36 23.07%
Change Date App Date Chagge Order Qgsg?ptions Reasgn gag

2331498
12/13/12 01/16/13 Provide floor leveling/tiIl/replacemant in all classrooms lound to not havewood sublloors to provide consistent. even. and level Discovered Conditions 330602488
sublloor prior to installation of VCT flooring.
12/14/12 01/15/13 Convert classroom 308MB into wireless computer lab. School Request $38,840.64
install existing furniture as indicated. Provide wiremotd and power as indicated.
12/14/12 01/15/13 Existing watt plaster was in poor condition and crumbled/tell in excessive manner than was assumed. Repair Interior plaster Discovered Conditions 52.43228
walls at areas where it fell.

12/14/12 01/16/13 Provide new free-standing art sink in Rm 300. Omission AOR 524.644.83
Remove existing cabinets in location of new sink.
Provide new plumbing within new gypsum board chase wall construction.
Build new wall the lull width and height of niche space. Paint to match other walls.

01/15/13 02/11/13 Provide power/data 10 rooms 304. 304A. 3048. 3040. 306A. 307. 307A. 307C. 409A. 4098. 416. Discovered Conditions 547,942.97

Project Total 641958550
Brian Piccolo Elementary School

2012 Piccolo CSP 2012-24781-CSP
Wight 8. Company 32.720.050.00 26 5505.63849 53.225.688.49 18.59%
Change Date App Date han 0r erD cri lions

 

Rgson Code
2403531 11-0525-PR8
01/23/13 01/24/13 Towards the end of the project. lust before school was to start. the incoming AUSL administration requested that several tack School Request $6596.40
boards be removed from the walls that were not called out to be removed as part of the contract documents. This resulted in

some additional carpentry and painting work to cover the areas of the wall that were now exposed alter the tack boards were
removed.

01/23/13

01123113

10/24/12

10/30/12

01/23/13

01/24/13

(11/24/13

02/07/13

01128/13

01/24/13

Additional doors and hardware items that were part 01 the comments from the application [or building permit

There were several rooms with a suspended ceiling that were originally called out to have the grids painted. However. during
construction it was determined that the grids were acceptable as is and painted was not necessary. As a cost saving measure.
they were not painted and a credit was provided.

The tables that were acquired by CPS tor computer labs required additional hard wiring in order to make them compliantwilh
the City of Chicago building code.

Work required to correct damage plumbing valve and waste piping in area of new plumbing work for toilet room and new
science lab improvements.

During the summer renovation pen?od AUSL requested that an additional classroom be converted Into a computer lab.

2326347
Omission AOR

2403531
Owner Directed

2326347
Owner Directed

Discovered Conditions

School Request

124042591119
$15,315.94

11-0525-PR8


12-0425-PR9
$14,829.40

53.983.12

327.051.20

 

The lollowlng change orders have been approved and are being reported to the Board in arrears.

Report 

April 3, 2013

46

CPS

Chicago PUb'ic Schools These change orderdates range trom 06/18/12to 02/14/13 and Date: ?18,2013

Capital Improvement Program approval cycles range/ram 01/15/13t002/14/13 Page: 2 of 20
CHANGE ORDER LOG

 

School Vendor Project Number Original Number Tot-i Rewind Total Oracle Board ?pt Number
Contact Change Change Contract of P0
Amount Orders Order: Amount Contract Number

Brian Piccolo Elementary School
2012 Piccolo CSP 2012-24781-CSP

Wightd. Company $2,720,050.00 26 $505,638.49 $3,225,688.49 18.59%
ghagge Date M2 Cha rder Doscii tions Regsgn Code

2403531 
01/23/13 01/28/13 The drawings originally called for a gypsum board wall above the ceilings where new doors were going to replace existing doors. owner Directed (5485,64)
This was to maintain the required fire rating or the corridor walls. It was discovered during construction that these walls are not
the line of the fire separation, and instead an alternate detail was designed to maintain the required rating. The new detail
resulted in a net credit back to CPS.

  

2326347 12-0425-PR9
11/05/12 01/28/13 AutomaticDoorOperators for doors 130, 100A, and 1008. Omission?AOR $8,818.14

2414354
02/08/13 02/07/13 For AUSL request, the signage on the building will be changed to re?ect the school's new revised name. School Request $18,571.20

2326347 12-0425-PR9
07/25/12 01/24/13 1. Revise security gate layout to match attached drawings (See revisions made in floor plans, A-121 R, A-131R, Permit Code Change $9,025.90
32 R).
2. For doors 112. 204, 208. 209, and 210, provide a new 1 haur rated fixed door panel at transom. Secure panei with HM
Glazing Stops (See R).
3. Doors 130A, 1308, and 130C must be 90 minute rated doors (See 
4. Revise lighting circuits to match revisions made on sheets E-201 and E-204R.

2403531 11-0525-PR8
01/22/13 02/07/13 Vinyl Base was to be installed in all classrooms oi the 1965 building that receiving new flooring. However, viny? base was not Owner Directed 
installed because the rest of the existing classrooms in the 1965 building that did not get new floors do not have vinyl base.
instead they have a decorative glazed block at the base. It was determined for consistency to not install the vinyl base, and to
provide a credltfor not installing vinyl base in those rooms.

 

Project Total $93,705.68
Theodore Herzl School

2012 Herzl MCR 2012-23771-MCR
F.H. Paschen. S.N. Nielsen 8. Assoc 36.871.000.00 99 $1,224,248.42 $8,095,248.42 17.82%
Change Date 592 Date 

 

lions ease ode
2306871 09-0722-PR8

01/28/13 01/28/13 Due to the variety of threshold conditions between the newly installed VCT and the existing asphalt flooring, provide new4 Discovered Conditions $4,423.40
aluminum transition strips in lieu 01 vinyl strips where indicated in contract documents.

09/07/12 02/01/13 Heat detectors are to be located at the beams above the existing plaster ceiling. install 3'x4' lockable. unrated. metal access Discovered Conditions 511,886.84
panels. Paint portals out to match ceiling.

09/26/12 01/15/13 Remove existing damagedwood underlaymenl and wood edging. install new 3/4' exterior grade plywood and 2x8 treated wood Discovered Conditions 313.333.70
edge. Complete roof per BTA sketch.

2420272

02/06/13 02/11/13 Cap existing exhaustduct in Boys Restroom 242 that runs into Room 244. Remove duct work in Room 244. Patch and paint Discovered Conditions $1,850.00
existing wall where duct was removed.

01/31/13 02/03/13 Provide OEMC connection to fire alarm. Code Compliance $6,700.00

 

The loilowing change orders have been approved and are being reported to the Board in Imus. Report 

April 3, 2013

47

CPS

Chicago Public Schools

Capital improvement Program

Thesechange order dates range from 06/18/12 to 02114113 and
approval cycles range from 01/15/1310 02/14/13

CHANGE ORDER LOG

Date: 2/18/2013
Page: 301? 20

 

School Vendor

Theodore Herzl School

2012 Herzl MGR

F.H. Paschen. S.N. Nielsen Assoc

Date

01/28/13

01/23/13

01/29/13
01/22/13

02101/13

Project Number

Origin-t Number Total Revised
Contract Change Change Contract
Amount Orders Order- Amount

2012-23771-MCR

Egg Date

01/28/13

02101/13

02/01/13
01/23/13

02/06/13

$6,871,000.00 99
ha Order Descri lions

$1,224,248.42 $8,095,248.42

 

Provide new trim in the following locations: third floor corridors and laundry room 101A. New trim is being installed due to the
use at the third ?oor trim to inlill throughout locations on the ?rst and second floorstcorndors and classrooms).

Provide 4" duct from existing vent on North wall that runs wast parallel above the newly installed ceiling to the west wall. Drop
the duct at the west wall aligned with the new dryer exhaust. Duct will be exposted for approximently 3' then will run down in the
existing chase wail. Connect new 4? duct with new dryer exhaust.

Repair damaged slit in Classroom 202 at the center window. on the West wall.

Credit for the 3 sidewalks at the NW cornerof the lot. that were removed from the project because CDOT had already installed
them.

Remove existing concealed spline ceiling at balcony ceiling. Remove tor all electrical items including but not
limited to heat detectors. tire alarm. light fixtures. Provide a 21?? new lay-in calling and grid. Reinstall all electrical items at new
ceiling height.

2011 CPS Central Office MEP2011-11910-MEP
F.l-l. Paschen

Date

01/24/13
12/05/12

12/05/12

02108/13

Agg Date

01/28/13
01/15/13

02/14/13

02/14/13

Josephine Locke School

2012 Locke PKG

OCA Construction. Inc

Change Date

01/23/13

31.069.000.00 10 $170,117.17
Cha eOrderDescri lions

81.239.117.17

 

Provide Credit for unused allowance funds.

Provide new 6" check valve is required to isolate existing wet system irom the tire pump suction line to which it is connected.
The check valve did not appear to be in the contract documents.

Provide metal grating secured to the concrete slab to cover the existing 2 foot by 6 toot tloor opening.

Provide new DomesticWater Serivce approximately 35' east of the original design location as per direction of Dept of Water
Management.

2012-24231-PKC

App Date

01/28/13

$699,130.31 12 395339.30
LEW

Provide a credit to remove asphalt paving work identified in Bulletin 019 and authorized in Change Order 012.

Total Oracle
14 at PO
Contract Number

Board Number

17.82%

mm
2306871 09-0722-PR8
Owner Directed $8,666.56

Omission?AOR $1,149.04

Owner Directed $516.22
Owner Directed 

Discovered Conditions $53,795.00

Project Total $98,820.76

15.91%

Reason Code
2258386 11-0525-PR8

Owner Directed (333.241.56)
Omission - AOR $550.00

Owner Directed $3,420. 09
2481011 
Discovered Conditions $120,769.00

Protect Total $91 ,497.53

$795,469.61 13.78%

Reason Code
2403847

Other 
Protect Total 

 

1M lollowing change orders have been approved and are being reported to the Board in arrears.

Report chnmogoa

April 3, 2013

48

CPS

Chicago Public 50h00 3 These change order dates range from 06/1811 2 to 02/14/13 and Date: ?13,2013
Capital Improvement Program approval Cycles range from 01/15/1310 02/14/13 Page: 4 of 20

CHANGE ORDER LOG

 

School Vandor Project Number Original Number Total Revised Total Oracle Board Number
Contract Change Change Contract '19 01 P0
Amount Orders Order; Amount Contract Number

Lyman Trumbull School
2013 Trumbull LTG 2013-25651-LTG
Polcurr, Inc. $52,835.59 1 $5,900.00 559.735.59 13.06%
Change Date Reason Code
2481013 11-1214-PR4
01/27/13 02/01/13 Despite careful coordination between all parties prior to construction start. The CPS Roving crew refused to honor our (CPS) Asset Delay 36.90000
commitment to the hours agreed to with contractor and theyforced the contractors personnel out of the building on several

occasions early causing the contractor to lose production hours and push several successorjobs behind as we. Contractors
claims have merit and should be compensated.

 

 

Project Total 56.900.00
Chicago High School for the Arts

2012 Chicago HS for the Art 2012-63051-CSP
Walsh Construction Co. Of ill. 56.408.000.00 39 3774.60.66 87.182.647.66 12.09%

Chamg Date Apr; Date Chan De rl tions Reason Qgge
2327708

11/1411 2 02111113 1. Provide at each locker bay. painted sheet metal trim around the perimeter of the lockers to cover the gap caused by the Discovered Conditions $11,779.50
terrazzo base. Trim to match the lockers at each level. (Unforeseen condition due to the existing lockers covering the condition)
2. Provide at 7 existing doors. where we are providing ADA hardware, a wrap around security plate In order to cover the existing
damaged wood. (Untoreseen condition due to the existing escutcheon covering the condition of the door)

10/24/12 01/21/13 Provide credit of 6 windows and only replace portions to accommodate glazing to match existing and metal panels with window Owner Directed 
a/c units per drawings.

02/12/13 02/13/13 1. Remove existing white board skin. and wood trim around white board. Discovered Conditions 3139100
2. Remove adhesive from previous installation of whiteboard skin.
3. Mechanically fasten 1 layer of 118" MDF board to substrate.
4. Prepare MDF board to accommodate new whiteboard skin.
5. Provide new whiteboard skin to MDF board is: a; 20'-0" 
6. Provide new stained wood trim to match existing and accommodate new thickness.

08/20/12 01/29/13 Add new ?ooring. accoustical finishes, painting, Whiteboards and electrical work throughout the classrooms. Owner Directed 310000000
02/06/13 02/05/13 1. Provide metal post and guardrailing to match existing at stairs in Stair Hall (See attached sketch) Omission AOR $4,238.00

0812211 2 0211 1/13 1. Disconnect and dispose of existing wall mounted speakers. Patch and paint wall from removal. Owner Directed 520.632.0111
2. Provide new 2 sets of 4 LSBSOO or approved equal speakers on each side of the stage. Anchor to brick behind plaster.
3. Provide new sounds system for auditorium.

Project Total $124,141.50
Courtenay Language Arts Center
2012 Courtenay NFL 2012-30141-NPL
F.H. Paschen, S.N. Nielsen Assoc 513506661 4 $14,321.85 $149,388.46 10.60%
Ohms Date Agg Dgte Chan 0 Order Des ri lions Reason gge
2403545

02101113 0210611 3 During excavation. an existing sewerwas discovered to be clogged. Work includes excavation and replacement of pipe at Discovered $2,118.93
clogged sewer line.

 

 

Project Total 32.118.93

 

The following change orders have been operated and are being reported to the Board in arrears. Report 

April 3, 2013

49

CPS

Chicago PUblic These change order dates range from 02l14l13 and Date: 2?1 5,2013

Page: 5 of 20

Capital Improvement Program approval cycles 01/1511 3to 02/14t13
CHANGE ORDER LOG

 

School Vendor Project Number Original Number Total Revised Total Oracle
Contract Change Change Contract 7. of Po
Amount Orders Orders Amount Contract Number

Board ?pt Number

Ignace School
201 3 Paderewskl LTG 2013-26221-LTG

JM Polcurr, Inc. $29,324.70 1 $2,829.82 332,154.52 9.65%
Chang Dale App Date Chan eOrderDescri tions Reason Code

 

2459525 11-1214VPR4

02108113 02I11l13 1. Provide (1) wall mounted occupmcy sensor and (16) light fixtures to be retrofitted in Room 303. Retrofit Tag R2. Omission? AOR $2,829.82
2. Provide (16) additional exit signs to be retrofitted throughwt the building, RetrofitTeg E1

 

Project Total 52.829.82
Franz Peter Schubert School

2011 Schubert MCR 2011-25291-MCR
Tyler Lane Construction. Inc. 34.791.894.00 20 $440,629.97 35.232.523.97 9.20%
mm App Dale glen 9 Order Descri tions ggode
2110460
02I03113 1. At exterior doors V-1A and V-2A, PROVIDE 1" laminated Insulated glazing at the transom of each new door and frame Discovered Conditions $21.572.60

assembly. At each location. reinstall the salvaged metal grille within the newtransorn frame. at the exterior side of the glazing
stops. Note: Door V-4A Includes a 1" insulated hollow metal panel in lieu of glazing as part of the base scope.

 

2. REINSTALL the salvaged wood windowassembly at its original location on the interior side of the new transom frame at
exterior doors V-1A. V-ZA. and V-4A, and provide a new steel angle and two-piece break metal closure at the slab edge below.
Include additional wood him as required to reinstall window assembly. All new work including the steel angle. break metal
closure. and exposed slab edge below the salvaged window assembly to be painted black.

3. PROVIDE plaster patching. painting, masonry repair. and ?oor base patch at the perimeter locations of the removed exterior
door assemblies within vestibules V-i . V-2. V-4. and V-T. Finishes to match adjacent existing. Break metal closure at interior
side oi Vestibules to be finished to match door frame where applicable

 

Project Total $21,572.60
Hyde Park Career Academy

2012 Hyde Park PLS 2012-46171-PLS
All-Bry Construction Company 31.095.500.00 13 $100,461.76 31.195.961.76 9,17%
ghagge Date 599 Date Chan 0rd 

 

Reason

2302583 09-0722-PR8

02106I13 02IO7I13 The GC submitted a cost proposal lor mobilizing aconcrete saw cutter to the project in order to remove the discovered concrete Discovered Conditions $7,170.00

curb beneath the existing terracotta gutter along the perimeter of the pool, The drawing detail provided In the bid documents and

the masonry speci?cation both explicitly call for the gutter tile to be removed vie saw cutting. The GC elected to initially remove

the terracotta gutter with a chipping hammer. When the concrete curb was uncovered, the saw cut rig was called out to remove

the remainder oi the material to establish the void needed to install the new work. Bulletin was created to address the

discovered concrete curb and the additional labor required to clear this material so that the new stainless steel gutter can be

installed.

 

Proiect Total $7,170.00

 

The lollowmg orders have been approved and are being reported to the Board in arrears. Report 

April 3, 2013

50

CPS

Chicago White These change order dates range from 06/18/1210 02/14/13 and Date: ?1312013
Capital Improvement Program approval cycles range from 01/15/13to 02/14/13 Page: 6 of 20

CHANGEORDERLOG

 

School Vendor Project Number Original Number Total Revised Total Oracle Board Number
Contract Change Change Contract '11. of P0
Amount Orders Order: Amount Contract Number

Alexander Fleming Br - Grimes
2012 Fleming TUS 2012-23462-TUS
OCA Construction, Inc $2,553,000.05 5 $200,161.39 $2,753,961.44 7.84%
Change Date App Date ions Reason Code
2337898

 

01/14/13 01/15/13 Openlands Landscape changes. Other $69,507.94

Project Total $69,507.94
Minnie Mars Jam/econ School

2012 Jemleson NPL 2012-23931-NPL
PH. Paschen, S.N. Nielsen 8: Assoc $247,176.17 3 $17.668.25 $264,844.42 7.15%
Sitcom/late 
2403542
Discovered Conditions $13,949.48
Project Total $13,949.48

02/01/13 02/07/13 Slabilza collapsed water meter vault and provide steel plates for protection.

Chicago High School for the Arts
2012 Chi Arts CSP-1 2012-63051-CSP-1
K.R. Miller Contractors. Inc $207,990.82 3 $14,120.11 $222,110.93 6.79%
Change Date App Dale Reason Code

2435074 09-1028-PR4
02/01/13 02/11/13 Revise power connection to newA/C units from 120V to 240V, 1 phase Error - Architect $5,189.36
1.IlProvide 2 pole. 20 Amp circuit breaker in source panelboard, in lieu of 1 pole, 20 Amp circuit breaker. Typical of 3
2.ilProvide Double pole. single throw. 240V. 20 Amp rated disconnect switch. in lieu of toggle switch. Typical of 3
3.llProvide 240V. 20Amp receptacle, in lieu of 120V. 20Amp receptacle. Typical of 3

 

 

Project Total $5,189.36
Frederick Von Steuben Metropolitan Science Center

2013 Von Steuben LTG 2013-47081-LTG
Quantum Crossings. LLC. $171,881.00 1 311.171.24 $163,052.24 6.50%
Change Date We 

 

Reason 

2423219 12.0222-PR10
01/25/13 01/29/13 RetrofitofAuditorium/Mums. Omission?AOR $11,171,211

ProlectTolal 311.171.24

 

The following change orders have been approved and Ira being reported to the Board in arrears. Report 

April 3, 2013

51

CPS

Chl?39? PUbl'c Schools Thesechange order dates range rrom 0611811210 02114113 and Date: 211312013

Capital Improvement Program approval cycles range from 01115113to 02114113 Page: 7 0120
CHANGE ORDER LOG

 

School Vendor Project Number Original Number Total Revised Total Oracle Board Number
Contract Change Change Contract of Po
Amou nt Order: Order; Amount Contract Number

Lindblom Math and Science Academy High School
2012 CAR 2012-46511-CAR
Wight Company $161,975.00 2 $9,742.83 $171,717.83 6.02%
Change Date Agg Dale Chan 9 Order Desert 3 Reason Code

2298762 11-0525-PR8
01131113 02106113 Provide a cost to replace push buttons on water coolers. School Request $1,328,73

 

Project Total $1 .328 .73
Eliza Chappell Elementary School

2013 Chappell LTG 2013-22681-LTG
ECO Lighting Services 3 Technology $57,796.96 1 $3,202.22 360.999.18 5.54%
Change Date App Date Chan Order Descri tions godg

2443960 11-1214-PR4
02111113 02114113 Mia-Identi?ed lectures in intitial scoping waik-thru. Contractor to remove and recycle the additional lamps and ballasts. Omission AOR 83.20222

 

Project Total $3,202.22
Carver Military High School

2012 Carver SIP 2012-46381-SIP
FriedlerConslruction Co. 323.230.800.00 48 $1,209,833.00 324.440.883.00 5.21%
Change Datg Agg Date Reason Code

2306869 09-0722-PR8

02112113 02114113 Remove existing floor mounted raceway and floor mounted doghouse pedestal power receptacles. Fill in the resulting void areas Omission AOR $22,167.64
with grout and provide VCT flooring to match the existing floor.

02112113 02114113 Replace a iauity existing breaker box( 2771480V. 225 Amp panel and associated 100 Amp feeder with a new 2771480V.225 Discovered Conditions 332.688.28
Amp panel. (42 Circuits) 225 Amp breaker and 225 Amp feeder) that was not part of the initial scope of the project.

02114113 02114113 After removing the existingjackipiston unit it was discovered that the hole did not have a casing, and was back?lied to the top Discovered Conditions 350.448.58
with sand. As a result. the hole began to collapse during the removal process. Contractor shall excavate the existing elevator
jack hole of all sand and debris. re-driil and install a new casing.

01105113 02101113 Correct sewer back-up associated with the triple basin and a blockage found within the sanitary piping. This work was not part Discovered Conditions $9,126.60
of the project transfer scope and was not known to be a problem unlit the construction phase at the protect. Contractor shall
replace approximately 40 LF (V.I.F.) of 4' sanitary piping of the triple basin located in the crawl space under Room
A1590. clean-out the existing basins of the existing triple basin grease interceptor (Approximately 100 gallons of material). and
conduct removal and disposal of the triple basin contents per environmental requirements.

02112113 02114113 Contractor shall provide 17 2-lamp fluorescent 1'x4' ceiling recessed lay-in type light fixtures with prismatic lens and electronic Omission AOR $2,319.68
ballast at the Basement level. which have been added to accomodate required work above the ceiling.

 

Project Total $116,750.78

 

The loliewing change orders have been approved and are being reported to the Board in arrears. Report 

April 3, 2013

52

CPS

Chicago PUblic Schools These change order dates range from 06118112 to 02114113 and Data: 2118,2013

Capital Improvement Program approval cycles mneefm 011151131002/14113 Page: 8 of 20
CHANGE ORDER LOG

 

School Vendor Project Number Original Number Totel Revised Tout Oracle Board Number
Contact Change Change Contract 31 of PO
Amount Orders Orders Amount Contract Number

Henry School
2013 Cilssold LTG 2013-22761-LTG
ECO Lighting Services 8 Technology $40,012.44 3 $2,047.60 542,060.04 5.12%
Qhange Date Apr; Dale Ch Order Descri tion Reasm 
2422812 11-1214-PR4

02105113 02107113 Boiler room was misidentified as 12 1 4 2L ?xtures, but are. in fact, 12 8 ft industrial fixtures. Boiler room should have 4 8' Error- Architect $706.92
fixtures and 4 1x4 fixtures. Provide conversion kit for the 8' fixtures.

02101113 02106113 For RFI 111 - Provide credit for exclusion oi occupancy sensor in room 101 due to movable partition used to separate the room. Error- Architect $1 270,11

  

For RH 113 - Provide cost for retrofitting additional 8 ?xtures with R3 ballasts.

For #4 - Provide cost for retrofitting auditorium fixtures with 2 4L and 1 2L ballasts in piece of 3 R3 ballasts.

02101113 02106113 Provide pricing for RFl's #5 and For #5 provide credit for one (1) watt switch, duel. technology. occupancy sensor in Error Architect $70.57
room 312 not installed due to large cabinet blocking the sensor coverage. Provide pricing for retro?tting three 2-lamp 1x4
?xtures as noted in RF 

 

Prq?ect Total $2,047.60
Carrie Jacobo Bond

2012 Bond CSP 2012-25941-CSP
Simpson Construction Co. 32.249.268.00 20 $114,902.24 $2,364,170.24 5.11%
Change Date Maia Cha 0 scri ti Reason 
2310918 
01130113 02101113 Provide pricing to dispose oi soils in accordance to speci?cation 31 23 18.13 excavated for generator scope of work. E80 - MEC $3,451.36

02101113 02106113 Provide a credit for the removal of two existing parkway trees includingzexcavation, removal of stumps. roots and all plant Owner Directed 
material.
Provide a credit for tumishing, preparing and installing (2) parkway trees (Swamp White Oak).

10116112 02105113 After additional access to the attic was made during construction an additional plumbing line was found in the attic. Discovered Conditions $10,000.00
The water lines serve the plumbing fixtures In the Building Engineer?s Of?ce.
The water lines were replaced with new and tied into the new mains in the Attic space.

 

 

Project Total $10,451.36
Morgan Park High School

2012 Morgan Park SIP 2012-46251-SIP
F.H. Paschen. S.N. Nielsen Assoc $19,814,000.00 81 $1,008,696.00 520.822.696.00 5.09%
Date App Chan Order Descri Reasm Code
2298750 11-0525-PR8
01129113 01129113 Need better description. Discovered Conditions $4032.00
01108113 01123113 Need better description. E80 - MEC $5,005.00

01118113 02107113 1. Core existing structural clay tile roof deck and provide roof penetrationsior (20" Diem). (28" Diem), EF-6 (20" Omission AOR $17,211.00
Diem). Diem.) and Diem).
2. Provide supplement framing at each new opening per attached SSK-002 dated 12110112.
3. Provide 2 HR. spray-on fire proo?ng at alt new structural members.

01107113 01121113 Provide (1) new 1P-20A circuit breaker in existing space in panel 3L81 and panel LPN-1A. Omission AOR $250.00

 

 

The foitowing change orders have been approved end are being reported to the Board in arrears, Report 

April 3, 2013

53

CPS

Chicago PUb'ic 50000'5 These change order dates range from can 9/12 to 02114113 and Date: 313,201 3

Capital Improvement Program appmvai cycles range from ours/13100214113 Page: 9 of 20
CHANGE ORDER LOG

 

School Vendor Project Number Original Number Total Revised Total Oracle Board Number
Contract Change Change Contract V. 01 P0
Amount Orders Orders Amount Number

Morgan Park High School
2012 Morgan Park SIP 2012-46251-SIP
F.H. Paschen, S.N. Nielsen Assoc 519.814.000.00 81 31.008.695.00 520.822.696.00 5.09%
Change Date App Date 99531199 Order Descriptions Reason Code
2298750 11-0525-PR8
01/22/13 01/23/13 Reconnect existing disconnected conduiUwire to new convector heaters CH24. Discovered Conditions $954.00
01/21/13 01/24/13 Clean and reuse existing south heavy duly registers. Provide credit for labor and material tor specified registers not used. Allowance Credit (51.08600)

01/18/13 01/23/13 1. in Men's Locker room 205 demolish and patch with plaster approx. 5'x12 opening in ceiling and provide (1) 24'x24? access Omission AOR $5325.00
pane NT series or approved equal).
2. in north building ?rst. second, and third floor men's and women's toilet rooms provide an 8"x8? access panel in wall for
accessing junction boxes NT series or approved equal-6 total).
3. Paint all access panels to match surrounding surfaces.

02/07/13 02/07/13 Provide new 3P-15A circuit breaker in existing space in Distribution Panel DP-HVAC-N-RF. located in Janitor Closet 312A. Omission AOR $2,164.00
Provide new 3/110 11/10 irorn new exhaust ten TEF-5 to Distribution Panel DP-HVAC-N-RF. Relocate new
exhaustfen combination motor starter from basement to Janitor Closet 312A.

02/07/13 02/07/13 Remove existing boiler blow down piping drains in new Chiller Rm. 269 and any associated piping connecting to main drain line Omission AOR 53,664.00
located above locker room ceiling.

01/24/13 01/24/13 Provide new roof/wall ?ashing. It was discovered that the existing masonry below existing window sills was badly deteriorated Discovered Conditions 35.526.00
and consequently the masonry and corresponding flashing needed to be replaced.

02/07/13 02/07/13 Revise underground sewer drainage work. Discovered Conditions 87.574.00
Project 
Wendell Smith
2013 Smith LTG 2013-23641-LTG
Broadway Electric $59,984.00 2 $2.91 1.00 362895.00 4.85%
MODE

2459493 11-1214-PR4
02/14/13 Provide (19) additional replacement lenses throughout the school. Omission AOR $760.00

02/11/13 02/14/13 Provide (17) additional Retro/it Tag RS-A ?xtures Omission AOR 52.151.00

cri tions

 

 

Project Total $2,911.00
Marquette Elementary

2012 Marquette cs9 2012-24341-csp
F.H. Paschen. S.N. Nielsen a Assoc $3,133,899.48 20 $139,995.00 33.273.893.43 4.47%
_9eChan Date Arm/112.151 

 

trons Ragga Code
2321642 12-0425-PR9

Error - Architect $1,162.00
Error - Architect $9,000.00
Project Total 310.162.00

01/21/13 01/24/13 Relocate trophy case.
01/21/13 02/12/13 ADA Ramp Revisions

 

The loilowing change orders have been approved and are being reported to rm Board in arrears. Report 

April 3, 2013

54

CPS

Chicago These change order dates range from 06/18/1210 02/14/13 and Date: 2?13?201 3

Capital improvement Program approval cycles range lrom 01/15/1310 02/14/13 Page: 10 of 20
CHANGE ORDER LOG

 

School Vendor Project Number Original Number Total Revised Total Oracle Board Rot Number
Contract Change Change Contact 16 of PO
Amount Orders Orders Amount Contract Number
William Gray School
2012 Gray Ion-1 2012-23401-ICR-1
Murphy 5. Jones. lnc. $369,152.00 5 $16,191.32 $385,343.32 4.39%
Change Date App Date Chan 9 Order Descrl tions Reason Cge
2344092
11/14/12 02/11/13 1. ASt.1/Drawing 3 - Provide new metal truncated domes as per new CDOT requirement - As per MOPD reviewer direction Owner Directed 521254.50
due to new CDOT requirements
2. A1 .1/Drawing 1 - provide new door frame type for ADA Toilet. Eliminate new masonry wall. - Due to long lead time to match
existing ground face blocks.
3. A1.1/Drawing 1 and Note 30 - Provide terrazzo patch - Discovered condition
4. A1.1/Drawlng 1 - Provide counters in Room 602A - Request by Teach to One
4. A1.1IRoom Finish Schedule - provide viny1 base in Classroom 602. - Request for specific base color by Teach to One
4. Aim/Drawing 1 - Provide ceiling cloud - Request by Teach to One
5. E1.1IDrawing 1 - Provide power and data outlets to power poles located within bookshelves - Request by Teach to One

 

 

Project Total 321.254.50
Norman Bridge School

2013 Norman Bridge LTG 2013-22321-LTG
Anchor Mechanical, Inc. 371.345.4118 4 $3005.43 574.350.91 4.21%
Change Date 599 Date Ch 8 Order 0 scn? tions Reason Cm;
2423176 11-1214-PR4
01/27/13 01/28/13 Credit for unused lights Omission AOR ($32.14)
01/27/13 01/28/13 Prowde (4) Retrofit Tag R3 fixtures in lieu of (4) Retrofit Tag R5-A fixtures. School Request $287.28

 

Project Total $255.14
STEM Magnet Academy

2012 STEM Magnet MEP 2012-22711-MEP
Wight 8. Company $86,366.14 1 $3,461.62 589.827.76 4.01%
thnge Date 529 Date Cha 8 escri ti Reas ode

2450105 09-1028-PR4
01/09/13 01/15/13 Heating,Ventilation and NC (HVAC) Distovered Conditions $3,461.62

 

Project Total $3461.62
Daniel Cameron Elementary School

2012 Cameron MCR 2012-22531-MCR
FriedierConstruction Co. 37.583.800.00 57 5302.009.? 57.885.809.54 3.98%
Chagge Date 592 Date Came Qrder Descriptions Reas ode

2303876 09-0722-PR8

1 1/01/12 02/06/13 Existing 4" galvanized stack vent piping in the attic. was found to be deteriorated and broken. at the point where It connects the Discovered Conditions $5,407.83
sanitary stack vent to vent throughthe roof (VT R). This occurs on both of the existing stacks.
Replace approximately 10 feetof existing 4" galvanized vent piping. running from the existing stack vent to the existing VTR.
with new 4' cast iron piping. for each of the two existing stack locations. Provide new piping. ?ttings. and hangers as required.

 

The following change orders have been approved and are being reported to the Board In arrears. Report 

April 3, 2013

55

CPS

Chicago Public Schools

These change order dates range from 06/18/1210 02/14/13 and
Capital Improvement Program

approval cycles range lrom 01/15/1310 02/14/13

CHANGE ORDER LOG

 

School Vendor Project Number Original Numb-r Total Revised
Contract Change Change Contract
Amount Orders Order! Amount

Daniel Cameron Elementary School
2012 Cameron MCR 2012-22531 -MCR
Friedler Construction Co. 37.583.800.00 57 330200904 57.885.809.84
Change Date App Date

 

12/26/12 01/21/13

02/01/13 02/05/13 We learned that the air compressor lor the sprinkler system was using the en?sting feed to the old ?re pump controller. It was
also pointed out that the wall mounted healer in the room was led from the same circuit. Contractor to provide a separate 20
amp. singlephase branch circuitto the air compressor and a separate 20 amp. single-phase branch circuit to the wall mounted
healer.

12/26/12 01/16/13 Existing radiators were identi?ed for replacement as part of the project. These units did not have existing covers. The new
replacement units have a hotter surface temperature than the old ones. The school has requested that covers be added in
order to prevent contact with the hot survaces.

02/01/13 02/06/13 There was no smoke detector shown on the third floor elevator lobby. One needs to be added per code.
01/17/13 01/24/ 13 Discovered supply and return steam lines in pre?K Toilet area crossed the location of the new elevator shaft. Both supply and
return lines need to be re-routed around the new elevator shaft.

12/26/12 01/23/18 The school needs additional oowerand data for 6 computers (each) in offices 113. 213 313. The school is using the spaces
as administrative of?ces in lieu single offices as designed.

01/17/13 01/23/13

Edgar Allan Poe Classical School
2011 Poe UAF-1 
KR. Miller Contractors. Inc 342.487.17 1 $1,665.00
Change Data We 3 Order ri lions

 

01/29/13 02/01/13 Need description.

Joseph Stockton School
2011 Stockton MCR 2011-.25501-MCR
Tyler Lane Construction 313.635.533.00 19 $532,312.42
Change Date App Dale Order cri lions

 

01/14/13 01/15/13 MEP Permlt Changes.

01/14/13 01/15/13 Contractor shall provide additional length of 1? condensate drain line. serving the MDF room 115 AC unit. and terminating at a
recently installed Basement level ?oor drain.

01/10/13 01/15/13 Contractor shall provide and 1-1/2? diameter conduit stubs (Approx. 7 per run V.I.F). with associated wiring to route
around 2 hatch locations.

The following change orders have been approved and are doing reported to the Board in arrears.

Date: 2/18/2013

Page: 11 of 20

Total Oracle

at PO

Contract Number

3.96%

Reason Code
2303876

Other
Discovered Conditions

School Request
Omission AOR
Discovered Conditions

School Request

PerrnIt Code Change
Project Total

544,152.17 3.92%

Reason Code
2292428
No Reason De?ned

Project Total

314.167.845.42 3.90%

Reason Code
2162948

Owner Directed
2411565
Discovered Conditions

Discovered Conditions

Project Total

Bound Number

09-0722-PR8
55.85650
53.831.42

319.551.05

$1308.00
52.68467

53.227.70

59.593.18
$52,060.35

09-1028-PR4
31.665.00
31.665.00

$82,417.88

$2,546.82
$4865.54

389330.24

Report 

April 3, 2013

56

CPS

Chicago Public Schools

Capital improvement Program

These change order dates range from 06118112 to 02114113 and Date: 211 312013
approval cycles range irorn 01115113to 02:14:13 Page: 12 of 20

CHANGE ORDER LOG

 

School Vendor Project Number Original Number Total Revised Total Oracle

Board Number
Contract Change Change Contract at PO

Amount Orders Orders Amount Contract Number

Simpson Academy for Young Women
2013 Simpson LTG 2013-49051-LTG

JM Poicurr, Inc.
Change Date 599 Date

02108113 02111113

02108113 02111113

Northelde Learning Center

$15,161.91 2 $488.99 $15,650.90 3.23%

Re?on Code

2459520 11-1214-PR4
Investigate inoperable Storage Room light ?xture which has 0 volts from switch leg to neutral. Repair wiring as required to Discovered Conditions $120.55
restore fixture back to working operation.

Revise the total numberoi exit signs to be retrofitted in the school from (10) to (13). Retrofit Tag E1 -88. Provide (1) additional Omission? AOR $368.44
exit sign in the day care room. and additional exit Signs in the kitchen.

 

Project Total $488.99

2013 No?hside LTG 2013-49021-LTG

Anchor Mechanical, Inc.
Change Date 

01127113 01128113

Jane Addams School

$43,626.14 1 $1,398.22
i ns

845,024.36 321%
Reason 6
2447239 11-1214-PR4
Discovered Conditions $1,398.22

Ch rder Descri

 

Credit:
1) Garage 123 - Existing (8) HID light fixtures are to remain. Provide a credit for (8) Misc. 1 ?xtures.

Work:

1) Kitchen - Provide (1 additional Retro?t Tag Misc.2 ?xture.

2) Entire School - Provide (17) additional Retrofit Tag E1 exit signs.

3) Entire School - Provide (1) additional Retrofit Tag X2 exit signs.

4) Faculty Bathroom- Provide (1 additional Relrolit Tag Misc.121ixture.

 

Project Total $1 398.22

2013 Addams LTG 2013-220214.10

ECO Lighting Services Technology $30,492.52 1 $973.22

Ch eDate AM

02101113 02106113

 

Additional Fixtures a Credits

$31,465.74 3.19%


2423191 
Omission AOR $973.22

Project Total $973.22

Chan Order Descri

 

'itie lotion-mg change orders have been wormed end are being reported to the Board in arrears.

Report 

April 3, 2013

57

CPS

Chicago PUbnc These change orderdates range from 06/18/12 to 02/14/13 and Date: 318,201 3
Capital Improvement Program approval Circles range/mm 01/15/131002/14113 Page: 13 of 20

CHANGE ORDER LOG

 

School Vendor Project Number Original Number Total
Contract Change Change Contract at PO

Revised Total Oracle Board Number
Amount Order! Orders Mount Contract Number
Theodore Roosevelt High School
2012 20124627144161!
Tyler Lane Construction. Inc. 315.706.278.00 18 $485,902.00 517.192.180.00 2.91%
Changg Date Agg Date Chan OrdarD cri tion

 

Reason Code
2306872
01/10/13 01/15/13 Demolish existing brick masonry pier from top of toundallon wall to parapet coping (approximately to fully expose steel Discovered Conditions 353.651.00
column. Salvage existing terra cotta trim for reinstallaiion. Scrape down to bare metal. prime flanges and web with zinc rich
primer and paint with msl-inhibitive paint. Once column is tuliy exposed on all faces. further review by will be required to
determine it full or localized reinforcement is required. Rebuild piers with new brick and salvaged terra cotta trim to match
original. Provide masonry ties every 16" 0.0. vertically anchoring brick to existing steel.

 

Project Total 353.651.00
Julie Lathrop School

2012 Lathrop CSP 2012-2604168?
Tyler Lane Construction. inc. 83.671.595.00 16 $922662!) 33.763.881.29 2.51%
Qhagge Date App Date thgge Order Desgg'gtions mm
2331501
01/16/13 01/28/13 Owner directed request to add a ?oor mounted payer/data outlet at the circulation desk tor the library at the third floor. Power and School Request 53.002.10
data is provided within the room but CPS library stafl has requested layout that does not allow access to power and data as

designed. Contractor to provide pricing for installation of floor mounted power and dat outlet below circulation desk as shown on
sketch. Final location to be coordinated In ?eld per final furniture layout.

 

Project Total 33.002.10
Joseph Medlil intermediate Upper Grades School

2011 Urban Prep Academy 2011-24491-CSP

K.R. Miller Contractors. Inc 85.203.761.00 6 $130,456.69 35.334.217.59 2.51%
Change Date Agg Date a Or rDescrl lions Reason Code

2163662
01/05/13 01/ 17/13 Repair or replace as necessary the two toilet/Mums in rooms 1M-2 and 2M-2 so that ?xtures are securely to ?oor. This Owner Directed
include two toilets and associated carriers only per room.

06/18/12 02/08/13 Contractor shall provide visual devices in Classrooms 109. 110. 111. and 300. All new Visual devices shall be Omission - AOR
with existing visual devices. Rooms 109. 110. 111. and 300 do not have visual alarms.

06/16/12 02/06/13 Field program the Intmsion detection system alter keypads are removed and existing remaining keypads are reinstalled complete Omission AOR
in place ready for operation including but not limited: 3) Provide services of a factory-authorized service representative
to supervise the field assembly and connection of components and system protesting. testing. adjustment. and programming.

 

$4249.35

57.769.49

52.724.39

 

Project Total $14,743 .23

 

The following change orders have been approved and are being reported to the Board in arraera. Report 

April 3, 2013

58

CPS

Chicago PUbllc These change order datee rengefrom 06118712 to 02714i13 and Date: 2,1812013
Capital Improvement Program approval cycles range tram outs/131002114713 Page: 14 of 20

CHANGE ORDER LOG

 

School Vendor Project Number Original Number Total Revised Total Oracle Board Number
Contract Change Change Contract at P0
Amount Orders Orders Amount Contract Number

 

Phoebe Appareon Hearst School
2012 Hearst ADA 2012-23671-ADA
KR. Miller Contractors. Inc $2,537,000.00 9 $61,619.22 52.598.619.22 2.43%

Change Date Apr; Date Order Desert tions Reason gge
2298759 

01723I13 01/24113 Electrical Panel in Gymnasium Discovered Conditions $3,431.95
Project Total $3,431.95

  

Luther Burbank School
2012 Burbank SIP 2012-22401-SIP
KR. MillerContractors, inc 59.739.700.00 27 $212,467.07 $9,952,167.07 2.18%

Change Date 599 Dale escri tions Code
2298755 11-0525-PR8

08708r'12 02103713 Contractor shall provide a credit for reducing the chiller enclosure size as indicated and provided a cost to remove. protect. store Owner Directed 
and replant the tree adjacent to the chiller location.

02701113 60 shall remove and relocate support rods to allow for the installation at the new volume dampers. Only remove the support Discovered Conditions $6259.35
rods at locations where to dampers are required. Provide new support rods as necessary to maintain 4? maximum spacing
between supports.

11107712 02/01 I13 Contractor shall provide (4) additional exit signs at Auditorium Exits. These existing exits signs were removed per base contract Omission AOR $1557.99
work. however new exit signs were not scheduled to be installed. Per building code these exit signs are required.

01/2811 3 01l29i13 60 shall remove the existing exhaust fan and ductwork as originally delineated in the contract drawings. However. instead of Omission - AOR 313.463.81
Installing Reliei Vents 5 and 6, the contractor shall provide new exhaust fans EF-2 and EF-3. The fans shall be operated by
the new BAS for the original building. Entrance doors on the first floor of each stair tower shall be undercut 314 inch for
makeup air.

01l30/13 02:14r13 1. Remove (2) radiators not shown on the plans in Vestibule 129A Omission AOR 51731535
2. Provide (1) cover for the base scope radiator ln Vestibule 129A
3. Remove and replace the (3) radiators in Of?ce 1298

01728113 01729113 Seal damaged joints. Assume (18) locations. (30 shall provide graphical account identifying all repair locations. Discovered Conditions $30,419.24
Project Total $57,615.74

 

Audubon Elementary School
2013 Audubon LTG 2013-22091-LTG
Anchor Mechanical, Inc. $9,916.22 1 $104.15 $10,100.37 1.86%

Change Date 6292112 OrderDescn? ti ode
2447241 11-1214-PR4

02101113 02105113 Boiler Room - Provide (1) additional Retrofit Tag Misc. 11 ?xture. Omission - AOR $184.15
Project Total $164.15

 

 

The following change orders have been approved and are being reported to the Board in arrears. Report 

April 3, 2013

59

CPS

Chicago Schools These change order dates range from 06118I12 to 02114113 and Date: 2?131'2913

Page: 15 of 20

Capital Improvement Program approval cycles rangerrom 01115113 to 02114113
CHANGEORDERLOG

 

School Vendor Project Number Origlnei Number Total Revised Totel Oracle Board Number
Contract Change Change Contract of PO
Amount Orders Order: Amount Contact Number

CapitaliOperations - City Wide

2013 Office at Inspector 
F.H. Paschen.S.N. Nielsen 8. Assoc 8153.35348 3 $2,517.10
9.02M 13210312 wt 0880? i

$155,870.56 1.64%

mm
2462278

01129113 02101113 Additional 1-HR fire rated access panel located beneath discovered junction box in new IDF room. Change out sprinkler Discovered Conditions $620.61

head With a "High Temperature" rated sprinkler head.

01129113 02106113 Provide (3) additional circuits to new Room along with required conduit and wiring for equipment. School Request $1,210.37

01129113 02101113 The drawings call for a 602 sensor in the conference room. The building standard UCMs are configurable controllers. but can

only take 1 auxiliary input. in lieu of cabling the sensor back to the building controller. install another UCM board for the sensor
locally.

Discovered Conditions $686.12

Project Total $2517.10
Grover Cleveland School

2013 Grover Cleveland LTG 2013-22741-LTG

Anchor Mechanical. inc. 387.228.43 2 $1,293.11 $88,521.54
Change Date $929319 Qhagge Order Desgg'ptigus

1.48%
Reaso ode
2423177 11-1214-PR4

01127113 01128113 Provide (1) additional light fixture to be replaced in Toilet 500. Retrolit Tag F18. Omission - AOR $481.60

Provide to be replaced in Toilet 700, Retrofit Tag F18.
01127113 01128113 Credit:
1) Cafeteria and Cafeteria ll - Revise the total numberoi light fixtures to be retrofitted from (30) to (24). Retro?t Tag R3.

Work

1) Kitchen - Provide (2) additional RetrofitTag R31iadures.

2) Classroom 112 - Provide (7) additional RelrofltTag R1 ?xtures.

3) Book Storage Room - Provide (1) new tandem 8? ?xture in lieu of (2) new 4' ?xtures. (Shop drawing submitted was Metalux
series, provide Metalux series instead.)

4) Room 400 - Provide (6) RetrofitTag RS-A ?xtures.

Omission- AOR $811.51

 

Protect Total $1293.11
Austin Multiplex

2012 Austin PLS 2012-66511-PLS
F.H. Paschen. S.N. Nielsen Assoc $177,345.72 1 $2,477.15

$179,822.87 1.40%
Data App Date Order Descg?ptims

Bagged Code
2345595
12107112 02108113 The drawings call to feed the pump with a dedicated 110 volt circuit from panel PXBS. Panel PXBS Is a 3 phase 3 wire panel Omission - AOR 82.477.15
without a neutral. These panels are designed for 3 phase motors that do require neutrals. Motor will now be teed panel in
Fan room 113 ldentl?ed as ?print room- that is 2081110 volt. This panel is about 100? further than PXBS and will require
additional labor and material to connect to.

 

Project Total $2477.15

 

The loilowing change orders heve been applaud end are being reported to the Board in arrears, Report 

April 3, 2013

60

CPS

Chicago PUb?c Schools These change order dates rangetrom 0611811210 02114113 and Date: 2118,2013
Capital Improvement Program approval cycles range from 01/15/1310 02114113 Page: 16 of 20

CHANGE ORDER LOG

 

School Vendor Project Number Original Number Total Revlud Total Oracle Board Rot Number
Contract Change Change Contract at PO
Nnount Orders Order: Amount Contract Number

 

Cyrus 11 School
2013 McCormick LTG 2013-24431-LTG
Imperial Lighting Maintenance Co. $115,102.82 2 $1549.50 $116,652.32 1.35%

Change Date App gale han Order Desert i ns Reason Code
2243985 11-1214-PR4

01122113 01128113 Labor charge due to lost time on two shifts at McCormick Elementary. Crews were removed trom building prior to the 8 heur Asset Delay $1,092.00
shill time.

 
 

 

Project Total $1 ,092.00
Nathan Davis Annex
2012 Davis HOE 2012-70220-HCE
KR. Miller Contractors. Inc 3599.001100 5 37.78322 $606,783.22 1.30%
Change Date App Date Chan Order Descn? tions Reason egg
2411987
01123113 01129113 Relocate outlets in Reception area. Restock Fees for sinks. Error - Architect $1,541.37

Project Total 51.54137

 

William Goudy School
2013 Goudy LTG 2013-23371-LTG
Anchor Mechanical. Inc. $64,200.20 2 $809.60 365.009.80 1.26%

Change Date Agg Date Regen Code
2423183 11-1214-PR4

01127113 01129113 Revise the total number of light ?xtures In Room 113 to be retrofitted from (12) to (20). RelrolitTag R2. Omission AOR $574.08
Project Total $574 .08

 

Avalon Park School
2011 Avalon Park 2011 -22101-UAF-1
KR. Miller Contractors. Inc 335.663.91 2 $398.00 536,061.91 1.12%

Change Dale Cha Order Descri tions Rees ode
2293291 10-0224-PR3
01114113 01115113 JOC Bidding Factor. No Reason De?ned $1,398.00

Project Total 51.39800

 

 

The lollowing change orders have been approved and are heinp reported to In: Board in arrears. Report 

April 3, 2013

61

CPS

Chicago Pab'ic These change order dates range from 0611811 2 to 02114113 and Date: ?18,201 3

Capital improvement Program approval cycles rangetrom 01115113to 02114113 Page: 17 of 20
CHANGE ORDER LOG

 

School Vendor Project Number Original Number Total Revised Total Oracle Board Number
Contract Change Change Contract 11- of PO
Amount Orders Order: Amou nt Contract Number

Zapata Academy
2013 Zapata LTG 2013-23611-LTG
imperial Lighting Maintenance Co. 557.681.11 1 $545.40 558226.51 035%
ghmge Date App Date Ch 9 Order Descri tlons

 

Reason Code
2444009 11-1214-PR4

02112113 02113113 RFI1101: lncorrectiixlure count: Complied. Error -Archilect $545.40
RF11102: installing 5 RS-A fixtures instead 015 R1 O-A fixtures since the re?ector kit will not tit in these fixtures: Compiled

RF11103: Room Omissions: Complied. All the additional tlxtures in the rooms which were missed have been incorporated. 

Occupancy Sensor Change: Compiled. Occupancy Sensors have been removed from classrooms 1-35.1-39.1-43.1-46

8- 242 since the light switch is located in an area which does not

allow wall mounted occupany sensors to be installed.

 

Project Total $545.40
John Vanderpoel Magnet School

2013 Vanderpool LTG 2013-29311-LTG
ECO Lighting Services Technology $33,933.34 1 $315.87 334249.21 0.93%
Change Date ?9 Date Chan 9 Or Reason Code

2422817 
02101113 02105113 In room 112 iumish and install the conversion kit for those seven (7) fixtures. Omission AOR $315.87
in room 105A retroilt the two (2) fixtures with a 2 lamp Instant Start Low ballast w1 re?ector (R10).

r0 cri tions

 

 

Project Total $315.87
Rachel Carson Elementary School

2013 Carson LTG 2013-22601-LTG
Imperial Lighting Maintenance Co. $120,192.90 1 $1,092.00 512128490 0.91%
Chgge Date App Date Change 9mg; Descriptions Reas ode
2443988 11-1214-PR4
Asset $1,092.00
Project Total $1,092.00

0112211 3 01128113 Labor charge due to lost shift work on Jan 10th at Carson because 01 lack of building engineer coverage.

William Carter School
2012 Carter STK 2012-22811-STK
F.H. Paschen. 5.N. Nielsen a Assoc $324,975.51 2 $2561.89 532753740 0.79%
Change Date Apr; Date Chan rd Descri tion Reggn Code

2407387
02108113 02111113 it has been that the lull-heightiucitpointing oi the chimney interior can be removed irorn the scope. General owner Directed 
Contractor to provide pricing for the removal 01 this Work from the proiect.

02108113 02111113 Due to discovered conditions, the masonry at the top of the existing chimney is in extremely poor condition and needs Discovered Conditions $28,401.38
to be removed.

Project Total $2561.89

 

The following change orders have been append and are being reported to the Board in arrears Report 

April 3, 2013

62

CPS

Chicago Pabllc These change order dates range from 06/18/12 to 02/14/13 and Date: 2113/2013

Capital Improvement Program approval cycles rangel-?om 02/14/13 Page: 18 of 20
CHANGE ORDER LOG

 

School Vendor Project Number Original Number Total Revised Total Oracle
Contract Change Change Contact 01 PO
Amount Orders Order: Amount Contract Number

Send Number

Stephen Hoyt School
2012 Hayt ADA 2012-23621-ADA
K.R. Miller Contractors. Inc 31.865.000.00 2 $11,711.29 $1,876,711.29 0.63%
902098 Date App Date 9 Order Desert Reason Code
2298760 1 1-0525-PR8

Discovered Conditions $2,951.38

11/29/12 02/11/13 Existing duct work above the proposed new elevator shaft needs to modified to allow for elevator over run clearance. There is an Discovered Conditions $8,759.91
existing beam that runs through the middle of the proposed ductshatt on the 3rd floor.

 
 
 

?0

01/18/13 02/08/13 Provide modi?cations to the zone supply duct within the hot/cold deck for Office 002.

Project Total $11,711.29
erta Ramirez Computer Sclence HS

2013 Aspire Charter LTG 2013-88251-LTG
Broadway Electric $70,394.00 1 $360.00 370,754.00 0.51 
Change Date Chen De ri tions Reason Code
2459509 11-1214-PR4
02/11/13 02/12/13 Provide and install nine(9) additional lenses. Omission AOR $360.00

ProjectTotal $360.00

 

Christian Ebinger
2013 Ebtnger LTG 2013-23051-LTG
Anchor Mechanical. Inc. 375.179.60 1 $341.26 375.520.86 0.45%
ghgge Date App Date Chan 9 Order Descri lion

 

Rg?m Code

2423182 11-1214-PR4
01/27/13 01/28/13 1) Provide a credit for (9) Retro?t Tag R2 fixtures. Discovered Conditions $341.26
2) Provide a credit for (3) RetrofitTag R3 fixtures.

3) Provide a credit for (3) RetrofitTag R9 ?xtures.

Bulletin Work:
1) Provide an additional (16) RetrofitTag R1 fixtures.
2) Provide an additional (4) RetrofitTag R4-A fixtures.

 

Project Total $341 .26
Manley Career Community Academy School

2013 Manley LTG 2013-53111-LTG
JM Polcurr. Inc. $56,621.63 1 $208.00 $56,829.63 0.37%
Change [2an App Date Chan 0 er Descri tion ?ame
2459532 11-1214-PR4
02/13/13 02/14/13 Vestibule #6 - Provide (1) Retro?t Tag F13 fixture in lieu 01 (1) Retrofit Tag RS-A ?xture. Omission AOR $208.00

Project Total $208.00

 

 

The lollovring change orders have been approved and are being reported to the Board in arrears. Report 

April 3, 2013

63

CPS

Chicago 39'100'5 These change order dates range from oerrenzro 02114113 and Date: 2? 3,2013
Capital Improvement Program approval cycles range from 0111511310 02114113 Page: 19 of 20

CHANGE ORDER LOG

 

School Vendor Project Number Original Number Total Rovlaad Total Oracle Board Number
Contract Change Change Contract at P0
Amount Order. Order: Amount Contract Number

Mount Greenwood Elementary School
2013 Mt. Greenwood LTG 2013-24591-LTG
ECO Lighting Services 8. Technology 350890.62 1 $105.17 $50,995.79 0.21 
Change Date App Date Chan Order Reason Code

2422816 

02101113 02105113 Provide three gang plates with an additional blank tor the switches. Provide list of rooms with the three gang plates. Refer to RFI Error - Architect $105.17


 

 

Project Total $105.17
Hiram Balding School

2011 Balding UAF 2011-22221-UAF
KR. Milter Contractors. inc 51.564.636.56 2 $2,367.50 51.567.004.06 0.15%
Change Date AQQ Date

 

Order Descri tions Reason Code

2163072

02107113 02108113 Furnish and install a steel iinlel beam as directed by CPS as noted. Provide loose steel lintels of 5 3.5 318 one per wythe of Owner Directed $447.41
brick for a total of four (4) loose linteis with a minimum 018' bearing on both sides.

 

Project Tolal $447.41
Beasley Academic Center Magnet

2011 Beasley Magnet SIP 2011-29321-SIP
F.H. Paschen 37.531.000.00 7 37.502.473.52 038%
Change Date We Change Order Descriptions Reason Code

01114113 01115113 CREDIT - Concrete column repair and patching work was moved lrom this project to the curren12013-29321-MEP protect. The Other (539.770.00)
change order for Bulletin #42 - Concrete Column Repairs was processed and approved. The P.O. 11227163311135 issued for
this work and now needs to be credited back to CPS. since work was not completed in this project.

01128113 01129113 CREDIT - Unused Allowance Dollars Allowance Credit 
ProjectTotalW
Jean De Lafayette School
2011 Lafayette CSP 2011-24121-CSP
F.H. Paschen 81.543.807.51 2 51.525.786.46 -1 .17%
Change 9ng Qeggriptions Reason ng
2221318 
02112113 02113113 Unused Allowance No Reason Defined (533.499.05)

ProjectTotal 

 

The following change orders have been approved and are being reported to the Board in arrears. Report 

April 3, 2013

64

CPS

Chicago 3?h00 3 These change order dates range from 0611811210 02114113 and Date: 2,131,201 3
Capital Improvement Program approval cycles rangerrom 0111511310 02114113 Page: 20 of 20

CHANGE ORDER LOG

 

School Vendor Projaot Number Original Number Total Rwlaed Total Oracle Board Number
Contract Change Change Contract '16 of PO
Amount Ordara Orders Amount Contract Number

Ellen Mitchell School
2011 UAF-1 2011-24511-UAF4
KR. Miller Contractors. Inc $35,851.39 3 ($839.33) 335.012.06 4.34%
gm 522 Date Chan Order Descri 1? Reason 
22924-43 09-1028-PR4
01.119113 01/23/13 JOC factor adjustment. Owner Directed 31.40537
Project Total 31.405.37

Overall Totals: $152,045,657.? '34 $8,535,613.36 $161,381.30.? 31.401.321.13

 

 

Change Orders for this period $1.401,321.78

 

The tollowlng change orders have been approved and are being reported to the Board in arrears. Room 

April 3, 2013

April 3, 2013

13-0403-P R7

RATIFY THE FINAL OPTION TO RENEW THE AGREEMENT WITH SCHOOLNET, INC. FOR THE
PURCHASE OF GRADEBOOK MAINTENANCE AND SUPPORT SERVICES

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Ratify the ?nal option to renew the agreement with Schoolnet, Inc. to provide software maintenance and
support services to information Technology Services at a cost not to exceed $128.500.00. A written
document exercising this option is currently being negotiated. No services shall be provided and no
payment shall be made to Vendor prior to execution of the written renewal agreement. The authority
granted herein shall automatically rescind in the event a written renewal agreement is not executed within
90 days of the date of this Board Report. Information pertinent to this option is stated below.

Contract Administrator: Sinnema, Mr. Ethan Cedric I 773-553-2280
VENDOR:

1) Vendor 37402
SCHOOLNET. INC.
525 7TH AVE. 4TH FLR.
NEW YORK. NY 10018
Andrew Brenner
646 496-9002

USER INFORMATION:

Contact: 12510 - Information Technology Services
125 South Clark Street - 3rd Floor
Chicago. IL 60603
Tidmarsh. Mr. Lachlan W.
773-553-1300

Project

Manager 12510 - Information Technology Services
125 South Clark Street - 3rd Floor
Chicago. IL 60603
Gallagher. Mr. Patrick F.
773-553-1300

ORIGINAL AGREEMENT:

The original Agreement (authorized by Board Report in the amount of $500,000.00 was
for a term commencing March 29. 2012 and ending March 28. 2013, with the Board having one option to
renew for a one year term. The original agreement was awarded on a non-competitive basis: the
sole-source request was presented to the Non?Competitive Procurement Review Committee and approved
by the Chief Procurement Of?cer.

OPTION PERIOD:
The term of this agreement is being renewed for a three month period commencing March 29. 2013 and
ending June 30. 2013.

OPTION PERIODS REMAINING:
There are no option periods remaining.

SCOPE OF SERVICES:

Vendor shall provide the following services and software licenses and support. Use of Software:
GradeSpeed.Net release 4.55 and above. which includes software modules for Gradebook functions. the
Parent Connection module, and the Student Connection module, will provide both CPS educators and the
parent community at large with a real?time means of tracking student performance and proactively
monitoring academic progress towards de?ned educational goals. The product will also provide educators
with a means of performing grading related tasks irrespective of physical location. Existing Software
Version: Schoolnet has provided the Board with a perpetual enterprise level license for Schoolnet
GradeSpeedNet release 4.55, which includes modules for Grading. Attendance, Student and Parent
Portals (English/Spanish), and the custom CPS module. Software Upgrade: Schoolnet will provide
maintenance and support for all major version upgrades. which include modules for Grading. Attendance,
Student and Parent Portals (EnglishISpanish), curriculum tracking and increased standardized test and
assessment data interoperability with other CPS systems. Schoolnet will provide any technical program
corrections and enhancements that may develop during the term of this agreement as long as the Board's
technical support fee is current. There are no third party licenses associated with this software. Any
software upgrades must integrate seamlessly with the existing IMPACT modules with reSpect to sharing
key student data. such as attendance. grades and disciplinary status, Gradebook must also provide parents
with a means of actively monitoring academic performance for multiple children who are CPS students.
Parent-side functionality must allow users to de?ne student performance thresholds that initiate automated
alerts via phone. email or text message,

65

April 3, 2013

DELIVERABLES:

Schoolnet will provide maintenance services and software upgrades for Schoolnet GradeSpeed for the
school district. Schoolnet will provide maintenance which consists of program corrections and
enhancements that Schoolnet may develop during the term of this agreement. Maintenance will also
include any changes required by the Board as a result of new or modi?ed State or Federal requirements
regarding special education. Schoolnet will aiso provide support on the licensed software. which consists of
resolving trouble tickets. corrective maintenance. knowledge management. knowledge transfer and the
following: Regular software updates and installers; Database cleanup and alter scripts (usually part of
installers); Bug Fixes targeted to highest priority defects; Updated user guides to accompany each release;
Minor feature and functional enhancement; Performance Optimizations; integration testing for embedded
components; Software Testing; and Compatibility Testing (New OS. SOL Server. etc). Additional Support:
Schoolnet shall provide time and material support for custom CPS deliverables including portal text
messaging. phase one response to intervention (Rtl) functions and all other new functions provided
supporting business requirements and technical specifications are provided.

OUTCOMES:

The maintenance. support and software upgrades to the GradeSpeed.Net Software will result in providing
both CPS educators and the parent community at large with a real-time means of tracking student
performance and proactively monitoring academic progress towards de?ned educational goals. The
product will also provide educators with a means of performing grading related tasks irrespective of physical
location. Teachers will have: remote access for grading activities; support for Illinois standards based
grading; a Gradebook that contains class period, assessment information and homework assignments; and
proactive monitoring of student progress toward de?ned educational goals. Administrators will have:
real-time monitoring of grades and attendance; analytic capacity to support performance management
framework; increased integration with assessment and standardized test data; administrative access to
teacher grade books at their location by extension; and tiered access for network and district personnel.
Parents will have: online access to student progress reports and report cards; online access to student
attendance and grades; automated noti?cation of student performance based on parent defined thresholds;
and increased collaboration and communication between parents and school staff. Students will have: an
0nline, real-time means of tracking grades to date and means of downloading homework assignments.

COMPENSATION:

Schoolnet shall be paid a fee which includes maintenance. support and upgrades, and shall be paid for
CPS text messaging customizations; total compensation for this option period shall not exceed
$128,500.00.

AUTHORIZATION:

Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant terms and conditions in the written option
document. Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the option document. Authorize Chief
lnforrnaticn Of?cer to execute all ancillary documents required to administer or effectuate this option
agreement.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION:

The MNVBE participation goals for this contract include: 35% total MBE and 5% total WBE participation.
However. the Waiver Review Committee recommends a full waiver of the goals required by the Remedial
Program for Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise Participation in Goods and Services
Contracts. be granted because the Chief Procurement Of?cer and the Non-Competitive Procurement
Review Committee has deemed this contract as not further divisible, due to the unique nature of the
services provided.

LSC REVIEW:
Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL:

Fund: 15

Charge to: Information Technology Services
Department Parent Unit: 12500

Grant Name: Not Applicable

FY13 $128,500.00

Not Applicable

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General - Each party to the agreement shalt acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 ILCS
the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel necessary
to conduct those investigations.

Conflicts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 ILCS 5134-213 which restricts the employment of. or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of of?ce.

Indebtedness - The Board's Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26. 1996 (96-0526-P03). as amended from
time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

66

April 3, 2013

Ethics - The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25. 2011 (11-0525-P02), as amended from time to time.
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability - The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current ?scal
year is deemed a contingent liability. subject to appropriation in the subsequent ?scal year budget(s).

13-0403-PR8

RATIFY EXTENDING THE AGREEMENT WITH CEDARCRESTONE, INCORPORATED

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Ratify extending the agreement with CedarCrestone. Inc. to provide the necessary hosted Infrastructure
for the PeopleSott application deployment to Information Technology Services at a total cost for the
extension period not to exceed $1 .077.600.00. A written extension document is currently being
negotiated. No payment shall be made to CedarCrestone. Inc. during the extension period prior to
execution of the written document. The authority granted herein shall automatically rescind in the event a
written document is not executed within 90 days of the date of this Board Report. information pertinent to
this extension is stated below.

Speci?cation Number 05-250024

Contract Administrator: Sinnema. Mr. Ethan Cedric I 773-553-2280
VENDOR:

1) Vendor it 89824
CEDARCRESTONE, WC
1255 ALDERMAN DRIVE
ALPHARETTA. GA 30005
Sherie Monroe
8713026769

USER INFORMATION 

Contact:
12510 - Information Technology Services

125 South Ciark Street - 3rd Floor
Chicago, IL 60603

Tidmarsh. Mr. Lachlan W.
773-553-1 300

Project 12510 - lnfonnation Technology Services
Manager: 125 South Clark Street - 3rd Floor
Chicago. 60603
Dibartolo. Mr. Phillip Brian
773-553-1300

ORIGINAL AGREEMENT:

The original Agreement (authorized by Board Report 05-1221-PR9 as amended by 06-0222-PR8 and
06-0426-PR16) in the am0unt of $4,873,000.00 was for a term commencing January 1. 2006 and ending
March 31 . 2011, with the Board having two options to renew, each for a one year term. The agreement
was renewed (authorized by Board Report 11-0223-PR5) for a term commencing April 1, 2011 and
ending on March 31. 2012.The agreement was renewed (authorized by Board Report for
a term commencing April 1, 2012 and ending on March 31, 2013. The original agreement was awarded
on a competitive basis pursuant to Board Rule 5-4-1.

OPTION PERIOD:
The term of this agreement is being extended for one year commencing April 1, 2013 and ending March
31. 2014.

OPTION PERIODS REMAINING:
There are no option periods remaining.

SCOPE OF SERVICES:

CedarCrestone will continue to provide the necessary hardware. operating systems and database license
for all tiers (web. application. and database) for all environments along with network connectivity. They
will also provide database administration. UNIX. and Windows system administration including standard

67

April 3, 2013

support and help desk services through its CedarCrestone Data Center. This also includes disaster
recovery at their Disaster Recovery site for the production environment. CedarCrestone will perform
performance testing and a third party security audit with mitigation.

DELIVERABLES:
CedarCrestone will continue to provide the Board with supported hosted infrastructure and services for
implementing the PeopleSoft application for the term of extension.

OUTCOMES:
CedarCrestone's services will result in CPS implementing the infrastructure required to implement the
Human Capital initiative CPS Work with the PeopleSoft application.

COMPENSATION:
CedarCrestone shall be paid upon invoicing in accordance with the pricing set forth in the
extension agreement; total compensation for this extension period not to exceed the sum of

$1,077,600.00.

AUTHORIZATION:

Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant terms and conditions in the written extension
document. Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the extension document. Authorize Chief
lnforrnation Of?cer to execute all ancillary documents required to administer or effectuate this extension

agreement.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION:

The MNVBE goals for this contract include 35% total MBE and 5% total WBE participation. However. the
Waiver Review Committee recommends that a full waiver of the MIWBE participation goal for this contract
as required by the Remedial Program for Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise Participation
in Goods and Services Contracts be granted because the scope of the contract is not further divisible.

LSC REVIEW:
Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL:
Fund: 115 Charge to Information Technology Services, 12500 FY13 $269,400.00 FY14 $808,200.00

Future year funding is contingent upon budget appropriation and approval.
Not Applicable

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 ILCS
5134-1 3.1, the inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the lnSpector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations.

Con?icts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 ILCS 5l34-21.3 which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of
of?ce.

Indebtedness - The Board's Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26. 1996 (96-0626-P03), as amended
from time to time. shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics - The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25. 2011 as amended from time to time,
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability - The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current
?scal year is deemed a contingent liability. subject to appropriation in the subsequent ?scal year
budget(s).

1 3-O403-P R9

FINAL

APPROVE ENTERING INTO AN AGREEMENT WITH SCHOOL SPECIALTY FOR THE PURCHASE
OF CLASSROOM EDUCATIONAL SUPPLIES

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Approve entering into an agreement with School Specialty for the purchase of classroom educational
supplies for all schools, including charter schools, network of?ces and central of?ces departments at a
total cost not to exceed $3,000,000.00 for the initial term. Vendor was selected on a competitive basis
pursuant to Board Rule 7-2. A written agreement for this purchase is available for signature. No goods
may be ordered or received and no payment shall be made to Vendor prior to execution of their written
agreement. The authority granted herein shall automatically rescind as to Vendor in the event their written
agreement is not executed within 90 days of the date of this Board Report. lnfonnation pertinent to this
agreement is stated below.

68

April 3, 2013

Speci?cation Number 1 12-250053
Contract Administrator Escareno. Miss Masocorrol 773-553-2284
VENDOR:

1) Vendor 26218
SCHOOL SPECIALTY
W6316 DESIGN DRIVE
GREENVILLE, WI 54942-0000
Sam Kuhlman
888 388-3224

630 241 0810

USER INFORMATION 

Contact:
12210 - Procurement and Contracts Of?ce
125 South Clark Street 10th Floor
Chicago. IL 60603
Escareno, Miss Masocorro
773-553-2280

TERM:

The term of this agreement shall commence on April 4, 2013 and shall end on April 3. 2015. This
agreement shall have one (1) option to renew for a period of twelve (12) months.

EARLY TERMINATION RIGHT:
The Board shall have the right to terminate agreement with 30 days written notice.

DESCRIPTION OF PURCHASE:

Vendor will provide classroom educational and associated supplies to schools, network of?ces and
central of?ce departments at prices speci?ed in the agreement for the following categories: 1. General
School, Language Arts. Teacher Resources and Social Studies; 2. Math and Science; 3. Art; and 4. Early
Childhood.

OUTCOMES:

This purchase will result in the centralized procurement of Classroom Educational Supplies with a
potential estimated cost savings of approximately 20% on all classroom educational supplies purchased
by CPS.

COMPENSATION:
Vendor shall be paid in accordance with the unit prices contained in their agreement: total cost not to
exceed the sum of $3.000,000.00 in aggregate.

AUTHORIZATION:

Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant terms and conditions in the written agreement.
Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the agreement. Authorize the Chief Procurement Of?cer
to execute all ancillary documents required to administer or effectuate the agreement.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION:

This agreement is in full compliance with the goals required by the Remedial Program for Minority and
Women Owned Business Enterprise Participation in Goods and Services Contracts. The 
goals for this agreement are 15% total MBE and 5% total WBE participation.

The Vendor has identi?ed the following participation:
Total MBE 15%

Con?guration Chicago

10 East Garfield Blvd.

Chicago, Illinois 60615

Contact: Arron Fulbright

Total WBE 5%

Distributors. Inc.

7808 West College Drive. Suite 4NE

Palos Heights, Illinois 60463
Contact: Donna Alm

LSC REVIEW:
Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report.

69

April 3, 2013

FINANCIAL:

Source of Funds: Various

Charge to various schools and central of?ce departments

$3,000,000

Fiscal Years FY2013. 2014 and 2015

Future year funding is contingent upon budget appropriation and approval.

Not Applicable

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 ILCS
5/34-131 the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations.

Con?icts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 ILCS which restricts the employment of. or the letting of contracts to. former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of
of?ce.

indebtedness - The Board's Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26. 1996 (96-0626-PO3). as amended
from time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 as amended from time to time,
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability - The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current
?scal year is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in the subsequent ?scal year
budget(s).

13-0403-PR10

APPROVE ENTERING INTO AN AGREEMENT WITH SCR MEDICAL TRANSPORTATION
FOR PARA TRANSIT AND SMALL VEHICLE STUDENT TRANSPORTATION SERVICES

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Approve entering into an agreement with SCR Medical Transportation to provide para transit and small
vehicle services to Student Transportation at a total cost not to exceed $15,000,000. Vendor was selected
on a competitive basis pursuant to Board Rule 72. A written agreement for Vendors services is currently
being negotiated. No services shall be provided by Vendor and no payment shall be made to Vendor prior to
execution of the written agreement The authority granted herein shall automatically rescind in the event a
written agreement is not executed within 60 days of the date of this Board Report. Information pertinent to
this agreement is stated below.

Speci?cation Number: 12-250052

Contract Administrator: Holloway, Mr. Craig A I 773-553-2280
VENDOR:

1) Vendor 25745
SCR MEDICAL TRANSPORTATION,
8801-25 S. GREENWOOD AVENUE
CHICAGO, IL 60619
Dave Daley
773 768-7000

USER INFORMATION:

Contact: 11870 Student Transportation
125 South Clark Street 16th Floor
Chicago, IL 60603
Osland. Mr. Paul G.
773-553-2860

TERM:

The term of this agreement shall commence on April 8. 2013 and shall end on the last day of the school year
as determined by the Board in June 2016. This agreement shall have two options to renew for periods of
one year each.

EARLY TERMINATION RIGHT:
The Board shall have the right to terminate this agreement with 30 days written notice.

SCOPE OF SERVICES:
Vendor shall provide para transit and alternative student transportation, including regular and special
education home-to?school service, shuttle service. after school services and charter services as applicable

70

April 3, 2013

for Chicago Public School students residing within and outside the Chicago Public School district.
Transportation services are for public and non-public runs that primarily serve up to four student
passengers.

DELIVERABLES:
Transportation of CPS students to school and programs in vans and lift-equipped vans. Vendor will also
provide bus aides on the routes at the discretion of CPS.

OUTCOMES:
Vendor's services will result in delivering safe, reliable. comfortable and cost effective transportation and
assistance to our students.

COMPENSATION:

Vendor shall be paid as follows: Base rate of $82-51 19 per run; $2.18 per stop; 51.90-52.25 per mile rate;
and $49.76 per bus aide for a first run and $20.00 for a second run, subject to annual CPI and fuel cost
adjustments. Vendor shall be paid upon invoicing in accordance with prices indicated in the
contract; total not to exceed $5,000,000 during year 1, $5,000,000 during year 2, and $5,000,000 during
year 3.

It is estimated that 100 routes using various types of small vehicles will be awarded pursuant to the
agreement. The number of routes actually required to provide services to students will vary as student
needs change. Because the number of routes required is estimated, the total cost of the agreement is also
estimated. The annual and contract term cost estimates are based upon the combined regular school year
and summer school calendars established by the Board and the year-round calendars adopted by the
various Non-Public facilities served. The Chicago Public Schools reserves the right to order the services of
more or fewer routes than originally awarded through this agreement as the needs of students and/or
programs change. The Board shall only be obligated for costs of routes actually operated.

REIMBURSABLE EXPENSES:
None.

AUTHORIZATION:

Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant terms and conditions in the written agreement.
Authorize the President and Secretary to execote the agreement. Authorize the Executive Director,
Transportation to execute all ancillary documents required to administer or effectuate this agreement.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION:

The MBEIWBE goals for this agreement include 35% total MBE and 5% total WBE participation. However,
the Of?ce of Business Diversity recommends a partial waiver of the WBE goal, required by the Remedial
Program for Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise Participation in Goods and Services
Contracts, be granted as the scope of services called for in the contract could not be further divided. The
Prime is an MBE certi?ed vendor self performing these services.

LSC REVIEW:
Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL:

Fund: 114

Student Transportation, Parent Unit 11900

FY13 $1,000,000.00

FY14 $5,000,000.00

FY15 $5,000,000.00

FY16 $4,000,000.00

Future year funding is contingent upon budget appropriation and approval.

Not Applicable

GENERAL 

Inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 ILCS
the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel necessary
to conduct those investigations.

Con?icts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 5I34-21.3 which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of theirterrns of of?ce.

indebtedness - The Board's Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 1996 (96-0626-PO3), as amended from
time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics - The Board?s Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 as amended from time to time,
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability - The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current ?scal
year is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in the Subsequent ?scal year budget(s).

President Vitale abstained on Board Report 13-0403-PR10.

71

April 3, 2013

13-0403-PR11

A T12-1219-P 18
APPROVE ENTERING INTO AN AGREEMENT WITH AND APPROVE PAYMENT TO EDUCATION
LOGISTICS FOR CONSULTING AND PROFESSIONAL SERVICES

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Approve entering into an agreement with Education Logistics to provide consulting and professional
services to the Bureau of Student Transportation Services at a total cost not to exceed 31257000
$195.0m. Vendor was selected on a non?competitive basis: the sole-source request was presented to the
Non-Competitive Procurement Review Committee and approved by Chief Purchasing Of?cer. A written
agreement for Vendor's services is currently being negotiated. No services shall be provided by Vendor
and no payment shall be made to Vendor prior to execution of the written agreement. The authority
granted herein shall automatically rescind in the event a written agreement is not executed within 90 days
of the date of this Board Report. Information pertinent to this agreement is stated below.

Thi r' i 533 toi incre addeofWor tedb iv Dire tor
of an amendment to the agreement, and iv) payment in the amount
of 125 rs rvi Ir rovided whi unt' I in the maxi um tion

assogiatgg with transmnatign ang pus aide costs, therefore CPS leadership has determin? it would like

I es.

VENDOR:

1) Vendor it 47775
EDUCATION LOGISTICS

3000 PALMER STREET
MISSOULA, MT 59808
Jason Corbally

406 728-0893

USER INFORMATION 

Contact: 11870 - Student Transportation
125 South Clark Street 16th Floor
Chicago, IL 60603
Osland. Mr. Paul G.
773-553?2860

TERM:
The term of this agreement shall commence on December 21, 2012, and shall end June 20. 2013. This

agreement shall have no options to renew.

EARLY TERMINATION RIGHT:
The Board shall have the right to terminate this agreement with 30 days written notice.

SCOPE OF 

Consultant will provide cn-site consulting for evaluation and validation of the District's Edulog System
data. This will involve a review. and assistance with correction of the District's Edulog routing
and scheduling system data to ensure as much routing infonnation parallels what the bus contractors are
doing as possible. The consultant will also provide a school bell time optimization study which is based
on the evaluation and validation task. Using information contained in the District's Edulog system
databases, consultant will use Edulog's bell time optimization software to create new school bell times
and new school bus route couplings for two different scenarios. The ?rst scenario will use as much
?exibility as possible in school bell times to determine what the effect on fleet requirements and District
expenses would be if the most aggressive plan for adjusting bell times were to be implemented. The
second scenario would be a study of what effect on transportation requirements and fleet size would
result if only a few school bell times were modi?ed so as to maximize the savings while minimizing the
effect on school schedules. For the purposes of this project. all other policies and assignments will
remain as currently established by the District and/or contained in the District's Edulog system.

DELIVERABLES:
Consultant will create two reports. one for each scenario described in the above Scope of Services. with
supporting statistics estimating total fleet requirements for each bell time change scenario.

OUTCOMES:

Vendor?s services will result in service improvement and cost control by gaining control of our routing and
building an optimization capability for Chicago Public Schools. Vendor?s work will also result in the
reduction in routes/buses and immediate savings.

72

April 3, 2013

COMPENSATION:
Vendor shall be paid as speci?ed in the agreement; total not to exceed the sum of $195,000.

REIMBURSABLE EXPENSES:
The total compensation amount re?ected herein is inclusive of all reimbursable expenses.

AUTHORIZATION:
Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant terms and conditions in the written agreement.

Authorize the Presiderrt?and?Secretary Exaggt'mg Directgr gt Transportatign to execute the agreement

and the nd Secreta th a ment. Authorize Executive Director of
Transportation to execute all ancillary documents required to administer or effectuate this agreement.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION:

The participation goals for this agreement are: 30% total MBE and 7% total WBE participation.
However. the Of?ce of Business Diversity recommends a waiver of the goals required by the Remedial
Program for Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise Participation in Goods and Services
Contracts, be granted, as this agreement was approved as 3 Sole Source award due to the proprietary
so?ware owned by the awarded vendor.

LSC REVIEW:
Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL:

Fund: 115

Department Name: Bureau of Student Transportation
Department Parent Unit Number: 11900

FY13 31251000700 

Not Applicable

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 ILCS
5134-131 the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations.

Conflicts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 which restricts the employment of. or the letting of contracts to. former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of
of?ce.

Indebtedness - The Board?s Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 1996 (96-0626-P03). as amended
from time to time. shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics - The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 as amended from time to time.
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability - The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current
?scal year is deemed a contingent liability. subject to appropriation in the subsequent ?scal year
budgetls).

President Vitale indicated that if there were no objections, Board Reports 13-0403-EX1,
and 13-0403-PR1 through 13-0403-PR11, with the noted abstentions, would be adopted by the last
favorable roll call vote, all members present voting therefore.

President Vitale thereupon declared Board Reports and 13-0403-PR1 through
13-0403-PR11 adopted.

13-0403-MS1

APPROVE A SCHOOL NAME MODIFICATION:
FOR BACK OF THE YARDS IB HIGH SCHOOL
TO MODIFY THEIR SCHOOL NAME TO
BACK OF THE YARDS COLLEGE PREPARATORY HIGH SCHOOL

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER RECOMMENDS:

That the board approve a school name modi?cation to permit Back of the Yards IB High School to modify
its name to Back of the Yards College Preparatory High School effective April 4. 2013.

73

April 3, 2013

Description: The Back of the Yards name modi?cation is proposed to more accurately re?ect the
school's rigor and high standards to students and the school community. The new school will include a 4-
year International Baccalaureate curriculum and will also include opportunities for students to participate
in Advanced Placement courses, as well as Dual Credit courses, giving students the opportunity to eam
college credit while in high school.

On December 19, 2012, the Chicago Board of Education approved the establishment of a new high
school to be located at 2111 W. 47 Street, Chicago. it. 60609, Board Report: The high
school was referred to as the Back of the Yards lB High School for identi?cation purposes. Upon the
Board?s approval to establish this new high school, input on a school name was sought from parents,
students, and other community stakeholders by way of community meetings held on November 21, 2012,
November 25, 2012, November 29, 2012. and December 11, 2012. Ballots were created and voting took
place at six elementary schools located in the community: Chavez, Daley, Hamline. Hedges, Lara. and
Seward. The following three options were surveyed and are included with voting results appearing in
order of preference:

1) Back of the Yards College Preparatory High School, 436 Votes

2) Back of the Yards lntemational High School, 372 Votes

3} Arturo Velasquez at Back of the Yards High School, 259 Votes
LSC REVIEW: Not Applicable

FINANCIAL: Back of the Yards is responsible for all costs and expenses related to the implementation of
this smool name modi?cation.

13-0403-ED1

REPORT ON STUDENT EXPULSIONS FOR FEBRUARY 2013

DESIGNEE FOR THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORT THE FOLLOWING
DECISION:

24 Students were expelled from the Chicago Public Schools in February 2013.

DESCRIPTION:

Pursuant to the provisions of Sections 10-22.6 and 34~19 of the School Code of Illinois,
Section 6-8 of the Rules of the Board of Education of the City of Chicago, and the Student
Code of Conduct of the Chicago Public Schools, the designee for the Chief ExecutIVe Of?cer
approved the expulsion of 24 Chicago Public Schools students, for gross disobedience.
misconduct or other violations of the bylaws. rules and regulations of the Chicago Board of

Education.
February Totals
{February 1 to February 28, 2013)
Expulsions 24
No Expulsions 47
SMART Referrals 110
181
(2012-2013 Totals to Date)
(August 1, 2012 to current)
Expulsions 101
No Expulsions 189
SMART Referrals 423
713
Decisions Pending 20
LSC REVIEW:

LSC review is not applicable to this report.

74

April 3, 2013

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION STATUS:
Not applicable.

FINANCIAL:
No cost to the Chicago Public Schools.

PERSONNEL IMPLICATIONS:
None.

1 3-0403-EX2

PRINCIPAL CONTRACTS (A)
THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING:

Accept and ?le copies of the contracts with the principals listed below who were selected by the Local School
Council pursuant to the Illinois School Code and the Uniform Principal's Performance Contract.

DESCRIPTION: Recognize the selection by local school councils of the individuals listed below to the position of
principal Subject to the Policy on Requirements for the Selection of Chicago Public Schools Principals, #084217-
POZ, dated December 17, 2008, subject to approval of any additional criteria by the General Counsel for the
purpose of determining consistency with the Uniform Principal's Performance Contract. Board Rules, and Law.

The Talent Of?ce has verified that the following individuals have met the requirements for eligibility.

 

 

NAME FROM E).
Clariza Dominicci Assistant Principal Contract Principal
Camras Camras
Network: Fullerton Elementary
P.N. 407428

Commencing: February 1. 2013
Ending: January 31, 2017

Janice Jackson interim Principal Contract Principal
Westinghouse Westinghouse
Network: West Side High School
PM 406683

Commencing: February 1, 2013
Ending: January 31. 2017

Patrick MacMahon Contract Principal Contract Principal
Gallistel Barnard
Network: Rock island Elementary
P.N. 11 7400

Commencing: February 8, 2013
Ending: February 7, 2017

Aaron Rucker Teacher Contract Principal
Hirsch Ryder
Network: Englewood-Gresham Elementary
P.N.1 13273

Commencing: February 4, 2013
Ending: February 3. 2017

LSC REVIEW: The respective Local School Councils have executed the Uniform Principal's Performance
Contract with the individuals named above.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION STATUS: None

FINANCIAL: The salaries of these individuals will be established in accordance with the provisions of the
Administrative Compensation Plan.

PERSONNEL IMPLICATIONS: The positions to be affected by approval of this action are contained in the 2012-
2013 school budget.

75

13-0403-EX3

April 3, 201 3

PRINCIPAL CONTRACTS (B)

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING:

Accept and ?le copies of the contracts with the principals listed below whose contracts were renewed by
the Local School Councils pursuant to the Illinois School Code and the Uniform Principal's Performance

Contract.

DESCRIPTION: Recognize the selection by the local school council of the individuals listed below to the
position of principal subject to the Policy on Requirements for the Selection of Chicago Public Schools
Principals. dated December 17. 2008, subject to approval of any additional criteria by the
General Counsel for the purpose of determining consistency with the Uniform Principal?s Performance
Contract, Board Rules, and Law.

The Illinois Administrators Academy has veri?ed that the following principals have completed 20 hours of
Professional Development. The RENEWAL contracts commence on the date speci?ed in the contract

and terminates on the date speci?ed in the contract



Sarah Abedelal

Jcenile Albert-Reese

Otis Dunson

James Gray

Kathleen Hagstrom

Sabrina Jackson

Patricia McCann

Carmen Mendoza

FROM

Contract Principal
Brennemann

Contract Principal
Pritzker

Contract Principal
G. 

Contract Principal
Hamilton

Contract Principal
Walt Disney

Contract Principal
Turner-Drew

Contract Principal
ays

Contract Principal
McPherson

76



Contract Principal

Brennemann

Network: Ravenswcod-Ridge Elementary
PM. 121110

Commencing: July 1, 2013

Ending: June 30, 2017

Contract Principal

Pritzker

Network: Fulton Elementary
PM 128514

Commencing: July 1, 2013
Ending: June 30, 2017

Contract Principal

G. 

Network: Ravenswood-Ridge Elementary
PM. 133927

Commencing: July 1. 2013

Ending: June 30, 2017

Contract Principal

Hamilton

Network: Ravenswood-Ridge Elementary
PM 119070

Commencing: July 1, 2013

Ending: June 30, 2017

Contract Principal

Walt Disney

Network: Ravenswood-Ridge Elementary
RN. 29992

Commencing: July 1. 2013

Ending: June 30, 2017

Contract Principal

Turner-Drew

Network: Rock Island Elementary
PM 112518

Commencing: July 1, 2013
Ending: June 30, 2017

Contract Principal

Mays

Network: Englewood-Gresham Elementary
P.N. 121053

Commencing: July 1, 2013

Ending: June 30. 2017

Contract Principal

McPherson

Network: Ravenswood-Ridge Elementary
PM. 113267

Commencing: July 1, 2013

Ending June 30, 2017

April 3, 2013

John Nichols Contract Principal Contract Principal
Graham Graham
Network: Pershing Elementary
PM. 117005

Commencing: July 1. 2013
Ending: June 30, 2017

Otis Taylor Contract Principal Contract Principal
Buckingham Buckingham
Network: Skyway Elementary
PM 394476

Commencing: July 1, 2013
Ending: June 30, 2017

Suzana Ustabecir Contract Principal Contract Principal
Sayre Sayre
Network: Austin-North Lawndale Elementary
PM. 118379

Commencing: Juty 1, 2013
Ending: June 30. 2017

John Webb Contract Principal Contract Principal
Foster Park Foster Park
Network: Engiewood-Gresham Elementary
PM. 130798

Commencing: July 1. 2013
Ending: June 30, 2017

LSC REVIEW: The respective Local School Councils have executed the Uniform Principal's
Performance Contract with the individuals named above.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION STATUS: None.

FINANCIAL: The salary of these individuals will be established in accordance with the provisions of the
Administrative Compensation Plan.

PERSONNEL IMPLICATIONS: The positions to be affected by approval of this action are contained in
the 2012-2013 school budget.



REPORT ON BOARD REPORT RESCISSIONS

THE GENERAL COUNSEL REPORTS THE FOLLOWING:

l. Extend the rescission dates contained in the following Board Reports to May 22. 2013
because the parties remain involved in good faith negotiations which are likely to result in an
agreement and the user group(s) concurs with this extension:

1, 11-0928-OP2: Reaf?rm Board Report 11-0727-OP1: Approve Entering into a Reciprocal Shared
Use Agreement and Temporary Construction License Agreement with the Chicago Park District and
to Consent to the Amendment of Planned Development #808 in Connection with the Construction and
Use of Athletic Facilities at North Grand High School and Greenbaum Park.

User Group: Real Estate

Services: License Agreement

Status: In negotiations

2. 11-0928-PR13: Approve Entering into an Agreementwith Bluecross Blueshield of Illinois For HMO
Health Care Administration Services.

User Group: Office of Human Capital

Services: HMO Health Care Administration Services

Status: In negotiations

3. 11-0928-PR14: Approve Entering into an Agreement with United Healthcare Services, Inc. to
Provide HMO (Exclusive Provider Organization) Administrative Services.

User Group: Office of Human Capital

Services: HMO Health Care Administration Services

Status: In negotiations

4. Approve the Granting of a Charter and Entering into a Charter School Agreement
with Christopher House, Inc. an Illinois Not For Profit Corporation.

User Group: Portfolio Of?ce

Services: Charter School

Status: In negotiations

77

5. 12-0328-EX11: Approve the Renewal of the Charter School Agreement with Chicago Charter
School Foundation.

User Group: Portfolio Of?ce

Services: Charter School

Status: In negotiations

6. 12-0328-EX12: Approve the Renewal of the Charter School Agreement with Perspectives Charter
School.

User Group: Portfolio Of?ce

Services: Charter School

Status: In negotiations

7. Approve the Renewal of the Charter School Agreement with Polaris Charter
Academy.

User Group: Portfolio Of?ce

Services: Charter School

Status: In negotiations

8. Approve Renewal of Lease Agreement with Perspectives Charter School for
Calumet School, Located at 8131 S. May.

User Group: Real Estate

Services: Lease Agreement

Status: In negotiations

9. Approve Renewal of Lease Agreement with Perspectives Charter School for
Raymond School. Located at 3663 S. Wabash Ave.

User Group: Real Estate

Services: Lease Agreement

Status: In negotiations

10. Approve Renewal of License Agreement with the Vietnamese Association of
Illinois for Use of Parking Lot at 5017 N. Winthrop Ave for Goudy School.

User Group: Real Estate

Services: License Agreement

Status: In negotiations

11. Approve the First Renewal Agreement with the American Bottling Company to
Provide Vended Beverages in Chicago Public Schools.

User Group: Facility Operations Maintenance

Services: Vended Beverages

Status: In negotiations

12. 12-0822-PR4: Approve Exercising the First Option to Renew the Agreement with ACT, Inc. for
the Purchase of Test Materials and Related Services.

User Group: Assessment

Services: Purchase of Test Materials

Status: In negotiations

13. Amend Board Report Approve Entering into Agreements with
Various Vendors for Interventions, Enrichment and Supplemental Academic Services.

User Group: Educational Tools and Technology

Services: Supplemental Academic Services

Status: 1:13 have been executed; remainder are in negotiations

14. Amend Board Report 12-0725-PR13: Amend Board Report 12-0627-PR12:
Approve Entering into Agreements with Various Vendors for Social Emotional Learning Services.
User Group: Youth DeveIOpment and Positive Behavior Supports

Services: Social Emotional Learning Services

Status: In negotiations

15. Amend Board Report 11-0126-PR5: Approve the Pre-Quali?cation Status of and
Entering into Agreements with Ryder Truck and Enterprise FM Trust to Provide Lease Vehicles.
User Group: Operations

Services: Lease Vehicles

Status: In negotiations

16. 12-0822-PR18: Approve Entering into an Agreement with Rental System for Rental Support
of Equipment and Supplies.

User Group: Procurement and Contracts Of?ce

Services: Rental Equipment and Supplies

Status: In negotiations

17. 12-1024-PR13: Amend Board Report Amend Board Report 12-0425-PR19:
Approve Entering into an Agreement with American Healthways Services, LLC. for Professional
Services.

User Group: Office of Human Capital

Services: Professional Services

Status: in negotiations

78

April 3, 2013

April 3, 2013

18. Approve Entering into an Agreement with Sedgwick Claims Management
Services, Inc. for Administrative Services for Short Term Disability (STD) Plan Services.

User Group: Of?ce of Human Capital

Services: Administrative Services

Status: In negotiations

19. 12-1114-PR13: Approve Exercising the Second Option to Renew the Agreement With Health
Care Service Corporation DIBIA Blue Cross Blue Shield of Illinois to Provide Preferred Previder
Organization (PPO) Services.

User Group: Of?ce of Human Capital

Services: Preferred Provider Organization Services

Status: In negotiations

20. 12-1114-PR15: Approve Exercising the Second Option to Renew the Agreement with Delta
Dental of Illinois for Dental Preferred Provider Organization (DPPO) and Dental Health Maintenance
Organization (DHMO) Services

User Group; Office of Human Capital

Services: Dental Health Maintenance Servrces

Status: In negotiations

21. 12-1114-PR16: Appr0ve Exercising the Second Option to Renew the Agreement With Vision
Services Plan of Illinois to Provide Vision Care Plan Services

User Group; Office of Human Capital

Services: Vision Care Plan Services

Status: In negotiations

22. Approve New Lease Agreement with Fresh Soup Company for Use of
Space at 125 S. Clark Street and Payment of Brokerage Fees.

User Group: Real Estate

Services: Lease Agreement

Status: In negotiations

23. Approve Entering into Agreements with Hearing Officers for Expulsion, TruanCy,
Tuition Residency, and Board Rule 6-28. 629. and 6-30 Hearings.

User Group: Youth Development and Positive Behavior Supports

Services: Hearing Officers

Status: 6 of 7 have been futly executed, one remain in negotiations.

24. 12-1219-PR14: Approve Entering into an Agreement with Deloitte Touche LLP for Consutting
Services.

User Group: Information 8. Technology Services

Services: Consulting Services

Status: In negotiations

25. 12-1219-PR18: Approve Entering into an Agreement with Education Logistics for Consulting and
Professional Services.

User Group: Student Transportation

Services: Consulting Services

Status: In negotiations

II. Rescind the following Board Reports in part or in full for failure to enter into an agreement
with the Board, after repeated attempts, and the user groups have been advised of such
rescission:

1. Amend Board Report 12-0725-PR13: Amend Board Report 12-0627-PR12:
Approve Entering into Agreements with Various Vendors for Social Emotional Learning Services.
User Group: Youth Development and Positive Behavior Supports

Services: Social Emotional Learning Services

Action: Rescind Board authority in full for Community in Schools of Chicago for failure to retum
signed agreements.

2. 12-1024-PR8: Approve Exercising the First Option to Renew with Various Contractors for Job
Order Contracting (JOC) Services for the Capital Improvement Program.

User Group: Job Contracting Services

Services: Consulting Services

Action: Rescind Board authority in full for Chicago Commercial Contractors. LLC for failure to

return a Signed agreement

President Vitale thereupon declared Board Reports 13-0403-MS1, 13-0403-ED1,
13-0403-EX2, 13-0403-EX3, and 13-0403-AR1 accepted.

79

April 3, 201 3

OMNIBUS
At the Rescheduled Regular Board Meeting held on April 3, 2013 the foregoing motions,
reports and other actions set forth from number 13-0403-M01 through 13-0403-M03 except as

otherwise indicated, were adopted as the recommendations or decisions of the Chief Executive
Of?cer and General Counsel.

President Vitale abstained on Board Report 13-0403-PR10.
Vice President Ruiz abstained on Board Reports 13-0403-AR8 and 13-0403-PR5.
ADJOURNMENT

President Vitale moved to adjourn the meeting, and it was so ordered by a voice vote, all
members present voting therefore.

President Vitale thereupOn declared the Board Meeting adjourned.

I, Estela G. Beltran, Secretary of the Board of Education and Keeper of the records thereof,
do hereby certify that the foregoing is a true and correct record of certain proceedings of said
Board of Education of the City of Chicago at its Rescheduled Regular Board Meeting held on April
3, 2013 held at the Central Service Center 125 South Clark Street, Board Chamber, Chicago,
Illinois, 60603.

Estela G. Beltran
Secretary

80

April 3, 2013


AR REPORTS FROM THE GENERAL COUNSEL

13-0403-AR1

13-0403-AR2

13-0403-AR3

13-0403-AR4

13-0403-AR5



1 

13-0403-AR8

Report on Board Report Rescissions 77 - 79

Workers? Compensation Payment for Lump Sum Settlement for Charlene
Cruz - Case No. 08 WC 49172 3

Workers? Compensation Payment for Lump Sum Settlement for Marie E. Mims 

Case No. 10 WC 31831 3, 4
Workers? Compensation Payment for Lump Sum Settlement for Evelyn Rivera 

Case No. 09 WC 26793 4
Approve Settlement Recommendation in Beverly Kelly Case No. 10-7875 4, 5

Appoint Senior Assistant General Counsel Department of Law
(Willie F. Lewis, Jr.) 5

Appoint Assistant General Counsel Department of Law (Sanat Ranganathan) 5, 6

Authorize the Retention of the Pre-Qualified Pool of Appraisers to Act as Expert
Witnesses in Connection with Property Tax Appeal Cases 6, 7, 8

CO COMMUNICATION

1 3-0403-CO1

Communication Re: Location of Board Meeting of April 24, 2013 -
125 S. Clark Street (Board Chamber) 31

ED REPORT FROM THE CHIEF TEACHING AND LEARNING OFFICER

 

 

13-0403-ED1 Report on Student Expulsions for February 2013 74, 75
EX - REPORTS FROM THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
13-0403-EX1 Transfer of Funds"

*[Note: The complete document will be on File in the Of?ce of the Board] 31 - 33
Principal Contracts (A) (New) 75
13-0403-EX3 Principal Contracts (B) (Renewal) 76, 77
13-0403-EX4 Principal Contract (D) (Richard Miller) 8
13-0403-EX5 Warning Resolution Derek Jordan, Contract Principal, Assigned to Adam

Clayton Powell Paideia Community Academy Elementary School 9
13-0403-EX6 Warning Resolution Nancy Paulette, Principal, Orozco Fine Arts 8- Sciences

Elementary School 9, 10
13-0403-EX7 Warning Resolution - Percy Crawford, Tenured Teacher, Assigned to Burnside

Elementary Scholastic Academy 10
13-0403-EX8 Warning Resolution Julia Hock, Tenured Teacher, Assigned to Mayo

Elementary School 10, 11
13-0403-EX9 Adopt Finding that Former Pupil was a Non-Resident of the City of Chicago

Indebted to the Chicago Public Schools for Non-Resident Tuition 11
Adopt Finding that Pupils are Non-Residents of the City of Chicago Indebted

to the Chicago Public Schools for Non-Resident Tuition 11, 12
MO - MOTIONS
13-0403-M01 Motion to Hold a Closed Session 1, 2

April 3, 2013

M0 MOTIONS (Cont)
13-0403-M02 Motion Re: Adopt and Maintain as Confidential Closed Session Minutes From

February 27, 2013 13

Motion Re: Approval of Record of Proceedings of Meeting Open to the Public
(February 27, 2013) 14

MS REPORT FROM THE CHIEF NETWORK OFFICER
13-0403-MS1 Approve a School Name Modification for Back of the Yards lB High School
to Modify Their School Name to Back of the Yards College Preparatory High
School 73, 74

PR REPORTS FROM THE CHIEF PROCUREMENT OFFICER
Approve Entering Into an Agreement with Phonak, LLC for the Purchase of
Hearing Assistive Technology (HAT) and Frequency Modulation (FM)
Equipment 34, 35

13-0403-PR2 Approve Entering Into an Agreement with Global Workplace Solutions, LLC for
Logistic Management Services 35 - 37

13-0403-PR3 Approve Entering Into Agreements with Various Vendors for Landscape
Maintenance Services 37, 38

13-0403-PR4 Approve Entering Into Agreements with Various Contractors for Classroom,
Music, Early Childhood, and Library Furniture and 
Services 39 - 41

13-0403-PR5 Approve Entering into an Agreement with Staples Contracts and
Commercial, Inc. for Office Furniture, and Services 41, 42

13-0403-PR6 Approve the Award of Construction Contracts and Approve Changes to
Construction Contracts for the Board of Education's Capital Improvement

Program 42 - 64
13-0403-PR7 Ratify the Final Option to Renew the Agreement with SchoolNet, Inc. for the

Purchase of Gradebook Maintenance and Support Services 65 - 67
13-0403-PR8 Ratify Extending the Agreement with CedarCrestone, Incorporated 67, 68

Approve Entering Into an Agreement with School Specialty for the Purchase
of Classroom Educational Supplies 68 - 70

13-0403-PR10 Approve Entering Into an Agreement with SCR Medical Transportation for Para
Transit and Small Vehicle Student Transportation Services 70, 71

13-0403-PR11 Amend Board Report 12-1219-PR18 Approve Entering Into an Agreement
with and Approve Payment to Education Logistics for Consulting and
Professional Services 72, 73

RS RESOLUTIONS
Resolution Providing for the Issue of Unlimited Tax General Obligation
Refunding Bonds (Dedicated Revenues), Series 2013, of the Board of
Education of the City of Chicago in an Aggregate Principal Amount Not to
Exceed $600,000,000, for the Purpose of Paying the Cost of Refunding
Certain Outstanding Bonds of Said Board of Education 14 - 29

13-0403-R82 Resolution Re: Appointment of Appointed Representatives of Elected Local
School Councils to Fill Vacancies for the Current Term of Of?ce 29, 30

13-0403-RS3 Resolution Re: Appointments to Appointed Local School Councils to Fill
Vacancies for the Current Term of Of?ce 30

April 3, 2013
RS RESOLUTIONS (Cont!

13-0403-RS4 Resolution Approving Chief Executive Officer?s Recommendation to Dismiss
Education Support Personnel 12

13-O403-RSS Resolution Approving Chief Executive Officer's Recommendation to Dismiss
Probationary Appointed Teachers 13

