  
  
  
   

DRAFT   TRANSITION   PLAN   
For   the   Co-­‐‑location   of   
Wilma   Rudolph   Elementary   Learning   Center   and   
Hope   Institute   Learning   Academy   
   

   
I.   Introduction   
   
Chicago   Public   Schools   (CPS)   is   committed   to   providing   every   child   from   every   community   with   a   
high   quality   education   that   prepares   them   for   success   in   college   and   in   life.   CPS   students   continue   to   
make    record-­‐‑breaking    academic    progress    in    every    part    of    the    city.    Our    vision    is    that    all    CPS    schools   
can   build   on   this   progress   by   offering   high   quality,   rigorous   instruction   from   talented   educators   that   
help   put   Chicago   students   on   a   path   to   lasting   success.   
   
In    October    of    2017,    the    Rudolph    Administration,    Local    School    Council,    community    leaders,    public   
officials    and    current    and    alumni    parents,    Rudolph’s    teachers    and    auxiliary    staff    and    community   
members    requested    that    the    Chicago    Public    Schools    (CPS)    and    the    Chief    Executive    Officer    (CEO)   
recommend   that   Wilma   Rudolph   Learning   Center   co-­‐‑locate   with   Hope   Institute   Learning   Academy   
effective   July   1,   2018.   
   
Therefore,   in   line   with   this   community-­‐‑driven   request,   the   Chief   Executive   Officer   (CEO)   of   CPS   is   
proposing   to   co-­‐‑locate   Rudolph   with   Hope   Institute   Learning   Academy.         
   
The   proposal   to   co-­‐‑locate   Rudolph   with   Hope   involves   the   following   proposed   change:   
   
●   Rudolph,   currently   located   at   110   North   Paulina   Street,   will   be   located   across   the   street   with   
Hope   Institute   Learning   Academy   at   1628   West   Washington   Boulevard.      
   
The    transition    plan    outlined    below    summarizes    supports    that    will    be    provided    by    Rudolph    and    CPS   
to   ensure   a   smooth   transition   for   students.   
   
   
II.   Summary   of   Proposed   Action   
   
CPS   is   proposing   to   co-­‐‑locate   Rudolph   with   Hope   Learning   Academy.   Rudolph   is   a   specialty   school   
whose    mission    is    to    foster    a    safe    and    supportive    learning    environment    using    evidenced-­‐‑based   
learning   strategies   for   its   students.   Rudolph   engages   all   stakeholders   in   providing   an   individualized,   
modified   grade   level   appropriate   curriculum   focused   on   functional   academics,   communication,   life   
skills,   language   development,   social   skills,   and   access   to   technology.   As   a   community,   they   strive   to   
nurture    the    development    of    the    whole    child    (physical,    intellectual,    emotional,    and    social)    through   
creative    instructional    programs    and    inclusive    partnerships    with    families    that    support    students    in   
reaching   their   full   potential.   
   
Rudolph’s    vision    is    to    create    a    learning    environment    that    ensures    each    student    access    to    a   
developmentally    appropriate    scope    and    sequence    that    includes:    adapted    grade    level    curriculum,   
functional   academics,   social   skills,   life   skills,   transitional/   English   Learner   (EL)   supports,   sensory   and   
evidence-­‐‑based   behavioral   strategies   which   will   lead   each   student   to   increased   independence   and   
the   essential   knowledge   to   be   active   members   of   their   community.   In   order   to   implement   innovative   

  

   
  
  
practices,    Rudolph    is    committed    to    data-­‐‑informed    instruction,    continued    education    for    staff    and   
parents   and   professional   development   based   on   student   needs.   
   
Currently    Rudolph    is    located    at    110    North    Paulina    Street    and    serves    pre-­‐‑kindergarten    through    fifth   
grade.            Rudolph’s    current    enrollment    is    97    students    and    the    school    continually    enrolls    students   
throughout    the    school    year.    If    this    proposal    is    approved,    Rudolph    will    remain    a    school    without    a   
boundary,    as    all    of    its    students    are    assigned    there    based    on    the    supports    written    in    their   
Individualized    Education    Programs    (IEPs)    through    the    Office    of    Diverse    Learner    Supports    and   
Services    (ODLSS)    School    Assignment    Department.    Hope    Learning    Academy    is    a    contract    school   
serving    grades    kindergarten    through    fifth    grade.        Hope    Learning    Academy    currently    serves    355   
students.      
   
This    proposal    is    consistent    with    the    Chief    Executive    Officer’s    Guidelines    for    School    Actions   
(Guidelines)   because   it   is   a   proposal   requested   by   parents   or   community   members   via   the   process   to   
request   proposals   outlined   in   the   Guidelines.   Specifically,   we   have   heard   the   request   for   this   proposal   
from    the    Principal,    LSC    Chair    and    other    staff    and    community    members    at    Rudolph.    The    resulting   
space   utilization    data    after   the   co-­‐‑location   will   not   exceed   the   facility’s   enrollment   efficiency   range,   
as    defined    by    the    CPS’    Space    Utilization    Standards.    Additionally,    the    students    affected    by    this   
proposed   co-­‐‑location   are   being   provided   with   an   ADA   accessible   building.   
   
   
III.  Safety   and   Security   
   
At   the   present   time,   there   are   no   recognized   CPS   safety   concerns   at   either   school.      If   this   proposal   is   
approved,   the   CPS   Office   of   Safety   &   Security   will   work   with   the   administrations   of   Rudolph   and   Hope   
Learning   Academy   to   review   each   school’s   safety   and   security   plan.      A   variety   of   supports   for   students   
and    the    community    nearby    will    be    considered    with    feedback    from    parents.        These    supports    may   
include   the   following:   
   
●   First   and   foremost,   CPS   will   hold   safety   planning   meetings   to   ensure   that   all   safety   efforts   are   
coordinated   between   CPS,   Administration,   Parents   and   the   Chicago   Police   Department;   
●   CPS   will   examine   the   best   drop   off   and   pick   up   locations   for   busses,   specifically   looking   at   
North   Paulina   Street   or   West   Maypole   Avenue;   
●   Safety   plans   for   parents   who   drive   their   children   to   school   will   be   created;   
●   A    review    of    safety    technology    will    be    conducted    to    determine    whether    existing    safety   
technology   needs   to   be   enhanced.      This   review   may   include   screening   protocols.   
   
   
IV.   Supports   for   Students   and   Schools         
   
CPS   is   committed   to   making   sure   that   our   children   with   the   most   special   needs   are   in   an   appropriate   
facility    to    ensure    that    these    students    have    access    to    a    quality    and    developmentally    appropriate   
learning   environment   and   experience.      CPS   is   also   committed   to   ensuring   a   successful   transition   if   
the   Board   approves   this   proposal.      To   accomplish   this,   CPS   proposes   the   following   supports   to   meet   
the   academic,   social   and   emotional,   and   specific   learning   needs   of   affected   students.      These   resources   
may    be    further    customized    as    feedback    is    obtained    at    community    meetings    and    a    public    hearing   
regarding   this   proposal.   Additionally,   resources   may   be   adjusted   to   meet   the   unique   needs   of   affected   
students   if   deemed   necessary.   
   
Support   for   Students’   Academic   Needs   
  

   
  
  
To    ensure    students    receive    high-­‐‑quality,    developmentally    appropriate    academic    instruction   
throughout   the   transition,   the   following   will   occur:   
●   Rudolph    will    continue    to    design    and    implement    a    high    quality    program    for    students    with   
significant   disabilities   who   require   a   significantly   modified   curriculum;   
●   An    Academic    Planning    Team    will    examine    space    and    curriculum    to    offer    the    highest    level    of   
developmentally   appropriate   learning   experiences;   
●   Inclusion:      Teachers   and   staff   will   maintain   and   explore   new   opportunities   for   students   with   
disabilities    to    interact    and    learn    with    their    typically    developing    peers.        Research    shows    that   
students   with   disabilities   benefit   and   excel   in   life   with   increased   opportunities   to   access   and   
interact   with   their   typically   developing   peers;   
●   Assess   the   need   for   Professional   Developments   focused   on   supporting   students   as   they   adjust   
and   transition   to   the   new   building.      
   
Support   for   Students’   Social   and   Emotional   Needs   
CPS    understands    that    when    students    transition    into    new    situations    and    environments,    additional   
support   is   needed   to   help   them   adjust.   CPS   and   the   Office   of   Social   Emotional   Learning   (OSEL)   will   
consult    with    the    Rudolph    and    Hope    school    communities    to    continue    existing    SEL    supports    and   
determine   the   need   for   additional   resources   for   a   school-­‐‑specific   plan   that   may   include   the   following:   
●   Rudolph    students    will    continue    their    Reading    Buddies    program    with    their    typically   
developing   peers   from   Hope   Learning   Academy;   
●   Rudolph   staff   will   continue   and   look   to   expand   their   social   and   emotional   learning   class   that   
occurs    four    days    a    week    at    Hope    Learning    Academy.        Research    indicates    that    typically   
developing   peers   also   develop   socially   and   emotionally   when   interacting   with   students   with   
disabilities;   
●   Assess   the   need   for   a   Climate/Culture   team   that   may   consist   of   a   group   of   representative   staff   
(including   administrators,   teachers,   counselors,   and   security   officers)   from   both   schools   to   
develop    a    combined    Climate    &    Culture    team,    which    will    lead    the    planning    of    school-­‐‑wide   
policies   and   practices   to   promote   positive   relationships   and   a   welcoming,   supportive   school   
environment.   This   includes   cultivating   a   sense   of   community   between   all   staff   and   students;   
●   Assess    the    need    for    a    Behavioral    Health    Team    to    support    both    schools    in    ensuring    their   
existing    systems    identify    when    students    have    higher    levels    of    social    and    emotional    need,   
connect   them   to   targeted   interventions   and   track   their   progress   to   ensure   success.   Guiding   
practices    will    be    established    through    collaboration    to    prepare    for    students    who    may    need   
additional   social   and   emotional   support.      Training   will   be   supported   by   CPS   and   the   Office   of   
Social   Emotional   Learning;   
●   Rudolph   will   continue   collaboration   with   ODLSS   and   the   Autism   Behavioral   Health   Support   
Team   (ABHST)   to   further   implement   the   district’s   Model   Classroom   Pilot   Program;   
●   By    December    of    2018,    all    Rudolph    Staff    will    be    trained    in    Safety    Care    De-­‐‑escalation   
Techniques;   
●   The    current    Rudolph    space    is    proposed    to    be    utilized    as    an    adaptable    playground    and   
community   garden,   which   would   increase   access   to   peer   models   and   friendships,   as   well   as   
community   partnerships;   
●   CPS   will   support   professional   development   for   all   teachers   to   help   them   develop   skills   and   
resources   that   support   all   students.   
Additional   Transition   Supports   for   Students   
To   ensure   all   additional   student   needs   are   taken   into   consideration,   Rudolph   will   develop   a   transition   
team   (to   include   administration,   staff,   parents   and   other   community   stakeholders)   that   will   address   
the   following   areas   of   support:   

  

   
  
  
●   Logistical    support    to    ensure    all    classroom    supplies    and    equipment    are    inventoried    and   
properly   placed   within   the   new   building;         
●   Planning   of   specific   timelines   and   deadlines   to   ensure   there   is   no   loss   of   instructional   time   
and   that   Rudolph   is   ready   to   receive   students   on   the   first   day   of   the   2018-­‐‑19   school   year;      
●   Parent   communication   will   be   ongoing   through   multiple   avenues   to   keep   parents   informed   
with   the   most   up   to   date   information;      
●   Branding   of   the   new   location   will   begin   in   the   fourth   quarter   of   the   2017-­‐‑18   school   year;            
●   Rudolph/   Hope   Administrative   Teams   will   begin   planning   logistics   around   schedules,   room   
usage   and   after   school   activities   starting   in   March   2018.         
   
Support   for   Specific   Students’   Needs   
To    ensure    students    who    have    unique    needs    or    circumstances    are    adequately    supported    in    this   
transition,   we   have   developed   the   following   educational   “draft   blueprints:”   
   
Support   for   Diverse   Learners   
Students    with    disabilities    and    their    families    will    be    supported    in    the    transition    process   
through   clear   communication,   continual   support   for   academic   instruction   and   ensuring   that   
the    school    is    fully    able    to    implement    students’    IEPs.    Students    with    disabilities,    as    with    all   
students   impacted   by   school   actions,   will   receive   intensive   support   to   ensure   their   academic   
and   social-­‐‑emotional   needs   are   met.      Students   with   disabilities   will   also   receive   the   following   
categories   of   support,   adjustable   to   individual   student/family   need:   
   
Current    students    with    disabilities    will    continue    to    receive    the    following    supports,   
required   by   law:   
●   A   free   and   appropriate   public   education   (FAPE)   
●   The    implementation    of    the    student’s    IEP    in    the    least    restrictive    environment   
(LRE)   
●   A   focus   on   student   academic   and   social   emotional   progress   
   
Students   with   disabilities   from   Rudolph   will   have   access   to   a   100   percent   accessible   school   
building   as   required   by   the   Americans   with   Disabilities   Act.   Additionally,   these   students   with   
disabilities   will   now   have   access   to   the   following   needed   facilities:   
●   Lunchroom   
   
●   Gym   
●   Confidential   space   for   IEP   meetings   
●   Locker   room   with   showers   
●   Confidential    space    for    student   
●   Art   room   
nursing   services   
●   Auditorium   
●   Parent   room   (As   mandated   by   Title   I   
●   Therapy   pool   
funding)   
●   Separate   music   therapy   room   
●   Typically   developing   peer   models   
●   Computer   Labs   
●   UIC   Health   Center
   
In   addition,   a   district   representative   from   the   Office   of   Diverse   Learner   Supports   and   Services   
(ODLSS)   will   be   assigned   to   work   with   families   and   students   to   support   them   throughout   the   
process    of    transitioning    to    their    new    school    for    the    2018-­‐‑2019    school    year.        Specifically,    the   
district   representative   will:   
●   Work    with    teachers    on    appropriate    programming    to    support    the    transitioning   
diverse   learners.   
●   Make   sure   classrooms   are   appropriately   set   up   for   the   newly   transitioning   students   
with   diverse   learning   needs.   

  

   
  
  
●   Families    can    reach    their    District    Representative,    Sarah    Briggs,    at    773-­‐‑534-­‐‑7578    or   
srbriggs@cps.edu.         
   
Support   for   Students   in   Temporary   Living   Situations   
●   The   CPS   Office   of   Students   in   Temporary   Living   Situations   (OSTLS)   will   continue   the   
support   provided   to   Students   in   Temporary   Living   Situations   (STLS)   as   required   by   
law.        These    include    free    school    meals,    enrollment    support,    provision    of    required   
school    uniforms    and    school    supplies    as    needed,    transportation    assistance    when   
eligible,   and   waivers   of   all   school   related   fees.   
●   Under   the   proposed   re-­‐‑assignment   co-­‐‑location,   returning   STLS   students   may   choose   
to   attend   Haugan   or   meet   with   OSTLS   staff   to   identify   enrollment   options,   develop   
academic   readiness   plans   and   safety   plans   to   support   them   throughout   the   transition   
period.   
●   STLS    staff    is    available    if    the    students    wishes    to    learn    about    additional    schools    to   
transition   to.   
●   For   those   students   who   had   been   homeless   prior   to   the   2018-­‐‑2019   school   year,   their   
school   of   origin   will   become   the   first   school   they   enroll   in   for   the   2018-­‐‑2019   school   
year.   
●   For   families   currently   enrolled   in   the   STLS   program,   younger   siblings   may   attend   the   
same   school   that   their   older   sibling   elects.   
   
Support   for   English   Learners      
●   Current    and    future    English    Language    Learners    (ELs)    will    receive    state    mandated   
bilingual   services   (Transitional   Bilingual   Education   (TBE)   or   Transitional   Program   of   
Instruction    (TPI)),    as    required.        English    as    a    Second    Language    (ESL)    instruction   
provided   by   an   ESL-­‐‑endorsed   teacher   is   part   of   both   programs.      Meaningful   access   to   
the   core   curriculum   is   provided   to   TBE   students   through   native   language   instruction   
in    the    core    content    (language    arts,    math,    science,    and    social    studies).        For    TPI   
students,   meaningful   access   to   core   curriculum   is   delivered   through   sheltered   English   
content   instruction   and   native   language   supports,   based   on   the   individual   student’s   
need,    and    provided    by    appropriately    endorsed    (bilingual-­‐‑    or    ESL-­‐‑endorsed)   
teacher(s)   
   
   
Support   for   Students’   Transportation   Needs   
●   Provisions   for   specific   student   populations   (i.e.,   student   with   disabilities,   Students   in   
Temporary    Living    Situations,    and    NCLB    qualifying    students),    as    determined    by    the   
CPS   transportation   policy,   will   continue   to   apply.   
●   Bus   arrival   and   departure   procedures   will   be   examined   to   provide   for   the   smoothest   
transition   to   all   students   entering   and   exiting   the   building.   
●   The   current   parking   lot   at   Rudolph   will   remain   for   additional   parking   options.   
   
   
V.   Additional   Logistical   Information   
   
Information   Regarding   School   Assignment   
If   this   proposal   is   approved,   students   attending   Rudolph   will   continue   to   attend   Rudolph   per   their   
School    Assignment    based    on    their    IEP.        CPS    is    committed    to    providing    high    quality    educational   
options    for    students    with    disabilities    that    fit    each    student’s    unique    learning    needs.        To    support   
families   in   understanding   the   Student   Assignment   Process,   information   from   the   Office   of   Diverse   
Learners   Supports   &   Services   is   available:   
  

   
  
  
●  
●  
●  
●  

Online   (www.cps.edu   or   http://cps.edu/Pages/DiverseLearners.aspx)      
By   email   (odlss@cps.edu)      
By   phone   (773)   553-­‐‑1800      
At    an    information    session    to    be    scheduled    at    a    future    date    if    the    Board    approves    the   
proposal.   

   
Public   Comment   
   
Community   Meetings   and   Public   Hearings:   
CPS   will   hold   two   community   meetings   and   one   formal   public   hearing   regarding   this   proposed   action.   
Public   comment   will   be   accepted   during   each   meeting   or   hearing.   CPS   is   committed   to   considering   
community   feedback   and   will   amend   this   draft   transition   plan   accordingly.   
   
Community   Meeting   1   
Community   Meeting   2   
Public   Hearing   
   
   
   
January   10,   2018                  
January   17,   2018                  
January   29,   2018   
6   to   8   p.m.   
6   to   8   p.m.   
4:30   to   5:30   p.m.   
Hope   Institute   Learning   Academy    Hope   Institute   Learning   Academy    CPS   Central   Office   
1628   W   Washington   Boulevard   
1628   W   Washington   Boulevard   
42   West   Madison   Street   
   
   
   
Further   Questions   and   Concerns:   
All   of   this   information   can   be   found   at   CPS.edu/Transitions.   If   you   have   any   questions   or   concerns   
regarding   this   proposal   and   the   draft   transition   plan,   please   call   Chicago   Public   Schools   at   (773)   553-­‐‑
1500   or   email   Transitions@cps.edu.   
   
   

  

 