 

Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Minutes of the Finance Subcommittee on Workers' Compensation

Tuesday, September 11, 2018 12:30 PM Cook County Building, Board Room
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois
ATTENDANCE
Present: Chairman Schneider, Vice-Chairman Moody, Commissioners Deer, Goslin and Tobolski
(5)
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Chairman Schneider asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public speakers, in
accordance with Cook County Code, See. 2-107(dd)

1. George Blakemore Concerned Citizen
Vice?Chairman Moody, seconded by Commissioner Tobolski, moved that the Workers?
Compensation Subcommittee convene in Open Session to consider matters of pending

Workers? Compensation. The motion carried.

Vice?Chairman Moody, seconded by Commissioner Tobolski, moved Approval of the cases
over $25,000.00. The motion carried.

18-5726
COMMITTEE MINUTES

Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 7/23/2018

A motion was made by Vice Chairman Moody, seconded by Commissioner Tobolski, to
recommend for approval 18-5726. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Chairman Schneider, Vice-Chairman Moody, Commissioners Deer, Goslin and Tobolski

(5)

1. SETTLEMENTS
County Government

DOWNEY JOHN
16 WC 33284

 

HARDMAN. DAMIAN
13 WC 14827

SANFORD. DASAAN
17 WC 24014

TUCKER. ARLISA
l6 WC 33536

Petitioner injured his back when a mini?van attempting to make a
U-turn at 440 North Pulaski Road in Chicago, Illinois, struck
Petitioner?s squad car.

Vice-Chairman Moody, seconded by Commissioner Tobolski
moved Approval. The motion carried.

Petitioner injured his right shoulder while escorting a resisting
detainee to his room.

Vice-Chairman Moody, seconded by Commissioner Tobolski
moved Approval. The motion carried.

Petitioner injured his right shoulder and back while restraining a
combative resident.

Vice-Chairman Moody, seconded by Commissioner Tobolski
moved Approval. The motion carried.

Petitioner injured her right shoulder and right arm while
repositioning a patient.

Vice-Chairman Moody, seconded by Commissioner Tobolski
moved Approval. The motion carried.

Page 2 of 3

ADJOURNMENT

A motion was made by Commissioner Goslin, seconded by Commissioner Tobolski to adjourn the
meeting. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Chairman Schneider, Vice-Chairman Moody, Commissioners Deer, Goslin and Tobolski

(5)

 

 

 

Secretary

Video recording of this meeting is available at 

Page 3 of 3

