DBRA
Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority
500 Griswold Street • Suite 2200
Detroit, Michigan 48226
Phone: 313 963-2940
Fax:
313 963-8839

DETROIT BROWNFIELD REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
SEPCIAL BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
FRIDAY, JANUARY 19, 2018
9:30 AM
BOARD MEMBERS PRESENT: John George
Pamela McClain
Derrick Sanders
Matthew Walters
Donele Wilkins
BOARD MEMBERS ABSENT:

Maggie DeSantis
Sonya Mays
Ray Scott
Stephanie Washington

OTHERS PRESENT:

Ayesha Maxwell (DEGC/DBRA)
Jennifer Kanalos (DEGC/DBRA)
Damon Jordan (DEGC/DBRA)
Cleveland Dailey (DEGC/DBRA)
Malinda Jensen. (DEGC/DBRA)
Kenyetta Bridges (DEGC/DBRA)
Rebecca Navin (DEGC/DBRA)

 DBRA
Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority
500 Griswold Street • Suite 2200
Detroit, Michigan 48226
Phone: 313 963-2940
Fax:
313 963-8839

MINUTES OF THE DETROIT BROWNFIELD
REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY SPECIAL MEETING
FRIDAY, JANUARY 19, 2018
DETROIT ECONOMIC GROWTH CORPORATION
500 GRISWOLD SUITE 2200 DETROIT, MI – 9:30AM
CALL TO ORDER
Chair Matthew Walters called the meeting to order at 9:30 AM. Mr. Walters informed the
Board that because they were directly related to one another, the AMC Site – 14250
Plymouth Due Diligence item, the AMC Site – 14250 Plymouth – Environmental Contract
item and the Second Amended DBRA Budget item would presented in succession prior
to voting on each item.
GENERAL
Approval of Minutes:
Mr. Walters called for a motion approving the minutes of January 10, 2018 as
presented. The Board took the following action:
On a motion by Mr. Sanders, seconded by Mr. George, DBRA Resolution Code
18-01-02-228 was unanimously approved.
Acceptance of the December 2017 Treasurer’s Report
Mr. Walters called for a motion accepting the December Treasurers report. The Board
took the following action:
On a motion by Mr. Sanders, seconded by Ms. McClain, DBRA Resolution Code
18-01-03-171 was unanimously approved.
PROJECTS
AMC Site- 14250 Plymouth: Approve Performance of Due Diligence Activities on
behalf of the City of Detroit
Mr. Jordan presented the AMC project.
Project Introduction
On December 19, 2017 the Detroit City Council approved entering into an agreement to
swap land with Wayne County for the construction of a new Wayne County criminal justice
facility (Exhibit A). The Wayne County Commission is anticipated to vote sometime in
February 2018 on the proposal. The City Administration is asking the DBRA to approve

 the performance of due diligence activities in advance of Wayne County Commission
approval of the land swap.
The County is considering constructing a new criminal justice complex consisting of a jail
and new court facilities on land adjacent to the Detroit Department of Transportation
headquarters and maintenance facility on East Warren Avenue near I-75 (“DDOT
parcel”). In exchange for the DDOT parcel, the County has offered to deed the former
American Motors Corporation site at 14250 Plymouth Road near Schaefer Highway (the
AMC Site”) on the westside of Detroit to the City as an even exchange.
The AMC Site consists of 45.3 acres bounded by Strathmoor St. on the west, Plymouth
Road on the south, Shirley Ave. on the east and Fullerton Ave. on the north. The Site is
likely a facility and will likely qualify as an eligible Brownfield property due to its: prior
historic development, historic industrial use, long term vacancy and exposure to
scrapping and scavenging, large amounts of uncontrolled fill on site, and tax foreclosure
acquisition of the Site by Wayne County and transfer to the Wayne County Land Bank.
The proposed land swap agreement proposes a November 1, 2018 due date to complete
due diligence activities on the AMC Site. If, after completing due diligence work, the City
were to decide not to accept the AMC Site, the County would instead pay the City
$775,000 in lieu of the land swap for the land adjacent to the DDOT parcel.
In furtherance of the DBRA’s statutory goal of revitalizing environmentally distressed
areas and alleviating blight within the City of Detroit, as well as the powers given to the
DBRA per Act 381 of 1996, as amended, the City Administration has asked the DBRA to
perform due diligence activities at the AMC Site via a Right of Entry with the Wayne
County Land Bank (Exhibit B). City and DEGC staff are confident that if environmental
conditions are identified and an economically feasible cleanup plan is able to be created,
the AMC Site would be the top available large industrial site in the City of Detroit. As a
result, a clean AMC Site would receive very strong interest from industrial businesses
seeking a new facility in Southeast Michigan.
DEGC staff agree that the DBRA is well positioned to assist the City with the due diligence
activities as allowed by Act 381 of 1996, as amended, at the AMC Site.
Mr. George asked who owned the property and Mr. Jordan advised that the property is
owned by the Wayne County Landbank.
Ms. Wilkinson asked how reasonable cost is being defined. Mr. Jordan advised that the
thought process behind the cost is similar to what has been done on previous projects
like the I-94 Industrial area and they assume the cost will be in the same ballpark. Ms.
Kanalos advised that more details would be provided on the next agenda item. Ms. Navin
gave details on the swap agreement to provide more context.
Ms. McClain asked about the DBRA staff using DBRA funds to pay for the due diligence
as stated on page 28 of the board packet and in addition why has the source of funding

 not been identified yet. Ms. Navin advised that typically the cost that is incurred would be
passed on to a developer and would be a part of their purchase price. If the city decides
not to move forward with the site the city has the option to decline taking on the site and
then they get a cash payment in which the DBRA would work with the city to be
reimbursed.
Mr. Sanders provided additional history on the site since he is a lifelong resident of the
neighborhood. Mr. Sanders provided details about the contamination and the illegal
dumping of hazardous chemicals. Mr. Sanders advised that he is in full support of the
project.
Attached for the Board’s review and approval was a resolution approving the DBRA to
undertake and perform due diligence activities as permitted by Act 381 of 1996, as
amended, on behalf of the City for the AMC Site.
AMC Site- 14250 Plymouth Road Approve Environmental & Geotechnical Site
Assessment Services Contract
Mr. Dailey presented the AMC site project.
Project Introduction
On December 20, 2017 the DBRA solicited the submission of competitive proposals from
experienced and well-qualified professional firms for the provision of the Site Assessment
Services associated with the DBRA’s Pre-development Site Preparation of the AMC Site
located at 14250 Plymouth Road via a Request for Proposals (the “RFP”).
The DBRA is evaluating the site on behalf of the City of Detroit for Environmental and
Geotechnical Due Diligence in connection with the DDOT and Wayne County Land Bank
swap agreement and for attracting industrial facility developments to the Project.
The key details of the proposal are as follows:
Project Scope:
• Phase 1 Environmental Site Assessment
• Stock piled (non-native) soil, testing & characterizing soils for contaminants
• Gridding sampling, testing & characterizing of native ground soils for contaminants
• Geotechnical investigation
• Hazardous material survey of existing facilities
Price:

$ 79,840 – Base Contract
$ 33,160 – Land Fill Disposal Assessment (as needed)
$113,000 – Sub Total
$ 23,600 – 20% Contingency Due to Large Unknowns
$136,000 – Total Board Approved Amount

Bid Due Date: Tuesday, January 16, 2018

 Selection of Contractor: Wednesday, January 17, 2018
Contractor Selected: Testing Engineering & Consultants, Inc. (a.k.a. “TEC”)
DBRA staff recommend selection of Testing Engineers & Consultants, Inc. who were the
lowest cost, responsive bidder to the RFP for professional services for environmental and
geotechnical due diligence at the AMC Site.
Ms. McClain asked if the contracting firm was the lowest bid. Mr. Dailey advised that it
was the lowest, most responsive bid.
Mr. George asked if this request is approved today when would the actual work begin.
Mr. Dailey advised that the consultant would be ready to go very soon, which would likely
lead to a 3 month timeline to complete testing and reporting.
Ms. Wilkins asked if the contract provides an opportunity for cleanup and what would be
the sense of urgency to get the site cleaned up immediately after the site assessment is
complete. Ms. Wilkins also expressed her concern that the site is only being looked at
due to an economic opportunity and not because of the welfare of the residents in the
area. Ms. Navin provided additional information about the due diligence and the efforts
involved in cleaning up a site of this magnitude. Ms. Navin advised that the city to date
has not had any legal obligation to this site and they are currently evaluating if they want
to take on the responsibility.
Ms. Wilkins advised that she wanted to go on record and say that something must be
done on this site for the safety and welfare of the people in that community.
A resolution approving and authorizing the DBRA to enter into a contract with Testing
Engineers & Consultants, Inc. for Environmental and Geotechnical Due Diligence was
attached for the Board’s review and consideration.
ADMINISTRATIVE
Approve Second Amended DBRA Budget (FY 2017-2018)
Ms. Kanalos presented the Second Amended DBRA budget for FY 2017-2018.
Attached to the following resolution please find the Second Amended DBRA budget for
FY 2017-2018 (the “Budget”) for your review and approval. The Budget was reviewed by
the DBRA Budget Committee on January 17, 2018 which recommended adoption of the
amended Budget.
The revisions to the budget, highlighted in the attached Exhibit A, are as follows:
Revenue:
1.
2.

Increase in “Brownfield Application/Administration Fees” from $600K to $765K
Increase in “Interest/Other Income” from $5K to $10K

 Expenses:
Increase in “Legal” from $75K to $150K
Increase in “Special Projects/Contingency” from $40K to $255K

1.
2.

Surplus/Shortfall
1.

A budget shortfall of $120K to be covered with $120K in funds from the DBRA
Reserves. Reserves will only be used if, and as actually needed.

A resolution approving the Second Amended DBRA budget was attached for the Board’s
review and approval.

Mr. Walters called for a motion approving the Performance of Due Diligence Activities on
behalf of the City of Detroit. The Board took the following action:
On a motion by Mr. George, seconded by Mr. Sanders, DBRA Resolution Code
18-01-254-02 was approved.
Mr. Walters called for a motion approving the Environmental & Geotechnical Site
Assessment Services Contract. The Board took the following action:
On a motion by Mr. George, seconded by Ms. McClain, DBRA Resolution Code
18-01-254-02 was unanimously approved.
Mr. Walters called for a motion approving the Second Amended DBRA Budget for FY
2017-2018. The Board took the following action:
On a motion by Ms. Wilkins, seconded by Ms. McClain, DBRA Resolution Code
18-01-01-192 was approved.
OTHER
None
PUBLIC COMMENT
None
ADJOURNMENT
Citing no further business, Mr. Walters called for a motion to adjourn the meeting.
On a motion by Ms. Wilkins, seconded by Ms. McClain the meeting was
unanimously adjourned at 9:49 AM.

 