City of Detroit

 

Downtown Deveiopment Authority

500 Griswold, Suite 2200, 22"? Floor
Detroit, Michigan 4 5228

Phone: 313 863 2940

Fax: 313 983 8839

DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
4.1(6) CONTRACTS OVER $500,000
COMMITTEE MEETING
MONDAY, OCTOBER 23, 2017 3:00 PM.

COMMITTEE MEMBERS PRESENT:

MEMBERS ABSENT:

OTHERS PRESENT:

Austin Black

Ehrlich Crain

Melvin Hollow/elf, Chair
James Jenkins

David Biaszkiewicz

Gary Brown (DEGCIDDA)
Mike Healy (Detroit Tigers)
Gay Hilger 
Jennifer Kanalos 
Rebecca Nevin 
Joe Tate (D20)

 oiry'ciroetrat 

mo

Downtown Development Authority
500 Griswoid. Suite 2200. 22"? Floor

Detroit, Michigan 48228

Phone: 31 3 963 2940

Fax: 31 3 963 8839

OF THE DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
4.1(0) CONTRACTS OVER $500,000 COMMITTEE

MONDAY, OCTOBER 23, 2017

DETROIT ECONOMIC GROWTH CORPORATION

500 GRISWOLD STREET, SUITE 2200 3:00 PM.

GENERAL
Cali to Order

Noting that a quorum was present, Chairperson Holiowell called the meeting of the
Downtown Development Authority 4.1(c) Contracts over $500,000 Committee to order at
3:10 pm.

Approval of Minutes of October 4, 2017 Committee Meetinq

Mr. Holiowell asked if there were any additions, deletions, or corrections to the minutes of
the October 4, 2017 4.1(c) Committee meeting. Hearing none, the Committee took the
following action:

On a motion by Mr. Grain, seconded by Mr. Black, the October 4, 2017 minutes
were unanimously approved.

PROJECTS
Discussion Recording Comerica Ballpark Local Procgrement Strategy

Mr. Hollowell thanked the Tigers for sending a representative to the DDA 4.1 (0) Committee
meeting and welcomed Mike Heaiy, Vice President, Park Operations.

Mr. Brown stated there were several questions posed at the last meeting which really
comes down to the CMA and requirements for the maintenance. major repair and
replacement fund and the elements of it. In particular, how can the DDA work with the
Tigers to increase representation of Detroit based businesses? Joe Tate, Program
Manager of the DZD Local Procurement Program, met with Mike and his crew, to discuss
the Tigers current procurement policies. The question realty is. what can be done to
encourage and enhance Detroit participation? Currently the Wayne county participation
is over 50 percent, while Detroit participation is at 14.1 percent. Mr. Brown suggested that
the Committee members take this opportunity to ask questions of Mr. Healy.

Mr. 'Holloweli expressed that the numbers are just not acceptable and the goal here is to
figure out ways to increase those numbers.

Mr. Crain asked Mr. Heaty to walk the Committee through the Tigers procurement process
and how it has been handled in the past.

Mr. Healy responded that he wants to be clear here. This is the repair funds from the
DDA, which is less than 10% of his budget. Overall, the Detroit Tigers have a minority
business alliance and they work with MLB. Upward of $5 miilion is spent annually on
repairs and maintenance of the ballpark. Mr. Healy offered to provide that information so
the Committee can have it. For repair and maintenance fund, soticitation is based
on its smatter?type items. So they get three bids, take a look at the bids, and the ?rst
priority wiil be lowest price. Overall, it is done internally on the operations side. Three
employees bid out the projects, and as a company, they have a purchasing manager that
bids out the iarger projects. A lot of those larger projects are not seen in here because
the dollar amount of the DDA fun is low compared to the entire annual budget. Through
the CMA, there has been a target of 30 percent and they are always at 60 or 70 percent.
The CMA is written that the 30 percent is "Wayne County and Detroit based? businesses.

Mr. Healy expressed that part of why he wanted to come today is to ask for the
Committee?s help. Where eise can the Tigers look? Over the last couple of years it has
gotten worse because they are looking at smaller projects ($5,000, $10,000, $15,000) and
with all of the work going on in the city, it is harder to find Detroit businesses with which to
work without having a list. They are at the point where the first thing they look at is price,
and a lot of companies don?t bid because they know they are not the lowest price. Mr.
Healy stated that he is here today to say he is open for help with those resources.

Mr. Hoiiowell suggested that Mr. Jenkins, because he knows ail the players here, get a
fist of contractors to Mr. Healy to work with, and then he can report back to the Committee.

Mr. Jenkins suggested to Mr. Healy that a lot of small contractors may not bid because
they don?t know him. The Tigers is a big giant corporation and they feel they wouldn?t have
a chance getting a contract. You need to make them feel that wiil be treated fairly. Mr.
Jenkins suggested that if Mr. Heaiy reaches out to him, he can provide a list of the trades
and smaller contractors. it would mean a tot to some of these smaller companies to say
they worked on Comerica. it would also be helpful if the Tigers management would
suggest to some of the bigger contractors that they use local suppliers and vendors.

Mr. Black asked Mr. Healy if there is a timeline in terms of when they bid out some of these
projects. Mr. Healy responded that it is ongoing throughout the year. Pretty much for the
two months leading up to the season, there is a limited amount of time to do repairs and,
then, when the team is on a road trip for like to days. Post season is October and
November and then it is shut down again. Repairs are done as things happen. Most of
the money coming from this fund is for repairs.

Mr. Jenkins asked if they ever use unit pricing. Mr. Healy replied that they do use unit
pricing for their large jobs, expansion joints. He explained that they have ten full time
maintenance staff for smalleriobs like plumbing and eiectricai issues.

Mr. Crain questioned if the contractors must pro-qualify for jobs. Mr. Healy stated that
there are only insurance requirements. The Committee thought that possibly some of the
smaller firms did not know that and needs to be communicated to the smaller companies.

Mr. Healy advised that the 2017 repairs and maintenance money has already been spent
and they are looking at the 2018 budget right now. When the 2017 expenditures go to
Committee, there will be the same issue as for 2016. The Committee agreed that they
can only look forward at this point.

Ms. Nevin reminded the Committee that, as a resource, Joe Tate is manager of the local
procurement program in the DEGC's Small Business Department and can offer his
expertise and resources to the Tigers and work with them.

Mr. Black asked if there were a way to communicate to these small businesses that these
opportunities exist, such as a fair or website. Mr. Healy responded that he thought that is
what the Tigers will get with the 020 Program where the Tigers wouid be able to post on
the DEGC website where vendors can go ahead and register and we would be able to put
those jobs on there. That would throw it out to the public more than it is now.

Mr. Healy advised that the MEDC does a purchasing fair every year that the Tigers are a
part of. They solicit a lot of suppliers, vendors and contractors from there. The fairjust
happened last month. The DZD Program should be able to give us that as well.

Mr. Brown stated that where we are at right now is asking for reimbursement of what was
spent in 2016 of $695,000, that actualiy came out to 14.1% utilization of Detroit
businesses. We have a budget for 2017 of $690,000.

Mr. Hoilowell said that the 14.1% isn't satisfactory and people would feel a whole lot better
supporting it it there were some actual expression from the Tigers saying that they agree
and the numbers are going to improve. Mr. Brown added that this Board has a right to
expect that there is going to be a focus on representing the City of Detroit on this and ask
for a support ietter from the Tigers saying they are going to do better.

Mr. Brown suggested that approval of payment of 2016 Repairs and Maintenance and
approval of proposed 2017 repairs and maintenance be placed on the next DDA Board
meeting agenda. Mr. Holloweli advised that the Committee is wiiling to recommend for
approval the payment of the 2016 funds, but would like to see in advance the 2017 budget
and wants a ietter from the Tigers stating they will improve their utilization of Detroit
businesses. Mr. Healy advised that the 2017 repairs have already been made and the
money has been spent. 

Moving forward, the Committee requested that the Tigers provide the proposed Budget
before expenditures are made. Mr. Healy said that he can provide a budget for 2018 in
November 2017.

Mr. Holloweli, as Chair of the 4.1(c) Committee stated that this is where he and he believes
the Committee is at: They are looking for a Resolution to approve payment of calendar
year 2016 work performed in the amount of $695,000, aiong with a statement from the
Tigers indicating that they recognize that the 4.1(c) Committee has very substantial
concerns about the 14.1% number that has been presented to them and are looking for a
plan from the Tigers going forward.

Ms. Nevin added that we are stili iooking for approve! of the 2017 proposed repairs and
maintenance, even though the work has already been done and the money has been
spent. Actually, in the past, this has been approved in May each year but was pushed
back this year. The Committee discussed this process and agreed that they need to see
the budget for the following year before the Tigers spend the money. Mr. Healy stated
that he will not have the ?nai figures for the work performed in 2017 until probably May of
next year. He can, however, provide the 2018 proposed budget sometime in November.

Mr. Hoiiowell asked for a motion to approve payment of calendar year 2018 for work

performed by the Tigers in the amount of $695,000, conditioned on a statement and/or

letter from the Tigers organization on their plans for doing better.
On a motion by Mr. Crain, seconded by Mr. Jenkins. the Committee approved
recommending to the Board payment of 2016 work conditioned on a commitment
letter from the Tigers to do better.



OTHER MATTERS

PUBLIC COMMENT

ADJOURNMENT

With there being no other business to be brought before the Committee, Mr. Holloweii
adjourned the meeting at 3:50 pm.

