Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Technology and Innovation Committee
Wednesday, September 26, 2018

10:45 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA

There will be a meeting of the Committee or Subcommittee of the Board of Commissioners of Cook
County at the date, time and location listed above to consider the following:
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in writing,
their name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in advance of the
meeting. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a time specified in
the meeting agenda. Authorized public speakers who are not present during the specified time for public
testimony will forfeit their allotted time to speak at the meeting. Public testimony must be germane to a
specific item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not exceed three minutes; the Secretary
will keep track of the time and advise when the time for public testimony has expired. Persons authorized
to provide public testimony shall not use vulgar, abusive, or otherwise inappropriate language when
addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately; failure to speak to an item that is germane to the
meeting, or failure to adhere to the time requirements may result in expulsion from the meeting and/or
disqualify the person from providing future testimony.
18-6050
COMMITTEE MINUTES

Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 9/12/2018
18-5634
Sponsored by:
of Commissioners

TONI PRECKWINKLE (President) and JOHN A. FRITCHEY, Cook County Board

PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
PROPOSED
ORDINANCE
AMENDMENT
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY CONSOLIDATION

Page 1 of 7

AND

ORDINANCE

REGARDING

 Technology and Innovation
Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

September 26, 2018

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that
Chapter 2 ADMINISTRATION. Article XII - Cook County Information Technology Security, Division 1.
- Cook County Information Technology Security, Sections 2-960, 2-963, 2-964 and reserved section
numbers, of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as follows:
ARTICLE XII. - COOK COUNTY INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SECURITY
DIVISION 1 - COOK COUNTY INFORMATION SECURITY
Sec. 2-960. - Short title.

This Article division shall be known and may be cited as the "Cook County Information Security
Ordinance.”
Sec. 2-961. - Purpose and policy.

All separately elected County and State Officials, Departments, Office Institutions or Agencies
funded by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, including, but not limited to, the offices and
departments under the control of the County Board President, the Board of Commissioners, Cook County
Health and Hospitals System, State's Attorney of Cook County, Cook County Sheriff, Cook County Public
Defender, Illinois Clerk of the Circuit Court of Cook County, Cook County Treasurer, Cook County Clerk,
Cook County Recorder of Deeds, Cook County Assessor, Chief Judge of the Circuit Court of Cook
County, Board of Review, Cook County Public Defender, Cook County Independent Inspector General,
Cook County Veteran's Assistance Commission and the Public Administrator (collectively, "Agency")
shall take all appropriate precautions to protect the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of information.
Such precautions shall be in accordance with applicable Federal and State laws and regulations and take
into consideration industry standards and best practices.
***
Sec. 2-963. - Definitions.

The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this Article division shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this Section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:

Guideline means a recommendation to assist an Agency employee or contractor in making
appropriate decisions or performing a particular task, which allows for latitude in interpretation and
implementation.
Plan means a comprehensive document that details strategic direction, which may also provide
additional details, such as Standards used and so forth.

Page 2 of 7

 Technology and Innovation
Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

September 26, 2018

Data Subject means an individual about whom information is collected or processed.
Policy means a document that communicates leadership expectations to a business unit or
department of an Agency, which may also be considered as mandatory business rules or organization
specific directives and which are communication of management intent.
Procedure means a document stating the manner in which a Policy shall be functionally
implemented in an Agency's environment, which may define specific operation steps, manual methods, or
instructions for compliance with a Policy.
Standard means a document that contains a specification or describes minimum implementation
that satisfies a Policy.
Sec. 2-964. - Information security framework.

(a) The Information Security Working Group shall assist the Chief Information Security Officer
(CISO) in creating, and updating as necessary, comprehensive and written information security Plans,
Policies, Procedures, Standards, and Guidelines for the Agencies (collectively, the "Information Security
Framework") to reasonably protect the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of Agency information.
(b) In creating and updating the Information Security Framework, the Chief Information Security
Officer (CISO) shall seek the advice and recommendations of each Agency in order to ensure that the
Information Security Framework addresses unique considerations of said Agency; all Agencies shall
advise and collaborate with the Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) in the creation of the
Information Security Framework.
(c) The Information Security Framework shall:
(1) Be in accordance with applicable Federal and State laws and regulations;
(2) State all Agencies' minimum requirements and precautions to protect the confidentiality,
integrity, and availability of Agencies' information;
(3) Address the unique considerations of each Agency in a manner that does not unduly interfere
with the operations of such Agency or any confidentiality or privilege required for such
operations; and
(4) Take into consideration industry standards and best practices by including critical and
necessary components of any such similar framework, for example, risk management
processes, information security incident response plans, and data breach notification plans.
(5) Include an Acceptable Use Policy compliant with Section 2-965 of this Article division.

Page 3 of 7

 Technology and Innovation
Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

September 26, 2018

***
Secs. 2-969. - Privacy Policy.

The Information Security Working Group shall assist the Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) in
creating, and updating as necessary, a comprehensive privacy policy (“Privacy Policy”) for the Agencies.
The Privacy Policy shall govern the County’s handling practices, collection, and use of personal data, as
well as the specific rights of Data Subjects.
***
Secs. 2-97069-2-9792-999. - Reserved

***
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that
Chapter 2 ADMINISTRATION. Article XII - Cook County Information Technology, Division 2. - Cook
County Information Technology Consolidation, Sections 2-980 through 2-999, of the Cook County Code is
hereby enacted as follows:
DIVISION 2 - COOK COUNTY INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY CONSOLIDATION
Section 2-980. - Short title.

This division shall be known and may be cited as the "Cook County Information Technology
Consolidation Ordinance.”
Section 2-981. - Purpose and Policy

All separately elected County and State Officials, Departments, or Agencies funded by the Cook
County Board of Commissioners, including, but not limited to, the offices and departments under the
control of the County Board President, the Board of Commissioners, Cook County Health and Hospitals
System, State's Attorney of Cook County, Cook County Sheriff, Cook County Public Defender, Illinois
Clerk of the Circuit Court of Cook County, Cook County Treasurer, Cook County Clerk, Cook County
Recorder of Deeds, Cook County Assessor, Chief Judge of the Circuit Court of Cook County, Board of
Review, Cook County Independent Inspector General, Cook County Veteran's Assistance Commission
and the Public Administrator (collectively, "Agency") shall, except as otherwise provided in this Division,
coordinate to deliver information technology services in an efficient and cost-effective manner consistent
with County, State and Federal law and industry standards. Agencies not established under the Board of
Commissioners or Office of the County Board President may elect, but are not required to, abide by the
provisions of this Division.

Page 4 of 7

 Technology and Innovation
Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

September 26, 2018

Section 2-982. - Consolidation Studies

(a) The CIO shall, in collaboration with participating Agencies, conduct a study into the viability of
consolidating the following technology functions:
(1) Active directory, including a consolidated identity and access management system; and
(2) Data center.
(b) The CIO shall issue a report to the Cook County Board President and Cook County Board of
Commissioners, Technology Committee regarding the viability of consolidating the above-referenced
functions no later than January 1, 2020.
Section 2-983. - Powers and Duties of the Cook County Chief Information Officer

(a) The CIO shall, in collaboration with participating Agencies, develop policies and standards
relating to technology that may be adopted by participating Agencies, including the following areas:
(1) Procurement standards;
(2) Productivity tools, including service desk and data center monitoring software;
(3) Software development;
(4) Hardware and architecture;
(5) Asset management; and
(6) Any other category of technology.
(b) The CIO shall establish a change management process to coordinate all changes to
information technology services or infrastructure that impact Countywide information technology
operations.
(c) The CIO shall create a multi-year, Countywide Technology Strategic Plan, which shall be
presented to the President and the Cook County Board of Commissioners for receipt and file on an annual
basis.
(d) The CIO shall seek the advice and recommendations of each participating Agency to ensure
that any shared service or policy adopted by the CIO addresses the unique considerations and legal
mandates governing each participating Agency and does not unduly interfere with the operations of such
participating Agency.
Section 2-984. - Powers and Duties of Participating Agencies

(a) Chargebacks. Each participating Agency is responsible for its share of the cost of shared

Page 5 of 7

 Technology and Innovation
Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

September 26, 2018

information technology products or services. The CIO shall determine the chargeback amount for shared
products or services prior to delivery. The CIO shall ensure that the chargebacks are transparent and that
the chargeback amount does not exceed the actual cost to the County of the information technology
product or service.
Section 2-985. - Consolidated Service Desk

(a) The County shall establish a Countywide Service Desk (“County Service Desk”) managed by
the CIO.
(b) The County Service Desk shall provide Tier 1 support to the Offices under the President and,
by agreement, any participating Agency.
(1) Tier 1 support is a basic level of support, with customer representatives who possess a broad
understanding of County IT environments.
(2) Except as by agreement between BOT and participating Agencies, participating Agencies
shall remain responsible for Tier 2 support.
(c) The CIO shall implement a County Service Desk service catalogue and service levels
consistent with industry standards.
(d) The CIO and any participating Agency shall agree upon a project schedule to transfer Tier 1
support to the County Service Desk, and if applicable, Agency-specific service level agreements.
(e) The CIO shall implement all legally-mandated controls related to personal health information,
criminal justice information, or any other sensitive data type prior to assuming Tier 1 support for any
function that that may require access to such data.
(f) The CIO shall provide a monthly report on County Service Desk metrics, including service
level reports, to the participating Agencies. The CIO shall deliver the first County Service Desk report
within 60 days of the establishment of the County Service Desk.
Sec. 2-986. Adoption and Compliance.

The adoption of any shared service or policy as set forth in this division shall not affect any rights
and responsibilities arising under any law, including the Illinois Constitution, the Illinois Counties Code or
the Code of Ordinances of Cook County, Illinois.
Secs. 2-987-2-999. - Reserved
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption

Page 6 of 7

 Technology and Innovation
Committee
Legislative History :

NOTICE AND AGENDA

September 26, 2018

9/12/18 - Board of Commissioners - refer to the Technology and Innovation Comm
18-5657

Presented by: F. THOMAS LYNCH, Chief Information Officer, Bureau of Technology
REPORT
Department: Bureau of Technology
Report Title: Information Security Framework Semi-Annual Report
Report Period: 2/1/2018 - 7/31/2018
Summary:
Pursuant to Resolution 17-2732, the Chief Information Security Officer shall update the
Board of Commissioners via the Technology Committee on the state of the information security in Cook
County government. The Information Security Framework Semi-Annual Report will provide the status of
all Agencies’ adoption and compliance of the Information Security Framework. Included in the report is a
summary of all advice and recommendations of each Agency regarding their unique considerations.
Additionally, updates will be provided regarding current security controls and the Vulnerability Threat
Management Program.

A closed meeting is requested, pursuant to an exception to the Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2 (c) (8):
“Security procedures, school building safety and security, and the use of the personnel and equipment to
respond to an actual, a threatened, or a reasonably potential danger to the safety of employees, students,
staff, the public, or public property.” Given the confidential nature of the Report, a closed meeting is
necessary to maintain the safety and security of Cook County residents and stakeholders.
Legislative History :

9/12/18 - Board of Commissioners - refer to the Technology and Innovation Comm

Secretary
Chairman:
Fritchey
Vice-Chairman: Morrison
Members:
Butler, Daley, Deer, Garcia, Goslin, Schneider, Silvestri

Page 7 of 7

 