November 30, 2018 
  
School Community and Staff at 
TEAM Englewood Community Academy High School 
6201 S Stewart Ave Chicago, IL 60621 
  
Re: Proposed Closure of TEAM Englewood Community Academy (TEAM) High School 
 

Dear TEAM High School Community, 
  
Chicago Public Schools (CPS) is committed to providing every child from every community with a highquality education that prepares them for success in college and in life. CPS students continue to make 
record-breaking academic progress in every part of the city. Our vision is that all CPS schools can build 
on  this  progress  by  offering  high  quality,  rigorous  instruction  from  talented  educators  that  help  put 
Chicago students on a path to lasting success. 
  
At the end of last school year (SY17-18), TEAM Englewood Community Academy High School (TEAM) had 
76 enrolled students. A third of these students have now graduated from CPS. The 47 returning 10th, 
11th, and 12th graders were matched to CPS schools of their choice prior to the end of last school year 
and received transition supports including transportation and individual safety plans.  Each high school 
receiving  transfer  students  also  received  $6,100  per  student  in  supplemental  funding  to  provide 
academic, social and emotional, and other supports to these students during SY18-19 based on their 
specific needs.  CPS continues to support former TEAM students with this transition and as of November 
1, 2018, all TEAM students have successfully transitioned to other schools.  
 

As such, CPS is proposing to close TEAM effective July 1, 2019, in order to efficiently manage District 
resources. This proposal meets the criteria in the Chief Executive Officer’s Guidelines for School Actions 
(Guidelines) because as of November 1, 2018, there were no students enrolled at TEAM. There continue 
to be no students enrolled at TEAM.   
 

Please refer to the Draft Transition Plan that is included with this letter for additional information about 
the proposed closure. 
 

As a next step, CPS will hold two community meetings and one public hearing to hear additional feedback 
on  CPS’  proposal  (meeting  information  is  below).  Following  the  meetings  and  hearing,  the  Board  of 
Education may vote on this proposal as early as February of 2019. 
 

Information Specific to Affected CPS Employees 
While you are working elsewhere each day, your job is still technically assigned to TEAM Englewood 
Community Academy and, therefore, is affected by this action. CPS will work with your labor union over 
the coming weeks to identify supports that the Board may provide for you and your colleagues to ease 

 this transition as much as possible and to provide you any benefits to which you are entitled under your 
collective bargaining agreement. In the meantime, if you have any questions about what this proposal 
means for you, please contact the Talent Office at workforceplanning@cps.edu. 
  
Public Comment on this Proposal 
Your voice is critical to this process and I invite you to share your feedback on the proposed closure of 
TEAM during the following two community meetings and one public hearing outlined below: 
 

Community Meeting  
 
Tuesday, January 8, 2019 
6:00-7:30 PM  
Kershaw Elementary 
6450 S Lowe Ave 

Community Meeting 
 
Thursday, January 17, 2019 
6:00-7:30 PM 
Kershaw Elementary 
6450 S Lowe Ave 

Public Hearing 
 
Wednesday, January 30, 2019 
5:30 - 6:30 PM 
CPS Central Office 
42 West Madison Street 

 

If  you  wish  to  comment  at  the  community  meetings  or  hearing,  please  adhere  to  the  following 
procedures.  You must sign up to speak on the day of, at the designated location, beginning one hour 
before the designated start time and ending 30 minutes after the start of the meeting or hearing. You 
will have two minutes to speak unless the hearing officer or meeting organizer provides an extension. 
The hearing will conclude at the stated end time or following the comments of the last person who has 
signed up to speak, whichever occurs first. 
 

Thank you in advance for your feedback as we work to provide all Chicago Public School students with 
the high-quality education they deserve.  After the community meetings and public hearing, I will review 
a written report from the hearing officer and at that time, I may recommend that the Board consider 
and approve this closure. 
 
Further Questions and Concerns: 
All  of  this  information  can  be  found  at  CPS.edu/Transitions.    If  you  have  any  questions  or  concerns 
regarding this proposal and the Draft Transition Plan, please email transitions@cps.edu or call Chicago 
Public Schools at (773) 553-1500. 
 
Sincerely,  
 

 

Janice K. Jackson, EdD 
Chief Executive Officer 
Chicago Public Schools 

 

 