  
  
42  W.  Madison  Street  •  Chicago,  Illinois  60602  
Telephone:  773/553-­1600    

   
December   1,   2017   
Staff   and   Local   School   Council   
Staff   and   Local   School   Council   
Edward   Jenner   Elementary   Academy   of   the   Arts   
Ogden   International   School   of   Chicago   
1119   North   Cleveland   Avenue   
24   West   Walton   Street   
   
   
Re:    Proposed    Consolidation    of    Edward    Jenner    Elementary    Academy    of    the    Arts    into    Ogden   
International   School   of   Chicago   
      
Dear   Staff   and   Local   School   Council   Members:   
   
Chicago   Public   Schools   (CPS)   is   committed   to   providing   every   child   from   every   community   with   a   
high   quality   education   that   prepares   them   for   success   in   college   and   in   life.   CPS   students   continue   to   
make    record-­‐‑breaking    academic    progress    in    every    part    of    the    city.    Our    vision    is    that    all    CPS    schools   
can   build   on   this   progress   by   offering   high   quality,   rigorous   instruction   from   talented   educators   that   
help   put   Chicago   students   on   a   path   to   lasting   success.      
      
Two   years   ago,   the   Local   School   Councils   at   Edward   Jenner   Elementary   Academy   of   the   Arts   (Jenner)   
and    Ogden    International    School    of    Chicago    (Ogden)    requested    that    a    consolidation    of    Jenner    and   
Ogden    be    considered.        At    that    time,    CPS    declined    to    propose    the    consolidation    of    Jenner    and    Ogden,   
and    instead    sought    additional    community    engagement    to    address    Jenner    and    Ogden’s    unique   
academic    and    utilization    concerns.        A    Jenner/Ogden    Community    Steering    Committee    (JOCSC)    was   
formed,    comprised    of    parents    and    community    members    representing    Jenner    and    Ogden    and    they   
have   led   a   community-­‐‑driven   approach   to   merge   the   two   schools.   JOCSC   hired   NextLevel   NPO,   LLC   
(NextLevel)   to   prepare   a   report   evaluating   options   to   address   Ogden’s   overcrowding   and   Jenner’s   
underutilization.    NextLevel’s    report    supports    the    proposal    to    merge    Jenner    and    Ogden,    providing   
Jenner    students    with    an    access    to    an    International    Baccalaureate    Programme,    addressing    both   
schools’   enrollment   concerns   and   creating   an   integrated,   diverse   school.         
   
For   these   reasons,   today   CPS   is   proposing   the   consolidation   of   Jenner   into   Ogden.   This   proposal   also   
includes   the   merging   of   the   schools’   attendance-­‐‑area   boundaries   into   one   attendance   area   boundary.   
If    this    proposal    is    approved    by    the    Board    of    Education    of    the    City    of    Chicago    (Board),    Jenner    and   
Ogden   will   be   consolidated   for   the   start   of   the   2018-­‐‑19   school   year.      Current   students’   enrollment   
status   at   either   school   will   not   be   affected   by   this   action   and   all   current   students   at   both   schools   will   
be   allowed   to   attend   the   consolidated   school.   
   
This    proposal    is    consistent    with    the    Chief    Executive    Officer’s    Guidelines    for    School    Actions   
(Guidelines)   for   consolidations   because   it   is   a   proposal   formally   requested   by   community   members   
via    the    JOCSC    and    the    resulting    space    utilization    data    after    the    consolidation    will    not    exceed    the   
facilities’   enrollment   efficiency   range,   as   defined   by   the   CPS’   Space   Utilization   Standards.      Finally,   the   

   

   

   
  
42  W.  Madison  Street  •  Chicago,  Illinois  60602  
Telephone:  773/553-­1600    

   
students   impacted   by   this   proposed   consolidation   are   being   provided   the   option   to   enroll   at   Ogden,   
a   higher   performing   school,   as   defined   by   the   Guidelines.   
   
Over    the    coming    months,    CPS    will    work    with    your    labor    union    to    minimize    the    impact    of    this   
proposed    consolidation    on    both    school    staffs.    It    is    our    goal    to    maintain    stability    throughout    the   
transition,    and    we    will    communicate    additional    details    to    you    as    these    plans    are    further    developed.   
In   the   meantime,   if   you   have   any   questions   about   what   this   proposal   means   for   you,   please   contact   
the   Talent   Office   at   workforceplanning@cps.edu.   
      
If   you   would   like   more   details   about   the   proposal,   please   refer   to   the   Draft   Transition   Plan   that   is   
included   with   this   letter.   
   
As    a    next    step,    CPS    will    hold    two    community    meetings    and    one    public    hearing    to    hear    further   
feedback   on   CPS’   proposal   (meeting   information   is   below).   Following   the   meetings   and   hearing,   the   
Board   of   Education   may   vote   on   this   proposal   as   early   as   February   of   2018.   
      
Public   Comment   on   this   Proposal   
I   invite   you   to   share   your   feedback   on   this   proposal   during   the   following   two   community   meetings   
and   one   public   hearing   noted   below:   
   
Community   Meeting   1                                                      Community   
                                       
Meeting   2   
Public   Hearing   
January   9,   2018                                          
January   16,   2018                                          
January   25,   2018   
6   to   8   p.m.   
6   to   8   p.m.   
4:30   to   6:30   p.m.   
Ogden   International   School   of    Edward   Jenner   Elementary   
CPS   Central   Office   
Chicago   
Academy   of   the   Arts   
24   West   Walton   Street   
1119   North   Cleveland   Avenue   
42   West   Madison   Street   
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
If   you   wish   to   comment   at   the   community   meetings   or   hearing,   you   must   sign   up   to   speak   on   the   day   
of,   at   the   designated   location,   beginning   one   hour   before   the   designated   start   time   and   ending   one   
hour   after   the   start   of   the   meeting   or   hearing.   You   will   have   two   minutes   to   speak,   unless   the   hearing   
officer   or   meeting   organizer   provides   an   extension.      The   hearing   will   conclude   at   the   stated   end   time   
or   following   the   comments   of   the   last   person   who   has   signed   up   to   speak,   whichever   occurs   first.   
      
Thank   you   in   advance   for   your   feedback   as   we   work   to   provide   all   Chicago   Public   School   students   
with   the   high   quality   education   they   deserve.      After   the   community   meetings   and   public   hearing,   I   
will    review    a    written    report    from    the    hearing    officer    and    at    that    time,    I    may    recommend    that    the   
Board   consider   and   approve   the   consolidation   of   Jenner   and   Ogden.   
   
   
   
   
   

   

   
  
42  W.  Madison  Street  •  Chicago,  Illinois  60602  
Telephone:  773/553-­1600    

   
Further   Questions   and   Concerns:   
All   of   this   information   can   be   found   at   CPS.edu/Transitions.   If   you   have   any   questions   or   concerns   
regarding   this   proposal   and   the   Draft   Transition   Plan,   please   call   Chicago   Public   Schools   at   (773)   553-­‐‑
1500   or   email   Transitions@cps.edu.   
         
Sincerely,   
   
   
   
Forrest   Claypool   
   
   
   
Chief   Executive   Officer      
   
   
Chicago   Public   Schools      
   
   

   

   

 