MINUTES
Belle Isle Park Advisory Committee Meeting Minutes
Thursday, January 18, 2018
Location: Belle Isle Flynn Pavilion

No Quorum: Meeting started at 9:00 a.m.
Roll Call and Excused Absences
Quorum reached at 9:20 a.m.

PRESENT FOR BIPAC
Chair Michele Hodges
Michael Curis
Bud Denker
Sommer Woods
DNR STAFF PRESENT
Ron Olson
Scott Pratt
Michael Terrell
Karis Floyd
Jacob Brown
Amanda Hertl
Darlisa Rickman
Egypt Burnley
Damon Owens
Mia Moore
Deb Jenson
Murdock Jemerson
Alexis Horton
EXCUSED ABSENCES
Rev. Lonnie Peek
Brad Dick
REVIEW AND APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Chair Hodges requested approval of the minutes from the November 17, 2017 meeting.

BELLE ISLE PARK ADVISORY COMMITTEE
MINUTES – January 18, 2018
1

 Denker moved to approve minutes, with Curis supporting the motion. Minutes for November
17, 2017 were approved.
PRESENTATIONS
Belle Isle Draft Strategic Management Plan
Ms. Deb Jensen, DNR Parks and Recreation, Park Management Plan Administrator, presented a
status update on the draft Belle Isle Strategic Management Plan. The current plan has been in
process for over a year. The draft plan will be available for public review beginning on January
18, 2018 on the project website at Michigan.gov/parkmanagementplans. There will be two
public meetings held in February 2018 at the Outdoor Adventure Center. Park stakeholders and
members of the public are invited to attend one of the two hour meetings. The meetings will
review a presentation of the draft plan and the planning process. Materials will be available for
public review and comment. Comments will also be accepted on the project website through
February 12, 2018.
Ms. Jensen further reviewed the DNR and Belle Isle Conservancy management goals and core
values for Belle Isle Park for the next 10 years.
Summer Youth Employment Program – Year in Review
Murdock Jemerson, DNR Parks and Recreation District Supervisor and Alexis Horton, DNR
Parks and Recreation Promotional Agent shared a presentation regarding Summer Youth
Employment Program. The program begin in 2012 and includes 10 summer youth agencies;
including a new partnership with AmeriCorps. This program provides youth various work
activities such as landscape cleanup, painting, etc. Belle Isle Park had all 10 agencies provide
youth to work on the island this year. Youth that have participated in this program have shown
positive results many have gone on to become short term workers within the Department of
Natural Resources (DNR), Parks and Recreation Division (PRD); some have gone on to college
or obtained other employment. Van Riper State Park also had 6 youth provided by the Healthy
Kidz agency that worked alongside DNR Parks and Recreation staff to make park improvements
and learn about various career opportunities. Current Belle Isle Park, General Office Assistant,
Egypt Burnely, started with the Healthy Kidz Summer Youth Employment Program.
Ron Olson, Chief PRD, responded to a question regarding the demand for this program. Mr.
Olson indicated that the demand is great for the program and that the budget determines the
participation levels that are available.
GENERAL UPDATES
DNR Law Enforcement Update Conservation Officer Damon Owens reported that it is a slow
time of the year in the park. DNR Law Enforcement is still working with the Michigan State
Police (MSP) to protect Belle Isle Park and that the number of incidents has steadily reduced.
BELLE ISLE PARK ADVISORY COMMITTEE
MINUTES – January 18, 2018
2

 Park Operations Update
Karis Floyd, Belle Isle Park Manager, shared the following operational items with the
committee:
•
•
•

The White House is closed for clean-up. Staffing is spread out over the island but can be
reached at the main phone number 313-821-9844.
Michigan Department of Transportation (MDOT) will be working on Mac Arthur Bridge
later this year to perform maintenance on the bridge.
The Friends of Detroit Rowing Club, current lease holder of the boat club on Belle Isle
Park, are working to establish a Master Plan for the site in partnership with park staff and
BIC. The plan would include building restoration based upon planned future use.

Jacob Brown, DNR Parks and Recreation Belle Isle Park Supervisor shared the following
operational items with the committee:
• During the winter months staff has been working on various projects such as fixing the
interior steps in the Casino, they plan to be finished with that project before Shiver on the
River February 3, 2018.
Michele Hodges asked if there is an opportunity for cross-country skiing, snowmobiling, and
other winter activities on the island; asking for an overview of what Belle Isle has to offer in that
aspect?
Karis Floyd, Park Manager, stated that there is no snowmobiling permitted on the island
at this time. We do encourage snowshoeing and cross-country skiing.
Infrastructure Updates
Amanda Hertl, Urban Field Planner, provided a written updated regarding the infrastructure
projects; a full update was provided to committee members’ in their packets. Some of the
highlights are listed below:
•
•
•

•
•

Lake Okonoka project is continuing to be dredged and remove the soil to the lighthouse
with a completion estimated by early summer.
One lane on the “Strand” is closed for construction
The former Internal Affairs Building is currently scheduled to be renovated into the Parks
Administrative Office; staff should be relocated back into the building sometime in the
coming summer. The goal is to include the Belle Isle Conservancy staff into the facility.
A pre-bid walk through is scheduled with the contractors for Monday, January 22, 2018.
The Casino roof repair project will be completed when the weather is adequate; the
ceramic tiles have arrived for this repair project.
The fire suppression system building renovation in the Casino is complete.

BELLE ISLE PARK ADVISORY COMMITTEE
MINUTES – January 18, 2018
3

 •
•

The Athletic Complex renovation meeting was held in December 2017. Roof repairs will
begin, masonry rework and the field will be reformed in the spring. The soccer field will
be open in the spring.
Piet Oudolf visited Detroit last month where he met DNR staff and Garden Club
members to discuss his planning process for the garden in Belle Isle Park.

Sommer Woods inquired as to the availability of the renovated picnic shelters for rentals this
summer. She also asked who brought Piet Oudolf to Detroit.
Amanda Hertl responded that the only shelter that may not be ready until spring is
shelter 19 due to its poor condition. However, the remaining shelters will be available to
rent. Amanda further explained that the Detroit Garden Club wrote to Piet Oudolf
requesting him to come to Detroit and consider a garden. Belle Isle was chosen as his
preferred site.
Committee member Curis asked about the contract under the City?
Amanda Hertl responded that the City is in the process of determining what credits are
available to offset their storm water fees based on the areas that storm water directly
drains into the river.
Ron Olson further responded that the formula that is used to calculate the storm water
usage also dictates the cost of the water usage. Currently working to find a way to use
storm water runoff for example at the golf course for irrigation.
Upcoming Events
Darlisa Rickman, Belle Isle Park Events Coordinator, shared the winter season is still as busy as
the peak season.
• February 3,2018 Shiver on the River (please see flyer)
• Belle Isle Conservancy will be hosting “The Flying Pancake Breakfast” at the Flynn
Pavilion on February 3, 2018.
Belle Isle Conservancy Update
Chair Hodges shared that the Memorandum of Understanding with the DNR was recently
approved and signed. Chair Hodges further thanked the Conservancy and DNR staff for their
work on this.
DNR staff will have responsibility for executing the findings of the management plan and the
provisions of it according to the lease with the City. The Conservancy will continue collaborate
jointly on communications, revenue strategies; vendor opportunities and working together on
large scale events.

BELLE ISLE PARK ADVISORY COMMITTEE
MINUTES – January 18, 2018
4

 PUBLIC COMMENTS (3 minutes each)
Michael Betzold

He stated that the Grand Prix is incompatible with the
Oudolf Garden. He believes the island is being
gentrified for suburbanites.

Donald Green

Stated that the MO-GO bike system was mentioned as a
possible addition to the island and it is not a good fit for
Belle Isle Park for the following reasons:
• Kiosks work half of the time
• Bikes must be returned to a kiosk every 30 minutes
• You will be charged a $4 fee every half an hour the
bike is not returned
• Competition for the vendor currently located on the
island
Mr. Green further stated that the “new” solar power lights
are nonfunctional, and the boat ramp is a “Stupid” idea.

Janice Ellison

Shared that this coming Sunday the Detroit Nature Center
will present a program on Albert Kahn’s influence on the
Island, and Chris Mister will be speaking on the Aquarium
movement and Victorian age. The event will take place
between 2:00 and 2:30 p.m., January 21, 2018.

Chair Hodges spoke on behalf of Gloria Myers. Myers is interested in obtaining crime statistics
for 2016 compared to 2017. Meyers would also like to know about the possibility of food trucks
on the Island.
Paul Andrew Kettunen

Requested proof/ certification of the Grand Prix extension
to 2018. He has been unable to obtain paperwork from the
City of Detroit stating the Grand Prix is granted an
extension into the year of 2018. Further questioning what
contract the Grand Prix is currently being conducted under
and requesting a copy of the current agreement.

Ron Olson replied that when the DNR leased Belle Isle Park we agreed to honor the original
agreement that the City of Detroit and the Grand Prix had in place. It stated in the original
contract it was extended out to 2018 through the City of Detroit. What is currently being
discussed is if we will re-negotiate the contract with the Grand Prix for future years to come.
Both Olson and Chair Hodges indicated a copy would be provided and the extension is available
for review.

BELLE ISLE PARK ADVISORY COMMITTEE
MINUTES – January 18, 2018
5

 Chair Hodges spoke on behalf of Kevin Hennessey, sharing that the cement pad placed to
accommodate the Grand Prix is the first thing you see when you enter the island. Restore the
island to its natural beauty.
Mary Ellen Howard

Stated there is a need for picnic tables in the park. Further
stating that the Grand Prix is a huge impact on the Island
and for 3 months there is no access to the west side and she
would like to be made aware of the public meetings.
She believes the Piet Oudolf Garden is a great idea
however not compatible with the Grand Prix.
She expressed concerns that these public meetings are a
one way conversation and we are not allowed to ask
questions during the meeting and we do not get answers
after.

Chair Hodges replied that there is always staff available to answer questions after the meeting.
Betty Roberts

Stated that unlike many other comments about the Grand
Prix; I am in favor of the Grand Prix. The public interaction
especially with youth is something to factor in.

Sandra Novacek

Did not get a chance to speak; her comment card stated the
following regarding the strategic plan
• Careful attention needs to be made to criteria for
approving large events
• Pay careful attention to developing guidelines for
reviewing privileges/ donations. The donor’s
mission should match with the DNR and BIC
mission.

COMMITTEE MEMBERS ITEMS
Denker

Thank you to the DNR and local staff for all that you do. Thank
you Ron Olson for helping us in keeping Metro Youth Day going
for many, many years.

Curis

What happened to the beavers on the Island?

Ron Olson replied the beavers are fine; we are taking the proper steps in keeping the balance.
Beavers have been on the island long before they are just migrating out of the wooded areas.

BELLE ISLE PARK ADVISORY COMMITTEE
MINUTES – January 18, 2018
6

 Woods

I just wanted to make sure shelters would be open for use. I have
open sentiments in regards to the Garden. Also, in this down time
I hope the two booths are being worked on and will be fully
operational.

Ron Olson

Stated that although Amanda didn’t cover, a thorough study of
the Conservatory was conducted and we discovered that key
structural improvements need to be made as a high priority that is
estimated to cost up to $800,000. We are looking to get
that
repaired this year.
Chair Hodges

In regards to the Grand Prix, the DNR is responsible to negotiate
the contract. At this time a renewal contract has not been submitted
for review.

Denker interjected that it has not been decided to move forward with considering extending the
event past 2018.
Hodges further pointed out Denker’s grandfather is present in the photograph shown in the
Summer Youth Employment Program presentation and was one of the original Civilian
Conservation Corps. Members.
Meeting Concluded:

10:54 am.

NEXT REGULAR MEETING:
February 15, 2018
Flynn Pavilion
Belle Isle Park
Detroit, MI 48207
9:00 a.m. – 11:00 am.
Approved: ___________________________
Michele Hodges

______________________________
Ronald A. Olson, Chief

Date: ______________________________

*November 2017 minutes approved at the January 18th, 2018 meeting.

BELLE ISLE PARK ADVISORY COMMITTEE
MINUTES – January 18, 2018
7

 