Chicago Board of Health
Meeting Summary: February 21, 2018
DePaul Center, 333 South State Street

Roll Call
Board Members Present
Carolyn C. Lopez, M.D., President
Juan M. Calderon
Melanie Dreher, RN, PhD.
Caswell A. Evans, Jr., D.D.S., M.P.H.
Victor M. Gonzalez
Steven K. Rothschild, M.D.
Joseph B. Starshak
Board Members Absent
Adele Joy Cobbs, M.D.
Horace E. Smith, M.D.
For the Department
Julie Morita, M.D., Commissioner

 Chicago Board of Health
Meeting Summary: February 21, 2018
DePaul Center, 333 South State Street
Call to Order: The meeting was called to order at 9:04 a.m.
Approval of Minutes: January 2017 minutes were unanimously approved.
Commissioner’s Update:
Commissioner Morita mentioned, she was listening to the radio on the way to work heard the recent
news regarding the Florida students in the tragic school shooting.
Commissioner Morita provided the following updates:
Black History Month
CDPH’s LGBTQ Health & Outreach Program, led by Antonio King, who is working in
partnership with the Chicago Black Gay Men’s Caucus. They would like to extend an invitation
to the Board of Health to attend the “Chicago LGBTQA Black History Recognitions” on Friday,
February 23rd at 6:00pm at the South Side Community Art Center located at 3831 S. Michigan
Ave. The Chicago LGBTQA (lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and allies) Black History
Recognitions highlight and uplift individuals, allies and/or entities within the Black LGBTQA
community who utilize their platform to advance the health, rights, image and spirit of members
of the LGBTQ community.
Englewood Clinic
On Friday, February 16th, Commissioner Morita facilitated a meeting with Aldermen Lopez,
Cochran, and David Moore and our partners Mile Square, Howard Brown, YWCA Metropolitan
Chicago and Chicago Torture Justice Center from the Englewood Neighborhood Health Clinic.
This was an opportunity to highlight services provided to the community, answer any questions
related to the Englewood STI Clinic transition and to work together to ensure seamless services
to the residents of Englewood.
Getting to Zero
In early February, Mayor Emanuel and CDPH announced $36 million in new HIV funding
opportunities to support Chicago's Getting to Zero initiative. All funding opportunities will
focus on communities most impacted by HIV transmission, including members of the LGBTQ
community, most especially younger African-American and Latino gay and bisexual men, as
well as transgender women. This is great news as we work towards our goal of effectively
eliminating all new diagnosis of HIV in Chicago by 2027.
Flu Activity
Flu activity remains high, accountable for 8% of total emergency visits for influenza-like illness.
Though there is no shortage of vaccine, CDPH did identify a shortage of the generic version of
liquid Tamiflu. CDPH worked with local pharmacies to ensure residents were given access to
affordable medication for their children and continues to encourage residents to get their flu
shots; this is the best way to protect ourselves and our residents.
Opioid Prevention
Last week, CDPH and Rush co-hosted a daylong conference educating clinicians about the latest,
evidence based information regarding opioid prescribing, addiction treatment, and harm
reduction. Nearly 200 primary care doctors, nurses and advocates attended this standing room
only event. Speakers included both local and national experts from Northwestern and UIC. In
addition, in early February, Mayor Rahm Emanuel announced the next steps in the City’s fight
against opioids. The Chicago Police Department (CPD) will be providing naloxone and training
its officers in how to administer the lifesaving nasal spray when someone is in the midst of an
overdose.

 Chicago Board of Health
Meeting Summary: February 21, 2018
DePaul Center, 333 South State Street
Comments by the Board President: Dr. Lopez provided an overview of the board’s history
and explained the board’s advisory role in matters of infectious disease and health issues
affecting public health. Dr. Lopez also commented on the board’s recent advocacy role in the
tobacco control ordinance.
Policy Update: Jesse Lava provided the following policy updates:
State
• Governor Rauner’s proposed budget has cuts to health and human services. It assumes a
rollback of the state income tax increase and does not address state’s $8.8 billion backlog of
unpaid bills, many of which are to health institutions. Even where there are increases, we are
not getting back to 2015 levels. So the damage from the last three years due to the impasse is
not being repaired.
o Funding that has significant cuts even relative to this past year includes DHS
programs overall involving things like infant mortality, addiction treatment and
prevention, immigrant integration, supportive housing, mental health, TANF, child
care, and early intervention. There is also a cut in the Medicaid provider rate.
o Funding that’s level this year but down relative to 2015 includes school health
centers, immunizations, perinatal services, family planning, SIDS, and the ACA
marketplace.
Federal
• CDC Director Brenda Fitzgerald resigned over financial conflicts of interest with her work.
Specifically, she had traded in tobacco stocks. The acting director is Anne Schuchat, who has
worked at the CDC since 1988 and is an assistant surgeon general.
City
• Mayor Emanuel announced that there will be a youth wellbeing index for Chicago, aiming to
take stock of how we are doing as a city in preparing our youth for life, whether in health or
economic opportunity or other areas. Creation of that index will be led by external partners
with input from City agencies. Mayor Emanuel wants to be sure that we keep making gains
for youth and do not take steps back; this index will help provide a metric for the progress
and status.
Presentation: Presentation: “Trauma Informed Transformation Project,” Marlita White, Director
of Behavioral Health and Violence Prevention
Old Business: None
New Business: Dr. Lopez followed-up on scheduling a board of health retreat; she is currently
working with the ethic office to confirm the meeting structure and will check back with board
members regarding their availability.
Public Comment: None
Adjourn: The meeting adjourned at 10:35 a.m.
Next Board Meeting: March 21, 2018, 9:00 a.m.

 