REVISED AT TABLE
06/13/17

 

ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
BOARD OF DIRECTORS REGULAR MEETING
TUESDAY, APRIL 25, 2017 8:30 AM.

BOARD MEMBERS PRESENT: Marsha Bruhn

BOARD MEMBERS ABSENT:

SPECIAL DIRECTORS
PRESENT:

SPECIAL DIRECTORS
ABSENT:

OTHERS PRESENT:

Monique Claiborne
Kimberly Clayson
Chris Jackson
Jonathan Queries
Matthew Roling

Maurice Cox (Ex-Officio)
Linda Forte

John Naglick (Ex-Of?cio)
William Ritsema
Thomas Stallworth

None

Jon Newton
Timothy Schacht
Marvin Thomas

Anthony Askew 
Kyla Carlsen 
Gay Hilger 
Denise Hundley 
Malinda Jensen 
Jennifer Kanalos 
Glen Long 
Andrew 
Sharon Madison (Julian C. Madison Building, LLC)
Rebecca Navin 
Mimi Pledl 

Orza Robertson 
Ayesha Maxwell 



Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit

MINUTES OF THE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
BOARD OF DIRECTORS REGULAR MEETING

TUESDAY, APRIL 25, 2017

DETROIT ECONOMIC GROWTH CORPORATION

500 GRISWOLD, SUITE 2200 - 8:30 A.M.

CALL TO ORDER

Noting that a quorum was present Vice Chairperson Quarles called the Regular meeting
of the Economic Development Corporation Board of Directors to order at 8:35 am.

GENERAL

Approval of Minutes

Mr. Quarles asked if there were any additions, deletions or corrections to the minutes of
the March 7, 2017 Special Board meeting. Ms. Bruhn noted an error on the first page.
Kimberly Clayson, who was absent from the meeting, was listed as both present and
absent. With there being no other changes to the minutes, the Board took the following
action:

On a motion by Ms. Bruhn, seconded by Mr. Roling, Resolution Code EDC 17?04?
02?279 was unanimously approved.

Receipt of Treasurer?s Report

Mr. Long reviewed the Treasurer?s Report of Receipts and Disbursements for the month
of March, 2017 for the benefit of the Board and responded to questions.

Subsequent to a discussion, the Board took the following action:

On a motion by Mr. Jackson, seconded by Mr. Roling, Resolution Code EDC 17?
04-03-213 was unanimously approved.

PROJECTS

Waterfront East Development Project, NDC #1 Jefferson Village Project. Mt.
Elliott Wight Development Project--Landscape Services Contract with Payne
Landscaping Inc.

Mr. Robertson reported that as part of the East Riverfront, Jefferson Village and Mt. Elliott
Projects, the EDC provides landscape maintenance services for various areas within the
Project. The boundaries of the East Riverfront Project Area are Woodbridge (north),

April 25, 2017

500 Griswold,SUiTe 2200 Detroit, Michigan 48226 (313) 963-2940

Atwater (south), Jos Campau (east), and Riopelle (west). Jefferson Village Project the
boundaries are Jefferson (north), St. Ciair (east), Freud (south) and St. Jean (east). Light
House Depot the project is located on Mt. Eitiott (south) of Jefferson (the ?Project Area?).

To prepare for the required landscape maintenance, the EDC staff publicly advertised and
issued a Request For Proposal in March 2017 for the performance of area
landscape maintenance and vegetation control services in the Project Area. The work
entails trash debris removal, mowing vacant lots, weed control, minor fertilization for the
Project Area 

Upon reviewing the responses to the RFP, the EDC staff determined that Payne
Landscaping Inc. (the ??Contractor?) was the most qualified, responsive bidder with a total
bid amount of $20,300.00 for the three (3) Project Areas. The contract is for a one (1)
year term, starting May 2017 through November 30, 2017.

East Riverfront 1,600.00
Jefferson Village $16,600.00
Light House Depot 2,100.00
Total $20,300.00

EDC staff therefore recommended that the Board authorize EDC staff to negotiate and
enter into an agreement with the Payne Landscaping inc. for performance of the Work
(the ?Agreement?) in an amount not-to-exceed Twenty Thousand Three Hundred and
00/100 Dollars 

Finally, the EDC staff also recommended an owner?s contingency of $2,030.00 to manage
unforeseen conditions or additional work for the season.

A resolution for each the EDC Waterfront East, EDC Mt. Eliiott Wight, and NBC #1 
Jefferson Village was included in the Board material for the Board?s consideration
consideration.

Subsequent to a discussion, the Board took the following action:

On a motion by Mr. Jackson, seconded by Mr. Roling, Resolution Codes EDC 17?
04-70-66, EDC 17?04-13-96, and EDC 173-04-68-10 were unanimously
approved.

Motor City Match Recommendation for Round 7 Business Awards

Mr. Askew advised that on December 1, 2016, the Motor City Match program began
accepting applications for Round 7 of the Business Owner Application Track. The
Business Owner Application Track is for businesses from Detroit and around the world
that are looking to start or expand in Detroit. The table below describes the levels of award
and qualifications.

Mr. Jackson asked if he could interrupt at this point to ask a question about the MCM
Subcommittee and whether it had disbanded. He knows that the last round and this one

April 25, 2017

they did not meet. Ms. Navin responded that as the Board may recall, a few meetings
ago, it adopted a resolution that the committee meetings now will be subject to the Open
Meetings Act, which makes it more difficult to find a time to hold a committee meeting as
an open meeting with the time constraints of this project and the public announcements.
Ms. Navin added that she did not attend the meetings and did not know whether in the
past they took place in person or via telephone conference. Mr. Jackson responded that
the meetings were in person and he believes the Board adopted a resolution appointing
the Subcommittee members and that the Board possibly needs to take formal action
disbanding the Subcommittee.

Ms. Bruhn stated that at a future meeting she would like revisit this issue of committees

before they are disbanded, because she believes there is a real value to the Board of
having the committees.

Mr. Askew reviewed the proposed awards with the Board.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Awards Awardees must:
BUSINESS . Up to 50 winners . A great idea

PLAN 0 Free business pianning class
. Up to 25 winners each round . A great idea
SPACE . Match making with top real estate . A great business pian
2 . Financial planning assistance
.4
- Up to 7 winners each round 0 A great idea
. Design/build assistance . A great business plan
0 . . . .
- Priority permitting - Space secured

. Financiai planning assistance

0 Up to 10 winners each round . A great idea

. Up to $100,000 matching grant per winner . A great business pian

u:

2' . Grants match your cash dollar~for~doiian . Space secured
(213 i3:- CASH . $500,000 in grants per round for building and . A plan for build-out
business owners
. Funds ready to
u. . Pitch to lending partners for financing investment

 

 

 

 

 

 

When applications closed on January 1, 2017, the EDC had received over 220 business
applications ("Application"). Motor City Match had previously received over nearly 3,000
applications since the program?s inception.

This memorandum and resolution focuses on the selection and recommendation of
awardees for:
a "Business Plan" award track receiving business planning assistance

Aprii 25, 2017

. ?Space" award track receiving site selection assistance

. "Design? award track receiving architectural design, permitting and bidding
assistance for bra?development

0 ?Cash? award track receiving grants and financing assistance

First, staff verified business eligibility based on self?reported data submitted in the
application for the following five criteria.

1. The business is incorporated and has a registered EIN and DUNS prior to
receiving a grant award

2. The business wishes to locate in Detroit for at least two years

3. The business is majority-owned by a person who is at least 18 years or
older

4. The business and all owners are in good standing with the City of Detroit,
State of Michigan and IRS, and

5. The business is not part of a franchise.

Second, staff sorted apptications into various award tracks and reviewed eligible business
applications to determine finalists. A simple thumbs up/thumbs down voting technique was
used to narrow the iist of eligible appiicants to finalists for Business Plan. The other three
awards were selected using the too-point scaie detailed below. Finalist applicants were
identified as foiiows:

0 ?Business Plan" applicants have great business ideas but haven?t formulated
a business plan yet or need heip strengthening their business pians before
pursuing space. in total, forty-five (45) Business Pian awardees were selected
using the thumbs up/thumbs down voting technique.

0 ?Space? applicants are actively looking for space. These business appiicants
are either new business ventures that have a solid business pian or they are
existing businesses with a track record of success and a plan to grow it. in
total, fifty-seven (57) applicants were evaluated to determine awardees.
?Design? applicants have great business plans and have secured a space but
need help planning for renovations. In some cases, these businesses are
tenants; in other cases, these businesses own the building they plan to open
their business in. in total, fourteen (14) Design finalists were selected.

- ?Cash? applicants have a location secured, a pian for build-out and strong of
understanding of the money needed to start their business and complete
renovations at the space. in total, thirty-five (35) Cash finalists were seiected.

Third, a team of outside jurors evaluated finalist applications based on five criteria.

?Business Plan" applications were initially reviewed by a team of business planning service
providers, as well as members of the Motor City Match staff. ?Space? finaiists were

April 25, 2017

reviewed by a team of community stakeholders from across various parts of the city and
?Design" and ?Cash? finalists were reviewed by a team of business leaders and lenders.
?Business Plan? applications were only scored using the thumbs up/thumbs down voting
technique after reviewing the five criteria. "Space?, ?Design", and ?Cash? applications were
scored on a scale of 1?1 00. Each of the five criteria is worth 20 points to contribute to the
100?point score. Selection criteria are as follows:

Vision and plan;
Expenence

Market support
Community support
Leverage



Finally, ?Cash" finalists were required to submit supplemental information as follows.

?Cash? finalists submitted comprehensive financial information, including a standard loan
application and personal financial statement. Motor City Match staff compiled this
supplemental information to determine the financial need, equity investment and ?financial
gap" for each business. Next, Motor City Match staff met with a team of six iocal
Community Development Financial institution lending partners on March 28, 2017,
to determine grant and loan investment required to tilt the ?financial gap? on each project.
partners include invest Detroit, Detroit Development Fund, Capital impact Partners,
LISC, Michigan Women?s Foundation and Detroit Micro-Enterprise Fund. partners
made commitments to explore lending the balance of the financial gap based on
recommended grant investment from Motor City Match. Motor City Match staff used lender
interest, participant scores, supplemental information and readiness to accept additional
investment to determine ?Cash? awardees and associated grant investment.

Finally, staff compiled juror scores to identify top ranking candidates for awards.

EDC staff recommended:

- Forty?five (45) ?Business Pian? awardees for business planning were presented
in Exhibit A which was attached to the memorandum.

. Twenty-Seven (27) ?Space? awardees for site selection were presented in
Exhibit to the memorandum.
Seven (7) ?Design" awardees were presented in Exhibit to the memorandum.

. Thirteen (13) ?Cash? awardees are to receive a total of $500,000 in grant
investment, as described on Exhibit to the memorandum.

EDC staff anticipates contracting with independent business planning service providers to
deliver business planning training. EDC anticipates that Build Institute and LifeLine will
provide business planning training for up to 50 Round 7 Motor City Match ?Business Plan?
awardees.

EDC staff will facilitate one?on-one match making between top ranking businesses and
building owners recognized as ?Space? awardees. Match making services will include
open houses and networking sessions between business owners and building owners. in
addition, technical assistance wili include expert guidance on leasing, financial planning
and assessing market opportunities.

April 25, 2017

EDC staff will hire contractual professional architect, engineering and construction
providers to deliver design-buiid assistance to ?Design? awardees. The EDC has approved
four (4) design?build independent contractors to provide pre-deveiopment design services
for seven (7) Round 7 Motor City Match ?Design? awardees.

The EDC will enter into grant agreements with Round 7 Motor City Match ?Cash? awardees
and facilitate introductions to lending partners to pursue gap financing through these
independent sources.

A resolution approving the staff?s recommendations of ?Business Plan?, ?Space" and
?Design" awardees and recommending to the Board staff?s recommendation of ?Cash?
awardees was included with the Board material for consideration.

Ms. Bruhn suggested that examining the zoning of the property be a part of the due
diligence process.

Ms. Bruhn also asked if they look at concentration and trying to get diversity in the area
before supporting a business. She noted that there are several hair salons?en?the?iistig
the area. Mr. Askew responded that there is a committee that reviews the applications.
Ms. Jensen clarified that there is a group of judges that review the applications. Generally,
two or three staff vote, and the vast majority of the voting on the applications is the tending
partners?invest Detroit, Michigan Women?s Foundation, Detroit Development Fund,
Capital Impact Partners?wand some peopie from the homeowners? associations.

Mr. Roling asked about the retail study and if there is a report available yet. Ms. Carlsen
responded that the first report is due the end of May and that the study will be complete
by the end of the year. It was agreed by the Board that the report wiil be provided to it in
June and another update in October.

Ms. Claiborn asked what was the status on cash disbursements made on previous rounds.
Mr. Askew replied that they are at about 55 percent of the totai funds committed and will
present a report on the dollar amount at the next meeting.

Subsequent to the discussion, the Board took the following action:

On a motion by Mr. Jackson, seconded by Ms. Claiborne, Resolution Code EDC
17-04-9142 was unanimously approved.

Motor City Match Recommendation for Round 7 Building Awards

Mr. Askew reported that on December 1, 2016, the Motor City Match program
began accepting applications from interested building owners for Round 7 of the Building
Application Track (?Round The Building Appiication Track is for Detroit property
owners with a vacant space looking for quality new tenants. Awards include pre-
deveiopment assistance, marketing and tenant recruiting. Properties that are matched
with businesses are considered for grants, financing and priority permitting. The table
below describes the levels of award and quaiifications.

April 25, 2017

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Awards Awardees must:
c113 . Listed as an available property viewable by . Be current and compliant
hundreds of Business Competition candidates. . Judged most feasible for
5. SPACE . Top 25 scoring buildings will be marketed as a "top business
2 destination for new business"
3 . Pre-development building assessment
- Matchmaking with top businesses
0 Up to awardees each round across both the . Be current and compliant
building and business tracks . Judged most feasible for
I DESIGN . Design/build assistance business
a . Priority permitting - Have a tenant secured
. Financial planning assistance
. Up to 10 awardees each round across both the . Be current and compliant
building and business tracks . Judged most feasible for
. Up to $100,000 matching grant per winner business
3? 2 CASH . $500,000 in grants per round for building and . Haveatenant secured
5 business owners - Have a plan for building
. Pitch to lending partners forfinancing renovations
. Have funds ready for
investment

 

 

When applications closed on January 1, 2017, the EDC had received forty?three (43)
applications (?Application?) for spaces across the city of Detroit. An Application typically
refers to a single tenantable space within a property. One property may have submitted
multiple Applications and the properties may have previously matched but have lease-
able space.

Staff completed the following due diligence and evaluation process:

. Verified that the space referenced in the Application is current and compliant on
property taxes, tickets, and water bills.

0 Conducted a professional building assessment.
Each Application was evaluated and scored on a scale of 1?100 as follows:
. Each of the following factors contributed up to 20 points: (1) Building
characteristics and vision; (2) Building conditions; (3) Community and market

support; (4) Leverage; and (5) Compliance.

. Evaluations were conducted both by EDC staff and a community review panel
organized by City Council district.

. EDC staff and community panel scores were averaged together to achieve the final

score for building characteristics and vision, community and market support, and
leverage.

April 25, 2017

. The score for building conditions was derived directly from the professional
building assessment conducted by PSI, as well as self~reported data from the
property owner.

. The score for compliance was derived based on the payment of taxes, water bills,
and tickets.

The selection process is described in greater detail in Section 6 of the Motor City Match
Building Owner Guidelines.

The results of the due diligence and evaluation process are the following:

. Of the forty-three (43) applications considered for Round 7, seventeen (17)
applications were deemed ineligible because of condition or compliance. in total,
twenty-six (26) eligible Building Applications were considered for Round 7 awards.

. Eighteen (18) building applications indicated they had space available for lease.
These building owners are recommended to receive ?Space? awards to assist with
marketing their property and recruiting tenants.

0 The remaining eligible applicants indicated that they had a tenant secured and no
additional space to lease, or had been awarded ?Space? in a former round. This
makes these applicants eligible for consideration for ?Design? or "Cash? awards in
partnership with their tenants.

. Based on eligible applications and review of scores, EDC staff recommended the
following Round 7 Building Owner Awards:

0 Space awards. Eighteen (18) properties are recommended to receive
Space awards as presented in Exhibit A to the memorandum, which
included marketing, a professional building assessment, real estate tours
and other matchmaking activities with top Motor City Match business
applicants. These top scoring buildings are recommended to receive ?Top
Property? designation to assist with marketing and tenant recruiting.

0 Design Awards. Seven (7) properties are recommended to receive
?Design? awards in partnership with their tenants presented in Exhibit B,
which includes architectural technical assistance for tenant build?out and
building renovations.?.

EDC staff requested that the Board accept the recommended results of the Round 7
Building Application evaluation process and ?Space? and ?Design? awards.

A resolution is attached for the Board?s consideration.

 

The ?Design? award provides construction drawings for building improvements needed to accommodate
the business (whether that business owns or leases the property). Therefore, this award is issued to the
business. In the event that the landlord is contributing to tenant improvements, building owners may also
bene?t from ?Design? award architectural services, therefore they are listed here for EDC Motor City Match
Committee consideration.

April 25, 2017

On a motion by Mr. Jackson, seconded by Ms. Claiborne, Resolution Code EDC
17-04?91-43 was unanimously approved.

Smali Business and Commercial Corridor Revitalization Program: Space Awardee
Educa?on

Mr. Lucco reported that the Economic Development Corporation (EDC) of the City of
Detroit currently administers programs to revitalize Detroit?s commercial corridors and
grow neighborhood business investment using Community Development Block Grant
funds from the City of Detroit. The EDC entered into a subrecipient agreement
with the City (Contract #2899173) to manage and implement these programs for a term
ending December 31, 2017.

The first part of this initiative is Motor City Match, which connects new or expanding
businesses with Detroit's vacant commercial real estate. The program provides
competitive grants, loans and counseling to both building owners and business owners
through a quarterly application process.

in 2017, through feedback from architect technical assistance providers and other
community partners, staff identified the need for additional education for business owners
in the SPACE award (formerly ?Make a Match") category. Careful selection of location,
building square footage, financial preparation to occupy a bricks and mortar location is
needed for small businesses to thrive. Staff anticipates that new education will follow a
format similar to the technical assistance provided for Business Pian awardees.

Staff solicited bid proposals on February 2, 2017, for email business technical assistance
for the ?Space" awards for Motor City Match. The basis for EDC contract awards were
based on federal procurement policies set forth in 24 CFR 85.36. More specifically, this
solicitation was made pursuant the ?small purchase procedure? method of procurement
per 24 CFR 

EDC staff received four (4) proposals to the RFP solicited on February 2, 2017.
Respondents are as follows:

- Downtown Detroit Partner - fiduciary for
Build institute
2701 Bagley Ave
Detroit, MI 48226

- Wayne State Research and Technology Park in the City of Detroit
TechTown Detroit
440 Burroughs Street
Detroit, Ml 48202

- Hamilton?Anderson Associates

1435 Randolph Street #200
Detroit, Mi 48226

April 25, 2017

- Chase Great Enterprises, LLC
18121 E. 8 Mile Rd.
Eastpointe, Ml 48021

Staff determined that the first three (3) respondents listed above were responsive
to the RFP and pricing analysis was completed. it was determined that the HHA
proposal, white indicative of deep knowledge and experience in the subject matter,
was more extensive than required and exceeded the budget estimate for this
expenditure. The two remaining respondents were equal in per student pricing, but
one offered a multi-week course rather than a one day workshop. Since this is the
first provision of this information to MCM Space Awards, staff elected to contract
with the two (2) service providers to test program interest and to provide program
participants with choice for a more information in a multi?week format or an
interactive one-day workshop experience. The selection of both providers will meet
the need of educating up to two hundred (200) entrepreneurs per year on the
basics of real estate selection and planning.

The EDC staff, per the resolution EDC 03-09-01-82 authorizing delegation of authority,
has approved a Professional Services Agreement with the Downtown Detroit Partnership,
the fiduciary of Build Institute in an amount that will not~to-exceed Twenty
Thousand and 00/100 ($2000.00) to provide 3-week space planning courses for four (4)
additional rounds of Motor City Match in 2017. DDP/Build will provide courses for up to
twenty-five (25) students per quarter for a cost of Four Thousand Six Hundred Eighty-
Seven and 50/100 per quarter for a total annual not?to?exceed amount of
Eighteen Thousand Seven Hundred Fifty and 00/100 in 2017. A notice to
proceed will be issued at the beginning of each round to ensure that sufficient demand
exists for the courses and resources are adequateiy managed.

Further, the EDC staff, per the resolution EDC 03-09-01-82 authorizing delegation of
authority, has also approved a Professional Services Agreement with the Wayne State
Research and Technology Park in the City of Detroit, also known as TechTown Detroit,
(?TechTown?), in an amount not-to-exceed Ten Thousand and 00/100 to
provide one?day space planning workshop for four (4) additional rounds of Motor City
Match in 2017.

TechTown will provide courses for up to twenty?five (25) students per session in seven (7)
sessions for Motor City Match Space awardees and Detroit-based entrepreneurs in both
English and Spanish for a cost of Two Thousand Five Hundred and 00/100 
per quarter for a total annual not-to?exceed amount of Ten Thousand and 00/100
in 2017. A notice to proceed will be issued at the beginning of each round to
ensure that suf?cient demand exists for the courses and resources are adequately
managed.

A scope of services for both providers was attached to the memorandum.

This report was for the Board?s information only and no action was taken by the Board.

April 25, 2017

Julian C. Madison Building, LLC Casino Loan Program Resident Fund

Ms. Hundley advised that the Julian C. Madison Building (JCMB) is a 62,128 sq. ft. office
building located at 1420 Washington Boulevard. The historic 7-story building was built in
1909. Julian C. Madison purchased the building and an adjacent parking lot in 1987,
partially with funds from the Downtown Development Authority. The building has been
and is one of the main anchors of viability along Washington Boulevard for almost 30
years. it remains one of the few buildings owned by an African American woman in
Downtown Detroit.

The JCMB is managed by Sharon Madison through a sole member LLC. (Julian C.
Madison Building, LLC). She is a generation businesswoman in a company started by
her grandfather, Robert Madison, the first registered black engineer in the state of Ohio.
His sons, Julian, Robert and Bernard, architects, expanded the firms Madison, Madison
international and M2 international into over 25 states. Sharon Madison played a lead role
in designing and managing over $5 billion in construction projects. Julian Madison passed
away in 1989 and left the JCMB solely to Sharon Madison. Sharon Madison has an
Undergraduate degree from the University of Michigan in Art History and a Master?s
degree from the College Architecture and Urban Planning. She has also served the
people of Detroit by participating on numerous governing boards such as the Downtown
Development Authority, Detroit Economic Growth Corporation and the National Women?s
Business Council. Her vision for the JCMB involved creating a physical legacy to the
pioneering entrepreneurial spirit of her grandfather and father.

The building has housed various office tenants down thru the years. The City of Detroit
occupied the majority floors of the building from 2000 until 2013. The tenants were Detroit
Water Sewage Department (DWSD) and Detroit Transportation Company for the People
Mover (DTC). in 2010 DWS moved out of the property and in 2013 DTC moved out. The
tenants represented 80% of the rentable space of the building. The moves took place in
the middle of the economic financial downturn and Detroit?s bankruptcy, thus creating
major challenges and changes for the property. Sharon Madison and family used their
own cash to keep the building viable. Madison overcame and in 2013 sought relief and
financing from invest Detroit. The financing provided funds to initiate several building
performance improvements. The improvements were based on energy cost data from a
3rd party analysis provided by Kenco Energy Services. The improvements would
reestablish the viability of the building, thus ultimately restoring it to its best use and
generating cash flow. Madison also engaged the services of Avison Young Real Estate
Brokers to attract new tenants. Most of the current leases were signed in 2015 and 2016,
significant tenants have been added, resulting in significant lease income.

The first floor of the building houses Level One Bank. it is one of the fastest growing
banks and has chosen to house its first location in it serves as the anchor tenant.
Painting with a Twist, another tenant, is the 3rd franchise owned by Michelle and Donna
Lewis. The other two franchise locations are in Farmington and Ferndale. Bamboo Detroit
is one of the newest tenants. They have expanded from another downtown location and
bring over 100 entrepreneurs as one of Detroit?s premier co?working communities. JCMB
is also a Motor City Match building, which has increased inquiries for space. The first,
third sixth floors are a 100% teased. JCMB has been updated but needs further
revitalization to be that entrepreneurial hub that will continue to attract a diverse tenant
base. Total restoration, revitalization and full lease capacity is the ultimate goal of JCMB,

April 25, 2017

LLC. They have now approached Economic Development Corporation, (EDC) for
financial assistance in achieving their goals.

in January 2017, the building suffered water damages, that will necessitate additional
renovations. It was caused from the fire suppression system on the 6th floor. The water
ran from the 6th floor down into the basement affecting areas on all 6 floors as well as the
basement. It also damaged both elevators taking them out of service. Madison filed an
insurance claim, but also requires additional funding to fully complete all repairs.

Assistance has been requested from the EDC Casino Loan program designed for Detroit
resident ventures. The funds will be used to assist in the further remodeling, restoration
and build-out of JCMB. Major needs for the building include but are not limited to, energy
efficiencies, tenant and common area improvements. invest Detroit will again serve the
needs of JCMB, LLC and partner with EDC. The Borrower is also seeking a permanent
lender to refinance all debt. The Borrower is speaking with Level One, independence and
PNC banks. Independence Bank has currently expressed a strong interest.

At a time when most property owners were vacating downtown through bankruptcy,
foreclosure and short sales, Madison stood firm and maintained the property ownership.
Sharon Madison overcame financial and other challenges and sought relief to revitalize
the building and thus build the tenant base. JCMB is currently 80% leased and showing
positive cash flow. Avison Young continues to market the building and is confident the
building will reach full occupancy. The JCMB building as completed appraises at
$4,500,000.00, which covers the EDC and Invest Detroit debt. JCMB is one of the few
buildings owned by an African American woman in Downtown Detroit. JCMB, LLC will
seek permanent financing to pay off the EDC and invest Detroit debt. EDC as a financing
partner finds it practical to participate in the revitalization of the Julius Madison building.
Please find below sources and uses, terms of loan and debt service analysis:

Sources

Equity $668,378
Water Damage Claim Proceeds 239,000
EDC 750,000
invest Detroit 700,000
TOTAL $2,357,378
uses

Tl improvements $712,000
Roof repairs 25,000
System 57,000
Hvac, Boiler 8 Steam Trap 650,000
Exterior repairs 95,000
lT infrastructure 26,878
Storefront 45,000
Restoration Repairs from water damage 239,000
Restrooms fixtures 8 plumbing 45,000
Electrical upgrades 20,000
Parking lot repairs 15,000
Working Capital/Cont.& int. Reserve 427,500
TOTAL $2,357,378

April 25, 2017

Proposed Terms and Conditions:

Loan Amount:
Interest Rate:
Term:
Amortization:

Security:

Additional Conditions:

Debt Service Analysis:
Gross income

Less vacancy amt. 
Gross Operating income
Total expenses

Net income

Cash for Debt Service
EDC Debt Service

20 yr. amortization
Int only yr., thereafter
P&l 

invest Detroit Debt Service
20 yr., amortization
only yr., thereafter
P&l 

invest Detroit Debt Service
P&l 

Debt Coverage Ratio

April 25, 2017

$750,000

6%

3 years

20 yrs., 12 mths. int. only; thereafter P&i for 24 mths.

Shared 2"d Mortgage with invest Detroit on 1420
Washington Boulevard, subordinate only to an existing
Mortgage of $880,000, Shared 2Rd position all asset UCC
filing Personal Guaranty of Sharon Madison

Approval of Invest Detroit loan, all other member related
notes payable to be subordinated, no other loans without
EDC approval and receipt, review and approval of any and
all information requested bv EDC staff.

 

2018 2019
$816,099 $840,582
40,805 42,029
$775,294 $798,553
$453,700 $404,665
$321 ,594 $393,888
$321 ,594 $393,888
45,000 64,479
49,000 65,125
75,655 75,655
$169,655 $205,259
1 .89 1 .91

Subsequent to a discussion, the Board took the following action:

On a motion by Mr. Jackson, seconded by Ms. Clayson, Resolution Code EDC
17-04-74-37 was unanimously approved.



OTHER MATTERS

Ms. Kanalos advised that she was prepared to make a presentation, as requested by Mr.
Stallworth at the last meeting, on Senate Bills 111 through 113 regarding Brownfields.
Because Mr. Stallworth is absent, Ms. Kanalos suggested that her presentation be
postponed until a later date. The Board agreed.

Mr. Roiing reminded staff that he had requested a DEGC organizational chart at the last
meeting. Mr, Long apologized and stated that he thought it would be part of the overall
presentation at the fiscal year end and said he would get it to the Board.

PUBLIC COMMENT

ADJOURNMENT

With there being no other business to come before the Board, Vice Chairperson Quarles
adjourned the Regular meeting at 9:20 am.

April 25, 2017

