Near South Proposal Community Meeting #2:
Proposed Reassignment Boundary Change of National Teachers Academy
Tuesday, January 16, 2018
Second Presbyterian Church, 1936 Michigan Avenue
Time: 6:00 p.m. - 8:00 p.m.
CPS Staff in Attendance
Herald “Chip” Johnson, Shani Boone, Luis Rodriguez, Onshelle Blackmon, Tiffany
Taylor, Judy Camacho, Liz Kirby, Jimm Dispensa, Alan Conley, Lori Fuentes, Marcus
Pittman, Thyatiria Towns, Keda Jeter, Kareem Pender, Carl Hurdlik, Estefany Alvarez,
Morris Ross, Zeb Everette, Nicole Haynes, Mark Scott, Emily Shores, Emily Bolton,
Lauro Roman, Carly Lonergan, Faith Pritchard.
CPS Presentation (6:00 p.m. – 6:19 p.m.)
Chip Johnson started the meeting by introducing himself, presenting the meeting
agenda and topics. He then stated that Reverend Cure wanted to maintain “fidelity of
worship service” by keeping “our language respectful.”
Mr. Johnson then stated that the representatives from ODLSS, STLS, and the Talent
Office would be available for 30 minutes to answer questions after the meeting.
Mr. Johnson then explained the meeting logistics. He explained that during the two-hour
meeting, CPS would present on the proposed school action then participants would
have the opportunity to provide feedback. He explained that participants could email
questions and comments to transitions@cps.edu and can find additional information at
www.cps.edu/transitions.
Mr. Johnson then reviewed the CPS legal timeline, who has provided feedback, and
where the feedback was provided over the past year.
Mr. Johnson then gave an overview of the proposed school actions. He explained that
the proposed changes for the New South Loop Building and for the High School
conversion will begin in SY 2019-2020. He explained that CPS is proposing to build a
new elementary school for the Near South Community, to have three buildings in the
South Loop, and to expand the South Loop boundaries to incorporate the current NTA
boundaries. He continued to explain that NTA will gradually convert to a high school,
that rising NTA grades 1-3 would be reassigned to South Loop and grades 4-8 can
remain at and graduate from NTA or transfer to South Loop. He explained that all NTA
students will have a guaranteed seat at the high school regardless of where they live.

 Mr. Johnson went on to explain the details of the proposed high school conversation,
including the timeline at NTA by school year. The proposed conversion will begin by
transitioning rising NTA Pre-K – 3rd graders to South Loop in SY 2019-20. He restated
that all NTA students will have a guaranteed seat regardless of where they live. He
explained that the conversion will be gradual and that elementary school grades will
eventually be phased out. He reviewed the timeline by school year, explaining that by
SY 2024-25+ NTA will include grades 9-12 and that transitions will be managed with
safety and security considerations.
Mr. Johnson then gave an overview of the proposed NTA student transition for SY
2019-20, starting with relocating the Pre-K to South Loop ES. He explained the
transitions for the kindergarten neighborhood track, the rising 1st-3rd grade
neighborhood track, the rising 4th-8th grade neighborhood track, the kindergarten RGC
track, the rising 1st-3rd grade RGC track and the rising 4th-8th grade RGC track. He
explained that students will be reassigned to South Loop ES, can enroll in another
school, or transfer to South Loop ES in subsequent years. He then stated that staff from
OAE will have options available if families choose to explore those.
Mr. Johnson then gave an overview of the re-assignment boundary change for
elementary schools. As he was explaining how the boundary will change, a group of
meeting participants stood up and began chanting, “if we don’t get it, shut it down” for
about two minutes. Mr. Johnson responded by thanking the group of participants and
continuing to explain the phase out of the grades. The group of participants continued to
chant and Mr. Johnson responded by explaining that he understood their passion and
need, that there were others who wanted to listen to the proposal and who have choices
and asked participants to respect the equity of the presentation.
Mr. Johnson then began explaining the transition supports and the high school
boundaries. As he was doing so, a group of meeting participants began chanting. Mr.
Johnson continued to state the details of the proposal as a group of participants
continued to chant.
Mr. Johnson then explained the public feedback process. As he was doing so, a group
of meeting participants were chanting “black lives matter, black students matter.” He
responded by saying, “try to maintain your respect.”
Public Comments (6:19 p.m. - 7:57 p.m.)
Brittany Wilson, Community Member
Britany explained that education is the most important priority, that there’s a need to
give students a selection.
Unknown, Parent of NTA Scholars
She explained that this proposal would be splitting her children up over 3 different
buildings. She stated that this proposal is not best practices and that everyone has a
high school. She further explained that the high school in her neighborhood is a level 2

 and that if someone doesn’t like their neighborhood high school that they’re insinuating
that the neighborhood school isn’t good enough.
MS, 3rd Grader at NTA
MS explained that he has been at NTA since kindergarten and that the people there
were like a second family. He explained that NTA has the most amazing teachers who
make learning exciting and fun and help their students understand. He explained that
NTA has Second Step, which allows them make friends outside of regular homeroom,
encourages partnership with other classrooms, allows students to get to know a lot of
other teachers. He said that the plan to convert NTA into a high school is wrong. He
explained how the proposed actions would affect his family and the NTA community
negatively.
Nalliah, NTA Parent of a Kindergartener and a 4th Grader
She wanted to put on record the emails that they were made aware of from Alderman
Pat Dowell to Barbara Byrd-Bennett. She also explained that the mayor attended an
Easter egg hunt and said that he would work to bring a neighborhood high school. She
referenced an email from April 2015. She stated that this is evidence that the proposal
is stemming from political plan between the mayor and a wealthy group. She said that
there is a desire to remove children from the area and segregating black and brown kids
out of the area.
Veronica Schmidt, NTA Parent
Veronica stated that the proposal is a directive from the mayor’s office. She asked,
“Why is CPS ignoring alternatives?” She then stated that 75% of NTA students are
African American and low-income. She asked, “Why did Janice Jackson purposely
mislead the board by saying that the Level 1 status [of the school] was achieved by a
gifted program?” She said that Janice Jackson is willing to make false statements. She
then asked when CPS has made a decision to close an elementary school. She said
that CPS violates their own rules when the mayor directs them to do so.
KC, 1st Grader at NTA
He thanked his teachers and the principal of NTA. He said that they were great and that
the school should not close.
Unknown, Parent of 1st grader at NTA
They stated that the proposal is taking advantage of people who don’t have any place to
go. He questioned the time that some families are stating it takes to commute to and
from their school. He concluded by saying that students are already molded by the time
they are in high school.
Unknown, NTA Community Member
They stated that Long Grove students were kicked out, that Janice Jackson was
misleading the board and community. They said that families rely on CPS for quality,
but that CPS is misrepresenting the truth about data to comply with mayor’s agenda.
They quoted Dr. Janice Jackson. They said Dr. Jackson’s statement was an attempt to

 sway the future vote, that CPS has lied about student achievement to achieve the
mayor’s orders. They said that these statements about student achievement have no
basis. They concluded by saying that all forwarded information must be deemed
untrustworthy.
Tatiana, NTA Parent
She explained that she has 4 daughters at NTA. She said that CPS should strive to
build a new high school rather than “shoveling kids out.” She explained that NTA is a
Level 1+ school and it is “what every school in the city strives to be.” She then asked,
“Why misplace students, staff and the community?” She concluded by say that they
need a new high school.
Brittany Williams, NTA Community Member
She said that the NTA community deserves an equal opportunity and that the proposal
is just not right.
Aaron Sanders, NTA Community Member
Aaron stated that the mayor’s office was directing CPS to convert NTA into a HS. He
showed a picture of the mayor at the Easter egg hunt and said that after that Easter egg
hunt, the mayor’s office began leading discussion to close NTA in 2016. He stated that
during discussion with mayor’s office to turn NTA into a high school, CPS didn’t look at
other options. He said that Janice Jackson confirmed this on the record. He said that
the mayor is turning NTA into a high school for political gain. He stated that a racial
equity analysis concluded that there were plenty of options and believed that they would
be able to pull together 30-50 million dollars to build a new high school.
MM, NTA Student
MM said that he’s been at NTA since 3rd grade and that it is like a second family. He
stated that the proposed action is an act of prejudice against his school and that CPS
should not convert it because it just gained the status of 1+. He said that the school
community has been showing that they can work hard and achieve on their own. He
said that the NTA community shouldn’t be acted against because of their race. He then
said that if CPS wants to convert their school then they should just shut it down because
the NTA community won’t be the same school.
Unknown, Community Member living in Bronzeville
She explained that they have lived in Bronzeville since 1999. She applauded parents
and students on both sides who care “this much about education.” She asked, “wouldn’t
we all be in a different position if we had more parents who cared and had more
teachers who were [in schools] for more than just a pay check?” She explained that she
has received teaching credentials and certifications and has taught in several CPS
schools, beginning as a substitute. She stated that she was glad that she “got out of
teaching” because she realized that it wasn’t her calling. She said that teachers should
only be in schools if it’s their calling. She then said that some people are turning the
proposal into something it’s not. She stated that she has been called a racist and that
she wouldn’t live on the 29th of Michigan if she were. She said that there is a need to

 “tone it down” and that meeting participants shouldn’t “threaten people by saying it’s the
hunger games.” She concluded by saying that most “good parents” are not promoting
violence.
Patricia Crosby, Parent of 6 NTA Students
Patricia stated that she used to live where NTA is located. She remembers CPS telling
community members “the same thing Chip said,” that the kids in that area would be able
to go to NTA no matter where they lived. She said this was later reneged. She then
explained that she moved into Section 8 housing and it was a challenge to get her kids
into NTA. She said she needed to use a family member’s address to do so. She then
explained that it became easier years down the road and she could put other children
into NTA because she was a foster parent. She concluded by saying that she doesn’t
believe CPS when they say that NTA students could enroll because CPS has already
lied.
David Wu, CBCAC/Chinatown Community Member
David said that he is a Chinatown resident and that there is a lack of high schools in
Chinatown. He explained that CPS’ plan creates one of the most diverse high schools in
Chicago. He said that the student body would consist of 41% Asian, 21% AA, 19%
Hispanic, 10% White, and 8% other. He checked to see how many other schools were
similar and out of 46 different high schools only 4 had at least 10% of students who
were Asian. He concluded by saying that funds that were being dispersed in the past
were allocated to Englewood and that the new high school would be uniquely diverse.
Elizabeth Greer, NTA Community Member
Elizabeth began by asking, “What is the request for the proposal for this action? Who
and when did they submit this proposal?” She said that she is looking for the answer.
She said that she wants to know if this request came from Pat Dowell to mayor. She
said that Dowell wrote about supporting the effort of overcrowding in South Loop and
investing in the conversion of NTA to a high school. She said that Barbara Byrd-Bennett
was copied on that email and that 9 months later NTA’s principal sent an email to
Alderman Dowell asking about the conversion. She said that the alderman responded
by saying that NTA was not included and that it wasn’t a real plan at that time. Elizabeth
concluded by saying that the email strand is evidence that NTA’s principal has been lied
to and that NTA has been left out of the conversation for years.
Unknown, Parent of 3.5-year-old in the South Loop
This parent began by quoting Martin Luther King Jr. She said that she wanted to speak
about Philips High School. She said that she joined as a volunteer and that many
Philips HS parents don’t have the capacity to come to community meetings. She
decided that as a parent in South Loop she would invest in a high school in case her
child wasn’t enrolled in selective enrollment. She concluded by saying that Philips HS
doesn’t have a librarian there and that she thinks that is sad. She questioned why they
don’t have a librarian.

 PC, 7th Grader at NTA
PC explained that the proposed actions would be taking away something for kids. He
explained that NTA is a second family to the students and the students are taught to
love each other, themselves and their education.
Debbie Lu, CBCAC and Bridgeport Community member
Debbie was born and raised in Bridgeport. She said that the community is moving
towards progress and that the majority of Asian families are not the model minority. She
said that many parents are immigrants, work low-skill jobs, and that families strive for
upward mobility. She said that a high school must incorporate a diverse student body.
She said that the proposal is imperfect, but provides an improved educational outcome
at a near-by location. She concluded by saying that she hopes that her future children
will have a diverse school experience.
David, NTA Parent
David said that he is a CPS employee, but was speaking as a parent. He said that NTA
should not be closed because of what it represents to the students, parents and
community. He said that the greatness of a school is determined by relationships. He
said that he has to explain to his daughter why she has to leave her school and doesn’t
have a good answer. He said that the truth is that if she was going to a school that
wasn’t preeminently African American and low-income that she wouldn’t have to leave
because they would have the means to stand up for it.
Eve Ewing, Community Member
Eve began by explaining her credentials and experience as a CPS student and teacher.
She said that she wanted to address people in the room who are not associated with
NTA. She said that “we did not celebrate MLK by being respectful.” She said that NTA
parents have been respectful and have been respectfully engaged. She said that this
didn’t work and that there is a reason that participants are not being respectful. She said
that the 12,000 people who were displaced did follow the rules. She said that 88% of
the students were Black and that this was the same song, different day. She said that
none of the people who make the decisions are in the room. She said that she sees
CPS employees trying to do the right thing, but that people are being pitted against
each other. She concluded by saying that all children deserve a good school.
OW, NTA Student
OW agreed with his brother and friends that the proposed action would be taking away
a second family. He said that everyone loves NTA and “everyone loves everyone no
matter skin color, religion, etc.” He said that every staff member showed up that day and
that they were there to stop what CPS is doing because if CPS takes away their school,
they’d be taking away how people live and think about other people. He said that they
are being respectful, that they’re waiting, and being quiet. He then asked, “how are we
supposed to explain how we feel about this?” He said that the proposed action is not
only taking away education, but also taking away people’s lives. He concluded by

 saying that students won’t get a chance to see how people feel, to see other religions,
and diverse people.
Corey Harris, NTA parent
Corey began by saying that “racism is prejudice alongside power.” He said that with
power and prejudice, CPS is taking a school that has become pillar of community, a
school where kids look forward to going to. He said that kids from Chinatown are
experiencing something similar. He said that Caucasian parents have taken a chance
enrolling students into predominantly black school and “got a chance to see that we can
work together.” He then said that there are “such poor parents in [their] community that
they have to take on 2 jobs to make ends meet.” He concluded by saying that they need
to bring something back to their community other than the bad things one sees on TV.
Matsuo Marti, South Loop ES Parent
He began by asking who is being served by this decision. He quoted an article
explaining that black/white achievements are not narrowing. He said that data is not
made public. He said that 8/10 students that are not meeting grade level proficiency are
Black. He said that eliminating NTA does not serve black students. He said that
students would be transitioned to a school that doesn’t serve black students. He
concluded by quoting MLK about changing the system.
Jeffrey Ayersman, South Loop Resident
Jeffrey recognized Pastor David. He explained that he has been a South
Loop resident for 25 years and that he never thought it would take this long to address
overcrowding. He said that he is in favor of combining student populations and
improving the educational experience. He explained that the South Loop community is
losing too many diverse families because of selective enrollment. He said that South
Loop has grown and doubled in population and they’re going to be in the same position
they are in now regardless of what side they’re on. He said that this is going to have to
be addressed and that hard decisions will have to be made. He said that CPS estimates
that there are 4,400 students between Printer’s Row and I-55 and that the structure
needs to be addressed for everyone.
Unknown, South Loop Community Member
He started by saying that he is “not very comfortable being called a racist.” He said that
“they need to tone down the racism.” At this time a group of meeting participants began
chanting. He continued saying that he attended community meetings about the need for
a high school in the South Loop starting in 2011. He explained that there were a lot of
efforts. As the group of participants continued to respond to him, he left.
Unknown, Parent of a 1st Grader at NTA
She began by saying that she picked NTA for its diverse make-up and that her child has
never missed a day of school. She explained that she was present at a meeting with
Janice Jackson and asked Janice whether she was aware of the South Loop boundary
change in 2005. She said that Janice spoke about “how the school improved after so
many minority kids left South Loop.” At this meeting, she spoke about how South Loop

 kids were kicked out and moved to NTA and said that Janice wasn’t aware of this, yet
Janice had conversations with the mayor in 2016. This parent said that Janice was
unaware of the “wrong” that she said she was going to right. This parent concluded by
saying that CPS is willing to move around families that were prejudiced against in 2005.
KG, 5th Grader at NTA
KG said that he was representing his teachers and school. He explained that the
assistant principal and principal are doing as much as they can. He told Chip Johnson
that he understood that he wanted participants to stop talking during presentation, but
said that their voices need to be heard. He concluded by saying that if they are moved,
they’ll have to walk several more blocks to school.
Unknown, 5th grade student NTA
He explained that NTA has many activities, that the proposed action isn’t right, and that
it could be dangerous for students to walk to South Loop during the cold weather.
Cylis He, South Loop Community Member
He explained that there are a lot of elementary schools within his community and the
community needs 2-3 high schools. He explained that only 300 students can enroll in
the neighborhood high school. He thanked the people who spoke and said that
participants should “let people finish their sentences.”
Unknown, Unknown Association
They stated that public services are a right and should be distributed with fairness and
not favoritism. They stated that if “you don’t have checks and balances, you have
favoritism.” They said that this situation was non-democratic and that “we talk at each
other in these situations.” They stated that everyone needs to have a vote and deserves
to be able to hold others accountable at the highest level no matter where they stand on
this issue.
Unknown, Resident of Bridgeport
She began by saying that she spoke at the last meeting and watched a live stream of
the meeting afterwards. She referenced Eve Ewing and said that all participants at the
meeting are fighting for their kids. She said that people have not been addressing the
millions of dollars that are given to charter schools. She questioned why there are
buildings around her community that are “low-income and gang ridden,” yet CPS gives
money to privately run schools that are not held to same standards as CPS schools.
She concluded by saying, “Are you getting bang for your buck with charter schools?”
Unknown, NTA
She began by speaking about the effects of displacement. She stated that negative
impacts start 1 year before displacement occurs and continues for 3 years after. She
said that the current board has had the most school closures and drop in school ratings.
She said that NTA families have been displaced because of previous disclosures and
have been kicked out of South Loop before. She asked who has right to continue to
destabilize the children who are the most vulnerable. She mentioned that Jacoby

 admitted that there 1500 available high school seats and concluded by saying that
“none of our people will send our kids there.
Nicole Lee, Resident of Chinatown/NTA
Nicole stated that there are “no winners, only losers with this plan.” She acknowledged
the need for a high school and said she doesn’t want kids to have to travel so many
miles; that they shouldn’t have to do so in our society today. She concluded by asking
“what we are going to do together for every child?”
Sarah Bush, Parent of 2 NTA Students
Sarah said that the proposed plan ignores the concerns of NTA community and
disadvantages those who stay at NTA. She asked about the retention of quality
teachers and said that future students will lose access to a school that has served lowincome, minority students for years. She proposed that CPS explores another way. She
concluded by saying that a solution begins with racial equity and respectful collaborative
conversation, but that the NTA community has not been heard in the CPS meetings.
Unknown, NTA Parent
They began by saying that politicians are pitting people against one another. They
quoted an email between Janice Jackson and the alderman and that Janice believes
that closing NTA will increase diversity, but there has been no discussion of how it will
negatively impact NTA. She stated that this is a false choice and NTA doesn’t have to
be compromised; that the NTA community does not have to accept this choice. She
concluded by saying that they will continue to fight against the proposed action and that
South Loop students are welcome to come to NTA for elementary school.
Levi, Community Member
Levi said that CPS officials do not reflect society well, they reflect downtown
constituents. He said that he understands that CPS must do what’s needed to provide
sustenance to their families. He asked what the alternatives are or if this is the only
plan. He said that CPS is meeting state mandates required of them before they move
onto closing the school. He asked, “Is there another plan?” He said to vote for what’s
good for the society and that “we don’t need to be divided.” He concluded by saying that
the communities need something” that’s genuine” and that CPS staff likes their salaries.
Chip Johnson responded by saying that he couldn’t answer his question about having
another plan; that he is just the facilitator.
Unknown, NTA Community Member
He stated that he heard that CPS has the money to build a high school for South Loop.
He said that the city has 1.4 billion budget for policing and that the money should be
reallocated for education. He said that people can’t allow divisiveness. He said that the
proposed actions are gentrifying the community and pushing Black people out. He said
that he saw it with the closings. He concluded by saying that the communities need to
come together and keep NTA open.

 Erika Clark, Parents for Teachers
Erika said that she has been to the hearings and always left so hopeful and energized
because of the passion and dedication families have for their schools, but then reality
would sink in. She said that they are standing here with people from CPS telling them
that they should be respectful. She then asked, “how is attacking Black families in the
city over and over again respectful?” She said that CPS doesn’t deserve respect
because they are not treating Black communities with respect. She concluded by saying
that although Janice Jackson is saying that CPS is going to fix their mistakes, that the
proposed action is a big mistake that needs to be fixed and if Janice really wants to fix
the mistakes, she needs to stop the proposal, drop the plan, and end school closings.
Uknown, Bronzeville Community Member
He spoke about the history of Bronzeville, referencing the 1998 Bronzeville TIF. He said
that it was a Black neighborhood that paid for the school, yet they didn’t go to the
school. He said that all the money that went to building the school came from Black
people all in the second ward and Bronzeville TIF that paid for this school. He said that
the boundaries should move inside the TIF, so the people who paid for the school can
have access to what they paid for.
Unknown, Grandparent of NTA student
She began by explaining that this type of action has happened before. She stated that
the proposal is politically driven. She explained that NTA community members are not
going to want to go to NTA for high school and that it could turn into a selective
enrollment school. She concluded that the proposal is about “the money” and that CPS
should put the millions of dollars “somewhere else.”
Teneka Brooks, AP at NTA
Teneka began by challenging Chinatown families, Bridgeport families, elected officials,
and CPS employees to come to NTA. She said that since March they have talked about
the closure, but she hasn’t seen anyone come into NTA. She spoke about the day-today of NTA and how visitors will always see children being supported by staff and
students, 1st graders leading a seminar comparing texts, middle school students
working with primary students, and administration pulling small groups of students. She
said that she knows they will make a difference in growth, but that no one has taken the
time to see the amazing work in the building. She invited and encouraged participants to
take the time to visit NTA.
Chip Johnson briefly acknowledged the aldermen that were present at the
meeting.
Joan, Resident of Bronzeville
Joan expressed the need for a better high school that is diverse and will include children
in the area. She also expressed the need for a grammar school and concluded by
saying that children will thrive “as long as they are included.”

 Raquel Don, Unknown Association
Raquel expressed that all children deserved a quality education. She stated that a Level
1+ school isn’t defined by just good scores, but also children that are learning, teachers
who love their job, compromises of teachers, a support staff, and thriving community.
She said that at her school they lack services to teach the students. She explained that
they don’t have the materials they need, never receive information in Chinese, and that
staff members stay late to communicate with children and their families in their native
language. She concluded by saying that all children deserve quality education and the
Asian community deserves resources so they also have a quality education.
Unknown, NTA Parent and CPS educator/alumni
She spoke about her daughter’s educational experience and community experience and
how the bonds within the community were solidified through parent encounters,
communications, school trips, and fundraisers. She said that this built trustworthy,
empowering, resourceful, social bonds that strengthened the school community. She
then listed examples of how the community has engaged with each other and the
school. She stated that stability is key to the academic and social emotional
development of students and that this proposal is not in the best interest of children.
She concluded by saying that as an educator of 20 years, she’s seen what works and
NTA works.
PM, NTA student
PM expressed what will be taken away if the proposed actions take place.
Olivia Shelton, NTA Community Member and Grandmother
Olivia spoke about how NTA is a family and communicates about the learning
experience and involves everyone. She said that her grandson has perfect attendance
because he never wants to miss a day of school and because he is held accountable
and to a high standard. She explained that families and school staff works together and
has a culture of respect and achievement. She concluded by saying that her grandson
loves NTA, that the principal is “awesome with the kids,” and asked Chip Johnson “to
work with [them].”
Ted, NTA Community Member
Ted spoke about what he heard at the last meeting: NTA serves the community very
well, is successful by every metric, NTA students are inspired, and that not one person
wants to merge. He said that too many NTA students will get lost because the school is
not designed for their specific needs, that displacement is wrong and the plan to convert
NTA into a high school is wrong. He explained that NTA was built to be an elementary
school and that as a high school it would be overcrowded. He concluded by saying that
no one agrees with the NTA proposal and that the proposed actions would be a shame
on Chicago.
Shantell, NTA parent
Shantell explained that she was speaking on behalf of her children. She spoke about
how her son questions why CPS won’t build another high school. She spoke about her

 experience in the suburbs versus her students’ experiences at NTA. She also
mentioned that the alternatives NTA provided for her “problem child” were very helpful.
She concluded by saying that she always viewed Chicago as a great city and how her
views of Chicago have now changed.
John, NTA
John spoke about the key injustices and the plan for Public House. He explained that
less than half of the houses promised to be built were built. He spoke about his
experience working with people from housing on the North Side and how there was a
period of limbo and how this is a similar experience. Spoke about how the local school
was gone and the difficulties of returning to that area. He encouraged the participants
not to miss the opportunity to have a great elementary school. He concluded by saying
that students deserve a new high school and that CPS should keep NTA.
Angela, Collision for Chinese Community
Angela spoke about the lack of representation from Chinese community and expressed
that organizations have tried to involve community members. She spoke about the
language access issue and explained that immigrant parents stay in the geographic
boundaries and that their priorities are focused on work. She spoke about how they are
limited because of the language barrier and that, ultimately, they do not want to be
“fighting for scraps.” She concluded by encouraging participants to work together and
speak for themselves.
Chip Johnson concluded the meeting by acknowledging the NTA and South Loop
principals, telling participants that they could send additional questions via email,
and gave the date for the next public hearing at 42 W Madison on January 29th
6:00-8:30 p.m.

 