Detroit Water and Sewerage
Department
Meeting Minutes - Final

735 Randolph
Detroit, Michigan 48226
(313) 224-4704 Office
www.dwsd.legistar.com

Board of Water Commissioners
Wednesday, January 17, 2018

6:00 PM

Historic Little Rock Baptist Church
9000 Woodward Avenue
Detroit, MI 48202

Location and Time Change: 6:00 p.m. - Regular Meeting and Public Hearing (Budget)

1.

CALL TO ORDER
Chairman Einheuser called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.

2.

ROLL CALL
Present:

5 - Commissioner Linda Forte, Commissioner John Henry Davis, Commissioner
Michael Einheuser, Commissioner Lane Coleman and Commissioner Mary
Blackmon

Absent:

2 - Commissioner Pamela Rodgers and Commissioner Jane Garcia

ALSO PRESENT
Council President Pro-Tem Mary Sheffield, Councilman Roy McAlister, Linda Wesley
for Councilwoman Brenda Jones, Christopher LeFlore for Councilwoman Janee' Ayers,
and Detroit Police Commissioner William Davis

3.

APPROVAL OF AGENDA
Chairman Einheuser requested approval of the agenda.
A motion was made by Commissioner Mary Blackmon, seconded by
Commissioner Lane Coleman that the agenda be approved. The motion
carried by a unanimous vote.

4.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Chairman Einheuser requested approval of the minutes of December 6, 2017 Special
Meeting No. 4; December 20, 2017 Regular Meeting.
A motion was made by Commissioner Linda Forte, seconded by Commissioner
Lane Coleman that these minutes be approved. The motion carried by a
unanimous vote.

5.

COMMUNICATIONS

18-0013

Receipt of Correspondence
Sponsors:

Detroit Water and Sewerage Department

Pospiech
Page 1

 Board of Water Commissioners
Attachments:

Meeting Minutes - Final

January 17, 2018

DEC 2017 FOIA REQUESTS TO BOWCs-REDACTED

A motion was made by Commissioner Mary Blackmon, seconded by
Commissioner John Henry Davis that this Communication or Report be
approved. The motion carried by a unanimous vote.

6.

ITEMS FROM THE COMMISSIONERS
There were none.

7.

UNFINISHED BUSINESS
There were none.

8.

PUBLIC HEARING (BUDGET)
Chairman Einheuser called the public hearing to order at 6:12 p.m.

18-0012

DWSD Budget Recommendation FY19
Sponsors:
Attachments:

Naughton
DWSD Budget Recommendation FY 2019 1.17.18_v2

Thomas Naughton, CFO thanked the budget team Michelle Washington-Williams,
Isaiah Dunlap, and Leslie King for their collaborative efforts on the budget presentation.
Vice Chair Blackmon stated that the Board received the budget report prior to this
meeting and this was an opportunity for the public to hear the department's
accomplishments and projections. Commissioner Forte added that the Finance
committee also reviewed the budget report and have seen some refinements on the
latest copy.
Chairman Einheuser adjourned the public hearing at 6:33 p.m.
This Communication or Report was received and filed.

9.

NEW BUSINESS

17-0184

The Board of Water Commissioners for the City of Detroit, Water and Sewerage
Department authorizes the Director to enter into Contract No. WS-702 “Repair
and Replacement of Water Main Systems: Various Pipe Sizes at Various
Locations throughout the City of Detroit” with Lakeshore Global
Corporation (Contractor), at a cost not to exceed $11,889,100.00 for a
duration of 540 calendar days, with an option of 540-Calendar-Day Renewal
and also authorizes the Director to take such other action as may be necessary to
accomplish the intent of this vote.
Sponsors:

Mobley and Field Services

A motion was made by Commissioner Linda Forte, seconded by Commissioner
Detroit Water and Sewerage Department

Page 2

 Board of Water Commissioners

Meeting Minutes - Final

January 17, 2018

Mary Blackmon that this Contract be approved. The motion carried by a
unanimous vote.

17-0185

The Board of Water Commissioners for the City of Detroit, Water and Sewerage
Department authorizes the Director to enter into Contract No. WS-704 "Water
System Improvements: Various Streets throughout the City of Detroit" with
Lakeshore Global Corporation (Contractor), at a cost not to exceed
$5,948,000.00 for a duration of 730 calendar days, and also authorizes the
Director to take such other action as may be necessary to accomplish the intent of
this vote.
Sponsors:

Mobley and Field Services

A motion was made by Commissioner Mary Blackmon, seconded by
Commissioner John Henry Davis that this Contract be approved. The motion
carried by a unanimous vote.

18-0009

The Board of Water Commissioners for the City of Detroit, Water and Sewerage
Department authorizes the Director to enter into Contract No. CS-1874, “Public
Relations and Communication Services” with Mort Crim Communications,
Inc. (Consultant), at a cost not-to-exceed $2,999,280.00 (including
$1,000,000.00 for media buys) for a duration of two (2) calendar years, and
also authorizes the Director to take such other action as may be necessary to
accomplish the intent of this vote.
Sponsors:

Office of the General Counsel

A motion was made by Commissioner Lane Coleman, seconded by
Commissioner John Henry Davis that this Contract be approved. The motion
carried by a unanimous vote.

18-0010

Drainage Presentation
Sponsors:
Attachments:

Mobley
January 2018 BOWC Presentation Drainage Charge Program
01162018

This Communication or Report was received and filed.

10.

DIRECTOR'S METRICS
There were none.

11.

COMMENTS BY COMMISSIONERS
Vice Chair Blackmon stated that the department would address all comments that
require a response.

12.

COMMENTS BY THE CHAIR
There were none.

Detroit Water and Sewerage Department

Page 3

 Board of Water Commissioners

13.

Meeting Minutes - Final

January 17, 2018

OTHER MATTERS
There were none.

14.

PUBLIC COMMENTS (2 minutes per speaker)
1. Michelle George came before the Board about the Hepatitis A and lead in schools.
She asked if the department could check into a lead issue at a westside high school.
She also expressed concern about water and drainage fees in the churches.
2. Ruby Riley of 13711 Fenelon came before the Board about a damage claim. Ms.
Riley was referred to the administrative staff.
3. Ken Bunch of 17590 Greenfield came before the Board about an over billing issue.
Mr. Bunch was referred to the customer service group.
4. Calesther Arnold of 18985 Fairfield came before the Board regarding the
inconsistent water bill charges. The customer service group will follow-up with Ms.
Arnold.
5. William M. Davis of 8557 Appoline St., and President of Detroit Chapter National
Action Network (NAN) asked the Board if they were aware of the number of homes in
the city that require radiator heat. He also asked if all the board members reside in the
City of Detroit. Chairman Einheuser replied that all the board members are residents of
Detroit.
6. Fredia M. Butler of 8286 Normile came before the Board to read her statement. See
Item No. 18-0032.
7. Cindy Darrah of 492 Petersboro stated that the drainage charge is unfair and illegal.
8. Diane Bukowski of 9000 E. Jefferson and reporter with Voice of Detroit came before
the Board to speak about "American Utility Management comes to Detroit Area." See
Item No. 18-0033.
9. Lila Cabbil with Peoples Water Board came before the Board with the following
concerns: a) how does the department plan to protect families that are shutoff who rely
on water for heat; and b) where is the documentation on water sustainability;
10. Gwendolyn Primous of 20011 Renfrew came before the Board regarding street
flooding. Ms. Primous was referred to Administration.
11. Andre Brooks of 440 Burroughs St. came before the Board to asked about
information on the 50/50 match on drainage credits and if the funds can be used for
design and construction of the green infrastructure system. Deputy Director Palencia
Mobley replied that the information will be available via the website on how to secure
funding. Director Brown added that there is a $5 million pool to offset the green
infrastructure projects.
12. Donna Davis of 2439 Gladstone and the Virginia Park Community Coalition came
before the Board to ask how the drainage fee is determined on vacant lots. She believe
some lots should be grandfathered in. Ms. Davis was referred to Ms. Lisa Wallick,
Stormwater Drainage Manager.

Detroit Water and Sewerage Department

Page 4

 Board of Water Commissioners

Meeting Minutes - Final

January 17, 2018

13. Diane Hanks of 16875 Chatham came before the Board about the downspout
disconnection and why so many residents remain connected. Ms. Mobley replied that
there were misinterpretations over many years between the building department on the
plumbing code. All downspouts should be disconnected and going to a proper place of
disposal with validation. Ms Mobley stated that permit obligations must ensure
downspouts are disconnected throughout the city with development of community
service credits.
14. Demeeco Williams came before the Board to oppose the drainage fee charge. He
said the city should look into cost-effective measures. The water affordability plan and
the WRAP program are not addressing the matter. Mr. Williams asked why the
department was spending $2 million on a media services contract when the department
has a public affairs team that suppose to solicit for more economical services. Mr.
Williams also suggested the department update its social media (facebook, YouTube,
and maybe a radio segment for community connection).
15. Matt Cripps of 4801 Oakman Boulevard on behalf of the Good News Gang and
Metro Life Church came before the Board regarding the drainage fee charge. He stated
that the church cannot afford the drainage and sewer charges.
16. Nick Caverly of 120 Seward # 407 on behalf of the Board of Condominium
Association came to ask if this type of residential property was eligible for the 50/50
match drainage credits. Ms. Mobley replied that condos are billed according to their
master deed, but there will be future discussion on this matter. He encourages the
Board to think about what is fair. He said shutoffs are occurring to people who cannot
afford to pay. The assistance programs in-place are not sustainable.
17. Patricia Bosch with Nortown CDC came before the Board about the drainage tax
on citizens. She urges the department to not allow the U.S. Ecology to expand its
discharge permits.
18. Renla Session came before the Board to ask how often catch basins are cleaned
and if customers are charged for it. She also inquired about the body parts being found
in the system. She also said the reason why our water bills are so high is because we
are still paying interest on the illegal swap loans initiated under the Kilpatrick
administration. Director Brown replied to the body parts issue stating that based on
the pathologist findings, it was reported to be deer parts and not human remains. Ms.
Mobley added that the department launched a catch basin program in the latter part of
2017. To date, the department has cleaned over 7800 catch basins throughout the
City. It will continue to identify which of the 90,000 catch basins are within the city's
jurisdiction.
19. Lory Parks of 10126 Curtis came before the Board to ask how the deer parts got
into the water system and why the public was not informed.
20. Brenda Butler of 5983 Manistique came before the Board about the MDOT project
at I-94 and if the installation of the biowales will be feasible when the project begins.
Ms Mobley replied that she could not speak on any feasibility but MDEQ is concerned
with what MDOT discharges into the regional water system. There has been
conversation with MDOT, GLWA and DWSD about the rebuilding of freeways with
minimal discharge. Ms. Butler also requested review of her water bill usage from 2010
through 2017 concentrating on the month of June.

Detroit Water and Sewerage Department

Page 5

 Board of Water Commissioners

Meeting Minutes - Final

January 17, 2018

21. Andre Brooks of 19700 Canterbury came before the Board to dispute a sanitary
bill. Mr. Brooks was referred to the customer service group.
22. Lila Cabbil of 18435 Wildemere came before the Board regarding several
concerns: a) what/when will the data regarding the Homrich contract costs compared
to revenue from collection; b) what has been done to monitor developers using fire
hydrants for free; c) what plan is in place to monitor contracts in hiring Detroiters (in
the past they paid fines).

18-0032

Public Comment Communication Fredia Butler
Attachments:

18-0033

Public Comment Communication Diane Bukowski
Attachments:

15.

Communication-Fredia Butler

Communication Diane Bukowski

ADJOURNMENT
Chairman Einheuser requested a motion to adjourn.
A motion was made by Commissioner Mary Blackmon, seconded by
Commissioner John Henry Davis that the meeting be adjourned. The motion
carried unanimously.

There being no further business, the meeting adjourned at 8:30 p.m.

Detroit Water and Sewerage Department

Page 6

 