MINUTES
Belle Isle Park Advisory Committee Meeting
Thursday, April 19,2018
Location: Belle Isle Nature Center
Meeting: 9:00 a.m.
Quorum reached at 9:35 a.m.
Roll Call and Excused Absences

EXCUSED ABSENCES
Bud Denker
NOT PRESENT
Rev. Lonnie Peek
Sommer Woods
PRESENT FOR BIPAC
Chair Michele Hodges
Bradley Dick
Michael Curis
Bryan Barnhill
DNR STAFF PRESENT
Ron Olson
Damon Owens, LED
Carrie Warren, MDOT
Amanda Treadwell
Jacob Brown
Darlisa Rickman
Kristen Bennett
Deb Jenson
Egypt Burnley
Jacinda Bingoff
APPROVAL FOR EXCUSED ABSENCES
Motion to approve excused absence was approved.

BELLE ISLE PARK ADVISORY COMMITTEE
MINUTES – April 19, 2018
1

 REVIEW AND APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Chair Hodges requested approval of the March 15, 2018 meeting minutes. Mike Curis moved to
approve with Bryan Barnhill seconding the motion. Minutes for March 15, 2018 were approved
with no corrections.
CONSESSION AND VENDOR UPDATE
Riverside Kayak Connection
.
Anita Twardesky, Riverside Kayak Connection, gave an overview of upcoming opportunities to
come to the Riverside Kayak Connection. Anita shared that Riverside Kayak Connection is ready
to take Belle Isle Park to a whole new level with an expansion. The following are new programs
and opportunities that are coming:
• Launching a new program that will have youth groups begin at the Coleman A. Young
Center and then visit Belle Isle Park to gain experience kayaking in open water.
• Stewardship opportunities that will lead into cleanup efforts on the park.
• Riverside Kayak will be working with the Police Athlete League Pal program to provide
kayaking to all the summer camp youth.
• Belle Isle Aquarium: Youth will meet staff, learn about the fish and aquarium
maintenance, then follow up with a kayaking session and cleanup effort.
• The Nature Centers day camp will come out and kayak and follow with a cleanup effort.
• Plan of additional tours:
o Sunset Pointe every Thursday evening. The route will begin at Kayak Beach to
Sunset point and back.
o The most popular paddles will continue; both the Blue Heron Lagoon Tour and
the Full Moon Paddle.
o Paddling from Belle Isle to Wyandotte on the Detroit River.
• Increased classes for canoeing, kayaking, and stand up paddle board classes.
• Currently working with Genevieve Nowak on a “Keep Belle Isle Beautiful One Paddle at
a Time” event. Event will occur every 3rd Saturday of each month for a cleanup effort.
Event starts with the spring cleanup on April 21,2018.
• May 19, 2018 the Detroit River Cleanup will be held
• Bi- weekly clean up with volunteer groups.
• Bike Rentals, currently developing a self-guided bike tour created by Michigan State
University.
PRESENTATIONS
Trail Updates – Iron Belle Trail
Paul Yauk, State Trails Coordinator, and Kristen Bennett, Non-motorized Trail Programming,
were present to share with members a status update on the Iron Belle Trail and other trail efforts.
BELLE ISLE PARK ADVISORY COMMITTEE
MINUTES – April 19, 2018
2

 The Iron Belle Trail is designed to connect Detroit to Ironwood, Michigan. The name “Iron
Belle” originated from the names of the starting and ending points of the trail. The Iron Belle
Trail has been 5 years in the making with 2,200 miles of trail. The southern trail head will begin
by the lighthouse, here on Belle Isle and will be starting soon.
The Iron Belle Trail benefits each city it connects, bringing parks to the city and people to the
park. In a sense it rejuvenates the towns it extends to, turning formerly old decrepit buildings into
restaurants, bars and other economically beneficial facilities for the community.
The trail encompasses over 2,000 miles, touching 48 counties, 83 cities and villages and 240
townships. Today we have a biking and hiking trail in place making the Iron Belle Trail about
63% complete. We hope to be 80% complete sometime next year. We currently have 54 projects
under construction. There is a host of projects within the City of Detroit and throughout the State
of Michigan that will contribute to making the Iron Belle Trail whole.
( Please see the Iron Belle trail https://michigantrails.org/trails/featured-trails/iron-belle-trail/ for
additional information)
Lake Okonoke Progress Update
Sam Lovall, Friends of the Detroit River, attended today’s meeting to share an update on the
Lake Okonoka project. This project will help restore the hydrology of the lake and its habitat.
The Lake Okonoka project is simply just the dredging of the lake; which will restore the natural
habitat. The Red Bridge that was located there is currently in storage and will be put back in
place once dredging is complete. Mr. Lovall stated that there have been problems in the past
with over flows and we still have some issues when there is heavy rain.
Mr. Lovall, further explained that with the clean water act of 1987 Canada and the United States
deemed the Detroit River an “Area of Concern”. Drainage was significantly blocked for a period,
Amanda Treadwell is working to study the hydrology of the forest. A slide presentation was
shared with the members outlining further details of the project.
GENERAL UPDATES
Proposed By-Law Amendment
Chair Hodges, spoke about the proposed amendment to the by-lays, included in committee
members packets. Upon discussion Committee Member, Barnhill moved to support a motion to
amend the by-laws to reflect the updates presented. Motion was seconded by Committee
Member Curis, motion was approved unanimously. By-Laws will be updated and posted to the
Belle Isle site.

BELLE ISLE PARK ADVISORY COMMITTEE
MINUTES – April 19, 2018
3

 Belle Isle Strategic Management Plan
Debbie Jenson, Park Management Plan Administrator, PRD was present to briefly review the
updated Strategic Management Plan. A draft was previously presented in January 2018, followed
by public meetings held on February 1, 2018 at the Outdoor Adventure Center. There were some
comments about the Grand Prix and others requesting a boat launch. Deb stated that the plan has
65% of the island zoned for recreation.
A few changes were made to some of the language in the plan, explaining what the term
“developing” means contrary to what the public thought it meant. Other items mentioned were
the rehabilitation of the Aquarium and Conservatory, picnic tables, and reopening of the zoo.
Other changes included adding a goal to conduct an analysis of the river shoreline proposed by
the Belle Isle Conservancy staff. A bullet was added to consider the boating access feasibility
study; the plan does not say yes or no it is just being recognized. The plan now notes the recently
signed MOU between the DNR and the BIC. All projects on the island total up to about $20
million, which is a small portion of the bigger picture. Total project needs on the island are about
$300 million. We ask that the committee review and support what we believe is the final draft.
DNR Law Enforcement Update
Conservation Officer Damon Owens was present, they continue to work in conjunction with
Michigan State Police 24/7 to keep the island safe.
Chair Hodges’s stated there was a blue pickup truck driving the wrong way down the
nature trail.
Jacob Brown apologized that he was driving down the wrong way; that he was in rush, it
will not happen again.
Park Operations Update
Jacob Brown, Belle Isle Park Supervisor, shared the following operational items with the
committee.
•

•
•
•

Currently somewhat short staffed due to the new rangers attending the Academy. Jacob
stated that “In parks we try to do all repairs ourselves”. Quoting Michael Terrell Metro
District Supervisor, as saying to us rangers, “You are the Yellow Pages”, and we are
trying to rise to that expectation.
The restroom buildings will be back open; now that the weather is getting warmer. They
are winterized for the season and do not have heat. Some restroom buildings will need
repairs prior to opening.
Two water main breaks were reported to the City of Detroit.
Staff have moved back to the White House Administrative Office; the heat is working,
and abatement is complete.

BELLE ISLE PARK ADVISORY COMMITTEE
MINUTES – April 19, 2018
4

 •

•
•

Belle Isle Park is hiring janitorial, maintenance, and cash handler positions. These are
seasonal, full time positions. We have begun the interview process. If you know anyone
interested please share our contact information, they can call (313) 821-9844 to inquire
and apply.
Spring- Clean up is Saturday April 21, 2018; expecting 900
Community garden was presented to the Michigan Farm Bureau Association; the garden
was located in between the white house and Green Houses. Planning on creating a
community garden for everyone to enjoy.

Infrastructure Updates
Amanda Treadwell, Urban Field Planner, provided a written update on the infrastructure
projects; the update was included in committee member’s packets. A Powerpoint with pictures
of some of the projects was also presented.
•

•

•

•
•

Belle Isle Customer Service Center
o The contractor mobilized onsite April 12, 2018, demolition work will be done
within the first 30 days. The Belle Isle Conservancy staff will also be located at
this location.
Athlete Complex
o Masonry and roof renovations on handball courts beginning.
o The fields will not be opened until that lawn is established. The soccer field will
have new foam posts.
Belle Isle Aquarium and Anna Scripps Whitcomb Conservatory
The DNR and BIC staff are working closely on this project. Both staffs teamed up to
review the modernized life support system at the Toledo Aquarium. They are now
working on outlining the operation needs of the aquarium.
Field work for the Conservatory has been conducted; construction document submission
date is May 18, 2018. Phase 2 includes reviewing the upper dome, replacing glass and reglazing.
Wet-Mesic Flatwoods Habitat Restoration Plan - Public meeting on May 3, 2018 from
3:00 – 5:00 p.m.at the Nature Center. Engineering design will be reviewed for public
input.

Ron Olson addressed the rumors of a boat launch stating we will not be adding a boat launch to
Belle Isle Park.
Upcoming New Projects
•
•
•
•

Scott Fountain – ADA accessibility
Northshore shoreline improvement
DTE boring the island. Updating the electrical system by 2020.
MacArthur Bridge - MDOT maintenance
BELLE ISLE PARK ADVISORY COMMITTEE
MINUTES – April 19, 2018
5

 Outreach and Upcoming Events
Darlisa Rickman Event Coordinator
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Grand Prix load in began
April 16th
April 21st
Spring Cleanup
th
May 5
Coy Festival
10:00 a.m. – 4:00 p.m.
th
th
May 27 /28
Riverside Kayak Moonlight Kayaking
May 30th
Grand Prix Slow Roll
6:00 p.m. – 8:00 p.m.
Spring into Belle Isle 5k at the end of the month begins
10:00 a.m.
Riverside Kayak hosting demo day at the beach
12:00 p.m. – 4:00 p.m.

In 2017:
•
•

221
164

Weddings Occurred
Other Special Events

Ron Olson stated we have not received a proposal or request from the Grand Prix to move past
this year.
Merrill Cane, Grand Prix Representative, the process for the load in has been reduced about a
week. The load out has been reduced by about a month. Other than that, the weather has thrown
the crew off a bit. We will also be participating in spring clean-up this Saturday
Michelle added, we are looking forward to Grand Premiere it is a great opportunity to raise
funds to keep the Aquarium open and free to the public.
Ron Olson the daffodil luncheon was held yesterday. The Grand Prix will be donating funds to
assist with the purchase of additional bulbs to be planted at the front of the bridge on Jefferson.
This year’s floral display is delayed due to the weather.
Belle Isle Conservancy Update
Chair Hodges reminded the committee of the upcoming “Spring Clean Project” on Saturday, it
is expected to be the largest that we have hosted. We will also be launching “Keep Belle Isle
Beautiful” created by Genevieve Nowak.
Chair Hodges also shared the following updates below:
•
•
•

July 11, 2018
April 7, 2018
April 22, 2018

Metro Detroit Youth Day
90th Anniversary of the police dispatch station was celebrated
Volunteer Recognition week concluded
BELLE ISLE PARK ADVISORY COMMITTEE
MINUTES – April 19, 2018
6

 Chair Hodges shared that a new volunteer room had opened in the Aquarium. Further
suggesting a visit to view the seahorses for Father’s Day. Noting they are the only male specie to
give birth.
PUBLIC COMMENTS (3 minutes each)
Michael Betzold

Shared his personal connection to Detroit and Belle Isle Park.
Feels the Grand Prix is inconsiderate of the island, concrete blocks
killing the grass, party tents popped up, etc. Expressed the Grand
Prix should not come back past this year. Directly addressed Chair
Hodges stating “Michelle, you now admit that the Grand Prix has a
negative effect, yet you still say the private-public partnership
raises money for the conservancy, if you help get the Grand Prix
off the island, myself and others will personally help raise the
money you need”. Very angry about the Grand Prix.

Skip Davis

Does not support the Grand Prix. Concerned about the construction
impact on the bridge, stating that semi-trucks crossing the bridge
were not anticipated 100 years ago. Further asking the following
questions: How much does it cost to rent the Scott Fountain, the
Casino, the western half of the island for 90 days? I will not bring
my guests April- June as it is embarrassing.

Mr. Comfort

Lake St. Clair Walleye Club. Asked Ron Olson if he has received
the 4,000 signatures for a boat launch on Belle Isle.
Ron Olson replies yes.
Feels that since boaters pay fees for the boats and gas that they
should have a place to launch their boats on the island. Mentions
the cyclist and run/walkers shouldn’t have the right to tell people
what they can and cannot do on the park.

Mr. Hennessy

Reads the Conservancy newsletter. Stated he is amazed at how
much must get done and what has been done so far. Feels the
island is very beautiful. Questioned “what if the people who donate
stop supporting the park, where would the money go and what
would happen to the park?”

Scott Carter

What is the status of the old zoo? Is it in the Master Plan?
Ron Olson stated yes, it is in the master plan. However, we have
projects and infrastructure needs to be completed first and the
BELLE ISLE PARK ADVISORY COMMITTEE
MINUTES – April 19, 2018
7

 funding must be distributed accordingly. Eventually we intend to
work on a plan to get that area open.
Betty Roberts

Supporter of the Grand Prix. People come from all over the world
to see this race occur here at Belle Isle Park. The money that is
brought to the businesses is very helpful to the city.

Regina Kuper

Does not support the Grand Prix. Upset that the island is not
accessible during the prime months. What is happening with the
Piet Oudolf garden?

Carol Rhodes

Visitors are upset that the race is on the island. Stating that the 27day reduction is untrue, further stating that MDOT repaved the
roads in February for the race and they are using that time as their
reduction. Also questioning if there is a website for the Strategic
Management Plan? And stating that there should be an email for
people who replied to the Strategic Management Plan.
Carri Warren, MDOT, replied that this is incorrect, stating the
repaving in February had nothing to with tax dollars or the Grand
Prix.

COMMITTEE MEMBERS ITEMS
No Committee Member items.

Meeting Concluded:

11:13 a.m.

NEXT REGULAR MEETING:
May 17, 2018
Belle Isle Nature Center
Belle Isle Park
Detroit, MI 48207
9:00 a.m. – 11:00 am.

Approved: ___________________________
Michele Hodges

______________________________
Ronald A. Olson, Chief

Date: ______________________________

BELLE ISLE PARK ADVISORY COMMITTEE
MINUTES – April 19, 2018
8

 