 CODE EDC 18-11-02-306
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF OCTOBER 23, 2018 MEETING
RESOLVED, that the minutes of the Regular meeting of October 23, 2018 are
hereby approved and all actions taken by the Directors present at such meeting, as set

forth in such minutes, are hereby in all respects ratified and approved as actions of the
Economic Development Corporation.

November 13, 2018

500 Griswold, Sui?re 2200 Deiroi?r, Michigan 48226 (313) 963-2940

ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
BOARD OF DIRECTORS REGULAR MEETING
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 23, 2018 - 8230 AM.

BOARD MEMBERS PRESENT: Linda Forte

BOARD MEMBERS ABSENT:

SPECIAL DIRECTORS
PRESENT:

SPECIAL DIRECTORS
ABSENT:

OTHERS PRESENT:

Damon Hodge
Chris Jackson
Kwaku Osei
Jonathan Queries
Matthew Roling

Marsha Bruhn

Kimberly Clayson
Maurice Cox (ExuOfficio)
John Nainck (Ex-?Officio)
Thomas StaIIworth

None

None

Gay Hilger 
Malinda Jensen 
Jennifer Kanans 
Paul Kako 

Gian Long, Jr. 
Rebecca Nevin 
Mariangela Pied! 
Orza Robertson 
Kelly Shovan 



Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit

MINUTES OF THE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
BOARD OF DIRECTORS REGULAR MEETING

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 23, 2018

DETROIT ECONOMIC GROWTH CORPORATION

500 GRISWOLD, SUITE 2200

8:30 A.M.

CALL TO ORDER

Noting that a quorum was present, Chair Forte called the Regular meeting of the Economic
Development Corporation Board of Directors to order at 8:40 am.

GENERAL
Approval of Minutes

Ms. Forte asked if there were any additions, deletions or corrections to the minutes of the
October 9, 2018 Regular Board meeting. Hearing none, the Board took the following
action:

On a motion by Mr. Roling, seconded by Mr. Quarles, Resolution Code EDC 18-
10-02-305 was unanimously approved.

Receipt of Treasurer?s Report

Ms. Shovan reviewed the Treasurer's Report of Receipts and Disbursements for the
Month of September 2018 for the benefit of the Board. With there being no questions or
discussion, the Board took the following action:

On a motion by Mr. Roling, seconded by Mr. Hodge, Resolution Code EDC 18-10-
03?231 was unanimously approved.

PROJ ECTS

Small Business and Commercial Corridor Revitalization Program: Contract with
Detroit Economic Growth Corporation

Ms. Pledl stated that at the request of the City of Detroit (the ?City?) Mayor?s Office, the
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit has developed small
business and commercial corridor revitalization programs called Motor City Match and
Motor City Re-Store (the ?Programs") in collaboration with the City's Jobs and Economy
Team, Planning and Development, Department of Neighborhoods and other key city and
neighborhood stakeholders.

October 23, 2018

500 Griswold,Suife 2200 - Detroit,Michigon 48226 - (313) 963?2940

The EDC administers the Programs using Community Development Block Grant 
funds from the City. The EDC entered into a subrecipient agreement with the City for Three
Million and 00/100 Dollars in CDBG funding to manage administer and
implement the Program for a term ending June 30, 2019. The subrecipient agreement was
approved by the EDC Board on March 13, 2018 (Resolution #18?03?91?62) and City
Council on March 27, 2018.

The EDC has authorized an annual standard operating contract with the Detroit Economic
Growth Corporation to provide it staff services, as well as legal services (the
?Operating Contract?). The Operating Contract allows the DEGC to bill additional charges
for additional projects and programs of the EDC outside of the original scope of the
Operating Contract.

Because of the need to account for staff time on an hourly basis in order to provide CDBG-
compliant invoices to the City of Detroit for the Program, CDBG consultant has
advised staff that the EDC and the DEGC should memorialize the billing agreement for
this Program separately. An original version of this special agreement was approved by
the EDC Board on February 24, 2015. CDBG consultant has advised staff that the
agreement should be updated. This updated agreement would authorize the DEGC to
provide invoices to the EDC for the actual hours expended to carry out both the Program
administrative and Program delivery activities for the Program, billed at hourly rates that
include the cost of the employee?s time, fringes, and overhead costs. The fringe rate
and overhead rate have been computed by using a 3?year moving average
of the costs in fiscal years 2015-16, 2016?17, and 2017-48, rounded to a whole
percentage. This auxiliary contract would also allow for the DEGC General Counsel?s
time to be billed to the Program at the rates set forth in the Operating Contract.

Staff requested approval from the Board to enter into an agreement between EDC and
DEGC authorizing DEGC to bill EDC for actual staff and legal time for the Program as
outlined above. A resolution was included for the Board?s review and approval.

With there being no questions or discussion, the Board took the following action:

On a motion by Mr. Roling, seconded by Mr. Queries, Resolution Code EDC 18?
10-91?75 was unanimously approved.

Authorigation to Extend Sub-Recipient Agreement in Connection with the City of
Detroit?s Community Development Block Grant -Deciared Disaster Recovery Award

Mr. Robertson reported that the City of Detroit, by and through its Housing and
Revitalization Department (the ?City?), was awarded a Community Development Block
Grant for Declared Disaster Recovery from the US. Department of Housing
and Urban Development (HUD) in the amount of Eight Million Nine Hundred Thousand
and 00/100 Dollars in 2016, the City requested that the Economic
Development Corporation of the City of Detroit (EDC) act as a sub?recipient of the CDBG-
DDR grant. Specifically, the City requested that the EDC undertake construction
management services with respect to the Beltline Greenway, which services may include,
but are not be limited to planning and design services, construction, and project
management services. in addition, from time to time the City may request that the EDC

October 23, 2018

perform project management and/or construction management services with respect to
other specific projects contempiated by the CDBG-DDR grant and/or the overall grant.

in June of 2016, the EDC Board authorized the negotiation and execution of a sub?
recipient agreement with the City (EDC in Juiy of 2016, a sub-
recipient agreement with a budget of $2.6 miliion was executed between the City and the
EDC. The agreement expired March 31, 2018. The City?s originai expenditure deadline
for the entire $8.9 miliion grant was March 2018, however the City has received an
extension to April 2019 and expects an additional extension untii December 31, 2019.

EDC staff has determined that is necessary to extend the term of the current sub-recipient
agreement. EDC staff requests that the Board authorize the extension of the current sub-
recipient agreement through December 31, 2019.

Ms. Forte asked if we have been operating without an agreement since April 1, 2018. Ms.
Navin explained that last January they were exploring expanding the scope of the
agreement and increasing the funding. The agreement lapsed and both parties realized
that it needed to be renewed. We are still in discussions about perhaps increasing the
scope and budget, but right now, the scope and amount remain the same and we just
need a time extension because all of the money has not been expended.

Subsequent to the discussion, the Board took the following action:

On a motion by Mr. Roiing, seconded by Mr. Osei, Resolution Code EDC 18?10-
95-06 was unanimously approved.

ADMINISTRATION

 

Transfer of UDAG Funds

Ms. Jensen explained that pursuant to the terms of certain transfer agreements between
the City of Detroit, acting through its Community and Economic Development Department,
now known as the Housing and Revitaiization Department and the Economic
Development Corporation of the City of Detroit (the the EDC is in possession of
certain funds through the Urban Development Action Grant program These
UDAG proceeds were received by the EDC as repayments of loans and/or other advances
made by the EDC using UDAG grants and/or proceeds of UDAG grants. As such, these
proceeds are now available for certain economic development purposes, subject to the
provisions of the original UDAG grants and transfer agreements.

in consultation with the Mayor's office and HRD, Staff proposes transferring $3.0 million
of on-hand UDAG proceeds for the below uses, which transfers will be reimbursable to
the extent of any available proceeds and are subject to applicable restrictions and
consents (the ?Proposed Transfers"):

. $2,500,000 transfer to the City of Detroit Local Development Finance Authority
to support ongoing debt service requirements in connection with tax
increment revenue bonds issued by the LDFA in 1997 and 1998 to finance certain
aspects of Fiat Jefferson North Assembly Plant. The transfer will allow
eariy payment of upcoming debt service, thereby decreasing the interest payable

October 23, 2018

over through the May 2021 maturity in order to avoid potential deficiencies in
available tax increment revenues available for debt service.

0 $500,000 transfer to City of Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority 
to support industrial land assembly activities aimed at establishing market-ready
industrial sites within City limits in order to attract manufacturing and logistics
companies. The transfer, as well as other funds expected to be made available by
the DBRA and/or the City of Detroit, will support efforts to mitigate certain
competitive disadvantages that have contributed to decisions by certain
manufacturing prospects to locate in other cities and/or regions. These types of
missed opportunities are mostly highiighted on projects requiring buiiding square
footages exceeding 75,000 square feet and/or land requirements of 10 acres or
greater. As a condition, on average, we?re losing 300 jobs in each of these
instances.

A resolution approving the proposed grant was included for the Board?s consideration.

Mr. Damon stated that he understands the $2.5 million, but questioned whether other
means were explored for the $500,000. Ms. Navin responded that the use of these
recycled UDAG proceeds is restricted, and we?ve deployed these proceeds over the years
for many different projects. Detroit has missed opportunities for large industrial projects
and the Mayor and City Administration are very focused on getting market-ready sites so
that we can attract those big industrial projects. EDC is the sponsor of the l-94 industrial
site, and we don?t have much acreage left there. Because we did have a large site
available, Detroit was able to attract Flex-n-Gate, which just opened a beautiful new facility
at the l-94 industrial Park, with over 500 employees.

Mr. Long referred to the Treasurer?s report and the large amount of these restricted funds
the EDC has on hand. This is an opportunity put the money to good use and we expect
to be repaid by 2021.

Ms. Forte asked what the total dollar amount is of these UDAG funds. Mr. Long replied
that there is $5 million total, $2 million of that is the Trizec refund, which is a sinking fund
and $250,000 is used annually for operations. We have five years left and after that, we
will have to figure out another source of operating funds.

Mr. Long explained that for EDC to use the $2.5 million toward LDFA bond debt
repayment, a written authorization must be received from the head of the City?s Housing
and Revitalization Department. Ms. Navin added that we have submitted a letterfor these
two uses of the UDAG funds and are waiting for the response. The director of the
department and his supervisor are supportive of this use and we expect to receive a
positive response.

Subsequent to the discussion, the Board took the following action:

On a motion by Mr. Roling, seconded by Mr. Quarles, Resolution Code EDC 18?
10-84?06 was unanimously approved.

OTHER MATTERS

October 23, 2018

PUBLIC COMMENT

ADJOURNMENT

With there being no further business to come before the Board, Ms. Forte adjourned the
meeting at 9:00 am.

October 23, 2018

. . CODE EDC 18-10-02-305
Economic Deveiopment Corporation of the CITY of Detron?

 

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF OCTOBER 9, 2018 MEETING

RESOLVED, that the minutes of the Reguiar meeting of October 9, 2018 are
hereby approved and all actions taken by the Directors present at such meeting, as set
forth in such minutes, are hereby in all respects ratified and approved as actions of the
Economic Development Corporation.

October 23, 2018

500 Griswoid,5ui?re 2200 DeiroiT,MiChian 48226 - (313) 963-2940

 CODE EDC 18?10?03-231
Economic Deveiopment Corporation of the City of Detroi

 

ACCEPTANCE OF REPORT FOR SEPTEMBER 2018

RESOLVED, that the Treasurer?s Report of Receipts and Disbursements for the
period ending September 30, 2018, as presented at this meeting, is hereby in all respects
accepted as action of the Economic Development Corporation.

October 23, 2018

500 Griswold,5uite 2200 Detroit, Michigan 48226 (313) 963-2940

. CODE EDC 18-1 0-91-75
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit

 

SMALL BUSINESS AND COMMERCIAL CORRIDOR REVITALIZATION PROGRAM:
CONTRACT WITH DETROIT ECONOMIC GROWTH CORPORATION

WHEREAS, The Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit
has developed small business and commercial corridor revitalization programs
commonly known as Motor City Match and Motor City Restore (the ?Programs?) at the
request of the City of Detroit (the ?City?) Mayor?s Office.

WHEREAS, the EDC entered into a subrecipient agreement with the City for Three
Million and 00/100 Dollars in CDBG funding to manage, administer and
implement the Program for a term ending June 30, 2019 pursuant to EDC Board approval
on March 13, 2018 (Resolution 18-03-9162); and

WHEREAS, in order to be reimbursed for staf?ng costs by the City pursuant to the
subrecipient agreement, the EDC must submit invoices showing actual staff time
expended to provide administrative and project delivery services for the Program; and

WHEREAS, the EDC and Detroit Economic Growth Corporation have
an annual standard operating contract for staff and administrative services (the ?Operating
Contract?); and

WHEREAS, although the Operating Contract allows the DEGC to bill additional
charges for additional projects and programs of the EDC outside of the original scope of
the contract, EDC's CDBG consultant has advised staff that the EDC and the DEGC
should memorialize the billing agreement for this Program separateiy; and

WHEREAS, an original separate contract was approved by the EDC Board on
February 24, 2015, and CDBG consultant has advised staff that the contract should
be updated; and

WHEREAS, the EDC Board has determined that it is appropriate to execute arr
agreement, or amendment to the Operating Contract, with the DEGC to provide separate
invoicing by the DEGC for actual hours expended by DEGC staff to carry out both the
program administrative and project delivery activities for the Program, with DEGC internal
legal counsel?s time to be billed at the rates set forth in the Operating Contract, and all
other DEGC staff time to be billed at hourly rates that include the cost of the DEGC staff
time, pills fringes calculated at a 29% rate, plg? overhead costs at a 15% rate
(collectively, the ?Program Billing Rates?).

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the EDC Board of Directors hereby
authorizes the negotiation and execution of a separate agreement or amendment to the
Operating Contract, with DEGC to provide the staffing services to carry out the Program
administrative and Program delivery activities for the Program at the Program Billing
Rates.

500 Griswold,Suite 2200 - Detroit, Michigan 48226 - (313) 9632940

BE iT FURTHER RESOLVED, that any two Of?cers, or any one of the Officers
and any one of the Authorized Agents or any two of the Authorized Agents shall
hereafter have the authority to negotiate and execute all documents, contracts, or other
papers and to take such actions as are necessary to implement the provisions and intent
of this resolution.

BE IT FINALLY RESOLVED, that all of the acts and transactions of any Officer or
Authorized Agent of the EDC, in the name and on behalf of the EDC, relating to matters
contemplated by the foregoing resolutions, which acts would have been approved by the
foregoing resoiutions except that such acts were taken prior to execution of these
resolutions, are hereby in all respects confirmed, approved and ratified.

October 23, 2018

 CODE soc 1840-95-06
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit

 

CDBG DECILARED DISASTER RECOVERY AWARD: EXTENSION OF 
RECIPIENT AGREEMENT IN CONNECTION WITH THE CITY OF 
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANT DISASTER RECOVERY
AWARD

WHEREAS, the City of Detroit, by and through its Housing and Revitalization
Department, (the ?City?) has been awarded a Community Development Block Grant for
Declared Disaster Recovery from the US. Department of Housing and
Urban Development (HUD) in the amount of Eight Million, Nine Hundred Thousand and
00/100 Dollars and

WHEREAS, the City and the Economic Development Corporation of the City of
Detroit (the entered into a sub-recipient Agreement with respect to certain projects
contemplated by the CDBG-DDR grant (the ?Sub?recipient Agreement?), which Sub-
recipient Agreement terminated March 31, 2018; and

WHEREAS, the original expenditure deadline of the total $8.9 million HUD grant
was March 31, 2018; and

WHEREAS, the City received an extension of the expenditure deadline granted by
HUD to April 2019 and expects to receive an additional extension through December 31,
2019;and

WHEREAS, EDC staff has determined that is necessary to extend the Sub?
recipient Agreement through December 31, 2019.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE lT RESOLVED, that the Board of Directors of The
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit hereby authorizes the extension
of the term of the Sub?recipient Agreement through December 31, 2019.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that any two Of?cers, or any one of the Of?cers
and any one of the Authorized Agents or any two of the Authorized Agents, shall
hereafter have the authority to negotiate and execute an amendment to the Sub?recipient
Agreement extending its term through December 31, 2019 and any and all other
agreements, documents, contracts, or other papers necessary or to take any actions
necessary to implement the provisions and intent of this resolution on behalf of the EDC.

BE lT FINALLY RESOLVED that all of the acts and transactions of any officer or
authorized agent of the EDC, in the name and on behalf of the EDC, relating to matters
contemplated by the foregoing resolutions, which acts would have been approved by the
foregoing resolutions except that such acts were taken prior to execution of these
resolutions, are hereby in all respects confirmed, approved and ratified.

October 23, 2018

500 Griswold,Suite 2200 - DetroitMichigon 48226 - (3l3) 9632940

 

COD, EDC 1840-84-06
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detror? 

UDAG RECYCLED FUNDS: TRANSFER OF UDAG FUNDS

WHEREAS, pursuant to the terms of certain transfer agreements between the City
of Detroit, acting through its Community and Economic Development Department, now
known as the Housing and Revitalization Department and the Economic
Development Corporation of the City of Detroit (the the EDC is in possession of
certain funds through the Urban Development Action Grant program and

WHEREAS, the UDAG proceeds were received by the EDC as repayments of
loans and/or other advances made by the EDC using UDAG grants and/or proceeds of
UDAG grants and are now available for certain economic development purposes, subject
to the provisions of the original UDAG grants and transfer agreements; and

WHEREAS, in consultation with the Mayor?s office and HRD, Staff proposes
transferring $3.0 million of on~hand UDAG proceeds for the below uses, which transfers
will be reimbursable to the extent of any available proceeds and are subject to applicable
restrictions and consents (the ?Proposed Transfers"):

- $2,500,000 transfer to the City of Detroit Local Development Finance Authority
to support ongoing debt service requirements in connection with tax
increment revenue bonds issued by the LDFA in 1997 and 1998 to finance certain
aspects of Fiat Jefferson North Assembly Plant. The transfer will allow
early payment of upcoming debt service, thereby decreasing the interest payable
over through the May 2021 maturity in order to avoid potential deficiencies in
available tax increment revenues available for debt service.

. $500,000 transfer to City of Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority 
to support industrial land assembly activities aimed at establishing market~ready
industrial sites within City limits in order to attract manufacturing companies. The
transfer, as well as other funds expected to be made available by the DBRA and/or
the City of Detroit, will support efforts to mitigate certain competitive disadvantages
that have contributed to decisions by certain manufacturing prospects to locate in
other cities and/or regions. These types of missed opportunities are mostly
highlighted on projects requiring building square footages exceeding 75,000
square feet and/or land requirements of 10 acres or greater. As a condition, on
average, we?re losing 300 jobs in each of these instances.

WHEREAS, the EDC Board of Directors has reviewed the Proposed Transfers and
determined that they are consistent with the statutory purposes and otherwise in
the best interest of the EDC.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the EDC Board of Directors hereby
authorizes the Proposed Transfers.

BE lT FURTHER RESOLVED that the EDC Board of Directors hereby authorizes
any two of its Officers orany two of its Authorized Agents or any one Officer and any one

500 Griswold,Suife 2200 - Detroit, Michigan 48226 - (31399632940

Authorized Agent to negotiate and execute transfer or similar agreements necessary or
appropriate to effectuate the Proposed Transfers as deemed appropriate by such
Authorized Agents and counsel which are not inconsistent with this resolution and do not
adversely affect the rights and/or obligations of the EDC hereunder.

BE lT FURTHER RESOLVED the EDC Board of Directors hereby authorizes any
two of its Of?cers or any two of its Authorized Agents or any one Officer and any one
Authorized Agent to execute and all otherdocuments, contracts and papers and take such
other actions necessary or appropriate to implement the provisions and intent of this
resolution on behalf of the EDC.

BE IT FINALLY RESOLVED, that all of the acts and transactions of any Officer or
Authorized Agent of the EDC, in the name and on behalf of the EDC, relating to matters
contemplated by the foregoing resolutions, which acts would have been approved by the
foregoing resolutions except that such acts were taken prior to execution of these
resolutions, are hereby in all respects confirmed, approved and ratified.

October 23, 2018

