Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Board of Commissioners
Criminal Justice Committee
Wednesday, February 7, 2018

9:00 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA

There will be a meeting of the Committee or Subcommittee of the Board of Commissioners of Cook
County at the date, time and location listed above to consider the following:
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in writing,
their name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in advance of the
meeting. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a time specified in
the meeting agenda. Authorized public speakers who are not present during the specified time for public
testimony will forfeit their allotted time to speak at the meeting. Public testimony must be germane to a
specific item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not exceed three minutes; the Secretary
will keep track of the time and advise when the time for public testimony has expired. Persons authorized
to provide public testimony shall not use vulgar, abusive, or otherwise inappropriate language when
addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately; failure to speak to an item that is germane to the
meeting, or failure to adhere to the time requirements may result in expulsion from the meeting and/or
disqualify the person from providing future testimony.
18-2036
COMMITTEE MINUTES

Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 6/28/2017
18-1750
Sponsored by: RICHARD R. BOYKIN, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
REQUIRING QUARTERLY REPORTING ON THE COST OF GUN VIOLENCE
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 18 Courts, Article 1 In

Page 1 of 3

 Criminal Justice Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

February 7, 2018

General, Section 18-4 of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as Follows:
Sec. 18-4. Quarterly Reporting.

(a) The offices of the Chief Judge and Clerk of the Circuit Court shall report to the Board of
Commissioners quarterly on the cost their offices incur due to processing court cases involving firearms.
BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 2
Administration, Article IV Officers and Employees, Division 9 State’s Attorney, Section 2-338 is hereby
amended as Follows:
Sec. 2-338. Quarterly Reporting

(a) The State’s Attorney shall report to the Board of Commissioners quarterly on the cost that the
office incurs due to processing court cases involving firearms.
BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 38 Health
and Human Services, Article VI Medical Examiner, Division 1 Generally, Section 38-157 is hereby
amended as Follows:
Sec. 38-157. Quarterly Reporting

(a) The Medical Examiner shall report to the Board of Commissioners quarterly on the cost that the
office incurs due to performing autopsies on cases involving firearms.
BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 38 Health
and Human Services, Article V Cook County Health and Hospitals System, Section 34-94 is hereby
amended as Follows:

(a) The Health and Hospitals System shall report to the Board of Commissioners quarterly on the
cost it incurs due to processing medical cases involving firearms.
BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 46 Law
Enforcement, Article II Sheriff, Division 1 Generally, Section 46-40 is hereby amended as Follows:

(a) The Sheriff’s Office shall report to the Board of Commissioners quarterly on the cost that the
office incurs to investigating and processing cases involving firearms.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect March 1, 2018
Legislative History :

1/17/18 - Board of Commissioners - refer to the Criminal Justice Committee

Page 2 of 3

 Criminal Justice Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

Secretary
Chairman:
Garcia
Vice-Chairman: Moore
Members:
Committee of the Whole

Page 3 of 3

February 7, 2018

 