Allegheny County Council
436 Grant Street
Pittsburgh, PA 15219
Phone (412) 350-6490
Fax (412) 350-6499

Meeting Minutes
Wednesday, March 7, 2018
4:00 PM

Conference Room I

Committee on Parks
John Palmiere, Chair;
Patrick Catena, Nick Futules, Cindy Kirk, Bob Macey, Sue Means and Anita Prizio,
Members.

 Committee on Parks

Meeting Minutes

March 7, 2018

I. Call to Order
The meeting was called to order at 4:03.

Invited Guests:
William D. McKain, CPA, Allegheny County Manager or designee(s)
Andy Baechle, Director, Allegheny County Parks Department
Mr. McKain was present from the Office of the County Manager.
Mr. Baechle was present from the Parks Department.
Mr. Barker was present from the Office of County Council.

II. Roll Call
Members Present:

3-

Cindy Kirk,Sue Means andJohn Palmiere

Members Absent:

2-

Bob Macey andAnita Prizio

Members Phone:

2-

Patrick Catena andNick Futules

III. Approval of Minutes

10533-18

Motion to approve the minutes of the January 31, 2018 meeting of the
Committee on Parks.
A motion was made by Means, seconded by Kirk, that this matter be Passed. The
motion carried by a unanimous vote.

IV. Agenda Items
Ordinances

10528-18

An Ordinance of the County of Allegheny, Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, amending
Ordinance Nos. 07-06 and subsequent amendments, which establish the existing
schedule of facility and recreational rates and fees for the use of County recreational
and park facilities.

Sponsors: Council Member Catena

10529-18

An Ordinance of the County of Allegheny, Commonwealth of Pennsylvania,
authorizing North Allegheny Soccer Club, Inc. to use fields on McKinney Road in the
County’s North Park.

Sponsors: Chief Executive

At the request of the Chair, the clerk read the title of the bill and Mr. Baechle
summarized its provisions, noting that North Allegheny Soccer Club (NASC) has been
using fields at North Park for over 20 years, and has maintained and expanded the
soccer field facilities in the Park. Mr. Baechle noted that the lease term is for 5 years,
with a 3 year extension available at the County's option. Mr. Baechle disucussed the
Allegheny County Council

Page 1

Printed on 4/26/2018

 Committee on Parks

Meeting Minutes

March 7, 2018

timeframes during which NASC uses the fields, and noted that the fields ar open to the
public otherwise. Mr. Baechle noted that NASC is willing to invest approximately
$100,000 in improvements to the facilities to include a restroom and equipment storage
shed, which is why the County is willing to accept the longer than normal contract term.
In response to questions from Ms. Means, Mr. Baechle noted that NASC maintains
appropriate insurance, and that the McKinney soccer fields are the best condition of any
of the soccer fields in the County. Mr. McKain explained how purchasing sometimes is
accomplished by participating in existing Commonwealth contracts, which may expedite
the purchasing process. Mr. Baechle noted that an access road may have to be moved
in order to keep traffic at a distance from some of the facilities, but that this can be done
in-house.
In response to a question from Ms. Kirk, Mr. Baechle noted that the contemplated
construction should be completed in 2 years or so.
A motion was made by Kirk, seconded by Means, that this matter be Affirmatively
Recommended. The motion carried by a unanimous vote.

V. Adjournment
The meeting was adjourned at 4:52.

Allegheny County Council

Page 2

Printed on 4/26/2018

 