  
  
42  W.  Madison  Street  •  Chicago,  Illinois  60602  
Telephone:  773/553-­1600    

   
December   1,   2017   
   
Parent   or   Guardian   of   a   Student   at      
Patrick   Henry   Elementary   School   
4250   North   St.   Louis   Avenue   
   
Re:    Proposed    Reassignment    Boundary    Change    of    Patrick    Henry    Elementary    School    and    Theodore   
Roosevelt   High   School         
      
Dear   Parent   or   Guardian:   
   
Chicago   Public   Schools   (CPS)   is   committed   to   providing   every   child   from   every   community   with   a   
high   quality   education   that   prepares   them   for   success   in   college   and   in   life.   CPS   students   continue   to   
make    record-­‐‑breaking    academic    progress    in    every    part    of    the    city.    Our    vision    is    that    all    CPS    schools   
can   build   on   this   progress   by   offering   high   quality,   rigorous   instruction   from   talented   educators   that   
help   put   Chicago   students   on   a   path   to   lasting   success.   
   
Patrick   Henry   Elementary   School   (Henry)   is   a   Level   1   school,   located   at   4250   North   St.   Louis   Avenue   
serving   kindergarten   through   sixth   grade,   with   a   pre-­‐‑kindergarten   program.   Parents,   teachers   and   
the    Henry    school    community    have    proposed    the    reassignment    boundary    change    through    a    letter   
dated    October    25,    2017,    signed    by    the    Local    School    Council    chairperson    and    the    Principal    of    Henry,   
so    that    Henry    can    expand    to    offer    seventh    grade    in    the    2018-­‐‑19    school    year    and    eighth    grade    in    the   
2019-­‐‑20    school    year.        Theodore    Roosevelt    High    School    (Roosevelt),    located    at    3436    West    Wilson   
Avenue,   currently   serves   grades   seven   through   twelve.         
   
In    consideration    of    the    request    made    from    the    Henry    school    community,    I    am    proposing    the   
reassignment    boundary    change    of    Henry    and    Roosevelt    so    that    Henry    can    serve    kindergarten   
through   eighth   grades   and   Roosevelt   can   serve   ninth   through   twelfth   grades   by   the   school   year   2019-­‐‑
20.         
   
This    proposal    is    consistent    with    the    Chief    Executive    Officer’s    Guidelines    for    School    Actions   
(Guidelines)   because   it   is   a   proposal   requested   by   parents   or   community   members   via   the   process   to   
request   proposals   outlined   in   the   Guidelines.      Specifically,   we   have   heard   the   request   for   this   proposal   
from    the    Henry    Local    School    Council.        Furthermore,    the    resulting    space    utilization    after    the   
reassignment   boundary   change   will   not   exceed   any   affected   schools’   enrollment   efficiency   range,   as   
defined   by   the   CPS’   Space   Utilization   Standards.         
   
If   this   proposal   is   approved   by   the   Board   of   Education   of   the   City   of   Chicago   (Board),   effective   July   1,   
2018,   Henry   will   serve   kindergarten   through   seventh   grades   and   Roosevelt   will   serve   eighth   through   
twelfth   grades.      Further,   effective   July   1,   2019,   Henry   will   serve   kindergarten   through   eighth   grades   
and   Roosevelt   will   serve   ninth   through   twelfth   grades.            
   
If   you   would   like   more   details   about   the   proposed   reassignment   boundary   change,   please   refer   to   the   
Draft   Transition   Plan   that   is   included   with   this   letter.   
   
   

   

   
  
42  W.  Madison  Street  •  Chicago,  Illinois  60602  
Telephone:  773/553-­1600    

   
As    a    next    step,    CPS    will    hold    two    community    meetings    and    one    public    hearing    to    hear    further   
feedback   on   CPS’   proposal   (meeting   information   is   below).   Following   the   meetings   and   hearing,   the   
Board   of   Education   may   vote   on   this   proposal   as   early   as   February   of   2018.   
   
Public   Comment   on   this   Proposal   
I    invite    you    to    share    your    feedback    on    the    proposed    reassignment    boundary    change    during    the   
following   two   community   meetings   and   one   public   hearing   outlined   below:   
   
Community   Meeting   1   
Community   Meeting   2   
Public   Hearing   
January   10,   2018                              

January   17,   2018                              

January   26,   2018   

6   to   8   p.m.   
6   to   8   p.m.   
4:30   to   6   p.m.   
Helge   A   Haugan   Elementary   School    Patrick   Henry   Elementary   School    CPS   Central   Office   
4540   North   Hamlin   Avenue   

4250   North   St.   Louis   Avenue   

42   West   Madison   Street   

   
If    you    wish    to    comment    at    the    community    meetings    or    hearing,    please    adhere    to    the    following   
procedures.      You   must   sign   up   to   speak   on   the   day   of,   at   the   designated   location,   beginning   one   hour   
before   the   designated   start   time   and   ending   30   minutes   after   the   start   of   the   meeting   or   hearing.      You   
will    have    two    minutes    to    speak,    unless    the    hearing    officer    or    meeting    organizer    provides    an   
extension.      The   hearing   will   conclude   at   the   stated   end   time   or   following   the   comments   of   the   last   
person   who   has   signed   up   to   speak,   whichever   occurs   first.   
   
Thank   you   in   advance   for   your   feedback   as   we   work   to   provide   all   Chicago   Public   School   students   
with   the   high   quality   education   they   deserve.      After   the   community   meetings   and   public   hearing,   I   
will    review    a    written    report    from    the    hearing    officer    and    at    that    time,    I    may    recommend    that    the   
Board   consider   and   approve   this   reassignment   boundary   change.   
   
Further   Questions   and   Concerns   
All   of   this   information   can   be   found   at   CPS.edu/Transitions.      If   you   have   any   questions   or   concerns   
regarding    this    proposal    and    the    DRAFT    Transition    Plan,    please    email    transitions@cps.edu    or    call   
Chicago   Public   Schools   at   (773)   553-­‐‑1500.   
   
   
Sincerely,   
   
Forrest   Claypool   
   
Chief   Executive   Officer      
Chicago   Public   Schools      

   

   

   
   
   

   
   
   

 