Allegheny County Council
436 Grant Street
Pittsburgh, PA 15219
Phone (412) 350-6490
Fax (412) 350-6499

Meeting Minutes
Tuesday, March 13, 2018
5:00 PM

Conference Room 1

Committee on Economic Development & Housing
Dewitt Walton, Chair; Tom Baker, Patrick Catena, Sam DeMarco, Nick Futules, Bob
Macey and John Palmiere, Members

 Meeting Minutes

Committee on Economic
Development & Housing

March 13, 2018

I. Call to Order
The meeeting was called to order at 5:00.

Invited Guests:
William D. McKain, CPA, Allegheny County Manager or designee(s)
Bob Hurley, Director, Allegheny County Department of Economic Development
Mr. McKain was present from the Office of the County Manager.
Mr. Hurley and Mr. Exler were present from the Department of Economic Development.
Mr. Barker was present from the Office of County Council.

II. Roll Call
Members Present:

2-

Bob Macey andDeWitt Walton

Members Absent:

2-

Tom Baker andSam DeMarco

Members Phone:

3-

Patrick Catena,Nick Futules andJohn Palmiere

Members
Non-Members:

1-

Robert Palmosina

III. Approval of Minutes

10554-18

Motion to approve the minutes of the February 13, 2018 meeting of the
Committee on Economic Development and Housing.
A motion was made by Catena, seconded by Futules, that this matter be Passed.
The motion carried by a unanimous vote.

IV. Agenda Items
Resolutions

10530-18

A Resolution approving a Project for the benefit of Duquesne University of the Holy
Spirit, a nonprofit corporation organized under the laws of the Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania (the "University"), to be financed by the Allegheny County Higher
Education Building Authority by the issuance of the Authority’s federally taxable
and/or tax-exempt bonds or notes, to be issued in one or more series, in the
aggregate principal amount which, together with original issue premium and less
original issue discount, is not expected to exceed $20,000,000, provided that the
taxing power of the County of Allegheny, Pennsylvania (the "County"), shall not be
obligated in any way with respect to the Bonds (hereinafter defined), and determining
that the purpose of the financing will be to benefit the health and welfare of the citizens
of Allegheny County, Pennsylvania.

Sponsors: Chief Executive

Allegheny County Council

Page 1

Printed on 6/11/2018

 Meeting Minutes

Committee on Economic
Development & Housing

March 13, 2018

At the request of the Chair, the clerk read the title of the bill and Mr. Hurley provided a
brief overview of the proposed project, delineating the capital projects listed in the
resolution, and explained the significance of the health and welfare declaration in the
context of bond issuances. Mr. Hurley noted that the County is neither assuming nor
guaranteeing any debt in connection with the proposed bond issuance.
In response to a question from the Chair, Mr. Hurley noted that Duquesne University's
initial fee would be roughly $27,500, with an additional $500 per year in service fees
thereafter, paid to the Authority.
Mr. McKain noted that the administration fully supports the bond issuance and the capital
projects involved. Mr. Hurley noted that the "meds and eds" driving the region's economy
tend to benefit from improvements to the area's institutions of higher education.
Ms. Means indicated that she supports the legislation and underlying projects, as did Mr.
Palmosina.
A motion was made by Catena, seconded by Futules, that this matter be
Affirmatively Recommended. The motion carried by a unanimous vote.

10537-18

A Resolution approving a Project for the benefit of Carlow University (the
"University") to be financed by the Authority for Improvements in Municipalities by
the issuance of the Authority’s tax-exempt or taxable bonds and/or notes, to be
issued in one or more series, in the aggregate principal amount not in excess of
$36,000,000 (but expected to be approximately $31,000,000), provided that the
taxing power of the County of Allegheny, Pennsylvania, shall not be obligated in any
way with respect to the Bonds (hereinafter defined), and determining that the purpose
of the financing will be to benefit the health and welfare of the citizens of Allegheny
County, Pennsylvania.

Sponsors: Chief Executive

At the request of the Chair, the clerk read the title of the bill and Mr. Hurley summarized
its provisions, highlighting the uses to which the proceeds would be put by the University,
including refinancing some outstanding debt and capital improvements as described in
the resolution. Mr. Hurley noted that this is another health and welfare declaration.
Mr. McKain expressed the administration's support for the bond issuance and underlying
projects.
The Chair indicated that he was pleased to see Carlow's efforts at making the
contemplated improvements.
In response to a question from Ms. Means, Mr. Hurley noted that the initial fee would be
$37,900, with an additional $9,000 per year thereafter.
A motion was made by Futules, seconded by Walton, that this matter be
Affirmatively Recommended. The motion carried by a unanimous vote.

V. Adjournment
The meeting as adjourned at 5:12.

Allegheny County Council

Page 2

Printed on 6/11/2018

 