Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations Committee
Tuesday, November 13, 2018

2:00 PM

Cook County Building, Board Room
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA

There will be a meeting of the Committee or Subcommittee of the Board of Commissioners of Cook
County at the date, time and location listed above to consider the following:
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in writing,
their name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in advance of the
meeting. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a time specified in
the meeting agenda. Authorized public speakers who are not present during the specified time for public
testimony will forfeit their allotted time to speak at the meeting. Public testimony must be germane to a
specific item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not exceed three minutes; the Secretary
will keep track of the time and advise when the time for public testimony has expired. Persons authorized
to provide public testimony shall not use vulgar, abusive, or otherwise inappropriate language when
addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately; failure to speak to an item that is germane to the
meeting, or failure to adhere to the time requirements may result in expulsion from the meeting and/or
disqualify the person from providing future testimony.
18-6999
COMMITTEE MINUTES

Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 10/17/2018
18-6218
Presented by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED APPOINTMENT
Appointee(s): Raffi Sarrafian
Position: Chief Procurement Officer

Page 1 of 3

 Legislation and Intergovernmental
Relations Committee

November 13, 2018

NOTICE AND AGENDA

Department/Board/Commission: Office of the Chief Procurement Officer
Effective date: 10/15/2018
Expiration date: N/A

10/17/18 -

Legislative History :

Board of Commissioners

-

refer to the Legislation and Intergovernmen

18-6308
Presented by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED APPOINTMENT
Appointee(s): William Stafford
Position: Northwest Water Commission
Department/Board/Commission: Commissioner
Effective date: Immediate
Expiration date: 6 years from date of approval

10/17/18 -

Legislative History :

Board of Commissioners

-

refer to the Legislation and Intergovernmen

18-6109
Sponsored by:
Commissioners

RICHARD

R.

BOYKIN

and

LARRY

SUFFREDIN,

Cook

County

Board

of

PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
AMENDING
PRODUCTS

THE

PROHIBITIONS

ON

SALE

OR

DISTRIBUTION

OF

TOBACCO

BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 54 Licenses, Permits
and Miscellaneous Business Regulations, Article V, Section 54-305 of the Cook County Code is hereby

Page 2 of 3

 Legislation and Intergovernmental
Relations Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

November 13, 2018

amended as Follows:
Sec. 54-305. Prohibitions on sale or distribution of tobacco products.

(a) Underage tobacco sales.
(1) No retailer may sell or distribute tobacco products to any person under 18 21 years of age.
(2) Each retailer shall request and examine the photographic identification of any person
purchasing tobacco products so as to verify that the purchaser is over 18 years of age 21
years of age or older. No such verification is required for any person who appears without
reasonable doubt to be over the age of 27.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect June 1, 2019.
Legislative History :

9/26/18 -

Legislative History :

10/17/18 -

Board of Commissioners

-

refer to the Legislation and Intergovernmenta

Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations Committee

Secretary
Chairman:
Suffredin
Vice-Chairman: Fritchey
Members:
Committee of the Whole

Page 3 of 3

-

recommend f

 