Community Meeting #1
Proposed Reassignment Boundary Change of Theodore Roosevelt High School, Patrick
Henry Elementary School, and Helge A. Haugan Elementary School
Tuesday, January 10, 2018

4540 N Hamlin Ave, Chicago, IL 60625
6:00 PM – 8:00 PM

CPS Staff in Attendance
Anna Alvarado, Lela Majstorovic, Les Kniskern, Ernesto Matias
CPS Presentation
Les opened by introducing Ms. Majstorovic. Ms. Majstorovic began by thanking
everyone for coming and introduced herself and Ana Alvarado. Ms. Majstorovic gave
an overview of the community meetings agenda and logistics. Ms. Majstorovic stated
that if participants did not have a chance to speak today they can do so in writing via
email or at the registration table.
Ms. Majstorovic gave a detailed explanation of each proposed school action.
For the proposed reassignment boundary change of Haugan and Roosevelt High
School: (a) adjust Haugan’s attendance area to include 7th grade in the 2018-2019
school year, (b) adjust Haugan’s attendance area to serve 8th grade in the 2019-2020
school year, (c) adjust Roosevelt HS attendance area currently serving 7th-12th grade
to serve 8th grade -12th grade in the 2018-19 school year, and (d) eliminate the
Roosevelt HS attendance area that previously served 8th grade in the 2018-19 school
year so that Roosevelt HS serves 9th-12th grades in the 2019-20 school year.
For the proposed reassignment boundary change of Henry and Roosevelt High School:
(a) adjust Henry’s attendance area to include 7th grade in the 2018-19 school year, (b)
adjust Henry’s attendance area to include 8th grade in the 2019-2020 school year, (c)
adjust Roosevelt HS attendance area currently serving 7th-12th grade to serve 8th
grade -12th grade in the 2018-19 school year, and (d) eliminate the Roosevelt HS
attendance area that previously served 8th grade in the 2018-19 school year so that
Roosevelt HS serves 9th-12th grades in the 2019-20 school year.
Ms. Majstorovic noted that previous recommendations came forth from the community
to expand both Henry and Haugan but could not be accommodated due to space
restrictions. The proposal was revisited this year by Haugan and Henry’s local school
councils. Ms. Majstorovic closed the presentation by providing a data overview for

 Haugan, Henry, and Roosevelt HS including student enrollment. Ms. Majstorovic then
opened the floor for public comments and reminded speakers that comments are limited
to 2 mins.
Public Comments
Rosa Valdez, Principal at Haugan– Stated that this proposal has been in the works for
a while but due to overcrowding it was not possible. We now have space and
experience to teach 7th and 8th grade. Continuity of education is important, and the
parents and LSC are supportive.
Juan Gutierrez, Principal at Henry - Mentioned his eight-year tenure at Henry.
Parents have been inquiring about the addition of 7th grade, but the timing was not
right. Recently this idea was brought to the committees with positive support.
Dan Kramer, Principal at Roosevelt – Advocates for all three schools, teachers are
committed to creating a middle school program in short order. The Go CPS application
process and moratoriums will work in favor of this proposal, and he welcomes Haugan
and Henry students.
Carol Hayse, Retired Social Worker - Neither for or against but is concerned if
someone at CPS will address the potential impact on Roosevelt teachers and student
mobility.
Loures, parent at Henry- In favor of the proposal. Believe this is in the best interest of
students and the staff is good.
Mary Ann Munoz-Maciel, Assistant Principal at Henry – Remarked that Henry
received a grant for Personalized Learning and the staff is building structures to support
7th grade. 6th graders are excited at the opportunity to stay and move onto 7th grade in
the same place.
Katherine Pusateu, Counselor at Roosevelt. – Concerned that information has not
been made to parents effectively.
Nancy Rlores, parent at Haugan– Supportive of the proposal and wants assurances
that the older and younger kids will be safe.
Brain Tomsbeck, teacher at Haugan – Feels safety and security are essential to
learning and that the 7th-grade transition has been harmful to students.
Juan Gutierrez, Principal of Henry – (in response to Ms. Flores) noted that his staff is
prepared for situations that may arise.
Erica, Science Teacher at Haugan – Mentioned that students at Haugan are not
allowed to roam the halls alone and supports the new plan.
Sara Baar-Ledford, school counselor at Haugan – Mentioned that all staff has
participated in restorative practices professional development and she works closely

 with 6th grader as well as teaching 4th and 5th grade once a month. Wants to keep 6th
graders where they are safe and comfortable.
Deb Mell, Alderman of 33rd Ward – States that a big priority is in strengthening
neighborhood schools and for that to happen feeder schools should attend Roosevelt
HS.
Jessica K, 6th-grade teacher at Haugan - Is a former student and current teacher. As
a student, it was difficult to transition at 6th and now having to support kids that have to
transition to 7th grade at another school then again in 9th grade. They have lots of
questions and are open to staying. Teachers are well endorsed and capable of
supporting 7th grade.
Esmeralda Sanchez, parent at Haugan – wants to know if the 7th-grade proposal is
going to go through because she applied to another school and her 6th grader is
comfortable here.
Luis Avila, Assistant Principal Haugan – Appreciates every parent that is in
attendance. Is in favor of the recommendation to include 7th and 8th grade at Haugan,
especially in the academic and social and emotional learning respect because students
will be better prepared. The 7th and 8th grade will help continue progress and 6th
graders are in favor of it.
Meeting adjourned 7:59 p.m. 

 