Metropolitan Water Reclamation
District of Greater Chicago

100 East Erie Street
Chicago, IL 60611

Meeting Minutes
Public Hearing

Chairman of Finance Frank Avila, Commissioner Cameron
Davis, Commissioner Kimberly Du Buclet, Commissioner
Marcelino Garcia, Vice-President Barbara J. McGowan,
Commissioner Josina Morita, Commissioner Debra Shore,
Commissioner Kari K. Steele, President Board of
Commissioners Mariyana T. Spyropoulos
Thursday, December 6, 2018

2:00 PM

Board Room

CONSIDER THE PROPOSED BUDGET

Call Meeting to Order
Commissioner Kari K. Steele, Chairman for the Committee on Budget and
Employment, presiding, called the meeting to order at 2:00 p.m.

Roll Call
Present:

9-

Frank Avila; Cameron Davis; Kimberly Du Buclet; Marcelino Garcia; Barbara J.
McGowan; Josina Morita; Debra Shore; Kari K. Steele; and Mariyana T.
Spyropoulos

Public Comment
George Blackmore and Mike Archey, concerned citizens, addressed the Board with
various concerns on the proposed 2019 Budget

Clerk to Read Call of the Meeting
18-1252

Pursuant to 70 ILCS 2605/5.6 of the “Metropolitan Water Reclamation
District Act”, public notice is hereby given that a Public Hearing will be held
at 2:00 p.m. on Thursday, December 6, 2018 in the Board Room, 100 East
Erie Street, Chicago, Illinois, to consider the proposed Budget and
proposed tax levy of the Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of
Greater Chicago for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2019.
The Tentative Budget is available for review on the District’s website,
www.mwrd.org and also on file and available for inspection in the Office of
the Clerk of the District, Room 243, 100 East Erie Street, Chicago, Illinois.
/s/ Jacqueline Torres
Clerk of the Metropolitan Water Reclamation
District of Greater Chicago
A motion was made by Frank Avila, seconded by Mariyana T. Spyropoulos, that
this Report be Published and Filed. The motion carried by acclamation. Chorus
of ayes - No nays

Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago

Page 1

 Public Hearing

Meeting Minutes

December 6, 2018

Open Discussion
Laurence Msall, Civic Federation, provided the Board with positive feedback and a few
recommendations for improvement

A18-005
Attachments:

Civic Federation Analysis and Recommendations.pdf

Adjournment
A motion was made by Mariyana T. Spyropoulos, seconded by Kimberly Du
Buclet, that this Public Hearing be Adjourned. The motion carried by the
following roll call vote: /s/ Jacqueline Torres, Clerk
Aye:

8-

Frank Avila; Cameron Davis; Kimberly Du Buclet; Barbara J. McGowan; Josina
Morita; Debra Shore; Kari K. Steele; Mariyana T. Spyropoulos

Absent:

1-

Marcelino Garcia

APPROVAL:
In accordance with the provisions of 70ILCS 2605/4, each of the foregoing agenda
items duly adopted by the Board of Commissioners of the Metropolitan Water
Reclamation District of Greater Chicago this December 6, 2018, are hereby approved.
APPROVED:
/s/ Mariyana T. Spryopoulos
President Board of Commissioners of the
Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago
December 6, 2018

Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago

Page 2

 