COOK COUNTY

HEALTH

 

JOHN .IAY SHANNON, MD

CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

COOK COUNTY HEALTH

REPORT TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
NOVEMBER 30, 2018

Employee Recognition

Zaundra Boyd, health literacy coach at the CCH Lifestyle Center, participated in the 2018 Diabetes Cook-Off Contest and
won in the entr?e category for her zucchini pasta with marinara sauce. The Diabetes Cook?Off contest is an opportunity
for ordinary cooks to compete and share their best diabetes-friendly, healthy recipe - demonstrating that healthy,
diabetes-friendly food can be delicious, affordable and enjoyed by the entire family. Recipe is attached.

Mary Lyons, APN, clinical nurse specialist in Pediatrics, will retire from Cook County Health on November She will
be greatly missed. Ms. Lyons has played an integral role in the Department of Nursing. In addition to sewing on various
committees representing the department she has been a writer for The Power of Nursing Newsletter as well as the
Chairperson for the Nursing Policy and Procedure Committee. She celebrates 42 years as a Registered Nurse and on
November 30th she was honored as a Pinnacle Leader at The Power of Nursing Leadership Conference in Chicago. She
leaves the following words of wisdom, ?Always try to do your best and never stop learning?.

There are a group of behind-the-scenes heros that managed a significant portion of the day-to-day effort that ensured
we moved into the new building seamlessly. These individuals include Bryan Pravel, Brian Alston and Darnell Marsh, 
Jerry Pagell, Telecommunications; James Driscoll and Al Moses, Project Management; Kathy Lorene, Jerry Pisitelli, Tom
Newman, Sheila Coleman, Reshanna Kelly and Susan Walsh from Purchasing; Michael Hernandez and Shirley Sullivan
from Materials Management; Terry Garland and Paul Konney from Buildings and-Grounds; and Adesoji Adeyinka from
Environmental Services. From the clinical team, Kathy Pavkov, Jewell Thompson, Sandy Oliphant, Lenora Martin, Beth
Vaclavik, Siby Joseph and Bessie Green. These individuals were identi?ed by the leadership team as having gone above
and beyond to operationalize clinics and administrative office. They worked around the clock and always kept a

customer friendly approach.

Anitha Philip, APN has been named the 2018 Advanced Practice Provider of the Year. Ms. Phillip has been recognized for
her professional and approachable attitude as well as her thorough assessments and caring attitude toward patients,
families and staff.

Activities and Announcements

In light of the recent tragedy at Mercy Hospital, CCH is reviewing its current policies and protocols to ensure
that all facilities are as safe as possible for patients and staff. CCH conducted system-wide Active Shooter
training this year and will be updating our Workplace Violence Policy to adhere to new guidelines established by
the state of Illinois. Staff have been reminded of available resources for domestic violence, workplace violence
and active shooter. All CCH training materials and policies are posted to the CCH intranet.

Through November 95% of CCH staff have received four hours of Safety Culture and High Reliability
Training.

IMPACT 2020 Objective 1.4
Food As Medicine Update

Through November 27, Fresh Truck partnership with the Greater Chicago Food Depository (GCFD) has
resulted in 148 visits to 12 CCH health centers Austin, Cicero, the CORE Center, Cottage Grove, Englewood,
Logan Square, Near South, Oak Forest, Prieto, Robbins, Woodlawn, and Provident/Sengstacke. The move to a
permanent Vista Health Center location has delayed the staff training and start date for the Fresh Truck, which is
now expected to take place by the end of Q1 of 2019.

Collectively, the Fresh Truck distributions have resulted in the provision of fresh fruits and vegetables to 19,016
individuals, representing 62,607 household members, totaling more than 410,000 pounds of fresh produce.
Most of the individuals benefiting from the Fresh Truck screened positive for food insecurity at a CCH health
center visit.

Fresh Truck visits for the month of December include the following ACHN Health Centers.
December 4 - Cicero Health Center 5912 W. Cermak Road, Cicero, IL 60804
December 6 Austin Health Center - 4800 W. Chicago Avenue, Chicago, IL 60651
December 11 Cottage Grove Health Center - 1645 Cottage Grove Avenue, Ford Heights, IL 60411
December 18 - Robbins Health Center - 13450 S. Kedzie Avenue, Robbins, IL 60472
December 20 Englewood Health Center - 1135 W. 69th Street, Chicago, IL 60621

CCH Fresh Markets have moved indoors for the winter. Fresh produce is supplied by Black Oaks Center, a
nonprofit that seeks to create a just, holistic, and local food system through education, entrepreneurship, and
access to healthy, affordable foods. CCH partners with Experimental Station?s Link Up Illinois Link Match
program to offer SNAP users with a match on all purchases at Fresh Markets, up to $20/market/week.
The Fresh Market schedule is listed below:

0 Oak Forest Health Center on Wednesdays, 9am-2pm

0 Robbins Health Center on Thursdays, 11am-3pm

0 Cottage Grove Health Center on Fridays, Sam-2pm

CCH is hosting a virtual holiday food drive, in order to support our partnership with the Greater Chicago Food
Depository. CCH seeks to raise $15,000, which will help GCFD provide 45,000 meals to food insecure families
throughout Cook County. Donations may be made online at 
through January 15, 2019.

 

IMPACT 2020 Objectives 1.1, 6.2, 6.3, 7.4

2 Page

0 Cook County Health hosted a press conference with President Preckwinkle and our Congressional delegation on
Monday, October 29th to express concern about the recently published changes to the "public charge? rule. Last
month, the Trump Administration published draft rules to dramatically change the ?public charge? test, which
would affect immigrants seeking admission into or lawful permanent residency green card) in the United
States. The changes would expand the number and types of public benefits that could be considered in public
charge and effectively add an income test to this process. CCH is strongly opposed to these changes, which
would be harmful to our patients and their families, as it would deter individuals who are eligible for these
benefits from applying for or continuing their participation in Medicaid, SNAP, and certain housing programs.

The draft rules are currently in a 60-day comment period. CCH will be submitting comments, and encourages
staff, community partners, and other stakeholders concerned about these changes to do the same. You
can from now until December 10, 2018. For more information about public charge and

the pr0posed changes, visit the 

 

IMPACT 2020 Objective 7.1

I On October 31, 2018, Cook County Government was found to be in compliance with the Shakman Consent
Decree and thus released from federal oversight. At a hearing in US. District Court, Judge Sidney l. Schenkier
granted the parties joint motion for substantial compliance and agreed to dismiss the County from the Shakman
v. The County of Cook, et al. litigation. Among the accomplishments that have led to achievement of substantial

compliance in the Shakman case are:

. Adopting and implementing a comprehensive employment plan in all County offices including Cook
County Health.

0 Implementing pro-active and transparent employment?related policies, practices and procedures that
will prevent and remedy the negative effects of unlawful political contacts and unlawful political
discrimination as required by Executive Order, ordinances and applicable law.

0 implementing employment-related policies, practices and procedures that prohibit influence of political
reasons and factors for non-exempt positions.

0 Requiring reporting to the OIIG for every employee of the County who learns of, or has a reasonable
belief that, unlawful political discrimination or political contact has occurred or is occurring.

- Prohibiting retaliation, punishment or penalty for reporting a political contact, initiating a complaint
related to any alleged unlawful political contact or unlawful political discrimination, or cooperating with

or assisting those investigations.

- Adopting regular reporting and auditing requirements related to various elements of the employment
plans and supplemental policies in order in order to increase public transparency and accountability.

- Developing and conducting extensive training programs to educate employees.
IMPACT 2020 Objective 4.2

On November pediatric patients at Stroger Hospital received a surprise visit from United Airlines employees
who handed out teddy bear "Ben Flyin? as part of the United Adventure Bear program, which supports local
hospitals and charities and aims to lift the spirits of children across the globe.

The Cook County Health Foundation Associate Board's annual fundraising event was held on Friday, November
9, 2018 at mHub and raised approximately $25,000 for labor and delivery services at Stroger.

(Select materials and media clips attached)
3 a 

Legislative Update

Local
0

State

In October 2018, the Cook County Board approved the appointment of Heather Prendergast, MD, MS, MPH to
the Cook County Health Board of Directors. Dr. Prendergast is Vice Chair Academic Affairs, Department of
Emergency Medicine; Professor of Emergency Medicine; Assistant Dean for Clinical Affairs, Inpatient, College of
Medicine; and Attending Physician, Emergency Department at the University of Illinois at Chicago.

On November 6, seven new Commissioners were elected to the Cook County Board.

0 1St District Brandon Johnson
0 3rd District William Lowry

0 6th District Donna Miller

0 7th District Alma Anaya

0 12th District Bridget Degnen
0 14th District Scott Britton

0 15th District Kevin Morrison

CCH hosted an orientation for the new Commissioners?elect on November 26. The President and the new Cook
County Board will take their Oaths of Of?ce at a Special Cook County Board meeting on Monday, December 3.
On Tuesday, December 4, a Special Cook County Board meeting is scheduled for the purpose of organizing the
new Board by approving Rules of Procedure and Committee assignments. The Chairman of the Cook County
Board?s Health and Hospitals Committee also serves as a Director on the Cook County Health Board.
Commissioner Dennis Deer (2nd District) is proposed as the Health and Hospitals Committee Chair and
Commissioner Luis Arroyo (8th District) is proposed as the Health and Hospitals Committee Vice Chair.

On November 19, Cook County Board President Toni Preckwinkle filed petitions for Mayor of the city of Chicago.
In total, 21 individuals submitted petitions for the office of Mayor. The municipal election is February 26, 2019.
The candidate receiving a majority of the votes cast for the office will be declared elected. If no candidate
receives the majority, the candidates with the highest and second highest numbers of votes cast will be on the
ballot for the April 2, 2019 Municipal Run-Off and Supplementary Aldermanic Elections.

On November 15, the Cook County Board approved the FY2019 Annual Appropriation Ordinance. There were no
opposition amendments to Cook County Health?s portion of the budget. The new County fiscal year begins on
December 

The Illinois Department of Human Services submitted a waiver to the United States Department of Agriculture
requesting that non-disabled adults without dependent children in all eligible areas of Illinois be excluded from
the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) time limit in 2019. Governor-elect Pritzker has indicated
that his team will continue supporting this waiver. CCH signed onto a letter coordinated by the Greater Chicago
Food Depository, the Shriver Center, and Heartland Alliance, urging the Governor to seek a waiver. An estimated
260,000 individuals would have been at risk of losing SNAP if the current waiver were to expire.

The Illinois General Assembly met for their Fall Veto Session November 13-15 and November 27-29. Several veto
override votes were taken, including:
The Senate successfully overrode the Governor Veto of 532332 by a vote of 36?19-0. However, this bill
failed to get the necessary override votes (62-45-0) in the House, so the Governor? veto of this bill
stands. $32332 would have raised the age to purchase tobacco and tobacco-related products from 18
to 21 years.

4lPage

Federal

The House and Senate successfully overrode the Governor? veto of by a vote of 89-21-1 in the
House and 53-1-0 in the Senate. HB4645 extends the repeal date of the Illinois Health Facilities Planning
Act the Certificate of Need process) from December 31, 2019 to December 31, 2029.

The House and Senate successfully override the Governor's veto of 531737 by a vote of 52?0?0 in the
Senate and 89-20-1 in the House. $31737 caps the coverage period for short-term insurance plans at six
months. Short?term plans are typically cheaper than traditional commercial insurance products, but
cover fewer services and are not subject to protections set forth by the Affordable Care Act. The Trump
Administration issued guidance on short?term plans earlier this year that allowed for these plans to be
used for a year and renewed for up to three years.

531469 was amended and approved by both chambers. $31469 makes technical corrections related to the
hospital assessment program; extends the deadline for HFS to submit the final rule for the hospital
transformation program to March 31, 2019; extends the sunset on nonprofit hospital sales tax exemptions to
July 1, 2022 and retroactively validates any previous sales tax exemptions granted under the 2012 hospital
property and sales tax exemption law; and extends the requirement for the Illinois Department of Children and
Family Services (DCFS) to implement a reimbursement rate for free-standing hospitals that care for
children beyond the point of medical necessity when DCFS cannot find appropriate placement for these children

following the hospital stay.

On November 6, J.B Pritzker was elected Governor and Juliana Stratton was elected Lieutenant Governor. The
Governor, Lt. Governor and state constitutional officers will be sworn in on January 14, 2019. New and re?
elected General Assembly members will be sworn in January 9, 2019.

Governor?elect Pritzker announced the formation of the Healthy Children and Families Committee of his
transition team. CCH Board Director David Munar will co-chair the committee along with State Senator Heather

Steansand Nancy Ronquillo of Children's Home and Aid.

Congress returned to Capitol Hill after the midterm elections for one week of business, November 12-16, before
recessing again for the week of the Thanksgiving holiday. While not much has been done legislatively, the
elections results will have an impact on health policy going forward.

Democrats picked up about three dozen House seats to gain the majority in the House of Representatives. This
will ensure that efforts to ?repeal and replace? the Affordable Care Act will not advance in the 116th Congress.
In fact, because most Democratic candidates made health care, especially the consumer protections,
central to their campaigns we may see efforts in the House to shore up the health care system. These efforts
have at least theoretical potential to be bi-partisan since many Republicans, including the president, argued on
the campaign trail that they, too, want to ensure protections for people with pre-existing conditions.

The House will also likely be a backstop against movements to fundamentally change the structure of Medicaid,
including imposing block grants, caps or other cuts. Having said that, we will continue to be concerned that
ballooning budget deficits could reignite talk of a budget ?grand bargain? which could make changes to the big
three federal entitlement programs Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security.

The House will begin more aggressive oversight of the administration, including the political leadership and the
regulatory actions of the US. Department of Health and Human Services and the public charge rule of the U.S.
Department of Homeland Security. Legislative action on gun control is also almost certain, although the Senate

would be unlikely to take it up.

The Energy and Commerce Committee, the House committee with jurisdiction over Medicaid, is likely to be
chaired by Rep. Frank Pallone Cook County Reps. Bobby Rush and Jan Schakowsky are both senior

5 Page

members of the committee and will be likely to retain their seats. Rep. Robin Kelly is also said to be seeking a
seat on the committee.

0 Republicans increased their majority in the Senate by at least three seats. This will give Majority Leader Mitch
McConnell additional room to maneuver on votes to confirm presidential nominees. While "repeal and
replace? is off the table, we could see efforts to shore up protections for people with pre-existing conditions,
eSpecially if the lawsuit filed by Republican state attorneys general in a federal district court in Texas is
successful in striking down parts of the ACA.

On November 15, Sen. Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa) announced that he would seek the chairmanship of the powerful
Senate Finance Committee, which has jurisdiction over Medicaid and Medicare as well as the tax code. Sen.
Grassley has supported Medicaid block grants and per capita caps in the past. Notably, he has also been a sharp
critic of not?for?profit hospitals and was the architect of the new requirements for hospitals to conduct
community health needs assessments and enhanced reporting of community benefit on form 990 which was
included in the ACA.

Sen. Lamar Alexander (R?Tenn.) will likely retain the chairmanship of the Senate Health Education Labor and
Pensions Committee, which has jurisdiction over public health programs as well as the 3403 program. Sen.
Alexander continues to be interested in making changes to the 34GB Prescription Drug Discount Program and as
the debate over prescription drug prices heats up, there could be a risk of 3403 cuts being included in broader
negotiations with the pharmaceutical industry.

Sen. Durbin will retain his position as minority whip, the number two leadership position in the Democratic
caucus and seats on the Appropriations and Judiciary committees.

- Early next year Congress will likely take up a package of health care ?extenders? ?that is popular health care
programs that are set to expire. This is a likely vehicle for further delaying the scheduled cuts to the Medicaid
disproportional share hospital (DSH) payments. The current delay ends September 30, 2019.

On October 25, the Medicaid and CHIP Payment and Access Commission (MACPAC) met in Washington, DC.
MACPAC is developing policy options for structuring the statutory DSH allotment reductions, assuming (as they
must) that they will go into effect. The consensus seemed to be that low income would be the best measure to
apply in a rebalancing of DSH allotments, followed by un?insurance rates. The notion of using a measure of
Medicaid shortfall was not embraced. This discussion focused only on state allotments. The other questions,
especially how states target funding for DSH hospitals is not being addressed in this report.

MACPAC also had a robust discussion on the Public Charge Rule MACPAC will be commenting and on the
problematic lack of experimental design for the new Arkansas Medicaid work requirement ?demonstration.?
MACPAC voted to call on HHS to pause any new approvals of work requirement waivers until proper design,
protocols and data collection, etc. can be developed.

0 On November 13, the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) wrote to state Medicaid directors
offering a new waiver for adults with severe mental illness and children with serious emotional disturbance.
Among other things, CMS would ease the Medicaid institutes of mental disease (IMD) exclusion for this
population, provided the state was making a complete continuum of community-based services available.

On November 14, HHS Sec. Alex Azar said in a speech that CMS was looking at offering a new waiver that would
allow Medicaid to pay for services that manage the social determinants of health, similar to previous waivers
given to Illinois, California and others.

Protection of Medicaid remains a key priority for at both the State and Federal level.

6 Page

Community Outreach

December 1

December 1

December 2

December 3

December 4

December 7

December 13

December 15

December 21

CCH and CountyCare promotion at the 3rd Annual Care Fair hosted by Affinity
Community ?Services and the Care Plan at their offices located at 2850 S. Wabash Avenue. in
Chicago. The wellness event is targeted to the communities and people of color with the
goal of building knowledge and linkage to care opportunities. Workshop topics include:
Medicare and Medicaid; Aging with Family of Choice; and Financial Planning for Retirement and

Beyond.

CCH and CountyCare promotion at the Healthy Kids Resource Fair, which is hosted by Chicago
Public Schools at Clark Academy Prep Magnet High School located at 5101 w. Harrison Street in
Chicago. Chicago Public Schools is partnering with various health, food, and community partners
for a community resource fair which will have onsite health insurance and SNAP enrollment

available to attendees.

CCH and CountyCare promotion at the St. Michael's Church Health and Resource Fair which will
take place at the church located at 8237 5. South Shore Drive in Chicago.

CCH and CountyCare promotion at 4th Annual Christmas Tree Lighting Ceremony hosted by the
Saint Peter Paul Church, Habitat for Humanity Chicago and the West Pullman Neighborhood
Association at the church located at 12344 S. Halsted Street in Chicago. The theme of the 4th
Annual Christmas Tree Lighting Ceremony is Humility, Peace, and Justice.

CCH and CountyCare promotion at the Savvy Senior Health Resource Fair hosted by Wellcare
and Oak Street Health at the Oak Street Health - Health Center located at 4417 West Diversey

Avenue in Chicago.

CCH and CountyCare promotion the 46th Ward Annual Senior Health Fair which is hosted by
James Cappleman 46th Ward Alderman will take place at Weiss Memorial Hospital located at

4646 N. Marine Drive in Chicago.

CCH and CCpromotion at the Nathan Hale Middle School Career Fair which will take place at
the school located at 5200 135th Street in Crestwood. The mission of Nathan Hale Middle
School it is to inspire and engage students to become prepared for college and careers where
they can utilize their skills to the best of their abilities. Since exposure to different career options
is vital to their success, faculty of the school have invited a variety of professions to visit with
students and share details about their careers. Simon Piller, MD and Jacqueline Marshall, MD
from the Robbins Health Center will visit classrooms and share why they chose the Medical field

and what inspires them to continue in the ?eld.

CCH and CountyCare promotion at Walker Memorial Annual Health Fair which is hosted by
Sinai Health Ministries at the Walker's Temple Church of God In Christ located at 3708 

Chicago Avenue in Chicago.

CCH and CountyCare promotion at Leland STEM School Resource Fair which is hosted by the
school at their facility located at 512 S. Laverne Avenue in Chicago.

7 Page

Zucchini Pasta with Marinara Sauce

Zaundra Boyd, health literacy coach at the CCH Lifestyle Center, won the entre'e category for
her zucchini pasta with marinara sauce in the 2018 Diabetes Cook-Of Contest.

Zucchini Pasta with Marinara Sauce
. 2 -3 large zucchini
. 2 1/2 cups tomatoes
. 12 sundried tomatoes, soaked to soften
3 dates, pitted and soaked to soften
0 1/4 cup olive oil
. 3 cloves of garlic
. 2 parsley
. 1 sea salt
a 1/8 cayenne

Directions
Spiralize the zucchini in a spiral slicer or spiralizer.

Place the remaining ingredients into a food processor with the S-blade and blend until smooth (can leave a
little chunky if you prefer).

Pour sauce over the pasta and serve. Garnish with fresh basil or oregano.



ram?: .922!

 

