MINUTES OF MEETING
WAYNE COUNTY ELECTION COMMISSION
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 2016 – 3:15 P.M.
COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL BUILDING - ROOM 700A
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

Call to Order:

The meeting was called to order at 3:23 p.m., Tuesday, September 13,
2016.

Members present: Honorable Freddie G. Burton, Jr., Chief Judge, Probate Court
Honorable Cathy M. Garrett, Secretary- Wayne County Clerk
Honorable Eric Sabree, Member – Wayne County Treasurer
Members absent: None
Also present:

Janet Anderson-Davis, Assistant Corporation Counsel
Delphine G. Oden, Director, Wayne County Elections
Jennifer Redmond
Robert Davis
Greg P. Mahar
Jina Sawani
Lori Higgins
Mary Kovari
Mary Ellen Gurewitz
John Pirich
Meg Logelin
Penny Bailer
Tonja Long
Gina Avery-Walker
Mark Toaz
Tim Beckett

Agenda item:

Consideration of Agenda approval.
Board action on agenda item: Chair Burton requested a motion
to approve the agenda. Member Sabree, duly supported by
Member Garrett, moved to adopt the agenda as submitted. The
motion was adopted unanimously by a voice vote.

Agenda item:

Approval of Minutes of August 3, 2016
Board action on agenda item: Chair Burton requested a motion
to approve the minutes of the meeting held on August 3, 2016.
Member Garrett, duly supported by Member Sabree, moved to
approve the minutes of the meeting held on August 3, 2016. The

 motion was adopted unanimously by a voice vote.
Agenda item:

Consider Legal Challenge submitted on behalf of Desmond
White and Robert Davis
Asst. Corporation Counsel Anderson-Davis gave a summary to the
commission regarding the details of the legal challenge. She
indicated that three candidates for the Detroit Community School
District election were being challenged by Desmond White and
Robert Davis. Two of the challenges were regarding a missing
precinct number on the Affidavit of Identity for candidates Penny
Bailer and Robert Earl Thomas and one challenge was to the
residency of candidate Mary Kovari.
Chair Burton requested a motion regarding the legal challenge to
Penny Bailer and for discussion of the challenge. Chair Burton duly
supported by Member Garrett moved to approve the challenge to
remove Penny Bailer because the precinct number is missing from
the affidavit. Discussion ensued.
Robert Davis spoke regarding the challenge. John Pirich, attorney
for Penny Bailer, spoke in opposition to the challenge.
Board action on agenda item: The motion was adopted
unanimously by a voice vote.
Board action on agenda item: Chair Burton requested a motion
regarding the legal challenge to Robert Earl Thomas. Chair Burton
duly supported by Member Garrett moved to approve the challenge
to remove Robert Earl Thomas. The motion was adopted
unanimously by a voice vote.
Board action on agenda item: Chair Burton requested a motion
regarding the legal challenge to Mary Kovari and for discussion of
the challenge. Member Sabree duly supported by Chair Burton
moved to reject the challenge to Mary Kovari.
Robert Davis spoke regarding the challenge. Mary Ellen Gurewitz,
attorney for Mary Kovari, spoke in opposition to the challenge.
Board action on agenda item: Ayes: Burton and Sabree - Nays:
Garrett

Agenda item:

Acceptance of the November 8, 2016 General Candidate list as
presented by the Wayne County Clerk
Board action on agenda item: Chair Burton requested a motion
for Acceptance of the November 8, 2016 General Candidate list as

 presented by the Wayne County Clerk. Member Garrett duly
supported by Member Sabree, moved for acceptance of the
November 8, 2016 General Candidate list as presented by the
Wayne County Clerk. The motion was adopted unanimously by a
voice vote.
Agenda item:

Approval of Ballot Printing for the November 8, 2016 General
Election
Board action on agenda item: Chair Burton requested a motion
for approval of Ballot Printing for the November 8, 2016 General
Election. Member Sabree duly supported by Member Garrett,
moved for approval of Ballot Printing for the November 8, 2016
General Election. The motion was adopted unanimously by a voice
vote.

Agenda item:

New Business. None.

Agenda item:

Public Comment. None.

Agenda item:

Adjournment.
Board action on agenda item: Chair Burton requested a motion
to adjourn. Member Sabree, duly supported by Chair Burton,
moved to adjourn the meeting. The motion was adopted
unanimously by a voice vote.
Meeting adjourned at 3:55 p.m.

 