  
  

   
   

DRAFT   TRANSITION   PLAN   
For   the   Proposed   Reassigned   Boundary   Change   of      
Helge   A.   Haugan   Elementary   School   and      
Theodore   Roosevelt   High   School   
   

   
I.   Introduction   
   
Chicago   Public   Schools   (CPS)   is   committed   to   providing   every   child   from   every   community   with   a   
high   quality   education   that   prepares   them   for   success   in   college   and   in   life.   CPS   students   continue   to   
make    record-­‐‑breaking    academic    progress    in    every    part    of    the    city.    Our    vision    is    that    all    CPS    schools   
can   build   on   this   progress   by   offering   high   quality,   rigorous   instruction   from   talented   educators   that   
help   put   Chicago   students   on   a   path   to   lasting   success.   
   
On   October   18,   2017,   the   Local   School   Council   of   Helge   A.   Haugan   Elementary   School   (Haugan),   with   
the   support   of   the   school   community   at   large,   requested   that   Haugan   be   considered   by   Chicago   Public   
Schools   (CPS)   to   reassign   the   school’s   boundaries   to   offer   7th   grade   by   the   2018-­‐‑19   school   year   and   
8th   grade   by   the   2019-­‐‑20   school   year.   
   
In   line   with   this   community-­‐‑driven   request,   the   Chief   Executive   Officer   (CEO)   of   CPS   is   proposing   to   
reassign   the   boundaries   of   Haugan   and   Roosevelt   High   School.   
   
The   proposal   involves   the   following   changes:   
   
●   Adjust   the   Haugan   attendance   area   grades   served   to   include   7th   grade   in   the   2018-­‐‑19   school   
year.      Adjust   the   Roosevelt   HS   attendance   area   (currently   serving   7th   and   8th   grades)   to   serve   
8th   grade   through   12th   grade   in   the   2018-­‐‑19   school   year.            
●   Adjust   the   Haugan   attendance   area   grades   served   to   include   8th   grade   in   the   2019-­‐‑20   school   
year.      Eliminate   the   Roosevelt   HS   attendance   area   that   served   the   8th   grade   in   the   2018-­‐‑19   
school   year,   so   that   Roosevelt   serves   9th   through   12th   grade   students.      
   
   
II.   Summary   of   Proposed   Action   
   
CPS    is    proposing    to    reassign    the    boundaries    of    Haugan    and    Roosevelt    High    School    (Roosevelt).      
Haugan    is    an    attendance    area    school    located    at    4540    N.    Hamlin    Avenue    that    serves    Kindergarten   
through    sixth    grade,    with    a    pre-­‐‑Kindergarten    program.    Roosevelt    is    an    attendance-­‐‑area    high    school   
located    at    3436    W.    Wilson    Ave    that    serves    7th    through    12th    grade.    Haugan    currently    serves    906   
students   and   Roosevelt   currently   serves   1,099   students.         If   this   proposal   is   approved,   Haugan   would   
offer   7th   grade   in   the   2018-­‐‑19   school   year   and   8th   grade   in   the   2019-­‐‑20   school   year.   
   
This    proposal    is    consistent    with    the    Chief    Executive    Officer’s    Guidelines    for    School    Actions   
(Guidelines)   because   it   is   a   proposal   requested   by   parents   or   community   members   via   the   process   to   
request   proposals   outlined   in   the   Guidelines.   Specifically,   we   have   heard   the   request   for   this   proposal   
from    the    Haugan    Local    School    Council.    Furthermore,    the    resulting    space    utilization    after    the   
reassignment   boundary   change   will   not   exceed   any   affected   schools’   enrollment   efficiency   range,   as   
defined   by   the   CPS’   Space   Utilization   Standards.         
   

  

   
  

Under   this   proposal,   effective   July   1,   2018,   Haugan   will   serve   grades   K-­‐‑7.   On   July   1,   2019,   Haugan   will   
serve    grades    K-­‐‑8.        Effective    July    1,    2018,    Roosevelt    HS    will    serve    grade    8-­‐‑12.    On    July    1,    2019,   
Roosevelt   HS   will   serve   grades   9-­‐‑12.         
   
The   transition   plan   outlined   below   summarizes   supports   that   will   be   provided   by   Haugan   and   CPS   to   
ensure   a   smooth   transformation   from   two   schools   into   one.   
   
   
III.  Safety   and   Security   
   
At    the    present    time,    there    are    no    recognized    CPS    safety    concerns    at    Haugan.        If    this    proposal    is   
approved,   the   CPS   Office   of   Safety   &   Security   will   work   with   the   Administration   of   Haugan   to   review   
the    school’s    safety    and    security    plan.        A    variety    of    supports    for    students    and    the    community    nearby   
will   be   considered   with   feedback   from   parents.      These   supports   may   include   the   following:   
   
●   First   and   foremost,   CPS   will   hold   safety   planning   meetings   to   ensure   that   all   safety   efforts   are   
coordinated   between   CPS,   Administration,   Parents   and   the   Chicago   Police   Department;   
●   Safety   plans   for   parents   who   drive   their   children   to   school   will   be   created;   
●   A    review    of    safety    technology    will    be    conducted    to    determine    whether    existing    safety   
technology   needs   to   be   enhanced.      This   review   may   include   screening   protocols;   
●   Review   Security   Officer   Staffing   levels   based   on   approved   action.   
   
   
IV.   Supports   for   Students   and   Schools         
   
CPS    is    committed    to    ensuring    a    successful    transition    if    the    Board    approves    this    proposal.        To   
accomplish   this,   CPS   proposes   the   following   supports   to   meet   the   academic,   social   and   emotional,   
and    specific    learning    needs    of    affected    students.        These    resources    may    be    further    customized    as   
feedback    is    obtained    at    community    meetings    and    a    public    hearing    regarding    this    proposal.   
Additionally,    resources    may    be    adjusted    to    meet    the    unique    needs    of    affected    students    if    deemed   
necessary.   
   
Support   for   Students’   Academic   Needs   
To    ensure    students    receive    high-­‐‑quality    academic    instruction    throughout    the    transition,    the   
following   will   occur:   
   
●   Ensure   the   allocation   of   funds   and   budget   resources   to   equip   future   7th   and   8th   graders   with   
academic   resources   and   materials   needed   for   academic   success.      
●   Academic    Planning    Teams:    Haugan    will    designate    teachers    to    form    Academic    Planning   
Teams.      Academic   Planning   Teams   consisting   of   teachers,   grouped   by   subject   and   grade   level,   
will   meet   to   plan   the   curriculum,   which   will   ease   the   transition   of   the   addition   of   7th   and   8th   
graders.            
●   Common   Scheduling/Enrichment:      Haugan   will   outline   the   programs   at   the   school   and   will   
discuss   how   the   programs   at   the   school   can   be   extended   and   enhanced   in   the   schedule   for   the   
next   academic   two   years   to   support   the   addition   of   7th   and   8th   graders.   
●   Assess   the   need   for   Professional   Development:   Since   the   school   population   will   remain   
similar,    professional    development    will    be    focused    on    integrating    the    staff    to    ensure    that    the   
academic   environment   provides   for   a   strong,   continuous   educational   focus   for   7th   and   8th   
grade   students   in   the   building.      
   
  

   
  

   
Support   for   Students’   Social   and   Emotional   Needs   
CPS    understands    that    when    students    transition    into    new    situations    and    environments,    additional   
support   is   needed   to   help   them   adjust.   CPS   and   the   Office   of   Social   Emotional   Learning   (OSEL)   will   
consult   with   the   Haugan   school   community   to   continue   existing   SEL   supports   and   determine   the   need   
for   additional   resources   for   a   school-­‐‑specific   plan   that   may   include   the   following:   
●   Assess   the   need   for   a   Climate/culture   team   that   may   consist   of   a   group   of   representative   staff   
(including   administrators,   teachers,   counselors,   and   security   officers)   from   both   schools   to   
develop    a    combined    climate    &    culture    team,    which    will    lead    the    planning    of    school-­‐‑wide   
policies   and   practices   to   promote   positive   relationships   and   a   welcoming,   supportive   school   
environment.   This   includes   cultivating   a   sense   of   community   between   all   staff   and   students.      
●   Assess    the    need    for    a    Behavioral    Health    Team    to    support    both    schools    in    ensuring    their   
existing    systems    identify    when    students    have    higher    levels    of    social    and    emotional    need,   
connect   them   to   targeted   interventions   and   track   their   progress   to   ensure   success.   Guiding   
practices    will    be    established    through    collaboration    to    prepare    for    students    who    may    need   
additional   social   and   emotional   support.      Training   will   be   supported   by   CPS   and   the   Office   of   
Social   Emotional   Learning.   
●   Assess   the   need   for   additional   professional   development   for   all   teachers   to   help   them   develop   
skills   and   resources   that   support   all   students      
   
Support   for   Specific   Students’   Needs   
   
Support   for   Diverse   Learners   
Students   with   disabilities   and   their   families   will   be   supported   in   the   transition   process   through   clear   
communication,   continual   support   for   academic   instruction   and   ensuring   that   Haugan   is   fully   able   to   
implement    students’    Individual    Education    Programs    (IEPs).        Students    with    disabilities,    as    with    all   
students    impacted    by    school    actions,    will    receive    intensive    support    to    ensure    their    academic    and   
social-­‐‑emotional   needs   are   met.      Students   with   disabilities   will   also   receive   the   following   categories   
of   support,   adjustable   to   individual   student/family   need:   
   
Current   students   with   disabilities   will   continue   to   receive   the   following   supports,   required   by   law:   
●   A   free   and   appropriate   public   education   (FAPE)   
●   The   implementation   of   the   student’s   IEP   in   the   least   restrictive   environment   (LRE)   
●   A   focus   on   student   academic   and   social   emotional   progress   
   
In    addition,    a    district    representative    from    the    Office    of    Diverse    Learner    Supports    and    Services   
(ODLSS)   will   be   assigned   to   work   with   families   and   students   to   support   them   as   7th   and   8th   graders.      
Specifically,   the   district   representative   will:   
●   Work   with   teachers   on   appropriate   programming   to   support   the   diverse   learners.   
●   Make   sure   classrooms   are   appropriately   set   up   for   the   students   with   diverse   learning   needs.   
●   Haugan    families    can    reach    their    District    Representative,    Kasandra    Posey,    at   
kmposey@cps.edu.   
●   Roosevelt    families    can    reach    their    District    Representative,    Eric    Haney,    at   
emhurtado1@cps.edu.      
   
Support   for   Students   in   Temporary   Living   Situations   
●   The   CPS   Office   of   Students   in   Temporary   Living   Situations   (OSTLS)   will   continue   the   support   
provided    to    Students    in    Temporary    Living    Situations    (STLS)    as    required    by    law.        These   
include    free    school    meals,    enrollment    support,    provision    of    required    school    uniforms    and   

  

   
  

●  
●  
●  
●  
●  

school   supplies   as   needed,   transportation   assistance   when   eligible,   and   waivers   of   all   school   
related   fees;   
Under   the   proposed   re-­‐‑assignment   boundary   change,   returning   STLS   students   may   choose   to   
attend    Haugan    or    meet    with    OSTLS    staff    to    identify    enrollment    options,    develop    academic   
readiness   plans   and   safety   plans   to   support   them   throughout   the   transition   period;   
STLS   staff   is   available   if   the   students   wishes   to   learn   about   additional   schools   to   transition   to;   
For   those   students   who   had   been   homeless   before   the   2018-­‐‑19   school,   their   school   of   origin   
will   become   the   first   school   where   they   enroll   for   the   2018-­‐‑19   school   year;   
For   families   currently   enrolled   in   the   STLS   program,   younger   siblings   may   attend   the   same   
school   that   their   older   sibling   elects;   
Additionally,   CPS   will   provide   professional   development   and   support   to   staff   on   providing   
transition   services   for   STLS   students.      

   
Support   for   English   Learners      
●   Current    and    future    English    Language    Learners    (ELs)    will    receive    state-­‐‑mandated    bilingual   
services    (Transitional    Bilingual    Education    (TBE)    or    Transitional    Program    of    Instruction   
(TPI)),   as   required;      
●   English   as   a   Second   Language   (ESL)   instruction   provided   by   an   ESL-­‐‑endorsed   teacher   is   part   
of   both   programs;         
●   Meaningful    access    to    the    core    curriculum    is    provided    to    TBE    students    through    native   
language    instruction    in    the    core    content    (language    arts,    math,    science,    and    social    studies).      
For   TPI   students,   meaningful   access   to   core   curriculum   is   delivered   through   sheltered   English   
content   instruction   and   native   language   supports,   based   on   the   individual   student’s   need,   and   
provided   by   appropriately   endorsed   (bilingual-­‐‑   or   ESL-­‐‑endorsed)   teacher(s).   
   
   
Support   for   Students’   Transportation   Needs   
●   Provisions    for    specific    student    populations    (i.e.,    student    with    disabilities,    Students    in   
Temporary    Living    Situations,    and    NCLB    qualifying    students),    as    determined    by    the    CPS   
transportation   policy,   will   continue   to   apply.   
   
V.   Additional   Logistical   Information   
   
Information   Regarding   Choice   of   Schools   
   
If   this   proposal   is   approved,   Haugan   will   enroll   7th   graders   in   the   2018-­‐‑2019   school   year   and   8th   
graders   in   the   2019-­‐‑2020   school   year.      CPS   is   committed   to   providing   educational   options   that   fit   
each   student’s   unique   learning   needs.      To   support   families   in   understanding   their   enrollment   options,   
information   from   the   Office   of   Access   &   Enrollment   is   available:   
●   Online   (www.cps.edu   or   www.cpsoae.edu),   
●   By   email   (oae@cps.edu),   
●   By   phone   (773-­‐‑553-­‐‑2060)   
●   At    an    information    session    to    be    scheduled    at    a    future    date    if    the    Board    approves    the   
proposal.   
   
Public   Comment   
   
Community   Meetings   and   Public   Hearings:   
CPS   will   hold   two   community   meetings   and   one   formal   public   hearing   regarding   this   proposed   action.   
Public   comment   will   be   accepted   during   each   meeting   or   hearing.   CPS   is   committed   to   considering   
community   feedback   and   will   amend   this   draft   transition   plan   accordingly.   
  

   
  

   
Community   Meeting   1   

Community   Meeting   2   

Public   Hearing   

January   10,   2018                              

January   17,   2018                              

January   26,   2018   

6   to   8   p.m.   
Helge   A   Haugan   Elementary   
School   
4540   North   Hamlin   Avenue   

6   to   8   p.m.   
Patrick   Henry   Elementary   
School   
4250   North   St.   Louis   Avenue   

6:30   to   8   p.m.   
CPS   Central   Office   
42   West   Madison   Street   

   
Further   Questions   and   Concerns:   
All   of   this   information   can   be   found   at   CPS.edu/Transitions.   If   you   have   any   questions   or   concerns   
regarding   this   proposal   and   the   DRAFT   Transition   Plan,   please   call   Chicago   Public   Schools   at   (773)   
553-­‐‑1500   or   email   Transitions@cps.edu.   
   

  

 