 

Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Minutes of the Finance Subcommittee on Workers? Compensation

Tuesday, March 13, 2018 12:30 PM Cook County Building, Board Room
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois
ATTENDANCE
Present: Chairman Schneider, Commissioners Deer, Goslin and Moody (4)
Absent: Commissioner Tobolski (1)
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Chairman Schneider asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public speakers, in
accordance with Cook County Code, Sec. 2-107(dd)

No Public Speakers.
Commissioner Goslin, seconded by Commissioner Deer, moved that the Workers?
Compensation Subcommittee convene in Open Session to consider matters of pending

Workers? Compensation. The motion carried.

Commissioner Goslin, seconded by Commissioner Deer, moved Approval of the cases over
$25,000.00. The motion carried.

18-2591
COMMITTEE MINUTES

Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 2/6/2018

A motion was made by Commissioner Moody, seconded by Commissioner Deer, to approve
18-2591. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Chairman Schneider, Commissioners Deer, Goslin and Moody (4)

Absent: Commissioner Tobolski (1)

l. SETTLEMENTS
County Government

BURKART. MICHAEL
16 WC 20573

CODDINGTON, JOHN
l6 WC 32454

DURAN-CRUZ. YVETTE M.
15 WC 39115

GAMBLE2 LEON
17 WC 28611

NOLAN, DANIEL
17 WC 000181

SMITH. 
17 WC 08017

Petitioner injured his left hand while taking down a combative
detainee.

Commissioner Goslin, seconded by Commissioner Deer
moved Approval. The motion carried.

The Petitioner injured his left knee and back in an altercation with
a detainee.

Commissioner Goslin, seconded by Commissioner Deer
moved Approval. The motion carried.

A steel door slammed on the Petitioner?s right hand.

Commissioner Goslin, seconded by Commissioner Deer
moved Approval. The motion carried.

The Petitioner injured his right shoulder and lower back while
lifting a tailgate on the rear of a truck.

Commissioner Goslin, seconded by Commissioner Deer
moved Approval. The motion carried.

The Petitioner injured his right shoulder when he was in the
process of securing a resident during an altercation.

Commissioner Goslin, seconded by Commissioner Deer
moved Approval. The motion carried.

The Petitioner tripped over uneven pavement in the parking and
fell injuring her right shoulder.

Commissioner Goslin, seconded by Commissioner Deer
moved Approval. The motion carried.
Page 2 of 3

STRICKLAND. MICHELLE
16 WC 23409 The Petitioner was separating ?ghting detainees on the bus when
she injured her right arm and thumb.

Commissioner Goslin, seconded by Commissioner Deer
moved Approval. The motion carried.

2. DECISIONS

MOLINA. SANDRA

04 WC 6671 Petitioner was walking from Cook County Hospital, across the
street, in the process of relieving another of?cer at Stroger
Hospital for lunch, when she tripped over the concrete border of a
standard manhole cover and fell forward, landing on her both
hands and knees.

Commissioner Goslin, seconded by Commissioner Deer
moved Approval. The motion carried.

ADJOURNMENT
A motion was made by Commissioner Tobolski, seconded by Commissioner Moody to adjourn the

meeting. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Chairman Schneider, Commissioners Deer, Goslin and Moody (4)

Absent: Commissioner Tobolski 

Respectfully sujbmitted,



./Secr?tary

 

 



Page 3 of 3

