MARQUETTE PARK SSA#14
OPEN COMMISSIONERS MEETING
August 22, 2018
MINUTES
Location: Lithuanian Human Services Council Hall
2711-15 W. 71st Street
Chicago, IL 60629
In attendance: Commissioners

Patricia Nelson
Jonas Miglinas
Cynthia Young
Peggie Jones

Absent:

Stephanie Sherman-Ratliff

Commissioners

Also in attendance:

Joe Polikaitis, SSA#14 and LHS Executive Director
Ina Stankeviciene, SSA#14 Program Manager
Narvell Darling, IHS Director of Operations

Guests:

Patrick Brutus, Coordinator of Economic Development
Dept. of Planning and Development
Ald. Derrick Curtis, 18th Ward

Opening remarks
Chair Patricia Nelson opened the meeting at 7:25 PM. She thanked everyone for attending and
suggested to start the meeting in accordance with the agenda.
Approval of 04/25/2018 minutes
The 04/25/2018 MP SSA #14 meeting minutes were emailed to all Commissioners prior to
the meeting. A motion to accept the 04/25/2018 minutes was made by Jonas Miglinas and seconded
by Cynthia Young. Minutes were accepted unanimously by all commissioners in attendance.

 Incident Report
Incident Report was read by Ina Stankeviciene. From April 1 to July 31, 2018 the Illinois
Homeland Security addressed 1101 security events of varied nature: there were 225 security events in April, 333
– in May, 275- in June and 268 in July. 770 requests for assistance came from the CPD dispatch, other calls for
help came directly to Marquette Park security dispatch. 234 incidents were spotted on a view by MP SSA#14
patrol car. Almost half of the incidents (47%) was disturbance – reported 522 times during the four month
period. Half of these events were noticed by the rowing patrol cars and they resolved them amiably. Domestic
violence is second most often reported incident (149 times in four month). Burglary alarm reported 142 times
(13%) and burglary – 21, robbery – 6 times. Suspicious activity, person or auto, were reported 50 times. Laud
reports/shots fired – 36. Weapons offence or person with a gun was reported 34 times, person shot – 8 during
these four months. Assault reported 5 times. Most incidents occurred in zone 3 (389 incidents) and at zone 4 (238
incidents) during the last four month. These monthly criminal activity data reports, with area location, date
of the event, and type of activity, are already posted on the Marquette Park security website www.mpsecurity.org

Financial Report
The financial report was presented by Joe Polikaitis. He explained that Marquette Park SSA#14
has two bank accounts at Marquette Bank. Tax revenues are transferred from Cook County Assessor’s
Office to SSA#14 Money Market account. As of 08/22/2018, the Money Market account had
$230,823.79. Checking account is used to cover daily operating expenses. Funds for the checking
account are transferred from Money Market account. As of 08/22/2018, Checking account had
$44,204.00 for a total of $275,027.79 between the two accounts. Because of the SSA termination, we
estimated how much money we can anticipate to come in before the end of the year. It is estimated that
an additional 20 thousand will come in by the end of the year. When the program is terminated, there
will still be some activity such as removing SSA#14 posters and cameras, completing audit,
bookkeeping, shredding documents, etc. We need to get guidance from the DPD on who will take care
of it, pay for it, and how to handle all termination processes. In addition, we allocated 70 thousand
dollars for reestablishment of the program. Since we are not renewing, some of the money will go to
Greater Southwest Development Corporation since part of SSA#14 businesses will be incorporated into
the new SSA and taxes collected from these businesses will be forwarded to the new SSA. Cameras
were purchased with money from SSA#14, so there is a question of who will take care of the cameras.
We need to get an answer from the City as to what happens to dispatch station as well. Some money
will be left from carry-over. Thus, we can increase patrol hours during the holiday season. It's the
commissioners' decision if we can use this money for additional security, because if there will be some
money left, it will go back to the DPD or will be transferred to another SSA.

Comments by Ald. Derrick Curtis, 18th Ward
Alderman D. Curtis updated what they are working on and commented on what was shown on
TV Chanel 5 about the SSA#14 expiration. He explained about the new SSA and what benefits it will
do for the residents. Ald. D. Curtis agreed that cameras do benefit the community.

Comments by Patrick Brutus, Coordinator of Economic Development
Patrick Brutus answered questions and explained about signature requirements for creating or
renewing SSA. SSA is a business improving program. SSA#14 is the only one residential program

 which was approved during the past 20 years. It is against the City’s policy. The City will not be having
any more residential SSAs.
Expiration of SSA#14 Ordinance
Joe Polikaitis explained that the present Marquette Park SSA#14 Ordinance expires on
December 31st of 2018. After that, there will be no more Special Service Area's rowing patrols, no
surveillance camera service, no website services, and no dispatch office services. The final meeting will
be held on November 14, 2018. If there will be anything that the residents of SSA#14 need to know, it
will be posted on www.mp-security.com.
Status of Surveillance Cameras
The status of surveillance camera was updated by Joe Polikaitis. He explained that all cameras
are working, and they are in the same places as usual. The Chicago Police Department has direct access
to surveillance cameras – the data is recorded and kept for future use, if needed.
Comments by 8-th District Commander Ronald Pontecore
8-th District Commander Ronald Pontecore could not attend the meeting.
Comments by Ald. David Moore
Alderman D. Moore could not attend the meeting.
Commissioners decision
Commissioners made decision, as recommended by Joe Polikaitis, to use the extra money
which will be left from this year’s budget and extend patrol hours during this holiday season. A motion
to accept the proposal was made by Cynthia Young and seconded by Jonas Miglinas. Desicion was
accepted unanimously by all commissioners in attendance.
Community Input
The area residents expressed their concern about what is going to happen to cameras.
Everybody would like to keep cameras in the area because it will benefit community's safety.
Next Governing Commissioners Meeting
The next meeting is tentatively scheduled for November 14, 2018.
Meeting closed at 8:45 PM

Respectfully submitted by Ina Stankeviciene

 