Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Board of Commissioners
Labor Committee
Wednesday, April 25, 2018

1:30 PM

Cook County Building, Board Room
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA

There will be a meeting of the Committee or Subcommittee of the Board of Commissioners of Cook
County at the date, time and location listed above to consider the following:
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in writing,
their name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in advance of the
meeting. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a time specified in
the meeting agenda. Authorized public speakers who are not present during the specified time for public
testimony will forfeit their allotted time to speak at the meeting. Public testimony must be germane to a
specific item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not exceed three minutes; the Secretary
will keep track of the time and advise when the time for public testimony has expired. Persons authorized
to provide public testimony shall not use vulgar, abusive, or otherwise inappropriate language when
addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately; failure to speak to an item that is germane to the
meeting, or failure to adhere to the time requirements may result in expulsion from the meeting and/or
disqualify the person from providing future testimony.
18-3430
COMMITTEE MINUTES

Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 01/17/2018
18-2714
Sponsored by:
JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI, BRIDGET
County Board of Commissioners

GAINER and LUIS ARROYO JR, Cook

PROPOSED RESOLUTION
RESOLUTION CREATING THE COOK COUNTY PREVAILING WAGE ADVISORY TASK
FORCE

Page 1 of 2

 Labor Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

April 25, 2018

BE IT RESOLVED, that the Cook County Board of Commissioners hereby create a task force entitled
the Cook County Prevailing Wage Advisory Task Force to help make recommendations on the
implementation Property Tax Incentive - Prevailing Wage Requirement throughout Cook County.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the advisory task force shall meet for approximately three
months and consist of the following members:

a.

The Cook County Board President or her designee; one member of the Finance Committee, one
member of the Labor Committee, one member of the Cook County Workforce, Housing and
Community Development Committee, and the Chief Sponsor of the underlying ordinance item 181604; and

b.

One representatives from each Cook County Suburban Council on Governments (COG); and

c.

Four representatives from the Labor Unions, which perform construction on prevailing wage
works, to be designated by Chicago Federation of Labor and Chicago and Cook County Building
Trades Council; and

d.

Two representatives from the Labor Management Cooperation Committees to be designated by
the Chief Sponsor of the underlying ordinance; and
e. Three representatives from the business community to be designated by the representative
members of the Workforce, Housing and Community Development Committee, Labor
Committee, and Finance Committee.

Legislative History :

3/14/18 - Board of Commissioners - refer to the Labor Committee

Secretary
Chairman:
Arroyo
Vice-Chairman: Tobolski
Members:
Butler, Fritchey, Gainer, Garcia, Moody, Moore, Sims

Page 2 of 2

 