  
  
42  W.  Madison  Street  •  Chicago,  Illinois  60602  
Telephone:  773/553-­1600    

   
December   1,   2017   
   
Parent   or   Guardian   of   a   Student   at      
John   Hope   College   Preparatory   High   School   
5515   South   Lowe   Avenue   
   
Re:   Proposed   Closure   of   John   Hope   College   Preparatory   High   School   
   

Dear   Parent   or   Guardian:   
   

Chicago   Public   Schools   (CPS)   is   committed   to   providing   every   child   from   every   community   with   a   
high   quality   education   that   prepares   them   for   success   in   college   and   in   life.   CPS   students   continue   to   
make    record-­‐‑breaking    academic    progress    in    every    part    of    the    city.    Our    vision    is    that    all    CPS    schools   
can   build   on   this   progress   by   offering   high   quality,   rigorous   instruction   from   talented   educators   that   
help   put   Chicago   students   on   a   path   to   lasting   success.      
   

Enrollment   at   John   Hope   College   Preparatory   High   School   (Hope)   in   the   fall   of   2006   was   at   1,015   
students   while   enrollment   in   fall   of   2017   was   100   students.      Under-­‐‑enrolled   schools   like   Hope   face   
challenges   in   providing   a   well-­‐‑rounded   education   for   their   students   because   they   often   have   difficulty   
offering   robust   program   options   for   students.   Ultimately,   the   cycle   of   declining   enrollment   creates   
challenges    in    programming    and    staff    recruitment    that    make    it    difficult    to    provide    the    high    school   
experience   that   students   deserve.      
   

As   a   result   of   these   trends,   the   Englewood   Community   Action   Council   (CAC)   recommended   that   CPS   
create    a    state-­‐‑of-­‐‑the-­‐‑art    neighborhood    high    school    in    Englewood    and    consolidate    existing   
neighborhood    high    schools    in    Englewood.    In    turn,    in    June    2017,    CPS    followed    through    on    the   
recommendation   by   formally   proposing   an   investment   to   create   a   state-­‐‑of-­‐‑the-­‐‑art   neighborhood   high   
school,   now   worth   $85   million.   The   school   is   scheduled   to   open   in   fall   2019   with   a   freshman   class.   
   

Following    the    Englewood    CAC’s    recommendation,    CPS    formed    a    Community    Leadership    Steering   
Committee    to    work    through    the    details    of    this    proposal,    including    planning    for    the    new    high    school   
and   developing   a   plan   for   the   current   Englewood   high   schools   and   students.   Over   multiple   meetings   
between   the   Steering   Committee   and   CPS   leadership   as   well   as   tours   of   the   existing   Englewood   high   
schools,    a    variety    of    options    were    considered    for    the    current    Englewood    high    schools,    including   
closure   and   multi-­‐‑year   phase   outs.   Ultimately,   a   vote   was   taken   on   two   options   and   the   majority   vote   
was   to   close   the   high   schools,   including   Hope,   at   the   end   of   2017-­‐‑18   school   year   and   provide   robust,   
individualized   support   to   transition   current   students   to   other   higher   performing   high   schools   that   
are    a    good    match    for    their    needs.    That    is    why    I    am    proposing    the    closure    of    John    Hope    College   
Preparatory   High   School   (Hope),   located   at   5515   South   Lowe   Avenue.      
   
   
   

   

   
  
42  W.  Madison  Street  •  Chicago,  Illinois  60602  
Telephone:  773/553-­1600    

   
The   rationale   for   this   action   includes   the   following:   
   

●   If    the    high    schools    were    to    phase    out    over    several    years,    the    problems    associated    with   
declining    enrollment    would    continue    and    the    risk    of    diminished    programs    and    staffing   
challenges   would   increase,   potentially   worsening   educational   opportunities   for   students.   
●   If   the   high   schools   were   to   phase   out   and   certain   students   wanted   to   transfer   before   school   
closure,   they   would   not   be   eligible   to   play   sports   the   year   they   transfer   as   per   the   guidelines   
of   the   Illinois   High   School   Association   (IHSA),   which   governs   participation   in   sports   in   the   
state.   
●   More   than   90   percent   of   students   who   currently   live   in   Englewood   now   choose   to   attend   non-­‐‑
neighborhood   high   schools.   
●   With    the    right    individualized    transition    supports,    students    from    Hope    could    have    a    better   
high    school    experience,    be    better    prepared    to    graduate    high    school    and   be    ready    for    college   
and   career   success.   
   

The   proposed   closure   of   Hope   meets   the   criteria   of   the   Chief   Executive   Officer’s   Guidelines   for   School   
Actions   (Guidelines)   because   it   is   a   proposal   requested   by   community   members   via   the   process   to   
request   proposals   outlined   in   the   Guidelines.      Specifically,   we   have   heard   the   request   for   this   proposal   
from    the    Englewood    Community    Action    Council    and    at    a    meeting    of    the    Englewood    Community   
Leadership   Steering   Committee   in   calendar   year   2017.      
   

Current    students    at    Hope    will    be    provided    options    to    enroll    in    higher    performing    schools,    as   
defined    by    the    Guidelines.    CPS    will    work    closely    with    the    Hope    students    and    their    families    to   
develop    individualized    transition    plans    that    determine    the    school    that    will    best    meet    their   
academic   and   social-­‐‑emotional   needs.      
   

Additionally,    the    Office    of    Diverse    Learners    Support    Services    (ODLSS)    will    work    with    the   
students    in    the    cluster    program    at    Hope    to    relocate    them    to    another    nearby    cluster    program   
that    meets    their    individual    needs.    ODLSS    staff    will    set    up    informational    meetings    with   
students   and   families   impacted.   More   details   can   be   found   in   the   attached   transition   plan,   and   we   
will   be   holding   meetings   with   the   community   to   further   discuss   these   plans.      
   

In    addition,    as    a    part    of    this    proposed    closure,    I    will    also    propose    that    Hope’s    attendance    area    be   
reassigned   so   that   every   student   continues   to   have   a   neighborhood   school,   if   desired.   The   proposed   
attendance    areas    changes    are    as    follows:    the    western    portion    (west    of    Racine    Ave)    will    be    assigned   
to   Gage   Park   High   School   and   the   eastern   portion   (east   of   Racine   Ave)   will   be   assigned   to   Phillips   
High   School.   
   

If   you   would   like   more   detail   about   the   proposed   closure,   please   refer   to   the   Draft   Transition   Plan   
that   is   included   with   this   letter.   
   

   

   

   
  
42  W.  Madison  Street  •  Chicago,  Illinois  60602  
Telephone:  773/553-­1600    

   
As    a    next    step,    CPS    will    hold    two    community    meetings    and    one    public    hearing    to    hear    further   
feedback   on   CPS’   proposal   (meeting   information   is   below).   Following   the   meetings   and   hearing,   the   
Board   of   Education   may   vote   on   this   proposal   as   early   as   February   of   2018.   
   

Public   Comment   on   this   Proposal   
I    invite    you    to    share    your    feedback    on    the    proposed    closure    of    Hope    during    the    following    two   
community   meetings   and   one   public   hearing   outlined   below:   
Community   Meeting   1   

Community   Meeting   2   

Public   Hearing   

January   10,   2018                                 
6   to   8   p.m.   
Kennedy   King   College      
(Great   Hall,   U   Building)   
740   W   63   St   

January   17,   2018   
6   to   8   p.m.   
Hamilton   Park   Fieldhouse   

January   30,   2018   
5:30   to   8   p.m.   
CPS   Central   Office   

513   W   72nd   St   
42   West   Madison   Street      
   
If    you    wish    to    comment    at    the    community    meetings    or    hearing,    please    adhere    to    the    following   
procedures.      You   must   sign   up   to   speak   on   the   day   of,   at   the   designated   location,   beginning   one   hour   
before   the   designated   start   time   and   ending   30   minutes   after   the   start   of   the   meeting   or   hearing.      You   
will    have    two    minutes    to    speak,    unless    the    hearing    officer    or    meeting    organizer    provides    an   
extension.      The   hearing   will   conclude   at   the   stated   end   time   or   following   the   comments   of   the   last   
person   who   has   signed   up   to   speak,   whichever   occurs   first.   
   

Thank   you   in   advance   for   your   feedback   as   we   work   to   provide   all   Chicago   Public   School   students   
with   the   high   quality   education   they   deserve.      After   the   community   meetings   and   public   hearing,   I   
will    review    a    written    report    from    the    hearing    officer    and    at    that    time,    I    may    recommend    that    the   
Board   consider   and   approve   the   closure   of   Hope.   
   

Further   questions   and   concerns   
All    of    this    information    can    also    be    found    at    CPS.edu/Transitions.        If    you    have    any    questions    or   
concerns    regarding    this    proposal    and    the    draft    transition    plan,    please    email    transitions@cps.edu    or   
call   Chicago   Public   Schools   at   (773)   553-­‐‑1500.   
   
   
Sincerely,   
   
   
Forrest   Claypool   
   
Chief   Executive   Officer      
Chicago   Public   Schools      

   

   

   
   
   
   

   
   
   

 