DBRA
Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority
500 Griswold Street • Suite 2200
Detroit, Michigan 48226
Phone: 313 963-2940
Fax:
313 963-8839

DETROIT BROWNFIELD REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
REGULAR BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 2017
4:00 PM
BOARD MEMBERS PRESENT:

Maggie DeSantis
John George
Pamela McClain
Ray Scott
Matt Walters
Donele Wilkins

BOARD MEMBERS ABSENT:

Sonya Mays
Derrick Sanders
Stephanie Washington

OTHERS PRESENT:

Jennifer Kanalos (DEGC/DBRA)
Ayesha Maxwell (DEGC/DBRA)
Brian Vosburg (DEGC/DBRA)
Rebecca Navin (DEGC)
Elizabeth Brinson (DEGC)
Glen Long (DEGC)
Sarah Pavelko (DEGC)
Ngozi Nwaesei (Lewis & Munday)
Chris Jackson (Queen Lillian II)
Elizabeth Masserang (PM Environmental)
Sam Hamburger (Bedrock)
Jim Ketai (Bedrock)
Whitney Fichings (Bedrock)
Tim Wilderman (ASTI)
Graten C. Little, Jr. (Basco)

 DBRA
Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority
500 Griswold Street • Suite 2200
Detroit, Michigan 48226
Phone: 313 963-2940
Fax:
313 963-8839

MINUTES OF THE DETROIT BROWNFIELD
REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY REGULAR MEETING
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 2017
DETROIT ECONOMIC GROWTH CORPORATION
500 GRISWOLD SUITE 2200 DETROIT, MI - 4:00PM
CALL TO ORDER
Chair Matt Walters called the meeting to order at 4:06 PM.
Mr. Walters requested that Administrative Line Item III be moved up on the agenda behind
General Line Item II. No board members objected to this change in the agenda.
GENERAL
Approval of Minutes:
Mr. Walters called for a motion approving the minutes of October 18, 2017 as presented.
The Board took the following action:
On a motion by Mr. George, seconded by Ms. DeSantis, DBRA Resolution Code
17-09-02-225 was unanimously approved.
Acceptance of the September 2017 Treasurer’s Report
Ms. Brinson presented the September 2017 DBRA Treasurer’s Report.
Mr. Walters called for a motion accepting the September 2017 Treasurer’s Report.
On a motion by Mr. George, seconded by Ms. McClain, DBRA Resolution Code
17-09-03-168 was unanimously approved.
Acceptance of FY 2016-2017 DBRA Audit Report
Ms. Kanalos presented the FY 2016-2017 DBRA Audit Report.
Mr. Walters called for a motion accepting the FY 2016-2017 Audit Report.
On a motion by Mr. George, seconded by Mr. Scott, DBRA Resolution Code 1711-01-191 was unanimously approved.

 PROJECTS
220 West Congress Brownfield Redevelopment Reimbursement Agreement
Approval
Ms. Maxwell presented the 220 West Congress Brownfield Plan Reimbursement
Agreement.
On September 13, 2017, the Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority (the “DBRA”)
Board of Directors recommended approval to City Council of the Brownfield Plan for the
220 West Congress Redevelopment Project (the “Plan”) which was subsequently
approved by Detroit City Council on October 10, 2017. A requirement for Tax Increment
Financing reimbursement pursuant to the Plan is that a Reimbursement Agreement (the
“Agreement”) be entered into between the DBRA and 220 West Congress Detroit, LLC
(the “Developer”). The Agreement, prepared between the DBRA and the Developer is
presented to the DBRA for review and approval.
The Agreement and a resolution approving the Agreement and its subsequent execution
were attached for Board review and approval.
Mr. Walters called for a motion approving the Agreement as presented. The Board took
the following action:
On a motion by Mr. George, seconded by Ms. Wilkins, DBRA Resolution Code 1711-247-03 was unanimously approved.
751 Griswold Brownfield Redevelopment Reimbursement Agreement Approval
Mr. Vosburg presented the 751 Griswold Brownfield Plan Reimbursement Agreement.
On September 13, 2017, the Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority (the “DBRA”)
Board of Directors recommended approval to City Council of the Brownfield Plan for the
751 Griswold Redevelopment Project (the “Plan”) which was subsequently approved by
Detroit City Council on October 10, 2017. A requirement for Tax Increment Financing
reimbursement pursuant to the Plan is that a Reimbursement Agreement (the
“Agreement”) be entered into between the DBRA and 751 Griswold Detroit, LLC (the
“Developer”). The Agreement, prepared between the DBRA and the Developer is
presented to the DBRA for review and approval.
The Agreement and a resolution approving the Agreement and its subsequent execution
were attached for Board’s review and approval.
Mr. Walters called for a motion approving the Agreement as presented. The Board took
the following action:
On a motion by Ms. DeSantis, seconded by Ms. McClain, DBRA Resolution Code
17-11-248-03 was unanimously approved.
Queen Lillian II: Approval to Amend Term Sheet

 Ms. Pavelko presented Queen Lillian II project and the request to amend the term sheet.
On August 9, 2017, the Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority (“DBRA”) approved
the sale and financing of a vacant parcel currently owned by the City at the corner of
Woodward and Stimson (the “Property”) to Queen Lillian II, LLC (the “Developer”) for
redevelopment. The Developer’s project will incorporate a 5-story building with
approximately 25,000 square feet of first floor commercial, 112 residential units, and a 3story parking garage (the “Project”).
Subsequent to this approval, the Michigan Strategic Fund (the “MSF”) increased the
original investment awarded to the Project. This increase allowed the Developer to
eliminate higher interest debt and thereby reduced the overall debt service on the Project.
This restructuring of the Project’s sources of funding left the Project in a strong financial
position and allowed the Staff to renegotiate loan terms on behalf of the DBRA. The new
loan terms (the “Modified Terms”) proposed to the DBRA are as follows:
Original Principal Amount: $1,244,000.00
Interest: 5% annual interest accrues beginning at closing. Annual interest
payments will be calculated annually based on the remaining principal. Interest
not paid will accrue but not compound into the principle balance.
Term: 300 months. No prepayment penalties will be applied. Repayment of the
loan will be due upon sale of the property or refinance of the existing mortgage.
Payments: Interest only payments due commencing on the first business day of
the month following Closing, and every month thereafter for 120 months. Principal
and interest payments will begin in month 121 and continue for 180 months
through maturity. All unpaid principal and accrued but unpaid interest shall be due
and payable on the maturity date.
Reporting: Annual financial statements prepared certified by a certified public
accountant in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Procedures will be
provided to the DBRA.
Reporting: Annual financial statements must be provided to the DBRA for review.
Security: Subordinated mortgage on Property; personal guarantees of Jim
Jenkins and Chris Jackson
A resolution approving the Modified Terms and authorizing the DBRA to amend the terms
previously approved to reflect the Modified Terms was attached for review and
consideration.
Mr. Walters called for a motion approving the terms as presented. The Board took the
following action:

 On a motion by Mr. George, seconded by Mr. Scott, DBRA Resolution Code 1711-228-07 was unanimously approved.
East Jefferson Neighborhood Brownfield Redevelopment Plan: Extension to
Complete Eligible Activities
Mr. Vosburg presented the East Jefferson Neighborhood Brownfield Redevelopment Plan
extension.
The East Jefferson Neighborhood Brownfield Redevelopment Plan (the “Plan”) was
approved by the DBRA Board of Directors on March 23, 2011 and by Detroit City Council
(the “Council”) on May 5, 2011. The Reimbursement Agreement was entered into on May
11, 2011.
Presbyterian Villages of Michigan EJNP Real Estate Company, LLC is the developer (the
“Developer”) of the Plan which consists of four (4) parcels located at 3103 Wight Street
and 3122, 3180, and 3196 Franklin Street on Detroit’s east side. The Plan entailed the
renovation of two, vacant industrial buildings into an affordable assisted living center, an
affordable senior housing center, adult day care and dementia centers, licensed nursing
home apartments and a neighborhood café to be constructed in five (5) components.
Total investment was estimated at $38,000,000.00.
Eligible activities were to have been completed within three (3) years of the execution of
the Reimbursement Agreement. The Michigan Economic Development Corporation had
a similar three (3) year eligible activities completion requirement. Due to the significant
economic downturn, components three (3) and four (4) were not completed within the
three (3) year duration requirement. Recently, the Developer’s consultant contacted
DBRA staff requesting an extension to components three (3) and four (4) as they are
nearing completion and the Developer is preparing to submit for tax increment financing
reimbursement. This communication can be found in Exhibit A.
As such, the Developer is requesting an extension to December 31, 2017 to complete all
eligible activities.
DBRA staff recommends the approval of the extension.
A resolution granting the extension of the East Jefferson Neighborhood Redevelopment
Plan duration requirements was attached for review and approval.
Mr. Walters called for a motion approving the extension request as presented. The Board
took the following action:
On a motion by Mr. George, seconded by Ms. McClain, DBRA Resolution Code
17-11-207-04 was unanimously approved.

 Mr. Walters requested that the walk on item be moved up on the agenda behind Project
Line Item IV. No board members objected to this change in the agenda.
Uniroyal Project: Assignment and Assumption of Agreement to Purchase and
Develop Land
Ms. Navin presented the Uniroyal Project and the request for assignment.
On February 26, 2014, the Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority (“DBRA”)
executed the fifth amendment to the Development Agreement (as amended,
“Agreement”) with Bettis/Betters Development, LLC (the “Developer”) for the
redevelopment of the City-owned property commonly known as the Uniroyal Site at 6000
E Jefferson (the “Property”). The Developer was originally selected for the redevelopment
of the Property through a competitive Request for Proposals.
Pursuant to Section 18.03 of the Agreement, the Developer has requested DBRA’s
approval to assign its interest as Developer to Belleview Redevelopment, LLC (the
“Assignee”) which has been formed as a joint venture between Assignor and Riverfront
Site, LLC (the “Assignment”), an affiliate of Bedrock. The proposed form of Assignment
is attached hereto as Exhibit A.
In consideration of the approval of the proposed Assignment, representatives of DBRA,
Developer and Assignee have agreed to the following terms (the “Conditions”):
 The Agreement will be amended to provide (i) that the Riverwalk will be subdivided
from the Property and retained the City and (ii) that a greenway connecting the
Riverwalk and the Beltline Greenway will be developed on the westernmost portion
of the Property and the Property will be conveyed subject to an easement for the
connector.
 Within 90 days following the Assignment, Assignee and the DBRA’s authorized
agents must agree on the minimum requirements and milestones for the
development contemplated under the Development Agreement.
 In the event that the parties do not agree to revised minimum development
requirements and milestones, the Assignment will be null and void and the
deadline for closing will be extended from March 1, 2019 to June 1, 2019.
 Assignee and DBRA will negotiate and execute an amended and restated
development agreement reflecting the revised minimum requirements and
milestones and other mutually agreeable modifications.
A resolution approving the proposed Assignment, subject to the Conditions was attached
for review and consideration.
Ms. Wilkins asked about the delayed clean-up on the site. Mr. Scott responded and
advised that to date there has been a $35M (thirty-five-million-dollar) cleanup. Mr. Scott
requested that the project be set-aside for further review.
Ms. DeSantis was concerned about the item being walked on without the board being
able to review in advance. Ms. DeSantis advised that she does not feel comfortable
approving an amended assignment for a project of this magnitude without advance notice

 for review. Mr. Walters provided details on the necessity of an approval and the time
constraints that the developer is facing.
Ms. Navin responded and advised that due to the concerns of the board members she
proposed an amendment to the resolution that the “DBRA Board of Directors must agree
on the minimum requirements and milestones for the development contemplated under
the Development Agreement”.
Ms. McClain requested that the board be provided with a timeline of the history of the site
and the project within 90 days.
Mr. Walters called for a motion approving the amended resolution. The Board took the
following action:
On a motion by Mr. Scott, seconded by Ms. McClain, DBRA Resolution Code 1711-130-15 was unanimously approved.
ADMINISTRATIVE
EPA Environmental Assessment Grant Report Approval
Mr. Vosburg presented the EPA Environmental Assessment Grant Report for approval.
On May 10, 2016, the City of Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority (the “DBRA”)
and the City of Detroit (“City”), by and through its Building, Safety Engineering &
Environmental Department (“BSEED”), entered into that certain Funding Agreement (the
“Funding Agreement”) for the purpose of transferring Two Hundred Forty-Five Thousand
and 00/100 Dollars ($245,000.00) (the “Funds”) from the City to DBRA in order for the
DBRA to develop a revolving loan program to make the Funds available as revolving
loans to eligible developers for qualified clean-up costs on eligible property.
On July 27, 2016, the City wired the Funds to the DBRA.
On September 27, 2016, the DBRA and City amended the Funding Agreement to allow
the Funds to be utilized for grants as well as revolving loans. The amendment also
imposed an October 15, 2016 deadline to obligate the Funds and a June 1, 2017 deadline
to expend the Funds. In the event the deadlines are not met, the Funds would become
subject to recapture by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”), the original
source of the Funds.
On October 12, 2016, the DBRA approved awarding grants to project on a first come, first
served basis for environmental assessment studies. 12 primary awardees were identified
and additional projects were given conditional grant awards in the event that primary
grantees were unable to expend their awarded funds.
9 primary awardees expended all of their awarded funds. 2 primary awardees only
expended a portion of their funds after the environmental assessment studies determined

 that environmental conditions were not as severe as anticipated. 1 primary awardee was
determined to be ineligible for the grant funds. 1 conditional awardee expended all of its
awarded funds. 1 conditional awardee expended a portion of its awarded funds at which
point BSEED staff informed the DBRA that environmental studies already existed for the
project property. These were the projects that were able to expend their awarded funds
before the grant expenditure deadline was reached.
Of the $245,000 in total funds assigned to the DBRA from BSEED, $205,894.78 in funds
were expended on awarded projects, and $20,589,48 in funds were expended as the
allowed DBRA 10% administrative fee for the grant program. The remaining $18,515.74
in grant funds that were unable to be expended before the grant expenditure deadline will
be returned to BSEED per concurrence with BSEED staff.
Included was a spreadsheet summarizing the awardees and financial details of each
grant. Attached was a resolution authorizing a report and any required backup
documentation to be submitted to BSEED summarizing the grant, as well as the return of
unexpended grant funds to BSEED.
Mr. Walters called for a motion approving submittal of the report and the return of the
unexpended funds to BSEED. The Board took the following action:
On a motion by Ms. Wilkins, seconded by Ms. DeSantis, DBRA Resolution Code
17-11-01-189 was unanimously approved.
EPA Environmental Assessment Grant Coalition Approval
Mr. Vosburg presented the EPA Environmental Assessment Coalition for approval.
The DBRA staff was recently notified that the EPA has opened a new round of
applications in connection with the EPA Brownfield Assessment grant program. Based
on the overwhelming demand for Brownfield Assessment grants experienced with the
EPA funds the DBRA obligated on behalf of the City, DBRA staff believe that it would be
beneficial to apply for a new round of funding.
DBRA staff spoke with Wayne County Brownfield Redevelopment Authority (WCBRA)
and the Detroit/Wayne County Port Authority (DWCPA) to review last year’s application
and inquire if there would be interest in a new coalition grant application. WCBRA staff,
the lead applicant of last year’s unsuccessful grant application, met with EPA staff to
review the application and learned that it was very close to being selected. WCBRA staff
are proposing to submit a similar coalition grant application as last year with edits and
updates based on feedback from EPA staff.
The WCBRA and DWCPA were part of a previous successful environmental site
assessment application in conjunction with the City of Detroit’s Building, Safety
Engineering & Environment Department (BSEED) that successfully completed obligating
and expending all of its funds. Because of this prior success, the staffs of DBRA and the
DWCPA have agreed that the WCBRA will again be the lead applicant on the grant

 application and be responsible for administration of the funds if the coalition successfully
receives the grant. By applying as a coalition, the DBRA is able to increase the maximum
allowable grant from $200,000 to $600,000, take advantage of and learn from the
DWCPA’s experience and relationships with the EPA, as well as play a direct role in
marketing the funds and selection of projects to receive the funds.
A resolution authorizing the DBRA to join the coalition and supporting the EPA grant
application was attached for review and approval, as well as a sample letter from the
DBRA for the grant application.
Mr. Walters called for a motion approving the request as presented. The Board took the
following action:
On a motion by Mr. George, seconded by Mr. Scott, DBRA Resolution Code 1711-01-190 was unanimously approved.
OTHER
In order be more environmentally sustainable, Board Members Mr. George and Ms.
Wilkins made a request to DBRA staff for tablets to review Board items in lieu of paper
agendas. The Chair requested that Mr. George and Ms. Wilkins formally submit the
request in writing. DBRA staff informed the DBRA Board that they would research the
feasibility of the request.
PUBLIC COMMENT
None
ADJOURNMENT
Citing no further business, Mr. Walters called for a motion to adjourn the meeting.
On a motion by Mr. George, seconded by Ms. Wilkins the meeting was
unanimously adjourned at 5:00 PM.

 