MARQUETTE PARK SSA#14
OPEN COMMISSIONERS MEETING
November 16, 2016
MINUTES
Location: Lithuanian Human Services Council Hall
2711-15 W. 71st Street
Chicago, IL 60629
In attendance: Commissioners

Patricia Nelson, chair
Jonas Miglinas
Cynthia Young
Dolorine Lopez
Stephanie Sherman-Ratliff

Absent:

Brenda Justice

Commissioners

Also in attendance:

Joe Polikaitis, SSA#14 and LHS Executive Director
Ina Stankeviciene, SSA#14 Program Manager
Narvell Darling, IHS Director of Operations
John Griffin, Jr. CEO of AGB Investigative Services
Guests:

Ald. David Moore, 17th Ward
Ald. Derrick Curtis, 18th Ward
Mark Roschen, Assistant Commissioner, City of Chicago
Dept. of Planning and Development
Patrick Brutus, Coordinator of Economic Development
Dept. of Planning and Development

Opening remarks
Commission chair opened the meeting by thanking everyone for attending this meeting
and for their safety concerns within the SSA#14 area. In addition, the chair informed attendees
that at this moment quorum of the Commissioners is present.
The main objective of this meeting is to select a Security Firm for a two year period
(2017 and 2018) and to discuss a new SSA#14 Ordinance re-establishment process.
Commission chair informed attendees, that minutes of previous meeting will not be read
as was done previously. Copies are available as part of the meeting distributions. Approval of the
minutes will be done by Commissioners, however, attendees can read them at their leisure, Also
they will be posted on Marquette Park SSA#14 website (www.mp-security.org)
Incident Report
Incident Report was read by Joe Polikaitis on behalf of Ina Stankeviciene (making
copies).. It covered the time period from July 1, 2016 to October 31th, 2016. During this period,
the Illinois Homeland Security addressed 859 security events of varied nature. Requests for
assistance came from the SSA#14 Dispatch central (160), the CPD (Chicago Police Department)
(648) and rowing patrol cars (51). Disturbances and loitering are the most prevalent incidents
(364 or 41%). The same three zones required the greatest amount of effort. Zones 3 and 4 have
experienced incidents 220 times each, while zone 5 has experienced 131 events. It is

 worthwhile to note that all other zones average between 10 and 15 incidents per month. Upon
closer examination, we see that west of California incidents are few and far between. . During
the past four months incident activity is on the rise (185 in July, 187 in August, 234 in September
and 243 in October). Trend is disturbing and should be addressed. Rowing patrols break up
loitering and disturbance offenses, thus preventing escalation and potential more severe incident.
Weapons offenses occurred 18 times. Persons shot : 2 in July, 3 in August, 2 in September and 2
in October.
Monthly incident activity data reports are posted on the Marquette Park security website
www.mp-security.org In addition, copies of these reports were distributed to all attendees.
Financial Report as of 11/14/2016
Financial report was presented by Joe Polikaitis. Marquette Park SSA#14 has two bank
accounts. Tax revenues are transferred from Cook County Assessor’s Office to SSA#14 Money
Market account. As of 11/14/2016 Money Market account has $84,041.98. In addition,
SSA#14 has a checking account. Checking account is used to cover daily operating expenses.
Funds for the checking account are transferred from Money Market account to the checking
account. As of 11/14/2016 checking account had $49,742.74 for a total of $133,784.72.
Financial status is good and we are able to continue with the same patrol hours of 168
hours/week.
Recommendation was made to transfer web site budgeted amount of $2,500.00 into
decorations line item and use it to install Christmas decorations on Western Ave, from 67-th
street to 74-th street. Total cost would be $4,800.00. After considerable discussion, the proposal
to transfer the budgeted Web site allocation into the decorations line item
was not approved.
Approval of 7/14/2016 minutes
The 7/14/2016 Marquette Park SSA#14 meeting minutes were emailed to all
Commissioners prior to the meeting. In addition, copies of the minutes were made available to
all meeting attendees. Thus, reading of minutes was suspended in order to save time. Still, these
minutes had to be approved by the Commissioners. Patricia Nelson made a motion to accept the
minutes as written. Jonas Miglinas seconded. The motion was carried unanimously.
Expiration of SSA#14 Ordinance
Every City of Chicago Special Service Area (SSA) has a “sunset” clause. It means that
every Ordinance has an ending. Marquette Park SSA#14 Ordinance expires at the end of 2017.
If a new Ordinance is not passed by the City Council, SSA#14 will terminate. If a new
Ordinance is passed, new Commissioners will need to be approved as well as budget and
working plan. The reestablishment process will need to start by December of 2016. In order for
the Ordinance to be passed by the City Council, every SSA needs to secure approval signatures
from 20% of property owners within the SSA. Marquette Park SSA#14 has a total of 3,933
PIN’s, thus we will need to obtain at least 800 property owner signatures that can withstand
challenges. It will be especially difficult, since at least 25% of SSA#14 owners do not live in the
area. Verification of ownership will need to be obtained prior to their signature. We anticipate
that signatures will need to be secured by June 2017. In order to prepare the application and
subsequent Ordinance proposal, Marquette Park market study will have to be completed. This
will have to be done by a consultant at a cost of approx.. $70,000.00 The term of an Ordinance
can vary from 2 years to 20 years. In the past, Marquette Park SSA#14 Ordinances have been
approved either for four or five years. It is so, because of a residential nature of SSA#14..

 Prior to re-establishment of SSA#14 Ordinanca two questions must be answered:
1. Should SSA#14 be continued after 2017 and
2. What type of program ? (security, community development, beautification,
etc.)
Once, these two questions are answered, a process of re-establishment can begin. The process
includes selection of an advisory committee, hiring of a consultant, several advisory committee
meetings, two community meetings, securing at least 800 property owners signatures, drafting of
an application, City Council hearing and many other smaller activities. To insure continuity,
Lithuanian Human Services (as sponsors) is preparing for submission to the Department of
Planning and Development 2018 Ordinance Feasibility Study. It needs to be submitted by the
end of November 2016.
Extensive and heated discussions followed of whether SSA#14 should be continued as
residential security or should it formulate some other activity. Positive input was made by Ald.
Derrick Curtis and a number of community members. The meeting was well attended and most
of them were property owners. Several attendees expressed sentiment on continuing SSA#14 as
residential security program.
Status of Surveillance Cameras
Presently there are 13 functioning surveillance cameras. Some camera locations were
changed due to increased activity or development of new hot spots. Specifically, camera from
Artesian Ave. was moved to California and 71-st street. Artesian sign could not operate
properly due to overgrown trees and there was a significant pick-up of criminal activity on
California Ave. Surveillance cameras have been able to resolve and identify offenders or
contribute to their apprehensions. Specifically, Dollar store was robbed, however with the aid of
surveillance cameras, the offenders were could still carrying stolen goods. Frequently 8-th
District Police officers and detectives review the tapes present at the Illinois Homeland Security
dispatch center to assist in the apprehension and conviction of the offenders.
Selection of Security Firm for 2017/2018
Security contract with Illinois Homeland Security expires on December 10, 2016.
Therefore, a new RFP (request for proposals) process was initiated on April 27, 2016.
Commissioners approved the bidding protocol, including proposal format, guidelines and
requirements. Bidding packages were prepared and were made available on June 1, 2016 to
those desiring to bid. Bids are to be submitted by the designated date of July 15, 2016. Three
bid packages were picked up and two proposals were received. Copies were given to all
Commissioners for their independent evaluations. Selection of security firm for 2017-2018
calendar years was done during this Commissioners meeting.
Prior to making a decision on a Security Firm, both bidders were given an opportunity to
address the Commissioners and meeting attendees. They were given a 15-minute time block to
introduce their agency and to describe their capabilities and their abilities to serve a Marquette
Park SSA#14 residential security program.
AGB Investigative Services, Inc. gave their presentation first. John Griffin, Jr. (CEO)
introduced three other members of their team. They presented their credentials, mode of
operation, references and capabilities. They were given opportunity to answer questions from
the Commissioners as well as meeting attendees.
Illinois Homeland Security LLC were given the same opportunities. Presentation was
made by Mr. Narvell Darling, Operations Director for HIS. They are the incumbent agency that
has served Marquette Park Community for several years. After his presentation, Commissioners
and meeting attendees were given an opportunity to ask questions.

 After both presentations, Commissioners deliberated and voted to award the 2017-2018
Marquette Park SSA#14 security contract to Illinois Homeland Security LLC. Commissioners
vote was unanimous.
Community Input
8-th District Commander could not attend the meeting and thus attendees were given an
opportunity to ask questions, make comments and get involved in the general discussions with
18-th Ward Ald. Derrick Curtis. Most of the discussion centered around the community input
with respect to the SSA#14 programs. Most attendees expressed their satisfaction with Illinois
Homeland Security and their rapid responses. Some discussions were passionate but
orderly.
Next Governing Commissioners Meeting
Next meeting is tentatively scheduled for February 8, 2017.
Meeting closed at 9:15 pm.
Respectfully submitted by Ina Stankeviciene

 