  

   
   
   
                  TRANSITION   PLAN   
                  For   the   Delayed   Closure   of      
               TEAM   Englewood   Community   Academy   High   School   
   
   
Introduction   
   
Chicago   Public   Schools   (CPS)   is   committed   to   providing   every   child   from   every   community   with   a   
high   quality   education   that   prepares   them   for   success   in   college   and   in   life.   CPS   students   continue   
to   make   record-­‐breaking   academic   progress   in   every   part   of   the   city.   Our   vision   is   that   all   CPS   
schools    can    build    on    this    progress    by    offering    high    quality,    rigorous    instruction    from    talented   
educators   that   help   put   Chicago   students   on   a   path   to   lasting   success.      
   
On    December    1st,    2017,    CPS    proposed    the    closure    of    TEAM    Englewood    Community    Academy   
High    School    (TEAM)    located    at    6201    S.    Stewart.    in    the    Englewood    neighborhood    and    CPS’   
Network    11.    The    proposed    closure    was    based    on    the    declining    enrollment    at    TEAM.    TEAM   
currently   serves   88   students   in   grades   9-­‐12.    The   proposed   closure   of   TEAM   met   the   criteria   of   the   
Chief    Executive    Officer’s    Guidelines    for    School    Actions    ("Guidelines”)    because    it    was    a    proposal   
requested    by    community    members    via    the    process    to    request    proposals    outlined    in    the   
Guidelines.      Specifically,   we   heard   the   request   for   this   proposal   from   the   Englewood   Community   
Action   Council   and   at   a   meeting   of   the   Englewood   Community   Leadership   Steering   Committee   in   
calendar   year   2017.   
   
Following    the    December    1st    announcement,    CPS    continued    an    extensive    community   
engagement    process    involving    community    meetings,    parent    meetings,    a    public    hearing,    and   
regular    discussions    with    elected    officials    and    the    Englewood    Steering    Committee.    Based    on   
feedback,    CPS    is    proposing    to    adjust    the    Englewood    High    School    proposal    to    allow    current   
students   at   TEAM   to   graduate   from   their   school.      
   
Summary   of   Action   
   
TEAM   currently   serves   88   students   in   grades   9-­‐12.      CPS   is   proposing   to   close   TEAM   at   the   end   of   
the   2020-­‐2021   school   year,   effective   July   1st,   2021.   
   
As   a   result   of   this   action,   all   current   students   at   TEAM   will   have   the   opportunity   to   finish   high   
school   at   their   current   school.      Since   Harper,   Hope   and   TEAM   will   close   after   current   freshman   
graduate,   freshman   will   not   be   admitted   next   year   and   the   attendance   areas   for   the   schools   and   
will    be    assigned    to    higher    performing    neighborhood    high    schools    in    SY    2018-­‐2019.        Although   
current   Harper,   Hope   and   TEAM   students   are   welcome   to   stay   at   their   schools   under   the   revised   
proposal,   CPS   is   also   committed   to   supporting   students   who   have   decided   transitioning   to   a   new   
high   school   is   best   for   them.   If   students   at   Harper,   Hope   and   TEAM   choose   to   attend   another   CPS   

   

school   next   year,   the   district   will   offer   them   robust   transition   supports   that   were   outlined   in   the   
District’s   December   proposal.   
   
The    proposed    delayed    closure    of    TEAM    meets    the    criteria    of    the    Chief    Executive    Officer’s   
Guidelines   for   School   Actions   (“Guidelines”)   because   it   is   a   proposal   requested   by   community   
members    via    the    process    to    request    proposals    outlined    in    the    Guidelines.        Specifically,    we    have   
heard   the   request   for   this   proposal   from   community   members   at   the   two   community   hearings   
on   January   10th,   2018   and   January   17th,   2018   and   community   members   at   the   Public   Hearing   on   
January   30th,   2018.   
   
Chicago    Public    Schools    had    set    aside    $8.3    million    dollars    over    the    next    3.5    years    to    support   
students   from   Harper,   Hope,   Robeson   and   TEAM   Englewood.   Under   the   revised   plan,   this   funding   
will   support   current   students   at   Harper,   Hope   and   TEAM   in   the   form   of   program   support   funding   
to   ensure   core   subjects   are   available   and   students   can   graduate   with   all   required   classes.   The   
funding   will   also   support   any   student   that   wants   to   transfer   to   another   school.                  
   
Supports   for   students   who   elect   to   transfer:   
   
Transition   Teams   
   
Under   the   original   proposal,   CPS   allocated   funds   to   hire   additional   staff   to   support   students   as   
they   transition   from   their   current   school   to   a   different   school.   Under   the   revised   plan,   TEAM   will   
still   benefit   from   the   following   position:      
   
●   Principal   Transition   Coordinator:   The   Principal   Transition   Coordinator   will   be   responsible   
for   overseeing   the   transition   team   and   transition   supports   for   students   that   choose   to   
transfer   from   TEAM.   They   will   be   responsible   for   holding   all   members   of   the   transition   
team   accountable   for   hitting   key   milestones   along   each   student’s   transition   (i.e.   choosing   
the   school   each   student   will   transition   to,   preparing   an   academic   plan).   They   will   also   be   
responsible   for   overseeing   administrative   needs   such   as   transferring   student   records   to   
students’   respective   schools.      In   addition,   they   will   provide   support   to   administrators   and   
school   staff   at   transition   schools   to   ensure   they   are   prepared   to   welcome   transitioning   
students.    Principal    Transition    Coordinators    will    be    experienced    former    or    current    CPS   
Principals.   
   
Student   Outreach   and   Re-­‐engagement   Center   (SOAR):   In   the   2018-­‐2019   school   year,   the   SOAR   
Center    will    follow-­‐up    with    all    transitioning    students    from    TEAM    to    track    attendance    and   
enrollment   and   ensure   student   engagement   in   learning.   Early   interventions   will   be   identified   for   
students   who   demonstrate   disengagement.   
   
General   Supports   for   students   and   families      
   
Students   from   TEAM   who   decide   to   transfer   out   will   receive   a   variety   of   supports   to   ensure   they   
have   access   to   high   quality   classroom   academics,   interventions   for   those   struggling   with   literacy   

   

and   math,   counseling   and   social   supports   and   student   safety   support.      The   goal   will   be   to   ensure   
that    students    and    their    families    receive    access    to    quality    instruction,    understand    their    rights,   
available   school   options   and   are   safe   and   secure   through   the   transition   process.   
   
Supporting   transitioning   students   at   TEAM   in   choosing   a   school   for   the   2018-­‐2019   school   year      
   
To    support    students    who    choose    to    transfer,    CPS    will    provide    information    on    open    seats    and   
performance   at   CPS   schools   to   support   students   in   selecting   their   school.      
   
Timeline   for   Supporting   Transitioning   Students   
   
●   Throughout   March:   Provide   all   students   from   TEAM   interested   in   transferring   with   the   
opportunity   to   meet   with   a   CPS   staff   member   to   support   them   in   discussing   their   options   
and   filling   out   an   application   
●   Throughout    March:    Hold    meetings    with    parents    from    TEAM    to    learn    about    other    high   
school   options   
●   [March   10th]:   Hold   a   High   School   Fair   at   Kennedy   King   College   (9:00   AM-­‐12:00   PM)   
●   [By   April   6th]:   Interested   students   submit   their   transfer   preferences   (up   to   10   schools)   
●   [By   April   27th]   Students   receive   their   enrollment   options   from   the   Office   of   Access   and   
Enrollment   
●   [By   May   18th]:   Students   submit   their   final   choice   
●   [By   June   7th]   Finalize   academic   readiness   plans   to   prepare   for   transition   
●   [By   June   7th]   Finalize   safety   plans   to   ensure   students   can   travel   safely   to   school   next   year   
●   [By   June   7th]   Provide   academic   student   “resumes”   to   schools   that   students   will   transition   
to   in   the   School   Year   2018-­‐2019   
   
Transferring   students   will   also   be   given   the   opportunity   to   meet   with   school   staff   at   schools   they   
transition   to,   including   teachers,   principals   and   coaches,   prior   to   the   beginning   of   the   school   year   
(e.g.   over   the   summer).   
   
Support   for   families   
   
CPS   will   host   two   parent   meetings   for   parents   of   TEAM   students   in   March   2018.   Families   who   are   
looking    for    additional    guidance    on    school    options    should    attend    one    of    these    meetings.    For   
families   unable   to   attend   a   meeting,   the   Network   office   will   conduct   office   hours   to   help   families   
navigate   the   process.   Please   contact   your   Network   for   specific   timing.   
   
●   Email:   transitions@cps.edu      
●   Phone   number:   773-­‐535-­‐8230   
   
CPS    will    guarantee    the    Principal    Transition    Coordinator    position    through,    at    least,    the    end    of   
School   Year   2018-­‐19,   to   ensure   a   smooth   transition   process   through   the   first   transition   year   for   
students   who   choose   to   transfer.   In   terms   of   additional   supports,   CPS   will   work   with   each   school   
welcoming   students   from   TEAM   to   create   a   plan   to   support   transitioning   students.   The   plan   will   

   

include    requested    supports    to    ensure    the    academic    and    social-­‐emotional    well-­‐being    of    all   
students.   CPS   will   then   provide   funds   proportional   to   the   number   of   transitioning   students   being   
welcomed   at   the   school   students   transition   to.   These   funds   will   be   adjusted   each   semester   based   
on    the    number    of    transitioning    students    present    at    each    school    in    that    semester.    Each    plan    will   
include:   
   
Supporting   student   social-­‐emotional   needs   
   
CPS    understands    that    whenever    students    transition    into    new    situations    and    environments,   
additional   support   is   needed   to   help   them   adjust.   CPS   and   The   Office   of   Social   Emotional   Learning   
(“OSEL”)    will    consult    with    schools    that    receive    transitioning    Englewood    students    to    evaluate   
existing   SEL   supports   and   determine   additional   resource   needs   for   a   school-­‐specific   plan.   These   
plans   may   include   the   following:   
   
●   Establishing    a    climate    &    culture    team    to    lead    the    planning    of    school-­‐wide    practices    to   
promote   positive   relationships   and   a   welcoming,   supportive   and   trauma-­‐sensitive   school   
environment.   
●   Implementing    restorative    practices    (such    as    talking    circles    and    peer    councils)    to   
encourage   peer-­‐to-­‐peer   problem-­‐solving   and   resolution.   
●   Developing    behavioral    health    systems    to    identify    when    students    have    higher    levels    of   
social    and    emotional    need,    connect    them    to    targeted    interventions    and    track    their   
progress   to   ensure   success.   
●   Implementing   targeted   small   group   supports   or   circles   aimed   at   helping   students   work   
through   concerns   associated   with   transition,   as   needed.   
●   Accessing    social    &    emotional    or    trauma    interventions    for    students    in    need    of    more   
individualized   attention.   
●   Developing    Student    Leadership    and    Culture-­‐Building    Activities    to    ensure    students    feel   
welcome   in   schools   they   transition   to.   
●   Ensuring    continuity    of    existing    mentorship    programs    (e.g.    BAM    and    WOW)    to    serve   
students   throughout   the   transition   process.   
●   Providing    professional    development    and    training    opportunities    in    trauma-­‐sensitive   
practices,    restorative    practices,    social    emotional    learning    and    other    relevant    topics    to   
staff   at   schools   that   students   transition   to.   
   
Supporting   student   academic   needs   
   
All   students   at   TEAM   will   have   the   opportunity   to   engage   in   academic   supports   and   after   school   
employment   during   spring   2018   semester.   Students   will   earn   a   stipend   for   weekly   attendance.      
   
After   students   choose   their   new   school,   the   principal   and   school   leadership   team   of   the   schools   
welcoming   students   will   receive   academic   resumes   on   each   transitioning   student   and   determine   
how    to    best    allocate    additional    district    resources    to    support    transitioning    students.    These   
supports   could   include:   

   

   
●  
●  

Academic   remediation   and   intervention   supports   such   as   tutoring   and   credit   recovery.   
Additional   staffing   to   support   students   in   classrooms.   

   
Safety   and   Security   
   
The    CPS    Office    of    Safety    &    Security    has    engaged    the    Englewood    community,    including    the   
Community   Leadership   Steering   Committee,   on   transitioning   student   safety.   The   Office   of   Safety   
&    Security    will    continue    to    work    with    TEAM    and    the    Englewood    community    to    ensure    that   
appropriate   safety   and   security   plans   are   in   place   to   support   students   that   choose   to   transfer.   
Safety   supports   discussed   to   date   are   included   below.   These   supports   may   be   further   customized   
based   on      the      feedback   received.   Additionally,   resources   may   be   adjusted   to   meet   the   unique   
needs   of   affected   students   (if   deemed   necessary).   
   
●   Review    existing    safe    passage    routes    and    adjust    routes    as    appropriate    based    on    an   
assessment   of   the   schools   where   students   will   be   transitioning   to   
●   Partner    with    CTA    to    review    potential    staging    of    buses    to    facilitate    safe    and    smooth   
dismissals      
●   Evaluate    transportation    support,    including    distribution    of    limited    use    CTA    cards    for   
transitioning   students   based   on   their   individualized   safety   plans   
●   Review   security   staffing   and   adjust   staffing   as   appropriate   in   schools   where   students   will   
be   transitioning   to   
●   Evaluate   security   systems   and   technology   in   schools   that   students   transition   to   
   
Support   for   students   with   diverse   learning   needs   
   
Students   with   disabilities   and   their   families   will   be   supported   in   the   transition   process   through   
clear    communication,    continual    support    for    academic    instruction    and    ensuring    the    schools    that   
students   transition   to   are   fully   able   to   implement   student   Individual   Education   Programs   (“IEPs”).   
Students   with   disabilities,   as   with   all   students   impacted   by   school   actions,   will   receive   intensive   
support   directly   after   announcement   of   a   proposed   school   action,   to   ensure   their   academic   and   
social-­‐emotional    needs    are    met.        Students    with    disabilities    will    also    receive    the    following   
categories   of   support,   adjustable   to   individual   student/family   needs:   
   
Current   students   with   disabilities   will   continue   to   receive   the   following   supports,   required   by   law:   
   
●   A   free   and   appropriate   public   education   (“FAPE”)   
●   The   implementation   of   the   student’s   IEP   in   the   least   restrictive   environment   (“LRE”)      
●   A   focus   on   student   academic   and   social   emotional   progress   
   
In   addition,   to   ensure   that   instructional   quality   is   maintained,   CPS   will   additionally   provide   the   
following   support:   
   

   

As   students   move   through   this   process,   a   district   representative   from   the   Office   of   Diverse   
Learner    Supports    and    Services    (“ODLSS”)    will    be    assigned    to    students    choosing    to   
transition   from   TEAM   to   work   with   families   and   students   to   ensure   they   are   informed   on   
their   options   and   support   them   throughout   the   process   of   transitioning   to   their   new   school   
for   the   2018-­‐2019   school   year.   Specifically   the   district   representative   will:   
o   Review    all    IEPs    with    the    school    students    transition    to    ensure    implementation    and   
provide    observations    of    classrooms    when    school    has    started    and    train    staff    on   
specialized   equipment   for   specific   student   needs   
   
Students   in   Temporary   Living   Situations   
   
●   The    CPS    Office    of    Students    in    Temporary    Living    Situations    will    continue    the    supports   
currently    provided    to    Students    in    Temporary    Living    Situations    (“STLS”)    as    required    by   
law.      These   include   free   school   meals,   enrollment   support,   provision   of   required   school   
uniforms    and    school    supplies    as    needed,    transportation    assistance    when    eligible,    and   
waiver   of   all   school   related   fees.   
●   Students   in   Temporary   Living   Situations   will   be   encouraged   to   attend   any   events   in   which   
they   can   meet   with   school   staff   and/or   learn   about   schools   to   transition   to   should   they   
decide   to   transfer.   
●   For   those   students   who   had   been   homeless   prior   to   the   2018-­‐2019   school,   their   school   of   
origin   will   become   the   first   school   they   enroll   in   for   the   2018-­‐2019   school   year.   
   
   
   
   
English   Language   Learners   
   
Current   and   future   English   Language   Learners   (ELs)   will   receive   state   mandated   bilingual   services   
(Transitional   Bilingual   Education   (TBE)   or   Transitional   Program   of   Instruction   (TPI),   as   required.      
English   as   a   Second   Language   (ESL)   instruction   provided   by   an   ESL-­‐endorsed   teacher   is   part   of   
both   programs.      Meaningful   access   to   the   core   curriculum   is   provided   to   TBE   students   through   
native   language   instruction   in   the   core   content   (language   arts,   math,   science,   and   social   studies).      
For    TPI    students,    meaningful    access    to    core    curriculum    is    delivered    through    sheltered    English   
content   instruction   and   native   language   supports,   based   on   the   individual   student’s   need,   and   
provided    by    appropriately    endorsed    (bilingual-­‐    or    ESL-­‐endorsed)    teacher(s)
   
Public   Comment   
   
CPS   held   two   community   meetings   and   one   formal   public   hearing   regarding   the   proposed   
closure   of   Englewood   High   Schools.   Public   comment   was   accepted   during   each   meeting   or   
hearing   and   the   transcripts   can   be   found   online   at   cps.edu/transitions.   The   community   
meetings   and   public   hearing   were   during   the   following   dates   and   times:   
   
●  

   

Community   Meeting   #1   

Community   Meeting   #2   

Public   Hearing   #   1   

January   10th,   2018                                 
6:00-­‐8:00   PM   
Kennedy   King   College   
740   W.   63rd   St.   

January   17th,   2018   
6:00-­‐8:00   PM   
Hamilton   Park   Fieldhouse   
513   W.   72nd   St.   

January   30th,   2018   
6:00-­‐8:00   PM   
CPS   Loop   Office   
42   West   Madison   Street,   
Garden   Level,   Board   Room   

   
Further   Questions   and   Concerns:   
   
All   of   this   information   can   be   found   at   CPS.edu/Transitions.   If   you   have   any   questions   or   
concerns   regarding   this   transition   plan,   please   call   Chicago   Public   Schools   at   (773)   553-­‐1500   or   
email   Transitions@cps.edu.   
   

 