November 30, 2018 
  
Parent or Guardian of Student at 
Cooper Dual Language Academy  
1624 W 19th St Chicago, IL 60608                         
  
Re:  Proposed  Reassignment  Boundary  Change  of  Orozco  Community  Academy  and  Cooper 
Dual Language Academy  
 
Dear Parent or Guardian, 
 

Chicago Public Schools (CPS) is committed to providing every child from every community with a 
high-quality education that prepares them for success in college and in life. CPS students continue 
to make record-breaking academic progress in every part of the city. Our vision is that all CPS schools 
can build on this progress by offering high quality, rigorous instruction from talented educators that 
help put Chicago students on a path to lasting success. 
 

Cooper Dual Language Academy (Cooper) is a PK-5 Level 1 school located at 1624 W 19th St. On 
October  19,  2018,  the  Local  School  Council  (LSC)  of  Cooper,  with  the  support  of  the  school 
community  at  large,  elected  officials,  and  the  Orozco  Community  Academy  (Orozco)  school 
community, requested that Orozco’s neighborhood 6th, 7th, and 8th grade boundary be reassigned 
to Cooper gradually over time.  
 

Following  an  extensive  community-driven  process,  CPS  will  propose  to  the  Chicago  Board  of 
Education that Orozco’s boundary be reassigned to allow Cooper to phase in grades 6-8 and offer 
6th grade for School Year (SY) 2019-20, 7th grade by SY2020-21, and 8th grade by SY2021-22. Upon 
completion of the boundary reassignment in SY2021-22, Cooper will be a K-8 neighborhood school, 
while Orozco will be able to offer additional seats for families in their bilingual gifted program for 
students who are bilingual and/or heritage speakers.  
 

This  proposal  is  consistent  with  the  Chief  Executive  Officer’s  Guidelines  for  School  Actions 
(Guidelines) because it is a proposal requested by parents or community members via the process 
to request proposals outlined in the Guidelines. Furthermore, the resulting space utilization after 
the reassignment boundary change will not exceed either schools’ enrollment efficiency range, as 
defined by the CPS’ Space Utilization Standards.  
 
 
Please refer to the attached Draft Transition Plan for more details about the proposed reassignment 
boundary change. 
 

 Public Comment on this Proposal 
As  a  next  step,  CPS  will  hold  two  community  meetings  and  one  public  hearing  to  hear  further 
feedback on CPS’ proposal (meeting information is below). Following the meetings and hearing, the 
Board of Education may vote on this proposal as early as February of 2019.  
 

Your  voice  is  critical  to  this  process  and  I  invite  you  to  share  your  feedback  on  this  proposed 
reassignment  boundary  change  during  the  following  two  community  meetings  and  one  public 
hearing outlined below: 
 

Community Meeting  
 
Wednesday, January 9, 2019 
6:00-7:30 PM 
Orozco Community Academy 
1940 W 18th St. 
 

Community Meeting  
 
Wednesday, January 16, 2019 
6:00-7:30 PM 
Cooper Elementary 
1624 W 19th St. 
 

Public Hearing 
 
Thursday, January 31, 2019 
6:00-8:00 PM 
CPS Central Office 
42 West Madison Street 
 

 

If  you  wish  to  comment  at  the  community  meetings  or  hearing,  please  adhere  to  the  following 
procedures.  You must sign up to speak on the day of, at the designated location, beginning one 
hour  before  the  designated  start  time  and  ending  30  minutes  after  the  start  of  the  meeting  or 
hearing.    You  will  have  two  minutes  to  speak  unless  the  hearing  officer  or  meeting  organizer 
provides an extension.  The hearing will conclude at the stated end time or following the comments 
of the last person who has signed up to speak, whichever occurs first. 
 
Thank you in advance for your feedback as we work to provide all Chicago Public School students 
with the high-quality education they deserve.  After the community meetings and public hearing, I 
will review a written report from the hearing officer and at that time, I may recommend that the 
Board consider and approve this reassignment boundary change.  
 

Further Questions and Concerns 
All of this information can be found at CPS.edu/Transitions.  If you have any questions or concerns 
regarding  this  proposal  and  the  Draft  Transition  Plan,  please  email  transitions@cps.edu  or  call 
Chicago Public Schools at (773) 553-1500. 
 

Sincerely,  

Janice K. Jackson, EdD 
Chief Executive Officer 
Chicago Public Schools 

 

 