Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Minutes of the Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations Committee
Wednesday, September 12, 2018

9:15 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

ATTENDANCE
Present:

Suffredin, Fritchey, Boykin, Daley, Deer, Gainer, Goslin, Moody, Moore,
Morrison, Schneider, Silvestri and Tobolski (13)

Absent:

Arroyo, Butler, García and Sims (4)

PUBLIC TESTIMONY
Chairman Suffredin asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public speakers, in
accordance with Cook County Code.
1. George Blakemore
18-5790
COMMITTEE MINUTES
Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 07/25/2018
A motion was made by Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, to approve 18-5790. The
motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

Suffredin, Fritchey, Boykin, Daley, Deer, Gainer, Goslin, Moody, Moore,
Morrison, Schneider, Silvestri and Tobolski (13)

Absent:

Arroyo, Butler, García and Sims (4)
18-4863

Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE (President), Cook County Board Of Commissioners
PROPOSED RESOLUTION

 Legislation and Intergovernmental
Relations Committee

Committee Minutes

DISSOLUTIONOFRESOLUTION
99-R-178 ANDTHE
AUTHORITY OF THE HUMAN RESOURCE’S BUREAU
AFFIDAVIT OF DOMESTIC PARTNERSHIP

September 12, 2018
REVOCATION
OF
THE
CHIEF TO
CREATE AN

WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners (“Board”) are committed to nondiscrimination in the workplace;
and

WHEREAS, the Board created and adopted the Cook County Employee Domestic Partnership Benefit Resolution in June
2008; and

WHEREAS, the resolution gave the Bureau Chief of the Bureau of Human Resources the authority to create an affidavit
when presented with sufficient documentation made by an employee who self-identified as being in a domestic partnership
eligible to receive the same Health Insurance Benefits and Leave Benefits for their partner’s unmarried dependents and
immediate family, respectively; and

WHEREAS, in 2011 the State of Illinois enacted Public Act 96-1513, the Illinois Religious Freedom Protection and Civil
Union Act, that provided adequate procedure or the certification and registration of a civil union and provided persons
entering into a civil union with the obligations, responsibilities, protections and benefits afforded or recognized by the law
of Illinois to spouses; and

WHEREAS, in 2014 the State of Illinois enacted Public Act 98-0597, the Illinois Religious Freedom and Marriage Fairness
Act that provided same-sex and different-sex couples and their children equal access to the status, benefits, protections,
rights and responsibilities of civil marriage; and

WHEREAS, Cook County employee health benefits coverage for dependents remains accessible with all legislated partner
or spouse designations; and

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Commissioners of Cook County that Resolution 99-R-178
be dissolved; and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the authority given to the Bureau Chief of the Bureau of Human Resources to create
an Affidavit of Domestic Partnership with sufficient documentation that would provide eligibility for Health Insurance and
Leave Benefits for an employee’s domestic partner and the domestic partner’s unmarried dependent and immediate family,
respectively, is revoked effective immediately; and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the impacted Cook County employees will be provided sufficient notice to provide
documentation as evidence of continued benefits eligibility for their dependents in conjunction with the Department of Risk
Management's 2019 Open Enrollment period.

AMENDMENT TO RESOLUTION 99-R-178
(Comm. No. 294614)

Page 2 of 14

 Legislation and Intergovernmental
Relations Committee

Committee Minutes

September 12, 2018

Sponsored by
THE HONORABLE TODD H. STROGER, PRESIDENT,
COOK COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS and THE HONORABLE MIKE
QUIGLEY, COUNTY COMMISSIONER
Co-Sponsored by
THE HONORABLE FORREST CLAYPOOL, ROBERTO MALDONADO AND
LARRY SUFFREDIN, COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
COOK COUNTY EMPLOYEE DOMESTIC PARTNERSHIP BENEFITS RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners is committed to fairness and
nondiscrimination in the workplace; and
WHEREAS, the County of Cook, Illinois (“County”) is a home rule unit pursuant to Section 6(a)
of Article VII of the 1970 Constitution of the State of Illinois and is constitutionally authorized to exercise
any power and perform any function pertaining to its government and affairs; and
WHEREAS, the recruitment, hiring, retention and compensation of County Employees and the terms,
privileges and conditions of their employment are matters pertaining to the County’s government and affairs; and

WHEREAS, many private companies, including approximately 500 Fortune 1000 companies, and many
units of local government, as well as numerous colleges and universities, provide health insurance and other benefits
to Employees for their domestic partners; and
WHEREAS, the County desires to offer benefits similar to benefits offered by private employers and other
public employers to allow the County to attract and retain high quality public sector employees; and

WHEREAS, the County has home rule authority to provide County Employees with Qualified Domestic
Partners, as defined herein, comparable benefits to those the County provides to Employees with spouses.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF COOK
COUNTY, ILLINOIS, AS FOLLOWS:
SECTION I - TITLE
This Resolution shall be known and may be cited as the Cook County Employee Domestic Partnership
Benefits Resolution.
SECTION II - DEFINITIONS
As used in this Resolution:

Page 3 of 14

 Legislation and Intergovernmental
Relations Committee
A. “Affidavit of Domestic Partnership”
Bureau of Human Resources.

Committee Minutes
means an affidavit in

September 12, 2018
the form specified by the Chief of the

B. “Employee” means a person who receives compensation from the County and is eligible for Health Insurance
Benefits and Leave Benefits.
C. “Health Insurance Benefits” means all health insurance coverage, including vision and dental insurance benefits
and employee assistance program benefits that the County provides to its Employees.

D. “Leave Benefits” means leave that the County provides to its Employees.
E. “Qualified Domestic Partner” means a person who is the domestic partner of an Employee and who satisfies the
conditions set forth in Section III (C) of this Resolution.
SECTION III - BENEFITS AND ELIGIBILITY
A. An Employee who presents a satisfactory Affidavit of Domestic Partnership to the Chief of the
Bureau of Human Resources shall be eligible to receive the same Health Insurance Benefits for his
or her domestic partner and the domestic partner’s unmarried dependents as the County provides to
an Employee for his or her spouse and the spouse’s unmarried dependents.
B.

An Employee who presents a satisfactory Affidavit of Domestic Partnership to the Chief of the Bureau of Human
Resources shall be eligible to receive the same Leave Benefits with regard to his or her domestic partner or a
member of the domestic partner’s immediate family as the County would provide to an Employee with regard to
his or her spouse or a member of the spouse’s immediate family.

C. An Employee shall be eligible to receive Health Insurance Benefits and Leave Benefits as set forth above in
Section III (A) and (B) if the Employee and his or her domestic partner state in an Affidavit of Domestic
Partnership that:
1. The Employee and the domestic partner are each other’s sole domestic partner and each is responsible for
the other’s common welfare; and
2. Neither the Employee nor the domestic partner is married as marriage is defined under Illinois law; and

3. The Employee and the domestic partner do not have a blood relationship that would otherwise bar marriage
in the State of Illinois; and
4. Both the Employee and the domestic partner are at least 18 years of age, are the same sex, and reside at the
same residence; and
Page 4 of 14

 Legislation and Intergovernmental
Relations Committee

Committee Minutes

September 12, 2018

5. At least two of the following four conditions exist:
a.

The Employee and the domestic partner have resided together during the twelve (12) month
period preceding the filing of the Affidavit of Domestic Partnership;

b.

The Employee and the domestic partner own a residence in either common or joint tenancy;

c.

The Employee and the domestic partner have at least two of the following arrangements:
i.

A joint title to a motor vehicle;

ii. A joint credit account;
iii. A joint checking account;
iv. A lease for a residence identifying both the Employee and the domestic partner as tenants;

d.

The domestic partner is identified as a primary beneficiary in the Employee’s will.

6. The Employee and his or her domestic partner recognize that to remain eligible to receive the
Health Insurance Benefits and Leave Benefits as set forth in Sections III (A) and (B) of this
Resolution, the conditions set forth in the Affidavit of Domestic Partnership must continue to be
satisfied.
D. The Employee must notify the Chief of the Bureau of Human Resources in writing within thirty (30)
days of any change in the circumstances which have been attested to in the Affidavit of Domestic
Partnership. Within thirty (30) days of receipt of such notice, or as soon as practicable thereafter,
the Chief shall issue a written determination as to whether the Employee is eligible to receive
Health Insurance Benefits and Leave Benefits as set forth in Section III (A) and (B) above. If
the Chief determines that the Employee is
no longer qualified and eligible to receive these
benefits, all benefits accruing to the Employee’s domestic
partner and the partner’s dependent
children, except those benefits accruing as a result of the Employee’s death, shall be terminated
no less than thirty (30) days after the date of the Chief’s written determination. The Chief shall immediately
provide written notice to the Employee and the domestic partner of this termination.
SECTION IV - RULES AND REGULATIONS
The Chief of the Bureau of Human Resources is authorized to promulgate rules and regulations to
effectuate the purposes of this Resolution.

Page 5 of 14

 Legislation and Intergovernmental
Relations Committee

Committee Minutes

September 12, 2018

SECTION V - SEVERABILITY
If any section, paragraph or provision of this Resolution shall be held to be invalid or unenforceable for any
reason, the invalidity or unenforceability of such section, paragraph or provision shall not affect any of the remaining
provisions of this Resolution.
SECTION VI - EFFECTIVE DATE
This resolution goes into effect immediately upon passage.

A motion was made by Commissioner Deer, seconded by Commissioner Boykin, to recommend for approval
18-4863. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

Suffredin, Fritchey, Boykin, Daley, Deer, Gainer, Goslin, Moody, Moore,
Morrison, Schneider, Silvestri and Tobolski (13)

Absent:

Arroyo, Butler, García and Sims (4)
18-3674

Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE (President), Cook County Board Of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
ALIGNING EMPLOYEE BENEFITS FOR MILITARY SERVICE WITH STATE AND FEDERAL LAW

BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that CHAPTER 44 HUMAN RESOURCES,
ARTICLE III VACATION AND SICK LEAVE, SECTION NUMBER(S) 44-95, 44-97, 44-101, 44-102, AND ARTICLE
IV PENSIONS, SECTION NUMBER 44-132 of the Cook County Code are hereby amended as Follows:

Sec. 44-95. - Military l Leave. All eligible employees under the jurisdiction of County Officers on an authorized military
leave shall be afforded employment related protections and benefits, in accordance with State and Federal law, provided
that any procedural requirements imposed by the applicable employing County officer have been met.

(a) Military Service Leave. Any eligible full-time or part-time County employee who has at least
six months or more of continuous actual is called to perform uniformed services, whether in the reserves
or on active duty, service and is a member
of the Illinois National Guard or any of the
Reserve
Components of the Armed Forces of the United States shall be entitled to leave of absence with full pay
for limited service in field training, cruises,
and kindred recurring obligations employment related
protections and benefits, in accordance with State and Federal law, provided that any procedural
Page 6 of 14

 Legislation and Intergovernmental
Relations Committee

Committee Minutes

September 12, 2018

requirements imposed by the County have been met. Such leave will normally be limited to 15 days in
each year. Subject to certain exceptions under the applicable laws, these benefits are generally limited to
five (5) years of leave of absence.
(b) Family Military Leave. In accordance with the Illinois Family Military Leave Act, 820 ILCS 151/1, et
seq., the County provides eligible employees with up to 30 days of unpaid family military leave during the time federal
or state deployment orders are in effect, provided that such employee has
exhausted all accrued vacation leave, personal leave, compensatory leave and any other leave granted to
the employee, except sick and disability leave. The number of days of leave provided under the Illinois
Family Military Leave Act will be reduced by the number of days of qualifying exigency leave provided
under the Family Medical Leave Act
***
Sec. 44-97. - Records of personal days, sick, vacation and military leave.
(a) For employees under the jurisdiction of the County Board, records of personal days, sick, vacation,
and military leave shall be maintained by the Civil Service Commission.
(b) For employees not under the jurisdiction of the County Board, records of personal days, sick, vacation
and military leave shall be maintained by the department head.
Records of personal days, sick, vacation, and any other approved leave including but not limited to
bereavement leave, family and medical leave, military leave, and family military leave shall be maintained by each
County office or department in the Cook County Time and Attendance System.
***

Sec. 44-101. - Employees' annuity and benefit fund contribution for employees in armed forces.
The County Board shall annually provide in its annual appropriation bill sufficient funds to make
contributions for such employees based on the
same percentage of the salaries of such employees as at
the time of entering such military
or naval service or training
service leave for the period of their
compulsory or voluntary service to the State or Federal government, and that all such employees at the conclusion of
such military service leave, be restored to their positions as required by State and Federal law.

Sec. 44-102. - Status of employees in armed forces. Reserved.
(a) All employees under the jurisdiction of the County officers, other than the County Board of
Commissioners, who serve in the military or naval forces of the United States, either voluntarily or by

Page 7 of 14

 Legislation and Intergovernmental
Relations Committee

Committee Minutes

September 12, 2018

reason of the Conscription Act, have their positions, seniority and status preserved the same as any other County
employee.
(b) All County employees including Forest Preserve employees under the jurisdiction of County officers,
other than the Board of Commissioners, who serve in the military or naval forces of the United States, either
voluntarily or by reason of the Conscription Act, have their positions, seniority and status preserved the same as any
other County employee.
***
Sec. 44-132. - Contribution for employees in armed forces.
The Board shall annually provide in its annual appropriation bill sufficient funds to make contributions for such
employees based on the same percentage of the salaries of such employees as at the time of entering such military
service leave for the period of their compulsory or voluntary service to the State or Federal government, and that all
such employees at the conclusion of such
military service leave, be restored to their positions as required by State and Federal law.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption

A motion was made by Commissioner Deer, seconded by Vice Chairman Fritchey, to recommend for approval
18-3674. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

Suffredin, Fritchey, Boykin, Daley, Deer, Gainer, Goslin, Moody, Moore,
Morrison, Schneider, Silvestri and Tobolski (13)

Absent:

Arroyo, Butler, García and Sims (4)
18-3239

Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE (President), Cook County Board Of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
ALIGNING THE COOK COUNTY SICK LEAVE ORDINANCE WITH THE CURRENT EMPLOYEE
SICK LEAVE POLICY
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 44, Human Resources, Article III
Vacation and Sick Leave, Section 44-93 - Sick Leave is hereby amended as follows:

Sec. 44-93. - Sick leave.
(a) Eligible employees may use sick leave for illness, disability incidental to pregnancy or nonjob
Page 8 of 14

 Legislation and Intergovernmental
Relations Committee

Committee Minutes

September 12, 2018

related injury to the employee; appointments with physicians, dentists, or other recognized practitioners; or
for serious illness, disability, or injury, in the immediate family of the employee. Eligible employees on maternity or
paternity leave may use sick leave during the first four (4) to eight (6) weeks following childbirth, depending on the
type of delivery. Use of sick leave during maternity or paternity leave may be extended upon the Leave Coordinator’s
receipt of a medical statement indicating that the employee is unable to return to work due to medical reasons.
(a) (b) Sick leave is granted by Cook the County because an employee is unable to perform his/her assigned
duties, or because his/her presence at his place of work would jeopardize the health of co-workers. Accordingly, sick
leave shall not be used for any purpose other than to cover an absence related illness and shall not be used as additional
vacation leave.
(c) All eligible employees shall be granted sick leave with pay at the rate of one working day for each month
of service. A month of service is one in which an employee is in a pay status for at least 15 working days in a calendar
month. All eligible employees on a part-time work schedule shall be granted sick leave with pay proportionate to the
time worked per pay period. Sick leave may be accumulated to equal, but at no time to exceed, one hundred seventyfive (175) working days. Records of sick leave credit and use shall be maintained by each office or department in the
Cook County Time and Attendance System.

(b) Subsequent to December 3, 1962, sick leave may be accumulated to equal but at no time to exceed 120
working days at the rate of 12 working days per year. Records of sick leave credit and use shall be maintained by each
office, department, or institution. Severance of employment prior to the use of any part of such sick leave terminates
all rights for compensation hereunder. Amount of leave accumulated at the time when any sick leave begins shall be
available in full, and additional leave shall continue to accrue while an employee is using that already accumulated.
(c) Sick leave may be used for illness, disability, or injury of the employee; appointments with physicians,
dentists, or other recognized practitioners; or for serious illness, disability, or injury, in the immediate family of the
employee. After five consecutive sick days, employees shall submit to their
department head a doctor's certificate as proof of sickness. Maternity leave shall not be considered as sick leave.

(d) If, in the opinion of the head of the executive head of the office, or department, or institution, the health
of an employee warrants prolonged absence from duty, the employee will be permitted to combine to his/her sick
leave, vacation, and sick leave and personal days, with the approval of from the Bureau Chief, Bureau of Human
Resources.
(e) The employee may apply for disability under the rules and regulations established by the Cook County
Annuity and Benefit Fund Retirement Board.
(f) Severance of employment prior to the use of any part of such sick leave terminates all rights to such sick
leave accrual and compensation for such sick leave, except in the case of a reduction in force
Page 9 of 14

 Legislation and Intergovernmental
Relations Committee

Committee Minutes

September 12, 2018

resulting in employees being laid off and recalled from layoff status. If an employee is recalled from layoff status into
the same or a new position in the County Agency, and defined in Section Three of the Budget Resolution, from which
the employee was laid off, the employee shall receive the full benefit of the sick leave accrual severed from the
employee at the time of layoff.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
..en
A motion was made by Commissioner Deer, seconded by Commissioner Tobolski, to recommend for approval
18-3239. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes:

Suffredin, Fritchey, Boykin, Daley, Deer, Gainer, Goslin, Moody, Moore,
Morrison, Schneider, Silvestri and Tobolski (13)

Absent:

Arroyo, Butler, García and Sims (4)
18-1126

Sponsored by: PETER N. SILVESTRI, Cook County Board Of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
ESTABLISHING THE COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 38, HEALTH AND HUMAN
SERVICES, ARTICLE V, COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM, SECTION 38-80 of the Cook
County Code is hereby amended as Follows:

Sec. 38-80. General powers of the System Board.
Subject to the Mission of the CCHHS and consistent with this article, the System Board shall have the following
powers and responsibilities:
(a) To appoint the Chief Executive Officer of the CCHHS ("CEO") or interim CEO, if necessary,
as set forth in Section 38-81 hereinafter, to hire such employees and to contract with such agents, and
professional and business advisers as may from time to time be necessary in the System Board's judgment
to accomplish the CCHHS' Mission and the purpose and intent of this article; to fix the compensation of
such CEO, employees, agents, and advisers; and, to establish the
powers and duties of all such agents,
employees, and other persons contracting with the System Board;
(b) To exercise oversight of the CEO;

Page 10 of 14

 Legislation and Intergovernmental
Relations Committee

Committee Minutes

(c) To develop measures to evaluate the CEO's performance and
the County Board at six-month intervals regarding the CEO's performance;

September 12, 2018
to report to the President and

(d) To authorize the CEO to enter into contracts, execute all instruments, and do all things necessary or
convenient in the exercise of the System Board's powers and responsibilities;
(e) To determine the scope and distribution of clinical services; provided, however, if the System Board
determines that it is in the best interest of the CCHHS to close entirely one of the three two CCHHS hospitals, such
closure will require County Board approval; provided further, however, that if the
System Board determines it is in the best interest of the CCHHS to purchase additional hospitals, or to add
or reduce healthcare-licensed,
risk-bearing entities in CountyCare, the CCHHS shall, 15 calendar days
before final approval, provide notice to the President
and the Cook County Board of Commissioners,
informing such persons as to the basic nature of any such transaction and shall offer to meet with such
persons to brief them in more detail on specifics relating to such a transaction;
(f) To provide for the organization and management of the CCHHS, including, but not limited to, the System
Board's rights and powers to approve all personnel policies, consistent with existing state laws, collective bargaining
agreements, and court orders;
(g) To submit budgets for the CCHHS operations and capital planning and development, which promote
sound financial management and assure the continued operation of the CCHHS, subject to approval by the County
Board;
(h) To accept any gifts, grants, property, or any other aid in any form from the federal government, the
state, any state agency, or any other source, or any combination thereof, and to comply with the terms and conditions
thereof;
(i) To purchase, lease, trade, exchange, or otherwise acquire, maintain, hold, improve, repair, sell, and
dispose of personal property, whether tangible or intangible, and any interest therein;
(j) In the name of the County, to purchase, lease, trade, exchange, or otherwise acquire, real property or any
interest therein, and to maintain, hold, improve, repair, mortgage, lease, and otherwise transfer such real property, so
long as such transactions do not interfere with the Mission of the CCHHS; provided, however, that transactions
involving real property valued at $100,000.00 or greater shall require express approval from the County Board;
(k) To acquire space, equipment, supplies, and services, including, but not limited to, services of consultants
for rendering professional and technical assistance and advice on matters within the System Board's powers;
(l) To make rules and regulations governing the use of property and facilities within the CCHHS, subject
to agreements with or for the benefit of holders of the County Board's obligations;
(m) To adopt, and from time to time amend or repeal bylaws and rules and regulations consistent
Page 11 of 14

 Legislation and Intergovernmental
Relations Committee

Committee Minutes

September 12, 2018

with the provisions of this article;
(n) To encourage the formation of a not-for-profit corporation to raise funds to assist in carrying
out the Mission of the CCHHS;
(o) To engage in joint ventures, or to participate in alliances, purchasing consortia, or other cooperative
arrangements, with any public or private entity, consistent with state law;
(p) To have and exercise all rights and powers necessary, convenient, incidental to, or implied from the
specific powers granted in this article, which specific powers shall not be considered as a
limitation upon any power necessary or appropriate to carry out the CCHHS' Mission and the purposes and intent of
this article;
(q) To perform, through the Cook County Department of Public Health, essential services of a local public
health authority as provided in the Cook County Board of Health Ordinance, Sections 38-26 through 38-40 of the
Cook County Code, other Cook County Ordinances imposing duties upon the Cook County Department of Public
Health, and the regulations of the Cook County Department of Public Health promulgated thereunder; the Department
of Public Health Act, 20 ILCS 2305/1 et seq.; the Civil Administrative Code of Illinois, 20 ILCS 2310/2310-1 et seq.;
and as further detailed in regulations promulgated by the Illinois Department of Public Health under the Certified
Local Health Department
Code, 77 Ill. Adm. Code 600.110 et seq.; provided, however, that the County Board shall continue to
serve as the Board of Health of Cook County; and
(r) To be the governing body of

the licensed hospitals

or other licensed entities within the

CCHHS.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.

A motion
was made by Commissioner Silvestri, seconded
by
recommend for approval 18-1126. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

Commissioner

Suffredin, Fritchey, Boykin, Daley, Deer, Gainer, Goslin, Moody, Moore,
Morrison, Schneider, Silvestri and Tobolski (13)

Absent:

Arroyo, Butler, García and Sims (4)
16-6437

Sponsored by: LARRY SUFFREDIN, Cook County Board Of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
COOK COUNTY BOARD OF REVIEW OPERATION AND ADMINISTRATIVE FUND
Page 12 of 14

Daley,

to

 Legislation and Intergovernmental
Relations Committee

Committee Minutes

September 12, 2018

BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 34 Finance, Sec. 41 of the Cook
County Code is hereby amended as Follows:

Sec. 34-41. - Cook County Board of Review Operation and Administrative Fund.
Beginning on or before January 1, 2017, the Board of Review of Cook County shall create a Cook County Board
of Review Operation and Administrative Fund, which shall be subject to appropriation by the Board, to be used to
offset the costs incurred by the Board of Review in performing the additional duties required to fairly and impartially
review the assessments of all property within Cook County. The Treasurer shall allocate any savings incurred from
the defense of property tax appeals by the Board of Review to the Illinois State Property Tax Appeals Board to the
fund as determined in conjunction with the Commissioners of the Board of Review. The Commissioners of the Board
of Review shall be the custodian, ex officio, of this fund and shall use the fund to perform the duties required by the
office. Expenditures shall be made from the fund by the Commissioners of the Board of Review for expenses related
to the fair and impartial review the assessments of all property within Cook County.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.

A motion was made by Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, to recommend for deferral
16-6437. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

Suffredin, Fritchey, Boykin, Daley, Deer, Gainer, Goslin, Moody, Moore,
Morrison, Schneider, Silvestri and Tobolski (13)

Absent:

Arroyo, Butler, García and Sims (4)
ADJOURNMENT

A motion was made by Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Deer, that this was adjourn the
meeting.. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

Suffredin, Fritchey, Boykin, Daley, Deer, Gainer, Goslin, Moody, Moore,
Morrison, Schneider, Silvestri and Tobolski (13)

Absent:

Arroyo, Butler, García and Sims (4)

Page 13 of 14

 Legislation and Intergovernmental
Relations Committee

Committee Minutes

September 12, 2018

Respectfully submitted,

Chairman

Secretary

A video recording of this meeting is available at https://cook-county.legistar.com.

Page 14 of 14

 