Forest Preserve District of Cook County
Board of Commissioners
Minutes of the Environmental and Sustainability Committee
Tuesday, September 11, 2018

10:45 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room,
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

ATTENDANCE
Present:

Morrison, Boykin, Gainer, Moody, Schneider and Silvestri (6)
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Chairman Deer asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public speakers,
in accordance with Cook County Code, Sec. 2-107(dd)
1. George Blakemore
2. Dr. Stuart Wagenius
3. Laura Oakleaf
4. Andrea Densham
5. Jamie Meyers
6. Samantha Bingham
7. John Walton
8. Coleen Smith

 Environmental & Sustainability
Committee

Committee Report

September 11, 2018

18-0313
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE (President), Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of
Commissioners
PROPOSED RESOLUTION

ADOPTION OF THE SUSTAINABILITY & CLIMATE RESILIENCY PLAN
WHEREAS, over one hundred years ago, visionary leaders had the foresight to create the Forest
Preserves of Cook County (hereafter the “Forest Preserves”) with the mission “to acquire, restore and
manage lands for the purpose of protecting and preserving public open space”; and
WHEREAS, Illinois has experienced a one-degree Fahrenheit increase in average annual temperature
since the beginning of the 20th Century; and
WHEREAS, recent climate projections published by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration (NOAA) and other scientific organizations, predict that if global emissions of greenhouse
gases continue to rise, historically unprecedented warming is anticipated in the Midwest region in the
next few decades; and
WHEREAS, along with a projected rise in annual temperatures, studies also project that the Midwest
region likely will experience increased events of extreme precipitation during winter and spring, and
intense summer droughts; and
WHEREAS, the Forest Preserves is one of the most important assets of Cook County, and ensuring
that its lands, along with its associated ecosystems and wildlife, thrive in the coming century is critical to
the success of our entire region; and
WHEREAS, the Forest Preserves’ mission drives it to consider the impacts of a changing climate on
its own lands, on the communities of which the Forest Preserves is a part, and the planet; and
WHEREAS, the Sustainability & Climate Resiliency Plan was developed to harness the various
strengths within the Forest Preserves to address the pressing environmental issues of our time, such as
climate change, pollution, invasive species, and habitat loss and fragmentation, all of which are
threatening the health of our natural spaces; and
WHEREAS, the Sustainability & Climate Resiliency Plan was created by the University of Illinois
Prairie Research Institute at the Illinois Sustainable Technology Center, along with the support and
collaboration of key stakeholders, content experts, climate experts, and Forest Preserves staff; and
Page 2 of 4

 Environmental & Sustainability
Committee

Committee Report

September 11, 2018

WHEREAS, the Forest Preserves believes that integrating sustainable practices across all operations,
going above and beyond direct environmental stewardship, is fundamental to fulfilling our mission and
directly advances the work described in the Forest Preserves’ Next Century Conservation Plan; and
WHEREAS, the Forest Preserves is dedicated to implementing responsible practices to mitigate
environmental stressors; and
WHEREAS, the Forest Preserves commits to ensuring that our native landscapes, home to a
remarkable diversity of plant and animal life, continue to thrive for generations to come; and
WHEREAS, the Sustainability & Climate Resiliency Plan calls for the Forest Preserves to reduce its
greenhouse gas emissions by 80% by the year 2050; and
WHEREAS, the Sustainability & Climate Resiliency Plan also calls for the Forest Preserves to
implement a roadmap that will allow the Forest Preserves to be resilient in a changing climate; and
WHEREAS, in 32 years, with the successful implementation of the Sustainability & Climate Resiliency
Plan, the Forest Preserves aims to have thousands of acres of healthy savannas, woodlands, wetlands,
and prairies filled with thriving native plants and animals; and
WHEREAS, visionary and innovative leadership will successfully manage one of the world’s largest
metropolitan nature preserves in a sustainable and environmentally conscious manner.
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the President and the Forest Preserve Board of
Commissioners do hereby adopt the Sustainability & Climate Resiliency Plan.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the President and Forest Preserve Board of Commissioners
extend their appreciation to the University of Illinois Prairie Research Institute at the Illinois Sustainable
Technology Center for their contributions to the plan.

A motion was made by Vice Chair Morrison, seconded by Commissioner Boykin, to approve
18-0313. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

Morrison, Boykin, Gainer, Moody, Schneider and Silvestri (6)

Page 3 of 4

 Environmental Sustainability
Committee Committee September I I, 2018

ADJOURNMENT

A motion was made by Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Schneider,
to adjourn the meeting. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Morrison, Boykin, Gainer, Moody, Schneider and Silvestri (6)

Respectfully submitted,

 

 

?341,143 . . ?04 {92w 75. 

Chairman Secretary

A video recording of this meeting is available at . cuistar.com.

 

Page 4 of 4

