  
  
42  W.  Madison  Street  •  Chicago,  Illinois  60602  
Telephone:  773/553-­1600    

   
December   1,   2017   
Staff   and   Local   School   Council   
   
Emil   G.   Hirsch   Metropolitan   High   School   
7740   S.   Ingleside   Avenue   
   
Re:   
Proposed   Co-­‐‑location   of   Art   In   Motion   Charter   School   and   Emil   G.   Hirsch   Metropolitan   High   
School      
   
Dear   Staff   and   Local   School   Council   Members:      
Chicago   Public   Schools   (CPS)   is   committed   to   providing   every   child   from   every   community   with   a   
high   quality   education   that   prepares   them   for   success   in   college   and   in   life.   CPS   students   continue   to   
make    record-­‐‑breaking    academic    progress    in    every    part    of    the    city.    Our    vision    is    that    all    CPS    schools   
can   build   on   this   progress   by   offering   high   quality,   rigorous   instruction   from   talented   educators   that   
help   put   Chicago   students   on   a   path   to   lasting   success.   
   
Art   In   Motion   Charter   School   would   be   a   new   charter   school   and   is   currently   proposed   to   open   in   the   
fall    of    2018    in    the    Greater    Grand    Crossing    Community.    Pending    the    Chicago    Board    of    Education’s   
(“Board”)   action   on   the   charter   school   proposal   at   its   December   6,   2017   Board   Meeting,   the   school   
will   open   serving   200   students   in   grades   7   and   8   and   will   grow   to   serve   one   grade   per   year   until   it   
reaches   grades   7   through   12.         
To    provide    Art    In    Motion    Charter    School    with    a    location    to    establish    and    grow    their    learning   
environment   for   students   of   the   Greater   Grand   Crossing   community,   I   am   proposing   the   co-­‐‑location   
of    Art    In    Motion    Charter    School    with    Emil    G.    Hirsch    Metropolitan    High    School,    located    at    7740    S.   
Ingleside   Avenue.   The   proposed   co-­‐‑location   of   Art   In   Motion   Charter   School   with   Hirsch   High   School   
is   contingent   upon   the   Board’s   approval   of   the   charter   school   proposal   on   December   6,   2017.   
   
This    proposal    is    consistent    with    the    Chief    Executive    Officer’s    Guidelines    for    School    Actions   
(Guidelines)   for   co-­‐‑locations   because   it   is   a   proposal   formally   requested   by   community   members   of   
Art   In   Motion   Charter   School.   Specifically,   we   have   heard   the   request   for   this   proposal   from   members   
of    the    Hirsch    and    Greater    Grand    Crossing    community    including    parents,    homeowners,    and   
community    representatives    through    a    letter    dated    November    22,    2017.    The    resulting    space   
utilization    data    after    the    co-­‐‑location    will    not    exceed    the    facility’s    enrollment    efficiency    range,    as   
defined   by   the   CPS’   Space   Utilization   Standards.   
   
If   this   proposal   is   approved   by   the   Board   of   Education   of   the   City   of   Chicago   (Board),   CPS   will   co-­‐‑
locate   Art   In   Motion   Charter   School   with   Emil   G.   Hirsch   Metropolitan   High   School.      
   
If   you   would   like   more   details   about   the   proposed   co-­‐‑location,   please   refer   to   the   DRAFT   Transition   
Plan   that   is   included   with   this   letter.      
   

   

   

   
  
42  W.  Madison  Street  •  Chicago,  Illinois  60602  
Telephone:  773/553-­1600    

   
As    a    next    step,    CPS    will    hold    two    community    meetings    and    one    public    hearing    to    hear    further   
feedback    on    the    CPS’    proposal    (meeting    information    is    below).    Following    these    meetings    and   
hearings,   the   Board   of   Education   may   vote   on   this   proposal   as   early   as   February   of   2018.   
   
   
Public   Comment   on   this   Proposal   
   
I   invite   you   to   share   your   feedback   on   this   proposal   during   the   following   two   community   meetings   
and   one   public   hearing   noted   below:   
   
   
            Community   Meeting   1   
                                     Community   Meeting   2   
                  Public   Hearing   
   
January   9th,   2018                      
6   to   8   p.m.      
Emil   G   Hirsch   Metropolitan   High   
School   
7740   S   Ingleside   Avenue   
   

   
January   16th,   2018                                     
6   to   8   p.m.      
Emil   G   Hirsch   Metropolitan   High   
School   
7740   S   Ingleside   Avenue   
   

   
January   31st,   2018   
5:30   to   8   p.m.      
CPS   Loop   Office   
42   West   Madison   Street   
   

If   you   wish   to   comment   at   the   community   meetings   or   hearing,   you   must   sign   up   to   speak   on   the   
day   of,   at   the   designated   location,   beginning   one   hour   before   the   designated   start   time   and   ending   
30   minutes   after   the   start   of   the   meeting   or   hearing.   You   will   have   two   minutes   to   speak,   unless   the   
hearing   officer   or   meeting   organizer   provides   and   extension.   The   hearing   will   conclude   at   the   stated   
end   time   or   following   the   comments   of   the   last   person   who   has   signed   up   to   speak,   whichever   
occurs   first.   
   
Further   Questions   and   Concerns:   
All   of   this   information   can   be   found   at   cps.edu/Transitions.   If   you   have   any   questions   or   concerns   
regarding   this   proposal   and   the   draft   transition   plan,   please   call   Chicago   Public   Schools   at   (773)   
553-­‐‑1530   or   email   transitions@cps.edu.   
   
Sincerely,   
   
   
Forrest   Claypool   
Chief   Executive   Officer      
Chicago   Public   Schools      

   

   

   
   

   

 