 

. CODE EDC 18-07-02-301
Economrc Development Corporation of the City of Detroit

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF JUNE 26. 2018 MEETING

RESOLVED, that the minutes of the Regular meeting of June 26, 2018 are hereby
approved and all actions taken by the Directors present at such meeting, as set forth in
such minutes, are hereby in all respects ratified and approved as actions of the Economic
Development Corporation.

July 24, 2018

500 Griswold,3uite 2200 - Detroit, Michigan 48226 - (313) 963-2940

ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
BOARD OF DIRECTORS REGULAR MEETING
TUESDAY, JUNE 26, 2018 -- 8:30 AM.

BOARD MEMBERS PRESENT: Marsha Bruhn

BOARD MEMBERS ABSENT:

SPECIAL DIRECTORS
PRESENT:

SPECIAL DIRECTORS
ABSENT:

OTHERS PRESENT:

Linda Forte

Chris Jackson
Jonathan Queries
Matthew Roling

Kimberly Ciayson
Maurice Cox (Ex-Officio)
John Naglick (Ex-Officio)
Thomas Stailworth

Two Vacancies

None

Sharon Maiinowski (Tiger Stadium Site Redevelopment)
Lisa Randon (Tiger Stadium Site Redeveiopment)

Anthony Askew 
Kyta Carlsen 
Gay Hilger 
Matinda Jensen 
Paul Kako 
Jennifer Kanaios 
Glen Long 

Chris McClain (Citizen)
Rebecca Navin 
Sarah Pavetko 
Mariangeia Pied! 
Mike Rafferty 
Tim Richey (Detroit PAL)

Scott Seabolt (Detroit PAL)



Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit

MINUTES OF THE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
BOARD OF DIRECTORS REGULAR MEETING

TUESDAY, JUNE 26, 2018

THE CORNER BALLPARK

1680 MICHIGAN AVENUE

8:30 A.M.

CALL TO ORDER

Noting that a quorum was present, Chair Forte called the Regular meeting ofthe Economic
Development Corporation Board of Directors to order at 8:35 am.

GENERAL
Approval of Minutes

Ms. Forte asked if there were any additions, deletions or corrections to the minutes of the
June 12, 2018 Regular Board meeting. Hearing none, the Board took the following action:

On a motion by Ms. Bruhn, seconded by Mr. Quarles, Resolution Code EDC 18-
06?02-300 was unanimously approved.

Acceptance of Treasurer?s Report

Mr. Long reviewed the Treasurer's Report of Receipts and Disbursements for the month
of May 2018 and responded to questions. Subsequent to the discussion, the Board took
the following action:

On a motion by Mr. Roling, seconded by Mr. Jackson, Resolution Code EDC 18?
06-03-22? was unanimously approved.

The Board requested a copy of the current loan portfolio report and Ms. Forte suggested
that, as has been done in the past, the Finance Committee periodically review the full
report.

PROJECTS

Amendment to the Amended and Restated Development Agreement with Detroit
Police Athletic League

Ms. Pavelko reported that in June, 2016, the Economic Development Corporation of the
City of Detroit executed the Amended and Restated Development Agreement (as

amended, the ?Agreement?) with DETROIT POLICE ATHLETIC LEAGUE, LLC (the
?Developer?) relating to the construction of an athletic field (the ?Playing Field") and

June 26, 2018

500 Griswold,Suite 2200 - Detroit,Michigon 4822c - (313) 963-2940

permanent headquarters to provide unique programming to Detroit PAL participants and
families (the ?Project").

In March 2018, the Developer meet with Staff to tour the facility, discuss the Project?s
success and discuss progress on completing the development requirements in the
Agreement. With the completion of the project, the Developer has been able to increase
the level of sponsorships and funding awards. However, there are three outstanding items
that remain as of the June 30, 2018 required completion date: 1) completion of the locker
rooms; 2) 2,500 seats for spectators; and 3) operating reserve of $1 million dollars.

Currently, the Developer has raised the funds to complete the locker rooms and will begin
construction in Fall of 2018. The project currently has seating capacity for 1,300
spectators. The Developer is evaluating the potential to accommodate additional seating
through more bleachers or a covered picnic area based on current use of the facility from
visitors as well as identifying resources for these improvements. Finally, the Developer
has $250,000 in cash reserves and an executed 5-year lease with the Stephan Ross
initiative in Sports for Equality (RISE) to operate its regional office. This lease represents
$250,000 of committed revenue to support the ongoing operations of the Project. The
Developer is continuing to raise funds for the cash reserve and utilize the 300-person
event space to generate additional revenue for the operating reserve.

The Developer is asking for a one-year extension to complete the locker rooms and install
the remaining 1,000 seats. In addition, the Developer is requesting a reduction of two
hundred fifty thousand dollars ($250,000) to the total cash reserve requirement based on
the existing lease with RISE and a one-year extension to raise the remaining Operating
Reserve requirement.

Staff has met with the Developer, toured the Project and reviewed the Project?s current
financial performance. Based on this review, Staff proposed approving the requested
amendment to the Agreement.

Mr. Jackson commended everyone on this great facility. He has had the pleasure to be
here on several occasions. His son attends Cass Tech and PAL made the commitment
for inner city kids to utilize the ballpark as their home field. Mr. Jackson had a question
regarding the 2,300 seats. He felt that there would be few occasions where that number
of seats would be needed and wondered if those resources could be reallocated to some
other use.

Mr. Tim Richey, CEO of the Detroit Police Athletic League, introduced himself. Mr. Richey
thanked the Board for agreeing to meet at the facility. Mr. Richey stated that they agree.
The 2,300?seat capacity is what the architect designed and they also feel they don?t need
that seat capacity. The vast majority of the time they will be looking at attendance figures
of 1, 000 to 1,300 people for some college games. They would love to consider a reduction
in the seat capacity as well.

Ms. Navin advised that what was discussed with PAL was for them to run it for this first
season and then come back with a proposal and we will run it through the proper channels
and the City?s Planning Department and then bring back the recommended change to this
Board.

June 26, 2018

A discussion took place regarding the $1 million reserve. The initial reason for the reserve
was to assure proper maintenance of the main asset-?the playing field. Because the
Ballpark is now self-sustaining with the lease to RISE and the ongoing event rentals, $1
million might be considered a bit excessive.

Mr. Roling stated that he can understand the 12?month extension but it is hard to make a
decision on the reduction in reserves based on information provided.

Ms. Pavelko informed that they did look at their budget and projected expenses for
operation of the building before their banquet phase, which was estimated to be $20,000
per month. Now that the banquet facility is operational, they are exceeding their projected
revenue.

Ms. Forte said that one option here, given the timetable, would be to shorten the extension.

Mr. Roling commented that it should give the Board pause that the reason they are asking
for the extension is that they are having a tough time fundraising the money. The whole
reason for the reserve in the first place was to insure security.

Ms. Bruhn advised that she is okay with the one-year extension and thinks it is fantastic
what PAL has done. Having been involved with a nonprofit herself, she knows how tough
it is and what it is like always being worried about that next year. Ms. Bruhn stated that
she is willing to go for it in good faith and give them a year if they need it and supports the
resolution as written.

Subsequent to the discussion, the Board took the following action:

On a motion by Ms. Bruhn, seconded by Mr. Queries, Code EDC 1806?76-27
was unanimously approved.

Motor City Re?Store Program - Citv Contract for Construction Awards

Ms. Pledl advised that the Economic Development Corporation (EDC) of the City of Detroit
currently administers the Motor City Re?Store program, which is a business facade
improvement program designed to improve the physical condition of commercial corridors
(the ?Program?). Existing businesses may participate in a quarterly business competition.

The goal of the Program is to improve the physical condition of commercial corridors as a
public benefit to everyone with the following:

Technical Assistance Awards Pre construction/Design Assistance
0 Businesses receive architecture and design services as well as project
management services pertaining to exterior improvements to their building.
0 Funded through Community Development Block Grant Funds?).

Cash Awards Construction Assistance (the ?Construction Awards")

. Businesses will receive a 50% matching grant for cost of the construction for
exterior improvements to their building.

June 26, 2018

. Businesses that apply together with 3 neighboring businesses on their block wiil
be eligible for a 75% matching grant.

. No grant shall exceed $25,000 per business.

0 Funded through Funds

To date, the Construction Awards have been funded through philanthropic contributions
to the Program. However, the City's Housing and Revitalization Department has also
identified $500,000 in general support funds (the ?Designed General Funds?) that it seeks
to allocate to support the Construction Awards.

The EDC staff requests authorization from the Board to approve the execution of a
contract with the City in order to accept and utilize the Designated General Funds for
Construction Awards for the Program.

A resolution was included for the Board?s consideration.

Subsequent to a discussion, the Board took the foliowing action:

On a motion by Mr. Jackson, seconded by Ms. Bruhn, Resolution Code EDC 18-
06-91-67 was unanimously approved.

ADMINISTRATION
OTHER MATTERS
PUBLIC COMMENT
ADJOURNMENT

With there being no further business to come before the Board, Ms. Forte adjourned the
meeting at 9:03 am.

June 26, 2018

. . CODE EDC 18-06-02-300
Economsc Development Corporation of the City of Detroit

 

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF JUNE 12, 2018 MEETING

RESOLVED, that the minutes of the Regular meeting of June 12, 2018 are hereby
approved and all actions taken by the Directors present at such meeting, as set forth in
such minutes, are hereby in all respects ratified and approved as actions of the Economic
Development Corporation.

June 26, 2018

500 Griswold,8uite 2200 Detroit,Mlchigon 48226 - (313) 963?2940

 

 

 CODE EDC 18-06~03~227
Economic Devetopment Corporation of the City of Detroit

 

ACCEPTANCE OF REPORT FOR MAY 2018

RESOLVED, that the Treasurer?s Report of Receipts and Disbursements for the
period ending May 31, 2018, as presented at this meeting, is hereby in all respects
accepted as action of the Economic Development Corporation.

June 26, 2018

500 Griswold,Sui?re 2200 - Defroh?,Michigcm 48226 (313) 963?2940

 

 cope EDC renew-27
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit

 

AMENDMENT TO THE AMENDED AND RESTATED DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
WITH DETROIT POLICE ATHLETIC LEAGUE

WHEREAS, in June, 2016, the Economic Development Corporation of the City of
Detroit (Egg) consummated the closing contemplated by the Amended and Restated
Development Agreement (as amended, the ?Agreement?) with DETROIT POLICE
ATHLETIC LEAGUE, LLC (the ?Developer") relating to the construction of an athletic ?eld
and permanent headquarters on a portion of the former Tigers Stadium site to provide
unique programming to Detroit PAL participants and families (the ?Project?), with a Project
completion requirement of June 30, 2018; and

WHEREAS, the Project has been timely completed, with the exception of the
following: 1) completion of the locker rooms; 2) 2,500 seats for spectators; and 3)
operating reserve of $1 million dollars; and

WHEREAS, the Developer has funds in hand to complete the locker rooms, but
has requested a one-year time extension; and

WHEREAS, the Project currently has seating for 1,300 spectators and the
Developer has requested a one?year extension to complete and balance of the required
seating; and

WHEREAS, the Developer has $250,000 in cash reserves and an executed 5?year
lease with the Ross initiative in Sports for Equality representing $250,000 of
committed revenue, and has requested a $250,000 reduction in the $1,000,000 reserve
requirement and a one-year extension to raise the reserve balance; and

WHEREAS, Staff has meet with the Developer, toured the Project and reviewed
the Project?s current financiai performance and recommends the Board?s approval of the
above requested amendments; and

WHEREAS, the EDC Board of Directors has reviewed the requested amendments
determined it is consistent with the goal of redeveloping the Tiger Stadium site and
are otherwise appropriate and consistent with the statutory purposes.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT, RESOLVED, that the following amendments to the
Agreement are hereby approved (collectively, the ?Proposed Amendments?):

. One-year time extension to June 30, 2019 for the completion of the locker
rooms; and

. One?year time extension to June 30, 2019 for completion of required 2,500-
person seating capacity; and

. Reduction of required operations reserve from $1,000,000 to $750,000;
and

500 Griswold,8uite 2200 - Detroit,Michigon 48226 - (3TB) 963?2940

 

 

 One?year time extension to June 30, 2019 for satisfying the operating
reserve requirement.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that any two Officers, or any one of the Of?cers
and any one of the Authorized Agents or any two of the Authorized Agents, shall
hereafter have the authority to negotiate and execute an amendment to the Agreement to
incorporate the Proposed Amendments, together with such other terms and conditions
that are determined by such Authorized Agents and/or Officers to be customary or
appropriate and not inconsistent with this resotution, and to negotiate and execute all other
documents, contracts, or papers, and take all actions, necessary or appropriate to
implement the provisions and intent of this resolution on behalf of the EDC.

BE IT FINALLY RESOLVED, that all of the acts and transactions of any officer or
authorized agent of the EDC, in the name and on behalf of the EDC, relating to matters
contemplated by the foregoing resolutions, which acts would have been approved by the
foregoing resolutions except that such acts were taken prior to execution of these
resolutions, are hereby in all respects confirmed, approved and ratified.

June 26, 2018

 

 

. CODE EDC 18-06-0167
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit

 

SMALL BUSINESS MOTOR CITY PROGRAM

WHEREAS, The Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit
has developed a commercial corridor facade improvement program known as
Motor City Re?Store (the ?Program?) at the request of the City of Detroit (the "City?)
Mayor's Office; and

WHEREAS, to date, the Program?s construction awards have been funded through
philanthropic contributions to the Program; and

WHEREAS, the City?s Housing and Revitalization Department has also identified
$500,000 in general support funds (the ?Designed General Funds?) that it seeks to allocate
to support the Program?s construction awards; and.

WHEREAS, the EDC Board has determined that it is in the best interests of the
Program to enter into a contract with the City in order to accept and utilize the Designated
General Funds for to support the Program?s construction awards; and

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the EDC Board of Directors hereby
approves the execution of a contract with the City in order to accept and utilize the
Designated General Funds for to support the Program's construction awards.

BE FURTHER RESOLVED, that any two Officers, or any one of the Officers
and any one of the Authorized Agents or any two of the Authorized Agents shall
hereafter have the authority to negotiate and execute all documents, contracts, or other
papers and to take such actions as are necessary to implement the provisions and intent
of this resolution.

BE IT FINALLY RESOLVED, that all of the acts and transactions of any Officer or
Authorized Agent of the EDC, in the name and on behalf of the EDC, relating to matters
contemplated by the foregoing resolutions, which acts would have been approved by the
foregoing resolutions except that such acts were taken prior to execution of these
resolutions, are hereby in all respects confirmed, approved and ratified.

June 26, 2018

500 Griswold,Suite 2200 - DetroitMichigcn 48226 - (313) 963?2940

 

 

