Housing Authority of the City of Pittsburgh
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
MEETING MINUTES
Thursday, January 25, 2018
200 Ross Street
13th Floor Wherrett Room
Pittsburgh, PA 15219
The Housing Authority of the City of Pittsburgh (HACP) held a regular Board meeting on
Thursday, January 25, 2018, at 200 Ross Street; 13th Floor, Wherrett Room, Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania 15219 at 10:30 a.m.
Janet Evans, Vice Chairperson, called the meeting to order. The Commissioners in attendance
were: Mr. Richard Butler, Mr. Peter Kaplan, Ms. Janet Evans and Mr. Leroy Morgan. Ms.
Valerie McDonald-Roberts, Ms. Enid Miller and Rev. Ricky Burgess were not in attendance.
Next, the Chair noted that the Board members previously received a copy of the December 14,
2017, Board Meeting Minutes and asked for a motion to approve the minutes. Peter Kaplan
made a motion to approve the minutes and Leroy Morgan seconded the motion.
A vote being had thereon, the “Ayes and “Nays” were as follows:
“AYES”:

Peter Kaplan, Richard Butler, Janet Evans and Leroy Morgan.

“NAYS”:

None

The Vice-Chair declared the motion carried and the minutes approved.
The Chair stated that the Board had previously received the Activity Report for December 2017.
Mr. Binion introduced Michelle Sandidge. Mrs. Sandidge spoke about the accomplishments of
HACP in 2017 and the work ahead of us in 2018.
Janet Evans asked for a motion to approve the Activity Report. Peter Kaplan made a motion
and Leroy Morgan seconded the motion to approve the Activity Reports.
A vote being had thereon, the “Ayes and “Nays” were as follows:
“AYES”:

Peter Kaplan, Richard Butler, Janet Evans and Leroy Morgan.

“NAYS”:

None

The Vice-Chair declared the motion carried and the Activity Report approved.
The Vice-Chair next asked if there were any comments or questions from Tenant Council
Presidents, Section 8 Representatives or other public comments.
Representatives from Allegheny Dwellings and Fineview communities (Joanna Deming and Zeba
Ahmed) addressed the Board regarding resident thanked the HACP staff for attending their meeting.
HACP JANUARY 2018 MEETING MINUTES

1

 Ms. Evans introduced the following resolutions:

RESOLUTION No. 1 of 2018
A Resolution - Authorizing the Commitment of 74 PBV Units and Allocation of Funds for
the City’s Edge PBV and Gap Financing Project
WHEREAS, one of the core objectives of the Housing Authority of the City of Pittsburgh
(HACP) is to “expand affordable housing options” within the City of Pittsburgh; and
WHEREAS, by order of Resolution No. 52 of 2017, the Board of Commissioners authorized the
selection of multiple Owners/Developers as a part of HACP’s new initiative, the Project-Based
Voucher (PBV) and Gap Financing program, aimed to preserve and increase affordable housing
units throughout the City of Pittsburgh; and
WHEREAS, HACP selected Mid-Point Group of Companies (Mid-Point) to participate in the
PBV and Gap Financing program specifically for the development of the City’s Edge project;
and
WHEREAS, City’s Edge, located in the Uptown/Lower Hill Neighborhood of Pittsburgh will
entail the new construction of a nine (9) story, mixed-use building with one hundred six (106)
residential units, commercial space, business incubation space and a parking garage; and
WHEREAS, Mid-Point applied for and obtained four percent (4%) Low-Income Housing Tax
Credit (LIHTC) allocations administered by the Pennsylvania Housing Finance Agency (PHFA)
for the seventy-four (74) affordable units, which will be further supported by PBVs for residents
at or below twenty percent (20%) and fifty percent (50%) of the Area Median Income (AMI);
and
WHEREAS, HACP approved Mid-Point for $3,500,000.00 in Gap Financing funds; and
WHEREAS, in furtherance of the HACP mission, HACP also selected its non-profit
instrumentality, Allies & Ross Management and Development Corporation (ARMDC), to assist
HACP to achieve its objectives; and
WHEREAS, HACP will grant ARMDC the $3,500,000 from Moving to Work (MTW) and/or
Program Income, which ARMDC will then loan to Mid-Point as a permanent/construction loan
at the Applicable Federal Rate; and
WHEREAS, Mid-Point will utilize the loan, in accordance with the regulations established by
the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), HACP, ARMDC, and all
Project-related documents for the construction/permanent financing of the residential component
of City’s Edge; and
WHEREAS, the transactions associated with the construction of these affordable housing units
are subject to the approval of HUD.
HACP JANUARY 2018 MEETING MINUTES

2

 NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Commissioners of the Housing
Authority of the City of Pittsburgh that:
Section 1. The Executive Director or his Designee is hereby authorized to enter into a Grant
Agreement with ARMDC providing an amount not to exceed $3,500,000.00, which ARMDC
will utilize to invest in the construction of the residential component of City’s Edge in the
Uptown/Lower Hill neighborhood of the City of Pittsburgh; and
Section 2. The Executive Director or his Designee shall execute a Grant Agreement with
ARMDC that enables ARMDC to make a permanent loan to Mid-Point to utilize for
development activities related to the construction of the 74 affordable housing units, subject to
HUD’s approval; and
Section 3. The Executive Director or his Designee is hereby authorized and directed, in the name
of and on behalf of HACP, to (i) negotiate, execute and deliver all such agreements, documents,
and instruments and take all such other actions as he shall determine to be necessary or desirable
in order to effect the loans to carry out the City’s Edge development of the affordable housing
units and (ii) complete any and all additional actions that are legally permissible and necessary or
advisable to effect the loans to Mid-Point to carry out the development activities related to the 74
affordable housing units at City’s Edge, contemplated herein.
Janet Evans asked for a motion to approve the resolution. Peter Kaplan made a motion to
approve and Leroy Morgan seconded the motion. After a brief discussion:
A vote being had thereon, the “Ayes and “Nays” were as follows:
“AYES”:

Peter Kaplan, Richard Butler, Janet Evans and Leroy Morgan.

“NAYS”:

None

The Vice-Chair declared the motion carried and the resolution approved.

RESOLUTION No. 2 of 2018
A Resolution - Authorizing the RAD Conversion of New Pennley Place Phase I and
authorization of the Executive Director to Execute the RAD Documents
WHEREAS, the Housing Authority of the City of Pittsburgh (HACP) identified and submitted
Rental Assistance Demonstration (RAD) applications for seven hundred sixty-seven (767) public
housing units, of which three (3) were developments owned by HACP and one (1) was a mixed
finance development; and
WHEREAS, HACP identified an additional thirty-eight (38) units of public housing at New
Pennley Place mixed-finance development (Project) as suitable for conversion under the RAD
program due to the size and condition of the Project; and
WHEREAS, HACP through resolution No. 32 of 2015, authorized the submission of an
application with Negley Corner LP Phase I (Owner) to the United States Department of Housing
and Urban Development (HUD) RAD program; and
HACP JANUARY 2018 MEETING MINUTES
3

Comment [1]: Reviewed by Alexis, waiting
CDO approval

 WHEREAS, the application received approval in April 2016 with the awarding of HUD’s
Commitment to Enter into a Housing Assistance Payment (CHAP) letter; and
WHEREAS, as of the date hereof, HACP has entered into those certain RAD Conversion
Commitments with HUD detailing the RAD conversion process (as may be amended, the “RAD
Conversion Commitments”) for the Project; and
WHEREAS, conversion of the public housing units at the Project under RAD requires that
HACP enter into certain additional documents, certificates, instruments and/or agreements with
or in favor of HUD and/or the Owner evidencing the RAD conversion process, including,
without limitation, certain amendments and supplements to the RAD Conversion Commitments,
as appropriate, a RAD Omnibus Amendment to Loan Documents, an Agreement to Subordinate
to Rental Assistance Demonstration Use Agreement, a Rider to Use Agreement Relating to
Foreclosure, a Rental Assistance Demonstration Use Agreement, a Termination of MixedFinance Amendment to Annual Contributions Contract, and a Termination of Regulatory and
Operating Agreement (collectively, with the RAD Conversion Commitments and such other
documents, certificates, instruments and agreements entered into and/or delivered in connection
with the conversion of the Properties under RAD, the “RAD Documents”; and
WHEREAS, HACP intends to take all other actions necessary, advisable or appropriate for the
conversion of the Project under RAD.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Commissioners of the Housing
Authority of the City of Pittsburgh:
Section 1. The Board of Commissioners of HACP hereby approves in all respects the
revitalization of the Projects through conversion under RAD and the transactions contemplated
thereby; and
Section 2. The Board of Commissioners of HACP hereby confirms, ratifies and approves in all
respects the execution and delivery of the RAD Conversion Commitments by the Executive
Director and the consummation of the transactions contemplated thereby; and
Section 3. The Executive Director, or his Designee, is authorized and directed to execute and
deliver the RAD Documents, and to execute, acknowledge, deliver, file and/or record such other
documents and instruments and to take such other actions as he deems necessary and/or desirable
in order to consummate the transactions described in the RAD Documents, and to cause HACP
to perform its obligations under such RAD Documents; and
Section 4. The Executive Director, or his Designee, is hereby authorized to submit to HUD for
review and approval the evidentiaries, exhibits, instruments, documents and other information as
HUD may require or as may be appropriate in connection with the conversion of the Projects
under RAD, including, without limitation, evidentiaries and exhibits required by or associated
with the RAD Conversion Commitments, information requested in connection with the provision
of project-based rental assistance pursuant to the RAD conversion for the Projects, and
information requested in connection with the release of the Properties from the existing
Declarations of Trust; and
Section 5. The Executive Director, or his Designee, is hereby further authorized, empowered
and directed to take such other action and to enter into such documents, instruments and/or
HACP JANUARY 2018 MEETING MINUTES

4

 agreements, from time to time, in connection with the transactions contemplated by the
foregoing resolutions as the Executive Director, or his designee, deem necessary, advisable or
appropriate.
Janet Evans asked for a motion to approve the resolution. Peter Kaplan made a motion to
approve and Leroy Morgan seconded the motion.
After a brief discussion:
A vote being had thereon, the “Ayes and “Nays” were as follows:
“AYES”:

Peter Kaplan, Richard Butler,
Janet Evans and Leroy Morgan.

“NAYS”:

None

The Vice-Chair declared the motion carried and the resolution approved.
There were no further resolutions.
EXECUTIVE REPORT:

The Executive Report was previously provided to the board.

NEW BUSINESS: There was no new business.
AJOURNMENT: The Chair asked for a motion to adjourn the meeting. Leroy Morgan made a
motion to adjourn and Richard Butler seconded the motion.
A vote being had thereon, the “Ayes and “Nays” were as follows:
“AYES”:

Peter Kaplan, Janet Evans, Richard Butler and Leroy Morgan.

“NAYS”:

None

Ms. Evans declared the motion carried and the meeting adjourned.

_______________________________
Recording Secretary

HACP JANUARY 2018 MEETING MINUTES

5

 