MINUTES OF MEETING
WAYNE COUNTY ELECTION COMMISSION
MONDAY, JUNE 12, 2017 – 2:30 P.M.
COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL BUILDING - ROOM 700A
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

Call to Order:

The meeting was called to order at 2:39 p.m., Monday, June 12, 2017.

Members present: Honorable Freddie G. Burton, Jr., Chief Judge, Probate Court
Honorable Cathy M. Garrett, Secretary – Wayne County Clerk
Members absent: Honorable Eric Sabree, Member – Wayne County Treasurer (excused)
Also present:

Janet Anderson-Davis, Assistant Corporation Counsel
Jennifer Redmond, Assistant Director
Rendell Wooden

Agenda item:

Consideration of Agenda approval.
Board action on agenda item: Chair Burton requested a motion
to approve the agenda. Member Garrett, duly supported by Chair
Burton, moved to adopt the agenda as submitted. The motion was
adopted unanimously by a voice vote.

Agenda item:

Approval of Minutes of April 13, 2017
Board action on agenda item: Chair Burton requested a motion
to approve the minutes of the meeting held on April 13, 2017.
Member Garrett requested that the minutes of April 13, 2017 be
amended with a correction indicating that she recused herself twice
regarding the same community of people. Member Garrett, duly
supported by Chair Burton, moved to amend the minutes of the
meeting held on April 13, 2017 with a correction indicating that she
recused herself. The motion was adopted unanimously by a voice
vote.

Agenda item:

Acceptance of the August 8, 2017 Special Primary Candidate
list as presented by the Wayne County Clerk
Board action on agenda item: Chair Burton requested a motion
to approve the Candidate List as presented. Member Garrett, duly
supported by Chair Burton, moved to approve the August 8, 2017
Special Primary candidate list. The motion was adopted
unanimously by voice vote.

 Agenda item:

Approval of Ballot Printing for the August 8, 2017 Primary
Election
Board action on agenda item: Chair Burton requested a motion
to approve the Ballot Printing for the August 8, 2017 Primary
Election.
Jennifer Redmond, Assistant Election Director, stated for the record
that the candidates were mailed out proof ballots, and they were to
respond by the close of business today. Two proof ballots were
also sent to Huron School District and Romulus Community
Schools for review and sign off. The office had received an
approval from Huron and Romulus had a change they wanted to
add Roman numerals to be included on their proposal. The
changes were made.
Chair Burton requested a motion to approve the Ballot Printing for
the August 8, 2017 Primary Election. Member Garrett, duly
supported by Chair Burton, moved to approve the Ballot Printing for
the August 8, 2017 Primary Election. The motion was adopted
unanimously by a voice vote.

Agenda item:

Ballot Printing Contract
Board action on agenda item: Chair Burton requested that
Counsel Janet Anderson-Davis give a directive as to how to
proceed. Ms. Anderson-Davis indicated to the Commission that the
contract will expire in December 2017 and that the contract has
been extended twice since 2011. Ms. Anderson-Davis state the
commission could issue an RFP or enter into negotiations with the
current vendor.
Chair Burton suggested an RFP be issued to see if it can generate
bids. Chair Burton requested a motion to issue a Request for
Proposals. Chair Burton, duly supported by Member Garrett, moved
to issue an RFP for Ballot Printing. The motion adopted
unanimously by a voice vote.

Agenda item:

New Business. None

Agenda item:

Public Comment. None

Agenda item:

Adjournment. Chair Burton requested a motion to adjourn the
meeting. Member Garrett, duly supported by Chair Burton, moved
to adjourn the meeting. The motion was adopted unanimously by a
voice vote.
Meeting adjourned at 2:48 p.m.

 