Community Meeting Regarding the Proposal to Co-locate Hirsch High School and Art In
Motion Charter School
January 9, 2018
Hirsch High School, 7740 S. Ingleside
6:00 – 8:00 p.m.
CPS Staff in Attendance:
Karen Saffold, Mary Bradley, Chasda Martin, Laura Farr, Pat (Communications)
CPS Presentation:
Karen Saffold opened the meeting and provided the introduction to other CPS staff and
basic logistics of the meeting. Karen indicated that she and Mary were here on behalf of
Acting CEO Janice Jackson. She also indicated that this was an opportunity for Dr.
Jackson hear the community input on the proposal. Attendees were encouraged to sign
up to speak, and those that who did not wish to speak in this setting, but still had
questions to submit those questions from transitions@cps.edu. The presentation was
transitioned to Mary Bradley.
Mary Bradley provided an overview of the approved Art In Motion Charter School
proposal, community efforts to date and what potential benefits of co-location could be.
Mary transitioned the presentation over to Karen.
Karen reviewed the logistics of public participation, including allowing elected officials to
speak and then logistics for public participation.
She recognized that Mr. Michael Brunson and Larry Varn, Principal of Hirsch were
present at the meeting.
Michael Brunson: One of the elected CTU officials. Mr. Brunson acknowledged that he
spoke at the Board meeting on 12/6/17 and brought up a number of issues. He
indicated that this proposal may be viewed through the lens of celebrity, understanding
that there is a rapper and popular minister behind it. He also indicated that the money
should be followed because it all flows to the top. Mr. Brunson specifically mentioned
Distinctive Schools and called out their connection to two individuals connected with
SUPES. Specifically, he highlighted that as a charter school, the educators would not
make as much money until they were unionized and that all of the money would go to
the top, that is Distinctive Schools. He indicated that he raised these issues during the
12/6/17 Board Meeting related to Joseph Wise and David Sunstrom. Mr. Brunson

 continued to highlight his acknowledgement of scandals: 2009 (selective enrollment)
and 2015 (CPS CEO sent to prison). He informed attendees that they should be looking
at connections such as Joseph Wise’s recommendation that Barbara Byrd Bennet come
to work for CPS. He stated that he gave a lot of facts at the board meeting and that
only 2-3 hours later the Board adopted the proposal. Mr. Brunson indicated a few weeks
prior the CTU delivered a letter to the Mayor of Chicago and Inspector General of CPS
detailing the concerns of the individuals that are involved in Distinctive Schools. He
indicated that he believed no one was considering these factors and that he would
continue to pursue the matter because his family attends CPS. He asked CPS to slow
down and take a closer look at the organizations that want to take over these schools.
He’d like a closer look at Distinctive Schools and indicated that he filed an information
request with CPS, Inspector General and State of IL. He followed up to indicate that he
was actually demanding that CPS do deliberation on this matter before it goes any
further. He does not believe this organization should take over Hirsch High School.
Karen Saffold recognized elected official Mattie Hunter Illinois State Senator
Illinois State Senator Mattie Hunter: State Senator Hunter indicated that this was a
difficult meeting for her because she had not really spoken with the LSC but they did
connect with her to ensure that she attended the meeting. She indicated that there are
issues in her district related to school closures, as her district includes of the schools
where major changes are occurring. She stated no one from CPS contacted her to
discuss the changes. Many representatives of the community believe she was aware of
the changes, attended meetings and was a part of the decision making process, but she
indicated that was not true. She stated that CPS has not reached out to her or other
elected officials from the general assembly to inform them of the proposals. Her entire
district is in the city of Chicago and she supports and votes for resources being brought
to CPS, she believes teachers and students need resources. She stated the difficulty in
supporting CPS because they did not come to her office and discuss with her the
proposed changes. She acknowledged that this was not appreciated because she
works hard for her constituents. She also acknowledged a scheduled meeting with
Janice Jackson and Frank Clark in the coming week to address these issues. She
stated the need for a new school in Englewood and here, and she stated she is not
opposed to building a new school, but that it should be discussed with her. State
Senator Hunter introduced candidate for Lieutenant Governor Juliana Stratton. State
Senator Hunter expressed her desire with selective enrollment students and have those
resources available to this school. She reiterated that she has not yet spoken to anyone
on this proposal and that she is here to listen. She indicated that there would be more
meetings on the matter.
State Rep Juliana Stratton: Representative Stratton introduced herself and indicated
that she is a firm believer of restorative justice. She stated that she is present here
today to listen, understand and work in partnership, as she believes that she cannot
make informed decisions until hearing from those that have been impacted. She

 indicated that she will only be present for 30 minutes due to a similar meeting in
Bronzeville but that her office is open and available should there be questions or
concerns.
Principal Larry Varn: The principal introduced himself as the proud principal of Hirsh
High School. He recognized that for many the school is a home and that he takes pride
in being a part of it. He indicated that if Hirsch be a co-located school that there be
equality and that he was speaking to inform the community of what he thinks. He
indicated that he believes every child deserves a quality education and that Hirsch has
lacked that equality. Principal Varn indicated that in 2015 Hirsch was the lowest
performing HS in CPS. During his first year as principal the one year drop out rate cut in
half. Freshman On Track rate increased by 31%, college persistence increased by
11.4%, 2nd largest citywide. The principal recognized the difficulty of making these
results including that the My Voice My School survey went from the lowest to the
highest ratings. Hirsch moved from 1.2 from a 1.9 (1/10 a point away from making Level
2). The detailed that Hirsch is here and ready to be heard. They have increased from a
Level 3 to Level 2, although they are not where they want to be they are better than they
used to be and they need CPS support. He acknowledged Art In Motion, Distinctive, the
Lynn Group and New Life all doing their part and asked what CPS will do to provide
better opportunities for the Hirsch students. He stated that there have been many
instances where CPS co-locations have not been successful and that for this to be
successful, things need to be done differently to get different results to not end up like
other co-locations such as: Butler/Corliss, Baker/Bowen and TEAM/UP Englewood. He
stated that Hirsch is doing what it can with what we have and that they are asking for
more to do more. He stated his plea to CPS is that you restore, invest and rebrand and
ask that this be the opportunity to make Hirsch great again. The Principal highlighted
the proposed First Responders Academy, where the school can prepare students to be
police, fire fighters, first responders and 911 operators, stating that this program will
allow its children to be protectors of its community. He asked if there is going to be two
schools that the two schools have an opportunity to thrive.
Karen Saffold proceeded to call speakers from the sign-in sheets.
1. Carol Hayes: Ms. Hayes introduced herself as a retired CPS social worker. She
indicated that Mr. Brunson spoke about many of the themes identified for this
evening. She indicated that the Chicago Board of Education and the Mayor be
announced as guilty and asked the audience to look into Distinctive Schools. She
stated that Joyce Cooper was a removed principal from CPS that now works for
Distinctive Schools as an executive. She recognized Hirsch’s declining
enrollment and that programs have been taken away. She stated that this was
not an accident, CPS CPS has pursued a strategy to disinvest in CPS schools
and gives more funding to charters. She stated that Hirsch and the community
have lost enrollment but for profit charters has gained enrollment. After speaking
she proceeded to hand out materials.

 2. David Benefield: Mr. Benefield is a community resident and employee and
spoke in favor of Art In Motion (AIM). He stated that AIM provides exposure and
opportunity for our young people. He has seen the community change and
stressed the need for understanding support. He acknowledged and welcomed
criticism but believes that they should remain opportunistic and do what’s best for
our children.
3. A.R.: Senior at Hirsch. The student introduced herself and highlighted her school
involvement. She stated that she has concerns of what is going on here,
especially with the proposed enrollment of the new charter. She recognized
growth and support at this school and that the community comes together to
make it what it is. She acknowledged her good work at Hirsch and that he desire
is to get help for Hirsh students so that they can perform as successfully as her.
4. Dr. Karen Ratliff: Dr. Ratliff introduced herself as a member of New Life, one of
the main partners for AIM and a resident of the Grand Crossing community. She
spoke on the assistance and support that New Life has provided the Grand
Crossing Community over the last seven years including investment in Hirsch.
She stated that the goal is to co-locate Hirsch and that resources will be brought
to both the AIM and Hirsch students.
5. Jamaica Miller: The Chairman recognized that she is familiar with the work of
New Life but that there was not support for Principal Varn and the school. She
stated that New Life investment in Hirsch was to rent space And that although
computers were provided to Hirsch, many were not usable. She also stated that
no meetings were held prior to the co-location announcement.
6. Scott Frauenheim, President of Distinctive Schools: He stated his desire to
be open and transparent about the work ahead and also stated that Joyce
Cooper has never been an employee. He highlighted the focus and important
work is about the students, equity and access. He proceeded to highlight
educational services (personalized learning, arts programming) that should be
provided to all students. He reiterated that it is about the students, that they are
excited about Hirsh’s vision and for providing quality and choice to students.
7. Mary Long: Introduced herself as a restorative justice facilitator, career building
and college prep and resume. She stated that is for supporting students at Hirsch
and recognized that most speakers and discussing the building. She recognized
her concern over improving and segregating a school that is in the same
community, when it is the students who need the investment.
8. Ms. Filbare: Introduced herself as AIM board member and spoke to the
message of Mary Long. She stated that all students within the building are assets
and that they’ve looked into student wellness measures to impact all students.
She highlighted the importance of the community, including sharing resources
and being thought partners in making decisions.
9. David Robbins: Introduced himself as a CTU member against the co-location of
Hirsch. He stated decreases in investment at Hirsch and that students deserve
resources like surburban schools. He recognized the need for high quality public

 schools and that they should be given the resources they need. He asked CPs to
support Hirsch.
10. Adrienne Leonard: Introduced herself as a student advocate for Distinctive
Schools by choice. She asked the audience what they have done to help and
support Hirsch. She stated that although she is employed by Distinctive, they
have allowed her to support the Hirsch principal and community with community
engagement and service efforts. She acknowledged her involvement in the colocation at Calumet High School reiterated the need of the community to take
ownership.
11. Julius Stanley: Introduced herself as a community member and stated that she
was both for and against Art In Motion. She recognized Art in Motion as positive
and recognized the need to have community members on the Board of
Distinctive Schools and Art In Motion.
12. Speaker: Member of AFT. He stated that is a mistake to open a charter and sited
school governance as a problem, including various school boards, not having a
Local School Council, and teacher discipline.
13. Ronald Jackson: He stated that the community has gotten comfortable with
being told what they need and now the school is going to close.
14. A.B.: Junior at Hirsch HS. She is not in favor of the co-location and indicated that
they will be kicked out if the school co-locates.
15. Curtis (See transcript for last name): He stated he is a teacher and worked for
CPS, including the new Miles Davis and Thorp. He acknowledge the hard work
on the Network Chief and Principal and acknowledged the State Senator as well.
He expressed his disappointment with them not being told anything, and now
they are being asked to co-locate. He shared his view of co-location as a way of
pushing people out of the system.
16. Red Daley: He stated he is a social worker and attended Hirsch as a Freshman.
He stated his concerns over mayoral control of CPS and how it is politicized the
public schools. He indicated his desire to organize the community to fight against
the charter issue and the reconstitution of Hirsch. All registered speakers spoke
and the attendees were given the opportunity to re-register to speak if so desired.
17. Carol Hayes: Followed up to her earlier comment and reiterated that co-location
would be negative for Hirsch as it will close in two years. She indicated that
Hirsch would be replaced by a new charter school and students will not be able
to find other schools to attend.
18. Michael Brunson: Followed up on his comment earlier in the meeting and stated
that co-location is segregation. He questioned the impact on Hirsch once Art In
Motion reaches it at capacity enrollment and that charter schools do not have
LSCs. He also expressed his concern for lack of teacher voice, until a charter
school is unionized.
19. Ms. Filbare: Followed up in response to previous comments to highlight the
importance of not focusing on “fear based thinking” as it was not getting the
conversation anywhere.

 20. Speaker: Talked about the responsibility he placed on himself and his children to
take responsibility for their education, including asking for a syllabus from all of
their teachers in elementary school. He indicated his support for the charter
school.
21. Red Daley: Spoke about the system of public education and its budget. Included
how the system that is not serving the interests of the black community. He drew
a connection to being politically connected and getting a charter school in
Chicago. He also drew a connection to low performing schools and charters
identified as the solution. He highlighted the importance of organizing to fight for
this not to happen in the community.
22. Jennifer: Jennifer introduced herself as a member of Distinctive Schools. She
was a teacher and made the intentional move to a charter school because she
wants to positiviely impact students education. She is in support of the colocation and looks forward to working with the community to make positive
change and contributions together.
23. Tamari: He introduced himself as a minister at New Life and servant of Greater
Grand Crossing. He talked about his support for the arts, for the high school and
for the students of Hirsch. He mentioned his work with 10 students at Hirsch on
an art piece and that the co-location is a good change because resources will be
coming to the community.
24. Deb Hass: She provided her perspective in participating on the Southeast NAC
several years ago. They reviewed new school proposals and she spoke of the
issues with that process and the charter proposal issues that were highlighted at
that time. She did not believe there was support to demonstrate that Distinctive
will do well with arts education and expressed her concern with New Life’s
support of the LGBTQ community.
25. April Shaw: She introduced herself as an educator and stated her believe that
the community is all fighting to do what’s right for children. She asked the
community to look at the research and “work together to make a broader impact
on our students and our families”.
26. Ronald Banks: In response to previous comments, Mr. Banks asked if the
community can reason together and proceeded to give an example of how a
family member improved their school performance because of the conversation
they had with each other about the importance of his education.
27. Mobolaji Akintunde: Mr. Akintunde asked the community about how the
perception of fear can be changed and that the community can look at the
resources that might be available to them. He asked the community to ask
questions and to be curious and have an open mind as to the possibilities of this
partnership.

 