MINUTES OF MEETING
WAYNE COUNTY ELECTION COMMISSION
FRIDAY, AUGUST 4, 2017 – 9:00 A.M.
COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL BUILDING - ROOM 700A
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

Call to Order:

The meeting was called to order at 9:05 a.m., Friday, August 4, 2017.

Members present: Honorable Freddie G. Burton, Jr., Chief Judge, Probate Court
Honorable Cathy M. Garrett, Secretary – Wayne County Clerk
Honorable Eric Sabree, Member – Wayne County Treasurer
Also present:

Janet Anderson-Davis, Assistant Corporation Counsel
Delphine Oden, Director, Wayne County Elections
Jennifer Redmond, Assistant Director, Wayne County Elections
Brad Thompson, Inland Press
Rendell Wooden

Agenda item:

Consideration of Agenda approval.
Board action on agenda item: Chair Burton requested a motion
to approve the agenda. Member Garrett, duly supported by
Member Sabree, moved to adopt the agenda as submitted. The
motion was adopted unanimously by a voice vote.

Agenda item:

Approval of Minutes of June 12, 2017
Board action on agenda item: Chair Burton requested a motion
to approve the minutes of the meeting held on June 12, 2017.
Member Garrett, duly supported by Member Sabree, moved to
approve the minutes of the meeting held on June 12, 2017.
The motion was adopted unanimously by a voice vote.

Agenda item:

Ballot Printing Contract
Chair Burton requested that Counsel give some background
information on the contract. Corporation Counsel Janet AndersonDavis indicated that she sent an e-mail to the Commission on July
24, 2017, stating under Michigan law the Commission has the
authority to accept the contract extension offer as presented, and
there are no legal obstacles. Counsel Anderson-Davis stated the
scope in the current contract refers to ES&S and M100s, the
Commission may want to consider renegotiating the scope of
services or sending it out for bids.

 Delphine Oden, Director, Wayne County Elections, indicated that
the corrections with the current vendor information and the scope of
services have already been prepared.
Chair Burton inquired as to when was the last time the contract was
sent out for bid. Mrs. Anderson-Davis indicated 2010. Member
Sabree inquired as to why the offer to extend the contract is
through 2022.
Brad Thompson, President of Inland Press, addressed the
Commission and offered information relative to Inland Press’ plans
for expansion and investments. He stated the extension of this
contract would be a firm financial basis to build off of going forward.
Board action on agenda item: Chair Burton requested a motion
regarding the Ballot Printing Contract. Member Garrett, duly
supported by Member Sabree, moved to extend the contract with
modifications to the scope of services. Ayes: Garrett, Sabree.
Nays: Burton.
Chair Burton offered an explanation as to why he voted no. He
stated he believes the contract should be exposed to the full
market, notwithstanding the fact that he has been very happy with
Inland Press.
Agenda item:

New Business. None

Agenda item:

Public Comment.
Board action on agenda item: Member Garrett reiterated her
feelings in regards to the longtime relationship they have had with
Inland Press. Mr. Thompson made reference to his long
relationship with the County. Chair Burton thanked them both.

Agenda item:

Adjournment. The meeting was adjourned by unanimous
consent.
Meeting adjourned at 9:18 a.m.

 