City of Detroit

CODE DDA 15-11-02-588

Downtown Development Authority
EDD Griswold - Suite 2200

Detroit. Michigan 48225

Phone: 3?13 983 2940

Fax: 313 EBB 88:39

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF NOVEMBER 22, 2016

RESOLVED. that the minutes of the Special meeting of November 22. 2016 are hereby
approved and all actions taken by the Directors present at such meeting, as set forth in such
minutes. are hereby in all respects rati?ed and approved as actions of the Downtown Development
Authority.

November 30, 2016

Page 1 of 8

DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
BOARD OF DIRECTORS SPECIAL MEETING
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 2016 2:30 P.M.

BOARD MEMBERS PRESENT:

BOARD MEMBER ABSENT:

OTHERS PRESENT:

Hon. Michael Duggan, Chairman
Marvin Beatty
Austin Black
Charles Beckham
David Blaszkiewicz
Ehrlich Crain
Sonya Delley
Melvin Hollowell
James Jenkins
David Massaron
Richard Hosey
John Naglick

Steve Ogden

Richard Barr (Honigman)

Stan Berenbaum (lHl)
Bowden Brown (Dykema)
Ryan Felton (Metro Times)
John Gallagher (Free Press)
Richard Haddad (Pistons)
Gay Hilger 
Malinda Jensen 
Terry Jordan 
Joyce Josaitis 
Ryan Kane (llitch Holdings)
Jennifer Kanalos 
Steve Kantor (First Southwest)
David Kate (DMC)

Jim Kiertznew (WXYZ TV)
John Lauve (Public)

Tom Lewand (Mayor's Of?ce)
Eric London (llitch Holdings)
Glen Long 
Denzel McCampbell (Public)
M. McLauchlin (lHl)

Rebecca Navin 
Steve Phillips (Public)

Kirk Pinho (Crain's Detroit)
Geoff Robinson (Detroit News)
Cierra Rosier 
Bob Rossbach 

Robert Slathy (Midtown Dev.)
Arn Teliem (Pistons)

Nancy Tellem (Pistons)
Moddie Turay 
Adrienne Zeigler 

Page 2 of 8

City of Detroit

Hm

Downtown Development Authority
500 Griswold, Suite 2200. 22?" Floor

Detroit, Michigan 48225

Phone: 313 963 2940

Fax: 313 953 8839

MINUTES OF THE DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
BOARD OF DIRECTORS SPECIAL 

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 2016

CASS TECHNICAL HIGH SCHOOL

GRAND THEATER STAGE

1501 SECOND AVENUE, DETROIT - 2:30 P.M.

GENERAL
Call to Order

Noting that a quorum was present, Chairman Duggan called the Special meeting of the Downtown
Development Authority Board of Directors to order at 2:30 pm.

Approval of Minutes

Mr. Duggan asked if there were any additions, deletions or corrections to the minutes of the October
26, 2016 Regular Board meeting. Hearing none, the Board took the following action:

On a motion by Mr. Hollowell, seconded by Mr. Blaszkiewicz, Resolution Code DDA 16-
11-02?58? was unanimously approved.

PROJECTS

Authorization to Enter into Memoranda of Understanding Relating to Catalyst Development
Proiect

Mr. Duggan advised that the purpose of the Special meeting today is to discuss the prospect of the
Pistons moving to Detroit. We are not iooking for any final approvals today. Financial information
will be before the Board the first part of next year. The purpose today is to get approval to enter
into Memoranda of Understandings. Mr. Duggan introduced Mr. Turay to give a PowerPoint
presentation and summary of the proposed development.

Mr. Turay reported that in 2013, the DDA expanded its Development Area No. 1 and made certain
amendments to the Restated City of Detroit Downtown Development Authority Tax Increment
Financing Plan and Development Plan For Development Area No. 1 (as amended, the ?Pian?)
necessary to proceed with a ?catalyst development project? under the DDA Act for the development
and construction of a new multi-purpose events center and related facilities, now known as the
Little Caesars Arena (the "Arena") and the development or redevelopment of vacant and/or
underutilized properties in the area adjacent to or near the Arena (together with the Arena, the
"Catalyst Development Project?).

in 2014, the DDA, Olympia Entertainment Events Center, LLC, as successor in interest to Olympia
Development of Michigan Events Center, LLC and the Detroit Red Wings (the ?Red

Page 3 of 8

Wings") entered into that certain Amended and Restated Concession and ManagementAgreement
dated as of December 11, 2014 (as amended, the ?Arena Concession Agreement?) for the purpose
of establishing a public-private partnership for development, construction and operation of the
Arena. Further, the Michigan Strategic Fund issued $250,000,000 in tax-exempt bonds,
secured by certain tax increment revenues captured by the DDA (the ?Series 2014A Bonds?), and
$200,000,000 in taxable bonds, secured by a piedge of concession fees payable by OEEC under
the Arena Concession Agreement, and loaned the proceeds of the bonds to the DDA.

Construction of the Arena is on track for a Fall 2017 opening and DDA has approved development
plans for projects with anticipated investment of approximately $175 Million in the vicinity of the
Arena.

Palace Sports Entertainment and the Detroit Pistons Basketball Company (?Pistons
Basketbali;" and together with and any affiliate thereof, the ?Pistons?) have expressed a
desire to relocate the venue for Pistons Basketbaii home games and reiated Pistons operations
from the Palace of Auburn Hills to the Arena. DDA representatives have determined that the
relocation of the Pistons to the Arena wiil act as a major economic development catalyst for the
downtown district and the City of Detroit (the ?City?) and have been engaged in discussions
with representatives from OEEC and Pistons to further develop, expand and enhance the Catalyst
Development Project to induce such relocation.

DDA staff proposes to enter into a Memorandum of Understanding with each of and OEEC
outlining proposed adjustments to the Catalyst Development Project necessary to a
Pistons' reiocation and other commitments of each of DDA, and OEEC regarding such
relocation.

An executive summary of the terms of the proposed Memoranda was included with the Board
material as Exhibit A. A copy of the proposed form of Memorandum between the DDA and 
was included as Exhibit (the "Pistons A copy of the proposed Memoranda between the
DDA and OEEC was included as Exhibit (the 

DDA Staff is seeking Board authorization to enter into each of the Pistons MOU and the OEEC
MOU. The DDA Finance Committee has reviewed the terms of the proposed memoranda and
recommends approval to the Board.

A resolution was included with the Board materiai for consideration.

Mr. Turay and representatives of the Pistons and Red Wings organizations responded to Board
members? questions.

Mr. Duggan advised that haif of the $34.5 million wiil be generated from anticipated savings by
refinancing the bonds at a lower interest rate. The rest be paid for by extending the terms of
the bonds by an additional three years.

Ms. Navin added that the DDA plan will need to be amended to reflect additional bonded
indebtedness, so that wouid be the refinancing plus the increase on the existing tax?exempt bonds,
as weli as the of issuing the revenue bonds. In addition, as referenced, we expect that
the Plan will needed to be extended by three years in order to accommodate an extension of the
maturity on the existing 2014 bonds, and we expect that we aiso seek an additional five?year
extension on top of that in order to continue to promote economic growth in the area surrounding
the arena. in addition, finaliy, the Scope of the project with respect to the arena and the
incorporation of the NBA Basketball requirements into the arena, that aiso will be updated. Those
Plan amendments wili be brought back to the DDA Board. They will then be submitted to City
Council for approvai, which will inciude engagement with the DDA with a Deveiopment Area
Citizens Council, include a public hearing. Twenty days after the public hearing, City Councii
will be asked to take a vote. In addition, the Michigan Strategic Fund have to approve the Plan

Page 4 of 8

amendments to the extent that they apply to the catalyst development project and that is a
requirement under the DDA Act. Essentially the Michigan Strategic Fund wili aiso be asked to
approve the extension of the capture on the catalyst project.

Ms. Delley added that the DDA Finance Committee diligently reviewed the details of the proposed
transaction and are recommending approval to the Board.

Subsequent to the discussion, the Board took the following action:

On a motion by Ms. Deiley, seconded by Mr. Hollowell, Resolution Code DDA 1641-123-
43 was unanimously approved.

ADMINISTRATION
NEW BUSINESS
COMMENT

Mr. Duggan called for public comment. John Lauve, Steve Phillips, Steve Neavling and Cliff
Woodards were given one minute each to speak.

ADJOURNMENT

With there being no other business to be brought before the Board, Mr. Duggan adjourned the
meeting at 2:59 pm.

P:\general\dda\minutes\DDA 11?22-16 Speciai Board Minutes

Page 5 of 8

City of Detroit

. CODE DDA 16?11-02-587

Downtown Development Authority
500 Griswold - Suite 2200

Detroit. Michigan 48228

Phone: 313 983 2940

Fax: 31 3 963 8839

OF MINUTES OF OCTOBER 26, 2016

RESOLVED, that the minutes of the Regular meeting of October 26, 2016 are hereby
approved and all actions taken by the Directors present at such meeting, as set forth in such
minutes, are hereby in all respects rati?ed and approved as actions of the Downtown Development

Authority.

November 22, 2016

Page 6 of 8

City of Detroit



Downtown Development Authority
500 Griswold - Suite 2200

Detroit. Michigan 48226

Phone: 313 i363 2940

Fax:

31 3 953 8839

CODE DDA 16-11-123-43

TO ENTER INTO MEMORANDA OF 9NDERSTANDING RELATING TO
CATALYST DEVELOPMENT PROJECT

WHEREAS, in 2013, the DDA expanded its Development Area No. 1 and made certain
amendments to the Restated City of Detroit Downtown Development Authority Tax increment
Financing Plan and Development Plan For Development Area No. 1 (as amended, the ??Plan?)
necessary to proceed with a ?catalyst development project? under the DDA Act for the
development and construction of a new multi-purpose events center and related facilities, now
known as the Little Caesars Arena (the ?Arena") and the development or redevelopment of
vacant and/or underutilized properties in the area adjacent to or near the Arena (together with
the Arena, the ?Catalyst Development Project?);

WHEREAS, in 2014, the DDA, Olympia Entertainment Events Center, LLC, as
successor in interest to Olympia Development of Michigan Events Center, LLC and
the Detroit Red Wings (the ?Red Wings") entered into that certain Amended and Restated
Concession and Management Agreement dated as of December 11, 2014 (as amended, the
?Arena Concession Agreement?) for the purpose of establishing a public?private partnership for
development, construction and operation of the Arena; and

WHEREAS, the Michigan Strategic Fund issued $250,000,000 in tax-exempt
bonds, secured by certain tax increment revenues captured by the DDA (the ?Series 2014A
Bonds?), and $200,000,000 in taxable bonds, secured by a pledge of concession fees payable
by OEEC under the Arena Concession Agreement, and loaned the proceeds of the bonds to
the and

WHEREAS, construction of the Arena is on track for a Fall 2017 opening and DDA has
approved development plans for projects with anticipated investment of approximately $175
Million in the vicinity of the Arena; and

WHEREAS, Palace Sports Entertainment and the Detroit Pistons Basketball
Company (?Pistons Basketball;" and together with and any af?liate thereof, the ?Pistons?)
have expressed a desire to relocate the venue for Pistons Basketball home games and related
Pistons operations from the Palace of Auburn Hills to the Arena; and

WHEREAS, DDA representatives have determined that the relocation of the Pistons to
the Arena will act as a major economic development catalyst for the downtown district
and the City of Detroit (the ?City") and have been engaged in discussions with representatives
from OEEC and Pistons to further develop, expand and enhance the Catalyst Development
Project to induce such relocation; and

WHEREAS, DDA staff proposes to enter into a Memorandum of Understanding with
each of and OEEC outlining proposed adjustments to the Catalyst Development Project
necessary to facilitate a Pistons? relocation and other commitments of each of DDA, and

Page 24 of 58
Page 7 of 8

OEEC regarding such relocation, an executive summary of which is attached hereto as
Exhibit and

WHEREAS, a copy of the proposed form of Memorandum of Understanding between
the DDA and is attached hereto as Exhibit (the "Pistons and a copy of the
proposed Memoranda between the DDA and OEEC is attached hereto as Exhibit (the
and

WHEREAS, the DDA Finance Committee has reviewed the terms of the pr0posed
memoranda and recommends their approval to the Board of Directors; and

WHEREAS, the DDA Board of Directors has reviewed the Pistons MOU and the OEEC
MOU and has determined that they are consistent with the statutory purposes of the
prevention property value deterioration in the City of Detroit's downtown district and the
elimination of the causes of such deterioration, that they are in the best interests of the Catalyst
Development Project; and that the promotion of economic growth will be advanced through
they implementation.

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the DDA Board of Directors hereby
authorizes any two of its Of?cers or any two of its Authorized Agents or one Officer and any
one Authorized Agent to execute the each of the Pistons MOU and the OEEC MOU,
substantially in the forms of the attached Exhibit and Exhibit C, together with such
modi?cations to the such forms as deemed appropriate by such Authorized Agents and counsel
which are not inconsistent with this resolution and do not alter the substance of the either
memoranda or adversely affect the rights and/or obligations of the DDA thereunder.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the DDA Board of Directors hereby authorizes any
two of its Of?cers or any two of its Authorized Agents or one Of?cer and any one Authorized
Agent to execute to take any other actions and execute any other documents necessary in
furtherance of the execution of the Pistons MOU and OEEC MOU on behalf of the DDA,
including but not limited to the engagement of outside legal counsel to act as bond and/or
transaction counsel with respect to the transactions contemplated by each of the Pistons MOU
and the OEEC MOU.

BE IT RESOLVED that that all of the acts and transactions of any Of?cer or
Authorized Agent of the DDA, in the name and on behalf of the DDA, relating to matters
contemplated by the foregoing resolutions, which acts would have been approved by the
foregoing resolutions except that such acts were taken prior to execution of these resolutions,
are hereby in all respects con?rmed, approved and rati?ed.

November 22, 2016

Page 25 of 58
Page 8 of 8

