Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Board of Commissioners
Finance Committee
Thursday, March 1, 2018

11:30 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room,
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA
PUBLIC HEARING

There will be a public hearing of the Committee or Subcommittee of the Board of Commissioners of
Cook County at the date, time and location listed above to consider the following:
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in writing,
their name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in advance of the
meeting. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a time specified in
the meeting agenda. Authorized public speakers who are not present during the specified time for public
testimony will forfeit their allotted time to speak at the meeting. Public testimony must be germane to a
specific item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not exceed three minutes; the Secretary
will keep track of the time and advise when the time for public testimony has expired. Persons authorized
to provide public testimony shall not use vulgar, abusive, or otherwise inappropriate language when
addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately; failure to speak to an item that is germane to the
meeting, or failure to adhere to the time requirements may result in expulsion from the meeting and/or
disqualify the person from providing future testimony.
18-1604
Sponsored by:
JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI, LUIS ARROYO JR, EDWARD M. MOODY, RICHARD
R. BOYKIN, DEBORAH SIMS, JOHN A. FRITCHEY, DENNIS DEER and STANLEY MOORE,
Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
PROPERTY TAX INCENTIVE - PREVAILING WAGE REQUIREMENT
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 74 TAXATION,
Section 74-71 of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as follows:
Sec. 74-71. - Laws regulating the payment of wages.

Page 1 of 6

 Finance Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

March 1, 2018

(a) Living wage requirement.
(1) Unless expressly waived by the County Board, any Employer occupying a property that receives
a property tax incentive for Class 6b industrial property, Class 8 industrial property, or Class 9
multifamily residential property shall pay not less than the Living Wage, as defined in the Cook
County Procurement Code (Cook County, Ill., Code, Ch. 34, Art. IV, Div. 1 § 34-121), to each
of its onsite Employees, unless such Employees' Wages are governed by Federal or State
prevailing wage law. For purpose of this Section, the term "Employee" shall mean an Employee
who performs duties or services for an Employer on average at least 30 hours per week in any
two-week period for which the Employee is paid; "hours per week" shall mean hours for which
an Employee is paid or entitled to payment by the Employer for a period of time during which no
duties are performed by the Employee due to vacation, holiday, illness, incapacity, jury duty,
military duty or approved leave of absence.
(2) On and after July 1, 2020, the owner of any property that receives a property tax incentive shall
notify all Employers who occupy such property as lessees of the requirements of this Section.
Upon commencement of a lease, on or after July 1, 2020, of a property that receives a property
tax incentive, any new lessee shall be required to submit to the municipality or the Cook County
Board, as the case may be, an affidavit stating that such lessee is paying a Living Wage to its
Employees in compliance with this Section. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the
requirements of this Section shall not apply to an Employer who was a lessee and not an
owner-occupant of a property that receives a property tax incentive prior to July 1, 2020.
(3) This Section shall not apply to Employers that are not-for-profit organizations or funded by
Federal grants or Federal loans or Employers who are lessees but are not owners of a property
that receives a property tax incentive prior to adoption of this amended Ordinance. Further, this
Section shall not apply to Employers who can demonstrate to the County Board that compliance
with the requirements of this Section would cause such Employer to be in violation of the terms
of a collective bargaining agreement between the Employer and a labor union.
(4) Every Employer required to pay the Living Wage shall notify its Employees of the Living Wage
requirements and shall notify all of its Employees annually of any adjustment to the Living Wage.
In addition, the Employer shall notify its Employees that if any Employee contends that the
Employer is not paying a Living Wage or has otherwise violated this section, that Employee may
file a complaint with the Cook County Commissioner on Human Rights ("Commission"). The
Commissioner shall investigate alleged violations of the Living Wage Ordinance and is authorized
to adopt regulations for the proper administration and enforcement of its provisions. If at the
conclusion of the Commission's investigation, the Commission finds that the Employer has
violated this section, it shall (i) in the case of an Employer receiving a property tax incentive,
notify the Assessor; or (ii) in the case of a Contractor or a subcontractor required to pay the
Living Wage, notify the CPO, who shall exercise such remedies as are in the best interest of the
County, including ordering the Employer to pay back pay and penalties, as provided in this

Page 2 of 6

 Finance Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

March 1, 2018

section.
(5) If an Employer is found to be in violation of this section, such Employer may be required to pay
back pay to each affected Employee, and may also be fined by the County up to $100.00 for
each affected Employee for each day paid at less than the Living Wage. Such penalties will not
be imposed on any Person except after a hearing (Cook County, Ill., Code, Ch. 2, Art. IX).
Further, if an Employer is found to be in violation of this section, the property tax incentive for
this property is subject to revocation.
(6) If an Employer is found to have retaliated against an affected Employee, the Employer's property
tax incentive may be terminated unless such Employer appropriately reinstates or compensates
such Employee.
(7) For the purposes of this Section:

Property tax incentive means a reduction in the assessment level as set forth in Division 2 of this
Article for Class 6b industrial property, Class 8 industrial property, or Class 9 multifamily residential
property. "Property tax incentive" shall not include a Class 9 designation granted to supportive living
facilities, which establish an alternative to nursing home care for low income older persons and persons
with disabilities under Medicaid and which are certified by the State Department of Public Aid pursuant to
Division 2 of this Article; and
Sales tax means the Retailer's Occupation Tax, the Service Occupation Tax and/or the Use Tax.
(8) Living Wage Affidavit. Every municipality or the Cook County Board that provides a Resolution
or Ordinance or authorized officer letter, as the case may be, to an applicant for a Class 6b
industrial property or a Class 8 industrial property tax incentive shall maintain in its files and
records documentation that such municipality or the County Board received and filed the Living
Wage Affidavit submitted by the owner or lessee of such property stating that such owner or
lessee is paying a Living Wage to its Employees in compliance with this Section. Further, an
applicant or lessee of a Class 9 multifamily residential property tax incentive shall provide the
municipality or the Cook County Board, as the case may be, a Living Wage Affidavit which shall
be maintained by such municipality or the Cook County Board in its files and records.
(b) Prevailing wage requirement.
(1) Any owner of real estate that on or after January, 2018 is an applicant for, or recipient of, any
Property Tax Incentive under any Assessment Class as set forth in Division 2 of this Article for
which a Resolution or Ordinance from the municipality or the County Board is or was required,
or where an authorized officer letter is or was obtained in lieu of such Resolution or Ordinance,
shall pay all laborers, workers and mechanics engaged in Construction work within, or relating to
Construction projects within, the subject property not less than the prevailing rate of wages paid
for work of a similar character on public works in Cook County. This requirement extends to all

Page 3 of 6

 Finance Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

March 1, 2018

contractors, subcontractors, and lessees who perform such Construction work, whether or not at
the direction of the owner.
(2) The prevailing rate of wages shall be the same as the then-current rate for Cook County
determined pursuant to the Illinois Prevailing Wage Act (820 ILCS 130/0.01 et seq.).
(3) (a) Unless otherwise defined herein, the definition of any terms used in this Section which are
also used in the Illinois Prevailing Wage Act (820 ILCS 130/0.01 et seq.) shall be the same as
that set forth in the Illinois Prevailing Wage Act.
(b) For the purposes of this Section:

Property Tax Incentive means a reduction in the assessment level as set forth in Division 2 of this
Article for any property regardless of the Assessment Class.
Construction means all work on any newly constructed building or structure, or any alteration,
improvement, repair, renovation, rehabilitation, demolition, deconstruction, maintenance, or reconstruction
of existing building or structure, regardless of the public or private nature of the projects or ownership.
(4) Any owner of real estate that on or after January __, 2018 is an applicant for, or recipient of, any
Property Tax Incentive under any Assessment Class as set forth in Division 2 of this Article for
which a Resolution or Ordinance from the municipality or the County Board is or was required,
or where an authorized officer letter is or was obtained in lieu of such Resolution or Ordinance,
shall:
(a) keep, or a cause a contractor, subcontractor, or lessee performing the Construction work to keep,
for a period of 5 years from the date of the last payment made, records of all laborers, mechanics, and
other workers engaged in Construction work within, or relating to Construction projects within, the subject
property; the records shall include (i) the worker's name, (ii) the worker's address, (iii) the worker's
telephone number when available, (iv) the worker's social security number, (v) the worker's classification
or classifications, (vi) the worker's gross and net wages paid in each pay period, (vii) the worker's number
of hours worked each day, (viii) the worker's starting and ending times of work each day, (ix) the
worker's hourly wage rate, (x) the worker's hourly overtime wage rate, (xi) the worker's hourly fringe
benefit rates, (xii) the name and address of each fringe benefit fund, (xiii) the plan sponsor of each fringe
benefit, if applicable, and (xiv) the plan administrator of each fringe benefit, if applicable; and
(b) no later than the 15th day of each calendar month file, or cause a contractor, subcontractor, or
lessee performing the Construction work to file, with Cook County a certified payroll for the immediately
preceding month. A certified payroll must be filed for only those calendar months during which such
Construction work has occurred. The certified payroll shall consist of a complete copy of the records
identified in this subsection (a), but may exclude the starting and ending times of work each day. The
certified payroll shall be accompanied by a statement signed by the owner or an officer, employee, or
agent of the owner which avers that: (i) he or she has examined the certified payroll records required to

Page 4 of 6

 Finance Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

March 1, 2018

be submitted by this Section and such records are true and accurate; and (ii) the hourly rate paid to each
worker is not less than the general prevailing rate of hourly wages required by this Section. An owner is
not prohibited from relying on the certification of a contractor, subcontractor, or lessee provided the owner
does not knowingly rely upon a false certification. Cook County shall keep the records submitted in
accordance with this subsection (b) for a period of 5 years from the date of the last payment for
Construction work. The records submitted in accordance with this subsection (b) shall be considered
public records, except an employee's address, telephone number, and social security number, and made
available in accordance with the Freedom of Information Act. Cook County shall accept any reasonable
submissions that meet the requirements of this Section.
(5) The recipient must provide credible evidence that, at all times after it receives and maintains any
tax incentive designation under Division 2 of this Article, if any Construction, occurs at the
subject property, then any contractors, subcontractors, or lessees who perform such work must
participate in an active apprenticeship and training program approved and registered with the
United States Department of Labor's Office of Apprenticeship, if the contractor or
subcontractor employs people in a covered occupation.
(6) Prevailing Wage Affidavit. Every municipality or the Cook County Board that provides a
Resolution or Ordinance or authorized officer letter, as the case may be, to an applicant for, or a
recipient of, any Property Tax Incentive as set forth in Division 2 of this Article shall maintain in
its files and records documentation that such municipality or the County Board received and filed
the Prevailing Wage Affidavit submitted by the owner of such property stating that such owner
shall pay, or cause a contractor, subcontractor, or lessee to pay, the prevailing rate of wages in
compliance with this Section and comply with subsections (b)(4) and (b)(5) of this Section. The
failure to file such affidavit and supporting documents within the time established by the
Assessor's rules shall result in the loss of the incentive for the period relating to the non-filing or
revocation under Section 74-73.
(b)(c) State or Federal Laws.
(1) Except where a Person has requested an exception from the Assessor and the County Board
expressly finds that granting the exception is in the best interest of the County, such Person
including any Substantial Owner (as defined in Cook County, Ill., Code, Ch. 34, Art. V § 34-367)
shall be ineligible to receive any property tax incentive noted in Division 2 of this Article if, during
the five-year period prior to the date of the application, such Person or Substantial Owner (as
defined in Cook County, Ill., Code, Ch. 34, Art. V § 34-367) admitted guilt or liability or has been
adjudicated guilty or liable in any judicial or administrative proceeding of committing a repeated
or willful violation of the Illinois Wage Payment and Collection Act, 820 ILCS 115/1 et seq., the
Illinois Minimum Wage Act, 820 ILCS 105/1 et seq., the Illinois Worker Adjustment and
Retraining Notification Act, 820 ILCS 65/1 et seq., the Worker Adjustment and Retraining
Notification Act, 29 U.S.C. 2101 et seq., the Employee Classification Act, 820 ILCS 185/1 et
seq., the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, 29 U.S.C. 201, et seq., the Illinois Prevailing Wage
Act, 820 ILCS 130/1 et seq., or any comparable state statute or regulation of any state, which

Page 5 of 6

 Finance Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

March 1, 2018

governs the payment of wages.
(2) The Assessor shall obtain an affidavit or certification from every Person and Substantial Owner
(as defined in Cook County, Ill., Code, Ch. 34, Art. V § 34-367) who seeks a property tax
incentive from the County as noted in Division 2 of this Article certifying that the Person or
Substantial Owner (as defined in Cook County, Ill., Code, Ch. 34, Art. V § 34-367) has not
violated the statutory provisions identified in Subsection (a) of this Section.
(3) If the County or Assessor becomes aware that a Person or Substantial Owner (as defined in
Cook County, Ill., Code, Ch. 34, Art. V § 34-367) has admitted guilt or liability or has been
adjudicated guilty or liable in any judicial or administrative proceeding of committing a repeated
or willful violation of the Illinois Wage Payment and Collection Act, 820 ILCS 115/1 et seq., the
Illinois Minimum Wage Act, 820 ILCS 105/1 et seq., the Illinois Worker Adjustment and
Retraining Notification Act, 820 ILCS 65/1 et seq., the Worker Adjustment and Retraining
Notification Act, 29 U.S.C. 2101 et seq., the Employee Classification Act, 820 ILCS 185/1 et
seq., the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, 29 U.S.C. 201, et seq., or any comparable state
statute or regulation of any state, which governs the payment of wages during the five-year
period prior to the date of the application, but after the County has reclassified the Person's or
Substantial Owner's (as defined in Cook County, Ill., Code, Ch. 34, Art. V § 34-367) subject
property under a property tax incentive classification, then, after notice from the Assessor of
such violation, the Person or Substantial Owner shall have 45 days to cure its violation and
request an exception or waiver from the Assessor. Failure to cure or obtain an exception or
waiver of ineligibility from the Assessor shall serve as grounds for revocation of the
classification as provided by the Assessor or by the County Board by Resolution or Ordinance.
In case of revocation or cancellation, the Incentive Classification shall be deemed null and void
for the tax year in which the incentive was revoked or cancelled as to the subject property. In
such an instance, the taxpayer shall be liable for and shall reimburse to the County Collector an
amount equal to the difference in the amount of taxes that would have been collected had the
subject property not received the property tax incentive.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
Legislative History :

1/17/18 - Board of Commissioners - refer to the Finance Committee

Secretary

Page 6 of 6

 