MINUTES
Belle Isle Advisory Committee Meeting Minutes
Thursday, September 20, 2018
Location: Belle Isle Nature Center
Meeting called to order at 9:12a.m.
Quorum established at 9:12 a.m.
Roll Call and Excused Absences
EXCUSED ABSENCES
Rev. Lonnie Peak
Michael Curis
PRESENT FOR BIPAC
Michele Hodges, Chair
Bryan Barnhill
Sommer Woods- arrived at 9:25 a.m.
Bud Denker
Bradley Dick
DNR STAFF PRESENT
Ronald Olson
Scott Pratt
Karis Floyd
Jacob Brown
Michael Terrell
Darlisa Rickman
Amanda Treadwell
Lt. Joseph Molnar
APPROVAL FOR EXCUSED ABSENCES
There was no motion to approve excused absences.

BELLE ISLE PARK ADVISORY COMMITTEE
MINUTES – SEPTEMBER 20, 2018
1

 REVIEW AND APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Chair Hodges requested approval of July 13,2018, August 2, 2018, and August 16, 2018
meeting minutes, Bradley Dick moved to approve with Bryan Barnhill seconding the motion.
Minutes for July 13, 2018, August 2,2018, and August 16,2018 approved with no corrections.
GENERAL UPDATES
Chief Updates
Chief Ronald Olson updated the committee concerning conversations being held regarding
transportation around the island. DNR staff is currently working with MDOT to form a scope of
work. Mr. Bill Shrek and Carrie Warren, both from MDOT, will be providing additional details.
•
The fiscal year is coming up October 1st. Amanda Treadwell will have project
updates.
•
State Budget Director and staff toured the island September 19,2018.
Bud Denker stated the following “If you look at state parks around the park system you see they
all have the same motif on signs. Is Belle Isle Park looking to have the same motif as other
parks?
Ronald Olson replied that it is difficult to find your way based on the signage already in
place. We are working towards an easier wayfinding method and creating some
uniformity. Amanda Treadwell added Belle Isle Park has signs; a unique motif is used on
the island (brown signs).
DNR Law Enforcement Update
Lt. Joseph Molnar, PRD, LED stated the activity level on the island is dwindling down. Most of
the activity that Conservation Officers encounter are traffic related, such as speeding, suspended
drivers’ licenses, multiple warrants, and intoxicated drivers.
Park Operations Update
Karis Floyd provided the following for the committee:
• James Scott Memorial Fountain is scheduled to be closed for the season September 23,
2018, along with the shelter restrooms. Restrooms at bus stop 7 and the Casino will
remain open.
• Looking forward to hiring two new seasonal rangers and one janitor.
• The “Good- Bye Geese” program trained Border Collies are working along the Strand
and Sunset Pointe. The program will continue to circulate around the island in efforts to
reduce the number of geese. The program is providing free services until November 30,
2018.

BELLE ISLE PARK ADVISORY COMMITTEE
MINUTES – SEPTEMBER 20, 2018
2

 Infrastructure Updates
Amanda Treadwell provided a written update, which was included in committee members
packets.
Chair Hodges added, you can donate by texting 313-349-2933 and text the word “fountain” to
contribute to the Scott Fountain Improvements effort.
Sommer Woods asked several questions: is there a divider separating the bike lane, pedestrian,
and vehicular traffic for the loop trail? How does the trail impact vehicular traffic and not pose
an issue to pedestrians and cyclist? Are there any visual plans that can be viewed of the trail?
Further asking about the impact of the bike lanes as it relates to the ingress and egress on and off
the island.
Sommer Woods expressed to the committee that the City Council has received complaints from
the ADA community regarding the Casino not being barrier free. Would like to know if there is a
time line to modify buildings and locations to ADA standards.
Michael Terrell will provide Sommer with the document that has already been sent
addressing the complaints of the Casino not being barrier free.
MDOT Transportation Update
Carrie Warren, MDOT shared that we have momentum both from MDOT and the DNR to
dedicate funding to a wayfinding study. MDOT wants to make sure signs and pavement
markings are consistent with the law and not in conflict with one another or giving contradictory
messages. MDOT will review a full inventory of signage to determine which signs are obsolete,
undesired or to be moved due to inappropriate placement or motif.
There have been recent reports of wrong way traffic on the island. To correct this issue,
additional signs were placed to clarify direction. Currently, MDOT is working to figure out when
traffic occurs on the bridge and how can we best use what we have to ensure visitors are able to
access the island safely and efficiently. A contributing factor is the MacArthur Bridge and the
booth arrangement. Bicycle lanes are a point of focus to reduce traffic and make the bicycle lane
make sense. MDOT is seeking assistance from the DNR to figure out what makes sense for the
park. This is a about a 4 – 6-month project; funding can be secured in the next couple of weeks
the study could start sometime near spring. Until we get the ball rolling on the study we can
work on smaller projects that we can address over time like pavement markings.
Bill Shrek, MDOT, shared that MDOT is still having conversations about funding and planning.
Chair Hodges asked Mr. Shrek if a resolution from the committee be help from an advocacy
standpoint?
Mr. Shrek replied that support from the committee would be helpful.
BELLE ISLE PARK ADVISORY COMMITTEE
MINUTES – SEPTEMBER 20, 2018
3

 Chair Hodges requested approval of a resolution in support of a DNR/ MDOT proposed study.
Bud Denker moved to approve with Bradley Dick seconding the motion.
Resolution in support of DNR/ MDOT proposed study approved.
Ronald Olson added that booth placement is a tricky situation; from a law
standpoint, capacity limit on the island, and the fact Belle Isle is one of the most popular
destinations. To touch base on Sommers, regarding pedestrians, cyclist, and
vehicular traffic, we do need to have more conversations on how we can resolve the
conflicts between one another to come to a common safe ground.
Chair Hodges added that the ADA certainly is a traffic issue. Alternative options like creating
partnerships with Lyft and Uber or finding staging areas like the paddock for parking. Looking
for options outside of Belle Isle Park like the Jefferson Corridor. Believes we may need to
understand Omstead’s original vision.
Ronald Olson stated that there has been a discussion about water taxis. However, Belle
Isle is not the only location battling with parking and capacity issues. Milliken State Park
and Harbor and the entire riverfront. Visitors struggle to find parking once all
designated parking spots are taken. If the issue is not resolved, eventually, will cause
people to avoid coming downtown.
Sommer Woods added that it would be helpful if the timing of the lights off and on Jefferson
could be improved. Even as it relates to looking at the trails, there needs to be a bigger
conversation about protecting pedestrian areas as there are for cyclist. I am not sure if it is
possible to have that an option on Belle Isle because I do understand the streets are narrow.
However, there is a need to have pedestrians coexist with cyclist safely and efficiently. Mo-Go
should be near Belle Isle, possibly on the foot of the bridge, as an option for transportation onto
the island even though there is a vendor on- site for bicycle rentals.
Bud Denker, asked whether part of your conclusion is the current bussing system will be apart
of the overall system?
Carrie Warren (MDOT) replied yes.
Chair Hodges asked MDOT staff present if the workers strike is affecting operations on the
MacArthur Bridge?
Carrie Warren (MDOT) replied that the labor dispute is only affecting bridge operations
if it requires operating heavy- duty machinery (Cranes, Bull dozers, etc.). No one knows
whose schedules have been impacted by the labor dispute. The governor has gotten
involved and hopefully soon we can get back to a common ground.

BELLE ISLE PARK ADVISORY COMMITTEE
MINUTES – SEPTEMBER 20, 2018
4

 Outreach and Upcoming Events
Darlisa Rickman stated that peak season is slowing down, it is still busy in the Events
Department with planning for 2019 weddings and events. The following events are coming up:
• October 6, 2018 12:00 p.m. – 3:00 p.m.
• 50 scheduled weddings between the facilities
• 40 scheduled special events that range from walks, runs, etc.
• Holiday Stroll - December 14, 2018
Belle Isle Conservancy Update
Chair Hodges shared the following items with:
•
•

•

•
•
•
•
•
•

Introduced Eric Lofquist, who is a new member of the Belle Isle Conservancy team. He
will be assisting with fundraising.
The Garden Party was a success. Special thanks to DNR staff members Jacob Brown,
Emily Erdman, and Jeremy Kemp for making it a wonderful night. $20,000 was raised to
be used to help fund the transitional points between the Piet Oudolf Garden and Carillion
Clock Tower.
Belle Isle SOUP winner was Kwaku Osei-Bonsu. The plan for 2019 is to celebrate
Father’s Day with a Trill Grill. His vision is to host the largest community BBQ led by
dads on Belle Isle. They hope to break the world record of 200 people grilling at one time
in one location.
BIC takes the pollinator pledge led by the Motor City National Heritage. New butterfly
going in at in the Aquarium.
Atwater Beach is underway - 2670 Atwater St, Detroit, MI 48207
Norma G’s restaurant is now open, located on 14628 E Jefferson Ave, Detroit, MI 48215.
Jefferson East, Inc. has their annual meeting and luncheon on October 4, 2018.
“Polish the Jewel” luncheon will be held October 11, 2018, this is a fundraising event for
the splash park.
“Holiday Stroll” is December 14, 2018; will have to discuss an alternative to the use of
the Conservatory to host a portion of the event due to construction.

PUBLIC COMMENTS (3 minutes each)
Betty Roberts

In favor of the Grand Prix and Belle Isle. Gave thanks to the committee
members, the DNR, and Penske Corp., for renegotiating the Grand Prix
racing contract with Belle Isle Park. Agreed with Ms. Sommers comments
on the bike lanes located on Jefferson and in front of people’s homes.
They are poor examples of how bike lanes should be placed. Does not
understand how reducing lanes on he island will reduce traffic.

BELLE ISLE PARK ADVISORY COMMITTEE
MINUTES – SEPTEMBER 20, 2018
5

 Michael Betzold

Ron Olson and the DNR will not explain how they substantiated the Grand
Prix’s economic impact and how they determined by what process there is
“no real impact” on park wildlife from the race. BIPAC approved contract
without this information.”

Donald Greene

Where are all the people in the red shirts who support the Grand Prix?
“The fountain presentation is a sham. The Belle Isle Conservancy, the
Grand Prix promoters, and the DNR are only interested in continuing
the destruction of the park for their own selfish interest.”

Anne Miller

I am a volunteer. Many of us do not drive here and ride our bikes, many of
us will park elsewhere and then ride or walk onto the park, is that included
in the traffic studies? Are the handball and tennis courts included in that
improvement effort?

Amanda Treadwell replied, those factors are included in the study. We address every
ADA need on the park. There was $200,000, from DNR, given to address the ADA
usability. The courts at the athletic field need be updated to ADA and USA standards.
COMMITTEE MEMBER ITEMS
Chair Hodges gave condolences to the family of Zach Zduniak who lost his life recently on the
bridge.
Motion to Adjourn: None
Meeting Concluded

10:55 a.m.

NEXT REGULAR MEETING:
October 18, 2018
Belle Isle Nature Center
176 Lakeside Drive
Detroit, MI 48207
9:00 a.m. – 11:00 am.

Approved: ___________________________
Michele Hodges

______________________________
Ronald A. Olson, Chief

Date: ______________________________

BELLE ISLE PARK ADVISORY COMMITTEE
MINUTES – SEPTEMBER 20, 2018
6

 