 . CODE EDC 18-12-02-307
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF NOVEMBER 13, 2018 MEETING
RESOLVED, that the minutes of the Regular meeting of November 13, 2018 are
hereby approved and all actions taken by the Directors present at such meeting, as set

forth in such minutes, are hereby in all respects ratified and approved as actions of the
Economic Development Corporation.

December 18, 2018

500 Griswold,Suite 2200 - Detroit,Michigon 48226 - (313) 963-2940

ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
BOARD OF DIRECTORS REGULAR MEETING
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 2018 8:30 AM.

BOARD MEMBERS PRESENT: Marsha Bruhn

BOARD MEMBERS ABSENT:

SPECIAL DIRECTORS
PRESENT:

SPECIAL DIRECTORS
ABSENT:

OTHERS PRESENT:

Kimberly Ctayson
Linda Forte

Chris Jackson
Kwaku Osei
Thomas Stallworth

Damon Hodge

Maurice Cox (Ex-Officio)
John Naglick (Ex?Officio)
Jonathan Queries
Matthew Rating

None
Jen Newton (East Riverfront)

Gay Hitger 
Matinda Jensen 
Jennifer Kanalos 
Paut Kako 

Glen Long, Jr. 
Rebecca Nevin 
Mariangela Pledt 
Orza Robertson 
Shovan 



Economic Development Corporotion of the City of Detroit

MINUTES OF THE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
BOARD OF DIRECTORS REGULAR MEETING

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 2018

DETROIT ECONOMIC GROWTH CORPORATION

500 GRISWOLD, SUITE 2200

8:30 AM.

CALL TO ORDER

Noting that a quorum was present, Chair Forte called the Regular meeting of the Economic
Development Corporation Board of Directors to order at 8:40 am.

GENERAL
Approval of Minutes

Ms. Forte asked if there were any additions, deletions or corrections to the minutes of the
October 23, 2018 Regular Board meeting. Hearing none, the Board took the following
action:

On a motion by Mr. Osei, seconded by Ms. Bruhn Resolution Code EDC 18-11-
02-306 was unanimously approved.

PROJECTS

Motor City Re-Store: Recommendations for Round 5 Business Awards

Mr. Batton informed that on June 1, 2018, the EDC's Motor City Re-Store program began
accepting applications for Round 5 Design and Construction Track Awards. Motor City

Re-Store is a matching facade grant program for existing businesses in Detroit. The table
below describes the levels of award and qualifications.

 

Awards Awardees must have:

 

. Up to $25,000 matching grant per . An existing business

winner in the city of Detroit
CONSTRUCTION . Refer to lending partners for . Aplan for
AWARD financing improvements
. Up to per year . Funds ready for
investment

 

 

 

 

 

November 13, 2018

500 Griswold,Suite 2200 - Detroit,Michigon 48226 - (313) 963-2940

 

Awards Awardees must have:

 

 

AWARD - Access to design professionals

. Up to $10,000 in architectural TA . An existing business

DESIGN per winner in the city of Detroit

. Refer to lending partners for
financing

 

 

 

 

When applications closed on July 6, 2018 Motor City Re-Store had received 72
applications for Round 5.

This memorandum and resolution focus on the selection and recommendation of
awardees for:

. Foundation-funded "Construction" award track receiving cash grants and
financing assistance

. CDBG~Funded ?Design" award track receiving costashared architectural
design, permitting and bidding assistance for pro-development; and connection
to financing assistance as needed.

Staff verified business eligibility based on self-reported data submitted in the application
for the following seven criteria:

1.

97.01.3593!?

7.

My business is currently open and operating for at least one year with regular hours
in the physical location

The business is not operating in a home

The business is located in the City of Detroit

My business is a for-?profit entity

The business is majority~owned by a person who is at least 18 years or older

The business and all owners are in good standing with the City of Detroit, State of
Michigan and and

The business is not part of a franchise.

Staff then sorted applications into appropriate award tracks and reviewed all applications
to determine finalists. Finalist applicants were identified as follows:

?Design? track applicants are existing Detroit business needing CDBG~funded
architectural design assistance. Finalists were selected based on eligibility and
feasibility of their project. In total, twenty-six (26) ?Design? finalists were selected.
?Construction? track applicants have signed and sealed construction drawings or
ready?to?bid projects that do not require construction drawings. Finalists were
selected based on eligibility and feasibility of their project. in total, seven (7)
finalists were selected.

Finally, staff evaluated finalist applications based on seven criteria. ?Construction" and
?Design? applications were scored on a scale of 1-100. Selection criteria are as follows:

November 13, 2018

Vision and plan

Expenence

Market support

Community benefit

Leverage

Age of Business

Impact of proposed storefront improvements



Based on the evaluations, EDC staff recommends:

- Twenty-one (21) awardees for ?Design? presented in Exhibit B:
CDBG?funded ?Design? awards estimated at $210,000.

. Seven (7) ?Construction" awardees presented in Exhibit A:

- Foundation?Funded ?Construction? awards estimated at $145,113 in an approval
amount not to exceed $175,000.

. Total estimated Motor City Re?Store amount for Construction and Design Awards
is $385,000.

EDC staff will connect awardees with architects to deliver services to ?Design? awardees
per the CDBG procurement processes. EDC staff will connect awardees to construction
professionals to deliver services to ?Construction? awardees if needed.

The EDC will enter into grant agreements with Round 5 Motor City Re-Store awardees
and facilitate introductions to lending partners to pursue gap financing through these
independent sources.

A resolution approving the staff?s recommendation of ?Design? and ?Construction?
awardees was included for the Board?s consideration.

Subsequent to a discussion, the Board took the following action:

On a motion by Ms. Bruhn, seconded by Mr. Stallworth, Resolution Code EDC
18~1 1-91-76 was unanimously approved.

Motor City Match: Recommendation for Round 13 Building Awards

Mr. Batton advised that on June 1, 2018, the Motor City Match program began
accepting applications from interested building owners for Round 13 of the Building
Application Track (?Round The Building Application Track is for property owners with
a vacant space looking for quality new tenants. Awards include pie-development
assistance, marketing and tenant recruiting. Properties that are matched with businesses
are considered for grants, financing and priority permitting. The table below describes the
levels of award and qualifications.

November 13, 2018

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Awards Awardees must:

. Listed as an avaiiable property . Be current and compiiant
viewable by hundreds of Business . Judged most feasible for
0 Competition candidates business
- Top 25 scoring buiidings will be
5 SPACE marketed as a ?top destination for
a new business?
2 - Pre?development building
assessment
3 - Match making with top businesses
2 . Up to 7 awardees each round 0 Be current and compliant
5 across both the building and . Judged most feasible for
business tracks business
DESIGN . Design/build assistance Have a tenant secured

. Priority permitting

- Financiai pianning assistance

. Up to 10 awardees each round . Be current and compliant

in across both the building and . Judged most feasible for

i 0 business tracks business
a . Up to $100,000 matching grant per . Have a tenant secured
5 CASH winner . Have a plan for building
3 a - $500,000 in grants per round for renovations
31? building and business owners . Have funds ready for

. Pitch to lending partners for investment

financing

 

When appiications closed on July 9, 2018, the EDC had received twenty?seven (27)
applications (?Appiication?) for spaces across the city of Detroit. An Application typicaiiy
refers to a single tenantabie space within a property. One property may have submitted
multiple Appiications and the properties may have previously matched but have lease-

able space.

Staff completed the following due diligence and evatuation process:

. Verified that the space referenced in the Application is current and compliant on
property taxes, tickets, and water bills.

Each Application was evaluated and scored on a scale of 1?100 as foiiows:

- Each of the following factors contributed up to 20 points: (1) Buiiding
characteristics and vision; (2) Building conditions; (3) Community and market
support; (4) Leverage; and (5) Compiiance.

Evaluations were conducted by EDC staff.

November 13, 2018

 

EDC staff scores were averaged together to achieve the final score for building
characteristics and vision, community and market support, and leverage.

The score for building conditions was derived from the self-reported data from the
property owner.

The score for compliance was derived based on the payment of taxes, water bills,
and tickets.

The selection process is described in greater detail in Section 6 of the Motor City Match
Building Owner Guidelines.

The results of the due diligence and evaluation process are the following:

Of the twenty-seven (27) applications considered for Round 13, eleven (11)
applications were deemed ineligible because of condition or compliance, leaving
sixteen (16) eligible Building Applications to be considered for Round 13 awards.

One (1) eligible property withdrew from the program. One (1) space was awarded
in a previous round.

Thirteen (13) eligible Round 13 building applications are recommended to receive
"Space? awards to assist with marketing their property and preparing for tenants.

1. Ten (10) indicated they have space available and will be placed on the
MCM map.

2. Two (2) of these awardees are matched with an MCM Design award tenant,

3. One (1) has secured tenants with no additional space to lease, making it
eligible for consideration for "Design? or ?Cash? awards in partnership with
the tenants.

Based on eligible applications and review of scores, EDC staff recommends the
following Round 13 Building Owner Awards:

0 Space awards. Thirteen (13) properties are recommended to receive
Space awards as presented in Exhibit A, which includes marketing, a
professional building assessment, real estate tours and other matchmaking
activities with top Motor City Match business applicants. These top scoring
buildings are recommended to receive assistance with marketing, tenant
recruiting and tenant preparedness

0 Design Awards. Seven (7) properties are recommended to receive
?Design? awards in partnership with their tenants presented in Exhibit B,
which includes architectural technical assistance for tenant build-cut and
building renovations.

EDC staff requested that the Board accept the current results of the Round 13 Building
Application evaluation process and to confirm the Applications that have been awarded
?Space? and ?Design" awards.

November 13, 2018

A resolution was included for the Board?s consideration.

Subsequent to a discussion, the Board took the following action:

On a motion by Mr. Staliworth, seconded by Mr. Osei, Resolution Code EDC 18-
11~91-77 was unanimously approved.

Motor City Match: Recommendation for Round 13 Business Awards

Mr. Batton reported that on June 1, 2018, the Motor City Match program began
accepting applications for Round 13 of the Business Owner Application Track. The
Business Owner Application Track is for businesses from Detroit and around the world
that are looking to start or expand in Detroit. The table below describes the levels of award

and qualifications.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Awards Awardees must have:
- Up to 50 winners - A great idea
PLAN . Free business planning class
. Up to 25 winners each round . Be current and compliant
SPACE . Match making with top real - Judged most feasible for
estate business
.1 . . . .
. Frnancral planning aSSistance
5?2? 0 Up to 7 winners each round . Be current and compliant
9 DESIGN - Design/build assistance . Judged most feasible for
E, a . Priority permitting business
?t 0 Financial planning assistance - Have a tenant secured
. Up to 10 winners each round . Be current and
. Up to $100,000 matching grant compliant
per winner . Judged most feasible for
- $500,000 in grants per round for business
2 CASH building and business owners 0 Have a tenant secured
8 f5 . Pitch to lending partners for 0 Have a plan for building
a financing renovations
. Have funds ready for
u. investment

 

When applications ciosed on July 10, 2018, the EDC had received 195 business
applications (?Application?) for Round 13.

This memorandum and resolution focus on the selection and recommendation of

awardees for:

. "Business Plan" award track receiving business planning assistance
. "Space? award track receiving site selection assistance
?Cash? award track receiving grants and financing assistance

November 13, 2018

 

First, staff verified business eligibility based on self-reported data submitted in the
application for the following five criteria:

1. The business is incorporated and has a registered EIN and DUNS prior to
receiving a grant award

2. The business wishes to locate in Detroit for at least two years

3. The business is majority-owned by a person who is at least 18 years or
older

4. The business and all owners are in good standing with the City of Detroit,
State of Michigan and and

5. The business is not part of a franchise.

Second, staff sorted applications into various award tracks and reviewed eligible business
applications to determine finalists. The awards were selected using the loo-point scale
detailed below. Finalist applicants were identified as follows:

a ?Space? applicants are actively looking for space. These business applicants
are either new business ventures that have a solid business plan or they are
existing businesses with a track record of success and a plan to grow it. Thirty
(30) space awardees were selected.

0 "Cash? applicants have a location secured, a plan for build-out and strong
understanding of the money needed to start their business and complete
renovations at their space. In total, thirty?one (31) Cash finalists were selected.

Third, a team of outside jurors evaluated finalist applications based on five criteria.
?Business Plan" applications were initially reviewed by a team of business planning service
providers, as well as members of the Motor City Match staff. ?Business Plan? applicants
have great business ideas but haven?t formulated a business plan yet or need help
strengthening their business plans before pursuing space. ?Space? finalists were reviewed
by a team of community stakeholders from across various parts of the city and "Cash"
finalists were reviewed by a team of business leaders and lenders. ?Business Plan?,
?Space?, and ?Cash" applications were scored on a scale of 1?100. Each of the five criteria
is worth 20 points to contribute to the 100~point score. Selection criteria are as follows:

Vision and plan
Experience

Market support
Community support
Leverage

.U?F?S?iur"

?Cash" finalists were required to submit supplemental information. ?Cash? finalists
submitted comprehensive financial information, including a standard loan application and
personal financial statement. Motor City Match staff compiled this supplemental
information to determine the financial need, equity investment and ?financial gap? for each
business. Next, Motor City Match staff met with a team of six local Community
Development Financial institution (CDFI) lending partners on June 25, 2018, to determine
grant and loan investment required to fill the financial gap on each project. partners
include lnvest Detroit, Detroit Development Fund, Capital impact Partners, Michigan

November 13, 2018

Women?s Foundation and Detroit Micro-Enterprise Fund. partners made
commitments to explore lending the balance of the financial gap based on recommended
grant investment from Motor City Match. Motor City Match staff used lender interest,
participant scores, supplemental information and readiness to accept additional
investment to determine ?Cash? awardees and associated grant investment.

Finally, staff compiled juror scores to identify top ranking candidates for awards.
EDC staff recommended:

. Thirty-six (36) ?Business Plan? awardees for business planning are presented in
Exhibit A.
Twenty-three (23) ?Space" awardees for site seiection are presented in Exhibit B.
Fourteen (14) ?Cash? awardees to receive a total of $500,000 in grant investment,
as described on Exhibit C.

EDC staff will contract with independent business planning service providers to deiiver
services to ?Business Plan? awardees that will provide business planning training for up to
50 Round 13 Motor City Match ?Business Plan? awardees.

EDC staff will facilitate one?on-one match making between top ranking businesses and
building owners recognized as ?Space? awardees. Match making services will include
open houses and networking sessions between business owners and building owners. in
addition, technical assistance will include expert guidance on leasing, financial planning
and assessing market opportunities.

The EDC will enter into grant agreements with Round 13 Motor City Match ?Cash?
awardees and facilitate introductions to lending partners to pursue gap financing through
these independent sources.

A resolution approving the staff's recommendation of ?Business Plan", and ?Space"
awardees and recommending to the Board staff?s recommendation of ?Cash? awardees
was included for the Board?s consideration.

Subsequent to a discussion, the Board took the following action:

On a motion?by Mr. Jackson, seconded by Mr. Stailworth, Resolution Code EDC
18?11-91?753 was unanimously approved.

Motor City Match: Extension and Modification of Awards for Yum Villaqe
Restaurant incubator

 

Mr. Batten advised that under the Motor City Match Program, participating business are
awarded various awards based on the program track for which the awardee has applied
and been selected. Generally speaking, a business can only receive one award for each
program track.

One business owner, Godwin lhentuge, received the following three Motor City Match
awards under three different business entities for his restaurant incubator concept:

November 13, 2018

0 Round 2 ?Business Plan? award for entity named, ?Yum Village, - technical
assistance business plan amount: $1,000, EDC Board approval: January 25, 2016.

. Round 3 ?Space? award for entity named, ?North End Company? - technical
assistance space amount: $4,000, EDC Board approval: April 11, 2016.

. Round 5 ?Cash" award for entity name, ?The Kenilworth Club? - cash grant amount:
$50,000 for location at 9425 John R, EDC Board approval: September 30, 2016.

The technical assistance allowance for the Round 3 ?Space? award, along with the cash
grant award for Round 5 ?Cash? have not been used by the awardee and have expired.

Mr. lhentuge experienced a change in the intended location of his business, but he has
now secured a lease in the building located at 6500 Woodward, just south of Grand
Boulevard and seeks to operate a restaurant incubator at the location through the Yum
Village, LLC entity. He has requested to use the remaining technical assistance allowance
for costs associated with certain legal fees and the ?Cash" grant for costs associated with
the build out of the space, as set forth in the Sources and Uses of Funds attached as
Exhibit A hereto.

EDC staff reviewed the request and recommended extending both of the awards by up to
one-year and rewissuing Technical Assistance awards in the amount of $4,000 and the
cash grant award of $50,000 in the name of Yum Village, LLC for the location at 6500
Woodward.

A resolution was included for the Board?s consideration.
Subsequent to a discussion, the Board took the following action:

On a motion by Mr. seconded by Mr. Osei, Resolution Code EDC 18?
11?91?79 was unanimously approved.

East Riverfront: Approval of Professional Consultant Services Agreement for
Parking and Access in the East Riverfront

Ms. Pavelko informed that in 2016, the Detroit Riverfront Conservancy (?Conservancy?) in
partnership with the Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit and
the City of Detroit?s Planning and Development Department undertook a 10-month
planning engagement in an effort to update the East Riverfront Plan. As a result of this
process, the East Riverfront Framework (?Framework?) was launched in the Spring of
2017 and several planned investments are underway. These include the $27 million
renovation of the historic Stone Soap Building, $2 million for the creation of Atwater Beach,
planning for the expansion of Millikan State Park and construction of the Campau
Greenway.

Due to the growth in use from a variety of events at the East Riverfront, the anticipation of

future development, and the desire to provide parking and access for the Aretha Franklin
amphitheater, formally known as Chene Park, and the Michigan Department of Natural

November 13, 2018

Resources amenities, the City of Detroit has asked the EDC to complete a parking and
access study for the East Riverfront. A request for proposals (RFP) was issued on August
31, 2018 to secure a qualified parking consultant to assist with the parking and access
study for the district. The purpose of soliciting a proposal from an interested and qualified
professional consulting firm(s) is to provide parking and access consulting services (the
?Services?), related to the East Riverfront district (the ?Study Area?). It is anticipated that
the Services will address the following items:

.- Assessment of parking supply and demand as well as additional mobility options
in the Study Area

. Determine immediate and future parking and access needs

- Provide recommendations for improved access to the Riverfront and parking
management

Based on the responses to the RFP, EDC staff negotiated a scope of work for the services
described in the attached Exhibit A (the ?Services") with Nelson\Nygaard (the
a consulting firm specializing in transportation, mobility and access. The
firm has demonstrated its ability to provide experience and cost?effective solutions on
projects such as the Downtown Detroit Transportation Study and the Greektown
Neighborhood Vision Framework Plan, which are both ongoing. The Consultant is
partnering with the local design and planning consulting firm, MKSK.

The EDC staff requested approval for the execution of a professional services agreement
with the Consultant for the Services in an amount not to exceed eighty-tour thousand three
hundred thirty-six and 00/00 dollars A draft resolution was included for the
Board?s consideration.

Subsequent to a discussion, the Board took the following action:

On a motion by Mr. Stallworth, seconded by Mr. Osei, Resolution Code EDC 18?
11-52?08, was approved, with Ms. Clayson opposing.

East Riverfront: Approval of Professional Consultant Services Agreement for East
Riverfront Construction Drawings

Ms. Pavelko advised that in April of 2018, the Economic Development Corporation of the
City of Detroit approved the award of a professional services contract to
Spackman, Mossop, and Michaels (the ??Consultant") to provide design concepts for
potential improvements on three vacant parcels owned by the EDC in the East Riverfront
District.

Currently, the EDC properties are unmaintained gravel lots with fencing of various quality.
The state and appearance of these properties are in stark contrast to the other
improvements that have occurred in the East Riverfront District. The long?term intent for
these prOperties is forthe EDC to facilitate urban infill development on these parcels which
would include structured parking. However, construction is not anticipated for several
years after a Request for Proposals is released and predevelopment activities have
occurred.

November 13, 2018

In the interim, the purpose of the solicitated design concepts was to analyze the potential
to use the properties as parking to support existing development projects undemay and
local amenities until shared parking facilities can be constructed. in addition to alleviating
parking needs in the East Riverfront District, it will result in the beautification of the
properties that will complement current investments and continue to attract visitors and
residents to the East Riverfront District.

The Consultant has completed the design concepts and EDC staff has reviewed the
Consuitant?s design concepts and potential improvements. Based on an analysis of the
proposed improvements and parking projections from the EDC parking operator, EDC
staff recommends limiting improvements to the property located at 2155 Dubois. it is
anticipated that the net parking revenue received by the EDC over the next five years will
equal the estimated cost to install a parking lot. EDC staff negotiated a scope of work with
the Consuitant for the design and engineering services for the property located at 2155
Dubois, which scope was based on the Consultant?s original proposal submitted to the
EDC and is attached as Exhibit A.

The EDC staff requested approval for the execution of a professional services agreement
with the Consultant for design and engineering services not to exceed forty-nine thousand
nine hundred and 00/100 dollars 

A draft resolution was included for the Board?s consideration.
Subsequent to a discussion, the Board took the following action:

On a motion by Mr. Jackson, seconded by Mr. Stallworth, Resoiution Code EDC
18-11-5209 was approved, with Ms. Clayson opposing.

East Riverfront: Aggroval of Stockpile Removal for the EDC gast Riverfront
Properties

Ms. Pavelkc reported that in late 2017, it was identified that a large stockpile of soil had
been deposited at 2155 Dubois. it is not known when this stockpile was dumped.
Removal of the soil stockpile is necessary to facilitate the construction of a parking lot at
this site and complete the necessary geotechnicai and assessments of the ground below.
Environmental testing of the soii was completed, and results indicate that the disposal of
the soil must occur at a specialty designated waste facility.

The Economic Development Corporation of The City of Detroit invited
experienced, qualified and licensed contractors to submit proposals for the removal of soil
located at 2155 Dubois. The purpose of soliciting a proposal from interested and qualified
professional constructors was to remove the soil stockpile as follows:

. Soil stockpile removal and disposal based on results submitted by NTH
Consuitants environmental testing resuits.
0 Removal of overgrown vegetation, trees and brush.

EDC received 3 responses, all from Detroit-based firms. Based on the responses, EDC
staff requested approval for the execution of a construction services agreement with ideal

November 13, 2018

Contracting, a Detroit-based business, for an amount not to exceed one hundred one
thousand thirty and 00/100 dollars A draft resolution was included for the
Board?s consideration.

Subsequent to a discussion, the Board took the following action:

On a motion by Mr. Jackson, seconded by Ms. Bruhn, Resolution Code EDC 18?
1162?10 was unanimously approved.

Corktown: City General Fund Request: Greater Corktown Neighborhood
Framework

Ms. Pavelko stated that the City?s Planning and Development Department has
requested the assistance of The Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit
(the and the Detroit Economic Growth Association (the in connection with
the Greater Corktown Neighborhood Framework Plan (the ?Planning Study?) it hopes to
undertake in 2019. In particular, would like DEGA to administer a contract for the
Planning Study, as further described in Exhibit A provided with the board material, and
has estimated the cost of the Planning Study, including contingency and administrative
costs, at $700,000. has identified $300,000 of City general funds (the "City Funds")
to be allocated towards the Planning Study and has been working with the DEGA
regarding a $400,000 funding request to Motor City Casino (the Funds") for the
Planning Study, for which DEGA would act as a fiscal sponsor.

requested the EDC to accept the City Funds and transfer such funds to DEGA for
purposes of the Planning Study pursuant to an amendment to the existing contract
with the City or a new funding agreement, subject to City Council approval.

A resolution was included for the Board?s consideration.
Subsequent to a discussion, the Board took the following action:

On a motion by Mr. Stallworth, seconded by Mr. Jackson, Resolution Code EDC
18-11?9801 was unanimously approved.

Casino Loan Program: Laughter in The Sun, LLC Loan Modification

Ms. Hundiey advised that Laughter in the Sun, LLC (US) is a woman and minority owned
Limited Liability Company owned by Regina Gaines, Andrea Dunbar and Terry Mullins.
They operate the House of Pure Vin, a specialty retail wine store located at 1433
Woodward Avenue. The store occupies 2,200 sf of retail space and 745 sf of storage
space. House of Pure Vin sells wine and offers such services as wine tastings, wine
sampling and an online wine ordering club.

In October 2015, the EDC Board approved a loan from the Casino Development Funds in
the amount of $130,000.00 to US. EDC partnered with invest Detroit and Detroit
Development Fund (together with EDC, the ?Lenders"). The collateral was a lien on all
business assets and personal guarantees. Funds were used to assist in the buildout of
the space. All loans matured November 2018.

November 13, 2018

In 2017, US reached out to all lenders for financial relief seeking to maintain store
sustainability and gain adequate cash flow. The EDC Board approved a modification of
reduced loan payments. The other lenders payments were also reduced. The reduced
payments assisted but were insufficient in still providing the cash flow needed to pay off
all loans at maturity. Store sales and activities have been steady but not enough to
produce sufficient cash flow.

In a further effort to sustain the business, LIS reached out to the Landlord (Bedrock) and
Lenders regarding further relief. They are requesting an extension of the maturity dates
and financial support. LIS proactively held conference calls and meetings with all Lenders
and Bedrock to implement a plan of action. The plan has evolved to Bedrock agreeing to
actively support US to sustain its business. The plan details involve gaining financial
security by utilizing the services of Advisors and TIVA Capital, curating programs and
partnerships to drive sales, implementation of new technology and a feasibility plan that
will enhance the store. Bedrock is requesting a 120~day extension on all loan maturities.
They have also rendered financial support in the form of a subordinated Line of Credit in
the amount of $75,000.00 from Rose Financial, LLC. Bedrock has made success a
priority.

LIS has submitted payments, loan documentation and remained responsive to all
Lenders. They have worked with their Landlord to provide a plan of sustainability for the
business. They will continue to remit timely loan payments and all pertinent
documentation as required. The EDC loan payments are $1,333.33. They are
current in remitting payments and the loan balance is $116,47i28. EDC staff has
reviewed the file and its circumstances and finds it reasonable to give LIS relief.

EDC Staff is asking the EDC Board of Directors to approve a Loan Modification that entails
an extended maturity date of March 2019 and an approval that allows us to receive a
subordinated Line of Credit in the amount of $75,000.00 from Rose Financial LLC. This

approval will be contingent upon approvals from Invest Detroit and Detroit Development
Fund. All loan documents will be amended accordingly.

Ms. Forte advised that this would have normally gone to the Finance Committee before
being brought to the Board for approval; however, time did not permit the Finance
Committee to meet.

Ms. Hundley informed that the resolution provided had an error and needed to be
amended. In the first paragraph of the resolution, fourth line, word "subordinate? should
be changed to ?paripassu?.

Subsequent to a discussion, the Board took the following action:

On a motion by Mr. Stallworth, seconded by Ms. Clayson, Resolution Code EDC
1841?74?41 was unanimously approved, as amended.

ADMINISTRATION
OTHER MATTERS

PUBLIC COMMENT

November 13, 2018

ADJOURNMENT

With there being no further business to come before the Board, Ms. Forte adjourned the
meeting at 10:05 am.

November 13, 2018

 CODE EDC 18-11-02-306
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroi

 

APPROVAL: OF MINUTES OF OCTOBER 23, 2018 MEETING 
RESOLVED, that the minutes of the Regular meeting of October 23, 2018 are
hereby approved and all actions taken by the Directors present at such meeting, as set

forth in such minutes, are hereby in all respects rati?ed and approved as actions of the
Economic Development Corporation.

November 13, 2018

500 Griswold,Suite 2200 Detroit, Michigan 48226 (313) 9632940

CODE EDC 1841-91-76
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit

 

MOTOR CITY RE-STORE: ROUND 5 AWARDS

WHEREAS, EDC staff has completed due diligence and evaluation for applications
(?Applications) in the fifth round (?Round of the Motor City Re?Store Program; and

WHEREAS, the EDC staff has provided recommendations to the Board, to receive
grant investment subject to EDC Board approval; and

WHEREAS, the EDC Board has determined that the staff recommendation is
reasonable and consistent with the Motor City Re-Store program; and

NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the EDC Board of Directors, accepts
the current results of the Round 5 evaluation process, and approves the Applications that
have been recommended for Motor City Re-Store ?Construction" awards, attached hereto
as Exhibit A and ?Design? awards, attached hereto as Exhibit B.

BE lT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the EDC Board of Directors, recommends that
grant amounts not fully allocated each round the remaining funds when quarterly
?Construction" awards total less than $500,000) be repurposed and distributed in future
rounds. in such cases, Staff would have the authority to recommend more than $500,000
in awards in future rounds, subject to the approval of the Board.

BE lT FURTHER RESOLVED, that any two Of?cers, or any one of the Officers and
any one of the Authorized Agents or any two of the Authorized Agents shall
hereafter have the authority to negotiate and execute all documents, contracts, or other
papers and to take such actions as are necessary or appropriate to implement the
provisions and intent of this resolution.

BE lT FINALLY RESOLVED, that all of the acts and transactions of any Of?cer or
Authorized Agent of the EDC, in the name and on behalf of the EDC, relating to matters
contemplated by the foregoing resolutions, which acts would have been approved by the
foregoing resolutions, except that such acts were taken prior to the execution of these
resolutions, are hereby in all respects confirmed, approved and ratified.

November 13, 2018

500 Griswold,Sui?re 2200 Defroit,MlChigori 48226 (313) 963-2940

 CODE soc 18~11~01-77
Economic: DeveIOpment Corporation of the City of Detroit

 

MOTOR CITY RECOMMENDATION FOR ROUND 13 BUILDING AWARDS

WHEREAS, EDC staff has completed extensive due and evaluation for
applications (?Applications) for the thirteenth round ("Round 13?) of the Motor City Match
Building Application Track; and

WHEREAS, the EDC staff has provided recommendations to the EDC Board of
Directors, to receive technical assistance in the "Space,? and ?Design? Building Owner
award categories; and

WHEREAS, the Board determined that the staff recommendation is reasonable
and consistent with the Motor City Match program; and

NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the EDC Board of Directors accepts
the current results of the Round 13 Building Application evaluation process, and approves
the Applications that have been recommended for ?Space? awards, attached hereto as
Exhibit A.

BE lT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the EDC Board of Directors accepts the current
results of the Round 13 Building Application evaluation process, and approves the
Applications that have been recommended for ?Design? awards, attached hereto as
Exhibit B.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that any two Officers, or any one of the Officers and
any one of the Authorized Agents or any two of the Authorized Agents shall
hereafter have the authority to negotiate and execute all documents, contracts, or other
papers and to take such actions as are necessary or' appropriate to implement the
provisions and intent of this resolution. 

BE IT FINALLY RESOLVED, that all of the acts and transactions of any Officer or
Authorized Agent of the EDC, in the name and on behalf of the EDC, relating to matters
contemplated by the foregoing resolutions, which acts wouid have been approved by the
foregoing resolutions, except that such acts were taken prior to the execution of these
resolutions, are hereby in all respects confirmed, approved and ratified.

November 13, 2018

500 Griswold,SUiie 2200 DetrOiT,MlChigon 48226 (313) 96342940

. CODE EDC 1841-91-78
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit

 

MOTOR CITY MATCH: ROUND 13 BUSINESS AWARDS

WHEREAS, EDC staff has completed due diligence and evaluation for applications
(?Applications) in the thirteenth round 13?) of the Motor City Match Business
Application Track; and

WHEREAS, the EDC staff has provided recommendations to the Board to receive
technical assistance for the ?Business Plan? awards, ?Space? awards, and cash grant
investment for the ?Cash? award categories; and

WHEREAS, the EDC Board has determined that the staff recommendation is
reasonable and consistent with the Motor City Match program; and

NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the EDC Board of Directors, accepts
the current results of the ROUND 13 Business Application evaluation process, and
approves the Applications that have been recommended for ?Business Plan? awards,
attached hereto as Exhibit A.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the EDC Board of Directors, accepts the
current results of the ROUND 13 Business Application evaluation process, and approves
the Applications that have been recommended for ?Space" awards, attached hereto as
Exhibit B.

BE lT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the EDC Board of Directors, recommends to
the EDC Board of Directors the approval of the ?Cash? grant awards that were
recommended by Staff pursuant to the ROUND 13 Business Application evaluation
process, attached hereto as Exhibit C.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the EDC Board of Directors, recommends that
grant amounts not fully allocated each round the remaining funds when quarterly
?Cash? awards total less than $500,000) be repurposed and distributed in future rounds.
in such cases, Staff would have the authority to recommend more than $500,000 in ?Cash?
awards in future rounds, subject to the approval of the Board.

BE lT FURTHER RESOLVED, that any two Of?cers, or any one of the Of?cers and
any one of the Authorized Agents or any two of the Authorized Agents shall
hereafter have the authority to negotiate and execute all documents, contracts, or other
papers and to take such actions as are necessary or appropriate to implement the
provisions and intent of this resolution.

BE IT FINALLY RESOLVED, that all of the acts and transactions of any Officer or
Authorized Agent of the EDC, in the name and on behalf of the EDC, relating to matters
contemplated by the foregoing resolutions, which acts would have been approved by the
foregoing resolutions, except that such acts were taken prior to the execution of these
resolutions, are hereby in all respects confirmed, approved and rati?ed.

November 13, 2018

500 Griswold,8uite 2200 - Detroit,Miohigon 48226 (313)963?2940

. CODE EDC 1841-91-79
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit

 

MOTOR CITY MATCH: EXTENSION AND MODIFICATION OF AWARDS FOR YUM
VILLAGE RESTAURANT INCQEATOR

WHEREAS, under the Motor City Match Program, participating business are
awarded various awards based on the program track for which the awardee has applied
and been selected, with each business being eligible to receive only one award per track;
and

WHEREAS, one business owner, Godwin lhentuge, received the following three Motor
City Match awards under three different business entities for his restaurant incubator
concept

. Round 2 "Business Plan" award for entity named, ?Yum Village, technical
assistance business plan amount: $1,000, EDC Board approval: January 25, 2016.

. Round 3 ?Space? award for entity named, ?North End Company? - technical
assistance space amount: $4,000, EDC Board approval: April 11, 2016.

0 Round 5 ?Cash" award for entity name, ?The Kenilworth Club" - cash grant amount:
$50,000 for location at 9425 John R, EDC Board approval: September 30, 2016.

WHEREAS, the Round 3 ?Space" technical assistance award and the cash grant
have not been used by the awardee and have expired; and

WHEREAS, the business owners has requested to use the Round three ?Space?
technical assistance allowance for costs associated with certain legal fees and the "Cash?
grant for costs associated with the build out of space secured at 6500 Woodward, rather
than the location set forth in the application, as set forth in the Sources and Uses of Funds
attached as Exhibit A hereto; and

WHEREAS, EDC staff recommends extending each of the awards by up to one?
year and re-issuing the Technical Assistance award in the amount of $4,000 and the cash
grant award of $50,000 in the name of Yum Village, LLC for the location at 6500
Woodward; and

WHEREAS, the EDC Board of Directors has determined that the staff
recommendations are reasonable and consistent with the goals of the Motor City Match
Program.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT, RESOLVED, that the EDC Board of Directors hereby
approves the extensions and modifications of the awards in the manner stated in this
resolution.

500 Griswold,SUiTe 2200 Detroit, Michigan 48226 (313) 963?2940

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that any two Officers, or any one of the Officers
and any one of the Authorized Agents or any two of the Authorized Agents shall
hereafter have the authority to negotiate and execute all documents, contracts, or other
papers and to take such actions as are necessary or appropriate to implement the
provisions and intent of this resolution.

BE IT FINALLY RESOLVED, that all of the acts and transactions of any Of?cer or
Authorized Agent of the EDC, in the name and on behalf of the EDC, relating to matters
contemplated by the foregoing resolutions, which acts would have been approved by the
foregoing resolutions, except that such acts were taken prior to the execution of these
resolutions, are hereby in all respects confirmed, approved and ratified.

November 13, 2018

 CODE EDC 1841-52-08
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit

 

EAST RIVERFRONT APPROVAL OF PROFESSIONAL CONSULTANT
SERVICES AGREEMENT FOR PARKING AND ACCESS IN THE EAST RIVERFRONT

WHEREAS, the Detroit Riverfront Conservancy in partnership
with the Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit and the City of
Detroit?s Planning and Development Department undertook a 10?month planning
engagement in an effort to update the East Riverfront Plan; and

WHEREAS, as a result of this process, the East Riverfront Framework
(?Framework?) was launched in the Spring of 2017 and several planned investments are
underway resulting in a need to provide parking and access to various properties located
at the East Riverfront; and

WHEREAS, the City of Detroit has asked the EDC to complete a parking and
access study for the East Riverfront district (the "Study Area?); and

WHEREAS, a request for proposals was issued on August 31, 2018 to
secure a qualified parking consultant to provide parking and access consulting services
(the "Services") for the Study Area; and

WHEREAS, upon reviewing the responses to the RFP, EDC staff has determined
that Nelson\Nygaard?s response was the most responsive; and

WHEREAS, the EDC staff has requested approval for the execution of a
professional services agreement with Nelson\Nygaard for the Services not to exceed
eighty~four thousand three hundred thirty-six and 00/100 dollars to provide
the scope of services in the attached Exhibit A (the ?Services?); and

WHEREAS, the EDC Board of Directors has reviewed the proposed Services and
contract and determined they are consistent with the goal for the revitalization of
the East Riverfront and are otherwise appropriate and consistent with the statutory
purposes.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT, RESOLVED, that the EDC Board of Directors hereby
authorizes the execution of a Professional Services Agreement with NelsonWygaard for
the provision of the Services for the aggregate amount not to exceed eighty?four thousand
three hundred thirty?six and 00/100 dollars 

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that any two Of?cers, or any one of the Officers
and any one of the Authorized Agents or any two of the Authorized Agents, shall
hereafter have the authority to negotiate and execute a Professional Services Agreement
consistent with the above described terms, together with such other terms and conditions
that are determined by such Authorized Agents and/or Officers to be customary or
appropriate and not inconsistent with this resolution, and to negotiate and execute all other

500 Griswold,Suiie 2200 DetrOiT,MiChian 48226 (313) 963-2940

documents, contracts, or papers, and take all actions, necessary or appropriate to
implement the provisions and intent of this resolution on behalf of the EDC.

BE IT FINALLY RESOLVED, that ail of the acts and transactions of any officer or
authorized agent of the EDC, in the name and on behalf of the EDC, relating to matters
contemplated by the foregoing resolutions. which acts would have been approved by the
foregoing resolutions except that such acts were taken prior to execution of these
resolutions, are hereby in all respects confirmed, approved and ratified.

November 13, 2018

. CODE EDC 1841-52-09
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit

 

EAST RIVERFRONT: APPROVAL OF PROFESSIONAL CONSULTANT SERVICES
AGREEMENT FOR EAST RIVERFRONT CONSTRUCTION DRAWINGS

WHEREAS, in April of 2018, the Economic Development Corporation of the City
of Detroit approved the award of a professional services contract to Spackman,
Mossop, and Michaela (the ?Consultant?) to provide design concepts for potential
improvements on three vacant parcels owned by the EDC in the East Riverfront District;
and

WHEREAS, EDC staff has reviewed the Consultant?s design concepts and
potential improvement and based on an analysis of the proposed improvements and
parking projections from the EDC parking operator, EDC staff recommends limiting
improvements to the property located at 2155 Dubois; and

WHEREAS, EDC staff negotiated a scope of work with the Consultant for the
design and engineering services for the property located at 2155 Dubois, which scope
was based on the Consultant?s original proposal submitted to the EDC and is attached
hereto as Exhibit A (the ?Services?); and

WHEREAS, the EDC staff has requested approval for the execution of a
professional services agreement with the Consultant for the Services not to exceed forty?
nine thousand nine hundred and 00/100 dollars and

WHEREAS, the EDC Board of Directors has reviewed the proposed Services and
terms of contract and determined they are consistent with the goal for the
revitalization of the East Riverfront and are otherwise appropriate and consistent with the
statutory purposes.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT, RESOLVED, that the EDC Board of Directors hereby
authorizes the execution of a Professional Services Agreement with the Consultant for the
provision of the Services for the aggregate amount not to exceed forty-nine thousand nine
hundred and 00/100 dollars ($49,900) is hereby approved.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that any two Officers, or any one of the Officers
and any one of the Authorized Agents Or any two of the Authorized Agents, shall
hereafter have the authority to negotiate and execute a Professional Services Agreement
consistent with the above described terms, together with such other terms and conditions
that are determined by such Authorized Agents and/or Officers to be customary or
appropriate and not inconsistent with this resolution, and to negotiate and execute all other
documents, contracts, or papers, and take all actions, necessary or appropriate to
implement the provisions and intent of this resolution on behalf of the EDC.

500 Griswold,8ulte 2200 48226 (3I3) 963-2940

BE IT FINALLY RESOLVED, that all of the acts and transactions of any officer or
authorized agent of the EDC, in the name and on behalf of the EDC, relating to matters
contemplated by the foregoing resolutions, which acts would have been approved by the
foregoing resolutions except that such acts were taken prior to execution of these
resolutions, are hereby in all respects confirmed, approved and ratified.

November 13, 2018

 CODE EDC 18-11-52-10
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit

 

EAST RIVERFRONT: APPROVAL. OF CONSTRUCTION SERVICES FOR SOIL
STOCKPILE REMOVAL

WHEREAS, removal of an existing soil stockpile at 2155 Dubois is necessary to
facilitate the construction of a parking lot at the site and complete the necessary
geotechnical and assessments of the ground below; and

WHEREAS, environmentai testing of the soil was completed, and results indicate
that the disposal of the soil must occur at a specially designated waste facility; and

WHEREAS, the Economic Development Corporation of The City of Detroit 
invited experienced, qualified and licensed contractors to submit proposals for the proper
removal of soil (the ?Services?); and

WHEREAS. EDC staff has determined that the proposal submitted by ldeal
Contracting to perform the Services as the most responsive; and

WHEREAS, the EDC staff has requested approval for the execution of a
Construction Services Agreement with Ideal Contracting for the performance of the
Services in a not to exceed amount of one hundred one thousand thirty and 00/100 doliars
($101 ,030.00).

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT, RESOLVED, that the EDC Board of Directors hereby
authorizes the execution of a Construction Services Agreement with Ideal Contracting for
the provision of the Services for the aggregate amount not to exceed one hundred one
thousand thirty and 00/100 dollars is hereby approved.

BE iT FURTHER RESOLVED, that any two Of?cers, or any one of the Of?cers
and any one of the Authorized Agents or any two of the Authorized Agents, shall
hereafter have the authority to negotiate and execute a Construction Services Agreement
consistent with the above described terms, together with such other terms and conditions
that are determined by such Authorized Agents and/or Of?cers to be customary or
appropriate and not inconsistent with this resolution, and to negotiate and execute all other
documents, contracts, or papers, and take all actions, necessary or appropriate to
implement the provisions and intent of this resolution on behalf of the EDC.

BE lT FINALLY RESOLVED, that of the acts and transactions of any officer or
authorized agent of the EDC, in the name and on behalf of the EDC, reiating to matters
contemplated by the foregoing resolutions, which acts would have been approved by the
foregoing resolutions except that such acts were taken prior to execution of these
resolutions, are hereby in all respects confirmed, approved and ratified.

November 13, 2018

500 Griswold,Suite 2200 - Detroit, Michigan 48226 - (313) 963-2940

 

. CODE EDC 1841-98-01
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit

CORKTOWN: CITY GENERAL FUND CORKTOWN
NEIGHBORHOOD FRAMEWORK

WHEREAS, the City's Planning and Development Department has
requested the assistance of The Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit
(the and the Detroit Economic Growth Association (the in connection with
the Greater Corktown Neighborhood Framework Plan (the ?Planning Study") it hopes to
undertake in 2019, a general scope of which is attached as Exhibit A hereto; and

WHEREAS, has identified $300,000 of City general funds (the ?City Funds?)
to be allocated towards the Planning Study and has been working with the DEGA
regarding a $400,000 funding request to Motor City Casino for the Planning Study, for
which the DEGA would serve as a fiscal sponsor; and

WHEREAS, has requested the EDC to accept the City Funds and transfer
such funds to DEGA for purposes of the Planning Study pursuant to an amendment to the
existing contract with the City or a new funding agreement, subject to City Council
approval; and

WHEREAS, the EDC has the statutory authority to accept the City Funds and
transfer such City Funds to the DEGA for the Planning Study; and

NOW, THEREFORE, BE lT RESOLVED, that the EDC Board of Directors hereby
approves the acceptance of the City Funds and transfer such funds to DEGA for purposes
of the Planning Study pursuant to an amendment to the existing contract with the
City or a new funding agreement, subject to City Council approval.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that any two Of?cers, or any one of the Officers
and any one of the Authorized Agents or any two of the EDC's Authorized Agents, shall
hereafter have the authority to negotiate and execute the amendment or agreement, as
applicable, and all other documents, contracts, or papers, and take all actions, necessary
or appropriate to implement the provisions and intent of this resolution on behalf of the
EDC.

BE IT FINALLY RESOLVED, that alt of the acts and transactions of any Officer or
Authorized Agent of the EDC, in the name and on behalf of the EDC, relating to matters
contemplated by the foregoing resolutions, which acts would have been approved by the
foregoing resolutions except that such acts were taken prior to execution of these
resolutions, are hereby in all respects confirmed, approved and ratified.

November 13, 2018

500 Griswold,Suite 2200 Detroit,Michigon 4822c - (313) 963-2940

. CODEW
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit

(Amended at the Table)

 

CASINO LOAN PROGRAM: LAUGHTER IN THE SUN, LLC LOAN MODIFICATION

WHEREAS, in October 2015, the EDC Board approved a loan from the Casino
Development Funds in the amount of $130,000.00 to Laughter in the Sun, LLC (US) which
operates House ofPure Vin located at 1433 Woodward Avenue, which loan was
subordinate parigassu to loans made by invest Detroit and Detroit Development Fund,
with a maturity date of November 2018; and

WHEREAS, in November 2017 the EDC Board approved a loan modification
reducing the principal and interest payments; and

WHEREAS, LIS, together with LlS?s landlord, Bedrock, have developed a plan to
assist us to sustain its business and have requested accommodations from each of LlS?s
lenders; and

WHEREAS, US has requested, and EDC Staff recommends, the approval of the
loan modification extending the maturity date of the loan to March 2019 and approval of a
subordinated Line of Credit in the amount of $75,000.00 from Rose Financial LLC (the
?Loan Modification")

WHEREAS, the EDC Board of Directors has determined that approval of the
proposed Loan Modification is reasonable and consistent with its statutory purposes.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT, RESOLVED, that the EDC Board of Directors
hereby approves the proposed Loan Modification.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that any two officers, or any one of the Of?cers
and any one of the Authorized Agents or any two of the EDC's Authorized Agents,
shall hereafter have the authority to negotiate and execute all documents, contracts,
or papers, and take all actions, necessary or appropriate to implement the provisions
and intent of this resolution on behalf of the EDC.

BE IF FINALLY RESOLVED, that all of the acts and transactions of any of?cer
or authorized agent of the EDC, in the name and on behalf of the EDC, relating to
matters contemplated by the foregoing resolutions, which acts would have been
approved by the foregoing resolutions except that such acts were taken prior to
execution of these resolutions, are hereby in all respects confirmed, approved and
rati?ed.

November 13, 2018

500 Griswold,Suite 2200 - Detroit, Michigan 48226 - (313) 963-2940

