Forest Preserve District of Cook County

Real Estate Committee
Tuesday, February 6, 2018

10:45 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA
There will be a meeting of the committee or subcommittee of the Forest Preserve District of
Cook County Board of Commissioners at the date, time and location listed above.
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in writing,
their name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in advance of the
meeting. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a time specified in
the meeting agenda. Authorized public speakers who are not present during the specified time for public
testimony will forfeit their allotted time to speak at the meeting. Public testimony must be germane to a
specific item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not exceed three minutes; the Secretary
will keep track of the time and advise when the time for public testimony has expired. Persons authorized
to provide public testimony shall not use vulgar, abusive, or otherwise inappropriate language when
addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately; failure to speak to an item that is germane to the
meeting, or failure to adhere to the time requirements may result in expulsion from the meeting and/or
disqualify the person from providing future testimony.
17-0377
COMMITTEE MINUTES

Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 6/6/2017
18-0118
Presented by: ARNOLD RANDALL, General Superintendent
PROPOSED LICENSE REQUEST
Request: Requesting authorization for the Forest Preserve District of Cook County (“the Preserves”),
as Licensor to grant a License to The Village of Westchester, Grantee, to operate and maintain a
160-square-foot gazebo on a 216-square-foot concrete pad located on the Northeast corner of the
intersection of South Mannheim and Cermak Roads

 Real Estate Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

February 6, 2018

Term: 10 years
License Fee:

$4,100.00

License Application and Review Fee: $500.00 + $3000.00
YELAR Fee: $6,150.00

Total one-time upfront fee of $13,750.00 for the term of the License
(Sec. 5-2A-4 and 5-2B-4)
Tree Mitigation Fee: $0.00
The area of the License is: 0.05 acre
Concurrence(s):
The Chief Financial Officer and Chief Attorney have approved this item.

Grantee has met the insurance requirements under the License Agreement.
The Forest Preserves staff have reviewed this license application and plans and have found them to be
acceptable; therefore, it is recommended that the Forest Preserve District Board of Commissioners
approve the issuance of this license.
District(s): 16
Legislative History: 1/9/2018 FPD Board of Commissioners refer to the Real Estate Committee

Secretary
Chairman:
Moody
Vice-Chairman: Moore
Members:
Committee of the Whole

Page 2 of 2

 