Allegheny County Council
436 Grant Street
Pittsburgh, PA 15219
Phone (412) 350-6490
Fax (412) 350-6499

Meeting Minutes
Thursday, April 19, 2018
4:00 PM

Conference Room 1

Committee on Public Works
Bob Macey, Chair; Sam DeMarco, Cindy Kirk, Paul Klein, Robert Palmosina, Denise
Ranalli-Russell and DeWitt Walton, Members

 Committee on Public Works

Meeting Minutes

April 19, 2018

I. Call to Order
The meeting was called to order at 4:02.

Invited Guests:
William D. McKain, CPA, Allegheny County Manager (or designee)
Stephen Shanley, Director, Allegheny County Department of Public Works
Matthew Brown, Chief, Allegheny County Emergency Services
Mr. McKain was present from the Office of the County Manager.
Mr. Hurley was present from the Department of Economic Development.
Mr. Shanley was present from the Department of Public Works.
Chief Brown was present from Emergency Services.
Mr. Barker was present from the Office of County Council.

II. Roll Call
Members Present:

2-

Robert Palmosina andBob Macey

Members Absent:

4-

Cindy Kirk,Paul Klein,Denise Ranalli-Russell andDeWitt Walton

Members Phone:

1-

Sam DeMarco

III. Approval of Minutes

10599-18

Motion to approve the minutes of the March 13, 2018 meeting of the Committee
on Public Works.
A motion was made by Palmosina, seconded by Macey, that this matter be
Passed. The motion carried by a unanimous vote.

IV. Agenda Items
Discussion Topic - Landslides Within Allegheny County
In response to a question from the Chair, Chief Brown indicated that at least 19
municipalities are currently experiencing landslide issues, and the Chair, Mr. McKain, and
Chief Brown discussed the extent of the problem and what the presentation would be
covering.
Mr. Hurley described the land use planning functions of the Department of Economic
Development, and indicated that, prior to extensive land use planning, there was a
comparatively haphazard approach to stormwater management. Mr. Hurley noted that the
hilly terrain of this area and the older buildings compound the issue, and that part of the
intent of subdivision, land use, and stormwater management planning efforts is to
minimize the potential for landslide and similar events. Mr. Hurley highlighted the fact
that landslide insurance cannot be obtained, and that this inevitably has an impact on
development of residential and other development risks. Mr. Hurley concluded by noting
that all of these measures are prospective, and that they do not cure issues that may
apply to construction undertaken in the past, nor are they completely foolproof.
Allegheny County Council

Page 1

Printed on 6/11/2018

 Committee on Public Works

Meeting Minutes

April 19, 2018

Mr. Shanley discussed the mechanics of landslides generally, with a focus on cut-and-fill
slopes, which are relatively common along roadways in the County. Mr. Shanley also
highlighted the importance of cleaning the County's 10,000 or so storm sewers, because
those serve a critical function in draining water away from roads and the slopes adjacent
to them.
The Chair discussed things that people and businesses sometimes do without really
giving them a second thought, but which can have significant impacts on drainage
capacity (e.g. cutting brush and leaving it along stream banks or discarding packaging or
transportation packing materials in a fashion that lets them find their way into storm
sewers). Mr. McKain noted the difference between pruning trees versus cutting them
down entirely, as complete removal will kill the tree's root system and destabilize the soil
in the area. Mr. Hurley discussed a few strategies for limiting tree falls in general, noting
that fallen trees can function as ad hoc dams uncer the right circumstances.
Chief Brown discussed the weather that has created some of the landslide issues,
highlighting ice jams and rain/snow precipitation alternating in comparatively rapid
succession, both of which can contribute to drainage difficulties and/or cause landslides
directly. Chief Brown described some of the coordination efforts that are underway
between the County, the local municipalities, and the Commonwealth. Chief Brown
related some personal experiences in which he has observed structures or roadways that
were built in particularly dangerous fashions, specifically noting a home that has an open
mineshaft entrance in its basement. Chief Brown discussed Emergency Management's
efforts to collect damage assessments and relay them to PEMA, as well as Emergency
Management's efforts to convey current, accurate information to the local emergency
management coordinators and the importance of the local municipalities working with
their emergency management coordinators to respond and allocate resources in the most
efficient, expeditious fashion possible. Chief Brown also discussed the importance of
working groups, citing the utility of coordinating Emergency Services and Public Works
efforts at the County level. Chief Brown described some of the upcoming meetings that
are intended to facilitate communications of the nature that he had discussed, and noted
that Allegheny County is by no means alone in experiencing difficulties, and that PEMA
is faced with the task of attempting to allocate resources among them and/or determining
whether to seek a Federal emergency declaration and funding.
In response to a question from the Chair, Mr. McKain indicated that the County's ability to
respond is determined by a number of factors, including budgetary appropriations,
equipment and staff availability, and the like, and noted that resources must sometimes
be diverted from other functions when an emergency situation arises.
Mr. McKain and Chief Brown discussed some of their experiences with the Route 30
landslide.
Mr. Palmosina indicated that the County's response to a landslide in Carnegie had been
both effective and timely.
In response to a question from Mr. Palmosina, Chief Brown offered to provide a listing of
the local emergency management coordinators, as well as noting that the list also
appears on the Emergency Management website.
Mr. Palmosina and Chief Brown discussed the role of the Bureau of Mining Programs.
In response to a question from Mr. Palmosina, Mr. Hurley noted that the Department of
Allegheny County Council

Page 2

Printed on 6/11/2018

 Committee on Public Works

Meeting Minutes

April 19, 2018

Economic Development does not have the resources to provide a Countywide grant
program to provide assistance, but has offered to arrange loans through the Economic
Development authorities, although no applications have yet been submitted.
Mr. Palmosina and Chief Brown discussed the County's efforts to assist the local
municipalities with issues arising on muncipal property, but highlighted that the County's
ability to assist on private property is severely limited due to liability concerns and the
unavailability of landslide insurance.
Mr. Shanley discussed the impact of liquid precipitation in terms of increased weight on
slopes that are comprised of soil.
In response to a question from the Chair, Mr. Hurley discussed the County's interaction
with COGs on landslide and stormwater management issues, and highlighted some
instances of assistance that had been provided.
In response to a question from the Chair, Chief Brown noted that 911 should always be
called in emergency situations, but that for non-emergency scenarios, he and Mr. McKain
suggested contacting local emergency management administrators and/or the
Department of Public Works, as appropriate. Mr. McKain highlilghted the 412-350-INFO
number for instances in which County-owned property is involved.
In response to questions from the Chair and Mr. Palmosina, Chief Brown noted that the
County's damage assessment has already passed $12 million, and that this figure is
aggregated with the rest of the Commonwealth for the purpose of determining federal
emergency funding eligibility.
Chief Brown noted that the current weather models are forecasting below average
temperatures and above average precipitation through mid-May.
In response to a question from the Chair, Chief Brown noted that small local streams are
only referenced to the Army Corps of Engineers once they are over a certain size, and
the DEP is often involved with remediating small stream issues in the Commonwealth.
Mr. Hurley noted that the prevailing thought regarding streams at one time was essentially
to cover them with culverts or tunnels, which inherently restricts water flow, while the more
modern approach is to leave streams as unrestricted as possible.
Mr. Palmosina, Mr. Hurley, and Chief Brown discussed the rapidity and violence with
which flooding can happen.

V. Adjournment
The meeting was adjourned at 4:56.

Allegheny County Council

Page 3

Printed on 6/11/2018

 