Metropolitan Water Reclamation
District of Greater Chicago

100 East Erie Street
Chicago, IL 60611

Meeting Minutes
Special Meeting

Chairman of Finance Frank Avila, Commissioner Kenneth
Dunkin, Commissioner Martin J. Durkan, Vice-President
Barbara J. McGowan, Commissioner Josina Morita,
Commissioner Debra Shore, Commissioner Kari K. Steele,
Commissioner David J. Walsh, President Board of
Commissioners Mariyana T. Spyropoulos
Sunday, November 18, 2018

1:00 PM

Board Room

Call Meeting to Order
President Mariyana T. Spyropoulos presiding, called the meeting to order at
1:15p.m.

Roll Call
Present:

8-

Absent:

1-

Frank Avila; Kenneth Dunkin; Martin J. Durkan; Barbara J. McGowan; Debra Shore;
Kari K. Steele; David J. Walsh; and Mariyana T. Spyropoulos
Josina Morita

Public Comment
None

Clerk to Read Call of the Meeting

Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago

Page 1

 Special Meeting

Meeting Minutes

18-1226

November 18, 2018

To the Honorable President and
Members of the Board of Commissioners
of the Metropolitan Water Reclamation
District of Greater Chicago
Ladies and Gentlemen:
At the direction of President Mariyana T. Spyropoulos, there will be a Special
Meeting of the Board of Commissioners of the Metropolitan Water Reclamation
District of Greater Chicago on Sunday, November 18, 2018 at 1:00 p.m. in the
Board Room, 100 East Erie Street, Chicago, Illinois.
The purpose of the meeting is to consider candidates to fill the vacancy in the
office of the Executive Director of the Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of
Greater Chicago.
The deliberations will be done in Executive Session.
/s/ Jacqueline Torres
Clerk
A motion was made by Martin J. Durkan, seconded by Kenneth Dunkin, that this
Report be Published and Filed. The motion carried by acclamation. Chorus of
ayes - No nays

Executive Session
A motion was made by Martin J. Durkan, seconded by Kari K. Steele, that an executive
session be held for the Committee on Pension, Human Resources and Civil Service to
discuss matters involving the appointment, employment and compensation of a specific
employee. Motion carried by roll call 8:0

Adjournment
A motion was made by Barbara J. McGowan, seconded by Kenneth Dunkin, that
this Special Meeting be Adjourned. The motion carried by the following roll call
vote: /s/ Jacqueline Torres, Clerk
Aye:

8-

Frank Avila; Kenneth Dunkin; Martin J. Durkan; Barbara J. McGowan; Debra Shore;
Kari K. Steele; David J. Walsh; Mariyana T. Spyropoulos

Absent:

1-

Josina Morita

Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago

Page 2

 Special Meeting

Meeting Minutes

November 18, 2018

APPROVAL:
In accordance with the provisions of 70ILCS 2605/4, each of the foregoing agenda
items duly adopted by the Board of Commissioners of the Metropolitan Water
Reclamation District of Greater Chicago this November 18, 2018, are hereby
approved.
APPROVED:
/s/ Mariyana T. Spryopoulos
President Board of Commissioners of the
Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago
November 18, 2018

Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago

Page 3

 