Allegheny County Council
436 Grant Street
Pittsburgh, PA 15219
Phone (412) 350-6490
Fax (412) 350-6499

Meeting Minutes
Tuesday, March 13, 2018
4:30 PM

Conference Room 1

Committee on Public Safety
Robert Palmosina, Chair; Tom Baker, Sam DeMarco, Paul Klein, Bob Macey, Denise
Ranalli-Russell and DeWitt Walton, Members

 Committee on Public Safety

Meeting Minutes

March 13, 2018

I. Call to Order
The meeting was called to order at 4:31.

Invited Guests:
William D. McKain, CPA, Allegheny County Manager or designee(s)
Matthew Brown, Chief, Allegheny County Emergency Services
Mr. McKain was present from the Office of the County Manager.
Mr. Barker was present from the Office of County Council.

II. Roll Call
Members Present:

2-

DeWitt Walton andRobert Palmosina

Members Absent:

5-

Tom Baker,Sam DeMarco ,Paul Klein,Bob Macey andDenise Ranalli-Russell

Members
Non-Members:

1-

Sue Means

III. Approval of Minutes
IV. Agenda Items
Ordinances

10535-18

An Ordinance of the County of Allegheny, Commonwealth of Pennsylvania,
authorizing the County’s acceptance of one (1) drone for use by the Allegheny
County Fire Marshal’s Office in fire and explosion investigations and by the Allegheny
County Emergency Management Agency in emergency and disaster response, when
necessary.

Sponsors: Chief Executive

At the request of the Chair, the clerk read the title of the bill and Mr. McKain provided a
brief summary of the bill, noting that the drone in question is being donated at no cost to
the County, but that the cost of the drone is being provided by a third party insurance
fraud group. Mr. McKain noted that the drone will be used in a variety of circumstances
in which an aerial view is required, and indicated that the video shot by the drone would
be kept stored on digital media, and that operation of the drone would be undertaken in
accordance with FAA flight and training requirements.
In response to a question from the Chair, Mr. McKain noted that the County already has
one drone, but that training would be provided by the donor to County personnel who
would be piloting the drone.
The Chair and Mr. Walton expressed support for the proposed donation.
In response to questions from Ms. Means, Mr. McKain discussed the County's insurance
and noted that the drone's value is just over $12,000, with an annual maintenance cost of
about $1,300 per year. Mr. McKain indicated that he would look into how many people
would be trained to operate the drone, as well as the approximate size of the drone at
Allegheny County Council

Page 1

Printed on 6/11/2018

 Committee on Public Safety

Meeting Minutes

March 13, 2018

issue. Mr. McKain also noted that he would have to check into specifics of the drone's
operational parameters, but that the County's experience with its current drone has been
positive.
A motion was made by Walton, seconded by Palmosina, that this matter be
Affirmatively Recommended. The motion carried by a unanimous vote.

V. Adjournment
The meeting was adjourned at 4:39.

Allegheny County Council

Page 2

Printed on 6/11/2018

 