Updated 4.18.18

Forest Preserves of Cook County
Conservation & Policy Council
Meeting Minutes
April 5, 2018

Call to Order. Council chair Wendy Paulson called the meeting to order at 9:30 am. The following Council
members and others were in attendance.

Advisory Council Members

Forest Preserve Staff

Wendy Paulson, Chair
Mark Templeton, Secretary
Robert Castaneda
Michael DeSantiago
Terry Guen
Emily Harris
Sylvia Jenkins
Stanley Moore
Laurel Ross

Eileen Figel
Cathy Geraghty
Presenters
Benjamin Cox
Bob Megquier
Delio Calzolari
Karen Vaughan
Cynthia Moreno
Chris Adas
Richard Singer (by phone)

Not in Attendance
Peter Ellis
Falona Joy (Sabbatical)

Welcome. Council Chair Wendy Paulson, called the meeting to order at 9:30 am.
Public Comment. Bill Murray and Pete Saunders from the Mayor’s Office of Calumet City asked to be included in
future discussions regarding Forest Preserve assets serving Calumet City.
Mark Templeton updated the council on the lawsuit against U.S. Steel related to the company’s dumping of
chromium in Lake Michigan. Mark reported that his team is reviewing a proposed settlement which would require
US Steel to pay several hundreds of thousands of dollars for remediation.
Terry Guen stated that NIU recently completed a study on restoration which was the subject of an article in the
Chicago Tribune.
Approval of minutes. A motion was made by Wendy Paulson and seconded by Michael DeSantiago, to approve
minutes from the January 8 meeting. The minutes will be corrected to reflect that the appointment of Emily Harris
to the Council was officially approved by the board on January 9, 2018.
Building a Community of Support. Benjamin Cox and Bob Megquier reviewed progress on seven operational priorities
outlined in the 5-year strategic plan. They noted that two priorities—raising new resources and ensuring continuity—
were rated as “needs improvement”. Bob suggested these two priorities should be the focus of the Council’s efforts
going forward. Benjamin suggested that the best method to raise new resources is to break down goals into
1

 Updated 4.18.18
achievable mileposts and focus separately on land acquisition which is the major cost driver of the Next Century
Conservation Plan. Bob invited members of the Council to provide updates on their outreach efforts.
Reports from Council Members
Wendy Paulson suggested that Council members can be helpful by reaching out to their own community leaders
to get to know what their interests are and how they feel about the forest preserves. Building these relationships
is key.
Michael DeSantiago suggested that new members of the board should be introduced to the plan and the work
of the Council. Commissioner Moore explained that all commissioners want to see the Forest Preserves flourish,
but there are significant financial challenges at this time.
Dr. Sylvia Jenkins stated that Moraine Valley Community College (MVCC) is hosting a summit for the seven
community colleges in Cook County to share the work MVCC does with the Forest Preserves and to encourage
other colleges to replicate this work. One example they will share is the MVCC community learning day during
which faculty and students participate in a restoration work day at the Forest Preserves. This summit will take
place in this summer.
Mike DeSantiago suggested working with Boys and Girls Clubs to encourage more visits to the Forest Preserves.
Eileen Figel indicated that FPCC has documentation regarding the number of residents from each district utilizing
the preserves for picnics, etc. Stuart Strahl added that it is also important to note the combined economic
impact—including number of jobs created—by the Forest Preserves, the Zoo and the Garden.
Reports from NCCP Committee Chairs
Rich Gamble reported that the Economics Committee has:
• Worked with FPCC to create a message house and tagline now being promoted on bill boards and radio
programs throughout Cook County.
• Helped prepare a PowerPoint presentation to be used at community meetings.
• Helped develop responses to “tough questions” which may be asked of partners and staff.
John McCabe reported that the Nature Committee is challenging each member to do a community presentation.
John also reported that:
• FPCC’s Wildlife Management team is delivering two presentations per month, and
• FPCC’s Fishery team is also delivering presentations.
Cynthia Moreno reported that the People Committee has been conducting small meetings with community based
organizations and is developing a broad range of new partnerships. In addition:
• Three groups will give presentations at Brookfield Zoo and the Field Museum.
• The mayor of Elgin will participate in a walking event at Rolling Knolls.
• More than 4,000 people attended a recent event in Edgars Grove, and more than 5,000 people attended the
annual Maple Syrup event at River Trail Nature Center.
Tim Hicks reported that the Leadership Committee is monitoring all the outreach events to leverage efforts to
build a community of support.
Wendy Paulson suggested that volunteer outreach is also an important contribution and it is important to focus
on various measures of value, not just economic impact. For example, we want children to have access to a
healthy environment.
2

 Updated 4.18.18
Golf Master Plan. Terry Guen, Karen Vaughan, and Richard Singer preliminary analysis for the Golf Master Plan.
Terry Guen explained that the Forest Preserves is not presenting final recommendations related to the golf
courses, but rather is continuing with its due diligence to explore options to increase revenues or decrease costs.
Terry then provided an overview of cost recovery goals based upon (a) alignment with FPCC’s mission, and (b)
how broadly the benefit is shared by the public. Guidelines include:
•
•
•
•
•

Admittance to all FPCC nature centers is free; these are fully subsidized.
Paddling, archery, and outdoor recreation programs may be subsidized over 50%.
Nature center camps, night programs at nature centers, and picnics should be subsidized less than 50%.
Live animal programs, off dog areas, and golf should break even.
Commercial filming in the Forest Preserves should generate revenue to support other FPCC programs and
services.

The golf course analysis addresses three options:
1. Keep the status quo
2. Reinvest and reinvent
3. Closures
Karen Vaughan stated that all 11 golf facilities owned by the Forest Preserves are older than 35 years, and several
are older than 80 years. The average number of rounds per year is 32,000.
Prior to 2002, the Forest Preserves managed the Golf Courses, after which an agreement was established with
Billy Casper Golf. Their contract was extended from 2007 to 2021. Billy Casper pays a based fee of $450,000,
provides a 10-50% revenue share, and provides 20% gross on alcohol sales.
Golf course operations, overall, are generating revenue for the Forest Preserves. However, this does not account
for capital needs. Deferred maintenance is a problem across all golf courses. Preliminary recommendations
include:
•

•
•

Reimagine south side Golf Courses
o Invest heavily in Joe Louis
o Repurpose Burnham Woods
o Convert River Oaks into a Training Center
Upgrade Chick Evans
Explore a Banquet facility at George Dunne

Terry Guen stated that the contract with Billy Casper is solid, but the golf courses are old and updates are needed.
Laurel Ross asked if FPCC is considering ecological improvements to the golf courses. Richard Singer explained
that ecological golf courses have the most impact in the west coast region where the cost of water is high.
Ecological changes will not generate substantial savings in Cook County.
Emily Harris asked to incorporate investments needed to make the Golf courses accessible for people with
disabilities.
Robert Castaneda urged FPCC to carefully consider social equity concerns and to balance investments and impacts
fairly across the County.
Commissioner Moore added that the southside golf courses have historically received less investment which
resulted in fewer visitors. Commissioner Moore agreed with Rob that any recommendations must carefully
address historical and future issues related to social equity.
3

 Updated 4.18.18
Analysis of Aquatic Centers. Rob Castaneda provided an overview of the aquatic centers, including the following:
•

Prior to 2016, the Forest Preserves staffed and managed all three aquatic centers. In 2016, Swim Chicago
Southland was retained to manage these centers.

•

Swim Chicago has added programs and services, including new cabanas, birthday parties, and swimming
lessons.

Cynthia Moreno described four options included in the current analysis:
1.
2.
3.
4.

Keep the status quo
Change the fee and management structure
Consider the long-term lease of one or more aquatic centers
Close one or more aquatic centers.

Currently, the goal is to pursue option 2 with the hopes that operations of the aquatic centers will break even.
Analysis of Legislative/Referendum Options. Laurel Ross and Delio Calzolari presented an overview of options
for obtaining new resources. FPCC’s current tax levy is $92 million. Budget challenges include the pension deficit,
deferred maintenance, and the need to scale up to meet NCCP goals. There are two ways to acquire new public
revenue: via referenda or via legislation. Specific options include:
•
•
•

Binding Referendum. Options include an increase to the tax levy, a new special purpose levy, and a capital
bond which could be used for deferred maintenance and land acquisition, but could not be used for
restoration or demolition.
Advisory Referendum. This option allows citizens to vote on a non-binding question of public policy. The
outcome of the ballot question does not result in a new, changed, or rejected law, but it can assess public
opinion and raise awareness.
Legislative Options. Legislative action could address the pension deficit and/or other funding needs. Both
the County and the Pension Board are currently exploring legislation to address the pension deficit.

Delio Calzolari explained that, in order to place an advisory referendum on the November 2018 ballot, a decision
must be made by the board by May 21.
Commissioner Moore explained that a commissioner or the president would need to sponsor the advisory
referendum, then the entire board would vote on whether or not to place the advisory referendum on the ballot.
Council members expressed concern about the need to make a decision quickly and indicated more information
is needed before they can support an advisory referendum.
The Council directed Eileen Figel to convene the officers to meet with the referendum/legislation working group
to further explore this option. If the officers decide not to proceed, no further action is needed. If the officers
want to proceed with this option, a special meeting of the full Council will be convened so everyone can weigh in.
Mark Templeton submitted a motion to allow the officers to further explore this option with staff and the working
group. Laurel Ross seconded the motion. Emily Harris stated that the advisory referendum is premature. Rob
Castaneda clarified that the decision would be returned to the full Council if the officers wish to proceed. The
motion passed with Emily Harris voting no and all others voting yes.
Next Meeting. The next meeting will be an outing and retreat at Camp Reinberg on July 17th and 18th. Families
are invited.
Adjournment. The meeting was adjourned at 12:15 pm.

4

 