DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
BOARD OF DIRECTORS REGULAR MEETING
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2017 – 3:00 P.M.

BOARD MEMBERS PRESENT:

Marvin Beatty
Charles Beckham
Austin Black
Ehrlich Crain
Sonya Delley
Melvin Hollowell
Richard Hosey
David Massaron
John Naglick
Steve Ogden

BOARD MEMBERS ABSENT:

David Blaszkiewicz
Michael Duggan
James Jenkins

OTHERS PRESENT:

Louis Aguilar (Detroit News)
Kirkland Crawford (Detroit Free Press)
Deb Dansby (Rock Ventures)
N. Derringer (Bridge Magazine)
Whitney Eichinges (Bedrock)
John Gallagher (Free Press)
Josef Guziewicz (Bedrock)
Amanda Hanlin (DEGC)
Gay Hilger (DEGC/DDA)
Alex P. Hurley (City Council)
Malinda Jensen (DEGC/DDA)
Jennifer Kanalos (DEGC/DDA)
Steven Kantor (First Southwest)
John Lauve (Public)
Dave LewAllen (WXYZ)
Glen Long (DEGC/DDA)
Howard Luckoff (Rock Ventures)
Rebecca Navin (DEGC/DDA)
Tony Paul (Detroit News)
Moddie Turay (DEGC/DDA)
Adrienne Zeigler (DEGC)

7

 MINUTES OF THE DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
BOARD OF DIRECTORS REGULAR MEETING
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2017
DETROIT ECONOMIC GROWTH CORPORATION
500 GRISWOLD STREET, SUITE 2200 - 3:00 P.M.
GENERAL
Call to Order
Noting that a quorum was present, Mr. Naglick, Treasurer and Acting Chair, called the Regular
meeting of the Downtown Development Authority Board of Directors to order at 3:00 p.m.
Approval of Minutes
Mr. Naglick questioned whether there were any additions, deletions or corrections to the minutes
of the February 8, 2017 Regular Board meeting. Hearing none, the Board took the following action:
On a motion by Mr. Beatty, seconded by Mr. Hollowell, Resolution Code DDA 17-02-02593 was unanimously approved.
Receipt of Treasurer’s Report
Mr. Long reviewed the Treasurer’s Report of Receipts and Disbursements for January 2017 for the
benefit of the Board and asked if there were questions.
With there being no questions, the Board took the following action:
On a motion by Ms. Delley, seconded by Mr. Beatty, Resolution Code DDA 17-02-03-468
was unanimously approved.
PROJECTS
Proposed Third Amendment to Development Agreement between Rosko Development
Company LLC and the DDA
Mr. Turay reported that in September, 2010, the DDA and Rosko Development Company LLC, an
affiliate of Bedrock Real Estate Services, (“Rosko”) entered into a First Amended and Restated
Development Agreement (as amended from time to time, the “Development Agreement”) relating
to the development of, among other properties, the site of the former Hudson building (the “Hudson
Block”). In accordance with the terms of the Development Agreement, Rosko submitted its
proposed development plan for the Hudson Block by December 31, 2016 (the “Development

8

 Plan”). Staff reviewed the Development Plan and determined that it met the minimum requirements
of the Development Agreement and is therefore “deemed approved” per the Development
Agreement; however, under the terms of the Development Agreement, Rosko has the right to
submit, from time to time, an alternative development plan subject to the same review and approval
requirements.
Notably, the Development Plan anticipates the availability of certain tax incentives currently being
considered by the Michigan legislature but not anticipated to be approved prior to the current
March 1, 2017 closing date. If those incentives are not available at closing, Rosko anticipates
submitting an alternative development plan that would meet the requirements of the Development
Agreement and the available incentives.
In light of the DDA’s commitment to maximizing the development potential of the Hudson Block,
Staff recommends amending the Development Agreement to extend the timeline as follows:
Closing Date: November 1, 2017
Construction Commencement: December 1, 2017
Construction Completion: December 1, 2020
A resolution was included for the Board’s consideration.
Mr. Turay advised that representatives from Rock were in attendance and they would like to present
the updated development plan to the Board.
Ms. Deb Dansby, Chief Administrative Officer of Rock Ventures, and Mr. Joe Guziewicz, Vice
President of Construction at Bedrock, introduced themselves. Ms. Dansby stated that today’s
presentation would walk the Board through the project plan and talk through the expectations, as
well as the transformational impact of this project, to give a flavor of why the plan needed to be
amended today to align with Michigan’s economic development initiative to give Detroit its best
opportunity for a transformational development on this site.
Ms. Dansby turned the floor over to Mr. Gooewicz who gave a history of the Hudson’s Building that
stood on that site for 72 years to give a flavor of the importance of the site and its economic impact
on Downtown Detroit. A PowerPoint slide presentation, with conceptual drawings of the proposed
mixed-use development, and a video that was put together about a year ago, was also presented
to the Board. A question and answer session followed.
Subsequent to the discussion, the Board took the following action:
On a motion by Mr. Hollowell, seconded by Mr. Beckham, Resolution Code DDA 17-02112-14 was approved, with Mr. Ogden abstaining.
TEMPORARY ADJOURNMENT
Mr. Naglick temporarily adjourned the meeting at 3:41 p.m. to give the press time to collect their
equipment.
RECALL TO ORDER
Mr. Naglick recalled to order the regular meeting of the Downtown Development Authority Board of
Directors at 3:44 p.m.
PROJECTS
Catalyst Development Project: Second Amendment to Master Development Agreement

9

 Mr. Turay advised that on December 11, 2014, the City of Detroit Downtown Development Authority
(the “DDA”) and Olympia Development of Michigan, LLC (“ODM”) executed that certain Master
Development and Reimbursement Agreement relating to the commitment by to invest, or cause
the investment of, at least $200 Million in private investment as part of the EC Ancillary
Development Project (as amended, the “MDA”).
Pursuant to the terms of the MDA, ODM is obligated to have received approval of all development
proposals regarding Woodward properties that were formerly publicly owned on or prior to
December 11, 2017. However, Section 4.01(a) the MDA also allows certain interim uses of such
properties (e.g., construction staging and parking).
In anticipation of the opening of the Little Caesars Arena (“LCA”) in September, 2017, ODM would
like to develop a pedestrian plaza on Woodward between the I-75 service drive and Henry, as
further depicted in Exhibit A included with the Board material (the “Pedestrian Plaza”). DDA staff
recommends amending Section 4.01(a) of the MDA to allow the Pedestrian Plaza as an authorized
interim use (the “Amendment”), subject to all required zoning and other applicable and necessary
governmental approvals. A proposed form of the Amendment was included as Exhibit B.
A resolution was provided for the Board’s consideration.
Subsequent to a discussion, the Board took the following action:
On a motion by Mr. Massaron, seconded by Ms. Delley, Resolution Code DDA 17-02-12350 was unanimously approved.
Events Center Project - Underwriter Selection for 2017A Bonds
Mr. Long stated that as the Board is aware, the DDA has undertaken the financing and development
of a “catalyst development project” (as defined in Act 197), including the development of the events
center to be named the Little Caesars Arena (the “Events Center”). In December, 2014, the DDA
issued tax-exempt and taxable bonds in the aggregate principal sum of $450,000,000.00 to finance
the construction of the Events Center, and the DDA intends to issue additional tax increment
revenue bonds in an aggregate principal amount sufficient to enable the DDA to finance
$34,500,000 of additional improvements to the Events Center, including improvements to
accommodate the basketball, operational and facility requirements of the Detroit Pistons Basketball
Company, in connection with the relocation of its home venue for professional basketball games
and related operations from the Palace of Auburn Hills to the Events Center commencing with the
fall 2017 NBA season (the “2017A Bonds”).
In December, 2016, the DDA, through its financial advisor, FirstSouthwest (“FirstSouthwest”),
solicited proposals from several financial institutions for proposals for purchasing the 2017A Bonds.
Of the four financial institutions that were willing to pursue a private placement, staff reviewed the
proposals with FirstSouthwest and concurs with FirstSouthwest’s recommendation to select Bank
of America Merrill Lynch (“BAML”). BAML was the bond purchaser on the 2014A bonds, and
therefore is already intimately familiar with DDA’s finances and, we believe, will be well positioned
to achieve an issuance on the schedule required to ensure timely completion of the Events Center.
FirstSouthwest’s recommendation was included with the memorandum as Exhibit A.
DDA staff seeks authority to commence negotiating terms of the 2017A Bonds with BAML, including
through FirstSouthwest and DDA bond counsel. A resolution was provided for the Board’s
consideration.
Mr. Long advised that Steve Kantor of FirstSouthwest was available to answer Board members’
questions.

10

 Mr. Naglick advised that FirstSouthwest was selected by the City through an RFP process as their
financial advisor. They are experts on the best way to place municipal financing in the country and
helped the City last summer achieve $60 million in savings on a refinancing. Also, Mr. Kantor was
heavily involved in the original financing of this project, so in addition to the firm he works for, it
makes him the best to advise the DDA on this $35 million.
Mr. Kantor recommended the proposal submitted by Bank of America Merrill Lynch. The proposed
financing plan would tie in to the original 2014 plan. They would come back to the Board this time
next year not only to refinance the 2014A bonds, but also this bond. The arena will be operating
then and that would be the perfect time to refinance.
Mr. Naglick questioned Mr. Kantor if the 2014 bonds have a mandatory call date of 2018. Mr. Kantor
responded that they have a call date of January 1, 2019.
Mr. Hollowell stated that he does have a concern that we are doing all of our best efforts in trying
to make the maximum amount of participation for Detroit-based businesses, particularly on the
financial side, and would like to have a much more robust discussion on how we have reached out
to the financial community in the city or those that would like to get involved, both from the attorneys’
side and the financial side.
Mr. Kantor explained that they have tried to make this opportunity available to as many people as
possible. Within the Detroit community, they solicited everyone they knew interested in this
transaction and they declined to bid on it because it is not going to be rated by the bond agencies,
which involves more risk for the underwriter. When the financing comes around again next year,
the opportunity will be offered again and hopefully we will have a more stable environment.
Mr. Naglick added that he wanted to support Mr. Kantor’s thought. By deciding to do a short-term
financing of this modification, it limits the market to investment banks that could keep this on their
books. Once we decide to re-syndicate, it opens up the whole market and a number of fine minority
firms.
Mr. Massaron also added that as he understands it, this would be different than a traditional public
offering that we could take publicly and it doesn’t need to stay on a bank’s balance sheet and,
therefore, could have participation from smaller Detroit firms.
Mr. Hollowell responded that when this comes back to the Board in 2018, he would like all of the
banks and firms in Detroit solicited. Possibly they could be graded and given an extra point if they
are a minority or Detroit-based business, in the selection process similar to what is done for other
City RFPs.
Subsequent to the discussion, the Board took the following action:
On a motion by Ms. Delley, seconded by Mr. Crain, Resolution Code DDA 17-02-123-51
was unanimously approved.
ADMINISTRATION
NEW BUSINESS
PUBLIC COMMENT
Mr. Naglick called for public comment and stated that two minutes would be given.
Mr. John Lauve of Holly, Michigan stated the following:

11

 “I was impressed by that presentation by Rock. One big question I have is what the
arrangement is going to cost? I think there would be much greater use of the money here
rather than what they are using to finance the arena. That is where we should have put
the money.
I want to talk about the Tiger violation of the kids, the Tiger “eyesore”, the Ilitch’s Wayne
State School deal, and my FOIA request for further information.
On the first one, of course, it is time to step up to the plate on this Tiger deal. They have
a letter you should fill out stating that they’re in violation and they have 45 days to answer
it, give us an answer of what they are going to do to correct the violation. It says 50,000
kids it doesn’t say college students, elderly or anything else. So that is your responsibility.
I don’t know why you are shying away from that responsibility because Ilitch is in violation
clearly.
Then we have the eyesore. For opening day we want this to be front and center of course.
It was interesting, I’ve have a copy here of the taxes that they paid, they have thing with a
taxable value of $70,000. DDA gave them $1 million and this is where it is since 2009. It
is an irresponsible violation of your integrity on this issue. They get a free pass.
Next we have the Wayne State University deal. I looked it up and there is only one piece
of property that has been transferred. Nothing on Woodward—it’s back here. They paid
over $3 million for it and it is listed on their taxable value of $133,000. So there is something
wrong with this, and I would like to see the bill of sale, the appraiser that determined the
fair market value of this piece of property.”
Mr. Naglick advised Mr. Lauve that his time was up and thanked him for his comments.
Mr. Robert Davis stated the following:
“I just have a question about the agenda item referencing the financing for the new Piston’s
development deal. I believe last week or so, one of the local papers reported that
the…[inaudible]...and the question that was proposed was who is paying for it considering
that Detroit City Council has not approved an amendment to the DDA Plan according to
the Act before …[inaudible]…for the financing received.
And I guess the
local…[inaudible]…reported that he told Olympia and…[inaudible]…Palace/Pistons/casino
were advancing funds to facilitate the development. So the question that unfolds-considering the January additions, this body approved a resolution seeking to be qualified
for reimbursement for the certain bond proceeds and expenses that are going to be
advanced by—purportedly are going to be advanced by this body. Will you--this body--be
reimbursed by Olympia and Palace Sports Entertainment for the money that is being
advanced to allow the development to proceed?
Mr. Naglick stated that we will take his comments under advisement and thanked Mr. Davis for his
comments.

ADJOURNMENT
With there being no other business to be brought before the Board, Mr. Naglick adjourned the
meeting at 4:03 p.m.

12

 CODE DDA 17-02-02-593

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF FEBRUARY 8, 2017
RESOLVED, that the minutes of the Regular meeting of February 8, 2017 are hereby
approved and all actions taken by the Directors present at such meeting, as set forth in such
minutes, are hereby in all respects ratified and approved as actions of the Downtown Development
Authority.

February 22, 2017

13

 CODE DDA 17-01-03-468

RECEIPT OF TREASURER’S REPORT FOR JANUARY 2017
RESOLVED, that the Treasurer’s Report of Receipts and Disbursements for the period
ending January 31, 2016, as presented at this meeting, is hereby in all respects received by the
Downtown Development Authority.

February 22, 2017

14

 CODE DDA 17-02-112-14
RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING THIRD AMENDMENT TO DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
BETWEEN ROSKO DEVELOPMENT COMPANY LLC AND THE DDA
WHEREAS, in September, 2010, the DDA and Rosko Development Company LLC, an
affiliate of Bedrock Real Estate Services, (“Rosko”) entered into a First Amended and Restated
Development Agreement (as amended from time to time, the “Development Agreement”) relating
to the development of, among other properties, the site of the former Hudson building (the “Hudson
Block”); and
WHEREAS, in accordance with the terms of the Development Agreement, Rosko
submitted its proposed development plan for the Hudson Block by December 31, 2016 (the
“Development Plan”) and staff determined that it met the minimum requirements of the
Development Agreement and is therefore “deemed approved” per the Development Agreement;
and
WHEREAS, the Development Plan anticipates the availability of certain tax incentives
currently being considered by the Michigan legislature but not anticipated to be approved prior to
the current March 1, 2017 closing date; and
WHEREAS, Per the terms of the Development Agreement, Rosko has the right to submit,
from time to time, an alternative development plan subject to the same review and approval
requirements; and
WHEREAS, in light of the DDA’s commitment to maximizing the development potential of
the Hudson Block, the DDA Board of Directors has determined that it is in the best interests of the
DDA and the project to amend the Development to extend the timeline as follows (the “Third
Amendment”):
Closing Date: November 1, 2017
Construction Commencement: December 1, 2017
Construction Completion: December 1, 2020
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the DDA Board of Directors does hereby
authorize the negotiation and execution of the Third Amendment setting forth the extended timeline
described above, upon terms deemed appropriate by staff and counsel and otherwise not
inconsistent with the terms described herein.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that any two Officers, any two of the Authorized Agents of
the DDA, or any one of the Officers and any one of the Authorized Agents of the DDA, shall
hereafter have the authority to negotiate and execute the Third Amendment, and the any and all

15

 other documents, contracts, or other papers, or take any and all actions, necessary or appropriate
to implement the provisions and intent of this resolution on behalf of the DDA.
BE IT FINALLY RESOLVED that all of the acts and transactions of any Officer or
Authorized Agent of the DDA, in the name and on behalf of the DDA, relating to matters
contemplated by the foregoing resolutions, which acts would have been approved by the foregoing
resolutions except that such acts were taken prior to execution of these resolutions, are hereby in
all respects confirmed, approved and ratified.
February 22, 2017

16

 CODE DDA 17-02-123-50
CATALYST DEVELOPMENT
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT

PROJECT:

SECOND

AMENDMENT

TO

MASTER

WHEREAS, on December 11, 2014, the City of Detroit Downtown Development Authority
(the “DDA”) and Olympia Development of Michigan, LLC (“ODM”) executed that certain Master
Development and Reimbursement Agreement relating to the commitment by to invest, or cause
the investment of, at least $200 Million in private investment as part of the EC Ancillary
Development Project (as amended, the “MDA”); and
WHEREAS, pursuant to the terms of the MDA, ODM is obligated to have received approval
of all development proposals regarding Woodward properties that were formerly publicly owned on
or prior to December 11, 2017, but, pursuant to Section 4.01(a) the MDA, make use of such
properties for certain interim uses (e.g., construction staging and parking); and
WHEREAS, in anticipation of the opening of the Little Caesars Arena (“LCA”) in
September, 2017, ODM would like to develop a pedestrian plaza on Woodward between the I-75
service drive and Henry, as further depicted in Exhibit A attached hereto (the “Pedestrian Plaza”);
and
WHEREAS, DDA staff recommends amending Section 4.01(a) of the MDA to allow the
Pedestrian Plaza as an authorized interim use (the “Amendment”), a proposed form of which is
attached hereto as Exhibit B; and
WHEREAS, upon review of the proposed terms of the Amendment, the DDA Board has
determined that the Amendment as proposed is consistent with the DDA’s statutory purposes and
otherwise in the best interests of the DDA and the EC Ancillary Development Project.
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the DDA Board hereby authorizes any two of
its Officers, or any two of its Authorized Agents, or one Officer and any one Authorized Agent to
execute the Amendment, substantially in the form of the attached, together with such other
modifications to the MDA as deemed appropriate by such Authorized Agents and counsel which
are not inconsistent with this resolution and do not alter the substance of the MDA or adversely
affect the rights and/or obligations of the DDA under the MDA.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the DDA Board hereby authorizes any two of its Officers
or any two of its Authorized Agents or one Officer and any one Authorized Agent to take any other
actions and execute any other documents necessary or appropriate to implement the provisions
and intent of this resolution.
BE IT FINALLY RESOLVED that all of the acts and transactions of any Officer or
Authorized Agent of the DDA, in the name and on behalf of the DDA, relating to matters
contemplated by the foregoing resolutions, which acts would have been approved by the foregoing

17

 resolutions except that such acts were taken prior to execution of these resolutions, are hereby in
all respects confirmed, approved and ratified.

February 22, 2017

18

 CODE DDA 17-02-123-51
EVENTS CENTER PROJECT - UNDERWRITER SELECTION FOR 2017A BONDS
WHEREAS, the DDA has undertaken the financing and development of a “catalyst
development project” (as defined in Act 197), including the development of the events center to be
named the Little Caesars Arena (the “Events Center”), including, the December, 2014 issuance of
tax-exempt and taxable bonds in the aggregate principal sum of $450,000,000.00 to finance the
construction of the Events Center; and
WHEREAS, the DDA intends to issue additional tax increment revenue bonds in an
aggregate principal amount sufficient to enable the DDA to finance $34,500,000 of additional
improvements to the Events Center, including improvements to accommodate the basketball,
operational and facility requirements of the Detroit Pistons Basketball Company, in connection with
the relocation of its home venue for professional basketball games and related operations from the
Palace of Auburn Hills to the Events Center commencing with the fall 2017 NBA season (the “2017A
Bonds”); and
WHEREAS, in December, 2016, the DDA, through its financial advisor FirstSouthwest
(“FirstSouthwest”), solicited proposals from several financial institutions for proposals for
purchasing the 2017A Bonds; and
WHEREAS, FirstSouthwest recommended the selection of Bank of America Merrill Lynch
(“BAML”), which recommendation is attached hereto as Exhibit A.
WHEREAS, upon review of FirstSouthwest’s recommendation, the DDA Board has
determined that the selection of BAML for the underwriter for the 2017A Bonds is consistent with
the DDA’s statutory purposes and otherwise in the best interests of the DDA and the Events Center
Project.
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the DDA Board hereby approves the selection
of BAML as the underwriter of the 2017A Bonds.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the DDA Board hereby authorizes staff, including
through the engagement of FirstSouthwest, DDA bond counsel, and other necessary or appropriate
professionals, to commence negotiating terms of the 2017A Bonds with BAML which terms shall
be presented to the DDA Board for further review and approval, together with corresponding bond
authorizing resolutions and material transaction documents.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the DDA Board hereby authorizes any two of its Officers
or any two of its Authorized Agents or one Officer and any one Authorized Agent to take any other
actions and execute any documents necessary or appropriate to implement the provisions and
intent of this resolution.
BE IT FINALLY RESOLVED that all of the acts and transactions of any Officer or

19

 Authorized Agent of the DDA, in the name and on behalf of the DDA, relating to matters
contemplated by the foregoing resolutions, which acts would have been approved by the foregoing
resolutions except that such acts were taken prior to execution of these resolutions, are hereby in
all respects confirmed, approved and ratified.
February 22, 2017

20

 