Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Criminal Justice Committee
Tuesday, September 11, 2018

1:30 PM

Cook County Building, Board Room
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA

There will be a meeting of the Committee or Subcommittee of the Board of Commissioners of Cook
County at the date, time and location listed above to consider the following:
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in writing,
their name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in advance of the
meeting. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a time specified in
the meeting agenda. Authorized public speakers who are not present during the specified time for public
testimony will forfeit their allotted time to speak at the meeting. Public testimony must be germane to a
specific item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not exceed three minutes; the Secretary
will keep track of the time and advise when the time for public testimony has expired. Persons authorized
to provide public testimony shall not use vulgar, abusive, or otherwise inappropriate language when
addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately; failure to speak to an item that is germane to the
meeting, or failure to adhere to the time requirements may result in expulsion from the meeting and/or
disqualify the person from providing future testimony.
18-5805
COMMITTEE MINUTES

Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 05/16/2018
18-4955
Sponsored by: LARRY SUFFREDIN, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE
PREVENTING THE DETENTION OF JUVENILES UNDER THE AGE OF 13
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter 46, Law Enforcement,
Sec. 46-4 be enacted as follows:

Page 1 of 2

 Criminal Justice Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

September 11, 2018

Sec. 46-4. - Detention of Juveniles

(a) Placement of a minor away from his or her home must be the last resort and be the least
restrictive alternative available.
(b) An individual under 13 years of age shall not be admitted, kept, detained or committed to the
Cook County Jail or the Juvenile Temporary Detention Center.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
Legislative History :

7/25/18 - Board of Commissioners - refer as amended to the Criminal Justice Com

Secretary
Chairman:
Garcia
Vice-Chairman: Moore
Members:
Committee of the Whole

Page 2 of 2

 