Allegheny County Council
County of Allegheny
436 Grant Street
Pittsburgh, PA 15219
Phone (412) 350-6490
Fax (412) 350-6499

Meeting Minutes
Wednesday, April 4, 2018
4:15 PM

Conference Room I

Committee on Health & Human Services
John Palmiere, Chair; Patrick Catena, Nick Futules, Cindy Kirk, Paul Klein, Bob Macey
and Sue Means, Members

 Meeting Minutes

Committee on Health & Human
Services

April 4, 2018

I. Call to Order
The meeting was called to order at 4:29.

Invited Guests:
William D. McKain, CPA, Allegheny County Manager or designee(s)
Dr. Karen Hacker, Director, Allegheny County Health Department
Mr. McKain was present from the Office of the County Manager.
Dr. Hacker, Mr. Parker, Ms. Horowitz, Ms. Wilson, Mr. Naey and Mr. Kelley were present
from the Health Department.
Mr. Barker was present from the Office of County Council.

II. Roll Call
Members Present:

3-

Paul Klein,Sue Means andJohn Palmiere

Members Absent:

3-

Nick Futules,Cindy Kirk andBob Macey

Members Phone:

1-

Patrick Catena

Members
Non-Members:

2-

Anita Prizio andSam DeMarco

III. Approval of Minutes
IV. Agenda Items
Ordinances

10557-18

An Ordinance of the County of Allegheny, Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, ratifying
amendments to the Allegheny County Health Department’s Rules and Regulations,
Article IX, “Lifeguards, Bathing Places, Bathing Beaches, Hot Tubs, and Spas.”

Sponsors: Chief Executive

At the request of the Chair, the clerk read the title of the bill, and Dr. Hacker provided a
brief history of Article IX, together with a summary of how the possibility of amending the
regulation was raised to the Department. Dr. Hacker noted that the entities that
requested the revision were told that a consensus had to be reached regarding regulation
content prior to adoption, and indicated that the Department's priorities were water
sanitation. Ms. Horowitz summarized the public comment results, noting that several
changes were made in response to the comments received, and indicated that letters
were sent to stakeholders throughout he process. Dr. Hacker noted that the County's
regulation has historically been more stringent than the Commonwealth's, and that
remains true. Mr. Parker noted that there were a couple of isolated instances in which
the County's regulation was actually less stringent than the Commonwealth's, and that the
County regulation was rendered consistent with the Commonwealth's in those cases.
Ms. Means discussed some of the input that she had received during the process, noting
that nobody expressed a desire to delay the process, but that some concerns had been
Allegheny County Council

Page 1

Printed on 6/11/2018

 Committee on Health & Human
Services

Meeting Minutes

April 4, 2018

expressed regarding the lifeguard requirement in health club settings. Ms. Means
summarized the nature of those concerns. Ms. Means and Dr. Hacker discussed the
variance process, Mr. Parker indicated that variances would have to be evaluated on a
case-by-case basis, and Dr. Hacker expressed a willingness to work with the health club
pool owners.
In response to questions from Mr. Klein, Mr. Parker noted that the change is essentially
a hybrid between the existing regulation, the Commonwealth's regulation, and the Model
Aquatic Health Code. Ms. Horowitz noted that the MAHC is regarded as the ideal
standard.
In response to a question from Mr. DeMarco, Mr. Parker noted that health clubs that
have CPR or other certified individuals on premises, that would be a factor to consider.
Dr. Hacker noted that the issuance of one day passes by health clubs - which often
happens - creates an issue to the extent that it potentially renders them accessible to the
general public for the purposes of the regulation. Mr. DeMarco suggested that issuing
one day passes that exclude pool usage might be an avenue to consider.
Mr. DeMarco suggested that he is comfortable with the interpretation that the Department
is giving, but also noted that he has some discomfort to the extent that the same
regulations may be enforced very differently by future personnel, so he would like to
thoroughly contemplate potential future implications prior to adoption of health regulations
in general.
Ms. Means noted the written comment offered by Mr. Eichenlaub of the Apartment
Association.
A motion was made by Klein, seconded by Palmiere, that this matter be
Affirmatively Recommended. The motion carried by a unanimous vote.

V. Adjournment
The meeting was adjourned at 4:52.

Allegheny County Council

Page 2

Printed on 6/11/2018

 