 

Official Report of the Proceedings
of the

BOARD OF EDUCATION

of the City of Chicago

 

Regular Meeting-Wednesday, February 23, 2011
10:30 AM.
(125 South Clark Street)

 

Published by the Authority of the Chicago Board of Education

Mary B. Richardson-Lowry Estela G. Beltran
President Secretary

February 23, 2011
ATTEST:

air/LAM

Secretary of the Board of Education
of the City of Chicago

President Richardson-Lowry took the Chair and the meeting being called to order there were then:

PRESENT: Ms. Ward, Mr. Bobins, Ms. Mu?ana, Dr. Butt, Mr. Carrero, Ms. Davis, and
President Richardson-Lowry - 7

ABSENT: None

ALSO PRESENT: Mr. Terry Mazany, Chief Executive Officer, and Mr. Patrick J. Rocks,
General Counsel.

Mr. Terry Mazany, Chief Executive Officer gave a presentation on Education in a Global
Context: Framework for the Education Plan.

At this time, the Members of the Board heard Public Participation.
Mr. Carrero presented the following Motion:

11-0223-MO1

MOTION TO CLOSE

MOTION ADOPTED that the Board hold a closed session to consuder information.
regarding appointment. employment. compensation discipline. performance. or dismissal ol
employees pursuant to Section of the Open Meetings Act: collective negotiating matters
between the public body and its employees or their representatives. or deliberations concerning
salary schedules for one or more classes of employees pursuant to Section of the Open
Meetings Act; purchase of real property pursuant to Section of the Open Meetings Act.
setting of a sale price or lease of real property pursuant to Section of the Open Meetings
Act; and security procedures and the use of personnel and equipment to respond to an actual. a
threatened, or a reasonably potential danger to the safety of employees. students. staff. the
public, or public property pursuant to Section of the Open Meetings Act: and pending
litigation and litigation which is probable or imminent involving the Board pursuant to Section

2(c)(11) of the Open Meetings Act.
Dr. Butt moved to adopt Motion 11-0223-MO1
The Secretary called the roll and the vote was as follows:

Yeas: Ms. Ward, Mr. Bobins, Ms. Mur?iana, Dr. Butt, Mr. Carrero, Ms. Davis, and President
Richardson-Lowry - 7

Nays: None

President Richardson-Lowry thereupon declared Motion 11-0223-MO1 adopted.

(1)

(2)

(3)

February 23, 2011

CLOSED SESSION
RECORD OF CLOSED SESSION

The following is a record of the Board's Closed Session:

The Closed Meeting was held on February 23, 2011. beginning at 1:41 pm. at the Central
Service Center, 125 South Clark Street. and President?s Conference Room 6th Floor, and
Chicago Illinois 60603.

PRESENT: Ms. Ward, Mr. Bobins, Ms. Mu?ana, Dr. Butt, Mr. Carrero, Ms. Davis. and
President Richardson-Lowry - 7

ABSENT: None

snaps?

Other Reports
Warning Resolutions
Terminations
Personnel

Real Estate

Security

No votes were taken in Closed Session.

After Closed Session the Board reconvened.

Members present after Closed Session: Ms. Ward, Mr. Bobins, Ms. Mu?ana, Mr. Carrero.
Ms. Davis, and President Richardson-Lowry - 6

Members absent after Closed Session: Dr. Butt - 1

11-0223-AR2

AUTHORIZE CONTINUED RETENTION OF THE LAW FIRM NEAL 8. LEROY. L.L.C.
THE GENERAL COUNSEL REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:
Continua retention of the law firm Neal 8. Leroy. L.L.C.

DESCRIPTION: The General Counsel desires to continue the retention of the law firm Neal Leroy.
L.L.C. to provide legal services in connection with land acquisitions and related matter for the Capital
Improvement Program. Additional authorization for the firm's anticipated fees is requested in the amOunt
of $500,000. As invoices are received, they will be reviewed by the General Counsel and. it satisfactory.
processed for payment.

LSC REVIEW: LSC approval is not applicable to this report.
AFFIRMATIVE ACTION STATUS: The firm is an MBE.

FINANCIAL: Charge $500.000.00 to Department of Facilities
Budget Classification Fiscal Year 2011 . 

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that. in accordance with 105 ILCS
5134-131. the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those Investigations.

Conflicts The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board it entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 ILCS 5134-213 which restricts the employment of. or the letting of contracts to. former
Board members

during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of of?ce.

Indebtedness - The Board's indebtedness Policy adopted June 26. 1996 (96-0626-P03). as amended
from time to time. shall be incorporated Into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics - The Board's Ethics Code adopted June 23, 2004 (04-0623-PO4). as amended from time to time.
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

February 23, 2011

Contingent Liability The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current
fiscal year is deemed a contingent liability. subject to appropriation in the subsequent ?scal year
budgetts).

President Richardson-Lowry thereupon declared Board Report 11-0223-AR2 accepted.

11-0223-AR3

COMPENSATION - PAYMENT FOR LUMP SUM SETTLEMENT FOR
WILLIAM MCCLORY - 07 WC 19539

THE GENERAL COUNSEL REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Authorized settlement of the Workers' Compensation claim of William McClory. Case No. 0? WC 19539
and subject to the approval at the Illinois Commission, in the amount of $77,496.26.

DESCRIPTION: In accordance with the provisions of the Workers' Compensation Act. the General
Counsel has determined that this settlement is In the Board's best interests.

LSC REVIEW: Local school council approval is not applicable to this report.
AFFIFIMATIVE ACTION STATUS: Not applicable.

FINANCIAL: Charge to Workers' Compensation Fund - General Fixed Charges Account 012470210-
57605-1 19004-000000 577496.25

PERSONNEL IMPLICATIONS: None
GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that. in accordance with tos ILCS
5134-131. the Inspector General of the Chicago Board oi Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct these investigations.

Con?icts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board it entered into in Violation of the
provisions of 105 ILCS 5134-213 which restricts the employment of. or the letting ol contracts to. iormer
Board member during the one year period following expiration or other termination at their terms oi oliice.

Indebtedness The Board's indebtedness Policy adopted June 26. 1996 as amended
from time to time. shall be Incarporated into and made a part oi the agreement.

Ethics The Board's Ethics Code adopted June 23. 2004 (04-0623-P04). as amended lrorn time to time.
shall be incorporated Into and made a part oi the agreement.

Contingent Liability - The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current
fiscal year is deemed a contingent liability. subject to appropriation in the subsequent Iiscal year
budgetts).

11-0223-RS31

RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING INTERVENTION IN CERTAIN PROCEEDINGS BEFORE
THE ILLINOIS PROPERTY TAX APPEAL BOARD FOR THE PURPOSE OF
PRESERVING POTENTIAL TAX REVENUE FOR THE BOARD OF EDUCATION

WHEREAS. pursuant to the School Code. 105 5134 et seq.. the City of Chicago (the
having a population exceeding 500.000. constitutes one school district governed by the Board of
Education of the City of Chicago (the 'Board?). which is a body politic and corporate and a taxing district
for purposes of real estate taxes levied on properties located within the City; and

WHEREAS. the Board is funded. in large part. by revenue in the form of real estate taxes
assessed by the Cook County Assessor and collected by the Cook County Treasurer; and

WHEREAS. an owner or manager of real property located within the corporate boundaries of the
City has the right to tile with the Illinois Property Tax Appeal Board an appeal of the assessed
value of that real property appeal"); and

WHEREAS. a reduction in the equalized assessed valuation of real property results in a reduction
in the real estate taxes owed on that property. thereby requiring the Board to issue a refund; and

WHEREAS. a taxing district has the right to intervene in PTAB appeals to protect the taxing
district's revenue interest in the assessed value of real property parcelis): and

February 23, 2011

WHEREAS, a taxing district may only intervene in any given PTAB appeal within 60 days after
the taxing district's receipt from the Cook County Board of Review of a notice of appeal by an owner or
manager of a parcel(s) of real property; and

WHEREAS. the Board has heretofore determined that it is advisable. necessary and in its best
interests to preserve. as much as possible. potential and/or actual tax revenue generated by real estate
taxes on real property located within the City and to defend the Board's real property tax base by
intervening in certain PTAB appeals involving real property located within the City's boundaries.

NOW. THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF EDUCATION OF THE
CITY OF CHICAGO:

of The preambles of this Resolution are hereby incorporated
into this text as if fully set forth herein.

2 In tgagntign in and of PTAQ agpga lg. The General Counsel is authorized to.
after consultation with the Chief Financial Officer. intervene in any and all PTAB appeals when such
intervention Is deemed to be in the best interests of the School District The settlement of any PTAB
appeal or appeals shall be governed by Board Rule 2-10. The General Counsel is authorized to appoint
attorneys to represent the Board in these matters and to perform the acts above described.

3. Actg. The General Counsel. Chief Financial OffICer. Chiel Purchasing Officer or
Chief Operating Officer (the ?Designated Officials") are hereby authorized to execme and deliver such
other documents and agreements and perform such other acts as may be necessary or desirable in
connection with the PTAB appeals. including. but not limited to. hiring and retaining such expert testimony
and consultant assistance needed to defend andlor settle the PTAB appeals. All actions of any

Designated Official that are in conformity with the purposes and intent of this Board Report are hereby
ratified. approved. and confirmed in all respects.

4. Severability. The provisions of this Resolution are hereby declared to be severable: and
if any section. phrase. or provision shall for any reason be declared to be invalid, such declaration shall
not affect the validity of the remainder of the sections. phrases. or provisions.

5. Datg. This Resolution is effective immediately upon its adoption.
The Secretary called the roll and the vote was as follows:

Yeas: Ms. Ward, Mr. Bobins, Ms. Mu?ana, Mr. Carrero, Ms. Davis, and President
Richardson-Lowry - 6

Nays: None

President Richardson-Lowry thereupon declared Board Reports 11-0223-AR3 and
11-0223-RS31 adopted.

11-0223-EX12

APPOINT CHIEF EDUCATION OFFICER
(CHARLES M. PAYNE)

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Appoint the following named individual to the position listed below. effective March 1, 2011.

DESCRIPTION:
NAME LO.
Charles M. Payne Functional Title: Executive Officer
External Title: Chief Education Officer
Department: Chief Education Office
Position Number: 243032
Basic Salary: $0.00
Pay Bend: A10
Budget classi?cation: 10810-115-51100-231117-000000
L80 REVIEW: Local School Council review is not applicable to this report.
AFFIRMATIVE

ACTION STATUS: Not applicable.

February 23, 2011

FINANCIAL: No expenditure is required by this Board Report. Appointee's services are being
donated pursuant to a grant agreement with the University of Chicago.

PERSONNEL

IMPLICATIONS: Salary is an exception to the Compensation Policy guidelines. approved in

accordance in the Compensation Plan for Non?represented Employees (Board
Report No. 08-0123-EX10) because the position will have no salary or bene?ts
associated with it.

11-0223-EX13

APPOINT CHIEF AREA OFFICER
(Shanda L. Huery}

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

1) Approve the appointment of Shonda L. Huery to the position of ChieiI Area Otticer. effective May
2, 2011 at the salary set forth below.

2) Approve payment to the following individual Shonda L. Huery, of up to 55.000.00 to reimburse her
for eligible moving expenses incurred by her. which payments shall be treated in accordance with
the United States Internal Revenue Service and State of llIinois Department of Revenue Rules

and Regulations.

DESCRIPTION:

NAME FRQM 19

Shonda L. Huery New Employee Functional Title: Of?cer
External Title: Chief Area Of?cer
Department: To be determined
Position Number: To be determined
Basic Salary: 3151.131 .43
Pay Band: A09

Budget classi?cation: To be determined

LSC REVIEW: Local School Council review Is not applicable to this report

AFFIRMATIVE

ACTION STATUS: Not applicable.

FINANCIAL: The expenditure involved in this report is not in excess of the reguiar budget
appropriation.

PERSONNEL The position to be affected by approval of this action is contained in the

IMPLICATIONS: FY11 department budget.

President Richardson-Lowry indicated that if there were no objections, Board Reports
11-0223-EX12 and 11-0223-EX13 would be adopted by the last favorable roll call vote, all members

present voting therefore.

President Richardson-Lowry thereupon declared Board Reports 11-0223-EX12 and 11-0223-EX13

adopted.
11-0223-EX14

WARNING RESOLUTION - GLEN AMATO,
TENURED TEACHER. RICKOVER NAVAL ACADEMY

TO THE CHICAGO BOARD OF EDUCATION

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER RECOMMENDS THE FOLLOWING:

DESCRIPTION:

That the Chicago Board of Education adopts a Warning Resolution for
Glen Amato. and that a copy of the Board Report and Warning
Resolution be served upon Glen Amato.

Pursuant to the provisions of 105 ILCS 5134-85, the applicable statute
of the State of Illinois. the Rules of the Board of Education of the City of

LSC REVIEW:

AFFIRMATIVE
ACTION REVIEW:

FINANCIAL:

PERSONNEL
IMPLICATIONS:

11-0223-EX15

February 23, 2011

Chicago. and Board Report 04-0728-P01, a Warning Resolution shall
be adopted and issued to Glen Amato. tenured teacher. to inform him
that he has engaged in unsatisfactory conduct.

The conduct outlined in the Warning Resolution will result in the
preferring of dismissal charges against Glen Amato, pursuant to the
Statute. if said conduct is not corrected Immediately, and maintained
thereafter in a satisfactory fashion following receipt of the Warning
Resolution. A directive for improvement of this conduct is contained in
the Warning Resolution.

LSC review is not applicable to this report.

None

This action is of no cost to the Board.

None

WARNING RESOLUTION CARTER,

TENURED TEACHER, ASSIGNED TO OWENS ELEMENTARY SCHOOL

TO THE CHICAGO BOARD OF EDUCATION

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER RECOMMENDS THE FOLLOWING:

DESCRIPTION:

LSC REVIEW:

AFFIRMATIVE
ACTION REVIEW:

FINANCIAL:

PERSONNEL
IMPLICATIONS:

11-0223-EX16

That the Chicago Board of Education adopts 3 Warning Resolution for
LaSharon Carter and that a copy of this Board Report and Warning
Resolution be served upon LaSharon Carter.

Pursuant to the provisions of 105 ILCS 5334-85. the applicable statute of
the State of Illinois, the Rules of the Board of Education of the City of
Chicago. and the Employee Discipline and Due Process Policy. Board
Report No 04-0728-P01, 8 Warning Resolution be adopted and issued to
LaSharon Carter. Teacher, to inform her that she has engaged in
unsatisfactory conduct.

The conduct outlined in the Warning Resolution will result in the preferring
of dismissal charges against LaSharon Carter. pursuant to the Statute. if
said conduct is not corrected immediately, and maintained thereafter in a
satisfactory fashion following receipt of the Warning Resolution.
Directives for improvement of this conduct are contained in the Warning
Resolution.

LSC review is not applicable to this report.

None.

This action is of no cost to the Board.

None.

WARNING RESOLUTION - VALENTINA 

SPECIAL EDUCATION TENURED TEACHER.
ASSIGNED TO GLOBAL VISIONS ACADEMY

TO THE CHICAGO BOARD OF EDUCATION

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER RECOMMENDS THE FOLLOWING:

That the Chicago Board of Education adopts a Waming Resolution for
Valentina O?Connor and that a copy of this Board Report and Warning
Resolution be served upon Valentina O?Connor.

11-0223-EX1 7

11-0223-EX18

DESCRIPTION:

LSC REVIEW:
AFFIRMATIVE

ACTION REVIEW:

FINANCIAL:

PERSONNEL
IMPLICATIONS:

February 23. 2011

Pursuant to the provisions of 105 ILCS 5134-85. the applicable statute of
the State of Illinois. the Rules of the Board of Education of the City of
Chicago. and the Employee Discipline and Due Process Policy. Board
Report No a Warning Resolution be adopted and issued to
Valentina O'Connor. Special Education Tenured Teacher. to iniorrn her
that she has engaged in unsatisfactory conduct.

The conduct outlined In the Warning Resolution will result in the preferring
of dismissal charges against Valentina O'Connor. pursuant to the Statute.
if said conduct is not corrected immediately, and maintained thereafter in
a satisfactory fashion following receipt of the Warning Resolution.
Directives for improvement of this conduct are contained in the Warning
Resolution.

LSC review is not applicable to this report.

None.

This action is of no cost to the Board.

None.

WARNING RESOLUTION - TRACY SANFORD,
TENURED TEACHER, REASSIGNED TEACHER

TO THE CHICAGO BOARD OF EDUCATION

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER RECOMMENDS THE FOLLOWING:

DESCRIPTION:

LSC REVIEW:
AFFIRMATIVE

ACTION REVIEW:

FINANCIAL:

PERSONNEL
IMPLICATIONS:

That the Chicago Board of Education adopts 3 Warning Resolution for
Tracy Sanford and that a copy of this Board Report and Warning
Resolution be served upon Tracy Sanford.

Pursuant to the provisions of 105 ILCS 513465. the applicable statute of
the State of Illinois. the Rules of the Board of Education of the City of
Chicago. and the Employee Discipline and Due Process Policy, Board
Report No 04-0728-P01. a Warning Resolution be adopted and issued to
Tracy Sanford, Teacher, to inform her that she has engaged in
unsatisfactory conduct.

The conduct outlined in the Warning Resolution will result in the preferring
of dismissal charges against Tracy Sanford, pursuant to the Statute. if
said conduct is not corrected immediately. and maintained thereafter In a
satisfactory fashion following receipt of the Warning Resolution.

Directives for improvement of this conduct are contained in the Warning
Resolution.

LSC review is not applicable to this report.

None.

This action is of no cost to the Board.

None.

WARNING RESOLUTION - FATHYEH YESSIN

TENURED TEACHER. ASSIGNED TO MARQUETTE SCHOOL

TO THE CHICAGO BOARD OF EDUCATION

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER RECOMMENDS THE FOLLOWING:

That the Chicago Board of Education adopts a Warning Resolution for
Fathyeh Yessin and that a copy of this Board Report and Wanting
Resolution be served upon Fethyeh Yessin.

February 23, 2011

DESCRIPTION: Pursuant to the provisions of 105 ILCS 5134-85. the applicable statute of
the State of the Rules of the Board of Education of the City of
Chicago. and the Employee Discipline and Due Process Policy. Board
Report No 04-0728-P01. a Warning Resolution be adopted and issued to
Fathyeh Yessin, Tenured Teacher. to inform her that she has engaged in
unsatisfactory conduct.

The conduct outlined in the Warning Resolution will result in the preferring
of dismissal charges against Fathyeh Yessin. pursuant to the Statute. if
said conduct is not corrected immediately. and maintained thereafter in a
satisfactory fashion following receipt of the Warning Resolution.

Directives for improvement of this conduct are contained in the Wamr?ng

Resolution.
LSC REVIEW: LSC review is not applicable to this report.
AFFIRMATIVE
ACTION REVIEW: None.
FINANCIAL: This action is of no cost to the Board.
PERSONNEL

IMPLICATIONS: None.

President Richardson-Lowry indicated that if there were no objections. Board Reports
11-0223-EX14 through 11-0223-EX18 would be adopted by the last favorable roll call vote, all
members present voting therefore.

President Richardson-Lowry thereupon declared Board Reports 11-0223-EX14 through
11-0223-EX18 adopted.

11-0223-EX19

CHIEF EXECUTIVE REPORT OF INCENTIVE COMPENSATION PLAN
FOR PRINCIPALS ASSIGNED TO CERTAIN SCHOOLS DESIGNATED
AS TURNAROUND OR TRANSFORMATION SCHOOLS

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING ACTION:

Pursuant to the authority delegated to the Chief Executive Of?cer under Board Rule 4-1 the Chief
Executive Officer has established an incentive compensation plan for principals assigned to certain
schools that have been designated as "turnaround" or ?transformation" schools (?the Incentive Ptan'). A
copy of the incentive Compensation Plan for Principals Assigned to Turnaround or Transformation
Schools is attached hereto and presented for ?ling.

CHICAGO PUBLIC SCHOOLS

2010-11 INCENTIVE COMPENSATION PLAN
FOR PRINCIPALS ASSIGNED TO TURNAROUND OR TRANSFORHATION SCHOOLS

DESCRIPTION:

To help improve some of the most struggling schools in Chicago Public Schools (CPS). the Board has
designated some schools as "turnaround" with a sub-set of these schools being managed by the CPS
Of?ce of School Improvement (OSI). informed by the Five Essential Supports identified by the
Consortium on Chicago School Research. the CPS Turnaround comprehensive school reform model
systematically overhauls the school. providing resources. supports. coaching. technical assistance and
leadership development in the areas of: 1) human capital. 2) school stabilization. 3) family and community
involvement. 4) culture and climate. 5) community resource development. and 6) teaching and learning.
The CPS Turnaround Model is phased in over a period of years to ensure lasting change. Additionally.
other schools have been identi?ed as ?transformation," After an in-deplh needs analysis. transformation
schools receive customized support packages that use select components of the CPS Turnaround Model
tailored to the needs of particular transformation schools. The schools continue to report to their
designated Area with OSI acting as an internal lead partner for the transformation effort,

February 23, 2011

The federal government has prioritized the "turnaround? and "transformation" of the nation's lowest
performing schools by making funds available through the School Improvement Grant (SIG) program.
These funds are allocated to school districts by states through a competitive process. Grant applications
are submitted and rated against rubrics with specific requirements for success. One of the areas required
for success in the application process is the creation of principal compensation plans designed to incent
talented leaders to take on the most challenging leadership positions in the district. Districts earn points
in the application process for creating incentive plans and are then allowed and encouraged to use grant
monies to pay for such incentive plans. This Incentive Plan is designed to attract and retain talented
principals in turnaround and transformation schools.

A variety of measures are undertaken at certain ?turnaround? and ?transformation" schools under the
direction of the CPS Office of School Improvement to help dramatically improve the academic
performance of the school's students. In order to support that effort. the Chief Executive Officer has
established the Incentive Plan for school principals at those "turnaround" and ?transformation" schools
The Incentive Plan provides for an assignment bonus payable to the principal. regular compensation
payable as salary on a lat-weekly basis. a retention bonus. and a performance bonus payable after the
end of each regular school year after certain performance measures and data have been examined and
analyzed by the School Improvement Officer and designated Chief Area Of?cer where applicable. under
direction from the Chief Executive Officer.

The Incentive Plan established applies to the following principals of

schools designated as "turnaround" and managed by the CPS Office of School Improvement


Cherie Novak Interim Principal Fulton Elementary School

McGinnls-Garner Interim Principal Langford Elementary School

Elizabeth Dozier Interim Principal Fenger High School

Leonetta Sanders Interim Principal Harper High School

Kenyatta Stansberry Interim Principal Marshall High School

Dumlgn 91 P gn The Incentive Plan shall be effective for the 2010-11. 2011-12 and 2012-13

school years and may be renewed in subsequent school years by the CEO The CEO may amend the
Incentive Plan as slhe deems necessary. Payment of the performance bonus is subject to the review and
approval of the Chief Education Of?cer.

Terms of Elan. The Incentive Plan includes an assignment bonus. 3 base salary and benefits.
retention incentive bonus. and an annual performance bonus as follows.

1) Eligibility Reggizgments. Principals named in this Board Report are eligible for the bonuses described
herein provided that. at the time the bonus is payable. the principal has met all of the criteria for the
bonuses as set forth in this document and provided that the principal is in ?good standmg.? For
purposes of this plan. ?in good standing? means that the principal has not been the subject of a
substantiated investigation and has not been disciplined in any way. If the principal is the subject or
any investigation. disciplinary proceeding or other matter adversely reflecting on hislher performance
or personal or professional conduct. no bonus shall be paid to the principal under the principals
eligibility is determined.

2) Base Salem and ?agg?tsz The Board shall pay a base salary to the principal in accordance with the
Administrative Compensation Plan. or any successor plan applicable to principals. The principal shall
also be eligible to participate in all benefits for which full-time. regularly appointed cenificated
employees are eligible.

3) Assignment Bonus: ln order to effectively attract talented school readers to these challenging
assignments. the Board shall pay eligible principals an assignment bonus of ten thousand dollars
at the end of the school year in which they are assigned to a ?turnaround or
"transformation" principal position. This is intended to be a one-time only bonus per principal per
school. Additionally. principals who move from one ?turnaround" or ?transformation? principal position
to another are only eligible for one assignment bonus within any twenty-four calendar-month (two
year) period. The assignment bonus shall not be considered part of the principal's lull salary rate and
shall not be subject to pension contributions. Payment of this assignment bonus shall be subject to
all other standard withholdings and deductions. Payments will be made as soon as administratively
possible following the last day of student attendance.

4) W1 in order to effectively retain Principals for consecutive years within the same
school. the Board shall pay principals a "retention" bonus upon hislher successful completion of each
three-year period within one school. However. the maximum retention bonuses that a principal may
achieve within one school are two after the third and sixth consecutive years). are
eligible for no more than two retention bonuses at the same school. After that. although a principal
may continue to lead in that school. slhe will no longer be eligible for continued retention bonuses.

To be eligible for the retention bonus, the princlpal must not have a ?needs improvement" or
"unsatisfactory" performance review and must commit to return to blather assigned
?turnaround" or "transformation" school for at least one more school year. The CEO may

February 23, 2011

grant an exemption of the requirement to commit to return to the school for the additional school year.
if a principal meets the performance criteria and has submitted a notice of his/her intent to retire. The
amount of the retention bonus shall be $15,000. The retention bonus shall not be considered part of
the principal's full salary rate and shall not be Subject to pension contributions. Payment of this
retention bonus shall be subject to all other standard withholdings and deductions. Payments are
expected as soon as administratively possible within the next fiscal year following the satisfactory
completion of the eligibility requirements.

5) Annual Performangg Bgnus; The Board shall pay principals an annual performance bonus based on
whether and to what extent their assigned school meets certain performance measures. Said
measures reinforce the whole school strategies articulated in the Five Essential Supports as follows:

ELEMENTARY PRINCIPAL PERFORMANCE MEASURES
Performance Measure Descriptions

1) Annual Performance Evaluation: Principal is rated as meeting or exceeding the standards
for all principals set forth in the Chief Executive Officer's annual princrpal evaluation
conducted by the School Improvement Of?cer (turnaround) or Chief Area Of?cer
(transformation).

2) Composite Rate of Meet/Exceed State Standards: Meet the aggressive annual ISAT
student performance goal meet/exceed). showing a dramatic improvement in the
percentage of students who meet/exceed state standards over the previ0us year. which goal
shall be established in annual goal setting done in connection with the annual principals
evaluation.

3) Annual Reading Rate: Meet the aggressive annual ISAT student performance goal
meatlexceed). showing a dramatic improvement in the percentage of students who
meetlexceed state standards over the previous year, which goal shall be established In
annual goal setting done in connection with the annual prinCIpals evaluation.

4) Annual Math Rate: Meet the aggressive annual ISAT student performance goal
meet/exceed). showing a dramatic improvement in the percentage of students who
meetlexceed state standards over the previous year. which goal shall be established in
annual goal setting done in connection with the annual principals evaluation.

5) Algebra Initiative: School offers an grade algebra course and meets goal of number of
students who pass algebra course. which goal shall be established in annual goal setting
done in connection with annual principal's evaluation.

6) Climate 8. Culture: There is at least a 30% reduction in the number of Group 4-6 student
acts of misconduct at the assigned school compared to the prior year's rate,

7) Student Attendance Rate: The school achieves a 95% or higher attendance rate at the
assigned school.

HIGH SCHOOL PRINCIPAL PERFORMANCE MEASURES
Performance Measure Descriptions

1) Annual Performance Evaluation: Principal is rated as meeting or exceeding the standards
for all principals in the Chief Executive Officer?s annual principal evaluation conducted by the
School Improvement Officer (turnaround) or Chief Area Officer (transformation).

2) One Year Dropout Rate: The school reduces the one year dropout rate to or there IS at
least a ?ve percentage point decrease in one year drop out rate at the assigned school
compared to the prior year's rate.

3) Freshmen On-Track Rate: The school increases the Freshmen On-Track rate to 95%. or
there Is at least a five percentage point increase in Freshmen On-Track rate at the
assigned school compared to the prior year's rate.

4) of Graduating Students Enrolled in College: The school increases the of Graduating
Students Enrolled in College to 90%. or there is at least a five percentage point increase
in of Graduating Students Enrolled in College at the assigned school compared to the prior
year's rate.

5) PSAE Composite Rate of Meet/Exceed State Standards: Meet the aggressive annual
PSAE student performance goal meet/exceed) showing a dramatic improvement in the
percentage of students who meet/exceed state standards over the preview year. which goal
shall be established in annual goal setting done in connection with the annual principals
evaluation.

10

February 23, 2011

6) EPAS Expected Gelns Rate in Reading: Meet the aggressive annual EPAS student
performance goal meeting Expected Gains). showing a dramatic improvement in the
percentage of students who meet expected gains as a cohort group. which goal shall be
established in annual goal setting done in connection with the annual principal's evaluation,

7) EPAS Composite Expected Gains Rate: Meet the aggressive annual EPAS student
performance goal meeting Expected Gains). showing a dramatic improvement in the
percentage of students who meet expected gains as a cohort group. which goal shall be
established in annual goal setting done in connection with the annual principal?s evaluation.

8) Climate 8: Culture: There is at least a 20% reduction in the number of Group 4-6 student
acts of misconduct at the assigned school compared to the prior year's rate.

9) Student Attendance Rate: The school achieves a student attendance rate of 90%. or there
is at least a ?ve percentage point growth in student attendance at the assigned school
compared to the prior year's rate.

PERFORMANCE BONUS AMOUNT
The maximum performance bonus a principal is eligible to receive under the incentive plan is
determined by a bonus threshold - calculated by using the school's 20?? day student membership
for the school year in question. The annual performance bonus available cannot be less than
$5.000 nor exceed $12,000 regardless of the number of students in the attendance center.

The maximum eligible performance bonus amount should be calculated according to the following

 

 

 

 

 

table:
20'" Day Membership for Bonus Max Performance Bonus Amount
Year
0-300 $5.000
301?500 $8.000
501-800 $10,000
801-Over $12,000

 

 

 

 

Within the maximum threshold amount determined by student enrollment. the actual bonus
amount payable shall be determined based upon the number of performance measures met as
follows:

FOR ELEMENTARY SCHOOL PRINCIPALS:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Performance Measure Bonus Amount Eligibility

1 and 2 met 100% of Maximum Bonus A_m0unt

1. 3. 4 met 80% of Maximum Bonus Amount

1 met and either 3 or 4 met 50% of Maximum Bonus Amount

1 5.6. or 7 met 20% of Maximum Bonus Amount
and/or 7 not met) No Bonus
1 not met (but 2. 3 . 4, 5.6 andlor 7 No Bonus

are met)

 

 

 

FOR HIGH SCHOOL PRINCIPALS:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Pe?ormence Measure Bonus Amount Eligibility
1. 7 and six others met 100% of Maximum Bonus Amount
1. 7 and five others met 80% of Maximum Bonus Amount
1. 7 and four others met 50% of Maximum Bonus Amount
1 and six others met 20% of Maximum Bonus Amount
any other combinations No Bonus 

 

 

a) The performance bonus shall not be considered part of the principal's full salary rate and
shall not be subject to pension contributions. Payment of this performance bonus shall be
subject to all other standard withholdings and deductions.

b) After the evaluation of the Performance Measures for the eligible school year. the 
School Improvement Of?cer or Chief Area Of?cer shall notify principals in writing of whether
they are eligible to receive a performance bonus and the bonus amount.

Timing of Payments: All payments will be processed as soon as administratively possible following
the successful completion of the eligibility requirements. The employee must be employed and in
good standing at CPS to receive payment. Upon the School improvement Officer's determination
that a principal is eligible for an incentive bonus. 8 recommendation is made to the Chief Executive
Of?cer that the principal shall receive payment of the bonus in a lump sum amount less any standard
withholdings and deductions. The bonus payment amount shall not be considered part of the
principal's full salary rate and shall not be subject to pension contributions.

11

February 23, 2011

Ergratign Conditiggs: The CEO shall prorate performance and retention bonuses as follows:

a) Performance Bonuses shall be prorated only if a principal has been assigned to the school
for a period of more than five months during the school calendar; The proration shall be
based on the percentage of full school months assigned at the school (generated by full
school months assignedf10 months) times the bonus amount.

b) Retention bonuses shall be prorated only if the principal began hislher first year of
assignment to the school for which hefshe is eligible for the bonus after the first day of
teacher attendance, in that case. the proration shall be based on the percentage of full
school months assigned at the school (generated by full school months assigned/10 months)
multiplied by the bonus amount.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 


Bonus Type Eligibility Pro Rate? Timing
Assignment One time 510.000 non- No Payable at the
(One time 510.000 pensionable bonus end of a
bonus) (Limited to one bonus completed full
every 24 months) school year
Signed commitment to
remain additional
school year
Remain CPS principal
at "turnaround? or
?transformation" school
Retention Every 3 years. eligible Yes Payable at the
(Available every 3 for $15.000 non- end of three full
years for $15000) pensionable bonus school years at
Successful completion same
of three (3) years at 'turnaround' or 
same school ?transformation? 5
(Limited to two school i
bonuses at the same .
schooh I
Remain CPS employee I
Annual Performance measure Yes if joined Payable when all I
Performance i fulfillment school at least 2 data is received I
(if criteria met. Remain CPS employee months before state by the District to 
eligible for $5.000 to Between $5.000 to testing determine 
$12 000 based on 512.000 If joined with less performance
20' day student than 2 months completion 
membership) before state testing. 
no pro rate for that .
school year 

 

 

11-0223-RS32

RESOLUTION BY THE BOARD OF EDUCATION OF THE CITY OF CHICAGO
REGARDING THE DISMISSAL OF ANNA FARKAS. TENURED TEACHER.
FORMERLY ASSIGNED TO WELLS HIGH SCHOOL

WHEREAS. pursuant to Section 34-85(c) of the Illinois School Code. 105 and
Article 39-12 of the 2007-2012 Collective Bargaining Agreement between the Board of Education of the
City of Chicago and the Chicago Teachers Union. a hearing was conducted before an impartial hearing
officer. Peter R. Meyers. appointed by the illinois State Board of Education; and

WHEREAS. after the conclusion of the dismissal hearing afforded Anna Farkas. the hearing
of?cer made written findings of fact and conclusions of law. and recommended the reinstatement of Anna
Farkas; and

WHEREAS. the Board of Education of the City of Chicago reviewed the post-hearing briefs and
hearing transcript and exhibits ("record"). along with the ?ndings of fact. conclusions of law. and
recommendation of Hearing Of?cer Meyers regarding the dismissal charges preferred against Anna
Faritas; and

WHEREAS. on December 16. 2009. The Board of Education of the City of Chicago rejected the
recommendation of hearing officer Meyers as detailed in a Board Opinion and Order that was adopted
under separate cover; and

WHEREAS. the Board of Education of the City of Chicago dismissed Anna Farkas from her
employment on December 16. 2009; and

12

President Richardson-Lowry thereupon declared Board Report 11-0223-EX19 accepted.

February 23, 2011

WHEREAS. Anna Farkas ?led for administrative review in the Circuit Court of Cook County.
Chancery Division: and

WHEREAS, the Honorable Judge Peter was assigned to this case. and received both
written and oral arguments from the parties. On December 10. 2010. Judge made the following
?ndings: (1) there were no procedural errors that occurred before. during or after Anna Farftas?
remediation process; but (2) the Board of Education of the City of Chicago did not adequately explain why
it concluded that Anna Farkas was an unsatisfactory teacher; and

WHEREAS. Judge directed the Board of Education of the City of Chicago to: (1) reexamine
its determination that Anna Farkas failed to Successfully remediate her performance. and (2) it it
concluded that she did fail to remediate. to set forth its explanation in detail;

NOW THEREFORE. be it resolved by the Board of Education of the City of Chicago. as follows.

1: The Board of Education of the City of Chicago did reexamine its determination
that Anna Ferkas failed to successfully remediate her performance by reviewing
the entire record before Judge and Judge rulings.

2: The Board of Education does conclude that Anna Farkas failed to satisfactorily
remediate as detailed in the Board's Supplemental Opinion and Order adopted
under separate cover.

of 2 This Resolution shall take full force and effect upon its adoption
THEREFORE. this Resolution is hereby adoptedirejested by the members of the Board of

Education of the City of Chicago on February 23. 2011. and in connection with 3 Supplemental Opinion
and Order that is adopted under separate cover.

11 -0223-RS33

RESOLUTION APPROVING CHIEF EXECUTIVE RECOMMENDATION
TO DISMISS EDUCATIONAL SUPPORT PERSONNEL

WHEREAS. on February 10. 2011 the Chief Executive Officer submitted a written recommendation. in.
cluding the reasons for the recommendation. to the Board to dismiss the following educational support
personnel's pursuant to Board Policy 04-0728-P01:

Name School Effective Date
Mary Mastalski Foreman High School February 23. 2011
Markell Mooney King Elementary School February 23. 2011
Consuelo Ortiz Castellanos Elementary School February 23. 2011
Marie Pearce Warren Elementary School February 23. 2011

WHEREAS. the Chief Executive Of?cer followed the procedures established by him prior to making the
recommendatiOn;

WHEREAS. the Board has reviewed the reasons for the Chief Executive Officer's recommendation:

WHEREAS. the Chief Executive Of?cer or his designee has previously notified the affected educational
support personnel's of their pending dismissal;

NOW. THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED:

1. That pursuant to Board Policy 04-0728-P01, the above-referenced educational support personnel?s
are dismissed from Board employment effective on the date set opposite their names.

2. The Board hereby approves all actions taken by the Chief Executive Of?cer or his designee to effec-
tuate the dismissal of the above-named educational support personnel?s.

3. The Chief Executive Officer or designee shall notify the above-named educational support person-
nel?s of their dismissal.



February 23, 2011

11-0223-RS34

RESOLUTION APPROVING CHIEF EXECUTIVE RECOMMENDATION
TO DISMISS PROBATIONARY APPOINTED TEACHERS

WHEREAS. on February 10. 2011. the Chief Executive Officer submitted written recommendations.
including the reasons for the recommendations. to the Board to dismiss the following probationary
appointed teachers pursuant to Board Rule and 105 5f34?84:

Em a _School mm
Laura Heiberger Alexander Graham Bell School February 23. 2011
Walter Jackson Neal Simeon Voc High School February 23, 2011
Jospeh Liang Alexander Graham Bell School February 23. 201 1

WHEREAS. the Chief Executive Officer followed the procedures established by him prior to making the
recommendation;

WHEREAS. the Board has revrewed the reasons for the Chief Executive Officer?s recommendation;

WHEREAS. the Chief Executive Officer or his designee has previously notified the affected probationary
appointed teachers of their pending dismissal;

NOW. THEREFORE. BE IT RESOLVED:

1. That pursuant to Board Rule and 105 5I34-B4. the above-referenced probationary
appointed teachers are dismissed from Board employment effective on the date set opposite their names

2. The Board hereby approves all actions taken by the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to
effectuate the dismissal of the above-named probationary appointed teachers.

3. The Chief Executive Of?cer or designee shall notify the above-named probationary appornted
teachers of their dismissal.

The Secretary presented the following Statement for the Public Record:

i would like to note for the record that on February 10, 2011 the Board Members and the
Office of the Board received the Recommendation to Dismiss Probationary Appointed
Teachers Pursuant to Board Rule and 105 5134-84. His recommendation included the
names of the Teachers affected and the reasons. He also noted that the Teachers affected will be
notified of their dismissal after adoption of this resolution.

President Richardson-Lowry indicated that if there were no objections, Board Reports
11-0223-RS32 through 11-0223-RS34 would be adopted by the last favorable roll call vote, all
members present voting therefore.

President Richardson-Lowry thereupon declared Board Reports 11-0223-RS32 through
11-0223-RS34 adopted.

11-0223-RS1

RESOLUTION RE: NATIONAL BOARD CERTIFICATION FOR
THREE HUNDRED AND TEN CHICAGO PUBLIC SCHOOL TEACHERS (2009-2010)

WHEREAS. the National Board for Professional Teaching Standards. organized in 1987. IS
comprised of teachers. school policy makers. union leaders. teacher educators and other scholars and
legislators. identified ?the rich amalgam of knowledge. skills. dispositions and beliefs that characterize
accomplished teaching" and

WHEREAS. the National Board of Professional Teaching Standards has developed and Operates
a national system to assess and certify teachers who possess the knowledge. skills. dispositions and
beliefs that characterize accomplished teaching; and

WHEREAS. teachers who voluntarily submit to and successfully complete the rigorous evaluation
process earn National Board Certification. a nationally recognized certification, which indicates that the
teacher possesses the knowledge. skills. dispositions and beliefs that characterize accomplished
teaching; and

14

February 23. 2011

WHEREAS. teachers invest 1-3 years in pursuit of National Board Certi?cation which is the
highest certi?cation a teacher can earn and the only path to master teacher certi?cation; and

WHEREAS. Chicago has the largest class of New Board Certified Teachers among urban school
district; and

WHEREAS. this year. a total of three hundred and ten Chicago Public School teachers (listed in
Exhibit l) have received National Board Certi?cation. increasing the total of National Board Certi?cation in
the Chicago Public Schools to 1804 teachers.

NOW, THEREFORE. BE IT RESOLVED. that we the President and Members of the Board of
Education of the City of Chicago. gathered here this 23rd day of February. 2011 congratulate these three
hundred and ten teachers on their achievement in receiving National Board Certi?cation.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED. that a suitable copy of this resolution be made available to the
three hundred and ten teachers who have achieved Nationat Board Certi?cation in 2009-2010

Exhibit I
Department of Human Capital
Professional Development
National Board Certified Teachers (2009-2010)

First Name Last Name
Melissa Abts
Kathleen Adamski
Ellen Adeiman
Tiffany Adkins
Carol Adolphus-Castro
Luzenilda Aguilera
Marlene Alcantar
Jocelyn Alexander Shaw
Bayyinah All

Andrea Aiiegretti
Emily Alt

Natasha Anders
Patricia Anderson-Butt
Peter Barash
Kimberly Baratta
Katrina Barge
Sandy Barr

Tai Basurto
Allison Beautieu
Cathy Behrens
Emily Betcher
Bryant Biegaj
Christine Blackaby
Barbara Blackstone
Claudia Bolivar
Sheryl Bond
Carlos Borges
Bowen
Molly Brady
Elizabeth Bremner
Brown
Denise Bunker
Manjula Bunyan
Julianne Burke
Melissa Bushonville
Gael Byrnes
James Calabrese

15

Exhibit I

Department of Human Capital
Professional Development
National Board Teachers (2009-2010)

Name

Betsy
Gina
Khnbedy
Rosa
Lba
hMcheMe
L33
Brenda
Paulette
E?zabeth
Need
Joan
Crmten
Chudh
Casey
Ahcb
Andrew
hnerednh
Kathe?ne
Addenne
nAegan
Cathedne
E?ca
Caro?n
Veronka
Co?een
Sceneda
Obnne
Paub
Ev?amanm
Nathan
Deborah
Alyssa
Deena
Tera
Sarah
Shauna
Kathe?ne
Ju?a
E?ca
Xavmr
Yadna
Jason
hnarnyn
Cor?ne
Sarah
Tonya
Jodi
A?an
Cathe?ne
Jenn?er

Last Name

CaHaghan
Caneva
Cannon
Cantu
Caputo
Casey
Cash
Cerda
Cesa?o
ChaMne
ChaWanuwong
Chandmr
Chapman
Chavez
CMn?o
Chipman
CMpman
Chowanec
Chuu
Ck?ndone
Cbrahan


CcHon
Covarrubias
Crotry
Cur?s
Daleiden

Den?n
mamond
Domam
Dons
Dubose
Dunn
Eagan
Edgar
Behe?Ou
Emew
Emmendorfer
Espejo-Vadillo
Espino
Evans
Falkenberg
Faro
Ferry
?sher
Rowen
Huhany
Huey
Fortier

16

February 23, 2011

Exhibit 

Department of Human Capital
Professional Development
National Board Certified Teachers (2009-2010)

First Name

John

Jessica
Katherine
Jolene
Chandra
Brooke
Nancy
Pamela
Sean
Narineh
Teresa
Sarah
Jeffrey
Kimberlee
Carmen
Natalie
Rebecca
Tiffany
Mary L0u
Helen
Jason
Deidra

Jes?ca
Neha
Susan
Sandy
Heather
Julie
CoHeen
Anastasia
Deanna
hAary
Katherine
Kelly
h?khe?e
Anne
Dense
Efundunke
Peter

Mary
Shannon
Shinae
Barry

Ea?

Last Name

Franklin
Freely
Fulton
Gailagly
Galpin
Garda
Gaynor
Geldermann
George
Geraghty
Gharashor
Giannelli
Giddings
Gillespie
Goldsmith
Gomez
Gondeia
Gonzalez
Gore

Goss
Gossel Pasiey
Grey
Grimm

Gronemeyer
Gupm
Gustavson
HBSV
Hall
HaHums
Harrah
Healy
Hebert
Helem
Henw
Hepner
Honda
Hopkins
Howard
Hughes
lselin
Israel
Iverson
Jamicich
Jeon
Jeong
Johnson

17

February 23. 2011

Exhibit 

Department of Human Capital
Professional Development

First Name

Henrietta
Seth

Carla
Iysha
Agnes
Lorie
Summer
Andrea
Philip
Deeba
Christine
Jill

Mary
Alison
Julianne
Csilla
Dina
Katharine
Francine
Valerie
Magdalena
Stephen
Christopher
Kevin
Natalie
Sandi
Rebekah
Lorelei
Danielle
Alexandra
Demmaree
Zachary
Sarah
Anjanette
Henrietta
Doris
Christina
Meghan
Monique
Louise
Edgar
Rachel
Amanda
Marianne
Colin
Tanya
Jessica
Susana
Andrea
Karen
CoHeen

National Board Certified Teachers (2009-2010)

Last Name

Johnson
Johnson
Jones
Jones?Scott
Juarez
Kasdan-Soso
Kee
Ke?eher
KendaH
Khan
Kijowski
Knopic
Knuerr
Kool

Kort:

Kosa
Koustas
Kreinbring
Kupec
Lablaiks
Laqui
Lawier
Layton

Lee
Leki-Alba no
Lerner
Lettner
Leverenz
Lewis
Lichtenfeld
Lilley
Linderman
Link

Lipsett
Lowery
Lozano
Lufra no

Maher
Mandelman
Manjarrez
Mayer
Mcciintock
Mcgeary
Mcgeehan
Mead
Melger
Mendoza-Martinez
Metzl
Mickel
Miczek

18

February 23, 2011

February 23, 2011

Exhibit I
Department of Human Capital
Professional Development
National Board Certified Teachers (2009-2010)

First Name Last Name
Keshanna Milsap
Andrew Minor
Maria Miranda
Paul Mirek
Jacob Mitchell
Jorge Mojarro
Melissa Moore
Leanne Morris
Kari Mueller
Katherine Muhtaris
Laura Mullkoff
Ann 
Gretta Nagle
Renee Natale
Rocio Negrete
Franci Nimpson-Boateng
Sarah Nowak
Bobby Oommen
Adriana Ortiz
Sheryl Osborne
Mary Rose O'Shea
Margaret O?Sullivan
Ernestine Padilla
Melva Patock
Robert Pauls
George Pearsons
Elisa Pena
Carolyn Perdue
Melissa Perez
Ziomara Perez
Janet Peters
John Peterson
Jennifer Phares
Gloria 
Daren Pletsch
Therese Plunkett
Anne Poland
Michael Pond
Ebikepreye Porri
Amy Powell
Peggy Power
Monica Prinz
Rebecca Probst
Elisabet Ramirez Garcia
Rhonda Ramos
Dawn Randall

19

February 23, 2011

Exhibiil
Department of Human Capital
Professional Development
National Board Certified Teachers (2009-2010)

First Name Last Name
Brian Ray

Marta Regalado
Jennifer Rice De La Sanchez
Riefenberg
Constance Rihani
Shirley Roberson
Kelly Robinson-Baker
Jacqueline Rodriguez
Benjamin Rogers
Karen Rojek
Raquenel Romo
Leticia Rosales
Rebecca Rosales
Shelley Rosenstein
Lisa Roule
Michael Ryan
Davonta Sabbs
Erlinda Salas
Griselda Saigado
Mary Sanchez
Sandra Sanchez
Santoyo
Donna Schlamadinger
Sarah Schoppman
Amy Schwartzbach
Donna Seals
Alexander Seeskin
Antoinette Shaw
Darlean Shields
Karina Shimkos
Lindsay Siegel

Mary Beth Sieracki
Brian Skaj

Mary Smiley
Carol Smith
Smith
Laura Sokolow
Sara Speer
Kathleen Speetzen
Bridget Stack
Donald Stahlke
Laurie Stalheim
Cassandra Starr

Susan Stephan
Brian Stipp
Valerie Stuart
Katherine Sullivan

20

February 23. 2011

Exhibit 
Department of Human Capital
Professional Development
National Board Certified Teachers (2009-2010)

First Name Last Name
Venice Tabamo
Katherine Terry

Victoria Titus-Washington
Barbara 
Martha Toledo

Ewa Torres
Darvyaire Turner
Gerardo Valdez-Romero
Michelle Vale-Suarez
Heather Van Benthuysen
Vargas-Gomez
Javier Velazquez
Juana Velazquez
Nitya Viswanath
Erma Voss

Lisa Wagner

Erin Walach

Carrie Walsh

Julie Walsh

Colette Wargin

Daniel Washco

Joy Westendorf
Sara White

lndia Wilson

Nora Wittse
Deborah Winfield
Michael Wylde

Alina Wysocki
Monlco Yadao
Christine Yahn

Joanne Yonan

PEGGY Zechel

11-0223-R82

RESOLUTION RE: CURIE HIGH SCHOOL WINNERS
OF THE PUBLIC 2010 FOOTBALL CITY CHAMPIONSHIP

WHEREAS. Curie High School culminated the 2010 football season by winning the Chicago
Public Schools Football Championship on November 20, 2010. at Gately Stadium; and.

WHEREAS. the members of the football team worked together as a cohesive unit and
demonstrated excellence. tenacity. dedication and superior prowess; and.

WHEREAS. the superb performance of the team members reflects the excellent training and
support received from the Principal. Phillip Perry; Head Coach. Tyson LeBianc: Assistant Coach, Richard
Bigham; Athletic Director. George Pratt; and.

WHEREAS. the poise and good sportsmanship of the members oi the team throughout the
season earned the admiration of all and re?ect positively upon the school. community and Chicago Public
Schools.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE iT RESOLVED. that we. the Board President and Members of the
Board of Education of the City of Chicago. gathered here this 23" day of February. 2011. do hereby
commend Curie Condors for the memorable achievement of winning the Public League's 2010
Championship.

21

February 23, 2011

11-0223-RS3

RESOLUTION RE: KELLY HIGH SCHOOL WINNERS
OF THE PUBLIC 2010 BOYS SOCCER CITY CHAMPIONSHIP

WHEREAS. Kelly High School culminated the 2010 boys soccer season by winning the Chicago
Public Schools Boys Soccer Championship on October 15. 2010. at North Park University Hedslrand
Field; and.

WHEREAS. the members of the boys soccer team worked together as a coheswe unit and
demonstrated excellence, tenacity. dedication and superior prowess; and.

WHEREAS. the superb performance of the team members reflects the excellent training and
Support received from the Principal. Al Pretrelis; Head Coach. Raul Magdalena; Assistant Coach. Haydee
Lopez; Athletic Director. Stan Mietus; and.

WHEREAS. the poise and good sportsmanship of the members of the team thr0ugh0ut the
season earned the admiration of all and reflect positively upon the school. community and Chicago Public
Schools.

NOW. THEREFORE. BE IT RESOLVED. that we. the Board President and Members at the
Board of Education of the City of Chicago. gathered here this 23"1 day of February. 2011. do hereby
commend Kelly Trojans for the memorable achievement of winning the Public League's 2010
Championship.

11-0223-RS4

RESOLUTION RE: LANE TECH HIGH SCHOOL WINNERS
OF THE PUBLIC 2010 BOYS CROSS COUNTRY CITY CHAMPIONSHIP

WHEREAS. Lane Tech High School culminated the 2010 Boys Cross Country season by winning
the Chicago Public Schools Boys Cross Country Championship on October 16. 2010. at Washington
Park; and.

WHEREAS. the members of the boys cross country team worked together as a coheswe unit and
demonstrated excellence. tenacity. dedication and superior prowess; and.

WHEREAS. the superb performance of the team members reflects the excellent training and
support received from the Principal. Dr. Antoinette LoBosco; Head Coach, Kristopher Root; Athletic
Director. Rich Rio; and.

WHEREAS. the poise and good sportsmanship of the members of the team throughout the
season earned the admiration of all and reflect positively upon the school. community and Chicago Public
Schools.

NOW, THEREFORE. BE IT RESOLVED. that we. the Board President and Members of the
Board of Education of the City of Chicago. gathered here this 23'(1 day of February. 2011. do hereby
commend the Lane Tech indians for the memorable achievement of winning the Public League's 2010
Championship.

11-0223-RSS

RESOLUTION RE: LANE TECH HIGH SCHOOL WINNERS
OF THE PUBLIC 2010 GIRLS CROSS COUNTRY CITY CHAMPIONSHIP

WHEREAS. Lane Tech High School culminated the 2010 Girls Cross Country season by winning
the Chicago Public Schools Girls Cross Country Championship on October 16. 2010. at Washington
Park; and.

WHEREAS. the members at the girls cross country team worked together as a cohesive unit and
demonstrated excellence. tenacity. dedication and superior prowess; and.

WHEREAS. the superb performance of the team members re?ects the excellent training and
support received from the Principal, Dr. Antoinette LoBosco; Head Coach. Kevin Conway; Athletic
Director. Rich Rio; and.

WHEREAS. the poise and good sportsmanship of the members of the team throughout the
season earned the admiration of all and reflect positively upon the school. community and Chicago Public
Schools.

NOW. THEREFORE. BE IT RESOLVED. that we. the Board President and Members of the
Board of Education of the City of Chicago. gathered here this 23'?day of February. 2011. do hereby
commend the Lane Tech Lady Indians for the memorable achievement of winning the Public League's
2010 Championship.

22

February 23, 2011

11-0223-R86

RESOLUTION RE: LANE TECH HIGH SCHOOL WINNERS
OF THE PUBLIC 2010 16 INCH SOFTBALL CITY CHAMPIONSHIP

WHEREAS. Lane Tech High School culminated the 2010 16 Inch Softball season by winning the
Chicago Public Schools 16 Inch Softball Championship on October 28. 2010. at University of Illinois
Baseball Field; and.

WHEREAS. the members of the 16 Inch Softball team worked together as a cohesive unit and
demonstrated excellence. tenacity. dedication and superior prowess; and.

WHEREAS. the superb performance of the team members reflects the excellent training and
support received from the Principal. Dr. Antoinette LoBosco; Head Coach. George Stavrakas; Assistant
Coach, Larry Baker; Athletic Director. Rich Rio; and.

WHEREAS. the poise and good sportsmanship of the members of the team throughout the
season earned the admiration of all and reflect positively upon the school. community and Chicago Public
Schools.

NOW. THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED. that we. the Board PreSIdent and Members of the
Board of Education of the City of Chicago. gathered here this 23'? day of February. 2011. do hereby
commend the Lane Tech Indians for the memorable achievement of winning the Public League?s 2010
Championship.

11-0223-RST

RESOLUTION RE: LANE TECH HIGH SCHOOL WINNERS
OF THE PUBLIC 2010 GIRLS SWIMMING CITY CHAMPIONSHIP

WHEREAS. Lane Tech High School culminated the 2010 Girls Swimming season by wrnning the
Chicago Public Schools Girls Swimming Championship on November 5. 2010. at of Illinois.
and.

WHEREAS. the members of the girls swimming team worked together as a cohesive unit and
demonstrated excellence. tenacity. dedication and superior prowess; and.

WHEREAS. the superb performance of the team members reflects the excellent training and
support received from the Principal. Dr. Antoinette LoBosco; Head Coach. Paul Rummelhorf; Athletic
Director. Rich Rio; and.

WHEREAS. the poise and good sportsmanship of the members of the team throughout the
season earned the admiration of all and re?ect positively upon the school. community and Chicago Public
Schools.

NOW. THEREFORE. BE IT RESOLVED. that we. the Board President and Members of the
Board of Education of the City of Chicago. gathered here this 23?? day of February. 2011. do hereby
commend the Lane Tech Lady lndiens for the memorable achievement of winning the Public League's
2010 Championship.

11 -0223-R88

RESOLUTION RE: WALTER PAYTON HIGH SCHOOL WINNERS
OF THE PUBLIC 2010 GIRLS GOLF CITY CHAMPIONSHIP

WHEREAS. Walter Payton High School culminated the 2010 girls golf season by winning the
Chicago Public Schools Girls Golf Championship on October 2. 2010. at Jackson Park Golf Course; and.

WHEREAS. the members of the girls golf team worked together as a cohesive unit and
demonstrated excellence. tenacity. dedication and superior prowess; and.

WHEREAS. the superb performance of the team members re?ects the excellent training and
support received from the Principal. Michael Hermes; Head Coach. Jim Kurtosuchi; Athletic Director, Joel
Anderson: and.

WHEREAS. the poise and good sportsmanship of the members of the team throughout the
season earned the admiration of all and reflect positively upon the school. community and Chicago Public
Schools.

NOW. THEREFORE. BE IT RESOLVED. that we. the Board President and Members of the
Board of Education of the City of Chicago. gathered here this 23" day of February. 2011. do hereby
commend Walter Payton Lady Grizzlies for the memorable achievement of winning the Public League's
2010 Championship.

23

February 23, 2011

11-0223-R89

RESOLUTION RE: WHITNEY YOUNG HIGH SCHOOL WINNERS
OF THE PUBLIC 2010 BOYS GOLF CITY CHAMPIONSHIP

WHEREAS. Whitney Young High School culminated the 2010 boys golf season by winning the
Chicago Public Schools Boys Golf Championship on October 2. 2010. at Jackson Park Golf Course; and.

WHEREAS. the members of the boys golf team worked together as a cohesive unit and
demonstrated excellence. tenacity. dedication and superior prowess; and.

WHEREAS. the superb performance of the team members reflects the excellent training and
support received from the Principal. Dr. Joyce Kenner; Head Coach. Keyin Snider; Athletic Director. Chris
Cassidy; and.

WHEREAS. the poise and good sportsmanship of the members of the team through0ut the
season earned the admiration of all and reflect positively upon the school. community and Chicago Public
Schools.

NOW. THEREFORE. BE IT RESOLVED. that we. the Board President and Members of the
Board of Education of the City of Chicago. gathered here this 23? day of February. 2011. do hereby
commend Whitney Young Dolphins for the memorable achievement of winning the Public League's 2010
Championship.

11-0223-RS1 0

RESOLUTION RE: WHITNEY YOUNG HIGH SCHOOL WINNERS
OF THE PUBLIC 2010 GIRLS TENNIS CITY CHAMPIONSHIP

WHEREAS. Whitney Y0ung High School culminated the 2010 girls tennis season by winning the
Chicago Public Schools Girls Tennis Championship on October 9. 2010. at Tuley Park, Chicago; and.

WHEREAS. the members of the girls tennis team worked together as a cohesive unit and
demonstrated excellence. tenacity. dedication and superior prowess: and.

WHEREAS, the superb performance of the team members reflects the excellent training and
support received from the Principal. Dr, Joyce Kenner; Head Coach. Edward Cruzat; Athletic Director.
Chris Cassidy; and.

WHEREAS. the poise and good sportsmanship of the members of the team thr0ugh0ut the
season earned the admiration of all and reflect positively upon the school. community and Chicago Public
Schools.

NOW. THEREFORE. BE IT RESOLVED. that we. the Board President and Members of the
Board of Education of the City of Chicago. gathered here this 23" day of February. 2011. do hereby
commend the Whitney Young Lady Dolphins for the memorable achievement of winning the Public
League's 2010 Championship. Whitney Young Lady Dolphins captured the Girls Tennis City
Championship Title for the third straight year.

11-0223-RS11

RESOLUTION RE: WHITNEY YOUNG HIGH SCHOOL WINNERS
OF THE PUBLIC 2010 GIRLS VOLLEYBALL CITY CHAMPIONSHIP

WHEREAS. Whitney Young High School culminated the 2010 girls volleyball season by winning
the Chicago Public Schools Girls Volleyball Championship on October 16. 2010. at University of Chicago.
and.

WHEREAS. the members of the girls volleyball team worked together as a cohesive unit and
demonstrated excellence. tenacity. dedication and superior prowess; and.

WHEREAS. the superb performance of the team members reflects the excellent training and
support received from the Principal. Dr. Joyce Kenner; Head Coach. Jaime Waiters; Athletic Director.
Chris Cassidy; and.

WHEREAS. the poise and good sportsmanship of the members of the team throughout the
season earned the admiration of all and reflect positively upon the school. community and Chicago Public
Schools.

NOW. THEREFORE. BE IT RESOLVED. that we. the Board President and Members of the
Board of Education of the City of Chicago. gathered here this 23" day of February. 2011. do hereby
commend the Whitney Young Lady Dolphins for the memorable achievement of winning the Public
League's 2010 Championship.

24

February 23, 201 1

President Richardson-Lowry thereupon declared Board Reports 11-0223-RS1 through
11-0223-RS11 accepted.

11-0223-RS12

RESOLUTION
AUTHORIZING EXECUTIVE LOAN AGREEMENT WITH THE UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO

Whereas. the Board of Education appointed Terry Mazany as the Chief Executive Officer
on November 17. 2010.

Whereas. Chief Executive Officer Terry Mazany has requested that the Board appoint Dr.
Charles M. Payne to serve as the Chief Education Officer.

Whereas. the position of Chief Education Officer is classrtied as an Executive Officer
position and is subject to approval by the Board of Education.

Whereas. Dr. Charles M. Payne is employed by the University of Chicago as the Frank 
Hixon Distinguished Service Professor in the School of Social Service Administration

Whereas. the University of Chicago desires to donate to the Board of Educatmn the
services of Dr. Charles M. Payne for the purposes of serving as the Chief Education Officer for a
period of four months.

Whereas. during the four month period of Dr. Charles M. Payne?s service as Chief
Education Officer. he also will be an employee of the University of Chicago on loan to the Board of
Education.

Whereas. it is the intention of the Board of Education to accept the University of Chicago's
donation of Dr. Charles M. Payne?s services.

Whereas. the University of Chicago will provide compensation. including salary. insurance
and other employment benefits to Dr Charles Payne to which he is entitled as an employee of
the University of Chicago during the four month period of his employment as the Chief Education

Officer.

Therefore, notwithstanding any contrary provisions of the Board's Rules. PolICies or
practices regarding salary. insurance or other terms and conditions of employment. at :5
Resolved;

1. Dr. Charles M. Payne is appointed as Chief Education Officer effective March 1. 2011
for a period of four months.

2. Dr. Charles M. Payne will serve as an employee of the Board of Education in the
position of Chief Education Officer and as an employee of the University of Chicago

3. Dr. Charles M. Payne will serve as Chief Education Officer without salary. insurance.
other employee benefits or other compensation from the Board.

4. The University of Chicago will be responsible for Dr. Charles M. Payne's salary,
insurance and other employee benefits to which he is entitled as an employee of the
University of Chicago and will donate his services to the Board of Education

5. The General Counsel is directed to draft a loan agreement between the Board of
Education and the University of Chicago that establishes Dr. Charles Payne's on-
loan employee status and accepts the Universny of Chicago's donation of his services
This agreement may include indemnification.

6. The term of the Agreement shall be for a four month period beginning March 1. 2011

7. The President of the Board and the Board Secretary are authorized to execute the
agreement between the Board of Education and the University of Chicago

11-0223-RS13

Resownon ABATING THE Tax HERETOFORE Leweo FOR THE YEAR 2010 to PM DEBT SERVICE on
UNLIMITED TAX GENERAL OBLIGATION BONDS (DEDICATED TAX REVENUES). 2000-01. OF THE BOARD
or EDUCATION or THE CITY OF CHICAGO

WHEREAS. the Board of Education of the City of Chicago (the ?Board') has heretofore issued its
Unlimited, Tax General Obligatlon Bonds (Dedicated Tax Revenues). Series 2000A. dated July 20. 2000
(the "Series 2000A Bonds"); its Unlimited Tax General Obligation Bonds (Dedicated Tax Revenues}.
Series 20008. dated September 7. 2000 (the ?Series 20008 Bonds"); its Unlimited Tax General
Obligation Bonds (Dedicated Tax Revenues). Series 20000. dated September 7. 2000 (the 'Series
20000 Bonds?): its Unlimited Tax General Obligation Bonds (Dedicated Tax Revenues). Series 20000.
dated September 7. 2000 (the "Series 20000 Bonds?. together with the Series 2000A. the Series 20008
and the Series 2000C. the ?Series 2000 Bonds") and its Unlimited Tax General Obligation Bonds
(Dedicated Revenues). Series 2001A. dated February 1. 2001 (the ?Series 2001A Bends'. together with
the Series 2000 Bonds the "Series 2000-01 Bonds". all pursuant to Resolution 00-0628-R821. adopted
by the Board on the 28' day of June 2000 (the ?Bond Resolution?) and a certain Trust indenture. dated as
of July 1. 2000 (the ?Series 2000A lndenture"). between the Board and Amalgamated Bank of Chicago
(the ?Trustee'). securing the Series 2000A Bonds: a certain Trust Indenture. dated as of September 1.
2000 (the "Series 2000 indenture"). between the Board and the Trustee. securing the Series 20003

25

February 23, 2011

Bonds; a certain Trust lndenture. dated as of September 1. 2000 (the 'Series 2000 lndenture?) between
the Board and the Trustee. securing the Series 20000 Bonds; a certain Trust lndenture. dated as of
September 1. 2000 (the ?Series 20000 tndenture"). between the Board and the Trustee. securing the
Series 20000 Bonds; and a certain Trust lndenture. dated as of February 1. 2001 (the ?Se?'as 2001A
lndenture"). between the Board and Seaway National Bank of Chicago (the ?Series 2001A Trustee').
securing the Series 2001A Bonds; and

WHEREAS. pursuant to the Bond Resolution. the Board has levied a direct annual tax for the
payment of the principal of and interest on the Series 2000-01 Bonds. and has directed the Caunty Clerks
of The Counties of Cook and DuPage. Illinois (the ?County Clerks") to extend such taxes in amounts
sufficient to pay such debt service as the same becomes due (the ?Pledged Taxes") pursuant thereto. and

WHEREAS, Section of the Series 2000A lndenture provides that once sufficient Pledged
Revenues (as defined in the lndenture) have been deposited In the Pledged Revenue Sub-Account (as
defined in the Indenture) in any calendar year in an amount sufficient to pay the interest on and the
principal of the Series 2000A Bonds due during the Bond Year beginning on December 2 of such prior
calendar year. the Board shall take such actions as are necessary to abate the Pledged Taxes levied and
to be extended for the then-current calendar year in full; and

WHEREAS. Section of the Series 20008 lndenture. Series 2000C Indenture and Series
20000 lndenture provides that once sufficient Pledged State Aid Revenues (as de?ned in each lndenture)
have been deposited in the Deposit Sub-Account (as defined in each lndenture) in any calendar year in
an amount sufficient to pay the interest on and the principal of the Series 20003 Bonds. the Series 2000C
Bonds and the Series 20000 Bonds due during the Bond Year beginning on March 2 of such calendar
year. the Trustee shall notify the Board of that fact. and the Board shall take SUch actions as are
necessary to abate the Pledged Taxes levied and to be extended fer the then-current calendar year In
full; and

WHEREAS. Section of the Series 2001A lndenture provides that once sufficient Pledged
State Aid Revenues (as defined in the lndenture) have been deposited in the Pledged State Aid
Revenues Sub-Account (as defined in the indenture) in any calendar year in an amount sufficient to pay
the interest on and the principal of the Series 2001A Bonds due during the then current Bond Year and
the Board shall take such actions as are necessary to abate the Pledged Taxes levred and to be
extended for the then-current calendar year in full; and

WHEREAS. the Board has received the notices described in the preceding three paragraphs from
the Trustee and the Series 2001A Trustee evidencing the sufficiency of the respective Pledged Revenues
and the Pledged State Aid Revenues deposited into the respective Deposit Sub-Accounts. and the Board
hereby finds that it is necessary and in the best interests of the Board that the Pledged Taxes heretot0re
levied and to be extended for the year 2010 to pay such debt service on the Series 2000-01 Bonds be
abated in full.

Now, THEREFORE, BE It HEREBY RESOLVED by the Board of Education of the City of Chicago,
as follows:

1. Abatement of the Series 2000-01 Bonds Pledged Taxes. The Pledged Taxes in
the amount of $28.520,000.00 heretofore levied for the year 2010 in the Bond Resolution and to
be extended pursuant thereto are hereby abated in full.

2. Filing of Resolution. Forthwith upon the adoption of this Resolution, the
Secretary of the Board shall cause a certified copy hereof to be filed with the County Clerks. and
It shall be the duty of such officers to abate said Pledged Taxes levied and to be extended for the
year 2010 in full, in accordance with the provisions hereof.

3. Effective Date. This Resolution shall be in full force and effect upon its adoption

11-0223-RS14

RESOLUTION ABATING THE Tax Henarorons Levreo roe me YEAR 2010 TO PAY Deer Ssavrcs on
UNLIMITED TAX GENERAL OBLIGATION BONDS (DEDICATED TAX REVENUES), SERIES 2001-03. OF THE BOARD
OF EDUCATION or THE or CHICAGO

WHEREAS. the Board of Education of the City of Chicago (the 'Board") has heretofore issued its
Unlimited Tax General Obligation Bonds (Dedicated Revenues). Series 2001C. dated December 11.
2001 (the ?Series 2001C Bonds"); its Unlimited Tax General Obligation Bonds (Dedicated Revenues),
Series 2003A, dated February 5. 2003 (the ?Series 2003A Bonds?); and its Unlimited Tax General
Obligation Bonds (Dedicated Revenues), Series 20038. dated February 11, 2003 (the ?Series 20038
Bonds". together with the Series 2001C Bonds and the Series 2003A Bonds. the ?Series 200t-03
Bonds"). all pursuant to Resolution No. 01-1128-RS4. adopted by the Board on the 28'" day of November
2001 (the "Bond Resolution"). and a certain Trust lndenture. dated as of December 1. 2001 (the 'Sen'es
2001C indenture"). between the Board and Amalgamated Bank of Chicago (the ?Series 2001C Trustee').
securing the Series 2001C Bonds; a certain Trust lndenture. dated as of January 1, 2003 (the 'Sen?es
2003A indenture"). between the Board and BNY Midwest Trust Company (the 'Sen?es 2003 Trustee').
securing the Series 2003A Bonds; and a certain Trust lndenture. dated as of January 1. 2003 (the 'Sen'es
2003B lndenture"). between the Board and the Series 2003 Trustee. securing the Series 20038 Bonds.
and

26

February 23. 2011

WHEREAS. pursuant to the Bond Resolution. the Board has levied a direct annual tax for the
payment of the principal of and interest on the Series 2001-03 Bonds. and has directed the COunty Clerks
of The Counties of Cook and DuPage. Illinois (the ?County Clerks?) to extend such taxes in amounts
sufficient to pay such debt service as the same becomes due (the ?Pledged Taxes") pursuant thereto; and

WHEREAs. Section of the Series 2001C Indenture provides that once sufficient Pledged
State Aid Revenues (as defined in the Indenture) have been deposited in the Pledged State Aid
Revenues Account (as defined in the Indenture) in any calendar year in an amount suf?cient to pay the
interest on and the principal of the Series 2001C Bonds due during the Bond Year the Board shall take
such actions as are necessary to abate the Pledged Taxes levied and to be extended for the then-current
calendar year in full; and

WHEREAS. Section of the Series 2003A Indenture and Series 20038 indenture provides
that once sufficient Pledged State Aid Revenues (as defined in each respective Indenture) have been
deposited in the Pledged State Aid Revenues Account (as defined in each respective Indenture) in any
calendar year in an amount suf?cient to pay the interest on and the principal of the Series 2003A
Bonds due during the then current Bond Year and (ii) the Series 20038 Bonds due during the then
current Bond year the Board shall take such actions as are necessary to abate the Pledged Taxes levied
and to be extended for the then-current calendar year in full; and

WHEREAS. the Board hereby finds that it is necessary and in the best interests of the Board that
the Pledged Taxes heretofore levied and to be extended for the year 2010 to pay such debt service on
the Series 2001 -03 Bonds be abated in full.

Now. THEREFORE, Be it HEREBY RESOLVED by the Board of Education of the City of Chicago.
as follows:

1, Abatement of the Series 2001-03 Bonds Ptedged Taxes. The Pledged Taxes in
the amount of 340000000 heretofore levied for the year 2010 in the Bond Resolution and to be
extended pursuant thereto are hereby abated in full.

2. Filing of Resolution Forthwith upon the adoption of this Reselution, the
Secretary of the Board shall cause a certified copy hereof to be filed with the County Clerks. and
it shall be the duty of such officers to abate said Pledged Taxes levied and to be extended for the
year 2010 in full. in accordance with the provisions hereof.

3. Effective Date. This Resolution shall be in full force and effect upon its adoption

11-0223-RS15

RESOLUTION AeArlNo THE HERETOFORE FOR THE YEAR 2010 TO PAY Deer SERVICE OR URLiuireo
TAX GENERAL Bones (DEDICATED 2002A. or me BOARD or Eoucmorr or: rue
CITY or 

WHEREAS. the Board of Education of the City of Chicago (the ?Board') has heretofore issued its
Unlimited Tax General Obligation Bonds (Dedicated Revenues). Series 2002A, dated September 24, 2002
(the "Series 2002A Bonds?). pursuant to Resolution No. 02-0828-RSO4. adopted by the Board on the 28'"
day of August. 2002 (the ?Bond Resolution"). and a certain Trust Indenture dated as of September 1. 2002
(the "Series 2002A indenture?), between the Board and Cole Taylor Bank (the "Series 2002A Trustee').
securing the Series 2002A Bonds: and

WHEREAS. pursuant to the Bond Resolution. the Board has levied a direct annual tax for the payment
of the principal of and interest on the Series 2002A Bonds, and has directed the County Clerks of The
Counties of Cook and DuPage. (the ?County Clerks?). to extend such taxes in amounts suf?cient to
pay such debt service as the same becomes due (the ?Pledged Taxes") pursuant thereto: and

WHEREAS. Section of the Series 2002A Indenture provides that once suf?cient revenues have
been deposited in the Bond Payment Account (as defined in the indenture) in any calendar year in an
amount sufficient to pay the interest on and the principal of the Series 2002A Bonds due during the Bond
Year beginning on December 2 of such prior calendar year. the Series 2002A Trustee shall notify the Board
of that fact. and the Board shall take such actions as are necessary to abate the Pledged Taxes levied and to
be extended for the then-current calendar year in full; and

WHEREAS. the Board has received the notice described in the preceding paragraph from the Series
2002A Trustee evidencing the sufficiency of the revenues deposited into the Bond Payment Account and the
Board hereby finds that it is necessary and in the best interests of the Board that the Pledged Taxes
heretofore levied and to be extended for the year 2010 to pay such debt service on the Series 2002A Bonds
be abated in full.

Now. THEREFORE. BE tr HEREBY RESOLVED by the Board of Education of the City of Chicago, as
follows:

1. Abatement of the Series 2002A Bonds Pledged Taxes. The Pledged Taxes in the
amOunt of $6,000,000.00 heretofore levied for the year 2010 in the Bond Resolution and to be
extended pursuant thereto are hereby abated in full.

27

February 23. 2011

2. Filing of Resolution. Forthwith upon the adoption of this Resolution. the Secretary of
the Board shall cause a certified copy hereof to be filed with the County Clerks. and it shall be the
duty of such officers to abate said Pledged Taxes levied and to be extended for the year 2010 In full.
in accordance with the provisions hereof.

3. Effective Date. This Resolution shall be in full force and effect upon its adoption

11-0223-RS16

RESOLUTION ABATING THE LEVIEO FOR THE YEAR 2010 TO PAY DEBT SERVICE OR UNLIMITED
GENERAL OBLIGATION REFUNDING BONDS REVENUES). SERIEs 200MB. or me BOARD or
EDUCATION or THE CITY OF CHICAGO

WHEREAS. the Board of Education of the City Of Chicago (the ?Board') has heretofore Issued its
Unlimited Tax General Obligation Refunding Bonds (Dedicated Revenues). Series 2004A. dated April 6.
2004 (the "Series 2004A Bonds?); and its Unlimited Tax General Obligation Refunding Bonds (Dedicated
Revenues). Series 2004B. dated April 6. 2004 (the "Series 2004B Bonds?, together with the Series 2004A
Bonds. the ?Series 200MB Bonds"). all pursuant to Resolution No. 04-0324-R83. adopted by the Board on
March 24, 2004 (the ?Bond Resolution"). and a certain Trust indenture. dated as of April 1. 2004 (the "Series
2004A indenture"). between the Board and Amalgamated Bank Of Chicago (the ?Trustee?). securing the
Series 2004A Bonds; and a certain Trust Indenture. dated as of April 1. 2004 (the "Series 20048 Indenture?).
between the Board and the Trustee. securing the Series 2004B Bonds; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to the Bond Resolution. the Board has levied a direct annual tax for the payment
of the principal of and interest on the Series 2004AB Bonds. and has directed the County Clerks of The
Counties of Cook and DuPage. (the ?County Cferks') to extend such taxes In amounts sufficient to
pay such debt service as the same becomes due (the ?Pledged Taxes?) pursuant to a certi?cate entitled;

Noti?cation and Direction for abatement of certain taxes levied for each of
the years 2004 to 2034. inclusive. to pay principal of and interest on
Unlimited Tax General Obligation Bonds (Dedicated Tax Revenues). Series
1996. Unlimited Tax General Obligation Bonds (Dedicated Tax Revenues).
Series 1997 and Unlimited Tax General Obligation Refunding Bonds
(Dedicated Revenues). Series 2004A and Series 20048 of the Board of
Education of the City of Chicago

hereinafter. the "Adjusted Extension Certificate"; and

WHEREAS. the Adjusted Extension Certificates set forth the ?Adjusted Bond Pledged Taxes' to be
extended for collection with respect tO the Series 2004AB Bonds. unless abated by the Board; and

WHEREAS, Section of the Series 2004A indenture prowdes that on or before February 16 of
each year. when suf?cient funds are on deposit in the Payment Sub-Account of the Alternate Revenues
Account to pay principal of and interest on the Series 2004A Bonds during the then current Bond Year. the
Trustee shall notify the Board of that fact. and the Board shall take such actions as are necessary to abate
the Pledged Taxes: and

WHEREAS. Section of the Series 20048 Indenture provides that on or before February 16 of
each year. when sufficient funds are on deposit in the Pledged State Aid Revenues Account equal to the
Pledged State Aid Revenues Account Requirement (as defined in the Series 2004B Indenture). the Trustee
shall notify the Board of that fact. and the Board shall take such actions as are necessary to abate the
Pledged Taxes; and

WHEREAS. the Board has received the notices described in the preceding two paragraphs from the
Trustee evidencing the sufficiency of the revenues deposited into the Debt Service Funds and the Board
hereby finds that it is necessary and in the best interests of the Board that the Pledged Taxes heretofore
levied and to be extended for the year 2010 to pay such debt service on the Series 2004A8 Bonds be abated
in full.

Now. THEREFORE, BE IT HEREBY RESOLVED by the Board of Education of the City of Chicago. as
follows:

1. Abatement of the Series 200MB Bonds Pledged Taxes. The Adjusted Refunding
Bond Pledged Taxes in the amount of 510.146.000.00 heretofore levied for the year 2010 In the
Bond Resolution and to be extended pursuant thereto are hereby abated in full.

2. Filing of Resolution. Forthwith Upon the adoption of this Resolution. the Secretary of
the Board shall cause a certified copy hereof to be filed with the County Clerks, and it shall be the
duty of such of?cers to abate said Pledged Taxes levied and to be extended for the year 2010 in full.
in accordance with the provisions hereof.

3. Effective Date. This Resolution shall be in full force and effect upon its adoption.

28

February 23, 2011

11-0223-RS17

RESOLUTION THE TAX HERETOFORE LEVIED FOR THE YEAR 2010 To PAY DEBT SERVICE ON
UNLIMITED GENERAL OBLIGATION BONDs (DEDICATED REVENUES - BENITO JUARE2 COMMUNITY
ACADEMY PROJECT), SERIES 20046. OF THE BOARD or EDUCATION OF THE or CHICAGO

WHEREAS. the Board of Education of the City of Chicago (the "Board') has heretofore issued its
Unlimited Tax GeneraluObllgation Bonds (Dedicated Revenues - Benito Juarez Community Academy
Project). Series 20046. dated December 9. 2004 (the "Series 20046 Bonds"). pursuant to Resolution No.
adopted by the Board on the 17''1 day of November 2004 (the 'Bond Resolution?), and a
certain Trust lndenture dated as of December 1. 2004 (the ?Series 20046 fndenture'). between the Board
and U.S. Bank National Association (the ?Series 20046 Trustee?). securing the Series 20046 Bonds; and

WHEREAS. pursuant to the Bond Resolution. the Board has levied a direct annual tax for the
payment of the principal of and interest on the Series 20046 Bonds. and has directed the County Clerks
of The Counties of Cook and DuPage, (the ?County Clerks"). to extend such taxes In amounts
sufficient to pay such debt service as the same becomes due (the ?Pfedged Taxes?) pursuant thereto; and

WHEREAS, Section of the Series 20046 incanture provides that once sufficient Pledged
City Note Revenues (as de?ned in the lndenture) have been deposited in the Bond Payment Accoant (as
defined in the Indenture) In any calendar year in an amount sufficient to pay the interest on and the
principal of the Series 20046 Bonds due. during the then current Bond year the Series 20046 Trustee
shall notify the Board of that fact. and the Board shall take such actions as are necessary to abate the
Pledged Taxes levied and to be extended for the preceding calendar year in full; and

WHEREAS, the Board has received the notice described in the preceding paragraph from the
Series 20046 Trustee evidencing the sufficiency of the Piedged City Note Revenues deposited Into the
Bond Payment Account and the Board hereby finds that it is necessary and in the best interests of the
Board that the Piedged Taxes heretofore levied and to be extended for the year 2010 to pay such debt
service on the Series 2004G Bonds be abated in full.

Now. THEREFORE, BE iT HEREBY RESOLVED by the Board of Education of the City of Chicago.
as follows:

1. Abatement of the Series 20046 Bonds Pledged Taxes. The Pledged Taxes In
the amount of 55.000.000.00 heretofore levied for the year 2010 in the Bond Resolution and to be
extended pursuant thereto are hereby abated in full.

2. Wing of Resolution. Forthwilh upon the adoption of the Resolution. the
Secretary of the Board shall cause a certified cepy hereof to be filed with the County Clerks, and
it shall be the duty of such officers to abate said Pledged Taxes levied and to be extended for the
year 2010 in full, in accordance with the provisions hereof.

3. Effective Date. This Resolution shall be in full force and effect upon its adoption.

11-0223-RS18

RESOLUTION ABATING THE TAX HERETOFORE FOR THE YEAR 2010 To PAY DEBT SERVICE ON UNLIMITED
TAX GENERAL OBLIGATION REFUNDINO BoNos (DEDICATED REVENUES). SERIEs 2005A AND SERIES 20058. or
THE BOARD or EDUCATION OF THE CITY or CHICAGO

WHEREAS, the Board of Education of the City of Chicago (the 'Board') has heretofore Issued Its
Unlimited Tax General Obligation Refunding Bonds (Dedicated Revenues). Series 2005A._daled June 27.
2005 (the "Series 2005A Bonds?); and its Unlimited Tax General Obligation Refunding Bonds (Dedicated
Revenues). Series 20058. dated June 27. 2005 (the ?Series 20058 Bonds?. together with the Series 2005A
Bonds. the "Series 2005/ta Bonds?). all pursuant to Resolution No. 05-0525-RS4. adopted by the Board on
May 25, 2005 (the "Bond Resolution"). and a certain Trust lndenture. dated as of June 1, 2005 (the "Series
2005A fndenlure?). between the Board and Amalgamated Bank of Chicago (the 'Trustee'). securing the
Series 2005A Bonds; and a certain Trust Indenture. dated as of June 1, 2005 (the 'Series 20058 indenture').
between the Board and the Trustee. securing the Series 20058 Bonds; and

WHEREAS. pursuant to the Bond Resolution, the Board has levied a direct annual tax for the payment
of the principal of and interest on the Series 2005AB Bonds. and has directed the County Clerks of The
Counties of Cook and DuPage. lilinois (the ?County Clerks") to extend such taxes in amounts sufficrent to
pay such debt service as the same becomes due (the 'Piedged Taxes?) pursuant to a certi?cate entitled:

Notification and Direction for abatement of certain taxes levied for each of
the years 2005 to 2039. inclusive. to pay principal of and interest on
Unlimited Tax General Obligation Bonds (Dedicated Tax Revenues). Series
199?. Unlimited Tax General Obligation Bonds (Dedicated Revenues).
Series 2001A and Series 2001C and Unlimited Tax General Obligation
Refunding Bonds (Dedicated Revenues). Series 2005A and Series 20058 of
the Board of Education of the City of Chicago

hereinafter. the ?Adjusted Extension Certi?cate": and

29

February 23, 2011

WHEREAS. the Adjusted Extension Certificates set forth the "Adjusted Bond Pledged Taxes? to be
extended for collection with respect to the Series 2005AB Bonds. unless abated by the Board; and

WHEREAS. Section of the Series 2005A Indenture provides that once sufficient revenues have
been deposited in the Pledged State Aid Revenues Account (as de?ned in the Series 2005A Indenture) on or
before February 16 of each year in an amount suf?cient to pay the interest on and the principal of the Series
2005A Bonds due during the current Bond Year (as de?ned in the Series 2005A lndenture) the Trustee shall
notify the Board of that fact. and the Board shall take such actions as are necessary to abate the Pledged
Taxes; and

WHEREAS. Section of the Series 20058 Indenture provides that once sufficient revenues have
been deposited in the Debt Service Fund (as defined in the Series 20058 Indenture) in an amount 
to pay all of the interest on and the principal of the Series 20058 Bonds scheduled to be paid from PPRT
Revenues (as defined in the Series 20058 Indenture) due during the Bond Year beginning on December 2 of
Such Bond Year. the Trustee shall notify the Board of that fact. and the Board shall take such actions as are
necessary to abate the Pledged Taxes levied and to be extended for the calendar year next preceding the
calendar year in full; and

WHEREAS. the Board has received the notices described in the preceding two paragraphs from the
Trustee evidencing the sufficiency of the Pledged Revenues deposited into the Debt Service Funds and the
Board hereby finds that it is necessary and in the best interests of the Board that the Adjusted Refunding
Bend Pledged Taxes heretofore levied and to be extended for the year 2010 to pay such debt service on the
Series 2005AB Bonds (as defined in the Adjusted Extension Certificate) be abated in full.

Now. THEREFORE. BE it HEREBY RESOLVED by the Board of Education of the City of Chicago. as
follows:

1. Abatement of the Series 2005A8 Bonds Pledged Taxes. The Adjusted Refunding
Bond Pledged Taxes in the amount of $13.179.912.50 heretofore levied for the year 2010 in the
Bond Resolution and to be extended pursuant thereto are hereby abated in full.

2. Filing of Resolution. Forthwith upon the adoption of this Resolution. the Secretary of
the Board shall cause a certi?ed copy hereof to be filed with the County Clerks. and it shall be the
duty of such officers to abate said Pledged Taxes levied and to be extended for the year 2010 in full.
in accordance with the provisions hereof.

. 3. Effective Date. This Resolution shall be in full force and effect upon its adoption.

11-0223-RS19

RESOLUTION ABATING THE HERETOFORE LEVIED FOR THE YEAR 201 0 To PAY DEET SERVICE ON
UNLIMITED TAX GENERAL OBLIGATION BONDS (DEDICATED REVENUES). SERIES 20068. OF THE BOARD OF
EDUCATION OF THE CITY OF CHICAGO

WHEREAS. the Board of Education of the City of Chicago (the 'Board') has heretofore issued its
Unlimited Tax General Obligation Bonds (Dedicated Revenues). Series 20068. dated September 27.
2006 (the "Series 20068 Bonds'). pursuant to Resolution No. 06-0823-RSA. adopted by the Board on
August 23. 2006 (the "Bond Resolution"). and a certain Trust Indenture dated as of September 1. 2006
(the ?lndenture'). between the Board and Wells Fargo Bank, NA. (the ?Trustee'). SBCUftng the Series
20068 Bonds; and

WHEREAS. pursuant to the Bond Resolution. the Board has levied a direct annual tax for the
payment of the principal of and interest on the Series 20068 Bonds. and has directed the County Clerks
of The Counties of Cook and DuPage. (the ?County Clerks"). to extend such taxes in amounts
sufficient to pay such debt service as the same becomes due (the ?Pledged Taxes?) pursuant thereto: and

WHEREAS. Section of the Indenture provides that once suf?cient revenues have been
deposlted in the Debt Service Fund (as de?ned in the Indenture) or before the Deposit Date (as de?ned in
the lndenture) of each year in an amount suf?cient to pay the interest on and the principal of the Series
20068 Bonds due during the Bond Year beginning on December 2 of the preceding calendar year. the
Trustee will notify the Board of that fact. and the Board shall take such actions as are necessary to abate
the Pledged Taxes levied and to be extended for the calendar year next preceding the calendar year of
such Deposit Date in full; and

WHEREAS, the Board has received the notice described in the preceding paragraph from the
Trustee evidencing the sufficiency of the revenues deposited into the Debt Service Funds and the Board
hereby ?nds that it Is necessary and in the best interests of the Board that the Pledged Taxes heretofore
levied and to be extended for the year 2010 to pay such debt service on the Series 20068 Bonds be
abated in full.

Now. THEREFORE. BE IT HEREBY by the Board of Education of the City of Chicago.
as follows:

1. Abatement of the Series 20068 Bonds Pledged Taxes. The Pledged Taxes in the
amount of 316.000.000.00 heretofore levied for the year 2010 in the 80nd Resolution and to be
extended pursuant thereto are hereby abated in full.

30

February 23, 2011

2. Filing of Resolution. Forthwith upon the adoption of this Resolution. the
Secretary of the Board shall cause a certified copy hereof to be filed with the County Clerks. and
it shall be the duty Of such officers to abate said Piedged Taxes levied and to be extended for the
year 2010 in full. in accordance with the provisions hereof.

3. Effective Date. This Resolution shall be in full force and effect upon Its adoption

11-0223-R320

RESOLUTION ASATING THE TAX HERETOFDRE LEVIED FOR THE YEAR 2010 To PAY DEBT SERVICE ON
UNLIMITED GENERAL OBLIGATION BONDS (DEDICATED REVENUES), SERIES 20070. OF THE BOARD OF
EDUCATION OF THE CITY or- CHICAGO

WHEREAS. the Board of Education of the City of Chicago (the "Board?) has heretofore issued its
Unlimited Tax General Obligation Bonds (Dedicated Revenues). Series 20070. dated December 13.
2007 (the "Series 20070 Bonds?). pursuant to Resolution No. 07-1024-R34. adopted by the Board on
October 24. 2007 (the ?Bond Resolution?). and a certain Trust Indenture dated as of December 1. 2007
(the ?lndenture'). between the Board and Wells Fargo Bank, NA. (the "Trustee?). securing the Series
20070 Bonds: and

WHEREAS. pursuant to the Bond Resolution. the Board has levied a direct annual tax for the
payment of the principal of and interest on the Series 20070 Bonds. and has directed the County Clerks
of The Counties of Cook and DuPage. Illinois (the ?County Clerks?). to extend such taxes In amounts
suf?cient to pay such debt service as the same becomes due (the "Pledged Taxes?) pursuant thereto; and

WHEREAS. Section of the Indenture provides that once sufficient revenues have been
deposited in the Debt Service Fund (as de?ned in the Indenture) or before the Deposit Date (as defined in
the lndenture) of each year In an amount suf?cient to pay the interest on and the prinCIpal of the SerIes
20070 Bonds due the Trustee will notify the Board of that fact. and the Board shall take such actions as
are necessary to abate the Piedged Taxes levied and to be extended for the calendar year next
preceding the calendar year of such Deposit Date in full; and

WHEREAS, the Board has received the notice described in the precedmg paragraph from the
Trustee evidencing the sufficiency of the revenues deposited into the Debt Service Funds and the Board
hereby finds that it is necessary and in the best interests of the Board that the Pledged Taxes heretofore
levied and to be extended for the year 2010 to pay Such debt service on the Series 20070 Bonds be
abated in full.

Now. THEREFORE, BE IT HEREBY RESOLVED by the Board of Education of the City of Chicago.
as follows:

1 Abatement of the Series 20070 Bonds Pledged Taxes The Piedged Taxes In the
amount of $10. 500. 000.00 heretofore levied for the year 2010 in the Bond Resolution and to be
extended pursuant thereto are hereby abated In full.

2. Filing of Resolution. Forthwith upon the adoption of the the
Secretary of the Board shall cause a certified copy hereof to be filed with the County Clerks. and
it shall be the duty of such of?cers to abate said Piedged Taxes levied and to be extended for the
year 2010 in full. in accordance with the provisions hereot.

3. Effective Date. This Resolution shall be in full force and effect upon its adoption.

11-0223-R321

RESOLUTION ASATTNO THE TAX HERETOFORE LEVIED FOR THE YEAR 2010 To PAY DEBT SERVICE ON UNLIMITED
GENERAL OBLIGATION REFUNDING BONDS (DEDICATED REVENUES), SERIES 2008A. SERIES 20088. Sewer;
20080 AND SERIES 2009A. OF THE BOARD OF EDUCATION OF THE CITY OF CHICAGO

WHEREAS. the Board of Education of the City of Chicago (the "Search has heretofore Issued its
Unlimited Tax General Obligation Refunding Bonds (Dedicated Revenues). Series 2008A, dated May 13.
2008 (the "Series 2008A Bonds"); its Unlimited Tax General Obligation Refunding Bonds (Dedicated
Revenues). Series 2008B. dated May 13. 2008 (the "Series 20088 Bonds". together with the Series 2008A
Bonds. the ?Series 2008AB Bonds"); its Unlimited Tax General Obligation Refunding Bonds (Dedicated
Revenues). Series 2008C. dated May 1. 2008 (the ?Series 20080 Bonds"; and together with the Series
2008AB Bonds. collectively. the ?Series 2008ABC Bonds"). and its Unlimited Tax General Obligation
Refunding Bonds (Dedicated Revenues). Series 2009A. dated March 18. 2009 (the 'Sen?es 2009A Bonds?).
all pursuant to Resolution No. adopted by the Board on March 26, 2008 (the ?Bond
Resolution"). and a certain Trust Indenture. dated as of May 1. 2008 (the ?Series 2008A lndenture?). between
the Board and Amalgamated Bank of Chicago. as Trustee (the ?Series 2008ATrusfee'). securing the Series
2008A Bonds; a certain Trust lndenture. dated as of May 1. 2008 (the 'Sen?es 20088 lndenture?). between
the Board and Deutsche Bank National Trust Company. as Trustee (the ?Series 20088 Trustee"). securing
the Series 20088 Bonds; a certain Trust lndenture. dated as of May 1. 2008 (the ?Series 20086 indenture').
between the Board and The Bank of New York Trust Company. N.A.. as Trustee (the ?Sen?es 20086
Trustee"). securing the Series 2008C Bonds; and a certain Trust indenture. dated as of March 1. 2009 (the
?Series 2009A Indenture?). between the Board and Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company. NA. as
Trustee (the "Series 2009A Trustee?). securing the Series 2009A Bonds

31

February 23. 2011

WHEREAS. pursuant to the Bond Resolution. the Board has levied a direct annual tax for the payment
of the principal of and interest on the Series 2008A Bonds. and has directed the County Clerks at The
Counties of Cook and DuPage. (the "County Clerks?) to extend such taxes in amounts suf?crent to
pay such debt service as the same becomes due (the ?Pledged Taxes") pursuant to a certificate entitled

Notification and Direction for abatement of certain taxes levied for each of
the years 2008 to 2029. inclusive. to pay principal of and interest on
Unlimited Tax General Obligation Refunding Bonds (Dedicated Revenues).
Series 2007A. of the Board of Education of the City of Chicago

hereinafter. the "Series 2008A Adjusted Extension Certi?cate": and

WHEREAS. pursuant to the Bond Resolution. the Board has levied a direct annual tax for the payment
of the principal of and interest on the Series 20088 Bonds. and has directed the County Clerks of The
Counties of Cook and DuPage. illinois (the "County Cierks') to extend such taxes in amounts sufficrent to
pay such debt service as the same becomes due (the ?Pledged Taxas') pursuant to a certificate entitled

Notification and Direction for abatement of certain taxes levied for mm of
the years 2008 to 2020. inclusive. to pay principal of and interest on
Unlimited Tax General Obligation Bonds (Dedicated Revenues). Series
20030. of the Board of Education of the City of Chicago

hereinafter. the Series 20088 Adjusted Extension Certi?cate"; and

WHEREAS. pursuant to the Bond Resolution. the Board has levied a direct annual tax for the payment
of the principal of and interest on the Series 2008C Bonds. and has directed the County Clerks of The
Counties of Cook and DuPage. Illinois (the ?County Clerks") to extend such taxes in am0unts sufficrent to
pay such debt service as the same becomes due (the ?Pledged Taxes') pursuant to a certificate, hereinafter
the "Series 20080 Adjusted Extension Certificate"; and

WHEREAS. pursuant to the Bond Resolution. the Board has levied a direct annual tax for the payment
of the principal of and interest on the Series 2009A Bonds. and has directed the County Clerks of The
Counties of Cook and DuPage. Illinois (the "County Clerks") to extend Such taxes in amounts SuffICient to
pay such debt service as the same becomes due (the ?Pledged Taxes") pursuant to a certificate. hereinafter.
the ?Series 2009A Adjusted Extension Certi?cate" (collectively. the Series 2008A Adjusted ExtenSion
Certificate. the Series 20088 Adjusted Extension Certificate. the Series 2008(: Adjusted ExtenSion
Certificate and the Series 2009A Adjusted Extension Certificate are hereinafter referred to as the ?Adjusted
Extension Certificates"): and

Wnenens. the Adjusted Extension Certificates set forth the "Adjusted Bond Pledged Taxes' to be
extended for collection with respect to the Series 2008ABC Bonds and the Series 2009A Bonds, unless
abated by the Board; and

WHEREAS. Section of the Series 2008A lndenture provides that once suf?cient revenues
from Pledged PPRT Revenues (as defined in the Series 2008A lndenture) have been deposited in the
Deposit Sub-Account (as defined in the Series 2008A lndenture) suf?cient to pay the interest on and the
principal of the Series 2008A Bonds due during the Bond Year beginning on December 2 of such Bond Year.
the Series 2008ATrustee shall notify the Board of that fact. and the Board shall take Such actions as are
necessary to abate the Pledged Taxes; and

WHEREAS. Section of the Series 20088 lndenture provides that once sufficient revenues have
been deposited by February 16 of each year in the Pledged State Aid Revenues Account (as defined in the
Series 2008B lndenture) in an amount equal to the Pledged State Aid Revenues Account Requirement. the
Series 20088 Trustee shall notify the Board of that fact. and the Board shall take such actions as are
necessary to abate the Pledged Taxes levied and to be extended for the calendar year next preceding the
calendar year in full; and

WHEREAS. Section of the Series 20080 indenture provides that once sufficient revenues have
been deposited by February 16 of each year in the Pledged State Aid Revenues Account (as de?ned in the
Series 20080 Indenture) in an amount equal to the Pledged State Aid Revenues Account Requirement. the
Series 200th Trustee shall notify the Board of that fact. and the Board shall take such actions as are
necessary to abate the Pledged Taxes levied and to be extended for the calendar year next preceding the
calendar year in full; and

WHEREAS. Section of the Series 2009A lndenture provides that once sufficient revenues have
been deposited by February 16 of each year in the Pledged State Aid Revenues Account (as defined in the
Series 2009A lndenture) in an amount equal to the Pledged State Aid Revenues Account Requirement. the
Series 2009A Trustee shall notify the Board of that fact. and the Board shall take such actions as are
necessary to abate the Pledged Taxes levied and to be extended for the calendar year next preceding the
calendar year in full; and

32

February 23, 2011

WHEREAS. the Board has received the notices described in the preceding four (4) paragraphs from
the Series 2008A Trustee evidencing the sufficiency of the Pledged PPRT Revenues deposited into the
Deposit Sub-Account. the Series 2008B Trustee. the Series 2008C Trustee and the Series 2009A Trustee
evidencing the suf?ciency of the Pledged State Aid Revenues Account respectively, and the Board hereby
finds that it is necessary and in the best interests of the Board that the Adjusted Bond Pledged Taxes
heretofore levied and to be extended for the year 2010 to pay such debt service on the Series 2008ABC
Bonds and the Series 2009A Bonds be abated in full.

Now. THEREFORE. BE Ir HEREBY RESOLVED by the Board of Education of the City of Chicago. as
follows:
1. Abatement of the Series 2008ABC Bonds and Series 2009A Bonds Pledged Taxes
The Adjusted Refunding Bond Pledged Taxes in the amount of 513324150000 heretofore levied
for the year 2010 in the Bond Resolution and to be extended pursuant thereto are hereby abated in
full.

2. Filing of Resolution. orthwith upon the adoption of INS Resalution. the Secretary of
the Board shall cause a certified copy hereof to be filed with the County Clerks. and it shall be the
duty of such officers to abate said Pledged Taxes and to be extended for the year 2010 in loft.
in accordance with the provisions hereof.

3. Effective Date. This Resolution shall be in full force and effect upon its adoption

11-0223-RS22

RESOLUTION ABATING THE TAX HERETOFORE LEVIED FOR THE YEAR 2010 TO PAY DEBT
SERVICE ON UNLIMITED TAX GENERAL OBLIGATION REFUNDING BONDS (DEDICATED
REVENUES), SERIES 200980, OF THE BOARD OF EDUCATION OF THE CITY OF CHICAGO

WHEREAS. the Board of Education of the City of Chicago (the ?Board?) has heretofore issued its
Unlimited Tax General Obligation Refunding Bonds (Dedicated Revenues). Series 20098. dated June 25.
2009 (the ?Series 2009B Bonds"). pursuant to Resolution No adopted by the Board on
May 27. 2009 (the ?Bond Resolution?). and a certain Trust lndenture dated as of June 1. 2009 (the
"Series 20098 lndenture?). between the Board and. Deutsche Bank National Trust Company. as Trustee
(the ?Series 20098 Tmstee') securing the Series 20098 Bonds

WHEREAS. the Board of Education of the City of Chicago (the "Boarc? has heretofore i55ued its
Unlimited Tax General Obligation Refunding Bonds (Dedicated Revenues). Series 2009C. dated June 25.
2009 (the ?Series 2009C Bonds". and collectively with the Series 20098 Bonds. the "Series 200980
Bonds?). pursuant to the Bond Resolution and a certain Trust lndenture dated as of June 1. 2009 (the
?Series 20090 lndenture"). between the Board and. The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company. A
as Trustee (the "Series 20090 Trustee?). securing the Series 20090 Bonds; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to the Bond Resolution. the Board has levied a direct annual tax for the
payment of the principal of and interest on the Series 200980 Bonds. and has directed the County Clerks
of The Counties of Cook and DuPege. Illinois (the ?County Clerks"). to extend such taxes in amounts
sufficient to pay such debt service as the same becomes due (the ?Pledged Taxes") pursuant thereto; and

WHEREAS. Section of the Series 20098 lndenture prowdes that once sufficient Pledged
State Aid Revenues (as defined in the Series 20098 lndenture) have been deposited in the Pledged State
Aid Revenues Account (as defined in the Series 20098 lndenture) in any calendar year in an amount
sufficient to pay the interest on and the principal of the Series 20098 Bonds due during the Bond Year
beginning on March 2 of such calendar year. the Series 20098 Trustee shall notify the Board of that fact.
and the Board shall take such actions as are necessary to abate the Pledged Taxes levied and to be
extended for the then-current calendar year in full; and

WHEREAS. Section of the Series 20090 lndenture provides that once suffiaent Pledged
State Aid Revenues (as defined in the Series 20090 lndenture) have been deposned in the Pledged
State Aid Revenues Account (as defined in the Series 20090 lndenture) in any calendar year in an
amount suf?cient to pay the interest on and the principal of the Series 20090 Bonds due during the Bond
Year beginning on March 2 of such calendar year. the Series 20090 Trustee shall notify the Board of that
fact. and the Board shall take such actions as are necessary to abate the Pledged Taxes levied and to be
extended for the then-current calendar year in full; and

WHEREAS. the Board has received the notice described in the preceding paragraph from the
Series 20098 Trustee and the Series 20090 Trustee. respectively. evidencing the suf?ciency of the
revenues deposited into the reapective Pledged State Aid Revenues Account and the Board hereby finds
that it is necessary and in the best interests of the Board that the Pledged Taxes heretofore levied and to
be extended for the year 2010 to pay such debt service on the Series 200980 Bonds be abated in full.

Now, THEREFORE, BE IT HEREBY RESOLVED by the Board of Education of the City of
Chicago. as follows:

1. Abatement of the Series 200980 Bonds Pledged Taxes. The Pledged Taxes in

the amount of 516.228.500.00 heretofore levied tor the year 2010 in the Bond Resolution and to
be extended pursuant thereto are hereby abated in full.

33

February 23. 2011

2. Filing of Resolution, upon the adoption of this Resolution. the
Secretary of the Board shall cause a certified copy hereof to be filed with the County Clerks, and
it shall be the duty of such officers to abate said Pledged Taxes lewed and to be extended for the
year 2010 in full. in accordance with the provisions hereof.

3. Effective Date. This Resolution shall be in full force and effect upon Its adoption

11-0223-R523

RESOLUTION ABATTNO THE HERETOFORE LEVIED FOR THE YEAR 201 To PAY DEBT SERVICE OR
UNLIMITED TAX GENERAL OBLIGATION REFUNDING BONDS (DEDICATED REVENUES), SERIES 20090. or THE
BOARD or EDUCATION OF THE CITY or CHICAGO

WHEREAS, the Board of Education of the City of Chicago (the ?Boarcfi has heretofore issued its
Unlimited Tax General Obligation Refunding Bonds (Dedicated Revenues), Series 20090. dated July 30.
2009 (the "Series 20090 Bonds"). pursuant to Resolution No. 09-0624-R534. adopted by the Board on
June 24. 2009 (the "Bond Resolution?). and a certain Trust lndenture dated as of July 1. 2009 (the
"lndenture"). between the Board and Deutsche Bank National Trust Company. as Trustee (the Trustee').
securing the Series 20090 Bonds: and

WHEREAS, pursuant to the Bond Resolution. the Board has levied a direct annual tax for the
payment of the principal of and interest on the Series 20090 Bonds. and has directed the County Clerks
of The Counties of Cook and DUPage. Illinois (the ?County Clerks"). to extend such taxes in amounts
sufficient to pay such debt service as the same becomes due (the ?Pledged Taxes") pursuant thereto, and

WHEREAS. Section of the lndenture provides that on or before February 16 of each year.
once sufficient Pledged State Aid Revenues (as de?ned In the lndenture) have been deposited in the
Pledged State Aid Revenues Account (as de?ned in the lndenture) in any calendar year in an amount
sufficient to pay the interest on and the principal of the Series 20090 Bonds due during the then current
Bond Year the Trustee shall notify the Board of that fact. and the Board shall take such actions as are
necessary to abate the Pledged Taxes levied and to be extended for the then-current calendar year In
full; and

WHEREAS. the Board has received the notice described in the preceding paragraph from the
Trustee evidencing the sufficiency of the revenues deposited into the Debt Service Funds and the Board
hereby finds that it is necessary and in the best interests of the Board that the Pledged Taxes heretofore
levied and to be extended for the year 2010 to pay such debt servrce on the Series 20090 Bends be
abated in full.

Now, THEREFORE, BE IT HEREBY RESOLVED by the Board of Education of the City of Chicago.
as follows:

1. Abatement of the Series 20090 Bonds Pledged Taxes. The Pledged Taxes In the
amount of $2,759,975.00 heretofore levied for the year 2010 in the Bond Resolution and to be
extended pursuant thereto are hereby abated in full.

2, Filing of Resolution. Forthwith upon the adoption of this Resolution. the
Secretary of the Board shall cause a certified copy hereof to be filed with the County Clerks. and
it shalt be the duty of such of?cers to abate said Pledged Taxes levied and to be extended for the
year 2010 in full. in accordance with the provisions hereof.

3. Effective Date. This Resolution shall be in full force and effect upon its adoption.

11 -0223-R824

RESOLUTION ABATING THE TAX HERETOFORE LEVIED FOR THE YEAR 2010 TO PAY DEBT
SERVICE ON UNLIMITED TAX GENERAL OBLIGATION BONDS (DEDICATED REVENUES). SERIES 2009B
(TAXABLE BUILD AMERICA BONDS UNLIMITED GENERAL BONDS
(DEDICATED REVENUES). SERIES 2009F AND UNLIMITED TAX GENERAL OBLIGATION BONDS (DEDICATED
REVENUEs), SERIES 20096 (QUALIFIED SCHOOL CONSTRUCTION BONDS). Of THE BOARD OF
EDUCATION OF THE CITY OF CHICAGO

WHEREAS, the Board of Education of the City of Chicago (the 'Board') has heretofore issued Its
Unlimited Tax General Obligation Bonds (Dedicated Revenues). Series 2009B (Taxable Build America
Bonds ?Direct Payment") (the "Series 2009E Bonds). and its Unlimited Tax General Obligation Bonds
(Dedicated Revenues). Series 2009F (the ?Series 2009F Bonds'. and collectively. the ?Series 2009EF
Bonds?). each dated September 24. 2009. pursuant to Resolution NO. adapted by the
Board on August 26. 2009 (the "Bond Resolution"), and a certain Trust lndenture dated as of September
1. 2009 (the "Series ZOOQEF lndenture"). between the Board and US Bank National Assocratron. as
trustee (the ?Series 20095}: Trustee? securing the Series 2009EF Bonds; and

34

February 23, 2011

WHEREAS. the Board of Education of the City of Chicago (the "Board') has heretofore issued its
Unlimited Tax General Obligation Bonds (Dedicated Revenues). Series 20096 (Quali?ed School
Construction Bonds) (the "Series 20096 Bonds" each dated December 2. 2009. pursuant to Resolution
No. 09-1216-R86 adopted by the Board on December 16. 2009 and together with the Series 2009EF
Bonds. collectively referred to herein as the "Series 2OOQEFG Bonds"). dated December 17. 2009.
pursuant to the Bond Resolution and a certain Trust lndenture dated as of December 1. 2009 (the "Series
20096 lndenture?). between the Board and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company. NA. 3
national banking association, as trustee (the ?Series 20096 Trustee") securing the Series 20096 Bonds;
and

WHEREAS. pursuant to the Bond Resolution. the Board has levied a direct annual tax for the
payment of the principal of and interest on the Series 2009EF6 Bonds, and has directed the C0unty
Clerks of The Counties of Cook and DuPage, lliinois (the ?County Clerks?). to extend such taxes in
amounts sufficient to pay such debt service as the same becomes due (the ?Pledged Taxes') purSuant
thereto; and

WHEREAS. Section of the Series 2009EF lndenture provides that once funds on deposn
in the Piedged Revenues Account. plus the amount of the most recent carryover Balance Sub-Account
Transfer Pledged Federal Subsidy Revenues Sub-Account Transfer both (as de?ned in the Series
2009EF lndenture). in any calendar year equals an amount suf?cient to pay the interest on and the
principal of the Series 2009EF Bonds due during the Bond Year beginning on March 2 of such calendar
year. the Series 2009EF Trustee shall notify the Board of that fact. and the Board shall take such actions
as are necessary to abate the Pledged Taxes levied and to be extended for the then-current calendar
year in full: and

WHEREAS. Section of the Series 20096 lndenture provides that once sufficient Pledged
State Aid Revenues (as defined in the Series 20096 lndenture) have been deposited in the Pledged
State Aid Revenues Account (as defined in the Series 20096 lndenture) in any calendar year In an
amount suf?cient to pay the interest on and the principal of the Series 20096 Bonds due during Ihe Bond
Year beginning on February 16 of such calendar year. the Series 20096 Trustee shall notify the Board of
that fact. and the Board shall take such actions as are necessary to abate the Piedged Taxes levied and
to be extended for the then-current calendar year in full; and

WHEREAS. the Board has received the notice described in the preceding paragraph from the
Series 2009EF Trustee and the Series 20096 Trustee. respectively, evidencing the sufficiency of the
revenues deposited into the respective Pledged Revenues Account and the Pledged State Aid Revenues
Account and the Board hereby finds that it is necessary and in the best interests of the Board that the
Pledged Taxes heretofore levied and to be extended for the year 2010 to pay Such debt service on the
Series 2009EFG Bonds be abated in full.

NOW. THEREFORE. BE IT HEREBY RESOLVED by the Board of Education of the City of
Chicago. as follows:

1. Abatement of the Series 2OOQEFG Bonds Piedged Taxes. The Pledged Taxes in
the amount of 372.731.250.00 heretofore levied for the year 2010 in the Bond Resolution and to
be extended pursuant thereto are hereby abated in full.

2. Filing of Resolution. Forthwith upon the adoption of this Resolution. the
Secretary of the Board shall cause a certified copy hereof to be ?led with the County Clerks. and
it shall be the duty of such officers to abate said Pledged Taxes levied and to be extended for the
year 2010 in full. in accordance with the provisions hereof.

3. Effective Date. This Resolution shall be in full force and effect upon its adoption.

11-0223-R525

RESOLUTION ABATING THE TAX HERETOFORE LEVIED FOR THE YEAR 2010 To PAY DEBT
SERVICE ON UNLIMITED TAX GENERAL OBLIGATION REFUNDING BONDS (DEDICATED REVENUES). SERIES
2010A AND UNLIMITED TAX GENERAL OBLIGATION REFUNDING (Denicnreo Revenues).
SERIES 20103 OF THE BOARD OF EDUCATION OF THE CITY OF CHICAGO

WHEREAS, the Board of Education of the City of Chicago (the ?Boarc? has heretofore i55ued its
Unlimited Tax General Obligation Refunding Bonds (Dedicated Revenues). Series 2010A (the 'Senes
2010A Bonds). and its Unlimited Tax General Obligation Refunding Bonds (Dedicated Revenues). Series
20108 (the ?Series 20108 Bonds?. and collectively. the "Series 2010A8 Bonds"). each dated as of
February 1. 2010. pursuant to Resolution No 09-1026-R82 adopted by the Board on October 28. 2009
(the "Bond Resolution"). and a certain Trust lndenture dated as of October 28. 2009 (the ?Series 2010/15
lndenture"). between the Board and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company. NA . as trustee (the
"Series 2010AB Trustee?) securing the Series 2010AB Bonds; and

WHEREAS. pursuant to the Bond Resolution. the Board has levied a direct annual tax for the
payment of the principal of and interest on the Series 2010AB Bonds. and has directed the County Clerks
of The Counties of Cook and DuPage, illinois (the ?County Clerks?). to extend such taxes in amounts
sufficient to pay such debt service as the same becomes due (the 'Pfedged Taxes") pursuant thereto; and

35

February 23, 2011

WHEREAS, Section ot the Series 2010A Indenture provides that once funds on deposrt In
the Pledged State Aid Revenues Account. (as de?ned in the Series 2010A Indenture). in any calendar
year equals an amount sufficient to pay the interest on and the principal of the Series 2010A Bonds due
during the Bond Year beginning on March 2 of such calendar year. the Series 2010A the Board shall take
such actions as are necessary to abate the Pledged Taxes levied and to be extended for the then-current
calendar year in full; and

WHEREAS, Section of the Series 20108 lndenture provides that on or before February 16
of each year. once suf?cient Pledged State Aid Revenues (as de?ned in the Series 201GB Indenture)
have been deposited in the Pledged State Aid Revenues Account (as de?ned in the Series 20108
Indenture) in any calendar year in an amount sufficient to pay the Interest on and the principal of the
Series 20108 Bonds due during the Bond Year beginning on March 2 of such calendar year. the Series
20108 Trustee shall notify the Board of that fact. and the Board shall take such actions as are necessary
to abate the Pledged Taxes levied and to be extended for the then?current calendar year in full; and

WHEREAS. the Board has received the notice described in the preceding paragraph from the
Series 2010AB Trustee. evidencing the sufficiency of the revenues deposited into the respective Pledged
Revenues Account and the Pledged State Aid Revenues Account and the Board hereby finds that It IS
necessary and in the best interests of the Board that the Pledged Taxes heretofore levied and to be
extended for the year 2010 to pay such debt service on the Series 2010AB Bonds be abated in full

NOW, THEREFORE. BE IT HEREBY RESOLVED by the Board of Education of the City of
Chicago, as follows:

1 Abatement of the Series Bonds Pledged Taxes The Pledged Taxes In
the amount of $20. 000 000 heretofore levied for the year 2010 in the Bond Resolution and to be
extended pursuant thereto are hereby abated In full

2. Filing of Resolution. Forthwith upon the adoption of this Resolution, the
Secretary of the Board shall cause a certified copy hereof to be filed with the County Clerks. and
it shall be the duty of such of?cers to abate said Pledged Taxes levied and to be extended for the
year 2010 in full. in accordance with the provisions hereof.

3, Effective Date. This Resolution shall be in full force and effect upon us adoption

11 -0223-R326

RESOLUTION ABATING THE TAX HERETOFORE LEVIED FOR THE YEAR 2010 TO PAY DEBT
SERVICE ON UNLIMITED TAX GENERAL OBLIGATION Bouos (DEDICATED Revenues), Semes 
UNLIMITED TAX GENERAL OBLIGATION BONDS (DEDICATED REVENUES), SERIES 20100. AND
COLLECTIVELY. THE SERIES 201000 BONDS AND TAX-EXEMPT UNLIMITED Tu GENERAL
OBLIGATION Bones (DEDICATED REVENUES). SERIES 2010F. AND TAXABLE UNLIMITED TAX GENERAL
OBLIGATION REFUNDING BONDS (DEDICATED REVENUES) SERIES 20106, COLLECTIVELY. THE
SERIES 2010FG BONDS OF THE BOARD OF EDUCATION OF THE CITY OF CHICAGO

WHEREAS. The Board of Education of the City of Chicago (the 'Board?) has heretofore issued its
Unlimited Tax General Obligation Bonds (Dedicated Revenues). Series 20100 (the ?Series 20100
Bonds"). and its Unlimited Tax General Obligation Bonds (Dedicated Revenues). Series 20100 (the
"Series 20100 Bonds"). (and collectively. the "Series 201000 Bonds"). each dated as of October I. 2010.
pursuant to a Resolution No. adopted by the Board on September 22. 2010 (the "Bond
Resolution"). a certain Trust lndenture dated as of October 1, 2010 (the ?Series 20100 tndenture?).
between the Board and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company. NA. as trustee (the "Series
20100 Trustee") securing the Series 20100 Bonds and a certain Trust Indenture dated as of October I.
2010 (the "Series 20100 Indenture"). between the Board and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust
Company. N.A.. as trustee. (the ?Series 20100 Trustee") securing the Series 20100 Bonds) (collectively,
the "Series 201000 Trustee"); and

WHEREAS. The Board of Education of the City of Chicago (the 'Board') has heretofore issued its
Tax-Exempt Unlimited Tax General Obligation Refunding Bonds (Dedicated Revenues). Series 2010F
(the "Series 2010F Bonds?). and its Taxable Unlimited Tax General Obligation Refunding Bonds
(Dedicated Revenues). Series 20100 (the ?Series 20106 Bonds?). (and collectively. the "Series 2010FG
Bonds?). each dated as of October 1. 2010. pursuant to a ResolutiOn No. 10-0128-RSI. adopted by the
Board on April 28. 2010, authorizing the issuance of the Bonds. as amended by Resolution No. 10-0922-
RS1 adopted by the Board on September 22. 2010 (collectively. the ?Bond Resolution?). and a certain
Trust indenture dated as of October 1. 2010 (the uSeries 2010FG Indenture?). between the Board and
Amalgamated Bank of Chicago. as trustee (the "Series 2010FG Trustee") securing the Series 2010FG
Bonds; and

WHEREAS. pursuant to the Bond Resolution. the Board has levied a direct annuai tax for the
payment of the principal of and interest on the Series 201000 and 2010FG Bonds. and has directed the
County Clerks of The Counties of Cook and DuPage. (the ?County Clerks?). to extend such taxes
in amounts sufficient to pay such debt service as the same becomes due (the ?Pledged Taxes') pursuant
thereto; and

36

February 23. 2011

WHEREAS. Section of the Series 2010CD lndenture provides that once funds on deposrt
in the Pledged Revenues Account. plus the amount of the most recent Pledged Federal Subsidy
Revenues Sub-Account Transfer (as defined in the Series 2010CD lndenture). in any calendar year
equals an amount suf?cient to pay the interest on and the principal of the Series 201000 Bonds due
during the Bond Year beginning on March 2 of such calendar year. the Series 2010CD Trustee shall
notify the Board of that fact. and the Board shall take such actions as are necessary to abate the Pledged
Taxes levied and to be extended for the then-current calendar year in full; and

WHEREAS. Section of the Series 2010FG lndenture provides that on or before February
16 of each year. once sufficient Piedged State Aid Revenues (as defined in the Series 2010FG Indenturei
have been deposited in the Pledged State Aid Revenues Account (as defined in the Series 2010FG
lndenture) in any calendar year in an amount sufficient to pay the interest on and the principal of the
Series 2010FG Bonds due during the Bond Year beginning on March 2 of such calendar year, the Series
2010FG Trustee shall notify the Board of that fact. and the Board shall take such actions as are
necessary to abate the Pledged Taxes levied and to be extended for the then-current calendar year in
full. and

WHEREAS, the Board has received the notices described in the preceding paragraphs from the
Series 201OCD Trustee and the Series 2010FG Trustee. respectively. evidencmg the suffiCIency of the
revenues deposited into the respective Pledged Revenues Account and the Pledged State Aid Revenues
Account and the Board hereby finds that it is necessary and in the best interests of the Board that the
Pledged Taxes heretofore levied and to be extended for the year 2010 to pay such debt service on the
Series 201000 and Series 2010FG Bonds be abated in full.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT HEREBY RESOLVED by the Board of Education of the City of
Chicago. as follows:

1. Abatement of the Series Bonds Pledged Taxes. The Pledged Taxes
in the amount of 537.608.409.00 heretofore levied for the year 2010 in the Bond Resolution and
to be extended pursuant thereto are hereby abated in full.

2. Filing of Resolution. Forthwith upon the adoption of this Resolution. the
Secretary of the Board shall cause a certified copy hereof to be filed with the County Clerks. and
it shall be the duty of such officers to abate said Pledged Taxes levied and to be extended for the
year 2010 in full. in accordance with the provisions hereof.

3. Effective Date. This Resolution shall be in full force and effect upon its adoption

11-0223-R327

RESOLUTION
REQUEST THE PUBLIC BUILDING COMMISSION OF CHICAGO TO UNDERTAKE
AIR FORCE MECHANICAL RENOVATION

WHEREAS. on July 12. 1956. the Board of Education of the City of Chicago (the "Board") joined
in the organization of the Public Building Commission of Chicago (the and

WHEREAS. the PBC provides a means of facilitating the acquisition, construction and
improvement of public improvements. buitdings and facilities for use by various governmental agencres in
the furnishing of essential governmental. educational. health. safety and welfare services; and

WHEREAS. the Board has heretofore participated in the acquisition and construction of public
schools and other facilities to provide essential governmental services in cooperation with the PBC and
various other governmental agencies; and

WHEREAS. the Board has determined that it is necessary. desirable. advantageous. and in the
public interest to undertake various capital projects in conjunction with the City of Chicago and other
governmental agencies; and

WHEREAS, the projects would maximize the utilization of educational facilities operated and
maintained by the Board by providing new school educational options and enhanced recreational and
other facilities and improving the community areas located in the vicinity of school property: and

WHEREAS, the estimated total cost of the projects is anticipated not-to-exceed $8,341,784 of
which the Board has or will incur approximately 3141.784 of Project-related costs directly while the
portion of the Projects to be undertaken by the PBC is anticipated to be 58.200.000.

NOW, THEREFORE. BE IT HEREBY RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO BOARD OF
EDUCATION:

1 The PBC is hereby requested to complete the design and renovation of Air Force on behalf of
the Board. The Chief Financial Officer and the Chief Operating Officer are hereby authorized
to deliver a Project Noti?cation to the PBC. as defined in the Intergovernmental Agreement
between the Board and the PBC. dated February 1, 2007 (the 

37

February 23. 2011

2. These Projects are not part of the Modern Schools Across Chicago Program These Prejects
will be funded with capital funds generated in Fiscal Year 2011 or subsequent years To the
extent that other capital funds become available. the Board reserves the right to supplant
Board Capital funds with other funding sources. The total cost of the Projects to be
undertaken by the PBC shall not exceed 58.200.000. This dollar am0unt is necessary to
cover all project costs. including environmental. site preparation. construction. contingency.
architecture fees and management fees,

3, The Board's General Counsel is hereby authorized to execute an assignment to the PBC of
any and all contracts entered into by the Board in connection with this Project and to execute
any and all other documents necessary to effectuate this transfer Any such contract may
include a requirement that all construction work is subject to the terms contained in Board's
existing Project Labor Agreement.

4 No cost may be incurred in excess of the level set forth in paragraph 2 above without prior
Board approval

5. This resolution is effective immediately upon its adoption.

Attachment A

The project listed below is completely funded by the Board.

1, Air Force Academy
a. Planning. Design. implementation and Construction - $8,200.000
b. Furniture, Fixtures and Equipment by CPS - 3141.784

11-0223-RS28

RESOLUTION
REQUEST THE PUBLIC BUILDING COMMISSION OF CHICAGO TO UNDERTAKE THE
DURKIN PARK. ONAHAN AND STEVENSON ANNEXES

WHEREAS. on July 12. 1956. the Board of Education of the City of Chicago (the ?Board?) joined
in the organization of the Public Building Commission of Chicago (the and

WHEREAS, the PBC provides a means of facilitating the acquisition. construction and
improvement of public improvements. buildings and facilities for use by various governmental agenaes in
the furnishing of essential governmental. educational. health. safety and welfare services; and

WHEREAS. the Board has heretofore participated in the acquisition and construction of public
schools and other facilities to provide essential governmental services in cooperation with the PBC and
various other governmental agencies; and

WHEREAS, the Board has determined that it is necessary. desirable. advantageous. and in the
public interest to undertake various capital projects in conjunction wilh the City of Chicago and other
governmental agencies; and

WHEREAS. the projects would maximize the utilization of educational facilities operated and
maintained by the Board by providing new school educational options and enhanced recreational and
other facilities and improving the community areas located in the vicinity of school property; and

WHEREAS, the estimated total cost of the projects is anticipated not-to-exceed $40,425,503 of
which the Board has or will incur approximately 51.425.503 of Project-related costs directly while the
portion of the Projects to be undertaken by the P80 is anticipated to be 539.000.000.

NOW. THEREFORE. BE IT HEREBY RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO BOARD OF
EDUCATION:

1. The PBC is hereby requested to complete the design and then to construct annexes at
Durkin Park. Onahan and Setevenson on behalf of the Board. The Chief Financial Officer
and the Chief Operating Officer are hereby authorized to deliver a Project Notification to the
PBC. as defined in the intergovernmental Agreement between the Board and the PBC. dated
February 1. 2007 (the 

2. These Projects are not part of the Modern Schools Across Chicago Program. These Projects
will be funded with capital funds generated in Fiscal Year 2011 or subsequent years. To the
extent that other capital funds become available. the Board reserves the right to supplant
Board Capital funds with other funding sources. The total cost of the Projects to be
undertaken by the PBC shall not exceed 539.000.000. This dollar amount is necessary to
cover all project costs. including environmental. site preparation. construction, contingency.
architecture fees and management fees.

38

February 23. 2011

3. The Board's General Counsel is hereby authorized to execute an assignment to the PBC of
any and all contracts entered into by the Board in connectIOn with this Project and to execute
any and all other documents necessary to effectuate this transfer Any such contract may
include a requirement that all construction work is subject to the terms contained in Board's
existing Project Labor Agreement.

4. No cost may be incurred in excess Of the level set forth in paragraph 2 above without prior
Board approval.

5. This resolution is effective immediately upon its adoption

Attachment A
The projects listed below are completely funded by the Board.

1. Durkin Park Elementary School Annex
a. Planning. Design. Implementation and Construction - 313.000.000
b. Furniture. Fixtures and Equipment by CPS - 3463.846

2. Onahan Elementary School Annex
3. Planning. Design. implementation and Construction - 313.000.000
b. Furniture. Fixtures and Equipment by CPS - $446,574

3, Stevenson Elementary School Annex
a. Planning. Design. implementation and Construction - 313000.000
b. Furniture. Fixtures and Equipment by CPS - $515083

11-0223-R829
RESOLUTION
REQUEST THE PUBLIC BUILDING COMMISSION OF CHICAGO TO UNDERTAKE VARIOUS FY11
CAPITAL PROJECTS

WHEREAS, on July 12. 1956. the Board of Education of the City of Chicago (the 'Board') joined
in the organization of the Public Building Commission of Chicago (the and

WHEREAS, the PBC provides a means of facilitating the acquisition. construction and
improvement of public improvements. buildings and facilities for use by various governmental agenCIes in
the furnishing of essential governmental, educational. health. safety and welfare services. and

WHEREAS, the Board has heretofore participated in the emulation and construction of public
schools and other facilities to provide essential governmental services in cooperation with the PEG and
various other governmental agencies: and

WHEREAS, the Board has determined that it is necessary. desirable. advantageOus. and in the
public interest to undertake various capital projects in conjunction the City of Chicago and other
governmental agencies: and

WHEREAS, the projects would maximize the utilization of educational facilities operated and
maintained by the Board by providing new school educational options and enhanced recreational and
other facilities and improving the community areas located in the vicinity of school property; and

WHEREAS. the estimated total cost of the projects is anticipated not?to-exceed 341400.000

NOW. THEREFORE. BE IT HEREBY RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO BOARD OF
EDUCATION:

1. The P80 is hereby requested to complete the design and installation of the prOjects listed in
Attachment A on behalf of the Board. The Chief Financial Officer and the Chief Operating
Of?cer are hereby authorized to deliver a Project Notification to the PBC. as defined in the
Intergovernmental Agreement between the Board and the PBC. dated February 1. 2007 (the


2. These Projects are not part of the Modern Schools Across Chicago Program These Projects
will be funded with capital funds generated in Fiscal Year 2011 or subsequent years. To the
extent that other capital funds become available. the Board reserves the right to supplant
Board Capital funds with other funding sources. The total cost of the Projects to be
undertaken by the PBC shall not exceed 343.400.000, This dollar amount is necessary to
cover all project costs. including environmental. site preparation. construction. contingency.
architecture fees and management fees.

3. The Board's General Counsel is hereby authorized to execute an assignment to the PBC of
any and all contracts entered into by the Board in connection with this Project and to execute
any and all other documents necessary to effectuate this transfer. Any such contract may
include a requirement that all construction work is subject to the terms contained in Board's
existing Project Labor Agreement.

39

February 23, 2011

44 No cost may be incurred in excess of the level set forth in paragraph 2 above without prior
Board approval.

5, This resolution is effective immediately upon its adoption.

Attachment A

The projects listed below are completely funded by the Board.

1. Dunbar High School Renovation

a. Planning, Design. Implementation and Construction - 520.500.000
2. Henderson Elementary School Renovation

a. Planning, Design. Implementation and Construction - 311,600,000

3. Peck Elementary School Renovation
a. Planning. Design. implementation and Construction - $11,300,000

11-0223-R830

RESOLUTION RE: APPOINTMENT OF TEACHER REPRESENTATIVES TO
LOCAL SCHOOL COUNCILS TO FILL TEACHER REPRESENTATIVE VACANCIES
FOR THE TERM OF OFFICE ENDING JUNE 30. 2012

WHEREAS. the Illinois School Code. 105 ILCS authorizes the Chicago Board of
Education to appoint 2 teachers to each Local School Council after considering the preferences of the
school?s staff as ascertained through a non-binding advisory poll and to exercise absolute discretion In
the appointment process; and

WHEREAS. non-binding advisory polls have been conducted at the schools identified below to
ascertain the preferences of the schools? staffs regarding the appointment of teachers to fill teacher
representative vacancies on the schools' local school councils; and

WHEREAS. in accordance with 1051LCS the results of the non-binding advisory polls
have been forwarded to the Board for consideration in its exercise of absolute discretion in the
appointment process;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO BOARD OF EDUCATION:

1. The individuals identi?ed below are hereby appointed to serve as teacher representatives on their
schools? Local School Councils for the remainder of the term of office ending June 30. 2012

2. The Resolution is effective immediately upon adoption,

APPOINTED TEACHER TEACHER BEING REPLACED SCHOOL:

Angel Aguirre Leonara Gora Peck Elementary

Maressa Spinak Alicia Jenkins Manierre Elementary
Michelle Moore Erik Unterschuetz Sayre Language Academy
Dolores McConnell Stephanie McConnell Wadsworth Elementary
Alden 8. Reed Janet Fennerty Amundsen High School

President Richardson-Lowry indicated that if there were no objections, Board Reports
11-0223-RS12 through 11-0223-R830 would be adopted by the last favorable roll call vote, all
members present voting therefore.

President Richardson-Lowry thereupon declared Board Reports 11-0223-RS12 through
11 -0223-RS30 adopted.

40

February 23, 2011

11-0223-C01

COMMUNICATION RE: LOCATION OF
BOARD MEETING OF MARCH 23. 2011

Mary B. Richardson-Lowry, President. and
Members of the Board of Education

Norman R. Bobins

Dr. Tariq H. Butt

Alberto A. Carrero, Jr.

Peggy A. Davis

Clare M. Mu?ana

Roxanne Ward

This is to advise that the regular meeting of the Board of Education scheduled for
Wednesday. March 23. 2011 will be held at:

The Central Administration Building
125 South Clark Street

Chicago. lilin0ls 60603

Board Chamber - Floor

Registration for Public Participation Will be held between the hours of 8:00 a m, and 9.00
am. on the 1? Floor of the Clark Street Lobby The Public Partnerpation segment of the meeting
will begin at apprommately 10:30 am. and end at 1230 pm and be followed immediately
by the Business portion of the meeting

11 -0223-CR1

City of Chicago Board of Education
Finance and Audit Committee Meeting
Held February 1, 2011

Committee members reviewed and approved the minutes of the Finance and Audit Committee meeting
held on November 9. 2010.

Controller Daryl Okrzesik reported on the FY 2010 Audit. which was given an ?unquatified opinion? by
independent auditors upon its issuance in December 2010. Operating revenues and expenditures were
both approximately 8% lower than budget. At the close of FY 2010 the state owed CPS $236 million in
delayed block grant payments. The general Operating unreserved fund balance was $198 million at the
end of FY 2010. which equaled 4.2% of revenues. Controller Okrzesik noted that if all state payments
had been made. the fund balance would have been about 8% of operating revenues

Committee members were informed that there were no material weaknesses in the FY 2010 audit There
were four signi?cant deficiencies identified in the audit. Controller Okrzesik discussed efforts to address
the findings and Committee members asked that the Chief Financial Officer and Finance team repon on
its progress at the next Finance and Audit Committee meeting.

Grants Of?cer Dr. Kayleen irizarry reported that $180.5 million of ARRA Title I funding and $295.5 million
of regular Title I funding must be spent by August 2011. The Education Jobs (Ed Jobs) Funding of
must be spent by July 2012. To ensure that all grant funds are maximized. the Finance team has
taken steps to spend all time bound Title funding by August 31. 2011 while preserving Ed Jobs funds.
which has a longer grant period. In FY 2011. approximately $58 million of Ed Jobs funding will be used to
restore 852 positions. including the restoration of high school class size and creating positions in Special
education. This preserves $46 million for use in FY 2012.

Committee members learned that the majority of the $266 million of central of?ce and city~wide cuts that
were made to balance the FY 2011 budget have been achieved. FY 2011 budget to actual overall
remains on track with risks on overspend offset by items with lower than budgeted expenditures. Althoogh
the state paid its entire backlog of FY 2010 payments in December, the state's late FY 2011 payments to
CPS equaled $360 million in January 2011.

CFO Diana FerguSOn reported an updated outlook for FY 2012. As reported at the November meeting.
one?time resources including federal revenues of ARRA and Ed Jobs funding and fund balance will not be
available in FY 2012. Contractual salary increases. and increases to healthcare and pension costs will
drive increased costs of $170 million. This initial projected deficit of $720 million does not include
increases in operational costs and assumes level state funding and continued pension relief Additional
factors that will impact the deficit include the $90 million of surplus. any increase in property taxes
due to new property. impacts of the recent state income tax increase, and the $46 million of preserved Ed
Jobs funding.

41

The quarterly report of Board Office expenses was reviewed.
routine administrative activities including arcniwst services. transcription services. and document

management.

February 23, 2011

It totaled 316.745. primarily related to

Following the presentation the meeting was open for public paniCipation. but no members of the public
registered to speak.

President Richardson-Lowry thereupon declared Committee Report 11-0223-CR1 accepted.



THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER RECOMMENDS THE FOLLOWING:

TRANSFER OF FUNDS
Various Units and Objects

The various transfers of funds were requested by the Central Office Departments during the month of January . All

transfers are budget neutral. A brief explanation of each transfer is previded below:

1. Transfer for Citywide - Dept of Libraries and Information Systems

Rationale:

Transfer From:

Transfer to:

Amount:

2. Transfer from CW -

Rationale:

Transfer From:

Transfer to:

Amount:

3. 'I?ransfer from Harold Washington School to Thomas Higgins Community Academy

Rationale:

Transfer From:

Transfer to:

Amount:

Transfer of funds needed to pat PD coordinators.

Unit
Fund
Account
Program
Grant

Unit
Fund
Account
Program
Grant

31.00000

Citywide - Dept of Libraries and Information Systems

General Education Fund
Travel Expense
Professional Library

Ed Imp-Lib Resource 

Citywide - Dept of Libraries and Information Systems

General Education Fund
Bucket Position Pointer
General Salary 
Ed imp-Lib Resource 

10865
I I 5
54205
22 I 2 [9


10865
I15
51320
29000]
0000'?

Of?ce of Exte_n_d_ed Learning Opportunities to Louis Mathematics Science Spgcinltr

First semester allocation - Community Schools Initiative - - non-board.

Unit
Fund
Account
Program
Grant

Unit
Fund
Account
Program
Grant

5 I .000.00

Per PM (Paul Jones) provide boiler and chiller funds to another unit.

Unit
Fund
Account
Program
Grant

Unit
Fund
Account
Program
Grant

51.00000

CW - Office of Extended Learning Opportunities
Miscellaneous Federal State Block Grants

Services - Professional 84 Technical
Other instructional Programs

2 [st Century Community Learning Centersz

Louis Mathematics Science Specialty School
Miscellaneous Federal State Block Grants

Career Service Salaries - Other
Community School initiative

let Century Community Learning Centers?

Harold Washington School

Public Building Commission 0 
Services - Contractual

Boiler And Chillers

Default Value

Thomas Higgins Community Academy
Public Building Commission 0 
Services - Contractual

Boiler And Chillers

Default Value

42

ll39il
J24
54l25
ll90l0
442l24

2522i
324
52140
3900i 
442 i 24

2492 
230

54 l0!)
154021


3 25 
230
54105
254027


4. Transfer from Alfred David Kohn School to Thomas Higgins Community Academy

Rationale:

Transfer From:

Transfer to:

Amount:

5. Transfer fr0m Associated Talmud Torah Of Chicago to Ida Crown Jewish Academy
TRANSFER FUNDS TO PROCESS APPROVED PURCHASE ORDER

Rationale:

Transfer From:

Transfer to:

Amount:

846. Transfer from Graduation Pathways - Citywide to Citywide Turn - Around Schools

 

Rationale:

Transfer From:

Transfer to:

Amount:

Per PM (Paul Jones) provide boiler and chiller funds to anmher unit.

Unit Alfred David Kohn School

Fund Public Building Commission 0 

Account Services - Contractual
Program Boiler And Chillers

Grant Default Value
Unit ThomasJ Higgins Community Academy
Fund Public Building Commission 0 

Account Services - Contractual
Program Boiler And Chillers
Grant Default Value

$0,000.00

TITLE I PRIVATE SCHOOLS.

Unit Associated Talmud Torah Of Chicago

Fund NCLB Title 1 Regular Fund

Account Services - Professional 8t. Technical

Program Ecia-Nonpublic Inst Sup 

Grant Nonpublic Inst. 81 Supp. Serv. - lewrsh
Unit Ida Crown Jewish Academy
Fund NCLB Title I Regular Fund

Account Services - Non Professional
Program Tlcf?0th Religions/Imp 

Grant Nonpublic Inst. Supp. Scrv. - Jewish

31.00000

February 23, 2011

240??
230

54 IUS
354027


3 ZSI
230
54l05
35-1027


REQUEST.

69530
332

54  25
370004
430! 

693M
332

54 30
22l024
430i ll

PASS grant - transfer to create the following 2 teachers. 2 socntl workers and 4

student engagement specialists.

Unit Graduation Pathways - Citywide
Fund Miscellaneous Federal State Block Grants

Account Miscellaneous Charges
Program Other Gfp-lmprOv 0f Instr

Grant Pathways To Accelerated Student Success
Unit Citywide Turn - Around Schools

Fund Miscellaneous Federal 84 State Block Grants
Account Regular Position Pointer

Program General Salary 3 

Grant Pathways To Accelerated Student Success
$890,000.00

847. Transfer for Of?ce of Human Capital
Funds Transfer From 20] To Award? 201 l-482-m-03 Change

Rationale:

Transfer From:

Transfer to:

Amount:

Reason NA.
Unit Of?ce of Human Capital
Fund Anticipate BABS 2

Account Property - Equipment
Program Talent Acquisition
Grant Build America Bonds (Babs)

Unit Office of Human Capital
Fund Anticipate BABS 2

Account Capitalized Construction
Program Child Award

Grant Build America Bonds (Babs)

Si 000000.00

43

?722
324
57940
22I02 I
5i l240

B745
324
5l300
29000 
Si [240

How
482
55005
2642t9
atom


482
563m
253544
6100?)

848. Transfer for Citywide Education General

Rationale: To move funds from closed reassigned teacher positions.

9925!.

 

February 23, 2011

Per Maneesha Jacohy -ltg

Transfer From: Unit Citywide Education General 12670
Fund General Education Fund I 15
Acc0unt Regular Position Pointer I 300
Program General Salary 2900i?
Grant Default Value 000000
Transfer to: Unit Citywide Education General I2670
Fund General Education Fund I IS
Account Miscellaneous Charges 57940
Program Reassigned Teachers-New Policy I 
Grant Default Value 000in0
Amount: $l 305.7491 1
849. Transfer from Citywide Education General to CW Of?ce of Human Capital
Rationale: Bucket for NBC stipend is ready for Payout and needs to be opened. funds were loaded
into contingency until ready for use. Per Cooper -ltg 9930?
Transfer From: Unit Citywide Education General 12670
Fund Title Teacher Quality 353
Account Teacher Salaries - Extended Day St I30
Program National Board Certi?cation 264206
Grant Title - Teacher Quality 494033
Transfer 10: Unit CW Of?ce of Human Capital I lint)
Fund Title II - Teacher Quality 353
Account Bucket Position Pointer 5  320
Program General Salary 3 29000I
Grant Title lia - Teacher Quality 494033
Amount: $2,600,000.00

*[Note: The complete dOCument will be on File in the Office of the Board]

11-0223-EX2

APPROVE THE GRANTING OF A CHARTER AND ENTERING INTO A CHARTER SCHOOL
AGREEMENT WITH THE MONTESSORI NETWORK, INC., AN NOT FOR PROFIT

CORPORATION

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER RECOMMENDS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Approve the granting of a charter and entering into a Charter School Agreement with The Montessori
Network. Inc.. for a five-year period. This approval is contingent upon ?nal approval from the Board's
Chief Executive Officer as detailed below The Charter School Agreement is currently being
negotiated. The authority granted herein shall automatically rescind in the event a written Charter School
Agreement is not executed by the Board and the charter school's governing board within 120 days of the
date the CEO files a report with the Secretary of the Board indicating the ?nal approval or denial of
the charter school proposal and satisfactory resolution of all material issues related to the formation of the
school. The agreement authorized herein will only take effect upon certification by the Illinois State Board

of Education. Information pertinent to this agreement is stated below.

SCHOOL OPERATOR: The Montessori Network. Inc.
5248 N. Wayne
Chicago, Illinois 60640
Phone: 773-808-1921

CHARTER SCHOOL:

OVERSIGHT:

Contact: Rita Nolan. Executive Director

The Montessori School of Englewood Charter
7033 S. Honors (Independent Facility)
Chicago. Illinois 60636

Phone: 773-808-1921

Contact: Rita Nolan. Executive Director

Of?ce of New Schools

125 s. Clark, 5?1 Floor

Chicago. IL 60603

773-553-1530

Contact Person: Nora Moreno Cargie. Chief of Staff

44

February 23, 2011

DESCRIPTION: The Charter Schools Law (105 ILCS et seq. as amended] provides that up to
70 charter schools may be operated in the city of Chicago Proposals to operate charter schools are
submitted to the Board for evaluation pursuant to the standards set forth in 105 ILCS and the
Board convenes a public meeting to obtain information to assist in its decision to grant or deny each
proposal and report its action to the Illin0is State Board of Education. The State Board determines
whether the approved charter school proposal and the proposed contract satisfy the provisions of the
Charter Schools Law and. if so. certi?es the charter school,

CHARTER APPLICATION PROPOSAL: The Montessori School of Englewood Charter (the Montessori
School) proposal was Submitted by The Montessori Network, Inc, and received by the Board in August
2010. The Montessori School's mission is to prepare a new generation of students for lifelong academic.
personal. and professional success through a rigorous. tuition-free K6 Montessori education The
Montessori Method will encourage them to graduate from high school and college. fostering aspiration to
excellence and cultivating personal commitment to a peaceful and Sustainable global community. The
Montessori classroom maximizes the development and capabilities of the individual student through a
combination of instructional strategies: developmentally based hands-on materials and instructional
methods. multi-sensory education. project-based learning. Socratic dialogue. individualized instruction.
student choice, social justice education. a focus on relationships. and culturally responsive teaching The
Montessori School will ignite the minds and illuminate the hearts of its students, The school is slated to
open in the fall of 2012 serving 90 students in grades K-2. At capacity. the school will serve 240 students
in grades K-6. The school will be located at 7033 S. Honore, Public hearings on charter school
submissions submitted in 2010. as required by statute. were held on December 13. 2010, January 18.
2011. and February 17. 2011.

The school operator originally applied for approval to operate grades K-8 with up to 540 students. but the
facility selected by the school operator c0uld not support that program size. therefore. the school is
authorized to only operate through grade 6 at this time. In the event the school operator identifies
another site with a larger capacity. it may apply to amend its charter to add grades 7-8. The proposed
amendment must be submitted to the Of?ce of New Schools no later than July 1, 2016.

CONTINGENT APPROVAL: The granting of a charter by the Board and the entering into a Charter
School Agreement is contingent upon the school operator meeting benchmarks detailed by the Office of
New Schools including. but not limited to. obtaining the financing for. and the completion of. the
renovations to the independent facility at the school site. These benchmarks will be communicated to the
school operator in a formal Letter of ConditiOns with all deadlines to be met by January 15. 2012 The
Office of New Schools will oversee the enforcement of these deadlines; failure to meet these deadlines
may. at the option of the Board. result in the rescission of the authority granted herein and the denial of
the charter school proposal. A final review of the charter school preposat will be conducted by the Chief
Executive Officer. The Chief Executive Officer or his designee will ?le a report indicating the 0605 final
approval or denial of the charter school proposal and satisfactory resolution of all material issues related
to the formation of the school. The report will be filed with the Secretary of the Board on or before
February 15. 2012. This final review will be conducted to determine compliance With the terms indicated
above.

TERM: The term of the Montessori School charter and agreement shall commence July 1. 2012 and end
June 30. 2017.

AUTHORIZATION: Authorize the General Counsel to include relevant terms and conditions. including
any indemnities to be provided to the charter school. in the written Charter School Agreement. which shall
reflect resolution of any and all outstanding issues between the Board and the governing body of the
charter school including. but not limited to: site location. enrollment. educational program. ?nancial
controls and practices. academic acc0untability and evaluations. Authorize the President and Secretary to
execute the written Charter School Agreement. Authorize the Executive Of?cer of the Office of New
Schools to issue a letter notifying the Illinois State Board of Education of the action(s) approved
hereunder and to submit the approved proposal and signed Charter School Agreement to the Illinois
State Board of Education for certification.

LSC REVIEW: Approval of Local School Council is not applicable to this report.
AFFIRMATIVE ACTION: Not applicable.

FINANCIAL: The ?nancial implications will be addressed during the development of the 2012-2013 fiscal
year budget. Since the School Code of Illinois prohibits the incurring of any liability unless an
appropriation has been previously made. expenditures beyond FY12 are deemed to be contingent
liabilities only. Subject to appropriation in subsequent ?scal year budgets. It The Montessori Network. Inc
does not receive funding from Renaissance Schools Fund. the Board shall provide a one-time payment to
the school for planning positions in an amount not to exceed $170,000.00.

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General - Each Party to the agreement shall acknowledge that. in accordance with 105 ILCS
SIM-13.1. the Inspector General of the Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspecmr General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations.

45

February 23, 2011

Conflicts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in Violation of the
Provisions of 105 5134-213, which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to. former
Board members during the one-year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of
office.

Indebtedness - The Board's indebtedness Policy adopted June 26. 2006 as amended
from time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics The Board's Ethics Code adopted June 23. 2004 (04-0623-P04). as amended from time to time
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement,

11-0223-EX3

A BOAR EP 08-012 -EX4
AMEND BOARD REPORT 06-0622-EX5

   

WES US A IN CH ER SC 00!. BOUNDA OR THE
NIVE TY OF CHIC THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER RECOMMENDS:

Establish the charter school boundary for the new University of Chicago Charter
School - George T. Donoghue Campus (formerly known as the Nonh
Kenwood/Oakland Charter School). located at 707 East 37'" Street in order to
better serve low-income and at-risk students residing within the proposed
attendance area boundary.

This amendment is necessary to 101mg; adjust the charter school boundary for the
University of Chicago Charter School - George T. Donoghue Campus. located at
707 East 37'" Street. and MEET adjust the charter school baundary tor the
University of Chicago Charter School Carter Woodson Campus located at
4444 South Evans Avenue. 9y establishing a cgmbined Quarter :39th boundary
for the Universitv of Chicaoo Charter Schools elemenm school campusgs In
order to better serve low-income and at-risk students residing within the proposed
charter school boundary. The University of Chicago Charter School - George 
Donoghue Campus, University of Chicago Charter School - Carter Woodson

Campus. and the University gf Chlgago Chang School Nonh KenwoodIOakland
Cam will 5 the sa chart rscho Ibounda .

 

A public hearing was held on January 31. 2011 to public cgmment at 03

Office of the Board 9f the City of Chigago located at 125 Scuth Clark Street on the
5 floor in the Board Chambers.

DESCRIPTION: Effective July 1, 2005, establish the charter school boundary for the new Unuversuty
of Chicago Charter School - George T, Donoghue Campus a campus of the North
Kenwooleakland Charter School established under board report 03-0225-EX05.
as amended by 05-0126-Ex1?l. located at 707 East 37'" Street and amended by
board report 07-1024-EX02. Effective July 1 2008. the new University of Chicago
Charter School - George T. Donoghue Campus will serve grades prekindergarten
through fifth. The Charter School's name change, attendance boundary
designation and the new campus are subject to approval by the Illinois State Board
of Education.

The new University of Chicago Charter School Carter G. Woodson Campus a
campus of the University of Chicago Charter School established under board report
07-1024-EX02 and later amended by 07-1219-EX02. located at 4444 South Evans
Avenue will serve grades sixth through eighth. The University of Chicago Charter
School - Carter G. Woodson Campus will use the same charter school boundary
as the University of Chicago Charter School - George T. Donoghue Campus. The
Charter School?s boundary designation is subject to approval by the Illinois State
Board of Education. The new charter school boundary may be used for the
enrollment andlor lottery procedure beginning with the 2008-2009 school year for
both the campuses referenced above.

The University of Chicago Chart_er SchoogNorth Kenwooleakland Campus a

campus of the University of Chicago Charter School establishgg undgr mard 
7- - 2 1 07-121 - X02 td at 1119 E35 4

 

ame 
8 se -kinder art hrou h?fth. ff tiveJ I 1 2011 all 
amuse ftheUniveri hi hartr lw? 
?ghgol gogndag. The gha?er ??hggf? gm is sggig' 93 to
I Hi of cati .Th 
rl anlr re innin ih 211-
2 he I rfor Hot 9 .

46

February 23. 2011

Section 27A-4(d) of the Illinois Charter Schools Law authorizes the Board to
deslgnate attendance boundaries for certain charter schools to relieve
overcrowding or to better serve low-income and at-risk students. Students reSIding
within the attendance boundary at for University of Chicago Charter School -

 

will be given priority for enrollment but will not be
required to attend the Charter school Students who do not wish to attend the
University of Chicago Chaner School- George T. Donoghue Campus will be
eligible to enroll at Doolittle Elementary School or Fuller Elementary School as their
alternate attendance boundary school based on the student's home address of
record. Students who do not wish to attend the University of Chicago Charter
School - Carter 6 Woodson Campus will be eligible to enroll at Fuller Elementary
School. Mollison Elementary School. Overton Elementary School. or Woodson
South Elementary School as their alternate attendance boundary school based on
the student's home address of record. Students who do not wish to attend the

niv it of Chi Ch ool - North Kenw kla (1 am will be
Ie mall at Ro ?n on lam nt hool Pri I no 
iralerna atten nce ound hooIb ed on thes dent' horn 55


 

Ih he bl edc rt School 80 nda fortheU Ive of
a oCharters hoololeme school cam uses:

9 Me Jul 1 2011North Kan d/Oaklandse rad -krn arten

fifth:
E?egtige My 1 2011 Dongghug servg grades throagh {Inn
Effective Jgiz 1 2011 Wgodm serve oracles sixth through eiahjh:

 

47

LSC REVIEW:

AFFIRMATIVE
ACTION STATUS:

FINANCIAL:

PERSONNEL
IMPLICATIONS:

11-0223-EX4

February 23, 2011

Beginning at Dr Martin Luther King Jr Drive and 35'? Street
East to Michi an

astto47 rive
Southwe to 47 Stree

West to St. Lawrence Avenue


oulh to 48 treet

West to Ferestyillg Avenue
South to 49 Street

Westt rtin her Ki
North to the Starting Point

The University ol Chicago Charter School - George T. Donoghue Campus, T_he
'vers't Ic - No nwo dIOakl nd Cam 5 and the University 01
Chicago Charter School - Carter Woodson Campus will utilize the same charter

school boundary

Jr Drive

Not applicable.

Not applicable.

No additional cost to the Chicago Public Schools

Not applicable

ADJUST THE ATTENDANCE BOUNDARIES FOR FEDERICO GARCIA LORCA ACADEMY
ELEMENTARY SCHOOL AND JAMES MONROE ELEMENTARY SCHOOL

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER RECOMMENDS:

DESCRIPTION:

Effective July 1. 2011. adjust the attendance boundaries and grade structure for
the Lorca Academy School (?Lama?) located at 3231 N. Springfield Avenue. and
the attendance baundaries for James Monroe Elementary School ('Monroe?)
located at 3651 W. Schubert Avenue.

A public hearing was held on February 11, 2011 at the Monroe Elementary School
to discuss the proposed boundary changes

These changes are possible due to the low enrollment at Lorca.

Adjust the Attendance Boundary for Lorca Community Academy
{School to it 610541)

Grades kindergarten through eighth;

Beginning at the (Milwaukee District North Line) Railroad (4200 W)
and Wellington Avenue

East to Karlov Av

North to School St

East to Pulaski Rd

North to Milwaukee Av

Southeast to School St

East to Hamlin Av

South to Belmont Av

East to Hamlin Av

South to Milwaukee Av

Southeast to Central Park Av

South to George St

West to Hamlin Av

South to Diversey Av

West to the the (Milwaukee District North Line) Railroad (4200 W)

North to the starting point.

Adjust the Attendance Area Boundary for James Monroe School
(School ID at! 610074):

Grades Kindergarten through eighth:
Beginning at Diversey Ave and the (Milwaukee District North Line)
Railroad

East to Hamlin Ave
North to George St

48

February 23, 2011

East to Central Park Ave

North to Milwaukee Ave

Southeast to Kimball Ave

South to Altgeld St

West to St. Lours Ave

South to Fullerton Ave

West to Hamlin Ave

North to Wrightwood Ave

West to the (Milwaukee District North Line) Railroad
North to the starting point.

LSC REVIEW: Not applicable.

AFFIRMATIVE

ACTION STATUS: Not applicable.

FINANCIAL: No additional cost to the Chicago Public Schools

PERSONNEL

IMPLICATIONS: These schools will be staffed according to the ratios in the Agreement between

the Board of Education of the City of Chicago and the Chicago Teachers Uni0n

11-0223-EX5

ESTABLISH THE CHARTER SCHOOL BOUNDARY FOR THE CHICAGO CHARTER SCHOOL
FOUNDATION - CHICAGOQUEST NORTH CAMPUS

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER RECOMMENDS:

Establish the charter school boundary for the Chicago Charter School Foundation -
ChicagoQuest North Campus, located at 1443 North Ogden Avenue in order to
better serve low-income and at-risk students residing Within the proposed
attendance area boundary.

A public hearing was held on February 11. 2011 to receive public cOmment at the
Office of the Board of the City of Chicago located at 125 South Clark Street on the
5'h floor in the Board Chambers

DESCRIPTION: Effective July 1. 2011. establish the charter school boundary for the Chicago
Charter School Foundation - ChicagoQuest North Campus. located at 1443 North
Ogden Avenue. Effective July 1 2011, the Chicago Charter School Foundation -
ChicagoQuest North Campus will serve grades sixth through seventh Thereafter.
each successive year one grade will be added until the 2016-17 school year, by
which time the school will serve grades sixth through twelfth.

The Chicago Charter School Foundation - ChicagoOuest North Campus
established under board report located at 1443 North Ogden
Avenue will serve grades sixth through seventh The Charter School?s boundary
designation is Subject to approval by the Illinois State Board of Education The
charter school boundary may be used for the enrollment and/or lottery procedure
beginning with the 2011-2012 school year for the campus referenced above.

Section 27A-4(d) of the Illinois Charter Schools Law authorizes the Board to
designate attendance boundaries for certain charter schools to relieve
overcrowding or to better serve low-income and at-risk students. Students residing
within the attendance boundary of the Chicago Charter School Foundation 
ChicagoQuest North Campus will be given priority for enrollment, but will not be
required to attend the Charter school. Students who do not wish to attend the
Chicago Charter School Foundation - Chicagoouest North Campus will be eligible
to enroll at their neighborhood attendance boundary school based on the student?s
home address of record.

Establish the Charter School Boundary for the Chicago Charter School
Foundation - ChicagoOuest North Campus

Effective July 1, 2011 serve grades sixth through seventh:
Effective July 1, 2012 serve grades sixth through eighth;
Effective July 1, 2013 some grades sixth through ninth;
Effective July 1, 2014 serve grades sixth through tenth;
Effective July 1, 2015 serve grades sixth through eleventh:
Effective July 1, 2016 serve grades sixth through hvelfth;

Beginning at the North Branch of the Chicago River and North Avenue
East to Lake Michican

South to the Chicago River

West to the North Branch of the Chicago River

Northwest to the Starting Point

49

February 23, 2011

LSC REVIEW: Not applicable.

AFFIRMATIVE

ACTION STATUS: Not applicable.

FINANCIAL: No additional cost to the Chicago Public Schools
PERSONNEL

IMPLICATIONS: Not applicable

11-0223-EX6

ESTABLISH THE CHARTER SCHOOL BOUNDARY FOR THE NOBLE STREET CHARTER SCHOOL
- CHICAGO BULLS COLLEGE PREP CAMPUS

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER RECOMMENDS:

Establish the charter school boundary for the Noble Street Charter School 
Chicago Bulls College Prep Campus, located at 2040 Adams Street in order to
better serve low-income and at-risk students residing within the proposed
attendance area boundary.

A public hearing was held on February 11. 2011 to receive public comment at the
Of?ce of the Board 01 the City of Chicago located at 125 South Clark Street on the
floor in the Board Chambers,

DESCRIPTION: Effective July 1, 2011. establish the charter school boundary for the Noble Street
Charter School - Chicago Bulls College Prep Campus. located at 2040 Adams
Street. Ettective July 1 2011, the Noble Street Charter School Chicago Bulls
College Prep Campus will serve grades ninth through eleventh. Thereafter. eacn
successive year one grade will be added until the 2012-13 school year. by which
time the school will serve grades ninth through twelfth

The Noble Street Charter School Chicago Bulls College Prep Campus.
established under board report 10-0922-EX3. serve grades ninth through
eleventh. The Charter School?s boundary designation is subject to approval by the
Illinois State Board of Education. The charter school boundary may be used lor the
enrollment andlor lottery procedure beginning with the 2011-2012 school year for
the campus referenced above.

Section 27A-4td) ot the Illinois Charter Schools Law authorizes the Board to
designate attendance boundaries for certain charter schools to relieve
overcrowding or to better serve low-income and at-risk students. Students 
within the attendance baundary of the Noble Street Charter School Chicago Bulls
College Prep Campus. will be given priority for enrollment. but will not be requrred
to attend the Charter school Students who do not wish to attend Noble Street
Charter School Chicago Bulls College Prep Campus will be eligible to enroll at
their neighborhood attendance boundary school based on the student?s home
address of record.

Establish the Charter School Boundary for the Noble Street Charter School -
Chlcago Bulls College Prep Campus (School ID 400097):

Effective July 1, 2011 serve grades ninth through eleventh;
Effective July 1. 2012 serve grades ninth throagh twelvth:

Beginning at California Avenue and Lake Street
East to the Kennedy Expressway

South to the Eisenhower Expressway

West to California Avenue

North to the Starting Point

LSC REVIEW: Not applicable.

AFFIRMATIVE

ACTION STATUS: Not applicable.

FINANCIAL: No additional cost to the Chicago Public Schools
PERSONNEL

IMPLICATIONS: Not applicable

50

February 23, 2011

11-0223-EX7

ESTABLISH THE CHARTER SCHOOL BOUNDARY FOR THE NOBLE STREET CHARTER SCHOOL
UIC CAMPUS

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER RECOMMENDS:

Establish the charter school boundary for the Noble Street Charter School - UIC
Campus. located at 1231 South Damen Avenue, in order to better serve low-
income and at-risk students residing within the proposed attendance area
boundary.

A public hearing was held on February 11. 2011 to receive public comment at the
Office of the Board of the City of Chicago located at 125 South Clark Street on the
floor in the Board Chambers.

DESCRIPTION: Effective July 1. 2011. establish the charter scnoot boundary for the Noble Street
Charter School UIC Campus. located at 1231 South Damen Avenue. Ettective
July 1 2011. the Noble Street Charter School - UIC Campus wall serve grades ninth
through twelfth.

The Noble Street Charter School - UIC Campus. established under board report
10-0922-EX3, will serve grades ninth through twelfth. The Charter School's
boundary designation is subject to approval by the Illinois State Board of
Education. The charter school overlay boundary may be used for the enrollment
andlor lottery procedure beginning with the 2011-2012 school year for the campus
referenced above.

Section 27A-4td) of the Illinois Charter Schools Law authorizes the Board to
designate attendance boundaries for certain charter schools to relieve
overcrowding or to better serve low-income and at-nsk students. Students reSIdmg
within the attendance boundary at the Noble Street Charter School - UIC Campus.
will be given priority for enrollment. but will not be required to attend the Charter
school. Students who do not wish to attend Noble Street Charter School UIC
Campus will be eligible to enroll at their neighborhood attendance boundary school
based on the student's home address of record

Establish the Charter School Boundary for the Noble Street Charter School 
UIC Campus (School ID 400057):

Effective July 1, 2011 serve grades ninth through twelfth;

Beginning at California Avenue and the Eisenhower Expressway
East to the Dan Ryan Expressway

South to 18?n Street

West to California Avenue

North to the Starting Point

LSC REVIEW: Not applicable.

AFFIRMATIVE

ACTION STATUS: Not applicable.

FINANCIAL: No additional cost to the Chicago Public Schools
PERSONNEL

IMPLICATIONS: Not applicable

11-0223-EX8

ADJUST THE ATTENDANCE BOUNDARIES AND THE GRADE STRUCTURE FOR PILSEN
COMMUNITY ACADEMY ELEMENTARY SCHOOL AND THE ATTENDANCE BOUNDARIES FOR
JOSE CLEMENTE OROZCO COMMUNITY ACADEMY OF FINE ARTS

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER RECOMMENDS:

Effective July 1. 2011. adjust the attendance boundaries and grade structure for
the Pilsen Community Academy Elementary School ('Pilsen") located at 1420 
17?" Street. and the attendance boundaries for Jose Clemente Orozco Community
Academy of Fine Arts (?Orozco?) located at 1940 18?" Street.

A public hearing was held on February 7, 2011 at Orozco to discuss the boundary

changes and a second meeting was held on February 10. 2011 at Pilsen
Community Academy School regarding the proposed grade structure.

51

February 23, 2011

DESCRIPTION: These changes are possible due to the declining enrollment at Pilsen This will
allow Pilsen to serve grades kindergarten through seventh during the 2011-12
school year and grades kindergarten through eight during the 2011-12 school year
and thereafter.

Adjust the Attendance Boundary and Grade Structure tor Pllsen Community
Academy 
(School ID ll 610013)

Effective July 2011, Grades kindergarten through seventh; (Grade eight attend Orozco}.
Effective July 2012. Grades kindergarten through eighth;

Beginning at Ashland Ave and 16th St
East to Racine Ave
South to 18th St

West to Throop St

South to 18th Pl

West to Loomis St

South to 20th St

West to Laflin St

North to 18th St

West to Ashland Ave
North to the starting point

Adjust the Attendance Boundary and Grade Structure tor Jose Clemente
Orozco Community Academy of Fine Arts and Sciences
(School ID #610329)

Effective July 2011. Grade eight only (Grades kindergarten through seventh attend

Pilsen);
Effective July 2012 Orozco will no longer serve the Prison attendance area

Beginning at Ashland Ave and 18th St
East to Racine Ave

South to 18th St

West to Throop St

South to 18th Pl

West to Loomis St

South to 20th St

West to Laflin St

North to 18th St

West to Ashland Ave
North to the starting point


Effective July 2012 Grades 6 through eighth (Grades K-5 attend COOperi.

Beginning at Hoyne Ave and the RR
Northeast to Wolcott Ave
80th to 16m St

East to Ashland Ave
South to 18th St

East to Laflin St

South to Cermak Rd
West to Blue Island
Southwest to Paulina St
North to 21 st St

West to Wolcott Ave
North to 19th St

West to Hoyne Ave

North to the starting point

LSC REVIEW: Not applicable.

AFFIRMATIVE

ACTION STATUS: Not applicable.

No additional cost to the Chicago Public Schools

PERSONNEL

IMPLICATIONS: These schools will be staffed according to the ratios in the Agreement between

the Board of Education of the City of Chicago and the Chicago Teachers Union.
President Richardson-Lowry indicated that if there were no objections, Board Reports

through 11-0223-EX8 would be adopted by the last favorable roll call vote, all
members present voting therefore.

52

February 23. 2011

President Richardson-Lowry thereupon declared Board Reports 11-0223-EX1 though

11-0223-EX8 adopted.

11-0223-ED1

REPORT ON STUDENT EXPULSIONS FOR JANUARY 2011

DESIGNEE FOR THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORT THE FOLLOWING
DECISION:

112 Students were expelled from the Chicago Public Schools in January 2011.

DESCRIPTION:

Pursuant to the provisions 01 Sections 10-226 and 34-19 or the School Code of Illinois,
Section 6-8 of the Rules of the Board of Education a! the City of Chicago, and the Student
Code of Conduct of the Chicago Public Schools. the designee tor the Chief Executive Oil'icer
approved the expulsion of 112 Chicago Public Schools students, for gross disobedience.
misconduct or other violations of the bylaws, rules and regulations of the Chicago Board of
Education.

January Totals
(January 1 to January 31. 2011)

Expulsions 12
No Expulsions 20
SMART Referrals 29

161

(2010-2011 Totals to Date)
(August 1. 2010 to current)

Expulsions 290
No Expulsions 112
SMART Referrals 33?
Decisions Pending 20

759

L80 REVIEW:
LSC review is not applicable to this report.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION STATUS:
Not applicable.

FINANCIAL:
No cost to the Chicago Public Schools.

PERSONNEL 
None.

11-0223-EDZ

AMEND BOARD REBORI 
AMEND BOARD REPORT 10-0526-EDZ
APPROVE ENTERING INTO AGREEMENTS WITH VARIOUS PROVIDERS
FOR HIGH QUALITY EARLY CHILDHOOD SERVICES

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Approve entering into agreements with providers listed in Exhibit to provide high quality early
childhood services to children ages birth to five and their families at a cost not to exceed the aggregate
amount of $59.730.000.00. Providers were selected on a non-competitive basis pursuant to submitted
proposals and evaluated on past services and the ability to meet program guidelines as mandated by the
lliinois State Board of Education and the Chicago Public Schools. Written agreements for services are
being negotiated. No services shall be provided by any provider and no payment shall be made to any

53

February 23. 2011

provider prior to the execution of such provider?s written agreement. The authority granted herein shall
automatically rescind as to each provider in the event a written agreement for such provider is not
executed within 120 days of the date of this amended Board Report Information pertinent to these
agreements is stated below.

This December 2010 amendment is necessary to provide the actual funding sources and amounts as the
original Board Report provided an estimate of the expected allocations. to increase the not to exceed
amount and to correct the vendor number for Agency #77 listed in Exhibit A. No written amendments to
the agreements are required.

Thistr 20 ni to rrec even van rnu hne
number for Vivera Nursery School and Kindergarten (#151 iist? in Exhibit A). The guthority granted
her in ii to I re i th' rovid rin ev nt their writtena reem ntisn xecute
within 20d 5 ft da fihi amen edB rd on.

PROVIDERS: See Exhibit 

USER: Of?ce of Early Childhood Education
125 Clark Street. 9th Floor
Chicago, IL 60603
Contact: Paula Cottone (773) 553-2010

TERM: The term of each agreement shall commence on July 1, 2010 and shall end on June 30. 2011
The agreements shall have no options to renew.

EARLY TERMINATION RIGHT: The Board shall have the right to terminate each agreement with 30
days written notice.

SCOPE OF SERVICES: Providers will furnish one or more of the following services: early childhood
center based educational services in a full day setting for preschool children ages 3 and 4. infant toddler
center based Prevention Initiative services in a full day setting for children ages birth to age 3; Prevention
initiative Model Services to children ages birth to age 3 and their families. or Parental Training servrces to
families with children under the age of 5 receiving no other educational services. Programs must be
developmentally appropriate and meet the needs of each age group and their families Center based
educational programs must include a Research Based Curriculum with activities that foster cognitive.
language. physical. social. creative. emotional and personal (self-help) development Prevention Initiative
and Parental Training programs must be designed so that parents gain knowledge and skills in
parenting through implementation of a research based program model which will guide the provision of
services and provide for coordination of services

DELIVERABLES: Providers wilideiiver appropriate educationally sound and research based preschool
and/or infant toddler programs to eligible children enrolled in child care centers andlor case management
and/or parent educational services to children and families eligible for the Prevention Initiative or Parental
Training programs as described by the State Board of Education.

OUTCOMES: Providers' services will result in young children developing a strong foundation for learning
andbeing better prepared to enter preschool andlor kindergarten. Atcrisk children and families will have
access to coordinated services and extra preparation prior to kindergarten

COMPENSATION: Each provider shall be paid quarterly upon invoicing based upon approved budgets
and the number of children served during the prior quarter; the sum of payments to all providers shall not
exceed $59.730,000.00. The first payment shall be made within 30 days of contract execution,
subsequent payments shall be made during the months of November. March. and June after all financial
and program information including budget. certification. enrollment. expenditure documents and reports
have been reviewed and approved by the Board.

AUTHORIZATION: Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant terms and conditions in the
written agreements. Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the agreements. Authorize the
Chief Early Childhood Education Of?cer or the Deputy Chief Early Childhood Education Of?cer to execute
all ancillary documents required to administer or effectuate the agreements

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION: Pursuant to Section 5.2 of the 200? Remedial Program for Minority and Women
Owned Business Enterprise Participation in Goods and Services Contracts. a determination shall be
made as to when transactions should be excluded from contract speci?c MIWBE goals. It has been
determined that the participation goal provisions of the Program do not apply to transactions where the
pool of providers includes not-for~profit organizations.

LSC Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report.
FINANCIAL: Charge to: Office of Early Childhood Education Fiscal Year: 2011
Budget Classifications:

11385-115-54105-111085?1576619 (354.600.000 FY11)

11385-115-54105-119041-000000 (51.130900 FY11)
11385-331-54105-1 1 1085-1130104 ($4.000.000 FY11)

54

Exhibit A
Chicago Public Schools
Office of Early Childhood Education

February 23, 2011

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

inspector General Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that. in accordance with 105 ILCS
the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations.

Conflicts The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board it entered into in Violation of the
provisions of 105 which restricts the employment of. or the letting of contracts to. former
Board members

during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of of?ce

Indebtedness The Board's Indebtedness Policy adapted June 26. 1996 as amended
from time to time. shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement

Ethics - The Board's Ethics Code adopted June 23. 2004 (04-0623-904). as amended from time to time.
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current
fiscal year is deemed a contingent liability. subject to appropriation in the subsequent fiscal year
budgeusi

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

88 8338?8383$$8

8g?asgg?aggasga
FN QM

e?seems 

2 ?degegr?hceccee


5 a

0 a: ?2 
5 ?'ic 245:? Era-.53
~5?$??8u?3v?338i?
?$35305?035?025_
Sm?go?aaiodgmm>m



Jacob?? 9% 3
og?gasg-EBMOEEz 





481? 2 o:
?5 4
?1 ?5?52 307 516 1:3.
33 --0 inn,- 
?m?o?5 ?5:00;
c: inn-?ha: 15538e8??mn~ogm
38 
3%

It
?3 huh-v- Nur- at v-

>amas?395aa~esn-

o' 
.5 ?En
Ug 
.. (no.
5 
a .2 0 69?73
gags? a; Egg-6:0
smut-133
ogoo??mu 

0 

E?m 2:650 



xPEm-uoa so
gg?evaagaiseiusit??v?
ae?iu?tmoa?iwgo?gseo?"
unsus~l34a?tc?gua??



<<3<<?<<32<mmammom<


 

01
0'1

56

Exhibit A
Chicago Public Schools
O?ice of Early Childhood Education
Community Partnership Programs

 

Agency Name

Vendor 

Address

Zip

Name

Last Name

Phone

 

16

Busy Bumble Bee Awdemy

14322

6445 5. Cottage Grove

6063?

Keesha

Currington

773-643-4706

 

17

Caring Hands A Step Ahead Learning Center

39924

4208 N. Broadway

60613

Regina

Parker Robenz

773-871-6443

 

18

Carole Robertson Center for Learning

45717

2020 W. Roosevelt

60608

Gail

Nelson

312-243-7300

 

19

Casa Central Social Services Corporation

26503

1343 N. California

60622

Ann

Alvarez

773-645-2404

 

20

Catholic Bishop of Chicago Archdiocese of
Chicago Of?ce of Catholic Schools

20592

835 N. Rush St.

61511

Julie

Ramski

312-751 -3868

 

21

Catholic Charities of the Archdiocese of
Chicago

40249

721 N. LaSalle Rm. 205

60610

Michael M.

Bolland

31 2-655-7464

 

Centers For New Horizons. Inc.

50642

4150 S. King Drive

60653



Smith

773?373-5700

 

23

Chester?eld Tom Thumb Day Care Center

30893

9214 S. Cottage Grove

60619

Britt L.

Savage

773-874-3985

 

24

Chicago Child Care Society

31512

5467 s. University

60615

Nancy

Johnstone

773-643-0452

 

25

Chicago Commons Association

45713

744 N. Monticello Ave.

60624

Janice

Woods

773-826-4287

 

26

Chicago Urban Day School

35664

1248 W. 69111 Street

60636

Georgia

Jordan

773-483-3555

 

27

Chicago Youth Centers

13156

218 S. Wabash Ave. Suite 600

60604

Harry

Wells

31 2-795-3500

 

 

28

Children?s Center for Creative Learning. inc.

 

 

14308

 

7944 - 58 S. Western

60620

 

 

Tonnette Ft.

Williams

 

773-47 1 4927

 

 

 

February 23, 2011

57

arm A
Chicago Public Schools

Of?ce of Early Childhood Eduution
Comunity Partnership Programs

 

Agency Name

Vendor 

Address

Zip

Name

Last Name

Phone

 

29

Children's Development Corporation

139927

1050 E. 95th Street

60619

Leon I.

Walker

773-721?3200
x.1010

 

30

Children's Garden Child Development Center.
lnc.

76366

8902 S. Brandon Ave.

6061?

Sharon

Berkley

773-375-9532

 

31

Children?s Home 8. Aid Socrety of Illinois

256 24

125 S. Wacker Suite 1400

60606

Janet

Ham?tOn

31 2424-6859

 

32

Children's House - Lake Meadows. Inc.. The

14165

501 E. 32nd St.

60616

Debi

Fuller

708-756-4420

 

33

Children's Place Association, The

15006

1436 W. Randolph St

6060?

Cathy

Krieger

773-85123!)

 

Children's Village Day Care and Kindergarten

61655

9011 8. Cottage Grove

60619

Julia

Draper

773-873-1 700

 

ChildServ

45715

8765 W. Higgins Road. Suite 450

60631

James

Jones

773-693-0300

 

Chinese American Service League

45716

2141 8. Tan Court

60616

Brenda

Arksey

312-791-0454

 

37

Chipper Preschool and Kindergarten

23106

8225-29 S. Kedzie Ave.

60652

Amaryllis

Nelson

773-778-5757

 

Christopher House

47276

2507 N. Greenview

60614

Lori

Baas

773-769-4540

 

39

Concordia Place

41430

3300 N. Whipple

60618

Brenda

Swartz

773?463-1600

 

Creative Mansion Children?s Academy, Inc

23107

4745 S. Elis Ave.

60615

Marjorie ct

Jones



 

41

Dorothy Sutton Branch Headstart and
Daycare

64457

8601 S. State St.

60619

Ola

Kirksey

773-723-4445

 

42

Dorsey Developmental Institute

30056

2050 E. 93rd Street



Cathy

Dorsey

773-375-4300

 

43

Early Child Care Services.lnc.

64468

160 N. LaSalle N. 201

60601

Stacey

Olszewski

312-814-4782

 

Easter Seals Metropolitan Chicago

18567

1939 W. 13 h St.

60608

Barbara

Zawacki

312-939-511 15

 

45

 

 

El Hogar Del Nino

47279

 

 

1710-18 5. Loorms St.

60608

 

 

Jane

Garza Manzilas

 

523-1629 ext.

 

306

 

 

February 23, 2011

58

Exhibit A
Chicago Public Schools

Of?ce of Early Childhood Edmtion
Community Partnership Programs

 

Agency Name

Vendor 

Address

Zip

Name

Last Name

Phone

 

Erie Neighborhood House

45673

1701 W. Superior

60622

Celena

Roldan

312-563-5800

 

47

Entrson Institute

73654

451 N. LaSalle St.

60654

Linda

G?kerson

312-893-7138

 

Eyes on the Future Child Care Center

34287

6969 N. Ravenswood

60626

Azieb

Gebrehiiwet

773-973-0771

 

49

Ezzard Chartes School Day Care Center

1 3853

7946 S. Ashland Ave

6(320

Eldora

Davis

773-487?0227

 

50

Fairyland Nursery School. Inc.

41417

4350 N. Milwaukee Ave

60641

Sharon

Kalinowski

773-725-1246

 

51

Family Focus. Inc.

48890

310 8, Peoria. Suite 301

611507

Kevin

Limbeck

312-421-5200

 

52

irman Community Services. Inc.

23710

144 w. 47th Street

6(509

Marguerite

Young

773-373-34W

 

53

First Congregational Church Day Care Center

29517

1305 N. Hamlin

6%51

Leomdia

Lopez

773-384-8118

 

First Start Child Care Academy

91794

4753-59 W. Washington

Patricia

Tyus

773-379-4928

 

55

Frazier Preparatory Amdemy

06650

4027 W. Grenshaw

60651

Laki?ta

Little

773-534-6776

 

Fresh Start Daycare. Inc

61657

6924 W. North Avenue

60607

Willene

Britt

773-479-2870

 

57

Gads Hill Child Care Center

2771 6

1919 W. Cullenon

6m08

Barbara

Castellan

312-226-0963

 

 

 

Golden Gate Day Care Center. [no

05480

 

432 E. 134th Street

 

60627

 

W. Jean

 

 

Simpson

 

773328-7085

 

 

February 23, 2011

59

Exhibit A
Chicago Public Schools
Of?ce of Early Childhood EdueatiOn
Community Partnership Pregrams

 

Agency Name

Vendor 

Addras

Zip

Name

Last Name

Phone

 

59

Granny's Daycare Center

85076

645 W. 127th St.

60628

Priscilla

Bolling

773-848-5827

 

Happy Holiday Nursery 8. Kindergarten

20010

401 E. 111th Street

SEBZB

Nethia

Travis

773-821-7009

 

61

Happy Kids Learning Center. lnc.

89690

4545 N. Kedzie Ave.

60625

Miguel

Munoz

773-866-1405

 

62

Healthy Families Chicago

41407

2100 8. Marshall Blvd.

6%23

Diane



773-257-011 1

 

63

Henry Booth House

34288

2929 S. Wabash Ave. Suite 203

60616

William E.

(3055

31 2-949-3608

 

Higher Learning Daycare Education Center

89693

2526 E. 73rd St.

60649

Will

Horton

773-734-1251

 

65

Holy Family Ministries

89632

790 Frontage Rd.

60093

Susan

Work

847-441-4115

 

Home of Life Community Development Corp.

31519

4650 W. Washington

Delores

Sheppard

773-626-8655

 

67

Howard Area Community Center

2441 2

7648 N. Paulina

60626

Pamela

Barnet

773-262-6622
x252

 

68

Hull House Child Development Services

 

69

47297

1030 W. Van Buren

60607

Kathy

Jones

312-906?8600

 

HWI
Counseling USA New Zion Child Care
Arm?

64464

1960 W. 13lh St,

Johner T.

Wilson, 

312-733-1263

 

70

Illinois Action For Children

91629

4753 N. Broadway Suite 1200

60640

Maria

Whelan

773-697-6126

 

71

lmani Children's Academy

61659

11443 S. Halsted

60628

Shirley

Powell

773-660-9667

 

72

improved Child Care Management Services

Corp.

31520

520 NA Halsted Sunte 412

60622

Mildred

Burnside

312-281-4449

 

 

73

 

institute for Positive Education (New Concept)

41416

 

 

7825 5. Ellis

60619

 

 

Debra

 

Bonds

773-651-9599

 

 

 

February 23, 2011

60

Exhibit A
Chicago Public Schools

Of?ce of Early Childhood Education
Cornmmity Partnership Programs

 

Agency Name

Vendor it

Address



Name

Last Name

Phone

 

74

Irving Park Early Learning Center. Inc.

31405

3023 W. Montrose

60618

Rose

Omsio

773-539-7422

 

75

It Takes a Village Child Care

41420

4000 W. Division

60651

Nakisha

Harris

773-276- 1 730

 

76

Itsy Bitsy People Palace. Inc.

61 658

7419 8. Cottage Grove

60619

New

Sawyer

773-846-7396

 

Jewish Community Centers of Chicago

30857

30 S. Wells St.. Suite 4000

Sheila

Goldman

31 2?357-4700

 

78

JFH Educational Academy, Inc. DBA Jolly Fun

House Playschools

24757

7559 W. Addison

60634

Georgia

Bowie

773-637-6115

 

79

Jones Academy, Inc.

80623

4344 S. Wentworth Ave.

60609

Felicia

Jones

773-307-7507

 

80

Keeper's Institute Infant/Child Care

15069

2718 w. 59" St.

Anne 6.

Campbell

7 73434-8835

 

81

Kenyatta's Day Care Center

20187

2334 E. 75th Street

60649

Brenda

Owens

773-221-3777

 

62

Kiddy Kare Preschool 8. Kindergarten

23109

4401 S. Kedzie

60632

Gregory

Chentnik

773-247-6642

 

83

Kids Place II. Inc.

64459

1318 West 95th St.

60643

Judith

Porter

773-445-6500

 

Kidwatch Plus. Inc.

29531

3901 N. Ridgeway

60618

Jeanne

Prete

773-539-5431

 

85

Kimball Day Care Center

97894

1636 N. Kimball

60647

AlbenalAnOOSh

Varda

773-235-7200

 

66

Korean American Community Services

41421

4300 N. Calilornia Ave.

60618

Inch ul

Choi

773-583-5501

 

87

Kove Learning Academy. lnc.

10295

3137 W. 71 st Street

[60629

Angeline

Kutz

773-476-3083

 

Lake Shore Schools

09062

5611 N. Clark

lsosso

Marsha

Engquist

773-561-6707

 

 

89

 

Lava Inc, - Chatterbm: Preschool

 

14305

3613 W. Devon Ave.

 

60659

 

 

 

Larisa

Bunimovich

 

 

773-478-2434

 

 

February 23, 2011

61

Exhibit A
Chicago Public Schools

Of?ce of Early Childhood Education
Community Partnership Programs

 

Agency Name

Vendor 33

Address

ZIP

Name

Last Name

Phone

 

L.E.A.R.N Charter School

06770

1132 S. Homan Ave.

60624

Gregory

White

773-826-6330
x333

 

91

Lee's Cuddles Care. Inc

89686

6100 W. North Ave.

60639

Andrella

Lee

773-745-8054

 

92

Legacy Charter

05870

4217w_18"? Street

60623

Lisa

Kenner

773-542- 1 640

 

Les Finch's Learning Tree

76742

4217 W. 16th St.

60623

Ruth

Cruz

773-52 1 -5434

 

Little Angels Family Daycare

61 660

6701 S. Emerald

60621

Nashone

Greer

773-370-3688

 

Little Elite Academy. Inc.

64461

8748 S. Aberdeen

60629

Latnce

Harrell

773-448-7990

 

Little Folks Cottage Daycare

89687

5926 W. Madison

60644

Cheryl

Jackson

773-379-441 9

 

97

Little Folks Dayare

89691

2527 E. 73rd St.

60649

Rochelle

Hopkins

773-221-0300

 

Little Giant Child Care Center

23792

3863 W. Harrison

60624

Gloria

Grandberry

773-265-6330

 

Little Hands Child Creative Center

61671

7146 S, Ashland Ave

60636

Sharon

Dale

773-471-0662

 

100

Little Kiddies. Inc.

61662

1447 W. Devon

60660

Doris

Encamokwu

773-465-7702

 

101

Little Kids Village Learning

64462

2656 W. 715151,

60629

Sherri



773-776-4753

 

102

Little Leaders of Tomorrow

14790

301 S. May?eld Ave.

60644

Denise

Buckman

773-378-8302

 

103

Little People Day Care a. Kindergarten. Inc.

20143

7428 N. Rogers Ave.

60626

Marlena L.

Bansa

761-2305

 

 

104

 

Loop Learning Center, Inc.

1 4743

 

 

2001 S, Michigan Ave.

60616

 

 

Matilda A,

Walker

 

 

312-225-8828

 

 

February 23, 2011

62

 

Exhibit A

Chicago Public Schools

Of?ce of Eany Childhood Education
Partnership Programs

 

Agency Name

Vendor 

Address

Zip

Name

Last Name

Phone

 

105

Loren Children's Learning Center. Inc.

64463

2106 E. 791h St.

60649

ldris

Alohan

7 735-359-9400

 

106

Love Learning Center! Day Care

20145

228 E. 61st Street

60637

Burchell

Love

773-752-0243

 

107

Loyola University Chicago

14852

1032 W. Sheridan Rd.

Donna

Estler

7 73-508?8942

 

108

Lutheran Day Nursery

31521

1802 N. Fair?eld Ave

60647

Bruce

Ray

773-486-4222

 

109

Lutheran Social Services of Illinois

35873

1001 E. Touhy Ave. Suite 50
Des Plaines. IL

60018

Carol

Endemann

847-390-1 494

 

110

Marcy-Newberry Association

23115

1073 W. Maxwell

6%08

Ben

Kendrick

312-829-7555

 

111

Marillac Social Center

49913

212 S. Francisco

60612

Maureen

Hallagan

773-722-7440

 

112 ?Mary Crane Center

47285

2974 N. Clyboum

60618

Layetter

Teny

773-348-5528

 

113

Maryville Academy

1 8663

1150 N. River Road

60016

Timothy

 

Intorgan

847-294-1741

 

114

McCann's Daycare Center

14123

8612 S. Stony Island

60617

Yvonne

 

McCann

773-375-7932

 

115

Metropolitan Family Services

46701

1 N. Dearborn Ste. 1000

60602

Colleen

Jones

312-986-4000

 

116

Montessori Academy and Association. Inc.

61664

11025 S. Halsted St.

60628

Ardelia J.

lnn'n

773?468-0033

 

117

Mosaic Early Childhood Academy

81908

5332 W. Addison

6W1

Nisha

Bhojani

773-777-741 1

 

118

Mother?s Touch Day Care. Inc.

26616

2501 w. 7151 Street

60629

Ethel

Daniel

773-436-3177

 

119

 

Mt. Ararat Day Care Center

61663

 

 

6514 W. Huggins Ave

60656

 

 

Armen

Martrrosyan

 

773-593-9763

 

 

 

February 23, 2011

Exhibit A
Chicago' Public Schools
Of?ce of Earty Ch?dhood Education

Community Partnership Programs

 

Agency Name Vendor 

Address

Zip

Name

Last Name

Phone

 

120

New Hope Lutheran School 23587

6416 S, Washtenaw

60629

Celeste

Shores

773-776-9849

 

121

New Pisgah Day Care Center 61665

8130 8. Racine Ave.

60620

Gloria

Gold

773-873-5392

 

122

NIA. LTD. - The Learning Tree 41423

8128 S. Kedzie Ave.

60652

Joann

Williams

773-778-8802

 

123

North Avenue Day Nursery 45664

2001 W. Pierce

6062

Steven

Koli

773-342-4499

 

124

North Kenwood Day Care Center 23618

516-518 E. 43'? St.

60653

Michelle

Williams

773-266-2223

 

125

Northwest institute for Contemporary Learning 27558

4040 W. Division

60651

Shirley

Allison

773-921 -2800

 

126

Northwestern University Settlement

Association 318?

1400 W. Augusta Blvd.

6062

Jose

Alatorre

7732 78-7471

 

63

127

One Hope United 95028

215 N. Milwaukee Ave. Lake Villa

Mark

McHugh

84762456504

 

128

Onward Neighborhood House 26323

600 N. Leavitt

60612

Mario

Garcia

312-666-6726

 

129

Options for Youth 99910

5234 S. Blackstone. 

60615

Pat

Mosena

773-288-1682

 

130

Ounce 01 Prevention Fund 3059?

33 W. Monroe. Suite 2400

6%03

Sarah

Bradley

312-922-3863

 

131

Pathways to Learning Child Care Centers. Inc. 14681

3452 W. 791?! St.

60652

Lisa

Edwards

773-436-9244

 

132

Pinks Child Care Academy. LTD. ?1424

8236 S. Kedzie Ave.

60652

Ernie

Pinkston

773-863-7465

 

133

Premus Little One?s Learning Center. Inc. 64465

221 E. 51st St

6%15

Nicole

Jones

773-285-9902

 

134

Promoting Good Behavior 20168

1341 1915!. St.

60430

Evelyn

Wilson

7083574504

 

135

Flashers Learning Center, 60143

3430 W. Roosevelt Rd.

160624

Rochelle

Ray

773-533-1 834

 

136

Ravenswood Conv'nunity Daycare. Inc. 62059

4908 N. Damen

60625

Kathleen

Pesak

773-27 1 4495

 

137

 

Rush University Medical CenterILaurance

 

Armour Day School ?509

 

2150 Harrison

 

60612

 

 

Maria

Walker

 

312-942-8501

 

 

 

February 23, 2011

Exhibit A
Chicago Public Schools
Office of Early Childhood Education

Comrnunit?y Partnership Programs

 

Agency Name

Vendor 

Address

Zip

Last Name

Phone

 

138

Salvation Army

12143

5040 N. Pulaski

60630

Alpha

Jackson

773-382-4701

 

139

SGA Family and Youth Services

34171

11 E. Adams. Suite 1500

60603

Susana

Moratta

31 2-447-4323

 

140

Shining Star Child Development Institute

53512

3012-16 E. 92nd St.

60617

Gicele T.

Wrav

773978-7827

 

14



Sinai Community Institute

41406

2653 w. Ogden

60608



lNilliams

7711-2576651

 

142

Small Stride Academy

14760

10317 S. Westem Ave.

60643

Margaret 8.

Allen

773-239-0040

 

143

South Central Community Services. Inc.

35476

8316 8. Ellis Ave.

60619

Felicia Y.

Blasingame

773-483-0900

 

144

South East Asia Center

34289

1124 W. Ainslie

Peter

Porr

773-969-6927

 

145

South Harper Montessori School

39996

8358 S. Stony Island

60617

Georgina

Coachman

773-734-0375

 

64

146

St. Augustine College

24428

1333-45 w. Argyle

60640

lMaria E.

Sanchez

773-878-8756

 

147

St. Vincent DePaul Child Development Center

12055

2145 N. Halsted

60614

Carrie

Callas

31 2-943-6776

 

148

Stepping Stones Early Childhood Learning
Center

41425

1300 E. 75" St.

60619

Nelda

Jones

773-493-0000

 

149

Taylor - Day School Inc.

61667

1414 W, 87th St

60620

We

Taylor

773-239-2322

 

150

Teddy Bear Nursery School. Inc.

1 3575

2649 W. 51 st Street

60632

Edvrard

Schmitt

773-476-0700

 

151


Viggvg Eggserz ?glgool 5

Kindergarten

 

152

1

_96501

 

1935 W. 51st St

61509

.Isaac

Jones Jr.





 

Thresholds Mothers' Project

30462

4101 N. Ravenswood

60613

Ocuglas

Kolasrnsiri

773-882-6260

 

153

Tigloth. Inc

76360

3155 W, Divorsey

60647

AlbertaJAnoosh

'Varda

773?342?7777

 

15

?1

Tiny Tot Villa Inc.

27163

8128 S, Martin Luther King Drive

60619

Mildred

Bradley

773-463-6251

 

155

 

Trinity United Church of Christ Child Care

 

Centers

17231

 

532 W. 950: Street

 

 

60628

 

Otis

 

[Moss Ill

773-486-351 1

 

 

 

February 23, 2011

65

Exhibit A
Chicago Public Schools
Of?ce of Early Childhood Edumtion
Community Partnership Program

 

Agency Name

Vendor 

Address Zip

Name

Last Name

Phone

 

156

True to Life Foundation

97909

1712 E. 87th St. 60617

Velinda

Alexander

773374.7046

 

157

Tuesday's Child

44841

4028 W. Irving Park Road 60641

Debbie

Krrma' 

773?282-5274

 

158

University of Chimgo

33123

5801 8. Ellis 60637

Carol

Zuiches

773?702-8604

 

159

Day Care Center. Inc.

61669

1 E. 113th St. 60628

Reaver G.

Barlowe-Bell

773-785-3940

 

160

Wee Care Nursery School

41427

1845 E. 79" St. 60649

Sonya

Williams-Morgan

773-221-4442

 

161

Wee Wee Center for Creative Learning. inc.

61 670

2434 71st St 60629

Kimberly

Rush

773-471-0869

 

162

West Austin Development Center

69701

4920 W. Madison 60644

Tamera

Fair

773?378-1 396

 

163

Whiz Kids Nursery Center. Inc.

64466

518 W. 103111 St. 60628

Kimberly

Craft

7732339445

 

164

Women?s Treatment Center

$1408

140 N. Ashland Ave 60607

Jewell

Oates

312-850-0050

 

165

Woodlawn Organization

13726

6040 S. Harper St 60637

Virgil

Savage

773-288-5840

 

166

YMCA

30499

601 N. Dearbom 60610

Erskine

Cunning ham

312-932-1200

 

167

Young Achievers Academy, Inc.

64467

520 E. 7901 St. 60619

Zuli

Turner

773-263-9688

 

 

168

Young Scholars Developmental Institute

 

 

14167

 

3038 W. 59m Street 60629

 

Elizabeth

 

 

Campbell

 

773-918-1944

 

 

February 23, 2011

February 23. 2011

11-0223-ED3

APPROVE ENTERING INTO AN APPLICATION AND CONTRACT
FOR ESTABLISHMENT OF AN ARMY JUNIOR RESERVE TRAINING CORPS UNIT
AND EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS WITH JROTC INSTRUCTORS
(SULLIVAN HIGH SCHOOL)

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Approve entering into an agreement with the Department of the Army. Headquarters. United States Army Junior
Reserve Officers' Training Corps ("Army for the establishment of an Army JROTC Program (?Program?)
at Roger C. Sullivan High School The agreement shall incorporate: Title 10. USC. Section 2031.
Department of Defense 1205.13; Army Regulation (AR) 145-2; to) US. Army Cadet Command
Regulation (CCR) 145-2; Army Junior Reserve Officers' Training Corps Standing Operating Procedures, and 
all other regulations of the Department of the Army and Headquarters US Army Cadet Command (USACC) relating
to the conduct of the Program. A written agreement (DA Form 3126) for the Program is available for signature by
an authorized representative of the Board, This Board Report is also to approve entering into employment contracts
with JROTC instructors as required by Paragraph 2(d) of the DA Form 3126 agreement Information pertinent to
these agreements is stated below.

PROVIDER:

Department of the Army

Headquarters. Junior Reserve Of?cers' Training Corps
United States Army Cadet Command

Fort Monroe. VA 23651-5000

Attention: Mr. Leon McMullen/Mr. William Svoboda
Phone: 757-788-4585

USER:

Principal

Roger C. Sullivan High School
6631 North Bosworth Avenue
Chicago. Illinois 60626
Attention: Dr. Joseph P. Atria
POC: Kim R. Harrell
Phone: 773-553-6099

BACKGROUND: A National Defense Cadet Corps program was established at Roger Sullivan High School in
2008 (authorized by Board Report 08-0602-ED4) and was granted JROTC program status as of June 30. 2010

TERM: The term of the Army JROTC agreement shall commence upon receipt of notification from the Army ROTC
that the Army has approved the establishment of a Junior ROTC unit on the date speci?ed and shall remain in
effect until terminated as set forth in the agreement.

EARLY TERMINATION: Either party may terminate the Army JROTC agreement by giving one year's notice of
such intent to terminate.

PROGRAM DESCRIPTION: The Army JROTC Program is a 4-year academic program curriculum that promotes
and teaches good citizenship. It is taught in Leadership Education Training (LET) levels where LET I is for students
who have never had a JROTC course. LET II is for students who have completed the LET I level. LET is for
students who have completed both LET I and LET II levels, and LET IV is for students who have completed all
previous LET Levels I - IV.

The Army JROTC Program seeks to ful?ll the following objectives;

Give students an appreciation of the origin, advantages and responsibilities of citizenship in Our

country.

2. Develop in students an understanding of good leadership skills and the advantages of strong moral

character.
Promote in the students an understanding for the need and application of our national security,
Develop in students a sense of pride and personal discipline.
Teach students to understand and respect the need for constitutional authority as the foundation of a
democratic society.



RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE PARTIES:

1. The Army JROTC will:
a. Provide for use of available Government properly as authorized by law and tables of allowances
b. Assign such military personnel as the Army may deem necessary for administration of the
Program and pay the statutory compensation of such personnel.
0. Establish a Junior unit of the Army Reserve Officers' Training Corps at the School

2. The Board or Roger C. Sullivan High School will:
a. Make available for use by the JROTC unit necessary and adequate classrooms, administrative
of?ces. office equipment. storage space. drill ?eld. and other required facilities and to pay the costs of
utilities and maintenance thereof. To make available in the JROTC administrative office a

66

February 23. 2011

telecommunications line suitable for voice transfer. Internet connectivity and data transfer. and to pay
the costs of installation and maintenance thereof to include phone calls (local and of?cral long
distance).

b. Employ certified instructors authorized and approved by the Army to administer the Army approved
courses. (a minimum of one officer and one noncommissioned officer per unit).

c. Enter into contracts with the instructors for periods to permit year round management of the
Program and control of government preperty. Instructor contracts may be extended up to 21 days to
allow instructors to attend JCLC camp. These extensions will be approved on a case-by-case basis
School authorities agree to pay retired Army JROTC instructors in accordance with applicable federal
law and regulations as further described below.

d. To maintain an enrollment in the institution of not less than 100 physically in students (or 10% of
the student population. whichever is less) who are in a grade above the grade.

9. Encourage and support the professional development of JROTC instructors and permit attendance
at orientation/refresher training workshops/conferences.

f. Assist the Army in ensuring quality instruction by providing written annual performance appraisals
to CG. US. Army Cadet Command using appraisal forms provided by the Army

EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTSICOMPENSATION REQUIREMENTS FOR JROTC INSTRUCTORS:

1. Required Number of Instructors/Length of Employment: The Board will be required to employ certified
instructors as required by DA Form 3126. The ratio of instructors to cadets is detailed below. All instructors must
be approved by the Army to administer the military courses, (a minimum of one of?cer and one noncommi?ssmned
officerper unit). Contract periods will be negotiated to permit year round management of the program and centrol of
Government property. Schools are enc0uraged to reimburse the JROTC Instructors on a comparable scale as
other teachers employed at the school. Schools will ensure that instructors are provided liability insurance to the
same extent and in a like manner as such insurance is provided to other teachers and coaches through the school
for school sponsored activities or duties (including extra-curricular activities. ie . annual encampments. adventure
training, drill competitions. marksmanship competitions. etc). Schools will provide Junior ROTC Cadets inSurance
to the same extent and in like manners provided other students (including extra-curricular activities)

a. Ratios:
1) Cadet Strength Retired Officers Retired NCO
2) 100150 1 1
3) 151-250 1 2
4) 251 -350 1 3
5) 351 -450 1 4

?Additional retired officers and NCOs may be authorized in Cadet Ratio of 500 1 for
officers and 100 1 for NCOs.

2. Instructor Salaries and Term of Contract The Board will pay retired Army JROTC instructors in
accordance with applicable federal law and regulations. JROTC instructors will start their employment at Minimum
Instructor Pay (MIP). MP is the difference between official retired pay. reported by DFAS. and the active duty pay
and allowances (excluding hazardous duty and special pays) that a JROTC instructor would receive if ordered to
active duty. Active duty pay and allowances are based on the DFAS current year Military Pay Tables. The instructor
salary will be adjusted from time to time as set forth in the centract. The term of the instructor contracts will be for a
minimum contract period of 42.6 weeks and up to 52 weeks as negotiated by the JROTC instructor and school
officials.

OUTCOMES: The Program will provide students with the opportunity to develop leadership skills. responsrbility.
self-con?dence. self-esteem. physical ?tness. citizenship. and a spirit of patriotism.

AUTHORIZATION: Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant terms and conditions in the written
agreements. Authorize the Chief Area Officer of Area 26 to execute the agreement with the Army for establishment
of the Program. Authorize the Chief Human Capital Officer to execute all employment contracts required by the DA
Form 3126 Agreement for the Sullivan High School JROTC Program. subject to approval by the General Caunsel .
without additional Board approval.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION: Pursuant to Section 5.2 of the Remedial Program for Minority and Women Owned
Business Enterprise Participation in Goods and Services Contracts. this agreement is not applicable to MBEIWBE
review.

LSC REVIEW: Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL: Credit Army JROTC payments to the General Fund,
Charge to Roger Sullivan High School: 3155.75700 Fiscal Year: 2010 - 2011

Budget Classification: 46301.115-51100-113119-000018
Source of Funds: General Funds

GENERAL CONDITIONS:
Inspector General In accordance with 105 ILCS 5f34-13.1. the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of

Education has the authority to conduct certain Investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all
information and personnel necessary to conduct those investigations.

67

February 23, 2011

Conflicts The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the provisions of
105 ILCS SIM-21.3. which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to, former Board member during
the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of office.

Indebtedness The Board's Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26. 1996 as amended from time to
time. applies to this agreement.

Ethics - The Board's Ethics Code adopted June 23. 2004 (04-0623-PO4), as amended from time to time. applies to
this agreement.

Contingent Liability ?Any expenditure beyond the current fiscal year is deemed a contingent liability. SUDJBCI to
appropriation in the subsequent fiscal year budgetls).

11-0223-ED4

APPROVE RESTRUCTURING PLANS FOR SCHOOLS CLASSIFIED AS IN NEED OF
RESTRUCTURING UNDER THE NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND ACT (NCLB)

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER RECOMMENDS:

That the Board approve restructuring plans for 20 schools that have newly entered restructuring status under
the federal No Child Left Behind Act (NCLB). and one school with restructuring status that was recently
evaluated and confirmed by the lilinois State Board of Education (ISBE).

DESCRIPTION: A summary of the new restructuring plans for the 21 Chicago Public Schools requiring
restructuring plans is set out on Exhibit A. The restructuring measures noted in each plan will also be
incorporated into the schools' School Improvement Plans 

A school is placed in NCLB restructuring status if it fails to make Adequate Yearly Progress (AYP) for five
consecutive years. Upon being identified as in need of restructuring. a school is placed in ?Restructuring
Planning" status. and the district mustdevelop a restructuring plan. If the school fails to make AYP for a Sixth
year. the school is placed in "Restructuring lmptementation? status. and the restructuring plan must be
implemented at the start of the subsequent school year

NCLB requires a district to implement one of the following alternative school governance arrangements at a
school with restructuring status consistent with State law: (1) Reopen the school as a public chaner school. (2)
Replace all or most of the school staff who are relevant to the school?s failure to make (3) Enter into a
contract with an entity with a demonstrated record of effectiveness to operate the school. (4) Turn the
operation of the school over to the state; or (5) Any other major restructuring of the school's governance
arrangement that makes fundamental reforms. such as significant changes in the school's staffing and
governance. to improve student academic achievement and that have substantial promise of enabling the
school to make AYP.

in developing the attached restructuring plans. a range of strategies and measures were conSIdered by the
school principal and the Chief Area Officer. AMPS Of?cer or Of?cer of New Schools School performance
data were analyzed to establish an individual plan for each school that targets specific interventions that
address identi?ed needs and deficiencies. Parents and teachers at each school were provided with the
opportunity to comment on the plan.

The complete restructuring plan for each school is on file in the Office of Performance

THIS 8PM: INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK

68

69

 

State Code

Area

School Name

Restructuring Plan Summary

 

15016299025206?

Barry Elementary School

Implement Balanced Literacy for grades 2-5.

Implement Reading in Motion for grades K-1.

Implement Vocabulary intervention instructional approach.
Develop a reading curriculum based on common core standards.

 

150162990252265

Hibbard Elementary School

Implement Learning Teams as a new structure for teacher collaboration.
Enhanced role of Instructional Leadership Team (ILT) for professional
development and monitoring of program implementation.

Establish a formal process for teacher collaboration, including teacher-
developed assessments, data discussions, lesson planning, and progress
monitoring.

Partner with Pearson Learning for consultation and intensive professional
development on the development of Learning Teams.

Train teacher facilitators to engage teachers 0n collaborating around
improving reading instruction.

 

150162990252409

Portage Park Elementary School

Implement Reading Blitz after school program, targeting students not
meeting state standards.

Implement Reading Recovery in the early grades.

Enhance math skills among students with disabilities through technology and
peer tutoring.

 

 

150162990252494

 

 

Volta Elementary School

 

Switch to Track calendar to minimize summer learning loss.

Implement Learning Teams strategy for improving teacher collaboration.
Staffing changes, including hiring of new teachers and moving of teachers into
grade levels matching their 

implement Striving Readers in grades 6?8 and Response to Intervention 
strategies school-wide to support struggling learners.

 

 

February 23, 2011

70

 

State RCDIS Code

Area

School Name

Restructuring Plan Summary

 

150162990252089

Boone Elementary School

0

Expand membership of the instructional Leadership Team (ILT).

Restructure school staf?ng due to changes in attendance boundary that
resulted in a reduction of 30 staff members.

Reallocate ?nancial and material resources to improve teaching and learning
in every classroom.

Ensure all teachers are highly qualified and placed according to specialized
endorsements and certi?cates in reading, ESL and required content areas.
Design and monitor individual instructional interventions for students
performing below grade level (RTI).

 

150162990252 134

Clinton Elementary School

Use grade level meetings and Instructional Leadership Team (ILT) to structure
and strategically plan professional development and allocate resources to
target areas for student improvement.

Purchase new curricular materials and Spanish language instructional
materials to support improved instruction and differentiation.

Provide targeted remediation to at-risk students.

Hire an RTl/School Based Problem Solving Coordinator.

 

 

150162990252877

 

 

McAuliffe Elementary School

 

Establish an Instructional Leadership Team (ILT) to guide curricular and
professional development decisions at the school.

Establish a data team to analyze student performance and progress.
Implement Reading in Motion reading program for bilingual students in
grades K-1.

Implement Small group mathematics instruction with support from area math
coach.

 

 

February 23, 2011

 

State Code

Area School Name

Restructuring Plan Summary

 

15016299025233?

5 Mayer Elementary ..

School has been converted to a citywide magnet school (with neighborhood
boundaries) with a new instructional focus (Montessori program in grades
and International Baccalaureate Middle Years Programme in grades 6-
8).

As a part of the conversion to a magnet school, a signi?cant number of
teaching staff were replaced in order to support implementation of the new
instructional programs.

Implement new monitoring and intervention strategies for teacher
implementation of instruction and ?delity of programs.

Implement a new monitOring plan and intervention strategies for all students
with an IEP.

 

71

150162990252829

Saucedo Elementary Scholastic
10 Academy

Update hiring procedures to ensure all teachers have, or are working toward,
a bilingual approval and/or special education endorsement for grades K-5, or
an ESL and/or special education endorsement for grades 6-8.

Implement a Smaller Learning Communities (SLC) model of collaboration and
instructional decision-making.

Finance additional teaching positions during the regular school day and
extended day buckets for lengthening the school day to support struggling
learners.

Provide targeted professional development, with a focus on bilingual
instruction and intervention strategies for struggling learners.

Apply for Take One! grant to increase number of Nationally Board Certi?ed
teachers.

 

 

1 50162990252185

 

 

11 Edwards Elementary School

 

Expand membership and add responsibilities to the Instructional Leadership
Team (ILT).

Implement core reading program, including professional development and
instructional resources with additional support from the ILT.

Implement Response to Intervention (RTI) strategies to support struggling
learners.

 

 

February 23, 2011

72

 

State Code Area School Name Restructuring Plan Summary

 

Enhance curricula and instruction through the implementation of a research-
based core reading series in grades 4 and 5, professional development, and
ongoing coaching supports in the areas of balanced literacy and bilingual
instruction.

- Reorganize staff around critical leadership positions in response to shifts in
student population due to opening of a new school in the neighborhood.

0 Implement Response to Intervention (RTll strategies to support struggling
150162990252280 11 Hurley Elementary School learners.

 

I Make staf?ng changes and reorganize leadership team.
0 Expand instructional strategies. materials and professional development
related to balanced literacy.

- Implement Response to Intervention strategies to support struggling
150162990252465 11 Stevenson Elementary School learners, with a focus on English Language Learners.

 

- Create an Instructional Leadership Team (ILT) to revise and evaluate school
improvement initiatives.

- Reorganize staff, and hire a new principal and assistant principal.

- Transition to a Professional Learning Community (PLC) model of school
planning and professional development.

0 Implement Response to Intervention (RTI) strategies to Support struggling
learners.

150162990252388 13 Overton Elementary School .. 0 Implement Comprehensive Instructional Framework (CIF).

 

 

0 Adopt Lead 21 reading curriculum for grades K-5.

. Adapt Dreams and Doorways reading curriCulum far grade 6.

i 0 Use state standards and data?focused performance management sessions to
- provide focused instruction for student learning, including the appointment

I of a PM Coach.

- Use math standards and intentional teaching strategies to accelerate student
I achievement by providing additional support to students in need.

I 0 Use a blended CurriCulum for science instruction, and increase higher order
Clarernont Academy Elementary I questioning.
1&6299023932? 14 School 3

 

 

 

. .

Implement a school-wide attendance plan and truancy mediation team.

 

February 23, 2011

 

State Code

Area

'School Name

Restructuring Plan Summary

 

150162990252845

15

Canter Middle School

Departmentalize school staff.

Transition to a high school style scheduling system, allowing students to have

individualized programs based on their academic needs and allowing teachers
to have common prep time by content area.

Establish a school?wide Leadership theme.

Implement Read 180 for 7th and 8th grade students.

Implement AVID.

Enhance mathematics and science instruction through a partnership with the

Illinois Math and Science Academy 

 

73

150162990252122

16

Carroll Elementary School

Hire a literacy coach to provide teacher training and support.

Hire a math/science coach to provide teacher training and support.
Reorganize staff to place teachers in grades or subjects that mirror their
and endorsements.

Implement Response to Intervention strategies to support struggling
learners.

Use technological systems to provide immediate feedback on student
performance.

 

1 50162990252213

 

 

18

 

Gallistel Elementary Language
Academy

 

 

 



Individualize/differentiate instruction for ELLs using instructional technology.
Provide teacher training based on Instructional Leadership Team (lLTl data
reviews.

Implement a school-wide enrichment model with full faculty professional
development and Area 18 supports for teachers of gifted students.
Reorganize staff to address reading deficiencies in the primary grades.
Provide extended day instruction for ELLs and students with disabilities.
Purchase a new math curriculum.

Utilize Outside experts to consult on ELL strategies.

Facilitate teacher collaboration on curriculum alignment.

Expand in-school supports for students with disabilities.

 

February 23, 2011

74

 

State Code Area School Name

Restructuring Plan Summary

 

Chicago Military Academy High
150162990250795 26 School

Restructure school-wide curriwlum from content-based Instructional Design
System (IDS) to skills?based learning and assessment curriculum, including
course restructuring.

Develop an Instructional Leadership Team (ILT).

Implement Response to Intervention (RTI) strategies to improve graduation
rates.

Implement electronic standards-based curriculum mapping.

 

15016299025008C 52 Aspira Charter High School

Hire additional support staff, including reading and math master teachers, a
data specialist, curriculum specialists, a special education specialist, and an
ELL specialist.

Hire additional administrative staff at each campus, including assistant
principals and deans of students.

Replace high school principals and strengthen the system for principal
evaluation and support.

Strengthen the system for teacher evaluation and support.

 

Young Women's Leadership Charter
15016299025007C 52 High School

_Establish an educational partnership with Edison Learning Alliance.

Implement action steps established through the charter's renewal process,
including: submitting written updates of the school's strategic planning
process; submitting a detailed care curriculum; campleting a detailed
professional development plan; and submitting a description of the school's
behavior management system.

Replace school leadership and several staff members.

 

 

 

 


54 I Washington, H. Elementary School 

c. 

 

150162990252401_

Reorganize Instructional Leadership Team (ILT).

Implement Response to Intervention (RTI) strategies to support struggling
learners.

Implement Project Pull-out f0r at-risk students in grades 3-5 by providing
reading support through special education staff.

Implement Project 85 for at-risk students in grades 6-8 and for students in
grades 3-5 not served by Project Pull-Out by providing reading Support

 

throug_h highly qualified intewentigrlislts.?

 

February 23, 2011

February 23. 2011

11-0223-PR1

REP TO 

THE CHIEF PURCHASING OFFICER REPORTS ON THE FOLLOWING EXPENDITURES PURSUANT TO
106 ILCS and THE RULES OF THE BOARD. SECTION 7-5. EMERGENCY
EXPENDITURES:

1 Mmhx?ementewidmk?mmepcwamem An expenditure 01323 800 00 was approved
on January 14 2011 due to an Immediate safety concern over loose masonry at one ormore entranoerexit
ways.

Vendor#: 22445

New Castle Tuckpointing Inc

1800 North 78'" Avenue

Elmwood Park Illinois 60707

Requisition Number: 6183654

Purchase Order Number. 2065300

Budget Classification: 11880-230-56105-254031-201 1
Source of Funds: R1

11-0223-PR2


AMEND BOARD REPORT 09-0923-PR5
APPROVE ENTERING INTO AN AGREEMENT WITH 
FOR DESIGN MANAGEMENT SERVICES FOR THE
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Approve entering into an agreement with 
to provide consulting services for the Capital Improvement PrOgram at a cost not to exceed

mm for the three year term. Consultant was selected on a competitive
basis pursuant to a duly advertised Request for Proposal (Speci?cation No 09- 250043) A written
agreement tor Consultant's services is currently being negotiated No services shall be provided by
Consultant and no payment shall be made to Consultant prior to the execution oi the written agreement.
The authority granted herein shall automatically rescind in the event a written agreement IS not executed
within 90 days of the date of this Board Report. Information pertinent to this agreement is stated below

This July 2010 amendment is necessary to revise the fee schedule and the affirmative action section

This revision will decrease the annual compensation amount by $2,591,908. The authority granted herein
shall automatically rescind in the event a written amendment agreement is not executed within 90 days 01
the date of this Board Report.

 

Specification Number: 09-250043
Contract Administrator Patricia Hernandez I 773-553-2256

VENDOR:

USER:

Facility Operations Maintenance
125 South Clark Street 16th Floor
Chicago. IL 60603

Contact Patricia L. Taylor
Phone: 773-553-2900

75

February 23, 2011

TERM:
The term of this agreement shall commence on the date the agreement is signed and shall and 36
months thereafter. This agreement shall have two options to renew for periods of one year each

EARLY TERMINATION RIGHT:
The Board shall have the right to terminate this agreement with 30 days written notice.

SCOPE OF SERVICES:
The Design Manager )will support the Chicago Public Schools' Facilities Department in the

. planning. scope and transfer package development of
capital projects. development and maintenance of design and construction standards management of
design consultants (architects. engineers. at al.) and overall development of metrics and best practices to
assure ef?cient use of the Board's capital funds.

DELIVERABLES:

The DM will provide scoping and transfer package development. selection and management of architects
and engineers of record and other design professionals. project coordination. design standards
development and general facilities department design support.

OUTCOMES:
Consultant's services will result in the Capital Improvement Program operating in an ef?cient manner in
the best interest of the Board.

COMPENSATION:
Consultant shall be paid as follows: in accordance with the rates set forth in the contract; not to exceed

the sum MW However-year for the three year term. which amount is incluswe of all

reimbursable expenses.

   
 

REIMBURSABLE EXPENSES:

Reimbursable expenses include. but are not limited to. assessment eqmpment, warehouse rental.
telephone. transportation, car mileage associated with Board business. and other related expenses
Reimbursable expenses for car mileage shall be in accordance with the Board's Policy on
Reimbursement for Work-Related Expenses adopted on July 22. 2009 (authorized by Board Repon


AUTHORIZATION:

Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant terms and conditions in the written agreement
and amendment. Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the agreement and amendment
Authorize the Chief Facilities Officer to execute all ancillary documents required to administer or
effectuate this agreement.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION:

This contract is in full compliance with the goats required by the Remedial Program for Minority and
Women Owned Business Enterprise Participation in Goods and Services Contracts (MIWBE Program)
The participation goals of 35% M86 and 5% WBE for the contract include the followmg
scheduled firms:

Total MBE: 36%

Architrave. 

1128 W. Chicago Avenue. 2nd Floor
Chicago. IL 60642

Contact: Ruben Gil

Probe Consulting Services
855 W. Adams St.

Chicago. IL 60607

Contact: Suresh G. Pinjarkar

Matrix Engineering Corporation

33 W. Jackson Boulevard. 4th Floor
Chicago. IL 60604

Contact: Gene Mojekwu

Singh and Associates. Inc.
300 W. Adams St. Suite 609
Chicago. 60606

Contact: Singh Rikhiraj

HMS Engineering

414 N. Orleans St. Suite 306
Chicago. IL 60654

Contact: Haneef Shakeei

76

CCJM Engineers

550 W. Washington Blvd. Suite 950
Chicago, IL 60661

Contact: Anil Ahuja

Infrastructure Engineering. Inc.
33 W. Monroe. Suite 1540
Chicago. IL 60603

Contact: Harish Goyal

TotalWBE: 13%

Bailey Edward Architecture

35 E. Wacker Drive. Suite 2800
Chicago. IL 60601

Contact: Ellen Bailey Dickson

Terry Guen Design Associates
521 w. Superior St. Suite 327
Chicago. IL 60654

Contact: Terry Guen

Environmental Design International, Inc.

33 W. Monroe St. Suite 1825
Chicago. IL 60603
Contact: Karen Steingraber

J.A. Watts. Inc.

222 W. Morgan. St, Suite 4A
Chicago. IL 60607

Contact: Julie A. Watts

LSC REVIEW:

February 23, 2011

Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL:

Charge to Department of Operations: W0

Not Applicable

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that. in accordance with 105 ILCS
the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct cenam
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and persounet
necessary to conduct those investigations.

Con?icts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 ILCS which restricts the employment of. or the letting of contracts to. former
Board members during the one year period following eitpiretion or other termination of their terms of

of?ce.

Indebtedness - The Board's Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26. 1996 (96-0626-P03). as amended
from time to time. shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics - The Board's Ethics Code adopted June 23, 2004 (04-0623-PO4). as amended from time to time.
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability - The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current
?scal year is deemed a contingent liability. subject to appropriation in the subsequent ?scal year
budget(s).

77

February 23. 2011

11-0223-PR3

APPROVE THE AWARD OF CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTS AND APPROVE CHANGES TO
CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTS FOR THE BOARD OF CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT
PROGRAM

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Approve the award of Capital Improvement Program construction contracts in the total amount of
$397.418.96 to the respective lowest responsible bidders for various construction projects. as listed in
Appendix A of this report. These construction contracts shall be for projects approved as part of the
Board?s Capital Improvement Program. Work involves all labor. material and equipment required to
construct new schools. additions. and annexes. or to renovate existing facilities. all as called for in the
plans and speci?cations for the respective projects. Proposals. schedules of bids. and other Supporting
documents are on file in the Department of Operations. These contracts have been awarded in
accordance with section 7-3 of the Rules of the Board of Education of the City of Chicago

Approve changes to existing Capital Improvement Program construction contracts. in the amount of
$207,406 as listed in Appendix of this report. These construction contract changes have been
processed and are being submitted to the Board for approval in accordance with section 7-15 of the
Rules of the Board of Education of the City of Chicago

Approve changes to existing Capital improvement Program construction contracts. in the amount of
$906,660 listed in Appendix of this report These construction contract changes are being submitted to
the Board for approval prior to processing in accordance with section 7-15 of the Rules of the Board of
Education of the City of Chicago. since they require an increased commitment In excess of 850.000 or
10% of the original contract amount. whichever is less. or. as provided under Section 7-5 of the Rules.
are necessitated by an unforeseen combination of circumstances or conditions calling for immediate
action to protect Board property or to prevent interference with school sessions

LSC REVIEW: Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION: The General Contracting Services Agreements entered into by each of the pre-
quali?ed general contractors and other miscellaneous construction contracts awarded outside the pre-
quali?ed general contractor program for new construction awards and changes to exrsting construction
contracts shall be subject to the Board's Business Diversity Program Ior Construction Projects and any
revisions or amendments to that policy that may be adopted during the term of any Such contract

FINANCIAL: Expenditures involved in the Capital Improvement Program are charged to
the Department of Operations. Capital Improvement Program.
Budget classification: Fund - 436. 468. 476. 477. 479. 480. 481. 482
will be used for all Change Orders (Appendix 8. C). Funding source for new contracts IS
so indicated on Appendix A
Funding Source: Capital Funding

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 ILCS
5I34-13.1. the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all inlormation and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations.

Con?icts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board it entered into in violation 0! the
provisions of 105 ILCS which restricts the employment of. or the letting of contracts to. former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination or their terms of
of?ce.

indebtedness The Board's Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26. 1996 (96-0626-P03). as amended
from time to time. shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics - The Board's Ethics Code adopted June 23. 2004 (04-0623-PO4). as amended from time to time.
shall be Incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability - The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current

fiscal year is deemed a contingent liability. subject to appropriation in the subsequent ?scal year
budgeust

78

79

AWARD PM PROJECT

YEAR METE Cl? FUND I PROJECT SCOPE AND NOTES

 

 

201?. 5 27?3? 200.00? 482 2011896 
Them-1m

?minimum-cl 

KR ?Connem?lnc

1853152 482 mm msm? Cum Mohammtm' mag-12') In Wm Pm

Enema Scan mm! net Pmown requeu

 

 

 

 

 

February 23, 2011

80

REG.

 

SCHOOL

NIA

NIA

NIA

Saucedo Academy

Solorio HS

NIA

NIA

Af?rmative Action

 

 

 

 

 

 

February 23, 2011

81

CHICAGO PUBLIC SCHOOLS Februaly Change Order Log APPENDIX 8
DEPARTMENT OF OPERATIONS
Changes Under $50,000 and 10% (Cumulatively) "mm"

PREVIOUS ORGINAL REVISED TOT
GENERAL CONTRACTOR APPROVED CONTRACT CONTRACT '56 OF TIME
PW Cam Nun Boyd Rm REG TYPE ARCHITECT OF REC. COR AMOUNT CRANGES ALDUNT AMOUNT CON EXTN

Ausfm Bum and Em 3 SC ?he: 1016 (52.252) 50 5652.000 $649,748 0.35% 0

Descnpoon Revisions In gn'les scope at ends of the South spectator stands.

Reason 
cupped
415013121300 OWacwcwaans

WMam Entemnh'o 2010-51011-PLS 2007097 10-0526-PR3 3 GO Miler $2,764 30 5652000 3654.754 0.42% 

Damphon 
Rama 
.. mom}, Errothmissim (AOR)

 

 

School 2000-65006?! 1687562 09-0325-PR1 1 SC FH. Pasdacn. SN. Nichol-I 8- Assac.. COR 31 (860.000) 5112.200 51.421000 51.471290 3,88% 0
Inc
0m CREDIT. Nam my mums controls for RTU Wm,
Reason CREDIT Not mm: for mac:
Justifu?on Ovmer Omelet!

 

MUM Andemy 2010-46381-PLS 2007911 10-0522-PR8 6 GC 2mm 5760 317.590 3589.000 5507.350 3.12% 0

Pm full height shaman! mum
Reason 

 

 

 

 

Carver Milihry Academy 2010-45381-PLS 2007911 10-0922-PR8 6 CC idler 3-57 371? 317.590 5589.000 3613.703 4.3995 0

Desmpbon Rem crumble cuu mud: a door openmgs 101 a. 111. Roundabout. alum pun dove: In :1an and: Roan 1562
Reason um rah We RMOM 0mm FA pul ma requrea Mouton.
mmuon Oman 0: Cram mm

Comm Mada-w Hugh Sumo! 2000-18MR-1 1703109 090422-PR10 3 6C Conm Company CR1 ($120,359) 3337.399 31036000 31253.0?) 7 15% 0
Dem-on Cadmium mlcompleled on But-?n 24
Reason being addedbuuwm.
Jm?cnon Durand

 

 

Diana Said 201046601430? 1907509 10-0526-FR3 6 SC ?l'?et Line In: sow: (51.266) 50 3859.470 5950.204 -0 13% 0

CREDIT for! rum
Reason minced puma EOF ?menu ntalesmtogennsuko theymu ?he no:
moon Omar

00806 School 2010-26501-ROF 1007509 100526-993 6 GC Ty?! Lon. Contract-on, Inc SOW3 (850.604) 50 3999.470 8890.066 16.32% 0

Descriptor- CREDIT unused mm
Reason these are the man to: cm: pm?ecl
Justina-on 00m

Mal Academy WHO-MGR 1766627 09-0722-906 3 GE Rah-hie Assoc-ole: Comm-0cm Co 1014 $3 577 $194 900 32395 900 $2,604.465 7 93% 0

Damn-on 
Rum 
Juli-canon Coo- cw

Par 1

February 23. 2011

82

CHICAGO PUBUC SCMOLS
DEPARTIENT OF OPERATTONS

School
0-101:ka

Desampo'on?

Reason

Ehhgersmool

Omit

Ramon

Fm Academy

Description 

Reason

Farragut Adam;

Gammon 
Reason 
man an

Piste School


Ream 

Julianna 2?
Description 

Reason 



Godsbne School

Description 

Roman

Justin-on 

 

Hubbard Hugh School

Descnot-on 

Rum

Hubbard H-gh School

Daemon 

Rona!

February Change Order Log APPENDIX 3
Changes Under $50,000 and 10% (Cumulatively) 1""2011
PREVIOUS ORGINAL REVISED TOT

GENERAL CONTRACTOR APPROVED CONTRACT CONTRACT SBOF TIME
9mm Comm Hum BoaruR? REG ARCHITECTOF REC. com: com amass mourn AMOUNT con 2er

1766627 ns-om?PRs 3 GO Rabble 8- modaies Gammon Co m1 $5.830 3194.900 32.495388 52.696.718 3,04% 0
Ram asbestos moon 

Amman 
Jm?m?m 

Dam orChanged Cam

 

2010.31snmca 1819135 09?10mm 1 66 Rabbit a We Gammon Car 1012 $199,517 33.357162 521.568.6711 6.30% 0
Paunta?baskemdlcounlinesambgm?


mm?

mended

201353091-PLS 2(107885 10-09224??! 4 GO PM. 5141 NHsen a Assoc? 1001 5512! 357.1? 31.111000 31375.9? 5.65% 
In:

Pamitdunga

MerenIJdeduringpr rem.


2010-53051-PLS 2007886 10-09224??! 4 SC EH. Paschen. 94.146525 Assoc, 1022 39.827 557.190 31.111000 51.180017 602% 0
Inc.

 



Dumvewdorcwpord?gon?

 

MSMA 1854638 10-0127-PR1 5 GE Fnoder (2mm 00. (30-2 $214)? 81392.4?) 31559315 552* 0


In




kldude?oapa?inqdmuuwm





chwumnm

 

MJSWA 1884785 3 GO Chow Comrcul LLC OATEU 525.5? 30 $1,165,773 51.212251 2 24% 





moor-q)
95mm or Changed Cordoba: -

 

 

 

 

 

2010-4634I-9LS 260738! 104922-938 5 CC 9mm 5 Wm I Assoc 1 $19 150 10 3781000 $807,150 2 4.Pool 125 I: null on: door PM Doors H1258 a HUSC Add he raw door proud: (6) Type 5? ?qm and forum 7m 57 Provide (218:1er ugm I1 Gm Locket Prov-do born-n9 on
mos. Prom power and ?ow mm: you-er supply

Wig and IOPH m; ml norm-I ram
Juli-canon 

Pm Rom

 

201046341-9LS 20070!3 5 CC 5 Fuck-'1 Nlhen I. Anna: 316 57! SO 8768 000 $804,575 2 10% 
In:



Cream of me pod II rwma op lnnaum Adamo:
Jun-luv! 

0me IDMJ

February 23, 2011

83

CHICAGO PUBUC SCHOOLS February Change Order Log APPENDIX 3
oepmem OF OPERATIONS

Changes Under $50,000 and 10% (Cumulatively) "mm?

PREWOUS ORGINAL REVISED TOT
GENERAL CONTRACTOR APPROVED CONTRACT CONTRACT ?In OF WE
School Contract Num Board REG OF REC. co mm- CHANGES AMOUNT MUNT CON EXTN
Juhan Huh School 201045401-ICR 2012915 10439243528 6 6C F.H. Paschal. S.NT Nielsen 5 Assoc. 59.348 30 $301386 5315.714 3.02% 0
Inc.
Descript'on memaso SFOUOOL Cum 1'expanaon sideofgym, approrunately

Reason D'smveredmig?ootdoosmt hive mmp?namom pe?mtetmls Sourced Manny. hmlhelopreventhm henvmg. Wu voleybd 51991105me need bbe

Jmt?ab?on Dismvered or (Danced Wm

 

 

Kennedy Sd?ool 2010-46201-PLS 2008374 5 66 PH Paschal Nielsen I Assoc. 1 $9,921 843.413 $805,000 $858,334 6.63% 0

Int:
OW Provide?) newhme bibs. one at each - Tole: 120. Boys Loam I17 and Gris Lockel133;Prere banding pumps: Provide mam power and sensor pom apply. Add doom. women-amp, Mamas,
keyed 
Reason 
Jam Permit Rem

Kennew Hugh Sand 2010-46201-Pt3 2003374 10-0822-PR8 5 (38 RH Paschen. Nielsen r. Assoc? 10 83.100 $431413 5805.000 3551.513 518% 0
Inc.
Oescnp?on nephew 
Rem 
Jus?icahon Enormeiss-on (OH)

Kennedy High sum: 2010-46201-PLS 2903314 10-0922-PR8 5 5c FH. Paschen? Nielsen Assoc. 11: 35.501 343.413 5805.000 $853,914 6.08% 0
Inc
Desaumu Academe mum doodfnr 09H mm on "Wine
Reason Bdem was ?ned Me prone: and CPS amhonz?lon proceed on was awed 11110110 Accelerator! rs quu'ued to compleie work hr IDPH mpecbon on HRJHU.
Muff-am 0mm OM
Dem wmummw-amwum ?Martina,
Rm 
Ma?a-m 9.3mm
Kennedy Hugh School 2010-46201-PLS 2005374 ao-oszz-Pna 5 cc FVH, Pachen. SAN Nelsen Assocv 4 321150 sum: 5305.000 $876.56! 8,89% 0
Inc
>1 con?rm manned-hon and mum replace up: w?dwenonted gluten-zed omumlmOgameed Provide amdv?veslleemdmem'f locum


Reason Mn was mm Om dcrnollnon and mesh: abalemcnl em. The abatement work was compacted whle he urea um under mammal
Whoa Damned or Changed mm

Lane Ted! Hy! School 2010-46221-PLS 2007901 1 6C WW 6R 801 50 309(1000 $903,001 1 55% 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Descmn Rem II to pool ham equipment and ?lac-and name back to meat, panama Openings um mulch-n9 gazed mm and mamum 0! rear and non ?Mk 
Rem 
Jame-ton Quiet Damned

mum Hugh Seneca 2007-1uo-c5p

 

1126765 1 GE. T?er Lane Con?w?-om hf: 9UL125 33 741 511204 480 $27,189,127 5237391328 0

Rm and lepton "ulna aw dampen am new madam mums mm and tor the ammo men womb the roof .1 penthouu I4 Dampers Mel be mlmcuon (31ml)
Reason Emwmmewmoemmr
Jumhuum Om or Changed Commons

Hugh Sand 2007-1004259 1721765 1 CC T?cr Lon. In: BULTO 39 $00 3? 704 ?50 $27 12. ?03 037 46% 

 



Reach ucl deM 5m mom wool-ea yearbook: Museum WW Nudboem UMOMW ?Hm mm mm
?We
Juurlanon Owner Ducted



February 23, 2011

84

CHICAGO PUBUC SCHOOLS
DEPARTHENT OF OPERATIONS



Dmp?m 

Reason

Palirrm School

Reason 

Wu?on 





Reason 

mutation 

 

Pmechod



Reason 
Wuhan 

Schurz th same!

Reason

HuhSchod

Dutchmen 

Rama
ham 

February Change Order Log APPENDIX 3

Changes Under $50,000 and 10% (Cumulativem 
PREVIOUS ORGINAL REVISED TOT

GENERAL courmcron APPROVED courmr comma =5 0F nus

9mg Num ContractNum am new REG TYPE ARCHITECTOFREC. cons comounr CHANGES AMOUNT MOUNT CON EXTN
2007-1480-0513 1726765 090624-PR8 1 GE Inc. BUL93 312.686 $27,189.12? 528.4062?! 4.4895 0

Provide gates a! cum into Library

booksandruoum.
Juan-aim 

Cameraman! A 
2010-2631-0151) 2035484! 104117-1312: 4 Gt: Miler 3 $2.208 $8.150 3204.581 3215.039 5.05% 0

Repairing and dilution! at uncut-Imam and damper;

20104626142533 1959521 4 6C Chicago Comr?al W.LLC CSPM 529.462 574.737 83.191301 33.2%.1m 32656 0

solid) Cutand ream uawrw?samiammv

Im?mcmm?w Calamkmw?oorwmposmm
midemo 



201045261425? 1959521 I GO Commerdal LLC CSP21 $16.50? 571737 33.191301 33.231140 2.85% 0

pure 11'mde10naomectammkom hmnurlnetoammuudwal 
newloctaue 

?roman-burns. Needbaddaod?nml swoon: 10r4-hour avatar-on. (Conundmaru unu any and masonrymedendahed),

Worcq??dfgm

 

?lm-153081.53 1909837 1 GE Paschen, SN. Nelson 5 A330: 15 ??92 (8151030) -0 10% 0
In:

Provide all mad clean: and heater Rest-n 37B
Room cannot produce adequate heat
Jus?rahnn 

0mm or Changed Condoms

2W1SSD-BLR 1909837 100526-9513 1 66 Fathom 5 N1 Nielsen Assoc 16 312,511 (315.030) 310.445.000 810.442581 -U 02% 0
Inc



3? 

Dmred orCtungedCondm
.4-

 

Junfcuon Hr
Sm Hon School

Renal-I 
Jushfucnon 

Schm?gnsmod



Ramon 
JmMqun 

Ounchumcud

'Iahnrand 



_D:c3ucndorcmnoedmu

 

 

zoos-15mm 1909337 100526-9113 GC Paschal: 5 N-elm Assoc. 25 $22 771 {$15 310 ?51000 ?0.452.741 0707* 0
Inc

Revue emergency I'm? lunar: new loans Rcv-u No em emergency harm Inn-l lighting an hour room "mu-?e



 

1909037 10-0526-PR3 I CC Puma umn I Auoc? JO 81 476 ($15 030) 110 431446 -0 13?1- 0
IN

lull modicum; a door 701 Raincl- sho'l Ladder to Japan! uncut coon-no

Based on mac rcqu-mnu for If! mum Inc Ice 01 nnmnu- UL mu panel anon

0mm or Chang-a Cm-

February 23, 2011

85

CHICAGO PUBUC SCHOOLS February Change Order Log APPENDIX 8
DEPARTMENT OF OPERATIONS
Changes Under $50,000 and 10% (Cumulativety) "mm?

PREVIOUS REWSED TOT
GENERAL CONTRACTOR APPROVED CONTRACY CONTRACT ?16 OF TIME
PM Num Com-act Mum Beard Reg REG TYPE ARCHITECT OLREL con 3 co AMOUNT CHANGES AMOUNT AMOUNT CON EXTN
derz High School 1909837 100526-PR3 1 GE: Paschal,51Nv Nidsan 8 Assoc. SON 7 51.983 (515.030) 310445.000 310.431.9513 {112% 0
Inc;

Dew-mien Change numbed lOr AHU 7 motor

Reason em feed is not adequate? med.

Jam D'smvered or Changed Was

Schulz th Smod 2010-45281-ADA 1909054 10-0428-9R0 1 GO Chum Command Conrado?. LLC 65 3259.113 9.504.253 53.860.371 7,70% 0
Description Renal! again?! ?11 parking I01.
Ream ?hummingbaueremmeddaspm repent
Jm??u?m 001nm Ducted

Schulz Hm Sand 201045201415 2003716 1 SC all-8w Guam 10 $2,717 820.? 3421.000 $443,717 5.40% 0

Damiano 

Reason 
MAWG 

Juliana! OW ?Changed 
Sameon Han School 2012946 100922-9128 5

CC Wight Comm Mama. Company) 3 5241550 so ssaamv 5612.587 ?1 15% 
Inna. mud, equpmem. temperature control and to replace all 10 dampen mine hamlets The a to include CI reIurn. exhaust and outside an make dam.

Reason 
Jua?cahgl? Wucmm Comm

 

 

 

EIemcnlaly SM 2009-5990-4013? 1677002 09432259514 3 6C ?thud: Cmm. Inc. 10103 $27,779 5569.933 326516.121 821513.833 137% 0

0m 

Rena-I 
Julia-non 

 

Spain-n9 Ewan] School 2009-5990459 1677002 DBMS-PR4 3 (3C ?mud! klc. 2071311 535.?! 5069.933 326516.121 527.521.5102 3.40% 0

bummer: 
Reason and 
Jwaion? 

 

SW Sdtod ZWA 101 7017 094020-983 5 CC CW Comte-3  Common LLC 818 85.175 :0 51.092072 31.097147 0 47% 0


Reason 
Mal-canon WVCW Conan-om

WOW High School 201045131-PLS 2001912 6 GC Miler 9 $191?? 510,080 3405000 5443 68? 915595 0

ann mnmuuwm mum-nu pump
?ew Exam purl-p a. lung
Justin-on snowman

Tout Change Orders; $207.4?

was

February 23, 2011

86

CHICAGO PUBLIC SCHOOLS
DEPARTMENT OF OPERATIONS

February Change Order Log
Changes Over $50,000 or 10% (Cumulatively)

PREVIOUS 01?le
GENERAL CONTRACTOR APPROVED CONTRACT
Conm Mum 8mm Rem REG TYPE ARCHITECT 0F REC. can mm CHANGES AMOUNT

REVISED
CONTRACT
AROUNT

APPENDIX 
111712011

TOT
96 OF TIME
CON EXTN

 

2010-22051-ROF 1912017 5 GO Chbcago Cmm?lefdai 0mm. LLC ($5.518) 3167.091 8773.095
CREDIT: Unused Mme:


Oher

2010-46031-ADA 1893518 10-0428-PR8 1 SC Hie: 3! 32.200 $589,870 

>1 



1893516 1D-0423-PR8 1 CC Miler 39A 51155 $569.87!) 52.5391113


:u wmbp??m.
Mmted

2010460314045 1893516 10-OIIZB-PR8 1 GO Muller 1151 310.277 3589.870 32.531000

12me doors. (1 AOAbendI permerroomand remove ?were Remove hn?ugrlles and provide 1" Wuhan
Reqmdperm?trev'em.
EWMOR)

3934.666



33.131025

81139.14?

 

Amundsen High School
Dacnpoon 
Ream
Jm?fuhon 

20.90% 0

23.32% 0

23.28% 0

23 64% 0

 

2010-45031-AOA 1093516 1 GO Miler 52 51.547 5589.37?0 $2,539.?
Remqu-nl 



Worcwm

 

Am HIV-SM

Description >5
Reason
Jaws-mum 

Bram Schod

Dompmn 
Rum

Clam! I'm-deny

Mann 

 

Rem:-
JusM-uuon 
CIemente mm

Ono-910" 
Renew
Jaw-abort 

$3.130!?

23.29% 0

 

201046031405 1893516 10-0428-PR8 1 SC ?hr 53 $2.73? 5589.670 

unammunummuamhamseIISTw-m rematbemloutnoor 104A

hymn.

Owner Damned

2010-22291csp 1909363 10-0728-PR10 5 (SC Che-go Comma! Conm. LLC 12 550124 50 32.07170!

Prov-denote motion-bury removal-on geranium l12 memwetehuendlmut


Jumbo-non? Omeroueetea

 

 

$1131.65?

52.127332

23.34% 0

2.41% 

 

2M7-1 1733859 090722-996 2 GC Rumble In Amiet Con-mesa! Co 1007 5105.000 3692.202 8,192,000

Renown mung VCT. m? awed-mom .1 mm aw. al ?oors Rem am, mm nah-em 5 ma .1 ans-It mwell. an Icon Prov-tie rubber mu mm 
?an! sthl? a loan Prom wen-no um the Inn of each ?ght :0 mm

cmeacm-Mmm

Ml 
1733059 MHZ-PRO 7 CC 5 AIIODIEI Conm? Co SH 300 5691242 31.192 000

Remove ensure no: woo-m prov-no keyed Innuendo II amt 0A 101 Prepare panel. pe-M emw mun-1M 1-2 1-) 51-5

Emu-no mun? are and wage and need to be named 98' mt am

On?? Omen

Page 1

S5Ml2l2

2D 93% 0

miegrd noun and met a!

542

?6 85% 0

February 23, 2011

87

CHICAGO PUBLIC SCHOOLS
DEPARTMENT OF 

February Change Order Log
Changes Over $50,000 or 10% (Cumulatively)

PREVIOUS ORGIMAL
GENERAL CONTRACTOR APPROVED CONTRACT

PM Num (Dorm?ad Num Board Rm REG TYPE ARCHITECT 0F REC. COR 8 C0 AEOUNT CHANGES AMOUNT
2010-51091-PL5 200374! 2 SC A?-Bry CW 001 50 5627.000

Re 99hr: a deteriorated pool dram puping in basement. mm 47 additional ?oor diam. Prior-g Na To Exceed (NTEJ $82,000.00
Al arm-1g melanin 
Discovered or Changed W-

 

Cu?? Schod

APPENDIX 
1I17f201?l

REVISED TOT
CONTRACT 96 OF TILE
AMOUNT CON em

$709.? 13.08% 0

 

2003-3160-8111 18331?1 09-1123?? 6 GO F.H. Pm. SN. Nisan a SOWM 513.054 8195.585 $1301.00!)
11:.

FabriuieJ-u?landpamsommelecmm,

E?odOm?nsimUkOR)

32.181740 1054'5 0

 

 

Cums Schod

 

2008-3150-BLR 1833101 09-1123-PR6 5 66 RH Pm. Neben&Msoc. SOW15 81174 $195,606 $1381.00!)
Inc.

Irmlanewstampipehmmdermn

n? 

 

32,179.860 1D 04% 0

 

2009.an 1730477 Ins-omens 2 GC F.H. Pm. 5 N. Nielsen 5 Assoc. 021 $3.000 5475.029 82.311000
Inc.

(nanny. per Mn '11.

Fue 
Cotton-me

2009-2960-BLR 1730477 09-0722-PRG 2 GC F.H. Pm". SVN. NM 8 Mac . COR ?.929 $476,029 52.317000
Inc.

Ree-r, gum and pain: plaster aim. repair dawned back and moral mail and re?ux ?ush mm unsung ills. recur amoral: ?oor cum. per RFI 

(AOR)

 



82796,!? 20.71% 0

swam: mm and instal murder serum p'pes tor the ?re pump mnunlei usmg N95 111'.? Bulerm I10, and Install a 120v. 20 Ampc'l'cud Io he ?re pump comm-alum associated concur!

9.500.753 200896 0

 

2010-3150-MCR 1319335 094023-9123 1 cc Rel-able 5 AM Comm Co 1013 564. 500 $199 517 33.357162

Want mm':


arndneedsbbee e.erplacedp rm
Organ-cud

33 621 179 7 86% 0

Pmmummum and-mun humonum Re emermcuvelsaaheamm ?Mum-mm n?oorandhalcom? m. IJSOSF) PMnewVCTandedoe am 31!!?an PM
?On an abraxwemunge swimwear: 

 

201046141415 M7090 10-09224??! 5 6C F.H Peach?. 5 NM I Mao: . 15 39.002 593.070 3697.000
he


Thamua 
WVCIwaww-u

201046141431? 2007090 main-FRI! 5 6C FH Faun-n SN a $10210 393,07! 3697.000
In:

Pam he am so" can llama Loner room mr. candor um tom van-hue. one letter room and was?

it 
Janet-ram?

01mm

Page 2

$790,161 14 66% 0

 

am 200 176915 0

February 23, 2011

88

CHICAGO PUBLIC SCHOOLS
DEPARTMENT OF OPERATIONS

 

February Change Order Log APPENDIX 
Changes Over $50,000 or 10% {Cumulativel? 

PREVIOUS ORGINAL REVISED TOT
APPROVED CONTRACT CONTRACT 51: OF TIME
PETE Nun Contract Mum Board RE REG ARCHUECT 0F REC, COR 3 CO Mm CHANGES AIDUNT AIKIUNT CON 
201048141515 2007890 100922-PR8 5 Ge F.H. Pasdic?. Niehm Assoc. 9 534.000 593.078 8897.000 5824.078 18.23% 0
Inc.

GENERAL CONTRACTOR

Ramon: manna cding tie. pan-n gnd? replace w?hng use at nabtmum m?ing



2010-23511-MCR 205764 10-1215PR3 4 SC Miller sibd ?6.852 362.8" 5546.145 3755.539 16.96% 0




anon-amino. 

by I3

 

 

 

201046171-PLS M7895 100922-9R8 5 GO Friodlel'Cotutruan Go, 8 317.113 3217.413 31.000302 $1,234.82? 23.05% 0


mm. mm in mamas mus! be a comm-nus trench can or :rdrv'dualdra?ms ulna. shower Mal
PunitRcuew

 

2010-46361-ELS M7005 100922-1337! GC PIS-din. Ruben 5m? STDB1 $2.192 $165,101 $477,000 $544,293 35.07% 0
Inc

 

2? 

momma

 

WSBO-ADA 1862474 2 CC TM Lane Inc 17 327000 5172.601 3558.263 5767.869 35,1296 0

 






Manchu

 

WSW-ADA 185241? 2 GO T?e! Linc COIHW, Inc. 22 315089 $172,601 $568,268 $759,958 33.73% 0

 





 

Manley ?My

mum Hon Sana
Omaha"! 

Ream
Juli-canon 

 

1935151 10-0623-PR6 3 GC CWT LLC 30 969] 8127475 1915382 $1,058,492 ?09% 0


Cru?brmusedalomnmm
O?lr

 

 

 

2007-1400-CSP 1726765 090625?9710 GC T?cl Lane Conmcaon In: 876 160 $1 204 ?60 $27 109127 328 46! 947 4 71% 0
Prom momma as law Baum 1271:3131 Flame Fort-d Dun Burner!

lav mung balm an Imam as narrow

ammo Changed Com

Plge 3

February 23, 2011

89

32:93:33: 3:22:33? February Change Order Log ?:95me 
Changes Over $50,000 or 10% (Cumulatively) 1117mm

PREVIOUS ORGINAL REVTSED TOT
GENERAL CONTRACTOR APPROVE) CONTRACT CONTRACT 16 OF TIME
Free? Num Comma Num 3mm Rem REG TYPE ARCHITECT 0F REC. COR 3 co AWUNT CHANGES AWUNT AMOUNT CON EXTN

Mamet Hig?a Sand 2007-1480425? 1726765 090624-PRO 1 GC Trier Lane Comm. Inc 8UL122 $125,000 $1204.46!) 327.189.127 528,518.53? 4.89% 0
0mm Reiumishmemd Rulers humane: duh Specn?rab?on Sec?on155153. Provide scope as listed In Builetm128, Ravi
Ramon 09mm of (3) boilers.
Omen or (Staged Wm

PM Ha?! Schod 2010-46251-PLS 104192243325 6 CC Miner 4-1 35,5!? $66081 3560.000 3632.581 12.96% 0

Dmip?cn Rephmpoollaoders-Quan?tyt
Ream Regina: deuriamed pool laddexsresmre she! stairs. replace pipe damp: ingirIs' shower as requmd Io meet CPS standards Scope did not ndude wort
Jm?clb'on 

Morgan Pan: High School 2010-46251-PLS 2007914 10-0922-PRB 6 66 Miller a 58.686 556.001 5560.000 $634,766 13.35% 0
Dmipfnw 

Reason 
undies.
Peru-112m

90?de 2010-29251-ADA 1902990 10-0526PR3 6 GC Wler $2.419 8247.519 31.761938 16.51% 0

02mm PM ro-romng and mutant: of eat-tang underground conduct saving the an: lvghang.
Reason Upon excavating hr the WW parking the eonrnam found mung underground consul may he so: Iqhn?ng. Thus was rcpt-centre? an Tau.
JusMh?on 

 

 

Ryeruan Sunni mos-mam 1857034 100127-9521 2 6C EH. Puma. SVN, Nam ?mag 12 (82.402) 5130.091 81.221000 31.395103 14.62% 0
Inc.
06019110" Hammad mm: from CA. make Room 040
Rum Sound ?mu rat nun-ml
JusMIchon 0mm orChinged Canadians
Emerson Schod zoos-WA 1057004 10-0127-PR1 2 GC Fischen Nelsen 5 Astor: 37A 375.000 3180.091 31.221300 20.96% 0
Inc
Desmpton WNW Hanelghumd. ?Eamon amend repboewmmloponel. Rebcaeaanlelwrsamble mung Remaudrtomemerpency
hulking-ow?? 14m 
Reason havebeen broken mint
Mullen-on Coo. Chime

 

 

Total Grunge Orders: 5906.650

Fayed

February 23, 2011

February 23. 2011

11-0223-PR4

APPROVE ENTERING INTO AGREEMENTS WITH DELL MARKETING, L.P.. DELL FINANCIAL.
SENTINEL TECHNOLOGIES (CISCO). INC. AND VION CORPORATION (HITACHI) FOR THE
PURCHASE ANDIOR LEASE OF NETWORK SERVERS.

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Approve entering into agreements with Dell Marketing L.P.. Dell Financial. Sentinel Technologies. inc.
and Vion Corporation for the purchase and/or lease of network sewers for use by all schools. areas. and
central of?ce departments at an aggregate cost not to exceed 33.000.000.00 of which approximately
$300,000.00 is eligible for. but not contingent upon. discounts in accordance with the guidelines and
requirements of the Federal Government's Universal Services Program Vendors were
selected on a competitive basis pursuant to Board Rule 7-2. These contracts are subject to the Board's
Strategic Sourcing Policy. Written agreements for these Vendors are currently being negotiated. No
goods may be ordered or received and no payment shall be made to any Vendor prior to the execution of
their agreement. The authority granted herein shall automatically rescind as to each Vendor in the event a
written agreement is not executed by such Vendor within 90 days of the date of this Board Report.
Information pertinent to these agreements ls stated below.

Specification Number 10-25005?
Contract Administrator Patricia Hernandez 773-553-2256

USER:
Information 8. Technology Services

125 South Clark Street - 3rd Floor
Chicago. IL 60603

Contact Arshele Stevens

Phone: 773-553-1300

Project Manager: Sandip Vashi

Phone: 773-553-1300
TERM:

The term of each agreement snail commence upon execution and shall end April 29. 2014. Each
agreement shall have two options to renew for periods of one year each.

EARLY TERMINATION RIGHT:
The Board shall have the right to terminate this agreement with 30 days written notice.

DESCRIPTION OF PURCHASE:

Vendors will provide Dell, Cisco. and Hitachi servers and assocrated installation. configuration. extended
warranty and maintenance service. Schools. areas. and central office departments shall purchase
equipment at their option via requisition to CPS Procurement and Contracts. abiding by Current
Procurement processes. School purchases shall be censustent with school improvement plans (SIP)
Purchases that exceed $25,000.00 must be approved by the Chief Area Of?cer. In the Central Office.
purchases over 525.000.00 must be approved by the Chief of the appropriate department and the Chief
Information Officer.

DELIVERABLES:

The Vendors will provide the following deliverables meeting the Board's speci?ed requirements under the
agreements: reporting (all reports accessible online. in a downloaded form and hard copy. equipment
management asset and order tracking; service level agreements (SLA) and implementation of agreed
upon installation and con?guration of equipment: incident management and onsite maintenance
services for all designated equipment.

OUTCOMES:
This agreement will result in the ability to purchase andi'or lease network servers and associated
accessories for existing and new applications.

COMPENSATION:
Vendor shall be paid in accordance with the unit prices contained in the agreement; not to exceed the
sum of 53.000.000.00 in the aggregate for all Vendors.

AUTHORIZATION:

Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant terms and conditions in the written agreements.
Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the agreements. Authorize Chief Information Of?cer to
execute all ancillary documents required to administer or effectuate these agreements.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION:

The MIWBE goals for this agreement include 10% total M85 and 5% total WBE participation. However.
pursuant to the Remedial Program for Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise Participation in
Goods and Services Contracts. the aggregate compliance method for MJWBE compliance will be utilized.
Thus, orders for subsequent vendors from the pool created by this agreement will be subjected to
aggregated compliance reviews and monitored on a quarterly basis.

90

February 23, 2011

M55

Smart Technology

158 North Jefferson. Suite 200
Chicago. Illinois 60661

A. Alva Rosales Associates. Ltd.

431 West Pershing Rd. 2nd Floor
Chicago. Illinois 60609

Solai Cameron. inc.
2335 North Southport Ave.
Chicago. Illinois 60614
Advotek. inc.

2148 West Ogden Avenue
Downers Grove. Illinois 60515

LSC REVIEW:
Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL:

Charge to varicIus schools and departments

Total amount not to exceed 53.000.000.00

For Fiscal Years 2011-2014

Budget Classification: 5730-Equipment. 5320-Supplies. 5470-Serviceisepair Contracts

CF Not Applicable

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that. in accordance with 105 ILCS
5i34-13.1. the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations,

Conflicts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board it entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 5134-213 which restricts the employment of. or the letting of contracts to. former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of thetr terms of
office.

indebtedness - The Board's Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26. 1996 (96-0626-P03). as amended
from time to time. shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement,

Ethics - The Board's Ethics Code adopted June 23. 2004 (04-0623-904), as amended from time to time.
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement

Contingent Liability - The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current

?scal year is deemed a contingent liability. Subject to appropriation in the subsequent fiscal year
budgeus)

1) Vendor 44646
DELL MARKETING LP.
1 DELL WAY. MAIL STOP 8707
ROUND ROCK. TX 78682
Angela Woods
800-766-3355

2) Vendor 21472
SENTINEL TECHNOLOGIESJNC.
2550 ROAD
DOWNERS GROVE. lL 60515
Brian Osborne

630-769-4325

91

February 23, 2011

3) Vendor 52926
VION CORPORATION
1055 THOMAS JEFFERSON ST, NW. STE 406
WASHINGTON. DC 20007
Robert Bryar
202-467-5500
4) Vendor it 14600
DELL FINANCIAL SERVICES - LEASING
12234 .IH35 BLDG. 
AUSTIN. TX 78753
Brad Webster

800-455-3355

11-0223-PR5

APPROVE EXERCISING THE FIRST OPTION TO RENEW THE AGREEMENT FOR THE HOSTED
INFRASTRUCTURE OF PEOPLESOFT WITH CEDARCRESTONE INCORPORATED

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION.

Approve exercising the first option to renew the agreement with CedarCrestone, Inc to provrde the
necessary hosted infrastructure for the PeopIeSoft application deployment to Information 8 Technology
Services at a cost for the option period not to exceed 31.113.828.57 . A written document exercising this
option 15 currently being negotiated No payment shall be made to CedarCrestone. Inc during the option
period prior to the execution of the written document. The authority granted herein shall automatically
rescind in the event a written document is not executed within 90 days of the date of this Board Report
Information pertinent to this option is stated below.

Specification Number 05-250024
VENDOR:

1} Vendor 89824
CEDARCRESTONE, INC
1255 ALDERMAN DRIVE
ALPHARETTA. GA 30005
Sherie Monroe
877-302-5769

USER:
Information Technology Services

125 South Clark Street - 3rd Floor
Chicago. IL 60603

Contact Arsheie Stevens
Phone: 773-553-1300
Project Manager: Thong Lam
Phone: 773-553-1300

ORIGINAL AGREEMENT:

The original Agreement (authorized by Board Report 05-1221-PR9 as amended by 06-0222-PR8 and
06-0426-PR16) in the amount of 54.873.000.00 is for a term commencing January 1. 2006 and ending
March 31. 2011, with the Board having two options to renew. each for a one year term. The original
agreement was awarded on a competitive basis pursuant to Board Rule 5-4-1.

OPTION PERIOD:
The term of this agreement is being extended for one year commencing April 1. 2011 and ending March
31. 2012.

OPTION PERIODS REMAINING:
There is one Option period for one year remaining

92

February 23, 2011

SCOPE OF SERVICES:

CedarCrestone will continue to provide the necessary hardware. operating systems and database license
for all tiers (web, application. and database) for all environments along with network connectivity. They
will atso provide database administration. UNIX. and Windows system administration including standard
support and help desk services through its CedarCrestone Data Center. This also includes disaster
recovery at their Disaster Recovery site for the production environment. CedarCrestone will perform
performance testing and a third party security audit with mitigation.

DELIVERABLES:
CedarCrestone will continue to provide the Board with a supported hosted and services for
implementing the PeopleSoft application tor the term of the renewal.

OUTCOMES:
CedarCrestone's services will result in CPS implementing the infrastructure reduired to implement the

Human Capital initiative CPS Work with the PeopleSoft application

COMPENSATION:
CedarCrestone shall be paid upon invoicing in accordance with the pricmg set forth in the

agreement. Total compensation shall not exceed the sum of $1,113,828.57

AUTHORIZATION:

Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant terms and conditions in the written option
document. Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the option document. Authorize Chief
Information Officer to execute all ancillary documents required to administer or effectuate this option

agreement.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION:

The goals for this contract include: 35% total MBE and 5% total WBE participation. However, the
Waiver Review Committee recommends that a partial waiver of the WBE participation goat for this
contract as required by the Remedial Program be granted because the scope of the centract is not funher

divisible.
The vendor has identified the following:

Total MBE - 37%


211 West Wacker Drive. Ste 300
Chicago, Illinois 60606

The Ojibway Group
100 West Big Beaver. Suite 200
Troy. MI 48084

LSC REVIEW:
Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL:
Charge to Information Technology Services

324030000
$873 ?28.57
CFDM: Not Applicable
GENERAL CONDITIONS:

inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 
5134-131. the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations.

Conflicts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board it entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 5134-213 which restricts the employment of, or the letting oI contracts to. former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of

office.

Indebtedness - The Board's Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26. 1996 (96-0626-P03). as amended
from time to time. shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

93

February 23, 2011

Ethics - The Board's Ethics Code adopted June 23. 2004 (04-0623-PO4). as amended from time to time.
shall be incorporated Into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability - The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current
?scal year is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in the subsequent fiscal year
budget(s).

11-0223-PR6

AMEND BOARD RT 10-11 7-PR12
APPROVE ENTERING INTO AGREEMENTS WITH VENDORS TO PROVIDE SAFE HAVEN SITES
AND SERVICES

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Approve entering into agreements with the vendors identified below to provide safe haven sites and
services for Chicago Public School students at a cost not to exceed 51.325.000.00 in the
aggregate. These vendors were selected on a competitive basis pursuant to Board Rule 7-2. Written
agreements for each vendor's services are Currently being negotiated. No services shall be prowded by
any vendor and no payment shall be made to any vendor prior to the execution of such vendor's written
agreement. The authority granted herein shall automatically rescind as to each vendor in the event a
written agreement is not executed by such vendor within 90 days of the date of this Board Report
Information pertinent to these agreements is stated below.

This Februa? 2011 amendment is neces_s_a_i_rv to: i) increase the number of safe haven by
a roxim 27 i in or the ed for ices in the tar ted communiti 5? it increase the
comgegsatign amogm andI change the end date at the aqreemgts to Auoust 31. 2011
Written amendments to the agreements are required. No vegdor shall provide any servrces not identified
in their agreement grioi; t9 exgcgiion of their respective amendment. The agthority granteg herein shall
automatically rescind as tg eggh vendor in the event their written amegdment i; not executed 90
da sol da of isame rdRe ort.

 

 

Speci?cation No.: 10-250058
Contract Administrator: Craig Holloway/(773) 553-2903

VENDORS:

1. St. Mark international Christian Church
832 N. Leclaire
Chicago. IL 60651
Contact: Andre Thurman
(773) 378-4600
Vendor #98607

2. Hope Organization
9231 8. Cottage Grove
Chicago. IL 60619
Contact: Roosevelt Watkins
(773) 487-8441
Vendor #85062

3. New Life COVenant Pilsen Ministry
2512 S. Oakley 
Chicago. IL 60608
Contact: Robert Belfort
(773) 890-4659
Vendor #67456

USER:

Chief Administrative-Officer Area 17 and Family 8- Communitv Enqaqeme_n_t
W?m 

Chicago. Illinois 60643 60605

Contact: Robert W. Runcie. Chief Administrative Officer

Telephone No.: (773) 5352699 (113)-553-4599

TERM: The term of each agreement shall commence upon execution and end on December?19 August
31, 2011. Each agreement shall have two (2) options to renew for periods of one (1) year each.

EARLY TERMINATION RIGHT: The Board shall have the right to terminate each agreement with 30
days written notice.

94

February 23. 2011

SCOPE OF SERVICES: Vendors shall provide (or subcontract with third parties to provide) sites and
services to elementary and/or high school students in at-teast-ten (10)t twenty-five different
sites/locations during Winter Break 2010/Sprinq Brealgjm 1 and five to tea (10) different
sites/locations for the After School Proqram . - - - - - - - . in the
targeted communities. Vendors shall include workshops on study skills. conflict resolution. anger
management. character building and positive communication as well as act as a safe place for the
students to go after school and during winter and spring breaks. and whenever there are any emergency
services that are needed during the school year.

 

OUTCOMES: Vendors' outcomes shall result in the following:

(1) Students? likelihood to participate in violent behavior or become a victim of violence is reduced

(2) Parents are provided child-care support during the daytime hours while students receive educational
enrichment activities including: problem solving. positive communication strategies. anger
management strategies. discussions about violence in the community. guidance regarding truancy
prevention. and tutoring in a safe environment during non-school hours.

COMPENSATION: Vendors shall receive $250 per day per site on days that requrre four h0urs of
operation during winter and spring breaks. Vendors shall receive $200 per day per site on days that
require three hours of operation during the after school programs.

Vendors shall be paid upon invoicing after serVIces have been performed. Total compensation to all

vendors shall not exceed the sum of $1,325,000.00.

AUTHORIZATION: Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant terms and conditions In the
written agreementsa and amendments Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the written
agreements and amendments Authorize the Chief Admmistretive Officer - Area 17 and Fammr it
Community Engagement to execute all ancillary documents required to administer or effectuate these
written agreements.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION: Pursuant to Section 5.2 of the Remedial Program for Minority and Women
Owned Business Enterprise Participation in Goods and Services Contracts. MIWBE provisions of the
Program do not apply to those transactions where the vendor providing services operates as a Not-fer-
Profit organization.

LSC REVIEW: Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL: Charge 31287000?1.253.000 to 14010-331-54125-232102-430101 FY11
Source of Funds: ARRA

All ABRA funds must be expended by August 31, 2011. If programs continue beyond

August 314011. another source of funds must be identified.

Charge $72,000 Io 14010-358-54125-232102-440039 FY11 Source of Funds. Title IV

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that. in accordance min 105 ILCS
the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations.

Con?icts The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board If entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 ILCS 5134-2111 which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to. former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of
office.

Indebtedness - The Board's Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26. 1996 (96-0626-P03). as amended
from time to time. shail be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics - The Board's Ethics Code adopted June 23. 2004 (04-0623-P04). as amended from time to time.
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability The agreement shalt contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current

fiscal year is deemed a contingent liability. subject to appropriation in the subsequent fiscal year
budge?s)

11-0223-PR7

APPROVE PAYMENT TO READING IN MOTION FOR CONSULTING SERVICES
(SHARON CHRISTA MCAULIFFE ELEMENTARY SCHOOL)

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:
Approve payment to Reading in Motion who provided consulting services to Sharon Christa 

Elementary School from July 2009 to May 2010 in the amount of $56,000. These services were rendered
without prior Board approval and all services have been completed.

95

February 23, 2011

VENDOR:

1) Vendor 38368
READING IN MOTION
65 E. WACKER PLACE. SUITE 1800
CHICAGO, IL 60601
Carlos Adroes
312-357-9463

USER:

Sharon Christa Mcaulitfe Elementary School
1841 North Springfield Avenue
Chicago. lL 60647

Contact I Serena Peterson
Phone: 773-534-4400

SCOPE OF SERVICES:

During the regular school day Consultant implemented Reading in Motion (RIM). in an interactive.
art-based reading program for first. second. and third grade at McAulitfe School that provided teacher
coaches who worked with McAuliffe School teachers and students for the 2009-2010 year. Teachers
implemented a 32 week curriculum in four kindergarten classrooms. live grade classrooms. tour 2nd
grade classrooms. and four 3rd grade classrooms that helped students learn decoding and Oral Reading
Fluency through music and drama-based methods. Teacher Coaches supported McAuliife School
classroom teachers by facilitating small group lessons. whole group lessons. ?uencv warm ups.
independent work areas. assessments. and intensive professional development. Support included
assistance with set-up of program materials. modeling of select lessons. assistance with data collection.
analysis of program data. and observations and feedback about implementation of practice. The progress
of McAullffe school students during the program was measured usrng dynamic indicators of bas:c early
literacy skills (DIBELS).

Assessments were conducted on students before the program began. at its midpornt and once the
program was completed using in classrooms RIM staff monitored student progress and
designed individualized instruction to address students' needs.

During the After School Program Consultant implemented the RIM. an interactive art-based reading
program for first. second and third grade students at McAuliffe School that provrded teaching artists who
gave direct service to McAuliffe students for the 2009-2010 year. Teacher artists implemented a
40-session curriculum in three. first grade after school classrooms. three. second grade afterschoor
classrooms. and two. third grade afterschooi classrooms that helped students learn decoding and oral
reading ?uency through music and drama-based methods. Teacher artists facilitated small group lessons

and independent work areas with students as well as provided all necessary teaching materials.
Teaching Artists assisted with data analysis of the DIBELS nonsense word ?uencv and oral reading
?uency measures used to inform instruction.

the School Year and regular school day: Activities for Kindergarten from
July12009 to Mayi2010 which totaled a cost of $7,060.00:

10 hours of intensive professional development (outside classroom implementation time)

Ih-class teacher coaching and observation visits occurred once per week for each of the 4 kindergarten
classrooms

Assisted with pro-testing. mid-point. post-testing and progress monitoring of participating 
School students using DIBELS

All materials. books and supplies provided in order to implement coaching program

Activities for 1st grade from Julyi2009 to Mayi2010 which totaled a cost of 88.820.00:

10 hours of intensive professional development (outside classroom implementation time)

in-class teacher coaching and observation visits occurred once per week for each of the five grade
classrooms

Assisted with pro-testing. mid-point. post-testing and progress monitoring of participating McAuiitfe
School students using DIBELS

All materials. books and supplies provided in order to implement coaching program

Activities for 2nd grade from Julyl2009 to Mayi2010 which totaled a cost of $7,050.00

10 hours of intensive professional development (outside classroom implementation time)

ln-class teacher coaching and observation visits occurred once per week for each of the tour 2nd grade
classrooms

Assisted with pro-testing. mid-point. post-testing and progress monitoring of participating McAulilte
School students using DIBELS

All materials. books and supplies provided to implement coaching program

Activities for 3rd grade from Julyi2009 to May12010 which totaled a cost of 87.060.00

10 hours of intensive professional development (outside classroom implementation time)

ln-ciass teacher coaching and observation visits occurred once per week for each of the tour 3rd grade
classrooms

Assisted with pro-testing. mid-point. post-testing and progress monitoring of participating McAulifie
School students using DIBELS

All materials. books and supplies provided in order to implement coaching program

96

February 23, 2011

Total cost 530.000.00Atter-school Program Activities for lst, 2nd. and 3rd After-school Program
from January 19, 2010 to March 11. 2010 for $81.25lsesslon for 40 sessions In 8 classrooms which
totaled a cost of $26,000.00

40 sessions occurred during alter-school instruction (3-75 minute sessions per week) in three. grade
classrooms. three 2nd grade classrooms. and two 3rd grade classrooms

All instructional materials and books provided in order to implement program

Snacks provided for all students during the after school sessions

OUTCOMES:Klndergarten Monollngual Outcomes:

Teaching artists implemented the following to achieve student benchmarksloutcomes:

Decoding nonsense words at the rate oi 13 letter sounds or greater by the middle of kindergarten

Decoding nonsense words at the rate 01 25 letter sounds or greater by the end 01 kindergarten
Kindergarten Bilingual Outcomes:

Teaching artists implemented the following to achieve student benchmarks/outcomes

?Decoding nonsense words at the rate of 20 letter sounds or greater by the middle of kindergarten
?Decoding nonsense words at the rate of 35 letter sounds or greater by the end of kindergarten

1st Grade Monollngual Outcomes:

Teaching artists implemented the following to achieve student benchmarksloutcomes:

'Decoding nonsense words at the rate of 50 letter sounds or greater by the middle 01 1st grade

'Read text at a rate of 40 words per minute or greater by the end of 1st grade

1st Grade SpanishlEngileh Bilingual Outcomes:

Teaching artists implemented the following to achieve student benchmarksioutcomes:

'Decoding nonsense words at the rate of 70 letter sounds or greater by the middle oi grade and at the
rate of 90 letter sounds or greater by the end of grade

?Read text at a rate of 40 words per minute or greater by the end of 1st grade

Afterschool Programtst Grade Outcomes:

Participating grade teaching artists implemented the afterschool program to achieve the loliowing
student benchmark/outcomes:

nonsense word ?uency=50 or greater at the middle of grade

oral reading fluency= 40 or greater by the end of 1st grade

2nd Grade Outcomes:

Participating 2nd grade teaching artists implemented the aflerscnool program to achieve the following
student benchmarkloutcomes:

DIBELS oral reading ?uency 90 or greater by the end of 2nd grade

3rd Grade Outcomes:

Participating 2nd grade teaching artists implemented the afterschool program to achieve the following
student benchmark/outcomes:

DIBELS oral reading ?uency 110 or greater by the and ot 3rd grade

COMPENSATION:
Consultant shall be paid the sum 0155600000

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION:
A review of Minority and Women Business Enterprise participation was precluded due to completed
contract performance.

LSC REVIEW:
This action was approved by the LSC for Sharon McAulitfe School on April 14. 2010.

FINANCIAL:

Charge to McAuliltfe $56,000 for FY 2011

Budget Classification: 23551 -225-54125-1 19015?000703
Source of Funds: State Chapter I 225

Requisition Number 1963303-G

11-0223-PR8

AUTHORIZE PAYMENTS FOR EXPENSES RELATED TO TRANSPORTATION AND LODGING
FOR SPRING BREAK COLLEGE TOURS

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Authorize payments for expenses related to transportation and lodging to the vendors identi?ed below for
approximately 910 CPS students to participate in college tours which will be held at various college campuses
across the country from April 18" to 21?l 2011. at a cost not to exceed 5125.000 in the aggregate tor alt
vendors. All trips will comply with the Board's Policy on Student Travel (Board Report 07-0725-P01). The
vendors were selected on a competitive basis and approved by CPOR it 11-0131-CPOR-1405. Information
pertinent to this Program is stated below:

VENDORS: 1.Travel Evolution

6206 w. 128?" Place

Palos Heights. II 60463
708 - 274-3825

Contact Person: Jan Swiss
Vendor Number: 15645

97

February 23. 2011

2. Lamers Bus Lines
240? South Point Road
Green Bay. WI 54313
Phone: 920.496.3600
Contact Person: Linda Verheyen
Vendor Number: 95537

USER: Office of College 8. Career Preparation
125 South Clark Street. 12'" Floor
Chicago. 60603
Phone: 773-5534810
Contact Person: Eileen Rudden

PROGRAM: CPS-sponsored Spring Break College Tours provide students opportunities to visit college and
university campuses locally and across the country. Campus visits are an important part of the college
selection process. helping students distinguish between colleges and envision themselves as students on a
particular campus. Exposure to college culture. a curriculum that adds structure to the vrsits, and relationships
developed with administration representative. current students. etc. are valuable as students complete the
processes leading up to college enrollment. The tours are directly aligned with the Of?ce of College 8. Career
Preparation?s goals of increasing graduation rates. college enrollment and college persistence. as well as the
district?s vision of graduating students prepared to succeed in college and the global economy

EDUCATIONAL Participants will get a ?rsthand look at colleges and universities Visits
will include a combination of campus tours and interaction with students. family and administration. allowing
students to get a perspective of each campus from various points of view. Also. participants will have the
opportunity to experience several aspects of college life such as dormitories. dining areas. classrooms.
libraries, etc. with a college tour curriculum to guide them. These activities will assist students in determining
the type of college or university that is the best match for them (small college vs. larger college. urban or
metropolitan setting vs. rural setting. private vs. public university. etc). understanding the steps required to
gain entry into and maintain enrollment in various schools. and initiating connections admissions and
?nancial aid representatives. Spring Break College Tours are expected to contribute to increased college
enrollment. awareness of accessible college options. and likelihood of attending a college that is a good in

HOTEL RIP INFORMATION: Lodging arrangements for this program are being made by
Travel Evolution and consist of double occupancy rooms for students and chaperones; transportation is being
provided by Lamers and consists of coach buses with capacrty for 56 individuals each

COST: The cost per person is approxrmately $44.92 for transportation and 51 13.24 for lodging The costs will
be paid by the Office of College and Career Preparation.

AUTHORIZATION: Authorize the Officer of College and Career Preparation or her designee to execute any
travel agreements with the Vendors necessary for this Program provided the agreements do notobligate the
Board to indemnify, hold harmless. defend or pay the attorneys fees of any third party

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION: Pursuant to the Remedial Program for Minority and Women Owned Busrness
Enterprise Participation in Goods and Services Contracts. this agreement is exempt from MBEIWBE review as
the agreement funds expenses for students participating on the College Tours.

LSC REVIEW: Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report

FINANCIAL:
Charge to Department of College 8. Career Preparation: $75000 Fiscal Year 2010
Budget Classification; 13727-115-54205-212110000000
Source of Funds: Office of College and Career PreparationIGeneral Education Budget
Charge to Department of College 81 Career Preparation: 542.000 Fiscal Year: 2010
Budget Classification: 13727-1 its-542102121 10-000000
Source of Funds: Office of College and Career Preparation/General Education Budget
Charge to Department of College 8. Career Preparation: $8.000 Fiscal Year: 2010
Budget Classi?cation: 13727-124-54205-212110-904003
SourCe of Funds: Deloitte Grant

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

inspector General Each party to any agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 5/34-
13.1. the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel necessary to
conduct those investigations.

Con?icts Any agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board it entered into in violation ofthe 
of 105 ILCS 5134-213 which restricts the employment of. or the letting of contracts to. former Board members
during the one-year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of office.

Indebtedness - The Board?s indebtedness Policy adopted June 26. 1996 (96-0626-P03). as amended Irom
time to time. shall be incorporated into and made a part of any agreement.

98

February 23, 2011

Ethics The Board?s Ethics Code adopted June 23. 2004 (04-0623-P04). as amended from time to time,
shall be incorporated into and made a part of any agreement.

Contingent Liability - Any agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current fiscal
year is deemed a centingent liability. subject to appropriation in the subsequent fiscal year budget(s).

11-0223-PR9

APPROVE PAYMENT TO AND RATIFY ENTERING INTO AN AGREEMENT WITH THE INNER-CITY
TEACHING CORPS OF AMERICA FOR EDUCATIONAL SERVICES

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Approve payment to Inner-City Teaching Corps of America (ICTC) in the amount of 5152.500 for services
rendered from September 1. 2010 through February 28. 2011 withciut prior Board approval and ratify
entering into an agreement with ICTC to provide educational support to the Of?ce of Human Capital at a
total cost not to exceed $610,000. inclusive of the $152,500 payment authorized herein. Consultant is
specifically named as the support provider in the U.S. Department of Education's Transitions to Teaching
Grant. Consultant was selected on a non-competitive basis and approved by the Non-Competitive
Review Committee. A written agreement for Consultant?s services is currently being negotiated. No
payment beyond the initial amount of 5152.500 may be made prior to the exeCUtion ol the written
agreement. The authority granted herein shall automatically rescind in the event a written agreement IS
not executed within 90 days of the date of this Board Report. information pertinent to this agreement is
stated below.

VENDOR:

1) Vendor 44062
INNER CITY TEACHING CORPS

300 NORTH ELIZABETH STREET. SUITE
300C

CHICAGO. IL 60607
Claire Hartfieid
312-491-9100

USER:

Of?ce of Human Capital
125 Clark St - 2nd Floor
Chicago. IL 60603

Contact Alicia Winckler
Phone: 773-553-1070
TERM:

The term of this agreement shall commence on September 1. 2010 and shall and June 30. 2012.

EARLY TERMINATION RIGHT:
Either party shall have the right to terminate the agreement on 60 days notice.

SCOPE OF SERVICES:

will provide mentoring services to 50 first year and 25 second year T. SPEO Fellows per the US
Department of Education Transitions to Teaching Grant. will observe and evaluate each Chicago
Teaching Fellow using the formative Assessment System developed by The New Teacher Center. The
assessment tools are comprehensive series of collaborative processes characterized by a consistent
focus on student learning and improved classroom practice. This method of intensive. mentor-based
induction is operated in 31 states on related issues. These evaluation methods and protocols are to assist
beginning teachers and mentors in guiding and documenting their work and show evidence ol their
teacher practice which includes: classroom proliles. collaborative assessment logs. individual learning
plans. protocols for collection and analysis of student work. tools for planning standards-based lessons
and observation tools. These tools are aligned with the illinois Professional Teaching Standards.

DELIVERABLES:

ICTC will assign each T-SPED Fellow a mentor who will observe and meet regularly with the Fellow at the
school site where the Fellow is the Teacher of Record. ila teacher shows areas of deficiency. then 
will provide the Fellow with strategic support consisting of weekly visits with clear interventions outlined by
the mentor. if after three weeks of strategic support there is no improvement in the target areas. the
teacher will be referred to critical care. The critical care mentor will work with the regularly assigned
mentor to support the struggling Fellow in target areas with multiple week visits. Each observation will
result in the completion of observation forms provided by the Formative Assessment System. will
provide ongoing feedback and recommendations to each ?rst year teacher to advance teacher practice.
will also provide CPS representatives with, at a minimum. check-ins updating them on the
T-SPED Fellows.

99

February 23, 2011

OUTCOMES:

Con3ultant's services will result in: 1). Teacher support for 50 ?rst and 25 second year Special Education
Fellows based on the Formative Assessment System at a minimum of 20 visits: 2). Each T-SPED Fellow
will have a written evaluation of observations: 3.) check-ins reported to the Chicago Teaching
Fellows Program regarding the progress of each T-SPED Fellow: and 4). Distribution of twice yearly
surveys and sharing results with the appropriate CPS representatives including the Office of Human
Capital and Chief Area Office of Special Education.

COMPENSATION:

Consultant will be paid $305,000 per year. payable in two installments based on the maximum number of
Chicago Teaching Fellows: total compensation for the term not to exceed $610,000 which amount is
inclusive of the $152,000 payment authorized herein.

REIMBURSABLE EXPENSES:
None.

AUTHORIZATION:

Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant terms and conditions in the written agreement
Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the agreement. Authorize the Chief Human Capital
Officer to execute all ancillary documents required to administer or effectuate this agreement

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION:

Pursuant to section 5.2 of the Remedial Program for Minority and Women Owned Busmess Enterprise
Participation in Goods and Services Contracts, MIWBE provisions of the Program do not apply to
transactions where the vendor providing services operates as a Not-for-Pro?t organization

LSC REVIEW:
Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL:

Charge to the Office of Human Capital (funds provided through us Department of Education Transnions
to Teaching Grant): $610,000

Budget Classifications: Grant Funded - Award 

$305,000

$305,000

Not Applicable

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 ILCS
5/34-13. 1. the inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations.

Conflicts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board it entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 5134-213 which restricts the employment of. or the letting of contracts to. former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of
of?ce.

Indebtedness - The Board?s Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26. 1996 (96-0626-PO3). as amended
from time to time. shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics - The Board's Ethics Code adopted June 23. 2004 (04-0623-P04), as amended from time to lime.
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability - The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current
?scal year is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in the subsequent fiscal year
budget(s).

11-0223-PR10

APPROVE EXERCISING THE OPTION TO RENEW THE AGREEMENT WITH SECURMAR. LLC FOR
THE PURCHASE OF AND MAINTENANCE OF PORTABLE X-RAY MACHINES

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Approve exercising the option to renew the agreement with SecurMAR. LLC for the purchase and
maintenance of portable X-ray machines for the Office of School Safety and Security. schools. Central
Office. and Area instruction Of?ces at a cost for the option period not to exceed $500,000.00. A written
document exercising this option is currently being negotiated. No payment shall be made to Vendor
during the option period prior to the execution of the written document. The authority granted herein shall
automatically rescind in the event a written document is not executed within 90 days of the date of this
Board Report. information pertinent to this option is stated below.

100

February 23, 2011

Specification Number 08.250014
Contract Administrator Nanzi Flores 773-553-2273
VENDOR:

1) Vendor 39500
SECUR MAR, LLC.
833 SHANNON DRIVE
CROWN POINT. IN 46307
Cindy Harts
219-661-8954

USER:
Office of School Safety and Security

125 Clark St - Floor
Chlcago, IL 60603

Contact: Michael D. Shields
Phone: 773-553-3030
ORIGINAL AGREEMENT:

The original Agreement (authorized by Board Report 08-1119-PR18 as amended by Board Reports
09-0225-PR15 and 10-1027-PR22) in the amount of $900,000.00 is for a term commencing February 25.
2009 and ending March 24. 2011. with the Board having one (1) option to renew fora one (1) year term.
The original agreement was awarded on a competitive basis pursuant to Board Rule 7-2.

OPTION PERIOD:
The term of this agreement is being extended for one year commencing March 25. 2011 and ending
March 24. 2012.

OPTION PERIODS REMAINING:
There are no option periods remaining.

SCOPE OF SERVICES:
Vendor will continue to provide portable X-ray machines for the Office of School Safety and Security.
Schools. Central Office. and Area Instruction Offices.

DESCRIPTION OF PURCHASE:

Goods: Model 50305i Portable X-Ray Machine
Quantity: Based on Demand

Unit Price: $17,498.00

Totat Cost Not to Exceed: $500,000.00

DELIVERABLES:
Vendor will continue to provide portable X-ray machines.

OUTCOMES:
This purchase will result In a safer teaching and learning environment for employees and students.

COMPENSATION:
Vendor shall be paid in accordance with the unit prices contained in the agreement: total for the option
period not to exceed the sum of $500.000.00.

AUTHORIZATION:

Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant terms and conditions in the written option
document. Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the option document. Authorize the Chief
Purchasing Officer to execute all ancillary documents required to administer or effectuate this option
agreement.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION:

The MNVBE goals for this contract include 30% total MBE and 7% total WBE. However. the Waiver
Revlew Committee recommends that a partial waiver of the MBE goal for this contract as required by the
Remedial Program for Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise Participation in Goods and
Services Contracts be granted because the contract is not further divisible. The vendor will sell perform
on this contract:

Total WBE -1 00%
SecurMAR. LLC

833 Shannon Drive
Crown Point. IN 46307
Contact: Cindy Harts

101

February 23, 2011

LSC REVIEW:
Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL:

Charge to Various Schools and Departments $500,000.00
Fiscal Year: FY11. FY12

Budget Classi?cation: 55005 - Equipment

Source of Funds: Various

Not Applicable

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that. in accordance with 105 ILCS
the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all intormation and personnel

necessary to conduct those investigations.

Conflicts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board it entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 ILCS 5134-213 which restricts the employment of. or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms at
office.

Indebtedness - The Board's Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26. 1996 (96-0626-PO3). as amended
from time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement

Ethics - The Board?s Ethics Code adopted June 23. 2004 (04-0623-PO4). as amended from time to time.
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability - The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current
?scal year is deemed a contingent liability. subject to appropriation in the subsequent fiscal year
budgetts).

11 -0223-PR11

APPROVE ENTERING INTO AN AGREEMENT WITH METRITECH. INC. FOR THE PURCHASE OF
TEST MATERIALS AND RELATED PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT SERVICES

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Approve entering into an agreement with Metritech. inc. ("Metritech't for the purchase oI test materials
and related professional development services at a cost not to exceed 3250.000. Vendor was selected
on a competitive basis pursuant to Board Rule 7-2 and approved by CPOR Number
11-0124-CPOR-1399. A written agreement for this purchase is currently being negotiated. No products or
services shail be provided by and no payment shall be made to Vendor prior to the execution at the
written agreement. The authority granted herein shall automatically rescind in the event a written
agreement is not executed within 90 days of the date of this Board Report. Information pertinent to this
agreement is stated below.

CPOR Number 11-0124-CPOR-1399
VENDOR:

1) Vendor#21151
METRITECH. INC.
4106 FIELDSTONE ROAD
CHAMPAIGN. IL 61822
Susan Feldman
217-398-4868

USER:

Office of Student Assessments
125 Clark Street. 11th Floor
Chicago, IL 60603

Contact Margaret Bartz
Phone: 773-553-2430
TERM:

The term of this agreement shall commence on March 1. 2011 and shall and August 31. 2011, This
agreement shall have three options to renew; each for a period of one year.

EARLY TERMINATION RIGHT:
The Board shall have the right to terminate this agreement with 30 days written notice.

102

February 23, 2011

DESCRIPTION OF PURCHASE:

Metritech will provide writing assessment prompts. answer sheets. pre-ID labels. custom reports. and
services. Metritech shall also provide at no additional cost. a set of writing prompts that
CPS will administer to 7th and 8th grade students throughout the term. Metritech will also provide
in?depth professional development to 7th and 81h grade teachers on the scoring of these prompts.

OUTCOMES:

Consultant's products and services will result in the improved academic achievement of participating
students in writing. The writing prompts which are aligned to the writing standards measured by the
Illinois Standards Achievement Test and the professional development shall provide teachers and
administrators with insights and tools to evaluate and guide writing instruction over the course of the
school year. The summative assessment component shall provide benchmarks of student achievement
so that administrators and teachers can target students who need intervention and additional resomces.

COMPENSATION:
Vendor shall be pald in accordance with the prices contained in the agreement: total compensation shalt
not exceed the sum of $250,000.00.

AUTHORIZATION:

Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant terms and conditions in the written agreement.
Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the agreement. Authorize the Chief of the Of?ce of
Teaching and Learning to execute all ancillary documents required to administer or effectuate this
agreement.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION:

The MIWBE goals for this agreement include 25% total MBE and 5% total WBE participation. However,
the Waiver Review Committee recommends a waiver of the MBE goal as required by the Remedial
Program for Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise Participation in Goods and Services
Contracts be granted as the scope of the contract is not further divisible.

The Vendor has identi?ed the following participation:

Total WBE - 5%
Jean Gewin - 2%
13547 Lovers Lane
Princeton. IL 61835

Gail Bohnenstiehl - 1%
402 West Exchange
Crete. IL 6041?

Peggy Allan - 1%
211 East Main
Greenville. IL 62246

Laura Beltchenko 1%
930 Crestfield
Libertyville. IL 60048

Lee REVIEW:
Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL:

Charged to: Citywide-Of?ce of Student Assessment Fiscal Year: 2011
Funds are committed to requisitions 6101156 and 6176221.

Budget Classifications:

11290-1 15-53305-223015-000000-2011 for 6 165.000

11290-1 15-53305-2230120000002010 for 5 107.560

Not Applicable

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that. in accordance with 105 ILCS
the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations.

Conflicts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board it entered into in Violation of the
provisions of 105 ILCS which restricts the employment of. or the letting of contracts to. former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of
office.

Indebtedness - The Board's Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26. 1996 (960626-903). as amended
from time to time. shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

103

February 23, 2011

Ethics - The Board's Ethics Code adopted June 23. 2004 as amended from time to time.

shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability - The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current
fiscal year is deemed a contingent liability. subject to appropriation in the subsequent fiscal year

budget(s).

President Richardson-Lowry indicated that if there were no objections, Board Reports
11-0223-ED1 through 11-0223-ED4, and 11-0223-PR1 through 11-0223-PR11 would be adopted by
the last favorable roll call vote, all members present voting therefore.

President Richardson-Lowry thereupon declared Board Reports 11-0223-ED1 through
11-0223-ED4, and 11-0223-PR1 through 11-0223-PR11 adopted.

1 1-0223-EX9

A

EPO

26-EX13

PRINCIPAL CONTRACTS (A)

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING:

Accept and ?le copies of contracts with the principals listed below who were selected by the Local School
Councils pursuant to the Illinois School Code and the Uniform Principal's Performance Contract.

DESCRIPTION: Recognize the selection by local school councils of the individuals listed below to the posrlion
of principal subject to the Policy on Requirements for the Selection of Chicago Public Schools Principals,

dated December 17. 2008. subject to approval of any additional criteria by the General Counsel
for the purpose of determining consistency with the Uniform Principal?s Performance Contract. Board Rules. and

Law.

The Office of Principal Preparation and Development has verified that the following individuals have met the

requirements for eligibility.

NAME FROM

 

Mary Beth Cunat
Burtey

Acting Principal
Perez

Vicky Kleros

JoAnn Percel
Courtenay

Assistant Principal

Assistant Principal



Contract Principal
Wildwood

Area 54

112269
Commencing: July 1. 2010
Ending; June 30. 2014

Contract Principal

Perez

Area 9

RN 146973

Commencing: May 1, 2010

Ending: $0940.40? April 30, 2014

Contract Principal
Courtenay

Area 2

PM 129215
Commencing: July 1. 2010
Ending: June 30. 2014

LSC REVIEW: The respective Local School COuncils have executed the Uniform Principal Performance

Contracts with the individuals named above.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION STATUS: None.

FINANCIAL: The salaries of these individuals will be established in accordance with the provisions of the

Administrative Compensation Plan.

PERSONNEL IMPLICATIONS: The positions to be affected by approval of this action are contained in the

2010-2011 school budget.

104

February 23, 2011

11-0223-EX10

PRINCIPAL CONTRACTS (A)
THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING:

Accept and ?le a cepies of the contracts with the principals listed below who were selected by the Local
School Councils pursuant to the Illinois School Code and the Uniform Principal's Performance Contract

DESCRIPTION: Recognize the selection by local school councils of the individuals listed below to the
position of principal subject to the Policy on Requirements for the Selection of Chicago Public Schools
Principals, dated December 17, 2008. subject to approval of any additional criteria by the
General Counsel for the purpose of determining consistency with the Uniform Principal's Performance
Contract. Board Rules. and Law.

The Office of Principal Preparation and Development has verified that the following individuals have met
the requirements for eligibility.

EBQM LQ
Olimpia Bahena Interim Principal Contract Principal
Talcott Talcott
Area 6
PM 117224
Commencing: December 20. 2010
Ending: December 19. 2014
Rufina Brown Interim Principal Contract Principal
Parker Parker
Area 14
RN. 121595

Commencing: December 2, 2010
Ending: December 1, 2014

Evelyn Roman Assistant Principal Contract Principal
Linne Logandale
Area 6
PM. 115228

Commencing: January 27. 2011
Ending: January 26. 2015

REVIEW: The respective Local School Councils have executed the Uniform Principal?s
Performance Contract with the individuals named above.

REVIEW: The respective Local School Councils have executed the Uniform Principal Performance
Contracts with the individuals named above.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION STATUS: None.

FINANCIAL: The salaries of these individuals will be established in accordance with the provisions of the
Administrative Compensation Plan.

FINANCIAL: The salaries of these individuals will be established in accordance with the provisions of the
Administrative Compensation Plan.

PERSONNEL IMPLICATIONS: The positions to be affected by approval of this action are contained in
the 2010-2011 school budget.

11-0223-EX11

PRINCIPAL CONTRACTS (B)
THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING:

Accept and ?le copies of contracts with the principals listed below whose contracts were renewed by the Local
School Councils pursuant to the Illinois School Code and the Uniform Principal's Performance Contract.

DESCRIPTION: Recognize the selection by local school councils of the individuals listed below to the position of
principal subject to the Policy on Requirements for the Selection of Chicago Public Schools Principals. #08-
1217-P02. dated December 17. 2008. subject to approval of any additional criteria by the General Counsel for
the purpose of determining consistency with the Uniform Principal's Performance Contract. Board Rules. and
Law.

105

February 23, 2011

The Illinois Administrators Academy has veri?ed that the following principals have completed 20 heurs of
Professional Development. The RENEWAL contracts commence on the date speci?ed in the contracts and

terminate on the dates specified in the contracts.

NAME

EBQM 

Jacqueline Medina Contract Principal Contract Principal

Lisa Moreno

Talman Taiman
Area 54
RN. 11831?
Commencing: April 1. 2011
Ending: March 31. 2015

Contract Principal Contract Principal
Shoop Shoop
Area 18
PM 117870
Commencing: March 26, 2011
Ending: March 25. 2015

Gilberto Sanchez Contract Principal Contract Principal

North River North River
Area 1
PM 140495
Commencing: March 6. 2011
Ending: March 5. 2015

LSC REVIEW: The respective Local School have executed the Uniform Principal?s Performance
Contract with the Individuals named above.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION STATUS: None.

FINANCIAL:

The salaries of these individuals will be established in accordance with the provisions of the

Administrative Compensation Plan.

PERSONNEL IMPLICATIONS: The positions to be affected by approval of this action are contained in the
2010-2011 school budget

11-0223-AR1

REPORT ON BOARD REPORT RESCISSIONS

 

THE GENERAL COUNSEL REPORTS THE FOLLOWING:

Extend the rescission dates contained in the following Board Reports to April 27. 2011
because the parties remain Involved in good faith negotiations which are likely to result in
an agreement and the user group(s) concurs with this extension:

09-1123-EX11: Approve the Granting of a Charter and Entering into a Charter School Agreement
with Academy for Global Citizenship, an illinois Not-For-Profit Corporation

User Group: Office of New Schools

Services: Charter School

Status: In negotiations

Additional Action: This matter was inadvertently omitted from the January 26, 2011 Rescission
Board Report. The extension of the rescission date is ratified to take effect as of that date.
thereby extending the rescission date to March 23. 2011.

10-0224-EX16: Amend Board Report 09-0527-EX4: Amend Board Report 
Amend Board Report 07-1024-EX12: Approve the Establishment of the Chicago High School for
the Arts and Entering into a School Management and Performance Agreement With Chicago High

2.
School for the Arts.
User Group: Office of New Schools
Services: Management and Performance Agreement
Status: In negotiations
3.

10-0224-PR16: Ratify Entering into an Intergovernmental Agreement with Chicago Police
Department for School Patrol Service.

User Group: Office of School Safety and Security

Services: School patrol services

Status: In negotiations

106

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

February 23. 2011

10-0324-PR2: Approve Exercising the Option to Renew the Master Agreement With Consultants
for Various Professional Audit and Management Services.

User Group: Office of Contracts and Procurement

Services: Audit and Management Services

Status: 11 of 15 agreements have been fully executed; remaining agreements are in
negotiations.

10-0428-PR32: Approve Entering into an Agreement Caremark PCS Health LLC for
Consulting. Pharmacy Benefits Management and Other Services

User Group: Office of Human Capital

Services: Pharmacy Benefits Management

Status: In negotiations

10-0526-PR32: Approve Entering into an Agreement with Dunbar Armored, Inc for Armored Car
Services.

User Group: Treasury

Services: Armored Car Services

Status: In negotiations

10-0728-PR6: Approve Entering into Agreements with Various Vendors for the Sale and Lease
of Output Device Equipment and Related Services.

User Group: All schools and Areas

Services: Sale and Lease of Output Device Equipment

Status: In negotiations

Amend Board Report Approve Entering into an Agreement with
O'Donnell. Wicklund, Pigozzi and Peterson Architects for Design Management Servrces for the
Capital improvement Program.

User Group: Facility Operations and Maintenance

Services: Design Management Services

Status: In negotiations

10-0728-PR15: Approve Entering into an Agreement with ACT, Inc. [or the Purchase of Test
Materials and Related Services.

User Group: Assessment Design

Services: Purchase of Test Materials and Related Services

Status: In negotiations

Approve Entering into a Subscriber Agreement With LexisNexis for Computer
Assisted Legal Research Services.

User Group: Law Department

Services: Subscriber Agreement

Status: In negotiations

10-0825-PR18: Amend Board Report 10-0324-PR18: Amend Board Report: 
Amend Board Amend Board Report 07-1 Amend Board Report
07-0627-PR42: Amend Board Report 06-0823-PR21: Amend Board Report 06-0125-PR21
Amend Board Report 05-1221-PR21: Amend Board Report 04-0526-PR52: Amend Board Report
O1-0328-PR41: Approve The Pro-Qualification Status of Least Restrictive Environment
Consultants to Provide Consulting Services.

User Group: Citywide Special Education and Support

Services: Consulting Services

Status: In negotiations

10-0922-PR21: Amend Board Report 09-0624-PR34: Amend Board Report 
Approve Entering into an Agreement with Siericycle. inc. for Bloodborne Pathogens Supplies
User Group: Citywide Special Education and Support

Services: Bloodborne Pathogens Supplies

Status: In negotiations

10-0922-PR22: Amend Board Report 10-0428-PR40: Approve Entering into Agreements 
Various Vendors for the Purchase of Response Intervention Services (RTI).

User Group: Office of Teaching 8. Learning

Services: Purchase of Response Intervention Services

Status: 12 of 15 agreements have been fully executed; remaining agreements are In
negotiations.

Approve Entering into Agreements with Various Consultants to Provide School
Diagnostic Services for Probationary High Schools and Elementary Schools.

User Group: Turn - Around Schools

Services: School Diagnostic Services

Status: In negotiations

107

15.

17.

18.

19.

20.

21.

22.

23.

24.

February 23, 2011

10-1027-EX2: Amend Board Report 08-1022-EX4: Amend Board Report 
Approve Entering into a School Management Consulting Agreement with the Academy tor Urban
School Leadership to Provide School Turnaround Services at John Harvard Elementary School
User Group: Office of Autonomous Management and Performance Schools (AMPS)

Services: School Turnaround Services

Status: In negotiations

10-1027-EX3: Amend Board Report Amend Board Report Rescmd
Board Report 06-0322-EX6 and Approve Entering into a School Management Consulting
Agreement with the Academy for Urban School Leadership to Provide School Turnaround
Services at William T. Sherman Elementary School. School of Excellence

User Group: Office of Autonomous Management and Performance Schools (AMPS)

Services: School Turnaround Servrces

Status: In negotiations

10-1027-EX4: Amend Board Report 08-1022-EX8: Amend Board Report 08-0227-EX33 Ratify
Entering into a School Management Consulting Agreement with the Academy for Urban School
Leadership to Provide School Turnaround Services at Julia Ward Howe Elementary School
User Group: Office of Autonomous Management and Performance Schools (AMPS)

Services: School Turnaround Services

Status: In negotiations

10-1027-EX5: Amend Board Report 08-1022-EX9: Amend Board Report 08-0227-EX34: Ratify
Entering into a School Management Consulting Agreement with the Academy for Urban School
Leadership to Provide School Turnaround Services at Morton Career Academy:

User Group: Office of Autonomous Management and Performance Schools (AMPS)

Services: School Turnaround Services

Status: In negotiations

10-1027-EX6: Amend Board Report 08-1022-EX10: Amend Board Report 08-0227-EX35 Ratify
Entering into a School Management Consulting Agreement With the Academy for Urban School
Leadership to Provide School Turnaround Services at Orr Academy

User Group: Office of Autonomous Management and Performance Schools (AMPS)

Services: School Turnaround Services

Status: In negotiations

10-1027-EX7: Amend Board Report 09-0225-EX12. Approve Entering into a School
Management Consulting Agreement with the Academy for Urban School Leadership to Provide
Turnaround Services at Mary McLeod Bethune Elementary School.

User Group: Office of Autonomous Management and Performance Schools (AMPS)

Services: School Turnaround Services

Status: In negotiations

10-1027-EX8: Amend Board Report 09-0225-EX13: Approve Entering into a School
Management Consulting Agreement with the Academy for Urban School Leadership to Provide
School Turnaround Services at John Foster Dulles Elementary School

User Group: Of?ce of New Schools

Services: Charter School

Status: In negotiations

10-1027-EX9: Amend Board Report Approve Entering into a School
Management Consulting Agreement with the Academy for Urban School Leadership to Provide
School Turnaround Services at James Weldon Johnson Elementary School:

User Group: Office of Autonomous Management and Performance Schools (AMPS)

Services: School Turnaround Services

Status: in negotiations

10-1027-EX15: Amend Board Report 10-0324-EX3: Amend Board Report 
Amend Board Report 09-0826-EX9: Amend Board Report 08-1022-EX12: Amend Board Repert
Amend Board Report 08-0123-EX3: Amend Board Report 07-1219-EX3: Amend
Board Report Amend Board Reporl07-0822-EX10: Amend Board Report 07-
0523-EX5: Approve the Renewal of the Charter School Agreement with Chicago Charter School
Foundation (Chicago International Charter School).

User Group: Office of Autonomous Management and Performance Schools (AMPS)

Services: School Turnaround Services

Status: In negotiations

10-1027-0P1: Authorize Entering into a Lease Agreement with a Right of First Refusal and
Option to Purchase School Facilities at 3633 N. California Avenue for a New Audubon
Entrepreneurial Academy High School.

User Group: Office of Real Estate

Services: Lease Agreement

Status: In negotiations

108

25.

26.

27.

28.

29.

30.

31.

32.

February 23, 2011

10-1027-PR6: Approve Exercising the First Option to Renew the Agreement with City 01
Chicago's Department of Fleet Management for the Purchase of Fuel.

User Group: Facilities and Operations

Services: Purchase of Fuel

Status: In negotiations

10-1117-PR2: Amend Board Report 10-0922-PR4: Amend Board Report 10-0428-PR7.

Approve Exercising the First Option to Renew the Agreement with and JV1 Company. for
Milk Supply and Delivery Services.

User Group: Citywide Nutrition Support Services

Services: Milk Supply and Delivery Services

Status: In negotiations

10-1117-PR5: Approve Entering into an Agreement with American Messaging Services. LLC for
Paging Communication Services and Equipment.

User Group: Information 8. Technology Services

Sewices: Paging Communication Services and Equipment

Status: In negotiations

Approve Exercising the Final Option to Renew Agreements and Approve Entering
into an Agreement with AT and for Voice and Data Services.

User Group: information Technology Services

Services: Voice and Data Services

Status: In negotiations

10-1117-PR7: Approve Entering into an Agreement with Hitec Group International. Inc. for TTY
Services. Training and Support.

User Group: Information 8. Technology Services

Services; TTY Services. Training and Support

Status: In negotiations

10-1117-PR9: Approve Entering into Two New Agreements Quantum Crossings. LLC for
Telecommunications Wiring/Cabling, Non-Mitel Voice System Maintenance. Technical
Programming and Support Services.

User Group: Information 8. Technology Services

Services: Telecommunications Wiring/Cabling, Non-Mitel Voice System Maintenance

Status: In negotiations

10-1117-PR21: Approve Exercising the Final Option to Renew the Agreement With ARAG
Insurance Company to Provide Access to Legal Services Network for Chicago Public Schools
User Group: Office of Human Capital

Services: Access to Legal Services Network

Status: In negotiations

10-1117-PR24: Approve Entering into an Agreement with the New Teacher Protect for
Educational Support Services.

User Group: Office of Human Capital

Services: Educational Support Services

Status: In negotiations

Rescind the following Board Reports in part or in full for failure to enter Into an agreement
with the Board. after repeated attempts, and the user groups have been advised of such
rescission:

10-0922-PR16: Amend Board Report 10-0526-PR20: Approve Exercising the Option to Renew
the Agreement with Various External Partners to Provide Out-of-School Time Programs and
Services to Students and Their Families in the Chicago Public Schools Community Schooi
initiative.

User Group: Office of Extended Learning Opportunities

Services: Out-of~School Time Programs and Services

Status: All contracts have been executed other than those listed below.

Additional Action: Rescind Board authority as to the following vendors: Columbia College 
Urban Gateways West Town Leadership United Brighten Park Neighborhood Council
Chicago Youth Centers Bethel New Liie. Inc. Enlace Chicago inner City
Teaching Corps Illinois Institute of Technology Logan Square Neighbomood
Association Mexican Fine Arts Museum United Neighborhood Association 
and University of Chicago 

President Richardson-Lowry thereupon declared Board Reports 11-0223-EX9 through
11-0223-EX11, and 11-0223-AR1 accepted.

109

February 23, 2011

OMNIBUS

At the Regular Board Meeting of February 23, 2011 the foregoing motions, reports and
other actions set forth from number 11-0223-M01 through 11-0223-AR3 except as otherwise
indicated, were adopted as the recommendations or decisions of the Chief Executive Officer and
General Counsel.

ADJOURNMENT

President Richardson-Lowry moved to adjourn the meeting, and it was so ordered by a
voice vote, all members present voting therefore.

President Richardson-Lowry thereupon declared the Board Meeting adjourned.

I, Estela G. Beltran, Secretary of the Board of Education and Keeper of the records thereof.
do hereby certify that the foregoing is a true and correct record of certain proceedings of said
Board of Education of the City of Chicago at its Regular Board Meeting of February 23, 2011 held at
the Central Service Center 125 South Clark Street, Board Chamber, Chicago, lliinois, 60603.

Estela G. Beltran
Secretary

110

February 23. 2011
INDEX

AR - REPORTS FROM THE GENERAL COUNSEL
11-0223-AR1 Report on Board Report Rescissions 106 - 109

11-0223-AR2 Authorize Continued Retention of the Law Firm Neal Leroy, L.L.C. 2, 3

11-0223-AR3 Workers? Compensation - Payment for Lump Sum Settlement for William
McClory - 07 WC 19539 3

CO COMMUNICATIONS
11-0223-CO1 Communication Re: Location of Board Meeting of March 23, 2011 
125 S. Clark Street (Board Chamber) 41

CR COMMITTEE REPORT
11-0223-CR1 Finance and Audit Committee Meeting Held February 1, 2011 41, 42

ED FROM THE CHIEF EDUCATION OFFICER
11-0223-ED1 Report on Student Expulsions for January 2011 53

11-0223-ED2 Amend Board Report Amend Board Report 10-0526-E02
Approve Entering Into Agreements with Various Providers for High Quality
Early Childhood Services 53 - 65

11-0223-ED3 Approve Entering Into an Application and Contract for Establishment of
an Army Junior Reserve Officers' Training Corps Unit and Employment
Contracts with JROTC Instructors (Sullivan High School) 66 - 68

11-0223-ED4 Approve Restructuring Plans for Schools Classified as in Need of
Restructuring Under the No Child Left Behind Act (NCLB) 68 - 74

REPORTS FROM THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
11-0223-EX1 Transfer of Funds"
*[Note: The complete document will be on File in the Office of the Board] 42 - 44

11-0223-EX2 Approve the Granting of a Charter and Entering Into a Charter School
Agreement with the Montessori Network, Inc., an Illinois Not for Profit
Corporation 44 - 46

11-0223-EX3 Amend Board Report 08-0123-EX4 Amend Board Report 05-0622-EX5 Establish

 

Charter School Boundary for the University of Chicago Charter School Elementag
School Campuses 46- 48

 

11-0223-EX4 Adjust the Attendance Boundaries for Federico Garcia Lorca Academy Elementary
School and James Monroe Elementary School 48, 49

11-0223-EX5 Establish the Charter School Boundary for the Chicago Charter School
Foundation ChicagoQuest North Campus 49, 50

11-0223-EX6 Establish the Charter School Boundary for the Noble Street Charter School 
Chicago Bulls College Prep Campus 50

11-0223-EX7 Establish the Charter School Boundary for the Noble Street Charter School -
UIC Campus 51

February 23, 2011

REPORTS FROM THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER (Cont)
11-0223-EX8 Adjust the Attendance Boundaries and the Grade Structure for PiIsen Community
Academy Elementary School and the Attendance Boundaries for Jose Clemente

Orozco Community Academy of Fine Arts 51, 52
11-0223-EX9 Amend Board Report 10-0526-EX13 Principal Contracts (A) 104
11-0223-EX10 Principal Contracts (A) 105
11-0223-EX11 Principal Contracts (B) 105, 106
11-0223-EX12 Appoint Chief Education Officer (Charles M. Payne) 4, 5
11-0223-EX13 Appoint Chief Area Officer (Shonda L. Huery) 5

11-0223-EX14 Warning Resolution - Glen Amato, Tenured Teacher, Rickover Naval Academy ..5, 6

11-0223-EX15 Warning Resolution - LaSharon Carter, Tenured Teacher, Assigned to Owens

Elementary School 6
11-0223-EX16 Warning Resolution - Valentina O?Connor, Special Education Tenured Teacher,

Assigned to Global Visions Academy 6, 7
11-0223-EX17 Warning Resolution - Tracy Sanford, Tenured Teacher, Reassigned Teacher 7

11-0223-EX18 Warning Resolution Fathyeh Yessin, Tenured Teacher, Assigned to Marquette
School 7, 8

11-0223-EX19 Chief Executive Officer's Report of incentive Compensation Plan for Principal?s
Assigned to Certain Schools Designated as Turnaround or Transformation
Schools 8 - 12

MO MOTION
11-0223-MO1 Motion to Close 1

PR REPORTS FROM THE CHIEF PURCHASING OFFICER
11-0223-PR1 Report on Emergency Expenditures 75

11-0223-PR2 Amend Board Report 10- 0728- PR9 Amend Board Report 09- 0923- PR5 Approve

Entering Into an Agreement with Cannon Design OlDennellrWiekiundrPigeui?and
Petersen?Architects for Design Management Services for the Capital Improvement

Programs 75- 77

11-0223-PR3 Approve the Award of Construction Contracts and Approve Changes to
Construction Contracts for the Board of Education?s Capital Improvement
Program 78 - 89

11-0223-PR4 Approve Entering Into Agreements with Dell Marketing, L.P. Dell Financial,
Sentinel Technologies (Cisco), Inc. and Vion Corporation (Hitachi) for the
Purchase and/or Lease of Network Servers 90 - 92

11-0223-PR5 Approve Exercising the First Option to Renew the Agreement for the Hosted
Infrastructure of PeopleSoft with CedarCrestone Incorporated 92 - 94

11-0223-PR6 Amend Board Regort 10-1117-PR12 Approve Entering Into Agreements with
Vendors to Provide Safe Haven Sites and Services 94, 95

11-0223-PR7 Approve Payment to Reading in Motion for Consulting Services (Sharon
Christa McAuliffe Elementary School) 95 - 97

11-0223-PR8 Authorize Payments for Expenses Related to Transportation and Lodging for
Spring Break Coliege Tours 97 - 99

February 23, 2011

REPORTS FROM THE CHIEF PURCHASING OFFICER (Cont)
11-0223-PR9 Approve Payment to and Ratify Entering Into an Agreement with the Inner-City
Teaching Corps of America for Educational Support Services 99, 100

11-0223-PR10 Approve Exercising the Option to Renew the Agreement with SecurMAR. LLC
for the Purchase of and Maintenance of Portable X-Ray Machines 100 - 102

11-0223-PR11 Approve Entering Into an Agreement with Metritech, Inc. for the Purchase of Test
Materials and Related Professional Development Services 102 - 104

RS - RESOLUTIONS
11-0223-RS1 Resolution Re: National Board Certification for Three Hundred and Ten Chicago
Public School Teachers (2009-2010) 14 - 21

11 -0223-R82 Resolution Re: Curie High School Winners of the Public League?s 2010 Football
City Championship 21

11-0223-RS3 Resolution Re: Kelly High School Winners of the Public League's 2010 Boys
Soccer City Championship 22

11-0223-RS4 Resolution Re: Lane Tech High School Winners of the Public League?s 2010
Boys Cross Country City Championship 22

11-0223-R85 Resolution Re: Lane Tech High School Winners of the Public League?s 2010
Girls Cross Country City Championship 22

11-0223-R86 Resolution Re: Lane Tech High School Winners of the Public League?s 2010
16 Inch Softball City Championship 23

11-0223-RS7 Resolution Re: Lane Tech High School Winners of the Public League?s 2010
Girls Swimming City Championship 23

11-0223-R88 Resolution Re: Walter Payton High School Winners of the Public League?s 2010
Girls Golf City Championship 23

11-0223-R89 Resolution Re: Whitney Young High School Winners of the Public League?s 2010
Boys Golf City Championship 24

11-0223-RS10 Resolution Re: Whitney Young High School Winners of the Public League's 2010
Girls Tennis City Championship 24

11-0223-RS11 Resolution Re: Whitney Young High School Winners of the Public League's 2010
Girls Volleyball City Championship 24

11-0223-RS12 Resolution Authorizing Executive Loan Agreement with The University of
Chicago 25

11-0223-RS13 Resolution Abating the Tax Heretofore Levied for the Year 2010 to Pay Debt
Service on Unlimited Tax General Obligation Bonds Dedicated Tax Revenues),
Series 2000-01, of the Board of Education of the City of Chicago 25, 26

11-0223-RS14 Resolution Abating the Tax Heretofore Levied for the Year 2010 to Pay Debt
Service on Unlimited Tax General Obligation Bonds (Dedicated Tax Revenues).
Series 2001-03, of the Board of Education of the City of Chicago 26, 27

11-0223-RS15 Resolution Abating the Tax Heretofore Levied for the Year 2010 to Pay Debt

Service on Unlimited Tax General Obligation Bonds (Dedicated Revenues}, Series
2002A, of the Board of Education of the City of Chicago 27. 28

February 23, 2011

RS - RESOLUTIONS (Cont)

11 

11-0223-RS17

11 -0223-RS18

11-0223-RS19

11-0223-R520

11-0223-RS21

11-0223-R522



11-0223-RSZ4

11-0223-RSZ5

11 -0223-R826

11-0223-R327

Resolution Abating the Tax Heretofore Levied for the Year 2010 to Pay Debt
Service on Unlimited Tax General Obligation Refunding Bonds (Dedicated
Revenues), Series 2004AB, of the Board of Education of the City of Chicago 28

Resolution Abating the Tax Heretofore Levied for the Year 2010 to Pay Debt
Service on Unlimited Tax General Obligation Bonds (Dedicated Revenues - Benito
Juarez Community Academy Project), Series 2004G, of the Board of Education of
the City of Chicago 29

Resolution Abating the Tax Heretofore Levied for the Year 2010 to Pay Debt

Service on Unlimited Tax General Obligation Refunding Bonds (Dedicated
Revenues), Series 2005A and Series 20058, of the Board of Education of the

City of Chicago 29, 30

Resolution Abating the Tax Heretofore Levied for the Year 2010 to Pay Debt
Service on Unlimited Tax General Obligation Bonds (Dedicated Revenues),
Series 20063, of the Board of Education of the City of Chicago 30, 31

Resolution Abating the Tax Heretofore Levied for the Year 2010 to Pay Debt
Service on Unlimited Tax General Obligation Bonds (Dedicated Revenues),
Series 20070, of the Board of Education of the City of Chicago 31

Resolution Abating the Tax Heretofore Levied for the Year 2010 to Pay Debt
Service on Unlimited Tax General Obligation Refunding Bonds (Dedicated
Revenues), Series 2008A. Series 20088, Series 2008C and Series 2009A. of the
Board of Education of the City of Chicago 31 - 33

Resolution Abating the Tax Heretofore Levied for the Year 2010 to Pay Debt
Service on Unlimited Tax General Obligation Refunding Bonds (Dedicated
Revenues), Series 200980, of the Board of Education of the City of Chicago 34

Resolution Abating the Tax Heretofore Levied for the Year 2010 to Pay Debt
Service on Unlimited Tax General Obligation Refunding Bonds (Dedicated
Revenues), Series 20090, of the Board of Education of the City of Chicago 34

Resolution Abating the Tax Heretofore Levied for the Year 2010 to Pay Debt
Service on Unlimited Tax General Obligation Bonds (Dedicated Revenues),

Series 2009E (Taxable Build America Bonds ?Direct Payment?), Unlimited Tax
General Obligation Bonds (Dedicated Revenues), Series 2009F and Unlimited Tax
General Obligation Bonds (Dedicated Revenues), Services 20096 Qualified School
Construction Bonds), of the Board of Education of the City of Chicago 34, 35

Resolution Abating the Tax Heretofore Levied for the Year 2010 to Pay Debt
Services on Unlimited Tax General Obligation Refunding Bonds (Dedicated
Revenues), Series 2010A and Unlimited Tax General Obligation Refunding Bonds
(Dedicated Revenues), Series 201GB of the Board of Education of the City of
Chicago 35, 36

Resolution Abating the Tax Heretofore Levied for the Year 2010 to Pay Debt
Services on Unlimited Tax General Obligation Bonds (Dedicated Revenues),

Series 2010C, and Unlimited Tax General Obligation Bonds (Dedicated Revenues),
Series 201 OD, and Collectively, the Series 201OCD Bonds and Tax-Exempt
Unlimited Tax General Obligation Bonds (Dedicated Revenues), Series 2010F, and
Taxable Unlimited Tax General Obligation Refunding Bonds (Dedicated Revenues),
Series 2010G, Collectively, the Series 2010FG Bonds of the Board of Education of
the City of Chicago 36, 37

Resolution Request the Public Building Commission of Chicago to Undertake
Air Force Mechanical Renovation 37, 38

February 23, 2011

RS RESOLUTIONS (Cont)

11-0223-R828

11-0223-R329

11 -0223-R830

11-0223-RS31

11-0223-RS32

11-0223-RS33

11-0223-R834

Resolution Request the Public Building Commission of Chicago to Undertake
the Durkin Park, Onahan and Stevenson Annexes 38. 39

Resolution Request the Public Building Commission of Chicago to Undertake
Various FY11 Capital Projects 39, 40

Resolution Re: Appointment of Teacher Representatives to Local School
Councils to Fill Teacher Representative Vacancies for the Term of Office Ending
June 30, 2012 40

Resolution Authorizing Intervention in Certain Proceedings Before the 
Property Tax Appeal Board for the Purpose of Preserving Potential Tax Revenue
for the Board of Education 3, 4

Resolution by the Board of Education of the City of Chicago Regarding the
Dismissal of Anna Farkas, Tenured Teacher, Formerly Assigned to Wells High
School 12, 13

Resolution Approving Chief Executive Officer?s Recommendation to Dismiss
Educational Support Personnel 13

Resolution Approving Chief Executive Officer's Recommendation to Dismiss
Probationary Appointed Teachers 14

