MINUTES OF MEETING
WAYNE COUNTY ELECTION COMMISSION
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 2017 – 11:30 A.M.
COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL BUILDING - ROOM 700A
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

Call to Order:

The meeting was called to order at 11:30 a.m.

Members present: Honorable Freddie G. Burton, Jr., Chief Judge, Probate Court
Honorable Eric Sabree, Member – Wayne County Treasurer
Honorable Cathy N. Garrett, Secretary – Wayne County Clerk
Members absent: None.
Also present:

Janet Anderson-Davis, Assistant Corporation Counsel
Jennifer Redmond, Assistant Director
Rendell Wooden
Gregory P. Mahar
Robert Boertje
Andrew Pauwels
Chris Sanders

Agenda item:

Consideration of Agenda approval.
Board action on agenda item: Chair Burton requested a motion
to adopt the agenda. Member Garrett, duly supported by Member
Sabree, moved to adopt the agenda. The motion was adopted
unanimously by a voice vote.

Agenda item:

Approval of Minutes of September 13, 2017
Board action on agenda item: Chair Burton requested a motion
to approve the minutes of the meeting held on September 13, 2017.
Member Sabree, duly supported by Member Garrett, moved to
approve the minutes of September 13, 2017. The motion was
adopted unanimously by a voice vote.

Agenda item:

Determination of Clarity – Susan Rowe, Mayor, City of Wayne
Chair Burton asked Assistant Corporation Counsel Janet AndersonDavis to remind the commission of its role in making a
determination of clarity. Assistant Corporation Counsel AndersonDavis reminded the commission of its role and duties for a
determination of clarity.
1

 Ms. Anderson-Davis read the statute regarding the role of the
Election Commission in regards to recall petitions and stated that
there was litigation before Judge Levy in Federal Court in which
she issued an opinion regarding recall petitions.
Ms. Anderson-Davis summarized the commission’s role when
reviewing petitions and what the commission should consider. Ms.
Anderson-Davis also pointed out that all four of the petitions appear
to be the same. Chair Burton stated to make it simple, the
commission will handle all four petitions at the same time.
Board action on agenda item: Chair Burton requested a motion
for determination of clarity on items 5A-1, 5A-2, 5A-3 and 5A-4.
Reason for recall as printed on the Recall Petition 5A-1 for Susan
Rowe:
“Mayor Susan Rowe voted to extend the council members terms by
one year on October 18, 2016.
Reason for recall as printed on the Recall Petition 5A-2 for
Christopher Sanders:
“Councilman Sanders voted to extend the council members terms
by one year on October 18, 2016.
Reason for recall as printed on the Recall Petition 5A-3 for Anthony
Miller:
“Councilman Miller voted to extend the council members terms by
one year on October 18, 2016.
Reason for recall as printed on the Recall Petition 5A-4 for Ryan
Gabriel:
“Councilman Gabriel voted to extend the council members terms by
one year on October 18, 2016.
Member Sabree, duly supported by Member Garrett, moved to
determine the language is sufficiently clear.
Andrew Pauwels, attorney for Christopher Sanders, addressed the
commission regarding the clarity of the language on the petition.
Mr. Pauwels indicated that the action that was taken by Council
was to alter the election cycles from odd year to even year to align
and correct the election cycles and to save money for the election
2

 department. He stated the petition lacks sufficient clarity. The
motion was adopted unanimously by a voice vote.
Agenda item:

New Business. None.

Agenda item:

Public Comment. None

Agenda item:

Adjournment. Chair Burton requested a motion to adjourn the
meeting. Member Sabree, duly supported by Chair Burton, moved
to adjourn the meeting. The motion was adopted unanimously by a
voice vote.

Meeting adjourned at 11:36 a.m.

3

 