 . cooE EDC17-01-02-275
Economic Development Corporotlon of the City of Detroit 

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF OCTOBER 25, 2016 MEETING

 

RESOLVED, that the minutes of the Regular meeting of October 25, 2016 are
hereby approved and all actions taken by the Directors present at such meeting. as set
forth in such minutes, are hereby in all respects rati?ed and approved as actions of the
Economic Development Corporation.

January 10. 2017

Page 1 of 24
500 Griswold,3uite 2200 - DetroitMichigon 48226 (313) 963-2940

ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
BOARD OF DIRECTORS REGULAR MEETING
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 25, 2016 -- 8:30 AM.

BOARD MEMBERS PRESENT: Monique Claiborne

BOARD MEMBERS ABSENT:

SPECIAL DIRECTORS
PRESENT:

SPECIAL DIRECTORS
ABSENT:

OTHERS PRESENT:

Kimberly Clayson
Chris Jackson
Roger Short
Thomas Stailworth

Maurice Cox (Ex-Officio)
Linda Forte

Jonathan Quarles

John Naglick (Ex-Officio)
William Ritsema
Matthew Roling

None

None

Anthony Askew 
John Gallagher (Free Press)
Derrick Headd (City Council)
Marcel Hurt (City Council)

Gay Hilger 
Jennifer Kanalos 
Rebecca Navin 
Glen Long, Jr. 

Page 2 of 24

Economic Development Corporotion of the City of Detroit

MINUTES OF THE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
BOARD OF DIRECTORS REGULAR MEETING

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 25, 2016

DETROIT ECONOMIC GROWTH CORPORATION

500 GRISWOLD. SUITE 2200 - 8:30 AM.

CALL TO ORDER

Mr. Short, Treasurer and Acting Chair, called the Regular meeting of the Economic
Development Corporation Board of Directors to order at 3:40 am.

GENERAL

Aggroval of Minutes

Mr. Short asked if there were any additions. deletions or corrections to the minutes of the
August 23. 2016 Regular Board meeting. Hearing none, the Board took the following
action:

On a motion by Mr. Stallworth. seconded by Mr. Jackson, Resolution Code EDC
16-10-02-274 was unanimously approved.

Receigt of Treasurer's Regort

Mr. Long reviewed the Treasurer's Report of Receipts and Disbursements for the months
of August and September 2016 for the benefit of the Board and responded to questions.

Subsequent to a discussion, the Board took the following action:

On a motion by Mr. Jackson, seconded by Mr. Stailworth, Resolution Codes EDC
16-1 0-03-1206 and 16-10-03-207 were unanimously approved.

PROJECTS

Motor City Match Recommendation for Round 5 Business Awards

Mr. Askew reported that on June 1, 2016, the EDC's Motor City Match program began
accepting applications for Round 5 of the Business Owner Application Track. The
Business Owner Application Track is for businesses from Detroit and around the world
that are looking to start or espand in Detroit. The table below describes the levels of award
and qualifications.

tab 25, 2016
er Page 3 of 24

500 Griswold.3ui?re 2200 DetroitMiChigOn 48226 (313)963-2940

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Awards Awardees must:
BUSINESS Up to 50 wmners A great idea
8 PLAN Free business planning class
Up to 25 winners each round A great idea
SPACE Match making with top real estate A great business plan
3 Financial planning assistance
..I
5 Up to 7 winners each round A great idea
Design/build assistance A great business plan
0 DESIGN . . . .
Priority permitting Space secured
Financial planning assistance
Up to 10 winners each round A great idea
Up to $100,000 matching grant per winner A great business plan
Lu
2' Grants match your cash dollar-for-dollar. Space secured
5 CASH $500,000 in grants per round for building and A plan for build?out
?1 9 business owners
Funds ready to
u' Pitch to lending partners for financing investment

 

When applications ciosed on July the EDC had received over 500 business applications
(?Application?). Motor City Match had previously received over 1300 business applications
for Rounds 1, 2, 3, and 4.

The Board memorandum and resolution focuses on the selection and recommendation of

awardees for:

. Business Plan award track receiving business planning assistance
(formerly ?Get Ready" award track.)

- ?Space" award track receiving site selection assistance (formerly ?Make a
Match? award track).

. ?Design? award track receiving architectural design, permitting and bidding
assistance for pre-development (formerly ?Make a Plan? award track.

. ?Cash" award track receiving grants and financing assistance (formerly
?Match your Cash? award track).

First, staff verified business eligibility based on self-reported data submitted in the
application for the following five criteria.

October 25, 2016

Page 4 of 24

 

1. The business is incorporated and has a registered and DUNS prior to
receiving a grant award.

2. The business wishes to locate in Detroit for at least two years.

3. The business is majority?owned by a person who is at least 18 years or
older.

4. The business and all owners are in good standing with the City of Detroit,
State of Michigan and IRS.

5. The business is not part of a franchise.

Second, staff sorted applications into various award tracks and reviewed eligible business
applications to determine finalists. A simple thumbs up/thumbs down voting technique was
used to narrow the list of eligible applicants to finalists. Finalist applicants were identi?ed
as follows:

. ?Business Plan? applicants have great business ideas but haven?t formulated
a business plan yet or need help strengthening their business plan before
pursuing Space. In total, fifty (50) Business Plan awardees were selected using
the thumbs up/thumbs down voting technique.

. ?Space" applicants are actively looking for space. These business applicants
are either new business ventures that have a solid business pian or they are
existing businesses with a track record of success and a plan to grow it. In
total, forty-eight (48) Space finalists were selected.

. ?Design" applicants have great business plans and have secured a space but
need help planning for renovations. ln some cases, these businesses are
tenants; in other cases, these businesses own the building they plan to open
their business in. In total, fourteen (14) Design finalists were selected.

. ?Cash? applicants have a location secured, a plan for build-out and strong of
understanding of the money needed to start their business and complete
renovations at the space. in total, thirty (30) Cash finalists were selected.

Third, a team of outside jurors evaluated finalist applications based on five criteria.
?Business Plan" applications were initially reviewed by a team of business planning service
providers, as well as members of the Motor City Match staff. ?Space? finalists were
reviewed by a team of community stakeholders from across various parts of the city and
?Design? and ?Cash? finalists were reviewed by a team of business leaders and lenders.
?Business Plan? applications were only scored using the thumbs up/thumbs down voting
technique after reviewing the five criteria. ?Space?, ?Design?, and ?Cash" applications were
scored on a scale of 1?100. Each of the five criteria is worth 20 points to contribute to the
100?point score. Selection criteria are as follows:

1. Vision and plan
2. Experience
3. Market support

2
October 25, 016 Page 5 of 24

4. Communitysupport
5. Leverage

?Cash? finalists were required to submit supplemental information as follows:

?Cash" finalists submitted comprehensive financial information, including a standard loan
application and personal financial statement. Motor City Match staff compiled this
supplemental information to determine the financial need, equity investment and ?financial
gap" for each business. Next, Motor City Match staff met with a team of six local
Community Development Financial institution (CDFI) lending partners on September 26,
2016, to determine grant and loan investment required to fill the ?financial gap? on each
project. partners include invest Detroit, Detroit Development Fund, Capital impact
Partners, Michigan Women?s Foundation and Detroit Micro-Enterprise Fund. CDFI
partners made commitments to explore lending the balance of the financial gap based on
recommended grant investment from Motor City Match. Motor City Match staff used lender
interest, participant scores, supplemental information and readiness to accept additional
investment to determine ?Cash? awardees and associated grant investment.

Finally, staff compiled juror scores to identify top ranking candidates for awards.

On August 11, 2015, the EDC Board of Directors established a Motor City Match Selection
Committee (the ?Committee?), consisting of 3 EDC Board members: Bill Ritsema, Chris
Jackson, and Jonathan Quarles to streamline the selection of technical assistance
awardees. The EDC Board of Directors delegated approval authority to the Committee for
all Motor City Match awardees for technical assistance in the Building and Business
Tracks, which would include all recipients of ?Business Plan,? "Space,? and ?Design?
awards?. Technical assistance awards are provided directly by the EDC through its staff,
consultants, or contractors. No direct financial assistance is provided.

On September 30, 2016, Motor City Match Committee approved EDC Staff
recommendations for the following technical assistance awardees for Round 5 of the
Motor City Match Business Owner application track:

. Fifty (50) ?Business Plan? awardees for business planning are presented in
Exhibit A.

. Twenty-Five (25) ?Space? awardees for site selection are presented in Exhibit B.
. Seven (7) ?Design" awardees are presented in Exhibit C.
EDC staff anticipates contracting with independent business planning service providers to
deliver business planning training. EDC anticipates that Build institute and LifeLine will

provide business planning training for up to 50 Round 5 Motor City Match ?Business Plan?
awardees.

 

1 On August 11, 2015, EDC Board of Directors delegated the authority to recommend awardees for ?nancial
assistance in the ?Cash? category to the Committee, with final approval of grant awards and terms of grant
agreements for any recipients of ?nancial assistance in the "Match Your Cash Category" to be retained by the
EDC Board of Directors.

October 25, 2016
Page 6 of 24

EDC staff will one-on?one match making between top ranking businesses and
building owners recognized as ?Space? awardees. Match making services will include
open houses and networking sessions between business owners and building owners. in
addition, technical assistance will include expert guidance on leasing, financial planning
and assessing market opportunities.

EDC staff will hire contractual professional architect, engineering and construction
providers to deliver design-buiid assistance to ?Design? awardees. The EDC has approved
four (4) design-build independent contractors to provide pre?development design services
for seven (7) Round 5 Motor City Match ?Design? awardees.

In addition, the Motor City Match committee approved recommending to the Board for
approval EDC staff recommendations for the foilowing cash assistance awards for Round
5 of the Motor City Match Business application track:

. Six (6) ?Cash? awardees to receive a total of $300,000 in grant investment, as
described on Exhibit D.

The EDC will enter into grant agreements with Round 5 Motor City Match ?Cash" awardees
and facilitate introductions to iending partners to pursue gap financing through these
independent sources. As the aggregate cash grants this round is less than the $500,000
limit, EDC staff and the Motor City Match Committee also recommends that grant amounts
not fully allocated each round the remaining funds when quarterly ?Cash" awards
total less than $500,000) be repurposed and distributed in future rounds, and that in such
cases, Staff would have the authority to recommend more than $500,000 in ?Cash" awards
in future rounds, subject to approval and recommendation of the Board.

in addition to the above-referenced cash assistance awards, for three of our Round 1
?Cash? Awardees, EDC staff recommends to the Board approval of an extension of the
one-year time limit each ?Cash" grantee has to spend grant funding in full. Two of the
awardees Pallets and Trucking, Mama Rita Foods) have experienced significant
delays due to issues reiating to closing their financing. The third awardee (Coffee has
spent neariy 70% of grant funding. However, one of the partners in the business has
recently had a baby, which has piaced some iimitations on the business for the immediate
future. EDC staff anticipates that six months will be sufficient additional time for the
aforementioned grantees to use remaining grant funds.

A resolution approving the recommendation of ?Round 5 ?Cash? awardees and 6-month
extensions for each of the aforementioned Round 1 ?Cash" Awardees is attached for the
Board's consideration.

Subsequent to a discussion, the Board took the following action:

On a motion by Mr. Jackson, seconded by Ms. Ciayson, Resolution Code EDC
16-?1 0~91~29 was unanimously approved.

Mr. Short advised that he was skipping to the Administrative item on the agenda because
of time constraints of one of the Board members, and then will go back to the informational
item reiated to the Motor City Match Program.

October 25, 2016
Page 7 of 24

ADMINISTRATION
EDC Ayrdited Financial Statements and Management Report as of June 30, 2016

Ms. Kanalos advised that copies of the above?referenced materials were distributed under
separate cover to each Board member on October 5, 2016. The EDC Finance Committee
reviewed the material and recommends formal receipt by the EDC Board.

The attached resolution indicates the Board?s formal receipt of the EDC Audited Financial
Statements and Management Report as of June 30, 2016, with comparative totals as of
June 30, 2015, as prepared by George Johnson and Company, Certified Public
Accountants.

With there being no questions or discussion, the Board took the following action:

On a motion by Mr. Staliworth, seconded by Mr. Jackson, Resolution Code EDC
16-09-01-187 was unanimously approved.

PROJ ECTS

Motor City Match Recommendation for Rognd 5 Building Awards (For Information
Only)

Ms. Askew reported that on June 1, 2016, the EDC's Motor City Match program began
accepting applications from interested building owners for Round 5 of the Building
Application Track (?Round The Building Application Track is for Detroit property
owners with a vacant space looking for quality new tenants. Awards include pre-
development assistance, marketing and tenant recruiting. Pr0perties that are matched
with businesses are considered for grants, financing and priority permitting. The table
below describes the levels of award and quaiifications.

 

 

 

 

Awards Awardees must:

3 0 Listed as an available property viewable by 0 Be current and compliant
hundreds of Business Competition candidates. 0 Judged most feasible for
'5 SPACE . Top 25 scoring buildings will be marketed as a business
a ?top destination for new business?
?2 . Pre-development buiiding assessment
Match making with top businesses
5 0 Up to 7 awardees each round across both the . Be current and compliant
buiiding and business tracks . Judged most feasible for
5 DESIGN . Design/build assistance business
Priority permitting . Have a tenant secured

. Financial pianning assistance

 

 

 

 

 

 

25 201
October 6 Page 8 of 24

 

building and business tracks Up to $100,000 - Judged most feasible for
5 matching grant per winner business
:5 CASH . $500,000 in grants per round for building and - Have a tenant secured
a business owners . Have a plan for building
. Pitch to lending partners forfinancing renovations

?3 - Have funds ready for

 

 

 

 

investment

. Up to 10 awardees each round across both the . Be current and compliant

 

 

When applications closed on July 1, 2016, the EDC had received 81 applications
(?Application?) for spaces all across the city of Detroit. An Application refers only to a single
tenantable space within a property. One property may have submitted muitipie
Applications and the properties may have previously matched but have lease-able space.

Staff completed the following due diligence and evaiuation process:

a Verified that the space referenced in the Application is current and compliant on
property taxes, tickets, and water bilis.

- Conducted a professional buiiding assessment.
Each Application was evaluated and scored on a scale of 1?100 as foliows:
. Each of the following factors contributed up to 20 points: (1) Building
characteristics and vision; (2) Building conditions; (3) Community and market

support; (4) Leverage; and (5) Compliance.

0 Evaluations were conducted both by EDC staff and a community review panel
organized by City Council district.

0 EDC staff and community panel scores were averaged togetherto achieve the final
score for building characteristics and vision, community and market support, and
leverage.

. The score for buiiding conditions was derived directly from the professional
building assessment conducted by FBI as wet! as self-reported data from the
property owner.

a The score for compliance was derived based on the payment of taxes, water bills,
and tickets.

The seiection process is described in greater detail in Section 6 of the Motor City Match
Building Owner Guidelines.

The results of the due diligence and evaluation process are the following:

. Of the eight-two (81) applications considered for Round 5, forty-six (46)
applications were deemed ineligible because of condition or compliance. in total,

October 25, 2016
Page 9 of 24

thirty-six (35) eiigible Building Applications were considered for Round 5 awards.

- Twenty-five (25) building applications indicated they had space available for lease.
These building owners are recommended to receive ?Space? awards to assist with
marketing their property and recruiting tenants.

The remaining eligible applicants indicated that they had a tenant secured and no
additional space to iease. This makes these applicants eligible for consideration
for ?Design? or ?Cash? awards in partnership with their tenants.

0 Based on eiigible appiications and review of scores, EDC staff recommended the
following Round 5 Building Owner Awards:

0 Space awards. Twenty?five (25) properties are recommended to receive
Space awards as presented in Exhibit A, which includes marketing, a
professional building assessment, real estate tours and other matchmaking
activities with top Motor City Match business applicants. These top scoring
buildings are recommended to receive ?Top Property" designation to assist
with marketing and tenant recruiting.

0 Design Awards. Seven (7) properties are recommended to receive
?Design? awards in partnership with their tenants presented in Exhibit B,
which includes architectural technical assistance for tenant build?out and
building renovations. The Motor City Match Committee of the Economic
Deveiopment Corporation is recommended to approve these seven awards
to businesses?

On August 11, 2015 the EDC Board of Directors established a Motor City Match Selection
Committee (the ?Committee?), consisting of three EDC Board members (Bill Ritsema,
Chris Jackson, and Jonathan Quaries) to streamiine the selection of technical assistance
awardees. The EDC Board of Directors delegated approval authority to the Committee for
all Motor City Match awardees for technical assistance in the Building and Business
Tracks. Technical assistance awards are provided directly by the EDC through its staff,
consultants, or contractors. No direct ?nancial assistance is provided.

On September 30, 2016, the Motor City Match Selection Committee accepted the current
results of the Round 5 Building Application evaluation process, confirming the Applications
that have been awarded "Space? and ?Design" awards, as set forth on Exhibits A and B.

This item was for information only and no Board action was taken.

 

2 The ?Design? award provides construction drawings for building improvements needed to accommodate
the business (whether that business owns or ieases the property). Therefore, this award is issued to the
business. In the event that the landlord is contributing to tenant improvements, building owners may also
bene?t from ?Design? award architectural services, therefore they are listed here for EDC Motor City Match
Committee consideration.

October 25, 2016
Page 10 of 24

OTHER MATTERS
PUBLIC COMMENT

ADJOURNMENT

With there being no other business to come before the Board, Mr. Short adjourned the
Reguiar meeting at 8:54 am.

October 25, 2016
Page 11 of 24

. CODE EDC 16?10-02-274
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit

 

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF AUGUST 23. 2016 MEETING

RESOLVED, that the minutes of the Regular meeting of August 23, 2016 are
hereby approved and all actions taken by the Directors present at such meeting, as set
forth in such minutes, are hereby in all respects ratified and approved as actions of the
Economic Development Corporation.

October 25, 2016

Page 12 of 24
500 Griswold,Suite 2200 - DetroitMichigon 48226 - (313) 963-2940

. CODE EDC 16-10-03-206
Economic Development Corporotlon of the CETV of Detron?

 

ACCEPTANCE OF REPORT FOR AUGUST 2016

RESOLVED, that the Treasurer?s Report of Receipts and Disbursements for the
period ending August 31, 2016, as presented at this meeting, is hereby in all respects
accepted as action of the Economic Development Corporation.

October 25, 2016

Page 13 of 24
500 Griswold,8uite 2200 - Detroit,Michigon 48226 - (313) 9632940

. . CODE EDC 16-10-03-207
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detrorr

 

ACCEPTANCE OF REPORT FOR SEPTEMBER 2016

RESOLVED, that the Treasurer's Report of Receipts and Disbursements for the
period ending September 30, 2016, as presented at this meeting, is hereby in all respects
accepted as action of the Economic Development Corporation.

October 25, 2016

Page 14 of 24
500 Griswold,Suite 2200 - Detroit, Michigan 48226 - (313) 963-2940

 CODE EDC 16-10-91-29
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit

 

MOTOR CITY MATCH: ROUND 5 BUSINES AWARDS

WHEREAS, EDC staff has completed due diligence and evaluation for applications
(?Applications) in the fifth round (?Round of the Motor City Match Business Application
Track; and

WHEREAS, on August 11, 2015, the EDC Board of Directors adopted a resolution
establishing a Motor City Match Committee (the ?Committee?) and delegating authority to
such Committee for the approval of all technical assistance awards and recommendation
of grantees to the EDC Board of Directors in the Building and Business Tracks of the Motor
City Match Program; and

WHEREAS, on September 30, 2016, the Committee, through the delegation of
authority approved by the EDC Board of Directors, approved the EDC Staff ("Staff")
recommendations for business applicants to receive technical assistance in the ?Business
Plan" award track attached hereto as Exhibit and

WHEREAS, on September 30, 2016, the Committee, through the delegation of
authority approved by the EDC Board of Directors, approved the Staff recommendations
for business applicants to receive technical assistance in the ?Space" award track attached
hereto as Exhibit and

WHEREAS, on September 30, 2016, the Committee, through the delegation of
authority approved by the EDC Board of Directors, approved the Staff recommendations
for business applicants to receive technical assistance in the "Design? award track
attached hereto as Exhibit and

WHEREAS, on September 30, 2016, the Committee, through the delegation of
authority approved by the EDC Board of Directors, approved a recommendation to the
EDC Board of Directors of the approval of the ?Cash? grant awards that were
recommended by Staff, attached hereto as Exhibit D.

WHEREAS, the Committee determined that the staff recommendation is
reasonable and consistent with the Motor City Match program; and

WHEREAS, EDC staff has recommended, and the Board of Directors has
determined it to be reasonable and consistent with the Motor City Match program, to grant
6-month extensions to each of the following Round 1 "Cash? Awardees: Pallets and
Trucking, Mama Rita Foods, and Coffee 

NOW, THEREFORE BE iT RESOLVED, that the EDC Board of Directors hereby
approves of the "Cash" grant awards attached hereto as Exhibit D.

BE lT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Board of Directors hereby approves that
grant amounts not fully allocated each round the remaining funds when quarterly

Page 15 of 24
500 Griswold,Suite 2200 - Deiroit,Michigon 48226 - (313) 9632940

?Cash? awards total less than $500,000) be repurposed and distributed in future rounds,
and that in such cases, Staff would have the authority to recommend more than $500,000
in ?Cash? awards in future rounds, subject to approval and recommendation of the Board.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Board of Directors hereby approves six
month extension for each of the following previously approved awardees: Pallets and
Trucking, Inc, Coffee and Mama Rita Foods, so that the one-year time limit ?Cash?
awardees have to make full use of grant funds.

BE lT FURTHER RESOLVED, that any two Of?cers, or any one of the Officers and
any one of the Authorized Agents or any two of the Authorized Agents shall
hereafter have the authority to negotiate and execute all documents, contracts, or other
papers and to take such actions as are necessary or appropriate to implement the
provisions and intent of this resolution.

BE lT FINALLY RESOLVED, that all of the acts and transactions of any Officer or
Authorized Agent of the EDC, in the name and on behalf of the EDC, relating to matters
contemplated by the foregoing resolutions, which acts would have been approved by the
foregoing resolutions, except that such acts were taken prior to the execution of these
resoiutions, are hereby in all respects confirmed, approved and ratified.

October 25, 2016

Page 16 of 24

Exhibit A
Recommended ?Business Plan? Awardees

 

 

 

 

1. Black Business Activism
A Ain?t Flat No Me . CommerCIalIzed Fine In 5 Genres

3. Detroit Mama Hub EducatIonlWeilness Center for New

. . - Moms/Families ..

Pro LLC dba The Pro Shop . Sports and ConvenIence Mart . .
5. Beta Bar Bistro Food incubator and Research Institution
6. Children Investment CDC CounCIl . Metal Springs Youth ManufacturIng Company
7.

8. Etiquette School for DetroIt Youth 

The Kid Network Infants Toddiers Preschooi, Pre- K, Latchkey 
(Before After SchooI) 

 

 

16. Mind Body SouI A coffee shop and boutique 

LA HLeeItLtILyLItanathome LL Prowde health adVIce care at home
1d LETC Triage LLC Manufacturing support through containment

serVIces/inspection

A Profes510nai SIgns graphIcs brandIng, Iogos

art serv1ces

W12. Wentzel Made Lighting and Desagn Object Production 

13 Eternal Royalty Career Shadowmg Career shadowing company for youth
.. - .
14. The Four-Star Gig Team (Subsidiary Busmess/Career Support/Development
Lot Jackson Busmess SerVIce Inc, I ServIces LL
15. Gee Wheels Transportation Service Non medical emergency transportation
LLC . service 

 

LLC ?4 Clothing and Sneaker Boutique 

4 17. Urban Intima Inc. - OnIIne retailer Intimate apparel Ioungeweer 5
18. Kings Loving Hands Adult Care CommunIty Partners SupportIng our 
IL-loLane, Homeiess

I ?19 Universal Game Masters LLC WW Video gaming for social entertainment

competitive e? games, parties and other
community events 

 

21 Tech Refresh LLC Multi-touch screen Internet cafe

52 NMP Tax. and Accounting Sel?VlCeS Provtding aid TEE. Serwces

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

23. Spin City Skating, bicyciing gLoL? ?ka_rt arena/park

24 Homeless Ambitions Real Estate and Housmg
25. Breezm DBA Prepackaged flavored gourmet popcorn
Jetta's Gourmet Popcorn LL LL .
26. GRAFFIO Graf?ti Park and Museum

27. Integrated Weilness HOiiSth WeIIness Center LL
Tax SerVIce LL Income Tax SerVIce LL
Pat's Care Away From Home I LLC LL A Chile Care Center 
30. Lee?Way Transport Furniture and Auto Transporter

-. -31 _QUQe?sButter?ieS Health Care Prowder
Rose LLC Black Rose Eyewear and Apparel 
L33. Ash Premium cigar Iounge and bar LL 2
34. Daph'Ls PartyL SuppIIes and More . LL BIrthday party suppIIes and characters 
35.39233; . It .s a Mobire food tru.cI<.
.. The Sweet LL Confection store

37 Splashing Coiors RecreatIonal business.

36433 Brett'sWavom andgt?s
ASp're Datro't One Step Shop for Artists

Page 17 of 24

40.
41.

?Mpac DetrOIt LLC A 
Double Promoted Developmental

Center

 

42.

4 

i ""144
. W45.
46.

Solution B?r'Biim 
. consulting . I.
i Liquor Laced cakes

Services A 7?
Slice of Liquor
Chandsce Catering

The ivy League LLC
3 Brothers Auto

 

47.
i 48

Unregistered 

MBS

 


50

Legacy .5. LOft L3G --

 

Mind of Peace 

$43555 ?Isre?par?aiaa 55555 

Textile Manufacturing Light lndustnal 
A Child Care Center 

Food service [catering 
FInanCIal coaching for the communIty

repair .
Landscaprng the City Of Detroit

 

Spirituai healing through Exercise 
medItatIon AU MW

Community Ar_t_s_ Cafe and SpeCIalIzed Eatery
Natural Body Products 

Page 18 of 24

Exhibit 
Recommended ?Space? Awardees

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 19 of 24

.E

1. MAC Gardens LLC EnvironmentaIIy friendly horticuIture .
EE 2. CoIIegeEEPreparaEtoryEInst.E ELife Career Coiiege Preparatory 
Anywhere ElectrIc Vehicle Charging Infrastructure 
4. Core BuiIding Services Inc ConstructIon renovation maker renew
- employer craftsman recycler
and Fitness Person Health and Fitness
StudIo . lndoorCycIIng Fitness Studio
7. Action Baby Carriers Baby carrier manufacturer 
EE _Front Line QualIty SuppIIer Quality Prowder for AutomotIve
Caribbean Baking Caribbean inspired retaII wholesale bakery
10. BIackwEoEod Credit Services Credit FnanCIaI &_EEsEEmaIIEbusmess Literacy
11. Advanced Mixology L.L.C Training fac?rty for students to become
. certi?ed bartenders servers We prowde job
pIacement assistance, staf?ng solutions, bar 
consultation retaII bar suppIIes and
bartending appeal and accessories
LLC We provide expedited shIppIng services. .
13_E.E_EPeace Meal KItchen LE3EEC Food for cross-cultural awareness 
14. Detroit Sign Factory Custom EsigEnE manufacturer 
LogIstIcs DIstrIbutIon SolutIon to Tire BIIght Issues 
_s Ginger Tea Ready to drink beverage company
EE EE 17. Affordable Abatement& InspectIons Asbestos InspectIon abatement& monItorIng
Grill King Barbecue grill fabricator 
. Home Care LLC in Home Care for EIderiy 8; Veterans
. 20. Shears And ShaVIng LLC Master Barber Service EE
In Action and FamEin Counseling 
22. Simple Elegance Wedding Event Wedding Event Planning
Planning . 
TeatErOIter LLC For You Tea Company 
EE 24. Detroit's Potato Lady EiFast Casual American Food 
i 25 Aaron Estate Sales Estate Sales l_ Estate LIqusdatIon

Exhibit 
Recommended ?Design? Awardees

 

 

 

I 7 A Local Farm Grocer and Dinerw 
"Terri 5 Cakes Detroit .4 . Boutique Specaalty Bakery
3. Singing Tree Garden Natural Resources Management 
40 Neal Contracting Group, LLC . i Commercral Construction Carpentry
?it . What Up DoughTM 7_ Frozen COOKIE Dough and lcebergersTM
6.


Page 20 of 24

The Natural MarkeN Winandmade Bath Body, Home Essentials 
Revwe My Skin . . 7 . ELPremIere lnnOVative Skin" Care Boutique

Exhibit 
Recommended ?Cash? Awardees

1. The N'Namdi Center for Contemporary Art. Recommended investment grant
of $80,000.

The N?Namdi Center for Contemporary Art presents diverse, multi?disciplinary art
experiences and serves to promote and perpetuate the cultural legacy of African-American
and African diasporic art. Owner George N?Namdi is seeking to open a second location at
4230 Grand River Ave that will include an art incubator, co?working space, gallery and
educational platform that connects creatives to unconventional business opportunities and
cultivates the establishment of new small businesses. There are currently 3 retail spaces
lined up to fill the new center including a gallery by a Chicago curator, a photography
studio and production company.

Total investment for this project is $215,445. The owners have invested approximately
$63,500 in equity, leaving a gap of $151,945. A recommended grant of $80,000 will be
used to execute construction, activate the arts incubator, co?working space and real
galleries. The business is pursuing financing in partnership with Motor City Match lending
partners in the amount of approximately $71,945. The grant award is contingent upon
securing the necessary funding for the project and completion of all due diligence
requirements necessary for building and business compliance.

2. The Wise Decision. Recommended investment grant of $65,000.

The Wise Decision is a full-service health and fitness business that offers customized
fitness training, nutrition and weight management counseling including healthy cooking
classes, and corrective exercise clinics designed to reduce common injuries. Sterling
Wise, a certified personal trainer and fitness professional for nine years, and spouse
Kamelia Wise, a Doctor of Physical Therapy, have owned The Wise Decision for seven
years. They are seeking to open a new location at 7640 Kercheval to improve the quality
of life for Detroiters

Total investment for this project is $220,000. The owners have invested approximately
$155,000 in equity and debt, leaving a gap of $65,000. A recommended grant of $65,000
will be used to complete renovations, purchase equipment and fund a marketing
campaign. The business has already secured financing in partnership with Motor City
Match lending partners. The grant award is contingent upon completion of all due diligence
requirements necessary for building and business compliance.

3. Plum Health Direct Primary Care. Recommended investment grant of
$50,000.

Plum Health Direct Primary Care is a new business that will provide an alternative to the
traditional fee~for?service model. Direct Primary Care emphasizes wellness, prevention,
communication and personalized patient relationships to create the best health outcomes
possible. For a fee, members receive primary health care services that are
tailored to their individual needs - including annual check-ups, urgent care services as

Page 21 of 24

well as direct and unrestricted access to their doctor through call, text, email or in~person
visits. The business will locate at 60? Shelby.

Total investment for this project is $105,150. The owners have invested approximately
$10,000 in equity, leaving a gap of $95,150. A recommended grant of $50,000 will be used
for buildout costs as well as expenses of starting and operating the business. The
business is pursuing ?nancing in partnership with Motor City Match lending partners in the
amount of approximately $45,000. The grant award is contingent upon securing the
necessary funding for the project and completion of all due diligence requirements
necessary for building and business compliance.

4. The Kenilworth Club. Recommended investment grant of $50,000.

The Kenilworth Club is a neighborhood restaurant and bar that includes a food incubator
and restaurant accelerator, seeking to open at 9425 John R. The restaurant, serving New
Orleans inspired cuisine with a West African twist, includes a true farm-uto?table model
using ingredients cultivated from a community urban agriculture garden located
directly behind the space. The commercial kitchen space will also be used to host private
events, community gatherings and pop-up chefs that will comprise 20% of the restaurant?s
menu.

The concept offers an evolving culinary enterprise that lives, breathes, and changes
according to what?s in season, dishes dreamed by up-and?coming chefs and feedback on
what neighbors crave.

Total investment for this project is $172,000. The owners have invested approximately
$20,000 in equity, leaving a gap of $152,000. A recommended grant of $50,000 will be
used for construction, kitchen and bar buildout and equipment. The business is pursuing
financing in partnership with Motor City Match lending partners in the amount of
approximately $102,000.

The grant award is contingent upon securing the necessary funding for the project and
completion of all due diligence requirements necessary for building and business
compliance.

5. Social Sushi. Recommended investment grant of $45,000.

Social Sushi is a social collision lounge with Japanese cuisine. In addition to fresh, quality
food, the restaurant creates a space for strangers to feel open to connect with other
people. By hiring young people, returning citizens, and local creatives, the business wants
their combined passion to be an element of the space. They also plan to support local
business from ingredients to design and create physical access to a one of a kind
gathering space. The business will locate at 16647 Livernois, next to Lives, in a previous
Motor City Match winner?s space and across the street from University of Detroit Mercy.

Total investment for this project is $110,000. The owners have invested approximately
$30,000 in equity, leaving a gap of $80,000. A recommended grant of $45,000 will be used
for kitchen and bar construction, commercial kitchen equipment and seating. The business
is pursuing financing in partnership with Motor City Match lending partners in the amount
of approximately $35,000. The grant award is contingent upon securing the necessary

Page 22 of 24

funding for the project and completion of all due diligence requirements necessary for
building and business compliance.

6. The Detroit Marshmallow Company. Recommended investment grant of
$10,000.

The Detroit Marshmallow Company produces gluten?free marshmallows currently sold at
Eastern Market and other local food markets. They are seeking to open a production
facility at 17215 Mack Ave that aims to be the only dedicated gluten-free kitchen in the
city. The kitchen will also be shared with other local small batch producers.

Total investment for this project is $20,839. The owners have invested approximately
$2,750 in equity, leaving a gap of $18,089. A recommended grant of $10,000 will be used
for building upgrades, kitchen equipment, working capital and facade improvements. The
business is pursuing ?nancing in partnership with Motor City Match lending partners in the
amount of approximately $8,089. The grant award is contingent upon securing the
necessary funding for the project and completion of all due diligence requirements
necessary for building and business compliance.

Page 23 of 24

. . CODE EDC 16-09-01-187
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit

 

ADMINISTRATION: EDC AUDITED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND 
REPORT AS OF JUNE 30., 2016

RESOLVED, THAT THE Board of Directors of the Economic Development
Corporation (the hereby receives the EDC Audited Financial Statements and
Management Report as of June 30, 2016, with comparative totals as of June 30, 2015, as
prepared by George Johnson and Company, Certi?ed Public Accountants.

October 25, 2016

Page 24 of 24
500 Griswold,Sui?re 2200 Detroit, Michigan 48226 - (313) 9632940

