Detroit Water and Sewerage
Department
Meeting Minutes - Final

735 Randolph
Detroit, Michigan 48226
(313) 224-4704 Office
www.dwsd.legistar.com

Board of Water Commissioners
Wednesday, March 7, 2018

3:00 PM

5th Floor Board Room, Water Board Building

Special Meeting No. 2

1.

CALL TO ORDER
Chairman Einheuser called the meeting to order at 3:42 p.m.

2.

ROLL CALL
Present:

3.

7 - Commissioner Linda Forte, Commissioner John Henry Davis, Commissioner
Michael Einheuser, Commissioner Lane Coleman, Commissioner Pamela
Rodgers, Commissioner Jane Garcia and Commissioner Mary Blackmon

APPROVAL OF AGENDA
Chairman Einheuser requested approval of the agenda.
A motion was made by Commissioner Mary Blackmon, seconded by
Commissioner Linda Forte that the agenda be approved. The motion carried
by a unanimous vote.

4.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES
There were none.

5.

PUBLIC COMMENTS (2 minutes per speaker)
There were none.

6.

ITEMS FROM THE COMMISSIONERS
There were none.

7.

UNFINISHED BUSINESS
There were none.

8.
A.

NEW BUSINESS

18-0030

The Board of Water Commissioners for the City of Detroit, Water and Sewerage
Department authorizes the Director to enter into a settlement agreement
between DWSD and Jonathan Kenniburg regarding a personal injury claim

Detroit Water and Sewerage Department

Page 1

 Board of Water Commissioners

Meeting Minutes - Final

March 7, 2018

filed by Mr. Kenniburg against DWSD. The Agreement is intended to settle
all the claims alleged by the Plaintiff in Wayne County Circuit Court Case
Number 15-001843-NO, entitled Jonathan Kenniburg v. City of Detroit ;
and also authorizes the Director and General Counsel to take such other action as
may be necessary to accomplish the intent of this vote.
Sponsors:

Pospiech

A motion was made by Commissioner Mary Blackmon, seconded by
Commissioner Linda Forte that this be approved. The motion carried by a
unanimous vote.

B.

18-0031

The Board of Water Commissioners for the City of Detroit, Water and Sewerage
Department authorizes the Director to enter into a settlement agreement
between DWSD and Darryl Shavers regarding a personal injury claim filed
by Mr. Shavers against DWSD. The Agreement is intended to settle all the
claims alleged by the Plaintiff in Wayne County Circuit Court Case Number
15-001843-NO, entitled Darryl Shavers v. City of Detroit; and also authorizes
the Director and General Counsel to take such other action as may be necessary to
accomplish the intent of this vote.
Sponsors:

Pospiech

A motion was made by Commissioner Linda Forte, seconded by Commissioner
Mary Blackmon that this be approved. The motion carried by a unanimous
vote.

C.

18-0044

The Board of Water Commissioners for the City of Detroit, Water and Sewerage
Department authorizes the Director to enter into a Class Action Settlement
Agreement in the matter of James Abbott, et al vs. City of Detroit, et al
regarding Industrial Waste Control charges assessed between November
2014 and August 2017. This Agreement is intended to settle all of the
claims of all members who join the Class in the above captioned matter; and
also authorizes the Director and General Counsel to take such other action as may
be necessary to accomplish the intent of this vote.
Sponsors:

Pospiech

A motion was made by Commissioner Pamela Rodgers, seconded by
Commissioner Linda Forte that this Case Settlement, Other be approved. The
motion carried by a unanimous vote.

D.

18-0046

The Board of Water Commissioners for the City of Detroit Water Sewerage
Department authorizes the Director to 1) Approve the Collective Bargaining
Agreement 2018-2021 between the Detroit Water and Sewerage
Department and AFSCME-Local 2920; and 2) Authorize the Director to
execute the Collective Bargaining Agreement 2018-2021 between the
Detroit Water and Sewerage Department and AFSCME-Local 2920, and
also authorize the Director to take such other action as may be necessary to

Detroit Water and Sewerage Department

Page 2

 Board of Water Commissioners

Meeting Minutes - Final

accomplish the intent of this vote.
Sponsors:

Pospiech

A motion was made by Commissioner John Henry Davis, seconded by
Commissioner Mary Blackmon that this Contract, Collective Bargaining be
approved. The motion carried by a unanimous vote.

9.

DIRECTOR'S COMMENTS
There were none.

10.

COMMENTS BY COMMISSIONERS
There were none.

11.

COMMENTS BY THE CHAIR
There were none.

12.

OTHER MATTERS
There were none.

13.

ADJOURNMENT
Chairman Einheuser requested a motion to adjourn.
A motion was made by Commissioner Mary Blackmon, seconded by
Commissioner Pamela Rodgers that the meeting be adjourned. The motion
carried by a unanimous vote.

There being no furhter business, the meeting adjourned at 3:50 p.m.

Detroit Water and Sewerage Department

Page 3

March 7, 2018

 