Forest Preserve District of Cook County
Board of Commissioners
Real Estate Committee
Tuesday, April 24, 2018

10:45 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA
There will be a meeting of the committee or subcommittee of the Forest Preserve District of
Cook County Board of Commissioners at the date, time and location listed above.
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in writing,
their name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in advance of the
meeting. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a time specified in
the meeting agenda. Authorized public speakers who are not present during the specified time for public
testimony will forfeit their allotted time to speak at the meeting. Public testimony must be germane to a
specific item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not exceed three minutes; the Secretary
will keep track of the time and advise when the time for public testimony has expired. Persons authorized
to provide public testimony shall not use vulgar, abusive, or otherwise inappropriate language when
addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately; failure to speak to an item that is germane to the
meeting, or failure to adhere to the time requirements may result in expulsion from the meeting and/or
disqualify the person from providing future testimony.
18-0232
COMMITTEE MINUTES

Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 2/6/2018

 Real Estate Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

April 24, 2018

18-0164
Presented by: ARNOLD RANDALL, General Superintendent
PROPOSED LICENSE AMENDMENT REQUEST
Request:
Requesting authorization for the Forest Preserve District of Cook County (the “Forest
Preserves”), as Licensor to renew a License to the Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater
Chicago (“MWRD”), Grantee, to locate, operate and maintain a temporary pump station and above grade
pipes on Forest Preserves land in Miller Meadow along First Avenue to bypass the existing Salt Creek
intercepting sewer (the “Facilities”). The Forest Preserves granted License 1722-2 to MWRD for the
Facilities for a two (2) year term which expired on 3/1/2018. Due to weather conditions MWRD requests
a one-year extension to complete the work and restoration of the impacted areas. The total one-time
upfront License Fee of $6,829.97 for a one-year term is waived according to the Memorandum of
Understanding approved on 5/11/2017 between the Forest Preserves and MWRD to cooperate in the
mutual waiver of permit, license, and other fees for beneficial public works projects.
Term: One (1) year, retroactive to 3/2/2018
License Fee: $6,149.97 - waived per MOU
License Application Fee: $50.00 - waived per MOU
YELAR Fee: $630.00 - waived per MOU

Total one-time upfront fee $6,829.97 - waived per MOU for the term of the License
(Sec. 5-2A-4 and 5-2B-4)
Tree Mitigation Fee: N/A
The area of the License is: 0.73 Acres
Concurrence(s):
The Chief Financial Officer and Chief Attorney have approved this item.

Grantee has met the insurance requirements under the License Agreement.
Forest Preserves staff have reviewed this license application and plans and have found them to be
acceptable; therefore, it is recommended that the Forest Preserves Board of Commissioners approve the
issuance of this license.
District(s): 1

Page 2 of 3

 Real Estate Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

Legislative History: 3/13/18 FPD Board of Commissioners refer to the Real Estate Committee

Secretary
Chairman:
Moody
Vice-Chairman: Moore
Members:
Committee of the Whole

Page 3 of 3

April 24, 2018

 