MINUTES OF MEETING
WAYNE COUNTY ELECTION COMMISSION
THURSDAY, APRIL 13, 2017 – 2:15 P.M.
COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL BUILDING - ROOM 700C
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

Call to Order:

The meeting was called to order at 2:18 p.m., Thursday, April 13, 2017.

Members present: Honorable Freddie G. Burton, Jr., Chief Judge, Probate Court
Honorable Eric Sabree, Member – Wayne County Treasurer
Honorable Cathy M. Garrett, Secretary – Wayne County Clerk
Also present:

Janet Anderson-Davis, Assistant Corporation Counsel
Delphine G. Oden, Director, Wayne County Elections
Jennifer Redmond, Assistant Director
Rendell Wooden
Rodney Patrick

Agenda item:

Consideration of Agenda approval.
Board action on agenda item: Chair Burton requested a motion
to approve the agenda. Member Garrett, duly supported by
Member Sabree, moved to adopt the agenda as submitted. The
motion was adopted unanimously by a voice vote.

Agenda item:

Approval of Minutes of March 23, 2017
Board action on agenda item: Chair Burton requested a motion
to approve the minutes of the meeting held on March 23, 2017.
Member Sabree, duly supported by Member Garrett, moved to
approve the minutes of the meeting held on March 23, 2017. The
motion was adopted unanimously by a voice vote.

Agenda item:

Determination of Clarity: Rodney Patrick, City Council, City of
Highland Park
Chair Burton asked Assistant Corporation Counsel Janet AndersonDavis to remind the commission of its role in determining clarity.
Assistant Corporation Counsel Anderson-Davis reminded the
commission of its role and duties for a determination of clarity.
Anderson-Davis read the statute regarding the role of the Election
Commission in regards to recall petitions and stated that there was
litigation before Judge Levy in Federal Court in which she issued an
opinion regarding recall petitions.

 Anderson-Davis summarized the commission’s role when reviewing
petitions and what the commission should consider
Board action on agenda item: Chair Burton requested a motion
regarding item 5A-1.
Reason for recall as printed on the Recall Petition 5A-1 for Rodney
Patrick:
“Rodney Patrick is currently under investigation by the FBI for
accepting bribes.”
Chair Burton, moved to bring item 5A-1 before the commission for
the purpose of discussion and to determine that the language is
sufficiently clear.
Member Garrett recused herself from the proceedings due to
personal relationships on both sides.
Chair Burton asked if there were any comments regarding the
petition. Councilman Rodney Patrick made comments in opposition
to the petition being approved.
Member Sabree, duly supported by Chair Burton, moved to
approve item 5A-1 and determine that the language on the petition
is sufficiently clear. The motion was adopted unanimously by a
voice vote.
Agenda item:

New Business. None

Agenda item:

Public Comment. Mr. Patrick asked what the process for
appealing this decision was. Mr. Patrick was advised where to file
his appeal.

Agenda item:

Adjournment. Chair Burton requested a motion to adjourn.
Member Garrett, duly supported by Member Sabree, moved to
adjourn the meeting. The motion was adopted unanimously by a
voice vote.
Meeting adjourned at 2:32 p.m.

 