MINUTES OF MEETING
WAYNE COUNTY ELECTION COMMISSION
TUESDAY, MARCH 7, 2017 – 2:15 P.M.
COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL BUILDING - ROOM 700A
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

Call to Order:

The meeting was called to order at 2:15 p.m., Tuesday, March 7, 2017.

Members present: Honorable Freddie G. Burton, Jr., Chief Judge, Probate Court
Honorable Eric Sabree, Member – Wayne County Treasurer
Honorable Cathy M. Garrett, Secretary – Wayne County Clerk
Also present:

Janet Anderson-Davis, Assistant Corporation Counsel
Delphine G. Oden, Consultant, Wayne County Elections
Jennifer Redmond, Acting Assistant Director
Jina Sawani
Rendell Wooden
Glenda McDonald
Alexis L. Ramsey
June Ridley
Greg Mahar
Kelly Garrett
Abena Hogan
Linda G. Wheeler

Agenda item:

Consideration of Agenda approval.
Board action on agenda item: Chair Burton requested a motion
to approve the agenda. Member Garrett, duly supported by
Member Sabree, moved to adopt the agenda as submitted. The
motion was adopted unanimously by a voice vote.

Agenda item:

Approval of Minutes of February 28, 2017
Board action on agenda item: Chair Burton requested a motion
to approve the minutes of the meeting held on February 28, 2017.
Member Sabree, duly supported by Chair Burton, moved to
approve the minutes of the meeting held on February 28, 2017. The
motion was adopted unanimously by a voice vote.

Agenda item:

Determination of Clarity: Glenda McDonald, City Council, City
of Highland Park

 Chair Burton asked Assistant Corporation Counsel Janet AndersonDavis to remind the commission of its role in determining clarity.
Assistant Corporation Counsel Anderson-Davis reminded the
commission of its role and duties for a determination of clarity.
Anderson-Davis read the statute regarding the role of Election
Commission in regard to recall petition and stated that there was
litigation before Judge Levy in Federal Court in which she issued an
opinion regarding recall petitions.
Anderson-Davis summarized the commission’s role when reviewing
petitions and what the commission should consider.
Board action on agenda item: Chair Burton requested a motion
regarding item 5A-1. Member Garrett recused herself from the
proceedings due to personal relationships and not to appear bias.
Reason for recall as printed on the Recall Petition 5A-1 for Glenda
McDonald:
“Glenda McDonald is currently being investigated by the FBI for
accepting bribes.”
Member Sabree, duly supported by Chair Burton, moved to bring
5A-1 before the commission for the purpose of discussion and to
determine that the language is sufficiently clear. Discussion ensued
between Chair Burton and Corporation Counsel Anderson-Davis.
The motion was adopted unanimously by a voice vote.
Agenda item:

Determination of Clarity: Glenda McDonald, Council City, City
of Highland Park
Reason for recall as printed on the Recall Petition 5A-2 for Glenda
McDonald:
“Glenda McDonald voted yes to approve the sell of Ford Middle
School to a private developer for $2000 when the appraised value
of the property was in excess of $300,000.”
Board action on agenda item: Chair Burton requested a motion
regarding the language on petition 5A-2. Member Sabree moved to
determine that the language is sufficiently clear. The motion dies for
lack of support.

Agenda item:

New Business. None

 Agenda item:

Public Comment.
Glenda McDonald made a comment regarding a previous recall
petition she filed against Robert Davis.

Agenda item:

Adjournment. Chair Burton requested a motion to adjourn.
Member Sabree, duly supported by Member Garrett, moved to
adjourn the meeting. The motion was adopted unanimously by a
voice vote.
Meeting adjourned at 2:28 p.m.

 