Allegheny County Council
436 Grant Street
Pittsburgh, PA 15219
Phone (412) 350-6490
Fax (412) 350-6499

Meeting Minutes
Wednesday, February 14, 2018
4:00 PM

Conference Room 1

Committee on Public Works
Bob Macey, Chair; Sam DeMarco, Cindy Kirk, Paul Klein, Robert Palmosina, Denise
Ranalli-Russell and DeWitt Walton, Members

 Committee on Public Works

Meeting Minutes

February 14, 2018

I. Call to Order
The meeting was called to order at 4:00.

Invited Guests:
William D. McKain, CPA, Allegheny County Manager or designee(s)
Stephen Shanley, Director, Allegheny County Department of Public Works
Mr. McKain was present from the Office of the County Manager.
Mr. Shanley, Mr. Dillon and Mr. Thompson were present from the Department of Public
Works.
Mr. Barker was present from the Office of County Council.

II. Roll Call
Members Present:

2-

Robert Palmosina andBob Macey

Members Absent:

4-

Cindy Kirk,Paul Klein,Denise Ranalli-Russell andDeWitt Walton

Members Phone:

1-

Sam DeMarco

Members
Non-Members:

1-

John Palmiere

III. Approval of Minutes
IV. Agenda Items
Ordinances

10493-18

An Ordinance authorizing the County of Allegheny to acquire by condemnation
certain right-of-way and temporary construction easement areas from a parcel
required to stabilize the slope supporting Tarentum Culmerville Road south of
Allegheny Valley Expressway (SR 28) in Tarentum Borough, and to take such further
action as may be necessary under applicable law, including the Eminent Domain
Code.

Sponsors: Chief Executive

At the request of the Chair, the clerk read the title of the bill and Mr. McKain summarized
its provisions, noting that all three of the items on the agenda are similar, and that
eminent domain is regarded as a last resort, only pursued when the Department of Public
Works has done everything in its power to acquire rights of way or easements through
negotiation. Mr. McKain described the process by which properties are appraised, and
indicated that the County and property owners usually do manage to reach an agreement
when owners can be identified. Mr. McKain indicated that the project related to the
instant ordinance is 100% County funded, but that time deadlines can come into play for
projects that receive federal funding, and this can impact the decision about whether or
when to proceed with the eminent domain process. Mr. McKain briefly discussed the
procedure by which the purchase price is paid to the court and held when one or more
owners cannot be identified or located.
Allegheny County Council

Page 1

Printed on 4/26/2018

 Committee on Public Works

Meeting Minutes

February 14, 2018

In response to a question from the Chair, Mr. Shanley noted that some of the takings
authorized by the ordinance are temporary, while others are permanent.
In response to a question from Mr. Palmiere, Mr. Shanley described the landslide that
necessitated the instant repair work, and Mr. McKain highlighted the importance of
restoring the roadway in question to full functionality.
In response to a question from Mr. Palmiere, Mr. Dillon noted that there are no structures
on any of the property that would be acquired or used by the County under the terms of
this ordinance.
A motion was made by Palmosina, seconded by Macey, that this matter be
Affirmatively Recommended. The motion carried by a unanimous vote.

10494-18

An Ordinance authorizing the County of Allegheny to acquire by condemnation
certain right-of-way and easement areas from six parcels required to reconstruct
Dooker’s Hollow Bridge in North Braddock Borough, and to take such further action
as may be necessary under applicable law, including the Eminent Domain Code.

Sponsors: Chief Executive

At the request of the Chair, the clerk read the title of the bill and Mr.Shanley provided a
summary of its provisions, noting that the bridge in question is structurally deficient and
posted at a lower than normal weight limit as a result. Mr. McKain and Mr. Shanley noted
that several property owners in the area had reached agreements with the County through
negotiations.
In response to a question from the Chair, Mr. Thompson described the bridge's condition.
Mr. McKain indicated that one of the parcels involved in the potential eminent domain
process is owned jointly by six heirs who are not necessarily in agreement about the
property, and the project is subject to federally imposed deadlines.
In response to a question from Mr. Palmosina, Mr. Dillon described the appraisal process
and discussed how appraisers are selected.
In response to a question from Mr. Palmosina, Mr. Thompson described the scope of the
project, noting that debris from the bridge is actually falling into residental yards
underneath the bridge.
Mr. McKain noted that some of the parcels that may be involved in the eminent domain
process do have structures built on them.
In response to a question from Mr. DeMarco, Mr. McKain, Mr. Shanley and Mr. Dillon
indicated that none of the parcels subject to the terms of the ordinance would ential any
demolition work, but also noted that the County has reached a negotiated agreement with
another owner that will result in a home being demolished.
A motion was made by DeMarco , seconded by Palmosina, that this matter be
Affirmatively Recommended. The motion carried by a unanimous vote.

10495-18

Allegheny County Council

An Ordinance authorizing the County of Allegheny to acquire by condemnation
certain right-of-way and temporary construction easement areas from five parcels
Page 2

Printed on 4/26/2018

 Committee on Public Works

Meeting Minutes

February 14, 2018

required to reconstruct Kenmawr Bridge carrying Kenmawr Ave/South Braddock
Ave over Norfolk Southern Railway in the Boroughs of Rankin and Swissvale, and to
take such further action as may be necessary under applicable law, including the
Eminent Domain Code.
Sponsors: Chief Executive

At the request of the Chair, the clerk read the title of the bill.
The Chair expressed support for the project, and indicated that he is personally familiar
with the bridge in question because he frequently travels on it.
In response to a question from the Chair, Mr. Shanley noted that a temprary bridge would
be built next to the existing one in order to handle traffic flow during construction.
Mr. Shanley described the rehabilitation project, noting that the bridge is classified as
structurally deficient and subject to a lower than normal weight limit. Mr. Shanley also
indicated that PennDOT would be managing the construction process, and summarized
the Department's efforts at reaching and negotiating with the various property owners. Mr.
Shanley noted that, while these negotiations were ongoing in some cases, the project is
time sensitive and lengthy delays in negotiations would likely be problematic.
Mr. McKain noted that two of the parcels subject to the terms of the ordinance do have
houses built on them that would be demolished.
In response to a question from Mr. Palmosina, Mr. Shanley noted that one of the houses
is occupied by a rental tenant who is moving out, and that he believes the other house in
question is vacant.
Mr. Dillon indicated that there are various leins on both of the parcels with homes built on
them, and that the cleanest way to proceed under those circumstances is likely to pay
the eminent domain price to the Court and to let the creditors determine how to distribute
it amongst themselves.
In response to a question from Mr. DeMarco, Mr. Shanley discussed the methods used to
reach property owners, and noted that these efforts must be documented as part of the
eminent domain process as established by statute. Mr. McKain indicated that the
County had appraisals performed for the relevant parcels, and Mr. Dillon noted that
property owners are always free to have their own appraisals done if they should wish to
do so.
In response to a question from the Chair, Mr. Dillon discussed potential timelines, noting
that, while PennDOT will have the final say over managing the construction, the most
likely start date is in 2019.
A motion was made by DeMarco , seconded by Palmosina, that this matter be
Affirmatively Recommended. The motion carried by a unanimous vote.

Discussion Topic - Public Works Departmental Update
The Chair thanked the Department for ceating the presentation that the Committee was
about to view, and Mr. McKain thanked everyone for their assistance.
Mr. Shanley, Mr. Dillon and Mr. Thompson gave a presentation and provided a handout
highlighting the Department's bridge, road, retaining wall, in-house, utility and park
Allegheny County Council

Page 3

Printed on 4/26/2018

 Committee on Public Works

Meeting Minutes

February 14, 2018

projects competed in 2017.
In response to a question from Mr. Palmosina, Mr. Shanley discussed the difference
between contracted and in-house projects.
The Chair, Mr. Palmosina and Mr. McKain discussed the wisdom of undertaking retaining
wall projects pro-actively, rather than waiting for problems to manifest.
In response to a question from the Chair, Mr. Thompson noted that the County's milling
machine is expensive to maintain, but not significantly more so than other machines of
the same type, and indicated that the County performs maintenance internally to the
extent possible.
In response to a question from Mr. Palmiere, Mr. Thompson noted that there are about
12 people on the Department's milling and paving crew, and that seasonal help is hired to
handle flagging and some other similar duties. Mr. Thompson indicated that the paint
crew is separate from the paving crew, and is comprised of about employees.
Mr. Thompson briefly discussed the specific equipment acquired and used by the
Department for paving projects.
In response to a question from the Chair, Mr. Thompson discussed what is done with
debris from storm drain cleanings.
Mr. Palmosina, Mr. McKain and Mr. Thompson discussed the price of two Vactor trucks
that the County has purchased, and the potential merits of having camera equipment to
help identify issues relating to storm drain maintenance.
The Chair, Mr. Palmosina and Mr. Shanley discussed efforts to coordinance and plan
road and utility projects, in order to avoid multiple disturbances to roadway surfaces to
the extent possible.
Mr. McKain summarized the County's ice and snow responses to date during the current
winter.
Mr. Palmosina expressed support for the Department's activities, noting that spending
wisely and pro-actively on maintenance ultimately saves money in the long run.
The Chair expressed his personal appreciation for the Department's willingness and
ability to address pothole issues quickly, and noted that the supplemental $5.00 vehicle
registration fee authorized under Act 89 has been of great assistance to the Department
in its endeavors.
In response to a question from the Chair, Mr. McKain noted that small municipalities
often ask that the County assume ownership of their small bridges, rather than offering to
do the reverse. Mr. Dillon indicated that small bridges often are either on County-owned
roads or go over streams that are themselves the boundary between two municipalities,
and therefore are not completely located in one or the other municipality.
In response to a remark by the Chair, Mr. Shanley indicated tha the Department attempts
to use prefabricated culverts and bridges to the extent possible.
In response to a question by the Chair, Mr. Thompson noted that the Sunoco pipeline
may have an effect on Homestead Duquesne Road, but that it is too early to tell for
Allegheny County Council

Page 4

Printed on 4/26/2018

 Committee on Public Works

Meeting Minutes

February 14, 2018

certain, and Mr. Dillon suggested that Pangburn Hollow Road may also be affected to
some extent.
The Chair and Mr. Palmosina complemented the Department on its presentation.

V. Adjournment
The meeting adjourned at 5:08.

Allegheny County Council

Page 5

Printed on 4/26/2018

 