 . CODE EDC 17-03-02-277
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF FEBRUARY 14, 2017 MEETING

RESOLVED, that the minutes of the Regular meeting of February 14, 2017 are
hereby approved and all actions taken by the Directors present at such meeting, as set
forth in such minutes, are hereby in all respects ratified and approved as actions of the
Economic Development Corporation.

March 7, 2017

Page 1 of 21
500 Griswold,Suite 2200 - Detroit,Michigon 48226 - (313) 963-2940

ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
BOARD OF DIRECTORS REGULAR MEETING
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2017 8:30 A.M.

BOARD MEMBERS PRESENT: Marsha Bruhn

BOARD MEMBERS ABSENT:

SPECIAL DIRECTORS
PRESENT:

SPECIAL DIRECTORS
ABSENT:

OTHERS PRESENT:

Kimberly Clayson
Chris Jackson
Jonathan Queries
Wiiliam Ritsema
Matthew Roling
Thomas Staliwor?rh

Maurice Cox (Ex-Officio)
Monique Ciaiborne
Linda Forte

John Naglick (Ex-Of?cio)

None

None

CIeveIand Daily 
John Ga?agher (Free Press)
Lily Hamburger 
Chris Heston (MCCI)

Maiinda Jensen 
Jennifer Kanatos 
Sharon McMurray (MCCI)
Rebecoa Navin 
Michael Rafferty 
Will Tamminga 
Adrienne Zeigier 

Page 2 of 21



Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit

MINUTES OF THE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
BOARD OF DIRECTORS REGULAR MEETING

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2017

DETROIT ECONOMIC GROWTH CORPORATION

500 GRISWOLD, SUITE 2200 - 8:30 AM.

CALL TO ORDER

Noting that a quorum was present, William Ritsema, Secretary and Acting Chair, called
the Regular meeting of the Economic Development Corporation Board of Directors to
order at 8:34 am.

GENERAL

Approval of Minutes

Mr. Ritsema asked if there were any additions, deletions or corrections to the minutes of
the January 10, 2017 Regular Board meeting. Hearing none, the Board took the following

ac?on:

On a motion by Ms. Bruhn, seconded by Mr. Roling, Resolution Code EDC 17-02-
02-276 was unanimously approved.

Receipt of Treasurer?s Report

Ms. Kanalos reviewed the Treasurer?s Reports of Receipts and Disbursements for the
month of December, 2016 for the benefit of the Board and responded to questions.

Subsequent to the discussion, the Board took the following action:

On a motion by Mr. Jackson, seconded by Mr. Roling, Resolution Code EDC 17-
02-03 210 was unanimously approved.

Mr. Jackson requested an update on the disbursements from the Casino Loan fund at the
next meeting.

PROJECTS

Small Business and Commercial Corridor Revitalization Pro ram: Neiqhborhood
Market Retail and Opportunity Study

Ms. Hamburger advised that the Economic Development Corporation (EDC) of the City of
Detroit currently administers programs to revitalize Detroit's commercial corridors and
grow neighborhood business investment using Community Development Block Grant

Februar 14, 2016
Page 3 of 21

500 Griswold,SUiTe 2200 DetroitMichigon 48226 . (313) 963?2940

 funds from the City of Detroit. The EDC entered into a subrecipient agreement
with the City (Contract #2899173) to manage and implement these programs for a term
ending December 31, 2017.

Programs aim to provide four core activities in order to increase economic activity and
physical revitalization of commercial areas throughout the City of Detroit:

1. Attract new email businesses and real estate investment
2. Retain and expand existing small businesses
3. improve the physical environment along commercial corridors

4. Develop new tools to support business attraction, retention and expansion,
and physical investments

The first part of this initiative is Motor City Match, which connects new or expanding
businesses with Detroit?s vacant commercial real estate. The program provides
competitive grants, loans and counseling to both building owners and businesses through
a quarterly application process.

in 2017, the EDC anticipates iaunching a new facade improvement program to grow and
retain Detroit?s existing businesses while improving the physical condition of commercial
corridors. The EDC anticipates that the new program will follow a format similar to Motor
City Match.

The EDC solicited bid proposals on December 16, 2016 for a retail market anaiysis and
neighborhood opportunity study to inform planning and impiementation of the small
business development and commercial corridor revitalization programs. This inciudes a
citywide and commercial corridor retail market analysis, commercial real estate
opportunity study, pro-development activities for priority properties and blocks, marketing
and promotionai materials for neighborhood commercial corridors, and robust community
engagement throughout the process. The basis for EDC contract awards were based on
federal procurement policies set forth in 24 CFR 85.36. The scope of work was presented
in Exhibit A attached to the memorandum (the ?Work").

EDC staff received eight (8) proposals. Staff has reviewed all proposals and recommends
Streetsense, LLC. to provide the Work, as the most responsive bidder. Streetsense brings
national expertise in retail market analysis and internationally recognized urban
architecture, real estate, and branding/marketing experience. Highlights of their previous
work include a grocery strategy for Flint, Ml, a retail analysis for Montgomery County,
Maryland, and the development of a ?Vibrant Streets Toolkit? for several neighborhoods in
Washington, DC, where Streetsense was active in community education and
implementation of the toolkit strategies as well. Streetsense offered the best combination
of technical expertise, experience, and price, as well as a spirit of collaboration and
communication that bodes well for the complexity of the work. Streetsense proposed a
lump sum fee of Four Hundred Sixty-One Thousand Five Hundred and 00/100 

The EDC staff requested authorization from the Board to enter into a Professional
Services Agreement between Firm and EDC for a base contract amount homo-exceed

February 14, 2016
Page 4 of 21

Four Hundred Sixty-One Thousand Five Hundred and 00/100 ($461,500) to provide the
proposed Work in accordance with the Request for Proposal dated December 16,
2016. Further, the EDC staff recommended an owner?s contingency of 15% of the contract
amount to manage unforeseen conditions or additional work forthe term of the agreement.
The Board questioned the need for a 15 percent contingency and requested that the
contingency be reduced to 5 to 10 percent, leaving that up to staff. Ms. Navin stated that
5 percent should be enough and will amend the resolution.

The resolution was included for the Board?s review and approval.

Following a discussion, the Board requested that they be provided a list of the
names and business addresses of the other seven consultants who responded to the RFP.

The Board also requested a quarterly update on the progress of this Study until
completion.

Subsequent to the discussion, the Board took the following action:

On a motion by Mr. Jackson, seconded by Mr. Staiiworth, Resolution Code EDC
17?02?91?39 was unanimously approved, as amended.

Mr. Stallworth stated that he would like to hear from the DEGC President on the roles of
the various entities and how all this fits together. Ms. Jensen replied that she wouid ask
Rod Miller to speak to the Board at a future meeting.

For Information Only: Motor City Match: Personai Services Contract for Michael
2017 Consultant Services

Mr. Rafferty reported that the Economic Development Corporation (EDC) of the City of
Detroit currently administers programs to revitalize Detroit?s commercial corridors and
grow neighborhood business investment using Community Development Block Grant
funds from the City of Detroit. The EDC entered into a sub-recipient agreement
with the City (Contract #2899173) to manage and implement these programs for a term
ending December 31, 2017.

The first part of this initiative is Motor City Match, which connects new or expanding
businesses with Detroit?s vacant commercial real estate. The program provides
competitive grants, loans and counseling to both building owners and business owners
through a quarterly application process.

To date Motor City Match has generated over 2,500 applications through seven rounds of
the program including 620 building owner applications and over 1,880 business owner
appiications. The tremendous interest in the program is due in large part to the ciarity and
efficacy of the program's design.

in 2017, the EDC anticipates launching a new facade improvement program to grow and
retain Detroit's existing businesses while improving the physical condition of commercial
corridors. The EDC anticipates that the new program will follow a format similar to Motor
City Match and foresees significant program design and advisory services to sustain the

February 14, 2016
Page 5 of 21

success of both programs. EDC Staff seeks to contract the program design and advisory
services provided by Michael for 2017.

On February 1, 2017 the EDC entered into a Personal Service Agreement with
Michael to provide program design and advisory services as further described in
Exhibit A to the memorandum pursuant to EDC 03-09-01-82. The PSA provided a contract
value of Thirty-Four Thousand Sixty 00/100 Dollars for a total of 262 hours
at an hourly rate of $130.00/hour.

This report was for information only and no Board action was taken.

Ms. Bruhn commented about the proposed guidelines for the new facade improvement
program and indicated that previous similar programs that required the applicant to cover
the costs of improvements was problematic for many who didn?t have the available
resources. Mr. Rafferty indicated that he would take her concerns under advisement.

Small Business and Commercial Corridor Revitalization Program: Marketing and
Communications Services

Mr. Rafferty stated that at the request of the City of Detroit (the ?City?) Mayor?s Office, the
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit has developed a small
business and commercial corridor revitalization program (the ?Program?) in ooilaboration
with the City?s Jobs and Economy Team, Planning and Development, Department of
Neighborhoods and other key city and neighborhood stakeholders. The Program provides
four core activities in order to increase economic activity and physical revitalization of
commercial areas throughout the City of Detroit:

1. Attract new small businesses and real estate investment
2. Retain and expand existing small businesses
3. improve the physical environment along commercial corridors

4. Develop new tools to support business attraction, retention and expansion,
and physical investments

The EDC soiicited bid proposals on November 21, 2016 for marketing and
communications services for the small business development and commercial corridor
revitalization program, Motor City Boost. The basis for EDC contract awards were based
on federal procurement policies set forth in 24 CFR 85.36. More specifically, this
solicitation is being made pursuant the ?competitive proposal? method of procurement per
24 CFR 

EDC staff received six (6) proposals. Staff has reviewed all proposals and recommends
Mort Crim Communications Inc to provide the Work, as the most responsive
bidder. Overall, offered the best combination of approach, experience and price.
proposed a lump sum fee of $222,400.00.

The lump sum fee is allocated as follows:

February 14, 2016
Page 6 of 21

. $122,400.00 Communications planning and execution

. $100,000.00 Paid media placement, which includes an industry standard
15% commission on advertising placed through the firm. This advertising
budget was recommended by EDC staff in the Request for Proposals.

$222,400.00 Lump Sum Total

proposed a contract structure based on retainer. The retainer would total
$10,200.00 per month. The retainer is calculated based on the sum total of the
communications planning and execution budget of $122,400.00, which is then equally
divided over the course of an approximately 12-month contract term. The paid media or
advertising budget would be managed by and accessed on a basis as
needed. proposed a strategic approach for advertising that allows for constant
evaluation, specific targeting of resources and flexibility to reallocate or reduce advertising
expenditures based on measured success.

The EDC staff requested authorization from the Board to enter into a Professional
Services Agreement between Firm and EDC retainer contract in the amount of
Ten Thousand Two Hundred and 00/100 dollars per month and a gross
advertising budget of One Hundred Thousand 00/100 dollars for an annual
not?to-exoeed amount of Two Hundred Twenty-Two Thousand Four Hundred and 00/100
dollars to provide the proposed Work in accordance with the 
Request for Proposal dated November 21, 2016. Work performed will include:

Communications plan and implementation
Event planning

Social media engagement

Photo documentation

Communication advisory services

93.43.03.037"

A resolution was included for the Board?s review and approval.

The Board questioned Mr. Rafferty regarding the other finalists that were considered for
this contract and asked him to provide the names and addresses of the other five finalists.

The Board also requested that staff include in future contract awards brought to the Board
for approval the names and business addresses of all other bids that were received in
response to the RFP.

Mr. Rafferty stated that he would do a follow?up report on this contract that would include
milestones.

Subsequent to the discussion, the Board took the following action:

On a motion by Mr. Stallworth, seconded by Mr. Roling, Resolution Code EDC 17?
02-91-40 was unanimously approved.

February 14, 2016
Page 7 of 21

Funding Agreements with DPW and Trident-Checker, LLC to Reimburse Right of
Way Improvements

Mr. Daily reported that Trident-Checker, LLC, a Michigan limited liability company
(?Developer?) is undertaking a mixed-use development project on certain property it owns
bounded generally by Trumbull Avenue, Plum Street, Brooklyn Street, Elizabeth Street,
and 8?h Street, as further depicted on Exhibit A which was included in the Board material
(the ?Development Site?). Developer has agreed to implement improvements to certain of
the rights?of?way adjacent to the Development Site (the Improvements"). The City,
through Department of Public Works has availabie to it certain funds pursuant to
Act 41 of 1951, as amended (?Act which funds may be used to pay for certain right
of way improvements (?Act 51 Eligible Costs") and, subject to City Council approval, has
agreed to allocate up to $1,000,000.00 of funds received pursuant to Act 51 (the ?Funds?)
towards the ROW Improvements that are Act 51 Eligible Costs.

DPW has requested the assistance in disbursing the Funds and monitoring the
construction of the ROW improvements, which such assistance shall include, but not be
limited to, receiving and reviewing reimbursement requests from the Developer, making
reimbursement requests to the City, receiving from DPW and transferring to the Developer
the Funds, and engaging a construction engineering and inspection firm (the ?Contractor?)
to monitor and report on the construction of the ROW Improvements.

EDC staff recommended Board approval of EDC's assistance as requested above, to be
evidenced by a funding agreement between EDC and DPW (the Funding
Agreement?) and a funding agreement (or similar agreement) between EDC and the
Developer (the ?Developer Funding Agreement"), subject to City Council approval, and
(ii) agreement by DPW and/or the Developer to fund the cost of the Contractor and a
reasonable administrative fee payable to the EDC for its services.

A resolution was included for the Board?s consideration.
Subsequent to a discussion, the Board took the following action:

On a motion by Mr. Roling, seconded by Ms. Clayson, Resolution Code EDC 17-
02-16-05 was approved, with Mr. Ritsema abstaining.

Beltiine Greenwav: Professional Services Agreement for Environmentai Consulting
Services with AKT Peerless

Ms. Zeigler advised that the City of Detroit by and through its Housing and Revitalization
Department, (the "City?) has been awarded a Community Development Block Grant for
Declared Disaster Recovery (CDBG-DDR) from the US. Department of Housing and
Urban Development (HUD) in the amount of Eight Million Nine Hundred Thousand and
00/100 Dollars The CDBG Discretionary Award from HUD is in response
to the presidentially declared disaster level flooding of August 2014. The 
grant is designed to ameliorate future ?ooding and support the market through a number
of projects and planning exercises.

With EDC board approval the EDC executed a sub-?recipient agreement
with the City and was awarded $2,593,500.00 from the City?s CDBG-DDR grant. The City

February 14, 2016
Page 8 of 21

has requested that the EDC undertake construction management services with respect to
the Beltline Greenway project. The federal funds will be used for project activities as it
relates to the Beltline Greenway.

As part of project execution, the EDC solicited cost proposals on January 5, 2017 for
environmental consulting services for the Beltiine Greenway project. The basis for EDC
contract awards were based on federal procurement policies set forth in 24 CFR 85.36.
More specifically, this solicitation was made pursuant the ?small purchase procedure?
method of procurement per 24 CFR EDC staff received three cost proposals to
the original solicitation along with an additional amendment.

EDC staff members reviewed all the cost proposals and selected AKT Peerless to provide
the work. AKT Peerless was selected as the lowest priced and most qualified ?rm. As
required, EDC staff recommends approval of a Professional Services Agreement with AKT
Peerless. The proposed scope of services is attached as Attachment A.

EDC staff recommended the Board of Directors authorize the execution of a Professional
Service Agreement with the AKT Peerless for Environmental Consulting Services, not to
exceed Seventy~0ne Thousand Seven Hundred Seventy-Five Dollars ($71 ,775.00), to be
paid out of the funds.

A resolution was included for the Board?s consideration and approval.
Subsequent to a discussion, the Board took the following action:

On a motion by Mr. Stallworth, seconded by Mr. Roling, Resolution Code EDC
17-02?88-08 was unanimously approved.

ADMINISTRATION
Freedom of information Act Procedures and Guidelines

Ms. Navin advised that pursuant to 2015 amendments to Michigan's Freedom of
Information Act (MCL 15.231 et seq.) the EDC is required to establish
procedures and guidelines to implement (the ??Guidelines?) and a written public
summary of the Guidelines written in a way to be easily understood by the public.

Staff and counsel have prepared proposed Guidelines which comport to the requirements
of FOIA and describe the manner in which the EDC will comply with FOIA, including but
not limited to the acceptance of and response to FOIA requests, fee calculations, deposit
requirements, and appeals and challenges. Notably, the proposed Guidelines provide
that the Vice President of Board Administration will act as the FOIA Coordinator
and be responsible for FOIA compliance.

The proposed Guidelines were included with the memorandum and resolution as Exhibit
A. Staff requested the board?s approval of the Guidelines in the substantial form included
and authority to prepare the written public summary of the Guidelines as required by FOIA.
A resolution was included for the Board?s consideration.

Subsequent to a discussion, the Board took the following action:

February 14, 2016
Page 9 of 21

On a motion by Mr. Stallworth, seconded by Ms. Bruhn, Resolution Code EDC
17-02?01?188 was unanimously approved.

Restructuring of Disclosure and Committee Practices

Ms. Navin stated that in light of the Mayor?s commitment to transparency in decisions
made by his administration, including but not iimited to those public authorities under his
oversight and/or appointment power, the Mayor?s administration asked EDC staff to
consider proposing guidelines that the EDC Board that would ensure that the 
procedures and practices conform to similar transparency standards.

Disclosure Practices

Historicaily, Board agendas and meeting minutes are made available to the public upon
request, and Board agendas are also made available at Board meetings, but such
materials have not been consistently posted on the or the website. Staff
proposes website publication of ail EDC meeting agendas and meeting minutes as soon
as practicable foiiowing the release of an agenda to the Board or the approval of minutes
by the Board, but in any event within 5 business days after such release or approval.

Committee Practices

Article ill of the bylaws provides that by resolution adopted by the EDC's Board,
the Board may appoint one or more committees to assist the Board in the discharge of its
duties, provided that all actions of a committee shall be subject to approvai by the Board.
in light of the limited power of the committees, such committees have not been
subject to the Open Meetings Act (PA 267 of 1976, as amended) (the since their
establishment.

As an additional measure of promoting transparency, Staff recommends that the Board
adopt a practice whereby, except where permitted under Section 8 of the OMA, ali
committee meetings shall be held in accordance with OMA, whether or not required by
OMA. However, in the event that a matter which would normally be reviewed by a
committee prior to consideration by the Board is not able to review at a committee meeting
because compliance with OMA was not practicable, it may, at the discretion of the chair
of the Board or the chair of such committee, be considered by the Board without prior
review by the committee.

A resoiution was inciuded in the Board materiai for consideration.
Subsequent to a discussion, the Board took the following action:

On a motion by Ms. Bruhn, seconded by Mr. Staliworth, Resolution Code EDC 17-
02?01-489 was unanimously approved

GENERAL

OTHER MATTERS

February 14, 2016
Page 10 of 21

PUBLIC COMMENT

ADJOURNMENT

With there being no other business to come before the Board, Mr. Queries adjourned the
Reguiar meeting at 10:04 am.

February 14, 2016
Page 11 of 21

. CODE EDC 17-02-03-276
Economic Development Corporation of the CITY of Detrorr

 

APPROVAL, OF MINUTES OF JANUARY 10, go17 MEETING

RESOLVED, that the minutes of the Regular meeting of January 10, 2017 are
hereby approved and all actions taken by the Directors present at such meeting, as set
forth in such minutes, are hereby in all respects ratified and approved as actions of the
Economic Development Corporation.

February 14, 2017

Page 12 of 21
500 Griswold,8uite 2200 - Detroit,MiChigon 48226 (313) 963-2940

. CODE EDC 17-02-03-210
Economic Development Corporation of the CIW of Detron'

 

ACCEPTANCE OF REPORT FOR DECEMBER 2016

RESOLVED, that the Treasurer?s Report of Receipts and Disbursements for the
period ending December 31, 2017, as presented at this meeting, is hereby in all respects
accepted as action of the Economic Development Corporation.

February 14, 2017

Page 13 of 21
500 Griswold,8uite 2200 - Detroit, Michigan 48226 (313) 963?2940

 . CODE EDC 17-02-91-39
conomic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit
(Amended at the Table)

 

SMALL BUSINESS AND COMMERCIAL CORRIDOR REVITALIZATION PROGRAM:
NEIGHBORHOOD MARKET RETAIL AND OPPORTUNITY STUDY

WHEREAS, The Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit
has developed a small business and commercial corridor revitalization program
(the ?Program?) at the request of the City of Detroit (the ?City?) Mayor's Of?ce.

WHEREAS, the EDC entered into a subrecipient agreement with the City (Contract
#2899173) to administer and implement the Program for a term ending December 31,
2017;and

WHEREAS, the EDC solicited bid proposals on December 16, 2016, for services
necessary to provide market retail analysis and neighborhood opportunity study to inform
the Program, the scope of which is attached hereto as Exhibit A (the ?Work?); and

WHEREAS, EDC staff received eight (8) proposals. Staff has reviewed all
proposals and recommends Streetsense, LLC (the ?Firm?) to provide the Work, as the
most responsive bidder; and

WHEREAS, the EDC Board of Directors has determined that Staff?s
recommendation is appropriate and within the best interests of the Program.

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the EDC Board of Directors hereby
authorizes the negotiation and execution of a professional services contract with the Firm
to provide the Work for the not~to-exceed amount of Four Hundred Sixty?One Thousand
Five Hundred and 00/100 

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the EDC Board of Directors hereby authorizes
an owner?s contingency of 5% of the contract value to manage unforeseen conditions or
additional work for the term of the agreement.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that any two Officers, or any one of the Officers
and any one of the Authorized Agents or any two of the Authorized Agents shall
hereafter have the authority to negotiate and execute all documents, contracts, or other
papers and to take such actions as are necessary to implement the provisions and intent
of this resolution.

BE IT FINALLY RESOLVED, that all of the acts and transactions of any Officer or
Authorized Agent of the EDC, in the name and on behalf of the EDC, relating to matters
contemplated by the foregoing resolutions, which acts would have been approved by the
foregoing resolutions except that such acts were taken prior to execution of these
resolutions, are hereby in all respects confirmed, approved and ratified.

February 14, 2017

. A Page 14 of 21
500 Gnswold.SUtte 2200 - Detroit.Michigon 48226 (3l3) 963-2940

 CODE EDC 17-02-91?40
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit

 

BUSINESS AND COMMERCIAL CORRIDOR REVITALIZATION PROGRAM:
MARKETING AND COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES

WHEREAS, The Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit
has developed a small business and commercial corridor revitalization program
(the ?Program?) at the request of the City of Detroit (the "City") Mayor's Of?ce.

WHEREAS, the EDC entered into a subrecipient agreement with the City (Contract
#2899173) for CD86 funding to manage administer and implement the Program for a term
ending December 31, 2017 pursuant to EDC Board approval on October 14, 2014
(Resolution 14-1 0-91-01); and

WHEREAS, the EDC solicited bid proposals on November 21, 2016 for services
necessary to provide marketing and communications services for the Program (the
?Work?); and

WHEREAS, EDC staff received six (6) proposals. Staff has reviewed all proposals
and recommends Mort Crim Communications inc (the ?Firm?) to provide the Work, as the
most responsive bidder; and

WHEREAS, the EDC Board of Directors has determined that Staff?s
recommendation is appropriate and within the best interests of the Program.

NOW THEREFORE BE lT RESOLVED, that the EDC Board of Directors hereby
authorizes the negotiation and execution of a professional services contract with the Firm
to provide the requested services for an approximately one (1) year retainer
contract in the amount of Ten Thousand Two Hundred and 00/100 dollars
per month and a gross advertising budget of One Hundred Thousand 00l100
for an annual not-to-exceed amount of Two Hundred Twenty Two
Thousand Four Hundred and 001100 dollars . 

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that any two Officers, or any one of the Officers
and any one of the Authorized Agents or any two of the Authorized Agents shall
hereafter have the authority to negotiate and execute all documents, contracts, or other
papers and to take such actions as are necessary to implement the provisions and intent
of this resolution.

BE IT FINALLY RESOLVED, that all of the acts and transactions of any Of?cer or
Authorized Agent of the EDC, in the name and on behalf of the EDC, relating to matters
contemplated by the foregoing resolutions, which acts wouid have been approved by the
foregoing resoiutions except that such acts were taken prior to execution of these
resoiutions, are hereby in ail respects confirmed, approved and ratified.

February 14, 2017

Page 15 of 21
500 Griswold,Suite 2200 - Detroit,Michigon 48226 - (3TB) 963-2940

 

. EDC 17-02-16-05
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Degm 

NORTH INDUSTRIAL PARK ll: RESOLUTION APPROVING FUNDING AGREEMENTS
WITH AND TRIDENT-CHECKER, T0 RIGHT or WAY
IMPROVEMENTS

WHEREAS, Trident-Checker, LLC, a Michigan limited liability company
("Developer?) is undertaking a mixed-use development project on certain property it owns
bounded generally by Trumbull Avenue, Plum Street, Brookiyn Street, Elizabeth Street,
and 8th Street, as further depicted on Exhibit A attached hereto (the ?Development Site?);
and

WHEREAS, Developer has agreed to implement improvements to certain of the
rights-of?way adjacent to the Development Site (the improvements?); and

WHEREAS, the City, through Department of Public Works has available
to it certain funds pursuant to Act 41 of 1951, as amended (?Act which funds may be
used to pay for certain right of way improvements (?Act 51 Eligible Costs") and, subject to
City Council approval, has agreed to allocate up to $1,000,000.00 of funds received
pursuant to Act 51 (the ?Funds?) towards the ROW improvements that are Act 51 Eligible
Costs; and

WHEREAS, DPW has requested the assistance in disbursing the Funds
and monitoring the construction of the ROW improvements, which such assistance shall
include, but not be timited to, receiving and reviewing reimbursement requests from the
Developer, making reimbursement requests to the City, receiving from DPW and
transferring to the Developer the Funds, and engaging a construction engineering and
inspection firm (the ?Contractor? to monitor and report on the construction of the ROW
Improvements (the Activities"); and

WHEREAS, EDC staff recommends Board approval of assistance as
requested above, subject to, the negotiation of a mutually acceptable funding agreement
between EDC and DPW (the Funding Agreement?) and funding agreement (or
Similar agreement) between EDC and the Developer (the ?Developer Funding
Agreement?), (ii) City Council approval of the DPW Funding Agreement, and 
agreement by DPW and/or the Developer to fund the cost of the Contractor and a
reasonable administrative fee payable to the EDC for performance of the EDC Activities;
and

WHEREAS, the EDC has the authority to complete the requested activities under
Section 2 and Section 27 of the enabling statute, Michigan Public Act 338 of 1974,
as amended, (?Act 338?); and

WHEREAS, the EDC Board has reviewed the matter and believes it is in the best
interests of the promotion of economic development in the City of Detroit and consistent
with its statutorily mandated purposes.

Page 16 of 21
500 Griswold,8uite 2200 DetroiHVlichigon 4822c (313) 963-2940

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Board of Directors hereby
approves the undertaking by the EDC of the EDC Activities, subject to, the negotiation of
a mutually acceptable funding agreement between EDC and DPW (the Funding
Agreement?) and funding agreement (or similar agreement) between EDC and the
Developer (the ?Developer Funding Agreement?), (ii) City Council approval of the DPW
Funding Agreement, and agreement by DPW and/or the Developer to fund the cost of
the Contractor and a reasonable administrative fee payable to the EDC for performance
of the EDC Activities.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that any two Officers, or any one of the Officers
and any one of the Authorized Agents or any two of the Authorized Agents, shall
hereafter have the authority to negotiate and execute the DPW Funding Agreement and
Developer Funding Agreement, any and all documents, contracts or other papers, and
take such other actions necessary or appropriate to implement the provisions and intent
of this resolution on behalf of the EDC.

BE IT FINALLY RESOLVED that all of the acts and transactions of any officer or
authorized agent of the EDC, in the name and on behaif of the EDC, relating to matters
contemplated by the foregoing resolutions, which acts would have been approved by the
foregoing resolutions except that such acts were taken prior to execution of these
resolutions, are hereby in all respects confirmed, approved and ratified.

February 14, 2017

Page 17 of21

. CODE EDC 17-02-88-08
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit

 

 

NER CIRCLE GREENWAY PROJECT: BELTINE GREENWAY--PROFESSIONAL

IN


SERVICES AGREEMENT FOR ENVIRONMENTAL CONSULTING SERVICES WIT



 

AKT PEERLESS.

WHEREAS, the City of Detroit, by and through its Housing and Revitalization
Department, (the ?City") has been awarded a Community Development Block Grant for
Declared Disaster Recovery (CDBG-DDR) from the US. Department of Housing and
Urban Development (HUD) in the amount of Eight Million, Nine Hundred Thousand and
00/100 Dollars and

WHEREAS, CDBG-DDR is designed to ameliorate future flooding and support
market recovery through a comprehensive approach to resiliency; and

WHEREAS, with EDC board approval the EDC executed a sub-recipient
agreement with the City and was awarded $2,593,500.00 from the City?s CDBG-DDR
grant to undertake construction management services with respect to the Beltline
Greenway project; and

WHEREAS, the EDC staff has solicited cost proposals from qualified
environmental consulting ?rms in accordance with the Department of Housing and Urban
Development's ?small purchase procedure? method of procurement per 24 CFR 

and

WHEREAS, Board of Directors has determined the engagement of AKT Peerless
for these services is appropriate and within the powers of the and.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Board of Directors of The
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit hereby authorizes the execution
of a Professional Services Agreement with AKT Peerless for the provision of the services
described in Exhibit A attached hereto for the aggregate amount not to exceed Seventy?
One Thousand Seven Hundred Seventy-Five Doilars 

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that any two Officers, or any one of the Officers
and any one of the Authorized Agents or any two of the Authorized Agents, shall
hereafter have the authority to negotiate and execute any and all documents, contracts or
other papers and take such other actions necessary or appropriate to implement the
provisions and intent of this resolution on behalf of the EDC.

BE IT FINALLY RESOLVED that all of the acts and transactions of any officer or
authorized agent of the EDC, in the name and on behalf of the EDC, relating to matters
contemplated by the foregoing resolutions, which acts would have been approved by the
foregoing resolutions except that such acts were taken prior to execution of these
resolutions, are hereby in all respects confirmed, approved and ratified.

February 14, 2017

. Page 18 of 21
500 Griswold,Suite 2200 - Detroit,Michigon 48226 (313) 963?2940

. CODE EDC 17-02-01-188
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit

 

REEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT PROCEDURES AND GUIDELINES

WHEREAS, pursuant to 2015 amendments to Michigan's Freedom of Information

Act (MCL 15.231 et seq.) the EDC is required to establish procedures and

guidelines to implement FOIA (the ?Guidelines") and a written public summary of the
Guidelines written in a way to be easily understood by the public; and

WHEREAS, staff and counsel have prepared proposed Guidelines which comport
to the requirements of FOIA and describe the manner in which the EDC will comply with
FOIA, including but not limited to the acceptance of and response to FOIA requests, fee
calculations, deposit requirements, and appeals and challenges; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Directors has reviewed proposed Guidelines attached
hereto as Exhibit A, has determined that the proposed Guidelines are consistent with the
requirements of FOIA and with the intents and purposes of the EDC.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the EDC Board of Directors hereby
approves and adopts the Guidelines in the substantial form attached hereto as Exhibit A.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the EDC Board of Directors hereby authorizes
staff and counsel to prepare the written public summary of the Guidelines as required by


BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the EDC Board of Directors hereby authorizes
any two of its Officers or any two of its Authorized Agents or one Officer and any one
Authorized Agent to take any other actions and execute any documents necessary or
appropriate to implement the provisions and intent of this resolution.

BE IT FINALLY RESOLVED that all of the acts and transactions of any Officer or
Authorized Agent of the EDC, in the name and on behalf of the EDC, relating to matters
contemplated by the foregoing resolutions, which acts would have been approved by the
foregoing resolutions except that such acts were taken prior to execution of these
resolutions, are hereby in all respects confirmed, approved and ratified.

February 14, 2017

Page 19 of 21
500 Griswold,5uite 2200 - DetroitMiohigon 48226 - (313) 963?2940

. CODE EDC 17-02-01-189
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detron

 

ADMINISTRATION: RESTRUCTURING OF DISCLOSURE AND COMMITTEE
PRACTICES

WHEREAS, the Mayor of the City of Detroit, has expressed a commitment to
transparency in decisions made by his administration, including but not limited to those
public authorities under his oversight and/or appointment power; and

WHEREAS, in light of this commitment, staff proposed guidelines that the Board
could consider that would ensure that the EDC's procedures and practices conform to
similar transparency standards; and

WHEREAS, although not legally required, staff proposes website publication of all
EDC meeting agendas and meeting minutes as soon as practicable following the release
of an agenda to the Board or the approval of minutes by the Board, but in any event within
5 business days after such release or approval; and; and

WHEREAS, Article ill of the bylaws provides that by resolution adopted by
the EDC's Board of Directors, the Board may appoint one or more committees to assist
the Board in the discharge of its duties, provided that all actions of a committee shalt be
subject to approval by the Board; and

WHEREAS, in light of the limited power of the committees, such
committees have not been subject to the Open Meetings Act (PA 267 of 1976, as
amended) (the since their establishment; and

WHEREAS, as an additional measure of promoting transparency, staff
recommends that the Board adopt a practice whereby, except where permitted under
Section 8 of OMA, any matters to be reviewed by a committee established by the EDC
Board shall be reviewed at a meeting of such committee held in accordance with OMA,
whether or not so required by and

WHEREAS, the Board has reviewed the proposed disclosure and committee
practices, has determined that they are in the best interest of the EDC and promote
appropriate transparency standards for a public agency.

NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, as soon as practicable, that all EDC
meeting agendas and meeting minutes shall be published via the EDC or DEGC website,
as soon as practicable following the release of an agenda to the Board or approval of
meeting minutes by the Board, but in any event within 5 business days after such release
or approval.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that effective immediately, except where permitted
under Section 8 of OMA, any matters to be reviewed by a committee established by the
EDC Board shall be reviewed at a meeting of such committee held in accordance with
OMA, whether or not so required by OMA.

Page 20 of 21
500 Griswold,8uite 2200 - Detroit,MiChigon 48226 - (313) 963?2940

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that in the event that a matter which would normally
be reviewed by a committee prior to consideration the Board is not able to be reviewed at
a committee meeting because compliance with OMA was not practicable, it may, at the
discretion of the chair of the Board or the chair of such committee, be considered by the
Board without prior review by the committee.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that any two Officers, or any one of the Of?cers and
any one of the Authorized Agents or any two of the Authorized Agents of the EDC, shall
hereafter have the authority to take such further actions, necessary or appropriate to
implement the provisions and intent of this resolution on behalf of the EDC.

BE IT FINALLY RESOLVED that all of the acts and transactions of any Of?cer or
Authorized Agent of the EDC, in the name and on behalf of the EDC. relating to matters
contemplated by the foregoing resolutions, which acts would have been approved by the
foregoing resolutions except that such acts were taken prior to execution of these
resolutions, are hereby in all respects confirmed, approved and ratified.

February 14, 2017

Page 21 of21

