Community Meeting #2
Proposed Co-location of Wilma Rudolph Learning Center
and Hope Learning Academy
January 17, 2018
Hope Learning Academy Campus 1628 W. Washington
6:00 p.m. – 8:00 p.m.
CPS Staff in Attendance:
Carl Hurdlik, Brian Metcalf, Cheryl Nevins, Natasha Patterson, Syda Taylor, Juan
Maldonado, Norma Seledon, Kimeco Roberson, Syda Taylor, Lauren Turner, Ana Diaz,
Cynthia Williams, Samual Goshay, Corey Walden, Nicole Haynes, Carla Escobar,
Elizabeth Keenan, Cynthia Sanders, and Lori Guidry.
CPS Presentation
Brian Metcalf opened the meeting by welcoming the audience. He explained meeting
logistics. He presented himself as Chief of Schools from Network 6. He introduced
Natasha Patterson, the Deputy Chief of Schools from Network 6. He explained that the
meeting is intended to allow CEO Janice Jackson to listen to comments and concerns
from the community. He advised that representatives from the Office of Diverse Learner
Supports and Services (ODLSS) and Social and Emotional Learning (SEL) are present,
including, Elizabeth Keenen, Cynthia Sanders, and Lori Guidry. He encouraged the
community to visit the resource table for answers to any questions.
He advised that any comments made outside of the auditorium are not part of the formal
meeting. He informed the public that they are able to make comments at
transitions@cps.edu or submit written comments at the registration table. He
encouraged the community to view the full proposal at www.cps.edu/transitions.
Cheryl Nevins provided an overview of the legal process. She reviewed important dates,
including dates of published draft guidelines for school actions, dates notice letters and
draft transition plans were sent, and community meeting and hearing dates. She
advised that in February, 2018 or later, CPS will make recommendations to the Board
after the community meetings and hearing are held. She explained the definition of colocation: means two or more separate, independent schools with their own school
leader(s) coexisting within a CPS facility. She explained that Rudolph Learning Center
would share space with Hope Learning Academy, in the Spaulding Building, at 1628
West Washington Boulevard.

 She went over the history of the proposal and stated that in October of 2017, the
Rudolph community recommended that Rudolph move from their current building to colocate with Hope Learning Academy. She stated that the Rudolph building is in very
poor condition and that Hope Learning Academy (Spaulding Campus) has available
space and updated accessibility features within a multi-floor building which would
provide students with significant disabilities the access to a typical school experience
and environment. She explained that there is more than sufficient space to
accommodate combined Rudolph and Hope enrollment as Hope (Spaulding Campus)
capacity is 1,000 and Rudolph currently serves 92 students (20th day enrollment) and
Hope serves 363 students (20th day enrollment). She explained that Hope would
maintain exclusive use of the lunchroom, gym and library, and that both schools would
share the meeting room, auditorium, center garden and main entrance.
Mr. Metcalf provided protocol for public feedback.
Public Comments
Jodi Ogilvy: Director of communications for Hope. She stated Hope’s mission
emphasized that they serve those who are underserved. She stated that they know
what it takes to improve the lives of students at Rudolph. She welcomed the Rudolph
community and hopes they can work toward their mission of a more inclusive society.
She stated that they have yet to see a safety plan that would integrate both schools.
She expressed concern about the lack of ADA compliance and safety equipment, and
lack of private toilet facilities. She stated that she is concerned about the promise of a
therapy pool. She stated that locker rooms are currently unsafe which would require
significant amount of money to rehab. She stated that she looks forward to a detailed
plan to ensure that the students get the services they deserve in the safest place
possible.
Holly Dacres: Principal of Rudolph. She stated that she is advocating for the students
and parents. She stated that many parents are not present because they do not have
access to proper transportation or are providing care for their children. She quoted Dr.
Martin Luther King, “Injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere.” She stated
that not having adequate space or updated facilities is an injustice to the needs of
students. She stated that parents do not have a private, confidential space to meet to
discuss IEPs. She stated that there is not enough space for nursing care for students
with special needs. She stated that she is asking for proper space, not an annex. She
asked CPS to do what is just and make the right choice for students who have the most
significant needs.
Dr. Richard Smith: Retired administrator. He stated that he is fully in favor of the move
so that the students get what they deserve. He stated that staff at Rudolph are caring
and dedicated and that Hope’s principal is great. He shared that he has no doubt that
the co-location will work. He stated that Maggie Daley was a driving force behind getting
the school rehabbed and that her mission was to make it an inclusive environment.

 Laura Tye: Assistant principal at Hope. She stated that this is not a Hope against
Rudolph conversation. She stated that she is happy with the long-standing collaboration
the schools have had. She stated that Rudolph has helped Hope with special needs
services when Hope did not have the resources. She stated that clarification is needed
on some special education issues: IEPs call for a private setting and she would like to
know how this will impact them; some literature that went out stated that students would
be in PE classes together and if that happens, the school will go over 30% capacity.
She stated that she wants to make sure they don’t get changed to a special education
school and undo all the inclusive work that has been done.
Colleen Estrada: Special education classroom assistant at Rudolph. She stated that
nursing services are provided to students on a daily basis but are not done in a private
area. She stated that they are done in classroom settings. She stated that students and
parents deserve privacy and safety. She is in support of the co-location.
Liza Reed: Counselor and case manager at Rudolph. She went over the collaborative
efforts between the schools which they have developed together, including reading
buddies. She stated that she is concerned about the comments made at the prior
community meeting about what Hope would get out of the co-location. She stated that
Rudolph hosts resource fairs where many community agencies contribute information,
resources, and services. She stated that she is excited about the potential for students
and staff if given the same opportunity as Hope to educate in an ADA accessible
building.
Janice Jamison-Wilson: School Nurse. She stated that she has been serving Rudolph
students for 3 years and that she has been a school nurse for 24 years. She stated that
medically fragile students are not getting the services they need because they do not
have enough space. She stated that on a typical day 11 nurses and about 10 other
clinicians are serving students in the same room where IEP meetings are held. She
stated that the re-location will be beneficial and that she would like more room to care
for the children.
Jenson Joseph: Physical Therapist at Rudolph. He stated that the co-location will
provide opportunities to students. He stated that that research shows students with
disabilities benefit and excel in life with increased access and interaction with typically
developing peers. He stated that relocation would allow Rudolph students to be in an
ADA-updated building and give students the unique opportunity to practice using their
wheelchairs, negotiating down ramps, and practice strength and endurance for
increased level of independence. He stated that Rudolph does not have a full flight of
stairs. He stated that it is a physical therapist’s dream work on functional goals of stairclimbing and ambulation. He stated that the co-location is a great opportunity to bridge
the gap between special education and general education.
Dana Galati: Assistant Principal at Rudolph. She stated that she is present to advocate
on behalf of her students. She stated that they have to be the voice of the students. She
stated that co-location would put approximately 455 students in a 1,000 plus capacity

 space. She stated that Rudolph parents meet regularly and are willing to extend their
time to the families of Hope
Maggie Guillory. Parent of Hope student. She stated that students receive phenomenal
care and education at Hope. She is in support of the co-location. She gave a welcome
to Rudolph students, families and staff. She stated that she has seen beautiful
interactions between Rudolph and Hope students. She stated that CPS has an
opportunity to bring together as a microcosm of how society should work when it comes
to inclusiveness and community.
Harry Bell: Former student of Rudolph. He stated that Rudolph helped him to become a
young man. Rudolph never gave up on him. He stated that when he started attending
Rudolph, he could not talk, but Rudolph never gave up on him. He is in support of the
co-location.
Jodi Ogilvy: Director of communications for Hope. Ms. Ogilvy read a letter on behalf of
Michael Jakubowski, principal of Hope. He posed questions at the District, including,
what will be done about lack of parking available due to increased staff, will co-location
increase or reduce facility costs. He stated that Hope’s current facility needs are not
being met, including, lightbulbs that need to be changed, paint that’s peeling, toilets that
don’t work. He expressed safety and security concerns during arrival and drop-off, and
recreation-time space for students. He asked if an outdoor playground will be built as
one does not currently exist. He asked how the co-share is going to affect Hope’s plans
of expansion of the 6th grade as he hopes it does not affect their strategic goals.
Caitlan McGary: Social worker at Rudolph. She echoed comments regarding access to
facilities, need for privacy, and structural concerns and needs for both schools. She
stated that the main takeaway is that each every individual attending the meeting is
present to advocate for the children and that they all deserve the best education. She
stated that the co-location will motivate everyone to be more adaptive, innovative and
creative in their joint purpose to provide great education.
Laura Tye: Assistant principal at Hope. She stated the goal is to make sure it is a
collaborative request and to make sure the plan is safe and effective for Rudolph and
Hope to continue their programs and expand them as they need to do. She stated that
the co-location would benefit everyone involved. She shared her concerns regarding
bathrooms. She stated that Hope had been turned down for preschool due to lack of
bathrooms in classrooms. She stated that there are some logistical concerns, including,
the ramps are not ADA-compliant and parking spaces being wheelchair accessible. She
stated that these things have to be investigated.
Estella Johnson Solid: Parent of students at Rudolph and Hope. She stated that she
has heard the benefits for Rudolph students but has not heard about the benefits for
Hope students. She would like to know what Hope students are getting out of the colocation.

 Kristy Colyer: CPS parent and employee. She stated that parents and students need
private and confidential spaces.
Julian Ramirez: CPS parent and Rudolph employee. He stated that working at Rudolph
helped him change the trajectory of his life and he wants to help change the trajectory of
Rudolph students’ lives and help them become as independent as possible. He stated
that Rudolph needs proper space and privacy for students and parents.
Sandra Calderon: CPS parent and employee. She stated that Dr. Martin Luther King
had a dream of a nation that has a place at the table for children of every race and room
at the inn for every needy child. She is in support of the co-location and stated that it will
teach compassion for all students.
Michelle Lowe Davis: Parent of Hope student and parent on parent’s board. She stated
that the parents’ board are all in agreement that this is going to be a good transition and
amalgamation for both schools. She stated that Hope has been supportive and
welcoming of Rudolph students from the beginning. She stated her concerns regarding
transparency and the known fact that CPS is not very transparent. She stated that she
too would like to know how Hope is going to benefit from the co-location. She stated
that they are seeking to get 6th, 7th and 8th grade. She stated that transition for special
needs kids is difficult and without a 6th grade, students are going to fall behind. She
would like this taken into consideration.
Fernando Olszanski: Teacher at Rudolph. He stated that he has been working in the
library. He stated that when there are 10 wheelchairs in the library, they can barely
move, and the kids cannot receive proper services. He stated that in summertime, they
typically spend 3 or 4 days without cooling, and in wintertime, they spend 3 or 4 days
without heating because someone has to fix the AC and heater. He stated that the
Rudolph administration is hardworking and committed and that their students are
marvelous. He stated that parents trust them with the best things they have, their
children. He stated that Rudolph needs a building.
Jason Saxton: Father of a student at Rudolph. He stated that staff at Rudolph is
amazing. He stated that he would not want any other school for his child. He thanked
the administration at Rudolph.
Alfonso Seiva: Father of a child at Rudolph. He stated that Rudolph is one of the best
schools in the United States. He asked Hope for the opportunity to share their space
because parents, teachers and students need it. He stated that Hope is one of the few
schools that provide this opportunity to serve the community. He requests
wholeheartedly that the co-location is accepted.
Public comments started at 6:21 p.m.
Public comments ended at 7:14 p.m.
Meeting adjourned at 8:00 p.m.

 