 

Official Report of the Proceedings
of the

BOARD OF EDUCATION

of the City of Chicago

 

Regular Meeting-Wednesday, November 16, 2011
10:30 AM.
(125 South Clark Street)

 

Published by the Authority of the Chicago Board of Education

David J. Vitale Estela G. Beltran
President Secretary

November 16, 2011
ATTEST:

Mam

Secretary of the Board of Education
of the City of Chicago

President Vitale noted for the record that he would be leaving the Board Meeting due to a
prior commitment and Vice President Ruiz would chair the meeting. President Vitale passed the
gavel to Vice President Ruiz.

Vice President Ruiz took the Chair and the meeting being called to order there were then:

PRESENT: Mr. Bienen, President Vitale, Ms. Pritzker, Mr. Sierra, Ms. Zopp, and Vice
president Ruiz 6

ABSENT: Dr. Hines -1

ALSO PRESENT: Mr. Jean Claude Brizard, Chief Executive Officer, Ms. Noemi Donoso,
Chief Education Officer, and Mr. Patrick J. Rocks, General Counsel.

Mr. Jean Claude Brizard, Chief Executive Officer, and Mr. Oliver Sicat, Chief Portfolio
Officer presented on update on the Portfolio Strategy. Mr. Steve Gering, Chief of leadership
Development, gave a presentation on The Chicago Learning Collaborative.

The Board Secretary noted for the record that President Vitale left meeting.

Mr. Patrick J. Rocks, General Counsel, gave presentations on the Annual Readoption of
Board Rules and Amendment, Modification or Repealer of Certain Board Rules in Accordance with
Board Rule 2-7 and Rescind Outdated Policies in Board Reports 00-0726-PO1,
92-0527-P02, 71-1010-1, 96-0626-P05, 97-1022-P02, 95-1028-P04, 95-1028-P05, 77-284, 80-58,
00-0223-P03, and 05-0824-PO7 

Vice President Ruiz thereupon opened the floor to the Public Participation segment of the
Board Meeting.

Ms. Zopp presented the following Motion:

1 1 -1 1 16-MO1
MOTION TO HOLD A CLOSED SESSION
MOTION ADOPTED that the Board hold a closed session to consider the followmg SUOJECIS
(1) information. regarding appointment. employment. compensation discipline, performance. or

dismissal of employees pursuant to Section of the Open Meetings Act;

(2) collective negotiating matters between the public body and its employees or their representatives.
or deliberations concerning salary schedules lor one or more classes of empIOyees purSuant to
Section of the Open Meetings Act.

(3) the purchase or lease of real property for the use of the Board pursuant to Section 2(c)(5l o! the
Open Meetings Act;

the setting of a price for the sale or lease of real property owned by the Board pursuant to Section

of the Open Meetings Act;

(5) security procedures and the use of personnel and equment to respond to an actual, a

threatened. or a reasonably potential danger to the safety of employees. students. stall, the

November 16, 2011

public. or public property pursuant to Section of the Open Meetings Act. and
(6) pending litigation and litigation which is probable or imminent involwng the Board purSuant to

Section 2(c)(11) of the Open Meetings Act

Mr. Sierra moved to adept Motion 11-1116-M01.

The Secretary called the roll and the vote was as follows:

Yeas: Mr. Bienen, Ms. Pritzker, Mr. Sierra, Ms. Zopp, and Vice President Ruiz 5
Nays: None

Vice President Ruiz thereupon declared Motion 11-1116-MO1 adopted.

CLOSED SESSION
RECORD OF CLOSED SESSION

The following is a record of the Board's Closed Session:

(1) The Closed Meeting was held on November 16, 2011, beginning at 12:08 pm. at the Central
Service Center, 125 South Clark Street, and President?s Conference Room 6th Floor, and Chicago
Illinois 60603.

(2) PRESENT: Mr. Bienen, Ms. Pritzker, Mr. Sierra, Ms. Zopp, and Vice President Ruiz 5

(3) ABSENT: Dr. Hines, and President Vitale - 2
Other Reports

Warning Resolutions

Terminations

Personnel

Collective Bargaining

Real Estate

Security

97??"9951??

No votes were taken in Closed Session.
After Closed Session the Board reconvened.

Members present after Closed Session: Mr. Bienen, Ms. Pritzker, Mr. Sierra, Ms. Zopp and
Vice President Ruiz 5

Members absent after Closed Session: Dr. Hines and President Vitale - 2
11-1116-AR2

AUTHORIZE RETENTION OF THE LAW FIRM
JONES DAY LLC

THE GENERAL COUNSEL REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Retention of the law firm Jones Day LLC.

DESCRIPTION: The General Counsel has retained the law firm Jones Day LLC. The firm provides legal
services to the Board for various labor litigation matters. Authorization for the firm's sewices is requested in the
amount of 5250.000. As invoices are received. they will be reviewed by the General COunset and. if
satisfactory. processed for payment.

LSC REVIEW: LSC approval is not applicable to this report.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION STATUS: None.

FINANCIAL: Charge $250,000.00 to Law Department- Legal and Supportive Semice - Professional Semces
Budget Classification Fiscal Year 2012-. 10455-115-54125-231101-000000

November 16, 2011

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that. in accordance 105 ILCS SIM-
13.1. the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel necessary to
conduct those investigations.

Conflicts The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in Violation of the provmons
of 105 ILCS which restricts the employment of. or the letting of contracts to. former Board member
during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of office

Indebtedness - The Board's Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26. 1996 as amended from
time to time. shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics - The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25. 2011 (11-0525-P02). as amended from time to time.
shall be incorporated Into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current fiscal
year is deemed a contingent liability. subject to appropriation in the subsequent fiscal year budgetts).

Vice President Ruiz thereupon declared Board Report accepted.

11-1116-AR3

COMPENSATION - PAYMENT FOR LUMP SUM SETTLEMENT FOR
NATHAN GREGORY CASE NO. 10 WC 37990

THE GENERAL COUNSEL REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Authorized settlement of the Workers' Compensation claim of Nathan Gregory Case No 10 WC 37990
and subject to the approval of the Illinois Commission. in the amount of $100,040.36.

DESCRIPTION: In accordance With the provisions of the Workers' Compensation Act. the General
Counsel has determined that this settlement is in the Board's best interests

LSC REVIEW: Local school councn approval is not applicable to this report
AFFIRMATIVE ACTION STATUS: Not applicable

FINANCIAL: Charge to Workers' Compensation Fund - General Fixed Charges Account #12470-210-
57605-119004-000000 FY 2012 . .. . . . . . $100,040 36

PERSONNEL IMPLICATIONS: None

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that. in accordance With 105 ILCS
5134-131. the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain

investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations

Conflicts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in Violation of the
provisions of 105 ILCS 5/34-213 which restricts the employment of. or the letting ol contracts to. former
Board member during the one year period followmg expiration or other termination of their terms of office

Indebtedness The Board's Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26.1996 (96-0626-PO3). as amended
from time to time. shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25. 2011 (11-0525-PO2). as amended from time to time
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement

Contingent Liability - The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current
fiscal year is deemed a contingent liability. subject to appropriation in the subsequent fiscal year
budgedsl

Motion moved by Board Member Zopp and seconded by Board Member Sierra.
The Secretary called the roll and the vote was as follows:
Yeas: Mr. Bienen, Ms. Pritzker, Mr. Sierra, Ms. Zopp and Vice President Ruiz - 5
Nays: None
Vice President Ruiz thereupon declared Board Report 11-1116-AR3 adopted.

3

11-1116-AR4

November 16, 2011

PROPERTY TAX APPEAL SETTLEMENT FOR
KMART CORP. PTAB APPEALS REGARDING ITS
PROPERTY FOR TAX YEARS 2006-11

THE GENERAL COUNSEL REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Authorized settlement of appeal by Kmart Corp. regarding Its commercial property at 5050 Kedzie
Avenue. Chicago, Illinois. for the 2006-2011 tax years. This settlement results in a total refund of $79,726.
plus interest. for the tax years involved, with a savings of about $325.709, plus interest The refund will be
implemented by reductions in the Board's property-tax revenues in calendar year 2011 or thereafter his
settlement does not involve a direct payout of Board funds

DESCRIPTION: The General Counsel has determined that this settlement is in the Board's best interests

LSC REVIEW: Local council approval is not applicable to this report

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION STATUS: Not applicable;

FINANCIAL

There is no charge to any Board account The refund payment is to be deducted from the
Board's tax revenues in calendar year 2011 or thereafter 379.726. plus interest

PERSONNEL IMPLICATIONS: None

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that. in accordance 105 ILCS
5l34-13.1, the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all infOrmation and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations.

Conflicts The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in Violation of the
provisions of 105 SIM-21.3 which restricts the employment of. or the letting of contracts to former
Board member during the one year period Iollowmg expiration or other termination of their terms of office

Indebtedness The Board's Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 1996 as amended
from time to time. shall be incorporated into and made a part ot the agreement

Ethics The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25. 2011 (1 1-0525-P02). as amended from iime to time
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement,

Contingent Liability The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the Current
fiscal year is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in the subsequent fiscal year

budgeusi

Vice President Ruiz indicated that if there were no objections, Board Report 11-1116-AR4
would be adopted by the last favorable roll call vote, all members present voting therefore.

Vice President Ruiz thereupon declared Board Report 11-1116-AR4 adopted.

11-1116-EX5

APPROVE APPOINTMENT OF CHIEF SAFETY AND SECURITY OFFICER

(Jadine Chou)

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER RECOMMENDS THAT THE BOARD:

Approve the appointment of Jadine Chou to the position of Chief Safety and Security Officer, effective
November 21. 2011 at the salary set forth below:

DESCRIPTION:

NAME
Jadine Chou

FROM 

 

New Employee External Title: Chief Safety and Security Officer
Functional Title; Officer
Position No.: 257213
Basic Salary; 5150.000
Pay Band: 09
Budget Classification: TBD

November 16. 2011

LSC REVIEW: Local School Council review is not applicable to this report.

AFFIRMATIVE

ACTION STATUS: Not applicable

FINANCIAL: The expenditure involved in this report is not in excess of the regular budget appropriation

PERSONNEL

IMPLICATIONS: The position to be affected by approval of this action IS contained in the FY12 department
budget.

Vice President Ruiz indicated that if there were no objections, Board Report 11-1116-EX5
would be adopted by the last favorable roll call vote, all members present voting therefore.

Vice President Ruiz thereupon declared Board Report 11-1116-EX5 adopted.

11-1116-EX6

WARNING RESOLUTION CHRISTIE JONES

CONTRACT PRINCIPAL, ASSIGNED TO STEPHEN T. MATHER HIGH SCHOOL

TO THE CHICAGO BOARD OF EDUCATION

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER RECOMMENDS THE FOLLOWING:

DESCRIPTION:

LSC REVIEW:

AFFIRMATIVE

ACTION REVIEW:

FINANCIAL:

PERSONNEL
IMPLICATIONS:

11-1116-EX7

That the Chicago Board of Education adopt a Warning Resolution for
Christie Jones and that a copy of this Board Report and Warning
Resolution be served upon Christie Jones.

Pursuant to the provisions of 105 ILCS 5/34-85, the applicable statute of
the State of Illinois. the Rules of the Board of Education 01 the City of
Chicago. and the Employee Discipline and Due Process Policy. Board
Report No 04-0728-P01. a Warning Resolution be adopted and issued to
Christie Jones, Contract Principal. to inform him that he has engaged in
unsatisfactory conduct.

The conduct outlined in the Warning Resolution will result in the preferring
of dismissal charges against Christie Jones, pursuant to the Statute. if
said conduct IS not corrected immediately. and maintained thereafter in a
satisfactory fashion following receipt of the Warning 
Directives for improvement of this conduct are contained in the Warning
Resolution.

LSC review is not applicable to this report

None.

This action is of no cost to the Board,

None.

WARNING RESOLUTION - DONNA HENCINSKI.

SPEECH LANGUAGE PATHOLOGIST, ASSIGNED CITYWIDE

TO THE CHICAGO BOARD OF EDUCATION

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER RECOMMENDS THE FOLLOWING:

That the Chicago Board of Education adopts 3 Warning Resolution for
Donna Hencinski. and that a cepy of the Board Report and Warning
Resolution be served upon Donna Hencinski

November 16, 2011

DESCRIPTION: Pursuant to the provi3ions of 105 ILCS 5134-85. the applicable statute
of the State of Illinois. the Rules of the Board of Education of the City of
Chicago. and Board Report a Warning Resolution shall
be adopted and issued to Donna Hencinski. teacher. to inform her that
she has engaged in unsatisfactory conduct.

The conduct outlined in the Warning Resolution will result in the
preferring of dismissal charges against Donna pursuant to
the Statute. if said conduct is not corrected immediately. and
maintained thereafter in a satisfactory fashion following receipt of the
Warning Resolution. A directive for improvement of this conduct fS
contained in the Warning Resolution.

LSC REVIEW: LSC review is not applicable to this report
AFFIRMATIVE

ACTION REVIEW: None

FINANCIAL: This action is of no cost to the Board
PERSONNEL

IMPLICATIONS: None.

11-1116-EX8

WARNING RESOLUTION - SHARON HOLYFIELD-COOPER
TENURED TEACHER GEORGE WASHINGTON CARVER PRIMARY SCHOOL

TO THE CHICAGO BOARD OF EDUCATION:
THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER RECOMMENDS THE FOLLOWING:

That the Chicago Board of Education adopts the Warning Resolution for
Sharon HolyfieId-Cooper and that a copy of this Board Report and
Warning Resolution be served upon Sharon Holyt?ield-Cooper.

DESCRIPTION: Pursuant to the provisions of 105 ILCS 5134-85. the applicable statute of
the State of Illinois. the Rules of the Board of Education of the City of
Chicago. and the Employee Discipline and Due Process Policy, Board
Report 04-0728-PO1, a Warning Resolution must be adopted and issued
to Sharon HolyfieId-Cooper. Tenured Teacher. to inform her that she has
engaged in unsatisfactory conduct.

The conduct outlined in the Warning Resolution will result in the preferring
of dismissal charges against Sharon Holyfield-Cooper pursuant to the
Statute, if said conduct is not corrected immediately. and maintained
thereafter in a satisfactory fashion following receipt of the Warning
Resolution. Directives for improvement of this conduct are contained in
the Warning Resolution.

LSC REVIEW: LSC review is not applicable to this report.
AFFIRMATIVE

ACTION REVIEW: None.

FINANCIAL: This action is of no cost to the Board.
PERSONNEL

IMPLICATIONS: None.

11-1116-EX9

November 16. 2011

WARNING RESOLUTION - GHANIYYA LUTFI
TEACHER, ASSIGNED TO FENGER HIGH SCHOOL

TO THE CHICAGO BOARD OF EDUCATION

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER RECOMMENDS THE FOLLOWING:

DESCRIPTION:

LSC REVIEW:
AFFIRMATIVE

ACTION REVIEW:

FINANCIAL:

PERSONNEL
IMPLICATIONS:



That the Chicago Board of Education adopts a Warning Resolution for
Ghaniyya Lutfi. and that a copy of the Board Report and Warning
Resolution be served upon Ghaniyya Lutfi,

Pursuant to the provisions of 105 ILCS 5/34-85. the applicable statute
of the State of Illinois. the Rules of the Board of Education of the City of
Chicago, and Board Report 04-0728-P01. a Warning Resolution shall
be adopted and issued to Ghaniyya Lutfi. teacher. to inform her that
she has engaged in unsatisfactory conduct.

The conduct outlined in the Warning Resolution will result in the
preferring of dismissal charges against Ghaniyya Lutfi. pursuant to the
Statute. if said conduct is not corrected immediately. and maintained
thereafter in a satisfactory fashion following receipt of the Warning
Resolution. A directive for improvement of this conduct is contained in
the Warning Resolution.

LSC review is not applicable to this report.

None

This action is of no cost to the Board.

None.

WARNING RESOLUTION JILL SONTAG

TENURED TEACHER - JOHN GREENLEAF WHITTIER ELEMENTARY

TO THE CHICAGO BOARD OF EDUCATION

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER RECOMMENDS THE FOLLOWING:

DESCRIPTION:

LSC REVIEW:

AFFIRMATIVE
ACTION REVIEW:

That the Chicago Board of Education adopts a Warning Resolution for Jill
Sontag and that a copy of this Board Report and Warning Resolution be
served upon Jill Sontag.

Pursuant to the provisions of 105 ILCS 5134-85. the applicable statute of
the State of the Rules of the Board of Education of the City of
Chicago. and the Employee Discipline and Due Process Policy. Board
Report No 04-0728-P01. a Warning Resolution be adopted and issued to
Jill Sontag, Teacher. to inform her that she has engaged in unsatisfactory
conduct

The conduct outlined in the Warning Resolution will result in the preferring
of dismissal charges against Jill Sontag pursuant to the Statute. if said
conduct is not corrected immediately. and maintained thereafter in a
satisfactory fashion following receipt of the Warning Resolution,

Directives for improvement of this conduct are contained in the Jill
Sontag.

LSC review is not applicable to this report.

None,

November 16, 2011

FINANCIAL: This action is of no cost to the Board

PERSONNEL
IMPLICATIONS: None,

Vice President Ruiz indicated that ifthere were no objections, Board Reports 11-1116-EX6
through 11-1116-EX10 would be adopted by the last favorable roll call vote, all members present
voting therefore.

Vice President Ruiz thereupon declared Board Reports 11-1116-EX6 through 11-1116-Ex10
adopted.

11-1116-RS3

RESOLUTION BY THE BOARD OF EDUCATION OF THE CITY OF CHICAGO REGARDING THE
DISMISSAL OF NOWELL HERR, TENURED TEACHER, ASSIGNED TO SCHUBERT ELEMENTARY
SCHOOL

WHEREAS. pursuant to Section 34-85 of the Illinois School Code. 105 ILCS 5134-85. a hearing
was conducted before an impartial hearing officer, Brian Clauss. appomted by the State Board of
Education; and

WHEREAS. after the conclusron of the dismissal hearing that was afforded to Nowell Herr, the
Hearing Officer made written findings of fact and conclusions of law. and recommended the dismissal of
Nowell Herr; and

WHEREAS. the Board of Education of the City of Chicago has tevrewed the post-hearing briefs
and hearing transcript and exhibits ("record"). along with the findings of fact. conclusions of law. and
recommendation of Hearing Officer Clauss regarding the dismissal charges preferred against Noweil
Herr; and

WHEREAS. the parties were given an opportunity to submit exceptions and a memorandum of
law in support of or in opposnion to the Board's adoption of Hearing Officer Clauss's recommendation
and

WHEREAS. the Board of Education of the City of Chicago finds that the facts found by the
Hearing Officer constitute cause and grounds dismissal of Nowell Herr.

NOW THEREFORE. be it resolved by the Board of Education of the City of Chicago. as follows

Section 1: After considering the Hearing Officer's findings of fact. conclu5ions of law and
recommendation, the record of the dismissal hearing. and any exceptions and
memorandum of law submitted by the parties. the Board of Education of the City of Chicago
accepts the Hearing Officer's findings of fact and legal conciuswns.

Section 2: Nowell Herr is hereby dismissed from her empl0yment with the Board of Education of
the City of Chicago.

Section 3: This Resolution shall take full force and effect upon its adoption.

THEREFORE, this Resolution is herby aOOpted by the members of the Board of Education of the City of
Chicago on November 16. 2011.

11-1116-RS4

RESOLUTION BY THE BOARD OF EDUCATION OF THE CITY OF CHICAGO REGARDING THE
DISMISSAL PROCEEDINGS REGARDING GHANIYYA LUFTI. TENURED TEACHER.
ASSIGNED TO FENGER HIGH SCHOOL

WHEREAS. pursuant to Section 34-85 of the Illinois School Code. 105 ILCS 5/34-85. a hearing
was conducted before an impartial hearing officer. Ellen Alexander. appointed by the illinois State Board
of Education; and

WHEREAS. after the conclusion of the dismissal hearing that was afforded to Ghaniyya Lufti. the
Hearing Officer made written findings of fact and conclusions of law. and recommended the reinstatement
of Ghaniyya Lufti; and

WHEREAS. the Board of Education of the City of Chicago has rewewed the post-hearing briefs
and hearing transcript and exhibits along with the findings of fact. conclusions of law. and
recommendation of Hearing Officer Alexander regarding the dismissal charges preferred against
Ghaniyya Lufti; and

November 16, 2011

WHEREAS. the parties were given an opportunity to submit exceptions and a memorandum of
law in support of or in opposition to the Board's adoption of Hearing Officer Alexander's recommendation
and

WHEREAS. the Board of Education of the City of Chicago finds that the facts and assessment of
witness credibility as found by the Hearing Officer constitute cause and grounds for reinstatement of
Ghaniyya Lufti.? and

WHEREAS. the Board of Education finds that the Hearing Officer's interpretation of Board
policies fails to address the policies' plain language.

NOW THEREFORE. be it resolved by the Board of Education of the City of Chicago. as follows

Section 1: After considering the Hearing Officer's findings of fact. conclusuons of law and
recommendation. the record of the dismissal hearing. and any exceptions and
memorandum of law submitted by the Petitioner, the Board of Education of the City of Chicago
accepts in part. and rejects in part. the Hearing Officer's findings of fact and legal 
with the exceptions noted in the Appendix to this Resolution.

Section 2: Ghaniyya Lutti is reinstated to her employment With the Board of Education
However. she is suspended without pay for 30 days. which time has already been served Back
pay lS awarded to Ms. Lufti with full seniority. in the amount of $134,227.99 and benefits, SubjeCI
to offset by all sources of income and unemployment benefits. and subject to the unpaid
suspension.

Section 3: This Resolution shall take full force and effect upon its adoption

THEREFORE, this Resolution is hereby adopted by the members of the Board of Education of the City of
Chicago on November 16. 2011.

11-1116-R35

RESOLUTION APPROVING CHIEF EXECUTIVE RECOMMENDATION
TO DISMISS EDUCATIONAL SUPPORT PERSONNEL

WHEREAS. on November 2. 2011 the Chief ExeCUtive Of?cer submitted a written recommenda-
tion. including the reasons for the recommendation. to the Board to dismiss the following educa-
tional support personnel pursuant to Board Policy 

Name School Effective Date
Roosevelt Bradley Harlan Community Academy High School November 16. 2011
Jone Chavers Randolph Elementary School November 16. 2011
Jose Torres Lincoln Park High School November 16. 2011

WHEREAS. the Chief Executive Officer followed the procedures established by him prior to
making the recommendation:

WHEREAS. the Board has reviewed the reasons for the Chief Executive Officer's recommenda-
tion:

WHEREAS, the Chief Executive Of?cer or his designee has previously notified the affected
educational support personnel of their pending dismissal;

NOW. THEREFORE. BE IT RESOLVED:

1. That pursuant to Board Policy 04-0728-PO1. the above-referenced educational support per-
sonnel are dismissed from Board employment effective on the date set opposite their names.

2. The Board hereby approves all actions taken by the Chief Executive Officer or his designee
to effectuate the dismissal of the above-named educational support personnel.

3. The Chief Executive Of?cer or designee shall notify the above-named educational support
personnel of their dismissal.

November 16, 2011

11-1116-R86

RESOLUTION APPROVING CHIEF EXECUTIVE RECOMMENDATION
TO DISMISS PROBATIONARY APPOINTED TEACHERS

WHEREAS. November 2. 201 t. the Chief Executive Officer submitted written recommendations. including
the reasons for the recommendations. to the Board to dismiss the followrng probationary appomled
teachers pursuant to Board Rule and 105 ILCS 5/34-84:

 

 

 

53mg Sghgol g?ggtivg Date
Colette Blakely Joseph Brennemann School November 16. 2011
Dan Prusaitis Richard T. Crane Technical Prep November 16. 2011

 

 

 

 

 

WHEREAS. the Chief Executive Of?cer followed the procedures established by him prior to making the
recommendation;

WHEREAS. the Board has reviewed the reasons for the Chief Executive Officer's recommendation.

WHEREAS. the Chief Executive Officer or his designee has previOusly notified the affected probationary
appointed teachers of their pending dismissal:

NOW. THEREFORE. BE IT RESOLVED:

1. That pursuant to Board Rule and 105 ILCS SIM-84. the above-referenced probationary
appointed teachers are dismissed from Board employment effective on the date set opposite their names

2. The Board hereby approves all actions taken by the Chief Executive Of?cer or his designee to
effectuate the dismissal of the above-named probationary appointed teachers.

3. The Chief Executive Of?cer or designee shall notify the above-named probationary appointed
teachers of their dismissal.

The Secretary presented the following Statement for the Public Record:

I would like to note for the record that on November 2, 2011, the Board Members and the
Office of the Board received the Recommendation to Dismiss Probationary Appointed
Teachers Pursuant to Board Rule and 105 ILCS 5/34-84. His recommendation included
the names of the Teachers affected and the reasons. He also noted that the Teachers affected will
be notified of the dismissal after adoption of the resolution.

11-1116-RST

RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING THE HONORABLE TERMINATION OF REGULARLY
CERTIFIED AND APPOINTED TEACHERS

WHEREAS. the Chicago Board of Education (?Board") has the power under Sections 34-
8.1. 34-16 and 34-84 of the Illinois School Code (105 ILCS 5134-1. et. seq.) to lay off empIOyees.
and

WHEREAS. the Board has the power under Section 34-18(31) of the Illinois School Code
to promulgate ruies establishing procedures governing the layoff or reduction in force of
employees; and

WHEREAS. the Board has the power under Section 34-19 of the Illinois School Code to
delegate to the Chief Executive Officer the authorities granted to the Board provided that
such delegation and appropriate oversight procedures are made pursuant to Board by~laws.
rules. regulations, adopted pursuant to Section 34-19 of the Illinois School Code; and

WHEREAS. the Board. pursuant to the above articulated powers. promulgated its Policy
Regarding Reassignment and Layoff of Regularly Appointed and Certified Teachers
("Reassignment Policy") on July 23. 1997 and amended from time to time thereafter. including in
Board Report and

WHEREAS, the Board has delegated its power to layoff tenured teachers in accordance
with the Reassignmant Policy to the CEO under Board Rules 2-27(c) and 4-6; and

WHEREAS. the Reassignment Policy provides that teachers honorably terminated under
its provisions. who are rehired in a permanent teaching position within two school years after their
honorable termination. shall have their tenure and prior seniority restored as of the date of rehire.
and

10

November 16, 2011

WHEREAS. the employee(s) identified on Attachment A were removed from the

attendance center to which they were assigned purSuant to Section 2 of the Reass?ignment
Policy. and the Chief Executive Officer directed that each empIOyee receive a notice of removal
and each employee did receive said notice; and

WHEREAS. all of the identified employees failed to secure a permanent appointment

within at least 10 school months after they received their notice of removal and the Chief
Executive Officer directed that each of the identified employees receive at least 14 days' notice
that they would be honorably terminated from service and each employee has received said
notice.

NOW, THEREFORE. BE IT HEREBY RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO BOARD OF

EDUCATION as follows:

That the employee(s) listed on Attachment A are honorably terminated from service effective on

the date of honorable termination indicated on Attachment A, pursuant to the Board's
Reassignment Policy.

That those employee(s) listed on Attachment A, who were tenured at the time of their honorable

termination, shall have their tenure and full seniority rest0red without further formal Board
action. if they are rehired by the Board to a permanent teaching position within two (2)

years of the date of their honorable termination.

That this Resolution shall be effective upon adoption. and shall replace all prior resolutions or

other Board actions that are in conflict herewith.

ATTACHMENT A

REASSIGNED TEACHERS SCHEDULED FOR HONORABLE TERMINATION

First Name Last Name
Janet Haegele
Mark Belln
Anil Rimal

Terminatlon Date

November 30. 2011
December 2, 2011
December 14, 2011

Vice President Ruiz indicated that ifthere were no objections, Board Reports 11-1116-R83
through would be adopted by the last favorable roll call vote, all members present

voting therefore.

Vice President Ruiz thereupon declared Board Reports 11-1116-RS3 through 

adopted.

11-1116-RS1

RESOLUTION RE:

APPOINTMENT OF NON-TEACHING STAFF REPRESENTATIVE
TO ELECTED LOCAL SCHOOL COUNCIL
FOR THE TERM OF OFFICE ENDING JUNE 30.2012

WHEREAS. the Illinois School Code, 105 ILCS 5134-210). authorizes the Chicago Board of
Education to appoint 1 representative of a school's non-teaching staff to each elected Local School
Council after considering the preferences of the school's staff as ascertained through a non-binding

advisory poll and to exercise absolute discretion in the appointment process: and

WHEREAS, a non-binding admsory poll was conducted at the school identified below to ascertain
the preferences of the school?s staff regarding the appointment of a representative of the non-teaching

staff to fill the vacancy on the school's local school council; and

WHEREAS. in accordance with 105 ILCS the results of the non-binding advisory poll
have been forwarded to the Board for consideration in its exercise of absolute discretion in the

appointment process;

NOW, THEREFORE. BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO BOARD OF EDUCATION:

1 .

The individuai named below is appomted to serve as the non-teaching staff representative on the
Local School Council of the identified schools tor the current term of office, ending June 30, 2012

2. The Resolution is effective immediately upon adoption
APPOINTEE POSITION SCHOOL
Jesse Rooks School SeCUrity Officer L0uis Elementary

11

November 16. 2011

11-1116-R82

RESOLUTION RE:
APPOINTMENT OF TEACHER REPRESENTATIVES
TO FILL LOCAL SCHOOL COUNCIL VACANCIES
FOR THE TERM OF OFFICE ENDING JUNE 30,2012

WHEREAS. the Illinois School Code, 105 ILCS 5134-210), authorizes the Chicago Boarc of
Education to appoint 2 teachers to each Local School Council after considering the preferences of the
school?s staff as ascertained through a non-binding advisory poll and to exercrse absolute discretion in
the appointment process:

WHEREAS. the School Code authorizes the Board to fill vacanCies in teacher representative
posdions on local school councils in the same manner as the original appomtments

WHEREAS. non-binding advisory polls have been conducted at the schoots identified below to
ascertain the preferences of the schools' staffs regarding the apporntment of a teacher to fuel a teacher
representative vacancy on the schools' local school councils: and

WHEREAS. In accordance with 105 ILCS the results of the nonbinding adwsory polls
have been forwarded to the Board for consideration in its exercise of absolute dispretion in the
appointment process;

NOW. THEREFORE. BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO BOARD OF EDUCATION:

1, The individuals named below are appointed to serve as teacher representatives on the Local
School Councils of the identified schools for the current term of office. ending June 30 2012

2. The Resolution is effective immediately upon adoption

APPOINTEE REPLACING SCHOOL

Wolski Hertha Ramirez Belmont-Cragin
Carlos Patir?to Sherida Winn Burr

Carlos Casia Xavrer Espejo Chappeli

Dionne Phillips Wanda Williamson-Johnson Colemon

Rachel Lampley Sandy McElwee Cullen

Diane Escobar Donald Price Curie Metro
Bridget Nelson Raymond Baker Hope College Prep
Nancy Solayman Carol Navarro Pulaski

Atlanta Moore Rachel Williams Schmid

Vice President Ruiz indicated that if there were no objections, Board Reports 
and 11-1116-RS2 would be adopted by the last favorable roll call vote, all members present voting
therefore.

Vice President Ruiz thereupon declared Board Reports 11-1116-RS1 and 11-1116-RS2
adopted.

11-1116-PO1

FINAL

RESCIND OUTDATED POLICIES IN BOARD REPORTS
00-0726-PO1, 92-0527-P02. 71-1010-1, 96-0626-PO5, 97-1022-P02. 95-1028-P04.
95-1028-PO5. 77-284, 80-58. 00-0223-P03 AND 05-0824-PO7
THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER RECOMMENDS THE FOLLOWING:

Rescind the following outdated Board Policies for the reasons stated below;

 

Board Report No. Pollc! Name Reason for Rescission
00-0726-P01 School Re~Engineering Outdated policy based on a prowsmn
of an expired collective bargaining
agreement,
92-0527-P02 Removal of Mobile Classroom Outdated policy that is Superseded by
Units when new Permanent capital improvement plans that provtde
School Buildings are for the removal of mobile claserOm
Completed units.

12

Board Report No.

71-1010-1

96-0626-P05

97-1022-P02

95-1028-PO4

95-1028-P05

77-284

80-58

00-0223-P03

05-0824-PO7

Policy Name

Boilding Contracts

Rental of Facilities to Allow
Leasing of SWimming Pools

Disclosure of Employees
Medical and 
Information

Personnel Policy, Educational
Support Personnel:
Qualifications and
Appointments

Personnel Policy. Educational
Support Personnel: Eligibility
Lists

Faculty Integration

Transfer of Funds Resolution
Establishing Debt Service
Funds for Notes. Bonds and
Leases and Appointing Trustee
for Those Funds

New Immigrant Teachers

Sabbatical Leave Policy

November 16, 2011

Reason for Rescission

Outdated policy that is superseded by
current contracting practices

Outdated policy that is superseded by
current contracting practices

Outdated policy that is superseded by
Board's Policy on PrivaCy of Health
Related Information and procedural
guidelines established by the Oliice ol
Human Capital

Outdated Policy that is Superseded by
the Board?s Policy on Layoff, interim
Assignment and Reappomtment of
Educational Support Personnel
Employees and relevant collective
bargaining agreements

Outdated Policy that is superseded by
the Board?s Policy on Layoff. Interim
Assignment and Reappointment of
Educational Support Personnel
Employees and relevant collective
bargaining agreements

Outdated Policy that pre-dates the
Desegregation Consent Decree

Outdated policy based on bonds that
no longer exist

Outdated Policy based on a program
that no longer eXists.

Per Board Rule 4-140) revisions.
sabbatical leave requests now be
handled in accordance the
procedural guidelines established by
the CEO or designee

THIS SPACE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK

13

11-1116-RU1

FINAL

November 16, 2011

ANNUAL READOPTION OF BOARD RULES AND AMENDMENT. MODIFICATION OR REPEALER

THE GENERAL COUNSEL RECOMMENDS:

OF CERTAIN BOARD RULES IN ACCORDANCE WITH BOARD RULE 

That the Board, in accordance with Board Rule 2-7, readOpt its Board Rules the amendments.
modi?cations or repeaters thereto described below. which shall lake effect upon adoptiOn The Board
Rules. as amended and re-adopted are fully set forth in the attachment to this Board Report

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

_goard Rule Title Action
2-4 Orderof Business; Quorum Amend to remove a specific order of business
and indicate that the order will be published in
the Board meeting agenda
. ?4
3?2 Law Department Amend to clarity the duties of the General i
Counsel to Include the isSUance of legal 
opinions. bringing actions on behalf ol the Board 
and taking any actions reqmred bylaw
3-3 Retention ofOutside Legal Amend lo "Elude?new provisEn?on the General I
Counsel Counsel's authority to retain hearing ollicers~
arbitrators. mediators. expert consuttants and .
witnesses and court reporters and approve 
related payments ol legal fees, expenses and i
costs. with reporting to the Board 
3-4 Legal?Op?miens Payment of Rescind previous on to I
Judgments and Awards align with Section 3-2 amendmenls Establish 
new Rule on the General Corinsel?s authority to 
approve payments of ludgments and awards and
related reporting requuements
3-8 Inspector General Amend to clarify (ER?or? the Inspecto; General I
4-14f Sabbatical Leave for Appointed Amend to delegate approvalol teacher 
Teachers and Principals sabbatical leaves to the CEO or deg-ghee
. 
5~14 Estimate Of Taxes To Be Levied Establish Rule to authorize the crud FinanCial
Ofticer to annually determine the estimate at
property taxes to be levied and to com ply with 35 I
200/18-60 a

6~9 Suspension of Pupils - Cause Amend to remove Chief Area Ollie-er ?r?ie'r?FiE?s?I
and replace with Chief of Schools.
6-18 Circulation and Distribution of Amend to remove Chief Are?a Ollicer referenEe?s?
Unauthorized Written Materials and replace with Chiel oi Schools
6-25.IX. Use of School Buildings After Amend to remove Chief Area Officer relerence?
Regular H0urs of Building and replace with Chief of Schools
Operation
6-28 LSC Member Eligibility Amend to clarify step-parent delinili?on 

 

 

14

November 16, 2011

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

__Bgard Rule Ii_t_l_e_ Action 
7-2.b. Procmement Policy For Biddable Amend to requwe written quotes for Level One
and Non-Biddable items. procurements Amend to align With updates to
Requests for information, Request Section 7-15 for the Chief Purchasmg Officer to i
for Proposals and/or Quali?cations approve bids up to 575.000 include provision 
and Bid Solicitations for cirCumstances when a soliCitation does not
yield three price quotes
LA Expenditures of $25,000 and Amend to specify that Chief of Schools may]
under Fer?items Which Are Not contract for expenditures upto $25,000
Required To Be Awarded Through
a Competitive Bid Solicitation
Process. 
Regulated Education-Related Establish new Rule that identifies exceptions to
Expenditures Which Are Not Section 7-2 procurement reqwrements tor I
Subiect to Section 7-2 certain education-related expenditures where the
Procurement Requirements procurement process is otherWise regulated
This procurement exception is subiect to
determination by the Chief Purchasing Officer:
and the General Counsel 5
Non-Biddable Education-Related Establish new Rule that identifies exceptions to 
Expenditures and Engagements Section 7-2 procurement reQUiremenis for -
Which Are not Subiect to Section certain non-biddable education-related I
7-2 Procurement Requirements expenditures and engagements Such as tuition 
payments and student practicum agreements
This procurement exception is subiect to
determination by the Chief PurchaSing Officer
and the General C0unset I

Purchase of Non-Biddable Items ?Establish new Rule that identifies exceptions to 3
Through Federal, State. Comty. Section 7?2 procurement requirements for the
City and Sister City Aqencv purchase of items procured under City oi .
Contracts Which Are Not Subiect Chicago contracts as well as State of i
To Section 7-2 Procurement County of Cook contracts. Sister City agency and i
Reguirements federal agency contracts I
Restricted Gift Purchases Which Establish new Rule that identifies exceptions to I
Are Not meet To Section 7-2 Section 7-2 procurement requirements for the 1
Procurement Reoutrements. purchase of certain items from a speCific vendor 
when requtred under the terms of a restricted .
grant. gift. donation or legacy 
Procurement Guidelines Establish new Rule that authorizes the Chief;
Purchasmg Officer to establish procurement;
guidelines to effectively implement the Board's
procurement rules.
7-4 Posting of Bid Responses Amend to reflect current practice for posting
aggregate bid prices per category. .
7-5 Emergency Expenditures Reference to the Chief Facilities Officer rem0ved 

and replaced with the Chief Operating Olticer

 

 

 

 

15

November 16, 2011

 

Board Rule Tltle Action

 

 

7-10 Sole Sourcing Amend to authonze the Chief Purchasing Officer]
to approve sole source purchases and
ratifications up to $75,000. Amend to clarify
factors considered in a sole source evaluation.
supplier named in a grant must be essential to
fulfilling the Board's obligations under the grant

J. 

 

7-13 Written Contracts and Purchase Clarify that a purchase order?isrequiiedwfor all
. Orders Required purchases and must be issued prior to order Or
receipt of goods or sewices

 

 

 

 

7-15 Delegation of Authority to Act Amend to authorize the Chief Education Officer
and the Chief Executive Officer to execute
education-related agreements enumerated rn
Board Rules 7-23 and 7-2.4

Amend to authorize the Chief Education Officer
to execute no-fee education-related agreements
and data sharing agreements

Amend the Chief FinanCial Officers authority
regarding grant, gift and donation acceptance
agreement to requure Board approval of grant
agreements that impose additional financial
obligations on the Board in excess of 8250.000

Amend the Chief Purchasrng Officer's authority
to authorize and exeCute agreements for the
purchase of biddable items that do not exceed
375.000. and approve payments and ratrty
agreements for non-biddable items up to
575.000

Amend to authorize the General Cetinsel to
appoint counsel. retain experts and to 
take all actions required to fulfill the duties and
obligations imposed upon the General Counsel 
in Chapter of the Rules

Eliminate Chief Performance Officer delegated
authorities,

Eliminate Chief Information Officer delegated
authorities

Authorize the Chief Administrative Officer or,
d85ignee to sign no~fee confidentiality and!
network access 

 

 

 

16

November 16, 2011

CHAPTER I
ORGANIZATION OF THE BOARD OF EDUCATION

Sec. 1-1. Officers. The officers of the Board of Education shall be the Presrdent. Vice PreSIdenl and
Secretary. The President and Vice President shall be elected annually in July or whenever a vacancy
exists, by majority vote of the full membership. The Board shall select and appoint a Secretary and an
Assistant Secretary who shalt be employees of the Board and shall have the powers and duties
prescribed by these Rules.

Sec. 1-2. Election of Officers. The President and Vice-President of the Board of Education shall be
elected from the members of the Board of Education by a roll call vote of the members of the Board of
Education. The President and the Vice-PreSident shall each receive the votes of a maiority of the full
membersnip of the Board of Education before being declared elected. The President and the Vice-
President. respectiVely. shall hold their offices for one year and until their successors shall be duty elected
and qualified.

Sec. 1-3. Special Committees. The President. with the approval or at the direction of the Board of
Education. may appoint special committees to ConSldel? and report on matters referred to them

Sec. 1-4. President. The President shall preside at all meetings of the Board of Education at which the
President is present. The PreSIdent shall perform such duties and exercrse such powers as usually
pertain to the office of President, and shall also have such additional powers as may be granted by
statute or by the Board of Education.

See. 1-5. Vice-President. The Vice-President shall preside at all meetings of the Board of Education in
the absence of the President. and shall perform such other duties as may be enjoined upon the Vice-
President by the Board of Education. In the case of the absence or disability of the President. or if there
be a vacancy in the office of the President. all the powers and duties of that office shall devolve upon the
Vice-President, who shall continue to exercise such powers and duties until the President returns or the
vacancy is filled.

Sec. 1-6. Chairman Pro Tom. in the case of the absence 0r disability of the PreSIdeni and the Vice
President at any regular or special meeting of the Board of Education when a quorum is present. as
determined by the Secretary by roll call. the members present shall proceed to the election of a Chairman
Pro Tem who shall act at such meeting in lieu of the Pre5ident and the Vice PreSident

Sec. 1-7. Secretary. The Secretary shall cause to be developed and kept a record of all of the agendas
and proceedings of the Board of Education; shall give notice to members and the public of regular.
Special and recessed meetings of the Board of Education. shall have general supemsmn of all records of
the agendas and proceedings of the Board of Education and of each committee and subcommittee
thereof. and of such other records as the Board of Education may direct; shalt Sign all records of
proceedings of the Board of Education: shall cause to be prepared expeditiously the agendas and
proceedings of the Board of Education and such reports and other matters as the Board of Education
may direct or are by law required. and shall send copies thereof to all members. shall publish and make
available. at a minimum once a year, an up-to-dale copy of these Board Rules; shall maintain an up-to-
date file on policies approved by the Board. shall publish in May of each year a Calendar of Board
Meetings for the upcoming fiscal year; shall publish in September a list of reports that require annual
Board approval; shall accept all liens and summons served on the Board; shall sign all checks drawn by
order of the Board of Education and presant the same to the Mayor and the City Comptroller lor
countersigning. shall sign all contracts and legal instruments approved by the Board of Education and
shall perform such other duties as usually pertain to the Office of Searetary or such as may be directed by
the Board of Education and by these Rules.

The Secretary shall be responsible for the administration of the for all records management
(including computer. electronic. paper and film) records retention. records management and records
destruction for the Board of Education and the Chicago Public Schools.

Sec. 1-8. Assistant Secretary. The Assistant Secretary shall perform the duties of the Secretary in case
of the Secretary's absence or inability to act. The Assistant Secretary shall perform such other duties as
may be enjoined upon the Assistant Secretary by the Board of Education.

Sec. 1-9. Discrimination. it is the policy of the Board to prohibit unlawful discrimination on the basis of
any classifications protected by the Constitution of the United States. the Constitution of the State of
Illinois and applicable federal. state or local laws or ordinances. including but not limited to discrimination
on the basis of race. color. sex. gender identity/expression. age, religion. disability. national origin or
sexual orientation.

Sec 1-10. Finance and Audit Committee. The Finance and Audit Committee shall consist of all
members of the Board of Education. The Finance and Audit Committee is authorized to review the status
of the Board's budget and expenditures. review the expenses of the Office of the Board. deCide all
requests for reimbursement of expenses by the President of the Board. receive reports from the Chief
Executive Officer or the Chief Finance! Officer regarding issues related to the Board's financial condition.
and review the Board's procmement and expense reimbursement policies and related matters The
Finance and Audit Committee also shall perform other responsibilities as are designated by the Board or
the Board President.

17

Novem ber 16, 2011

CHAPTER II
CONDUCT OF THE BUSINESS OF THE BOARD OF EDUCATION

Sec. 2-1. Regular Meetings. The Board of Education shall establish a schedule ol regular meetings in
May of each year and shall state the regular dates. limes and places of such meetings.

Sec. 2-2. Special Meetings. Special meetings may be held at any time on call of the Presrdent or any
three or more members. Such call shall be in writing. duly signed, and shall be presented to the
Secretary who shall proceed immediately to prepare notices and an agenda on the same and shall cause
them to be served on members of the public and the members of the Board of Education at least 48
hours prior to the day and heur set for said special meeting

Sec. 2.3. Public Hearings on One School or School Problem - Regular Meeting. Upon the
written request of the President or any majority of the members, any one school issue or school problem
presented by any member. person. gr0up or organization. may be set for public hearing at a regular
meeting of the Board, at a fixed hour and stating the time allowed for oral presentation The Secretary
shall notify the person. civic group or organization that presented the said school issue or school
problem to be heard. of the day and hour of the regular meeting of the Board at which the public hearing
is to be held. and stating the time allowed by the Board for oral presentation Procedures for
presentations at public nearings shall follow the current Guidelines for Public PaflIClpallon

Sec. 2-4. Order of Business; Quorum. At each meeting of the Board of Education. the PreSident shall
take the chair at the time appointed for the meeting and shall call the same to order. The Secretary shall
immediately call the roll of members. If no quorum be present. the Board of Education shall not stand
adjourned thereby. but the member or members present may adjourn to a subsequent date by a maioriiy
vote of those present. Provided a quorum of Board members is physically present for a meeting. a Board
member may participate by video or audio conference it he or she is prevented from phySically attending
because of; personal illness or disability; (ii) personal employment purposes. busmess obligations
of the Board; (iv) a family or other emergency; or such other reasons authorized under Section 7 of the
Open Meetings Act (SIILCS 12017). A Board member who attends a meeting by audio or Video means.
as provided herein. may participate in all aspects of the Board meeting including voting on any item. If a
member wishes to attend a meeting by video or audio conference. the member shall notify the Secretary
before the meeting unless advance notice is impractical. The Secretary shall indicate in the meeting
minutes whether the members of the Board were physically present for the meeting or present by means
of video or audio conference.

A quorum for the transaction of business shall consist of a majority of the lull membership of the Board oi
Education then serving. When a quorum is physically present. the general order oi busrness shall be as
noted in the agenda published tor a me particular meeting


i
3


9. blew?Business

P. Aepumment

Sec. 2-4.1 Public Participation at Meetings. At each regular and SpeCIai meeting which is open to the
public. members of the public and employees of the district shall be afforded time. subject to reasonable

constraints. to comment to or ask questions of the Board. The Board President shall establish and
publish guidelines that will govern the public participation portion of each meeting

Sec. 2-5. Rules of Order. The Rules of Parliamentary Practice embraced in the most recent edition oi
Robert's Rules of Order shall govern the Board of Education in all cases in which they are not
inconsistent with the Rules of the Board of EdUCB?ilOl?l

Sec. 2-6. Amendment and Suspension of Rules. The Rules of the Board oi Education may be
repealed. amended or added to only at a regular meeting and by a vote of two-thirds of the lull
membership. Any and all amendments to these Rules shall speCily therein the chapter and section
thereof sought to be amended.

18

November 16, 2011

The Rules may be suspended at any regular meeting by a majority of the full membership then serving.
provided, however that these Rules shall not be Suspended for the purpose of repeating amending or
adding to the same except by a vote of two-thirds of the full membership

Sec. 2-7. Annual Adoption of Rules. The Board of Education shall re-adopt these Board Rules and
any amendments, modifications. repealers. or Suspension thereto, by a vote of two-thirds of the full
membership of the Board at its first regular meeting after the start of each fiscal year or at such other
times as the Board deems appropriate, if the Board fails to readopt these Board Rules as set forth in this
Rule. the existing Rules shall continue in full force and effect.

Sec. 2-8. Withdrawing Reports and Laying Over Reports.
a. Prior to a vote on any report presented to the Board. the Chief Executive Officer or any other
Officer sponsoring the report may Withdraw the report from the agenda

b. Upon the request of any member. any report presented by any department head or any motion.
resolution. order. or Rule presented by any member shall be laid over for one meeting; provided.
however. that no matter shall be so laid over for more then three consecutive meetings. The report.
motion. resolution. order or Rule so deferred shall be published in the proceedings of the Board of
Education,

Sec. 2-9. Vote Required - Recording of Vote. Except as otherwise provided by law or in these Rules.
all questions pending before the Board of Education shall be decided by a maiority oi the members voting
upon them. a majority oi the entire Board of Education voting. The Ayes and Noes shall be taken and
entered of record by the Secretary.

Sec. 2-10. Reconsideration. No motion for a reconsideration oi any vote shall be entertained unless
such motion shall be made at the meeting at which the vote sought to be reconsrdered was taken. or at
the next regular meeting thereafter. by any member of the Board of Education who shall have voted with
the prevailing side or shall have been absent when the vote was taken Any member may second the
motion.

Where the Ayes and Noes have not been called on a question. any member may make the motion to
reconsider,

Sec. 2-11. Records of Proceedings. The record of the Proceedings of the Board shall be prepared
and maintained by the Secretary and include a record of the following (1) the date. time and place oi the
meeting. the members of the Board who were present. absent and whether members were ptiniCaily
present or present by means of video er audio conference. and (3) a summary of diswssiion on all
matters proposed. deliberated or decided and any votes taken. The Board of Education may direct lhat
the remarks of any member made during a meeting shall be included in the record of proceedings

Sec. 2-12. Approval and Posting of Proceedings. The Secretary shall affix his or her Signature lo the
records of Board proceedings. Such signed records. when approved by a maiority vote of the ftili
membership of the Board shall be the offiCial records of such proceedings. Within seven (7) days of the
approval of such proceedings. the Secretary shall post the approved proceedings on the Board's websue
for a period of not less than 60 days.

Sec. 243. Delegation of Board Authority.

a. Manner and Effect of Delegation of Authority. With the exception of those powers and authority
exclusively reserved to the Board by the ?Home School Code. as it exists now. or as it may be hereafter
amended. the Board may delegate its authority by Board Rule. Board Policy. Board Resolution. Board
Report or other Board action. Where the Board has delegated authority to an Officer or his/her deSignee
that Officer or hislher designee may take all actions consistent with the delegation Without further Board
action or authority and the action shall be binding upon the Board at the time the Officer acts

b. Authority Not Specifically Delegated. The Board reserves to itself all authority and power it has
not specifically delegated to another by Board Rule. Board Policy. Board Resolution. Board Report or
other Board action.

c. Authority over Departments and Delegated Authority, Chiefs. Officers and heads of departments
have the authority to supervise their respective departments or units. including all enipl0yees Within their
departments or units. and to take all actions delegated to them by Board Rule. Policy. Resolution. Board
Report or other Board action. Said Chiefs. Officers and heads of departments or units may delegate their
authority to employees Within their departments or units. including any authority delegated to them by the
Board.

Sec. 2-14. Line Item Vote. For any Board Report requesting authority for multiple
actions/items/transactions. the Board shall have the right. at its discretion. to strike or decline approval for
any one or more actionlitemftransaction identified on Such Board Report Without voiding the remainder of
the Board Report.

Sec. 2-15. Reporting to the Board. (Repealed 08-25-10!

19

November 16, 2011

Sec. 2-16. Approval of Donations. Donations may be issued to students enrolled in the Chicago Public
Schools and third parties for the benefit of students enrolled in the Chicago Public Schools only upon
approval by a majority vote of the Board. For purposes of this Rule. the term donation means the
voluntary contribution of funds by the Board to one or more individual students enrolled in the Chicago
Public Schools or a not-for-profit entity that provides services to or advocates on behalf of students
enrolled in the Chicago Public Schools Donations are not authorized by or subiect to the prOVISlons oi
Chapter 1 of these Rules.

CHAPTER 
ADMINISTRATIVE ORGANIZATION

Sec. 3-1. Chief Executive Officer. The Chief Executive Officer shall have all the duties and powers
authorized by the Illinois School Code and all such additional duties and powers as may be granted by
the Board of Education.

See. 3-2. Law Department. The General Counsel shall have charge and control. subject to the approval
of the Board of Education. of the Law Department and of all litigation. legal questions and such other
legal matters as may be referred to the department by the Board of Education or by the Chief Execmrve
Officer. The General Counsel shall have authority to issue legal opinions. to bring actions on behalf of the
Board. to take any actions reguired bylaw and to settle any matter before the Law Department, including
but not limited to. federal and state court cases. administrative enforcement agenCy cases. workers
compensation claims. employment issues. and contract disputes. for a sum up to and including $50,000.
without Board approval. The General Counsel shall report any settlements in excess of $10. 000 to the
Board in an appropriate manner on a basis paymentcet
legal-expenses-aed-eest 3? Wherea? M9001 to

-. . The General Counsel shall
also review all contracts bonds. an__q leases subject to the exceptions noted in Section 7- 15 herein

 

Assistants and Deputies General Counsel shall work under the direction and superViSion of the General
Counsel and are expressly prohibited from performing legal work for or undertaking legal representation
of any person or entity other than the Board of Education. Violation of the prohibition against outSide
practice by an Assistant or Deputy General Counsel shall constitute cause for immediate dismissal from
employment.

Sec. 3-3. Retention of Outside Legal Counsel. The retention of outside legal c0unsel is reserved to the
Board. Subject to approval by the Board. the General Counsel may retain oul5ide legal mouse! to appear
in legal proceedings on his/her behalf or to provide other legal servrces to the Board The General
Counsel is also authorized to retain hearinq officers. arbitrators. mediators. expert consultants and
witnesses and court reporters and to authorize payment of fees. expenses and costs related to those
retentions. Any acQons taken mirsuant to this section shall be reported to the Board on a basis.

opmroneamt
ChieLExeciuwe?foieer?aed the

Sec. 3-4 Payment of Judgments and Awards. The General Counsel is authorized to approve payment
of any iudqments. awards. fines orpenalties rendered aqainst or imposed upon the Board wlmin the
opinion of the General Counsel. no further proceedings are iustilied. The General C_ounsel shall report
payment of any iudoments. awards. fines or penalties in excess of $10.000 to the Board on a month_ly
basis.

Sec. 3-5. Attorney?s Appearance in Legal Proceedings. The General C0unsel shall appear for and
protect the rights and interests of the Board of Education in all cases. suits. and proceedings brought by
or against the Board of Education. The General Counsel also shall take all actions necessary to fulfill the
Board's obligations pursuant to Section 105 ILCS 5/34-181 of the School Code If a current or former
member. officer or employee of the Board is required to appear in any matter or defend against or
respond to any claim. in their individual or official capacity. the General Counsel may elect to represent
such person. appoint outside counsel to represent such person or approve reimbursement of reasonable
legal expenses and costs provided that the person was acting in the scope of the person's office or
employment during the events giving rise to the matter or claim. No Board funds shall be expended for
payment of legal services rendered on behalf of any person in the event the person is identified as the
target of a criminal investigation or upon the charge of such person by criminal complaint. information or
indictment in criminal proceedings. Upon the conclusion of the criminal investigation or proceedings in
which the person was a target or defendant. however, such person may request reimbursement of
reasonable legal expenses and costs if such person has not been charged or has been acquitted or found
not guilty or if all charges against such person in the action have been dismissed. All requests for
reimbursement are subject to approval of the General Counsel and the Board.

Sec. 3-6. Workers' Compensation - Authority to Make Statutory Payments. The Chief FinanCIal
Officer or his designee shall have authority, in proper cases under the Workers' Compensation Act and
Occupational Diseases Act as determined with advice of the General Counsel. to owe reqUisitions
directing the payment of temporary total disability and statutory losses including statutory permanent total
disability benefits to Board of Education employees who have sustained accidental iniurres or mourred
occupational diseases. and of medical and hospital expenses in such cases. without the adoption of
Board Reports. Settlements of any Workers? Compensation claims shall be in accordance Board
Rule 3-2.

20

November 16, 2011

Sec. 3-7. Administrative Organizational Units. The Board of Education shall establish such
administrative organization units as it may deem necessary or appropriate to ensure the effective and
efficient Operation of the system and determine the duties and functions of each. Chiefs. officers and the
heads of departments shall be appointed by the Board in accordance vvith Chapter IV of these Rules

Sec. 3-8. inspector General. The Inspector General. who is
appointed by the Mayor of the City of Chicago. shall rapert?te?the?Beard 0?--E?du6-3Wt?--The? inspector
General?shall investigate allegations of fraud. waste and mismanagement as well as any other matters
which shall be designated by the make recommendations to the Board abdut the
investigations. Prior to the beginning of each fiscal year, the Board shall determine the budget allocation
for operation of the Office of the Inspector General.

Sec. 3-9. Internal Audits.

a. The Chief Executive Officer is for ensuring that internal audits are conducted and for
the ongoing improvement of the internal audit process

b. The Chief Executive Officer's responsibilities shall include. but not be limited to in developing an
annual internal audit plan for purposes of providing objective analyses. appraisal and evaluation of risks
assomated with fiscal and programmatic activities of the school district, (ii) determining that the school
district is effectively allocating resources on programs. external activities. and con5ullants.
ensuring the integrity of the Manual reporting system and the efficacy of internal finanCial controls
established to minimize waste and mismanagement. and (iv) recommending whom and Systematic
improvements regarding internal controls based upon audit analyses and findings.

0. The Chief Executive Officer will rewew the annual internal audit plan the Inspector General to
obtain recommendations for additional areas of audit and to av0id any audit duplication of any area or
department designated for review in the annual internal audit plan.

d. The Chief Executive Officer shall report quarterly to the Board on the status of the internal audit
process.

CHAPTER IV
PERSONNEL RULES

Sec. 4-1. Delegation of Authority and Reporting to the Board.

a. Delegation to Chief Executive Officer or His/Her Designee. Subject to the limitations set forth in the
Illinois School Code. these Rules and the Board's Policies. and except as prOVided in Rule 4-1c
below. the Chief ExeCUtive Officer and his/her designee(s) are hereby delegated the following
authority with respect to Board personnel, which may be exercised without Board action

1. except as provided in to hire, appomt, or promote based on merit employees upon
hisfher own recommendation or the recommendation of the General C0unsel. the Chief
Financial Officer. executive officers. officers or principals. and to establish eligibility criteria for
hire. appomtment or promotion;

To classify and reclassify employees;

To establish a schedule of basic salaries and wage rates. and to set compensation. wages
and/or salary based on employee classifications or job titles or other criteria.

To establish policies with respect to overtime pay;

to grant annual increases to wages and salary based on cost of hiring for employees not
subject to a performance management program or merit pay plan and to grant or withhold
annual increases to wages and salary based upon merit to employees subject to a
performance management program or merit pay plan adopted by the Chief Executive Officer

or designee;

6. to establish employee benefit plans. including employee medical, dental and life insurance
plans. and tax-deferred savings plans. and the eligibility criteria for particrpation in those
plans;

To establish work schedules fer all employees, including hours of work and days of work.
To establish evaluation procedures for all employees. including teachers and prinCipals,
To grant paid time off for excused days. holidays. sick leave. personal leaves or vacation:

10. To grant voluntary leaves of absence to employees and to order involuntary leaves of
absence for employees;

11. to grant the following paid and unpaid leaves of absence to eligible employees in accordance
with collective bargaining agreements. Board Rules and Policies

i, sabbatical leaves of absence;

ii. on-Ioan leaves of absence;

union leaves of absence. and

iv. penSion office employment leaves of absence;

21

November 16, 2011

12 To commence disciplinary or dismissal proceedings against employees.

13. To demote. transfer. discipline or diSmiss employees.

14, To layoff employees. reduce the Board's workforce. or declare unpaid furIOugh days for
employees.?

15. To accept resignations and retirements from employees. and.

16. To exerCise all other authority over personnel that is not specrfically reserved for Beard
actiOn,

b. Chief Executive Officer's Quarterly Report of Personnel Transactions to the Board and 
Report of Salary Increases in Excess of Ten Percent. The Chief ExeCUtive Officer or hisiher
designeefs) shall submit a quarterly report (which shall be made public) to the Board that Summarizes
the previous quarter's personnel actions made by the Chief Executive Officer or hisiher designee in
accordance with Rule 4-1a, prowded however. that the reason or cause for any employee dismissal
shall not be made public. The Chief Executive Officer or his/her desrgneets) shall submit a 
report (which shall be made public) to the Board that summarizes salary increases in excess of ten
percent granted to employees during the previous month. including those caused by promotion
or position reclassification.

c. Personnel Authority Reserved for Board Action The Board shall exercise all authority over the
following personnel matters. which authority is non-delegable under the "Mom School Code or which
the Board has reserved to itself:

1 to appoint the Board Secretary. the Assistant Board Secretary. the Chief Executive
Officer, the General Counsel. deputies and asswtants general caunsef. the Chief
Financial Officer. executive officers. officers. and contract prinCipafs at schools with
Appointed Local School Councils and contract prinapafs at schools With Local School
Councils that fail to directly select a principal in accordance with section 34-2 3(2) of the
Illinois School Code;

2. To establish salaries upon hire for the Board Secretary. the Assustant Board Secretary.
the Chief Executive Officer. the General Counsel. deputies and assustants general
counsel, the Chief Financial Officer. executive officers and officers;

3. To dismiss the Board Secretary. the ASSistant Board Secretary. the Chief Executive
Officer. the General Counsel. deputies and general counsel. the Chief
Financial Officer. executive officers and officers upon majority vote of the full membership
of the Board:

4. To dismiss probationary appointed teachers in accordance With the illin0is School Code

5. To dismiss contract principals and tenured teachers for cause after adoption. modification
or rejection of an Illinois State Board of Education hearing officer?s recommendation.

6, to terminate the contract of and to dismiss a contract prinmpat upon recomriieridation of
the Chief Executive Officer. after notice and a hearing. in accordance With the Section
of the Illinois School Code or. upon consent of the contract principal and the
applicable local school ocuncil; and.

7. to. upon recommendation of the Chief Exe0utive Officer or his/her deSignee. dismiss for
cause non-probationary assistant principals and educational support personnel whose
employment is governed by collective bargaining agreements

Sec. 4-2. Collective Bargaining Agreements Effect of Rules. The Chief Executive Officer or his/her
designee shall negotiate all collective bargaining agreements on behalf of the Board. and submit tentative
agreements to the Board for adoption and approval. These Rules shall be construed with any
collective bargaining agreement entered into by the Board. Where a collective bargaining agreement is
silent on a subject addressed by these Rules. these Rules shall control. in the event that a Rule is in
direct conflict with a provision of a collective bargaining agreement. the previSion of the collective
bargaining agreement shall control. except where the proviSion of the collective bargaining agreement
has been waived or declared void. Nothing in this Rule shall revrve a provision of a collective bargaining
agreement that was v0ided pursuant to 115 5/4 5, as it metal from 1995 to 2003. unless revival of
that provision has been specifically negotiated and agreed to by the Board Nothing in this Rule shall
affect the Board's rights or obligations with respect to permissive Subiects of bargaining as set forth in 15
ILCS 5f4.5 (2005).

Sec. 4-3. Categories of Board Employees. Board employees shall be categorized as Teachers.
Principals. Assistant Principals. Certificated Administrators, Educational Support Personnel. or
Miscellaneous Employees. as defined below. The Chief Executive Officer or his/her de5ignee may create
additional categories of employees. as he/she deems necessary. The Chief Executive Officer or hisi'her
designee may create a classification system and job titles within employee categmies for purposes of
assignment. pay and benefits.

3. Teachers. Teachers are employees with teaching certificates issued by the Illinois State Teacher
Certification Board, who are hired to perform instructional or related administrative services Teachers
shall be further categorized as follows:

1. Appointed Teachers. Appointed teachers are full-time teachers who are hired and assigned to
vacant teaching positions. Appointed teachers shall be further classified as either tenured or
probationary. as follows:

22

November 16, 2011

a Tenured Teachers. Tenured teachers are either: 1) teachers who have been appomted to
a teacher position. completed the statutory probationary period of continuous servrce as an
appointed teacher necessary to attain tenure. and have not had a break in servrce or. 2)
appointed teachers who lost their tenure but who meet the requirements to be reappomted with
tenure set forth in subparagraph (ii) of this Rule. For purposes of this Rule. 3 "teacher
position" includes classroom teacher positions, city-wide teachers, lead teachers. librarians.
guidance specialists, counselors. secial workers. Speech pathologists. school-based nurses. and
The Board may dismiss tenured teachers from Board empIOyment only for iust
cause, in accordance With the Illinois School Code. and the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee may lay off or otherwise remove tenured teachers from their posmons in accordance
with the Board?s Rules and Policies.

i, Loss of tenure. A tenured teacher's right to contractual continued sewer: or tonure is lost
upon the occurrence of any of the following

1. the tenured teacher's dismissal for cause.
the tenured teacher's resignation from his/her teacher position. which includes
the tenured teacher's voluntary transfer from his/her teacher posmon to an
educational support personnel employee. a certificated administrator. an
assistant principal or an interim or contract principal position. and.

3. the tenured teacher's honorable dismissal from his/her teacher position

ii. Reappointment With Tenure Formerly tenured teachers who lost tenure under
subparagraph or of this Rule shall be granted tenure upon
reappointment to a teacher position under the followmg circumstances:

1. when the former tenured teacher is reappomted to a teacher within one
(1 calendar year from the effective date of hisfher resignation.
2. when the former tenured teacher lost tenure by accepting a posmon as an

educational support personnel. 3 certificated administrator. an assistant 
or an interim or contract principal and hetshe is reappointed to a teacher position
With0ut a break in service to the Board of Education; and.

3. when the former tenured teacher is reappointed to a teacher position within two
(2) calendar years of his/her honorable dismissal. Nothing in this Section shall he
construed to guarantee reappointment to a teacher posnion or to alter the status
of employees. including formerly tenured teachers. employed as an educaiimial
support personnel employee. a certificated administrator. an assistant prinCIpal or
an interim or contract principal

b. Probationary Appointed teachers ProbatIOnary appointed teachers are either (1) newty
appointed teachers who have not completed the statutory probationary period of continuous
service necessary to attain tenure; or. (2)formerly tenured teachers who have had a break In
service. been reappointed and have not completed the statutory probationary period of
continuous service necessary to attain tenure since their reappomtment Probationary appomted
teachers are appointed on an annual basis and their continued employment is conditioned on the
Chief Executive Officer's recommendation to reappoint them each year in accordance with Board
Rules. Probationary appointed teachers may be dismissed from Board employment. or may be
laid off or not reappointed in accordance with the School Code and Board Rules and
Polices. Probationary appomted teachers become tenured teachers after serving the statutOry
period of continuous service necessary to attain tenure. effective on the anniversary date of their
appointment plus any adjustments to their anniversary date as provided in these Rules or in
Board policies,

2. Temporarily Assigned Teachers. Temporarily assigned teachers are certified teachers who are not
appointed to a full-time. permanent position. but are empIOyed on a temporary. provisronal or
conditional basis. as follows:
a. Regularly certified teachers assigned to fill a full-time teaching posrtion. which is
encumbered by an appointed teacher. but which has become temporarily vacant as a re5uit of a
leave taken by the appomted teacher; or

b. Teachers with provisional or conditional teaching certificates who are a55igned to till a
full-time. vacant teaching position pending receipt of full teaching certification.

3. Substitute Teachers. Substitute teachers are teachers who are not appomted but are, at a

minimum. certified by the Illinois State Board of Education to Substitute teach and serve on a

temporary basis. as follows:
a. Day-lo-Day Substitute Teachers. Day?to-day substitute teachers are employed on a day-
to-day basis to fill temporary. day-to-day vacancies. as needed. with no guarantee oi daily
assignments. Day-to-day substitute teachers may not be assigned to fill the same posnion on a
day-to-day basrs for more than twenty (20) consecutive student attendance days Day-to-day
substitutes may be classrfied as regular day-today substitutes or proviSional day?to-day
substitutes. based upon their type of certification.

23

November 16. 2011

b. CADRE Substitute Teachers CADRE substitute teachers are employed on a full-time
and year-to-year They are entitled to receive daily aSSignments for each student
attendance day throughput a school year in which they are employed CADRE Substitutes may
only be assigned to fill the same posmon for up to twenty (20) consecutive student attendance
days. The employment of a CADRE Substitute teacher terminates at the end of cacti schoo- yi-rir
and must be renewed by assignment annually. except that the employment of a CADRE
substitute teacher who: 1) is a displaced temporarily assigned teacher due to a position dosing.
and 2) has been a CADRE substitute teacher for less than twelve (12) continu0us months Since
hisiher displacement as a temporarily assigned teacher will terminate at the end of the school
year followmg twelve (12) continuous calendar months from his/her assignment as ii CADRE
substitute teacher.

4. Half? Time Teachers. Half-time teachers are regularly certified to teach by the miners State Board of
Education. and are employed on a hatfvtime basis.

5, Retired Teachers. Retired teachers are former teachers of the Chicago Public Schools who ate
receiving an annuity from the Public School Teachers Pension and Retirement Fund. and who a) are
re-employed On a temporary and non-annual basis in critical needs areas. as defined by the Board's
residency policy and consistent with 40 Stir-149; or b) are re-employed to teach .n sumac:
shortage areas in accordance with 40 ens-150.1.

b. Principals. Principals are ful ~time employees administrative Certificates issued by the ?ItnOlS State
Board of Education who are hired to act as the instructional and administrative leader of one or more
student attendance centers. Principals are classified as follows:

1. Contract Principals, A contract prinCipal is appointed from an eligibility list maintained by the Board
A contract principal shall be hired under a contract with a duration of four (4) years. which shall be
terminabte for various causes. including removal of the centract prinCipal under section 584-8 3 of
the Illinois School Code. A contract principal has the powers and authority of a principal provided in
the Illinois School Code. A contract principal may be removed and replaced andior dismissed troni
employment and his/her contract terminated. as provided by the principal's contract andior Board
Rules and policies. and the ?Mom School Code. and in accordance With the procedures set forth -n
the Board's Employee Discipline and Due Process Policy and the School Code,

2. interim Principais. An interim principal is a temporary principal whom the Chief Executive Officer or
hisiher designee may a55ign to a student attendance center for either up to one (1) year or until a
student attendance center's Local School Council selects a contract principal. whichever comes first.
or. in the case of a student attendance center on probation. where the Local School Councn does not
possess the authority to select a contract principal. for an indeterminate period until the student
attendance center is removed from probation status under the Board?s policy on probationary
schools. or in the case of a newly established school. for an indeterminate period until the school has
a duly constituted Local School COuncil or an Appointed Local School Council An interim principa=
may exercise all of the powers and authority of a contract principal. The Chief Executive Officer or
his/her designee may remove an interim principal at hislher discretion.

3. Acting Principals. An acting principal is a temporary prinCipal who does not have a contract and is
assigned to a student attendance center by the Chief Executive Officer or hisrher deSignee for a
period of up to one hundred (100) school days to fill a temporary vacancy in a student attendance
center's principalship. Where a tenured teacher is made acting principal. the tenured teacher shalt be
returned to his/her former position upon removal from the acting prinCipatship, An acting pflf?lClpal may
not dismiss or seek the dismissal of an assistant princrpal. teacher or any educational support
personnel employee assigned to the school to which they are appointed without the prior approval of
the Chief Executive Officer or hisiher designee. The Chief Executive Officer or hisiher aegignee may
remove an acting principal at his/her discretion.

c. Assistant Principal's. Assistant principals are full-time employees with administrative certificates isSued
by the Illinois State Board of Education who are recommended for hire by a contract interim
principal or. where there is no contract or interim principal. aSSigned by the Chief ExeCUtive Officer or
histher deSignee. to assist contract. interim or acting principals in the performance of their duties as the
instructional and administrative leader of a student attendance center. Assistant prinCIpals may be
assigned direct instructional responsibilities. Assistant Principals are further categorized as follows.

1. Quota Assistant Principals. Quota assistant prinCipals are Board-funded assiislant prinCipals who
are recommended for hire by a contract or interim principal and whose term of aSSignment as a Quota
assistant principal ends at the expiration of the contract prinCIpal's contract. the retirement of the
contract principal. the removal or dismissal of the contract princrpal. or the termination of the interim
principal's assignment to the Student attendance center. Quota principals whose term of
assignment ends under this Rule shall be displaced in accordance with the Board's Assignment and
Appointment of Teachers and Principals Policy,

2. Discretionary Assistant Principals. Discretionary assistant prinmpals are assistant principals
funded by discretionary funds. who are recommended for hire by a principal and who serve on a year'
to-year basis. Discretionary assistant principals may be displaced in accordance With the Boards
Assignment and Appointment of Teachers and Principals Policy.

24

November 16, 2011

d. Certi?cated Administrators Certificated administrators are full-time employees who hold administrative
certificates issued by the Illin0is State Board of Education. other than prinCipals and assistant principals
who are aSSIgned to administrative posnions With0ut direct instructional duties Certificated administrators
are "members of the teaching force" for purposes of the PenSion Code. Certificated administrators
are employed at-wul

e. Educational Support Personnel. Educational support personnel are full or part-time employees who are
not required to have teaching or administrative certificates issued by the State Board of Education
to perform the duties of their posrtion. Educational Support personnel are employed at-will. unless the
Board has entered into a specific agreement granting a parlmular class of educational support personnel
a property interest in their employment by the Board

f. Miscellaneous Personnel. Miscellaneous personnel are employed at on a seasonal, ca5ual. short-
term andlor temporary basis and are ineligible for employee benefits. including but not limited to paid SiCk.
personal and vacation benefit days and any Board-sponsored employee health. dental. life or other
benefit program. Miscellaneous personnel shall not work more than twelve hundred (1200) hours in a
calendar year. Miscellaneous personnel shall be members of the Municipal Employees?. Officers' and
Officials' Annuity and Benefit Fund of Chicago except for the following groups of miscellaneous
personnel:

1. Miscellaneous personnel employed for less than seven hundred (700) hours tn any calendar
year. if paid on an hourly basis; or

2. Miscellaneous personnel employed for less than four (4) months, if paid on baSis. or

3. Miscellaneous personnel employed for less than one hundred (100) days. if paid on daily
basis; or

4. Miscellaneous personnel employed by another unit of local government and. in connection
with that employment. are participating in or receiving an annUity from one of the followmg
City of Chicago municrpal pension funds the Mumcrpal Employees' Officers and Officials
Annuity and Benefit Fund of Chicago, and the Laborers? and Retirement Board EmpIOyees?
Annuity and Benefit Fund of the City of Chicago. Policeman's Annuity and Benefit Fund of the
City of Chicago. Firemen's AnnUIty and Benefit Fund of the City of Chicago. or.

5, Miscellaneous personnel receiving a pension or annUity. other than widow or child 
from the Chicago Teachers Pension Fund. who are employed in a capaCity for which
the Board requires certification from the Illinois State Board of Education Effective October 1,
2007. the Board shall not employ a retired Board employee who is drawing an annuity from
the Municipal Employees Officers' and Officials' Annuity and Benefit Fund of Chicago as an
employee in the category of miscellaneous personnel.

Sac. 4-4. Employment Requirements. Board emplOyees must conduct themselves in a manner that is
consistent with the Board's status as a publicly financed primary and secondary educational institution
and with the Board's mission to provide a high quality public education to the children of the City of
Chicago. Accordingly. all applicants for employment and employees shall be subiect to the following
requirements:

a. Residency. All employees must comply With the Board's Residency Policy. Employees hired by the
Board shall be advised in writing of the Residency Policy?s requirements. including application procedures
for waivers of the policy for teachers in special needs positions Employees continued employment shall
be subject to compliance With the policy. Employees Who violate the Residency Policy shall be subject to
discipline or dismissal in accordance with the Residency Policy and the Board's Employee Discipline and
Due Process Policy.

b. Criminal Background investigations. As a condition of hire and continued employment. all employees
must authorize the Board to conduct a fingerprint or other criminal history verification in accordance with
the proviSions of the School Code. To ensure that the Board does not empIOy and is not knowingly
employing a person who has committed the crimes enumerated in 105 ILCS 5/21-23a or 105 ILCS 5r34-
18.5. the Chief Executive Officer or hislher designee shall establish procedures and goidelines for
conducting criminal background investigations for' (1) applicants prior to hire; (2) employed teachers at
the time of their teacher certificate or educator license renewal or at some other periodic interval that is
administratively convenient; (3) all other employees at regular periodic intervals that are administratively
convenient; and (4) any employee or group of employees at the direction of the Chief Executive Officer
Any employee whose criminal background excludes himlher from Board employment under the tllin0is
School Code shall be dismissed under the provisions of the Board's Employee and Due
Process Policy. Regardless of whether or not an applicant or employee's criminal history excludes
himlher from employment under the tilin0is School Code. the Chief Executive Officer or hislher designee
shall consider the applicant's criminal conviction history. and whether or not the applicant or employee
has made a full disclosure of that history. in determining whether to hire an applicant or whether to
dismiss an employee.

c. Convictions After Employment. An employee who is convicted of a felony or any crime involving the
consumption. possession. sale. distribution or manufacture of any controlled substance, as defined in 21
U.S.C. ?812. 720 570/102 (1992) or under the Cannabis Control Act. 720 ILCS 550M et seq . or any
drug that is legally obtainable but has not been legally obtained. or that is not being used for prescribed
purposes or taken according to prescribed dosages must notify the Chief Executive Officer. by letter via
certified mail, of the date. factual basis and nature of the contiiction. as well as the name and location of

25

November 16. 2011

the court tn which the conviction occmred. Failure to report any as required by this Rule. in
writing wrthin five (5) days of the conviction shall constitute cause for dismissal from employment
Compliance this Rule shall not exempt the employee from discipline or dismissal because of the
conviction Additional requtrements and procedures may be set forth in the Board's Drug and Alconot
Free Workplace Policy,

d. Certification/Licenses. No applicant for employment or promotion to a posnion that requrres certification
andlor licensure under the   linois School Code, or any other law or Board policy. may be hired until he or
she has presented proof of proper certification or licensing by the apprOpriate authority If an employee 5
certificate or license lapses. or is invalid. suspended or revoked. the employee shall be subiect to
discipline or dismissal in accordance with the Board's EmpIOyee Discipline and Due Process 

e. Health Examinations All applicants for employment and employees may be requrred. as a condition of
hire or continued employment. to submit to a post-offer or post-employment health examination by an
appropriate heatthcare professional to demonstrate that they can perform the essential functions of their
position and are fit for duty.

f, Ethics Policy. All employees and applicants for employment shall comply the Board's Ethics Policy
Employees who violate the Board's Ethics Policy shall be subject to discipline and dismissal under the
Board's Employee Discipline and Due Process Policy,

9. Failure to Pay Municipal Debts The Chief Executive Officer or histner designee may reqUire that
applicants for employment verify that they have paid all debts due and owing to the City of Chicago as a
condition of employment. The failure by any Board employee to pay a debt due and owmg to the City of
Chicago shall be cause for discipline or dismissal. For purposes of this Rule. "a debt due and owing
means a specified sum of money owed to the City for city services. work or goods after the period granted
for payment has expired and/or a specrfied sum of money owed to the City pursuant to a caurt or
administrative order after the exhaustion of or failure to exhaust lUdlCtal reView Upon request of the City
Comptroller. the Board may withhold wages to pay municipal debts in accordance with the proviSions ol
the Illinois School Code.

h. Drug and Alcohol Free Workplace. Board workplaces shalt be drug and alcohol free Accordingly.
employees shall not unlawfully manufacture. distribute. possess. consume. use. or be under the influence
of drugs or alcohol on Board property or premises or at any site of Board-sponsored activrties For
purposes of this Rule, the term "drugs" means any controlled substance. as defined in 21 ?812
and 720 570/102 (1992). or any drug that is legally obtainable but has not been legally obtained or
that is not being used for prescribed purposes or taken according to prescribed dosages The Board
andtor the Chief Executive Officer or his/her designee shall establish and procedures to comply
with federal and state Drug Free Workplace Acts and Drug Free Schools and Communities Acts
Additional requirements may be set forth in the Board Drug and Alcottol Free Workplace Policy The
Board andlor the Chief Executive Officer or hislher designer: may establish additional pOltCleS and
procedures for drug and alcohol testing for applicants prior to their hire. or for employees. post-hire Such
policies and procedures shall be consistent with applicable law, Applicants for empIOyment who violate
this Rule, or Board policres and procedures. shall be excluded from conSideration for employment
Employees who violate this Rule shalt be d;smissed from employment

i Violence Free Workplace and Learning Environment. It is the Board's policy that its laCiIities and
workplaces shall be free of violence. Accordingly. employees shall not engage in any acts of violence at
the workplace. or engage in any acts of violence outside of Board workplaces that have a nexus to their
Board employment. For purposes of this Rule. acts of violence include use of phy5icat force. when it is
not reasonably necessary to protect persons or property from imminent harm. and acts of intimidatiOn

including, but not limited to. threats of physical force.

i. Authorization to Work in the United States. All employees must be legally present in the United States
and possess legal authorization tor employment in the United States.

k. Compliance with Laws and Board Policies and Rules Prohibiting Discrimination. All employees must
comply with laws and Board policies and rules prohibiting discrimination. including laws and policies
prohibiting sexual harassment.

t. Statement Concerning Employment in a Job Not Covered by Social Security All employees who are
employed in positions that are not covered by Social Security shall receive a "Statement Concerning YOur
Employment in a Job Not covered by Social Security" at the time of their hire.

m. Obligation to Cooperate in inspector General investigations and to Answer lnspector Generals
Questions. All employees are obligated to cooperate with the Board's Inspector General in investigations
or inquiries conducted by the lnspector General as required by 105 5/34-131. Employees who are
interviewed by the lnspector General or his/her authorized agents and who are given a notice of
administrative rights by the lnspector General or hislher agents are directed by the Board of Education to
answer all questions by the lnspector General. Employees who receive a notice of administrative rights
from the Inspector General or his authorized agents may not refuse to answer questions based upon the
assertion of that employee's privilege against self-incrimination. Any employee who refuses to answer
questions by the Inspector General or his authorized agents after receivrng a notice of administrative
rights shall be considered flagrantly insubordinate and to have grossly disrupted the educational process
within the meaning of the Employee Discipline and Due Process Policy. In addition to the penalties set
forth in 105 any employee who refuses to answer the questions of the Inspector General
or his authorized agent after receipt of a notice of administrative rights shall be subject to dismissal from
Board employment in accordance with the EmpIOyee Discipline and Due Process Policy

26

November 16, 2011

n. Employees Duty to Maintain Confidential Records. All employees must comply With all laws. rules and
regulations. including Board rules and policies. governing confidentiality of student. employee and lamily
records and information. including but not limited to. the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act the
School Student Records Act. the Americans with Disabilities Act, the Illinois Human Rights Act and
the Health Insmance Portability and Accountability Act. The Board or the Chief ExeCutive Officer 0i
designers shall establish standards and guidelines concerning student, employee and vendor access to
and maintenance and destruction of confidential records and information For purposes of this Rule
"records and information" include documents. audio-visual recordings. and data stored and accessed
electronically.

o. Other Pre-Employment and Employment Recurrements. The Board or the Chief Executive Officer Or
the Chief Executive Officer's cesrgnee may establish other hiring and employment criteria and eligibility
requirements that are consistent with the posmon occupied or applied for. the Board?s Rules and policres,
public policy and local. state and federal law,

Sec. 4-5. Hiring. Appointment and Status of Employees.

a. Hiring and Appointment of Employees. The Chief Executive Officer or hislher desrgnee shall hire
appoint and assign employees. except management level personnel. including officers. the General
Counsel, heads of departments. directors and contract The Board snall hire management level
personnel. including the Chief Executive Officer. other officers. the General Counsel, heads of
departments. directors and contract principals The Board andfor the Chief Executive Officer or his/her
designee may establish policies and eligibility criteria for the apporntment of personnel

b. Status of Employees. All employees shall serve at the pleasure of the Board and shall be conSidered
at-wrll employees unless a statute or Board agreement or Board Rule expressly provides to the contrary

Sec. 4-6. Layoff of Employees and Reductions in Force. The Chief Executive Officer shall decide
whether and when a layoff of employees or a reduction in the Board's workforce sh0uld occur The
decisiOn to layoff employees or conduct a reduction in force may be based upon enrollment protections
reorganizations. and/or budgetary, financial. andtor operational needs. The Chief ExeCUtive Officer or
his/her designee shall implement such layoffs or reductions in force. Selection of employees for layoff
who are covered by collective bargaining agreements shall be in accordance With the Board's Policy on
Layoff of Tenured and Probationary Appointed Teachers and the Policy On ESP Layoffs

Sec. 4~7. Discipline and Dismissal of Employees.

a. Discipline of Personnel. Principals. school-based supervisors. officers, heads of general departments
now in existence or hereafter established. nonschool based supervisors. the Chief Executive Officer or
the General Counsel may discipline employees by written reprimand or suspension of empIOyment
without pay in accordance with the provisions of the Employee Discipline and Due Process Policy, as ll
exists now. or as it may hereafter be amended.

b. Dismissal of Personnel,

1. Dismissal of Management Level Personnel. including Chief Executive Officer, Officers. the
General Counsel. Heads of Departments, and Directors. The Board may dismiss management level
personnel. including officers. the General Counsel. heads of departments. and directors. either upon
recommendation of the Chief Executive Officer and a majority vote of the full membership of the
Board. or upon majority vote of the full membership of the Board

2. Dismissal. Non?Renewal and Reappointment of Probationary Appointed Teachers Upon
recommendation of the Chief Executive Officer. the Board shall dismiss or deny reappointment for the
next school year to a probationary appointed teacher. as follows:

a. Principals may recommend to the Chief Executive Officer the non-renewal of a probationary
teacher's appointment for the following school year provided that they must provrde a reason
to the Chief Executive Officer for the non-renewal. The Chief Executive Officer may accept or
reject the principal's recommendation. if the Chief ExeCUtive Officer accepts the
recommendation to non-renew a probationary appointed teacher. the Chief Executive Officer
shall recommend that the Board non-renew and dismiss the probationary appointed teacher
and provide the Board the reasons for that recommendation. which shall not be made public
The Chief Exewtive Officer shall notify probationary appointed teachers of non-renewal no
later than thirty (30) calendar days before the end of the school year, In the case of non-
renewed probationary appointed teachers who are in their last year of probation before
attaining tenure. the Chief Executive Officer's notice of non-renewal shalt notify the
probationary appointed teacher of the reasonts) for nonrenewal

b. if a probationary appointed teacher engages in misconduct. or the principal is not satisfied
with the probationary appointed teacher's performance. the princrpal may recommend that
the probationary appointed teacher be dismissed before the end of the school year in
accordance with procedures established by the Chief Executive Officer. If the Chief Executive
Officer agrees with the recommendation, he or she shall recommend that the
Board dismiss the probationary appointed teacher. and provide the Board the reasons for that
recommendation.

27

November 16, 2011

ProbatiOnary appointed teachers shall be deemed reappomted from school year to school
year unless the Chief Executive Officer notifies the probationary appointed teacher that he or
she will not be reappointed in accordance With this Rule.

3, Dismissal of Other Probationary Employees, Miscellaneous Employees. and Al-Will Educational
Support Personnel. The Chief Executive Officer may dismiss at-wnl employees. including but not
limited to probationary employees and managerial. supervisory and confidential educational support
personnel. and miscellaneous em ployees. in accordance with the applicable of the Board's
Employee Due Process and Discipline Policy. as it exists at the time of the adoption of this Rule. or
as it may hereafter be amended Nothing in the Board's Employee Due Process and Policy.
as it exists at the time of the adoption of this Rule. or as it may hereafter be amended shall confer, or
be construed to confer. upon probationary employees or other at-will employees a property interest in
Board employment or an expectation of continued Board employment

4. Dismissal of Assistant Principals and Educational Support Personnel Covered by Collective
Bargaining Agreements. Upon recommendation of the Chief Executive Officer or hislher designee.
the Board may dismiss assistant principals and educational support personnel covered by collective
bargaining agreements for cause in accordance With the applicable provisiions of the Board's
Employee Due Process and Discipline Policy, as it exists at the time of the adoption of this Rule. or
as it may hereafter be amended

5. Dismissal of Contract Principals Contract principals may be dismiSsed from Board empIOyment
and their contracts terminated prior to the agreed upon and of their contract. as follows

a. in accordance with section 34-85 of the Illinois School Code (105 ILCS 5i34-85t. and
applicable provisions of the Employee Discipline and Due Process as it exists at the
time of the adoption of this Rule, or as it may hereafter be amended. the Board may dismiss
a contract principal for cause after a hearing before an State Board of Education
hearing officer. In deciding whether to dismiss a contract prinCipaI, the Board shall
consider the hearing officer's recommendation. any arguments made by the Chief Executive
Officer or the contract principal with respect to the hearing officer's recommendation
and other material necessary to make an informed decision. The Board may adopt. modify or
reject the hearing officer?s recommendation. and enter orders it deems appropriate
under the circumstances

b. Upon recommendation of the Chief Executive Officer. after hearing. the Board may remove
replace and dismiss contract principals and terminate their contracts in accordance with the
principal's contract and the provrsions of 105 ILC 5/34-8 3,

6. Dismissal Tenured Teachers. In accordance with section 34-85 of the Illinois School Code ($05
ILCS 5/34-85) and applicable provisions of the Employee Discupline and Due Process Policy as If
exists at the time of the adoption of this Rule or as it may hereafter be amended. the Board may
dismiss a tenured teacher for cause after a hearing before an litin0is State Board of Education
hearing officer. In deciding whether to dismiss a tenured teacher. the Board shall consider
the hearing officer's recommendation. any arguments made by the Chief Executive Officer or the
contract principal with respect to the hearing officer's recommendation and other material
necessary to make an informed decision. The Board may adopt. modify or reject the hearing
officer's recommendation, and enter orders it deems appropriate under the circumstances

0. Suspension Pending Investigation and/or a Discharge or Dismissal Hearing, Where the Chief Executive
Officer or his/her designee. or the General Counsel. deems it to be in the best interests of the Board. the
Chief Executive Officer or his/her designee may remove an employee from active employment with pay
or may suspend an employee without pay pending an investigation and/or dismissal hearing in
accordance with applicable provisions of the Employee and Due Process Policy. as it exists at
the time of adoption of this Rule. or as it may hereafter be amended

Sec. 4-8. Hours of Work - Full- and Part-time Employees The Chief Executive Officer or histher
designee shall assign employees to work fuff- or part-time schedules, con5istent with their job category. in
accordance with this Rule.

3. Teachers

1. Full-Time Teachers. Full-time teachers shall be aSSigned to work a minimum of seven (7) hours
per day. including lunch. break times and preparation times. five (6) days per week, for a
minimum of 38.6 weeks per year. inclusive of vacations periods,

2. Half-Time Teachers. Half-time teachers shall be assigned to work no more than one-half (Vi) of a
full-time teacher's schedule.

b. Non-Exempt Educational Support Personnel. Educational support personnel may be employed on
either a full-time or part-time basis. Full-time educational support personnel, who are classilied as non-
exempt under the United States Fair Labor Standards Act and the ?lines Minimum Wage Law. shall work
a minimum of seven (7) hours and forty-five (45) minutes per day (7.75 hours). including a lunch and
break times. five (5) days per week. and 38.6 weeks per year. Part-time, non-exempt educational Support
personnel shall be assigned to work fewer than seven (7) hours and forty-five (45) minutes a day (T 75
hours). andlor fewer than five (5) days per week. andlor fewer than fifty-two (52) weeks per year

28

November 16, 2011

c. Other Exempt Employees. EmpIOyees who are classified as exempt under the United States Fair Labor
Standards Act are subject to prinCiples of public accountability. as defined by the United States Fair Labor
Standards Act. Exempt employees are required to work as necessary to tullitl all of their duties and
responsibilities, and full-time, exempt employees are required. at a minimum. to be performing their duties
during the normal hours of operation of their assigned student attendance center or department

d. Miscellaneous Employees. Miscellaneous employees may be employed on either a full-time or part-
time basis. provided that, with the exception of miscellaneous empIOyees who are currently participating
in any other public pension fund;

1. miscellaneous employees paid on an hourly basis shall not be asmgned to work more than seven
hundred (700) hours in any calendar year;

2. miscellaneous employees paid on a baSlS shalt not be empIOyed for more than four (4)
calendar months in any calendar year; and

3. miscellaneous employees paid on a daily basrs shall not be employed for more than one hundred
(100) days in any calendar year.

Sec. 4-9. Overtime Premium Pay - Timekeeping - Public Accountability - No Compensatory Time
Banks. The Chief Executive Officer shall designate all employee classmcations and job titles as exempt
or nonexempt in accordance with the United States Fair Labor Standards Act and the tIlinOis Minimum
Wage Law.

a. Non-Exempt Positions Employees who occupy non-exempt positions shall account for all hours
worked on electronic timekeeping systems maintained by the Board. or alternative systems approved by
the Chief Executive Otticer or his/her designees. Non-exempt employees shall be paid for all hours
worked in excess of forty (40) heurs in a workweek in accordance applicable law or as provided Ill
applicable collective bargaining agreements

b. Teachers. Teaching positions are exempt posrtions. Teachers shall be required to acc0unt for the
hours that they are scheduled to be at the student attendance center and shall be requtred to use
appropriate available accumulated sick or personal business benefit days for full or partial day absences

Other Exempt Positions. Employees who occupy other exempt posrtions shall be required to acc0unt
for their presence at work on each work day Said employees must adhere to prinCiples 01 public
accountability. and may be docked for lull days of absence. Other exempt employees shall also use
accumulated sick, personal or vacation benefit time tor lull days of absence

Said employees shall not be required to use accumulated benefit time for partial days of absence

(1. Timekeeping. The Chief ExeCutive Officer or hislher designee shall establish procedures for electronic
timekeeping, which shall be the primary means for keeping employees' time. Nothing in this Rule shalt
prevent the Chief Executive Officer. the General Counsel. a department head or supervisors from
establishing additional or alternative timekeeping methods it operational needs

require them.

e. No Banks of Compensatory Time in Lieu of Overtime Non-exempt employees shall not accumulate
compensatory time off in lieu of overtime.

Sec. 4-10. Holidays.

8. Designation of Holidays. The Chief Executive Officer or hislher designee shalt schedule all Board
holidays. on which days all Board offices shall be closed. Employees otherwise scheduled to work shall
not be scheduled to work on Board holidays. except as necessary for the security and maintenance of
facilities. Holidays that fall on a Sunday shall be observed on the Monday following the holiday Holidays
that fall on a Saturday shall not be observed.

b. Holiday Pay and Conditions for Holiday Pay Employees. other than substitute teachers. retired
teachers and miscellaneous employees. shall be paid their regular pay for the holiday. except that CEO
may declare designated holidays as unpaid furlough days for some or all employees. in the case of
teachers. "regular pay" includes pay for extended day and regularly scheduled classes authorized on an
overtime basis. To be eligible for holiday pay. employees must work either the day before or the day after
the holiday. unless the employee has been approved to use sick or vacation benefit time on those days.
except that appointed and temporarily assigned teachers and principals who are appointed or assigned
on the day after Labor Day shall be eligible for holiday pay for the Labor Day holiday Other eligibility
requirements may be established by collective bargaining agreements or Board policies

c. Teachers' Religious Holidays. Appointed teachers shall be granted up to three (3) non-attendance days
with pay in a school year for the observance of religious holidays. which shall not be conSIdered an
absence. provided that:

1. The appointed teacher must give written notice to the school prinopal at least two (2) days in
advance of non-attendance for the religious holiday; and

2. The cost of providing a substitute teacher shall be deducted from the appomted teacher 5 pay

29

November 16, 2011

Sac. 4'11. Employee Benefit Days and Paid Excused Days. The Board shall establish Sick. personal
busmess and vacation leave policies for employees. other than substitute teachers and miscellaneo.is
employees. wnich shall set forth rules for the accrual. accumulation and pay0ut upon termination of
employment of sick. personal business and vacation benefits days The Chief Executive Officer or his/her
de5lgnee shall have the authority to grant paid entoused days off to employees

Sec. 4-12. Family and Medical Leaves of Absence FMLA Leaves and Supplementary Family and
Medical Leaves.

a. Applicability of Rule. This Rule applies to all Board employees

b, Types of Family and Medical Leaves Authorized by this Rule, The Board shall establish policies for
Family and Medical Leave Act leaves and for supplementary family and medical leaves. including. child-
rearing leaves. personal illness leaves. and family illness leaves Said poliCies shall establish eligibility
criteria for leaves. leave duration. any employee rights to return to a posmon at termination of leave. and
rights to pay during leave

(2. Coordination with Other Laws. Regulations and PoliCies All leaves granted under this Rule to
employees eligible for FMLA leaves shall be designated as FMLA leaves for the first twelve (12)
workweeks of the leave during any twelve (12) month period The Chief ExeCUtivo Officer or tiisiher
designee shall make FMLA leaves retroactive to the first day of an employees' continuous absence prior
to the employee's request for the FMLA leave except where the employee has prevr0iisly previded the
Chief Executive Officer or his/her designee with the information sufficient for the Chief Execvtive Officer to
make a determination that the leave qualifies as an FMLA leave and the Chief Executive Officer has
failed to destgnate the leave as FMLA. in which case the FMLA leave shall commence on the date the
employee submits an application for FMLA leave to the Chief Executive Officer or hisiher dQSignee
FMLA leaves shall be concurrent with any other leave authorized by this Rule.

Coordination of Leaves. All leaves the Chief ExeCUtive Officer or his/her designee grant under this Rule
to employees eligible for FMLA leaves shall be designated as FMLA leaves for the first twelve (12)
workweeks of the leave during any twelve (12) month period The Chief Execmive Officer or hisiher
designee shall make FMLA leaves retroactive to the first day of an employees' continuous absence prior
to the employee?s request for the FMLA leave except where the employee has previously provided the
Chief Executive Officer or his/her designee with the information suftiuent for the Chief Executive otticer to
make a determination that the leave qualifies as an FMLA leave and the Chief Executive Officer has
failed to designate the leave as FMLA. in which case the FMLA leave shall commence on the date the
employee submits an application for FMLA leave to the Chief Executive Officer or his/her deSignee
FMLA leaves shall be concurrent with any other leave authorized by this Rule.

6. Effect of Leave on Probationary Periods, Any probationary appointed teacher granted a leave of thirty
(30) or more conseCUtive calendar days. including a FMLA leave. shall have his/her probationary period
extended by the duration of the leave granted under this Rule. This Rule shall not apply to intermittent
leaves.

f, Leave Required. Any employee subject to this Rule shall be required to seek a leave it the empt0yee is
absent from work or anticipates that helshe will be absent from work for more than ten (10) consecutive
workdays. or if the employee anticipates the need for an on-gomg. intermittent leave. The Chief Executive
Officer or his/her designee may seek to discipline or dismiss an employee who fails to apply for a leave
under this Rule in accordance with the Board's Employee Discipline and Due Process Policy

g. Medical Certification for Leave. All requests for leave or. where available. requests for leave
extensions. must be supported by a certification from an apprOpriatety licensed health-care provider In
accordance with applicable law. the Chief Executive Officer or his/her deSignee may requue that an
employee seeking a leave or on a leave to Submit to periodic evaluation by an appropriately licensed
health-care provider regarding the necessity of a leave or continued necessity of a leave.

1. in cases of a dispute regarding the necessity of a leave. the Chief Executive Officer or histher
designee shall direct an empIOyee to submit to an evaluation by an appropriately licensed
healthcare provrder and request the health-care provider's opinion regarding the necessuy ot a
leave.

2. Where appropriately licensed health-care providers issue conflicting opinions or certifications
regarding the necessity for a leave. the Chief ExeCutive Officer or hislher deSignee shall direct the
employee to submit to an evaluation of a third appropriately licensed health-care pfOVidEf_ whose
opinion and certification regarding the necessity for a leave will be controlling.

a) The employee or hisiher healthcare provider shall select the third healthcare provider from a
list maintained by the Chief Executive Officer or his/her deSignee

b) The cost of the evaluation and Opinion by the third healthcare provider shall be borne by the
Board.

3. An employee's failure or refusal to submit to any evaluation directed by the Chief Executive
Officer or to cooperate in the evaluation or the health-care provider's selection shall be groiinrts
for dismpline or dismissal from employment.

4, Where the healthcare provider's Opinion is that the employee sh0uld be on a leave. the health-
care provider shall establish a date for re-evaluation to determine the continued necessny of the
leave

30

November 16, 2011

h. Maintenance of Insurance Benefits During Leaves. An employee granted a leave under this Rule shall
maintain all insurance benefits during his/her leave prowded that the employee pays the employee's
premium contribution for the insurance.

i. Prohibition Against Secondary Employment During Certain Leaves of Absence EmplOyees who are
granted a leave of absence for their own serious medical condition or their own personal illness under this
Rule shall not work secondary employment during the period of the leave. including any leave exten5ion

Sec. 4-13. Involuntary Personal Illness Leaves- Fitness for Duty Leaves. The Chief Executive Officer
or his/her designee shall have the authority to place an employee on an involuntary illness leave it the
Chief Executive Officer or his/her designee determines that the employee?s physical or mental health
renders the employee unfit to perform the duties of the employee's position

3. Examination of Employees Deemed Unfit for Duty The Chief Executive Officer or histher desrgnee may
require employees whose fitness for duty is at issue to submit to examinations and evaluations by
appropriately licensed health-care providers to determine the employee?s fitness to perform his or her
duties.

b. involuntary Personal illness Leave for Employees Determined to be Unfit for Duty. If an employee is
determined to be unfit to perform the employee's duties. the employee shall be placed on an involuntary
personal illness leave and shall have all the same rights afforded to employees on voluntary personal
illness leaves in accordance with the applicable personal illness leave poliCy,

c. Disputes Over Fitness for Duty. If an employee who is placed on an involuntary personal illness leave
disputes the apprOpriately licensed healthcare provider's determination that hetshe is unlit to perform
hislher duties. the employee must submit an opinion from another appropriately licensed health-care
provider that helshe is fit for duty. and the resulting dispute shall be resolved in accOrdance will the
provisions of Rule 

d. Duration of involuntary Personal illness Leave An involuntary personal illness leave shall have a
duration of no more than twenty-five (25) work months.

e. Termination of involuntary Personal Illness Leave. An involuntary personal illness leave shall terminate
on the earlier of: l) certification that the employee is fit for duty by an appropriate health-care professional
approved by the Chief Executive Officer. or. 2) the expiration of twenty-five (25) work months

f. Tenured Teachers and Contract Principals Who Remain Unfit fer Duty at the Expiration of Twenty~Five
(25} Work Months. If, after the expiration of twenty-five (25) work months on an involuntary personal
illness leave, a tenured teacher or a contract prinCtpal remains unfit for duty. the tenured teacher or
contract principal shall be dismissed in accordance With the lIIinois School Code and the Employee
Discipline and Due Process Policy For purposes of this Rule. an employee who has remained until fer
duty due to a mental or physical incapacity for six (6) or more work months shall not be deemed to be
suffering from a temporary mental or impairment. as defined by the School Code
and nothing in this Rule shall prevent the Board from dismissing a tenured teacher or a contract 
who has been mentally or incapacnated for more than SIX (6) months

9. All Other Employees Who Remain Unfit for Duty at the Expiration of Twenty-Five Work Months If. after
the expiration of twenty-five (25) work months on an involuntary personal illness leave. an empIOyee.
other than a tenured teacher or a contract principal. remains unfit for duty and is not collecting a
permanent disability pension from the Chicago MuniCIpal Employees Fund. the employee shall be
deemed absent Without leave and honorably terminated in accordance with the Employee and
Due Process Policy. For purposes of this Rule, an employee who has remained unfit for duty due to a
mental or impairment for six (6) or more work months shall not be deemed to be Suffering
from a temporary mental or impairment. as defined by the tllinois School Code. and nothing
in this Rule shall prevent the Board from dismis$ing an employee who has been mentally or
incapaCitated for more than six (6) months.

Sec. 4-14. Other Leaves with Pay. Except as otherwise provided in this Rule. the Chief ExeCutive
Officer. or his/her designee. may grant leaves with pay to eligible employees. as set forth in this Rule. The
Chief Executive Officer or hislher designee shall establish the procedures for apply for paid leaves under
this Rule. which may include additional procedural eligibility criteria. Employees granted leaves under this
Rule shall continue to be eligible to participate in employee health and dental benefit plans. prowded that
they pay any required employee premium contributions to maintain those benefits. Nothing in this Rule
shall be construed to grant a contract principal a leave of absence beyond the termination date of the
contract principals contract. or to extend the termination date of the principals contract.

a. Military Leave

1. Eligibility. The Chief Executive Officer or his/her designee shall grant military leaves or reserve
military leaves to full-time employees for any period the full-time employee spends in military
service. including basic training. special or advanced training. and annual training. whether Or not
within the State of Illinois. and whether or not voluntary.

2. Seniority and Benefits During Military Leave. An employee on any military leave provided in this
Rule shall continue to accrue seniority and other benefits

31

November 16, 2011

3. Pay During Military Leave.

3. Annual Training. Any full-time employee granted a leave of absence for annual training under
this Rule shall receive his regular compensation

Basic, Special or Advanced Training. During the first (60) days of military leave for
baSic. speCIal or advanced training. an employee receive the employees regular
compensation minus the amount of his/her base pay for military actiVities.

4. Return to Work at Conclusion of Leave. An employee, other than a miscellane0us empl0yee. who
is granted a military leave under this Rule and who. (1) receives a certificate described in section
9(3) of the Military Selective Service Act. 50 USCS Appx. 459(a) (relating to the satislactory
completion of military service): and (2) makes application for reemployment Within ninety (90)
days after the employee is relieved from such training and serVice or from hospitalization
continuing after discharge for a period of not more than one year. the employee shall be returned
to work, as follows: a. if qualified to perform the duties of hisiher former posuion. the employee
shall be reinstated to his/her former position or a position of like seniority. status or pay. or if
not qualified to perform the duties of hislher former position due to a disability sustained during
the military leave, the employee will be offered a vacant position for which helshe is qualified

b. Bereavement Leave. The Chief Executive Officer or hislher deSignee shall grant employees. other than
substitute teachers, retired teachers and miscellaneous employees. paid bereavement leaves. as follows

1. A leave not to exceed ten (10) week clays, including holidays and layoff days at the death of the
eligible employee's parent. spouse. domestic partner. grandparent. child. brother or of the
employee. or step-parent married to a parent of the employee. prowded that the last five (5) days
of such a leave shall be applied against the employees' Sick leave bank. and

2. A leave not to exceed five (5) week days. including holidays and layolf days. at the death 01 the
eligible employee's grandchild. father-in-law. mother-in-law. brother-in-law. son in.
law. daughter-in-law. nephew. niece, uncle. aunt. or first cousin of the employee. prowded that all
days of such leave shall be applied against the employee?s suck leave bank

c. Jury Duty Leave. The Chief Executive Officer or hislher deSignee shall grant employees. other than
day-to-day substitute teachers. retired teachers and miscellaneous employees. a paid leave of absence
when summoned for jury duty. provided that the am0unl of lury duly pay shall be deducted from the
employee's pay for each day of Jury duty. Day-to-day substitute teachers. retired teachers and
miscellaneous employees shall be excused from work Wilh0ut pay when summoned for duty The
provisrons of this Rule shall be applicable during summer school asagnments

d, Court Attendance Leave, The Chief ExeCUtive Officer or his/her deSignee shall grant employees a paid
leave of absence for court attendance when:

1. the employee is required to attend court. or other judiCial proceedings. in connection walh litigation
in which school interests or records are involved. or when the State of "?ows. the City of Chicago.
or the Board is a party and the employee is not personally interested in the outcome 0! the
litigation; or

2. the employee is subpoenaed to appear in c0urt Within Cook County. in a matter in which
the employee has no personal interest in the outcome of the case. in which case. the Subpoena
fee shall be deducted from the employee's pay.

0. Conference Leave. The Chief Executive Officer or his/her designee shall grant an employee. other than
substitute teachers. retired teachers or miscellaneous employees. paid conference leave to attend
professionally-related conferences. meetings. workshops. conventions. or commencement exerCises for
the employee, if in the Chief Executive Officer or his/her designee's judgment, the employee's attendance
is beneficial or related to the work of the schools.

f. Sabbatical Leave for Appointed Teachers. and Principals. UperHeeommendahoe-ol Ihe Chief
Executive Officer or hislher designeerthe?eard may grant paid leaves of absence to appomted teachers
and contract principals. who have completed six (6) continuous years of satisfactory service. for the
purposes of resident study. travel or other purposes. for a period of at least five (5) months but no more
than ten (10) school months. if the Chief Executive Officer or desuqnee Board determines that the leave
will improve the service of the teacher or contract principal to the public schools. Eligibility for and the
terms and conditions of sabbatical leaves Will be established by the Chief Executive Ofticer or desiqnee

Boar-daeiisy.

g. Tenured Teacher, Contract Principal or Quota Assistant Principal?s On- Loan Leaves of Absence The
Chief Executive Officer or his/her designee may grant to tenured teachers. contract principals or quote
assistant principals the types of on-loan leaves set forth in subparagraphs 1. 2 and 3 of this Section under
the conditions set forth in those paragraphs without Board action and shall report Such leaves on hislher
quarterly report to the Board. The Board shall establish polICies governing the terms and conditions under
which the Chief Executive Officer or his/her designee may loan employees and the terms and conditions
for agreements by which employees are to be loaned. The decision to grant an on-loan leave of absence
rests solely within the discretion of the Chief Execmive Officer or hislher designee and is not an
entitlement to eligible tenured teachers. assistant principals or contract prinCipals

32

November 16, 2011

1 On-loan leave to a UniverSity or Other Educational institution After the Board has approved it
contract with a University or Other Educational Institution for an on-loan leave. the Chiel
Executive Officer may grant a tenured teacher. quota a33istant pl?ll?TCIpal or contract pririCipal an
on-loan leave to take a pOSition at a university and/or other educational institution if in the
judgment of the Chief Education Officer such a leave enable the teacher or administrator to
engage in activities that will contribute to increasing the achievement of the students of the
Chicago Public Schools:

2. On-loari leave to a Contract School After the Board has approved a contract Willi a contract
school for an on-loan leave. the Chief Executive Officer may grant a tenured teacher. quota
assistant principal or contract principal an on-loan leave to take a position With a contract school
established under the Board's Policy to Establish Renaissance Schools. as adopted on
September 22. 2004, and as it may hereafter be amended from time to time; or

3 On-loan leave to Central or Area Offices. The Chief Executive Officer may grant a tenured
teacher. quota assistant principal or contract an on-loan leave to take an administrative
position with the Board at an Area or Central Office.

Sec. 4-15. Other Leaves without Pay. The Chief Executive Officer may grant leaves Without pay to
eligible employees as set forth in this Rule Without Board action and shall report all such leave in hislher
quarterly report of personnel transactions to the Board. The Chief Executive Officer or his/her designee
shall establish procedures for applying for unpaid leaves under this Rule. which may include additional
procedural eligibility criteria Employees granted leaves under this Rule shall continue to be eligible to
participate in employee health and dental benefit plans. provided that they pay any requtred employee
premium contributions to maintain those benefits. Nothing in this Rule shall be construed to grant a
contract prinCIpal a leave of absence beyond the termination date of the contract principals contract or to
extend the termination date of the prinCIpal's contract.

a. Personal or Student Teaching Leaves of Absence for Educational Support Personnel The Chief
Executive Officer may grant educational support personnel employees who have been employed for not
less than three (3) months personal or student teaching leaves of absence without pay The Chief
Executive Officer. in the exercise of hislher discretion. may permit educational support personnel granted
a personal leave of absence to be paid appropriate accumulated benefit time during the leave. Student
teaching leaves of absence shall be without pay. Educational support personnel granted a personal 0r
student teaching leave of absence under this Rule shall be restored to their former positions at the
termination of the leave if the former position is available. If the former position is not available. the
educational support personnel employee may apply for consideration for other educational support
personnel vacancies and. if the educational support personnel employee is not selected to fill such
vacancies. helshe will be laid off in accordance with Board Rules and Policies.

to. Tenured Teachers' Leave for Travel or Study The Chief Executive Officer or hislher designee may
grant an unpaid leave of absence for one (1) year or less to a tenured teacher for educationally-related
travel or for full-time study in accredited institutions of learning. At the conclusion of the leave. the tenured
teacher must present credentials showmg the course work pursued and the am0unt of work done to the
Chief Education Officer. In case of leave for travel. evidence of such travel shall be presented to the Chief
Education Officer. When a leave has been granted under this Rule. the absence shall not be construed
as a break in service so far as seniority is concerned and the tenured teacher shall be returned to hisrhei
position at the termination of the leave. A tenured teacher granted a leave under this Rule shall be
ineligible for another leave under this Rule for a period of at least four (4) years after the conclu5ion of the
leave. Any person who is granted leave under the provisions of this Rule, who fails to devote the entire
period of the leave to the purposes specified in the application for leave shall pay to the Board the cost of
maintaining benefits for the teacher during the leave and may be subject to dISCIpllne or dismissal in
accordance with the Board's Employee Discipline and Due Process Policy. as it exists now or as it may
hereafter be amended.

c. Tenured Teachers? Leave for Charter School Employment. The Chief Executive Officer or his/her
designee may grant unpaid leaves of absence to tenured teachers who accept employment With a charter
school in accordance with 105 ILCS Charter school leaves shall be granted in one school
year increments. Successive charter school leaves may be granted for up to maximum of five (5) school
years. A tenured teacher who is granted a leave of absence for charter school employment may return to
hislher former position only if the leave terminates after his/her first year of charter school leave; if the
leave terminates after more then one (1) year of leave. the teacher shall be assigned to the ReaSSigned
Teacher Pool in accordance with the Board's Policy on ReasSignment and Layoff of Regularly Certified
and Appointed Tenured Teachers. as it exists now. or as it may hereafter be amended

d. Tenured Teachers? and Certificated Administrators" Personal Leave of Absence. The Chief Execmivc
Officer or his/her designee may grant an unpaid personal leave of absence With full loss of salary for a
period of two (2) years or less to any tenured teacher. certificated administrator. contract prinCipal or
quota assistant principal. if in the tudgment of the Chief Executive Officer. such leave will enable the
tenured teacher. certificated administrator, contract principal or quota assistant to engage in an
activity which will be beneficial to the work of the Chicago Public Schools. A contract principals
application for a personal leave of absence shall be conditioned upon the termination of the contract
principat's contract and consent of the applicable local school council. Upon conclusmn of the personal
leave of absence. the tenured teacher. contract principal or assistant prinCIpaI may apply for vacant
positions

33

November 16, 2011

Tenureo? Teachers'and Educational Support Personnel Union Leaves

1. Upon application by the Chicago Teachers Union the Illin0is Federation of 'feacners
or the American Federation of Teachers the Chief Executive Officer or designee
may. without Board action. grant employees who are elected or appomted to full-time positions
with the CTU. IFT or AFT leaves of absence without pay for the purpose of accepting posnions
provided that no more than thirty-five (35) emplOyees shall be granted Such a leave at any one
time. Employees granted a union leave of absence shall retain all other benefits as if they were in
regular service. They shall continue to accrue seniority for salary increments and all other
purposes where seniority is a factor. and their absence shall not be construed as a break in
service for any purpose. As condition of such leave. the CTU. IFT. and AFT must agree to pay
the cost of maintaining any benefits for the employee. At the conclu3iori of a union leave under
this Rule. the teacher shall not have the right to return to hislher former position but Will be
assigned to an equivalent position in the area of his or her certification in accordance With the
faculty integration plan. An educational support personnel employee granted a union leave under
this Rule shall not have a right to return to his/her former posuion at the conclusron of the leave
but shall have a right to return to an equivalent position. provided the educational support
personnel employee provides the Board ninety (90) calendar days notice of histher intent to
return.

2. The Chief ExeCutive Officer or hisilher designee may. With0ut further Board action. grant union
leaves of absences authorized by collective bargaining agreements approved by the Board to
employees who are elected or appointed to union offices The Chief Executive Officer or
designee shalt approve such leaves in accordance with the terms of the collective bargaining
agreement approved by the Board.

f. Tenured Teachers? Pension Office Employment Leave. Upon application by the Chicago Teachers
Pension Fund. the Chief Executive Officer or deSignee may grant an unpaid leave of absence to tenured
teachers to accept appointments to full-time positions with the Chicago Teachers' Pensron Fund As
condition of such leave. the Chicago Teachers' Pension Fund must agree to pay the cost of maintaining
any benefits for the employee. Upon termination of the leave. employees shall be treated as lard oft
employees and afforded the rights and benefits provided in the applicable Board's layoff policies

g. Summer Leave of Absence. Upon recommendation of the Local School Council. the Oval
Executive Officer or designee may grant an unpaid leave of absence for two (2) calendar months or less
during the calendar months of July and AUQust to a contract prinCIpal who submits proper application error
to the May preceding the months of July and August for which leave is requested. When a leave has
been granted under this section. the absence shall not be construed as a break in service so far as
seniority is concerned and the principals posnlon shall be held Open PrinCipals granted such leaves of
absence shall retain all other benefits as if they were in regular service. except that they shall not be
allowed to accrue sick or vacation benefit days. or receive pen5ion credit for the period of the unpaid
summer leave.

it Family Military Leave ofAbsence. The Chief Executive Officer or designee may grant an unpaid family
military leave of absence of up to thirty (30) calendar days to an employee who 1) is the sp0use or parent
of any person called to military service for a period of more than thirty (30) calendar days pursuant to
orders of the Governor of the State of Illinois or the President of the United States. 2) has been employed
by the Board for at least twelve (12) months. and. 3) has been employed for at least 1.250 heurs of
service during the 12-month period immediately preceding the commencement of the leave Employees
who request unpaid family military leave for five (5) or more consecutive work days must make their
request for the leave fourteen (14) days prior to the commencement of the leave. employees who request
unpaid family military leave for less than five (5) consecutive work days shall make their request as soon
as practicable. Upon termination of the leave. the employee shall be restored to the position held by the
employee prior to commencement of the leave or to a posnion with equwalent seniority status, employee
benefits. pay and other terms and conditions of employment. unless the employee would not have
maintained his/her position regardless of the leave. The Chief Executive Officer or desrgnee shall
establish procedures and requirements for applying for leaves. including requirements for submission of
certification from the proper military authority to verify the employee's eligibility for the family military leave
and procedures for return of employees at the conclusion of the family military leave

Sec. 4-16. Resignations and Retirement.
a. Except as provided in subparagraph of this Rule. employees' remgnations and notices of intent to
retire are irrevocable upon receipt by the Department of Human Rescurces.

b. Upon recommendation of the Chief Executive Officer. the Board may permit an employee who
submitted a resignation or who has submitted a notice of intent to retire to rescmd the reSignation or
notice of intent to retire provided that all of the following conditions are met'

i. The employee has received a firm offer to fill a vacant position for which a Type 75
administrative certificate is a reqwred or desired qualification for a period after his/her effective
date of resignation or retirement;

ii. The employee makes a request to rescind the resignation or notice of intent to retire before the
effective date of the resignation or notice of intent to retire.

The employee has a record of performance With the Board that. in the tudgment of the Chief

Executive Officer. demonstrates that he or she is uniquely qualified to fill the posrtion offered to
him/her;

34

November 16, 2011

iv. In cases where the employee has parIICipated in any Board-sponsored retirement incentive
program, including but not limited to the Pension Enhancement Program or an Early Retirement
Option. the employee agrees to repay to the Board all monies paid by the Board to the
employee; and

y, In cases where the employee has submitted an application for retirement or other benefits from
a Pension Fund to which the Board makes contributions. the Pensron Fund makes no detection
to rescission of the employee's application for retirement or other benefits and agrees to a
refund or credit to the Board for the Board?s employer "pick-up" of employee pension
contributions in connection With the advance payout of sick leave under Pensmn Enhancement
Program or other similar programs.

Sec. 4-17 Domestic Partners and Parties to a Civil Union; Definitions and Applicability of Terms.

a, Domestic Partner De?nition. The term domestic partner(s). as referred to In Board Rules and
Policies, shall mean individuals who (1) are at least 18 years of age; (2) are of the same sex. (3) are
unmarried (single. divorced. or widowed) and not a party to a Civil union; (3) are each others sole partner.
(4) are responsible for each other?s common welfare; (5) are residing in the same residence. (6) are not
related by blood closer than would bar marriage in the State of Illinois; and (7) satisfy two of the following
additional requirements: have been residing together for at least 12 months. have common or (ornl
ownership of a residence; jointly own a motor vehicle. credit account. checking account, or f85 denllai
lease; or (iv) one or both have declared the other as the primary benetiCiary on his or her will

b. Civil Union Definition. The term civil union means a legal relationship between two persons of
either the same or opposite sex established pursuant to the ?time Religious Freedom Protection and
Civil Union Act (PA, 096-1513. effective June 1. 2011). referred to herein as the ?Illin0is Civil Union Act?
Under the Illinois Civil Union Act. a marriage between persons of the same sex. a cunt union. or a
substantially similar legal relationship other than common law marriage. legally entered into in another
jurisdiction. shall be recognized in Illinois as a civil union.

0. Party To A Civil Union Definition. A party to a union means a person who has established a
civil union as defined in section b. of Board Rule 4-17

d. Applicability of Terms to Board Rules and Policies A party to a Civil union and a domestic partner
shall be conSIdered included in any definition or use of the terms "spouse". "family". "immediate family .
"dependent". "next of kin", "in-law". "married". "relative" and other related terms that denote the spousal
relationship or affiliation as those terms are used throughout Board Rules and Policres.

CHAPTER 
FINANCIAL RULES

Sec. 5-1. Fiscal and School Year. The fiscal year of the Board of Education shall commence on the first
day of July of each year.

Sec. 5-2. Office Hours. The general offices of the Board of Education and District shall be open on
Monday through Friday each week from 800 o'clock AM. to 5:00 o?clock (Holidays deSignateo in
section 53 excepted.)

Sec. 5-3. Holidays - Offices. The general offices of the Board of Education and District shall be closed
on the following legal holidays: January 1 (New Year's Day); the third Monday in January (the birthday of
Dr. Martin Luther King. February 12 (Lincoln's birthday): the third Monday in February (Presrdents'
Day): the first Monday of March (the birthday of Casimir Pulaski); the last Monday in May (Memorial Day).
July 4 (Independence Day); the first Monday in September (Labor Day); the second Monday in October
(Columbus Day); November 11 (Veteran's Day): the fourth Thursday and Friday in November
(Thanksgiving Day Recess); December 25 (Christmas Day); and on such other days as the PreSident.
with the approval of or ratification by the Board of Education. may direct. When any Such holidays fall on
Sunday. the Monday next followmg shall be held and considered such holiday.

Sec. 5-4. Report Condition of Finance. At least once each quarter the Chief Fmancral Officer shall
present to the Board of Education a summary report of appropriations and encumbrances by funds.
showing the condition of Board finances. A copy shall be filed with the Board Secretary.

Sec. 5-5. Investment of School Funds. The Board hereby delegates to the Chief Financial Officer the
authority to invest its school funds in investment instruments as authorized by law. The Chief FinanCial
Officer shall purchase and sell all investment instruments on behalf of the Board pursuant to law and the
Board's Investment Policy.

Sec. 5-6. Lunchroom Receipts. All moneys received in the lunchroom shall be forwarded in accordance
with the schedule established by Chief Financial Officer through a company approved by the
Board of Education and deposited in a bank that is on the approved municipal deposnory list The Chief
Financial Officer shall establish the procedures and schedule for the collection. transfer and deposit of
lunchroom receipts.

Sec. 5-7. Sale of Refreshments at Stadia. Sale of refreshments at the sladia shall be under the charge
and control of the Chief Administrative Officer. Proceeds from the sale of refreshments shalt be credited
to the Lunchroom Fund.

Sec. 5-8. Payroll Attendance Reports. Payroll attendance reports for each budget organization unit

shall be prepared under the charge and control of the Chief Financral Officer and be 
certified by the Chief. Officer or head of the department in which the employees are employed

35

November 16, 2011

Sec. 5-9. Use of Roll-Over Funds.

3 Where the Board approves a budget for the current fiscal year that identifies roll-over unspent
funds from the prewous year's budget and authorizes the use of such funds in the current fiscal year
budget. the Chief Executive Officer shatl desrgnate the roll-over funds for particular uses or protects and
shall report the decignations annually to the Board for approval. Only the lottowmg specified funds which
remain from the prior year's original budget are eligible for roll-over designation hereunder

(1) non-personnel general funds in school and central/area offices. and
t2) budding Operation and Maintenance fund from the following acc0unts

a. Commodities Supplies:
b. Services Contractual; and
Services Repair Contracts

b. Once deSignated transfer of the roll- -over funds to the deSignated is subiect to Board
approval and the use of the funds is subject to the followmg limitations:

(1) roll-over funds be expended within the current fiscal year;

(2) no liability beyond the current fiscal year may be incurred in using the roll-over funds. and

(3) roll-over funds may not be used to hire employees. except miscellaneous personnel as defined in
Board Rule 4-3.f. whose posuions close at or before the end of the fiscal year

This Rule does not apply to a school special income fund or funds that are otherWise Subjecl to federal or
state requirements or grant agreement obligations regarding carry over

Sec. 5-10. Reporting Fraud. Waste. Mismanagement; Whistle Blower Protection. In accordance
with the Whistle Blower Protection provisions found in the Illmors School Code. Section 34-2 4c. no
disciplinary action may be taken against an employee or Local School Council member for the disclosure
of information by that employee or local school council member that evidences violation of any law.
rule. regulation or policy. or waste. fraud. mismanagement, abuse of authority. or a danger to
health or safety of a student or the public.

Sec. 5-11. Annual Notice. The Chief Executive Officer or designee shall provide employees With
annual notice regarding the appropriate use and safeguarding of Board resources. compliance with
funding source obligations and responsibilities to prevent misuse or misappropriation Board rescurces

Sec. 5-12. Non-Resident Pupils - Tuition. Pupils must reside within the limits of the City of Chicago to
attend a Chicago Public School. For purposes of enrolling or completing enrollment in an Options for
Knowledge school or program. a student must establish Chicago residency on or before July 1 prior to
the start of the upcoming school year

Pupils whose parentts) or legal guardiants) do not reside within the limits of the City of Chicago and who
are staying in Chicago for the primary purpose of attending Chicago Public Schools shall be COnSldefed
non-resident pupils. The parent or legal guardian of a non-resident pupil determined to be in violation of
this residency requirement shall be charged tuition as determined by the District?s Department of
Revenue. in accordance with the Illinois School Code and the student is subject to transfer Pupils who
become non-resident during the school term shall not be charged tuition for the remainder of the school
term in which they become non-resident.

Sec. 5-13. Foreign Pupils - Tuition. Foreign students living in the City of Chicago ivilh F-t non-
immigrant student visas and partiCipating in the Board's Visiting Foreign Student Program may enroll 
the Chicago Public Schools. Such student's must satisfy F-1 Visa requrrements including but not limited to
paying the per capita cost of tuition as determined by the District's Department of Revenue as well as
meet applicable grade level and duration of visit requirements. ln accordance With the IllinOis School
Code. foreign students participating in an organized foreign exchange program authorized by the Chief
Education Officer or designee may enroll tuition~free in a Chicago Public School

Sec. 5~14. Estimate Of Taxes To Be Levied. The Board hereby delegates to the Chief Financial Olticer
the authority to annually determine the estimate of property taxes to be levied as required under 35 ILCS
200f18-60. Not less than 20 days prior to the adoption of the Board's aqqreqate levy. the Chief Financial
Officer shall determine the amounts of moneygstimated to be necessary to be raised by taxation for that
year upon taxable properlvin the district. The Chief Financial Officer shall file a report of the estimate wuti
the SecretaLLof the Board. The estimate shall be deemed an act of the corporate authority open receipt

of the Chief Financial Officer's report by the Secretary of the Board

CHAPTER VI
SCHOOL RULES

Sec. 6-1. Admission Requirements. No person shall be admitted to any school under the iurisdiclion of
the Board of Education without meeting the requvements for admission. No person seeking admission
into any Chicago Public School who has been suspended or expelled for any reason from any public
school in Illinois or any other state may be admitted Without first completing the entire term of the
suspen5ion or expulsion. except on a case by case review by the Chief Education Officer or deSignee
Students who have been Suspended or expelled from a private school. charter school or public sclioot
oufSide District 299 may not be allowed to enroll in a Chicago Public School if they were suspended or
expelled for an offense for which expulSion is a possible sanction according to the Chicago Public
Schools Student Code of Conduct.

36

November 16, 2011

Sec. 6-2. Admission to Elementary School. All children residing in the City of Chicago are eligible at
the beginning of the school year. to enter kindergarten or first grade if they Will have reached the age of
five or six years, respectively. on or before September 1. With the following noted exceptions

Children who will reach the age of six on or before December 31 may. at the beginning of the school year.
enter first grade if the parentflegal guardianllemporary custodian presents satisfactory evidence that their
child attended a nonpublic preschool and continued their education at that school thr0ugh
kindergarten. (ii) was taught in kindergarten by an appropriately certified teacher and was assessed to
be ready for first grade.

The principal of the elementary school in the attendance area in which the student reSides shalt reqwre
the parent/legal guardian/temporary custodian to present a birth certificate. baptismal record. or other
satisfactory evidence of the date of birth. The parent/legal guardian/temporary custodian must also
produce proof of residence and medical compliance. Lack of proof of residency for homeless students
may not be used to exclude them from school. Homeless students must be enrolled in accordance With
the Chicago Public Schools' Policy and Procedures on Education of Homeless Children and Youth.
96-1120-PO3. as may be amended.

Sec. 6-3. Admission to High Schools. Pupils who have been graduated from elementary school shall
be admitted to a high school in the District. Students who did not graduate from an elementary school and
high school transfer students who seek admission to high school may be reqmred to submit school
records to evaluate appropriate placement and transfer of oeurse credit. if applicable. and may also be
required to take an examination which shall be conducted in accordance with the poliCies established by
the Board of Education

Sec. 6-4. Exclusion During Epidemics. The Chief Executive Officer in consultation with a city. state 0:
federal public health departments or agencies shall have the power and duty upon reasonable ewdence
that an epidemic of any contagious or infectious disease is prevalent or that an epidemic of such is
impending, to exclude temporarily all pupils and employees from the public schools sewing the
community where the disease has appeared. Such evidence. in order to be considered reasonable shall
be brought to the attention of the Chief Executive Officer or a City. state or federal public health
departments/agencies. in reaching the deciSion to close a school or schools or to exclude any Significant
number of pupils. the Chief Executive Officer, in consultation With a City. state or federal public health
departments or agencies. shall consider the nature of the communicable disease, the nature of the
preventive vaccine or toxoid. and the results of a survey showing the percentage of students and
employees who have been inoculated.

Sec. 6-5. Fire Drilis. All employees shall strictly observe the Fire Drill Ordinance of the City of Chicago
and the regulations with regard to emergency and fire drill dismissals as directed by the Chief Exccmive
Officer

Sec. 6-6. Health Requirements of Pupils. (Repealed 09-28-05]
Sec. 6-7. Permits - Residence in Sub-District. (Repealed 01-24-96)

Sec. 6~8. Expulsion of Pupils - Cause. Expulsion of a pupil IS a suspension for a period exceeding ten
consecutive school days. For a pupil with a disability. a prior determination that the behawor is unrelated
to the pupil's disability is a prerequisite for expulsion. However. in all cases. a free appropriate public
education must be made available to all students with disabilities expeiled from school. Whenever a pupil
in any school is found guilty of gross disobedience misconduct or other violation as defined by the
Student Code of Conduct of the Board of Education of the City of Chicago. the pupil may be expelled
from school. The parent or guardian shall be requested to appear at an expulsion hearing before a
hearing officer to the pupil's behavior, Such request shatl be made by registered or certified mail
and shall state the time. place, and purpose of the hearing. The hearing officer shall report to the Chief
Executive Officer or designee a written summary of the evidence taken at the hearing together With the
hearing officer?s recommendations thereon. If the hearing officer recommends that the pupil be expelled.
the hearing officer shall state the reasons for the recommendation and the proposed period of time that
the student should be expelled from school. The Chief Executive Officer or designee shall determine the
appropriate disciplinary action upon the summary and recommendations of the hearing officer. No pupil
may be expelled except by the decision of the Chief Executive Officer or designee. The parent or

guardian of an expelled student shall have the right to appeal the expulsion decision to the Chief

Executive Officer or designee.

Pupils referred for expulsion whose presence poses a continuing danger to persons or property or an
ongoing threat of disrupting the academic process may be immediately reassigned to an alternative
school. Procedural safeguards under the lndiwduals with Disabilities Education Improvement Act of 2004
apply to students with disabilities.

Sec. 6-9. Suspension of Pupils - Cause. For gross disobedience. misconduct. or other violation as
defined by the Student Code of Conduct of the Board of Education of the City of Chicago. a pupil may be
suspended temporarily by the principal for a period not exceeding ten conseCutive school days for each
offense. For a pupil with a disability. the pupil may be suspended for a period not exceeding ten school
days in a school year. except where the school has consulted with and received approval from the Chief
Specialized Services Officer or their designee. Every such suspension shall be reported to the parent or
guardian of the pupil. with a full statement of the reasons for such suspension and also reported to the

37

November 16, 2011

Chief of Schools ChieLArea?Q?icer. The parent or guardian of a suspended student shall have the right
to appeal the suspension deci5ion to the appropriate Chief of Schools ChieLAreaOtticer or deSIgnee The
Chief of Schools Ghiel?Area?Qtlieer or their designee shall have authority to review the action oi the
principal and make a final determination as to the suspenSion of the student

Prior to any suspension. the student shall be given oral or written notice of the charges against the
student and an informal hearing with an explanation of the basis of the charge and an opportunity to
explain his/her version of the facts. Students whose presence poses a continuing danger to persons or
property or an ongoing threat of disrupting the academic process may be immediately removed from
school. In such cases. the necessary notice and informal hearing stiOuId follow as soon as practicable

Sec. 6-10. Regular School Year. The regular school year shall begin and end on dates as approved by
the Board in the Annual Regular School Year Calendar. the Annual Year-Round School Calendar and the
Calendar for Schools Operating on an Alternative Schedule

Sec. 6-11. Certificates of Graduation from Evening School. {Repealed 08-22-071

Sec. 6-12. Duties of Principals. Principals of schools are the responsible administrative heads of their
respective schools and are charged with the organization. supervision. administration. and dismptine
thereof, They shall establish and enforce Such regulations. not contrary to the Rules and PoliCies oi the
Board of Education. the Student Code of Conduct. or the regulations of the Chiei Executive Otticer as in
their judgment may be necessary for the successful conduct of their schools

Sec. 6-12.1. Duties of Assistant Principals. Assistant PrinCipaIs shall take charge of their respective
schools when their principals are absent from the building for any reason. Assistant Principals shall be
Subject to the supervisron oi the principal and shall perform such duties the prinCipal may direct Such
duties may include. but are not limited to. providing assistance in the organization, supervision
administration. and diSCIpllne of the schools. In the event there are multiple Assistant Principals in a
school and the principal is absent. the principal shall designate which Assistant PrinCipaI shall he in
charge.

Sec. 6-12.2. Duties of Associate Principals. (Repealed 10-25-95]

Sec. 6-13. Duties of Teachers. Teachers shall take charge of the divisions or classes assigned to
them by the principal. They shall be held responsible for the instruction. progress and of their
classes according to the School Improvement Plan. Teachers shall render such assmtance in the
educational program in and about the buildings as the may direct including parent interviews.
pupil-counseling. corridor. lunchroom. and playground and attendance at proiesSionaI stall
meetings, Teachers are supervised by their respective principals

Sec. 6-14. Exclusion of Partisan and Sectarian Questions. PrinCipals and teachers shall prevent the
introduction or discussion of questions of a sectarian or partisan character in their schools

Sec. 6-15. Purchase of Unauthorized Books. Principals and teachers shall not request or advise
pupils to purchase for use in the schools. any book. pamphlet, or publication which the Board of
Education has not approved.

Sec. 6-16. Contributions and Presents. Employees and Local School Council members can solicit
contributions for the school. either in money or in kind. but the acceptance of the contribution shalt be
made in accordance with Board Rule 5-9 and the Board's Policy on the Acceptance of All Grants. Gris
and Donations.

Sec. 6-17. Names and Addresses of Pupils Not To Be Given Out. No employee shall give out names
and addresses of pupils or their parents or any information contained in school records. except in
accordance with the Board?s Policy on the Confidentiality of Student Records.

Sec. 6-18. Circulation and Distribution of Unauthorized Written Materials. No employee or other
person shall circulate. permit to be circulated. distribute or exhibit. whether in written or electronic form on
school grounds or at school-sponsored lunctions. any advertisements. circular. subscription list. invitation
to or notice of meetings. any book. map or other article. or any other material of a commerCiaI. political or
sectarian nature. among the pupils. teachers. or other employees. except by approval of the principal.
Chief of Schools Ghiet?Area?O?lser?{JGAO??L General Counsel. or the Chiel Exewtivo Officer CEO or
their designees. setting forth the time, manner and place of the circulation or distribution. The previSions
in this paragraph do not apply to nor in any way aftect the sections of the coltective bargaining agreement
between the Board and the Chicago Teachers Union pertaining to the right to distribute
information to its members. The publication or distribution of obscene or libelous materials which is
published or distributed on school grounds by an employee shall constitute grounds for dismissal

Union delegates or their designees may distribute union election materials of any employee candidates 
employee mailboxes. before and after school hours. or during duty-free time For the purposes of this
rule. teacher preparation periods are not duty-free time

Distribution or Circulation of written materials may take place in an appropriate time. place and manner
authorized by the principal. Chiel of Schools GAO. General Counsel. CEO or their desrgnees Under no
circumstances are the written materials to which this rule applies to be distributed during class time
except in employee lounges and other designated areas. Distributors ot such materials may in no manner
delay or detain students. teachers or other employees while distributing their materials except as
incidental thereto.

38

November 16. 2011

Research materials such as questionnaires. surveys. evaluation instruments and related data reouests
may not be distributed or Circulated -n schools except when authorized in accordance With the Board 5
Research Study and Data Policy.

Local School Councils who wish to distribute questionnaire or survey materials in connection their
duties and resporiSibit?ities must have such materials approved as to legal form by the General Cedrisel or
designee prior to distribution,

Sec. 6-19. Distribution. Exhibition and Collection of Books. Maps and Other Written Materials

(Repealed 09-24-03)

Sec. 6-20. Holidays - Schools. The schools shall be closed on the followmg legal holidays occurring
when schools are in session; January 1 (New Year?s Day); the third Monday in January (the birthday of
Dr. Martin Luther King. February 12 (Lincoln?s birthday); the third Monday in February (President's
Day); the first Monday in March (the birthday of Ca5imir Pulaski); the last Monday in May (Memorial Day)
July 4 (Independence Day). the first Monday in September (Labor Day); the second Monday in October
(Columbus Day); November 11 {Veteran's Dav); the fourth Thursday in November (Thanksgiwng Day)
December 25 (Christmas Day); the day following Thanksgivmg Day and on such other days as the
President. with the approval of or ratification by the Board of Education, may direct. When any such
holidays fall on Sunday. the Monday next following shall be held and considered Such holidays ll
unanticipated school dismissal becomes necessary, school holidays may be adjusted to ensure that the
minimum number of pupil attendance days are scheduled and held pursuant to the Illin0is School Code.
Section 10-19 and the adjustment shall be implemented consistent with collective bargaining agreements

If the Illinois State Board of Education authorizes modifications to the desrgnated legal school holidays
the modification(s) shall be implemented. upon Board approval. at indiwdual schools consistent with
collective bargaining agreements.

Sec. 6-21. Corporal Punishment Prohibited. No employee of the Board of Education may inflict
corporal punishment of any kind upon persons attending the public schools of the City of Chicago

Sec. 6-22. Regular School Hours and Instruction. The specific hours of operation of an attendance
center may vary to reflect the scheduling needs of particular schools. however. all schools must maintain
regular hours of operation that prowde all students with a minimum of 300 minutes of instructional work
per day.

Sec. 6-23. Dismiss Schools for Funeral Services. The Chief ExeCUtive Officer. With the approval of
the President. may. in case of the death of the principal. dismiss a school during the sessron when the
funeral service is held and may grant permission for other principals to be absent from their schools to
attend the funeral services.

in case of the death of a teacher. the Chief Executive Officer may permit a delegation of two teachers and
the principals to be absent from school to attend the funeral services wrth0ut loss of salary

Sec. 6-24. The Flag. At the beginning of each school day. students shall the National Anthem
recite the Pledge of Allegiance and salute the flag of the United States. No student shall be compelled to
sing the national anthem. recite the Pledge of Allegiance or salute the flag.

The flag of the United States shall be displayed each day in a prominent place on the school house or
school grounds. and the flag of the United States shall be conspicuously displayed in each and every
classr00m in the public schools of the City of Chicago.

Sec. 6-25. Use of School Buildings After Regular Hours of Building Operation.

1 General Requirements For Operation of School Building Beyond Regular Heurs

School buildings shall be opened for any purpose upon the terms and conditions set forth in Section 34-

8.1. Section 34-23 and Section 34-18 of the tllinois School Code. Principals may set heurs of operation
of the school building. beyond regular hours of building operation. under the following conditions

A. The engineer-in-charge. the engineer-in-charge's designee or the princrpat's desrgnoe shall be
present and on duty;

B. Appropriate adult Supervision as determined by the specific building use is present: and

C. A Type 75 certificated school administrator is available for emergencres.

ll, School Affiliated Non-Student Groups

School affiliated non-student groups. as defined for purposes of this Board Rule only, are groups whose
mission is promote the educational missmn and/or the efficient operations of a school These groups
include. but are not limited to. Local School Councils Parent Teacher Assomations (PTA 
Parent Teacher Organizations Parent Advisory Councils and Professional Personnel
Leadership Councils The following conditions shall apply to the use of school butldings by
school affiliated non-student groups:

A. LSCs shall have the right to use school buildings to meet or carry on official business subiecl to
applicable conditions set forth in Section above provided that LSC meetings take place in facrlities that
comply with Open Meetings Act requirements and the requirements of the Americans with Disabilities Act
and the Board's ADA Policy.

8. L805 may use school facilities during regular school hours so long as space is available and
such use does not disrupt the educational operation of the school.

39

November 16. 2011

C. shall have the right to use school buildings to meet Sub}eCl to applicable set for
in Section I above.

D. may use school facilities during regular school hours so long as space is available and
such use does not disrupt the educational operation of the school

E. Groups such as PTAs. PTOs or PACS may use the school budding free of charge subject to the
applicable conditions of Section I above so long as Such use does not incur unreasonable expense on the
school

To the extent possible. school affiliated non-student groups should meet With the to establish .1
meeting schedule as far in advance of the meetings as possible.

Ill. School Affiliated Student Groups

Any student group recognized by the school may use the school facilities during non-instructional time as
determined by the principal. Such groups may include groups whose mission is focused on an aspect of
the school's curriculum (to. French Club. Math Club. Science Club. Literature Club). as well as groups
whose focus is non-curricular Debate Team. Chess Club. Christian Club) The prinCipal may
determine reasonable restrictions on the time, location and manner of the use

A school may deny all non-curricular clubs from meeting at the school If a high school. however, permits
one group whose focus is non-curricular to meet on school premises. it must allow all other non-Curricular
student groups to assemble on the same terms and conditions

IV. Non-School Affiliated Student Groups

Organizations that work with students enrolled in a Chicago Public School whose misston is unrelated to
the school?s mission. educational program or Operations. may use school lac-lilies as determined by the
principal. The principal may determine reasonable restrictions on the time. location and manner of the
use,

V. Community and other Non-School Affiliated Groups

Community and other groups whose mission is unrelated to the Chicago Public Schools may use the
school facilities for free. as determined by the principal. for free public lectures. concerts or other
educational and social interests. when school is not in session. subject to the reasonable restrictions on
the time. place and manner of such usage imposed by the principal

As determined by the LSC. community and other groups whose mission is unrelated to the Chicago
Public Schools may use the school faCiIities for a reasonable cost for public lectures. Concerts or other
educational and social interests. when school is not in session. Subject to the reasonable restrictions on
the time. place and manner of such use imposed by the principal.

VI. Providing School Facilities for Commercial Use

The LSC may determine if school facilities are available for rent by private. for-profit organizations if the
LSC permits such rental, it may place reasonable restrictions on such use that shall be in effect for all
commercial use. Such usa will also be subject to the reasonable restrictions on the time, place and
manner of such use imposed by the principal. The LSC sh0uld make clear that the school does not
endorse or Support the entity renting the facilities.

VII. School Usage Permits and Licenses

All organizations/entities except for School Affiliated Non-Student Groups and School Affiliated Student
Groups wishing to use a school facility for free or for cost must execute and submit a School Usage
Permit. The principal may deny the use of the school facilities when he or she has a reasonable baSis to
believe that use of the school facilities by such a group will cause damage or undue expense to the
school. The principal may also deny use of the facilities it the gr0up fails to meet any of the conditions
outlined in the school usage permit.

For all organizations/entities except for School Affiliated Non-Student Gr0ups and School Affiliated
Student Groups proposing to rent or use a school building or parking lot more than to times a year. the
Department of Operatlons. Office of Real Estate Management must be contacted and a license will be
entered Into and executed in accordance with Board Rule 7-15 for such extended use.

No Viewpoint Discrimination Permitted

No group or organization may be discriminated against due to the content or focus of their gr0up or
organization. If the school permits one group from categories IV. or VI listed above to use its
faCiIities. it must allow other organizations with a similar mission or purpose to use its facilities on the
same terms and conditions,

No religiously-oriented clubs may be barred from meeting at the school if another group that lootises on
Similar topics and ideals is permitted to assemble there.

40

November 16, 2011

if a schoot grants an offering to or an opportunity for one or more outsrde youth or community
organizations to meet on school premises or in school faCilities before or after instructional hows it must
permit equal access to. and must not discriminate against. the Boy Sc0uts of America No school may
however, serve as a sponsoring or chartered organization for the Boy Scouts of America

lX GhietArea-foieer Chiel of Schools Mediation

In the event that a group or organization disagrees with a prinCipal's or Local School Councils
determination regarding its request for use of a school lacility. the group or organization may ask the
appropriate Chief of Schools Chief?Area?thicein to meet with the group or organization and the
princrpal and/or the Local School Council in an effort to mediate the dispute The mt of Schoo? CAO
will make the final determination regarding use of the school facility

X. Union Campaigning

Employees are permitted to use school facilities during duty-free time, before and after school for internal
union campaign activities provided:

a) employees notify the prinCIpal in accordance With the collective bargaining agreement
and the Board's facility usage policy.

b) activities do not interfere with school activities. including before or alter school actiwties
or programming,

C) activities are not in the presence of students,
d) activities are during times of normal building operation, and
e) actiwties do not require the Board to incur any employee Overtime costs

For the purposes of this rule. teacher preparation periods are not duty-free time, Nothing in this rule shalt
prohibit the Board from adopting reasonable restrictions as to time, place and manner for use of its
facilities

Sec. 6-26. Alcohol and Tobacco Prohibited. Consumption of alcohol on Board property is prohibited
Use of tobacco products on Board prOperty is prohibited.

Sec. 6-27. Use Free of Charge. (Repealed 10-22-031

Sec. 6-28. LSC Member Eligibility.

A. Definitions

Wherever used in this Section. the followmg words and phrases shall have the followmg meaning

Parent: Means a biological or adoptive parent. stepparent or legal guardian or an enrolled
student of an attendance center,

Stepparent: means a person who is married to the child's parent. a party to a Civil union With the
child's parent or the domestic partner of the child?s parent. resides with the child and exercises
care and custody of the child. In order to establish that he/she exercises care and Custody ot a child. the
stepparent must provide: (it a marriage certificate, ciwl union certificate or domestic partner
documentation. and (ii) a sworn affidavit by the biological or adoptive parent attesting that the stepparent
in conjunction with the parent, does exercise care and custody of the child. Other ewdence that may
demonstrate care and custody includes but is not limited to the followmg; the child IS declared as a
dependent on the stepparent's most recent income tax return; (iv) the child is c0vered under the
stepparent's health insurance; or the child is listed as the stepparent's child for Medicare. Social
Security. Medicaid or other public aid programs This Board Rule shall not be construed to give
stepparents any right of access to student records except as provided in the School Student
Records Act (105 ILCS 10/1 et seq).

Legal guardian: means a person who has been formally appointed guardian of a child by a court of
competent jurisdiction.

Local School Council or LSC: means an elected Local School Council or an appointed Local School
Council or Board of Governors. except when otherwise noted.

Employed at the School: Means to receive compensation and act under the direction and SuperlSlon of a
principal or his/her designee who oversees the detail of the person's work. An empIOyee of a third party
may not serve on a local school council at a school at which he or she is employed. however, he or she
may be eligible to serve at another school

Employed by the Board of Education: Means to be in the employ of the Board of Education whether or not
employed at the school.

41

November 16, 2011

Enrolled in a school means that the student is currently attending the school at which the parent or legal
guardian serves. Graduation is on the last cay of the academic school year or semester and not on the
date of a graduation ceremony or commencement exercrse. Pursuant to the miners School Code. the last
day of the academic year or semester is determined by the Chicago Board of Education

8. Eligibility
Persons who have been elected to serve on a Local School C0uncil may serve and continue to serve for

the length of their term provided they meet and continue to meet the eligibility requwements set forth
below

1 A person may serve and continue to serve as a parent representative as long as hefshe
has a child enrolled in the schoot in which fie/she serves.
(ii) is not employed at the school ?in which hefshe serves; and

is not employed by the Board of Education.

If a parent representative of a Local School Council ceases or fails to have a child enrolled in the school
at which membership on the Local School Council at which hefshe serves. for reasons other than
graduation or voluntary transfer of the child. or becomes an employee of the Board of Education. the
parent?s membership on the local school council and all voting rights shall be terminated immediately
upon the written determination of ineligibility by the General Counsel followrng the challenge procedures
set forth below. In cases where the parent representative?s membership ends due to graduation of his or
her child. he or she serves until the end of the school year or semester in which his or her child
graduates. In cases where the parent representative's membership ends due to the voluntary transfer of
the child. the parent's membership and voting rights shall be terminated as of the date of the transfer

2. A person may Serve and continue to serve as a community representative as long as heistie
resides in the attendance area served by the school.
(ii) is not employed at the school in which he/she serves.
is not employed by the Board of Education: and
(iv) is not a parent of a student enrolled at the school.

If a community representative ceases to reside wrthin the attendance area or voting b0undaries of or has
a child enrolled in. the school at which he/she Serves. or becomes an employee of the school or Board of

Education, his or her membership on the Local School Council and all voting rights are terminated
immediately upon the written determination of ineligibility by the Chief Executive Officer or desrgnee
following the challenge procedures set forth below.

3, A teacher representative may continue to serve as long as he or she is employed and to
perform a majority of his or her duties at the school. provided that if a teacher representative re5igns from
employment with the Chicago Board of Education. or resigns from the Local School Council or voluntarily
transfers to another attendance center, the teacher's membership on the Local School Councrl and all
voting rights are terminated immediately as of the date the teacher's resignation is received by the Board
of Education. or as of the date the teacher's Local School CaunCil reSignation is received by the Local
School Council or the effective date of the teacher's voluntary transfer to another attendance center

if a teacher representative resigns from employment with the Board. or resigns from the Local School
Council or voluntarily transfers to another attendance center or is absent from employment at the school
for an extended and defined period of time due to illness. disability. leave of absence. the initiation of
dismissal proceedings. or any other reason. the princrpal shall notify the Office of the Chief ExeCutive
Officer or designee of a teacher representative's permanent or temporary absence The Office of the
Chief Executive Officer or designee shall certify, as appropriate. that a vacancy exists in such teacher
representative's position. When a vacancy is certified. the Office of the Chief Executive Officer or
designee shall issue written notification to the principal and the local school councrl adviSIng the school to
initiate a non-binding staff advisory poll, The school shall fonrrard the results of the poll to the Office the
Chief ExeCUtive Officer or designee in a timely manner, After receipt of the results. the Board declare
the existence of a permanent or temporary vacancy in the teacher representative's posrtion and 
appoint a replacement teacher representative until such time as the absent teacher resumes service at
the attendance center or for the remainder of the term. whichever occurs first

4. A non-teacher staff representattve may continue to serve as long as he or she is employed and
assigned to perform a majority of his or her duties at the School. provided that if a non-teacher staff
representative resigns from employment with the Chicago Board of Education. or re5igns from the Local
School Council or voluntarily transfers to another attendance center. the non-teacher staff
representative's membership on the Local School Council and all voting rights are terminated immediately
as of the date the non-teacher staff representative's resignation is received by the Board of Education or
as of the date the non-teacher staff representative's Local School CounCil re5ignation is received by the
Local School Council or the effective date of the non-teacher staff representative's voluntary transfer to
another attendance center.

If a non-teacher staff representative resigns from employment with the Board. or from the Local
School Councrl or voluntarily transfers to another attendance center or is absent from employment at the
school for an extended and defined period of time due to illness. disability. leave of absence, the initiation
of dismissal proceedings. or any other reason. the principal shall notify the Office of the Chief ExeCUtive
Officer or designee of a non-teacher staff representative's permanent or temporary absence The Office
of the Chief Executive Officer or designee shall certify. as appropriate. that a vacanCy exists in Such non-
teacher staff representative's position. When a vacancy is certified. the Office of the Chief Executive

42

November 16, 2011

Officer or designee shall issue written notification to the principal and the local school council advismg the
school to initiate a non-binding staff advisory poll. The school shall forward ttie results of the poli to the
Office the Chief Executive Officer or designee in a timely manner. After receipt of the results. the Board
Will declare the existence of a permanent or temporary vacancy in the non-teacher staff representative 5
position and will appoint a replacement non-teacher staff representative until Such time as the absent
non-teacher staff member resumes service at the attendance center or for the remainder of the term.
whichever occurs first.

5. A person may serve as a high school student representative for a one- year term beginning Julyt

and ending the following June 30th as long as helshe is and remains enrolled in the high school in which
he/she serves on a full- time basis For students who graduate while serving as a student representative
of a Local School Council. their term shall and upon graduation. In cases where the student
representative voluntarily transfers from the school. the student's membership and voting rights on the
Local School Council shall be terminated as of the date of the transfer. If a high school student
representative of a Local School Council ceases to be enrolled on a full-time baSlS in the school at tielshe
serves. for reasons other than graduation or voluntary transfer. the student's membership on the local
school council and all voting rights shall be terminated immediately upon the written determination of
ineligibility by the Chief Executive Officer or designee following the challenge procedures set forth below

C. Audit of Records

The Chief Executive Officer or designee may periodically cause to be reviewed pertinent records relating
to individual LSC members in order to discover any relevant changes in an LSC member?s eligibility If
such a review indicates that an LSC member does not meet the eligibility criteria in this Board Rule. an
investigation shall be conducted in accordance with the local school counCil member removal procedures
set forth below.

D. Local School Council Removal Procedures

1. Any person may challenge the eligibility of an LSC member based on the eligibility criteria in this
Board Rule. Challenges shall be in writing and shall include:

a. the name. address, and phone number of the person filing the challenge,
b. a statement of facts upon which the challenge is based and any eVidence which supports
the challenger's Dosnion

2. In cases where an allegation of ineligibility under this Board Rule is made by another LSC
member or an employee of the Board. the identity of the LSC member or Board employee may not be
disclosed during any investigation of the allegation without his or her written consent. 105 5m.
Blower Protection").

3. In addition, the Board. its agents and employees. may act upon anonymous challenges. personal
knowledge or other information of council members' ineligibility including. but not limited to. the audit of
records described above. A Board employee or agent with information indicating that an LSC member is
not eligible under this Board Rule may initiate an investigation by submitting a written request for
investigation to the Law Department.

4. Filing of Challenges - Challenges and requests for investigation pursuant to this Rule shall be
filed with the Law Department,

5. investigation of lneligibility - The General Counsel shall review challenges and reguests for
investigation. it the General Counsel determines that the challenge or request has merit, the General
Counsel may refer the matter for investigation if additional information is rqued The information
provided by the challengerfs) and the results of any investigation shall be reviewed by the General
Counsel. If the results of the investigation indicate that the LSC member may be ineligible. the General
Counsel shall convene a hearing to afford the General Counsel's representative the opportunity to
present evidence of ineligibility and the concerned council member an opportunity to personally present
statements and evidence on his or her behalf. The concerned councrl member shall be notified in writing
of the date. time. and place of the hearing. of his or her right to have a representative at the hearing, and
the specific basis for his or her alleged ineligibility.

6. A hearing officer shall conduct a hearing and shall afford the General C0unsel?s representative
the opportunity to present evidence of ineligibility and the concerned council member an opportunity to
personally present statements and evidence substantiating his/her eligibility to serve on the council The
General Counsel shall have authority to promulgate rules. including. but not limited to. rules of procedure,
procedural manuals and rules of evidence. to govern hearings under this Rule. As soon as possible after
the conclusion of the hearing. the hearing officer shall make a recommended finding to the Chief
Executive Officer or designee regarding the council member's eligibility.

7. The Chief Executive Officer or designee shall decide the Question of the town? members
eligibility. If the Chief Executive Officer or designee finds that the concerned council member is ineligible
to serve based on the eligibility criteria in this Board Rule. the Chief Executive Officer or designee shall
declare the member ineligible and a vacancy on the council which shall be effective on the date the
declaration is issued. However. the vacancy may be filled only after: (1) the concerned councn member
fails to request reconSIderatIOn within the time allowed; or (2) the concerned counCil member requesl for
reconsideration is denied.

43

November 16. 2011

8. Notice of Declaration of Vacancy - The Chief Executive Officer or designee shall forward the
determination to each challenger and challenged LSC member in writ.ng by regular and certified nail and
to the affected LSC by regular mail.

E. Request for Reconsideration

1. Within thirty (30) days of the date of a Declaration of Vacancy by the Chief Executive Officer or
designee, the challenged LSC member may submit a request to reconsider to the Chief Execwive Officer
or deSignee. Failure to request reconsideration Within 30 days after the declaration of the vacancy Will
render the declaration of vacanCy as final The request for reconsideration should state specific reasons
or grounds for rescinding the Chief Executive Officer or designee's prior determination concerning the
council member's eligibility.

2. The Chief Executive Officer or de3ignee shall rewew the determination. New evidence not readi 
available at the time that the challenge was filed may be submitted The decrsion of the Chief Executive
Officer or designee shall be final and shall be forwarded to the challenger, the challenged LSC member
and the affected Local School Council.

F. Appointment to Vacancy

if a Challenged parent or community LSC member is found to be ineligible to serve on the elected Local
School Council pursuant to this process and a vacancy is declared. the LSC shall tilt the vacancy by
appointment of a qualified person who meets the eligibility requvements

if a challenged teacher. non?teacher staff or student LSC member is determined to be ineligible to serve
on the elected Local School Oeuncil and a vacancy is declared. the Board shall fill the vacanCy by
appointment of a qualified person who meets the applicable eligibility requirements after a non-binding
advisory poll of school staff or students. whichever is appropriate If a challenged member to an
appointed Local School Council or Board of Governors is determined to be ineligible to serve on the
council or board and a vacancy is declared. the Board shall fill the vacancy by appomtment in accordance
with the Board's Policy on Governance of Alternative and Small Schools.

Sec. 6-29. Loss of Local School Council Eligibility Due to Ethics Violations.

For purposes of this Rule. references to Local School CounCIl shall mean an elected Lacal School
Council or an appointed Local School Council or Board of Governors except when otherwise noted
herein.

A. Challenges to Local School Council Members? Eligibility Based on Ethical Violations

1. Any person may challenge a Local School C0unCil member's eligibility to serve based on ethical
Violations. Filing a false Statement or failure to comply With the Board?s Code of Ethics Policy may be
gr0unds for disqualification from serving on any Local School Councrl for the remainder of the concerned
member's term(s) of office. Challenges shall be in writing and shall include

a. the name. address. and phone number of the person filing the challenge;
b. a statement of the facts upon which the challenge is based and any evidence which
supports the challenger's position.

2. in cases where an allegation of an ethical violation under this Board Rule is made by another
LSC member or an employee of the Board. the identity of the LSC member or Board empIOyee may not
be disclosed during an investigation of the allegation without his or her written consent 105 ILCS 5/34-
2.4(c) ("Whistle Blower Protection?).

3. In addition. the Board. its agents and employees. may act upon anonymous information
regarding council members" ethical violations; or (it) personal knowledge or other information of ethical
violations by council members obtained by Board agents or employees A Board employee or agent with
information of an ethical violation by an LSC member may initiate an investigation by Submitting a written
request for investigation to the Law Department.

4. Filing of Challenges Challenges. requests for investigation and reports of LSC members ethical
violations may be filed with the Law Department or the Board's Ethics Advisor

5. Investigation of Ethical Violations. The General Counsel shall review challenges based on ethical
violations. requests for investigation of alleged ethical violations and reports of such violations received
from Board agents or employees or anonymOus sources. it the General Counsel determines that the
challenge. request or report has merit, hefshe shall refer the challenge. request or report for investigation
The General Counsel shall review the results of the investigation it the results of the investigation
indicate that the LSC member may have committed an ethical violation. the General Counsel shall
convene a hearing to afford the General C0unsel's representative the opportunity to present ewdence of
ethical violations and the concerned council member an opportunity to personally present statements and
evidence on his or her behalf. The concerned counCil member shall be notified in writing of the date. time,
and place of the hearing. of his or her right to have a representative at the hearing and of the specific
provisions of this Rule or the Board's Code of Ethics Policy which he or she is alleged to have Violated

44

November 16, 2011

6, A hearing officer shall conduct a hearing and shall afford the General Cetinsel's representative
the opportunity to present evidence of ethics violationts) and the concerned c0uncn member an
opportunity to personally present statements and evrdence regarding the allegations of ethics violati0ns
The General Counsel shall have authority to promulgate rules. including. but not limited to. rules of
procedure. procedural manuals and rules of evidence. to govern hearings under this Rule As soon as
possible after the conclusion of the hearing. the hearing officer shall make a recommended finding to the
Chief Executive Officer or designee regarding the alleged ethical violation

7. The Chief Executive Officer or designee shall decide the question of whether an violation
occurred If the Chief Executive Officer or designee finds that an ethical violation has occurred. the Chief
Executive Officer or designee shall declare the member ineligible effective on the date the declaration t5
issued. The vacanCy on the council which shall be effective on the date the declaration is issued
However. the vacancy may be fitted only after: (1) the concerned council member fails to request
reconsideration within the time allowed. or (2) the concerned c0uncil member's request for
reconsideration is denied.

B. Declaration of Vacancy

When a council member has been afforded a hearing pursuant to this Rule and the Chief Executive
Officer or designee has found that he or she should be disqualified from the Local School Councrl based
upon a violation of the Code of Ethics or this Rule. the Secretary of the Board shall forward a Declaration
of lneligibility and a Declaration of Vacancy to the concerned counCit member and Local School (bond:
by certified and regular mail to the council member's last known address and to the affected LSC by
regular mail. The vacancy shall be effective on the date the declaration is issued. However. the vacanCy
may be filled oniy after: (1) the concerned council member fails to request reconSideration Within the time
allowed; or (2) the concerned council member's request for reconsideration is denied

C. Request for ReconsideratiOn

1. Within thirty (30) days of the date of a Declaration of Vacancy based upon a ruling by the Chief
ExeCUtive Officer or designee. the challenged council member may submit a request to reconsider to the
Chief Executive Officer or designee. The request for reconsideration should state specific reasons or
grounds for rescinding the Chief Executive Officer?s or desrgnee's prior determination concerning the
council member's eligibility. New evidence not readily available at the time that the challenge was 
may be submitted,

2? The Chief Executive Officer or designee shalt review the request for reconSideration and ISSUE 3
final determination.
3. The Secretary of the Board shall forward the final determination to the challenger. if any. and the

challenged council member by certified and regular mail to the concerned council member?s last known
address and to the affected LSC by regular mail.

4. Failure to file a request for reconsideration within the time allowed render final a Declaration
of Vacancy based upon a ruling by the Chief Executive Officer or designee.

D. Statement of Economic Interests Filing Requirements

Failure to timely file a Statement of Economic Interests (hereinafter "Statement?t. or failure to file a
complete Statement, shall result in automatic disqualification from the Local School Councrl for the
remainder of the concerned member's term of office. The Secretary of the Board shall every year
transmit to all schools a Sufficient number of blank Statements of Economic Interests for all Local School
Council members. Local School Council members shall file the Board's Statement of Economic Interests
with the Secretary of the Board by the deadline specified in the annual Statement CounCit members Will
have 45 days from the date the Statement is sent to principals to complete and Submit such Statement
Council members appointed after the due date of the annual Statement shall initially file the Board?s
Statement within seven (7) days of their appointment; Council members shall deliver their completed
Statements to the principal of the school where they serve by the deadline specrfied in the annual
Statement or. if appointed after the due date of the annual Statement. within seven (7) days of their
appointment, Such delivery shall be considered as the filing of the Statement with the Secretary of the
Board.

Within seven (7) days of the applicable filing date. principals shall forward to the Secretary of the Board
all Statements and/or the names of any council members who have failed to file Statements as reqUired
Local School Councils shall maintain copies of their members' Statements on file at their schools for
public inspection.

When a council member has failed to file a complete Statement by the applicable filing date. the
Secretary of the Board shall automatically issue a Declaration of Intent to Disqualify to the concerned
council member by certified and regular mail to the council member's last known address and the affected
LSC by regular mail. The concerned council member shall have thirty (30) days from the date of the
Declaration of Intent to Disgualify to fife a complete Statement. If the c0uncil member does not file a
complete Statement within the time allowed. the Secretary of the Board shall automatically forward a
Declaration of Vacancy to the concerned council member and Local School Council by certified and
regular mail to the council member's last known address and the school where he or she serves The

45

November 16, 2011

vacanCy shall be effective on the date the declaration is issued There shall be no right to request
reconsideration of a Declaration of Vacancy based upon a failure to timely file a complete Statement
Either the concerned Local School Councrl or the Board. as appropriate. may immediately proceed to fill
the vacancy by appointment of a quali?ed person who meets all applicable eligibility rectuirements to
serve the remainder of the disqualified member's term

E. Notice of Declarations

The Secretary of the Board shall forward a Declaration of Intent to Disqualily and Declaration of Vacancy
for failure to timely file a complete Statement to the concerned council member in writing by certified and
regular mail to the concerned council members last known address and the affected LSC by regular mail
The Secretary of the Board shall forward a Declaration of Vacancy based upon findings by the General
Counsel to the challenger. if any. and the concerned council member in writing by certified and regular
mail to the concerned council member's last known address and the affected LSC by regular mail

F, Appointment to Vacancy

If a parent or community Local School Council member is determined to be ineligible to serve on the
elected Local School Council pursuant to this Rule and a vacancy is declared by the Secretary of the
Board. the Local School Council shall fill the vacancy by appomtment of a qualified person who meets the
applicable eligibility requirements.

if a teacher. non-teacher staff or student Local School member is determined to be ineligible to
serve on the elected Local School Council pursuant to this Rule and a vacancy is declared by the
Secretary of the Board. the Board shall fill the vacancy by appointment of a qualified person who meets
the applicable eligibility requuements after a non-binding adwsory poll of school staff or students
whichever is appropriate.

If a member of an appomted Local School COunciI or Board of Governors is determined to be ineligible to
serve on the council or board and a vacancy is declared. the Board shall fill the vacancy by appointment
in accordance with the Board?s Policy on Governance of Alternative and Small Schools.

Sec. 6-30. Removal of Local School Council Members for Certain Criminal Convictions or Failure
to Disclose Criminal Convictions.

For purposes of this Rule references to Local School Councrl shall mean an elected Local School
Council or an appointed Local School Council or Board of Governors except when otherwrse notetl
herein. Persons who have been elected to serve on a Local School C0unCiI may serve for the length of
the term provided that they file a truthful Criminal Conviction Disclosure Form purSuant to Section 34-
2.1(f) of the Illinois School Code (105 ILCS and have cleared a criminal background
investigation which indicates that they have not been convicted ot crimes enumerated in Section 34.? ill-
5) of the Illinois School Code for which a perSOn is either permanently ineligible for election to or serv-ce
on a local school council or ineligible for a period often (10) years alter conviction

A Criminal Conviction Disclosure

All candidates must file a Criminal Conviction Disclosure Form prior to election A Board conducted
criminal background investigation must be completed for each local school counCil member before they
take office. Failure to file a Criminal Conviction Disclosure Form. filing a false or incomplete Criminal
Conviction Disclosure Form. or failure to provide information required by the Illinois State Police which
shall include. but is not limited to. fingerprints or other personal identification information, shall reSuit in
the disqualification from the Local School Council for the remainder of the member's term of office

Each candidate must submit a Criminal Conviction Discloswe Form to the prinCipat Principals shall
forward Criminal Conviction Disclosure Forms to the Office of Local School Council Relations

Principals shall notify the Office of Local School C0uncil Relations of refusals by COuncil members to file
a Criminal Conviction Disclosure Form.

Principals shall maintain on file at their schools copies of the Councils? Criminal Conviction Disclosure
Form for public inspection,

8. lneligibility Due to Criminal Conwction

A person who has been convicted of any of the following offenses at any time hall be ineligible for election
or appointment to a local school council:

Indecent Solicitation of a Child. Sexual Exploitation of a Child. Pandering, Keeping a
Place of Juvenile Prostitution. Pimping. Juvenile Pimping. Exploitation of a Child. Child
Pornography, Criminal Sexual Assault. Aggravated Criminal Sexual Assault, Predatory
Criminal Sexual Assault of a Child. Criminal Sexual Abuse. and Aggravated Criminal
Sexual Abuse.

A person who has been convicted of any of the following offenses Within the 10 years prior to the date of
nomination or apporntment shalt be ineligible for election or appointment to a local school council

Controlled Substance Trafficking. Criminai Drug Conspiracy. and Street Gang Criminal
Drug Conspiracy.

46

November 16, 2011

0 Declaration of Vacancy

The Chief Executive Officer or designee shall declare a vacancy on the Comet for failure to file a
Criminal Conviction Disclosme Form. filing a false or incomplete Criminal Conviction Disclosure Form
failure to provide information required by the State Police in order to complete the background
investigation. or having been convicted of a crime for which a person is ineligible to serve on a local
school council pursuant to this Board Rule and Section 34-2 1(f-5) of the School Code Upon
determination by the General Counsel that a Ocuncil member failed to file. or filed a false or incomplete
Criminal Conwction Disclosure Form. has failed to provtde information necessary for the completion of the
background check, or has been convicted of a crime for which a person is ineligible to serve on a local
school council pursuant to this Board Rule and Section of the   lrnors School Code. the Chief
Executive Officer or designee shall notify the Council member by certified mail and the affected LSC by
regular mail. if the Council member does not file a form or file an amended form wrthin ten (10) days 0
receiving notice of the determination. the Chief Executive Officer or desrgnee shall declare a vacancy on
the Council,

1. Investigation of Ineligibility - The Law Department shall conduct an investigati0n of the
facts relating to the LSC member's criminal history and the veraCity of the LSC members
Criminal Conviction Disclosure Form. The General Counsel shall review the reSuIts of the
investigation. If the results of the investigation indicate that the LSC member may be ineligible
under this Board Rule. the General Counsel shall refer the matter for a hearing.

2. A hearing officer shall conduct a hearing on the LSC member's criminal history and the
veracity of the LSC member's Criminal Conviction Disclosure Form and afford an opponuriity to
the challenged LSC member to personally present statements and evidence substantiating
his/her eligibility to serve on the council. The General Counsel shall have authority to promulgate
rules, including, but not limited to. rules of procedure, procedural manuals and rules of ewdence,
to govern hearings under this Rule. The hearing officer shall make a recommended determination
to the Chief Executive Officer or designee regarding eligibility as soon thereafter as 

3. Declaration of Vacancy - Any vacancy on the LSC caused by a disqualification pursuant
to this Board Rule shalt be declared by the Chief Executive Officer or designee in those cases
where a finding of ineligibility is made.

Any vacancy that is declared by the Chief Executive Officer or desrgnee shall be effective on the
date that the determination is issued; however. the vacancy may be filled only after the
concerned council member fails to request reconsideration wrthin the time allowed. or the
concerned council member's request for reconsideration is denied.

4. Notice of Declaration of Vacancy - The Chief ExeCutive Officer or designee shalt forward
the determination to the challenged LSC member in writing by regular and certified mail to the
member?s last known address and the affected LSC by regular mail.

0. Request for ReconSideration

1. Within thirty (30) days of a Declaration of Vacancy by the Chief Executive Officer or
designee. the challenged LSC member may submit a request for reconsideration to the Chief
ExeCutive Officer or designee.

New evidence not readily available at the time that the vacancy was declared may be Submitted

2. The Chief Executive Officer or designee shall review the request for reconsideration The
decision of the Chief Executive Officer or designee shall be final and shall be forwarded to the
challenged LSC member by certified and regular mail to the member's last known address and
the affected Local School Owned by regular mail

E. Appointment to Vacancy

If a challenged parent or community LSC member is found to be ineligible to serve on the elected Local
School Council pursuant to this process and a vacancy is declared. the LSC shall proceed to fill the
vacancy by appointment of a qualified person who meets the eligibility requirements If a challenged
teacher LSC member or non-teacher staff LSC member is determined to be ineligible to serve on the
elected Local School Council and a vacancy is declared. the Board shall fill the vacancy by apporntment
of a qualified person who meets the applicable eligibility requirements after a non-binding advisory poll of
school staff.

If a member of an appointed Local School Councrl or Board of Governors is determined to be ineligible to
serve on the council or board and a vacancy is declared. the Board shall tilt the vacancy by apporntment
in accordance with the Board's Policy on Governance of Alternative and Small Schools

Sec. 6-31. Exercise of Certain of Powers of Local School Councils Lacking a Majority of Their Full
Membership by the Chief Executive Officer.

Whenever the active membership of a local school council. for any reason. falls below a majority of its full
membership and the local school council is. therefore. unable to satisfy the quorum requirement for taking
offiCial action set forth in section 34-2 2(c) of the Illinois School Code. the Chief Execmive Officer or
desrgnee shall exercise the following powers of such councrl, set forth in section 34-2 of the Iltrnors School
Code:

47

November 16, 2011

to approve the expenditure plan prepared by the principal Willi respect to all funds
allocated and distributed to the attendance center.

(ii) to transfer allocations Within funds as allowed by section 34-2 3 of the lIIinOis School
Code.

Sec. 6-32. Change of an Attendance Center's Local School Council Election Date. The Chief
Executive Officer may recommend to the Board a change in the date of the next biennial local school
council election for an attendance center from second semester report card pick-up day to first semester
report card pick-up day. The Chief ExeCUtive Officer may recommend such a modification if changing the
date would facilitate greater participation in the election, as either candidates or electors. by the parents
and community residents who would be eligible to vote for and serve on a particular local school council
on and alter the new election date.

That determination may be based upon an imminent and significant change. increase or decrease in the
populations of parents and/or community residents eligible to serve on. and who would be served by. a
particular local school council. The cirCUmstances which may be consrdered in determining the existence
of such changes. increases or decreases may include. but shall not be limited to.

1. An imminent and significant change in the of the student population eligible to attend
the attendance center;

2. An imminent and significant increase in the size of the student peputation eligible to attend the
attendance center, such as occurs when existing schools are consolidated or a new school IS opened
either in total or in stages;

3. An imminent and significant decrease in the size of the student population eligible to attend the
attendance center;

4. An imminent and significant change in the attendance center's attendance b0uridaries or. where
applicable. local school council voting boundaries. such as 3 Significant expanSion or contraction of the
boundaries;

5. An imminent and significant expansion of the attendance center's attendance heuridaries. or.
where applicable. local school council voting boundaries. such as occurs when schools are
consolidated;

6. An imminent and significant contraction of the attendance center's attendance boundaries, or.
where applicable, local school council voting boundaries;

7, A change in the attendance center's grade structure or any other Circuriistance that would deny
the parents or legal guardians of students eligible to attend the attendance center the next Frill Term all
opportunity to participate. as their candidates or electors. In any local school c0uncil election for the
attendance center during the period of students' anticipated enrollment in the attendance center

The Board may adopt the Chief Executive Officers recommendation pursuant to its authority under
Sections and 5/34-18 of the ?floats School Code. respectively. to conduct fair and impartial
local school council elections and to exercise general supervision and jurisdiction over the Chicago Public
Schools. 105 ILCS 5134-18 (2000). If the Board adopts the Chief Executive Officers
recommendation. all subsequent locai school elections for the attendance center may be held on
the same date every two years thereafter.

CHAPTER VII
PROCUREMENT AND CONTRACT RULES

Sec. 7-1. Purchasing Limitations. No purchases. including purchases made using school internal
accounts. shall be made except as provided in these Rules No officer or employee not expresSIy
authorized by these Rules shall make any purchase on behalf of the Board of Education or enter into any
contract of purchase. verbal or written, for any apparatus, equipment. supplies. service. repairs. goods.
wares or merchandise of any kind or description. or accept any of them on approval or otherwrse No
officer or employee of the Board of Education shall during a fiscal year expend or contract to be
expended any money. or incur any liability. or enter into any contract Without an appropriation therefore.
or in excess of: it the amount appropriated in the budget; ii) the amount authorized in a Board
Report; (g1 the amount authorized by an Officer pursuant to the exercise of their delegated authority;
or. {91 iv) the compensation amount stated in the contract. Any contract. verbal or written. made in
violation of this section is void as to the Board of Education.

Sec. 7-2. Procurement Policy For Blddable and Non-Biddable Items; Requests for Information.
Request for Proposals andlor Qualifications. and Bid Solicitations

 

8. Requests for information and public canvassing of soliCItations of bids requests for proposals and
qualifications for contracts and purchases shall be authorized and managed by the Chief Purchasing
Officer. All bid solicitations. which convert to binding contracts upon execution by the Board shall be
approved as to legal form by the General Counsel prior to the publication of such solicitation All requests
for qualification shall include language describing the basis and process for award of work to pre~qualified
vendors. The Chief Purchasing Officer shall establish requirements regarding the publication of any and
all requests for information. solicitations of bids. and requests for proposals and qualifications

48

November 16, 2011

b. All purchases for Biddable Items and Non-biddable Items shall be awarded pursuant to a
competitive process in accordance with the followmg procedures. Biddable Items are defined as those
goods. services and transportation purchases and contracts reqUired to be awarded thr0ugh a
competitively bid solicitation process pursuant to 105 ILCS 5110-2021 Non?biddable Items are defined
as those purchases and contracts for goods or serviceg for which there is an exception under 105 ILCS


1. Level One: All purchases of Non-biddable Items between $25,001 and $75,000 shall be awarded
pursuant to a procurement process whereby at least three 131 written price quotations twalteeor
verbal} are submitted to and evaluated by the Chief Purchasing Officer and awarded by the Chief
Purchasing Officer to the most responsible and responsive proposertst competitive pricing or
any other form of competitive solicitation that is issued by the Chief Purchasing Officer in
accordance with Federal State or other agenCy purchasing 
the-Chief-Perehaemg?foiser. Good faith competitive solicitations that do not yield three (3)
legitimate price quotations may be to satisfy the procurement process requuements of
this section at the discretion of the Chief Purchasmq?icer;

2. Level Two: All purchases of Non-biddable Items between $75,001 and $250,000 must be
approved by the Board and shalt-be awarded pursuant to a procurement process whereby at
least three (3) written proposals with price quotes are submitted to and evaluated by the Chief
Purchasing Officer and are awarded to the most responsible and responswe proposerLsJ with
competitive pricing. or any other form of competitive soliCItalion that is issued by the Chief
Purchasing Officer rin accordance with Federal State or other agency purchasmg guidelines as
Good
faith cometitive solicitations that do not yield three (3) legitimate price_guotations may be
deemed to satisfy the procurement process regptrements this section at the discretion of the
Chief Purchasing Officer; and

3. Level Three: All purchases of Biddable Items between $10,001 and $75,000 must be approved
by the Chief Purchasing Officer. All purchases of Biddable Items in excess of 540.000 000
must be approved by the Board. All purchases of Biddable Items in excess of $10,000 shall be
awarded pursuant to a duty advertised bid solicitation issued by the Chief Purchasing Officer, in
accordance with the precepts of formal sealed bids to the lowest, responsive, responsible
biddertp), considering conformity with specifications and terms of delivery, quality and
servrceability andshall?beapereved bytes-Beard. All purchases of Non-biddabte Items 8250.001
and above must be approved by the Board and shall-be awarded pursuant to a duly advertised
request for proposals/qualifications issued by the Chief Purchas?ing Officer or any other form of
competitive solicitation that is issued by the Chief Purchasing Officer in accordance with Federal,
State or other agency purchasing 


Sec. 7-2.1 Expenditures of ?25,000 and Under For?Items Which Are Not Required To Be Awarded
Through a Competitive Bid Solicitation Process. Upon reguisrtion duly signed or authorized by the
Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Education Officer, the Chief Purchasing Officer, the Chief Finanoat
Officer, ?1?8 Chief Administrative Officer, the General Counsel, of Schools or any other
executive officer designated by Board Resolution, as appropriate for their respective areas of
responsibilities, expenditures for supplies, materials. non-personal services, personal and consatting
services or other work which are not reqwred to be awarded through the competitive bid solicitation
process pursuant to Board Rule made by purchase order charging

appropriated funds. 

Sec. 7-2.2 Regulated Education-Related Which Are Not Subiect to Section 7?2
Procurement Requirements. The procurement rules set out in Section 7-2 do not my to: selection
of charter school providers and contract school providers which are subiect to alternate procmement
processes; (bl engagement of Illinois State Board of Education certified special education prowders who
are vidin cialized services as mandated the Individuals with Disabilities in Education Act
payments of proportionate share federal education funds for non-public schools to purchase goods and
services under variotts Federal title prms; engacgment of vendo?st required by the US
Department of Education, the Illinois State Board of Edugptipn, or other federal state or local
to provide services under a grant or educational service program administered by
ggvernmental agency; or (at other education-related expenditures subiect to statutory or regulatm
procurement prgcedures outside the scope of these rules. Th3 applicability of Section 7-2.2 shall be
determined by the Chief Purchasing Officer and the General Counsel. If applicability is determined, the
Chief Purchasing Officer and the General Counsel shall also identify the method of purchase and contract
requirements pertinent to the transaction. Any expenditure purSuant to Section 7-22 that exceeds

$25,000 reguires Chief Executive Officer or Chief Education Officer approval and any expenditure that
exceeds $75,000 further requires Board 

     

 

Sec. 7-2.3 Non-Blddabte Education-Related Expenditures and Engagements Which Are Not
Subject to Section 7-2 Procurement Reguiremente. The ptocurement rules set out in Section 7-2 do
not apply to: ta] payments of tuitipn to accredited institutions of higher education or engagements 
organizations or institutions providinq internship, practicum or other educational learning opportunities to
studentiincludim student stipend programs. The applicabi?i of Section 7-2.3 shall be determined by
the Chief Purchasing Officer and the General Counsel. Any expenditure purSuant to Section 7-2 gtp)
does not require a contract. Any expenditure pursuant to 7-2.3fb) that exceeds $254000 requires a
contract. Any expenditure pursuant to Section 7-2.3 that exceeds $25,000 reguires Chief Executive
Officer or Chief Education Officer approval and any expenditure that exceeds $75,000 further reqwres

Board approval.

49

November 16, 2011

Sec. 7-2.4 Purchase of Non-Biddable and Biddable Items Throuqh Federal. State. C0unly. City and
Sister City Agency Contracts Which Are Not Subiect To Section 7-2 Procurement Requirements.

The Chief Purchasmq Officer IS authorized to approve the purchase of Non-biddable and Biddable Items
based on contracts between another governmental entity. City of Chmo the State of
Illinois, the CW of Cook, the Board's sister City aqencies [the Park the Chicaqo
Transit Authority. the Chicago Housing Authority and the City Colleges of Chicago), and a federal agency.
and its vendors {the "Reference Contract"). subiect to the followinq conditions,

1. The procurement process used to form the Reference Contract shall the
competitive procurement requirements of these rules, and shall comply With all legal obliqations
applicable to the Board.

2. A separate contract between the Board and the governmental entity's vendor that includes all of
the material terms in the Reference Contract shall be executed prior to any purchases The
contract entered into between the Board and the vendor may contain

Q) pricing or compensation terms eguivaient to, or more favorable to the Board than
those contained in the Reference Contract;

a period of duration or term which may vary from the term of the Reference
Contract;

such additional provisions as the Chief Purchasing Officer determines to be in the
best interests of the Board; or

(Ly) such insertions to or deletions from the Reference Contract as are requued by law
or requlation to the Board.

3. All purchases pursuant to Section 7-2.4 must be approved by the Chief Purchasrng Officer and
reguire a contract and those purchases over $75 000 further regwre Board apprOvaL

4. The contract between the Board and the governmental entity's vendor is subiect to the review
and approval of the General Counsel.

Sec. 7-2.5 Restrictgd Gift Purchases Which Are Not Subject To Section 7-2 Procurement
Requiremepts. In accordance with 105 ILCS 5/16-1, if a donor makes a restricted oranL donation or
leqacy the terms of which require the Board tomrchase certain goods or services from a speCilic vendor.
the procurement rules set out in Section 7-2 shall not apply to such purchases. in all such cases; any
grantl gift, donation or lecgcy restrictions must be independently identified by the donor with no influence
by District pprsonnel. The applicability Section 7-2.5 shall be determined by the Chief Purchasmq Officer
and the General Counsel. is determined, the Chief Purchasing Officer and the General
Counsel shall also identmr the method of purchase and contract requirements @rtinent to the transaction
Any expenditure that exceeds $75,000 further requires Board approval.

Sec. 7-2.6 Procurement Guidelines. The Chief Purchasing Officer is authorized to establish
procurement guidelines to ensure the effective implementation of the procurement rules contained in this

Chapter VII.

Sec. 7-3. Procedure for Bid Solicitations. Except as may othervvise be provided by the Board. when
solicitations for Biddable Items are taken. as many bids shall be secured as practicable. basing the
solicitation upon a list of prospective bidders that are qualified to provide supplies, materials, work or
services. At least one public notice is to be made at least ten days before the bid due date in a
newspaper published in the district and shall simultaneously be posted on a readily acceSSible bulletin
board in the Office of the Chief Purchasing Officer. Each bidder receivmg a copy of the soliCitation must
receive at least three days notice of the time and place of the opening of all such bids All bids must be
sealed by the bidder and must be opened by the Chief Purchasrng Officer or his/her designee at a public
bid opening at which the contents of the bids must he announced

if the stated bid Opening day falls upon a holiday as established by the Rules of the Board. the time for
receipt and opening of bids shall automatically be continued to the next followmg busmess day at the
same hour.

Sec 7- 4. Posting of Bid Responses Sebadule?ef?Bid Solicitations. Whenever the bids are opened
and announced in accordance with Section 7. 3 scheduled acopy of saidschedele the aggregate bid
prices by category proposed by each bidder shall be publically posted by posted m- the Otfice of the Chief
Purchasing Officer not later than four days followmg the day on which bids are opened A scheduled
bids- Secretary el? them 01
Jth-ae? parth the- official


Sec. 7-5. Emergency Expenditures.

a. An emergency shall be determined when, in the judgment of the Chief Purchasing Officer (3) st
is necessary make repairs and alterations. and purchase equment, or Supplies (collectively
"Emergency Purchases"); (it) to) the Emergency Purchases are necessary as a result of Circumstances
which call for immediate action (the "Conditions Precedent"); and M) to) the Canditions Precedent are a
result of fire. accident, threat to the health, safety. security of individuals or other conditions and such
action is necessary to prevent material loss or damage to property, or bodily injury or loss of life or the
occupants of the Board?s buildings and third parties who may be present in its or on its
premises or to prevent interference with school sessions or to protect the health. safety. security or well
being of students. staff, or third parties ("Emergency Conditionts)")

5O

November 16. 2011

In order to obtain approval 0? an Emergency Expenditure. the followmg steps must be taken 
obtain the verbal or written approval of the Chief Executive Officer. Chief Education Officer. Chief
Administrative Officer. Chief Operating Officer Wise?Officer. or such other chief officer charged
with authority over the Conditions Precedent; (it) obtain the verbal or written approval of the Chief
Purchasing Officer; is) after the work has been completed. the purchases have been made. or the
services have been rendered to the satisfaction of the appropriate Department. complete a Request to
Approve Emergency Expenditure on a form approved by the Chief Purchasing Officer (the ?Emergency
Request Form"); fi_v1 ed) obtain the verification of the apprOpriate chief officer on the Emergency Request
Form; and (11(9) have the Emergency Request Form signed by the Chief Purchasmg Officer.

c, if an Emergency Condition occurs after business hours. on a weekend. on a holiday. or at any
other time that the appropriate chief officer and the Chief Purchasing Officer cannot be contacted. each
Portfolio Manager or such other appropriate chief officer of the Board. or their designee. has the authority
to take the necessary action at his/her own discretion.

d. The foregoing authority is limited to the minimum expenditure of funds necessary to stabilize an
Emergency Condition and protect person and property from further harm. After the Emergency Request
Form has been completed. the Chief Purchasmg Officer shall prepare a Board Report and obtain
approval of the Emergency Expenditure by a vote of the Board.

Sec. 7-6. Deposits, Bid Bonds. Performance and Payment Bonds.

3. When a bid deposit shall be required. whether by law or at the discretion of the Chief Purchasing
Officer. it shall be so stated in the solicitation of bids. and the deposit shall be in a reasonable amount but
not in excess of 5% of the total bid amount proposed. The bid deposn. when requued. may be in the form
of a money order. certified check drawn upon a banking institution in good standing and made payable to
the order of the Board. a specific bond. or a letter of credit. In lieu of submitting the bid deposn as herein
above provided. a bidder may file with the Board an annual bid bond. the amount of which shall be
determined by the Chief Purchasing Officer; provided. however. an annual bid bond shall not be accepted
on bids for construction work. alterations. repairs to buildings and grounds. and student transportation
matters. Such annual bid bond shall in no case be less than $10,000. and shall cover all bids Submitted
by such bidder during the period of the bond. All bid bonds shall be Signed by a responSible surety
company licensed to do business in the State of 

b. All bid deposns accompanying a bid soliCitation. except that of the successful bidder. be
refunded or returned after the successful bidder has been determined and a contract has been awarded
by the Board. The bid deposit of the successful bidder shall be returned after the full execution of the
contract and the tendering of any payment and/or performance bond reqwred under the contract In case
of a failure or refusal on the part of the selected bidder to execute a contract and tender a payment andlor
performance bond. if required. within a reasonable period of time as determined by the Chief PtirchaSIrtg
Officer, the deposit of the selected bidder so faiting or refusing may be forfeited and retained by the Board
as liquidated damages and not as a penalty or. when a bid bond has been furnished in lieu of a deposit.
the Board may take action on the bond.

c. A payment and performance bond shall be required for all building construction and budding and
grounds repair work. and student transportation matters. A payment and performance band may also be
required on any other purchases or contracts when specified by the Chief Purchasrng Officer. When a
payment and performance bond is required. it shall be stated in the solicitation of bids and requests for
proposals and/or qualifications and the bonds reqmred shall be in an amount sufficient to insure the
fulfillment of the contract of the successful bidder/proposer. Such bonds shall be Signed by a responsmle
surety company licensed to do business in the State of Illinois.

Sec. 7-7. Rejection of BldsIProposals. The Board or the Chief Purchasmg Officer shall have the right
to reject any or all bids or proposals.

Sec. 7-8. Expenditures - Pro-Qualified Vendors. The Chief Purchasing Officer shall submit a repert lo
the Board each quarter of all expenditures made to pre-qualified vendors. The report shall include a list
of: i) all expenditures made to each individual pie-qualified vendor; it) the total expenditures made to all
ore-qualified vendors in the applicable pool; and. the balance remaining of the aggregate amount
authorized for each applicable pre-qualified pool of vendors.

Sec. 7-9. Strategic Sourcing. The Chief Purchasing Officer or his/her designee shall prepare and
circulate to local schools a list of pro-qualified vendors ('strategic sourcing vendors') offering volume
discounts of commodities such as instructional materials. equipment. supplies, and various services.
Schoois shall be required to use strategic sourcing vendors for all purchases over 310.000 in accordance
with the Board's Strategic Sourcing Policy. Schools requesting to use a vendor other than a strategic
sourcmg vendor for purchases over $10,000 must obtain prior written approval from the Chief Purchasmg
Officer and comply with applicable competitive basis procedures. All such purchases of commodities and
services that are subject to the Board's Strategic Sourcing Policy shall be made only pursuant to a
purchase order approved by the Chief Purchasing Officer.

Sec. 7-10. Sole Sourcing.

3. Sole Sourcmg of Non-Biddable Items. Sole source procurements and contracts are defined as
those that have not been competitively procured. Sole source procurements are discouraged and any
office. department. program. unit. or school requesting sole sourcing should carefully consider all
available resources before requesting a sole source award. Sole source procurements are improper if
only for administrative convenience. The Chief Purchasing Officer is authorized to approve sole source

51

November 16, 2011

procurements up to $75,000. All sole source procurements over $75,000 must be approved by the Chiel
Purchasing Officer and the Board. then
appreved?by?ths?Beard In determining whether to approve a sofa setirce pretzurement of Non-biddable
Items, the following criteria shall be considered:

 

1, The specific problem. requuemenl. or need that the procurement or contract is intended to
address that makes sole sourcmg necessary. This should include an explanation as to how the
servrces or goods and merchandise are critical or essential to the Board's responsibilities or
operations.

2. The availability of resources to perform the services or provide the goods and merchandise
efficiently and cost effectively.

3 The unique qualifications. abilities or expertise of the contractor or supplier to meet the Board 5
needs and/or the unique nature of the and/or goods and merchandise

4. Whether the particular contractor or supplier was named ill a grant and is essential to fulfilling the
Board's oblications under the grant. 

5. Any other special circumstances that may be relevant such as copyright restrictions. or where the
proposed contractor or supplier is the only source available in the geographical area

6. The basis for the determination that the costs. fees. or rates negotiated are fair and reasonable
given the absence of a competitive baSis award The explanation may make a comparison With
comparable contracts. use the re3ults of a market survey. or employ some other appropriate
means to make such a determination,

b. Sole sourcing of Biddabie items is not permitted 


Sec. 7-11. Contract lneltgibility. No person or business entity shall be awarded a contract it that
person or business entity; has been convicted of bribery or attempting to bribe a public officer or
employee of the Board of Education of the City of Chicago. the State of tilin0is. or any other public entity.
in that officer or employee's official capacnly: (ii) has been conwcted of agreement or collusion among
bidders or prospective bidders in restraint of freedom of competition by agreement to bid a fixed price, or
otherwise; or has made an admission of guilt of such conduct described above which is a matter of
record but has not been prosecuted for such conduct. ineligibility under this section shall continue for
three years following such conviction or admission

For purposes of this Section 7-11. no person or business entity shall be eligible to be awarded a contract
if such person has engaged in: (at 8rd Stringing (as defined in 720 ILCS 5133 E-2 which also
includes any knowing attempt to divide or plan procwements to amid the use of competitive procedures.
(Li) Bid Rigging (as defined in 720 ILCS 5/33 or to) Bid Rotating (as defined in 720 5i33
E-4). For purposes of this section, where an official. agent or employee of a busmess entity has
committed such conduct described above on behalf of such an entity and pursuant to the direction or
authorization of a responsible official thereof. the business entity shall be chargeabte the conduct
Bid Stringing. Bid Rigging and Bid Rotating are prohibited.

Sec. 7-12. Prohibition Against Stringing. "Stringing" is dividing or planning any procurement program.
activity. transaction. invoice. purchase order or agreement involving the Board or any of its operational
elements (including offices. departments. bureaus. programs. units and schools) to av0id either. any
of the competitive procurement processes set forth in Board Rule 7?2; or any of the limitations on
delegated authority set forth in Board Rule 7-15 or 105 5134?81. Stringing is prohibited,

Sec. 7-13. Written Contracts agd Purchase 0rd?rs Required.

1 Except as otherwise provided in these Rules. all expenditures for Biddable Items exceeding
$10,000 which must be awarded through the competitive bid soliCitation process pursuant to Board Rule
7-2. and expenditures for Non-biddable Items exceeding $25,000 which are not recurred to be awarded
through the competitive solicitation process pursuant to Board Rule 7-2, either individually or collectively
for consecutive purchases from the same vendori?service provider of the same item or service by the
same authorized officer user?departmentf-soheel. and alt other transactional matters requiring contracts.
leases. licenses or intergovernmental agreements shall be evidenced by a Written document approved as
to legal form by the General Counsel and signed by the Board. the Chief Purchasrnq Officer or other
officers as specified in Section 7-14 or 7-15 of these Rules. as applicable. and the other party.

No goods or materials. apparatus. equipment. supplies, wares or merchandise may be received. nor may
services. repairs. or work commence nor leaseholds be created. nor may payments be made regarding
any of the foregoing prior to execution of a written document for same in accordance with Board Rule 7-
14 or 7-15. as applicable.

t; Exrmt as otherWise provided in these Rules. all purchases for any Dollar amount requne a
Purchase Order obtained consistent With these Rules and applicable law. The Purchase Order must be
issLied prior to order or receipt of qgods or services.

52

November 16, 2011

Sec. 7-14. President and Secretary to Execute Contracts and Leases. Except as ottierWise provided
in these Rules. the President and Secretary of the Board of Education shall sign and execute all contracts
duly authorized by order. resolution. or direction of the Board of Education and shall sign and execme
leases of school property or property requtred for school purposes duly authorized by order. resolution 0r
direction of the Board of Education. and which have been approved as to legal form by the General
Counsel The President. with the approval of the Board. may designate one or more persons who shall
have proxy authority to affix the signature of the President to such contracts or leases in the absence of
the Secretary. the Assistant Secretary shall sign such contracts or leases The Board may, at its
discretion. authorize and designate a signatory for leases and contracts under certain specified dollar
amounts and for ancillary documents that serve to administer or effectuate a contract or lease In the
event the President abstains from a contract or lease matter. the Board-approved contract or lease may
be executed by the Vice President. In the case of abstention by the Pre5ident and the absence. disability
or abstention of the Vice PreSident. the Board-approved contract or lease may be executed by any
member of the Board. When so Signed. executed. and approved. such contracts and leases shall be
deemed to be duly executed by the Board of Education.

Sec. 7-15. Delegation of Authority to Act. in addition to the loreqornq. the Board hereby delegates the
following specific authority to the following Officers or their respective designees With respect to making
and executing certain agreements. which authority may be exercised without prior Board action or
approval This authority includes the authority to approve payments and ratify agreements Within the
scope of the authority delegated in this section. All authority exerCised by the Officers pur5uant to this
Rule shall be reported to the Board on a basis.

a. The Chief Executive Officer has the authority to authorize and execute the following.

1. Any and all intergovernmental agreements and other miscellaneous types of agreements that

have no financial impact on the Board. subject to approval as to legal form by the General
Counsel.

Education-related agreements enumerated in Board Rule 7-22 and 7-2329 to ?759tlo per
provider/institution. su?ect to approval as to legal form bvthe General Counsel

b. The Chief Operating Officer has the authority to authorize and execute the following

1. Any and all real property where the Board is the Iandlordllicensor. With a term gt
less than ten (10) years, regardless of the dollar amount. subject to approval as to legal term by
the General Counsel (except for leases/licenses at 125 S. Clark Street. Chicago. Illino?s and for
leases/licenses with Charter Schools. which require prior Board approval). provided however that
the Chief Operating Officer may authorize and execute Such leases/licenses With no further
approval from the General Counsel when using the form agreement established by the Law
Department with no modifications thereto other than to include business terms Further. the Chief
Operating Officer has the authority to authorize and execute all real property leasesr?licenses
(including those with indemnification provisions) where the Board is the tenantlticensee. the term
is less than ten (10) years. and the dollar am0unt for the term of the lease/license is $75,000 or
under. subject to approval as to legal form by the General Counsel. Further. the Chief Operating
Officer has the authority to authorize and execute any and all agreements and documents to
grant the Board access or right of entry to property including those with indemnificatrOn
provisions.

2. All Change Orders related to construction. "Change Order" means a change a contract term
other than as specifically provided for in the contract which authorizes or necessrtales any
increase or decrease in the cost of the contract or the time to completion, The Chief Operating
Officer shall establish construction change order procedures for the SmetSStOn and approval of
Change Orders. The Chief Operating Officer shall report all Change Orders to the Board on a
basis. The report shall include a brief description of the change. the original
contract amount. the net change by previ0us Change Orders in dollar amount and by percentage.
the total contract amount prior to the current Change Order being submitted: the net
increase/decrease in contract ambunt the current Change Order in dollar amOunt and by
percentage. and the rewsed contract amount. All Change Orders must be in compliance with the
Public Works Contract Act (50 ILCS 525).

3. Agreements or documents for the sale. disposition. transfer. donation or auctioning of Board
assets. subject to approval as to legal form by the General Counsel. and provided that the
compensation to be paid to a third party for these services shall be payable or deductable from
the proceeds. The Chief Operating Officer shall also have the authority to approve the transfer of
school assets to other schools (including charter schools). Board assets mean those goods which
are tangible. non-real estate properties. The sale. disposition. transfer. donation and auctioning of
Board assets with an original purchase price or fair market value of $5.000 or more that were
purchased with funds from the State Board of Education shall be subject to the approval of
Corporate Acc0unting. The Chief Operating Officer shall report to the Board on an annual 
all assets sold. transferred. donated. or otherwise disposed under the delegation of authority
herein.

c. The Chief Education Officer has the authority to authorize and execute the followmg
Education-related agreements as to Ieggl form by the General Counsel.

No-fee education-related agnaements includinq internship agreements. programmatic aqreements
and data sharing agreements. sweet to apmval as to legal form pittie General Counsel

53

November 16, 2011

that?have?a
linaasialmast?en-lhe Beard-simmeelterappreyalas- to?legaHorm?ey?lhe- General CairnseL

d. The Chief Financial Officer has the authority to i) accept any and all grants. donations and gifts of
any dollar amount; and ii) refund any unspent dollars from grants. donations or gifts The Chief FinanCiai
Officer has the authority to exeCUte any and all grant. donation or gift acceptance agreements and
amendments related thereto required by any such granlor. donor or giftor. including agreements to
indemnify the grantor. donor or giftor. prowded however that any grant. donation or gift acceptance
agreements and amendments related thereto With a value of 3250.000 or more shall be subject to
approval as to legal form by the General Counsel and any Such agreements that imppse any additional
financial oblitmion on the Board in excess of ?250.000 shall be approved bLthe Board The Chief
Financral Officer together with the head of the department receiving the grant have the authority to
provide such additional information. assurances and certifications as are necessary in connection with
suoh grant. For all grants. gifts and donations and refunds of same. the Chief inanCiat Officer shall report
to the Board on a baSlS all grants. gifts and donations received or made in excess of $50000
and all refunds of unspent grants. gifts or donations in excess of $5.000 Expenditure of_gr_anl funds are
subiect to the procurement rules in this Chapter Vll.

e. The Chief Purchasing Officer has the authority to;



Approve purchases payments up to $75000 and to authorize and exeCute any and all of the
following purchasing documents enumerated below. subject to approval as to legal form by the
General Counsel. when Such purchases are made in accordance with the Board Rules set forth in
Chapter Vii; provided however that the Chief Purchasmg Officer may authorize and execme such
purchasing documents with no further approval from the General Counsel when usrng the form
agreement established by the Law Department with no modifications thereto other than to include
business terms. If modifications are made to the form agreement. then approval of the General
Counsel as to legal form is rgwred.

Agreements for Biddabie items and Non-biddable items (as dammit?248i that do
not exceed 375.000;

ll}- Options lo renew and/or mutually-agreed-to of agreements for Biddable Items
Non-biddable items that do not exceed 575.000; and

Amendments to Contracts for Biddable Items and Non-biddable items initially costing
$75.000 and under. which amendments have-no-hnancial implications Or do not increase
the total obligation to more than 575.000 or materially diminish the obligations of the
vendor.

 

2. Approve payments and ratifyagreements tor the purchase of Non-biddable items up to 575.000
when such purchases are not made in accordance With the Board Rules set forth this Chapter
LIL

l. The General Counsel has the authority to appornt oul5ide c0urisel_ retain and to take all
actions required to fulfill the duties and obligations imposed upon the General Counsel in Chamr ill ol
these Rules. subiect to appropriation. The General Counsel ats_o has the authority to authorize and
execute any and all agreements and documents regarding the followmg

1. access and right of entry to property which may include indemnification.

2. indemnification related to agreements for the purchase. sale. use, occupancy. license or lease of
real estate;

3. zoning. taxes and other governmental petitions and requests.
4. indemnification related to shrink-wrap and click?wrap agreements;

5. agreements with a nominal value of less than $5,000 granting nonexcluswe rights to use Board
intellectual property and other agreements related to the grant of intellectual rights and
permissions. including any indemnification of third parties associated with said agreements; and.

6, other legal matters having no direct financial impact on the Board.

9- shanegagreements?vvilb?ne
bytheGeneral?Ceunsel

g?lsr. The Communications Officer has the authority to execute access agreements to film in Board
facilities and CPS schools subject to approval as to legal form by the General Counsel.

hi The Wannabee?Gilles! Chief Administrative Officer or deSignee has the authority to
execute no- -fee agreements wilh-ao-finansial?impliealiens regarding non disclosure.confidentiality and
network access with no further approval from the General Counsel when usmg the~lsim an agreement

approved established by the Law Department 
infesmalmand?buslness?lems.

Vice President Ruiz indicated that if there were no objections, Board Reports 11-1116-PO1
and 11-1116-RU1 would be adopted by the last favorable roll call vote, all members present voting
therefore.

Vice President Ruiz thereupon declared Board Reports 11-1116-PO1 and 11-1116-RU1
adopted.

54

November 16, 2011

11-1116-CO1

COMMUNICATION RE: LOCATION OF
BOARD MEETING OF DECEMBER 14. 2011

David J. Vltale President, and
Members of the Board of Education

Henry S. Bienen

Dr. Mahalia A. Hines

Penny Pritzker

Jesse H. Ruiz

Rodrigo A. Sierra

Andrea L. Zopp

This is to advise that the regular meeting of the Board of Education scheduled for
Wednesday, December 14. 2011 will be held at:

The Central Administration Building
125 South Clark Street

Chicago. Illinois 60603

Board Chamber - Floor

Registration for Public Participation will be held between the home of 8:00 am and 9:00
am. on the 1?l Floor of the Clark Street Lobby. The Board Meeting begin at 10:30 am. The
Public Participation segment of the meeting will begin immediately iollowmg the CEO Report
and proceed for two hours.

11-1116-C02

COMMUNICATION RE: REAPPOINTMENT OF TRUSTEE
TO SERVE ON THE PUBLIC SCHOOL PENSION
AND RETIREMENT FUND OF CHICAGO
(RODRIGO A. SIERRA)

TO THE MEMBERS OF THE BOARD OF EDUCATION
OF THE CITY OF CHICAGO:

I hereby reappoint Rodrigo A. Sierra, to serve as a Trustee on the Public School
Teachers' Pension and Retirement Fund of Chicago. Mr. Sierra's term will commence
November 2011 and expire November 2013.



OF FUNDS
Various Units and Objects

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER RECOMMENDS THE FOLLOWING:
The various transfers of funds were requester] hy the Central Office Departments during the month nl October All

transfers are budget neutral. A hriel? explanation of each transfer is prnvidcd below:

I. 'l?ransl?er from Rock island Elementary Network to Ru_dyurd Kip?ng School

Rationale: Funds to purchase cl?ullt subscription.

'l?ranst'cr From: Unit Rock Island Elementary Network ill HI
Fund General Education Fund  i
Account Miscellaneous Charges 579-!"
Program Other Instr Purposes Misc i 
Grant Elem Hs Network - Gen Board I-?unds UNI-ill

Transfer to: Unit Rudyard Kipling School JJHXI
Fund General Education Fund I lit
Account Seminar. Fees. Subscriptions. l?rolessinnal Meinherslupx $4505
Program Other Instr Purposes Misc I won
Grant lilem Hs Network - Gen Board Funds 170041)

Amount: Si 000.00

55

2. Transfer from Citywide Alternative Sehunls autl Pathways to Kelvyn l?itrk fliglt Schaut

Rationale.

Transfer From:

'l?ransl?cr to:

Amount:

SLC allocatitim - Kelvyn l?nrk . mileage expettxen related to SILK

Unit
Fund
Account
Program
Grant

Unit
Fund
Account
Program
Grant

$l 

Citywide Alternative Sclititii: and 

NCLH Title Fund

Car Fare

Small [.eatning 

he Smaller Learning 

Kelvyn Park High Schnul

NCLB Title Fund

Car Fare

Small Learning Ctinintumtic?

Fie Smaller Learning Communities

November 16, 2011

1733
ll?

23033
5.1.15?

JGIUI

543?
32mm
54351?

3. Transfer from Alternative Schools and Pathways to Manley Curt-er Cutnntunitv .M'ittlt-mv Hit?t 

Rationale:

?l'ransl?er me:

'I?ransl?er tn:

Amount:

SLC alluealiuns Manley - SLC related travel

Unit
Fund
Account
ngram
Grant

Unit
Fund
Account
l?rogt'am
(iranl

SI 

Citywide Alternattve Scltuuls and Pathwayx

NCLB Title 

Travel Expenae

Small Learning 

l'ie Smaller Learning 

Manley Career Cuttinutmly Academy High Selmul

NCUS Title 

Travel Ex pense

Stnall Learning 

I?ic Smaller Learning Communities

H733
.3 it:
54205

SJl?l?

Wit
"Ni
mm


?i-Hil7

4. 'l?rattsfer from Citywide Alternative Schools and l?athwaxs to Manley Can't-r Academy lli_g_li 

Ratiouale:

Transl'er l-rnm:

?l?t'anst'er tu:

Amount:

3] altucatitiux' - Manley - SLC related mileage

Unit
Fund
Account
Program
Grant

Unit
Fund
Acetnint
Program
Grant

SI 000.00

Citywide Alternative and Pitllt\\d)\

Title l-?nntl

Car Fart:

Small Learning Communities

Fit: Smaller Learning 

Manley Career Community Academy High Selit-ul

NCLB Title Fund

Cur Fate

Small Learning Ctminninitim

lite Smaller learning Communities

ii??

an,
NIH

11ml?
um?

ill II
?It
i-lfl?t
Hill,?

5-135 7

5. Transfer from Citywide Alternative Schools and Pathwuys tn Manley Curt-er Cunttnunitv Math-mi High Selim!

 

Rationale:

Transfer From:

'l'rattsl'er to:

Amount:

SLC allocations - Manley - extended day liencl'ith.

Unit
Fund
Account
Program
Grant

Unit
Fund
Account
Program
Grant

LOUODU

Citywide Alternative Scluml.? and Putlt\v.ty\

NCLB Title Fund

Teacher Salaries - Extended Day

Small Learning Communities
Fit: Smaller Learning Communities

Manley Career Academy High 

NCLB Title Fund

Medicare

Small Learning Communities

Fic Smaller Learning Cnnununities

56

137::


5  
1210.?
Satin


lift
5740.5
32mm
3-135?

Tiltl. Trunsl'er from Citywide L?itul/Operutions to Southeast Arcu School

Rntiouulc:

'l'ransl?cr 

Transfer to:

Amount:

November 16, 2011

Funds Transfer From To Project" 2llilI-2loil-NSC (Inuit-L-
Reason NA.

Unit Citywide Cnpua?Operations

i?untl QSCB Series 20090

Account Capitalized Construction

Program Modern Schools Across Chicago

Grim! Qualified School Construction Bond (QsLh)
Unit Southeast Areii Elementary School

Fund QSCB - CIP Series 2009C:

Account Property - Sites

Program Modern Schools Across Chicago Expansion
Grant Qualified School Construction Bond (Qsch)
5  

709.1?riinsl?cr for Citywide Academic Learning and Support

Rationale:

?l?rausi?er i?rom:

Transfer to:

Amount:

Transfer from Safety and Security - Citywide to Citywide Early College and Career

 

Rationale:

Transfer From:

Transfer to:

Amount:

Consulting Services Pay

Unit Citywide Academic Learning and Support
Fund NCLB Title I Regular Fund

Account Commodities - Textbooks

Program Sex Aim High Administration

Grant - Choice Schools I 

Unit Citywide Academic Learning and Support
Fund Title I Regular Fund

Account Services - Professional Technical
Program Program

Grant - Choice Schools 


Culture oi?Calm - Per V. Bryant - lunds it?: moving to OCCPI

Unit
Fund
Account
Program
Grant

Unit
Fund
Account
Program
Grunt

Safety and Security - Citywide
NCLB Title I Regular Fund
Services - Professional Technical
0th Govt Fd Prog-Attenri&8rrc Wk
Discretionary

Citywide Early College and Career
NCLB Title I Regular Fund
Services - Professional Technical
0th Govt Fd Wk
Discretionary

$9.28 I .467.l)0


Jill)

2531?
IQIXXKI

33611
JXU
56205
35355-1


HAW

531m
Monti
not)?

I ?90
332
SJlli
.?Utiojo
?till?

HIGH
?2

SJIBS
3  
?(Illa

H.727
.132
.?i-ll35
2  
43min

*[Note: The complete document will be on File in the Office of the Board]

11-1116-ED1

REPORT ON STUDENT EXPULSIONS FOR OCTOBER 2011

DESIGNEE FOR THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORT THE FOLLOWING

DECISION:

1 Students were expelled from the Chicago Public Schools in October 2011.

DESCRIPTION:

Pursuant to the provisions of Sections 10?226 and 34-19 of the School Code of Illinois,
Section 6-8 of the Rules of the Board of Education of the City of Chicago, and the Student
Code of Conduct of the Chicago Public Schools. the designee for the Chief Executive Officer
approved the expulsion of 1 Chicago Public Schools students. for gross disobedience,
misconduct or other violations of the bylaws. rules and regulations of the Chicago Board ol

Education.

57

November 16, 2011

October Totals
(October 1 to October 31. 2011)

Expulsions 1
No Expulsions 32
SMART Referrals i9

82

(2011-2012 Totals to Date)
(August 1, 2011 to current)

Expulsions 62
No Expulsrons 62
SMART Referrals 

244
Decisrons Pending 55

LSC REVIEW:
LSC review is not applicable to this report.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION STATUS:
Not applicable.

FINANCIAL:
No cost to the Chicago Public Schools.

PERSONNEL IMPLICATIONS:
None.

11-1116-EDZ

APPROVE PAID LEAVE OF ABSENCE FOR ROBERT REYNOLDS TO PARTICIPATE IN
THE FULBRIGHT PROGRAM IN FINLAND

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Pursuant to Board Rule the Chief Executive Officer has approved an academic year paid leave
of absence (January 1. 2012 - June 30. 2012 for Robert Reynolds, a member of the leaching force. to
participate in the Fulbright Program in Finland.

DESCRIPTION: The Fulbright Program provides opportunities for qualified Chicago Public Schools (CPS)
educators to undertake graduate study. advanced research. university teaching. and/or teaching in
elementary and secondary schools in other countries for a designated period of time with full pay and
position security.

Robert Reynolds. a sixth grade science teacher at the Mary G. Peterson School. applied and was
selected by the Fulbright Program to research effective middle school mathematics instruction in Finland.
Mr. Reynolds will observe mathematics instruction. conduct research. undertake coursework. and
potentially provide professional development. The Board of Education will pay Mr. Reynolds his regular
base salary during the period of the leave (January 1. 2012 June 30. 2012) and maintain all of his
benefits. At the conclusion of his leave. Mr. Reynolds will return to his position at the Mary G. Peterson
School. The principal of Mary G. Peterson School. Adam Parrol'Sheffer. approved the teacher's
participation in the program.

LSC REVIEW: Not applicable

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION STATUS: Not appiicable

FINANCIAL: The teacher on Fulbright leave (Mr. Reynolds) will receive the basic salary which such
members of the teaching force would have received if in actual service in the Chicago Public Schools and
maintain all of his employment benefits.

58

November 16, 2011

11-1116-ED3

APPROVE ENTERING INTO AGREEMENTS WITH VARIOUS UNIVERSITIES FOR STUDENT
INTERNS IN THE AREA OF COUNSELING

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Approve entering into agreements With various universities to have them prowde student interns in the
area of counseling and authorize execution of agreements with additional Universities With0ut further
Board approval. The initial Universities are listed on the attached exhibit. The counseling services shall
pe provided by the UniverSities and interns at no cost to the Board. Written agreements for these serwces
are currently being negotiated. No services shall be provided by any UniverSity or their interns to
execution of their written agreement Information pertinent to these agreements is stated below

UNIVERSITIES: Exhibit Attached

USER: Talent Office
Chicago Public Schools
125 South Clark Street. Floor
Chicago. Illinois 60603

Contact: Alicia Winckler
(Title) Chief Talent Officer
Phone: 773-5534 070

TERM: The term of the agreement for each University shall commence on the date the agreement is
Signed and shall end June 30. 2013.

OPTION TO RENEW: Each agreement shall have one option to renew for a period of live (5) years

SCOPE OF SERVICES: The Universities shall and screen school counseling intern candidates
according to their own internal poliCies and practices. They shall refer the most qualified candidates to
the designated CPS Program Contact for consideration and placement. The Board retains the right to
determine the number of intern slots. select the interns from the pool presented by the Universities, and
process the placements. Universities and interns may be asked to collaborate with CPS on various
research studies. subject to compliance with the Board's Research Study and Data policy and applicable
statutes.

DELIVERABLES: Each University shall screen and provide an acceptable number of qualified interns as
determined by CPS that meet the school counseling internship requirements of the State and CPS

OUTCOMES: Each intern shall provide supervised school counseting services to CPS students during
the designated internship time period. In compliance with the Illinois State Board of Education each intern
must engage in the performance of various aspects of the counseling role and be gradually introduced to
the full range of responsibilities associated with that role. An intern must complete at least 600 hours of
which at least 240 hours of the internship shall involve direct service work with school-age individuals and
gr0ups. The length of the internship must last no less than one semester. The requirements of the
internship may be modified to meet the established requirements of a University or another state board of
education.

COMPENSATION: Universities and interns shall receive no monetary compensation from the Board for
the provided services.

AUTHORIZATION: Authorize the General Counsel to include other retevant terms and conditions in the
written agreements. The General Counsel also is authorized to include provisions in the agreements
regarding indemnification by the Board when such language is required by a University. Authorize the
President and Secretary to execute the agreements. including agreements with UniverSities not listed on
Exhibit A. without additional Board approval. Authorize the Chief Talent Officer to execute all anoitlary
dOCUments reCtuired to administer or effectuate these agreements.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION: Pursuant to Section 5.2 of the Remedial Program for Minority and Women
Owned Business Enterprise Participation in Goods and Services contracts. this contract is exempt from
MBENVBE review.

REVIEW: Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report
FINANCIAL: None

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that. in accordance with 105 ILCS
5134-131. the Inspector General of the Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations.

Conflicts The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board it entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 ILCS 584.213 which restricts the employment of. or the letting of contracts to. former

Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of
of?ce.

59

Indebtedness The Board?s Indebtedness Policy ado
from time to time shall be incorporated into and made a

November 16. 2011

pted June 26, 1996 (96-0626-PO3). as amended
part of the agreement

Ethics - The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 (11-0525-P02). as amended trom time to time
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement

Contingent Liability - The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current

fiscal year is deemed a contingent liability. subject
budgeus)

EXHIBIT
I. UNIVERSITIES ENTERING INTO AGREEMENTS:

1. Ball State University

Department of Counseling and Gwdance
Services

622 Teachers College

Muncie. IN 47306

Contact Person: Charlene Alexander

Title: Director of the School Counseling Program

Phone: (765) 285-8040
E-mail: calexander@bsu.edu

3. Chicago State University

Department of 

Harold Washington Hall - 328

Chicago. IL 60628

Contact Person: Karen McCurtis-Witherspoon
Title: Director of Counseling Graduate Program
Phone: (773) 995-3879

E-mail: kmccurti@csu.edu

5. DePaul University

College of Education

1 E. Jackson. SAC 307

Chicago. iL 60604

Contact Person: Andrea Kayne Kaufman
Title: Department Chair

Phone: (773) 325-7661

E-mail: akaufman@depaul.edu

7. Governors State University

College of Education

1 University Parkway

University Park. IL 60484

Contact Person: Shannon Dermer

Title? Chair. Division of and Counseling
Phone: (708) 534-3142

E-mail: sdermer@govst.edu

9. Indiana University Bloomington

School of Education

W.W. Wright Education Building. Room Education 405
Bloomington. 47405

Contact Person: Rex A. StocktOn

Title: Counseling Program Training
Director

Phone: (812) 856-8344

E-mail: cep@indiana.edu

11. Marquette University

Department of Counselor Education and Counseling


150A Schroeder Complex

Milwaukee. WI 53201

Contact Person: Alan Burkard

Title: Coordinator for the School Counseling Pregram
Phone: (414) 288-3434

E-mail: aian.burkard@marquetle.edu

60

to appropriation in the subsequent fiscal year

?An

2. Bradley University

Department of Leadership in Education. Human
Services. and Counseling

Campuslown 76

Peoria. IL 61625

Contact Person Jenny Tripses

Title: Assooate Professor 8. Coordinator, Educational
Administration

Phone: (309) 677-3593

E-mail; jtripses@bradley.edu

4. Concordia University

College of Graduate and Innovative Programs
7400 Augusta St

River Forest. IL 60305

Contact Person Judy Sk0rek

Title: Director oi Clinical Training

Phone: (708) 209-3148

E-mail )udy skorek@cucnicago cdu

6. Eastern Illinois University

Department of Counseling and Student Development
600 Lincoln Avenue

Charleston, IL 61920

Contact Person Richard Roberts

Title: Department Chairperson

Phone: (217) 581-2400

E-maiI: rlroberls@eiu.edu

8. Illinois Wesleyan University

Educational Studies Department

Center for Liberal Arts 147

Bloomington. IL 61701

Contact Person Robin Leawtt

Title: Chair and Director of Teacher EducatiOn
Phone; (309) 556-3504

E-mail: rleavitt@iwu.edu

10. Loyola University Chicago
School of Education

820 N, Michigan Ave . Lewrs Tower, 1 1
Chicago. IL 6061 1

Contact Person: Anita Thomas

Hi



Title: Program Coordinator
Phone: (312) 915-7403
E-mail: athom39@luc.edu

12. Michigan State University

Department of Counseling, Educational Paychology. and
Special Education

447 Erickson Hall

East Lansmg. MI 48824

Contact Per50n' Jenny Tripses

Title: Ed. Tech. Masters Program Director

Phone: (517) 432-7195

E-mail: gravesle@msu cdu

13. National-Louis University

Department of Counseling and Human Services
1000 Capital Drive

Wheeling. IL 60628

Contact Person: ChristOpher Clemmer

Title: Department Chair

Phone: (630) 874-4535

E-mail: 

15. Northern Illinois University
Department of Counseling. Adult. and Higher
Educa?on

GH 4270

DeKalb. IL 60115

Contact Person: Scott Wickman

Title Associate Professor

Phone: (815) 753-9324

E-mail: akaulman@depaul.edu

17. Roosevelt University
Department of Counseling and Human Services

1400 N. Roosevelt Blvd.
Schaumburg, IL 60173

Contact Person: Roberto Clemente
Title: Associate Professor

Phone: (847) 619-8939

E-maiI: rclemente@roosevelt.edu

19. Saint Xavier University

School of Education

Warde Academic Center, 3700 w. 103'?1 Street. G20I
Chicago. It. 60655

Contact Person: Beverly Gulley

Title: Dean

Phone: (312) 298-3221

E-maii: gulley@sxu.edu

21. University of Iowa

Department of Rehabilitation and Counselor Education
N338 Lindquist Center

Iowa City. IA 52242

Contact Person: David Duys

Title: Coordinator for the School Counseling Program
Phone: (319) 335-5281

E-mail: 

23. University of Wisconsin-Madison
Department of Counseling 

355 Education Bonding - 1000 Bascom Mall
Madison. WI 53706

Contact Person: Stephen M. Quintana
Title: Professor

Phone: (608) 262-6987

Email: qurntana@education.wiscedu

November 16. 2011

14. Northeastern lilinois University
Department oI Counselor Education
Chicago. IL 60625

River Forest. IL 60305

Contact Person: Chuck Pistorio

Titie: Chairperson

Phone. (773) 442-5551

E-mail. 

16. Purdue University
Department of Educational Studies

100 N. University St.

West Lafayette. IN 47906

Contact Person. Jean Peterson

Title: Coordinator of School Counselor Preparation
Phone: (765) 494-9742

E-mail. jeanp@purdue.edu

18. Southern Illinois University Carbondale
Department of Educational and Special
Education

Wham 223 MC 4618, 625 Wham Drive
Carbondaie. iL 62901

Contact Person: Alan White

Title: Department ChairperSOn

Phone: (618) 453-2311

E-mail1 Iwhite@siu.edu

20. University of - Springfield
College of Education and Human Services
One University Plaza. BRK 348
Springfield. lL 62703

Contact Person James Klein

Title; School Counseling Area Coordinator
Phone: (217) 206-6883

E-mail. lkleid@uis 800

22. University of Northern iowa

College of Social and Behavioral Soiences
219 Latham Halt

Cedar Falls. IA 50614

Contact Person: Jan Bartlett

Title: Associate Professor of Counseling
Phone: (319) 273-7979

E-mail' jan.bartlett@uni.edu

24. Western Illinois University
Department of Counselor Education
3561 60'" Street. Room 277

Moline. IL 61265

Contact Person: Rebecca Newgent
Titie: Chairperson

Phone; (309) 762-1876. ext. 62273
E-mail: 

Vice President Ruiz indicated that if there were no objections, Board Reports 11-1116-EX1,

and 11-1116-ED1 through 11-1116-ED3 would be adopted by the last favorable roll call vote, all
members present voting therefore.

Vice President Ruiz thereupon declared, Board Reports 11-1116-EX1. and 11-1116-ED1
through 11-1116-ED3 adopted.

61

November 16, 2011

11-1116-PR1

ARD T10-1 15-P 1
APPROVE EXERCISING THE FINAL OPTION TO RENEW THE AGREEMENTS WITH BERLAND
PRINTING, AND PRINTING COMPANY, INC. AND GEM ACQUISITION COMPANY. INC.
DIBIA GEM BUSINESS FORMS FOR PURCHASE OF PRINTING AND REPROGRAPHIC SERVICES

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Approve exercising the final option to renew the agreements with Berland Printing. Inc. and Printing
Company. Inc. and GEM Acquisition Co., dfbla GEM Business Forms to provide printing and reprographic
services for the use by all schools area offices and central office departments at a cost for the option period
not to exceed 82000-000: In the aggregate. Written documents exercisrng the option are
currently being negotiated. No payment shall be made to any Vendor during the option period prior to the
execution of their written document. The authority granted herein shall automatically rescind as to each
vendor in the event their written document is not executed within 90 days of the date of this Board Report.
Information pertinent to this option is stated below.

 

man i in re tolcom ensa Ion Ir

_h - . . -

chool ther if I rinin and
re hi forsh n?sN ri othear mn arr uird.
Specification Number 07-250015

Contract Administrator Knowles. Miss Demetra I 773-553-3256

VENDOR:

1) Vendor 20163
BERLAND PRINTING. INC.

3950 S. MORGAN ST.
CHICAGO, IL 60609
Robert Berland
773-822-01 1 1
773-822-0124

2) Vendor it 40473
PRINTING 00.. INC

1410 NORTH MEACHAM ROAD
SCHAUMBURG, IL 60173
Michael S. Stobart

847 884-1100

847-881-1286

a) Vendor II 44218
GEM ACQUISITION COMPANY INC DBA
GEM BUSINESS FORMS INC

5942 8 CENTRAL
CHICAGO. IL 60638
Katharine I. Owens
773-735-3300
773-735-4626

USER INFORMATION:

Contact: 12210 - Office of Procurement and Contracts
125 South Clark Street 10th Floor
Chicago, IL 60603
Knowles. Miss Demetra
773-553-3256

ORIGINAL AGREEMENT:

The originai Agreements (authorized by Board Report 07-1219-PR1) in the amount of 36.000.000.00 
for a term commencing January 1. 2008 and ending December 31, 2009 with the Board having 2 options to
renew for 12 months each. The agreements were extended (authorized by Board Report 09-1216-PR3) for
a term commencing January 1, 2010 and ending December 31. 2010. The original agreements were
awarded on a competitive basis pursuant to Board Rule 5-4.1 (SpecificatIon 07250015).

62

November 16. 2011

OPTION PERIOD:
The term of each agreement is being extended for one year commencing January 1. 201 1 and ending
December 31. 2011.

OPTION PERIODS REMAINING:
There are no option periods remaining.

SCOPE OF SERVICES:

Vendors will continue to provide printing and reprographic services as requested by all central office
departments. area offices and schools. Vendors will work with staff on an as needed basis in designing.
typesetting. proofreading. sequential numbering. printing. trimming. scoring folding, labeling. packaging.
stitching. sewing. stapling, binding. drilling (3-8 hole punch). perforating. perfect binding. side stitching.
saddle stitching. spiral binding. strapping. shrink wrapping. labeling. delivering. storing and translation
services for printed materials.

DELIVERABLES:

Vendors will continue to print. store and deliver copy/printing reprographic requests to departments. area
offices and schools. Vendors will provide the Board with reports on all purchases as more fully
detailed in the written agreements.

OUTCOMES:
Vendors? services will result in fixed prices for printing/reprographic services.

COMPENSATION:
Compensation payable to all Vendors during this option period. in the aggregate. shall not exceed the sum
of SW W-

AUTHORIZATION:
Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant terms and conditions in the written option
documents. Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the option documents. Authorize Chief

Purchasing Officer to execute all ancillary documents required to administer or effectuate this option
agreement.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION:

The supplier diversity goals for this contract are 25% MBE and 5% W86 participation. Pursuant to the
Remedial Program for Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise Participation in Goods and
Services Contracts, the Category Goals method for MNVBE participation will be utilized. Aggregated
compliance of the vendors in the pool will be reported on a quarterly basis.

LSC REVIEW:
Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL:

Charge To: Various departments. schools and area offices

Budget Classification: 54520 - Printing Services FY11 - FY12
Budget Classification: 54525 - Printing Services Other FY11 - FY12
Not to exceed: 02100000000 

CFDAII: Not Applicable

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that. in accordance with 105 ILCS
the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel necessary
to conduct those investigations.

Conflicts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 ILCS 5134-213 which restricts the employment of. or the letting of contracts to. former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of office.

Indebtedness - The Board's Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26. 1996 (96-0626-P03). as amended from
time to time. shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics - The Board's Ethics Code adopted June 23. 2004 (04-0623-PO4). as amended from time to time.
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability - The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current fiscal
year is deemed a contingent liability. subject to appropriation in the subsequent fiscal year budget(s).

63

November 16, 2011

11-1116-PR2

FINAL

AMEND BOARD REPORT 10-0428-PR4
AMEND BOARD REPORT 10-0224-PR3
APPROVE THE PRE-QUALIFICATION STATUS OF AND ENTERING INTO AGREEMENTS WITH
TO PROVIDE SERVICES

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION

Approve the pre-qualification status of and entering into agreements wath contractors to provide
Architectural and Engineering SGFVICBS at a cost not to exceed 335-000-900 $51 000,000 in the aggregate
and approve entering into a written master agreement with each contractor Contractors were selected on
a competitive basis pursuant to a duly advertised Request for Qualifications {Specification No 09-250074)
Written master agreements for contractors are currently being negotiated. No services shalt be crowded by
and no payment shall be made to any contractor pr.or to the execution of their written master agreement
The pre-oualification status approved herein for each contractor shall automatically rescmd in the event
such contractor falls to execute the Board's master agreement within 120 days of the date of this Board
Report. Information pertinent to these master agreements is stated be 0w.

This April 2010 amendment is necessary to: add a new contractor. WtIktnSOn Blender Architecture 
and (ii) to correct the vendor name and number of Gensler. Architecture. DeSign and Pianning PC
(previously listed as #26. now listed as A written master agreement for the new contractor is currently
being negotiated. No services shall be prowded by and no payment shall be made to any contractor pno: to
the execution of their written master agreement. The pre-qualificatton status approved herein for each
contractor shall automatically rescind in the event such contractor fails to execute the Board's master
agreement within 120 days of the date of this amended Board Report

I_h_i_s November 2011 amendment is necessary to increase the Architects/Engineers of Record (NEOR)
base contract period spending authorization limit by $15.000.000. This increase is the result of an
expansion in the number and size of CIP groiects as well as the AORs involvement in developing a new
bi-annual assessment tool. expedited desiqn cost for late school actions and deSiqn of Asset man?ement
protects. This amendment is also to reflect that the contract with Nakawatase and Associates (#5615,
terminated. In addition, the following contractors Will be deleted from the gre-gualification status A Egstein
and Sons International. Inc. AECOM Services FannianHowev Assomates. Inc Muller and
Muller P.C. Ltd. O?Donnell. Wicklund. Piqozzi 8. Petersen Architects Skidmore meqs Merrill
and Gensler Architecture. Desicm 8. Planning. Inc. (rig) and No amendments to the
agreements are reguired.

 

Specification Number 09-2500 74

Contract Administrator Hernandez. Miss Patricia! 773-553-2250

USER INFORMATION:
Contact: 11860 - Facility Operations Maintenance

125 South Clark Street 16th Floor
Chicago. IL 60603

Taylor, Ms. PatriCia 
773-553-2960

TERM:

The term of this pro-qualification period and each master agreement shall be for a three (3) year term
commencing April 1. 2010 and ending on March 31. 2013. The Board shall have the right to extend the
pre-qualification period and each master agreement for 3 additional one year periods. The term of the
pre-qualification period and master agreement for the new contractor(s) shall commence upon execution
and and March 31. 2013. The Board shall have the right to extend the pro-qualification period and each
new master agreement for (8) additional one year periods.

SCOPE OF SERVICES:

The Architects and Engineers of Record continue to manage and coordinate individual projects. The
firms will be assigned to prepare design development documents. construction documents and
specifications setting forth in detail the srle~specrtic requirements for each project. In addition. each firm
may also perform any or all of the following services: scheduling. budgeting. site coordinating CPS
construction schedules with the applicable city agencies and solicitation and coordination of speCiaIty
consultants. such as gee-technical consultants. as they relate to individually assigned protects. These
pre-qualified firms have experience and expertise in performing the required Architectural and Engineering
services and the ability to meet the aggresswe schedule found in the Capital Improvement Program The
services of these firms are needed to ensure that CPS capital spending for Capital Planning best serve
the needs of the Chicago Public School children and their surrounding communities,

COMPENSATION:

The sum of payments to all pro-qualified contractors for the pro-qualification term shall not exceed the
aggregate amount of SW 551.000.000. The sum of payments in FY 2010 (April - June 2010) was
53.945.25che sum of payments in FY 2011 was 327.453.0541. The sum of payments for FY 2012 shall not
exceed 519,601,690.

 

64

November 16. 2011

USE OF POOL:
The Department of Facilities is authorized to receive services from the ore-qualified pool as follows
Contractors are assigned work based upon the contractors experience With the requrrements oi the robs

AUTHORIZATION:

Authorize the General Counsel to included other relevant terms and conditions in the written master
agreements. Authorize the President and Secretary to execme the master agreements Authorize the
Chief Operating Officer to execute all ancillary documents required to administer or effectuate the master
agreements

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION:

Pursuant to the Remedial Program for Minority and Women Busmess Enterprise Partnerpation In Goods and
Services Contracts (MIWBE Program). the Per Contract and Category Goals method for MIWBE
participation will be utilized. The goals for this pool are 35% MBE and 15% WBE thus. contracts for vendors
in the pool will be subject to compliance reviews on a contract-by-contact basis. Aggregated compliance of
the vendors in the pool will be reported on a quarterly basis.

LSC REVIEW:
Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL:

Charge to Operations: 536.0009?) 551 000.000
Fiscal Year: FY10. 11.12. 43

FY10 and FY11- $31,398,310

FY12: $19 601,690

Budget Classification: Various Capital Funds
Source of funds: Capital Funds

Not Applicable

GENERAL 

Inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that. in accordance With 105 
the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel necessary
to conduct those investigations

Conflicts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board it entered into in violation ol the
provisions oi 105 ILCS 5134-21 .3 which restricts the employment of. or the letting of contracts to, lormer
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms at
office.

Indebtedness - The Board's Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26. 1996 (96-0626-P03). as amended
lrom time to time. shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics - The Board's Ethics Code adopted June 23. 2004 (04-0623-P04). as amended lrom time to time.
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability - The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current
fiscal year is deemed a contingent liability. subject to appropriation in the subsequent Iiscal year
budget(s).

THIS SPACE INTENTIONALJLY LEFT BLANK

65

2)

3)

5)

Vendor 11 39081
ALTUS WORKS. INC

4224 N. MILWAUKEE AVE
CHICAGO. IL 60641

Ellen Stoner

773-545-1870
773-545-1898

VendOr 21846
BAUER LATOZA STUDIO LTD.

2241 SOUTH WABASH AVE
60616

Joanne Bauer

312-567-1000

312-567-9690

Vendor it 66018
BLDD ARCHITECTS. INC

833 WEST JACKSON 4. STE 100
CHICAGO. IL 60607

Timolhy J. McGrath
312-829-1987

312-666-8967

G)

7)

8)

9)

10)

66

November 16, 2011

Vendor or 20236
BROOK ARCHITECTURE. INC.

2325 SOUTH MICHIGAN AVE. STE 300
CHICAGO. IL 60616

RaMona Westbrook

312-528-0890

312-356-1040

Vendor 98707
BUILT FORM. LLC

311 NORTH ABERDEEN ST.. 2000
CHICAGO. IL 60607

Stephen 

312-738-3835

312-738-3864

Vendo: a 25799
CORDOGAN, CLARK 8 ASSOCIATES

716 N. WELLS ST . STE. 200
CHICAGO. IL 60654

John W. Clark

312-943-7300

312-943-4771

Vendor 11 29709
CREATIVE ENGINEERING CO

485 N. MAIN ST. STE. 
GLEN ELLYN. IL 60137
Fisal M. Hammouda
630-942-8999
630-942-9008

Vendor 11 14522
DAVID MASON ASSOCIATES OF ILLINOIS
LTD.

464 NORTH MILWAUKEE
CHICAGO. IL 60654
David W, Mason
312-884-5100
312-884-5101

11)

12)

13)

14]

15)

161
Vendor 11 96163
DAVID WOODHOUSE ARCHITECTS. LLC

230 WEST SUPERIOR ST.. 6TH FLR.
CHICAGO. IL 60654

Amanda Young

312?943-3120

312-943-3432

17)
Vendor 111 96160
DB STERLIN CONSULTANTS

123 NORTH WACKER DRIVE. STE 2000
CHICAGO. IL 60606

Reynold Sterlin

312-857-1006

312-857-1056

181
Vendor 11 95510
DBH ASSOCIATES ARCHITECTS. INC

164 DIVISION ST.. STE #712
ELGIN. IL 60120

Demeke Berhanu-Haile
647-269-9368

866-847-1761

191
Vendor 11 25757
DESMAN ASSOCIATES

20 N. CLARK ST.. 4TH FLOOR

CHICAGO. IL 60602

Steve Rebora

312-263-8400

312-263-8406 20)

Vendor II 23309
DESTEFANO 6 PARTNERS. LTD.

330 NORTH WABASH AVE.. STE 3200
CHICAGO. IL 60611

Mary Ann Van Hook

312-836-4321

312-836-4322

67

November 16, 2011

Vendor II 29907
DLFI GROUP, INC.

222 S. RIVERSIDE PLAZA. SUITE 2220
CHICAGO. IL 60606

Dennis E. Bane

312-382-9980

312-382-9985

Vendor 25758
DOYLE 8. ASSOCIATES

800 SOUTH WELLS. STE 503
CHICAGO. IL 6060?

Deborah Doyle

312-922-5520

312-922-5509

Vendor 11 24244
EC PURDY a ASSOCIATES

53 W. JACKSON. SUITE 1631
CHICAGO, IL 60604

ElizabeIh C. Purdy
312-408-1631

312-408-1632

Vendor II 96164
FARNSWORTH GROUP. INC

1144 W. JEFFERSON ST STE 300
SHOREWOOD. IL 60404

Troy Slange

815-744-6940

815-744-6965

21)

22)

23)

24)

25)

26)
Vendor II 20201
FGM ARCHITECTS ENGINEERS

1211 22ND ST
OAK BROOK, IL 60523
James G. Woods
312-307-3002
312-750-1704
27)

Vendor II 96165
FORMA ARCHITECTURE LTD.

155 N. MICHIGAN AVE. SUITE 417
CHICAGO, IL 60601

Luis A. Bolivar

312 729-5195

773-252-0076
28)

Vendor I: 25735
FOX 8. FOX ARCHITECTS

8 S. MICHIGAN AVE, STE. 310
CHICAGO. IL 60603

John Jay Fox. 

312-377-5074

312-377-5075
29)

Vendor 23062
GA. RUCK AND ASSOCIATES. LTD

22102 N. PEPPER ROAD. STE. 201
BARRINGTON. IL 60010

Steven H. Pale

847-381-2946

847-304-1218

30)

Vendor II 24783
GENERAL ENERGY CORP.

230 MADISON STREET
OAK PARK. IL 60302
Prem Mehrolra
708-386-6000
708-386-6091

68

November 16, 2011

Vendor 11 32223
GERALD MEISTER 8. ASSOCIATES LTD

123 WEST MADISON STREET. STE 1600
CHICAGO. IL 60602

Gerald MeIsIer

312-226-6133

84 7-831-5509

Vendor II 67620
GHAFAFII ASSOCIATES. INC

360 NORTH MICHIGAN AVE . STE 1600
CHICAGO. IL 60601

Evangel Kokkano

3I2-984-2300

312-984-8248

Vendor 11 27991
GLOBETROTTERS ENGINEERING
CORPORATION DBA GEC DESIGN GROUP

300 S. WACKER DRIVE. SUITE 400
CHICAGO. IL 60606

Michael J. McMurray

312-922-6400

312-922-0267

Vendor rt 67948
GOLDEN STAR. INC DBA ADVANCE
CONSULTING GROUP INTERNATIONAL

300 WEST ADAM STREET. SUITE 420
CHICAGO. IL 60606

Eyad Elqaq

312-357-1840

312-357-1845

31)

32)

33)

34)

35)

36)
Vendor 11 21816
GUAJARDO REC ARCHITECTS, LLC

401 EAST ILLINOIS. STE 220
CHICAGO. IL 60611

Dan Sumita

312-661~1500

312-661 -9903

37)
Vendor 25860
HARDING PARTNERS

224 S. MICHIGAN AVE.. STE. 245
CHICAGO. IL 60604

Paul A. Harding

312-944-2600

312-922-8222

38)
Vendor 21786
HARLEY ELLIS DEVEREAUX ARCHITECTS

401 SUPERIOR. 5TH FLOOR
CHICAGO. IL 60654

Roberl C. Robicseek
312-951-8863

312-951-1719

39)
Vendor 69644
HENNEMAN ENGINEERING. INC

200 SOUTH WACKER DR. STE 850
CHICAGO. IL 60606-5810

Jeffrey A. Treiber

312-583-1400

312-583-4101

40)
Vendor 11 34348
HMS SERVICES. INC. 08A HMS
ENGINEERING

230 S. WESTMORE
LOMBARD. IL 60148
Haneef Shakeel
312-661-1516
312-661-1517

69

November 16, 2011

Vendor 11 25461
HOLABIRD 8. ROOT LLP

140 SOUTH DEARBORN
CHICAGO. IL 60603

Case

312-357-1771
312-357-1909

Vendor 25516
HUTTER ARCHITECTS. LTD.

1000 MONROE STREET
CHICAGO. IL 60607
PameIa J. Hulter
312-492-6000
312-492-8444

VenUOr 20476
HYDRO-THERMO-POWER INC

225 N. MICHIGAN AVE STE 2306
CHICAGO. IL 60601

Raisa 8. 

312-641-6164

312-641-6165

Vendor II 25692
ILEKIS ASSOCIATES

205 W. WACKER DR. SUITE 730
CHICAGO. IL 60606

AIphonse A. Ilekls

312-419-1017

312-899-0965

Vendor tr 25725
INTERACTIVE DESIGN. INC.

308 ERIE. SUITE 506
CHICAGO. IL 60654
Dina GrrIIin
312-482?8866
312-482-9904

41)

42)

43)

44)

45)

46)
Vendor II 24071
ENGINEERING. INC

50 EAST BELLEVUE PL #902
CHICAGO. IL 60611

Irma Robinson

312-787-1287

312-787-2982

471
Vendor II 69642
JACKSON HARLAN, LLC

651 WEST WASHINGTON BLVD. STE 206
CHICAGO. IL 60661

Joan Jackson

312-627-1015

312-627?1060

48)
Vendor II 19502
JOSE DE AVILA ASSOCIATES

6611 W. NORTH AVE. SUITE 101
OAK PARK. IL 60302

Jose L. deAviIa

708-383-3030

708-383-5971

49)
Vendor II 29407
KALTSOUNI MEHDI. INC.

407 S. DEARBORN ST.. SUITE 200
CHICAGO. IL 60605

Maria KaIIsounI

312-987-9800

312-987-9892

50)
Vendor II 96656
KJWW. RC.

623 26TH AVE.

FIOCK ISLAND. IL 61201
Bob Winter
312-356-3700
312294-0003

70

November 16. 2011

Vendor II 20014
KNIGHT EIA. INC

221 LASALLE STREET . STE 1300
CHICAGO. IL 60601-1211

Kewn Lenlz

312-577-3300

312-577-3526

Vendor II 96147
KOO AND ASSOCIATES. LTD

53 WEST JACKSON BLVD, STE 235
CHICAGO. IL 60604

JAh-Hee (Jackre) Koo

312-235-0920

312-276-8459

VendOr II 25822
LEGAT ARCHITECTS. INC

651 WEST WASHINGTON BLVD STE 1
CHICAGO. IL 60661

James McDonough

1312-2586595

312-258-1555

Vendor II 25827
MRA ARCHITECTS. LTD

55 EAST WASHINGTON ST, STE 500
CHICAGO. IL 60602

Maureen Reagan

312-443-9880

312-443-9881

Vendor II 69628
MCGUIRE IGLESKI ASSOCIATES. INC

1330 Sherman Ave
Evanslon. IL 60201
Anne McGuue
847-328-5679
847-328-9150

53)

54)

55)

56)
Vendor 29741
MELVIN COHEN ASSOCIATES. INC

223 WEST JACKSON BLVD. STE 820
CHICAGO. IL 60606

Ronald B. Cohen

312-663-3700

312-663-4161

Vendor 11 96188
MGN CONSULTING ENGINEERS. INC 57)

635 BUTTERFIELD RD. STE 310
OAKBROOK TERRACE. IL 60181
Philip Niedziela

630?627-150 78

630-627-6143

Vendor 11 69629
MILHOUSE ENGINEERING 6 58)
CONSTRUCTION. INC

60 EAST VAN BUREN STREET. STE 1501
CHICAGO. IL 60605

C. 

312-987-0061

312-987-0071

59)

Vendor 11 98912
MODE ARCHITECTS. RC.

363 WEST ERIE ST. STE 400 WEST
CHICAGO. IL 60654

Jung J. Mo

312-236-6572

847-655-2741

Wow?31199 50)

71

November 16, 2011

Vendor 11 25831
NAKAWATASE. WYNS. Ii ASSOCIATES

205 W. WACKER DR #1200
CHICAGO. IL 60606

NordIing
312-444-9630

312-444-9205

(Terminated)

VendOr a 76373
NEST BUILDERS INC DEA 

303 WEST ERIE. STE 510
CHICAGO. IL 60654
Sachun Anand
312915.055?
312-915-0558

W3
Wr?


111W




3W

3W

Vendor 11 20153
ONYX ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES.

750 FRANKLIN
CHICAGO. IL 60654
Gary Mathews
312-787-2748
312-787-2857

Vendor 11 96168
PEREZ. APC

8770 WEST BRYN MAWR. STE 1300
CHICAGO. IL 60631

Angela O'Byrne

773-867-8340

773-867-2910

61)

62)

63)

64)

65)

66)
Vendor It 69632
PERRY 8. ASSOCIATES. LLC

221 NORTH LASALLE ST. STE 3100
CHICAGO. IL 60601

Christopher J. Perry

312-364-9112

312-364-9163


Vendor 11 69640
PM COYNE AND ASSOCIATES PC

2417 WEST HOMER STREET
CHICAGO. IL 60647

Patrick Coyne

773-772-1782

773-772-1787

68)
Vendor 69643
POWER ENGINEERS COLLABORATIVE LLC

600 WEST JACKSON BLVD. STE 600
CHICAGO. IL 60661

George Shibayama

312-466-1540

312-466-1546

Vendor 11 40027 69)
PRIMERA ENGINEERS. LTD.

100 S. WACKER DFI.. 11700
CHICAGO. IL 60606
Allyson L. Case
312-606-0910
312-606-0415

Vendor 11 24876 70)
RADA ARCHITECTS. LTD.

233 N. MICHIGAN AVE. STE 2320
CHICAGO. IL 60601

Radosveta Doytcheva
312-856-1970

312-856-1978

72

November 16, 2011

Vendor 11 96151
ROBERT C. VAGNIERES JR 8 ASSOCIATES

1206 WEST 33RD PLACE
CHICAGO. IL 60608
Robert C. Vagnueres Fr
773-843-1317
773-843-1996

Vendor 11 25841
RUBINOS 8 MESIA ENGINEERS.

200 S. MICHIGAN AVE . #1500
CHICAGO. IL 60604

Drpak S. Shah

312-870-6615

312-663-1473

Vendor 11 25646
SCHROEDER MURCHIE NIEMIEC GAZDA
AUSKALNIS

936 HURON STREET
CHICAGO. IL 60642
Jack Murchre
312829-3355
312829-8187

Vendor II 36913
SIGMA ENGINEERING. INC.

28 EAST JACKSON BLVD . STE 1902
CHICAGO. IL 60604

Osman Meah

312-360-0359

312-360-0368

71)

72)

73)

74)

75)

76)
Vendor 11 68974
SOLOMON CORDWELL BUENZ 
ASSOCIATES. INC

625 NORTH MICHIGAN AVE.
CHICAGO. IL 60611
Solomon CordweII Buenz
312-896-1100
312-896-1200


Vendor 1? 25847
SOODAN 8. ASSOCIATES

100 N. LASALLE ST.. #1800
CHICAGO. IL 60602
Kehar S. Soodan
312-553-0003
312-553-1006
78)

Vendm 29533
SPAAN TECH. INC.

311 SOUTH WACKER DRIVE. STE 2400
CHICAGO. IL 60606
Smita N. Shah
312-277-8800
312-277-8808
79)

Vendor 23341
STEPHEN RANKIN ASSOCIATES

205 W. WACKER DR. #720
CHICAGO. IL 60606
Stephen Rankin
312-899-0002
312-899-0965
80)

Vendor II 25849
STL ARCHITECTS. INC

808 NORTH DEARBORN
CHICAGO, IL 60610

Luis Collado
312-644-9850
312-644-9846

73

November 16. 2011

Vendor II 24445
STFI PARTNERS. LTD

350 WEST ONTARIO ST . STE 200
CHICAGO. IL 60610

Jan T. Tamguchn

312-464-1444

312-464-0785

Vendor II 96146
STV ARCHITECTS. INC

200 WEST MONROE ST
CHICAGO, IL 60606
Maher 2. Labub
212-614-3469
212-473-2780

Vendor 11 25507
STV INCORPORATED

200 W. MONROE. SUITE 1650
CHICAGO. IL 60606-5015
Maher 2. Labib

312-553-0655

212-473-2780

Vendor 4 21626
SVEN DAHLOUIST ARCHITECTURE. INC

428 N. WOLCOTT
CHICAGO. IL 60622
Sven Dahlqunst
312-445-0040
312-445-0044

Vendor It 25754
SWWB. LTD

203 N. WABASH
CHICAGO. IL 60601
Christopher Bednarowrcz
312-236-0528
312-236-0965

81)

82}

83)

84)

85)

86)
Vendor II 31929
TERRA ENGINEERING, LTD

225 WEST OHIO STREET. 4TH FLR
CHICAGO. IL 60654

Karen Slenngraber

312-467-0123

312-467-0220

87)
Vendor 11 44017
TILTON. KELLY BELL. L.L.C.

55 WEST MONROE ST. STE 1975
CHICAGO. IL 60603

Martha A. Bell

312-447-3100

312-447-3113

88)
Vendor 11 96145
TOM BROCK ARCHITECT. INC

1753 NORTH DAMEN AVE. STE IR
CHICAGO. IL 60647

Tom Brock

773-645-8968

773-862-6329

89)
Vendor II 29580
KATHLEEN PC DBA
TRIPARTITE. INC

4720 N. VIRGINIA AVE.
CHICAGO. IL 60625
Kathleen O'Donnell
773 681-0894
773-248-8598
90)

Vendor 25855
URBAN WORKS. LTD.

213 W. INSTITUTE PLACE. #710
CHICAGO. IL 60610

PaIricia Saldana Natke
312-202-1200

312-202-1202

74

November 16, 2011

Vendor II 72955
VOA ASSOCIATES INCORPORTATED

224 S. MICHIGAN AVE, STE 1400
CHICAGO. IL 60604

Percy Roberts

312-554-1400

312-554-1412

VendOr II 99822
WAECHTER ARCHITECTS. PC

4712 NORTH RAVENSWOOD AVE
CHICAGO. II. 60640

Michael Waechler

773-728-3920

773-728-3927

Vendor 11 22344
ARCHITECTS. LTD

711 SOUTH DEARBORN STREET. STE 606
CHICAGO IL 60605-1827

Agustin Gomez-Leal

312-427-4702

312-427-6611

Vendor 11 34010
WIGHT 8. COMPANY

211 CLINTON
CHICAGO. IL 60661
James Mark
312-261-5700
312-261-5701

Vendor 25858
WISS. JANNEY. ELSTNER ASSOC.

330 PFINGSTEN ROAD
II. 60062
Jonn F. Dunlemann
847-272-7400
847-291-9599

November 16, 2011

91)
Vendor it 58521
YAS ARCHITECTURE. LLC
200 SOUTH MICHIGAN AVE. FLR 14
CHICAGO. IL 60604
Stephen Yas
312-786-0500
312-786-0501

92) 

93)
Vendor it 63281
WILKINSON BLENDER ARCHITECTURE INC.
1714 NORTH DAMEN. SUITE 3 
CHICAGO. IL 60647
Richard Blender
773-772?7767
773-772-7868

Vice President Ruiz abstained on Board Report 11-1116-PR2.

11-1116-PR3

APPROVE THE AWARD OF CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTS AND APPROVE CHANGES TO
CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTS FOR THE BOARD OF CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT
PROGRAM

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Approve the award of Capital Improvement Program construction contracts in the total amount of
511.687.517.64 to the respective lowest responsible bidders for various construction prOJects. as listed in
Appendix A of this report. These construction contracts shall be for projects approved as part of the
Board's Capital Improvement Program. Work involves all labor. material and equipment required to
construct new schools, additions, and annexes. or to renovate existing facilities. all as called for in the
plans and speci?cations for the respective projects Proposals. schedules of bids, and other supporting
documents are on file in the Department of Operations. These contracts have been awarded in
accordance with section 7-3 of the Rules of the Board of Education of the City of Chicago,

Approve changes to existing Capital Improvement Program construction contracts. in the am0unt of
$315,822.00 as listed in Appendix of this report. These construction contract changes have been
processed and are being submitted to the Board for approval in accordance with section 7-15 of the
Rules of the Board of Education of the City of Chicago.

Approve changes to existing Capital Improvement Program construction contracts. in the amount of
$1,369,785.00 listed in Appendix of this report. These construction contract changes are being
submitted to the Board for approval prior to processing in accordance with section 7-15 of the Rules of
the Board of Education of the City of Chicago. since they require an increased commitment in excess 01
$50,000 or 10% of the original contract amount. whichever is less. or. as provided under Section 7-5 of
the Rules. are necessitated by an unforeseen combination of circumstances or conditions calling tor
immediate action to protect Board property or to prevent interference with school sessions.

LSC REVIEW: Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report

AF FIRMATIVE ACTION: The General Contracting Services Agreements entered into by each of the pre-
qualified general contractors and other miscellaneous construction contracts awarded outside the pre-
qualified general contractor program for new construction awards and changes to existing construction
contracts shall be subject to the Board's Business Diversity Program for Construction Projects and any
revisions or amendments to that policy that may be adopted during the term of any such contract

FINANCIAL: Expenditures involved in the Capital Improvement Program are charged to
the Department of Operations. Capital Improvement Program.
Budget classification: Fund - 436. 468. 476. 477. 479. 480. 481. 482
will be used for all Change Orders (Appendix 8. Funding scurce for new contracts is
so indicated on Appendix A
Funding Source: Capital Funding

75

Novem ber 16, 2011

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that. in accordance 105 ILCS
5134-131. the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of EducatiOn has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations,

Conflicts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board If entered into in Violation of the
provisions of 105 ILCS 5134-213 which restricts the employment of or the letting of contracts to. former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of
office.

Indebtedness The Board's Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26. 1996 (96-0626-P03), as amended
from time to time. shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement

Ethics The Board?s Ethics Code adopted May 25. 2011 (11-0525-P02). as amended fr0rn time to time?
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current
fiscal year is deemed a contingent liability. subject to appropriation In the subsequent fiscal year
budget(s),

THIS SPAQINTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK

76

77

SCHOOL

Carpenter School

Truth School


[Closed]

Armour School

Murray Academy

Nightingale School
Poe School

Thorp School (James)

 

CONTRACTOR

Ail-Bry- Construction

FH. Paschen, SN, Nlelsen
8: Assoc, Inc.

K.R. Muller Construction

Company

All-Bry Construction

Constructzon

All-Bry Consuucuon
Allery Canstructlon

Chtcago 


CONTRACT st

2225590

2225343

22 28073

2234815

2225592

2235122

2231686

2223509

CONTRACT
METHOD





10C

IOC

IUC

10c

10C

CONTRACT

Appendix A
November 2011

AWARD
REWARD DATE
2.141.380.43 9/21/2011

3.202.45861 9/20/2011

5.355.003 21 9/27/2011

84.172 93 10/13/2011

15151409 9/22/2011

235.2068? 10/14/2011
114.22790 10/4/2011

?103.353 5? 9/15/2011

 

11.687.51764

ANTICIPATED
COMPLETION DATE
12/ 1 6/20 11



12/30/2011

12/1/3111

9/30/2011

11/30/2011
11/1/2011

11/30/2011

FISCAL
YEAR
2011

2011

2011

2011

2011

2011

2011

2011

PROJECT SCOPE AND NOTES

?l'h1s prolect protruded programmanc changes, mtcnor tmproticnient?
and a new roofto Support the new Ogden htg?n school

This prolect renovalcd Ogden school to support a 7:9?
charter school for CICS Inclodmg the renovation 0139 laxsronms.
bathrooms. library. and lunchroom, 111sta latuon or new lockers

This prOJecl renovated the Medtll lntermedmte School unto ,1
new Hugh Schooi lac1 1ty for Urban Prep High School Renovatlon scope

included Science Labs. Computer labs. Powered classrooms,

(27) Classrooms, Lubrary. Cafetena. Kitchen. Cymnamum
of?ccs. masonry restoranon mcludmg 

Thus pro/act was created to 121 mganorhcr contractor mm the schottl
smce the general contractor was not meet-mg the curren:
schedule The scope olthc prolect 1nc1udes storage room shelvmg, .1
prwacy pamnon 1n restroom. construction t'lcanmg labor
to move school equxpment. replacement of mutton dctectors,anc1
rclocat-on of mtercom speakers

The Intent ol prolect Is to msmli new playg1 ouuti and
surlacmg because the prewous ?as burned/melted due 


The Intent of the protect us to complete the of ms: non
p13y1015[1he school currently has .1 pr0 ecl Un-gmng]

The mm? 01 11115 protect was ro remove an unsafe playgrotmd .md
replaCe w-th .1 new playground adjacent 10 .1 new turf held

The Intent prmect was 10 elm-note the smutc o! 
back~ up In the basement.

November 16, 2011

78

REG.

SCHOOL

NIA

Carpenter School
Truth School

Medill Intermediate (Closed)

Armour School
Murray Academy
Nightingale School

NIA

Poe School

 

Thorp School ?ames)

Af?rmative Action



 

 

November 16. 2011

79

CHICAGO PUBLIC SCHOOLS November Change Order Log APPENDIX 8
DEPARTMENT OF 

Changes Under $50,000 and 10% (Cumulatively) ?0?20?2011

PREVIOUS DRGINAL REVISED Tor
GENERAL CONTRACTOR APPROVED CONTRACT CONTRACT OF TIME
School Prom Num Doom Nur'n Board R_eport REG TYPE ARCHITECT OF REC. COR 3 CO AMOUNT CHANGES AMOUNT AMOUNT CON Eer
Beemoven School 2010-25931-MCR 1888098 4 (36 F.1d. Paschen. SN. Nielsen Assoc. 1032 51.537 3130.193 37,320.000 1.80% 0
Inc,

 

mvesogate duct ?owrsmes Ln rooms 135 and 226.

Reason Duringthe is notadeqmte?owmm the duct mung these rooms. Thetssueneedstobetnvestigated ofacn?on to restore ?own:
the rooms.

Jm?fna?on Discovered or Changed Cond?ons

Clemente Mmy 2103523 11-0125-PR2 2 GO Chiugo Comml Contractors. LLC 103"? 310.535 3202.233 $11,707,311 $11,920,079 1,82% 0

Descnpo'on Remove masonry was; Plasler 192 SF of oe'dings as necessary to access damaged plumbing: leaking plumbing ?xtures and assndated 
Reason Existing lode! room ?oor drain has ?lled and caused damage In ?mshed mezzanme spaces below.
Justification Discovered or Changed Conditions

Clemente Amnw 2011-51091-ADA 2103523 11-0126-PR2 2 SC Commercial Contactols. LLC 1033 $2,200 5202.233 $11,707,311 511,911,744 1.75% 0

Description Al coutyard. replace metal funny and shelf angle for grates at light wells.

Reason Etn?stingoonaele floormlowerlevetlockerroom showemwasrobe remedandreplaced with newconczete. The exrsung block unbemendtetwoshoauareas neededtobe temovedand rebuiltro Fad'rtatethe
demo and autumn of the new We floor for both shower areas,

Jushfubon Discovered or Changed Condoms

Clemente Macbmy 2011-51091-AOA 2103523 11-0126-PR2 2 SC Chmgo Communal Contractors, LLC 1034 33.000 $202,233 $11,707,311 51 1512.5?4 1.75% 0

Descnp?on Remove and replace mung walls on ?oors 24! in the WI: dog to held-ate the nstalation at he new luln exhaust.

Reason Upon demoltom the val to access The nser let o! the new kiln exhaust 11 was duo-covered there were no areas pet ?oor for the tradesmen town: from to ms?! the new kin exhaust. Demo of the wall on
each floor from 2-8 was necessary lo faditale wont 60 did not have amen u: this {>er and had no way at thawing condition.

Jun-canon Discovered or Changed Condloons

Curie Metro High School 2011-53101-CAR 2128124 11-0622-PR10 4 GC IHC Construction Compames. LLC STBD1C 3445 365678 51.110.671 31,176.73 5.95% 0

Promde supply and remm air grles

Reason In room 159 an storage room on: convened to an of?ce. homer a supply and return a-r gwe were not Included In the com comments,
Jusa?uoon Error/0mm (AOR)

Curm Sc?hod 2116622 11-0525-PR5 6 SC Chaago Cornmevoal Corinna}, LLC 03 ($14 139) $0 33.250000 53.235351 -0 44% 0

Description Credit Renwng rock from scope treat the 

Reason The morur on the Chunney locked I: be reoen?y mat normed and It was dtscovere-d that :1 ms tuck po-nted on a areas pb about 6 years ago after Mher renew or the penning by the 0M :1 was to
hem good conditionanaattheshould beremovedtrom the mac

Justinian 2? Owner D-rected

Dan-rm Sd'vool 2011-22881-AOA 2094882 11-0427-RR10 2 Gt: H. Pascnen Ntelser? a Assoc 1009 ($2,563) 3134 493 ?321000 54502335 A 21% :3
Inc.
31- CREDIT Rem (18) F7 222 {mes Remove all wtan and concur! to these future: Remwe Woe (3) momentary swatches and four (4) Uta-2 clung 
Reason These Items have been removed from me scopeano among concur and all be med
Jusafcauon Drsoouered or Changed Condoms

 

Dam-n Scnool 2011-22831401? 2094882 114427-PR10 2 BC Pascnen Helena assoc 1028 $3 742
Inc

 

3154 498 $4 321 000 54.509 240 4 36% 0

Descriptor! Install noon: "ms and ham": tor access to rnoohamul oqu-pmenl and Cows! block wall lo and unsung o-oonc
Reason New block masonry wall tn basement comma and not allow for access to meCMn-w equpment Wall Icon-rod so be paged to amass unsung pro-mg
Junk-anon Enorrornnuon (A09)

 

Dams Academy 2010-26341-0EM 2029424 to-ttn-FRA 5 CC Cmcago Commons-I Contractors LLC 03 SS 191 $745 3335 985 $391 920 54% 0

Donner-on From eomaacteo CA6 aggregate at an: at demduahoo truer tootprm:
Reason CA6 ammonia noonm to moron exusam clever-om the ?momma "-ch looto'ml
Junta-non D-swnreo or hanged Condoms

Pact 1

November 16, 2011

80

CHICAGO PUBUC SCHOOLS
DEPARTMENT OF OPERATIONS

Schgot

NovemberChange Order Log

PREVIOUS ORGINAL REVISED TOT
GENERAL CONTRACTOR APPROVED CONTRACT CONTRACT ?16 0F

 

DdesSchool

Deacnp?on 
Rem 
Justifrca?on 

Dulles School
Dacn?ption 
Reason 
Jmn'hu?on 

Prg?? c1 Num Contact Num Board REM REG TYPE ARCHITECT OF REC. COR 8 C0 Amtgm CHANGES AMOUNT AMOUNT CON
2010-26141-ADA 1885074 10-0324-PR4 5 BC Miler AOAOS $4.051 $7.697 3685.700 5677.448 1 76%

Increase depth of crevator foundation footings to 2?0" below top 01 the ?rst floor stab
Upon oommenumem of emava?on for the new elevator tounda'aon. we discovered a high water table. We need to lower the footing for the new elmtortoundatzon to address the ?our [lowering the foohng 
Discovered or (Draped Condi?ors

2010-26141-ADA 1885074 10-0324-PR4 5 GO Miler ADAM $1.000 $7.69? 3665.700 $674,397 1.31%
PM aheta?ons to am dram: are mounted; See details on SKAZDM Provide Konecto F1oor at ra?oed concrete area a: shoe with Roppe reducer at edge. Remove aluminum base at
Mt area - replace with maple base. stem and?ntsh to match stage?oor.

Uponoompletionotdemo behmdandatstage form newpladorm lift, we discovered and wasting structural wanthatoon?uswimtheiocahon onhe new?ooraround the min
Decovered or Changed Conditions

APPENDIX 8
Changes Under $50,000 and 10% (Cumulatively) 10:20:20"

TIME
EXTN



0

 

Dulles School

Desonnbon 

Reason 

Jusn?canon 
Dvorak Aademy


Reason 
Jusn?cau'on 

2010-26141-ADA 1885074 10-0324-PR4 5 SC Miler ADA21 $1.015 $7.697 5565.700 8674.412 1 31%

amnion-n the machineroom
Wiring for a damper motor was not shown on any elem-tat drawings.
EMUOMISSIOH (AOR)

 

 

2011-26051-8LR 2112411 11-0525-PR5 3 CC Commn 1011 55000 $76476 51419000 83.500476 2.38%

Remove and reinstan (zimg as required In Insulate dual- lemo pro-n9 above ?rm-hen
The exasrng dual-temperature pong IS not insulated.
Deooverod or Changed Conditions 

 

Dvorak Academy

Demnpb?on 
Reason 
Jmu?camn 

 

 

 

2011-26051-8LR 21 12411 3 (3C All-Ery Consmcuon 1013 $35084 $76576 53.419.000 31530560 3 26%

Insall new elecmml panel and ?scented amount mo mng.
panels on me floor are fut! and some breakers have two curcurts unnamed. when rs a code notation
EnorlOm-ssion (AOR)

 

Dvorak Auden?;

,5
Ramon 
Jmmnon 

Dvorak Academy


Reason 
Jusa?caion 

Dvorak Anaerny

Descnpoon 
Reason 
Junta-hon 

Dvorak Andemy

 

Description 1?
Reason 
Juan-cohort 

 

2011-26051-BLR 2112?! 1 11-0525-PR5 3 6C Allv-Bry Comm-coon 1015 37.718 576.476 33.419 000 31501215 2 46%

Remute eiednul contort: In memnrne .?or new on louver.
The electrical modi?cations are remind mid! the new louver and omnecbons to new Uvs
ErrorIOrmsvon MGR)

2011-26051-8LR 2112:11

1 1-0525-PR5 3 GC Ali-8w 1016 $4 502 $76 ?76 S3 419 000 33.499378 2 37%

Prowde muons steel for chller
The Ind 501.3315 1301 MEG mm?l sleet The addlnon? steel wit ?an costing members to suppon the new miter
(AOR) ..

 

 

2011-25051.9LR 2112411 11-0525-PRS 3 CC Al-Bry Consmn 1019 $7 787 $76 476 33 419.000 53.503 283 2 46%

Promo: credo! for not mull-no on booster pumps and ?scented pup-no and controls Promos new gas PRVs mo room-m 9mm new than Ml lance on anchor of buidmg at new gas entrance
Tneoashooslersm noIonge: rectum
Uncovered or Changed Commons

 

Inaull new 12? Inde I: 6? Pugh ornomonw roll-no gate to much ear-sung I?emz
ComEd rcouwod me moddro all: to noon omen In some: the new rnn?ormer
Dmted or Changed Canon-om

Page 2

201 1-26051-GLR 2112411 "40525-91715 5C MEN 1022 $6 901 $75 476 S3 419 000 $1502.45? 2 

November 16, 2011

81

CHICAGO PUBLIC SCHOOLS

November Change Order Log

DEPARTMENT OF OPERATIONS

School

Dvorak Academy
Description 
Reason 
Justifcah'on 

Dvorak Academy
Description 
Reason 
Jusu?oe?on 

Changes Under $50,000 and 10% (Cumulatively)

PRBJIOUS ORGINAL
GENERAL CONTRACTOR APPROVED CONTRACT

Progg? Num Contract Num Board Rem REG TYPE ARCHITECT OF REC. COR :1 c0 AMOUNT CHANGES AMOUNT

2112411 11-0525-PR5 3 (3C Al-Bry 51.194 576.476 53.419000

Relocate exrsling vent pipe.
Whie laying on! the new thl?tdutes. it was delermtned thatan exisbng vent round was obstrucnng the of the ?xture.
Discovered or Changed Condmons

2011-26051-8LR 2112411 11-0525-PR5 3 SC All-8w Constuchon 810.000 576.476

53.419000

Prov-nae addioonal knee wa?s. gypsum board vale at curtain well and wmdow pockets.
Knee use are reamed at untl venilator buttons to make en'stmg we! ?ush. Gypsum board walls and window pockets are requrred In the corridor as a result 01 the lowered cei?rng.
En'orIOmission (AOR)

 

Famsworm School


Reason 
Mint-noon 

Famswom School

 

Description 
Reason 


Owner Deemed? 

 

 

2011-23161-MCR 2112412 11-0525-PR5 1 SC All-Bry Construction 009 $22,000 $142,500 32.499.000

Additional asphalt and m.
Per CPS (5) addiomal areas not tn base same were form: to be tn need of repairs

REVISED
CONTRACT
AMOUNT

53.496571

83.505676

32.663500

APPENDIX 


TOT

r?41017 TIME
CON EXTN

2.27%

2.53%

6.58%

0

 

2011-23161-WR 2112412 11-0525-PR5 1 BC All-8w Cammn 012 ?218? 5142500 52.499.000

Cornice anchors at bole! house
The em?ng anchors were found to be detenotated
Dtscovel'cd or Changed Condiuons

52.653384

6.20%

 

Graham $6100!

Desonpoon 
Renon 
mn?canon 

Hale School



Reason 

Jmafrabon 
Hamdton School

Descnohon 
Reason 
Jusb??uhon 

h)
Justrhunon 

 

Je?erson School

 

Descnoron 
Reason 


Jz?ersa" 1 School

Descnoenon 
Reagan a)
Justi?cation 

201 1-23391-UAE 2163330 11-0727-PR 10 4 GC Blunder-men CO?chtton Company 03 ($5.400) ($2.036) 5272.000

CLOSEOUT Unused a?mnoes
Close Out - mum at all unused allowanm rnones
Owner Dureoted

2011-Z3491-5AC 2162099 110727-9810 5 CC FM, 985cm, 5 Nelsen 8 Assoc. 01 39.033 30 $142,000

Inc
Re?lowe coach oasm discovered beneath 
In the process of enavab'on for mbundat?ton insular-on a manhole was d:soovered that was prekusly covered with pavement.
Drscoveted or Changed Commons

2011-23501-FAS 2120780 10-0525-PR5 1 (3C Rel-able 6 Annotate: Constructon Co 3 514126 50 3214768

ALLOWANCE Maddy Fire pump manner and alarm pants to prowle a 1qu luncnon-ng system

At me start of oonwucbon the CPS construction teem was noti?ed by the AFM the: me sonnkler system did not pass rt: latest test {2011)
D-soovereo or Changed 

Modny ammo ?re pump monster and alarm pants 10 prewar: a fully tuna-mm system

At the mu 01 oonumcbon the CPS dominant-on team urn noti?ed by me AFM mm the summer sworn do not pass It: tatesr test (2m 1 
01W or Changed Condma'ts

2116190 11-0525-PR5 3 CC We"! Cmeltucnon thohl 0 Comm?y) 1031 316 902 $9 953 $815 796

Adda-anal dental-ton won: It venous areas

Adda-one! dew-ton wort Nu been ndenm?ted lollomng the antral nil demolmon already pertormcd oer one scone

Uncovered or Changed Condoms . .. .
2011-23941-ENC 2116190 11-0525-PR5 3 CC W-ght Comm-coon let 6 Company) 1394 $4 042 $9 953 $815 796

 

 

Ar 191! 8169 mm Hood both-no tor coat hooks or ntdrooe dam and odd-banal alum IM VCY er ?our: 1-:
Further 'ev-eu of the moth one. he dermimon Drona started tendered Inns not! necessary 'or proper word-newt" ol the new work that ml no Implemenzed mm the prom
Ousoovered or Canoed Commons

f?aoe .1

5264.564

3151033

5229.494

5842 651

-2. 73%

5.36%

5.86%

329%

$829 791

1 was



November 16, 2011

82

CHICAGO PUBUC SCHOOLS
DEPARTMENT OF OPERATIONS

School
Jetferson School

November Change Order Log

APPENDIX 3

Changes Under $50,000 and 10% (Cumulatively) 1or20r2011

PREVIOUS ORGINAL REVISED TOT

GENERAL CONTRACTOR APPROVED CONTRACT CONTRACT TIME

Pro?t Num Contract Num Board Rgport REG WPE ARCHITECT OF REC.
2011-23941-ENC 2116190 11-0525-PR5 3 SC Wight Commotion (Wight 5 Company) 1005 55.538 39.953 5815.796 5831.238 190%

Description Additional moon. back?l and emanation at rooms 103 and 104

Reason 

Jusn?tan'on 
Je?erson T. School

Descnp?on >1
Reason 
Justi?cation 
Kinzie Sdtool

Reason 
Justr?mts?on 

den?ion work ?as required to expose existing sanitary lines to Inspect conditions. The til material that was renwved cannot be reused and must bring new boom. Md?rhona?y. the wodibons ot the
concrete slab required a rewind tie-m detail.

Discovered or Clanged Commons
2161475 11-0727-PR10 3 (3C F.H Pascherr. SN. Nielsen a. Assoc. 531 818,169 30 35340000 35,358,159 0.34%
Inc

2011-23341-CSP

Relocate proposed elevator oomdor vestrbule entry per 72 and 73 sketdtes. Indudes removnig and replacement at sprinkler heads. baht ?xtures. (mats. and opening location.
After JOC Dmtect and amr wall demolit-on existing duct lot-anon and see new?! not a?ow for oomaor to wheel ADA dearam. salmon was to make 2nd and 3rd tl vealed: match layout on the 4th ?oor.
Discovered or Changed Conditions

COR C0 AMOUNT CHANGES AMOUNT AWUNT CON EXTN



0

 

2011-24071-NEP 2159338 1 5 SC Reliable 5 Asmates Co. 05 313.000 50 $647,828 5560028 2.01%

Cost to abate and replace 2 plunomg Ines that have leaks them
During the geese! test ttwas drsoovered that plots the storage room were leak-no and it needs to be renamed
Drsoovered or Cranqed Conditions

 

Lafayette School

Descnot-on 
Reason 
Jtsn?ulon 

May Aaoerny

Descnobon 
Reason 
Justi?cation 

Mitchell School


Reason 
Justi?cation 

2011-24121-CSP 22.21318 110727-PR10 2 SC PH. Paschen. SN Nielsen a. Assoc, 001 515.478 30 so 515.478 0 00%
Inc
Allowance funded, Provide bench! Iuncnroom tables in new lundtmoms.
Swot: us to build I) new luncnrooms and these luncnrooms reQurre benches! able to be fully funcoonal.
Owner Drreoed

2010-31171-MCR 1915029 rooszs-Pas 3 (3C FH. Paschen. 5N. Nielsen Assoc. cps1 (stout) 629.612) 51 546 000 s1_475,o47 452%

Inc
credit allowances in contact
credit remainrng allowances In contract
Owner Directed . 

2011-24511-UAF 2163054 3141727295210 2 cc Paschen, SN Nnetsen Assoc 02 $2 000 34.179 3452.101 5458.280 1 37%
Inc.
Dlscovered Condmon Water shut-alt for ?eld house :5 parkway on Raane Slot me one sleeve are moahgneo and are gonna to requue excavator: to manen??y shut 
Water shut of! for held house us not aligned property and complete shut 01'! Ml rem-re excavauon and addrbonal CDOT perms and landsape restoration
or Changed Condoms

 

martingale School

Descnpoon 
Reason 

School
Description 
Reason 
Junk-anon 

Martingale School

Description 
Roason 
.mmhon 

Juu?cabon 

 

2011-24571-WR 2125690 11-42622-PR10 4 GC Tyler Lam: Consructlon Inc. 1030 S25 72 (35 909) 35 274.038 55.293352 038%

Cost to modiy and motel steel our desogn to.- JF-1 reps-r, odd exp-morn renew. their new and prove-e a oeduct to- up can cormte anchors. gnnamg of root surface and sand Huang I man at the root
WJE mod?ed me reparr desagn tor p131 to be truth the requrements o! ACI 
0mm or Changed Condoms

 

 

 

2011-24871-KR 2125690 ttm-PR 10 I CC Tyler Lane CWMH Inc 1041 $8 323 909) $5 27? 038 35.276152 0 05%

Cost to relocate domestic mm Mosh! Dunn In new button per RFI 32 II the school! lamest

rm IFC daemon on: nor-cod cum! loot-on on am: node con?-ct future acne? and out or he nod-r room AOR rev-am muons on me am Bing Eng and SEE Drowned sketches tor
women

Enormous-on (A00)

zorr-zwh-MCR 2125690 GC T?er Line Construction Inc ?27 r513 ?61 9091 75%

CREDIT tor WI scope as de?ned use on (undudng addenda:
Crew lot mom are oat-m grad-n9 boat! and cram p-oang oer one want
Owner Ducted

Page 4

0



0

November 16, 2011

83

CHICAGO PUBU
DEPARTMENT 0

School
O'Toole 

SCHOOLS November Change Order Log 3
OPERATIONS . 101201201 1
Changes Under $50,000 and 10 (Cumulatrvely)

PREVIOUS ORGINAL REVISED TOT
GENERAL CONTRACTOR APPROVED CONTRACT CONTRACT OF TIME
Num Contracl Num Board Rem REG TYPE ARCHITECT OF REC. COR .1 c0 AMOUNT CHANGES AMOUNT AMOUNT CON EXTN

2011-24801619 21 12415 1 1-0525-PR5 5 SC Blindetman Conswolion Company 37 323.771 50 37.594500 37.61 3.271 0.31 We 0

Descnpa?on Replace the duplex sump pumps in the Boier House and prowde 2 newsump pumps the mechamcal spaces.

Reason 
Justi?cation 

Payton High School

Descnpoon 
Reason 



The sump pumps the Baler room are amen?y not functional and new condensate drain lines are being tied in from the new Balers. The north mechanml and south mechaniml pumps are needed to prevent the


Discovered or Changed Commons
2112413 2 SC F.H. Paschen. SN. Nielsen Assoc. 9 519.433 536.900 551325.000 55.081333 1.12% 0
Inc.
Provide a mo! emanslon jam! along the Cnler Well perimeter wall.

Per 50. the new roo?ng to be manned is overa ?oated concrete floor. the ?oated concrete may have more movement than a?oued for standard roo?ng. FHP to provtde a rod expansion pin! to mm! for
114' movement.

I_E?nd0missbn (AOR)

 

Rely School

Description 
Reason 


Reinberg School


Reason 
Jushlanon 

Remberg School


Reason 
Jushfmeon 

Schuben Schod


Rem 


201D-25101-BLR 1888608 1 SC PH. Paschen. SN. Nielsen 5 Assoc. COR 7 522.100 $14,000 31.620.000 51.655100 2.23% 0
1m.
Replace existing DC supply lan mobr and VFD with new AC mom and VFD.
The existing fan molar laied and mane replaced A new 06 mom :5 no1 readly amiable.
Discovered or Changed eardrum:

2011-25111-I1MZR 2214458 110727433310 1 GC Paul Bong Comma 009 518.709 $0 3840.319 3859.028 223% 0

Addihonal masonry wort a! both (Gym. Audlonun) pomco roofs.
When removrng Ihe oopmg It was com that the mortar at the parapet walls are detenoraled
05mm or Changed Condibon:

2011-25111-MCR 2214458 1110727-PR10 1 (30 Paul Borg OWM 0 $4,119 $0 3540.319 3844.438 049% 0
New Sidewalk and drive apron

Emmy drive apron and svdevnlk a In bad common and 15 in need of repar Tonal cost for work :5 12790 on The balance 01 8.671 us pan 0! ALLOWNACE 

Owner Direced

 

 

2011-25291-WR 2110480 11-0525-PR5 2 SC Tyler Line Consuucoon Inc 21 $32,073 $0 54 791.594 $4,823,917 0 67% 

Adda-anal iron fence and poles
Per Alderman request. The addmonal tense and gates pmmde better secumy
Gamer Danced

 

Schurz School


Reason 
Jlauhcnon 

 

Sou'nmae Occupahonal Amoerny 2011?49031616


Rem 

mem 
Damon-on 
Reason 
JusM-cabon 

 

 

2W1530-BLR 1905837 1 SC Paschen 5 Nelsen I. Assoc 50R 57 MS 3-482 38? 510445000 310,934 532 4.69% 0
Inc

 

Prov-do addrhonal she! Support lot the newboier room scheme slab
Upon removal of me unsung slab a was discovered that Mere are meaning supports
ErrorIOmrss-on (AORI

2135309 11-0622-PR1O 5 GC 5 Paschen Nelsen 6 Assoc 01 51! 0?6 $0 3?33 000 S447 946 3 24% 0
Inc

 

Upgrade emtmq Al Phone swam Oo manhole model

Onglnal on moments new ml the Annex mm Al Phone assembly be mammals: mm me new man Duldmg Norton: The emhng syuem been and no other avauule systems are
compuue am an closing anneal hm To meal the leou?emenls me whom.- synern un the Annex vi have 10 be nod-loo to In Alphone cornpauole with me new srnem

ErrorrOrrusuon (DUI

Add components 0 Al Phone

Puma-II man-o an added Manor sat-on or mum am and dances 31M other coon Pnnomr lured mono these demon More? rerun?; no ef'uoenn

Scnool Mount



November 16, 2011

84

3251;333:32 us November Change Order Log
Changes Under $50,000 and 10% (Cumulatively)

PREVIOUS

GENERAL CONTRACTOR APPROVED

School Pro?Ect Mum Contract Mum Board Report REG TYPE ARCHITECT OF RECA con 3 c0 AMOUNT CHANGES
Spald'ng Elementary School 2009-5990-MCR 1677002 3 SC Muchuda Construction. inc $4.353 51.158304

 

Descripnon Provide and install two new?oat vahres for cooling Mr and instal huh capacity air vent separator and install manual van! on condenser water pump header;
Reason Float vaives and air van: separator not included in base scope. Scope was identi?ed during the commisiom?ng walk mru
Justification Dawvered or Cl'anged Conditions

ORGINAL
CONTRACT
AMOUNT

326516121

REVISED
CONTRACT
AMOUNT

327778.778

APPENDIX 3
10120I2011

TOT
OF
CON

4 37%

 

Spencer Academy 2003-6000-ADA 1745456 09-0722-PR6 3 GC Rel-able Associates Co, 8 (514.532) so

Description 3? Cred! tor unused allowance.
Rm Great In: unwed aim.
Justi?cation Discoverer: or Changed Conditions

Washington Schooi (Harold) 2011-24921-NPL 2163085 11-OT27-PR1O 6 GC Miller 01 52.125 50

Description Repair I ne-muldI landscape at new playgmum
Reason Origmal 50W did no: cover re-uucmng area
Jusbfcab?on Discovered or Changed Condibons

Total Change Orders: $315,822

page 

81.195310

595795

$1,181.278

$97,920

2.22%

TIME

November 16, 2011

85

CHICAGO PUBLIC SCHOOLS Novembef Change Order Log APPENDIX 
DEPARTMENT OF OPERATIONS . 10(2012011
Changes Over $50,000 or 10% (Cumulatrvely)

PREVIOUS ORGINAL REVISED TOT
GENERAL CONTRACTOR APPROVED CONTRACT CONTRACT OF TIME
School Project Num Contract Num 3mm Rear: REG TYPE ARCHITECT OF REC. con 9 co Awm CHANGES AMOUNT AMOUNT CON EXTN
Bogart Technizl High Sdlod 2010-46041-PLS 2007879 10-0922-PR8 5 GC FH. Paschan. Nelsen Assoc, 20 310914 574103 5755000 5870016 10.83% 0
inc

>2 Sliding ornamental gate at paring lot om?rtted from original contract dommts

Reason :3 The school originally had a gab. When the lent: and gate were removed. only the fence was on the contrad drawings. A gate r5 requested for security.

Justi?muon ErrorIOrn'ssion (AOR)

Carver may Amdemy 201046381-PLS 2007911 10-0922-PR8 6 GC Miller 1.5 54.079 5148.288 3589.000 $741.35? 25,8??6 0

 

Description Redo ADA shaver prping due to com raised about the sateh/ and seounty ot the piping. Remove outer wythe of relomte piping and ptovideand Install a 85 panel.
Reason Outer reels that the currem piping scenano w?l pose salety and security concerns
Jush??mnon Erron'Omleon 

 

 

 

 

 

Curie Metro High School 2010-53101-PL5 2007883 10-1922-PR8 a GC F.H. Pasohen. S.N Nielsen a. Assoc. 1006 556.787 3123.453 3915.000 51.135240 24 07% 0
Inc
Anchor-ta Ceram-c trle won: at locker rooms, shower areas. and pool deck.
Reason The additlond He work '5 required because the new tile does not matdr the srze or color. Any would look out of piece.
Jush?mhon Owner 

 

Cune Motto High School 201053101-PLS 2007883 104922-9528 4 GC PH, Pasd'len. N. Nielsen 5 Assoc 1022 $47,591 5123.453 $315 000 31.086044 18.69% 0
Inc,
PM soap dispensers, nanonrair arias. anon-anal privacy screens. and addroonal drarns
Reason All stems are In need 01 repairer induston to make the project aomphant
Jus??caoon Dismvered or Changed Commons

 

Ctn'bSchool 2010-23061-CSP 1959519 10072643th 6 SC Chrcago Commercnl Contractors LLC $35,000 3830.422 53.574577 9.439.999 24.21% 0

Gammon Peanut rev-sans.
Reason Numerous charges requested dunng permrt revrew.
:2 Permit Revue-a

Daron Sdtool 2010-22971-MCH 1085158 100324-0124 6 CC All-8w Cameraman 09 519108 $594,285 54875 000 85108732 12 59% 0

 

 

 

Rep." met melt angle ?may at North and South elevabons See attached 55-911 and 3 tor and reoa-r deals
Reason Upon mmplebon ot sped-ed parapet demolbon. we Uncovered mat the shell angle at two elevabons needed to be reported.
Jush?canon Uncovered or Changed Condrboru
Demoon Demoloh and remove many rural as request! to reasons for dearer-anon.
Reason Inspecnon ooenungs were reamed to worm-rte reasons lor deter-matron along the east elewrron
Jusuhcaeron Uncovered 0: Changed Condoms

 

 

 

 

 

Dunn 2010-22971-UCR 1585068 100324-994 6 CC. All-8w ?1 $31 095 $594 285 9.875.000 55501180 12 ?'46 3

cannot-on and ?uni new HM transom: (wrrh l?rlmos! above a! new enenor noon and Prince. [a Transomt total 6 mono-Am 2 averted too)
Reason Scoo- calls tor normal and replacement at doors and lame: but mat the mm and transom: above The ham? and "moms above are poor common and new be red-eta
Justr?cnl-on >5 ErrorrOmru-on and 

Ou?ts School 291026141-ADA 108507! 100324-9134 5 GC Mller 358.061 S7 697 $665 700 $731458 9 38% 

Uncool-oh AI Scum Em mu South-nu one 01 Demol-?h remove and replace err-who Mum-nous mung PM are. 0! new concrete moor-our In no ore: Foo out and Ruth emmo nah bum later-ll:

Reason Exuune power a darn-pea and eroded to slope me the autumn Recommend replacement Ind room-no IO alo- ooper ore-hm Rocomna clearing ol 00mm arch to mini! proper damage after m1
COMM

Just-harm School Request

Daqg 1

November 16. 2011

86

CHICAGO PUBLIC SCHOOLS November Change Order Log APPENDIX 6
DEPARTMENT OF OPERATIONS

Changes Over $50,000 or 10% (Cumulatively) 

PREVIOUS ORGINAL REVISED TOT
GENERAL CONTRACTOR APPROVED CONTRACT CONTRACT as OF TIME
School PE :2 Num Contract Num Board Ream REG TYPE ARCHITECT OF RECC con 3 co AMOUNT CHANGES AMOUNT AMOUNT CON EXTN

Ode: School 2010-26141-ADA 1885074 10-0324-PR4 5 GE ?ler 5159.960 $7.637 3655.700 3833.357 25,19" 0
Description RemmIeAcM wpe msulahon In base-Hm Per MACTEC. long runsol Iberglas to bele? :1 place. All piping to be let! place. Removal and renbcermnt a: piping by om. NOTE: FA zone at vestibule #2 to be
disabted during work, No What: duing abaIemenI provided by KRM

Ream removed.
Justi?mtnn DiscoveredaChanged Goodman;

 

 

Eamgul Academy 2000-1300-8LR 1717518 4 GO EH, Pasohem SN NieIsen e. Assoc? 1018 8206.575 3226.036 85 962.000 55.474511 0 60% 0
Inc
Des-orphan Repair of exasthg mechanical equipmem
Reason Components of the cursing Mental system were not included In the ongmal design of no system These moments needto be moaned In order In prowoe the school we: a mm and operable mechanical
syslem
Jm?abon or Changed Caravans

Fanayu Academy 201053091415 2007806 10-0922-PR8 I GC Pasehen S.N Nmsen aAssoc 15 533125 3393.931 51111000 :1 545555 38,3791; 0
Inc
Pam al masonry walls boys restrooms and locker rooms
Rm The unsung gram could not be 1':an the sudaoes wd! alim- and equaable fur for future gruff-b.
Jusb?mbon EmlOmss-on (DH)
Lane Tech Sladnum 2159339 11-0727-PR10 I GC rt Pasd'nen N. Nelsen 5 M50: 011 $81106 550569 82561000 32791075 4 96% 0
Inc

 

Der-mom? 8 add-Inna! 5n: and 15m comma hand holes_ and (mount breakers
Reason 
Jusnfanon Omar Dam

Lozano B?lngud Center ZOOHESO-ADA 1872389 2 CC 8W 5 Mornen In: 14 $30.52 ($10 610) $1 078 702 31 158.914 7 0

AI seven (7) toilet: - Remove the hvalones. val: an access plumbnq, ?oor dram; Ioer tie plaster cell-rug ill loom odour to access Mommy Ines and ?oor dram Inlet paragon; and amass? Cote ?oor
arm at center 0? mm all mum swung at noon belon- rum ?oor and w! Mane: team: we: purulent 5 access I Use level-0g comoound slope own; man mun: we, repll' plaster
oelng bow mm 8 palm all ems or work.

Rmon Cal-rec: enema common: :3 men: with CPS heqht requuremenzs
Just-baton Code Change (M090)

 

 

Mame";- School zoos-AsonA 1852414 100127-97? 2 (3C Tyler Lane Consl'ucoon Inc 311 SA 030 SZIB 617 5568268 5818 855 
Desmaoon Invest-Que and rum mannered amount (:51 mo exsunn annexe: oeaeroor amoeba-rug mood-mg nsuhban oI me stage sun: In Trace at ?any -n mnduul and noel-ma, equuprmm dam um and type; cl
Write Tau Nono?meed 04.00000
Reason 1 S'dumm?m nl?vecmcvew slob dunno oemo'alhesbqek? Themnau-Ie needabhe mitten-gem.
Just?cabon Unwed or Changed cm

 

 

 

 

 

Mam: Han School 2007-1430659 175765 1 SC TN Lane COHIW If: $109 555 52 789 412 527 139 ?27 $10 080. ?5 10 66% 0

men Ransom manna? 09 mounted by IDPH lured In ammo bulem 160 end I6 Mum reusaons to pool mm mm drum am pm neblahcn non-m 6mm 10 baker room no mol man-?gs
Simon 99: DPH gem! rev-aw commons
mm 2? Perm? Rem

Mam-"gilt SM 201 1-2467hm?? 2125690 1 ?0622-9910 4 SC ?mr LAM Common Inc 361?. 0? I35 9091 85 274 038 i5 32! 173 63% 

 

new Alumni unleruon mun-oh cornea: and ulna: Myer RH one 
Ream unit! COMM Inn Mm Adan-mu glut-r an": -n no a no! an In: hue moon am .1 reqwco
JusI-Iuhon 0m or Cw Common-



November 16, 2011

87

CHICAGO PUBLIC SCHOOLS November Change Order Log
DEPARTMENT OF OPERATIONS

Changes Over $50,000 or 10% (Cumulatively)

GENERAL CONTRACTOR

School Prom Co_n:rncr Nam Board Report REG TYPE ARCHITECT 0F REC. con 1: co AMOUNT

PREVIOUS
APPROVED
CHANGES

ORGINAL
CONTRACT
AMOUNT

REVISED

CONTRACT

AMOUNT

APPENDIX 
101200011

TOT
96 OF TIME
CON EXTN

 

deol 2011-24671-VCR 2125690 4 GC Tylef Lane Inc. 519 580000

Description Labor and matenaI to pedorm concrete roof deck repair per response and WJE skew-57
Reason Upon demo ofexisung roof. bodes in rooI were discovered and rn need 01 repair.
Jusu?mbon Discovered or Changed Conditions

($5.909)

35.274038

85348; 129

140% 

 

Powell Rephcernent Elementary School 2011-27101-NPL 2163083 1 1-0727-PR10 5 GC Miler 01 $16,482

Dacn'ph?on Remove existing unmue and replace wim 

Reason 
Justi?mnon 

Error (P80) Existing CA7 would n01 meet compaction speci?cations required tor eqmpment installation.
ErrorIOrnrseion rn Contact Documens

356.663

573.145

29.09% 0

 

Schubert School
Omicron 

Reason 
Justi?eaaon 

2011-25291-MCR 21 10460 11-0525-PR5 2 CC T?er Lane ConstruCnOn Inc? 12 59171 1 50

Various plumbing charges.
A?er aernolifnn exposed plumbing was found to vary from propel documents or not code comm!
Discovered or Changed Condimns

 

Schurz High School


Reason 
Jus??carion 

201046281403. 1909854 1004283528 ?1 GC Chcaoo Communal Conmors? LLC 96 54,000 5622429

Temporariy remove heat detectors and assocrated and condurt on me basement canrng below the hole! room
Revision resulted beause or another project scooev
Owner Duectd

 

Schulz Hugh School

Desmohon z?
Reason h>
Justi?cation 

34.791394

83584258

 

2010-46281-PLS 2003746 104162513533 1 CC All-8w Consh'umon 13 $36 730 539.019

Pmde cleaned grounding to pool mmponens and oeurpmenr Repay He she: electrician comoletes he wom_ Prowde wall mounted sound proo?ng panels,
Per IDPH Diedrve.
Code Change

$421,000

54,889,605

54.21068?

5496 7J9

2.04% 0

?18% 0

17 99% 0

 

Total Change Orders: $1,359,735

Page 1

November 16. 2011

November 16, 2011

11-1116-PR4


APPROVE THE PRE-OUALIFICATION STATUS OF AND ENTERING INTO AGREEMENTS WITH
VARIOUS CONSULTANTS TO PROVIDE SERVICES RELATED TO ORACLE SYSTEMS

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Approve the pro-quali?cation status of and entering into agreements with various con5ultants to provide
services related to Oracle systems at a cost not to exceed 361800000000 in the aggregate.
Consultants were selected on a competitive basis pursuant to Board Rule 7-2. Written agreements are
Currently being negotiated. No services shalt be provided by and no payment shall be made to any
consultant prior to the execution oi their written agreement. The authority granted herein for each
consultant shall automatically as to each consultant in the event their written agreement is not
executed within 120 days of the date of this Board Report. Information pertinent to this master agreement
is stated below.

 

Specification Number 10-250052

Contract Administrator Hernandez. Miss Patricia I 773-553-2280

USER INFORMATION 

Contact: 12510 - information 8. Technology Services
125 South Clark Street - 3rd Flom
Chicago. iL 60603
Mcphearson. Mr. Anthony Lavelle
773-553-1300

Proiect 12510 - information 8. Technology Services
Manager: 125 South Clark Street - 3rd Floor
Chicago. IL 60603
Nettem. Mr. Prasad Venkata
773-553-1300

TERM:

The term of this pre-qualitication period and each agreement is three years. ettective upon execution by
the Board of each consultant's agreement and ending January 31. 2014. The Board shall have the right to
extend the Dre-qualification period and each agreement for two additional one year periods.

SCOPE OF 

Qualified tirms will be asked to provide individuals to perform specific roles on projects under
management by ITS. The actual skill sets and projects will vary. and qualified firms will be presented with
a Statement of Work with the specific requirements when needed by Skill sets include but
are not limited to: Oracle E-Business Suite Developers: Oracle Enterprise (PeopleSoft) Developers.
Oracle Fusion Middleware Developers, Oracle Database and System Administrators; Oracle Architects;
Oracle Functional Project Managers; Testers and Trainers. Qualified firms will be working on
various the types of roles and activities listed below.

Working with various business communities to understand and capture business requirements.
Compose technical design documentation to customize and develop Oracle applications.

Code modifications to Oracle modules per captured requirements.

Design modifications to the underlying Oracle data model and new Oracle tables.

Compose and execute unit tests on code.

Participate on project teams implementing new Oracle modules.

Provide production support for Oracle delivered modules and Customizations.

Operation, maintenance and monitoring of the Oracle databases and infrastructure.

implementation of new technologies and documentation of the same.

COMPENSATION:
The sum of payments to all consultants for the pre-qualification term shalt not exceed
W000 in the aggregate.

USE OF POOL:

information Technology Services is the only department authorized to receive servrces trom the
pro-qualified pool by use of the mini-bid process.

88

November 16. 2011

AUTHORIZATION:

Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant terms and conditions in the written agreements.
Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the agreements. Authorize Chief information Officer to
execute all ancillary documents required to administer or effectuate the agreements.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION:

The goals for this agreement include: 35% MBE and 5% WBE participation. Pursuant to the
Remedial Program for Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise Participation in Goods and
Services Contracts, the category method for participation will be utilized. Thus aggregated
compliance of the vendors in the pool will be monitored on a quarterly ba5is.

AST Corp.
Clarity Partners. LLC
Cybernet Services. Inc.
Senryo Technologies, Inc.
Sofbang. LLC



Mirage Software. Inc.
VIVA USA. Inc.

LSC REVIEW:
Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report

FINANCIAL:
Charge to Information Technology Services: $180.000.000.00Various capital and operating budget
lines for fiscal years contingent on Board approval of future budget appropriations and E1 

$600,000.00
12510-1 15-54125-266407-000000-201 1 $600,000.00
1 - - - - summon
Not Applicable
GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that. in accordance with 105 ILCS
5134-131. the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the inspector General shall have access to all Information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations.

Con?icts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board it entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 ILCS which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to. former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms oi
office.

Indebtedness - The Board's Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26. 1996 (96-0626-P03). as amended
from time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part at the agreement.

Ethics - The Board's Ethics Code adopted June 23. 2004 (04-0623-PO4I. as amended from time to time.
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability - The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current

fiscal year is deemed a contingent liability. subject to appropriation in the subsequent fiscal year
budgetis).

89

3)

4)

5)

WW 6)

Vendor II 35049 7)
APPLICATION SOFTWARE TECHNOLOGY
CORP.

1755 PARK STREET-SUITE 100
NAPERVILLE, IL 60563

Shaii Zechariah

630-778-1180

8
Vendor II 87711 
MIRAGE SOFTWARE. INC

1701 EAST WOODFIELD RD.. STE #636
SCHAUMBURG. IL 60173

Sri Surya

224 232-5090

9
Vendor II 94462 
COMPUTER AID. INC

203 NORTH LASALLE STREET. STE 2100
CHICAGO. IL 60601

Tatro

630-561-941 1

10)
Vendor II 63035

CLARITY PARTNERS. LLC

22 WEST WASHINGTON STREET. STE 1490
CHICAGO. IL 60602

Rodney Zech

312-920-0550 1 1)

12)

13)

90

November 16. 2011

Vendor II 21625
CYBERNET SERVICES. 

4391 COTTONWOOD TRAIL, FLR 1
HOFFMAN ESTATES, IL 60195
Seji Varghese

847-275-3456

Vendor II 85404
FRONTLINE CONSULTING SERVICES. INC

8701 MALLARD CREEK RD.
CHARLOTTE. NC 28262
Dharmesh Seth:
704-409-4602

Vendor II 87712
GNC CONSULTING. INC

21195 S. LAGRANGE RD.
FRANKFORT, IL 60423
Nancy Cmper
815-469-7255

Vendor II 85401
NAVAYUGA INFOTECH. LLC

2028 POWERS FERRY. STE 240
ATLANTA. GA 30339

Sai Yerramsetty

770-955-9599

Vendor II 22804
SENRYO. INC. (DBA SENRYO
TECHNOLOGIES. INC)

4343 COMMERCE COURT. STE 610
LISLE. IL 60532

DInkar Karumuri

630-355-7429

Vendor II 85402
SOFBANG. LLC

145 TOWER DRIVE 
BURR RIDGE, IL 60527
Danny Asnani
630-299-6562

November 16, 2011

14)
Vendor it 34576
SOLUTIONS. INC. DBA


211 W. WACKER DRIVE. STE 300
CHICAGO, IL 60606

Ajay Patel

312-252-3728

15)
Vendor it 90597
VIVA USA, INC
3601 ALGONOUIN.. STE 425
ROLLING MEADOWS. IL 60008
Thomas Lesiewicz
847-368-0860
11-1 1 16-PR5
APPROVE ENTERING INTO AN AGREEMENT WITH NATIONAL CENTER FOR TIME AND
LEARNING FOR LONGER SCHOOL DAY SUPPORT SERVICES
THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:
Approve entering into an agreement with National Center for Time and Learning {'Vendor') to provroe
support services to Chief Instruction Office at a total cost not to exceed $248,000. Vendor was selected
on a non-competitive basis: the sole-source request was presented to the Non-Competitive Procurement
Review Committee and approved by Chief Purchasing Officer. A written agreement for this purchase is
currently being negotiated. No services shall be provided by Vendor and no payment shall be made to
Vendor prior to execution oi the written agreement. The authority granted herein shall automatically
rescind in the event a written agreement is not executed within 90 days of the date of this Board Report.
Information pertinent to this agreement is stated below.
VENDOR:
1) Vendor it 90961
NATIONAL CENTER ON TIME 
LEARNING
24 SCHOOL ST. 3RD FL.
BOSTON. MA 012108
Ben Lummls
617 723-6747
USER INFORMATION 


Manager: 10810 - Chief Education Officer
125 Clark St - 5th Floor
Chicago. IL 60603
Lee. Ms. Monica 

773-553-1104

TERM:
The term of this agreement shall commence on the date the agreement is signed and shall end June 30.
2012. This agreement shall have 1 option to renew for a period of 1 year.

EARLY TERMINATION RIGHT:
The Board shall have the right to terminate this agreement with 30 days written notice.

SCOPE OF SERVICES:

The Vendor will provide the district with support services as the district plans and implements the Longer
School Day initiative. Specifically. the Vendor will provide direct support to the Longer School Day
Pioneer schools. create and deliver Longer School Day training to networks. and support the district
leadership as they create and implement a Longer School Day plan district-wide. Service details are
outlined below.

91

November 16. 2011

SUPPORT TO PIONEER SCHOOLS

The Vendor will conduct onsite visits, including informal interviews. focus groups. and classroom VISIIS. for
all Longer School Day Pioneer schools. The Vendor will utilize the visits to understand each school's
efforts to increase learning time and provide a set of recommendations on how to further strengthen
implementation during the remainder of SY201 1-12 and SY2012-13. The Vendor will also compile
findings across all Pioneer Schools and shared those findings with the district so that the district can
refine the district-wide implementation plan for the Longer School Day.

PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT

The Vendor will develop and deliver a series of Longer School Day trainings to the Chiefs of Schools and
their network staff. These trainings will help network staffs lead planning sessions. guide school teams
through the planning process. as well as hold them accountable for meeting benchmarks for the
development of implementation plans.

DISTRICT SUPPORT

The Vendor will provide strategic guidance and expert consulting to the district leadership related to the
Longer School Day initiative. Specifically. the Vendor will help the district leadership create and
implement a district-wide implementation plan as well as create relevant district gurdes. tools. and
templates.

DELIVERABLES:

The Vendor will provide the following deliverables during the course of its support of the district:

(1) School~level recommendations for each Pioneer school on how each school can improve
implementation of the Longer School Day initiative;

(2) Compilation of the findings across all Pioneer Schools with recommendations for actions the district
can take to support the Pioneer Schools and for addressing the lessons learned as they affect
district-wide roll out of the longer school day;

(3) Longer School Day training presentations. materials. and tools created and delivered in coordination
with the Chief Instruction Office;

(4) District-wide Longer School Day implementation plan; and

(5) Longer School Day school guides. tools. and templates, including the School Planning Template.
Communication Toolkits. Maximizing Time assessments. etc

OUTCOMES:
Vendor's services will result in a Successful implementation of the Longer School Day across district
schools.

COMPENSATION:
Vendor shall be paid as specified in the Agreement; total not to exceed the sum of 5248.000.

REIMBURSABLE EXPENSES:
None

AUTHORIZATION:

Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant terms and canditions in the written agreement.
Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the agreement. Authorize Director of New Initiatives to
execute all ancillary documents required to administer or effectuate this agreement.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION:

Pursuant to Section 5.2 of the Remedial Program for Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise
Participation in Goods and Services Contracts. provisions of the Program do not apply to
transactions where the vendor providing services operates as a Not-for-Prolit organization. This
agreement is exempt from MBEIWBE compliance review.

REVIEW:
Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL:

10815-1 $248.000.00

CFDAII: Not Applicable

GENERAL CON DITIONS:

Inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 ILCS
5134-131. the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations.

Conflicts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board it entered into In violation of the
provisions of 105 ILCS 5134-213 which restricts the employment of. or the letting of contracts to. former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of
office.

Indebtedness - The Board?s Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26. 1996 as amended
from time to time. shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

92

November 16. 2011

Ethics - The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25. 2011 (1 1-0525-P02). as amended from time to 
shall be incorporated into and made a part at the agreement.

Contingent Liability - The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current
fiscal year is deemed a contingent liability. subject to appropriation in the subsequent fiscal year
budgetts).

11-1116-PR6


APPROVE ENTERING INTO AN AGREEMENT WITH PRAIRIE GROUP. COLLEGE OF EDUCATION.
UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS OF CHICAGO FOR CONSULTANT SERVICES

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Approve enterlng Into an agreement with the University of Illinois at Chicago. through the Prairie Group.
College of Education. to provide consulting services to

at a total cost not to exceed 5180. 000.00.
Vendor was selected on a competitive basis pursuant to Board Rule 7-2 and approved by CPOR
#11 06-1-0 CPOR- 1446. A written agreement for Vendor's services Worthy-berry
negotiated - - -

 

The authority granted herein shall automatically rescind in the event

a written agreement is not executed within 90 days of the date of this Board Report lnIormation pertinent
to this agreement is stated below.

 

Contract Administrator Walls. Miss Opal Lynette 773-553-2250
CPOR Number 

VENDOR:

1) Vendor 32571
UNIVERSITY OF ILL AT CHGO
1640 ROOSEVELT RD.. #245
CHICAGO. IL 60608
Carol Fendt
312-413-1599

USER INFORMATION 

Contact: W119
We


was:

TERM:

The term of this agreement shall commence and
shall and December 31. 201 t. This agreement shall have no options to renew.

EARLY TERMINATION RIGHT:
The Board shall have the right to terminate this agreement with 30 days written notice.

SCOPE OF SERVICES:

The University of Illinois at Chicago. through The Prairie Group. College of Education. will conduct a
qualitative and quantitative summative evaluation of four summer school programs: Summer 01 Reading
Enhancement. Next Grade Prep (Area 15). Lawndale Summer Camp (KKL Area 9). and Freshman
Connection. Services will be overseen by the Of?ce of Student Support and Engagement QEQQ. with the
support of the Cities of Pertormance. Areas of inquiry will include. but will not be limited to: Student
Achievement. Student Behavior. Student Engagement, Parent Engagement. Social-Emotional Skill
Development. and Changes to Teacher Practice.

Areas oi locus for each program include the following:

1. Summer of Reading Enhancement: Is a Balanced Literacy curriculum and targeted. differentiated
instruction an effective strategy to improve reading skills? How do the program's capacity building
elements Impact teacher practice? Do the program's parent engagement activities support student
learning?

93

November 16. 2011

2. Next Grade Prep (Area 15): How does participation in Next Grade Prep impact social-emotional skill
development and student engagement? How do the program's capacity building elements impact teacher
practice?

3. Lawndale Summer Camp (Area 9 KKL): Does participation in Lawndale Summer Camp 9}
enhance student engagement? How do the program's structural elements impact (1) behavior outcomes
and (2) parent engagement?

4. Freshman Connection: How does participation in Freshman Connection impact social-emotional skill
development and student engagement? How do the common (core) elements of the Freshman
Connection model influence key outcomes? Are there local strategies that we should highlight as 'best
practice"?



The vendor will deliver a plan to assist program planners and others working with them in clarifying.
modifying. and improving the summer initiatives' programs with the goals of strengthening the impact of
these programs and developing a best practices rubric for ongoing assessment and improvement of all
CPS summer programs. Additionally. the vendor will provide CPS leaders with documentation of the
implementation and outcomes of four targeted Summer programs. aimed at assessing each program's
effectiveness and meeting its goals.

OUTCOMES:

Vendor's services will allow 638E QEQQ to analyze the impact of its summer innovation programs and
help shape decisions regarding program improvements. Using qualitative and quantitative data. the
vendor will provide a detailed assessment and evaluation on program quality metrics related to
enrichment. student participation. human resource capacity and parent engagement.

COMPENSATION:
Vendor shall be paid during the contract term as specified in the agreement: total not to exceed the sum
of $180,000.00.

EXPENSES:
None

AUTHORIZATION:

Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant terms and conditions in the written agreement.
Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the agreement. Authorize the Chief Education Officer.
or designee. to execute all ancillary documents required to administer or effectuate this agreement.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION:

Pursuant to Section 5.2 of the Remedial Program for Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise
Participation in Goods and Services Contracts. provisions of the Program do not apply to
educational institutions. This agreement is exempt from review.

LSC REVIEW:
Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL:

Charge lothe W:
$180.000.00

Not Applicable

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 ILCS
the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct these investigations.

Conflicts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board it entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 ILCS 5134-213 which restricts the employment of. or the letting ol contracts to. former
Beard members during the one year period following expiration or other termination ol their terms of
office.

Indebtedness - The Board's Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 1996 (96-0626-P03). as amended
from time to time. shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics - The Board's Ethics Code adopted June 23. 2004 (04-0623-PO4). as amended from time to time.
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability - The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current
fiscal year is deemed a contingent liability. subject to appropriation in the subsequent fiscal year
budgedsl

Vice President Ruiz abstained on Board Report 11-1116-PR6.

94

November 16, 2011

11-1116-PR7

APPROVE ENTERING AN AGREEMENT WITH MEGATECH CORPORATION FOR THE
PURCHASE OF AUTOMOTIVE TRAINERS

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Approve entering into an agreement with Megatech Corporation for the purchase of automotive trainers
for Pathways to College and Career - Career and Technical Education (CTE) Unit at a cost not to exceed
$500,000. Vendor was selected on a competitive basis pursuant to Board Rule 7-2. A written agreement
for this purchase is currently available for signature. No goods may be ordered or received and no
payment shall be made to Vendor prior to the execution of the written agreement. The authority granted
herein shall automatically rescind in the event a written agreement is not executed within 90 days of the
date of this Board Report. Information pertinent to this agreement is stated below

Specification Number 11~250027
Contract Administrator Matthews. Ms. Trineda L. i773-553-3204
VENDOR:

1) Vendor 90595
MEGATECH CORPORATION
525 WOBURN ST. SUITE 3
TEWKSBURY. MA 01876
Mary O'Hara
978 937-9600

USER INFORMATION 

Contact:
13725 - Early College and Career
125 Clark Street
Chicago. IL 60603
Mcgee. Mrs. Letitia J.
773-553-2108

TERM:

The term of this agreement shall commence on December 1. 2011 and shall and November 30. 20l2
This agreement shall have 2 options to renew for periods of 12 months each

EARLY TERMINATION RIGHT:
The Board shall have the right to terminate this agreement with 30 days written notice,

DESCRIPTION OF PURCHASE:

Goods: Automotive trainers and logistics robot trainer

Quantity: As needed by the Board

Unit Price: As specified in agreement; total cost not to exceed: $500,000

OUTCOMES:

Procurement of this equipment will support the District's and CTE's goal of achieving higher enrollment
and graduation rates in CPS Career Academies. Additionally. this purchase will allow students to work on
industry specific equipment which will enable them to attain skills in the automotive field. potentially
resulting in industry certi?cation and licensure; college credit in high school. and participation in
work-related experiences (is. apprenticeships. internships. etc).

COMPENSATION:
Vendor shall be paid in accordance with the unit prices contained in the agreement; total not to exceed
the sum of 5500.000.

AUTHORIZATION:

Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant terms and conditions in the written agreement.
Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the agreement. Authorize the Pathways Officer or
designee to execute all ancillary documents required to administer or effectuate this agreement

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION:

The MBEIWBE requirements for this agreement include 15% total MBE and 5% total WBE participation.
However. the Office of Business Diversity recommends that a waiver of the MBEIWBE goals required by
the Remedial Program for Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise Participation in Goods and
Services Contracts, be granted due to the scope of services being not further divisible

95

November 16, 2011

LSC REVIEW:
Local School Council approval IS not applicable to this report

FINANCIAL:
Various school units - 369-55005-144701-474555

$500,000.00

Not Applicable

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, If'l accordance 105 ILCS
SIM-13.1. the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations.

Conflicts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board it entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 ILCS SIM-21.3 which restricts the employment oI. or the letting of contracts to. former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of
of?ce.

indebtedness - The Board's Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26. 1996 (96-0626-P03). as amended
from time to time. shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement,

Ethics - The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25. 2011 (11-0525-P02). as amended from time to time.
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability - The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current
fiscal year is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in the subsequent ?scal year
budgetls),

11-1116-PR8

RATIFY EXERCISING THE FIRST OPTION TO RENEW THE AGREEMENT WITH MILLENNIA
CONSULTING. L.L.C. FOR PROGRAM EVALUATION SERVICES

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Ratify exercising the first option to renew the agreement with Millennia Consulting. L.L C. (Miliennia) to
provide program evaluation services to the Office of Student Support and Engagement/Small Learning
Communities (SLC) at a total cost for the option period not to exceed 378.000.00. A written document
exercising this option is currently being negotiated. No payment shail be made to Millennia Consulting.
L.L.C. during the option period prior to execution at the written document. The authority granted herein
shall automatically rescind in the event a written dOCument is not executed within 90 days of the date of
this Board Report. Information pertinent to this option is stated below.

Contract Administrator Walls, Miss Opal Lynette I 773-553-2648
CPOFI Number: 10-1108-CPOR-1354

VENDOR:

1I Vendor it 26187
MILLENNIA CONSULTING
3530 NORTH DAMEN
CHICAGO. IL 60618
Brenda Banner
312 922-9920

USER INFORMATION 

Project 10850 - K-12 Advising

Manageri 125 South Clark Street
Chicago. IL 60603
Robinson. Mr. Eugene
773-553-2078

ORIGINAL AGREEMENT:

The original Agreement (authorized by Board Report 11-0126-PR24) in the amount of $1 18.00000 is for
a term commencing the date the agreement was signed and ending September 30. 201 I. with the Board
having two optionts) to renew/extend for periods of one year term(s). The original agreement was
awarded on a competitive basis (CPOFI 10-1 toe-CPOFi-1354) pursuant to Board Flute 7-2.

96

November 16, 2011

OPTION PERIOD:
The term of this agreement is being extended for nine months commencing October 1. 201 1 and ending
June 30. 2012.

OPTION PERIODS REMAINING:
There is one option period for one year remaining.

SCOPE OF SERVICES:

The Small Learning Communities (Central Office will continue to engage Millennia Consulting. L.L.C. as
the third party evaluator for the US Department of Education SLC Initiative. Millennia will
continue to track outlined outcome indicators using multiple data sources and collection methods. Specific
targets of what success looks like have been determined collaboratively with SLC leadership. CPS
Performance Management Team. and school-based teams. in addition to tracking outcomes. Millennia
will continue to monitor performance measures and assess progress relative to implementation structural
changes and strategies. Specifically. Millennia will conduct mid?year site visits which shall include
observations and structured Interviews with SLC leadership and school-based teams. Millennia will
include questions in the annual focus group protocol that inform this aspect of the evaluation.

DELIVERABLES:

Millennia will continue to provide the following deliverabtes: 1). Conduct meetings with teachers. SLC
Coaches, and administration at 8 schools currently in their SLC grant periods; (Cohorts 7 8. 2).Conduct
mid-year school observations and interviews with all 8 SLC schools. 3). Conduct teacher and student
focus groups at all 8 SLC schools. review focus group findings. and plan for future SLC implementation.
4). Analyze findings and complete qualitative reports for all 8 SLC schools due June 30. 2012. 5),
Conduct semi-annual meetings to discuss status of schools and evaluation activities. 6). In coordination
with SLC facilitator. plan and facilitate maximum of two best practicelprofessional development meetings.

OUTCOMES:

At the end of the fiscal year. June 30. 2012. Millennia will compile an annual summative report which
includes focus group and interview findings. as well as secondary data collected with the assistance of
school personnel and SLC leadership. During the summer. Millennia staff will meet with School leadership
to review the findings. which are formally presented to a larger audience when school starts. The final
report will be delivered to CPS SLC leadership staff who will then forward to the United States
Department of Education. Millennia's work on this project will result in a welt-rounded picture of the SLC
initiative which can be used from a range of vantage points (9.9.. monitoring implementation. tracking
progress towards goals. and facilitating quality improvement activities) and by various target audiences
(such as school leadership and teachers. district personnel. and 

COMPENSATION:
Evaluator (Millennia) shall be paid as specified in the agreement: total not to exceed the sum of 578.000.

AUTHORIZATION:

Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant terms and conditions in the written option
document. Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the option doCument. Authorize the Chief
Education Officer. or designee to execute all ancillary documents required to administer or effectuate this
option agreement.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION:

The goals for this agreement include 25% total MBE and 5% total WBE participation. However.
the Waiver Review Committee recommends a partial waiver of the WBE goal. as required by the
Remedial Program for Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise Participation in Goods and
Services Contracts be granted because the contract scope is not further divisible.

The Vendor has identified the following participation:
Total MBE - 100%

Millennia Consulting. L.L.C.

3530 North Damen

Chicago. Illinois 60618

Contact: Wendy Slegel

LSC REVIEW:
Not applicable.

FINANCIAL:

Charge to the Office of Student Support 8. Engagement: $78,000 Fiscal year: 2012
539.000.00
$39,000.00

Not Applicable

97

November 16, 2011

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that. in accordance with 105 ILCS
5/34-1 3.1. the Inspector General of the Chicago Board ol Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations.

Con?icts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board it entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 ILCS 5134-213 which restricts the employment of. or the letting of contracts to. former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of
office.

Indebtedness - The Board's Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 1996 (96-0626-P03). as amended
from time to time. shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics - The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25. 201 1 (11-0525-P02). as amended from time to time.
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability - The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the Current
fiscal year is deemed a contingent liability. subject to appropriation in the subsequent liscal year
budget(s).

11-1116-PR9

RATIFY ENTERING INTO AN AGREEMENT WITH NEW LIFE FOR CASE MANAGEMENT SERVICES

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Ratify entering into an agreement with New Life (?Vendor?) to provide Case Management Services to the
Office of instruction at a total cost not to exceed 5200.000. Vendor has started providing servrces and
was selected individually. on a non-competitive basis. by various schools participating in the Culture oi
Calm program. Payment for services Vendor has and will provide shall come Irom the Office cl
Instruction. A written agreement tor Vendor's services is currently being negotiated. No payment shall be
made to Vendor prior to execution of the written agreement. The authority granted herein shall
automatically rescind in the event a written agreement is not executed within 90 days of the date of this
Board Report. Information pertinent to this agreement is stated below.

VENDOR:

1) Vendor ii 67456
NEW LIFE
2512 SOUTH OAKLEY
CHICAGO, IL 60608
Robert Belford
773 851 -7021

USER INFORMATION 

Contact: 13725 - Early College and Career
125 Clark Street
Chicago. IL 60603
Craven. Miss Akeshia Elaine
773-553-2108

TERM:
The term of this agreement shall commence on August 8. 2011 and shall and July 31. 2012. The Board
shall have no options to renew this agreement.

SCOPE OF SERVICES:

The Vendor will provide case management services to students who are identified as demonstrating poor
attendance. The Vendor will work with students, parents. and schools to create a plan to improve
attendance and address any constraints that prevent the student Irom attending school. The program
involves: a) Outreach. D) Character Development. and c) Parenting Workshops. Vendor will provide
updated contact Information for the students identified by the school as having information that is out at
date. This may include but is not limited to home visits and phone calls in order to obtain this inlormalion.
Vendor will also meet with students during the school day to provide case management servrces.

DELIVERABLES:

1. Coordinate and support multiple school-based services, trainings. and interventions in which students
and faculty participate:

2. Create systems and tools for recommending and referring students tor specrlic supports and
interventions;

3. Engage effective community-based support resources to provide additional student services cutesde at
school; and

4. Comprehensively track student participation and analyze the ellectiveness ol the services provided.

98

November 16. 2011

OUTCOMES:

1. Improved student attendance.

2. A decrease in behavioral problems and seriOus misconduct violations.

3. Reduced number of expulsions and out of school suspensions.

4. Increase social and emotional competencies that relate to academic performance.
5. Improved student academic development and performance.

COMPENSATION:
Vendor shall be paid upon invoicing as set forth in the agreement; total not to exceed the sum of
$200,000.

AUTHORIZATION:

Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant terms and conditions in the written agreement.
Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the agreement. Authorize the Chief of Instruction or the
Officer for Pathway to College and Career to execute all ancillary documents required to administer or
effectuate this agreement.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION:

Pursuant to Section 5.2 of the Remedial Program for Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise
Participation in Goods and Services Contracts. provisions of the Program do not apply to
transactions where the vendor providing services operates as a Not-Ior-Prolit organization, This
agreement is exempt from review.

LSC REVIEW:
Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL:

Charge to:

Various School Units - 332-54125-21 1001-4130126
Source of Funds: Title I

CFDAII: Not Applicable

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that. in accordance with 105 ILCS
SIM-13.1, the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations.

Conflicts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board it entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 ILCS which restricts the employment of, or the letting oi contracts to, former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of
office.

Indebtedness - The Board's Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26. 1996 (96-0626-P03). as amended
from time to time. shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics - The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25. 2011 (11-0525-P02l. as amended from time to time.
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability - The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current
fiscal year is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in the subsequent fiscal year
budgetls).

11-1116-PR10

APPROVE EXERCISING THE SECOND OPTION TO RENEW THE AGREEMENT WITH CHICAGO
ARTS PARTNERSHIPS IN EDUCATION (CAPE) FOR PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT, SUPPORT
SERVICES. AND MATERIALS

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Approve exercising the second option to renew the agreement with Chicago Arts Partnerships in
Education (CAPE) to provide professional development. support services. and materials to the Office of
Academic Enhancement (OAE) at a cost for the option period not to exceed $285,966.00. A written
document exercising this option is currently being negotiated. No payment shall be made to Vendor
during the option period prior to the execution of the written document. The authority granted herein shall
automatically rescind in the event a written document is not executed within 90 days oi the date 01 this
Board Report. Information pertinent to this option is stated below.

99

November 16. 2011

CONSULTANT:

1) Vendor it 31736
CHICAGO ARTS PARTNERSHIPS IN
EDUCATION
203 NORTH WABASH #1720
CHICAGO, IL 60601
Amy Rasmussen
312 870-6140

USER INFORMATION 

Project
Manager: 10885 - Citywide - Academic Enhancement

125 Clark St - 4th Floor
Chicago. IL 60603
Frazier. Miss Michelle
773-553-2060

ORIGINAL AGREEMENT:

The original Agreement (authorized by Board Report 09-1216-PR22) in the amount 01 530538400. was
for a one year term commencing December 16. 2009. and ending December 19. 2010. with the Board
having three options to renew for one-year terms. The agreement was renewed for a term Commencing
December 20. 2010 and ending December 19. 2011 (authorized by Board Report 10-1 1 in the
amount of $226,307. The original Agreement was awarded on a non-competitive basis due to the
consultant?s Qualifications and expertise in providing high-quality professional development in arts
integration strategies in core academic areas.

OPTION PERIOD:
The term 01 this agreement is being renewed tor one year commencing December 20. 201 1. and ending
December 19. 2012.

OPTION PERIODS REMAINING:
There Is one option period for one year remaining.

SCOPE OF SERVICES:

CAPE shall continue to provide professional development. external partnerships. and materials to further
build the fine arts and academic programs at six International Baccalaureate schools. CAPE will continue
to develop effective partnerships among designated schools with teaching artists, and enhance structures
to bring about systemic change in teaching and student achievement. Each school will continue to work
with a collaborative team of representative school staff and partner experts. These teams will further
develop plans and implement the integrated curriculum and aligned artist residencies let their classrooms.
A comprehensive professional development program. directed by CPS and CAPE. will lurther prepare
team members. classroom teachers. and teaching artists for their roles. CAPE will continue to provide a
dOCUmentatlon. assessment. and research component that will help the schools and. ultimately. the larger
educational community. The work in the six treatment schools will then be held in juxtaposition to three
control group schools to evaluate the evidence of the impact of the arts on learning.

DELIVERABLES:

CAPE will continue to design and provide professional development tor teachers on developing
arts-integrated curriculum. including assessment and documentation. working to improve the educational
community within schools. and supporting and encouraging school leadership in arts planning. 
will continue to make significant contributions to the field of arts-integrated education and school retorm
by developing: (1) high-quality. collaboratively developed. arts-integrated curricula that directly impact
student learning, (2) structures that effectively support collaboration in schools to improve school culture
and teaching practices. and (3) teacher-and-artist-developed assessment tools lor evaluating student
learning. which other educators can adapt to their needs.

OUTCOMES:

Vendor services on the IB-TAP project will continue to result in several significant areas of teacher growth
made possible through a continuum of professional development activities. indiwdual action research
studies. and collaborative planning with arts and content specialists. As a result of their experiences.
teachers will increase their proficiency in planning and implementing ans integration within the IB
curriculum; be able to articulate standards and learner proiile characteristics in their own area of expertise
and in the areas of their partners; increase their ability to share their work with others and to disseminate
best practices; and increase their ability to provide prolessional development to their peer teachers.

As a result of participating in this project. students will develop complex and multi-modai thinking that
advances the range and depth of their learning, allowing them to solve problems within different contexts.
Students will continue to increase their ability to document and reflect on their growth by tormally
presenting one developmental workbook (a core part of the 18 learning process) to their teachers and
classmates; produce art and other academic work that demonstrates an increase in content knowledge;
and show their ability to draw upon accumulated knowledge in the arts and other content areas in
creating and presenting original work.

100

November 16, 2011

There is also a potential for replication of the proposed project and strategies across schools in CPS and
beyond.

COMPENSATION:
Vendor shall be paid as specified in the renewal agreement: the total compensation for this option period
shall not exceed the sum of $285,966.00.

AUTHORIZATION:

Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant terms and conditions in the written option
document. Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the option acoument. Authorize the Officer
of Academic Enhancement to execute all ancillary documents required to administer or effectuate this
option agreement.

ACTION:

Pursuant to Section 5.2 of the Remedial Program for Minority and Women Owned Busmess Enterprise
Participation in Goods and Services Contracts. MBEIWBE provisions of the Program do not apply to
transactions where the vendor providing services operates as a Not-for-Profit organization. This
agreement is exempt from MBEMIBE review.

REVIEW:
Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL:
Charge to Office of Academic Enhancement: 5285.96600
Source of Funds: Grant (DOE) Fund 336

$162,137.00

$123.829.00

CFDAII: Not Applicable

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that. in accordance with 105 ILCS
5134-131, the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations.

Conflicts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board it entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 ILCS 5134-213 which restricts the employment at. or the letting of contracts to. former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of
office.

Indebtedness - The Board?s Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26. 1996 (96-0626-P03). as amended
from time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics - The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 (11-0525-PO2). as amended from time to time.
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability - The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current
fiscal year is deemed a contingent liability. subject to appropriation in the subsequent fiscal year
budget(s).

11-1116-PR11

APPROVE ENTERING INTO AN AGREEMENT WITH INSTITUTE FOR INNOVATION IN PUBLIC
SCHOOL CHOICE (IIPSC) TO PROVIDE A SCHOOL CHOICE MATCHING SYSTEM AND SERVICES

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Approve entering into an agreement with the Institute for Innovation in Public School Chorce (IIPSC) to
provide a school choice matching system and services to the Office of Portfolio at a total cost not to exceed
$390,375. Vendor was selected on a non-competitive basis: the sole-source request was presented to the
Non-Competitive Procurement Review Committee and approved by Chief Purchasing Officer. A written
agreement for Vendor's services is currently being negotiated. No services shall be provided by Vendor and
no payment shall be made to Vendor prior to execution oI the written agreement. The authority granted
herein shall automatically rescind in the event a written agreement is not executed within 90 days of the
date of this Board Report. Information pertinent to this agreement is stated below.

Contract Administrator: Walls. Miss Opal Lynette I 773-553-2648

101

November 16. 2011

CONSULTANT:

1) Vendor it 91800
INSTITUTE FOR INNOVATION IN PUBLIC
SCHOOL CHOICE. THE
710 6TH AVENUE 1A
BROOKLYN, NY 11215
Neil Dorosin
347 529-5970

USER INFORMATION:

Project

Manager: 10880 - Academic Enhancement
125 Clark St - 4th Floor
Chicago, IL 60603
Ellis. Ms. Mary
773-553-2060

TERM:

The term of this agreement shall commence on the date the agreement is signed and shall and November
30, 2012. This agreement shall have 2 options to renew for periods of one (1) year each.

EARLY TERMINATION RIGHT:
The Board shall have the right to terminate this agreement with 30 days written notice.

SCOPE OF SERVICES:

This project is a multi-phase project to create and implement a new chorce system for Chicago Public
Schools beginning with a required application process for all 8th and 9th grade students with the ability to
expand to additiOnal grades in future years.

Enrollment and choice reform has long been a prionty at CPS. and important steps have been taken to
improve the school choice services offered by CPS. especially in the areas of its elite testing high schools
and in uniting elementary schools under one common application. The bulk of CPS schools. however. are
enrolled via a leasely defined process that functions largely at the school level. producing results that are
difficult to replicate or audit. In the interest of providing the best services for its parents and schools. CPS
has decided to design and implement a centralized enrollment and choice process that is parent friendly.
efficient. equitable. transparent. and that meets the needs of all schools. CPS will pilot this new process In
the 2012-2013 school year for students entering the 9th grade. and then roll it out to the rest of the district.

The project will consist of two phases: Market Design and Technology. The phases are descnbed below.

Phase I: Market Design

In phase I. the vendor will create a set of policies and operations that define the market for 9th grade seats
in Chicago public schools. working with CPS personnel and key community stakeholders. The market
design should answer questions such as: How many choices will students be able to make" How many
offers will students be eligible to receive? How many applications are needed for this process? What
mechanisms will be used to translate school capacity into the number of seats to be offered via the
assignment algorithm? How will students be prioritized for seats? What happens to students who are not
assigned to a school via the algorithm? Can students appeal the results of the match?

In this phase. IIPSC will create a detailed market design plan for the annual cycle of enrollment and school
choice for CPS. The plan will describe the policies that must be in place to guarantee a parent friendly.
equitable. efficient. and tranSparent system. It will also provide a detailed set of operations designs that will
govern the annual cycle of enrollment and choice. These services will be provided via face-to-face and
remote meetings with CPS staff and Chicago parent groups. IIPSC principals will assist CPS administrators
in meeting with school feeders and parent groups in order to describe the new process.

Phase II Technology

in phase II. the vendor will provide the software and/or hardware necessary to support the enrollment and
choice process. inciuding the assignment algorithmis) used to match students to schools. and the data
generation and formatting necessary to run the algorithm. This will include the creation of a webobased
interface that allows parents. schools. and CPS administrators to conduct operations online.

In this phase. IIPSC wilt provide advice and make recommendations to CPS administrators regarding the
class of assignment algorithm to be used in the CPS match. and then custom code the assignment
algorithm software. Vendor will consult with CPS technical staff to ensure that the data necessary to run the
algorithm software is collected and formatted properly. and support CPS technical staff in ensuring that the
assignment algorithm will function in the CPS technical environment.

102

November 16. 2011

DELIVERABLES:

Market Design - Vendor will provide the following deiiverables;

1. Written reports. manuals. guidelines. and memoranda as appropriate that contain the processes.
procedures. recommendations and such other information as requested by the Board to enable the Board
to continue to operate and utilize the school choice system in the future and to support knowledge transfer
of the system to the Board.

2. Support of and attendance at CPS internal communications meetings. meetings with school leaders.
Chicago education thought leaders. and parent groups to describe the new process.

Technology - Vendor will provide the following deliverables:

1. will provide a plan for CPS stall to use in collecting and formatting the data necessary to run the
student assignment algorithm.

2. will write custom-coded student asaignment algorithm software that reflects CPS policy desiSions.
3. will transfer the code to CPS technical staff and enSure that it functions within the CPS technical
environment.

OUTCOMES:
Vendor's services will result in a set of guidelines to govern the new process and a system capable of
assigning students as determined.

COMPENSATION:
Vendor shall be paid as specified in the agreement; the total compensation for the term shall not exceed the
sum of 3390.375.

REIMBURSABLE EXPENSES:
None.

AUTHORIZATION:

Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant terms and conditions in the written agreement.
Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the agreement. Authorize Chief Portfolio Officer to
exeCute all ancillary documents required to administer or effectuate this agreement.

AFFIHMATIVE ACTION:

Pursuant to Section 5.2 of the Remedial Program for Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise
Participation in Goods and Services Contracts. provisions of the Program do not apply to
transactions where the vendor providing services operates as a Not-for-Prolit organization. This agreement
is exempt from compliance review.

LSC REVIEW:
Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL:

Charge to the Office of Portfolio: $390,375

Source of Funds: 

Budget Lines:

2012 $195,187.50
2013 

cFoAir: Not Applicable

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that. in accordance with 105 ILCS
5134-131. the Inspector General of the Chicago Board oi Education has the authority to conduct cenain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel necessary
to conduct those investigations.

Conflicts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 ILCS 5134-21 .3 which restricts the employment of. or the letting of contracts to. former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of office.

Indebtedness - The Board's Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26. 1996 (96-0626-P03). as amended from
time to time. shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics - The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25. 2011 (11-0525-P02). as amended from time to time.
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability - The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the Current fiscal
year is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in the subsequent fiscal year budgetts).

103

November 16, 2011



AMEND BOARD REPORT 11-0126-PR21
RATIFY APRROVE ENTERING INTO AN AGREEMENT WITH THE UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO
(CHAPIN HALL CENTER FOR CHILDREN) FOR THE PURCHASE OF GRANT EVALUATION
SERVICES

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION

Ratify Approve entering into an agreement with The University of Chicago (Universny) tor grant evaluation
services to be provided through the Chapin Hall Center of Children (Chapin Hall) to the Oilice oi SpeCial
Education and Supports at a total cost not to exceed $2 500.000.00. The Board was awarded a grant from
the U.S. Department of Health and Human SerVices' Oftice of Adolescent Health (HHS) to address teen
pregnancy prevention. The Chicago Teen Pregnancy lntiative is a replication protect intended to study the
replication of the Teen Outreach Program (TOP). University was selected on a non- competitive bass and
approved by the Non- Competitive Procurement Review Committee A written agreement tor 5
services is currently being negotiated. No payment shall
be made to University prior to the execution of the written agreement. The authority granted herein shall
automatically rescind in the event a written agreement is not executed within 90 days of the date of this
amended Board Report. Information pertinent to this agreement is stated below

This November 2011 amendment is necessary to chanqe the term commencement date to May 1? 201 1
Vendor has providgd services sincp this time but no payment has been made. Further this amendment
updates the department contact information.

VENDOR:

 

1) Vendor 33123
UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO

1313 East 60th Street
CHICAGO, IL 6063?
Cheryl Smithgall
773-256-5186

USER INFORMATION:

Contact: 116_75 - Citywide Special Education Resource
125 South Clark Street 8th Floor

Chicago, IL 60603
Loudon. Miss Jennifer 

773-553-3603

TERM:
The term of this agreement shall commence dete-ot-exeeutien on May 1, 2011 and shall end August 31.
2015.

EARLY TERMINATION RIGHT:
The Board shall have the right to terminate this agreement with 30 days written notice

SCOPE OF SERVICES.-

The University. through Chapin Hall. will provide grant evaluation services regarding the replication of the

Teen Outreach Program model. The primary goal of the evaluation is to determine the effectiveness of the
TOP model as implemented Within the Chicago Public Schools by comparing the difference in the reduction
of: 1) teen rates: 2) course failures; and 3) suspension rates between students in the
treatment and control groups.

Chapin Hall will employ a cluster-randomized designed for this study. Forty (40] schools Will be selected
from thirty-tow (34) community areas with a high risk and number of teen pregnancies. Schools be
randomly aSSIgned to either the treatment or control groups; randomization will stratified by racial and
ethnic composition of students and school srze to ensure balanced groups. The number of schools
randomly assigned will be determined by the Board If there is variability between strata. this approach has
the potential of increasing the reliability of the study. This assignment will be done at the start of the pilot
phase of the study and will be maintained thr0ughout its duration. Those schools selected for the treatment
group will implement the TOP program. utilizing an evidence based youth development model consisting of
26 lessons plans and minimum of twenty (20) hours of service-learning experience lacmtated by a trained
adult. Those schools selected for the control group will not implement the TOP program. but receive an
incentive not to exceed $2.000 to participate in all evaluation activities related to the protect. In addition.
Chapin Hall will conduct a process evaluation regarding the interagency collaboration regarding
implementation of the project.

Chapin Hall will collect and analyze data including CPS administrative data. attendance. course grades.
ISAT scores, and graduation and dropout rates; conduct key informant interviews. classroom obsarvations.
and a youth survey. This data will be used by Chapin Hall to make recommendations on program
implementation as well as program effectiveness

104

November 16, 2011



University provide the followrng'

1 Randomize sample of schools;

2 Develop and submit an approved Office of Adolescent Health Evaluation Plan to Board Protect Manager
3. Conduct baseline data collection from all participating schools.

4. Submit summary of baseline data collection:

5. Submit semi-annual reports summarizing all data collection activities to Board Protect Manager no later
than March 15 of each year;

6. Submit annual reports to the Board Project Manager no later than September 30 of each year
summarizing all data collection activities and making recommendations for implementation of the protect tor
the next grant year; and

7, Implement and execute the approved evaluation plan for the duration of the contract period

OUTCOMES:

University's services will result in written findings and recommendations regarding an ewdence based study
that will determine the effectiveness of the TOP program in a) reducing course failures; b) reducing
suspensions; c) reducing teen rates; and, c) reducing the school drop outs

COMPENSATION:
University shall be paid based upon an approved. detailed budget; total not to exceed $2.500.000100
inclusive of all reimbursable expenses.

REIMBURSABLE EXPENSES:
University shall be reimbursed per diem and travel expenses including airfare. hotel and greend
transportation for travel to national conferences and grantee regional meetings related to this grant

AUTHORIZATION:

Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant terms and conditions in the written agreement
Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the agreement. Authorize the Chief Officer of Specral
Education and Supports to exeCUte all ancillary documents required to administer or effectuate this
agreement.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION:

Pursuant to Section 5.2 of the Remedial Program for Mnorily and Women Owned Busmess Enterprise
Participation in Goods and Services Contracts. MIWBE provisions of the Program do not apply when the
vendor providing services operates as a Not-for-Protit organization

LSC REVIEW:

Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL:

Charge to the Office of Special Education and Supports; $2.500.000.00 Fiscal Year 2011-2015
$500000 00
5500.000 00
850000000
5500.000 00
$500,000.00

Not Applicable

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that. in accordance with 105 ILCS
5i34-13.1, the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel necessary
to conduct those investigations.

Con?icts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board it entered into in Violation of the
provisions of 105 ILCS 5134-213 which restricts the employment of. or the letting of contracts to. former

Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of office

Indebtedness - The Board's Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 1996 (96-0626-PO3). as amended from
time to time. shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement

105

November 16, 2011

Ethics - The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25. 2011 (11-0525-P02). as amended from time to time.
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement

Contingent Liability The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current fiscal
year is deemed a contingent liability. subject to appropriation in the Subsequent fiscal year budgetts)

Mr. Bienen abstained on Board Report 11-1116-PR12

11-1116-PR13

APPROVE PAYMENT TO YOUR SERVE FOR PROCESS SERVING FEES

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Approve payment to It's Y0ur Serve ("Vendor") who provided Process services to the Talent Oltice from
March 22, 201 1 to August 10. 2011 in the amount 0! 539.150 00, These sewices were rendered Without
prior Board approval and all services have been completed

VENDOR:

1) Vendor 99898
YOUR SERVE

134 NORTH LASALLE.. #750
CHICAGO. IL 60606

Kelly Kienzle

312 855-0303

USER INFORMATION 

Contact:
11010 OIIice of Human Capital

125 Clark St 2nd Floor
Chicago, IL 60603

Colston. Miss Cheryl Janette
773-553-1070

SCOPE OF 
Vendor provided personal service 01 dissipline deci5iorts. instructions and procedures to CPS employees
who had pending and/or confirmed allegations oi misconduct.

DELIVERABLES:
Vendor provided service of personnel termination letters, suspension without pay letters and absent
without leave letters.

OUTCOMES:

Vendor's services allowed the Talent Office to have noti?cation letters delivered in a timely manner.

COMPENSATION:
Vendor shall be paid the sum of 339.150.00. for process servtces rendered at a rate 01850.00 per
service.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION:
A review oI Minority and Women Business Enterprise participation was precluded due to completed
contract perlormance.

LSC REVIEW:
Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL:

Charge to the Talent Olfice: $39. 1 50.00

Budget Classification: 11070-115-54125-231601-000000
Fund Source General Fund

Fiscal Year; 2011-2012

CFDAII: Not Applicable
Vice President Ruiz indicated that if there were no objections, Board Reports 11-1116-PR1

through 11-1116-PR13, with the noted abstentions, would be adopted by the last favorable roll call
vote, all members present voting therefore.

106

November 16, 2011

Vice President Ruiz thereupon declared, Board Reports 11-1116-PR1 through 11-1116-
PR13 adopted.

11-1116-OP1

FINAL

AMEND BOARD REPORT 06-0927-OP1
AMEND BOARD REPORT 05-0727-OP1
APPROVE ENTERNG INTO AGREEMENTS WITH VARIOUS
TELECOMMUNICATION VENDORS FOR USE OF SPACE FOR PLACEMENT OF
TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT AT CHICAGO PUBLIC SCHOOL PROPERTIES

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Approve entering into agreements With vari0us telecommunication vendors for use of space for placement of
Telecommunications Equipment at Chicago Public School Properties This Board Report supercedes and replaces
Board Report 96-0327-0P6for all agreements entered into after the date of this Board Report because the
information contained in Board Report 96-0327-OP6 is no longer acaurate. however. Board Report 96-0327-OP0
shall remain in effect for all agreements entered into before the date of this Board Report Written agreements wit
be negotiated for each placement. Information pertinent to these agreements is stated below

This Amended Board Report was necessary to permit the Board to enter into a variety of agreements 
various telecommunication vendors for the permitted Use rather than limiting the Board to an agreement that is
labeled as a ?License Agreement". and to allow the Board to charge the Licensee a one-time administrative lee
that covers the Board?s then current administrative costs rather than limiting Such one-time administrative fee to ?4 o?
the first year's fee.

This November 2011 amendment is necessary to permit the Board to accept all administrative fges negotiated pi,-
the Chief Operating Officer and charged to each telecommunication vendor ("Licensee charged for
site visits eopipmenl upgrades and egurpment rep _acement. The amendment is also necessary to allow Licensee
payments for schools to come through Central Office before being appropriated to the schools

LICENSOR: Board of Education of the City of Chicago
LICENSEES: Various Telecommunications Vendors
PREMISES: Various Chicago Public School properties

USE: To use space for the attachment of antennas and the placement of base station equtpmenl and the temporary
placement of Cellulars on Wheels (COW) Each agreement will be modified to reflect. as appropriate InleIdual
school requirements. Schools sites may have multiple agreements assuming adequate space

TERM: The initial term of each agreement shall be for four (4) years,

OPTIONS T0 RENEW: The Licensee shall have four (4) options to extend the agreement for additional 3-yea'
terms.

FEE: The initial fee shall be determined by the Chief Operating Officer based upon competitive market rates The
initial fee will be fixed for the initial 4- -year term The fee for each 3-year renewal term shall be fixed at a rate which
is 25% over the previous term' 5 rate AMeesThe initial fee for the initial 4- -year term and any renewal term fee 
be paid to the CPS Central Office by Automated Clearing H0use and
then appropriated to the respective school. Those schools that share a single school bUlldInQ shall split the fees
proportionally according to their portion of the building

ADMINISTRATIVE Each Licensee for each agreement shall aisp pay the Board a?one?time an initiai
administrative fee to cover various administrative costs. Such fee will be determined by the Chief Operating Officer
based upon the Board's administrative costs. In addition, each Licensee shall pay an additional administrative fee to
be determined by the Chief Operating gaffrger for each instanCe of Licensee's. fa) visit to the Slle. emiipment
or egulpment replacements All administrative fees will be paid directly to the Board, in the Board?s
name.

 

CONDITIONS PRECEDENT: Each Licensee for each Slle shall submit camplete drawmgs and specifications for the
apy equipment placement. upgrade or replacement. The Board shall revrew and approve all such drawmgs and
specifications The Board shall also require a detailed report indicating that all equipment meets safety and health
guidelines Additionally. Local School Council approval shall be received for each agreement

INSURANCEIINDEMNITIFATION: The General Counsel shall negotiate all insurance and indemnification
provisions

AUTHORIZATION: Authorize the General Counsel to include insurance. indemnification and all other relevanl
terms and conditions in the written agreements. Authorize the Presrdent and Secretary to execute the agreements
and amendments to the agreements. Authonze the Chief Operating Officer to establish market rate fees on an
annual basis. to establish the one-time ?at administrative fee. to establish any additional administrative fees as
necessary to execute any necessary temporary access or space agreements. and to execute any and all other
ancillary documents required to administer or effectuate these agreements.

107

November 16, 2011

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION: Exempt,
LSC REVIEW: Local School Council approval is reguued for each agreement.

FINANCIAL: The InIllaI
fee and any renewal term fees shall be to the CPS Central Office by Automated Clearing House and then
appropriated to the respective school. All administrative fees Will be paid directly to the Board, in the Board 5 name
as follows;

Budget line: Income to Operations
GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General - Each party to each agreement shall acknowledge that. in accordance With 105 ILCS 5134-13 1
the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain investigations and that
the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel necessary to conduct those investigations

Conflicts - The agreements shall not be legally binding on the Board entered into in Violation of the of
105 ILCS 5/34-213 which restricts the employment of or the letting of contracts to. former Board members durir?g
the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of office

Indebtedness - The Board's Indebtedness Policy adopted July June 26. wastes-onsets; 1996 (96-0626-P03).
as amended from time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of each agreement

Ethics - The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 212001 (1 1-0525-P02l. as
amended from time to time. shall be incorporated into and made a pan of each agreement

Contingent Liability Each agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the Current fiscal year is
deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in the subsequent fiscal year budgellsi

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General - Each party to each agreement shall acknowledge that. in accordance with 105 ILCS
5134-131. the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations.

Conflicts - The agreements shall not be legally binding on the Board it entered into in Violation of the
provisions of 105 5/34-213 which restricts the employment of or the letting of contracts to. former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of
of?ce.

Indebtedness - The Board's Indebtedness Policy adopted July June 26. 4995495?0126?Ex3; 1996 
0626-P031. as amended from time to time. shall be incorporated into and made a part of each
agreement.

Ethics - The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2001 (11-0525-
P92). as amended from time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of each agreement

Contingent Liability - Each agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current

fiscal year is deemed a contingent liability, Subject to appropriation in the subsequent fiscal year
budgetls).

11-1116-EX2

PRINCIPAL CONTRACTS (A)
THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING:

Accept and file copies of the contracts with the principals listed below who were selected by the Local School
Councils pursuant to the Illinois School Code and the Uniform Principal's Performance Contract

DESCRIPTION: Recognize the selection by local school councils of the indivrduals listed below to the position of
principal subject to the Policy on Requirements for the Selection of Chicago Public Schools Principals. #08-
1217-PO2. dated December 17, 2008. subject to approval of any additional criteria by the General Counsel for
the purpose of determining consistency with the Uniform Principal's Performance Contract. Board Rules, and
Law.

The Office of Principal Preparation and Development has verified that the following individuals have met the
requirements for eligibility.

108

NAME

 

Myron Hester

Troy LaRaviere

Emily Sautter



Interim Principal
New Millennium School of Health

Assistant Principal
Johnson

Assistant Principal
Casals

November 16, 2011



Contract Principal

Kozminski

Network, Burnham Park Elementary
PM. 119364

Commencing: September 12. 2011
Ending: September 11. 2015

Contract Principal

Blaine

Network: Ravenswood-Ridge Elementary
PM 120754

Commencing: September 25, 2011
Ending: September 24. 2015

Contract Principal

Casals

Netwark: Garfield-Humboldt Elementary
PM. 131481

Commencing: October 16. 2011
Ending: October 15. 2015

LSC REVIEW: The respective Local School Councils have executed the Uniform Principal?s Performance
Contract with the individuals named above.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION STATUS: None.

FINANCIAL: The salaries of these individuals will be established in accordance with the provisions of the
Administrative Compensation Plan.

PERSONNEL IMPLICATIONS: The positions to be affected by approval of this action are contained in the
2011-2012 school budget.

11-1116-EX3

PRINCIPAL CONTRACTS (B)

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING:

Accept and file copies of contracts with the principals listed below whose contracts were renewed by the
Local School Councils pursuant to the Illinois School Code and the Uniform Principal's Performance

Contract.

DESCRIPTION: Recognize the selection by local school councils of the individuals listed below to the
position of principal subject to the Policy on Requirements for the Selection of Chicago Public Schools
Principals. dated December 17, 2008. subject to approval of any additional criteria by the
General Counsel for the purpose of determining consistency with the Uniform Principal?s Performance
Contract. Board Rules. and Law.

The Illinois Administrators Academy has verified that the following principals have completed 20 hours of
Professional Development. The RENEWAL contracts commence on the date speci?ed in the contracts
and terminate on the dates specified in the contracts.

M511:
Frank Embil

William Hook

Nelly Robles

FRQM
Contract Principal
Woodlawn

Contract Principal
Chicago Ag H.S.

Contract Principal
SaWyer

109

1?2

Contract Principal

Woodlawn

Network: Burnham Park Elementary
PM. 128205

Commencing: July 1. 2011

Ending: June 30. 2015

Contract Principal

Chicago Ag H.S.

Network: Far South Side High School
PM 140864

Commencing: January 7. 2012
Ending: January 6. 2016

Contract Principal

Sawyer

Network: Midway Elementary
PN. 119459

Commencing: July 1. 2011
Ending: June 30. 2015

November 16, 2011

Rebecca Stinson Contract Principal Contract Principal
Claremont Claremont
Network: Midway Elementary
P.N. 131014

Commencing; February 20. 2011
Ending; February 19, 2015

Thomas Trotter Contract Principal Contract Principal
Hyde Park S, Hyde Park HS
Network: South Side High School
PM, 113065

Commencing: February 21, 2012
Ending: February 20. 2016

LSC REVIEW: The respective Local School Councils have executed the Uniform Principal's
Performance Contract with the individuals named above

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION STATUS: None.

FINANCIAL: The salaries of these individuals will be established in accordance with the provisions of the
Administrative Compensation Plan.

PERSONNEL IMPLICATIONS: The positions to be affected by approval of this action are contained in
the 2011-2012 school budget.

11-1116-EX4

CHIEF EXECUTIVE REPORT ON POSTING AND PRESENTATON OF
CERTIFIED SALARY AND COMPENSATION REPORT

The Chief Executive Of?cer reports the following action:
Description:
The Illinois School Code. 105 584-1037 states:

Each school district shall post on its internet website an itemized salary compensation
report for every employee in the district holding an administrative certificate and working
in that capacity. including the general superintendent of schools, The salary
compensation report shall include without limitation base salary. bonuses. pension
contributions. retirement increases. the cost of health insurance. the cost of life
insurance. paid sick and vacation days payouts, annuities. and any other form of
compensation or income paid on behalf of the employee. The report shall be presented at
regular Board meetings subject to applicable notice requirements.

The Talent Of?ce has complied the Certified Administrators? Salary report for presentation to the Board
and for posting on the Board's website a true and correct copy of which is attached hereto. The Certified
Administrators' Salary Report shall be posted on the Board's website effective December 1. 2011

THIS SPACE INTENTIONALLY LET BLANK

110

111

t? :5
a, 
nr-r- hr??

1 .00

322938
83:8?
runs?n



0




-04-
n-233o3


3

031.3 33.5.33 mug v.8 00.336: moon:
3 2933cg?iggags




i!

a





a

:n-hr-r-a-u- 


3
5

i
i






0-12.51 rid ?g Dub-u 0N0 PE
in! a was; man?. show 045 .
nip-cog 8&3 9.30 3.3? Can
00:3? Is all- ooboo our. 9.2..
29 Mr 330 an! an.?
0.: Swan r16 055 3,3? auav u?Bu
33. a! win
n: 5?9 0658 8.98 avg 008
01?s mine In; no 80 908 9.08
>923. r; Mr 8 99.3 Pain
03 Si? mooning ?39.63 8 92.0 908

viriririn?n'n'o'n'n'n'n?n?rin




3


85333
30




Gianna-93.39535 898 980 908
898 098 
gin-Emile? 3?28 ?98 oil"
hunting?; 3?5 098 0.08
gin-gong 898 mas n!
angt! 39! ans ca
ginning: 38? oven .80
8R8 0.98 
n??irailr?? 38? :8 :8
898 anon on!

3.




November 16, 2011

112

03.39 33.95.55 ma?a 03 gig :33
29538:??5a53?a??g?n 












5 



444444








35Mammaa 

was:


11"
~hh an.? Nnnu
3 





113.13 I


. 1.


November 16, 2011


November 16, 2011

 

not Ian a. on: 0.0.. .3. 2.. gngii}. Infinite: lilo; .3115.5. .8. grill-.8 gull-2. 56.50 g.
cuun a. saw. 0.9.. :3ng 133?; loft-Illa: 3: I .
13.2. .2. u! .3. 3.. cl: ull: Inuit-l5 1.. 6.5.1.50 
?an. 3. In: I: .38 39335553.. 32mg 199?; 
.0. I: a. grails: I'ccl if 
3.2. can. .3 .3. She. a .I gig-9.5.60 Ilia-NS Shoal-.5 1
.22. a. is on: 8: 5 .81! lino-o 
and3.52;; .3056; loci; am:
can. on. .8 .35 5. .59 .3. .28 .3352! :3 tonic-is lanai-Iii! .8 858. 2 .3
08.3. nun. .3n a. Ru. 3.: 3n. gsggu .1851505 500 33.
can. 5.. pl .3. H: 5. .30. ?In .28 last; 51.21.50 
good". .3. .3. ?no. 2.. .28 .9936! 3.13:; 32?; 6.3.1.90 
Quinn. IN. .3 a. 5. ?3.0 3 I Innis-IE5 intuit-II! Inuit; 8:553. 33."
33H. on". can .3. ?no: 5. 2.9 ?Io .28 ?an-Ila; 53.. 80.9.5.3 g3 Sin3.1.3? 8:1? I9918.8 3.0.3835 it: ions-?3 Ignite-?5. age-it. .55 Inuit all! 3.30 E56 
.33. a. 3: 9 .2. on. 8.8 qugg 32:39:34 385350 a:
.93. .8 a. Ev. Inc. an I ?31.8085.8 3.10.6.4. 5 most: .5 9.2lid 83:
sun. and and." an: in. ?and 921058.35 50531-33056 tail-SIRE 55 9.to}! film {6 .8- IE: E50 .38. 
1?1.33333 302?; 3005.53 glut-038p! shah?
SNE EN .3 3nd ?No.9 . Bud. ad on .3 8.5.0? no; no: :0 sly-.2530 
?Na; En. Ea Inn a. E. 8.25338 5 .8252 
.83. to .9. 98 .8 ES .5396 it". 83%
.33. SN. Fe ?nd not. Ewe no cola Eugg?. .8.- coogm .80 giant?h: 
2.3.: Sq. E. ?nd ?no . and. 3.. in 8 825.6 Flu .92. 5 in, 2.3
an; '50 ?0.0 an.? nrhdu and 8.8 306? gr 5 1.85.1 I3 385.5 dad
?a 93 ?ed . 8.8 393 53.9.1 SI: Eng 13.! rig C55 .630 13
8N. 2o o. Rho 3.1.1303! Quin-.3 ii atoms a
on. 8.4 . Eu ?an. 3.8 .33 (In 8982 383.8 .880 i all If: a
?38. SN. Ru ad ?on. . 926 Iain all: . 301.1 In! icon 5 
. 95 1v.? 83 In.? 3.8 323. i E: ?.33
can . on. No,- and 8.8 323.83 .38 .8055 it will: 3:3 .52.335 to! Inn-t all! 8:3 ulnow 38:
8N . Eu It? Sn. 3.6 3.8 .85? I553. all! 8.83 ?Se-u 
?and? 8N. P3 R: 5d 30.. 35.0 8.8 ?8.20 .8051 slat Incest rid can! 13!.
8.4 . I: 8. .o 3.8 .589. 8.3.32. 898 ?lg 255. 883.6 3.8 Eon-9. van-35w 3.8m xi: tilt at; 89.80 35!. .83.
8N . 05 ?nd one. 2.6. 395 ?98 918 in? 28 ?31.
8: 2o 33.? ?36 8a.. .3. and 8.8 .86" 58.2 Elana. Baal: 399
8M. 93 8a.. .3. 3.8 39.2.6 .13.. En 33:
?no.8. 8M. 93 :3 .3. 8nd 8.8 (6.350 .53 83!
8N . one ?nd 93.. 3.8 85a 32. 35. 533
?n48. can. a: 3.8 39.3 8988)! Eula? 932
8M. Re 08.. 8.3 8.8 393 9-93 2:19.. Eula {a 395. 
8H . 93 2.3 ?to in; or; 8.8. no.3. .8 a! can. unlit in; 585. 
. PS 2.: can. . 3.8 Baum Econ 3.35 3% Eula: .85. an}.
83 Eu gd on .o 8.8 .86? .05.: .3351 3 a; 3 588m?93. 8553n. 8.8 51.5 all! 8958. K5:
~335.30 :5 .39! 
EN. 93 as 25.. o?d 38 inning Emil-9.. on!
?and? 8N. Duo ?Nod 03URI-.1 Elton N09
8M . Eu 3.: ?and Sn. ?Ed. coho 8.8 gain. .ils: i in can?
?anon. Sn; ?Ed. 3.8. 3.83 Slain: inning Iona-Ki 85:95-50 3.9
92.8. 3.. 838 351.5588 aging 33.53.35 8322.05 399
3.3. 98.. .33 a ?aw. 3.3. lust-5 airing g; 
2.3. 3L a ?an; 30.3. 3.553531935 Initial-54 glad. 5.30930 
223. Sn. on. 9: a EN. 39.5233 3.5-: .53.. 
2.3. can. on. $2 a 8n. 36m an; .13.. 2.38: 
3N. in on: New ?8.2 as; 3.8 Egan 3.3.3.3313 55.833.85.83. 8
can. a SN. ?060.35 tanning IRES 3.390 
2. non. can. can 3: a 8m . 5a.. 26.3. 393m ED 9'59! mg SEIKO 8?
.mn. 8N. ?no no: no.? can; ?nd. own. 5339.50 .83.: .55 .60 
?no ?mod ?an. 80.8 858 9593 33 2.0 68.5.. Rm 3
.h .N. .3 ?min ?Nod 98.. 90.0. for.? gnu .033 .585 Ice?3.5.. .83.. 58.5 3:25.53 899.. Bay. 33
5.23% a ?12 Edd? a N?w?a??u a a 1.5.. a 56!.
a dads?Han a a ?at:

ION 595032 .02
.89: En as? ?53.55? v3.30

113

114

99:3 83533.3 @233 25 
Pa 0.. 29.35! 3 

El ?Dak-

108.5.

 









tun-th-hr-h



qu E5 
a?
?gal:


a 



























A..-3 . .. s, 5:331?31331:=
















.NE

.2




o. 
- ,63888388888!5??

fun.
.NL .
.N

 



.uboho

November 16, 2011

November 16. 2011


.,
2:39.335:


hlf-o? 






88333hr-uv-v-hv-r?v-v?u-u-wrgluing its; 8-5. .3 Son
at: 3a. .32 an. ?Info-I! in}; it; in"
3: 8.. .1: nan. a! alt-Sting Inuit-l! 
a. 8n. .1: an. Io?xig ion-Sig SP: ?60 83
?can a. 8n. ?cu. no.6 (5031; is. 1.3535.51.5; Inuit: Inuit-Ill3.. Iii-Ila! lint-?0 inch
3: so 3.. .5: an: 38 3.51.3: it; tacit-I! It. s. 83.?
9.: a. 8n. .1: a. ?ux. 589. tacit-II33.83.6230; it; 38.1.; Solis 2.3
so 3a. .3: up: 3.5 ?92.55 gun-id Sails-Inc El). 032]
3: a. .3: a. 83 an; nations? 
?In a. 83 .1: ?an. 88 genie. 5-0 .1351; .1355: 5.1.5. B.
?In II. .1: a. 5.6 5:91:23; 309353; .335 $30.11.! 02.01.
nu: a. 8n. a. 5.6 85w ii: 8924i; 3?31. 331-
3: .9. a1: .3. .83 has?; lag-strain? innit-liar. 520398.. 38
3: n: .3. 9a: .23 .83 53.3? slaw .8953 6.2.1.0250 Ia.
N: 8m. .3. .83 5 .33.. .3131. 19931-3 .334; :56 cute-I N2
3: ln?. a1: 3: .83 inlet-Illa. Eggs! non-n
3: .3. a1: Sea Siroogg 193i; 83
3: 80. as E: .83 .093 98536395.}. 3991.63 lactate?I3. .89.. 3: 333
3: ?in 33 a3.. .3. 288 SQ agiEait villa tin
3093.63 3.1! 
"In. nun u. 85. "all,? 3:43!? 039.
3: ?Cu 8: ?35 283 3?5 39:!354 25! 
?In ?ad 03.. SN. .83 calla Illa-I! IRE-(sill! so; a
3: 8: n35 .83 3952334 3355!Il( 53162:: 993
?.36 n1: :2 .33 .92 Inning 105.33 58228.1 5 van
3.: Nod 83 SN. .83 goon: Icic- EBE loo-Eng Elan-Id ?run
3: 8a.. .1: SN. .88 3.91.5.5. fix-:5 ?08.30 .838
3: ?to .6 .532. 3:53 ii. p.990 
Hod 8a,. 11,: 35. 08 3 ?3.0 5.1.0 .596 5.85.. 8.50 32. 9:3
8: ?nd 80.. I: 2 3 ?952 in. El! {89? ton ?acid 1.35.! 53 
on: . in. 3 {952 65 8- ii! Said it! .858. that: .39..
05; and. F: gal-bu lie lags-mic 131998 330 93:
in.? ?nd. 2.: lions-h Ell lulu?mild is; .353 82$
8: at: 22 3 85m; 22. ?302.. 22..
.9 2 EN. 8 .86?;qu it; 952
Sn.? ?and an; 88 bio-3;; Inn-Eula! ingest-g can?! 
She Ed at; 5.: HRH 3nd 898g :62. lax-Aug .313 nicer-w; 
It. an.? 3 8 .85? no 51.: ES innit E. ii. 32!
Sta not: 92 38 3938.06.04.13: innit-?g 9.3220 Rona.
a: mad 83 .3532?0 i395 
aha ad ?38 ?tong-353 :35! $3.5
5.: 82 Jada Elicia iguana; using-8 5:586 33%
8: ?nd at: 8 ?952 9853.5 .83.. En 38552. .83.. can!? Ely??E. IRIS Qua-g ~59
?nd 3: 3 g: .85.. .833 .83.. .5996 an?!
2: 9 8a.. .24.. on: .8 9. 38503.30 Egg Bun-0835.2; Eat-693w 929
a: a: i: a: n33 3832?5 E?dsg??gszi Qtdsa?lgnai 
as: ?nd we: .9 gaunt-88:30:33 gig .035 ?to: an!
E: ?in RH: 33 agfiaiz ugul3.65.88 3.0 25.8.. SE30 . .391.
{an no. .. 8 $.86 33.8. ages Inn-?4 35 ?use? 232
3a.: Na alumna?Eu! 2. .EE snot-8K 3m
50,. Rn. . .85? icon: in? 2 Fl: gnu-?an! 8:8! 58?3
2.: ?an 51.. and: 8 8a .3 59.03 a. tuning .28.in i382 5330 can?
2n." Rod 9: NU lanai-5055.. Brag .gg :53 955.0 ?33.
Rn.? an git-Eng ES .1933 8 
can No.0 3: ?a 693 9.3 pg .355: '59. E8.
21? ?3.0 Ma .9283 8E1 toning ion-lug Saw:
5.. 92 .9 393393; lit?Ill! Hausa-II! slain. 
one.? 39.. 3.: a. Na gain-E gag inning Egg 
21.. K: 5 east: Caz-Elm :83 509m .83.. 599w 3.35:3! 23! 33
and ?nd 5 (In! .3 ?8.35 ?23 :89? I 
n8.? any." 3? H9336 mucosa-E53 .83{?35 335
Nod as.? In ocm um! EEO .I?hm 3.9926 .3833 alum 3.3
Sun a an: 498 339354; aging ?882.. 
on: a Sm.? 83? a. one 3 .848 83-6 33982 Elect lama: 582. 890 on.
and a 5m.? 85. 3.. 8 95w .5 as: 38.5.. anal?4 .3533 .880 23
mean a 952 an,? an. 8 8.6m 2:5 a 39.3.. .3055 invert. .5334 8 4:32.. :35 898
E15 04> imam! as" 5.: 2032!. ammun? 3 ?ag a 3 Hum 3.5.: 

 

 

4.. are.? 592.. amt?scan gm 3 Jazz:

Son CSEESZ .02
:83. 8:93:00 oc- En?w gurus . v0.33

115




November 16, 2011







$9999 9 
3368353


?351; ?62; 38"; In:
'3 all; ll. Ina-3K3 .8926; if 
is 1?0 Ill-Ci I'll-I'll i ?a
I88 .21. 185?; 3i r3. 
?8 lac-Ii 231; a:
gut; ii loll-I?d 35in in.
300 ISO-lilo also}; is!? 2.
8 ii .8- Ezg is}; 002.33! 33m.
3a .33; Eli; Inuit; Inuit-II! cocci} 8.
8n ?5 ?3 gull-Id 16131-6 30?.
a: .52 3981.8 loo?; lat-Iliad 3.3a $3 
$0.8 .29. 3905?; 8933; gait-tn 93:
38 uni-.39? lilo in"; is 38. 
88 In?nfuiinw 33.21; log-(g 33.33.! 
38 ?533 in. tacit-Illa. 18.3.: 25:13.6 
88 in?! is Inuit?ill! Soft-coal?- 
83 Sign-cl; E3 Inuit-Ila: goal ?on
38 alum-8955!. Ink-Kg ?In
38 ?ag-orig Iain-Ill. Ionic; Sci-93:: 
38 gall-0?0 gin-Ia. 
33 staid-Quill!- B?i ii 330
38 3385.0 1.0.153 Inn-Cal! 093.0560 33!
88 333;; 31.1; a:
38 assign-2:11 lacing .8051; ?3.35 in
38 33938350 Icon-a3 lanai Sig 
38 ga?g?u .3021; it; ion; In.
~83 {signal Gags-d Io.- Saidg. 8.0-5.0 33.
on 3 ail-355$ {nailing?S u- c8333.: 9
8 333$??an Ion-rt; .3953 it; a:
8 gain! ES Edit; Egg 
gin?3 Eli-i! $92-63 Ban
3 Scum 36:6 0930 is?; .3055; 3.8.3.335 898?
038 gigs 895: bun-sans an
$35035 9:32.033; Ina-0:22:31 2h
n88 Inuit-I15. 39.5.5334 .1839; 839
ES ?rinsing; is 135.33 as?
683 .83; a: is alga-cg So:
088 .8323 Ionian-I34 inst; ?35.30: Bo
803 3235138.. .3630; it; 91533.91; 33%
.quo 398 Egan-Ow 988
n83 r5364 E0630 3.3363 530:1 32K
n83 ii?- ?anzu 18363 5.9.3.3 Su?-128 333
Box. 3935: an 8: log; inst; ?53 .115. BEN
53 62353.33 266.53 Kiln; in; 
80.0 Eon-928cc 5.3.6 inc-hi; ~23 Egg 33k
33 35 gins-39.. .3253 :88
633 85m 9: unions. Inuit; 1.89.6; .9233?! 
933588.31: girl; gig 318..
3:0 :3 ?05.30 tuna 32?; 39.5.3 8.51 38:
D83 651530653558?. gull! Suzi-In 89!
E8 lasing aging is 
83 38:53 53:0 98?
a3 .S?w?igiu nun-Elsa. as 8R9
3.8 :3 1.3.3.5 .gg 32.83830 :59
33 gig is; guild: 93:82:81. 3:9
as goo?ng loop-Kg 3&3 89.8 {a and ?83.
ounce Inning alarm SR:
633 lacuna-lulu .0130 gig 
?.88 3E5 i554 53:20 53$
53 Ego-82 Isaak?g icing Eel-naive "8.3
988 Yigci Eng .gg SE 
n93 303515 Show in; .3353 ?saga-3 3mm".
839 33352333 inst?Ila! ?nals. been
083 arising? 135.53 ?nding 9' 9.5 
8.3 .95. gig toast; 33313 83.:
n33 ?3019. 3905?15 inc?{Eng gnu?.932 ?g
n83 393?? Baum-m 399:5? inning 8302:: Swan,
983 g?i>i Iain?mg 3995:; 5.855 53?:
55 393.518 508 2; Elisha? .abscuai?q was: nm 3.3.
$03 E3335 REES .gg Egg-Etna?. 
an 3 Inga-.354 .gg Faint?lint! :32
?die .856 39-292 nae-BE .0855 FIE wag u; ?805
SEQ. 3 3 5:52:33:

 

116

117

055.3 ?355.33 25 00:60:56: 330:
run. 203 3.:

El EE Hal?Fl
EN . :ziaan. PRU-II Ell-11k BEEN E168 .nu-F?n?u

u.
Pg

. 2""935222222







.. 
on non-o 






7997?







23352







on. I .- H~~Ahhv~h


.- .?Fv-v?rl 

a: 3??uaallasal
3
4
3 ?du8888888888888

.- Iv- h. I)
i



November 16, 2011

November 16, 2011

a. .2 in ?no. a; an 2. an; i! Inuit-vill- fl 
can. .2 a. 0. an .2. gnlyuv31?? Ilia-Ii): it; (-33 
I: a. 9.. 2. nxnoi>?? gulls. instill-5I?ll-in Isn?t-i! ?nale-cu In:
32libel-Incl Ii]. 135.135. lac-ti lid-an. 
.11: In. 5: ?5 a. -. ?nah .2. So. usabiliw 2.33 an:
?andlino-us alt-ill: least-atixguuqi lull-EnHu~ 8955.91.33; Inuit-Ill). 3n.
3?3. 35.. .2 Id 5. Eh .2. n5: Binding: lion-Ci in; git-nu ?~32
3'9: 3.. In a. an saga-?3 ?3 Bel. Ell; 5n?
03. h: in go ?an. .2. 2 amino; El." .3923; 531.5 39a.
3.9. in. at a. 90. .2. anti-laud 59924; is! 2. 
on: 2.. In ?no. 90. 2.: ?a .. 55.05985. 199115 tit-=91 122
8.20.. gig ionic-3 inn-lag ?6881 
I o: n2 3: N: as. 3.. 3.6 23092410 3926}; .2353 Elan
9.1a! an?. a: sin a. 8-. an: 1.9 as: 333."; 533583391: ~33.
.3. 5 iv .2. 81?. 89.06.3538 ?3.31. grill-d Sit; an.
on: at 2: Sun. 92. .8 o. Karo-'23. 35883.; Bonsai-83.; ?35 an.?
93.. I. 8: RE. 33 82 Son. 393825.53. 5.6 is; .23.
.1 93.. Nod 34. no: .86. gage-pix; lanai gnaw 33.2 grill-4 3.ad: alum?! EM gull-Id 3.99.1.3 3.3159. .33.
.3. .3 2: 2L nl.? 93.. 3. .86. ?13058?: tag-ti Inn-ii 39811 
:3 no '2 ad 3mm n! all IRE-J. Kali i gal?IN as:
2n? Ed BA. 8a.. 86. 08.0. .093 Ii all! Soul-1 cos-B. .323 oz:?
3: 03.. on?. 8.. .842 ?63 at 6 1.20 9.23. Inuit .538 .166 
on: .R "in ?and Ba; 8: ad. .856 tau?IE livid Iain Inled. 9.5.. also :33 Eli; 3 alga-.92 2.2.3
.35 2n; 5. ?Id ?lo 8a.. and. B: .89 5.8.3.. ?315.. In! 3 con?.82. .58! ER:
in: 23 No.- 83 gigxsa gig "lint-Illa. ?12: 53..
3an on: 2L add ?no la. on: .86. 3955:; in.? lacing 3 33.5.8. in!
.3 3 IL ad sm; Eu, .86. 3930.86.03; Ion-?3 Int-(id. gaging a:
.3: .t a: 3n. can?. 8: .86. 5 um .3 :95 36802 IRIS Sch-5.. 53. RE
.131 I. 8.. ?no In. and. 8. . and. Flo-3. ?35.59! i wilt-.3: .2 2.33
.13.. EL 3 ?at: 8: can. 8: if B) a 3686 3 non! mp8"?
03.. .2 an.? ?Mod a: :86. big 3 no. innit will! 3 avg?
3 can; .2 3% 8n . and. 8: 08d. .89.: In; BREE {cu-Biz 83.8w
go can. can. :89 Emit!? any-Kg .8983; Sontag 
2a.. .2 3.. 03.. 8: 98.9 Eon-3.2.008 88.50 imp-?3 3150 3 33m.
3&3 Eh. I. n81." Ed 8a.. 8: id. 393233 1253 it; Six-Gil! cum;
En. F. as" as an. o?d. B. 3.9 .85? cit-nu :5 Rust 5 ?Guam
.Vn?hv .R 85 ?to 35.1.8! 55:5 scoping .3856; 
3n 93.. rt 3: ~35 Sad. .86? an! :3 Ella. ?lled 
on?; IL and an; Eu. 8.: 50.8.31 E2 3905.1 3 In! :95 89.5
no: Bod. 99999 anal-.8 gal-ulna. 303?; 5g 
.3 .v Rn; .: as6-: .858 See: In! 3853 swig 8.5 
$an EL nan g. 8.: ad. .85? Pt SE 39.1.1 innit via-Rd land can 
3a .3 In ad 0&2 8h? .86.. .093 :91 59.50 i 1336 Eng 5..86. 398.0 8056 xi inn-En Eng ail: EEO a.
.10? 93.. and 8m; camp 8: :86. E5 39.3% 3955.1 air. 33n?
EH. as.? Ed 8a.. 8: ~86. .85? :91 ul $8.3 .8051 234 5008 58-5. $9.3
mam..- mn?. at 3: ?and 93.. B: 95.2 ?809.52. 9592; Iii-Bianca gran! in:
En; EL an,? ?ad ?on; 96.2 on; 8.3 so Sane-28.3.? .820! Blow 3.868. :39
RI: God ?to 30. ?5?3 5 a :85: Sam 
on. 5. In; 02. ?ad 30?? 90.8 934 .550 ?01 1692.1 3 ilk! El! 5 i 36??
wuvhq In. . 30d 13.. 30.. 20.8. inn-in Eng 35.. p.895 
Rd: 45. .. 02. Bad End. 30.8. :35. his inst #585. it: is :29
Zn. an. Bu.? No.0 In. v2: n5 8.. .993 gun-i=0 IRIS 912.5 3:5 a.
amt: In; GE #86 ii 3w.? rONn? m5 8. 398 ?1:50 EH32 390.3: E4 5?4 cu.? ago:
on 3. Bed Had a; all?J. it In! 30.9.8: 9.3360. now}.
only 2: Sad No.0 33 :53 r. 8 8.80 Inuit a fang 8.8:
an?! :n . a2 Nod 13.. 8. .858 2.3.. 399:5 .535 19-6 .5154 .83 5.5% .35n58 35:38:! .8556 .3294 ES 333
out: a2 No.9 .8. .33 2228. Eng .35 EB:
in . an. Su? ?No.9 52.. 3o . 9.8. 95m ind-U Bloom. 8305 3 FREE :3 3g 33!
fun:? vhn; 09.. ?dd tom.? is 8.3. 30 94.03558 33.35.5321. 55.60.33.053. an
vhn?. Sad No.0 3n.? ENN. .850. ?83. inst 25.5 
0.8.02 non . n2. and ?no.0 98.3. 89.8 333-0 :5 3 5.3435. I. 
803. no. ?do 8.5 581.1 cm ?58555 lust E33. 3:150 .280 
unaid- non; 3? No.0 853 36.8. 30w; 365. 3.3 was
93.3. no. man," ?and .3. 8. N. 3a.. 30.8. E5 9:63 1.. 2. .332 9.8.333 33. on.
#5 qua: ?aw! 5.5% aw manual.? new ?ch?l?ok: .I canal 
.50 Egg awn?aqua Brim Maul-.905. a 20.55 

 

 

.pow?.?.ovd
Snow. 

118

 Rayon


November 16, 2011






p.



1.25%

2 








g5 ?533? ?53 2?33?53 53; 35 3 33;;
333 ?51 ga? {is 5:95;; 1; :5 4:333:33}:

sigm?sagEunizhzm??a?31512325; 

?r?uur?w? 

119

120

003333333 pagi?uoax 
fagg. no:

REEF UIEMP. EHEBW 
Bag 3551 NE Hum gas-B mmzm9.5.?asaza

EeEseazs?5544




Cleo--




0.9.



3
I



as.- vnrruu 
rnw?.3115 32.50! ill-(Ii 
nit-8259::








5

0

3f





22:22:2333:






November 16, 2011

November 16, 2011

gaging-Ir. ESE
. {311.530.39.14 1093.66.32. 1.35.1512. it:
.

ma?8.2..
3.3. obn- 8- .n .3- 6.51.33 gnu-3.253.660 
.3. 5 ?up 3: ngiu 119.6; 11911; guinea-4 58..
:43. .14. on. can. a. ?ch- 319 in}; In"; gut-no Can
.33. .3. 5 can. ?an. 2. ?on. 833.. 1351315 gull-5. .181; 3.8.
:9330.3.5.3. 135.13 
2:9 .3 . uouc 2. . 3. u. .11 1192.6; 00.5.1.1; 35.1.35 
.33 .3. iv a. now. .993; 192.13.15.34 15.1.1; E985. .313
.53. .9. In. ?on. so on; in .990?; 1091.15.54 lanai; v.53.- 
.35? .dq. 5 a. on; an one! 39335.10 aha-IE0 22K
23.3. .3. and 13.. N3- 3. . E. .633 8.0 3:03 100.21.}; gogoatn 
.3. on. !v ?do 01.: 81-. is; :35 .1693?; 1.89102! 13*
.5. on. a. a 2.. 3.- 3.: annular-1.34 13.11.1112 . ca
3.3. 5 ?no. 8.. 2a. 93.. 2 1.951.: so.
2. an. 8.. 09.. 1.135.123 8.5.235. an
2- IN. No. 8.. 08.. 9.. 93.. .8055 2.8
?chow. and on. ?an. 8.. 08: nah- 52 :93: gritty! 1605.; count-aid 
an. 8.. 8.. 8.. 93.. 313381.91. .5303. 3:820 
19.3. an. in: ?do 8.. Son. 318315.20; E.
2w 5 can. an 3.. anon. no: 03.. Iii-9.11 233
5.6.. a: . can. ?and .1 Sign ?11 9.8..
senor. an. {Ni ?mod Sod. RN. 5.. .56 Hull I): 205? 35.33.1.5.8.. 13.5 52.2.: .
5.9. PC . 8. . Sod. SN. as; .9110 81.9.. 9.6 
5 . ?man. an: Bung?kk. cuisine-31.. 13.!
8-. na- ?an 085. can.? 38mg; 8.303 
83m8280 Pam 8.3.0 .38 .811: yard 33%
39.3. a: IN. ?and 08.. 8. 385.0 5 .93 .0 .8243; .8 3va
.053. 91? a End .85? c3. Fa India 2.. 
3nd?. Eu ?od 8a.. .85" ?8 git-6.. 2.312. ?.31506:. gig? 869K515. g3 $3.563 8.3.
35.3. .9 a; an: ad 30.. ?and. and. .5 9.1.19. 16.26 :34 ?3 can!
.2 no. .9. a; 3-H. 5-5.. In! r. 
.9 . o: no: Bo. and. a Ed 3330.60 .53 .5119. 3.you; 1356 .534 have :39
. a; ?as 30.. 12M. 5 936. ulna! 3 land 15 .35.
.34312H. .3 93.! .83 ?You Ito 3.56 .5115. 5.8.. 11.5% 
EMS. on! a Ho.- 08a. .3 a 6.50 119.15 .34 .98! 
sauna. a a 8: Nod 03.. 9.3. . .36. 580 Inn-Eng :15 ?151.95 583.
.3. . a; 8a.. . a .23.. 3.8.9. ionic .53 85.8 116.: an. .
a; on; ?and 2. 5nd. a .534 ~38?
m: 8. ?and 8a.. in?. .864. ?an ?p.88 1.0.1.3 r339. a E313 Roan
3: 2o 8o. is; But-g 31192811.. 38..
m3 8. a. .8 o. 8.3380 Eli. 18.3.; 13:53 
.943. 3-. . ?and aim. . .3 12.3! EDP. 21.3.4 .5555". .910 
?Nada. not. ad 80.. can. an a 34 assign?.20 195.55 :3 58830 3.1.8. 
Rad?. an! 3.6 ?no .0 on! 3.38.16 231.9. all! Din. g.
in 8..- ?ud 23 3 a 3.3.. gm 5.1.2.6 .5 .13.. Sn .
E3. ?no. .o a 8993 932. all! 11.82. 5.58 was?
Raid m8 Nod 80.. End .2. a Inuit 3 ?5.160 59.1.
.?Nom 8.6 ?nd In. can 350.00 1.0.53 Inning 
.03 mm" . m8 ?ad #85 .8334 5 .39.
?nd. at. a ?and In. a one. gigs Inuit-15.5 Egg 8.1..
a; ?mod 85.. a; .85? 13.9. .515. all! 38 89v.
RN59 n: Nod 30.. End. a 655m .33.. ?35m 1.8.1.. 1.8.1.2 Eng 2.8.5 1.5. 
.?Nwm. m. ?and 8a.. 19.5.3 Inning $8.3
94.. m5 Ed (3.. 0..on 0 on 33025: 33.133 385.13 :35 n83.?
.Nnm. Ht. 5 8: 80.. an lain .32. ?at Ran.
a Had 8a.. 23. . an .86? 1.0 .s .833. 98.38.. 02.08.. 39m.
53. 31.. a Rod 6m 525.838 9916 .53.. can! 95513.65? .98.
and 98.. and. no. bio-9.5.910 gang Egg 88 11.081153; 
RN62 ?Ned 8a.. .5 an: a 5.5.. 8.2.8 9. 3.3.1.0 all .38.
3.1. 31. 33. ca 08 583.353 gin-03539.6 wastag?auu? is: 9mm:
.3. 2.. on: Bun. ?ssion-9. 11.58555? .59..
a it. 3? and ?833 535.. lasagna .602. 
8N3. .3. 8.. H: a ?8.2 an 318.3% 
953. 91. .8 5: Had .3. Saw. 3.. SN. .3308: 51:32 rs 3952-0 ?in?
9.52. 93,. Ba ~35 8.. SN Because Eng 39:13 .0331: was.
2.528.5.5 3.8.52 25 9mg
2.4M. 91,. .8 mad .5 8.. EN. .993 ?3.33 $18.90 
91.. En: ?9.9 .EN Sad 33.. .83 58.30 5.. a .393. 
win-lg 3 ?ag a 51% 3 gm. ans. 3 9.52 

SUM owning gang 3 mama: 443%

59582.09.
.53! 55:99:00 Pi Foam 

121

3mm 1.20:1

attuned Mmmrum Salary and Omnsamm Ream

November 16. 2011





1m







a

$3 
?553; 35% Emmi; 35? i 3
33,1335 

g?aiss??sgmi?uaag??zgzihh?z?m?



122


Maw 1,2011

November 16, 2011



3 







n'ou'm'a



a 


a




321
Q:
?3
153% 3% g; 5 
$31 m; zzgiaw Swag; 35 5; 533 my 5;

sgi?ii??if?dsgg?zia5355553is 

7:22": r: a 2* *2 swam? s? 4' Me -.: *2


123

November 16, 2011

 

3. 8. ?no208.. Ia. 8? 5- a. nun. noun 3.. 3.. at?! 5..- fi? in?;
.n a a. a. and. I.- at}: 9.3.lanai-2.5
93.as?. - cor: pin-6.3 In?ll?;
a a. 1.. g; .gg loo-En;
0:3. .3. c3 5. n3- 5. no: 3.. 8.2 .895;
.38. in. a: a. n9. noon. I.- 12 8 30.3.42..- gu Ion-Cg 
.23tacit; 
98,8. .3. 8- 5. a. 5. on.- 1Br~ Inuit-Ills. Ionic?;
:38. .3. on. and. a. 5. an. I.- tool?; 3.3.11;
53.8.. .3. i ?do 5. 3.9 3.. 3.3 Ila" Ext-:9. If;
ano.8. In. 8- ?do own. no-n. 3.2 gig-.3 It}; lance30H. I. I 3. Inga-32.6w]! gill-ad 
In. I may s. 3..- 3g; is; 
.5. a. 5.: s. and. on?. u! gill-d 
93.39.3 93 8?1. Inc." In! I356 
13.8. In. . 3- .3.. 5.. Nu. ran 1.95.5 
v3.8. .5 . Ru.- 5. .2. Ila ?1w 
3.3. In. a cum. a. .2. one: col-93 Incl?n 
30.8 .. a . on. .2 5.. Row. .83 i .. 9.3 
39.8 83 ?mod 5.. Sad. Elan 32.4535; 
1.8 In on- vai ?Noe Nu. noon. .2 to.? Ion-En
3n.? in com .umw..u .I. awggi 1.6.2..
?3.8 .3 as can. 39?. tuna. ?56 8.2 
3.8 In . an. 21.0.. u?c. and. .2 a 53.0?. Iain 32.09! . a! .39; 
13town. SUI-lbw 596.. I313 
13.8 .3 . a .3 ad 30.n- 33H 03.. 3005? inn-En30.9 .24 39.0w .3931: Galena 
3.8 {a . 93 .3. 5a nun. 5.9.2 3..- 
.036 ?No.0 ?ua. omen. than. 8.50 
3.8 a. .06- :odh 3 .0820 
3.8 in . a can. ?no.0 09d. I28 .950 .. it Ila."
v3.8 .3. . a v36 a. can. .2 .033 .630 .5 
30.8 08 5.. 3..- ko.? 39.8 58!. 
33.8 .3 . 08 cum.- nnud Nu. .25 to.? .093 ?19.30 c992. 
3.8 .3 . 3- ?and 80 a 9:381. inns-E
3.0.8 .3. cl 5.. ?Na . Ems; inns-x.
?9.8 .2 09.. and 3.9.9. 51.. .. 5.39. 
98.3 3.. . 33 583.. 55.9.5 .38 
own. .81- 8a.. .39 696w Egg-.55 Sonatas! 
?and 03.. NS 30.. 3.. 80.. and. .993 in! 1.09:. 
?and 3m . who not. gd .8. ?nd. Iain um .55. B. 50 9.95. .3856
End . 2o 90.. 8.. as. In. 05.3 a 296m 
93.3 8n. 3.. 89.. .Qd. 9.4 .Eg ?68 .163 9.5.. 
can. . 93 5.. 89.. 305m 
an68.. 
mung an. and .95. 9.6 .905? 8.5 a 
Sad can. ?no not: Ed 08.. 5.9 9nd 393 35m 193? 3963.5
?an ?nd. 2..- in; 89!. 
93.3 93.. N3 03% Ed 08.. Gd. ..mi Evan: 3.. (Col3.2. 
ii ?3.0 20.. 03.3 ?51330 J. i a. 1. J.
. 13.3 .3. . n3 3.. 3.9 ENE .36? 1 Eng Ina-En. tun-En
~33 n8 Rod and?mod . 03.? .993 F6: 3888. 
18.8 3a 99.. ?nd 98.- 8.36.. 
13.8 .3. 93 31v Ed and. 3.: an .905? 553 195.1 
v3.8 ?8 on: 30.2 93.. .BNnu 8:39.36 Illa-z innit.
38.8 HS 81' ?dd 30.9 owns .86? 83.. 3E: 
343 n8 Eu Sad anal-lug Ice-u 
?no.8 .3. n8 936 and 39.9. 93o NAN nun unhi? uEu: . 3-80 
36.3 new unis can 8.8 86% .515: :25 58.3 
?8.8 n8 8.3. .993 99.90 I if 
?and.? .3.. HS 31.. ad 30.9 03d Nan 60.6w .1 En inn-En 
13.3. .3. ng uni. ?No.9 ?3d. an 3.8 8.00 868: .568. 
393. n8 ?Ned 8.. . ?Man HES .88 
13.2. nun 8v .. 30.9 an .093 9.39 El. tan-En 
13.3. n8 an: 8.0 nah.? mdo?. and.? an gimme-5 306.25 loan-.5
3nd: .n8 8v. Rod 03.2 o?d .59.. 1.3.8 0 
Him. a g: a .99? a ?ag-Io a 3

1.0 an; .H??ogu a gar??u dug 44%

.3553!
0233300

?51 .92.. in.
.g 1..
all; 
go; 
winning .53.
gill-O onus:
5.th all} .32.
95.. .20..
gait 

I'll 
Ital? is?
in ?and.
5 5.0.. 5.:
is 
Us; 38".
is .3.

til.? ..33 
3.33.! gm van":
anti 

30.2.3.1 
gg; 
53..
1.9.80 5.9. 
.35.
all! 
?50 
Sela 3.3..
USE SN) 55??
?115.! ans.
gill-Fun 89..
can. ton 
Egg 
88.00501. 
Ruhr-Iain Show.
9.3.5: 3.3..
god-.3 $89.
gusto 33am
to)! 2.38
is .8:
Evan; 
9150-3 R58
tanking-8.30 8.2
gm Emu.
Pasta 99.9.0 .33.
into 
ii 
513-812 .89.
38v.
.80..
36? 
9.5ng 0358
1.33.30 39m.
5065. 5 an
?1.33 Sub:
35.0051? 933.-

hubs?WE cg 
coil??g 35..
36.n?
cnc?ozg .83.
58.633 @103.
luau-6.1 .92.
??95.90 5.8.
36.53.685.950 93..
3.3.3.5 nun!
Eugiocw .38.
33..


talc 
?ung

124

November 16, 2011

n3. .5 . .32 aujiuga 199-6
2.9.2. has . v.9 so 3.. .33 3.1.x; 
.92. 2.. 2. a. 2.. 53 page?; 
2. 8.. 3.. .32 uni-Oinllcui 13.2.
v5.2. . 53 
?nds. 2. 3.. 58 {5.3.1.30319; 
.50Bod 
23.3. a! ?00 a 8n! (ll. in (lag 13agar-Bug in}.
E. . 8. 3. 3.1. 381.3835 
.8. 89:93..
3. can v. .8. ?gs; 
0.. . ?8 20.. ?uad Iuv. n8. 2 .2265: So?a}; 15.0
3. 5. a 13.. Dangling 
.8 .8. .u I330 .5333.25.13 ?33.Ian? crust-.2. 3..85.8.- 32.! 9:8 v5.39.3 .035 8.Harem Evan.8985.-.: .8as.? 10.9.0538 8:86 
8.. . .3. ~56 2 .85? ?3.20 
.3. 8. ~56 .a slit.9235: Sum 50 tail.
8. 2N3 n3 8 .33 8.5.9.. :13 
3.. . 8. . 3.Bug 85.9.3. 
8. 5.. EN: nu in 53.0 .8552 
8. 98? an 
8.. n8 .36 3.. ~51 962 Egg 
55.3.. 3. Sci 8.. 3.. . n3.- 3 w: 934 E50 lesion. 8.~23:53. 
a. n. 2 .869. .5. 3.9.3.. E50 32.0 
oi "8 5.50 2.85.. Elan Inns!
8. 8.. nun .u .36.86? 
I. a. .. al.- Beta :38. 
8. an. H. .368.1.50 lib! 
.n?ao. can. .50 unit mnud can. ma?a nun-n EonanEIenum..!lD Insect
~56. 80 .83 89.1.. n. .32 
.25.. 8. 80.. ~56. 3.. and .85m account 
.3 806 80 E3345 
8. ~34.250 1.33.5330 
Show393 ?85 
55$. aa 03? 03 an .550 59.0 
.8 5.: 39.8 0553 on i 2 
a .36 3 .83? Inc: 3.5. 
.8 98.. 3 w~ 8556a . .84 l. 8310 
8m . .8 5..- a8.- 3 an 9.3 
End! on. 8 o~ .33 15.. 
98..83 .383: 
as a. 3 p~ In! 
93.8. on. g; 02.. x: n~ 3wa 00.80 Eng on?!
93.8. S. and .2. .093 :91 

at a 31%. ?g an44.3.. a Edit a a a a $24.1

Sam .. 
:83. $338.30 9.. .693 3.5.00


9.0.5.6; 

.091; 
95.1 
.5
?all?! a. 19 an.
.03.). Eng ?Nb:
glue-v.5 
.o .31.. .95 on}?
555. a. n:
coco-?Ilia J:

Ibis 
.3. E.
1:
.85? 3 ?5 inc ?~13
not; 
6.. .288. in?
room .0 nun-Io 9.30 $200 33 
3.3 in:
Illa Eu; .E
c3500 
2.8.5 .88 .83
?115 
0.020.516 Chow.
.39 .. 9189
3.303 
82.2.5316 
5.13.33. 
3005? egg g?
.o .30 .88.. 1:35 3.31
Ella 
Inn-E1 vigil?ID .E:
983959.90 and?.
83!
I335. lulu-.32.. 189
iann 
5.31.3.8 .33.
grail a:

5.8.0.3: 

59550 
Ian-la ton-lag pg
3.8.5 5.55.5.8 
is nan.
9.903 

Eldon; 
grip]! ER.
83..
332
all.? 
a:

33%
32.8.5.5. ~33:
.3055 :33

and; 
g.

85.9.3: on?:

kins?:83. 02.:
.3035 ?0.555.355 ?Sov?
Iqosi gang 
550.15.. 8.8

38.3.3 3.8.. 
8.0.5.. 0.8..) 63?
8.413 .1139.

 

125

Canal-on Ann-(mm Salary and Whoa Roam
Mol?memaer 1. 2011

203352 3. no:


711 711


0











BEAMS 125.111.



amumg

393
as929
92?
.329


.029
329
.929
32930

.130

'30
.m



.Iil
.111111 111111111111 11 11 1 11 

5m

Gamma mammal-3 Salary and Cannons-anon Ream


Mm?

November 16, 2011

 


399



3 


I



5 








3 ?ag. 3% 2??;an WES $335!
33335 5353;; 
55H 6315?s?i??z?w? ?31? :54: 






3mm: mmanmnm 3!



127

Catered 
AsclNa-venmr L2n11

November 16, 2011

2 







a 

- 

i
?a
5:1

'n'v?rin'v?mdviwn'n'n'nh 

o'c'o?a?o'o'o'n'do'o?u?o'o' 

1'

a 










2 


E?ig 35333 ?2 3 533335333333 a s; 5 ?my




Fulani
W1
mu







mm!




Fmoul




Pm



Pm




limou-








Hmon-


hm



128

129

303:
the. 265:6! .. 

El nulls: ?11 Eggnog 
Emu-3Mime'ru?rgig

3.8.

November 16, 2011

Novem ber 16, 2011

 

Btu?n auto Sh 98.. ?No.0 n3. Mm cent as. 34. Owu 35 96.35 .05 .880 aim Etc 955 8.50 i 839

tank 8; Had ?nd 33' 308.3 Salami Eat-wig Sgig guns 

i n2. ?ood mum. .lu. awl an gnaw? ?ag i a El: :55: Sauna
.10 3 :5350 5. mm!- Imu a a

130

 

.r haeuxaz 2
cave 55:85 Chin gages ECHO

November 16, 2011

11-1116-AR1

FINAL

REPORT ON BOARD REPORT RESCISSIONS

THE GENERAL COUNSEL REPORTS THE FOLLOWING:

l. Extend the rescission dates contained In the following Board Reports to January 25, 2012
because the parties remain involved In good faith negotiations which are likely to result in an
agreement and the user group(s) conCurs with this extension:

1. 09-0722-OP3: Approve Entering into a Master lnlergovernmenta- License Agreement With
Chicago Park District for Use of Facilities,

User Group: Office of Real Estate

Services: License Agreement

Status: In negotiations

2. Amend Board Report 08-0625-OP8: Approve Entering into an intergovernmental
Agreement with the Chicago Park District for the Lease of Land and the Use of Certain Athletic
Facilities to be Constructed as Part of the New Lee/Pasteur Area School

User Group: Chief Operating Officer

Services: Lease Agreement

Status: In negotiations

3. Amend Board Report 08-0827-PR23. Amend Board Report 05-1026-PR12
Amend Board Report Approve Entering into an Agreement With Blue Cross Blue
Shield of Illinois for Health Care Administration Services,

User Group: Office of Human Capital

Services: Health Care Administration Services

Status: In negotiations

4. 10-1117-PR19: Amend Board Report 08-0827-PR26: Amend Board Report 
Approve Exercising the Second Option to Renew the Agreements Wll"  United Health Care Insurance
Company and United Behavioral Health for Health Maintenance Organization. Behaworal health and
Flexible Spending Account SerVices

User Group: Office of Human Capital

Services: Behavioral Health and FleXIble Spending Account Sewices

Status: In negotiations

5. 10-1215-OP3: Approve the Second Renewal of the Lease Agreement With Fortunes From A Farr.
LLC for Lease of Space at 641 South Plymouth Court for Jones High School.

User Group: Office of Real Estate

Services: Lease Agreement

Status: In negotiations

6. 11-0126-EX9: Amend Board Report Amend Board Report Amend
Board Report 09-0826-EX7: Amend Board Report 08-0827-EX8: Amend Board Report 08-0602-
EX2: Amend Board Report Approve the Renewal of the Charter School Agreement
with the Youth Connection Charter School.

User Group: Office of New Schools

Services: Charter School

Status: In negotiations

7, 11-0223-PR4: Approve Entering into Agreements with Dell Marketing. P. Dell Financial.
Sentinel Technologies (CISCO). Inc, and Vion Corporation (Hitachi) for the Purchase andlor Lease of
Network Servers.

User Group: Information 8. Technology Services

Services: Purchase andlor Lease of Network Services

Status: 2 of 4 agreements have been executed; the remainder are In negotiations

8. Approve the Renewal of the Charter School Agreement With Lawndale Educational
and Regional Network Charter School. Inc.

User Group: Office of New Schools

Services: Charter School

Statue: In negotiations

9. 11-0323-EX11: Approve the Establishment of the Prologue Early College and Entering into a
School Management and Performance Agreement with Prologue. Inc. and Illin0is Not-For-Profit
Corporation.

User Group: Office of New Schools

Services: School Management and Performance Agreement

Status: In negotiations

131

November 16, 2011

10: 11-0323-PR7: Approve Exercising the First Option to Renew the Pre-Oualification Status ol
Contractors to Provide Mechanical Contracting Servrces for the Board of Education

User Group: Facility Operations 8. Maintenance

Services. Mechanical Serwces

Status: In negotiations

11: Amend Board Report 09-1028-OP3: Amend Board Report 09-0527-OP3 Ratily
Entering into a School Food Serwces Agreement and Approve Entering into a New Lease Agreement
with Noble Network of Charter Schools for Lease of a Portion of the Cregier School Budding. 2040 
Adams.

User Group: Real Estate

Services: Food Service and Lease Agreement

Status: In negotiations

12. 11-0427-OP4: Amend Board Report 09-1028-OP4: Authorize Entering into a New Lease
Agreement With Noble Street Charter School for Use of the Gladstone School Burlding at 1231 
Damen Avenue.

User Group: Real Estate

Services: Lease Agreement

Status: In negotiations

13. 11-0427-OP5: Amend Board Report 10-0526-OP1- Amend Board Report 10-0224-OP4
Approve Entering into a New Lease Agreement and School Food Services Agreement With Noble
Network of Charter Schools for Rental of the Reed School Burlding at 6350 S. Stewart

User Gr0up: Real Estate

Services: Lease Agreement

Status: In negotiations

14. 11-0427-PR49: Approve Entering into an Agreement With Illinois Caucus for Adolescent Health
for Training, Youth Development. and Implementation Services.

User Group: Citywide Special Education Resource

Services: Youth Development and Implementation Services

Status: In negotiations

15. 11-0525-E03: Approve Entering into Agreements with Various Provrders for High Quality Early
Childhood Services.

User Group: Office of Early Childhood Education

Services: Early Childhood Services

Status: 159 of 161 agreements have been executed; the remainder are in negotiations

16. 11-0525-EX7: Amend Board Report 11-0126-EX6: Amend Board Report 10-0526-EX5 Amend
Board Report 10-0428-EX2: Amend Board Report 09-1123-EX7: Amend Board Report 09-0826-
EX8: Amend Board Report 08-0924-EX8. Amend Board Report 08-0602-EX7: Approve the Renewal
of the Charter School Agreement with UNO Charter School

User Group: Office of New Schools

Services: Charter School

Status: In negotiations

17. 11-0525-EX8: Amend Board Report11-0126-EX9: Amend Board Report 10-0922-EX4: Amend
Board Report 10-0728-EX6: Amend Board Report 09-0826-EX7: Amend Board Report 08-0827-EX8
Amend Board Report Amend Board Report 07-0627-IEX7: Approve the Renewal of
the Charter School Agreement with the Youth Connection Charter School

User Group: Office of New Schools

Services: Charter School

Status: In negotiations

18. 11-0525-OP4: Authorize the Public Building CommissiOn of Chicago to Purchase the Property at
10436 South Indianapolis Boulevard for the Construction of a New Southeast Area Elementary
Schoot

User GrOup: Facilities 8. Operations

Services: Purchase Agreement

Status: In negotiations

19 11-0525-PR22: Approve Exercising the First Option to Renew the Agreement with Delta Denial
of Illinois for Dental Preferred Provider Organization (DPPO) and Dental Health Maintenance
Organization (DHMO Services).

User Group: Office of Human Capital

Services: Dental Health Maintenance

Status: In negotiations

20. 11-0525-PR24: Approve Exercising the First Option to Renew the Agreement With Encompass
Health Management Systems for Utilization Management and Case Management Services

User Group: Office of Human Capital

Services: Health Maintenance

Status: In negotiations

132

November 16, 2011

21. 11-0622-ED2. Approve Entering into an Agreement City Colleges of Chicago for Dual
CreditlEnrollment, Remediation. and ArtiCUlation Partnership Programs

User Group: Office of College and Career Preparation

Services: Articulation Partnership Program

Status: In negotiations

22. 11-0622-E03: Approve Entering into an Agreement with Loyola University of Chicago f0r
Community-Based Federal Work Study Program

User Group: Office of College and Career Preparation

Services: Federal Work Study Program

Status: In negotiations

23. Approve the New Lease Agreement with Bronzev'lle Lighth0use Charter School
for Lease of Hartigan School Locates at 8 West Root Street:

User Group: Real Estate

Services: Lease Agreement

Status: In negotiations

24, 11-0622-OP3: Approve new Lease Agreement With Chicago Charter School Foundation
(Chicago International Charter School) ChicagoQuest for Lease of the Truth School Located at 1443
North Ogden.

User Group: Real Estate

Services: Lease Agreement

Status: In negotiations

25. Approve the New Lease Agreement With LEAR Charter School for Lease of
the Thorp School Located at 8914 South Buffalo Avenue,

User Group: Real Estate

Services: Lease Agreement

Status: In negotiations

26. 11-0622-PR8: Amend Board Report11-0223-PR2: Amend Board Report 10-0728-PR9: Amend
Board Report 09-0923-PR5: Approve Entering into an Agreement Cannon DeSign for Design
Management Services for the Capital Improvement Program

User Group: Facility Operations 8. Maintenance

Services: Design Management Services

Status: In negotiations

27. 11-0622-PR372 Amend Board Report 11-0323-PR2O Approve Payment and Ratify Entering into
Agreement with Children's Memorial HOSpital and Umoia Student Development Corp to Provide Stall
Development and Student Support for the Office of School Improvement

User Group: Office of School Improvement

Services: Staff Development and Student Support

Status; In negotiations

28. 11-0622-PR38: Approve Exercising the Fourth Option to Renew that Agreement With the
University of Chicago for Consulting Services Provided by the Chapin Hall Center for Children
User Group: Citywide Special Education Resource

Services: Consulting Services

Status: In negotiations

29. 11-0622-PR39: Approve Entering into Agreements and Renewals With Hearing Officers for
Expulsion. Truancy, Tuition Residency and Board Rule 6028, 6-29. and 6.30 Hearings.

User Group: Office of Student Support and Engagement

Services; Hearing Officer Services

Status: 9 of 14 agreements have been executed; the remainder are in negotiations

30, 11-0622-PR42: Ratify the First Option to Renew the Agreement With Various Consultants fer
Development of a Capstone Course in Space Science.

User Group: Academic Initiatives

Services: Development of Capstone Course in Space Science

Status: 5 of 6 agreements have been executed; the remainder are in negotiations

31. 1 Approve Exercising the Second Option to Renew the Agreements with Selected
Vendors to Provide Consulting Services to Private Schools in Chicago Pursuant to the NCLB Title I
Federal Entitlement Program.

User Group: Office of Grants Management and Administration

Services: Consulting Services

Status: In negotiations

32. 11-0824-PR2: Approve Entering into Agreement with Various Vendors for the Purchase of
Library Books. Reference Books and Related Services.

User Group: Office of Humanities

Services: Purchase of Library Books, Reference Books and Related Services

Status: In negotiations

133

November 16, 2011

33. 11-0824-PR5: ApprOve Entering mm a Software License Agreement With Education Logistics.
Inc. to Prowde Software Enhancements to the Current School Bus Routing System

User Group: Student Transportation

Services: Software License Agreement

Status. In negotiations

34. Approve Exercising the First Option to Renew the Agreement With Careers
Through Culinary Arts Program (C-CAP) For Educational Sewices,

User Group: Office of College to Career Preparation

Services: Educational Servrces

Status: in negotiations

35. 11-0824-PR12: Approve Exercising the Second Option to Renew the Agreement With IiIinOis
Restaurant Association Education Foundation for Education Services.

User Group: Office of College to Career Preparation

Services: Educational Servrces

Status: In negotiations

36. 11-0824-PR13: Approve Entering into an Agreement With Kuhns Assoaates. inc For
Consulting Services.

User Group: Office of Human Capital

Services: Consulting Services

Status: In negotiations

37. 11-0824-PR16: Approve Exercising the Option to Extend the Prequatificatioii Status of and the
Agreements with Various Vendors to Prowde Staff Professiional Development and Student
Development Services For the Culture of Calm Program

User Group: Office of School Safety and Security

Services: Professional Development Sewices

Status; in negotiations

38. 11-0824-PR17: Approve ExerCIsing the Option to Renew the Agreements Various Vendors
for the Purchase of Specialized Educational Equipment.

User Group: Office of Special Education 8. Support

Seririces: Purchase of Specialized Educational Equipment

Status: In negotiations

39. 11-0824-PR18: Approve ExerCising the Option to Renew the Agreernenls vvitIi Various Vendors
for the Purchase of Specialized Equipment. Testing Materials. Maintenance. Training and Warranty
Services.

User Group: Office of Special Education 8- Support

Services: Purchase of Specialized Educational Equipment

Status: In negotiatiOns

40. 11-0824-PR23: Approve Exercising the First Option to Renew the Agreement Metritecn, inc
for the Purchase of Test Materials and Related Professional Development Serwces

User Group: Office of Student Assessments

Services: Purchase of Test Materials

Status: In negotiations

II. Rescind the following Board Reports in part or in full for failure to enter into an agreement
with the Board, after repeated attempts. and the user groups have been advised of such
rescission:

1, 11-0824-PR1: Approve Extending the Agreement with Staples Business Advantage. A divi5ion of
Staples Contract and Commercial. Inc. for the Purchase of Remanufactured inkiet and Laser Toner
Cartridges and Compatible Inkjet and Laser Toner Cartridges,

User Group: Office of Procurement

Services: Purchase of Remanufactured lnket and Laser Toner Cartridges

Action: Rescind Board authority in full for failure to execute their agreement.

Vice President Ruiz thereupon declared Board Reports 11-1116-0P1, 11-1116-EX2 through 11-
1116-EX4 and 11-1116-AR1 accepted.

The Secretary presented the following Statement for the Public Record:
Vice President Ruiz and Members of the Board:

Please be advised that I have received a report dated November 16, 2011, from the Chief
Financial Officer pursuant to the authority delegated to him in Board Rule 5-14.

134

November 16. 2011

This report estimates that the amount of money necessary to be raised by taxation upon
the taxable property in the district as defined in Section 18-60 of the Property Tax Code is
$2,133,300,000.

The report also certifies that this estimated amount is less than the limit defined in Section
18-70 of the Code and specifies that the amount of the levies that will actually be used in 2012 will
be determined in the FY 2013 budget process.

Please let the record reflect that I am placing a copy of the Chief Financial Officer?s report

in the record of this meeting and will include the report in the Official Report of the Proceedings of
the Board.

CHICAGO

PUBLIC CPS
SCHOOLS .

 

 

Ol'?ce (Thief Financ?illijf?ca TIES Chicago. Illihmt (?loll-l
Telephone 773-553-2700 773 553-37!?

Report of the Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Board Rule 5-14 and Section 35 ll.CS
200/ 18-60 of the Illinois Property Tax Code

35 200/l8-60 of the Illinois Property Tax Code (?the Code") requires that not less
than 20 days prior to the adoption of its aggregate levy. the corporate authority 01' each taxing
district shall determine the amount of money estimated to be necessary to he raised by
taxation for that year upon the taxable property in its district.

Section 18-70 of the Code provides in part that if the estimate of the corporate authority
made as provided in Section 18-60 is more than 105% of the amount extended or estimated to
be extended upon the final aggregate levy of the preceding year. then the corporate authority is
required to give public notice of and hold a public hearing on its intent to adopt a levy in excess
of 105% of the amount extended or estimated to be extended in the prior year.

Board Rule 5- 14 delegates to the Chief Financial Of?cer the authority to annually
determine the estimate of property taxes to be levied as required under 35 200/ 18-60 and
to report that estimate to the Board through the Office oi? the Secretary of the Board.

Board Rule 5-14 also requires that not less than 20 days prior to the adoption of the
Board?s aggregate levy. the Chief Financial Of?cer shall determine the amounts of money
estimated to be necessary to be raised by taxation for that year upon taxable property in the
district and that the estimate shall be deemed an act of the corporate authority upon receipt of
the Chief Financial Officer?s report of the estimate by the Secretary of the Heard.

The Chief Financial Officer hereby estimates that the amount of money necessary to be
raised by taxation upon the taxable property in the district as defined in Section 18-60 of the
Code is 82.133.300.000 and certi?es that this estimated amount is less than the limit delined
in Section 18?70 of the Code. The amount of the levies that will actually be used in 2012 will
be determined in the FY 2013 budget that will be presented to the Board.

This report is ?led with the Secretary of the Board this 16'" day of November. 201 1.

Children I?n'x?l

135

November 16. 2011

OMNIBUS
At the Regular Board Meeting of November 16, 2011 the foregoing motions, reports and
other actions set forth from number 11-1116-M01 through 11-1116-RS7 except as otherwise
indicated, were adopted as the recommendations or decisions of the Chief Executive Officer and
General Counsel.
Mr. Bienen abstained on Board Report 11-1116-PR12.

Vice President Ruiz abstained on Board Reports 11-1116-PR2 and 11-1116-PR6.

ADJOURNMENT

Vice President Ruiz moved to adjourn the meeting, and it was so ordered by a voice vote.
all members present voting therefore.

Vice President Ruiz thereupon declared the Board Meeting adjourned.

I, Estela G. Beltran, Secretary of the Board of Education and Keeper of the records thereof,
do hereby certify that the foregoing is a true and correct record of certain proceedings of said
Board of Education of the City of Chicago at its Regular Board Meeting of November 16. 2011 held
at the Central Service Center 125 South Clark Street, Board Chamber, Chicago, Illinois, 60603.

Estela G. Beltran
Secretary

136

November 16, 2011
INDEX

AR REPORTS FROM THE GENERAL COUNSEL
11-1116-AR1 Report on Board Report Rescissions 131 -134

11-1116-AR2 Authorize Retention of the Law Firm Jones Day LLC 2, 3

11-1116-AR3 Workers? Compensation - Payment for Lump Sum Settlement for Nathan
Gregory, Case No. 10 WC 37990 3

11-1116-AR4 Property Tax Appeal Refund Authorize Settlement for Kmart Corp, PTAB Appeals
Regarding its Property for Tax Years 2006-11 4

CO - COMMUNICATIONS
11-1116-CO1 Communication Re: Location of Board Meeting of December 14, 2011 
125 S. Clark Street (Board Chamber) 55

11-1116-C02 Communication Re: Reappointment of Trustee to Serve on the Public School
Teachers? Pension and Retirement Fund of Chicago (Rodrigo A. Sierra) 55

ED REPORTS FROM THE CHIEF EDUCATION OFFICER
11-1116-ED1 Report on Student Expulsions for October 2011 57, 58

11-1116-E02 Approve Paid Leave of Absence for Robert Reynolds to Participate in the
Fulbright Program in Finland 58

11-1116-EDS Approve Entering Into Agreements with Various Universities for Student Interns
in the Area of Counseling 59 - 61

REPORTS FROM THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
11-1116-EX1 Transfer of Funds"

*[Note: The complete document will be on File in the Office of the Board] 55 - 57
11-1116-EX2 Principal Contracts (A) 108. 109
11-1116-EX3 Principal Contracts (B) 109, 110

11-1116-EX4 Chief Executive Officer?s Report on Posting and Presentation of Certified
Administrators? Salary and Compensation Report 110 - 130

11-1116-EX5 Approve Appointment of Chief Safety and Security Officer - (Jadine Chou) 4, 5

11-1116-EX6 Warning Resolution - Christie Jones, Contract Principal, Assigned to
Stephen T. Mather High School 5

11-1116-EX7 Warning Resolution Donna Hencinski, Speech Language Pathologist,
Assigned Citywide 5. 6

11-1116-EX8 Warning Resolution - Sharon Holyfield-Cooper, Tenured Teacher, George
Washington Carver Primary School 6

11-1116-EX9 Warning Resolution - Ghaniyya Lutfi, Teacher, Assigned to Fenger High School 

Warning Resolution Jill Sontag. Tenured Teacher, John Greenleaf Whittier
Elementary 7. 8

MO MOTION
11-1116-M01 Motion to Hold a Closed Session 1. 2

November 16, 2011

REPORTS FROM THE CHIELOPERATING 

11-1116-OP1 Amend Board Regort 06-0927-OP1 Amend Board Report 05-0727-OP1
Approve Entering Into Agreements with Various Telecommunication Vendors
for Use of Space for Placement of Telecommunications Equipment at Chicago
Public School Properties 107, 108

PO - POLICIES

11-1116-PO1 Rescind Outdated Policies in Board Reports 00-0726-PO1, 92-0527-P02,
71-1010-1, 96-0626-P05. 97-1022-P02, 95-1028-PO4, 95-1028-P05, 77-284, 80-58,
00-0223-P03 and 05-0824-P07 12, 13

PR- REPORTS FROM THE CHIEF PURCHASING OFFICE

11-1116-PR1 Amend Board Report Approve Exercising the Final Option to
Renew the Agreements with Berland Printing, Inc., and Printing Company, Inc.
and Gem Acquisition Company, Inc. dlblal Gem Business Forms for Purchase of
Printing and Reprographic Services 62 - 75

11-1116-PR2 Amend Board Report 10-0Q8-PR4 Amend Board Report 10-0224-PR3 Approve
the Pre-Quali?cation Status of and Entering Into Agreements with Architectural!
Engineering to Provide Services 64, 65

11-1116-PR3 Approve the Award of Construction Contracts and Approve Changes to
Construction Contracts for the Board of Education?s Capital Improvement
Program 75 - 87

11-1116-PR4 Amend Board Report 10-1117-PR8 Approve the Free-Qualification Status of and
Entering Into Agreements with Various Consultants to Provide Services Related
to Oracle Systems 88 - 91

11-1116-PR5 Approve Entering Into an Agreement with National Center for Time and Learning
for Longer School Day Support Services 91 - 93

11-1116-PR6 Amend Board Report Approve Entering Into an Agreement with
Prairie Group, College of Education, University of Illinois of Chicago for
Consultant Services 93, 94

11-1116-PR7 Approve Entering Into an Agreement with Megatech Corporation for the
Purchase of Automotive Trainers 95, 96

11-1116-PR8 Ratify Exercising the First Option to Renew the Agreement with Miliennia
Consulting, L.L.C for Program Evaluation Services 96 - 98

11-1116-PR9 Ratify Entering Into an Agreement with New Life for Case Management
Services 98, 99

11-1116-PR10 Approve Exercising the Second Option to Renew the Agreement with Chicago
Arts Partnerships in Education (CAPE) for Professional Development, Support
Services and Mater 99 - 101

11-1116-PR11 Approve Entering Into an Agreement with Institute for Innovation in Public
School Choice (IIPSC) to Provide a School Choice Matching System and
Services 101 - 103

11-1116-PR12 Amend Board Regort 11-0126-PR21 Ratify Apprew; Entering Into an Agreement
with The University of Chicago (Chapin Hall Center for Children) for the Purchase

of Grant Evaluation Services 104 - 106

11-1116-PR13 Approve Payment to It?s Your Serve for Process Serving Fees 106

November 16, 2011

RS - RESOLUTIONS

11-1116-RS1

11-1116-RS2

11-1116-R33

11-1116-RS4

11-1116-RS5

11-1116-R86

11-1116-RS7

RULE
11-1116-RU1

Resolution Re: Appointment of Non-Teaching Staff Representative to Elected
Local School Council for the Term of Office Ending June 30, 2010 11
Resolution Re: Appointment of Teacher Representatives to Fill Local School
Council Vacancies for the Term of Office Ending June 30, 2012 12
Resolution by the Board of Education of the City of Chicago Regarding the

Dismissal of Nowell Herr, Tenured Teacher, Assigned to Schubert Elementary

School 8
Resolution by the Board of Education of the City of Chicago Regarding the
Dismissal Proceedings Regarding Ghaniyya Lutfi. Tenured Teacher, Assigned

to Fenger High School 8. 9
Resolution Approving Chief Executive Officer?s Recommendation to Dismiss
Educational Support Personnel 9
Resolution Approving Chief Executive Officer?s Recommendation to Dismiss
Probationary Appointed Teachers 10
Resolution Authorizing the Honorable Termination of Regularly Certified and
Appointed Teachers 10, 11
Annual Readoption of Board Rules and Amendment, Modification or Repealer

of Certain Board Rules in Accordance with Board Rule 2-7 14 - 54

