  
  
42  W.  Madison  Street  •  Chicago,  Illinois  60602  
Telephone:  773/553-­1600    

   
December   1,   2017   
Staff   and   Local   School   Council      
Theodore   Roosevelt   High   School   
3436   West   Wilson   Avenue   
Re:   
Proposed   Reassignment   Boundary   Change   of   Theodore   Roosevelt   High   School,   Patrick   Henry   
Elementary   School   and   Helge   A   Haugan   Elementary   School   
   
Dear   Staff   and   Local   School   Council   Members:   
   
Chicago   Public   Schools   (CPS)   is   committed   to   providing   every   child   from   every   community   with   a   
high   quality   education   that   prepares   them   for   success   in   college   and   in   life.   CPS   students   continue   to   
make    record-­‐‑breaking    academic    progress    in    every    part    of    the    city.    Our    vision    is    that    all    CPS    schools   
can   build   on   this   progress   by   offering   high   quality,   rigorous   instruction   from   talented   educators   that   
help   put   Chicago   students   on   a   path   to   lasting   success.   
   
Theodore   Roosevelt   High   School   (Roosevelt)   is   located   at   3436   West   Wilson   Avenue   and   currently   
serves   1,103   students   in   grades   seven   through   twelve.      
   
During   the   School   Year   2017-­‐‑18,   the   school   communities   of   both   Patrick   Henry   Elementary   School   
(Henry)    and    Helge    A    Haugan    Elementary    School    (Haugan)    requested    a    reassignment    boundary   
change   in   a   letter   dated   October   18,   2017   to   allow   both   Henry   and   Haugan   to   offer   seventh   grade   in   
the   2018-­‐‑19   school   year   and   eighth   grade   in   the   2019-­‐‑20   school   year.      
   
In    consideration    of    the    request    made    from    the    Henry    and    Haugan    school    communities,    I    am   
proposing    the    reassignment    boundary    change    of    Henry,    Haugan    and    Roosevelt    so    that    Henry    and   
Haugan   can   serve   kindergarten   through   eighth   grades   and   Roosevelt   can   serve   ninth   through   twelfth   
grades   by   the   school   year   2019-­‐‑20.         
   
This    proposal    is    consistent    with    the    Chief    Executive    Officer’s    Guidelines    for    School    Actions   
(Guidelines)   because   it   is   a   proposal   requested   by   parents   or   community   members   via   the   process   to   
request   proposals   outlined   in   the   Guidelines.   Specifically,   we   have   heard   the   request   for   this   proposal   
from   the   Henry   Local   School   Council   and   the   Haugan   Local   School   Council.   Furthermore,   the   resulting   
space    utilization    after    the    reassignment    boundary    change    will    not    exceed    any    affected    schools’   
enrollment   efficiency   range,   as   defined   by   the   CPS’   Space   Utilization   Standards.         
   
If   this   proposal   is   approved   by   the   Board   of   Education   of   the   City   of   Chicago   (Board),   effective   July   1,   
2018,   Henry   and   Haugan   will   serve   kindergarten   through   seventh   grades   and   Roosevelt   will   serve   
eighth    through    twelfth    grades.    Further,    effective    July    1,    2019,    Henry    and    Haugan    will    serve   
kindergarten   through   eighth   grades   and   Roosevelt   will   serve   ninth   through   twelfth   grades.   
   
If   you   would   like   more   details   about   the   proposed   reassignment   boundary   change,   please   refer   to   the   
Draft   Transition   Plan   that   is   included   with   this   letter.   
   

   

   

   
  
42  W.  Madison  Street  •  Chicago,  Illinois  60602  
Telephone:  773/553-­1600    

   
As    a    next    step,    CPS    will    hold    two    community    meetings    and    one    public    hearing    to    hear    further   
feedback   on   CPS’   proposal   (meeting   information   is   below).   Following   the   meetings   and   hearing,   the   
Board   of   Education   may   vote   on   this   proposal   as   early   as   February   of   2018.   
   
Public   Comment   on   this   Proposal      
I   invite   you   to   share   your   feedback   on   this   proposal   during   the   following   two   community   meetings   
and   one   public   hearing   noted   below:   
Community   Meeting   1   

Community   Meeting   2   

Public   Hearing   

January   10,   2018                              

January   17,   2018                              

January   26,   2018   

6   to   8   p.m.   
Helge   A   Haugan   Elementary   
School   
4540   North   Hamlin   Avenue   

6   to   8   p.m.   
Patrick   Henry   Elementary   
School   
4250   North   St.   Louis   Avenue   

4:30   to   6   p.m.   
CPS   Central   Office   
42   West   Madison   Street   

   
If   you   wish   to   comment   at   the   community   meetings   or   hearing,   you   must   sign   up   to   speak   on   the   day   
of,   at   the   designated   location,   beginning   one   hour   before   the   designated   start   time   and   ending   one   
hour   after   the   start   of   the   meeting   or   hearing.   You   will   have   two   minutes   to   speak,   unless   the   hearing   
officer   or   meeting   organizer   provides   an   extension.      The   hearing   will   conclude   at   the   stated   end   time   
or   following   the   comments   of   the   last   person   who   has   signed   up   to   speak,   whichever   occurs   first.   
   
Thank   you   in   advance   for   your   feedback   as   we   work   to   provide   all   Chicago   Public   School   students   
with   the   high   quality   education   they   deserve.      After   the   community   meetings   and   public   hearing,   I   
will    review    a    written    report    from    the    hearing    officer    and    at    that    time,    I    may    recommend    that    the   
Board   consider   and   approve   this   reassignment   boundary   change.   
   
Further   Questions   and   Concerns:   
All   of   this   information   can   be   found   at   CPS.edu/Transitions.   If   you   have   any   questions   or   concerns   
regarding   this   proposal   and   the   Draft   Transition   Plan,   please   call   Chicago   Public   Schools   at   (773)   553-­‐‑
1500   or   email   Transitions@cps.edu.   
   
Sincerely,   
   
   
   
   
Forrest   Claypool   
   
Chief   Executive   Officer      
Chicago   Public   Schools      
   

   

   

   
   
   

   
   
   

 