  
  
42  W.  Madison  Street  •  Chicago,  Illinois  60602  
Telephone:  773/553-­1600    

   
December   1,   2017   
   

Staff   and   Local   School   Council   
William   Rainey   Harper   High   School   
6520   S   Wood   St   Chicago,   IL   60636   
   

Re:             Proposed   Closure   of   William   Rainey   Harper   High   School   
      
Dear   Staff   and   Local   School   Council   Members:   
   

Chicago   Public   Schools   (CPS)   is   committed   to   providing   every   child   from   every   community   with   a   
high   quality   education   that   prepares   them   for   success   in   college   and   in   life.   CPS   students   continue   to   
make    record-­‐‑breaking    academic    progress    in    every    part    of    the    city.    Our    vision    is    that    all    CPS    schools   
can   build   on   this   progress   by   offering   high   quality,   rigorous   instruction   from   talented   educators   that   
help   put   Chicago   students   on   a   path   to   lasting   success.      
      

Enrollment    at    Harper    in    the    fall    of    2006    was    at    1,301    students    while    enrollment    in    fall    of    2017    was   
133    students.        Under-­‐‑enrolled    schools    like    Harper    face    challenges    in    providing    a    well-­‐‑rounded   
education   for   their   students   because   they   often   face   challenges   in   offering   robust   program   options   
for    students.    Ultimately,    the    cycle    of    declining    enrollment    creates    challenges    in    programming    and   
staff   recruitment   that   make   it   difficult   to   provide   the   high   school   experience   that   students   deserve.      
      
As   a   result   of   these   trends,   the   Englewood   Community   Action   Council   recently   recommended   that   
CPS   create   a   state-­‐‑of-­‐‑the-­‐‑art   neighborhood   high   school   in   Englewood   and   consolidate   the   existing   
neighborhood    high    schools    in    Englewood.    In    June    2017,    CPS    followed    through    on    the   
recommendation   by   formally   proposing   an   investment   to   create   a   state-­‐‑of-­‐‑the-­‐‑art   neighborhood   high   
school,   now   worth   $85   million.   The   new   school   is   scheduled   to   open   in   fall   2019   with   a   freshman   
class.   Over   multiple   meetings   between   the   Steering   Committee   and   CPS   leadership   as   well   as   tours   of   
the   existing   Englewood   high   schools,   a   variety   of   options   were   considered   for   the   current   Englewood   
high    schools,    including    closure    and    multi-­‐‑year    phase    outs.    Ultimately,    a    vote    was    taken    on    two   
options    and    the    majority    vote    of    the    Steering    Committee    was    to    close    the    high    schools,    including   
Harper,   at   the   end   of   2017-­‐‑18   school   year   and   provide   robust,   individualized   support   to   transition   
current   students   to   other   higher   performing   high   schools   that   are   a   good   match   for   their   needs.   
      
Consequently,    today    CPS    is    announcing    a    proposal    to    the    Board    of    Education    to    close    Hope,    Harper,   
Robeson   and   TEAM   Englewood   high   schools   at   the   end   of   this   school   year   (2017-­‐‑18)   and   reassign   
current   high   school   students   to   other,   higher   performing   high   schools   for   the   remainder   of   their   high   
school   careers.      
   

The   proposed   closure   meets   the   criteria   of   the   Chief   Executive   Officer’s   Guidelines   for   School   Actions   
(Guidelines)   because   it   is   a   proposal   requested   by   community   members   via   the   process   to   request   
proposals    outlined    in    the    Guidelines.        Specifically,    we    have    heard    the    request    for    this    proposal    from   
the   Englewood   Community   Action   Council   and   at   a   meeting   of   the   Englewood   Community   Leadership   
Steering    Committee    in    calendar    year    2017.    In    addition,    current    students    at    Harper    will    be    provided   
options   to   enroll   in   higher   performing   schools,   as   defined   by   the   Guidelines.   
      
Over   the   coming   months,   CPS   will   work   with   current   students   and   families   at   these   high   schools   to   
create   individualized   transition   plans   that   support   student   safety,   learning   and   social   emotional   well-­‐‑
being.   CPS   will   also   work   with   your   labor   union   over   the   coming   weeks   to   identify   supports   that   the   
   

   

   
  
42  W.  Madison  Street  •  Chicago,  Illinois  60602  
Telephone:  773/553-­1600    

   
Board    may    provide    for    you    and    your    colleagues    in    the    four    high    schools    to    ease    this    transition    as   
much   as   possible   and   to   provide   you   any   benefits   to   which   you   are   entitled   under   your   collective   
bargaining   agreement.   In   the   meantime,   if   you   have   any   questions   about   what   this   proposal   means   
for   you,   please   contact   the   Talent   Office   at   workforceplanning@cps.edu.   
      
If   you   would   like   more   detail   about   the   proposed   closure,   please   refer   to   the   Draft   Transition   Plan   
that   is   included   with   this   letter.   
   

As    a    next    step,    CPS    will    hold    two    community    meetings    and    one    public    hearing    to    hear    further   
feedback   on   CPS’   proposal   (meeting   information   is   below).   Following   the   meetings   and   hearing,   the   
Board   of   Education   may   vote   on   this   proposal   as   early   as   February   of   2018.   
      
Public   Comment   on   this   Proposal   
I   invite   you   to   share   your   feedback   on   this   proposal   during   the   following   two   community   meetings   
and   one   public   hearing   noted   below:   
   

Community   Meeting   1   

Community   Meeting   2   

Public   Hearing   

January   10,   2018                                 
6   to   8   p.m.   
Kennedy   King   College      
(Great   Hall,   U   Building)   
740   W   63   St   

January   17,   2018   
6   to   8   p.m.   
Hamilton   Park   Fieldhouse   

January   30,   2018   
5:30   to   8   p.m.   
CPS   Central   Office   

513   W   72nd   St   

42   West   Madison   Street      

   

If   you   wish   to   comment   at   the   community   meetings   or   hearing,   you   must   sign   up   to   speak   on   the   day   
of,   at   the   designated   location,   beginning   one   hour   before   the   designated   start   time   and   ending   one   30   
minutes    after    the    start    of    the    meeting    or    hearing.    You    will    have    two    minutes    to    speak,    unless    the   
hearing   officer   or   meeting   organizer   provides   an   extension.      The   hearing   will   conclude   at   the   stated   
end   time   or   following   the   comments   of   the   last   person   who   has   signed   up   to   speak,   whichever   occurs   
first.   
   

Thank   you   in   advance   for   your   feedback   as   we   work   to   provide   all   Chicago   Public   School   students   
with   the   high   quality   education   they   deserve.      After   the   community   meetings   and   public   hearing,   I   
will    review    a    written    report    from    the    hearing    officer    and    at    that    time,    I    may    recommend    that    the   
Board   consider   and   approve   the   closure   of   Harper.   
   

Further   Questions   and   Concerns:   
All   of   this   information   can   be   found   at   CPS.edu/Transitions.   If   you   have   any   questions   or   concerns   
regarding   this   proposal   and   the   Draft   Transition   Plan,   please   call   Chicago   Public   Schools   at   (773)   553-­‐‑
1500   or   email   Transitions@cps.edu.   
      

   

Sincerely,   
   

   
Forrest   Claypool   
   
Chief   Executive   Officer      
Chicago   Public   Schools      
   

   

   
   
   
   

   
   
   

 