  
  
42  W.  Madison  Street  •  Chicago,  Illinois  60602  
Telephone:  773/553-­1600    

   
December   1,   2017   
   

Parent   or   Guardian   of   a   Student   at      
Parent   or   Guardian   of   a   Student   at   
National   Teachers   Academy   
South   Loop   Elementary   School   
55   West   Cermak   Road   
1212   South   Plymouth   Court   
   
Re:   Proposed   Re-­‐‑assignment   Boundary   Change   of   National   Teachers   Academy   
      
Dear   Parent   or   Guardian:   
   

Chicago   Public   Schools   (CPS)   is   committed   to   providing   every   child   from   every   community   with   a   
high   quality   education   that   prepares   them   for   success   in   college   and   in   life.   CPS   students   continue   to   
make    record-­‐‑breaking    academic    progress    in    every    part    of    the    city.    Our    vision    is    that    all    CPS    schools   
can   build   on   this   progress   by   offering   high   quality,   rigorous   instruction   from   talented   educators   that   
help   put   Chicago   students   on   a   path   to   lasting   success.   
   

In   May   2017,   in   response   to   community   requests   to   strengthen   educational   options   in   the   Near   South   
area,   CPS   introduced   a   preliminary   framework   to   expand   high   quality   neighborhood   options   from   
Pre-­‐‑K    through    high    school    in    the    Near    South    area    by    expanding    the    boundaries    of    South    Loop   
Elementary    School    (South    Loop)    and    converting    National    Teachers    Academy    (NTA)    to    a   
neighborhood   high   school.   This   preliminary   framework   was   designed   to   address   key   priorities   in   the   
Near    South    community,    including    providing    a    continuum    of    high    quality    neighborhood    school   
options   for   all   students   from   pre-­‐‑K   through   high   school   graduation,   as   well   as   building   diverse   school   
communities.      
   

Two   key   components   include:      
   

●   With    a    new    facility    under    construction    to    relieve    overcrowding    at    South    Loop    Elementary   
School,    CPS    is    proposing    expanding    South    Loop’s    boundaries    south    to    include    the    entire   
National   Teachers   Academy’s   boundary.   This   will   increase   access   to   this   new,   state-­‐‑of-­‐‑the-­‐‑art   
school   facility   and   create   one   of   the   most   racially   and   economically   diverse   schools   in   the   city.         
●   Additionally,   gradually   converting   NTA   to   a   neighborhood   high   school   seeks   to   increase   
high   quality,   neighborhood   high   school   seats   in   the   Near   South   area.   Current   high   school   
students   in   the   Near   South   area   have   very   few   nearby   high   school   options.   Currently,   only   8   
percent   of   high   school   students   in   the   Near   South   area   attend   their   neighborhood   high   
school   and,   as   a   result,   57   percent   of   high   school   students   in   the   Near   South   area   travel   
more   than   three   miles   to   attend   high   school.   
   
CPS   held   three   community   meetings   in   May   and   June   of   2017   to   discuss   this   preliminary   framework   
and   gather   community   input.   CPS   collected   additional   input   by   conducting   numerous   small   group   
meetings   with   various   stakeholders   in   the   Near   South   community,   collecting   hundreds   of   e-­‐‑mails   at   
transitions@cps.edu    and    hearing    more    feedback    at    various    CPS    Board    of    Education    meetings.   
Throughout    this    process,    we    have    heard    from    numerous    parties    in    support    of    the    preliminary   
framework,   including   public   officials,   community   leaders   and   members   of   school   communities   in   the   
Near   South   area.      
   
   

   

   
  
42  W.  Madison  Street  •  Chicago,  Illinois  60602  
Telephone:  773/553-­1600    

   
In   addition,   we   have   heard   dissent   from   important   groups   of   families,   and   have   worked   to   adjust   our   
initial    framework    to    accommodate    their    concerns    and    needs.    Based    on    additional    input    from   
community   members,   CPS   adjusted   its   initial   framework   to   draft   a   more   gradual   conversion   timeline   
for   NTA   students   so   that   the   vast   majority   of   existing   NTA   students   could   continue   their   academic   
careers   at   NTA   as   the   high   school   expands.   Additionally,   CPS   also   adjusted   its   proposal   so   that   South   
Loop’s    boundary    will    expand    further    south    than    22nd    street,    to    incorporate    the    entirety    of    NTA’s   
current    boundary.        The    new    expanded    South    Loop    Elementary    boundary    can    be    found    on    page    3    of   
the   transition   plan,   and   a   high   school   boundary   will   be   determined   in   coming   weeks.   Moving   forward,   
we   will   continue   to   work   with   all   stakeholders   to   ensure   that   all   children   receive   the   best   possible   
education   from   Pre-­‐‑K   through   high   school   graduation.   
   

At   the   community’s   request,   CPS   also   intends   to   launch   an   equity   analysis   to   ensure   that   all   students   
would   be   treated   equitably   in   the   transition   and   the   years   to   come.   CPS   has   budgeted   roughly   $85,000   
for   
a   
third   
party   
study.      
   

Because   of   the   support   from   various   stakeholders   in   the   Near   South   community,   I   am   proposing   the   
re-­‐‑assignment   boundary   change   of   National   Teachers   Academy   over   time.   As   part   of   this   proposal,   
students   living   in   the   current   NTA   boundary   will   be   zoned   to   South   Loop   Elementary   School,   with   
certain   grades   being   phased   into   the   South   Loop   boundary   over   time   (see   attached   transition   plan   
for   details).      
   

The   proposed   re-­‐‑assignment   of   NTA’s   boundary   meets   the   criteria   of   the   Chief   Executive   Officer’s   
Guidelines    for    School    Actions    (Guidelines)    because    it    is    a    proposal    requested    by    parents    or   
community   members   via   the   process   to   request   proposals   outlined   in   the   Guidelines.      Specifically,   we   
have    heard    the    request    for    this    proposal    from    recommendations    by    public    officials,    parents,   
community    members    and    community    groups    in    the    Near    South    area    in    the    form    of    petitions,    e-­‐‑mail   
and   statements   at   community   meetings.   This   proposal   is   also   consistent   with   the   Guidelines   because   
the   resulting   space   utilization   after   the   re-­‐‑assignment   boundary   change   will   not   exceed   any   affected   
schools’   enrollment   efficiency   range   as   defined   by   CPS’   Space   Utilization   Standards.      Finally,   the   NTA   
students    impacted    by    this    proposed    re-­‐‑assignment    boundary    change    are    being    provided    the    option   
to   enroll   at   South   Loop   Elementary   School,   a   higher   performing   school,   as   defined   by   the   Guidelines.   
   

If   this   proposal   is   approved   by   the   Board   of   Education   of   the   City   of   Chicago   (Board),   NTA   will   begin   
its   transition   into   a   high   school   effective   July   1,   2019.   In   the   fall   of   2019,   NTA   students   in   grades   3   
and   below   will   be   transferred   to   South   Loop   Elementary   School.   These   students   will   also   have   the   
option   to   transfer   to   a   different   elementary   school,   including   their   neighborhood   elementary   school.   
The    RGC    program    for    grades    K-­‐‑3    will    re-­‐‑locate    to    South    Loop    and    phase    in    grades    over    time.    In   
addition,   the   pre-­‐‑K   program   currently   at   NTA   will   relocate   to   South   Loop.   In   the   fall   of   2019,   NTA   
students    in    grades    4    and    above    will    have    the    option    to    either    remain    at    NTA    through    elementary   
school   and   high   school   or   transition   to   South   Loop   Elementary   School.   
   

If    this    proposal    is    approved,    NTA    will    begin    phasing    in    high    school    grades    and    phasing    out    the   
remaining   elementary   school   grades   starting   in   the   fall   of   2019,   eventually   fully   converting   to   a   high   
school    serving    students    in    the    Near    South    Area    in    grades    9-­‐‑12    in    the    2024-­‐‑25    school    year.    The   
timeline   for   this   conversion   will   be   as   follows:   
   
●   In   SY   2019-­‐‑20,   NTA   will   contain   students   in   grades   4-­‐‑9   
   

   

   
  
42  W.  Madison  Street  •  Chicago,  Illinois  60602  
Telephone:  773/553-­1600    

   
●  
●  
●  
●  
●  

In   SY   2020-­‐‑21,   NTA   will   contain   students   in   grades   5-­‐‑10   
In   SY   2021-­‐‑22,   NTA   will   contain   students   in   grades   6-­‐‑11   
In   SY   2022-­‐‑23,   NTA   will   contain   students   in   grades   7-­‐‑12   
In   SY   2023-­‐‑24,   NTA   will   contain   students   in   grades   8-­‐‑12   
In   SY   2024-­‐‑25   and   beyond,   NTA   will   contain   students   in   grades   9-­‐‑12   

   

As   a   next   step,   CPS   will   hold   two   community   meetings   and   one   public   hearing   to   hear   further   
feedback   on   CPS’   proposal   (meeting   information   is   below).   Following   the   meetings   and   hearing,   the   
Board   of   Education   may   vote   on   this   proposal   as   early   as   February   of   2018.   
   

Public   Comment   on   this   Proposal   
I   invite   you   to   share   your   feedback   on   the   proposed   school   action   during   the   following   two   
community   meetings   and   one   public   hearing   outlined   below:   
   

   

Community   Meeting   1   

Community   Meeting   2   

Public   Hearing   

January   9,   2018                                  

January   16,   2018                                  

January   29,   2018   

6   to   8   p.m.   

6   to   8   p.m.   

6   to   8:30   p.m.   

Illinois   Institute   of   Technology   
(Hermann   Hall   Auditorium)   

Second   Presbyterian   Church   

CPS   Central   Office   

3241   South   Federal   Street   

1936   South   Michigan   

42   West   Madison   Street   

If   you   wish   to   comment   at   the   community   meetings   or   hearing,   please   adhere   to   the   following   
procedures.      You   must   sign   up   to   speak   on   the   day   of,   at   the   designated   location,   beginning   one   hour   
before   the   designated   start   time   and   ending   30   minutes   after   the   start   of   the   meeting   or   hearing.      
You   will   have   two   minutes   to   speak,   unless   the   hearing   officer   or   meeting   organizer   provides   an   
extension.      The   hearing   will   conclude   at   the   stated   end   time   or   following   the   comments   of   the   last   
person   who   has   signed   up   to   speak,   whichever   occurs   first.   
   

Thank   you   in   advance   for   your   feedback   as   we   work   to   provide   all   Chicago   Public   School   students   
with   the   high-­‐‑quality   education   they   deserve.      After   the   community   meetings   and   public   hearing,   I   
will   review   a   written   report   from   the   hearing   officer   and   at   that   time,   I   may   recommend   that   the   
Board   consider   and   approve   the   re-­‐‑assignment   boundary   change   of   NTA.   
   

Further   questions   and   concerns   
All   of   this   information   can   be   found   at   CPS.edu/Transitions.      If   you   have   any   questions   or   concerns   
regarding   this   proposal   and   the   draft   transition   plan,   please   email   transitions@cps.edu   or   call   
Chicago   Public   Schools   at   (773)   553-­‐‑1500.   
   
Sincerely,      
   
   
   
Forrest   Claypool   
   
   
   
Chief   Executive   Officer      
   
   
Chicago   Public   Schools   
   
   

   

 