Detroit Water and Sewerage
Department
Meeting Minutes - Final

735 Randolph
Detroit, Michigan 48226
(313) 224-4704 Office
www.dwsd.legistar.com

Board of Water Commissioners
Wednesday, April 4, 2018

3:00 PM

5th Floor Board Room, Water Board Building

BOWC Special Meeting No. 4 - Closed Session

1.

CALL TO ORDER
Chairman Einheuser called the meeting to order at 4:11 p.m.

2.

3.

ROLL CALL
Present:

6 - Commissioner Linda Forte, Commissioner John Henry Davis, Commissioner
Michael Einheuser, Commissioner Mary Blackmon, Jane Garcia and
Jonathan Kinloch

Absent:

1 - Commissioner Lane Coleman

APPROVAL OF AGENDA
Agenda Item No. 4 - Minutes of Special Meeting No. 3 BOWC Retreat was removed
from the agenda.
A motion was made by Commissioner Mary Blackmon, seconded by
Commissioner John Henry Davis that the agenda be approved as amended.
The motion carried by a unanimous vote.

4.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Special meeting minutes of March 27, 2018, BOWC Retreat were not available.

5.

PUBLIC COMMENTS (2 minutes per speaker)
There was none.

6.

ITEMS FROM THE COMMISSIONERS
There was none.

7.

UNFINISHED BUSINESS
There was none.

8.

NEW BUSINESS
CLOSED SESSION REQUEST

Detroit Water and Sewerage Department

Page 1

 Board of Water Commissioners

18-0073

Meeting Minutes - Final

April 4, 2018

The Board of Water Commissioners for the City of Detroit Water and Sewerage
Department authorizes Approval of a meeting with legal counsel in closed
session pursuant to Sections 8(e) and (h) of the Michigan Open Meetings
Act to discuss settlement strategy in pending litigation regarding
Bifurcation Agreements between Great Lakes Water Authority and DWSD.
Sponsors:

Pospiech

A motion was made by Commissioner Linda Forte, seconded by Commissioner
Jonathan Kinloch to enter into Request, Closed Session at 4:16 p.m. be
approved. The motion carried by a unanimous vote.

B.

18-0074

The Board of Water Commissioners for the City of Detroit Water and Sewerage
Department authorizes Approval of a meeting with legal counsel in closed
session pursuant to Section 8(h) of the Michigan Open Meetings Act and
Section 13(1)(g) of the Freedom of Information Act to consider material
exempt from discussion or disclosure by state or federal statute, specifically
a confidential attorney client communication.

Sponsors:

Pospiech

A motion was made by Commissioner Linda Forte, seconded by Commissioner
Jonathan Kinloch to enter into this Request, Closed Session at 4:16 p.m. be
approved. The motion carried by a unanimous vote.

ROLL CALL VOTE
A motion was made that this be approved. The motion carried by the following
vote:
Aye:

6-

Commissioner Forte, Commissioner Davis , Commissioner Einheuser,
Commissioner Blackmon, Garcia and Kinloch

A motion was made by Commissioner Mary Blackmon, seconded by
Commissioner John Henry Davis that this return from Closed Session at 4:48
p.m.be approved . The motion carried by a unanimous vote.

The only matters discussed were pending litigation and confidential attorney client
communication.

NEW BUSINESS (CON"T)
C.

18-0084

Upon recommendation and opinion of Chief Financial Officer (CFO), Thomas

Detroit Water and Sewerage Department

Page 2

 Board of Water Commissioners

Meeting Minutes - Final

April 4, 2018

Naughton, and General Counsel, Debra N. Pospiech, Esq., the Detroit Board of
Water Commissioners (Board) authorizes the following actions:
1.) DWSD’s Director, CFO and General Counsel shall finalize, and the
Director execute on behalf of the DWSD, the attached Term Sheet
for a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between DWSD and
GLWA (the Term Sheet);
2.) Following execution of the Term Sheet by all parties, the Director,
CFO and General Counsel shall prepare, finalize and execute a
MOU consistent with the provisions of the Term Sheet and shall, on
at least a monthly basis, keep the Board advised of the progress of
finalizing the MOU, including any material changes to the Term
Sheet or MOU affecting DWSD;
3.) If the Director determines that terms of the MOU have materially
changed in a manner that is adverse to the DWSD, the Director or
General Counsel shall advise the Board of such change and the
Board terminates the authorization provided in paragraph 1 of this
Resolution; and
4.) DWSD’s Director, CFO and General Counsel shall take such other
action as may be necessary to accomplish the intent of this vote.
Sponsors:

D.

18-0085

Pospiech

The Detroit Board of Water Commissioners for the City of Detroit Water and
Sewerage Department authorizes Approval of a Separation Agreement and
Mutual Release with Brian Vella and also authorizes the Director and
General Counsel to take such other action as may be necessary to
accomplish the intent of this vote.

Sponsors:

Pospiech

A motion was made by Commissioner Linda Forte, seconded by Commissioner
Mary Blackmon that this Resolution, BOWC be approved. The motion carried
by a unanimous vote.

9.

DIRECTOR'S COMMENTS
There was none

10.

COMMENTS BY COMMISSIONERS
There was none.

11.

COMMENTS BY THE CHAIR

Detroit Water and Sewerage Department

Page 3

 Board of Water Commissioners

Meeting Minutes - Final

There was none.

12.

OTHER MATTERS
There was none.

13.

ADJOURNMENT
Chairman Einheuser requested approval to adjourn.
A motion was made by Commissioner Mary Blackmon, seconded by
Commissioner Jane Garcia that the meeting be adjourned. The motion carried
by an unanimous vote.

There being no further business, the meeting adjourned at 4:50 p.m.

Detroit Water and Sewerage Department

Page 4

April 4, 2018

 