  
  
42  W.  Madison  Street  •  Chicago,  Illinois  60602  
Telephone:  773/553-­1600    

   
December   1,   2017   
   
   
Parent   or   Guardian   of   Student   at   
Emil   G   Hirsch   Metropolitan   High   School   
7740   South   Ingleside   Avenue   
      
   Re:   Proposed   Co-­‐‑location   of   Art   in   Motion   Charter   School   and   Emil   G.   Hirsch   Metropolitan   High   
School      
   
Dear   Parent   or   Guardian:   
   
Chicago   Public   Schools   (CPS)   is   committed   to   providing   every   child   from   every   community   with   a   
high-­‐‑quality   education   that   prepares   them   for   success   in   college   and   in   life.   CPS   students   continue   to   
make    record-­‐‑breaking    academic    progress    in    every    part    of    the    city.    Our    vision    is    that    all    CPS    schools   
can   build   on   this   progress   by   offering   high   quality,   rigorous   instruction   from   talented   educators   that   
help   put   Chicago   students   on   a   path   to   lasting   success.   
   
Art   In   Motion   Charter   School   would   be   a   new   charter   school   and   is   currently   proposed   to   open   in   the   
fall    of    2018    in    the    Greater    Grand    Crossing    Community.    Pending    the    Chicago    Board    of    Education’s   
(“Board”)   action   on   the   charter   school   proposal   at   its   December   6,   2017   Board   Meeting,   the   school   
will   open   serving   200   students   in   grades   7   and   8   and   will   grow   to   serve   one   grade   per   year   until   it   
reaches   grades   7   through   12.         
To    provide    Art    In    Motion    Charter    School    with    a    location    to    establish    and    grow    their    learning   
environment   for   students   of   the   Greater   Grand   Crossing   community,   I   am   proposing   the   co-­‐‑location   
of    Art    In    Motion    Charter    School    with    Emil    G.    Hirsch    Metropolitan    High    School,    located    at    7740    S.   
Ingleside   Avenue.   The   proposed   co-­‐‑location   of   Art   In   Motion   Charter   School   with   Hirsch   High   School   
is   contingent   upon   the   Board’s   approval   of   the   charter   school   proposal   on   December   6,   2017.   
   
This    proposal    is    consistent    with    the    Chief    Executive    Officer’s    Guidelines    for    School    Actions   
(Guidelines)   for   co-­‐‑locations   because   it   is   a   proposal   formally   requested   by   members   of   the   Hirsch   
and    Greater    Grand    Crossing    community.    Specifically,    we    have    heard    the    request    for    this    proposal   
from   members   of   the   Hirsch   and   Greater   Grand   Crossing   community   including   parents,   homeowners,   
and    community    representatives    through    a    letter    dated    November    22,    2017.    The    resulting    space   
utilization    data    after    the    co-­‐‑location    will    not    exceed    the    facility’s    enrollment    efficiency    range,    as   
defined   by   the   CPS’   Space   Utilization   Standards.         
   
If   this   proposal   is   approved   by   the   Board   of   Education   of   the   City   of   Chicago   (Board),   CPS   will   co-­‐‑
locate   Art   In   Motion   Charter   School   with   Emil   G.   Hirsch   Metropolitan   High   School.   
   
If   you   would   like   more   detail   about   the   proposed   co-­‐‑location,   please   refer   to   the   DRAFT   Transition   
Plan   that   is   included   with   this   letter.   
   

   

   

   
  
42  W.  Madison  Street  •  Chicago,  Illinois  60602  
Telephone:  773/553-­1600    

   
As    a    next    step,    CPS    will    hold    two    community    meetings    and    one    public    hearing    to    hear    further   
feedback   on   CPS’   proposal   (meeting   information   is   below).   Following   these   meetings   and   hearings,   
the   Board   of   Education   may   vote   on   this   proposal   as   early   as   February   2018.   
   
Public   Comment   on   this   Proposal   
I   invite   you   to   share   your   feedback   on   the   proposed   co-­‐‑location   of   Art   In   Motion   and   Hirsch   during   
the   following   two   community   meetings   and   one   public   hearing   outlined   below:   
   
Community   Meeting   1   

                                          Community   Meeting   2   

January   9th,   2018                      
6   to   8   p.m.      
Emil   G   Hirsch   Metropolitan      
High   School   
7740   S   Ingleside   Avenue   
   

January   16th,   2018                      
6   to   8   p.m.      
Emil   G   Hirsch   Metropolitan      
High   School   
7740   S   Ingleside   Avenue   
   

                                             Public   Hearing   
January   31st,   2018   
5:30   to   8   p.m.      
CPS   Loop   Office   
42   West   Madison   
Street   
   

If    you    wish    to    comment    at    the    community    meetings    or    hearing,    please    adhere    to    the    following   
procedures.      You   must   sign   up   to   speak   on   the   day   of,   at   the   designated   location,   beginning   one   hour   
before   the   designated   start   time   and   ending   30   minutes   after   the   start   of   the   meeting   or   hearing.      You   
will    have    two    minutes    to    speak,    unless    the    hearing    officer    or    meeting    organizer    provides    an   
extension.      The   hearing   will   conclude   at   the   stated   end   time   or   following   the   comments   of   the   last   
person   who   has   signed   up   to   speak,   whichever   occurs   first.   
   
Thank   you   in   advance   for   your   feedback   as   we   work   to   provide   all   Chicago   Public   School   students   
with   the   high-­‐‑quality   education   they   deserve.   After   the   community   meetings   and   public   hearing,   I   
will    review    a    written    report    from    the    hearing    officer    and    at    that    time,    I    may    recommend    that    the   
Board   consider   and   approve   the   co-­‐‑location   of   Art   in   Motion   and   Hirsch   High   School.   
   
Further   questions   and   concerns   
All   of   this   information   can   be   found   at   CPS.edu/Transitions.      If   you   have   any   questions   or   concerns   
regarding    this    proposal    and    the    draft    transition    plan,    please    email    transitions@cps.edu    or    call   
Chicago   Public   Schools   at   (773)   553-­‐‑1500.   
   
Sincerely,   
   
   
Forrest   Claypool   
   
Chief   Executive   Officer      
Chicago   Public   Schools      

   

   

   
   
   
   

   
   
   

 