 

Official Report of the Proceedings
ofthe

BOARD OF EDUCATION

of the City of Chicago

 

Regular Meeting-Wednesday, March 23, 2016
10:30 AM.
(42 West Madison Street)

 

Published by the Authority of the Chicago Board of Education

Frank M. Clark Estela G. Beltran
President Secretary

March 23, 2016
ATTEST:

5%;ij

Secretary of the Board of Education
of the City of Chicago

President Clark took the Chair and the meeting being called to order there were then:

PRESENT: Mr. Furlong, Ms. Jordan Turner, Mr. Guzman, Ms. Ward, Fr. Garanzini, and
President Clark 6

ABSENT: Dr. Hines -1

ALSO PRESENT: Mr. Forrest Claypool, Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Ronald Marmer, General
Counsel, Dr. Janice Jackson, Chief Education Officer, Mr. Jorge Macias, Chief Officer, Office of 
Language and Cultural Education, Rodriguez, Honorary Student Board Member, and Xavier
Martinez, Shadow Student.

ABSENT: None

President Clark thereupon opened the floor to the Honoring Excellence segment of the
Board Meeting.

President Clark thereupon opened the floor to the CEO report segment of the Board
meeting. Mr. Forrest Claypool, Chief Executive Officer, provided remarks on the recent lawsuit
filing in Cook County Circuit Court against the Illinois State Charter Commission regarding the
Commission?s overturning the district?s decision to close three charter schools; the continued
budget crisis and financial profile of the district and inequity of public school funding; and the
upcoming April 1, 2016 Day of Action due to the decision by CTU to hold a one-day strike. Dr.
Janice Jackson, Chief Education Of?cer provided remarks on PARCC Testing; and the Teacher
Referral Request For Proposal Mr. Jorge Macias, Chief Officer, Office of Language
and Cultural Education, provided a presentation on the Revised Bilingual Policy 

President Clark thereupon opened the floor to the Public Participation segment of the
Board Meeting.

President Clark thereupon opened the floor to the Discussion of Public Participation.
President Clark thereupon opened the floor to the Discussion of Public Agenda Items.
President Clark proceeded to entertain a Motion to go into Closed Session.

Board Member Jordan Turner presented the following Motion:

16-0323-MO1
MOTION TO HOLD A CLOSED SESSION
MOTION ADOPTED that the Board hold a closed session to consider the following
subjects:
(1) information, regarding appointment, employment, compensation discipline, performance,

or dismissal of employees pursuant to Section of the Open Meetings Act;
(2) collective negotiating matters between the public body and its employees or their
representatives, or deliberations concerning salary schedules for one or more classes of

employees pursuant to Section of the Open Meetings Act;

March 23, 2016

(3) the purchase or lease of real property for the use of the Board pursuant to Section
of the Open Meetings Act;

(4) the setting of a price for the sale or lease of real property owned by the Board pursuant
to Section of the Open Meetings Act;

(5) security procedures and the use of personnel and equipment to respond to an actual, a
threatened, or a reasonably potential danger to the safety of employees, students, staff,
the public, or public property pursuant to Section of the Open Meetings Act; I

(6) matters relating to individual students pursuant to Section 2(c)(10) of the Open Meetings
Act;

(7) pending litigation and litigation which is probable. or imminent involving the Board
pursuant to Section 2(c)(11) of the Open Meetings Act; and

(8) discussion of closed session minutes pursuant to Section 2(c)(21) of the Open Meetings

Act, including audio tapes created pursuant to Section 2.06 of the Open Meetings Act.
Vice President Guzman moved to adopt Motion 
The Secretary called the roll and the vote was as follows:

Yeas: Mr. Furlong, Ms. Jordan Turner, Mr. Guzman, Ms. Ward, Fr. Garanzini, and President

Clark 6







Nays: None
President Clark thereupon declared Motion 16-0323-M01 adopted.

CLOSED SESSION
RECORD OF CLOSED SESSION

The following is a record of the Board's Closed Session:

The Closed Meeting was held on March 23, 2016, beginning at 1:23 p.rn. at the CPS Loop
Office, 42 W. Madison Street, Garden Level, Conference Room GC-116, and Chicago Illinois
60602.

PRESENT: Mr. Furlong, Ms. Jordan Turner, Mr. Guzman, Ms. Ward, Fr. Garanzini, and
President Clark 6

ABSENT: Dr. Hines 1

Counsel Retention

Other Reports

Warning Resolutions
Terminations

Personnel

Collective Bargaining
Real Estate

Security

Closed Session Minutes
Individual Student Matters



No votes were taken in Closed Session. 

After Closed Session the Board reconvened.

2

March 23, 2016

Members present after Closed Session: Mr. Furlong, Ms. Jordan Turner, Mr. Guzman,
Ms. Ward, Fr. Garanzini, and President Clark - 6

Members absent after Closed Session: Dr. Hines 1
President Clark thereupon proceeded with Agenda Items.


AUTHORIZE RETENTION OF THE LAW FIRM
QUINTAIROS, PRIETO, WOOD 8: BOYER

THE GENERAL COUNSEL REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Retention of the law ?rm Quintairos, Prieto, Wood Boyer.

DESCRIPTION: The General Counsel recommends retention of the iaw firm Quintairos, Prieto, Wood Boyer to
defend the Board and it agents relating to litigation matters including Biaylock, et ai. v. Board, at at, Case No. 15
011182, and other matters as determined by the General Counsel. Authorization is requested in the amount of
$150,000 for the ?rm's services. As invoices are received they will be reviewed by the General Counsel and, if
satisfactory, processed for payment.

LSC REVIEW: LSC approval is not applicable to this report.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION STATUS: The ?rm is a MBE.

FINANCIAL: Charge $150, 000 00 to Law Department Legal and Supportive Services? Professional Services:
Budget Classi?cation Fiscal Year .. .. .10210-115-54125-231101-000000

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 ILCS 
the inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain investigations and
that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel. necessary to conduct those
investigations.

Con?icts The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the provisions of
105 ILCS which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to, former Board Members during
the one year period foliowing expiration or other termination of their terms of of?ce.

Indebtedness - The Board?s Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 1996, (96-0626-PO3), as amended from time
to time, is hereby incorporated into and made a part of the agreement

Ethics - The Board?s Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011, as amended from time to time, is hereby
incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability - The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current ?scal year is
deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in the subsequent ?scal year budget(s).

The Secretary called the roll and the vote was as follows:

Yeas: Mr. Furlong, Ms. Jordan Turner, Mr. Guzman, Ms. Ward, Fr. Garanzini, and President
Clark 6

Nays: None
President Clark thereupon declared Board Report 16-0323-AR2 adopted.

16-0323-A R3

APPROVE SETTLEMENT OF EILEEN GRIEVANCE
THE GENERAL COUNSEL REPORTS THE FOLLOWING PROPOSED PAYMENT:
DESCRIPTION: Former Community Relations Representative Eileen ?led a grievance (13-09-046)
challenging her layoff in the summer of 2013. An arbitrator sustained the grievance, and the parties have
. now tentatively agreedto fully resolve this matter with a pensionable payment not to exceed $91,000.
LSC REVIEW: LSC approval is not applicable to this report.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION STATUS: Af?rmative Action review is not applicable to this report.

March 23, 2016

FINANCIAL: Charge pensionable payment not to exceed $91,000 as described above
to 12470-115-51130-119004?000000

AUTHORIZATION: Authorize the General Counsel to execute the Approved Payment and all ancillary
documents related thereto.

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

inspector General Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 ILCS
the-Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations. .

Con?icts ?The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 ILCS SIM-21.3 which restricts the employment of or the letting of contracts to former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of
of?ce. .

Indebtedness - The Board?s indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 1996 (96-0626-PO3), as amended
from time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement

Ethics - The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 as amended from time to time,
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current
?scal year is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in the subsequent fiscal year
budget(s).



PROPERTY TAX APPEAL SETTLEMENT FOR
POST TIME CATERING INC. REGARDING ITS PROPERTY FOR TAX YEARS 2011-14

THE GENERAL COUNSEL REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Authorized settlement of appeals by Post Time Catering Inc. regarding its property at 11203 S. Corliss
Avenue, Chicago, Illinois, for the 2011-2014 tax years. This settlement results in a total refund of $51 .920,
plus interest, for the tax years involved. ,The refund will be implemented by reductions in the Board's
property-tax revenues in calendar year 2016 or thereafter. This settlement does not involve adirect
payout of Board funds.

DESCRIPTION: The General Counsel has determined that this settlement is in the Board?s best interests.
LSC REVIEW: Local school council approval is not applicable to this report.
AFFIRMATIVE ACTION STATUS: Not applicable.

FINANCIAL: There is no charge to any Board account. The refund payment is to be deducted from the
Board?s tax revenues in calendar year 2016 or thereafter $51,920, plus interest

PERSONNEL IMPLICATIONS: None
GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 ILCS
5134-13. 1, the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations.

Conflicts The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 ILCS 5l34-21.3 which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of
office.

indebtedness The Board's Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 1996 as amended
from time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics The Board?s Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 (11-0525-P02), as amended from time to time,
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability The agreement shall contain the clause that any'expenditure beyOnd the current
fiscal year is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in the subsequent ?scal year
budget(s).

March 23, 2016

16-0323-AR5

PROPERTY TAX APPEAL SETTLEMENT FOR
THERMAL CHICAGO CORP. REGARDING PROPERTY FOR TAX YEARS 2009-2011

THE GENERAL COUNSEL REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Authorized settlement of appeals by Thermal Chicago Corp. regarding its property at 300 W. Congress,
Chicago, Illinois, for the 2009-2011 tax years. This settlement results in a total refund of $183,607, plus
interest, for the tax years involved. The refund will be implemented by reductions in the Board?s property?
tax revenues in calendar year 2016 or thereafter. This settlement does not involve a direct payout of
Board funds.

DESCRIPTION: The General Counsel has determined that this settlement is in the Board?s best interests.
LSC REVIEW: Local school council approval is not applicable to this report.
AFFIRMATIVE ACTION STATUS: Not applicable.

FINANCIAL: There is no charge to any Board account. The refund payment is to be deducted from the
Board's tax revenues in calendar year 2016 or thereafter $183,607, plus interest

PERSONNEL IMPLICATIONS: None
GENERAL CONDITIONS:

inspectOr Generat Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 ILCS
5134-131, the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations.

Con?icts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 5134?213 which restricts the employment of, or the letting Of contracts to, former
Board members during the one year period foilowing expiration or other termination of their terms of
of?ce.

indebtedness The Board's Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 1996 as amended
from time to time, 'shall be incorporated into and made a part of the? agreement.

Ethics The Board?s Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 (11-0525-P02), as amended from time to time,
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability - The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond?the current
?scal year is deemed a contingent tiability. subject to appropriation in the subsequent ?scal year
budget(s).

President Clark abstained on Board Report 16-0323-AR5.

President Clark indicated that if there are no objections, Board Reports 16-0323-AR3
through 16-0323-AR5, with the noted abstention, would be adopted by the last favorable roll call
vote, all members voting therefore.

President Clark thereupon declared Board Reports 16-0323-AR3 through 16-0323-AR5
adopted.

1 6-0323-EX5

APPROVE APPOINTMENT OF CHIEF OFFICER, OFFICE OF LANGUAGE AND CULTURAL EDUCATION
EFFECTIVE MARCH 21,2016 AND RATIFY ALL LAWFUL ACTIONS TAKEN
As CHIEF OFFICER, OFFICE OF LANGUAGE AND CULTURAL EDUCATION SINCE MARCH 21,2016
(JORGE MACIAS)

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER RECOMMENDS THAT:

1) The Board approve the appointment Of Jorge Macias to the position of Chief Officer, Of?ce of Language
and Cultural Education, effective March 21, 2016, as set forth in the description below; and,

2) The Board ratify, adopt, and assume all lawful acts taken by Jorge Macias as Chief Of?cer, Office of
Language and Cultural Education between 12:00 am. March 21, 2016 and the Board's approval of this
Board Report.

DESCRIPTION:

NAME

Jorge Macias

FINANCIAL:

16-0323-EX6

March 23, 2016

 

FROM 
New Hire External Title: Chief Of?cer. O?ice of Language and Cultural
Education

Functional Title: Chief

Position No: 501800

Basic Salary: $155,500.00

Pay Band: A09

Budget Classi?cation: 11510.1 1 5.51 100.221 01 1 .000000

The expenditure involved In this appointment is not? In excess of the regular budget

appropriation. The position approved by this action shall be included in the FY16
department budget

WARNING RESOLUTION KATHLEEN HAGSTROM

PRINCIPAL, WALT DISNEY MAGNET ELEMENTARY SCHOOL

TO THE CHICAGO BOARD OF EDUCATION

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER RECOMMENDS THE FOLLOWING:

DESCRIPTION:

LSC REVIEW:

AFFIRMATIVE

ACTION REVIEW:

FINANCIAL:

PERSONNEL
IMPLICATIONS:

16-0323-EX7

That the Chicago Board of Education adopts a Warning Resolution for
Kathleen Hagstrom and that a copy of this Board Report and Warning
Resolution be served upon Kathleen Hagstrom.

Pursuant to the provisions of 105 5134-85, the applicable statute of
the State of Illinois, and the Rules of the Board of Education of the City of
Chicago, a Warning Resolution must be adopted and issued to Kathleen
Hagstrom, Principal, to inform her that she has engaged in unsatisfactory
conduct.

The conduct outlined in the Warning Resolution will result in the preferring
of dismissal charges against Kathleen Hagstrom pursuant to the Statute,
if said conduct is not corrected immediately, and maintained thereafter in
a satisfactory fashion following receipt of the Warning Resolution.
Directives for improvement of this conduct are contained in the Warning
Resolution.

LSC review is not applicable to this report. 7

None.

This action is of no cost to the Board.

None.

WARNING RESOLUTION MICHELLE WILBURN, TENURED TEACHER,
ASSIGNED TO THOMAS J. HIGGINS ELEMENTARY COMMUNITY ACADEMY

TO THE CHICAGO BOARD OF EDUCATION

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER RECOMMENDS THE FOLLOWING:

DESCRIPTION:

That the Chicago Board of Education adopts a Warning Resolution for
Michelie Wilburn and that acopy of this Board Report and Warning

Resoiution be served upon Michelle Wilburn.

Pursuant to the provisions of 105 5/34?85, the applicable statute of
the State of Illinois, and the Ruies of the Board, of Education of the City of
Chicago, a Warning Resolution must be adopted and issued to Michelle
Wilbum, tenured teacher to inform her that she has engaged in
unsatisfactory conduct.

LSC REVIEW:

AFFIRMATIVE
ACTION REVIEW:

FINANCIAL:

PERSONNEL
IMPLICATIONS:

March 23, 2016

The conduct outlined in the Warning Resolution will result in the referring
of dismissal charges against Michelle Wilbum pursuant to the Statute, if
said conduct is not corrected immediately, and maintained thereafter in a
satisfactory fashion following receipt of the Warning Resolution.
Directives for improvement of this conduct are contained in the Warning
Resolution. 

LSC review is not applicable to this report.

None.

This action is of no cost to the Board.

None.

President Clark indicated that if there are no objections, Board Reports 16-0323-EX5
through 16-0323-EX7 would be adopted by the last favorable roll call vote, all members voting

therefore.

President Clark thereupon declared Board Reports 16-0323-EX5 through 16-0323-EX7

adopted.

16-0323-R82

RESOLUTION APPROVING CHIEF EXECUTIVE RECOMMENDATION

TO DISMISS EDUCATIONAL SUPPORT PERSONNEL

WHEREAS, on March 18, 2016 the Chief Executive Officer submitted a written recommendation,
including the reasons for the recommendation, to the Board to dismiss the following educational support
personnel pursuant to Board Rule 4-1:

 

Name

School Effective Date

 

Somer Bronson Walsh Elementary School March 23, 2016

 

 

Dennis Hoskin City Wide Facility Operation MarCh 23, 2016

 

 

 

 

WHEREAS, the Chief Executive Of?cer followed the procedures established by him prior to making the

recommendation;

WHEREAS, the Board has reviewed the reasons for the Chief Executive Of?cer's recommendation;

WHEREAS, the Chief Executive Of?cer or his designee has previously noti?ed the affected educational
support personnel of their pending dismissal;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED:

1. That pursuant to Board Rule 4-1, the above-referenced educational support personnel are dismissed
from Board employment effective on the date set opposite their names.

2. The Board hereby approves all actions taken by the Chief Executive Of?cer or his designee to
effectuate the dismissal of the above~named educational support personnel.

3. The Chief Executive Of?cer or his designee shall notify the above-named educational support
personnel of their dismissal.

16-0323-RS3

RESOLUTION APPROVING CHIEF EXECUTIVE RECOMMENDATION

TO DISMISS PROBATIONARY APPOINTED TEACHER

WHEREAS, on March 18, 2016, the Chief Executive Of?Cer submitted written recommendation,
including the reason for the recommendation, to the Board to dismiss the following probationary
appointed teacher pursuant to Board Rule 4-1 and 105 

 

Name

School Effective Date

 

 

David Daly

 

 

 

Jr Doolittle Elementary School March 23, 2016

 

March 23, 2016

WHEREAS the Chief Executive Of?cer followed the procedures established by him prior to making the
recommendation;

WHEREAS, the Board has reviewed the reasons forthe Chief Executive Of?cer?s recommendation;

WHEREAS, the Chief Executive Of?cer or his designee has previously noti?ed the affected probationary
appointed teacher of their pending dismissal; 

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED:

1. That pursuant to Board Rule 4-1 and 105 ILCS 5134-84, the above-referenced probationary
appointed teacher are dismissed from Board employment effective on the date set opposite their name.

2. The Board hereby approves all actions taken by the Chief Executive Of?cer or his designee to_
effectuate the dismissal of the above-named probationary appointed teacher.

3. The Chief Executive Of?cer or his designee shall notify the above-named probationary appointed
teacher of their dismissal.

The Secretary presented the following Statement for the Public Record:

I would like to note for the record that on March 18, 2016, the Board members and the
Office of the Board received the CEO's recommendation to dismiss a Probationary Appointed
Teacher pursuant to Board Rule 4-1 and 105 ILCS 5/34-84. His recommendation included the name
of the teacher affected and the reason. He also noted that the teacher affected will be notified of
their dismissal after adoption of the Resolution.

President Clark indicated that if there are no objections, Board Reports 16-0323-R82 and
would be adopted by the last favorable roll call vote, all members voting therefore.

President Clark thereupon declared Board Reports 16-0323-R82 and 16-0323-RS3 adopted.
Board Member Ward presented the following Motion:
16-0323-M02

MOTION RE: ADOPT AND MAINTAIN AS CONFIDENTIAL
CLOSED SESSION MINUTES FROM FEBRUARY 24, 2016

MOTION ADOPTED that the Board adopt the minutes of the closed session meeting of
February 24, 2016 pursuant to Section 2.06 of the Open Meetings Act. Board Members
reviewed these minutes and determined that the need for con?dentiality exists. Therefore. the
minutes of the closed session meeting held on February 24, 2016 shall be maintained as

confidential and not available for public inspection.

Board Member Furlong moved to adopt Motion 16-0323-M02.
The Secretary caiied the roll and the vote was as follows:

Yeas: Mr. Furlong, Ms. Jordan Turner, Mr. Guzman, Ms. Ward, Fr. Garanzini, and President
Clark- 6

Nays: None

President Clark thereupon declared Motion 16-0323-M02 adopted.

March 23, 2016
Vice President Guzman presented the following Motion:

16-0323-MO3

MOTION RE: APPROVAL OF RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS OF MEETING
OPEN TO THE PUBLIC FEBRUARY 24, 2016

MOTION ADOPTED that the record of proceedings of the Regular Board Meeting of
February 24, 2016 prepared by the Board Secretary be approved and that such records of
proceedings be posted on the Chicago Board of Education website in accordance with Section

2.06(b) of the Open Meetings Act.
Board Member Fr. Garanzini moved to adopt Motion 16-0323-MO3.
The Secretary called the roll and?the vote was as follows:

Yeas: Mr. Furlong, Ms. Jordan Turner, Mr. Guzman, Ms. Ward, Fr. Garanzini, and President
Clark 6

Nays: None
President Clark thereupon declared Motion 16-0323-MO3 adopted.

16-0323-OP1

DISPOSITION OF BIDS RECEIVED FOR THE SALE OF PROPERTY
LOCATED AT THE FORMER LELAND ELEMENTARY SITE, 5221 W. CONGRESS PARKWAY

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

That the Board request the City of Chicago (?the City?) or Pubiic Building Commission as
necessary, convey to Kidz Express NFP, an illinois not-for-pro?t corporation the property
located at 5221 W. Congress Pkwy in Chicago, ("Propezty") as further described herein. The Offer
to Purchase Real Estate contained in the bid solicitation which has been executed by the Purchaser wiil
convert to a contract upon acceptance and execution by the Board. Information pertinent to this
agreement is stated below.

LEGAL DESCRIPTION PIN: See the attached Exhibit A.
BID INFORMATION: in accordance with 105 ILCS 5134-21, the Property was advertised for sale from

December 21, 2015, to January 22, 2016. Bids were received by the Procurement Department by 2:00
pm. on January 22, 2016, and opened on the same date. The following 2 bids were received:

 

Bidders: Offer

1. VOCEL: Viewing Our Children $212,000
as Emerging Leaders NFP

2. Kidz Express NFP $201,065

Section 105 5134-21 provides that the Board may accept the highest responsible bid determined to be in the

best interest of the Board. The offer submitted by Kidz Express has been determined to be the highest responsible
bid and the most responsive to the repurposing goats and objectives for the former Leland School Property. Kidz
Express is a 501(3) not for pro?t corporation that has operated a Youth Center and Mentoring Program in the
South Austin neighborhood since 1997. The program currently provides free after school and summer programs,
tutoring. sports. job training and mentoring programs. Kidz Express plans to expand its existing Youth and job
programs at the former Leland_Schoo  site and to add early childhood and adult education classes. Kidz Express
received strong support for its program from the local community.

APPRAISAL: in 2014, a valuation was made for this property indicating a fair market value range of:

Appraiser: KMD Valuation Group LLC
Value range: 

RECOMMENDATION AND USE RESTRICTION: The Property is not needed for school purposes. The
Property previously housed Leland Eiementary School. The sale of the Property is in the best interests of
the Board in accordance with 105 ILCS 5/34-21 (2011).

The City or PBC, as necessary, shall include a restrictive covenant in the deed stating that the site must
be used for community youth programming which includes one or more of the following: (1) recreational
programming; (2) after-schoollextra-curricular educational programming; (3) counseling; (4) career, trade,

March 23, 2016

job readiness or vocationai training; (5) computer training; (6) mentorship programs;- (7) tutoring
programs; and/or (8) sports/athletic programming. In addition, the site may also incorporate early
childhood programming and/or day care facilities. The deed for the Property will include this restriction.
Title to the Property will revert back to the City of Chicago, in Trust for Use of Schools, as legal title holder
of record for the benefit of the Chicago Board of Education (?Board?) if this restriction is breached without
the prior written approval of the Board?s Chief Operating Of?cer.

The property shall be sold "as is, where is." The valuation and the bids received were reviewed and it is
recommended that the following bid be accepted:

Bidder Name: Kidz Express NFP

Address: 342 Laramie, Chicago, Illinois 60644
Contact: Duane Ehresman 773-447-6215 I ehresmanmanagement@yahoo.com
Grantee Name: Kidz Express NFP

Offer: $201,065

AUTHORIZATION: Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the Offer to Purchase agreement
and to modify the legal description if necessary upon receipt of a title commitment and survey.
Authorize the .City or PBC, as necessary, to issue a quit claim deed in favor of Kidz Express, NFP.
Authorize the General Counsel to take any and all actions required to effectuate this transaction.
Authorize the General Counsel and Chief Operating Officertoexecute any and all ancillary documents
required to administer or effectuate this transaction.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION: Exempt.
LSC REVIEW: Local School COUncil approval is not applicable to this transaction.

FINANCIAL: Proceeds (Purchaser's best and ?nal offer, less closing costs) to be credited to the Capital
Asset Fund.

GENERAL CONDITIONS:
Inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 
5134-131, the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain

investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations.

Conflicts The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 which restricts the empioyment of or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of
of?ce.

Indebtedness The Board?s Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, as amended
from time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 (11-0525-P02), as amended from time to time,
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current

fiscal year is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in the subsequent ?scal year
budget(s). . .

EXHIBIT A-
THE PROPERTY

The Board reserves the rig ht to make changes as necessary to clarity or correct property information.

Common address:

Former Leland Elementary Site, 5221 W. Congress Parkway, Chicago, Illinois

PlN(s):

16-16?122-025

Legal Description:

THE SOUTH 140.43 FEET OF THE NORTH 338.38 FEET, OF LOT 81 AND THE SOUTH 140.43 
OF LOT 81 (EXCEPT THE EAST 50 FEET THEREOF) IN SCHOOL SUBDIVISION OF
SECTION 16, TOWNSHIP 39 NORTH, RANGE 13. EAST OF THE THIRD PRINCIPAL MERIDIAN IN

COOK COUNTY, ILLINOIS AND INCLUDING ANY PROPERTY LOCATED WITHIN OR ADJACENT TO
THE BOUNDARIES OF THIS LEGAL DESCRIPTION.

10

March 23, 2016

16-0323-RS4

RESOLUTION DESIGNATING FOR ACQUISITION REAL PROPERTY
FOR THE CONSTRUCTION OF A NEW SCHOOL TO RELIEVE OVERCROWDING

WHEREAS, the Board of Education of the City of Chicago (the "Board") is a body corporate and
politic organized and existing under and by virtue of the provisions of the School Code, 105 ILCS 5/34-1 et
seq., as amended (the ?Code"); and

WHEREAS, the Board exercises general supervision and jurisdiction over the establishment and
maintenance of public schools, educational and recreational facilities of the Board; and

WHEREAS, the Board has determined that the property described in Exhibit A is required for
school, educational and recreational purposes and to relieve overcrowding; and

WHEREAS, Section 5I34-20 of the Code authorizes the acquisition of titIe to real estate, by
purchase, condemnation or otherwise, for school purposes, such title to be held for the use and bene?t of
the Board in the name of the City of Chicago in Trust for the Use of Schoois; and

WHEREAS, it is necessary, desirable, useful and advantageous, and in the best interests of the
citizens of the City of Chicago, to acquire the property more fully described in Exhibit A for school,
educational and recreational purposes and to relieve overcrowding.

NOW THEREFORE BE IT HEREBY RESOLVED by the members of the Board of Education of the
City of Chicago as follows:

1. It is necessary, desirable, useful and advantageous, and in the public interest to
acquire fee simple title to. and possession of, the property described in Exhibit A
for. school, ed ucational. and recreational purposes.

2. The Board hereby approves the acquisition of title to the real property describe in
Exhibit A for school, educational and recreational purposes.

3. The Board further authorizes and directs the General Counsel or his designee, for
and on behalf of the Board, to negotiate with the owner or owners of such property
for the purchase of the real property as described in Exhibit A.

4. If an agreement can be reached with the owner or owners of such property
regarding the purchase price to be paid, authorization is hereby granted to
purchase such property. subject however, to ?nal approval by the Board.

5. In the event that the negotiations for the purchase of such real property do not
result in a mutually agreed amount of compensation to be paid therefor, then title to
and possession of such real property may be acquired by the Board through
condemnation, and the General Counsel for the Board is hereby authorized,
empowered and directed to institute or direct institution of proceedings in a court of
competent jurisdiction to acquire title to and possession of such real property by
the Board in accordance with the eminent domain laws and procedures of the
State of Illinois. The just compensation to be paid for the property is subject to ?nal
approval by the Board.

6. This resolution is effective immediately upon its adoption.

EXHIBIT A

DESIGNATION OF REAL PROPERTY FOR THE CONSTRUCTION OF
A NEW SCHOOL AT THE SOUTHWEST CORNER OF 647? PLACE AND SOUTH NOTTINGHAM

LEGAL DESCRIPTION:

LOT 11 IN BLOCK 45 IN FREDERICK H. CHICAGO HIGHLANDS IN THE NORTHWEST
1/4' OF THE NORTHWEST 74 OF SECTION 19, TOWNSHIP 38 NORTH RANGE 13 EAST OF THIRD
PRINCIPAL MERIDIAN IN COOK COUNTY, ILLINOIS

PROPERTY INDEX NUMBERS:

19-19-112-012-; 19-19-112-022; 19-19-112-024

COMMON ADDRESS:

7143 WEST 64TH PLACE, CHICAGO, ILLINOIS THE SOUTHWEST CORNER OF 641'? PLACE AND
SOUTH NOTTINGHAM AVENUE

President Clark indicated that if there are no objections, Board Reports 16-0323-0P1 and
16-0323-RS4 would be adopted by the last favorable roll call vote, all members voting therefore.

President Clark thereupon declared Board Reports 16-0323-0P1 and 16-0323-RS4 adopted.

11

March 23, 2016

16-0323-RS1

RESOLUTION
AUTHORIZE APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS
TO LOCAL SCHOOL COUNCILS TO FILL VACANCIES

WHEREAS, the Illinois School Code, 105 ILCS 5I34-2.1, authorizes the Board of Education of the
City of Chicago ('Board') to appoint the teacher, non-teacher staff and high school student members of
local school councils of regular attendance centers to ?ll mid-term vacancies after considering the
preferences of the schools? staffs or students. as appropriate, for candidates for appointment as
ascertained through non?binding advisory polls;

WHEREAS, the Governance of Alternative and Small Schools Policy, B. R. 07-0124-P02
(?Governance Policy?); authorizes the Board to appoint all members of the appointed focal school councils
and boards of governors of alternative and small schools (including military academy high schools) to ?ll
mid?term vacancies after considering candidates for appointment selected by the following methods and
the Chief Executive Of?cers recommendations of those or other candidates:

Membership Categom Method of Candidate Selection

Parent Recommendation by serving LSC or Board

Community Recommendation by sewing LSC or Board

Advocate Recommendation by sewing LSC or Board

Teacher Non-binding Advisory Staff Poll

Non-Teacher Staff Member Non-binding Advisory Staff Poll

JROTC Instructor Non-binding Advisory Staff Potl (military academy high
Schools only)

Student Non-binding Advisory Student Poll or Student Serving
as Cadet Battalion Commander or Senior Cadet
(military academy high schools)

WHEREAS, the established methods of selection of candidates for Board appointment to ?ll mid-
term vacancies 0n local school councils, appointed local school councils and/or boards of governors were
employed at the schools identi?ed on the attached Exhibit A and the candidates selected thereby and any
other candidates recommended by the Chief Executive Of?cer have been submitted to the Board for
consideration for appointment in the exercise of its absolute discretion;

WHEREAS, the Illinois School Code and the Govemance Policy authorize the Board to exercise
absolute discretion in the appointment process;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF EDUCATION OF THE CITY OF
CHICAGO:

1. The individuals identi?ed on the attached Exhibit A are hereby appointed to serve in the speci?ed
categon?es on the local school councils, appointed local schools andlor boards of governors of the
identi?ed schools for the remainder of the current term of their respective of?ces.

2. This Resolution shall be effective immediately upon adoption.

 

 

12

Exhibit A

NEW APPOINTED MEMBERS
TEACHER MEMBER REPLACING SCHOOL
Jenna Kelsey DeAnna Smith Blaine E. S.
Jaclyn Grif?ths Sylvia Moss Columbus E. 3.
Monica Pietruszka Sherilyn Snopek Columbus E. S.
Pilar del Rio Miriam Guzman Danivin E. S.
Jose Rodriguez Kellie Babic?Capiak Finkl E. S.
Joseph Kurstin Kristine Hansberry King C. P. H. 5.
Sandra Broomes Marla Sylvain Powell E. 8.
Katherine Walsh Deborah J. Sukenic Richards. C. A. H. 3.
Pamela Roberts Venus Akbar Woodlawn C. A. E. S.
NON-TEACHER MEMBER REPLACING SCHOOL
Myra Winding Fredrick Baker Aldridge E. S.
Brandon Wilson Vanessa Alexander Powell E. S. 
Taryn Miller Denise R. Liekis Richards C. A. H. S.
PARENT MEMBER REPLACING SCHOOL
Natasha Smith Latosha Funches Woodlawn C. A. E. 3.
COMMUNITY MEMBER REPLACING SCHOOL
Joseph McCord Julie Burnett Woodlawn C. A. E. S.

March 23, 2016

16-0323-PO1

RESCIND BOARD REPORT 02-1023-P001
AND ADOPT A NEW BILINGUAL EDUCATION POLICY

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER RECOMMENDS:
That the Board rescind Board Report and adopt a new BilingualEducation Policy.

PURPOSE: The purpose of this policy is to ensure that students in Pre-Kindergarten through grade 12
whose home language is not English have equity in education and language acquisition opportunities
through the District?s Bilingual Education Services.

The Board acknowledges that cultural identity is inseparable from language and recognizes bilingualism
as a desirable goal and a re?ection of cultural heritage. This Policy further strengthens the Board?s
commitment to recognize students? home languages and cultures as assets to build upon and to support
academic success while they acquire English in preparation for success in college, career, and life.

The Board is committed to bilingual education as an effective vehicle for providing English Learners (ELs)
with a full rneaSure of access to an equitable educational opportunity as required by federal and state law.

This policy speci?es Dual Language Education as a program model option for delivering bilingual
education services, and the Board recognizes Dual Language Education as an effective model for
building bilingualism and biliteracy in students.

This policy re?ects the Board?s emphasis on:
0 Services for Engiish Learners which are aligned to federal and state legal standards,
- Clarity and guidance on effective instructional design for English Learners,
- Research-based instructional practices for English Learners, and
- Meaningful parental participation in Bilingual Education Services.

POLICY TEXT:

1. APPLICABILITY:

This policy applies to all grades Pre?Kindergarten through 12 and to all Chicago Public Schools (CPS)
Elementary and High Schools regardless of whether the school is currently serving English Learners. For
purposes of this policy, ?English Learners? means students, whether born in the United States or born
elsewhere, whose home language background is a language other than English and whose pro?ciency in
speaking, reading, writing, or understanding English may be insufficient to allow them the ability to
meet the State?s pro?cient level of achievement on state assessments; the ability to successfully
achieve in classrooms where the language of instruction is English; or the opportunity to participate
fully in the school setting.

2. IDENTIFICATION OF ENGLISH LEARNERS UPON SCHOOL ENROLLMENT:

A. Home Language Survey: Every student, Pie-Kindergarten through grade 12, newly enrolling in
a CPS District school or any of, the District?s Pre~Kindergarten programs must complete a Home
Language Survey. 

B. EL Screening and Placement: Every student whose Home Language Survey response
includes ?yes" to one or more of the questions must be screened for English language pro?ciency to
determine eligibility and placement in Bilingual Education Services. For grade level students,
screening shall utilize the state-prescribed screener. For Pre-K students, screening shall utilize the
screener speci?ed in the Bilinguai Education Handbook. All students enrolled in Pre-Kindergarten whose
Home Language Survey response includes "yes," must be rescreened upon enrollment in Kindergarten. A
student shall be deemed eligible for enroilment in Bilingual Education Services based on his or her
screening results. 

C. incoming Transfer Students: Program eligibility and placement of transfer students shail be
based on the most recent state-prescribed English language pro?ciency assessment from the transferring
school district if available AND only- if the score was obtained during the current or previous school year. If
assessment scores are not available or are. available but out-of-date, eligibility and placement shall be
based on the state-prescribed Screener results from the transferring school district, provided that the
score was obtained within the previous 12 months. A student shall be re-screened if no valid screener
results are provided by the transferring school district.

D. ParentIGuardian Requests: The parentlguardian of any student within the District who has not
been identified as an English Learner has the right to request that the student be considered for
placement in Bilingual Education Services. If this request is made, the school must screen and place the
student in an appropriate program based on the student's screening results.

13

March 23, 2016

3. BILINGUAL EDUCATION SERVICES ENROLLMENT AND DURATION OF PARTICIPATION:

A. Enrollment, Participation, and Transition: An English Learner shall be enrolled and participate
in Bilingual Education Services until such time as the student achieves a level of English language
proficiency on the state-prescribed assessment that enables the student to perform successfully in
classes in which instruction is only conducted in English. ELs must be assessed annually with the state-
prescribed English language proficiency assessment to monitor their progress in listening, speaking,
reading, and writing. A student shall be transitioned from the Bilingual Education Services when he or
she has demonstrated a level of English language pro?ciency at or above the state-designated exit
criteria, as provided in the Bilingual Education Handbook.

B. Monitoring Transitioned Students: The principal shall ensure the monitoring and
. documentation of progress made by students in meeting the state academic standards following their

transition to the General Program of Instruction as speci?ed in the Bilingual Education Handbook. If
academic evidence later suggests that a transferred student is still in need of English language support.
the student may be re-enrolled into Bilingual Education Services.

4. PARENTIGUARDIAN NOTIFICATION:

The principal shall ensure that the required annual Bilingual Education Services eligibility notices, as
provided in the Bilingual Education Handbook, are issued to the no later than 30
caiendar days after the beginning of the school year (or within 14 calendar days of enrollment for students
who enroll after the 30th calendar day from the ?rst day of school). The annual noti?cations will include
information required in 105 and will be provided in both English and the parent/guardian?s
preferred language.

5. BILINGUAL EDUCATION SERVICES REFUSAL OR WITHDRAWAL BY PARENTIGUARDIAN:

A. Program Refusal: A parentlguardian may elect to refuse enrollment of his or her child in the
Bilingual Education Program after the child is determined to be eligible but before the child has received
any Bilingual Education Services. 

B. Program Withdrawal: A parentlguardian may elect to withdraw his or her child from receiving
Bilingual Education Services at any time during the child?s participation in the program.

C. Procedure for Program Refusal or Withdrawal from Bilingual Education Services: A
parentlguardian requesting a refusal or withdrawal must submit a handwritten, signed, and dated request
to the school. The principal or designee shall ensure that, upon receipt of such request, he or she
schedules a conference with the parent/guardian to review: the reasons for the refusal or withdrawal,
(ii) the student?s English language proficiency level scores, academic progress, and teacher input, AND
the requirement for the student to continue to take the state-prescribed English language pro?ciency
assessment each year until the student meets the state-designated exit criteria. The principal or designee
shall follow the procedures for parent/guardian refusal andlor withdrawal found in the Bilingual Education
Handbook, including the handling of requests where the parent/guardian fails to participate in a
conference.

D. Procedure for Re-enrollment in Bilingual Education Services: English Learners whose
have previously refused or withdrawn enrollment from Bilingual Education Services
may be re-enrolled upon request after the parent/guardian submits a handwritten, signed. and dated
request to the school.

E. Monitoring Progress of Students Refused or Withdrawn: Schools must monitor the academic
progress of all students whose parent/guardian has refused or withdrawn his or her child's enrollment
from Bilingual Education Services and ensure such students continue to have access to appropriate
English Learner supports as set out in the Bilingual Education Handbook.

6. BILINGUAL EDUCATION PROGRAMS AND REQUIREMENTS:

A. General: In order to maintain compliance with statutory requirements for serving English
Learners, schools shall establish and maintain one or more of the following Bilingual Education programs:

 

- Transitional Bilingual Education (TBE): This bilingual program model provides native language
instruction and English as a Second Language (ESL) instruction for ELs. TBE programs must
provide'native language and English instruction in core content areas, including Language Arts,
Social'Science, Science, and Math. English as a Second Language must be provided daily,_with
proper modi?cations and accommodations to help. meet the language needs of the students.
instruction must also include the history and culture of the native land and the United States. The
TBE program is provided to a student on either a full-time or part-time basis as determined by the
student?s attainment on the, state-established English language pro?ciency level and other
characteristics as defined in the state criteria. instruction in a TBE program must be aligned to all
adopted Content and Language Standards.

0 Transitional Program of instruction This program model provides ESL instruction in core
content areas for ELs. A must provide ESL instruction daily with proper modifications and
accommodations to help meet the language needs of ELs. ELs'must receive scaffolding 'and,
when possible, native language support during instruction in core content areas, including
Language Arts, Social Science, Science, and Math. Instruction should include the history and
culture of the native land and of the United States. Instruction in a must be aligned to all
adopted Content and Language Standards

14

March 23, 2016

. Dual Language Education (DLE): This program model provides both English Learners and native-
English-speaking students with instruction in both English and another language with the goal of
all students becoming bilingual and biliterate. The DLE program may be offered in a one-way
immersion setting serving English Learners who are all from the same language classi?cation or
in a two-way immersion setting comprised of English Learners from one language classi?cation
and native-English-speaking students.

B. Bilingual Education Programs Offered at Each School:

1. Each school shall provide for grades K-12:

A Transitional Bilingual Educational (TBE) Program when the school has an
enrollment of 20 or more English Learners of the same language classification
across all grades K-12. .,

A Transitional Program of Instruction (TPI) when the school has an enrollment of
19 or fewer English Learners of the same language classification across all grades


2. Each school serving Pre-Kindergarten students shall provide:

A Transitional Bilingual Educational (TBE) Program when the school has 20 or
more ELs of the same language classi?cation enrolled in the school?s Pre-
Kindergarten program.

A Transitional Program of Instruction when the school has an enrollment of
19 or fewer ELs of the same language classi?cation enrolled in the school's Pre-
Kindergarten program.

0. Staffing and Qualifications: The Principal shall ensure that all teachers who are programmed
to instruct ELs (in TBE, TPI, or DLE-Bilingual Education Services) hold the appropriate Professional
Educator License (PEL, formerly Type 03, O4, 09, or 10) With a Bilingual andlor ESL
Endorsement/Approval and the appropriate content area endorsements. Teachers specifically assigned
to Bilingual Education Services must hold the appropriate PEL and endorsement(s)lapproval(s) for their
program model. CPS teachers holding an Educator License with Stipulations (ELS) Transitional Bilingual
(formerly Type 29 certi?cates) who satisfy the requirements to become quali?ed have to complete an
approved program to qualify for receipt of the appropriate endorsement/approval within ?ve years from
the date they receive the ELS Transitional Bilingual. The principal shall ensure the school is adequately
staffed to serve all English Learners enrolled.

D. . Grading Protocol for English Learners: The Board has high expectations for all students
regardless of the language they speak and their cultural background. No English Learner shall receive a
failing grade due to limited English pro?ciency. A failing grade must be based solely on the English
Learners level of academic performance in the appropriate bilingual education programs, if the student's
aCademic language dominance is proven to be in his or her home language.

7. ENGLISH WITH DISABILITIES:

A. Evaluation: The principal or designee shall ensure that the language(s) used to evaluate a
child to determine eligibility for an Individualized Education Program shall be consistent with the
child's native language or other mode of communication. If the ianguage use pattern involves two or
more languages or modes of communication, the student shall be evaluated by qualified specialists using
each of the languages or modes of communication used by the student.

B. IEP and Related Services: The lEPs developed and implemented should re?ect the linguistic,
cultural, and instructional needs of students and, to the maximum extent appropriate, students will be
placed in non-restrictive environments which provide for integration with nondisabled peers in bilingual
classrooms. Bilingual or ESL endorsed personnel will participate in all meeting(s) for English
Learners.

8. PARENTAL INVOLVEMENT:
A. Bilingual Advisory Committee (BAC) of the Local School Council (LSC): In accordance with

105 each LSC of a school that provides bilingual education shall create a BAC or
recognize an existing BAC as a standing committee. The Chair and a majority of the members of the
Bilingual Advisory Committee shall be parents/guardians of students in the school?s Bilingual Education
Services. The parents/guardians on the advisory committee shall be selected by parents/guardians of
students in the Bilingual Education Services. and the committee shall select a Chair. The advisory
committee for each secondary school shall include at least one full-time bilingual education student. The
SAC shall serve only in an advisory capacity to the LSC.

B. Chicago Multilingual Parents Council (CMPC): The -Board established the CMPC in
accordance with Article 140-10 which requires the district to establish a parentlguardian advisory
committee to afford parents/guardians of English Learners the opportunity to express their views and
which ensures that Bilingual Education Services are planned, operated, and evaluated with the
involvement of, and in consultation with, parents/guardians of children served by the District?s Bilingual
Education Services. Membership on the CMPC is based on citywide elections as set forth in the bylaws
of the CMPC.

15

March 23, 2016

9. OVERSIGHT:

The Of?ce of Language and Cultural Education (OLCE) and the Department of Internal Audit and
Compliance shall oversee implementation and compliance with this policy, federal and state law in doing

so, shall:
a. Provide technical assistance and support to assist schools with implementation of the policy and
programming 
b. Assist schools in obtaining support services through various Central Of?ce departments and
Network of?ces .

c. Conduct periodic evaluations on school implementation of bilingual education services
d. Monitor individual Bilingual Education Services refusal and withdrawal requests received from
parentsiguardians

10. BILINGUAL EDUCATION HANDBOOK:

The Chief Education Of?cer or designee is authorized to develop, issue, and update the Bilingual
Education Handbook and any related guidelines, standards, and toolkits to ensure the effective
implementation of this policy and compliance with federal and state law. The principal or designee shall
ensure compliance with this policy and the requirements set out in the Bilingual Education Handbook
including but not limited to those related to documentation, student data management, parentlguardian
notices, timelines and deadlines, grading, and qualifying assessment exemptions.

11. DEFINITIONS:

Bilingual Education Services: A program of instruction designed to promote'meaningful access to core
content through Transitional Bilingual Education, Transitional Programs of or Dual Language
Education. English Learners are provided with tools, resources, and program structures to ensure that
students are fully engaged in rigorous instruction preparing them for college, career, and life.

English as a Second Language: Specialized instruction designed to provide English Learners with
focused language development in English in the domains of listening, speaking, reading, and writing.

Home Language: The language spoken within a student's home; spoken by the student, the parents, the
siblings, andIor other famiiy members; also referred to as Language Classification or Native Language;

General Program of Instruction: Pre-Kindergarten through grade 12 educational programs offered to all
students. -

Language Acguisition: The process in which students develop listening, speaking, reading, and writing
language skills.

Language Classification: The language spoken within a student's home; spoken by the student, the
parents, the siblings, and/or other family members; also referred to as Home Language or Native
Language.

Native Language: The language spoken within a student's home; spoken by the student, the parents, the
siblings, and/or other family members; also referred to as Language Classi?cation or Home Language.

Native Language Instruction: Instruction (including instructional materials) provided in the native language
of the ELs within the program.

Scaffolding: An instructional approach based on providing a step-by-step process for building students?
ability to complete tasks on their own.

Transition: Process in which a student who satis?es English langdage pro?ciency requirements based on
the state~prescribed assessment and is then enrolled in general program of instruction.

LEGAL REFERENCES: 105 ILCS 51140-1 et seq; 105 23 Ill. Admin. Code 1.240,

226.140, 226.150 and Part 228; 20 USC 6801 et seq; Equal Educational Opportunities Act (EEOA) 20
United States Code 1703 et seq.

President Clark indicated that if there were no objections, Board Reports 16-0323-RS1 and
16-0323-P01 would be adopted by the last favorable roll call vote, all members present voting
therefore. I I

President Clark thereupon?declared Board Reports 16-0323-RS1 and 16-0323-P01 adopted.

16

March 23, 2016

16-0323-C01

COMMUNICATION RE: LOCATION OF
BOARD MEETING OF APRIL 27, 2016

Frank M. Clark President, and
Members of the Board of Education
Mark F. Furlong
Rev. Michael J. Garanzini, S.J.
Jaime Guzman
Dr. Mahalia A. Hines
Dominique Jordan Turner
Gail D. Ward

This is to advise that the Regular Meeting of the Board of Education scheduled for Wednesday,
April 27, 2016 will be held at:

CPS Loop Of?ce

42 W. Madison Street, Garden Level, Board Room

Chicago, IL 60602
The Board Meeting will begin at 10:30 am.
Public Participation Guidelines are available on or by calling (773) 553-1600.
For the April 27, 2016 Board Meeting, advance registration to speak and observe will be available

beginning Monday, April 18th at 8:00 am. and will close on Friday, April 22nd at 5:00 pm. or until all slots are
?lled. You can advance register during the registration period by the following methods:

Online: (recommended)
Phone: (773) 553-1600
In Person: 1 North Dearborn, Suite 950

The Public Participation segment of the meeting will begin as indicated in the meeting agenda and
proceed for no more than 60 registered speakers for the two hours.



TRANSFER OF FUNDS
Various Units and Objects
THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER RECOMMENDS THE FOLLOWING:

The various transfers of funds were requested by the Central Office Departments during the month of February.
All transfers are budget neutral. A brief explanation of each transfer is provided below:

1. Transfer from Howard Taft High School to Wildwood School

20100004493
Rationale: Transfer funds to feeder schools for coach stipends per Ta?'s request
Transfer From: Transfer To:
46311 William Howard Taft High School 25881 School
115 General Education Fund 115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - ProfessionalIAdministrative 54125 Services - ProfessionaIIAdministrative
150005 Extra Curricular Activities - BoysIGirls 150005 Extra Curricular Activities - BoyslGi?s
000575 Student Based Budgeting 000575 Student Based Budgeting

Amount: $1,000

2. fr rk 
201 50068992
Rationale: Will be used to open bucket for extended day where participants will take stock of what assessments items are available using the

CIM Item Bank to identify what is appropriate for their school materials to develop a resoura: bank of high-quality standards-based
classroom assessments by quarter

Transfer From: Transfer To:
02471 Network 7 02471 Network 7
353 Title II - Teacher Quality 353 Title II - Teacher Quality
53405 Commodities - Supplies 51320 Bucket Position Pointer
221011 lmprovernent Of Instruction 200001 General Salary 
494054 Title Ila - Teacher Quality 494054 Title - Teacher Quality

Amount: 51.000

17

1796.

Transfer from Network 4 to Funston School

20160069075

March 23, 2016

Rationaie: Funds will be used by Funston to participate with LSNA's Parent Mentor Proglam.

Transfer From:

02441

1 15
57940
221 080
000000

Amount: $1.000

Tm orn Al

201 60069448

Network 4

General Education Fund
Miscellaneous Charges

- Improvement Of instruction
Defatilt Value

Hi 5 hoot to Education Gene I- Ci Wide

Transfer To:

23291
115

53405
320020

000901

Frederick Funston School
General Education Fund
Commodities - Supplies

Other Alter Schools Programs
Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Rationale: EXPIRED GRANT - Transfer funding to 367 contingency for use within active FY16?grants.

Transfer From:

46471
367
53307
221 001
435025

Amount: $1.000

DLSS Ins io - i 
20160069676
Rationale:
Transfer From:
11673 ODLSS Instructional Supports: Specially-Designed
Instruction
114 Special Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
221234 Professional Developr'Curn?culum Develp
000000 Default Value

Amount: $1.000

Al Raby High School

Title Comprehensive School Reform
Commodities: Software Licenses (Instrudional)
School Instructional Support Services

Sig Al Raby (Cohort 3)

Warm?Wm
20160070227
Rationale:

Transfer From227
494054

Amount: $1.000

Literacy

Title II - Teacher Quality

Services - Professional/Administrative
Curriculum Development

lia - Teacher Quality

for from St dent Su rt to i i 
20160074321
Rationale: Car fare reim
Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
124 School Special Income Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
267983 Research Evaluation Support Services
070600 21st Century Mou Program income

Amount: $1.000

Transfer from Marie Sklodowska rie 0 ol Hi

201 60071986
Rationale:

February budget adjustments

Transfer From:

53101
1 1 5
51300
290001
000575

Amount: $603,616

Marie Sklodowska Curie Metropolitan High School
General Education Fund

Regular Position Pointer

General Salary 

Student Based Budgeting

18

Transfer To: -

12670
367
57915
600002
41 0008

Education Genelal - City Wide

Title I- Comprehensive School Reform
Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
Contingency For Project Expansion
Contingency For Project Expan

cadem Sr: 001

To provide a sub bucket to cover the remaining three observations and the 3-day Advanced Concepts Class, six days total.

Transfer To:

29161

114
51500
119009
000000

Lasalle Language Academy School

Special Education Fund
Teacher Salaries - Substitutes
Teacher SubstitutesIOvertime
Default Value

Money to be used to purchase of?ce supplies to support Social Science professional developments

To:

13700
353
53405
221227
494054

at!

Literacy

Title II - Teacher Quality
Commodities - Supplies
Curriculum Development
Title lia - Teacher Quality



Transfer To:

10875
124
542 5

390011

070600

Citywide Student Support and Engagement
School Special Income Fund

Car Fare

Community School Initiative

21st Century Mou Program Income

School to Education General - Ci id

Transfer To:

12670
1 15
57940
1 19035
000575

Education General - City Wide

General Education Fund

Miscellaneous Charges

Other ,Instrudion Purposes - Miscellaneous
Student Based Budgeting

March 23, 2016

1797. rorn illiam rd Hi It Education Ge - I WI
20160071953
Rationale: February budget adjustments
Transfer From: Transfer To:
46311 IMlliarn Howard Taft High School . 12670 Edurztion General - City Wide
. 115 General Education Fund 115 General Education Fund
51300 Regular Position Pointer 57940 Miscellaneous Charges
290001 General Salary 5 119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
000575 Student Based Budgeting 000575 Student Based Budgeting

Amount: 6835.565

1798. Iransfer from Youth Connegion Charter School to Educatign General - gm Wide

20160081903
Rationale: Mid-year budget adjustments

Transfer From: Transfer To:

66101 Youth Connection Charter School (YCCS) 12670 Education General - City Wide
115 General Education Fund 115 General Education Fund
54320 Student Tuition Charter Schools 57940 Miscellaneous Charges
119050 Charter/Contract Per Pupil Revenue K-12 Tuition 119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
000575 Student Based Budgeting 000575 Student Based Budgeting

Amount: $999,531

1799. a on - on ole e'Pre art

201 60063770
Rationale: Funds Transfer From Award# 2015-436?00?01 To Projectlt 2014-70020-ANX Change Reason NA
Transfer From: Transfer To:
12150 Capitah'Operations - City Wide 70020 Walter Payton College Preparatory HS
436 Miscellaneous Capital Fund 436 Miscellaneous Capital Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction 56310 Capitalized Construction
009526 All Other 009531 Additions
000017 Tit Capital 000017 Capital

Amount: $1,027,364

1800. ransferfrom AlbertG ne Tec nica i ch 0! 0 Education Gen rat-C Wide

20160071 972
Rationale: February budget adjustments
Transfer From: Transfer To:
4621 Albert Lane Technical High School 12670 Education General - City lMde
115 General Education Fund 115 General Edurztion Fund
51300 Regular Position Pointer 57940 Miscellaneous Charges
290001 General Salary 119035 Other instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
000575 Student Based Budgeting 000575 Student Based Budgeting

Amount: $1,067,702

1801. hil men - ide Educati Ge -
20160081490
Rationale: EXPIRED GRANT - Transfer funding to 362 contingencj.
Transfer From: Transfer To:
11385 Early Childhood Development - City Wide 12670 Education General - City Wide
362 Early Childhood Development 362 Early Childhood Development
51300 Regular Position Pointer 57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
290001 General Salary 8 Bid 600002 Contingency For Projed Expansion
510222 Headstart?Child Development 410008 Contingency For Project Expan

Amount: $1,418,399

*[Note: The complete document will be on File in the Of?ce of the Board]

16-0323-EX2

APPROVE LOCAL SCHOOL COUNCIL
COMMUNITY VOTING DISTRICTS
FOR CITY-WIDEENROLLMENT SCHOOLS

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER RECOMMENDS:

That the Board approve local school council community voting districts for three (3) city-wide enrollment
schools currently open and operating: Jacqueline B. Vaughn Occupational High School; Michele Clark
Academic Preparatory Magnet High School; Wilma Rudolph Learning Center Elementary School.

19

March 23, 2016

DESCRIPTION:

The School Code. 105 ILCS 5134-2-.1c, authorizes the Chicago Board of Education to establish
local school council community voting districts for city-wide enrollment schools that have or
are scheduled to have traditional local school councils but do not have de?ned attendance areas taking
into consideration:

1) the boundaries of any previous local attendance area for the school;

2) physical characteristics in the surrounding geographic area, including, but not limited to.
eXpressways, rapid transit and railroad rights-of?way, rivers and viaducts;

3) established neighborhood and community area boundaries and boundaries established
for other elected offices within the city and State;

4) the size of the student population; and

.5) compactness and contiguity of voting districts.

Vaughn and Clark High Schools and Rudolph Elementary School do not have de?ned attendance areas.
Pursuant to 105 ILCS proposed voting district boundaries for each of the schools were
publicized to their school communities. Also pursuant to 105 ILSC and public notice, hearings
were conducted at each of the schools to present the proposed voting district boundaries and to receive
public comment on the boundaries.

Hearing Of?cers moderated the public hearings and provided reports with recommendations concerning
the establishment of voting districts for each of the three schools.

LSC REVIEW: Not Applicable.
AFFIRMATIVE
ACTION STATUS: Not Applicable.
FINANCIAL: No additional cost to the Chicago Public Schools.
PERSONNEL
IMPLICATIONS: None.
Elm

Local School Council Community Voting District Boundaries for the city-wide enrollment 
schools listed below are established as follows:

JACQUELINE B. VAUGHN OCCUPATIONAL HIGH SCHOOL

Starting at Mawr Ave (5600N) and Nagle Ave (6432W)
East to Pulaski Rd (4000W)

South to Belmont Ave (3200M)

West to Narragansett Ave (6400W)

North to Gunnison St (4832M)

West to Nagle Ave (6432W)

North to starting point

MICHELE CLARK ACADEMIC PREPARATORY MAGNET HIGH SCHOOL

Starting at North Ave (1600N) and Austin Ave (6000W)
East to Kedzie Ave (3200W)

South to Cerrnak Rd (22008)

West to ChicagoCity Limits 

North to Roosevelt Rd (12008)

West to Austin 

North to starting point

ILMA RUDOLPH ELEMENTARY LEARNING CENTER

Starting atW Division St (1200 N) and California Ave (2800W)
East to Branch Canal/Chicago River 

Southeast to River 

South to 16?? St (16008)

West to California (2800W)

North to starting point

20

March 23, 2016

16-0323-PR1

AUTHORIZE NEW AGREEMENTS WITH VARIOUS VENDORS FOR THE PURCHASE OF CORE
INSTRUCTIONAL MATERIALS FOR ENGLISH LANGUAGE ARTSILITERACY IN GRADES
KIN DERGARTEN-HIGH SCHOOL

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Authorize new agreements with various Vendors for the purchase of Core Instructional Materials for
English Language Artleiteracy in Grades Kindergarten-High School for all schools at an estimated
annual cost set forth in the Compensation Section of this report. Vendors were selected on a competitive
basis pursuantto Board Rule 7-2. Written agreements for this purchase are currently being negotiated.
No services or goods may be ordered or received and no payment shall be made to any Vendor prior to
execution of their written agreement. The authority granted herein shall automatically rescind as to each
Vendor in the event their written agreement is not executed within 90 days of the date of this Board
Report. Information pertinent to the agreements is stated below.

Speci?cation Number: 15-350062
Contract Administrator: Hubbard, Ms. Carisa Ann I 773-553-2280
VENDOR:

1) Vendor 26058
Center for the Collaborative Classroom
1250 53rd St Suite 3
Emeryville, CA 94608
Kristy Rauch
800 666-7270

Ownership: Non Pro?t

2) Vendor 14667
MONDO PUBLISHING
980 AVE. OF THE AMERICAS
NEW YORK, NY 10018-5443
Jim Bumette
773 571-8455

Ownership: 50%, Mark Vineis 50%
3) Vendor# 35372
PEARSON EDUCATION, INC
PO BOX 2500
Lebanon, IN 46052
Brian Young
1-800 876-5507
Ownership: Pearson Plc- 100% Publicly
Held
USER INFORMATION 

Project
Manager: 13700 - Literacy

501 West 35th Street

Chicago, IL 60616

Burnett, Miss Julie 1.

773 553-1966
TERM:

The term of each agreement shall commence on July 1, 2016 and shall end June 20, 2022. The
agreements shall have one (1) option to renew for a period of one (1) year.

EARLY TERMINATION RIGHT:
The Board shall have the right to terminate this agreement with 30 days written notice.

21

March 23, 2016

DESCRIPTION OF PURCHASE:
Goods: Literacy Core Instructional Materials

Quantity: Unlimited
Unit Price: Various
Total Cost Not to Exceed: $24,000,000 in the aggregate for all vendors

OUTCOMES: 

This purchase will result in improved English Language Arts/Literacy instruction and student Ieaming
though Common Core State Standards aligned curriculum materials and teacher professional 
deveIOpment. The district will be able to measure the impact through the REACH observation data and
student performance on Common Core aligned assessments.

COMPENSATION:

Vendors shall be paid in accordance with the unit prices contained in their respective agreement. The 6
year term supports a multi-year pricing structure that can reduce by half the overall spend on materials
over a 6-year period. Schools will have the option to purchase materials in 3 or 6 year bundles. This
model allows schools to pay in advance for materials to be delivered over the length of the 3 or 6 year
bundle option selected. Yearly pricing will also be available for individual products should schools need to
make small purchases to replace or supplement their materials. Estimated aggregate cost for all Vendors
for the six (6) year term are set forth below: 

$24,000,000, FY16-FY22

AUTHORIZATION:

Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant terms and conditions in the written agreements.
Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the agreements. Authorize Chief of Teaching and
Learning to execute all ancillary documents required to administer or effectuate the agreements.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION:

Pursuant io the Remedial Program for Minority and Women Business Enterprise Participation 
Program) in Goods and Services contracts, the goals for this contract include 15% total MBE and 7%
WBE to be applied to this pool. Aggregated compliance for the vendors in the pool will be reported on a
quarterly basis.

LSC REVIEW:
Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL:

Fund: Various

All Schools

$24,000,000, FY16-FY22

Future year funding is contingent upon budget appropriation and approval.

Not Applicable

GENERAL CONDITIONS: .

inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 ILCS
5134-111, the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain-
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations.

Con?icts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 ILCS which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the- one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of
of?ce.

Indebtedness - The Board's Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 1996 (96-0626-P03), as amended
from time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics - The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 amended from time to time,
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability - The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current

?scal year is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in the subsequent ?scal year
budget(s).

22

March 23, 2016

16-0323-PR2
FINAL

AUTHORIZE NEW AGREEMENTS WITH VARIOUS VENDORS FOR ARTS AND CULTURAL
ENRICHMENT (OUT-OF-SCHOOL), ACADEMIC SUPPORT (OUT-OF-SCHOOL), AND STUDENT
HEALTH AND WELLNESS (IN-SCHOOL, OUT-OF-SCHOOL, RECESS) SERVICES

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:
Authorize new agreements with various vendors to provide direct services and/or professional
development in one or more of the following content categories: Out-of?School Arts and Cultural
Enrichment; Out-of-School Academic Support; In? or Out-of-School Health and Wellness (includes
Recess Facititation) to the Of?ce of College and Career Success and the Of?ce of Student Health and
Wellness at an estimated annual cost set forth in the Compensation Section. Vendors were selected on a
competitive basis pursuant to Board Rule 72. Written agreements for Vendors' services are currently
being negotiated. No services shall be provided by and no payment shall be made to any Vendor prior to
execution of their written agreement. The authority granted herein shall automatically rescind as to each
Vendor in the event their written agreement is not executed within 120 days of the date of this Board
Report. Information pertinent to the agreements is stated below.
Speci?cation Number 15-350069

Contract Administrator Hubbard, Ms. Can?sa Ann I 773-553-2280

USER INFORMATION 

Contact:
11371 Student Support and Engagement

42 West Madison Street
Chicago, IL 60602
Parker, Ms. Allison A.
7773-5534 000 I

Contact:
14050 - Of?ce of Student Health Wellness

42 West Madison Street
Chicago, IL 60602
Van Ermen, Ms. Mariah 

773-553-1886

Project
Manager: 10870 College and Career Success Of?ce

42 West Madison Street
Chicago, IL 60602
Mather, Mr. Alan Wesley
773-535-5100

Project
Manager: 12010 Nutrition Support Services

42 West Madison Street
Chicago, IL 60602
Fowler, Mrs. Leslie A.

773-553-2830

TERM:
The term of each agreement shall commence on August 1, 2016 and shall and July 31, 2018.

EARLY TERMINATION RIGHT:
The Board shall have the right to terminate each agreement with 30 days written notice.

23

March 23, 2016

SCOPE OF SERVICES:

Vendors will provide to the Board high-quality Out-of-School Time (OST) Arts and Cultural Enrichment;
OST Academic Support; In- or Out-of-School Health and Wellness programming (includes Recess
Facilitation) referred to herein as "Programs". Selected programs provide critical services to schools by
increasing schools' capacity to offer engaging OST Programs that extend Ieaming beyond the school day.
Student health and wellness programs aim to remove health related barriers to Ieaming. All programs
may include time before and after school, on weekends, or during summer and intersession; Student
Health and Wellness programs may take place during the school day as well. Programs may serve
students from grades K-12.

DELIVERABLES:
Vendors will provide the following deliverables for Arts and Cultural Enrichment Academic Support and
Health and Wellness:

- Provide direct instruction to students that provides in-depth exposure to speci?c content area;

- Participate in professional development and training as directed by the Board;

- OST Only: Integrate a culminating project or event into programming to provide students with the
opportunity to demonstrate their Ieaming to school staff, families, and their peers;

- OST Only: Communicate regularly with families to provide feedback on student progress and to engage
families in the content being taught through the programming;

- OST Only: Maintain an average program attendance rate of 80%

OUTCOMES:

Vendors' services will result in increased numbers of students participating in meaningful, engaging
programming that re?ects the students' interests and enhances their readiness for college and career. As
a result of participating in programming, students will demonstrate:

- increased attendance in school;

increased engagement in school;

- Increased knowledge and skills in the content areas covered in the programming;
- Increased readiness for success in high school and college;

Increased awareness of career options in focus content areas

In addition, CPS will gain increased efficiencies across multiple departments in Chicago Public Schools at
both the central of?ce and school levels through district level contracting. School leaders will be able to
secure approved programs at pro-negotiated pricing and leverage the Board Report to purchase
year-long programs without having to submit individual Chief Purchasing Of?cer Requests. OCCS,

OSHW, Procurement, and schools all bene?t from these ef?ciencies.

COMPENSATION.
Vendors shall be paid as specIf ed In their respective agreement; total for the term not to exceed the sum
of $20,000 000' In aggregate for all vendors.

EXPENSES:
None.

AUTHORIZATION.

Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant terms and conditions In the written agreements. 
Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the agreements. Authorize Chief of Student Health and
Wellness and the Chief of College and Career Services to execute all ancillary documents required to
administer or effectuate the agreements.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION:
The MBEIWBE goals for this contract are 15% MBE and 5% WBE. These goals will apply to For-Pro?t
Organizations only.

LSC REVIEW:
Local School Council approval Is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL:

Various Funds

All Schools and Departments

$20. 000 000 FY17-FY18

Future year funding is contingent upon budget appropriation and approval.

Not Applicable

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 
the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations.

Con?icts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 ILCS 5I34-21.3 which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of
of?ce.

Indebtedness - The Board's Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 1996 as amended
from time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

24

1)

2)

3)

March 23, 2016

Ethics- The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 (11- -0525- 4302) as amended from time to time,

shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability - The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current
?scal year is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in the subsequent ?scal year

budget(s).

4)
Vendor 30111
AFTER SCHOOL MATTERS
66 EAST RANDOLPH ST. 4TH FLR.
CHICAGO, IL 60647
Mary Ellen Caron
312 742-4182
Category 1 2, 3 Ownership: Non-Pro?t
5)
Vendor 13789
ALTERNATIVES, INC.
4730 SHERIDAN ROAD
CHICAGO, IL 60640
Judith M. Gall
773 506-7474
Category 2 Ownership: Non-Pro?t
6)
Vendor 47733
AMERICA SCORES CHICAGO
600 W. CERMAK RD #204
CHICAGO, IL 60616
Brian Bullington

312 666-0496

Category 1, 2, 3 Ownership: Non-Pro?t

25

Vendor 90836
BETWEEN. FRIENDS

PO. BOX 608548

CHICAGO, IL 60660

Colleen Norton

773 274-5232
Category 3 Ownership: Non-Pro?t

Vendor 30370
BEVERLY ARTS CENTER
2407 w. 1-11TH STREET
CHICAGO, IL 60655

Emily Leonard

773 445-3838 
Category 2 Ownership: Non-Pro?t

Vendor 17099

BIG FISH INNOVATIONS

4826 HERMITAGE AVE

CHICAGO, IL 60640 I

Travis Kreashko

717 940-5410

Category 3 Ownership: Travis Kreashkoa

Allison Hileman 25%; Eliza Martin 25%,
Nathan Reinhart 25%

7)

8)

9)

10)
Vendor 39142

BRIGHTON PARK NEIGHBORHOOD
COUNCIL

44?? S. ARCHER AVE.
CHICAGO, IL 60632
Patrick Brosnan

773 523-71 10

Category 1, 2, 3 Ownership: Non-Pro?t

11)
Vendor 64915

CARLA A. TANTILLO DBA MINDFUL
PRACTICES

204 S. RIDGELAND

OAK PARK, IL 60302

CarIa Tantiilo 

708 997-2179

Category 2,3 Ownership: Sole-Proprietor 12)
Vendor 34824

CHANGING WORLDS

329 WEST 18 STREET, SUITE 506

CHICAGO, IL 60616

Emilie Shumway

312 421-8040

Category 2 Ownership: Non-Pro?t

26

March 23, 2016

Vendor 20041

CHICAGO ADVOCACY
CENTER

1240 S. DAMEN AVENUE

CHICAGO, IL 60608

Meg O'Rourke

312 492-3700

Category 3 Ownership: Non-Pro?t

Vendor 67054

CHICAGO JAZZ PHILHARMONIC

1111 NORTH WELLS STREET., STE 501
CHICAGO, IL 60610

Birdie Soti

312 573-8932
Category 2 Ownership: Non-Pro?t

Vendor 85881
CHICAGO RUN

3611 NORTH KEDZIE
CHICAGO, IL 60618

Alicia Gonzalez

.773 463-1234

Category 3 Ownership: Non-Pro?t

13)

14)

15)

16)
Vendor 46293

HEALTH MARKET, INC.

PO. BOX 7294 

WILTON, CT 06897
Kathleen McGuire
203 762?2938
Category 3 Ownership: For Pro?t Nancy
Grace -100%
17)
vendor 97415
CITIZEN SCHOOLS, INC
308 CONGRESS STREET
BOSTON, MA 02210
Jeanette Casteilanos Butt

617 695-2300

Category 1 Ownership: Non?Pro?t

18)
Vendor 18448

CLASSROOM, INC

245 FIFTH AVE., 20TH FLR.
NEW YORK, NY 10016
Rebecca Grober

212 545-8400

Category 1 Ownership: Non-Pro?t

27

March 23, 2016

Vendor 74997

COLUMBIA COLLEGE CHICAGO
600 MICHIGAN AVE
CHICAGO, IL 60605

April Langworthy

312369-8851
Category 1, 2, 3 Ownership: Non-Pro?t

Vendor 46240

Chicago Horticultural Society DBA Chicago
Botanic Garden

1009 LAKE COOK ROAD -
GLENCOE, IL 60022

Katherine Johnson

847 835-5440

Category 3 Ownership: Non-Profit

. Vendor 94892

EDUMOTION, LLC DBA DANCING WITH
CLASS -

5246 NORTH ELSTON AVE. 2ND FLR.
CHICAGO, IL 60630

Margot Toppen

312 371?7318

Category 2, 3 Ownership: - Margot

Mcgraw Toppen Trevor Allen Toppen
10%

19)

20) 

21)

22)
Vendor #17188

FOCUS FITNESS, LLC

2426 S. DISHMAN MICA RD

SPOKANE VALLEY, WA 99206

Yuliya Davis

509 327-3181

Category 3 Ownership: Karen Cowan

47%, Ron Malm 47%; Jack Cummings 6%
23)

Vendor 16082

Free'LunCh Academy

10636 Rhodes

Chicago, IL 60628

Alia Abdul-Samad

773 326?23 1 2 .

Category 2 Ownership: Non-Pro?t

24)
Vendor 68933

GILLOURY INSTITUTE DBA SILK ROAD
RISING

6 EAST MONROE ST. APT 801
CHICAGO, IL 60603-2711
Malik Gillani I

312 857-1234x202

Category 2 Ownership: Non-Pro?t

28

March 23, 2016

Vendor II 66033

GIRLS IN THE GAME, NFP
UNION PARK FIELD HOUSE
CHICAGO, IL 60607

Courtney Rowe 

312 633-4263

Category 3 Ownership: Non-Pro?t

Vendor #12814

WILLCOX CO. INC.
18604 W. CREEK DRIVE

TINLEY PARK, IL 60477

Kelly A Jackson

708 687?5000

Category 3 Ownership: For-Pro?t - Publicly
Traded -

Vendor 96575

INTONATION MUSIC WORKSHOP
4434 s. Lake Park Ave:

Chicago, lL 60653

Mike Simons

312 505-4267

Category 2 Ownership: Non-Pro?t

25)

26)

27)

- 28)
Vendor 30857

JEWISH COMMUNITY CENTERS OF
CHICAGO

30 SOUTH WELLS ST., STE 4000

CHICAGO, IL 60606

Julie Cantrell
312 444-2879
Category 3 Ownership: Non-Pro?t
29)
Vendor 27229

JOFFREY BALLET, THE

I 10 EAST RANOLPH STREET.

CHICAGO, IL 60601
Erica Edwards
312 386-8931
Category 2,3 Ownership: Non-Pro?t
30)
Vendor 97156

LMS INNOVATIONS, INC DBA PLAY IN A
BOOK .

2734 WEST LELAND AVE.
CHICAGO, IL 60625

Laura St John

773 329-0920

Category 1, 2 Ownership: For Pro?t: Laura
St. John -51% Marlon St. John 49%

29

March 23, 2016

Vendor 46701

METROPOLITAN FAMILY SERVICES 7
1 NORTH DEARBORN-STE 1000
CHICAGO, IL 60602

Jennifer Michel

312 986-4135
Category 1,3 Ownership: Non-Pro?t-

Vendor #96501 

PLAYWORKS EDUCATION ENERGIZED
770 HALSTED, STE 206

CHICAGO, IL 60642

Louis Marquis, Program Director

312 324-0280
Category 3 Ownership: Non-Pro?t

Vendor 81000

PROJECT SYNCERE

4434 S. LAKE PARK AVE. RM 210
CHICAGO, IL 60653

Jason Coleman

773 982-8261

Category 1 Ownership: Non-Pro?t

31)

32)

33)

34)

Vendor 49935

RIGHT AT SCHOOL, -LLC

990 GROVE ST. STE 500 A

EVANSTON. IL 60201

Patricia McElroy

312 636-0706

Category 3 Ownership: LIC -Mark Rothchild 42
Tom Abrahamson 11% David Golder 
Adam Case- 5% All Other Owners Less Than 35)
5%

Vendor 94829

PANTS YOGA, INC DBA MISSION
PROPELLE -

2131 N. CLAREMONT AVE 
CHICAGO, IL 60647
Anne Warshaw

954 649-881 7
36)

Category 3 Ownership: Non-Pro?t

Vendor 99256

SPARK PROGRAM, INC

223 WEST JACKSON, STE 520
CHICAGO, IL 60606

Kathleen St. Louis Caiiento

312 470?4300

Category 2 Ownership: For Pro?t: Anne
Warshaw 51%; Carey 49%

30

March 23, 2016

Vendor 24279
STREET-LEVEL YOUTH 
1637 N. ASHLAND

CHICAGO, IL 60622

Manwah Lee

773 862-5531

Category 2 Ownership: Non-Pro?t A

Vendor. 67930

TRUE STAR FOUNDATION
1130 WABASH 302
CHICAGO, IL 60605
JeQuana Na-Tae' Thompson

312 588-0100

Category 2 Ownership: Non-Pro?t

Vendor 50134

URBAN INITIATIVES, INC.
650 WEST LAKE. #340
CHICAGO, IL 60661

Julie Cheiovich

312 715-1763

Category 3 Ownership: Non-Pro?t

37)

38)

39)

16-0323-PR3

Vendor 30499

YOUNG CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION
OF CHICAGO DBA YMCA OF
METROPOLITAN CHICAGO

1030 w. VAN BUREN ST

CHICAGO, IL 60607

DaWana Williamson

312 440-2403
Category 1, 3 Ownership: Non-Pro?t

Vendor 1060

YOUTH GUIDANCE

1 NORTH LASALLE ST., #900
CHICAGO, IL 60602

Mauka Graham-Burley

312 404-3242
Category 1,3 Ownership: Non-Pro?t

Vendor 14841

YWCA METROPOLITAN CHICAGO
1 NORTH LASALLE STREET
CHICAGO, IL 60602

Dom? MCWhorter

312 372-6600

Category 3 Ownership: Non-Pro?t

AUTHORIZE THE FINAL RENEWAL AGREEMENTS WITH VARIOUS VENDORS FOR SOCIAL
EMOTIONAL LEARNING SERVICES

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

March 23, 2016

Authorize the ?nal renewal agreements with Vendors to previde social emotional learning services

to the Depanment of College and Career Success. as well as all Network and Schools at an estimated
annual cost as set forth in the Compensation Section of this report. Written documents exercising this

option are currently being negotiated. No payment shall be made to any Vendor during the option period
prior to execution of their written document. The authority granted herein shall automatically rescind as to
each Vendor in the event their written document is not executed within 120 days of the date of this Board

Report. Information pertinent to this option is stated below.

Contract Administrator Hubbard, MS. Carisa Ann I 773-553-2280

31

March 23,2016

USER INFORMATION 

Contact:
10870 - College and Career Success Of?ce

42 West Madison Street
Chicago, IL 60602
Mather, Mr. Alan Wesley

773-535-5100

Project
Manager: 10895 - Social and Emotional Learning

42 West Madison
Chicago, IL 60602
Schu, Ms. Claire 
773-553-3373

ORIGINAL AGREEMENT:

The original Agreements were awarded pursuant to Speci?cation No. 12250016 (authorized by Board
Report 12-0627-PR12 as amended by 12-0725-PR13 and 12-0822-PR9) and, a supplemental
Speci?cation 13-250008 (authorized by Board Report for a term commencing upon
execution and ending June 30, 2015, with the Board having two (2) options to renew for periods of one
(1) year each. The original agreements were subsequently renewed (authorized by Board Report
15-0225-PR5) for a term commencing July 1, 2015 and ending on June 30, 2016. A further supplemental
solicitation was issued (Speci?cation 15-350034) and master agreements awarded to new vendors
(authorized by Board Report 15-0722-PR2) for a term commencing upon execution and ending on June
30, 2016. with one option to renew for a one-year term. The master agreements were awarded on a
competitive basis pursuant to Board Rule 7-2.

OPTION PERIOD:
The term of each agreement is being renewed for one (1) year commencing July 1, 2016 and ending
June 30, 2017.

OPTION PERIODS REMAINING:
There are no more option pen?ods remaining.

SCOPE OF SERVICES:
Vendors shall continue to provide the services described below for each category awarded. The category
awarded to each vendor is indicated below.

Category 1 - Direct Service:

Agencies and community partners/providers commit to a full school year of serviceslsupports. All
agencies and partners must meet state and district standards (outlined for speci?c subcategories below).
All instruction, services and supports will be evidence-based and appropriate for a diverse school
environment.

Direct services for Social Emotional Leaming providers include. but are not limited to, the
following:

Student Social Emotional Skill Development: The services provided will focus on the following types of
skills: self-awareness. Self-management, relationship building and problem solving.

Parent Skill Development: Vendors will provide training targeted for adults
in the lives of our students to build their skills to support the development of student social-emotional skills
in the home, including Ieaming about the content of and being able to reinforce strategies detailed in
other categories.

Social, Emotional and Behavioral Interventions: Vendors will provide behavioral interventions, for the
purposes of this category, are intended to be therapeutic strategies with focused skill development.
These interventions are speci?cally designed to positiver impact a student or small group of students
with speci?c social-emotional barriers to Ieaming.

Programs for Targeted Populations: This is a single strategy or a menu of supports designed to reach
stabilization outcomes for the targeted population, such as school re-enrollment, increased school
attendance, decreased discipline infractions, decreased involvement with the justice system, etc. This
category is intended to highlight strategies that could be effective regardless of the frequency of student
attendance in school. Strategies will be implemented by vendor staff or trained school staff.

Category 2 - Curriculum and Materials: All curriculum and materials must demonstrate strategies that
have previously worked in other large school districts and meet local, state and federal requirements. All
curricula and materials that support the delivery of structured interventions to address student barriers to
Ieaming before, during and after school.

32

March 23, 2016

Category 3 - Professional Development: Professional development includes education, training and
technical assistance for school staff to improve their systems or structures and/or to integrate
social-emotional Ieaming into their instructional planning and practice. Services could include a single
session or ongoing interaction with the school. Services may include professional development sessions,
facilitation of professional learning communities, or direct coaching and consultation on a school or
individual staff practice relative to the desired model.

Professional deVeIopment for social emotional learning includes, but is not limited to, the following:

Schooi Structures and Systems: School structures are de?ned to include protocols, procedures and/or
processes that are intended to guide and/or change the operations of any location or person in the school
to improve the Ieaming climate. Similarly, systems are de?ned as a sequences or series of structures or
strategies that should result in the same. These strategies will most often organize human and other
resources in the school differently to solve a problem or concern and/or capitalize on an opportunity to
develop a more preventive or proactive learning climate.

Student Social Emotional Skill Development: Training will be'provided for adult employees andlor
partners who will implement SEL skill curriculum or strategies. Training should ensure strategy is
implemented with ?delity and is appropriate to the age, grade, and students' cultural and linguistic
background. Training will ensure that staff are able to modify for students with disabilities and students
for whom English is a Second Language 

Staff Skill Development for Awareness and Application in Current Practice: Training will be provided for
adult employees and/or partners intended to build their skill set as required to execute effectively with
other SEL or school climate strategies already in use, but with content that is not specific to any strategy.

DELIVERABLES:

Vendors will continue to provide the following deiiverabies: education, training, and technical assistance
for school staff to improve their systems or structures and to integrate social-emotional Ieaming into their
instructional planning and practice.

OUTCOMES:

Vendors' services wili result in the following outcomes for Category 1 - Direct Services:
- Increased attendance

- Decreased out of school suspension/expulsion

- increased on track rate for students who are off track due to attendance/behavior

- Decreased inappropriate behaviors as measured by the SCC

- increased student engagement in school

- increase in student SEL Skills

For speci?c high risk students, the performance metrics will be as follows:

1. Attendance. A 15 percent increase in the Student Participant's attendance measured at the end of
each semester.

2. Reduction in Misconducts. A 50 percent reduction in serious misconducts (L-4 - L-G) by the Student
Participant, measured at the end of each semester.

3. G.P.A. improvement. A 0.5 point improvement in the Student Participant's G.P.A. each semester (HS
students only).

4. Credit Toward Graduation. An increase in credits earned toward graduation for off-track students, and
keeping pace with credit requirements for students on-track (HS students only).

Vendors? services will result in the following outcomes for Category 2 ~Curnculum and Materials:

The District will have access to curriculum and materials that support SEL development of strategies that
have previously Worked in other large school districts and have shOWn positive outcomes in similar
environments and Vendors will meet local, state and federal requirements. In addition, the curriculum and
materials will include both skill instruction and skill practice.

Vendors' services will result in the following outcomes for Category 3 - Professional Development:
Education, training and technical assistance for school staff to improve their systems or structures and/or
to integrate social-emotional learning into their instructional planning and practice.

COMPENSATION:
Vendors shalt be paid as speci?ed in each Vendor's respective renewal agreement; total for this option
period not to exceed the sum of 510.000.000.00 in aggregate for all vendors.

AUTHORIZATION: .

Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant terms and conditions in the written option
documents. Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the option documents. Authorize the Chief
Of?cer of College and Career Success to execute all ancillary documents required to administer or
effectuate the option agreements. 

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION:
The goals for this contract are 15% MBE and 5% WBE. Thesegoals will apply to FornPro?t
Organizations only.

LSC REVIEW: 
Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report.

33

FINANCIAL:
Muitiple Funds, Multiple School Units
$10,000,000.00 FY16

23, 2016

Future year funding is contingent upon budget appropriation and approval.

Not Applicable

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 ILCS
5734-131, the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel necessary

to conduct those investigations.

Con?icts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the'Board if entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 5134-213 which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of of?ce.

Indebtedness - The Board's Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 1996 as amended from
time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics - The Board?s Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 as amended from time to time,

shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current ?scal
year is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in the subsequent ?scai year budget{s).

3).

1)
Vendor# 94865

3-C INSTITUTE FOR SOCIAL
DEVELOPMENT

4364 S. ALSTON AVE STE 300
DURHAM, NC 27713-2220

Stacey Dodd 

919 677-0102

Category 1, Second Renewal, Ownership:
Melissa E. Derosier, - 100%

2)
Vendor 21152 4)

A KNOCK AT MIDNIGHT

400 W. 76TH 206
CHICAGO, IL 60620

Minister Johnny Banks Sr.

773 488-2960

Category 1, Second Renewal, Ownership:
Non-Pro?t

5)

34

Vendor 38920

AGILE MIND EDUCATIONAL HOLDINGS, INC
4101 WILLIAM D. TATE, STE 101
GRAPEVINE, TX 76051

Susan Johnson

817 424-2863

Category 3, Second Renewal, Ownership:
Common Stock - Linda Gregg
Mcfarland- 19.2%; Stock Outstanding - Linda

Gregg All
Other Are Less Than 10%

Vendor 45712

. ALBANY PARK COMMUNITY CENTER, INC

1945 W. WILSON ., 3RD FLR.

CHICAGO, IL 60640

.Harold Rice

773 433-3202

Category 1, Second Renewal, Ownership:
Non-Pro?t

Vendor 37537

ALLIANCE FOR COMMUNITY PEACE
509 W. ELM STREET

CHICAGO, IL 60610

Dr. Walter B. Johnson Jr.

312 943-8530

Category 1, Second Renewal, Ownership:
Non-Pro?t

6)

7)

8)

9)
Vendor 13789

ALTERNATIVES, INC.

4730 N. SHERIDAN ROAD

CHICAGO, IL 60640

Judith Gall

773 506-7474

Category 1 3, Second Renewal, Ownership:
Non-Pro?t

- 10)
Vendor 68697

AMERICAN INSTITUTES FOR RESEARCH IN
THE BEHAVIORAL SCIENCES DBA
AMERICAN INSTITUTE FOR RESEARCH
(AIR)

1000 THOMAS JEFFERSON STRET., NW
WASHINGTON, DC 20007

Nilva da Silva

202 403-5086

Category 3, First Renewal, Ownership:
Non-Pro?t

1 1)
Vendor 40737

ANN AND ROBERT H. LURIE 
HOSPITAL OF CHICAGO

225 EAST CHICAGO AVE
CHICAGO, IL 60611?2605
Colleen Cicchetti

773 775-6335

Category 3, Second Renewal, Ownership:
Non-Pro?t

35

March 23, 2016

Vendor 16381

Adler Community Health Services

17 N. DEARBORN

CHICAGO, IL 60602

Kelley McKeever

312 662-4042

Category 1 First Renewal, Ownership:
Non-Pro?t

Vendor 16465

AdvancePath Academics, Inc.

4125 IRONBOUND ROAD, STE. 201
WILLIAMSBURG, VA 23188

Tinsley Goad

757 208-0900

Category 2, 3, First Renewal, Ownership:
James Warren, Trustee Of The Mitilda Trust
10%, Exeter Capital Partners 19%, 
Enterprises 11%, Fa Private Equity Fund lv
19%

Vendor 36033

BLACK STAR PROJECT, THE

3509 S. KING DRIVE., STE 28
CHICAGO, IL 60653

Kirsten Rakke

773 285-9600

Category 1, Second Renewal, Ownership:
Non-Pro?t

12)

13)

14)

15)
Vendor 10869

BRIGHT STAR COMMUNITY OUTREACH,
INC

4518 S. COTTAGE GROVE, 1ST FLR.
CHICAGO, IL 60653
Ruth Robinson
773 616-7287
Category 1, Second Renewal, Ownership:
Non-Pro?t

16)
Vendor 39142

BRIGHTON PARK NEIGHBORHOOD
COUNCIL

4477 S. ARCHER AVE.
CHICAGO, IL 60632
Patrick Brosnan
773 523-7110
Category 1, Second Renewal, Ownership:
Non~Pro?t
17)
Vendor 14221
BUILD, INC
5100 W. HARRISON
CHICAGO, IL 60644
Roslind Biasing-Buford
773 227-2880

Category 1, Second Renewal, Ownership:
Non-Pro?t

36

March 23, 2016

Vendor 15991

Be Strong Families NFP

1919 2nd Place #2

Chicago, IL 60608

Guy Schingoethe

800 508-2505

Category 1, 2, First Renewal, Ownership:
Non?Pro?t

Vendor 64915

CARLA A. TANTILLO DBA MINDFUL
PRACTICES

204 S. RIDGELAND

OAK PARK, IL 60302

Carla Tantillo

708 997?2179

Category 2, Second Renewal, Ownership: Sole
Proprietor

Vendor 14964

CENTRAL STATES SER
3948 26TH ST., STE. 213
CHICAGO, IL 60623
Guadalupe Preston

773 542-9030

Category 1, Second Renewal, Ownership:
Non-Pro?t

1a)

19)

20)

21)
Vendor 15902

CHANNING BETE COMPANY, INC.

ONE COMMUNITY PLACE

SOUTH DEERFIELD, MA 01373

Customer Representative

800 628-8833

Category 2, Second Renewal, Ownership: For
Pro?t All Owners Less Than 10%

22)
Vendor 25624

HOME AID SOCIETY OF
ILLINOIS

125 S. WACKER, 14TH FLOOR
CHICAGO, IL 60606-4475

Emily Kropp

312 455-5280

Category 1, Second Renewal, OWnership:
Non-Pro?t

23)
Vendor 28133

COMMITTEE FOR CHILDREN
2815 SECOND AVE.. STE 400
SEATTLE, WA 98121

Richard Israel

800 634-4449

Category 2, 3, Second Renewal, Ownership:
Non-Pro?t

37

March 23, 2016

Vendor 13374

COMMUNITIES IN-SCHOOLS OF CHICAGO
815 w. VAN BUREN 
CHICAGO, IL 60607

Celia Lozano

312 829-2475

Category 1, First Renewal, Ownership:
Non?Pro?t

Vendor 31969

COMMUNITY ORGANIZING 8: FAMILY
ISSUES

1436 WEST RANDOLPH, 4TH FLR.
CHICAGO, IL 60607

Ellen Schumer

312 226-5141

Category 1, Second Renewal, Ownership:
Non-Pro?t

Vendor 21068

CORNERSTONE COUNSELING CENTER OF
CHICAGO 

1111 N. WELLS ST., SUITE 400
CHICAGO. IL 60610

E. Susanne Francis

312 573-8860

Category 1, 3, Second Renewal, Ownership:
Non-Pro?t

24)

25)

26)

27)
Vendor 25588

Center for ReSponsive Schools Inc

85 AVENUE A.

TURNERS FALLS, MA 01376

Karen Casto

800 360-6332

Category 3, Second Renewal, Ownership:
Non-Pro?t

28)
Vendor 16155

Center for Supportive Schools

911 Commons Way

Princeton, NJ 08540

Dr. Margo Ross

609 252-9300

Category 3, First Renewal, Ownership:
Non-Pro?

29)
Vendor 26058

Center for the Collaborative Classroom
1250 53rd St Suite 3

Emeryville, CA 94608

Ginger Cook

800 666-7270

Category 2, 3, Second Renewal, Ownership:
Non?Pro?t

38

March 23, 2016

Vendor 16464

Children's Research Triangle

70 E. LAKE STREET, SUITE 1300 7
CHICAGO, IL 60601

Amy Groessl 

312 726-4011

Category 1, 3, First Renewal, Ownership:
Non-Pro?t

Vendor 37159

DEPAUL UNIVERSITY

1 E. JACKSON

CHICAGO, IL 60604-2287

Jeffrey Deaner

312 362?7388

Category 1, First Renewal, Ownership:
Non-Pro?t

Vendor 45510

ENLACE CHICAGO

2756 S. HARDING AVE

CHICAGO, IL 60623
Michael D. Rodriguez

773 542-9233

Category 1, Second Renewal, Ownership:
Non-Pro?t

so)

31)

32)

33)
Vendor 23814

Engaging Schools Inc

23 GARDEN STREET

CAMBRIDGE, MA 02138

Larry Dieringer

617 492-1764

Category 2, 3. Second Renewal, OWnership:
Non-Pro?t

34.)
Vendor 42557

FACING HISTORY 8- OURSELVES NATIONAL
FOUNDATION, INC .

16 HURD 
BROOKLINE, MA 02445
Bonnie Oberman
312 726-4500
Category 3, Second Renewal, Ownership:
Non-Pro?t
35)
Vendor 30387 
FATHER HOME
13603 FLANAGAN BLVD
BOYS TOWN, NE 68010
Steph Jensen
402 498-3394

Category 2. 3. Second Renewal. Ownership:
Non-Pro?t

39

March 23, 2016

Vendor 19795

FRANKLIN COVEY CLIENT SALES, INC
2200 WEST PARKWAY BLVD.

SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84119

Meg Thompson

267 716?4394

Category 3. Second Renewal, Ownership:
Publically Traded

Vendor 27716

GADS HILL CENTER

1919 W. CULLERTON

CHICAGO, IL 60608

Mariceia Garcia

312 226-0963

Category 1, Second Renewal, Ownership:
Non?Pro?t

Vendor 15669

Good Life Alliance PBC

400 Green St Suite 205?

Chicago, IL 60607

Jennifer Leavitt-Moy

312 434-5047

Category 1, 2, First Renewal, Ownership:
Roberto Rivera 50%, Jennifer Leavitt-Moy

36)

37)

38)

39)
Vendor 16098

Guide Right Organization

11006 Michigan Ste 8

Chicago, IL 60628

Aaron Mallory

773 253-8385

Category 1, First Renewal, Ownership:
Non-Pro?t

Vendor 94873 40)

HEALING EMPOWERING LEARNING
PROFESSIONALS. LLC

1525 EAST 53RD STREET., STE 425
CHICAGO, IL 60615
Karen D. McCurtis-Witherspoon
773 991-3747
Category 1, Second Renewal, Ownership:
Karen Witherspoon-70%. Scott Witherspoon
30%
41)
Vendor 16576

HEALTHCARE ALTERNATIVE SYSTEMS,
INC

2755 ARMITAGE AVE
CHICAGO, IL 60647 -
Marco E. Jacome

773 252-3100

Category 1, First Renewal, Ownership:

Non-Pro?t

40

March 23, 2016

Vendor 23804

ILLINOIS CAUCUS FOR ADOLESCENT
HEALTH

226 S. WABASH, STE 900
CHICAGO, IL 60604
Yamani Hemandez

312 427-4460

Categoryrt, 3, Second Renewal, Ownership:
Non-Pro?t

. Vendor 29423

INNER VISION INTERNATIONAL

27 N. WACKER DR #180

CHICAGO. IL 60606

Dwayne Bryant

312 986?0771

Category 1, Second Renewal, Ownership:
Dwayne Bryant - 100%

Vendor 95873

INSIGHT PROJECT FOR KIDS INC, THE
1111 N. .DEARBORN ST.

CHICAGO, IL 60610

Darra

312 259-2999

Category 3, First Renewal, Ownership:
Non-Pro?t

42)

43)

44)

45)
Vendor 35552

JUVENILE PROTECTIVE ASSOCIATION
1707 N. HALSTED

CHICAGO, IL 60614

Selma Walker

312 698-6935

Category 1, 3, First Renewal, Ownership:
Non-Pro?t

46)
Vendor 67699

KAGAN PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT
P.O. BOX 72008
SAN CLEMENTE, CA 92673
Darcey Skelton
800 266-7576X139
Category 3, Second Renewal, Ownership: Dr.
Spencer Kagan-50%, Laurie Kagan 25%,
Miguel Kagan 25%

Vendor# 61218
LIBERATION CHRISTIAN CENTER
7400 S: MICHIGAN AVE.
CHICAGO, IL 60619
Bishop James E. Dukes
773 436-7940

Category 1, Second Renewal, Ownership:
Non-Pro?t

41

March 23, 2016

Vendor 93955

LIFE BUILDERS

10204 S. FOREST AVE

CHICAGO, IL 60628

Eric Arnold

312 671-0516

Category 1, Second Renewal, Ownership:
Non-Pro?t

Vendor 97075

LUSTER LEARNING INSTITUTE, NFP
1126 HILLCREST AVE,

HIGHLAND PARK, IL 60035

Jai Luster

847 748-7482

Category 2, 3, Second Renewal, Ownership:
Non-Pro?t

Vendor 46701

METROPOLITAN FAMILY SERVICES 7
1 NORTH DEARBORN-STE 1000
CHICAGO, IL 60602

Colleen Jones

312 986-4135

Category 1, Second Renewal, Ownership:
Non-Pro?t

48)

49)

so)

51)
Vendor 12124

MIKVA CHALLENGE GRANT FOUNDATION
332 S. MICHIGAN AVE. 4TH FLR.
CHICAGO, IL 60604

Brian Brady

312 863-6340

Category 1, 3, Second Renewal, Ownership:
Non-Pro?t

52)
Vendor 33701

ORIGINS PROGRAM, THE

3805 GRAND AVENUE SOUTH
MINNEAPOLIS, MN 55409

Dr. Terrance Ross

612 822-3422

Category 3, Second Renewal, Ownership:
Non-Pro?t

53)
Vendor 01960

PERSPECTIVES CHARTER SCHOOL
3663 S. WABASH, 3RD FLR.
CHICAGO, IL 60655

Greg Lowe

312 604-2148

Category 3, Second Renewal, Ownership:
Non-Pro?t

42

March 23, 2016

Vendor 96850

PHALANX FAMILY SERVICES
1201 WEST 115TH STREET
CHICAGO, IL 60643

Robbie Sanders 

773 291-5600

Category 1, Second Renewal, Ownership:

Non-Pro?t

Vendor 31456

PLANNED PARENTHOOD OF ILLINOIS
18 S. MICHIGAN AVE., 6TH FLOOR
CHICAGO, IL 60603-0000

Anthony Fiore

312 592?6800

Category 1, 3, Second Renewal, Ownership:
Non-Pro?t

Vendor 43912

POSITIVE. ACTION, INC.

264 4TH AVE. SOUTH

TWIN FALLS, ID 88301

Carol Allred

208 733-1328

Category 3, Second Renewal, Ownership:
Carol Allred - 100%

54)

55)

56)

57)
Vendor 25197

PREVENTION FIRST

2800 MONTVALE DRIVE

SPRINFIELD, IL 62704-4291

Karel Homrig

217 793-7353

Category 3. Second Renewal, Ownership:
Non?Pro?t

58)
Vendor 16462

Paulette Hines

4 LEXINGTON COURT

MONROE, NJ 08331

Paulette Hines

732 521-8259

Category 3, First Renewal, Ownership: Sole
Proprietor 

59)
Vendor 80780

RIPPLE EFFECTS, INC.

33 NEW MONTGOMERY ST., 1210

SAN FRANCISCO, CA 94105

Lew Brentano

415 227-1669

Category 2, 3, Second Renewal, Ownership:

Privately Held. Alice Ray 31%, Lew Brentano
Other Stockholders No More Than 4%

43

March 23, 2016

Vendor 16467

Ramapo for Children, Inc.

49 W. 38TH STREET. 5TH FLOOR
NEW YORK, NY 10013

Lisa Tazartes

212 7547003

Category 3, First Renewal, OWnership:
Non-Pro?t

Vendor 34171

SGA YOUTH 8. FAMILY SERVICES
11 EAST ADAMS SUITE 1500
CHICAGO, 60603

Martha Guerrero

312 447-4323

Category 1, 3, Second Renewal, Ownership:
Non-Pro?t

Vendor 97412

School Association for Special Education in
DuPage County

MIDWEST PBIS
Lombard, IL 60148
Brian Meyer

630 620~9032

Category 3, Second Renewat, Ownership:
Government

60)

61)

62)

63)
Vendor 98761

TEACHING STRATEGIES, INC DBA SAFE 
CIVIL SCHOOLS

PO. BOX 50550

EUGNE, OR 97405
Jan Reinhardtsen
541 345-1442
Category 2, 3, Second Renewal, Ownership:
Marilyn Spn'ck 41%, Randall Sprick 39%,
Matthew Spn'ck 10%, Jessica Sprick 10% 64)
Vendor 12392
UCAN
3737 N. MOZART
CHICAGO, IL 60618
Zach Schrantz
312 669-8200
Category 1, Second Renewal, Ownership:
Non-Profit -

65)
Vendor 24684

IJMOJA STUDENT DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION 

954 WEST WASHINGTON STE 225
CHICAGO, IL 60607

Ted Christians

773 312-3898

Category 1, 3, Second Renewal, Ownership:
Non-Profit

44

March 23, 2016

Vendor 1 1700

UNIVERSAL FAMILY CONNECTION, INC
1350 w. 103RD ST.

CHICAGO, IL 60643

Lorraine R. Broyls, 

773 881-1711 X1142

Category 1. Second Renewal, Ownership:
Non-Pro?t

Vendor 89036

WES CORPORATION DBA WES HEALTH
SYSTEM

542 SOUTH DEAREORN., 8TH FLR.
CHICAGO, IL 60605

Lynne Hopper

312 566-0700

Category 1, 3, Second Renewal, Ownership:
Non-Pro?t

Vendor 94778

WYMAN CENTER, INC

600 KIWANIS DRIVE

EUREKA, MO 63025

Mindy Sharp

636 938-5245

Category 3, First Renewal, Ownership:
Non-Pro?t

March 23, 2016

66) 69)
Vendor 10619 Vendor 40128
YOUTH ADVOCATE PROGRAMS, INC ZANER-BLOSER INC.
2007 NORTH 3RD STREET 1201 DUBLIN RD.
HARRISBURG. PA 17102 COLUMBUS, OH 43215-1026
Minette Bauer Robert Heighton
717 232-7580 800 421-3018
Category 1, Second Renewal, Ownership: Category 2, 3, Second Renewal, Ownership:
Non-Pro?t Myers Family Voting Trust
67)
Vendor 11060

YOUTH GUIDANCE

1 NORTH LASALLE ST., #900

CHICAGO, IL 60602

Michelle Adler Morrison

312 404-3242

Category 1, 3, Second Renewal, Ownership:
Non?Pro?t

68)
Vendor 35681

YOUTH OUTREACH SERVICES, INC.
2411 WEST CONGRESS

CHICAGO, IL 60612

Jamie Noto-

773 777-71 12 7281

Category 1, First Renewal. Ownership:
Non-Pro?t

President Clark abstained on Board Report 16-0323-PR3.

16-0323-P R4

AMEND BO RD REPORT 15-1028-PR5
AUTHORIZE FIRST RENEWAL AGREEMENTS FOR PRE-QUALIFICATION STATUS WITH VARIOUS
CONTRACTORS TO PROVIDE MECHANICAL, ELECTRICAL, AND PLUMBING (MEP)
ENGINEERING SERVICES 

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Authorize the ?rst renewal agreements for the pre-quali?cation status of contractors to provide 
mechanical. electrical, and plumbing (MEP) engineering services at a cost set forth in the Compensation
Section of this report. A written renewal agreement for each contractor is currently being negotiated. No
services shall be provided by and no payment shall be made to any contractor prior to the execution of
their written renewal agreement. The pre-quaii?cation status approved herein for each contractor shall
automatically rescind in the event such contractor fails to execute the Board's renewal agreement within
120 days of the date of this Board Report. Information pertinent to this option is stated below.

Thi Mar 20 6amendmentis eces a rre tavendor? me num er. ein orre vendor
#6 isbei an theco vendor #14 i ei dded. heoorr ct isNetB il 

[ne, DEA (vendor #7633]. The euthority fer exegmion of the renewal agreement with Nest
ers Inc. shall re ind w' hin a date of thi mended Bo rd .

Contract Administrator: Hernandez, Miss Patricia I 773-553-2280

45

March 23, 201 6

USER INFORMATION 

Contact: 11860 - Facility Operations Maintenance
42 West Madison Street
Chicago, IL 60602
De Runtz, Ms. Mary
773-553-2960

AGREEMENT: 7

The pre-quali?cation period and each master agreement (authorized by Board Report 13-1120-PR6) in
the amount of $4,000,000 Were for a term commencing on December 1, 2013 and ending on November
30, 2015 with the Board having the right to extend the pre-quali?catlon period and each master
agreement for two (2) additional one (1) year periods. Contractors were selected on a competitive basis
pursuant to Board Rule 7-2.

OPTION PERIOD: .
The renewal term for this pre?quall?cation period is for one (1 year commencing December 2015 and
ending November 30, 2016.

OPTIONS REMAINING:
There is one (1) renewal option remaining for a one (1) year term.

SCOPE OF SERVICES: 

Contractors will provide mechanical, electrical and plumbing (MEP) assessments to determine existing
condition of MEP systems, components, BAS systems and to make recommendations as to the extent of
repair and/or replacement. The Department of Facilities estimates needing about 200 assessments per
year. including those that cost under $10,000.

COMPENSATION: .

The sum of payments to all pre-quali?ed contractors for this pre-quali?cation term shall not exceed
$2,000,000, inclusive of any reimbursable expenses, and the costs associated herewith shall be reported
to the Board on a quarterly basis pursuant to Board Rule 7-8.

USE OF POOL:

The Department of Facilities, Nutrition Services, ITS, Safety and Security and schools are authorized to
receive services from the pre-QUali?ed pool as follows: If the work is over $10,000, the CPS user group
will develop a scope of work for each work request. solicit cost proposals from the pool and work will be
awarded to the lowest, responsible Respondent. If the work is under $10,000, the work will be assigned
based on cost and capacity by the Department of Facilities.

AUTHORIZATION:

Authorize the General Counsal to include other relevant terms and conditions in the written renewal
agreements. Authorize the President?and Secretary to execute the renewal agreements. Authorize Chief
Facilities Of?cer to execute all ancillary documents required to administer or effectuate the renewal
agreements.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION:

This agreement is in full compliance with the goals required by the Remedial Program for Minority and
Women Owned Business Enterprise Participation in Goods and Services Contracts. The 
goals for this agreement include: 25% total MBE and 5% total WBE participation. Aggregated compliance
of the pool will be monitored on a quarterly basis.

LSC REVIEW:
Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL:

Various Capital Funds

Facility Operations and Maintenance, 11800
$2,000,000, FY16 and FY17

Future year funding is contingent upon budget appropriation and approval.

Not Applicable

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 ILCS
the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations. 

Con?icts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 ILCS which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of.
of?ce. 

Indebtedness - The Board?s Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 1996 (96-0626-PO3), as amended
from time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

46

1)

2)

3)

4)

March 23, 2016

Ethics - The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 as amended from time to time,

shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability - The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current
fiscal year is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in the subsequent ?scal year

budget(s).

5)

Vendor 99294
20120 ENGINEERING GROUP, LLC

1216 TOWER RD.
SCHAUMBURG, IL 60173
Jeffrey C. Chamberlin

847 882-2010

Ownership: Jeffrey C. Chamberlin - 75% And
James A. Barrett - 25% 

5)
Vendor 69635
A ENGINEERS, LTD DBA CCJM
ENGINEERS, LTD.

TWO NORTH RIVERSIDE PLAZA
CHICAGO, IL 60606

Paul Ghassan

312 669-0609

Ownership: C.C. Johnson And Mathotra, Pc -7)
100%

Vendor 24783
GENERAL ENERGY CORP.

230 MADISON STREET
OAK PARK, IL 60302
Prem N. Mehrota
708 386-6000
8)
Ownership: Prem N. Mehrotra - 100%

Vendor 27991
ENGINEERING
CORPORATION

300 WACKER DRIVE
CHICAGO, IL 60606
Michael J. McMurray
312 922-6400

Ownership: Niranjan S. Shah - 53.33% And
Tant A Shah 2011 Gift Trust - 46.67%

47

Vendor 67948 
GOLDEN STAR, INC DBA ADVANCE 
CONSULTING GROUP INTERNATIONAL

300 WEST ADAM STREET, SUITE 420
CHICAGO, IL 60606

Eyad Elqaq

312 357-1840

Ownership: Eyad Elqaq - 50% And Ehab Elqaq 
- 50%

Vendor 20476
HYDRO-THERMO-POWER, INC.

225 N. MICHIGAN AVE. STE 2306
CHICAGO, IL 60601

Raisa B. Fridman

312 641-6164

Ownership: Raisa B. Fridman - 100%

Vendor 96656
KJWW CORP

231 LASALLE
CHICAGO, IL 60604
Bob Winter

312 294-0501

Ownership: Paul Vanduyne - 19.50%. Larry
Pithun - 19.50% And More Than 100
Shareholders With Less Than 10% Interest.

9)

10)

11)

12)

16-0323-P R5

13)
Vendor 20014
KNIGHT INC

221 N. LASALLE STREET. STE 300
CHICAGO, IL 60601-1211

Kevin E. Lentz

312 577-3300

Ownership: Kinght Partners - 100%

Vendor 69832
MAESTROS VENTURES, LLC 14)

230 WEST MONROE ST
CHICAGO, IL 60606
Michael W. Gonzaiez
312 525-2992

Ownership: Michael W. Gonzalez- 100%

Vendor 29741
MELVIN COHEN ASSOCIATES, INC

223 WEST JACKSON BLVD
CHICAGO, IL 60606

Meivin- Cohen

312 663-3700

Ownership: Melvin Cohen - 80%, Ronald
Cohen - 10% And Jeffrey Cohen - 10%

Vendor 69629
MILHOUSE ENGINEERING 
CONSTRUCTION, INC

60 EAST VAN BUREN STREET, STE 1501
CHICAGO, IL 60605

Wilbur C. Milhouse 

312 987-0061

Ownership: Wilbur C. Milhouse - 100%

March 23, 2016

Vendor 31861

SINGH ASSOCIATES, INC
230 W. MONROE ST
CHICAGO, IL 60606

Sigh Rikhiraj

312. 629-8449

Ownership S. Singh Rikhiraj- 91.6%, Hardeep
K. Singh- 2. Harvind K. Singh- 2.8% And
lnder K. Rikhiraj? 2. 8%

Vendor 75373 

BUILDERS INC DBA 

303 WEST ERIE. STE 510

CHIQAGQ, IL 60654

meme

312 915-0557

Ownershi Victor Avila - 51% And hin
Anand - 49%

AUTHORIZE THE FIRST RENEWAL AGREEMENT WITH CONSTELLATION NEWENERGY, INC. FOR
THE SUPPLY OF ELECTRICITY

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING 

Authorize the renewal agreement with Constellation Newenergy, Inc. to provide the supply of
electricity to the Department of Facilities at an estimated annual cost set forth In the Financial Section of
this report. A written document exercising this option is currently being negotiated. No payment shall be
made to Vendor during the option period prior to execution of the written document. The authority granted
herein shall automatically rescind in the event a written document is not executed within 90 days of the
date of this Board Report. Information pertinent to this option is stated beiow.

Speci?cation Number: 14-350045

Contract Administrator 

48

Hemandez,-Miss Patricia I 773653-2280

March 23, 2016

VENDOR:

1) Vendor 1?208
CONSTELLATION NEWENERGY, INC
100 CONSTELLATION WAY, SUITE 12000
BALTIMORE, MD 21202
Jay Beasley 
832 594-5652

Ownership: Subsidiary Of Exelon Corp,
Over 100 Shareholders.

USER INFORMATION 

Contact:
11860 - Facility Operations 8 Maintenance

42 West Madison Street
Chicago, lL 60602
Norgren, Mrs. Leslie
773-553-2960

ORIGINAL AGREEMENT:

The original Agreement (authorized by Board Report 15-0325-PR14) in the amount of $62,000,000 is for
a term commencing January 1, 201? and ending December 31, 2017, with the Board having ?ve (5)
options to renew for additional periods of up to two (2) years each. The original agreement was awarded
on a competitive basis pursuant to Board Rule 7-2.

OPTION PERIOD:
The term of this agreement is being renewed for two (2) years commencing January 1, 2018 and ending
December 31 2019.

OPTION PERIODS REMAINING:
There are four (4) options for additional periods of up to two (2) years each remaining.

SCOPE OF SERVICES:

Supplier will continue to supply the Board's full requirements for electricity including, but not limited to,
power, lighting, heating, ventilation, air conditioning, and miscellaneous purposes, to all the Board's
facilities. 

DELIVERABLES:
Supplier will provide electricity.

COMPENSATION:
Supplier shall be compensated at the rates set forth in the renewal agreement at a cost not to exceed the
amount set forth in the Financial Section.

AUTHORIZATION:

Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant terms and conditions in the written option
document. Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the option document. Authorize Chief
Facilities Of?cer and Executive Director of Facilities - Operations to execute all ancillary documents
required to administer or effectuate this option agreement.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION:
Exempt.

LSC REVIEW:
Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL:

Fund 230

Charge to Facilities, Unit 11880

exceed $63,600,000

Future year funding and appropriation is based on approval.

Not Applicable

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 
5I34-13.1, the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations.

Conflicts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one year period foilowing expiration or other termination of their terms of
of?ce.

49

March 23,2016

Indebtedness - The Board's Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 1996 (96-0626-P03), as amended
from time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a pan of the agreement.

Ethics - The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 as amended from time to time,
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability- The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current
?scal year is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in the subsequentl ?swl year
budget(s).

President Clark abstained on Board Report 16-0323-PR5.

16-0323-PR6

AUTHORIZE THE FIRST RENEWAL AGREEMENT WITH JOHNSON RESEARCH GROUP, INC. TO
PROVIDE CONSULTING SERVICES ON TAX INCREMENT FINANCING FUNDING (TIF) FOR THE
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Authon'ze the ?rst renewal agreement with Johnson Research Group, Inc. to provide consulting services
on tax increment ?nancing funding (TIF) for the capital improvement program for the Department of
Facilities at an estimated annual cost forth in the Compensation Section of this report. A written document
exercising this Option is currently being negotiated. No payment shall be made to the Vendor during the
option period prior to execution of the wn'tten document. The authority granted herein shall automatically
rescind in the event a written document is not executed within 90 days of the date of this Board Report.
Information pertinent to this option is stated below.

Contract Administrator Hernandez, Miss Patricia I 773-553-2280
CPOR Number 675

VENDOR:

1 Vendor 30433
JOHNSON RESEARCH GROUP, INC.
343 s. DEARBORN STREET
IL 60604
Ann Moroney
312 235-0130

Ownership: Ann Moroney - 100%

USER INFORMATION 

Contact:
11860 - Facility Operations 8. Maintenance

42 West Madison Street
Chicago, IL 60602

De Runtz, Ms. Mary
773-553-2960

ORIGINAL AGREEMENT:

The on?ginal Agreement (authorized by Board Report in the amount of $200,000 was for a
term commencing June 25. 2015 and ending June 24, 2016, with the Board having two (2) options to
renew for one (1) year terms. The original agreement was awarded on a competitive basis pursuant to
Board Rule 7-2

OPTION PERIOD: 
The term of Ms agreement is being renewed for one (1) year commencing June 25, 2016 and ending
June 24,2017

OPTION PERIODS REMAINING: 
There is one (1) option period for one (1) year remaining.

SCOPE OF SERVICES: 
Vendor will continue to serve as a special advisor to the Chief Financial Of?certo develop a strategy with
the Chicago Department of Planning and Development and the Chicago Department of Finance on tax
increment ?nancial (T IF) initiatives to support the Modern Schools Across Chicago Program and other
Capital Improvement Program initiatives. Vendor will focus on preparing detailed financial analyses of
available TIF revenues for each TIF district, assessing TIF funding strategies, negotiating ?nancial
commitments with the City, reviewing appropriate school sites for TIF eligibility, consuIting on written
agreements with the City to formalize a revenue stream for funding of the Capital Improvement Program,

50

March 23, 2016

and supporting the issuance of bonds from TIF revenues. Vendor will also develop strategies and
mechanisms needed to coordinate aspects of the program, advise the Chief Financial Of?cer on
altemative TIF strategies, present creative approaches for additional funding opportunities, and provide
long range planning assistance to the Chief Financial Of?cer. Vendor will also conduct ?nancial feasibility
studies in speci?c TIF districts to verify future projections of available tax increment revenues as
necessary.

DELIVERABLES:

Vendor will continue to provide the following deliverables: project reports, database of TIF
revenues and potential revenue opportunities from existing districts, a database of schools in or
adjacent to TIF's, an updated funding matrix for the Modem Schools Across Chicago Program and other
TIF agreements, feasibility analyses, and strategic planning documents, all as requested by the Chief
Financiai Of?cer. 

OUTCOMES:

Vendor's services will result in revenue for the Capital improvement Program over the next year, to help
build new schools and additions and undertake major renovations. To date, the vendor has helped
negotiate $800 million in intergovernmental agreements with the City of Chicago to fund new schools from
TIF revenues and anticipates negotiating additional funding to complete the Modern Schools Across
Chicago Program and other new initiatives.

COMPENSATION:

Vendor shall be paid as speci?ed in the renewal agreement. Estimated annual costs for the one (1) year
option period are set forth below:

$180,000, FY16-17, which amount is inclusive of all reimbursable expenses.

REIMBURSABLE EXPENSES:

Vendor shall be reimbursed for the following expenses: report preparation expenses, and copying
charges agreed to in advance by the Chief Financial Of?cer. The total compensation amount re?ected
above is inclusive of all reimbursable expenses.

AUTHORIZATION:

Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant terms and conditions in the written option
document. Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the Option document. Authorize the Chief
Financial Of?cer and Chief Facilities Of?cer to execute all ancillary documents required to administer or
effectuate this option agreement.

ACTION: .

This agreement is subject to goals required by the Remedial Program for Minority and Women Owned
Business Enterprise Participation in Goods and Services Contracts. The goals for this
agreement are 20% MBE participation and 17% WBE participation.

Vendor has committed to 

MBE

Ernest Sawyer Enterprises Inc.
100 North LaSalle St., Ste. #1515
Chicago, IL 60602

Print Xpress
311 South Wacker Drive
Chicago, IL 60606

WBE

Johnson Research Group, Inc.
343 S. Dearbom St.

Chicago, IL 60604

?Lsc REVIEW:
Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL:

Various Capital Funds

Facilities and Operations. Unit# 12150

$180,000, FY16-17

Future year funding is contingent upon budget appropriation and approvai.

Not Applicable

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance With 105 ILCS
5134-131, the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations. 

Con?icts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board it entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 ILCS 5134-213 which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the One year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of
of?ce.

51

16-0323-PR7

March 23,2016

Indebtedness - The Board's Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 1996 (96-0626-PO3). as amended
from time to time, shaIi be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics - The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 as amended from time to time,
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability - The agreement shaIl contain the ciause that any expenditure beyond the current
?scal year is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in the subsequent ?scal year
budget(s).

AUTHORIZE THE SECOND AND FINAL RENEWAL AGREEMENTS WITH CARNOW, CONIBEAR
AND ASSOCIATES, LTD. AND 636 INC. TO PROVIDE ENVIRONMENTAL
TESTING AND RELATED SERVICES

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Authorize the second and ?nal renewal agreements with Camow, Conibear Associates, Ltd. and GSG
Consultant?s, Inc. to provide environmental testing and related services to the Department of Facilities at
an estimated annual cost as stated in the compensation section of this report. Written documents .
exercising this option are currently being negotiated. No payment shall be made to any vendor during the
option period prior to execution of their written document. The authority granted herein shall automaticaliy
rescind as to each vendor in the event their document is not executed within 90 days of the date of this
Board Report. Information pertinent to this option is stated below.

Speci?cation Number 10-250069
Contract Administrator: Hernandez, Miss Patricia I 773-553-2280
VENDOR:

1) Vendor 36789
CARNOW. CONIBEAR ASSOCIATES,
LTD
600 WEST VAN BUREN STREET, STE 500
CHICAGO, IL 60607
Shirley Conibear
800 860-4486

Ownership: Dr. Shirley Conibear- 60%, And
Brian Lovetere - 40%

2) Vendor 20966
GSG CONSULTANTS INC
855 ADAMS ST., SUITE 200
CHICAGO, IL 60607
Arturo Saenz
312 7336262

Ownership: Guillermo Garcia - 51%; Arturo
Saenz - 24.5% And Ala E. Sassila ?24.5%

USER INFORMATION 

Contact:
11860 - Facility Operations Maintenance

42 West Madison Street
Chicago, IL 60602

De Runtz, Ms. Mary
773-553-2960

ORIGINAL AGREEMENT: 
The original Agreements (authorized by Board Report in the amount of $15,000,000 was
for a term commencing August 1, 2011 and ending July 31,2014, with the Board having Mo (2) options
to renew for two (2) year terms. The agreements were renewed (authorized by Board Report
in the amount of $8,000,000 for a term commencing August 1, 2014 and ending July 31,
2016. The original agreement was awarded on a competitive basis pursuant to Board Rule 7-2.

OPTION PERIOD:
The term of each agreement is being renewed for two (2) years commencing August 1, 2016 and ending
July 31, 2018. 

OPTION PERIODS REMAINING:
There are no more option periods remaining.

52

March 23, 2016

SCOPE OF SERVICES:
Vendors will continue to provide Managing Environmental Consultant (MEC) Services. The scope of work
for MEC includes, but is not limited to:

- Provide oversight/management of environmental contractors;

- Provide audit and quatity assurance [quality control;

- Coordinate environmental work;

- Provide designs and bid speci?cations for environmental work;

Collection and analysis of samples including, but not limited to, chemical, biological, asbestos, lead, soil,
waste and air,

- Conduct microbiological and indoor air quality assessments;

- Develop and provide educational services to the Board personnel;

- Respond to environmental emergencies including, but not limited to, chemical spills, asbestos, and lead
painting incidents; and

- As necessary, manage small scale remediation measures.

DELIVERABLES:

Vendors will continue to provide comprehensive and accurate reports including the following: project
design documents, oversight reports, investigations and testing reports, inspection reports, letters,
noti?cations, and electronic submittals as required by the Environmental Services Manager.

OUTCOMES:

Vendors' services will result in quali?cation of environmental conditions, safe and responsible mitigation
and management of environmental conditions and the establishment of environmental records required
by law.

COMPENSATION:

Vendors shall be paid during this Option period as follows: in accordance with the rates set forth in their
respective renewal agreement. The annual compensation payable to all Vendors shall not exceed
$2,670,000, in the aggregate; the total compensation payable to all Vendors for the two year renewal
period shall not exceed $5,340,000. The not-to-exceed amounts are inclusive of any and all reimbursable
expenses.

AUTHORIZATION: 

Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant terms and conditions in the written option
dowments. Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the option documents. Authorize Chief
Facilities Of?cer to execute all ancillaIy documents required to administer or effectuate this Option
agreement.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION: 

Pursuant to section 6.2 of the Remedial Program for Minority and Women Business Enterprise
Participation in Goods and Services Contracts Program), the category goals method for MIWBE
participation will be utilized. This contract is in full compliance with the goals set at 35% total MBE and
10% total WBE participation. The aggregated compliance of the vendors in the pool will be reported on a
quarterly basis. -

LSC REVIEW:
Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report. .

FINANCIAL

Various capital and operating funds

Charge to Facilities: 670, 000 per year for 2 year term total not exceed $5,340,000
FY16, FY17, and FY18

Future year funding' Is contingent upon budget appropriation and approval.

Not Applicable

GENERAL CONDITIONS: 

Inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 ILCS
5I34-13.1, the inspector General ofthe Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations.

Con?icts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 ILCS which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of
of?ce.

Indebtedness - The Board's Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 1996 (96-0626-PO3), as amended
from time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics - The Board's Ethics Code adapted May 25, 2011 (11-0525-PO2), as amended from time to time,
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability - The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current

?scal year is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in the subsequent ?scal year
budget(s).

53

March 23, 2016

16-0323-P R8

AUTHORIZE THE SECOND RENEWAL AGREEMENT WITH CONSTELLATION ENERGY SERVICES -
NATURAL GAS. LLC TO SUPPLY NATURAL GAS

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Authorize the second renewal agreement with Constellation Energy Services - Natural Gas, LLC to
provide natural gas to the Department of Facilities at an estimated annual cost set forth in the
Compensation Section of this report. A written document exercising this option is currently being
negotiated. No payment shall be made to Vendor during the option period prior to execution of the written
document. The authority granted herein shall automatically rescind in the event a written document is not
executed within 90 days of the date of this Board Report. Information pertinent to this option is stated
below.

Speci?cation Number 13-250075

Contract Administrator: Hernandez, Miss Patricia I 773-553-2280
VENDOR:

1) Vendor 76798
CONSTELLATION ENERGY SERVICES-
NATURAL GAS, LLC
1716 LAWRENCE DRIVE
DEPERE, WI 54115
Jay Beasley
312 681-1899

Ownership: Subsidiary Of Exelon Corp,
Over 100 Sharehoiders

USER INFORMATION 

Contact:
11860 - Facility Operations Maintenance

42 West Madison Street
Chicago, IL 60602
Norgren, Mrs. Leslie
773-553-2960

ORIGINAL AGREEMENT:

The original Agreement (authorized by Board Report 14-0122-PR9) in the amount of $90,000,000 is for a
term commencing February 18, 2014 and ending March 31, 2016, with the number and period of renewal
options to be determined by the Chief Financial Of?cer dependent upon pricing and market conditions.
The agreement was renewed(authon'zed by Board Report 14-1022-PR8) in the amount of $30,000,000
for a term commencing April 1, 2016 and ending March 31. 2017. The original agreement was awarded
on a competitive basis pursuant to Board Rule 7?2.

OPTION PERIOD:
The term of this agreement is being renewed for two (2) years commencing April 1, 2017 and ending
March 3?1, 2019. .

OPTION PERIODS REMAINING: .
There are a number of Option periods remaining. to be determined by the Chief Financial Of?cer or Chief
Facilities Of?cer dependent upon pricing and market conditions.

SCOPE OF SERVICES: 
Supplier will continue to supply the Board's full requirements for natural gas including, but not limited to,
space and hot water heating to all of the Board's facilities.

DELIVERABLES:
Supplier will continue to deliver natural gas supply.

COMPENSATION:
Supplier shall be compensated at the rates set forth in the renewal agreement.

AUTHORIZATION:

Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant terms and conditions in the written option
document. Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the option document. Authorize Chief
Facilities Of?cer and Executive Director of Facilities - Operations to execute all ancillary documents
required to administer or effectuate this option agreement.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION:
Exempt.

54

March 23, 2016

LSC REVIEW:
Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report. 

FINANCIAL:

Fund: 230

Charge to Department of Facilities, Unit 11880

FY17, FY18, and FY19, Not to exceed $25,400,000

Future year funding is based on appropriation and approval.

Not Applicable

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 ILCS
5134-131, the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations.

Con?icts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in vioiation of the
provisions of 105 ILCS 5134-213 which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of
of?ce. .

Indebtedness - The Board's Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 1996 as amended
frOm time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics - The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 (11-0525-P02), as amended from time to time,
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability - The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current
?scal year is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in the subsequent ?scal year
budget(s). 

President Clark abstained on Board Report 16-0323-PR8.

16-0323-PR9

REPORT ON THE AWARD OF CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTS AND CHANGES TO CONSTRUCTION
CONTRACTS FOR THE BOARD OF CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

This report details the award of Capital Improvement Program constructiOn contracts in the total amount
of $0.00 to the respective lowest responsible bidders for various construction projects, as listed in
Appendix A of this report. These construction contracts shall be for projects approved as part of the
Board's Capital improvement Program. Work involves all labor, material and equipment required to
construct new schools, additions, and annexes, or to renovate existing facilities, all as called for in the
plans and speci?cations for the respective projects. Proposals, schedules of bids, and other supporting
documents are on ?le in the Department of Operations. These contracts have been awarded in
accordance with section 7-3 of the Rules of the Board of Education of the City of Chicago.

This report also details changes to existing Capital improvement Program construction contracts, in the
amount of $67,480.80 as listed in the attached March Change Order Log. These construction contract
changes have been processed and are being submitted to the Board for approval in accordance with
section 7-15 of the Rules of the Board of Education of the City of Chicago, since they require an
increased commitment necessitated by an unforeseen combination of circumstances or conditions cailing
for immediate action to protect Board preperty to prevent interference with school sessidns.

LSC REVIEW: Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION: The General Contracting Services Agreements entered into by each of the pre-
quali?ed general contractors and other miscellaneous construction contracts awarded outside the pre-
quali?ed general contractor program for new construction awards and changes to existing construction
contracts shall be subject to the Board's Business Diversity Program for Construction Projects and any
revisions or amendments to that policy that may be adopted during the term of any such contract.

FINANCIAL: Expenditures involved in the Capital Improvement Program are charged to
the Department of Operations, Capital Improvement Program.

Budget classi?cation: Fund 436, 468, 476, 477, 479, 480, 481, 482, 483, 484
will be used for all Change Orders (March Change Order Log); Funding source for new
contracts is so indicated on Appendix 

Funding Source: Capital Funding

55

March 23, 2016

GENERAL CONDITIONS: 

Inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 ILCS
5I34- 13 1, the inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations

Con?icts The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board it entered 'into in violation of the
provisions of 105 ILCS 5134-2213 which restricts the employment of or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of
office.

Indebtedness The Board?s Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 1996 (96-0626-P03), as amended
from time to time. shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement. 

Ethics The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 (11-0525-P02), as amended from time to time,
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability- The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current
fiscal year is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in the subsequentl ?scal year
budget(s).

THIS SPACE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK

56

57

SCHOOL CONTRACTOR comma- comma
METHOD

CONTRACT
AWARD

AWARD
DATE

ANTICIPATEQ FISCAL AFFIRM. ACTION

Appendix A
March 2016

COMPLETION YEAR

DATE

AA



A

WBE

PROIECT SCOPE AND NOTES

REASONS FOR
PROJECT

 

Reasons:

1. Safety

2. Code Cornpliance

3. Fire Code violations

4-. Deteriorated Exterior Conditions

5. Priority Mechanical Needs

6. ADA Compliance

7. Support for Educational Portfolio Strategy
8. Support for other District initiatives

9. External Funding Provided

lofl

March 23, 2016

58

CPS March 2016

Chicago Public Schools

Th I 2/16/16
see ange or er a rove es range rom
Capital Improvement Program o1ro1r2015pro o1r31lzo1s Page 1 0?

CHANGE ORDER LOG
Original Number of Total Revised Total

Contract Change Change Contract of Oracle Board Number
Amount Orders Orders Amount Contract F0 Number

 

 

     

School Vendor Project Number

Canter Middle School
2015 Canter CSP 201 5-23981-CSP
Chicago Commercial Construction $4,475,268.78 33 $143,697.96

$4,618,966.74 3.21%
Change Date App Date

Reason Code

 

2917266 I 2895463 

01l20/16 01122l16 Terrazzo polishing is to be eliminated from the scope of work for this project. Owner Directed 67,500.00

 

Project Total: $7,500.00
James Shields Elementary School

2016 Shields TUS 2016-25361-TUS
Reliable 8. Associates $572,800.00 12

$74,934.40 $647,734.40 13.08%
M0513 De AeLDatc

Reason Code

3000389
12116I15 01I07I16 Contractor to install a new roof assembly for the east modular classroom. Discovered Conditions $33,304.97

 

 

Project Total: $33,804.97
Skinner Pre-K Center
2016 Skinner West PKG 2016-29282-PKC
Murphy Jones 00.. inc. $58,667.00 2

$9,474.34 $68,141.34 16.15%
Change Date App Date Chan Order Descri tions

Reason Code

 

3004607 .
Discovered Conditions $4,427.34

01I14I16 01I15I16 Contractor to provide material and labor to remove and replace storage room ceiling.

 

Project Total: $4,427.34

 

The following change orders have been approved end are being reported to the Board in arrears.

March 23, 2016

59

CPS March 2016

Chicago Public Schools 2/16/16

These change order approval cycles range from
Capitai Improvement Program (11/01/2016 to (it/3112016 Page 2 0?

CHANGE ORDER LOG
Original Number of Total Revised Total
School Vendor Project Number Contract Change Change Contract of Oracle Board Number
. Amount Orders Orders Amount Contract P0 Number

      

 

   

Hancock High School

2015 Hancock CSP 
Wight 8: Company $9,604,000.00 92 $1,322,542.66 31032654266 13.77%

Change Date App Date Chan 6 Order Descri tions Reason Code

 

 

2908176 
01/19/16 01/20/16 Contractor to provide material and labor to install locker trim around three sides (top and sides) of all Owner Directed $5,500.00
newly installed recessed locker banks at the school. Locker trim to be manufactured by the locker
manufacturer and the color/?nish to match the new lockers.

(11/11/16 01/20/16 Contractor to provide material and labor to install smoke detectors at each "pocket" located in the new Omission - AOR $3,941.93
elevator lobbies at each tloor. A 

01/11/16 A 01/15/16 Contractorto provide pricing for material and labor to install new wood shoe at existing wood wall base Discovered Conditions $15,000.00
in all Classrooms in Main Building that are in scope to receive a new sub-floor and vinyl tile.

01/11/16 01/12/16 Contractor to provide material and labor to install plumbing in valves in order to receive hot water in the Discovered Conditions $15,489.1 1
new restrooms.

01/19/16 01/20/16 Contractor to provide material and labor to paint and/or stain all existing stairwell doors and frames in Omission AOR $6,000.00
the Main Building.

 

Project Total: $45,931.04

 

The following change orders have been approved and are being reported to the Board In arrears.

March 23, 2016

60

CPS March 2016

Chicago Public Schools ?men? may I lam? ?r 2116/16
a rave 0
Capital Improvement Program . 31/01/2016Pfo 0113112016 9 Page 3 0?
CHANGE ORDER LOG 

Original Number of Total Revised Total
School Vendor Project Number Contract Change Change Contract of Oracle Board Number
Amount Orders Orders Amount Contract PO Number

      

Roald Amundsen High School

2015 Amundsen 2015-46031401!
F.H. Paschen, S.N. Nielsen 8: Assoc $3,254,000.00 24 $3,215,992.00 4.17%
Change Date App Date Cha Order Desc i 

  
 

Reason Code

 

2947603 I 3002485 
09/25/15 01/12/16 Contractor to provide pricing for additional scope in classrooms 107. 207, 223'; 226 and 330 Owner Directed $3,197.00

concerning infill panels with tackahle surfaces, cabinet door pulls/knobs, millwork panels and painting.
In addition to noted classrooms and original scope notes for repairs at 107, 201 223, 226 and 330,
contractor shall provide missing pulls/knobs only at an additional 48 drawers/cabinets throughout
scope 2 classrooms with areas of work only.

12/08/15 01/29/16 Contractor to provide a deductive change order to remove the entire scope of work identified as Scope Owner Directed $247,000.00
Group?4 In the bid documents at classrooms 111/113 and 218 including all associated work.

 

Project Total: 

Kelvyn Park High School

- 2015 Kelvyn Park PLS 2015-46191-PLS
Ail-Bry Company $357,000.00 3 $15,315.13 $372,315.13 4.29%

Chagge Date Ago Date I a Order Descri lions

 

Reason Code -

. 2899693 

10/15/15 01/06/16 Replace exhaust fan, including'necessary infrastructure located In window (EastWall) of Pool Filter Permit Code Change $11,128.13
Room 001 (Basement). 

 

Project Total: $1 1.1 28.1 3

 

The following change orders have been approved?and are being reported to the Board in arrears.

March 23, 2016

61

     

CPS March 2016

Chicago Public Schools
. These change order approval cycles range from
Capital improvement Program 0110112016 to 0113112010

CHANGE ORDER LOG

Original Number of Total Revised Total
School Vendor Project Number Contract Change Change Contract 91. of . Oracle

Amount Orders Orders Amount Contract PO Number

 
  

 

Lake View High School

2016 Lake View HS ICR 2016-46211-ICR .
F.H. Paschen, S.N. Nielsen 8. Assoc $2,172,000.00 17 $88,176.00 $2.260.176.00 4.06%

Change Date Apr; Date Chen 9 Order Descri lions Reason Code

 

3006677
12123115 01106116 Contractor to provide labor, material, equipment and supervision to perform masonry repairs on Conditions
parapet wall per bulletin 04.

01122116 01126116 Provide partition extension between rooms 342 and 340. Discovered Conditions
01112116 01126116 Provide a credit for labor and material to eliminate Gymnasium ceiling tiles and grid paint scope. Owner Directed
01125116 01126116 Provide acredit for removing door hardware from Room 322. Owner Directed
01125116 01128116 Provide labor and material to paint the exterior ?re escape doors and flagpole. . Owner Directed
01108116 01115116 Contractor to remove the stair tread repair scope from the project. Owner Directed
01122116 01128116 Contractor to remove wood floor refinishing scope from the project. Owner Directed

12128115 01120116 Provide a credit for removal and replacement scope oi the parapet mounted light fixtures. Owner Directed

01112116 01113116 Provide additional wood window trim to conceal the existing exterior brick wall. . Discovered Conditions

2116/16
Page 4 of '7

'Board Number

$18,700.00

$9,390.00
-51 1,668.00
0297.00
$3,076.00
$3,751.00
-$3.196.00
$11,500.00

$4,249.00

 

Project Total: $5,003.00

 

The following change orders have been approved and are being reported to the Board in arrears.

March 23, 2016

62

 

 

CPS - March 2016

Chicago Public Schools

These change order approval cycles range from
Capital improvement Program

01/01/2013 to 01/31/2016
CHANGE ORDER LOG

Original Number at Total
School Vendor

Amount Orders Orders

Albert Lane Technical High School

2015 Lane Tech MCR 2015-46221-MCR
Tyler Lane Construction, inc.

650.164.330.00 42
Change Date Apg Date -

Chan Order Descri tions

 

10/06/15 01/20/16 Modify Ceiling in Room 341 by constructing ceiling soffit to conceal re?routed electrical conduit feeds

and reinforcing for existing steel framing. Modify existing pendant light ?xture hangers for new ceiling
height. Connect and reinstall existing light ?xtures.

Demolish existing wood framed partition/platform at east end of Room 155 to accommodate window

01/20/16 01/26/16
A replacement work.

1224/15 01/06/16 Provide and install additional wood blocking and copper required for gutters and drain sumps that

could not be observed during design due to the base of the high-slope slate roofs.

11/30/15 01/08/16 Relocate existing T-stat (per 081 - Pneumatic Tubing) due to exposed pneumatic tubing

discovered in walls during construction of classroom ductwork.

Theodore Roosevelt High School
2015 Roosevelt SEC 2015-46271656

 
 

Revised Total
Project Number Contract Change Change Contract %of Oracle

Amount Contract PO Number

$1,096,171.49 $51,260,501.49 72.19%

Begsgg Code 
2867615 I 3002938 3060061
Discovered Conditions

Discovered Conditions
Discovered Conditions

Discovered Conditions

2/16/16

Page 5 of 7

Board Number

11-0525-PR8
$19,183.00

$7.601.00
$143,941.00

$1,324.00

 

Project Total: $172,049.00

Pace Systems, inc. $80,835.00 3 $12,443.09 $93,278.09 15.39%

Change Date Apr; Date

 

11/17/15 01/06/16 For security system. provide two door contacts for roof access doors.

11/17/15 01/05/16 For security system, provide eight additional door contacts at Iunchroom exterior doors.

Reason Code

2398915
Omission AOR

Omission AOR

14-1022-PRT
$3,165.41

$5445.61

 

Project Total: $8,611.02

 

Thefoliowlng change orders have been approved and are being reported to the Board in anears.

March 23, 2016

63

CPS March 2016

Chicago Public Schools These ch a a a ma] ?es from 2/16/16
or er 6 ran 9

Capital Improvement Program a guouzmpgo 01131112016 9 Page 6 0f7

CHANGE ORDER LOG

Original Number of Total Revleed Total
School Vendor Project Number Contract Change Change Contract of Oracle Board Number
Amount Orders Orders Amount Contract PO Number

 
     

 

  
   

Carl Schurz School

2015 Schurz sec 2015-46281-SEC
Pace Systems. Inc. $109,006.00 1 $7,951.88 $116,957.88 7.29%

Change Date App Date Chan Order Descri tio 5 Reason Code

 

 

289891 14-1022-PR7
05121 I15 01/20/16 For security system contractor to provide labor and material for additional motion detector for Omission AOR $7,951.85
overhead door at Receving dock (Per RFI provide (11) additional door contacts for exterior doors,
provide (1) door contact for overhead door and remove scope for (2) door contacts inside Receiving
Dock near boiler room and remove scope for (1) motion detector in Boiler Room 162.

 

Project Total: $7,951.88

Collins Academy High School

2016 ROF 2016-49131-ROF
Rellable Br Associates $4,624,533.00 22 $229,704.60 $4,854,237.60 4.97%

Change Date App Date Cha 6 Order Descrl tlons Reason Code

 

2916898 I 3001424 14-1022-P-R5
01I14I16 01I20l16 Provide cost to clean all dampers and lubricate to make all dampers operational at exhaust fans. Discovered Conditions $3,777.64

01/08/16 Provide new conduit and wiring at new exhaustians, EF-22 and EF-23 from existing electrical panel, Discovered Conditions $15,166.72
P.E. 

01I12I16 01I28I16 Provide labor and material to paint two poolof'fices including ceilings. Discovered Conditions $7,812.76

 

Project Total: $26,757.12

 

The toliowlng change orders have been approved and are being reported to the Board in arrears.

March 23, 2016

64

CPS March 2016

Chicago Public Schools 1 2/16/16
These change order approval cycles range from

Capital Improvement Program . 0110112016 to 0113112016 Page 7 0?
CHANGE ORDER LOG

Original Number of Total Revised Total
School Vendor Project Number Contract Change Change Contract of . Oracle Board Number
Amount Orders Orders Amount Contract PO Number

       
 

Phoenix Military Academy

2016 Phoenix CSP . .
K.R. Miller Contractors. Inc $664,000.00 6 $30,066.27 $694,086.27 4.53%

Change Date App Date Cha 0 der Descri tio Reason Q9012

 

3004958
01113116 01115116 Contractor to provide VCT tile patch where the existing partition was removed in Room 218A. Discovered Conditions $592.28

01113116 01119116 Contractor to provide electrical power to the new AC unit in the Band Room. Owner Directed $1,197.32

01112116 01112116 Contractor to provide new VCT tile to replace the damaged tile in Room 225. - Discovered Conditions $363.99

01113116 01115116 Contractor to provide a board softit to allow the lay in ceiling tile to be instaiied above the Discovered Conditions $946.71
concentrator box.

 

Project Total: $3,120.30

Total Change Orders for this Period $67,480.80

 

The following change orders have been approved and are being reported to the Board In arrears.

March 23, 2016

March 23, 2016

16-0323-PR10

AMEND BOARD REPORT 15-0722-PR19
AUTHORIZE A NEW AGREEMENT WITH DBOBER, LLC. DBA THE PUBLIC PRIVATE NETWORK TO
GENERATE ADDITIONAL REVENUE FROM VENDING MACHINES AND BROADCASTING
SERVICES

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Authorize a new agreement with DBober, LLC dba The Public Private Network ("Vendor") to generate
additional revenue from vending machines, including revenues. and broadcasting services
for various schools and departments at an estimated annual cost set forth in the Compensation Section of
this report. Vendor was selected on a competitive basis pursuant to Board Rule 7-2. A written agreement
for Vendor's services is currently being negotiated. No services shall be provided by Vendor and no
payment shall be made to Vendor prior to the execution of their written agreement. The authority granted
herein shall automatically rescind' In the event a written agreement is not executed within 90 days of the
date of this amenged Board Report. lnfonnation pertinent to this agreement is stated below.

hi 06 isnee eadit? ereferri 050
niti and ve ic i o" 

. Speci?cation Number: 14-350029

Contract Administrator. Myles, Mr. Christopher Jordan I 773-553?2280
VENDOR:

1) Vendor #16469
DBober, LLC dba The Public Private
Network

4346 REDWOOD AVE
MARINA DEL REY, CA 90292
David Bober

917 595-0776

Ownership: David Bober-100%

USER INFORMATION 

Protect 1 - cu f?
Manager: 42 West Madisgn Street

Qe Lgngeaux, Mr. Sebastien


TERM:
The term of this agreement shall commence on August 1, 2015 and shall end July 31, 2018. This
agreement shall have two (2) options to renew for periods of one (1) year each.

EARLY TERMINATION RIGHT:
The Board shall have the right to terminate this agreement with 30 days Written notice.

SCOPE OF SERVICES:
Dbober, LLC dba The Public Private Network will support effort to structure a district?wide approach

to secure additional revenue through vending machines; inciggi Igg sponsorship opgogunities Em vending

 

cgmganytiestl and grand manufacture gf grogugts being and broadcastingnitio i 'o in tiimit f? i 
i' 'swebs?rth-t -r
Vendor will generate signi?cant

additional revenues for CPS while providing better oversight. Vendor' Is contracted solely on a success
fee basis, which means that Vendor's compensation is purely based on commission with no upfront fees.

DELIVERABLES:

Vendor will add value to this program by developing an RFP for a comprehensive vending machine
program, managing its implementation, Conducting audits. and overseeing contractual obligations. A
similar approach wilt be taken for broadcasting. Vendor?s compensation is purely based on commission
(18% in year 1. 17% in year 2. 16% in year 3 and 15% thereafter) with no upfront fees.

OUTCOMES:

A centrally managed vending program that will ensure compliance with USDA gr CES nutritional
guideiines and broadcasting program which will provide signi?cant additionat revenue for the district to
reinvest in our schools. There is no ?nancial risk as the vendor payment is exclusively based on
commission.

65

1 6-0323-P R1 1

March 23, 2016

COMPENSATION:

Vendor shall be paid as follows: As a percentage of the total revenues received as indicated In the
payment terms of the contract. Payment shall only be made to Vendor after revenues are received by
CPS;ga_yments may be made directly'to Vendor by third parties from revenues generateg from


Estimated annual costs for the three (3) year term are set forth below:
400 000 00 NTE for the three (3) year term
This number IS based on the New York City experience and the fees applied by the Vendor.

REIMBURSABLE EXPENSES:
None.

AUTHORIZATION:

Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant terms and conditions in the written agreement.
Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the agreement. Authorize the Chief Communication and
Marketing Of?cer to execute all ancillary documents required to administer or effectuate this agreement.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION:

Vendor intends to fully comply with participation goals of 25% MBE and 5% WBE but has not yet found a
suitable partner. The nature of the work is specialized and it is important to ?nd partners who can
contribute in a meaningful way.

LSC REVIEW:
Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL:

Fund 115 Various Departments: Vendor shall be paid as follows.

As a percentage of the total recoveries received as indicated In the payment terms of the contract.

Paymentn snail-only maybe made mute Vendors by third
Iti 

Not to exceed t$2, 400, 000 00 forn the three (3) year term.

This number is based on the New York City experience and the fees applied by the Vendor.

Vendor is contracted solely on a success fee basis, which means that Vendor's compensation is purely

based on commission with no upfront fees. . -

Future year funding is contingent upon budget appropriation and approval

Not Applicable

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that in accordance with 105 ILCS
5/34?13. 1, the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations.

Con?icts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the I
provisions of 105 ILCS which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to, former

Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of

of?ce.

Indebtedness - The Board's Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26,1996 (96-0626-P03). as amended
from time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics - The Board?s Ethics Code adopted May 25. 2011 (11-0525-P02), as amended from time to time.
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current
?scal year is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in the subsequent ?scal year
budget(s).

AUTHORIZE THE FIRST RENEWAL AGREEMENTS WITH VARIOUS VENDORS FOR STUDENT
TRANSPORTATION SERVICES (SCHOOL BUS SERVICE)

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Authorize the ?rst renewal agreements with various Bus Companies to provide transportation services to
Student Transportation Services Department at an estimated annual cost set forth in the Compensation
Section of this report. Written documents exercising this option are currently being negotiated. No
payment shall be made to any Vendor during the Option period prior to execution of their written
document. The authority granted herein shall automatically rescind as to each Vendor in the event their
written document is not executed within 90 days of the date of this Board Report. Information pertinent to
this Option is stated below.

Speci?cation Number: 13-25002?

Contract Administrator Hernandez, Miss Patricia I 773?553-2280

66

March 23, 2016

USER INFORMATION 

Contact:
11870 - Student Transportation

42 West Madison Street
Chicago, IL 60602

M: Guire, Mr. Kevin P.
773653-2860

ORIGINAL AGREEMENT:

The original Agreements (authorized by Board Report 13-0626-PR43 as amended by 15-0624-PR26 in
the amount of $329,550,000 are for a term commencing August 1. 2013 and ending on the last day of
summer school year 2016, with the Board having hvo (2) options to renew for one (1) year terms. The
original agreements were awarded on a competitiVe basis pursuant to Board Rule 7-2.

OPTION PERIOD:
The term of each agreement is being renewed for One (1) year commencing August 1, 2016 and ending
July 31.2017.

OPTION PERIODS REMAINING:
There is one (1) option period for one (1) year remaining.

SCOPE OF SERVICES:

Vendors shall continue to provide school bus services to and from school and other related activities to
eligible students participating in designated programs as per program guidelines and as set out in the
written agreements. Services will be provided during regular and summer school terms. Programs
served by school bus services include but are not necessarily limited to: Diverse Learners, Selective
Enrollment. Controlled Enrollment Receiving Schools, Students in Temporary Living Situations, Parent
Choice, ?eld trips, shuttle services for closing schools, and other programs as the Board deems
appropriate. Vendors will also provide bus services for field trips and athletic trips. The Board anticipates
70,000 to 100,000 trips per year. Each Vendor is eligible to provide bus service for ?eld trips and athletic
trips for all zones.

It is estimated that approximately 2,200 runs involving approximately 1,400 school buses of various sizes
and con?gurations will be provided pursuant to these agreements. The number of buses actually required
to provide services to students is subject to change when the school year is underway. Because the
number of buses required is estimated, the total cost of the agreements is also estimated. The annual
and contract term cost estimates are based upon the combined regular school year and summer school
calendars established by the Board. The Chicago Public Schools reserves the right during this option
period to order the services of more or fewer buses than originally allocated as the needs of students
andlor programs change. The Board is only obligated for costs of buses actually operating CPS routes.

DELIVERABLES:
Vendors will continue to provide buses for student transportation to School and extra curricular activities.

OUTCOMES:
Vendors? services will result in transportation of CPS students to schools and programs, safely and on
time'in yellow school buses.

COMPENSATION:

Vendors shall be paid in accordance with prices indicated in their respective renewal agreement
as invoiced by the vendor. The pricing is subject to an annual adjustment and fuel cost adjustment.
Total compensation to all Vendors during this renewal term shall not exceed $103,000,000; total annual
compensation amount includes the cost of ?eld trips and athletic trips. 

AUTHORIZATION:

Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant terms and conditions in the written option
documents. Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the option documents. Authorize the
Executive Director of Transportation to execute all ancillary documents required to administer or
effectuate the option agreements.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION:

This contract is in full compliance with the goals required by the Remedial Program for Minority and
Women Owned Business Enterprise Participation in Goods and Services Contracts. The 
participation goals for this contract are 30% for MBE and 10% for WBE participation.

The following participation has been identified:

Total MBE:

A.M Bus Company

Ammons Transportation Service
Falcon Transportation, Inc.
Illinois Student Transportation
Jack Harris Transportation
Latino Express

RD Bus Company

United Quick Transportation
Walls Transportation

William Ransom Transportation

67

March 23, 2016

Total WBE:

Dunbar Transportation
O'Neals Transportation
White Transportation

LSC REVIEW:
Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL:

General Operating Fund

Student Transportation Services, Parent Unit 11870

FY17, $103,000,000.00

Future year funding is contingent upon budget appropriation and approval.

Not Applicable

GENERAL CONDITIONS: . 

Inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 
5134?1 3.1, the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall haVe access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations. 

Con?icts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 ILCS 5134-213 which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of
of?ce.

indebtedness - The Board's Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 1996 (96-0626-P03), as amended
from time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.?

Ethics - The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 (11-0525-P02), as amended from time to time,
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability - The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current

?scal year is deemed a contingent liability, subiect to appropriation in the subsequent ?scal year
budget(s). .

THIS SPACE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK

 

68

1)

2)

3)

4)
Vendor 20287
AM. Bus Company, Inc.
100 WEST 91 ST STREET

CHICAGO, IL 60620

Pamela Williams

773 396-5556

Ownership: Pamela Williams - 100%

5).

Vendor 67913

Al BUS SERVICE, LLC

3542 WEST PETERSON AVE.
CHICAGO, IL 60659

Pinky Friedman

773 279-9110

Ownership: Agudath Israel 0f Illinois - 100%

Vendor 46491 6)
ALLTOWN BUS SERVICE, INC. 

2345 NELSON ST

CHICAGO. IL 60618

Greg Polan

773 248-0090

Ownership: Greg Polan - 100%

69

March 23, 2016

Vendor 32700.

AMMONS TRANSPORTATION SERVICE,
INC.

9001 S. GENOA
CHICAGO, IL 60620
Shun Ammons

773 874-7777
Ownership: Benford Ammons Jr. - 100%

Vendor 89841

TRANSPORTATION, INC
3005 87TH STREET
EVERGREEN PARK, IL 60805
Sandra 'Dean?

703 907-6435

Ownership: Sandra Dean - 51% And Jason
Dean - 49%

Vendor 21809

DUNBAR TRANSPORTATION
225 W. 89TH STREET
CHICAGO, IL 60620

Juanita Dunbar

773 723-5760

Ownership: Juanita Dunbar? 100%

7)

8)

9)

1 0)
Vendor 24922

FALCON TRANSPORTATION, INC.
8204 GREYSTONE CT. 

BURR RIDGE, IL 60527

Ed Peterson

773 638-8000

Ownership: Edward A. Peterson - 100%

1 1)
Vendor 49337

FIRST STUDENT, INC. 3
1207 GREENWOOD AVE
MAYWOOD, IL 60153
Tim Stieber I
630 730-9480
Ownership: First Group America - 100%
Owned Subsidiary

12)
Vendor 72017
ILLINOIS CENTRAL SCHOOL BUS
78 NORTH CHICAGO STREET
JOLIET. IL 60432
David Petersen
815 409-4052

Ownership: North American Central School
Bus Intermediate Holding Company, - 100%

70

March 23,2016

Vendor 19722

ILLINOIS STUDENT TRANSPORTATION
P.O. OX 2675

CHICAGO, IL 60690

Rena Holcomb

773 638-3660
Ownership: Rena Holcomb - 100%

Vendor# 11085

JACK HARRIS TRANSPORTATION 
14218 SOUTH WESTERN

POSEN, IL 60469

Jack Harris

708 389-1843
Ownership: Jack Harris - 100%

Vendor 39549
LATINO EXPRESS, INC. 
3230 W. 38TH STREET

CHICAGO. IL 60632

Henry Gardunio

312 313-5451

Ownership: Michael Rosas - 33.3%; Henry
Gardunio - 33.3% And Joseph L. Gardunio -
33.3%

13)

14)

15)

16)
Vendor 21807

TRANSPORTATION
6601 S. WENTWORTH
CHICAGO. IL 60621

Ruby O'Neal

773 488-2136
Ownership: Ruby O'Neal - 100%

Vendor 11556
17)
BUS COMPANY 
4610 W. WASHINGTON
CHICAGO, IL 60644
Ryan Dunn

773 854-2100
Ownership: Ryan Dunn - 100%

Vendor 16702

SUNRISE TRANSPORTATION LLC 18)
8500 VINCENNES AVE

CHICAGO, IL 60620

Robert Hach

773 224?8050

Ownership: Leo Helmers - 70%; Gregory
Bonnett - 15% And Paul Losos - 15%

19)

71

March 23, 2016

Vendor 43809

UNITED QUICK TRANSPORTATION 
2004 S. KOSTN ER

CHICAGO, IL 60623

Michael Rosas

312 431-3220

Ownership: Henry Gardunio 33.3%; Michael

Rosas - 33.3% And Joseph L. Gardunio -
33.3%

Vendor 16230

TRANSPORTATION 

1515 74TH ST
CHICAGO, IL 60636
Billy Walls

773 651-1369
Ownership: Billy J. Walls - 100%

Vendor 50226

WHITE TRANSPORTATION, INC
1717 W. 75TH PLACE
CHICAGO, IL 60620

Mary White I

773 778?9753

Ownership: Mary White - 100%

Vendor 48098

WILLIAM RANSOM TRANSPORTATION, INC.
352 WEST 110TH STREET

CHICAGO, 

Brian Ransom

773 785-8480

Ownership: William And Daniella Ransom 
100%

March 23, 2016

16-0323-PR12

AMEND BOARD REPORT 15-0422-PR2 
AUTHORIZE THE FINAL RENEWAL AGREEMENT WITH MULTIPLE VENDORS FOR SAFE HAVEN
SITES AND SERVICES

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Authorize the ?nal renewal agreements with multiple vendors to provide safe haven sites and services to at
least 110?schools at an estimated annual cost set forth in the Compensation Section of this report. Written
documents exercising this option are currently being negotiated. No payment shall be made to any vendor
during the option period prior to execution of their written document. The authority granted herein shall
automatically rescind as to each vendor In the event their written document' 15 not executed within 90 days
of the date of this Board Report. Information pertinent to this Option is stated below.

This March 2016 amendment is necessary to increase the qrant funded spending authority for additional

after programming. Written amendments to the renewal agreements are reguired. The authority

granted herein shall automaticallv rescind as to each vendor in the event their amendment is not executed 
within 90 days of this date of this amended Board Report.

VENDOR:

1) Vendor 67456
NEW LIFE PILSEN

2512' SOUTH OAKLEY
CHICAGO, IL 60608
Robert 'Belfort

773 851-7021
Ownership: Non Profit

2) Vendor 94390
EMMANUEL COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
CORR

6644 S. INDIANA
CHICAGO, IL 60637
Roosevelt Walker

773 858-9671
Ownership; Non Pro?t 

3) Vendor 94883
EBENEZER COMMUNITY

3555 W. HURON STREET
CHICAGO, IL 60624

Leon Miller

773 762-5363

OWnership: Non Pro?t

USER INFORMATION 

Contact: 12210 - Procurement and Contracts Office
42 West Madison Street'
Chicago, IL 60602
Hubbard Ms. Carisa Ann

773-553-2280

 

Project 14060- Family Community Engagement Office
Manager: 42 West Madison Street

ChicagoI IL 60602
Hosley, Ms. Anianette
773-553-1517

ORIGINAL AGREEMENT:

The original Agreements (authorized by Board Report 13-0626-PR17) in the amount of 1,090,000.00 is?
w_e_re for a term commencing July 1, 2013 and ending June 30, 2014, with the Board having 2 options to
renew for one (1) year terms. The agreements were renewed (authorized by Board Report 14? -0625-PR7)
for a term commencing July 1, 2014 and ending June 30 2015. The original agreementg was w_ere
awarded on a competitive basis pursuant to Board Rule 72.

OPTION PERIOD:
The term of each agreement Is being renewed for one year commencing July 1, 2015 and ending June 30,
2016.

72

March 23, 2016

PERIODS REMAINING:
There are no option periods remaining.

SCOPE OF SERVICES: .

Vendors shall continue to provide (or subcontract with third parties to provide) sites and services to
elementary and/or high school students in at least one hundred ten different sitesllocations during
designated time periods throughout the school year in the targeted communities. Vendors shall continue to
include workshops on study skills, conflict resolution, anger management, character building, and positive
communication and act as safe place for the students to go after school during summer, winter and spring
breaks, and whenever there are any emergency services that are needed during the year.

DELNERABLES:

Vendors will continue to provide a combined maximum of 110 safe haven sites during the summer program.
40 sites during the afterschool program, a minimum of 20 sites for winter break and a minimum of 50 sites
for spring break. Each site will serve at least 25 students. as reflected in daily attendance sheets.

OUTCOMES:

Vendor's services shall continue to result return in the following outcomes:

(1) Students likelihood to participate in violent behavior or become a victim of violence is reduced.

(2) Parents are provided child care support during daytime hours while students receive educational
enrichment activities including: problem solving, positive communication strategies, anger management
strategies, and discussions about violence in the c0mmunity, guidance regarding truancy prevention, and
tutoring in a safe environment during non-school hours. 

COMPENSATION:

Vendors shall receive $250 per day per site on days that require four hours of operation during the summer,
winter and spring break. Vendors shall receive $200 per day per site on days that require three hours of
operation during the after school program. Vendors shall be paid upon invoicing after services have been
performed; total compensation to all vendors during this option period shall not exceed the sum

of $2,450,000.

AUTHORIZATION: 

Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant terms and conditions in the written option
documents. Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the option documents. Authorize Chief of
Family and Community Engagement to execute all ancillary documents required to administer or
effectuate this th_e option agreements.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION: 

Pursuant to Section 5.2 of the Remedial Program for Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise
Participation in Goods and Services Contracts, MNVBE provisions of the Program do not apply to
transactions where the vendors providing services operate as Not-for?pro?t organizations.

REVIEW:
Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL:

Funds 115 and 332

Family and Community Engagement, Unit 14060
9139999999 ?2,450,000, FY16

Not Applicable

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 
5134-13. 1, the Inspector General of the Chicago Beard of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel necessary
to conduct those investigations.

Conflicts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 5134-213 which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of of?ce.

Indebtedness - The Board's indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 1995 (96-0626-PO3), as amended from
time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a partof the agreement. 7

Ethics - The Board?s Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 as amended from time to time,
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement. 

Contingent Liability The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current fiscal
year is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in the subsequent ?scal year budget(s).

73

March 23, 2016

16-0323-PR13

AUTHORIZE NEW AGREEMENTS WITH VARIOUS VENDORS FOR
TEACHER REFERRAL AND SUPPORT SERVICES

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Authorize new agreements with various Vendors to provide Teacher Referral and Support Services to the
Talent Of?ce at an estimated annual cost set forth in the Compensation Section of this report. Vendors
were selected on a competitive basis pursuant to Board Rule 7-2. Written agreements for Vendors'
services are currently being negotiated. No services shall be provided by and no payment shall be made to
any Vendor prior to execution of their written agreement. The authority granted herein shall automatically
rescind as to each Vendor in the event their written agreement is not executed within 90 days of the date of
this Board'ReporI. Information pertinent to these agreements is stated below.

Speci?cation Number: 15-350060
Contract Administrator Hubbard, Ms. Carisa Ann I 773-553-2280

VENDOR:

1) Vendor 17472
GOLDEN APPLE FOUNDATION FOR
EXCELLENCE IN EDUCATION
8 MICHIGAN AVE, #7
CHICAGO, IL 60603?331 8
Dilara AIim Sayeed
312 407-0006
Ownership: Non Profit

2) Vendor 17089
GROW YOUR OWN ILLINOIS
820 JACKSON BLVD
CHICAGO, IL 60607
Kate Van Winkle
312 784-3372
Ownership: Non Pro?t

3) Vendor# 33384
TEACH FOR AMERICA
315 W. 36TH STREET, 6TH FLOOR
NEW YORK, NY 10018
Josh Anderson
312 254-1000x19161
Ownership: Non Profit

USER INFORMATION 

Project

Manager. 11010 - Talent Of?ce
42 West Madison Street
Chicago, IL 60602
Lyons, Mr. Matthew A
773-553-2520

TERM:
The term of each agreement shall commence on May 1, 2016 and shall end on June 30, 2019. The
agreements shall have three (3) options to renew for periods of one (1) year each.

EARLY TERMINATION RIGHT:
The Board shall have the right to terminate each agreement with 30 days written notice.

SCOPE OF SERVICES: 
Vendors will recruit, train and support multiple cohorts of high quality diverse teachers endorsed in high
need subject areas and/or committed to workingin high need CPS schools.

DELIVERABLES:
Golden Apple will provide recruitment, training and coaching to support high school graduates many of
whom are CPS alumni - in becoming certi?ed teachers at 

Grow Your Own will provide recruitment and training to support parents, community members and-
paraprofessionals to become certi?ed teachers at CPS.

Teach for America will recruit, train and coach high-need subject area teachers for CPS. In all cases,

principals retain all hiring authority and payments to vendors are made upon achievement of speci?c
milestoneS.

74

March 23, 2016

OUTCOMES:

Golden Apple will prepare up to 100 candidates to become CPS teachers in FY17 and support them with
mentoring and coaching during their ?rst year teaching, up to 100 candidates to become CPS teachers in
FY18 and support them with mentoring and coaching during their ?rst year of teaching, and up to 125
candidates to become CPS teachers in FY19 and Support them with mentoring and coaching during their
?rst year of teaching.

Grow Your Own (GYO) will prepare up to 25 candidates to become CPS teachers in FY17, up to 20
candidates to become CPS teachers in FY18, and up to 20 candidates to become CPS teachers in FY19.

Teach For America (TFA) will prepare up to 80 candidates to become CPS teachers in FY17 and support
them with coaching during their ?rst and second year of teaching, up to 90 candidates to become CPS
teachers in FY18 and support them with coaching during their first and second year of teaching. and up to
100 candidates to become CPS teachers in FY19 and support them with coaching during their ?rst and
second year of teaching. TFA will also complete its coaching support for up to 42 ?rst-year teachers during
FY16 and up to 35 second-year teachers in FY17.

COMPENSATION:
Vendors shall be paid as speci?ed In their respective agreement. Estimated annual aggregate costs for all
vendors for the three (3) year term are set forth below.

$555,000 FY16
$981,000 FY17
$1,453,000 FY18
$1,611,000 FY19

REIMBURSABLE EXPENSES:
None.

AUTHORIZATION:

Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant terms and conditions in the written agreements.
Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the agreements. Authorize the Chief Talent Of?cer to
execute all ancillary documents required to administer or effectuate the agreements.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION:

Pursuant to Section 5.2 of the Remedial Program for Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise
Participation in Goods and Services Contracts, provisions of the Program do not apply to
transactions where the vendors providing services operate as Not-for?profit organizations.

LSC REVIEW:
Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL:

Fund 353 (Title II)

Unit 11010, Talent Of?ce

$555,000 FY16

$981,000 FY17

$1,453,000 FY18

$1,611,000 FY19

Not to exceed $4,600,000 for the three (3) year term.

Future year funding is contingent upon budget appropriation and approval.

Not Applicable

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 
the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel necessary
to conduct those investigations.

Con?icts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 5l34-21.3 which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of of?ce.

Indebtedness - The Board's Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 1996 (96-0626-P03), as amended from
time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics? The Board' 5 Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 (11- -0525- P02), as amended from time to time,
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability- -The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current ?scal
year is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in the subsequentr ?scal year budget(s).

President Clark indicated that if there were no objections, Board Reports 16-0323-EX1,

and through 16-0323-PR13, with the noted abstentions, would be
adopted by the last favorable roll call vote, all members present voting therefore.

75

March 23, 2016

President Clark thereupon declared Board Reports 16-0323-EX1, 16-0323-EX2, and
16-0323-PR1 through 16-0323-PR13 adopted.

16-0323-ED1

AMEND BOARD REPORT 
ADOPT ACADEMIC CALENDAR FOR 2015-16 SCHOOL YEAR

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER RECOMMENDS:
Adopt the academic school year calendar for elementary and high schools for the year 2015-2016. .

Amend the academic 2015-2016 school calendar to re?ect March 25, 2016 is now a day of non-attendance for
students:_June 22. 2016 is no lonqer a teacher institute day, and June 23, 2016 is no longer a professional
development day. This amendment is neCessam because the district is implementing three unpaid furlough
days to improve the distn?g's cash ?ow.

DESCRIPTION: The calendar indicates holidays, teacher institute days, school improvement days,
professional development days, and days when schools are closed for extended periods of time.

 

The effect of this action would be to establish a school year.

The 2015-2016 calendar includes 4-18 171 student attendance days, 4 Teacher Institute days, 3 School
Improvement days, 2 Parent-Teacher Conference Days (Report Card Pickup Days) and 3 2 Professional
Development days.

LSC REVIEW: LSC review is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL: None.

GENERAL CONDITIONS: Not applicable.

THIS SPACE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK

76

March 23, 2016

h; ?saga Forrest Claypool
PU Chief Executive Officer

2615-2016 CPS CALENDAR
ELEMENTARY AND HIGH SCHOOLS

 

 

 

 

 

   
 
 
   

SEPTEMBER DECEMBER

OCTOBER

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

19
2E
LEGEND
(1 End of Quarter Schools closledusalary paid exceptas provided by budgetary action
Teacher-institute Days HSPT High School ParenthTeacher Conference Day (Report card pickup)
a School Improvement Days EFT Elementary Parent-Teacher Conference Day (Report card, pickup)
Holiday Emergency day-school in session if student days fall below state requirement

Day of non-attendance for students 4: Each school I5 proIIided 3 professional development days that can be used flexibly over
Anticipated Windowfor Summer Programs the course of the school year
Schools closed? no salary paid 1 'School clerks begin working on Wednesclay, August 26, 2015

 

 

 

HOLIDAYS .
September 7 Labor Day January 18 M. King Day
October 12 Columbus Day February 15 ;President?s Day
November 11 Veterans Day May 30 Memorial Day-
November 26, 27 Thanksgiving Holiday July 4 Independence Day

 

 

Please note: November 27, December 25 and January 1 are holidays for the district omces. November 25 is a n'on-drtendancedoyforstudents and schoolabasedsro?

 

NOTES:
:6 SCHOOL School clerks begin on August 26, 2015. Teachers and Chicago Teacher's Union (STU) represented Paraprofessionals and School-Related Personnel
begin on August 31, 2015. 
Other school-based employees begin between August 31, 2015 and September 8., 2015.
Students begin classes on Tuesday, September 8, 2015-and end on Tuesday, June 21, 2016. Both days are full day?s?of school fors?tudents.
- Each quarter-ends on the following day:

(11 ends NOvember 12, 2015 Q3 ends April 7. 201.6
01 ends February 4, 2016 Q4 ends- June 21,2016
I PROGRESS REPORT DISTRIBUTION Schools will distribute progress reports on the folioMng?dates:
Q1 on October 9, 2015 Q3 on March 311, 2.016
Q2 on ianuary 8, 2016 0.4 on May 20, 2016

CONFERENCE Parents are asked to pickup report cards and conference with teachers after the first and third quarters. Parent?Teacher
conferenca daysare non-attendance days for students. Elementary and high schools are Expected to run a Parent-Teacher Conference Day:

Elementary High School
(11 on Wednesday, November 18', 2015 0.1 on 15, 2015
0.3 on Wednesday, April 13, 2016 (23 on Thursday, April 14, 2016
I REPORT CARD Please note thatreport cards for the, second and fourth? quarters will be sent home:
0.2 on February 11, 2016 (14 on lune 21, 2016

TEACH ER Teacher institute days are non-attendance days for students. These days are approved by the State Superintendent of instruction for teacher

professional development. Teacher institute days are principal- -dlrected, except September 4, 2015, which is half-principal and half teacher~directed.
Days include. September 2, 2015; September 3, 2015 a_nd September 4,2015 39W.

0 SCHOOL School improvement Days are non-attendance days forstudents and [are for teachers and staff to review student data, plan instruction,
and engage in development aligned to school priorities. They are principal directed except on February 5 2016 which is half principal? directed and half teacher-directed
and on April 8, 2016, which is teacher?directed

Days include: November 13, 2015; February 5, 2016; and April 8, 2016.

0 PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT FLEX Each school Is provided 3 ProfeSsional DevelOprnent Days to be used flexibly across the year. August 31 2015 September
1, 2015 end-HM. For teachers who had June 23, 2016 hours redistributed, June 23, 2016 will remain a paid clay. Professional development days are principal.
directed,

I ?S?chools are closed for the following breaks:

Winter vacation? Schools are closed from December 21,2015 to January 1, 2016
Spring vacation?- Schools are closed from April 18, 2016 to April 22,2016.

- GRADUATION High school graduation ceremonies cannot be held prior to June 13, 2016. Elementary graduations ceremonies cannot be held prior to
June 15, 2016.

- ANTICIPATED SUMMER Anticipated Summer Programs include summer Bridge, Bilingual Bridge, English Language Sum merSupport, Extended School Year, Summer
Acceleration and High School Summer Credit Recovery.

77

16-0323-MS1

March 23, 2016

AUTHORIZE THE RENAMING OF SCHOOLS

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER RECOMMENDS:

That the Chicago Board of Education approve the renaming of EdWin G. Foreman High School as ?me
Edwin G. Foreman College and Career. Academy, (2) Friedrich L. Jahn Elementary as the Friedrich L.
Jahn Elementary of the Fine Arts and Lillian R. Nicholson Eiementary as the Lillian R. Nicholson
STEM Academy. 

DESCRIPTION:

Pursuant to the Policy on the Naming or Renaming of Schools, Board Report 

I. With respect to the recommendation to rename Edwin G. Foreman High School as the Edwin G.

Foreman Coliege and Career Academy please note the following:

The Local School Council at Edwin G. Foreman High School:

1. Conducted the two school-community meetings on May 20,2015 at 4:00 pm. and May
20, 2015 at 5:00 pm, with proper notice, and received input on the proposed renaming
of Foreman which was overwheimingly in favor of the renaming; and

2. Held a meeting On May 20, 2015, voting 7 to 0 in favor of renaming Edwin G. Foreman
High School as the Edwin G. Foreman Coilege and Career Academy.

b. After the Local School Council meeting of May 20, 2015, the Principal and the Chairperson of

the Foreman Local School Council co-signed a ietter to the Network 3 Network Chief of
Schools recommending the renaming of Edwin G. Foreman High School as the Edwin G.
Foreman College and Career Academy. 

The Network 3 Chief of Schools recommended this name change to the Chief Executive
Of?cer.

if approved, the Edwin G. Foreman College and Career Academy will work collaboratively
with the Of?ce of Coiiege and Career Success to develop a curriculum that is consistent with
the College and Career Academy designation.

it. With respect to the recommendation to rename Fredrich L. Jahn as the Friedrich L. Jahn

Elementary of the Fine Arts please note the following:

a. The Local School Council at Fredrich L. Jahn Elementary:

1. Conducted the two school-community meetings on January 26, 2016 at 8:15 am. and
January 26, 2016 at 4:00 pm, with proper notice. and received input on the proposed
renaming of Jahn which was ovenivhelmingly in favor of the renaming; and

2. Held a meeting on February 10, 2016. voting 9 to 0 in favor of renaming Fredrich L. Jahn
as the Friedrich L. Jahn Elementary of the Fine Arts.

b. After the Local School Councii meeting of February 10,2016, the Principal and the

C.

Chairperson of the Jahn Local School Council co-signed a letter to the Network 4 Network
Chief of Schoois recommending the renaming of Fredrich L. Jahn as the Friedrich L. Jahn
Elementary of the Fine Arts.

The Network 4 Chief of Schools recommended this name change to the Chief Executive
Of?cer.

if approved, the Friedrich L. Jahn Elementary of the Fine Arts wiil work ccliaboratively with
the Departrnent of Arts Education to develop a curriculum that is consistent with the Fine Arts
designation. 

With respect to the recommendation to rename Lillian R. Nicholson Elementary as the Lillian R.

Nicholson STEM Academy please note the following:

The Local School Council at Lillian R. Nicholson Elementary:

Conducted the two school-community meetings on December 18. 2015 and January 19,
2016, with proper notice, and received input on the proposed renaming of Nicholson
which was overwhelmingly in favor of the renaming; and

2. Held a meeting on January 21, 20716, voting unanimously in favor of renaming Liilian R.
Nicholson Elementary as the Liilian R. Nicholson STEM Academy.

78

March 23, 2016

b. After the Local School Council meeting of January 21, 2016, the Principal and the
Chairperson of the Nicholson Local School Council co~signed a letter to the Network 11
Network Chief of Schools recommending the renaming of Lillian R. Nicholson Elementary as
the Lillian R. Nichols0n STEM Academy.

c. The Network 11 Chief of Schools recommended this name change to the Chief Executive
Of?cer.

d. if approved, the Lillian R. Nicholson STEM Academy will work collaboratively with the Of?ce

of College and Career Success to develop a curriculum that is consistent with the STEM
designation. 

FINANCIAL: Not applicable.

16-0323-EX3

REPORT ON PRINCIPAL CONTRACT (NEW)
THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING:

Accept and ?le a copy of the contract with the principal listed below who was selected by the Local
School Council pursuant to the Illinois School Code and the Uniform Principal?s Performance Contract
.

DESCRIPTION: Recognize the selection by the local school council of the individual listed below to the
position of principal subject to the Principal Eligibility Policy, and approval of any
additional criteria by the General Counsel for the purpose of determining consistency with the Uniform
Principal?s Performance Contract, Board Rules, and Law.

The Talent Of?ce has veri?ed that the following individuals have met the reduirements for eligibility.

 

 

NAME FROM 

Nancy Mendez Rehire Contract Principal
Otis Elementary
Network: 6
PM. 124381 

Commencing: February 22, 2016
Ending: February 21, 20.120

REVIEW: The respective Local School Council has executed the Uniform Principal?s Performance
Contract with the individual named above.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION STATUS: None.

FINANCIAL: The salary of this individual will be established in accordance with the provisions of the
Administrative Compensation Plan.

PERSONNEL IMPLICATIONS: The position to be affected by approval of this action is contained in the
2015-2016 school budget. 

16-0323-EX4

REPORT ON PRINCIPAL CONTRACTS (RENEWAL)
THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING:

Accept and ?le copies of the contracts with the principals listed below whose contracts were renewed by
the Local School Councils pursuant to the Illinois School Code and the Uniform Principal?s Performance
Contract and 

DESCRIPTION: Recognize the selection by local school councils of the individuals listed below to the
position of principal'subject to the Principal Eligibility Policy. and approval of any
additional criteria by the General Counsel for the purpose of determining consistency with the Uniform
Principal?s Performance Contract, Board Rules. and Law.

The Illinois Administrators Academy has veri?ed that the following principals have completed 20 hours of

Professional Development. The RENEWAL contracts commence on the date speci?ed in the contract
and terminates on the'date speci?ed in the contract

79

Natasha Buckner?Pena

Dana Butler

James Cosme

Erleah July Cywrus

Virginia Jimenez

Lillian Lazu

Deiena Little

Michelle Ludford?Naggatzv

Gregory Mason

Andrew McIntosh

FROM

Contract Principal
G. R. Clark

Contract Principal 

Ruiz

Contract Principal
Falconer

Contract Principal
Lorca

Contract Principal
Castellanos

Contract Principal
Little Village

Contract Principal
Keller

Contract Principal
"Beaubien

Contract Principal
Murray

Contract Principal
Black

80

March 23,2015



Contract Principal

G. R. Clark

Network: 3

RN. _1 19124
Commencing: July 1, 2016
Ending: June 30, 2020

Contract Principal

Ruiz

Network: 7

PM 146319
Commencing: July 1, 2016
Ending: June 30, 2020

Contract Principal
Falconer 

Network: 3

P. N. 115240
Commencing: July 1, 2016
Ending: June 30, 2020

Contract Principal

Lorca

Network: 4

RN. 406694

Commencing: September 1, 2016
Ending: August 31, 2020

Contract Principal
castellanos

Network: 7

RN. 1 14580
Commencing: July 1, 2016
Ending: June 30, 2020

Contract Principal 

Little Village

Network: 7

PM 124570
Commencing: July 1. 2016
Ending: June 30, 2020

Contract Principal

Keller

Network: 

PM 456999
Commencing: My 1, 2016
Ending: ?June 30. 2020

Contract Principal
Beaubien 

- Network: 1

PM 121977
Commencing: July 1, 2016
Ending: June 30, 2020

Contract Principal

Murray

Network: 9

RN. 120047

Commencing: July 1, 2016
Ending: June 30, 2020

Contract Principal
Black

Network: 12

PM 299917
Commencing: July 1, 2016
Ending: June 30, 2020

Carmen Navarro

Wendy Oieksy

Konstantinos Patsiopoulos

Nathan Pietrini

Docilla Pollard

Paul Powers

Evelyn Randie?Robbins

Jay Thompson

Efren Toledo

Contract Principal
Azuela

Contract Principal
Columbus

Contract Principal
Holden

Contract Principal
Hawthorne

Contract Principal
Carnegie

Contract Principal
Jones College Prep

Contract Principal
Mirel?es

Contract Principal
Lloyd

Contract Principal

O. A. Thorp

March 23,2016

Contract Principal

Azuela

Network: 10

P. N. 406690

Commencing: November 20i 2016
Ending: November 19, 2020 -

Contract Principal
Columbus

Network: 5,

PM 130172
Commencing: July 1. 2016
Ending: June 30, 2020

Contract Principal

Holden

Network: 6

PM 119828

Commencing: November 1, 2016
Ending: October 31, 2020

Contract Principal
Hawthorne

Network: 4

PM 121528
Commencing: July 1, 2016
Ending: June 30, 2020

Contract Principal
Carnegie

Network: 9

RN. 120922
Commencing: July 1, 2016
Ending: June 30, 2020

Contract Principal

Jones College Prep

Network: ISP

PM 114292

Commencing: August 4, 2018
Ending: August 3, 2020

Contract Principal
Mireles
NetWork: 12

.P.N.116222

Commencing: July 1,2016
Ending: June 30, 20120

Contract Principal

. Lloyd

Network: ISP

PM 122730
Commencing: July 1. 2016
Ending: June 30. 2020

Contract Principal

O. A. Thorp

Network: 1

PM 138095
Commencing: July 1. 2016
Ending: June 30, 2020

LSC REVIEW: The respective Local School Councils have executed the Uniform Principal?s Performance
Contract'with the individuals named above.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION STATUS: None.

FINANCIAL: The salary of these individuals will be established in accordance with the provisions of the
Administrative Compensation Plan. 

PERSONNEL IMPLICATIONS: The positions to be affected by approval of this action are contained in
the 2015-2016 school budgets.

81

March 23, 2016

16-0323-AR1

REPORT ON BOARD REPORT RESCISSIONS

THE GENERAL COUNSEL REPORTS THE FOLLOWING:

I. Extend the rescission dates contained in the following Board Reports to May 25, 2016 because
the parties remain inVoIved in good faith negotiations which are likely to result in an
agreement and the user groupis) concurs with this extension:

1. Approve Renewal Lease Agreement With North Lawndale College Preparatory
Charter High School for a Portion of Collins High School, 1313 S. Sacramento Drive.

User Group: Real Estate

Services: Rental of school facilities

Status: In negotiations

2. 14-0827-PR23: Authorize a New Agreement with Caremark PCS Health LLC for Pharmacy Bene?t
Management (PBM) Services

Services: Pharmacy Bene?t Management (PBM) Services

User Group: Talent Of?ce

Status: In negotiations

3. 15-0527-EXZ: Authorize ReneWal of the Academy for Global Citizenship Charter School
Agreement with Conditions.

Services: Charter School

User Group: Innovation and Incubation

Status: In negotiations

4. 15-0527-EX26: Amend Board Report Amend Board Report 13-0522-EX2:
Approve Entering into an Alternative Safe School Program Agreement with Cameiot 
LLC. .

Services: Charter School

User Group: Innovation and Incubation

Status: In negotiations

5. 15-0624-0P1: Approve New Lease Agreement with KIPP Chicago Schools for a Portion of Penn
School, 1616 South Avers Avenue.

Services: Rental of school facilities

User Group: Real Estate

Status: In negotiations

6. Amend Board Report 12-0627-OP2: Approve Renewal of Lease Agreementwith
Chicago Charter School Foundation (Chicago lntemationaICharter School) Chicagoquest for Lease of
a Portion of the Truth School.

Services: Rental of school facilities

User Group: Real Estate

Status: In negotiations

7. 15-0624-OP3: Approve New Lease Agreement with Noble Network of Charter Schools for Lease
of a Portion of the Truth School and Annex, Located at 1409 and 1443 N. Ogden Ave.

Services: Rental of school facilities

User Group: Real Estate

Status: In negotiations

8. 15-0624-OP5: Authorize Lease Agreements with the Catholic Bishop of Chicago.
Services: Rental of Chicago Archdiocese school sites

User Group: Real Estate

Status: in negotiations

9. 1 5-0624-PR10: Authorize a New Agreement with the Achievement Network for Formative Student
Assessment and Professional Support Services.

Services: ProfeSSional Support Services

User Group: AUSL Program Support

Status: In negotiations

10. Authorize a New Agreement with the Library Corporation for the Purchase of
Software License and Services. -

Services: License for centralized library automation system

User Group: Teaching and Learning Of?ce

Status: In negotiations

11. Authorize a New Agreementwith Guitar Center, Inc. dba Music and Arts Centers
for the Purchase of Musical Instruments.

Services: Purchase of Musical instruments

User Group: Teaching and Learning Of?ce

Status: In negotiations

82

March 23, 2016

12. 15-0826-PR12: Authorize New Agreements with Aetna Life Insurance Company and Cannon
Cochran Management Services, Inc. for Third Party Claims Administration Services and Life
insurance.

Services: Claims Administration Services

User Group: Talent Of?ce

Status: In negotiations

13. Authorize Final Renewal of Pre-Quali?cation Stems and Agreements with
Various Contractors to Provide Environmental Contracting Services.

Services: Environmental Contracting Services

User Group: Facility Operations Maintenance

Status: 5 of 10 agreements are fully executed; the remainder are in negotiations

14. 1: Authorize Entering into a New Agreement with CIC Energy Consulting, LLC for
External Energy Funding Acquisition Consulting Services. 

Services: Consulting Services

User Group: Facility Operations Maintenance

Status: In negotiations

15. Authorize a New Agreement with Ef?ciency Energy LLC for 1790 Energy
Consultant Services.

Services: Consulting Services

User Group: Facility Operations Maintenance

Status: in negotiations

16. 15-1028-PR18: Authorize a New Agreement with SEON Systems Sales Inc. for the Purchase of
a Student Transportation Management Software System.

Services: Student Transportation Management Software System

User Group: Student Transportation

Status: In negotiations

17. 15-1216-PR5: Authorize the Final Renewal Agreement with Lend Lease (US) Construction Inc.
for Construction Management Services.

Services: Construction Management Services

User Group: Facility Operations Maintenance

Status: In negotiations

18. Authorize A New Agreement with Simplexgrinnell LP for Security Camera
installation and Maintenance Services.

Services: Security Cameras Installation and Maintenance Services

User Group: School Safety and Security

Status: In negotiations

19. 0: Authorize the Second Renewal Agreement With Mesirow Insurance Services,
Inc. to Provide insurance Brokerage and Consulting Services. 

Services: Consulting Services

User Group: Risk Management

Status: In negotiations

20. 15-1216-PR13: Authorize a New Agreement with Sentinel Technologies for Enterprise Server
Maintenance.

Services: Enterprise Sewer Maintenance

User Group: Information Technology Services

Status: In negotiations

21. 15-1216-PR14: Authorize New Agreements with Various Vendors for the Purchase and/or Lease
of Network Servers. 

Services: Purchase and Lease of Network Servers

User Group: information Technology Services

Status: In negotiations

ll. Rescind the following Board Reports in part or in full for failure to enter into an agreement
with the Board, after repeated attempts, and the user groups have been advised of such
rescission:

None.

President Clark thereupon declared Board Reports 16-0323-ED1, 16-0323-MS1,
16-0323-EX3, 16-0323-EX4, and 16-0323-AR1 accepted.

83

March 23, 2016

OMNIBUS

At the Regular Board Meeting held on March 23, 2016 the foregoing motions, reports and
other actions set forth from number 16-0323-M01 through 16-0323-M03 except as othenNise
indicated, were adopted as the recommendations or decisions of the Chief Executive Officer and
General Counsel.

President Clark abstained on Board Reports 16-0323-AR5, 16-0323-PR3, 16-0323-PR5, and
16-0323-PR8.

ADJOURNMENT

President Clark moved to adjourn the meeting, and it was so ordered by a voice vote, all
members present voting therefore.

President Clark thereupon declared the Board Meeting adjourned.
l, Estela G. Beltran, Secretary of the Board of Education and Keeper of the records thereof,
do hereby certify that the foregoing is a true and correct record of certain proceedings of said

Board of Education of the City of Chicago at its Regular Board Meeting held on March 23, 2016 held
at the CPS L00p Office, 42 W. Madison Street, Garden Level, Board Room, Chicago, Illinois, 60602.

Estela G. Beltran
Secretary

84

March 23, 2016

INDEX

AR REPORTS FROM THE GENERAL COUNSEL

16-0323-AR1
16-0323-A R2
16-0323-A R3

16-0323-A R4

16-0323-AR5

Report on Board Report Rescissions 82, 83
Authorize Retention of The Law Firm Quintairos, Prieto, Wood Boyer 3
Approve Settlement of Eileen Grievance 3, 4
Property Tax Appeal Refund Authorize Settlement for Post Time Catering Inc.

Regarding its Property for Tax Years 2011-14 4
Property Tax Appeal Refund - Authorize Settlement for Thermal Chicago Corp.
Regarding its Property for Tax Years 2009-11 5

CO COMMUNICATION

16-0323-CO1

Communication Re: Location of Board Meeting of April 27, 2016 
CPS Loop Of?ce, 42 W. Madison, Garden Level, Board RoOm, Chicago, IL 60602 17

ED REPORT FROM THE CHIEF EDUCATION OFFICER

16-0323-ED1

Amend Board Report 14-1119-ED2 Adopt Academic Calendar for 2015-16

School Year 76, 77

REPORTS FROM THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

16-0323-EX1

16-0323-EX2

16-0323-EX3


16-0323-EX5

Transfer of Funds*
*[Note: The complete document will be on File in the Office of the Board] 17 - 19

Approve Local School Councii Community Voting Districts for City-Wide

Enrollment Schools 19, 20
Report on Principal Contract (New) 79
Report on Principal Contracts (Renewal) 79 - 81

Approve Appointment of Chief Officer, Office of Language and Cultural
Education Effective March 21, 2016 and Ratify All Lawful Actions Taken as
Chief Officer, Office of Language and Cultural Education Since March 21, 6

16-0323-EX6 Warning Resolution Kathleen Hagstrom, Principal, Walt Disney Magnet
Elementary School 6
16-0323-EX7 Warning Resolution Michelle Wilburn, Tenured Teacher, Assigned to
Thomas J. Higgins Elementary Community Academy 6, 7
MO MOTIONS
16-0323-MO1 Motion to Hold a Closed Session 1, 2
16-0323-M02 Motion Re: Adopt and Maintain as Confidential Closed Session Minutes from
February 24, 2016 8
16-0323-MO3 Motion Re: Approval of Record of Proceedings of Meeting Open to the Public
February 24, 2016 9

MS REPORT FROM THE CHIEF EDUCATION OFFICER

16-0323-MS1

Authorize the Renaming of Schools (Edwin G. Foreman College and Career
Academy; Friedrich L. Jahn Elementary of the Fine Arts; Lillian R. Nicholson
STEM Academy) 78, 79

March 23, 2016

OP - REPORT FROM THE CHIEF ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER
16-0323-OP1 Disposition of Bids Received for the Sale of Property Located at the Former

Leland Elementary Site, 5221 W. Congress Pkwy 9, 10
PO POLICY 
16-0323-PO1 Rescind Board Report 02-1023-POO1 and Adopt a New Bilingual Education

Policy 13 - 16

FROM THE CHIEF PROCUREMENT OFFICER

16-0323-PR1 Authorize New Agreements with Various Vendors for the Purchase of Core
Instructional Materials for English Language Arts/Literacy in Grades
Kindergarten-High School 21, 22

16-0323-PR2 Authorize New Agreements with Various Vendors for Arts and Cultural
Enrichment (Out-of-School), Academic Support and Student
Health and Wellness (In-School, Out-of?School, Recess) Services 23 - 31

16-0323-PR3 1 Authorize the Final Renewal Agreements'with Various Vendors for Social
Emotional Learning Services 31 - 45

16-0323-PR4 Amend Board Regort 15-1028-PR5 Authorize First Renewal Agreements for
Pre-Qualification Status with Various Contractors to Provide Mechanical,
Electrical, and Plumbing (MEP) Engineering Services 45 - 48

16-0323-PR5 Authorize the First Renewal Agreement with Constellation NewEnergy, Inc.
for the Supply of Electricity 48- 50

Authorize the First Renewal Agreement with Johnson Research Group, Inc.
to Provide Consulting Services on Tax Increment Financing Funding (TIF) for
the Capital Improvement Program 50 - 52

16-0323-PR7 Authorize the Second and Final Renewal Agreements with Carnow, Conibear
and Associates, Ltd. and GSG Consultant's Inc. to Provide Environmental
Testing and Related Services 52, 53

16-0323-PR8 Authorize the Second Renewal Agreement with Constellation Energy
Services - Natural Gas, LLC to Supply Natural Gas 54, 55

Report on the Award of Construction Contracts and Changes to Construction 
Contracts for the Board of Education's Capital Improvement Program 55 - 64

16-0323-PR10 Amen-d B_oard Report Authorize a New Agreement with
DBober, LLC. dba The Public Private Network to Generate Additional Revenue
from Vending Machines and Broadcasting Services 65, 66

16-0323-PR11 Authorize the First Renewal Agreements with Various Vendors for Student
Transportation Services (School Bus Service) 66 - 71

16-0323-PR12 Amend Board Report 15-0422-PR2 Authorize the Final Renewal Agreement
with Multiple Vendors for Safe Haven Sites and Services 72, 73

16-0323-PR13 Authorize New Agreements with Various Vendors for Teacher Referral and
Support Services 74, 75

RESOLUTION
16-0323- RS1 Resolution Authorize Appointment of Members to Local School Councils to Fill
Vacancies 12

RS - REPORTS FROM THE BOARD OF EDUCATION
16-0323-RSZ Resolution Approving Chief Executive Officer?s Recommendation to Dismiss
Educational Support Personnel 7

March 23, 2016

RS REPORTS FROM THE BOARD OF EDUCATION (Continuegl
16-0323-RS3 Resolution Approving Chief Executive Officer?s Recommendation to Dismiss
Probationary Appointed Teacher 7, 8

RS REPORT FROM THE CHIEF ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER

16-O323-RS4 Resolution Designating for Acquisition Real Property for the Construction of a
New School to Relieve Overcrowding 11

