Allegheny County Council
436 Grant Street
Pittsburgh, PA 15219
Phone (412) 350-6490

Meeting Minutes
Wednesday, May 2, 2018
4:00 PM

Conference Room 1

Committee on Budget and Finance
Paul Klein, Chair; Sam DeMarco, Nick Futules, Bob Macey, Chuck Martoni, Sue Means
and John Palmiere, Members.

 Committee on Budget and Finance

Meeting Minutes

May 2, 2018

I. Call to Order
The meeting was called to order at 4:03.

Invited Guests:
William D. McKain, CPA, Allegheny County Manager or Designee
Mary C. Soroka, Allegheny County Budget Director or Designee
Robert Hurley, Director, Allegheny County Department of Economic Development or Designee
Mr. McKain was present from the Office of the County Manager.
Ms. Soroka and Ms. Berbekec were present from the Department of Budget & Finance.
Mr. Hurley was present from the Department of Economic Development.
Ms. Roka and Mr. Barker were present from the Office of County Council.

II. Roll Call
Members Present:

4-

Sam DeMarco ,Sue Means,John Palmiere andPaul Klein

Members Absent:

1-

Chuck Martoni

Members Phone:

2-

Nick Futules andBob Macey

Members
Non-Members:

4-

Cindy Kirk,Anita Prizio,Patrick Catena andDeWitt Walton

III. Approval of Minutes

10616-18

Motion to approve the minutes of the Committee on Budget and Finance meeting held on
March 14, 2018.
A motion was made by DeMarco , seconded by Means, that this matter be
Passed. The motion carried by a unanimous vote.

IV. Agenda Items
Ordinances

10607-18

An Ordinance of the County of Allegheny, Pennsylvania, authorizing the
incurrence of nonelectoral debt by the issuance of one or more series or
subseries of General Obligation Bonds, Series C-77, or by such other name(s)
as designated by the County, in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed
$114,425,000 (the "C-77 Bonds" or the "Bonds").

Sponsors: Chief Executive

At the request of the Chair, the clerk read the title of the bill and Mr. McKain summarized
its provisions, describing the capital bond issuance practice of issuing bonds for two
years at a time and recent history and noting that costs of bond issuance is likely to
increase for at least the near-term future. Mr. McKain noted that he expects the County's
improved bond ratings to make the issuance an attractive investment, and indicated that
he anticipates the actual amount of the bonds issued to be around $90 million, rather
Allegheny County Council

Page 1

Printed on 6/11/2018

 Committee on Budget and Finance

Meeting Minutes

May 2, 2018

than the maximum allowed under the ordinance. Mr. McKain noted that about $70 million
in existing debt, so the new issuance would exceed that by about $20 million, but that he
regards that as a manageable increase going forward. Mr. McKain indicated that the
Courthouse renovations are ongoing and will entail more than merely the roof restoration
project, and highlighted road maintenance needs that had been brought about by the
recent spate of landslides.
Mr. Goodwin discussed federal tax law has changed in a fashion that eliminated the
County's ability to issue tax exempt refinancing bonds before the first call date on a given
prior bond issuance, and while taxable bonds could be issued, the finances of those
transactions render refinancing an infeasible option at this point.
Mr. DeMarco asked to see the debt retirement chart from the budget proceedings again,
with any appropriate updates, as well as a report of who bought the bonds in the last
issuance.
In response to questions from Mr. DeMarco, Mr. Goodwin discussed the firms retained as
bond counsel, and Mr. McKain noted that there had been a competitive bidding process
administered through the Professional Services Review Committee.
In response to questions from Ms. Soroka, Mr. McKain noted that the ordinance is
essentially identical to the ordinance that was introduced for the same purpose two years
previously, and gave a very brief overview of the procedural requirements that apply to
bond issuances of this nature.
In response to a question from Ms. Means, Mr. Goodwin discussed the 2016 bond
issuance, noting that Moody's had just upgraded the County's bond outlook to positive,
larger insurance companies that had not bought County debt in decades and which have
fairly conservative financial strategies did purchase some of the debt. Mr. Goodwin
summarized the current ratings by S&P and Moody's, and noted that Moody's would be
reviewing the County's rating in the next week or so.
In response to a question from Ms. Means, Mr. McKain discussed the general fund
balance.
In response to a question from Mr. Palmiere, Mr. Goodwin discussed the strategic
balance between rapid repayment and preserving some room for future bond issuances
when planning debt service.
In response to a question from Mr. Catena, Mr. Goodwin expressed his belief that the
County is well-positioned to improve its bond rating, and Mr. McKain noted that there is
cause for cautious optimism.
In response to a question from Mr. Catena, Mr. McKain indicated that he believes that
this issuance is adequate to address the County's capital needs at this time.
In response to a question from the Chair, Mr. Stoudt noted that public comment
regarding the issuance would be appropriate at the regular meeting at which the issuance
receives its final vote, and that the County does have a statutory obligation to advertise
that vote at least three days prior to the meeting.
In response to a question from Ms. Means, Mr. McKain expressed his belief that the road
and bridge line item would go up from just over $14 million to probably something in the
area of $16 million.
Allegheny County Council

Page 2

Printed on 6/11/2018

 Committee on Budget and Finance

Meeting Minutes

May 2, 2018

In response to a question from Mr. DeMarco, Mr. Goodwin and Mr. DeMartini discussed
the impact of improved bond ratings generally, and noted that specific numbers could be
calculated once the final ratings are available.
A motion was made by Palmiere, seconded by DeMarco , that this matter be
Affirmatively Recommended. The motion carried by a unanimous vote.

Resolutions

10580-18

A Resolution of the County of Allegheny amending the Grants and Special Accounts
Budget for 2018 (Submission #02-18).

Sponsors: Chief Executive

At the request of the Chair, the clerk read the title of the bill and Ms. Soroka
summarized its provisions, noting that the first grant under consideration will allow for
tracking Employment, Advancement, and Retention Network discretionary funding for the
programs administered by Partners 4 Work and involves no County match.
In response to a question from Ms. Kirk, Ms. Soroka gave a brief overview of the
transition from the Three Rivers Workforce Investment Board to Partners 4 Work.
In response to a question from Mr. Walton, Mr. McKain noted that EARN is separate
from the Learn & Earn program, which is also budgeted separately and currently
accepting applications.
At the request of the Chair, Mr. Hurley discussed the Year 44 CDBG appropriation, noting
that the Council approves the administrative funding for the program in the fall with the
regular budget, with approval of individual projects the following spring. Mr. Hurley noted
that CDBG adoption is subject to fairly stringent federal timing and other procedural
requirements, and that the funding level has dropped from a recent high of about $20
million to the current $12.4 million or so, but indicated that Congress was contemplating
adding funding which would result in an additional $1 million or so for the County. Mr.
Hurley gave a brief statistical overview of the number of applications received and funding
granted, and noted that some of the funding has not yet been awareded in order to allow
for a bit of flexibility should unforeseen needs arise during the course of the year.
In response to a question from Ms. Means, Mr. Hurley and Mr. Exler discussed why the
amendment involved an appropriation increase of just over $14.1 million, in order to allow
for some additional funding made available by Congress during the course of the program
year.
In response to a question from the Chair, Mr. Hurley discussed the federal criteria for
grant approval, noting that 70% of the revenue that the County receives must go to
communities below a certain income threshold, and places ceilings on how much can go
to staffing, demolition, and other types of expenses. Mr. Hurley also noted that projects
in municipalities which have their own CDBG programs (e.g. the PIttsburgh, Penn Hills
and McKeesport) are not eligible for County CDBG funding.
A motion was made by DeMarco , seconded by Palmiere, that this matter be
Affirmatively Recommended. The motion carried by a unanimous vote.

10608-18

Allegheny County Council

A Resolution of the County of Allegheny amending the Grants and Special
Accounts Budget for 2018 (Submission #03-18).
Page 3

Printed on 6/11/2018

 Committee on Budget and Finance

Meeting Minutes

May 2, 2018

Sponsors: Chief Executive

At the request of the Chair, the clerk read the title of the bill and Ms. Soroka
summarized its provisions, noting that the first item is a new special account for the
Department of Human Services to establish tracking program income for the Area
Agency on Aging.
In response to a question from Ms. Means, Ms. Soroka noted that some programs
administered by AAA do charge fees for services based on income-based fee
schedules, and that this bill would essentially appropriate those received fees for the
County's use for other permissible purposes.
Mr. McKain noted that the second item would allow for the receipt of $30,000 in new
funding from AOPC for magisterial district judge security improvements., and that the
third item would allow for the receipt of $98,000 in additional funding for videoconference
equipment for use by the Courty of Common Pleas and magisterial district courts.
In response to a question from Ms. Means, Mr. McKain offered to obtain information
regarding existing district court security, noted that the facilities used by the district
courts are not necessarily uniform and are leased at various types of locations, and
indicated that the $30,000 in new funding would likely not be enough to address all
sercurity needs, but that there is hope that additional funding would become available in
the future.
In response to a question from the Chair, Mr. McKain expressed his belief that prisoner
transportation between the district courts and other facilities is both labor intensive and
logistically difficult, and that videoconferencing greatly alleviates the difficulties.
In response to a question from Ms. Means, Mr. McKain indicated that there is a hope that
additional funding could become available to expand the program in the future.
In response to a question from the Chair, Mr. McKain noted that he is not aware of other
counties that are doing the same thing, outside of possibly Philadelphia.
A motion was made by Palmiere, seconded by Futules, that this matter be
Affirmatively Recommended. The motion carried by a unanimous vote.

V. Adjournment
The meeting was adjourned at 5:05.

Allegheny County Council

Page 4

Printed on 6/11/2018

 