Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Workforce, Housing & Community Development Committee
Wednesday, November 14, 2018

9:45 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA

There will be a meeting of the Committee or Subcommittee of the Board of Commissioners of Cook
County at the date, time and location listed above to consider the following:
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in writing,
their name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in advance of the
meeting. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a time specified in
the meeting agenda. Authorized public speakers who are not present during the specified time for public
testimony will forfeit their allotted time to speak at the meeting. Public testimony must be germane to a
specific item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not exceed three minutes; the Secretary
will keep track of the time and advise when the time for public testimony has expired. Persons authorized
to provide public testimony shall not use vulgar, abusive, or otherwise inappropriate language when
addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately; failure to speak to an item that is germane to the
meeting, or failure to adhere to the time requirements may result in expulsion from the meeting and/or
disqualify the person from providing future testimony.
18-6922
COMMITTEE MINUTES

Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 7/25/2018

Page 1 of 3

 Workforce, Housing &
Community Development
Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

November 14, 2018

18-6305
Presented by: SUSAN CAMPBELL, Director, Department of Planning and Development
PROPOSED INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT
Department: Planning and Development
Other Part(ies): The Housing Authority of Cook County, The Village of Arlington Heights, The City of
Berwyn, The Cicero Housing Authority, The City of Des Plaines, The City of Evanston, The Village of
Hoffman Estates, The Maywood Housing Authority, The Village of Mount Prospect, The Village of Oak
Lawn, The Village of Oak Park, The Oak Park Housing Authority, The Village of Palatine, The Park
Forest Housing Authority, The Village of Schaumburg, The Village of Skokie
Request:
above

Approve an Intergovernmental Agreement between Cook County and the sixteen parties

Goods or Services: Cook County will serve as the lead entity for the suburban Cook County portion of
a collaboration to develop a regional Assessment of Fair Housing.
Agreement Number(s): N/A
Agreement Period:
The agreement is effective as of 11/1/2018 and will remain effective until
7/31/2020 or until supplanted by a new agreement, whichever comes first.
Fiscal Impact:
None. The County’s portion of the cost ($44,500.00) will be paid with Community
Development Block Grant funds.
Accounts: Community Development Block Grant
Summary:
The parties to the proposed Intergovernmental Agreement are subject to federal
requirements to affirmatively further fair housing and wish to collaborate to develop a regional
Assessment of Fair Housing. The parties will work with Enterprise Community Partners and its partners,
the Chicago Metropolitan Agency for Planning, the Metropolitan Planning Council and the Chicago Area
Fair Housing Alliance, to produce a joint Assessment of Fair Housing. Cook County will enter into a
Subrecipient Agreement with Enterprise Community Partners with respect to the suburban Cook County
portion of the project. The City of Chicago and Chicago Housing Authority will enter into a separate
agreement with Enterprise Community Partners for this project.
Legislative History: 10/17/18 Board of Commissioners refer to the Workforce, Housing & Community Development

Page 2 of 3

 Workforce, Housing &
Community Development
Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

Secretary
Chairman:
Gainer
Vice-Chairman: Boykin
Members:
Sims, Suffredin, Tobolski

Page 3 of 3

November 14, 2018

 