Metropolitan Water Reclamation
District of Greater Chicago

100 East Erie Street
Chicago, IL 60611

Meeting Minutes
Annual Meeting

Chairman of Finance Frank Avila, Commissioner Cameron
Davis, Commissioner Kimberly Du Buclet, Commissioner
Marcelino Garcia, Vice-President Barbara J. McGowan,
Commissioner Josina Morita, Commissioner Debra Shore,
Commissioner Kari K. Steele, President Board of
Commissioners Mariyana T. Spyropoulos
Tuesday, December 4, 2018

2:00 PM

Board Room

Call Meeting to Order
President Mariyana T. Spyropoulos presiding, called the meeting to order at
2:10p.m.

Roll Call
Present:

9-

Frank Avila; Cameron Davis; Kimberly Du Buclet; Marcelino Garcia; Barbara J.
McGowan; Josina Morita; Debra Shore; Kari K. Steele; and Mariyana T.
Spyropoulos

Public Comment
None

Clerk to Read Call of the Meeting
1

18-1242

To the Honorable President and
Members of the Board of Commissioners
Of the Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago

The Annual Meeting of the Board of Commissioners of the Metropolitan Water
Reclamation District of Greater Chicago will be held on Tuesday, December 4,
2018 at 2:00 PM, in the Board Room, 100 East Erie Street, Chicago, Illinois.
Installation of Commissioners will occur at the Annual Meeting.

/s/ Jacqueline Torres
Clerk
A motion was made by Debra Shore, seconded by Kari K. Steele, that this Report
be Published and Filed. The motion carried by acclamation. Chorus of ayes No nays

Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago

Page 1

 Annual Meeting

2

Meeting Minutes

18-1243

December 4, 2018

President's Annual Message 2018

Attachments:

Presidents Message 2018.pdf
A motion was made by Barbara J. McGowan, seconded by Frank Avila, that this
Report be Published and Filed. The motion carried by acclamation. Chorus of
ayes - No nays

Open Discussion
Following the presentation, the Honorable P. Scott Neville, Jr., Illinois Supreme Court
Justice, administered the Oath of Office to newly elected Commissioners Cameron Davis
and Kimberly Neely du Buclet and to re-elected Commissioners Debra Shore and Kari K.
Steele, the Honorable Joanne Rosado, Circuit Court Judge, administered the Oath of
Office to newly elected Marcelino Garcia

Adjournment
A motion was made by Barbara J. McGowan, seconded by Cameron Davis, that
this Annual Meeting be Adjourned. The motion carried by the following roll call
vote: /s/ Jacqueline Torres, Clerk
Aye:

9-

Frank Avila; Cameron Davis; Kimberly Du Buclet; Marcelino Garcia; Barbara J.
McGowan; Josina Morita; Debra Shore; Kari K. Steele; Mariyana T. Spyropoulos

APPROVAL:
In accordance with the provisions of 70ILCS 2605/4, each of the foregoing agenda
items duly adopted by the Board of Commissioners of the Metropolitan Water
Reclamation District of Greater Chicago this December 4, 2018, are hereby approved.
APPROVED:
/s/ Mariyana T. Spryopoulos
President Board of Commissioners of the
Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago
December 4, 2018

Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago

Page 2

 