Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Zoning and Building Committee
Wednesday, July 25, 2018

10:00 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room,
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA

There will be a meeting of the Committee or Subcommittee of the Board of Commissioners of Cook
County at the date, time and location listed above to consider the following:
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in writing,
their name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in advance of the
meeting. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a time specified in
the meeting agenda. Authorized public speakers who are not present during the specified time for public
testimony will forfeit their allotted time to speak at the meeting. Public testimony must be germane to a
specific item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not exceed three minutes; the Secretary
will keep track of the time and advise when the time for public testimony has expired. Persons authorized
to provide public testimony shall not use vulgar, abusive, or otherwise inappropriate language when
addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately; failure to speak to an item that is germane to the
meeting, or failure to adhere to the time requirements may result in expulsion from the meeting and/or
disqualify the person from providing future testimony.
18-5002
COMMITTEE MINUTES

Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 6/27/2018
18-4697
Presented by: JAMES WILSON, Secretary, Zoning Board of Appeals
RECOMMENDATION OF THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
Request: Special Use SU 18-02

Township: Elk Grove
County District: 15

Page 1 of 2

 Zoning and Building Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

July 25, 2018

Property Address: 984 Martha Street, Elk Grove Village, Illinois 60193
Property Description: The subject property is approximately .89 acre located on the northwest corner of
Martha Street and Lincoln Street, in Section 31.
Owner: Kantibhai Patel, 1217 S. Roselle Road, Schaumburg, Illinois 60193
Agent/Attorney:
Agnieszka T. Plecka Esq., Law Offices of Mark J. Kupiac and Associates. 77 W.
Washington Street, Suite #1801, Chicago, Illinois 60602
Current Zoning: R-4 Single Family Residence District
Intended use: Special Use for Unique Use to allow for the operation of multi-family dwelling.
Recommendation: ZBA Recommendation is that the application be Received and Filed
Conditions: N/A
Objectors: N/A
History:
Zoning Board Hearing: N/A
Zoning Board Recommendation date: N/A
County Board extension granted: N/A

Secretary
Chairman:
Silvestri
Vice-Chairman: Sims
Members:
Committee of the Whole

Page 2 of 2

 