Ogden-Jenner Community Meeting #1
Proposed Consolidation of Edward Jenner Elementary Academy of the Arts into
Ogden International School of Chicago
Tuesday, January 9, 2018
Ogden Campus 24 W. Walton Street
5:30 PM – 8:00 PM
CPS Staff in Attendance:
Brian Metcalf, Cheryl Nevins, Hollie Ware-Jaye, Natasha Patterson, Sarah Briggs, Ethel
Barker, Ernest Ilarde, Lori Guidry, Dr. Michael Beyer, Dr. Kelly Shelton, Cara Kranz
Community Leaders
Alderman Walter Burnett (Ward 27), Rev. Randall Blakey, Rabbi Seth Limmer
CPS Presentation:
Brian Metcalf (Network 6 Chief of Schools) began by providing a welcome to all,
introduced attendees and participants and gave a preview of the meeting objectives. Mr.
Metcalf encouraged those that would like to be heard but did not want to speak in public
to please email all comments and concerns to transitions@cps.edu or submit a written
comment card. Mr. Metcalf reminded every speaker he/she will have two minutes to
speak.
Cheryl Nevins (Regional Portfolio Planner, Planning and Data Management) explained
the proposed action process.
The legal timeline for this action process was as follows: October 1, 2017 CPS
published draft guidelines for school actions; December 1, 2017 CPS proposed school
actions and sent notice letters and draft transition plans; January 2018 CPS holds two
community meetings and one public hearing prior to any recommendation to the Board;
February 2018 or later CPS makes recommendations to Board after community
meetings and hearing. Board will vote on recommended school actions at February
Board meeting or later.
Ms. Nevins stated that the Jenner/Ogden Steering Committee formed in approximately
May 2016. In the past, there have been 3 additional well-attended community
meetings, held between February 2017 and April 2017. The committee has created
Ogden and Jenner integration efforts for students and parents like JOLT (Jenner Ogden
1

 Learning Together) for students and SEED (Seeking Educational Equity and Diversity)
for teachers. Ms. Nevins related that the entire draft transition plan including early
steering committees efforts, changes, and draft plan are available at:
http://cps.edu/About_CPS/Policies_and_guidelines/Pages/transitionsandguidelines.asp
x under the School Actions tab.
Ms. Nevins stated that the most common desires they heard expressed during these
community meetings were: 1) the desire to keep the International Baccalaureate
academic program Ogden has built, 2) provide robust support for transitioning students
and teachers not previously trained in IB curriculum, 3) Maintain Jenner’s strong culture
including teachers and staff and continue to honor the N.E.S.T philosophy, 4) provide
pre-K for Jenner families, 5) provide transportation between campuses.
Public Comments
Randall Blakey (Executive Pastor, LaSalle Street Church; Board Member – Near North
Unity Program, Member – Steering Committee): Three years ago it came to his
attention that Jenner was under-enrolled and that Ogden was over-enrolled and that
there was an idea to merge the two schools. A community’s quality of life plan calls for
equitable education and this merger will bring cross cultural learning. He quoted
Thurgood Marshall as saying, “Children need to learn together to live together.” The
committee and community have had the right attitude in creating this plan which has
given it fortitude to overcome obstacles, and this right attitude has seen them through
three years up to tonight’s meeting.
Chris Connolly (Ogden parent) – He is excited and supportive. He thinks this plan is an
elegant solution and creates new opportunities. He feels that the steering committee
has been moving this proposal along with rigor and transparency. He feels that the plan
addresses the concerns of all interested groups and is a strong plan to success. He is
personally looking forward to the additional exercise of walking his child to the new
school.
Debra Land (Ogden parent) - She volunteers on Ogden campuses and has logged over
100 hours and she lives in this community. She and her husband went to homogenous
schools (she in the suburbs and he in Germany) and they had to learn to navigate an
unfamiliar and diverse work world when they grew up. She states that the world is even
more complex now and children need to learn to judge on abilities, not cultural
background. The mission of Ogden is international culture and the school is not a
segregated school at all – if you see the children at lunch they are all mixed together
and they must function as a diverse team. Beyond the diverse culture, she also feels
that this merger will make more efficient use of all three school buildings.
2

 Michele Dreczynski (Near North community member and Steering Committee
member) – She lives within the Ogden border and supports the merger to solve the
space utilization problems. Campus sharing maximizes financial resources and most of
all the merger plan expands and supports additional student access to high quality IB
education for the entire Near North side. This will blend two schools’ culture and
children into an amazing integrated neighborhood school. The community engagement
process for this merger dates back to 2013 and it recognizes that International
Baccalaureate is a good education model. She feels that this merger will be the most
successful merger in CPS history.
D.G. (Walter Payton student, Steering Committee/Advisory Group member) – Recited
quote about how the United States has laws against segregation but still practices
segregation. She commended Michele Drezynski for having the dream to build this
merged school and she is proud to be on the steering committee. She wants to see this
merger happen so that the school can accomplish racial equality together.
David Castro (Ogden staff member)- He appreciates the academic rigor and parent
activity at Ogden. It inspires hope in him that Ogden has more romantic notions about
education. He has split time between Jenner and Ogden as a staff member. He sees
Jenner students studying to jump ahead, believes that the Jenner kids are smart and
very welcoming. The feels the teachers at Jenner are great and he wants the Ogden
kids to be taught about them. He stated that Ms. Stamps at Jenner is really great in
particular. These two schools are inspiring and they make him want to continue with his
bachelor’s education. He fears that misrepresentation about the merger have mislead
people and he wanted to make it clear that he feels the Ogden/Jenner merger is for the
best.
Kelly Clark (Ogden parent) – She is for the merger. She asks that planning team
explore the staggered start time more because the staggered start time would actually
make it more difficult for her to pick up her children. Further, she would like later start
times explored because it has been shown that later start times are better for kids. She
suggests an 8:30 to 9:00 AM start time which would be better for everyone in her
opinion.
Clara Kittle (Former Ogden Principal) – She was Principal at Ogden for 3 years and
she continues to care about the students. She wanted to offer her perspectives
regarding the benefits of the merger. She feels these students have so much to learn
from one another. She had an opportunity to chaperone a J.O.L.T. activity where the
students of Ogden and Jenner went to a Cubs game together. The Jenner children
showed the Ogden children how to use public transportation and the students all
communicated well together. Another time some middle school representatives from
3

 both schools went on an adventure/team building outing. The students indicated at that
outing that their hopes for the merger were to make new friends, learn something
different, and have more learning opportunities. When asked about their fears the
students were quiet for a long time, then one student said that he wasn’t afraid of the
schools joining because he’ll accept the Jenner students just like the Ogden students
accepted him when he was new. Further, she stated that research and the
Ogden/Jenner students have proven that this is what is best for all our students’
success.
Teresa Chrobak-Prince (Hearst Elementary principal) – She hopes to quell
trepidations. She is a principal at an underserved and neglected CPS schools and has
two children in selective enrollment CPS schools. She personally attended a CPS
school on the southwest side. She believes that this opportunity will enhance education
experiences. The Jenner students will get a more even playing field academically and a
more diverse learning community. Her children have personally benefited from a mixed
background education and are more understanding now of diverse backgrounds and
students should learn tolerance, acceptance, and peace. This merger model will be a
model of acceptance. She is an administrator at a school that is very different from
Jenner and Ogden but she supports this merger because she wants to see equity in
action. She believes that Principal Beyer will make this transition a smooth one and will
help provide a respectful, safe, and calm learning environment and she is confident he
will ensure the best outcomes.
Seth Limmer (Rabbi, Chicago Sinai Congregation; Member – Jenner/Ogden steering
committee) – Ogden is the CPS home of many Sinai members and members of
Chicago Sinai see this Near North community as one community including Jenner and
Ogden even though outsiders might see the two communities as different. He works on
the steering committee and believes that in addition to this merger being an obvious
upgrade of education it also helps to ease pervasive racial indifference. This merger
should break the separation between the two neighborhoods. Additionally, CPS is still
fighting the unjust state formula of school funding. He strongly supports this merger.
Lori Smedley (Ogden Parent, Member – Jenner/Ogden steering committee) – She has
three children and she feels lucky to be in this position. She is very glad of the
leadership of Principal Beyer and former Principal Croston. The conversation around
this merger is for education equality, but also about financial and space utilization
advantages.
Juan Alvarez (Jenner boundary resident) – He lives in the Jenner boundary and has
two children. He has lived in the Jenner neighborhood awhile and has seen the Jenner
students grow. He feels it is important to continue to look at the Near North community
and continue to grow it. He thinks this merger is an important part of that growth. He has
4

 been part of this process since its inception in 2016 and he is proud of the CPS.
leadership and committee support. He especially wants to recognize the efforts of
Principal Croston and he wants the N.E.S.T culture to stay with the merged schools.
Heather Yutzy (Belding Elementary principal) – She is the Belding school principal and
parent of a CPS 3rd grader. She believes that this merger positions the two schools to
be national leaders and that all students will benefit from it. Students don’t get any harm
from integration. There was a research study from Columbia University that states that
exposure to diverse backgrounds helps students develop problem solving and critical
thinking skills. This merger can lead the way to show Chicago how to lead progress with
dignity and love.
Rebecca Wells (Ogden parent, Member – Jenner/Ogden steering committee) – She
states that this merger was not just thrown together and that well over 2000 man and
woman hours have already been put into making this merger work. This merger pushes
for out of the box thinking, it honors both school cultures and histories, that this action
has the ability to be more than just another CPS ‘school action.’ The committee has
engaged multiple organizations and thought leaders, has raised grant money, started
the S.E.E.D and J.O.L.T programs, and has created professional development
opportunities. All eyes are on this merger and this is an opportunity to be a blueprint for
other schools.
Michael Arnold (Ogden parent/Community member) – He thanks the committee for all
the work that they have done but he comes from a different standpoint. He has
questions about the draft plan: 1) when will it become a final plan? 2) Can you show the
community the combined school student data – what will the mixed student body look
like? Diversity is good but Ogden is already diverse and will this merger make it less
diverse? He also has concerns because Ogden has had four principals in recent years
and CPS has had three CEO – can leadership agree the proposed $1.8 million dollars
will be there? Also, Ogden has a unique situation where the 6-8th graders currently get
funded at the high school level – will that funding model change with this merger?
Further, what about the Title 1 funding that Jenner will lose? Also, is this merger taking
money away from other schools?
Besty Olker-Tomes (Ogden parent) – Has a student that has been here for seven
years. She believes this is a small step for educational equity. She states that all the
parents, teachers, and students have gotten to know each other over the years thanks
to the efforts of Principals Croston and Beyer. She has worked toward this merger and
states that the merger and transition plan have been well thought through and are
continuing to be refined. Her child thinks of Ogden as home and thinks the
Jenner/Ogden merger should happen because Jenner might just close otherwise.

5

 Kizzy Mccray (Jenner parent) – She also would like answer to the budget questions
asked earlier. She states that this plan seems perfect on paper but she wants to
advocate for the teachers at Jenner. Jenner is a well-known school and the Jenner
teachers should be allowed to stay there. This plan seems to be perfect but I want to
advocate on behalf of teachers at Jenner. She believes that the Jenner name should be
kept. She does want to know more about the budget and whether the money going to
be there. She does believe her child needs to know his/her neighbors and she wants
the merger to go well. She is a parent involved in SEED. She wants the Jenner teachers
to stay and knows that they will give Ogden students love.
Aaron Balsam (Jenner community member) – He lives in Jenner neighborhood and
supports the merger. He feels this merger is different from other school actions because
it doesn’t just move students or force them out of their school. This merger will increase
community participation, will incentivize families to invest in the community, and will
bring more families to the neighborhood in the long run. He believes that the prior
boundaries were gerrymandered and breaking them down will help all the students.
Bill Lamm (CTU activist, retired Social Studies teachers) – He is excited that people
have put so much energy into this. He has complete confidence in the youth involved
but is more nervous about the adults. CPS has a mixed record with school actions and
he isn’t confident in CPS leadership. The community must be alert to make this merger
work. Be careful that CPS doesn’t displace teachers from these schools or downsize in
the name of efficiency. He warns parents not to drink the Kool-Aid of high stakes tests
but instead drink the cool waters of humanity and social justice. Continue the fight.
Sheena Davis – Croston (Wife of former Jenner principal Croston) – Her husband, Rob
Croston, is very passionate about the work being done and it brings his heart joy to
know the work has continued. Rob transformed the Jenner school climate and culture.
She commends the work the community has done and how they have continued the
N.E.S.T philosophy. The committee has used data and teamwork to bring the merger
together. She believes the owls and the N.E.S.T will come together.
Paul Meric (Ogden parent) – He is a proponent of the merger and thinks it is a great
idea for many reasons but he wants to make sure that the plan is protecting students at
both schools. He wants his daughter’s education to stay high and wants all the teachers
to be enhanced. He is expected to perform at his job and he wants all the merged
teachers to be able to teach at that high academic level.
Shannon McDonald (Jenner community member) – She is a former teacher at a south
side school and was there when the IB curriculum was introduced. She believes that the
IB environment is great for students and does not believe that student integration will
mean less rigor. All the students will be pushed and students will learn from different
6

 perspectives. The demographics of the school won’t change from what she understands
and she is for the merger. As a former educator she thinks that the IB curriculum is
awesome.
In closing, Mr. Metcalf re-iterated that CPS wants to ensure that the IB rigor will remain
at Ogden/Jenner, all teachers will teach IB, and the curriculum and tenants of the school
will not change.
The public comment concluded at 7:30 PM and the Chicago Public Schools
representatives stayed until 8:00 PM to answer questions and allow additional speakers
speak.

7

 