 

Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Minutes of the Environment and Sustainability Committee Public Hearing

10:45 AM
Tuesday, June 26, 2018 Cook County Building, Board Room
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois
ATTENDANCE
Present: Chairman Deer. Commissioners Morrison. Boykin. Gainer, Moody. Schneider and
Silvestri (7)
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Chairman Deer asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public speakers, in
accordancewith Cook County Code.

I. David Vanvooren - Solid Waste agency of Northern Cook County
2. Karen Rozmus Keep Illinois Beautiful

18-4365
COMMITTEE MINUTES

Approval ofthe minutes from the meeting of4/l2/2017

A motion was made by Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Moody, to approve
18-4365. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Chairman Deer. Commissioners Morrison. Boykin. Gainer. Moody. Schneider and
Silvestri (7)

18-3800
Presented by: DEBORAH Director. Department of Environment and Sustainability

REPORT

Department: Environment and Sustainability

Report Title: Cook County Solid Waste Management Plan Update 2018

Report Period: 

Summary: Submitting the Cook County Solid Waste Management Plan 2018 Update Report for
approval. Pursuant to the Illinois Solid Waste Planning and Recycling Act: 415 15/1 this plan update
shall be available for review and public comment and a public hearing on the proposed plan shall be held.
The plan update will be made available and the public will be able to submit comments at the County?s

website and at the Cook County Department of Environment and Sustainability.

Requesting a public hearing ofthe Environment and Sustainability Committee

A motion was made by Vice Chairman Morrison, seconded by Commissioner Boykin, to
recommend for deferral 18-3800. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Chairman Deer, Commissioners Morrison, Boykin, Gainer. Moody, Schneider and
Silvestri (7)

ADJOURNMENT

A motion was made by Vice Chairman Morrison, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, to adjourn
the meeting. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Chairman Deer. Commissioners Morrison. Boykin, Gainer. Moody. Schneider and
Silvestri (7)

Respectfully submitted.

Wt, KW 75- 2214*

Chairman Secretary

A video recording ot?this meeting is available at 

 

