  
  

DRAFT   TRANSITION   PLAN   
For   the   Co-­‐‑location   of   
Art   In   Motion   Charter   School   and   
Emil   Hirsch   Metropolitan   High   School   
   

   
   

I.   Introduction   
   
Chicago   Public   Schools   (CPS)   is   committed   to   providing   every   child   from   every   community   with   a   
high-­‐‑quality   education   that   prepares   them   for   success   in   college   and   in   life.   CPS   students   continue   to   
make    record-­‐‑breaking    academic    progress    in    every    part    of    the    city.    Our    vision    is    that    all    CPS    schools   
can   build   on   this   progress   by   offering   high   quality,   rigorous   instruction   from   talented   educators   that   
help   put   Chicago   students   on   a   path   to   lasting   success.   
   
In   November   2017,   parents,   homeowners,   small   business   owners   and   community   members   of   the   
Greater   Grand   Crossing   and   Hirsch   High   School   community   requested   that   Chicago   Public   Schools   
(CPS)   and   the   Chief   Executive   Officer   (CEO)   recommend   that   Art   In   Motion   Charter   School   co-­‐‑locate   
with   Emil   G.   Hirsch   Metropolitan   High   School   effective   July   1,   2018.   
   
Art   In   Motion   Charter   School   would   be   a   new   charter   school   and   is   currently   proposed   to   open   in   the   
fall    of    2018    in    the    Greater    Grand    Crossing    Community.    Pending    the    Chicago    Board    of    Education’s   
(“Board”)   action   on   the   charter   school   proposal   at   its   December   6,   2017   Board   Meeting,   the   school   
will   open   serving   200   students   in   grades   7   and   8   and   will   grow   to   serve   one   grade   per   year   until   it   
reaches   grades   7   through   12.         
   
Therefore,    in    line    with    this    community-­‐‑driven    spirit,    the    Chief    Executive    Officer    (CEO)    of    CPS    is   
proposing   to   co-­‐‑locate   Art   In   Motion   with   Hirsch   High   School.         
   
The    proposal    to    co-­‐‑locate    Art    In    Motion    with    Hirsch    High    School    involves    the    following    proposed   
change:   
   
●   Art   In   Motion,   a   proposed   new   charter   school   anticipated   to   open   in   Fall   2018,   will   be   co-­‐‑
located   with   Emil   G.   Hirsch   Metropolitan   High   School   at   7740   S.   Ingleside.   
   
The   transition   plan   outlined   below   summarizes   supports   that   will   be   provided   by   Hirsch   and   CPS   to   
ensure   a   smooth   transition   for   students.   
   
II.   Summary   of   Proposed   Action   
   
CPS   is   proposing   to   co-­‐‑locate   Art   In   Motion   Charter   School   with   Emil   G.   Hirsch   Metropolitan   High   
School    in    the    Hirsch    facility.    Art    In    Motion    Charter    School    is    a    proposed    new    charter    school   
anticipated   to   open   in   the   Fall   of   2018   in   the   Greater   Grand   Crossing   Community.   Art   In   Motion   will   
open    with    approximately    200    students    in    grades    7    and    8    and    will    grow    to    serve    one    grade    per    year   
until   it   reaches   7-­‐‑12   with   no   more   than   900   students.      
   
Art   In   Motion   Charter   School   is   a   charter   school   whose   mission   is   to   provide   every   student,   regardless   
of    their    zip    code,    an    opportunity    to    achieve    their    fullest    academic    and    artistic    potential    through    a   
personalized    and    performing    arts    learning    model    that    is    driven    by    challenging    academic    and    art   

   
  

standards.   The   Art   In   Motion   community   will   unite   to   empower   the   next   generation   with   the   life   skills   
needed   to   reach   their   fullest   potential   and   thrive   in   a   global   society.      
   
The   school   is   designed   around   three   anchors:   a   personalized   arts   pathway,   next   generation   learning   
and   innovative   partnerships.   The   arts   will   be   used   as   a   medium   for   students   to   develop   their   way,   
finding   abilities   to   design   their   future   in   an   art,   college   or   career.   Through   next   generation   learning,   
students    will    experience    flexible    learning    environments    that    are    enabled    by    state    of    the    art   
technology    and    new    age    communication    media.    Innovative    partnerships    will    foster    multiple   
industries    coming    together    to    provide    resources    and    opportunity    to    build    learning    for    the   
community.      
   
   The    proposal    to    open    Art    In    Motion    Charter    School    is    under    consideration    by    the    Board.    It    is   
anticipated   that   the   Board   will   act   on   the   AIM   proposal   at   its   December   6,   2017   Board   Meeting.   If   
approved,   the   school   will   open   in   the   Fall   of   2018   serving   no   more   than   200   students   in   grades   7   and   
8.   As   a   charter   school,   AIM   will   accept   an   application   for   enrollment   from   any   student   residing   in   
Chicago    who    is    interested    in    attending.    If    there    are    more    applications    than    available    seats,    AIM    is   
required   to   conduct   an   admissions   lottery   to   randomly   select   students   for   enrollment.   Students   who   
are    not    selected    via    the    lottery    are    placed    on    a    wait    list    for    admissions.    Emil    G.    Hirsch    Metropolitan   
High   School   is   a   traditional   CPS   high   school   serving   grades   nine   through   12.      It   currently   serves   138   
students.      
   
This    proposal    is    consistent    with    the    Chief    Executive    Officer’s    Guidelines    for    School    Actions   
(Guidelines)   because   it   is   a   proposal   requested   by   parents   or   community   members   via   the   process   to   
request   proposals   outlined   in   the   Guidelines.   Specifically,   we   have   heard   the   request   for   this   proposal   
from   parents,   homeowners,   small   business   owners   and   community   members   of   the   Greater   Grand   
Crossing   and   Hirsch   High   School   community   in   a   letter   dated   November   22,   2017.   The   resulting   space   
utilization   after   the   co-­‐‑location   will   not   exceed   the   facility’s   enrollment   efficiency   range,   as   defined   
by   the   CPS’   Space   Utilization   Standards.         
   
III.  Safety   and   Security   
   
At   the   present   time,   there   is   no   recognized   CPS   safety   concerns.   If   this   proposal   is   approved,   the   CPS   
Office   of   Safety   &   Security   will   work   with   the   administrations   of   Art   In   Motion   and   Hirsch   High   School   
to    review    each    school’s    safety    and    security    plan.        A    variety    of    supports    for    students    and    the   
community   nearby   will   be   considered   with   feedback   from   parents.      These   supports   may   include   the   
following:   
   
●  First   and   foremost,   CPS   will   hold   safety   planning   meetings   to   ensure   that   all   safety   efforts   are   
coordinated   between   CPS,   Administration,   Parents   and   the   Chicago   Police   Department;   
●  Safety    plans    and    security    staffing    plans    will    be    evaluated    and    coordinated    with    the   
administration   of   both   Art   In   Motion   and   Hirsch   High   Schools;      
●  CPS   will   examine   the   best   location   (for   both   schools)   for   separate   school   entrances   within   the   
building   and   drop-­‐‑off   and   pick-­‐‑up   locations   for   buses;   
●  School   safety   plans   for   parents   who   drive   their   children   to   school   will   be   created;   
●  School   safety   plans   for   students   who   take   public   transportation   to   high   school   will   also   be   
created;   
●  A    review    of    safety    technology    will    be    conducted    to    determine    whether    existing    safety   
technology   needs   to   be   enhanced.      This   review   may   include   screening   protocols.   
   
   

   
  

   
   

IV.  Supports   for   Students   and   Schools         
   
CPS    is    committed    to    ensuring    a    successful    transition    of    a    Board-­‐‑approved    proposal.    To   
accomplish    this    CPS    (with    the    help    of    the    current    Hirsch    and    Art    In    Motion    administrations),   
proposes   the   following   supports   to   meet   the   academic,   social   and   emotional,   and   specific   learning   
needs    of    affected    students.        These    resources    may    be    further    customized    as    feedback    is    obtained   
at   community   meetings   and   a   public   hearing   regarding   this   proposal.   Additionally,   resources   may   
be   adjusted   to   meet   the   unique   needs   of   affected   students   if   deemed   necessary.   
   
   
Supporting   Students’   Academic   Needs      
   
●   Hirsch   will   continue   to   design   and   implement   its   high   school   curriculum   for   Hirsch   
students;   
●   An   Academic   Planning   Team   will   examine   space   and   curriculum   to   offer   the   highest   level   of   
appropriate   learning   experiences;   
●   Teachers   and   staff   will   explore   new   opportunities   for   students   to   interact   and   learn   with   
their   peers;         
●   Professional   development   will   be   focused   on   helping   students   adjust   and   transition   to   the   
co-­‐‑located   facility.   
   
Supporting   Students’   Social-­‐‑Emotional   Needs   
   
CPS    understands    that    when    students    transition    into    new    situations    and    environments,    additional   
support    is    needed    to    help    them    adjust.        CPS    and    the    Office    of    Social    Emotional    Learning    (OSEL)    will   
consult   with   the   school   community   to   provide   resources   and   design   a   school-­‐‑specific   program   that   
supports   the   following   strategies:   
●   Hirsch   and   the   Art   In   Motion   design   team   and   staff   will   continue   and   look   to   and   expand   their   
proposed    social    and    emotional    learning    and    school    climate    supports    supports    for    all   
students;      
●   CPS   will   support   relationship   building   activities   between   Hirsch   and   the   Art   In   Motion   design   
team   and   staff   to   develop   and   foster   a   good   working   relationship   and   meet   the   needs   of   all   
students   within   the   Hirsch   building;   
●   Both    schools    will    have    systems    in    place    that    work    to    identify,    track    and    plan    targeted   
strategies    for    students    with    higher    levels    of    social    and    emotional    needs    with    a    behavioral   
health    team.    Guiding    practices    will    be    established    through    collaboration    to    prepare    for   
students   who   may   need   additional   social   and   emotional   support.      Training   will   be   supported   
by   CPS;   
●   By   December   of   2018,   all   Hirsch   and   Art   In   Motion   Staff   will   be   trained   in   Safety   Care   De-­‐‑
escalation   Techniques;         
●   CPS    will    support    professional    development    related    to    the    proposed    co-­‐‑location    for    all   
teachers   to   help   them   develop   skills   and   resources   that   support   all   students.   
Supporting   Additional   Transition   Needs   for   Students   
   
To   ensure   all   additional   student   needs   are   taken   into   consideration,   Art   In   Motion   will   develop   a   
transition   team   (to   include   administration,   staff,   parents   and   other   community   stakeholders)   that   
will   address   the   following   areas   of   support:   

   
  

●   Logistical   support   to   ensure   all   classroom   supplies   and   equipment   are   inventoried   and   
properly   placed   within   the   new   building;         
●   Planning   of   specific   timelines   and   deadlines   to   ensure   there   is   no   loss   of   instructional   time   
and   that   Art   In   Motion   is   ready   to   receive   students   on   the   first   day   of   the   2018-­‐‑19   school   
year;         
●   Parent   communication   that   will   be   ongoing   through   multiple   avenues   to   keep   parents   
informed   with   the   most   up-­‐‑to-­‐‑date   information;   
●   Planning   for   schedules,   room   usage   and   after   school   activities   between   Art   In   Motion   and   
the   Hirsch   administrative   teams   will   begin   in   March   2018.      
   
Support   for   Specific   Students’   Needs   
   
Supporting   Students   with   Diverse   Learning   Needs   
   
Students   with   disabilities   and   their   families   will   be   supported   in   the   transition   process   through   clear   
communication,   continual   support   for   academic   instruction   and   ensuring   that   the   school   is   fully   able   
to    implement    students’    IEPs.    Students    with    disabilities,    as    with    all    students    impacted    by    school   
actions,   will   receive   intensive   support   to   ensure   their   academic   and   social-­‐‑emotional   needs   are   met.      
Students    with    disabilities    will    also    receive    the    following    categories    of    support,    adjustable    to   
individual   student/family   need:   
   
Current   students   with   disabilities   will   continue   to   receive   the   following   supports,   required   by   law:   
●   A   free   and   appropriate   public   education   (FAPE)   
●   The   implementation   of   the   student’s   IEP   in   the   least   restrictive   environment   (LRE)   
●   A   focus   on   student   academic   and   social   emotional   progress   
   
Supporting   Students   in   Temporary   Living   Situations   
   
●   The   CPS   Office   of   Students   in   Temporary   Living   Situations   (OSTLS)   will   continue   the   support   
provided   to   Students   in   Temporary   Living   Situations   (STLS)   as   required   by   law.      These   include   
free    school    meals,    enrollment    support,    provision    of    required    school    uniforms    and    school   
supplies   as   needed,   transportation   assistance   when   eligible,   and   waivers   of   all   school   related   
fees;   
●   Additionally,    CPS    will    provide    professional    development    and    support    to    staff    on    providing   
transition   services   for   STLS   students.   
   
Supporting   English   Language   Learners      
   
●   Current    and    future    English    Language    Learners    (ELs)    will    receive    state    mandated    bilingual   
services    (Transitional    Bilingual    Education    (TBE)    or    Transitional    Program    of    Instruction   
(TPI)),    as    required.        English    as    a    Second    Language    (ESL)    instruction    provided    by    an    ESL-­‐‑
endorsed   teacher   is   part   of   both   programs;   
●   Meaningful    access    to    the    core    curriculum    is    provided    to    TBE    students    through    native   
language   instruction   in   the   core   content   (language   arts,   math,   science,   and   social   studies);      
●   For   TPI   students,   meaningful   access   to   core   curriculum   is   delivered   through   sheltered   English   
content   instruction   and   native   language   supports,   based   on   the   individual   student’s   need,   and   
provided   by   appropriately   endorsed   (bilingual-­‐‑   or   ESL-­‐‑endorsed)   teacher(s).      
   
Supporting   Students’   Transportation   Needs   

   
  

●   Provisions    for    specific    student    populations    (i.e.,    student    with    disabilities,    Students    in   
Temporary    Living    Situations,    and    NCLB    qualifying    students),    as    determined    by    the    CPS   
transportation   policy,   will   continue   to   apply   for   Hirsch   High   School   as   required   by   law;   
●   Bus   arrival   and   departure   procedures   will   be   examined   to   provide   for   the   smoothest   transition   
to   all   students   entering   and   exiting   the   building.   
   
   

V.   Additional   Logistical   Information   
   
Information   Regarding   School   Assignment   
If    this    proposal    is    approved,    students    attending    Hirsch    will    continue    to    attend.    Students    who    reside   
within    the    Hirsch    High    School    attendance    boundary    will    continue    to    be    assigned    to    Hirsch    High   
School.    To    support    families    in    understanding    the    student    application    and    enrollment    process   
information   is   available   online   at   go.cps.edu.      
   
Public   Comment   
   
Community   Meetings   and   Public   Hearings:   
CPS    will    hold    two    community    meetings    at    Hirsch    High    School    and    one    formal    public    hearing   
regarding   this   proposed   action.   Public   comment   will   be   accepted   during   each   meeting   or   hearing.   
CPS    is    committed    to    considering    community    feedback    and    will    amend    this    draft    transition    plan   
accordingly.   
   
            Community   Meeting   1   
                                                   Community   Meeting   2   
                                          Public   Hearing   
January   9th,   2018                      
6   to   8   p.m.      
Emil   G   Hirsch   Metropolitan   High   
School   
7740   S   Ingleside   Avenue   
   

January   16th,   2018                      
6   to   8   p.m.      
Emil   G   Hirsch   Metropolitan   High   
School   
7740   S   Ingleside   Avenue   
   

January   31st,   2018   
5:30   to   8   p.m.      
CPS   Loop   Office   
42   West   Madison   
Street,   Garden   Level,   
Board   Room   
   

Further   Questions   and   Concerns:   
All   of   this   information   can   be   found   at   CPS.edu/Transitions.   If   you   have   any   questions   or   concerns   
regarding   this   proposal   and   the   draft   transition   plan,   please   call   Chicago   Public   Schools   at   (773)   
553-­‐‑1500   or   email   Transitions@cps.edu.   
   

   

 