Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Technology and Innovation Committee
Tuesday, March 13, 2018

12:35 PM

Cook County Building, Board Room
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA

There will be a meeting of the Committee or Subcommittee of the Board of Commissioners of Cook
County at the date, time and location listed above to consider the following:
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in writing,
their name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in advance of the
meeting. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a time specified in
the meeting agenda. Authorized public speakers who are not present during the specified time for public
testimony will forfeit their allotted time to speak at the meeting. Public testimony must be germane to a
specific item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not exceed three minutes; the Secretary
will keep track of the time and advise when the time for public testimony has expired. Persons authorized
to provide public testimony shall not use vulgar, abusive, or otherwise inappropriate language when
addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately; failure to speak to an item that is germane to the
meeting, or failure to adhere to the time requirements may result in expulsion from the meeting and/or
disqualify the person from providing future testimony.
18-2585
COMMITTEE MINUTES

Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 2/7/2018
18-1447
Presented by: SIMONA ROLLINSON, Chief Information Officer, Bureau of Technology
REPORT
Department: Bureau of Technology
Report Title: Information Security Framework Semi-Annual Report

Page 1 of 2

 Technology and Innovation
Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

March 13, 2018

Report Period: 7/1/2017 - 12/30/2017
Summary:

Pursuant to Resolution 17-2732, the Chief Information Security Officer shall update the

Board of Commissioners via the Technology Committee on the state of the information security in Cook
County government. The Information Security Framework Semi-Annual Report will provide the status of
all Agencies’ adoption and compliance of the Information Security Framework. Included in the report is a
summary of all advice and recommendations of each Agency regarding their unique considerations.
Additionally, updates will be provided regarding current security controls and the Vulnerability Threat
Management Program.
A closed meeting is requested, pursuant to an exception to the Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2 (c) (8):
“Security procedures, school building safety and security, and the use of the personnel and equipment to
respond to an actual, a threatened, or a reasonably potential danger to the safety of employees, students,
staff, the public, or public property.” Given the confidential nature of the Report, a closed meeting is
necessary to maintain the safety and security of Cook County residents and stakeholders.
Legislative History: 1/17/2018 Board of Commissioners refer to the Technology and Innovation Committee

Secretary
Chairman:
Fritchey
Vice-Chairman: Morrison
Members:
Butler, Daley, Deer, Garcia, Goslin, Schneider, Silvestri

Page 2 of 2

 