  
  
42  W.  Madison  Street  •  Chicago,  Illinois  60602  
Telephone:  773/553-­1600    

   
December   1,   2017   
Staff   and   Local   School   Council      
Staff   and   Local   School   Council   
Lazaro   Cardenas   Elementary   School   
Rosario   Castellanos   Elementary   School   
2345   South   Millard   Avenue   
2524   South   Central   Park   Avenue   
   
Re:   Proposed   Consolidation   of   Rosario   Castellanos   Elementary   School   and   Lazaro   Cardenas   
Elementary      
   
Dear   Staff   and   Local   School   Council   Members:      
Chicago   Public   Schools   (CPS)   is   committed   to   providing   every   child   from   every   community   with   a   
high   quality   education   that   prepares   them   for   success   in   college   and   in   life.   CPS   students   continue   to   
make    record-­‐‑breaking    academic    progress    in    every    part    of    the    city.    Our    vision    is    that    all    CPS    schools   
can   build   on   this   progress   by   offering   high   quality,   rigorous   instruction   from   talented   educators   that   
help   put   Chicago   students   on   a   path   to   lasting   success.   
   
Cardenas   School   is   a   Level   1+   school,   located   at   2345   S.   Millard   Ave.,   that   serves   kindergarten   through   
third    grade,    with    a    pre-­‐‑kindergarten    program.    Students    that    live    within    Cardenas’    boundary    then   
attend   Castellanos,   a   Level   2+   school,   located   at   2524   S.   Central   Park   Ave.,   for   fourth   through   eighth   
grade.   The   geographic   attendance-­‐‑area   boundary   for   both   schools   is   the   same.   Dr.   Jeremy   Feiwell   has   
been   the   principal   of   Cardenas   for   the   past   12   years   and   began   serving   as   the   principal   of   Castellanos   
on   August   22,   2017.      
   
I   am   proposing   the   consolidation   of   Castellanos   into   Cardenas.      The   attendance-­‐‑area   will   not   change;   
however,   the   entire   boundary   will   be   assigned   to   Cardenas   as   a   K-­‐‑8   attendance-­‐‑area   boundary.   This   
proposed   consolidation   would   not   adversely   impact   any   Castellanos'   staff   members,   all   of   whom   will   
be   offered   their   current   position   in   the   Cardenas   K-­‐‑8   school.         
   
This    proposal    is    consistent    with    the    Chief    Executive    Officer’s    Guidelines    for    School    Actions   
(Guidelines)   because   it   is   a   proposal   requested   by   parents   or   community   members   via   the   process   to   
request    proposals    outlined    in    the    Guidelines.        Specifically,    the    Local    School    Councils    for    both   
Cardenas   and   Castellanos   submitted   a   letter   on   November   2nd,   2017   requesting   the   consolidation   of   
these   two   schools.      The   resulting   space   utilization   after   the   consolidation   will   not   exceed   the   facility’s   
enrollment    efficiency    range,    as    defined    by    the    CPS’    Space    Utilization    Standards.        Additionally,    the   
students    impacted    by    this    proposed    consolidation    are    being    provided    the    option    to    enroll    at   
Cardenas,   a   higher   performing   school,   as   defined   by   the   Guidelines.   
   
If   this   proposal   is   approved   by   the   Board   of   Education   of   the   City   of   Chicago   (Board),   Castellanos   and   
Cardenas   will   consolidate   effective   July   1,   2018.   While   Castellanos   students   will   be   administratively   
transferred   to   Cardenas,   it   is   important   to   note   that   the   students   will   continue   to   be   educated   in   the   
two   buildings   to   reduce   disruption.      
   
   

   

   
  
42  W.  Madison  Street  •  Chicago,  Illinois  60602  
Telephone:  773/553-­1600    

   
If    you    would    like    more    detail    about    the    proposed    consolidation,    please    refer    to    the    Draft    Transition   
Plan   that   is   included   with   this   letter.   
   
As    a    next    step,    CPS    will    hold    two    community    meetings    and    one    public    hearing    to    hear    further   
feedback   on   CPS’   proposal   (meeting   information   is   below).   Following   the   meetings   and   hearing,   the   
Board   of   Education   may   vote   on   this   proposal   as   early   as   February   of   2018.   
   
Public   Comment   on   this   Proposal   
I   invite   you   to   share   your   feedback   on   the   proposed   consolidation   of   Cardenas   and   Castellanos   during   
the   following   two   community   meetings   and   one   public   hearing   outlined   below:   
Community   Meeting   1   

Community   Meeting   2   

Public   Hearing   

January   9,   2018   
6   to   8   p.m.   
Rosario   Castellanos         
Elementary   School   
2524   S   Central   Park   Ave   

January   16,   2018   
6   to   8   p.m.   
Rosario   Castellanos         
Elementary   School   
2524   S   Central   Park   Ave   

January   25,   2018   
7   to   8   p.m.   
CPS   Central   Office   
42   West   Madison   Street   

If   you   wish   to   comment   at   the   community   meetings   or   hearing,   you   must   sign   up   to   speak   on   the   day   
of,   at   the   designated   location,   beginning   one   hour   before   the   designated   start   time   and   ending   one   
hour   after   the   start   of   the   meeting   or   hearing.   You   will   have   two   minutes   to   speak,   unless   the   hearing   
officer   or   meeting   organizer   provides   an   extension.      The   hearing   will   conclude   at   the   stated   end   time   
or   following   the   comments   of   the   last   person   who   has   signed   up   to   speak,   whichever   occurs   first.   
   
Thank   you   in   advance   for   your   feedback   as   we   work   to   provide   all   Chicago   Public   School   students   
with   the   high   quality   education   they   deserve.      After   the   community   meetings   and   public   hearing,   I   
will    review    a    written    report    from    the    hearing    officer    and    at    that    time,    I    may    recommend    that    the   
Board   consider   and   approve   the   consolidation   of   Castellanos   and   Cardenas.   
   
Further   Questions   and   Concerns:   
All   of   this   information   can   be   found   at   CPS.edu/Transitions.   If   you   have   any   questions   or   concerns   
regarding   this   proposal   and   the   Draft   Transition   Plan,   please   call   Chicago   Public   Schools   at   (773)   553-­‐‑
1500   or   email   Transitions@cps.edu.   
   
Sincerely,   
   
   
   
Forrest   Claypool   
   
   
Chief   Executive   Officer      
Chicago   Public   Schools      

   

   

   

   

   
   

   
   

 