STATE

S T R E E T C O MM I S S I O N

State Street Commission Meeting
Tuesday, July 17, 2018
2:00 PM
ABC7
190 North State Street
10th Floor Conference Room
MINUTES
ATTENDANCE

I.

AFFILIATION

Commission Members Present
Commissioner Mark Davids
Commissioner Paul Fitzpatrick
Commissioner Mark Kelly
Commissioner John Tully
Commissioner Anne Voshel

AmTrust Corp.
11 East Partners LLC
DCASE
Department of Streets & Sanitation
AVA Consultants

Commission Members Absent
Commissioner Greg Cameron
Commissioner Scott David Greenberg
Commissioner John Idler
Commissioner Dean Lane
Commissioner David Reifman
Commissioner Rebekah Scheinfeld
Commissioner Ryan Segal
Commissioner Jennifer Williams

Joffrey Ballet
the Wit/ECD
ABC7
Palmer House
Department of Planning & Development (DPD)
Chicago Department of Transportation (CDOT)
Acadia
Macy’s

Others Present
Sgt. Charles Battaglia
Alex Christenson
Officer Anthony Ciaravino
Judie Green
Laura Jones
Robert Kearney
Tanesheha Marshall
Sharene Shariatzadeh

1st District Chicago Police Department
Mid-America Real Estate
1st District Chicago Police Department
Auditorium Theatre
Chicago Loop Alliance (CLA)
42nd Ward
Chicago Department of Transportation (CDOT)
LUMA8

Call to Order - SSA#1 - 2015 Chair Anne Voshel

SSA#1-2015 Chair Anne Voshel called the meeting to order at 2:02 PM. Introductions were made around the
room. A quorum was not present, therefore voting on several items including the 2018 and 2019 budgets and
the levy could not occur at this time.
II.

Public Comment

No comments were made by the public.
III.

Approval of Minutes

The minutes could not be approved because a quorum was not present.
IV.

Financial Statements as of June 30, 2018

Abel Rodriguez stated that we needed a quorum to change line items in the 2018 budget. Commissioner Mark
Davids asked when the appropriate time would be to discuss comments to the budgets. Rodriguez said that we

 could discuss it now, but we could not alter the budget without a vote from a quorum. Laura Jones added that
Michael Edwards, who is currently at a Board meeting of the International Downtown Association in
Washington, D.C., wanted the group to know that these are the same 2018 and 2019 budgets that have been
discussed in previous meetings and these are the same budgets that the CLA Board and the Finance Committee
have reviewed. There are no surprises, it is nothing new. Chair Voshel said in response, but if there are
comments, she would like to hear them.
Commissioner Davids said when we discussed the 2019 budget previously, we had a potential levy of $2.9
million and a projected $110,000 carry-over. Is the $110,000 for new items? Rodriguez replied that the carryover is for items we were not able to complete in the 2018 budget, and that he would be happy to go over the
financial report through the end of June, which was in meeting packets. On the very last page of that report
there is a projected carry-over detailing line items we believe will not be completed. For example, Public
Relations. CLA hired a full-time staff person to do PR and believed there might be a need to hire our previous
PR firm on an as-needed basis for some big projects, but that has not occurred. We think that $26,000
allocation can be carried over until next year.
Davids said that he understood, but what he was advocating for was to keep the budget at or under the threshold
of a 5% increase which would trigger a special community meeting. In the current increasing tax environment,
he does not personally believe that it is fiscally responsible for the SSA to be presenting a budget with an
increase. Possible cuts could be made in customer attraction marketing and Springboard pedestrian counters.
He does not really want to make specific recommendations, however. The CLA Board should look at the
budget again and make the budget cut suggestions.
Rodriguez replied that the 2019 budget was a zero-based budget, and that in the past we have always overestimated the carry-over. To cut back to the 5%, we would be reducing the budget by $189,900 and we already
previously reduced the budget by $170,000 when the new EAV came out because we wanted to keep the tax
rate at the same amount as 2018. The actual dollar amount we are slated to receive in 2019 went up, not the
levy. Judie Green reminded the Commission that one of the reductions we made was in the allotment for a
master plan for a re-imagined State Street.
Chair Voshel said that we really need to go through what this budget entails with everyone present. She
suggested that Commissioners be sent a Doodle poll to find another time the meeting could be continued with
a quorum present.
V.

LUMA8/Arts in the Dark Presentation

Luma8 President and CEO Sharene Shariatzadeh began her presentation with a video overview of Arts in the
Dark. It started as a Halloween Gathering, and then was rebranded as Arts in the Dark. Up until then, there
had not been one day when everyone – the Lyric, Shedd Aquarium, the Art Institute, After School Matters,
theatres and other cultural institutions -- came together to celebrate all the arts. Kids and large institutions don’t
often get to go out, play in the street, and be scary. It’s a liberating and empowering experience.
Moving Arts in the Dark to State Street has some major advantages. We want all families who come down
during the day to stay longer for evening activities, and to reinforce the findings of CLA’s Cultural Study,
which affirms that the Loop has one of the most tightly packed concentrations of culture in the world.
Chair Voshel asked what amount of funding LUMA8 was requesting from the SSA. CLA Chair, Judie Green,
replied that no funding was being requested, Chicago Loop Alliance Foundation (CLAF) assets would be used
instead. CLAF’s mission is to enrich the Loop’s public spaces through artistic expression and free cultural
programing, and Arts in the Dark is a good fit with that. Proceeds from the yearly ILLUMINATION GALA
support CLAF programming. This year’s GALA honorees are Broadway in Chicago’s Lou Raizin and the
Goodman Theatre’s Roche Schulfer. It all fits together. We started 2018 with the release of the Culture Study,

 hopefully bring Arts in the Dark to State Street to inspire more corporate giving to the arts in the future, and
then culminate the year with the GALA honoring two major influences in shaping Chicago’s Theatre District.
Green said that at a previous Commission meeting it was questioned why CLAF, not a corporation, was looking
at sponsoring Arts in the Dark. If the event remains on Columbus, there are no businesses. We want this
audience to join CLA as members and to attract them to our attractions, retail, restaurants, and hotels. This
will also promote more corporate sponsorship in the future. For many reasons we think this is a good match
for us. We’ve even talked about doing a pilot test of lighting on buildings for the event. This is something
we’ve discussed doing year-round to add ambience to the district.
Shariatzadeh addressed corporate sponsorships. The first two years that the Cultural Mile staged Arts in the
Dark, sponsorships were not solicited. It was only last year when LUMA8 took the event over that
sponsorships were sought. It’s a new event that’s already growing. This year we have the support of
Millennium Garages, Mesirow, and others.
Chair Voshel said that there were many opportunities. The parade attracts an audience of 100,000 – 200,000
from 6:00 – 8:00 PM. Like CLA’s ACTIVATE Linger Longer promotions, we could ask businesses if there
were offers they wanted to present in conjunction with the parade. CLA has even considered staging an
ACTIVATE the same night.
DCASE Commissioner Kelly added more information about the event. Part of its vision statement says that
there will be no politicians, tv anchors, or beauty queens in the procession. There can’t even be sponsorship
floats because it is a creative, curated art form which is part of its appeal. About 80 cultural institutions
participate. The audience is largely families, but at the same time the event has an edge to it. In the second
year of the its existence, it went up against a Cubs playoff game and it still attracted 180,000. What a great
way to bring creative communities together and drive economic activity! State Street should own the arts. It
is a magical street. This is not a traditional marketing ploy, it goes in the opposite direction.
The plan is being finalized so that it can be submitted to the Alderman’s office. We want the event to be safe,
and we want it to work for the city. This is a small parade, and we never want it to go over 2 hours. The
footprint is very much like the Memorial Day Parade, moving north to south. Unlike Taste of Chicago, which
disturbs traffic patterns, Congress would remain open.
Chair Voshel thanked Shariatzadeh and Kelly. We hope the final decision will be made to move the parade to
State Street.
VI.

Status Reports/Outstanding Issues

Security: Sgt. Charles (Chuck) Battaglia introduced himself as the First District’s new business liaison
sergeant, and then introduced Officer Anthony Ciaravino whose focus is special events. Battaglia said that he
looked forward to working with everyone and invited the group to call his cell phone number 773-208-1908 if
they ever had any problems. Ciaravino said that the Central Business District was unique in that it had so
many constituencies (retail, finance, schools, etc.) and that CPD meets daily with these groups. Recently, the
department concluded Taste of Chicago (1.5 million people attended or about 300,000 per day), and now plans
are being made for a safe Lollapalooza. About 90,000 people are expected to attend this festival each day, and
many hotels are sold out because of this event.
A ½ marathon will occur this Sunday throughout the Loop. 20,000 runners are expected. OEMC will
issue a press release. Ciaravino distributed a list of other upcoming events with contact information.

 Streets & Sanitation: Commissioner Tully said that Taste went very well, and that his deputy was
currently at a Lollapalooza meeting. The department has been involved in relocating the homeless population
in the Triangle on lower Wacker so that construction could commence.
Chair Voshel asked about the use of salt trucks during Taste to block areas. Tully responded that it’s
a safety measure for pedestrians, but it is also an added cost for their department. The city is looking at a more
permanent solution.
CTA: No CTA report was given.
CDOT: Tanesheha Marshall said that CDOT had finished the State/Lake El Station proposal review.
A consultant should be identified in the next 6-8 weeks.
Sole Service Provider Report: Abel Rodriguez stated this report incorporated voting on the Second
Quarter Performance & Budget Assessment, the 2018 Budget Amendments, and the Sole Service Provider
contract – none of which can be done without a quorum.
VII.

Other Business

The next SSA #1-2015 State Street Commission meeting date is pending. Commissioners will be polled.
VIII. Adjournment
The meeting was adjourned at 2:55 PM by Chair Voshel.
Respectfully Submitted,

Mark Davids
Secretary

 