Detroit Water and Sewerage
Department
Meeting Minutes - Final

735 Randolph Street
Detroit, Michigan 48226
(313) 224-4704 Office
www.dwsd.legistar.com

Human Resources/Organizational
Development
Wednesday, March 7, 2018

2:30 PM

5th Floor Board Room, Water Board Building

Human Resources Committee Meeting

1.

CALL TO ORDER
Chairman Davis called the meeting to order at 3:09 p.m.

2.

ROLL CALL
Present:

3.

4 - Linda Forte, Mary Blackmon, John Henry Davis and Jane Garcia

APPROVAL OF AGENDA
Chairman Davis requested approval of the agenda.
A motion was made by Commissioner Mary Blackmon, seconded by
Commissioner Linda Forte that the agenda be approved. The motion carried
by a unanimous vote.

4.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Chairman Davis requested approval of the minutes of February 7, 2018.
A motion was made by Commissioner Mary Blackmon, seconded by
Commissioner Linda Forte that the minutes be approved. The motion carried
by a unanimous vote.

5.

PUBLIC PARTICIPATION
There were none.

6.

COMMUNICATIONS
There were none.

7.

UNFINISHED BUSINESS
DWSD Employee Salary Adjustment-Closed Session Request
Executive Compensation-Closed Session Request (17-0145)
Director's Employment Agreement and Organizational Metrics (17-0146)
Director Brown reported that a meeting is scheduled on March 13, 2018 to discuss the
Director's Employment Agreement and Executive Compensation and will provide a

Detroit Water and Sewerage Department

Page 1

 Meeting Minutes - Final

Human Resources/Organizational
Development

March 7, 2018

resolution following this date.
Chairman Einheuser stated the board will request a closed session to discuss the
matters referenced above.

8.
A.

NEW BUSINESS

17-0024

The Board of Water Commissioners for the City of Detroit, Water and Sewerage
Department approval to adopt the Human Resources Committee Charter, and
also authorizes the Director to take such other action as may be necessary to
accomplish the intent of this vote.
Sponsors:
Attachments:

B.

Pospiech
HRC - Charter and Planning Calendar

Briefing on Performance Evaluations, Training and Staffing Needs Assessment,
Attendance Policies
Item 8B was referred to closed session.

9.

OTHER MATTERS
There were none.

10.

NEXT MEETING
April 4, 2018

11.
A.

CLOSED SESSION

18-0045

Upon the request of Chief General Counsel Debra N. Pospiech, Esq., the Board of
Water Commissioners vote to: 1) Meet in closed session pursuant to Section
8(c) of the Michigan Open Meetings Act to discuss the negotiation of
collective bargaining agreements with AFSCME and SAAA, and 2)
Authorize the Director to take such other action as may be necessary to
accomplish the intent of this vote.
Sponsors:

Pospiech

A motion was made by Commissioner Mary Blackmon, seconded by
Commissioner Jane Garcia that this Request, Closed Session at 3:16 p.m.be
approved. The motion carried by an unanimous vote.

ROLL CALL VOTE:
A motion was made that this be approved. The motion carried by the
following vote:
Detroit Water and Sewerage Department

Page 2

 Meeting Minutes - Final

Human Resources/Organizational
Development
Aye:

4-

March 7, 2018

Commissioner Forte, Commissioner Blackmon, Chairperson Davis and
Commissioner Garcia

Committee returned from closed session at 3:40 p.m.

The only matters discussed were negotiations of CBA's with AFSCME and SAAA.

NEW BUSINESS (CON'T)
C.

18-0046

The Board of Water Commissioners for the City of Detroit Water Sewerage
Department authorizes the Director to 1) Approve the Collective Bargaining
Agreement 2018-2021 between the Detroit Water and Sewerage
Department and AFSCME-Local 2920; and 2) Authorize the Director to
execute the Collective Bargaining Agreement 2018-2021 between the
Detroit Water and Sewerage Department and AFSCME-Local 2920, and
also authorize the Director to take such other action as may be necessary to
accomplish the intent of this vote.
Sponsors:

Pospiech

A motion was made by Commissioner Mary Blackmon, seconded by
Commissioner Linda Forte that this Contract, Collective Bargaining be
recommended for approval. The motion carried by an unanimous vote.

12.

ADJOURNMENT
Chairman Davis requested a motion to adjourn.
A motion was made by Commissioner Mary Blackmon, seconded by
Commissioner Jane Garcia that the meeting be adjourned. The motion carried
by an unanimous vote.

There being no further business, the meeting adjourned at 3:42 p.m.

Detroit Water and Sewerage Department

Page 3

 