Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Contract Compliance Committee
Tuesday, September 11, 2018

1:15 PM

Cook County Building, Board Room
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA

There will be a meeting of the Committee or Subcommittee of the Board of Commissioners of Cook
County at the date, time and location listed above to consider the following:
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in writing,
their name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in advance of the
meeting. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a time specified in
the meeting agenda. Authorized public speakers who are not present during the specified time for public
testimony will forfeit their allotted time to speak at the meeting. Public testimony must be germane to a
specific item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not exceed three minutes; the Secretary
will keep track of the time and advise when the time for public testimony has expired. Persons authorized
to provide public testimony shall not use vulgar, abusive, or otherwise inappropriate language when
addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately; failure to speak to an item that is germane to the
meeting, or failure to adhere to the time requirements may result in expulsion from the meeting and/or
disqualify the person from providing future testimony.
18-5796
COMMITTEE MINUTES

Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 04/24/2018
18-4541
Sponsored by:
DENNIS DEER, STANLEY MOORE, LUIS ARROYO JR, RICHARD R. BOYKIN,
JERRY BUTLER, JOHN P. DALEY, JOHN A. FRITCHEY, JESÚS G. GARCÍA, GREGG GOSLIN,
EDWARD M. MOODY, SEAN M. MORRISON, TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER, PETER N.
SILVESTRI, DEBORAH SIMS, LARRY SUFFREDIN and JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI, Cook County
Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE
SMALL BUSINESS COMMISSION FOR COOK COUNTY

Page 1 of 3

 Contract Compliance
Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

September 11, 2018

BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter 2 Administration,
Article III, County Board, Division sections 2-84 through 2-86 of the Cook County Code, is hereby
enacted as Follows:
Sec. 2-84. Short Title.

This Division shall be known and may be cited as the “Cook County Commission on Small Business
and Supplier Diversity.
Sec. 2-85. Policy and Purpose.

(a) There is hereby created a Commission to help create sustainable small business initiatives that
promote business opportunities, financial growth and further development and expansion of small and
minority businesses and businesses that are owned by people with disabilities.
(b) Explore issues and barriers that prevent small businesses, women owned businesses, businesses
owned by people with disabilities and minority owned businesses from being successful.
(c) Meet and exceed procurement existing procurement goals. Research and promote best practices
that facilitate meeting contracting and subcontracting goals.
(d) Review compliance code and compliance of Cook County Agencies.
(e) Review and recommend best practices to reduce access to capital challenges faced by minority,
women owned businesses and businesses owned by people with disabilities.
(f) Review and make recommendations on how Cook County Hospital System and other County
agencies can increase the participation of minority, women owned businesses and businesses owned by
people with disabilities.
Cook County Commission on Small Business.

(a) The Commission will have eleven (11) members including: two (2) Commissioners who were the
original co-sponsors of the ordinance who shall serve as Chair and Co-Chair of the Commission. Four (4)
of the Commission members shall be selected by the Chair and Co-Chair and must be certified MBE or
WBE business owners certified by Cook County. Five (5) members of the Commission shall be appointed
by the President of the Cook County Board of Commissioners and may include but not be limited to:
representatives of Cook County Agencies, civic leaders, majority contractors or private sector
representatives who have established excellent diversity practices. All shall be confirmed by the Cook
County Board.

Page 2 of 3

 Contract Compliance
Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

September 11, 2018

(b) Non-elected Board Members will serve for two (2) years and can be reappointed for consecutive
terms. Commissioners who are appointed shall serve (4) year terms that coincides with election cycles of
commissioners.
(c) The Commission has the authority to review and make recommendations on approval or reversal
of certification appeals.
(d) The Commission will advise the President’s office and Board of Commissioners not less than
quarterly on its recommendations.
(e) The Commission shall have Four (4) Committees 1. Compliance Monitoring, 2. Certification
Advisory Team 3. Outreach/Mentoring and Training 4. Capital Access/Banking
All meetings of the Commission will be open to the public.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption
Legislative History :

6/27/18 - Board of Commissioners - refer to the Contract Compliance Committee

Secretary
Chairman:
Moore
Vice-Chairman: Silvestri
Members:
Arroyo, Butler, Deer, Garcia, Moody, Sims and Tobolski

Page 3 of 3

 