Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Board of Commissioners
Minutes of the Rules and Administration Committee
Wednesday, May 16, 2018

10:00 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room,
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

ATTENDANCE
Present:

Suffredin, Daley, Deer, Fritchey, Gainer, Morrison, Schneider, Silvestri and Sims (9)
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Chairman Suffredin asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public speakers, in
accordance with Cook County Code.
1. Mark F. Armstrong
2. George Blakemore
18-3749
COMMITTEE MINUTES
Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 04/25/2018
A motion was made by Vice Chairman Daley, seconded by
for approval 18-3749. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

Commissioner Sims, to

recommend

Suffredin, Daley, Deer, Fritchey, Gainer, Morrison, Schneider, Silvestri and Sims (9)
18-2634

Presented by: (Inactive) RANJIT HAKIM,
Ethics

Executive Director,

Department of

PROPOSED CHANGES TO PUBLIC FACING RULES AND REGULATIONS
Department: Human Rights and Ethics

Human Rights and

 Rules and Administration Committee

Committee Minutes

May 16, 2018

Summary: Revision to the Procedural Rules of the Cook
County Commission on Human Rights
(Approved by Cook County Commission on Human Rights at March 8, 2018 meeting)
Consistent with County Code, § 1.9, the following
proposal, which was noticed and approved by
the Cook County Commission on Human Rights at
its March
8, 2018 meeting will not be effective
until the sooner of May 7, 2018 or the date upon
which this rule revision is received and filed by
the Rules Committee of the Cook County Board of Commissioners.
Revision 1: Document Preservation Obligation Runs to All Parties
Existing rule:
Section 420.135

Maintenance of Records by Respondent

Once a Complaint has been served on a Respondent, the Respondent shall preserve all records and other material
which may be relevant to the Complaint until the matter has been closed.
Revised rule:
Section 420.135

Maintenance of Records by Respondent Parties

Once a Complaint has been served on a Respondent, the Complainant(s) and Respondent(s) shall preserve all
records and other material which may be relevant to the Complaint or any defenses until the matter has been closed
by the Commission. Provided that a party has not previously incurred a duty to preserve evidence through
agreement, contract, statute or its own affirmative conduct, a Complainant’s preservation obligation begins when the
Complainant files the Complaint with the Commission, and a Respondent’s preservation obligation begins when the
Complaint has been served on the Respondent. A party’s failure to meet its preservation obligations under this Rule
may result in the Commission drawing an adverse assumption about the content of the missing record or other
material against the party that failed to preserve that record or other material.
.
A motion was made by Commissioner Sims, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, to recommend for approval
18-2634. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

Suffredin, Daley, Deer, Fritchey, Gainer, Morrison, Schneider, Silvestri and Sims (9)
18-3159

Presented by: SHANNON E. ANDREWS, Chief Procurement Officer
PROPOSED CHANGES TO PUBLIC FACING RULES AND REGULATIONS
Department: Office of the Chief Procurement Officer, Department of Administrative Hearings
Page 2 of 3

 Rules and Administration Committee

Committee Minutes

May 16, 2018

Summary: In accordance with §1-9 of the Cook County Code of Ordinances, the Office of the Chief Procurement
Officer (OCPO) submits the attached Joint Rules and Procedures of the Office of the Chief Procurement Officer and the
Department of Administrative Hearings Concerning Disqualification of Contractors.

The Proposed Rules and Procedures shall govern the process by which the County may disqualify a contractor for
the grounds set forth in the Cook County Procurement Code. The Proposed Rules and Procedures will be posted to
the OCPO’s website after being received and filed by the Rules and Administration Committee.

A motion was made by Commissioner Sims, seconded by Vice Chairman Daley, to recommend for approval
18-3159. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

Suffredin, Daley, Deer, Fritchey, Gainer, Morrison, Schneider, Silvestri and Sims (9)
ADJOURNMENT

A motion was made by Vice Chairman Daley, seconded by Commissioner Sims to adjourn the
meeting. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes: Suffredin, Daley, Deer, Fritchey, Gainer, Morrison, Schneider, Silvestri and Sims (9)
Respectfully submitted,

Chairman

Secretary

A video recording of this meeting is available at https://cook-county.legistar.com.

Page 3 of 3

 