Detroit Water and Sewerage
Department
Meeting Minutes - Final

735 Randolph
Detroit, Michigan 48226
(313) 224-4704 Office
www.dwsd.legistar.com

Board of Water Commissioners
Wednesday, April 18, 2018

6:00 PM

Mt. Pleasant Missionary Baptist Church
21150 Moross Rd
Detroit, Michigan 48236

Location and Time Change: Regular Meeting

1.

CALL TO ORDER
Chairman Einheuser called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.

2.

3.

ROLL CALL
Present:

5 - Commissioner Michael Einheuser, Commissioner Mary Blackmon, John
Henry Davis, Jane Garcia and Jonathan Kinloch

Absent:

2 - Commissioner Linda Forte and Commissioner Lane Coleman

APPROVAL OF AGENDA
Chairman Einheuser requested approval of the agenda.
Item No. 18-0093 Contract for Req #445138 Parts and Repair Services for DWSD
Owned John Deere Equipment was added to the agenda.
A motion was made by Commissioner John Henry Davis, seconded by
Commissioner Jane Garcia that the agenda be approved as amended. The
motion carried by a unanimous vote.

4.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Chairman Einheuser requested approval of the minutes of March 21, 2018.
A motion was made by Commissioner Jonathan Kinloch, seconded by
Commissioner Jane Garcia that the minutes be approved. The motion carried
by a unanimous vote.

5.

PUBLIC COMMENTS (3 minutes per speaker)
1. Joseph Romano of 4475 Kensington came before the Board regarding DWSD's
drainage policy and his drainage rate. Mr. Romano was referred to the Deputy
Director's office.
2. Aziz Khondker of 2009 E. Grand Blvd. came before the Board regarding drainage
overcharge and improper billing. Mr. Khondker was referred to the stormwater drainage
team.
3. Carl Carter of 4197 Belvedere came before the Board asking why his bill remains

Detroit Water and Sewerage Department

Page 1

 Board of Water Commissioners

Meeting Minutes - Final

April 18, 2018

the same when there was no usage for 30 days. Mr. Carter was referred to the
customer care group.
4. Teddi Ragland of 2070 Delaware came before the Board regarding the drainage
charges for impervious surfaces and if customers are notified about any upgrade costs.
5. Russ Bellant came before the Board on a previous occasion seeking a hydrant fee
waiver for a demolition. He thanked the department for the waiver.
6. Gerald Carson of 17645 Grandville came before the Board regarding an outrageous
water bill. Mr. Carson was referred to Dr. Marc Antonie Cooper, Chief Customer Care
Officer.
7. William Davis came before the Board asking the department to publish the number
of homes with boiler systems that require water for heat.
8. Phoebe Woodberry came before the Board to ask why the Kiosks were removed
from the Rite Aids. Director Brown replied that there was a contractual issue and the
department is negotiating a new contract.
9. Dr. Cheryl Moore of the North Central Block Club Association came to thank the
Board for holding the community meeting. She came to report a sinkhole located at
18031 Dequindre and 18039 Dequindre Street. She also came regarding her water
billing at 18600 Joseph Campau. Dr. Moore was referred to the customer care group.
10. Michelle Grier of Radnor Street came before the Board questioning the level of
customer service received when inquiring about the department's policy on new service
deposit.
11. Joanna Underwood came before the Board to oppose the drainage fee and the
department should seek an affordable water plan.
12. Theodore Washington came before the Board regarding the lot he purchased and
asked how he can reduce or eliminate the costs on the driveway. Mr. Washington was
referred to the drainage team.
13. Classie Washington of 6115 15th Street came before the Board asking how she
can get her name removed from the bill. Ms. Washington was referred to the customer
care group.
14. Lorietta Yancy of 3250 Drexel came before the Board about cloudy water and
sewer cleaning. She asked why are downspouts removal required and believes it has
destroyed the concrete at her home. Director Brown replied that the downspout
removal is a state law and suggested that she file a claim. The department will
investigate and make a recommendation.
15. Gloria Anderson of 5464 Baldwin came before the Board on behalf of her mom
regarding a drainage charge for the lot she purchased next door and why she receives
two separate bills. Director Brown replied the department would investigate property for
leakage, and if deemed necessary will refer to the toilet replacement program. He also
suggest that she sign up for the WRAP program.
16. Demeeco Williams, Chief Director of Hydrant Detroit came before the Board out of
concern and to seek reconciliation on water shutoffs. He suggested the following: 1)
Detroit Water and Sewerage Department

Page 2

 Board of Water Commissioners

Meeting Minutes - Final

April 18, 2018

institute a residential moratorium; 2) enforce commercial property shutoffs to
abandoned buildings and structures; 3) institute water relief amnesty; 4) hold another
water affordability fair; and 5) ensure community outreach.
17. Abena Hogan of 9270 Ward St.came before the Board regarding her water bill. She
stated that her bill has been consistent monthly with the exception of one month where
there appeared to be a hike in her bill. Director Brown replied that the department
would audit the account.
18. Tom O'Brien of 17405 Lahser came before the Board seeking the results of an
engineering study on an drainage adjustment rate. Deputy Director Mobley will
follow-up with staff on the status.

6.

COMMUNICATIONS

18-0090

Receipt of Correspondence
Sponsors:

Pospiech
DWSD MARCH 2018 RECD FOIA REQUESTS_REDACTED

Attachments:

A motion was made by Commissioner Mary Blackmon, seconded by
Commissioner Jane Garcia that this Communication or Report be received and
filed. The motion carried by a unanimous vote.

7.

ITEMS FROM THE COMMISSIONERS
There was none.

8.

UNFINISHED BUSINESS
There was none.

9.

NEW BUSINESS

18-0043

The Board of Water Commissioners for the City of Detroit, Water and Sewerage
Department authorizes the Director to execute a resolution pertaining to
securing low interest loan assistance through the Drinking Water Revolving
Fund (DWRF) for Water Main Replacement as detailed in the FY19 DWRF
Project Plan, and also authorizes the Director to take such actions as may be
necessary to accomplish the intent of this vote.
Sponsors:
Attachments:

Naughton
FINAL 2018-04-16 DWSD DWRF Project Plan_1_1
18-0043 Resolution

A motion was made by Commissioner Jonathan Kinloch, seconded by
Commissioner Mary Blackmon that this Capital Improvement Project be
adopted. The motion carried by a unanimous vote.

Detroit Water and Sewerage Department

Page 3

 Board of Water Commissioners

18-0071

Meeting Minutes - Final

April 18, 2018

The Board of Water Commissioners for the City of Detroit, Water and Sewerage
Department authorizes the Director to approve contract No. 6001373, Mythics
Order for Oracle Cloud Computing Services in an amount not to exceed
$4,244,219.13 for three years, and also authorizes the Director to take such
other action as may be necessary to accomplish the intent of this vote.
Sponsors:
Attachments:

Rainey
CL- DWSD PaaS renewal 022618 Final

A motion was made by Commissioner Mary Blackmon, seconded by
Commissioner John Henry Davis that this Contract be approved. The motion
carried by a unanimous vote.

18-0077

The Board of Water Commissioners for the City of Detroit, Water and Sewerage
Department authorizes the Director to enter into Contract No. WS-705 "Water
System Improvements: Various Streets Throughout the City of Detroit"
with Major Cement Company (Contractor), at a cost not to exceed
$12,839,074.00 for a duration of 730 calendar days, and also authorizes the
Director to take such other action as may be necessary to accomplish the intent of
this vote.
Sponsors:

Mobley

A motion was made by Commissioner John Henry Davis, seconded by
Commissioner Jane Garcia that this Contract be approved. The motion carried
by a unanimous vote.

18-0079

The Board of Water Commissioners for the City of Detroit, Water and Sewerage
Department authorizes the Director to secure a one-time purchase of new
HVAC roof-top units and the related installation services from Johnson
Control Inc. for a total amount of $419,933.00 and also authorizes the Director
to take such other action as may be necessary to accomplish the intent of this vote.
Sponsors:

Naughton

A motion was made by Commissioner John Henry Davis, seconded by
Commissioner Mary Blackmon that this Procurement, Goods and Services be
approved. The motion carried by a unanimous vote.

18-0093

The Board of Water Commissioners for the City of Detroit, Water and Sewerage
Department authorizes the Director to enter into Contract No. 6001390,
Furnish: As requested, provide parts and/or repair services for John Deere
Equipment owned by the Detroit Water & Sewerage Department (DWSD);
for a period of two (2) years at a cost not to exceed $180,000.00, and also
authorizes the Director to take such other action as may be necessary to
accomplish the intent of this vote.
Sponsors:

Detroit Water and Sewerage Department

Naughton

Page 4

 Board of Water Commissioners

Meeting Minutes - Final

April 18, 2018

A motion was made by Commissioner John Henry Davis, seconded by
Commissioner Jonathan Kinloch that this Contract be approved. The motion
carried by an unanimous vote.

10.

DIRECTOR'S METRICS

18-0091

Director’s Metrics
Sponsors:
Attachments:

Brown
18-0091 Board Report - Metrics - 04182018

This Communication or Report was received and filed.

11.

COMMENTS BY COMMISSIONERS
Commissioner Garcia stated that it means a lot that the department is hiring
Detroiters; contracts are being awarded to minorities; and hiring returning citizens. She
commended the Director and staff for their efforts.
Commissioner Davis thanked leadership and staff for their support with the
department's decision-making.
Commissioner Kinloch commended the executive team and staff on handling and
addressing community concerns. He's proud to witness the department's response
effort.

12.

COMMENTS BY THE CHAIR
Chairman Einheuser on behalf of the Board of Water Commissioners welcomed
Commissioner Kinloch. He thanked the community, Reverend James J. Minnick and
Mt. Pleasant Missionary Baptist Church for their hospitality.

13.

OTHER MATTERS

14.

ADJOURNMENT
Chairman Einhueser requested a motion to adjourn.
A motion was made by Commissioner Mary Blackmon, seconded by
Commissioner John Henry Davis that the meeting be adjourned. The motion
carried by an unanimous vote.

There being no further business, the meeting adjourned at 7:47 p.m.

Detroit Water and Sewerage Department

Page 5

 