 

Forest Preserve District of Cook County
Board of Commissioners

Minutes of the Contract Compliance Committee

Tuesday, June 5, 2018 10:30 AM Cook County Building, Board Room
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

ATTENDANCE
Present: Arroyo, Silvestri, Butler, Moody, Moore, Sims and Tobolski 
Absent: Garcia 
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Chairman Arroyo asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public speakers,
in accordance with Cook County Code, Sec. 2- 

No Registered Speakers
1 8-0284

COMMITTEE MINUTES

Approval ofthe minutes From the meeting of?3f08f2017

A motion was made by Vice Chair Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Toholski, to
recommend for approval 13-0234. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Arroyo, Silvestri, Butler, Moody, Moore, Sims and Tobolski 

Absent: Garcia 

Contract Committee Committee Committee Report June 5. 2013

 

13-Ol95

 

Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE (President), Forest Preserve District ofCook County Board of

Commissioners

PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT

BE IT ORDAINED, by the Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Title
1- Administrative, Chapter 3- District Finances. Section 5- Minority and Women-Owned Business
Enterprises, Subsection Subdivision I - General Provisions of the Forest Preserve District of Cook

County Code is hereby amended as follows:

*irir

D. De?nitions.

E. Race- and Gender-Neutral Measures to Implement the Program.
F. Program Administration.

(3. Contract Compliance Committee.

H. Program Goals.

I. Program Eligibility.

J. Utilization Plan; Commercially Useful Function.

K. Methods to Achieve Goals and Compliance.

L. Request for a Total or Partial Waiver of the Contract Speci?c Goals: Good Faith Efforts.
M. Calculating Participation.

N. Review of Contract Perfonnance.

O. Prompt Payment of Firms.

P. Reporting and Review.

Q. Prohibited Provisions.

Page 2 of5

Contract Comptt'once Committee Committee Report June 5. 2018

 

R. Sanctions and Penalties.
Established Business Participation in the Program.
1. Review and Sunset.

Full text ofthis Ordinance Amendment for l-8-5a: Subdivision I - General Provisions can be
found here 

Effective date: This ordinance amendment shall be in effect ninety (90} days a?er Board approval.

A motion was made by Commissioner Moody. seconded by Vice Chair Silvestri, to recommend
for approval 18-0195. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Arroyo, Silvestri, Butler. Moody. Moore, Sims and Tobolski (7)

Absent: Garcia 

18-0196

 

Sponsored by: TONI (President). Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of
Commissioners

PROPOSED ORDINANCE AM ENDMENT

BE IT ORDAINED. by the Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Title
I - Administrative, Chapter 8? District Finances, Section 5- Minority and Women-Owned Business
Enterprises, Subsection Subdivision ll - Construction Ordinance of the Forest Preserve District oi
Cook County Code is hereby amended as follows:


E. De?nitions.
F. Program Administration.
Ci. Race- and Gender-Neutral Measures to Ensure Equal Opportunities for all Contractors and
Subcontractors.
H. Program Eligibility.

I. Annual Aspirational Goals.

J. Project Speci?c Goals.

Page 3 of5

Contract ompir'once Committee Commas: Report June 5, 20! 8

 

K. Counting MBE and WEE Participation.

L. Contract Pro-Award Compliance Procedures.

M. Contract Administration Procedures.

N. Sanctions and Penalties.

9 Established Business Participation in the Program.

P. Program Review and Sunset.

Full text of this Ordinance Amendment for l-S-Sb: Subdivision II - Construction Ordinance can
he found here: 

Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect ninety {90) days after Board approval.

A motion was made by Commissioner Tobolski, seconded by Commissioner Moore, to
recommend for approval 18-0196. The motion carried by the foilowing vote:

Ayes: Arroyo, Silvestri. Butler, Moody, Moore. Sims and Tobolski 

Abs-cut: Garcia (1)

18-0244
Presented by: ARNOLD RANDALL. General Superintendent

REPORT

Department: Finance and Administration

Request: Refer to Contract Compliance Comm ittee

Report Title: Forest Preserve District of Cook County Annual Business Diversity Report FY 201'?r

Report Period: 1.412017 - 1281/2017

Summary: The Forest Preserve District of Cook County (the "Forest Preserves?) began publishing

Page 4 of5

 entree! ompiionce Committee emitter: Report In ne 5, 20! 8

 

annual diversity reports in 2014 making this information available to the public. This report is the Forest
Preserves? fourth annual report, and the ?rst using the Contract Compliance Reporting System. This
report details the Forest Preserves? efforts ensuring minority and women-owned businesses have access
to public contracting Opportunities. The report includes contract dollars awarded and contract payments

by the Forest Preserves as reported by vendors.

A motion was made by Vice Chair Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Tobolski, to
recommend for approval 18-0244. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Arroyo, Silvestri. Butler. Moody. Moore. Sims and Tobolski 

Absent: Garcia 

ADJOURNMENT

A motion was made by Commissioner Moody1 seconded by Vice Chair Silvestri. to adjourn the
meeting. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Arroyo, Silvestri, Butler. Moody, Moore, Sims and Tobolski (7)
Absent: Garcia (1)

Respectfully submitted,

gay 25. 

Chairman Secretary

 

 

A video recording of this meeting is available at 

Page 5 of 5

