   
   

   
   
   
   
   

TRANSITION   PLAN   
For   the   Closure   of   
Paul   Robeson   High   School   

I.   Introduction   
   
Chicago   Public   Schools   (CPS)   is   committed   to   providing   every   child   from   every   community   with   a   
high   quality   education   that   prepares   them   for   success   in   college   and   in   life.   CPS   students   continue   to   
make    record-­‐‑breaking    academic    progress    in    every    part    of    the    city.    Our    vision    is    that    all    CPS    schools   
can   build   on   this   progress   by   offering   high   quality,   rigorous   instruction   from   talented   educators   that   
help   put   Chicago   students   on   a   path   to   lasting   success.      
   
Under-­‐‑enrolled    schools    face    challenges    in    providing    a    well-­‐‑rounded    education    for    their    students,   
particularly   in   offering   robust   program   options   for   students   and   recruiting   staff.   In   turn,   this   makes   
it   difficult   to   provide   the   high   school   experience   that   students   deserve.      
   
   
The    Englewood    community    has    recognized    that    these    challenges    are    taking    place    in    four    existing   
neighborhood   schools:   Hope,   Harper,   Robeson   and   TEAM   Englewood.   Over   the   past   10   years,   each   of   
these   schools   have   seen   declines   in   enrollment   of   70   to   85   percent,   with   current   enrollment   between   
90   and   135   students   at   each   school.   At   Paul   Robeson   High   School   (“Robeson”),   1,509   students   were   
enrolled   in   the   fall   of   2006   while   128   students   were   enrolled   in   fall   of   2017.   The   proposed   closure   of   
Robeson   on   December   1st,   2017   met   the   criteria   of   the   Chief   Executive   Officer’s   Guidelines   for   School   
Actions   (“Guidelines”)   because   it   is   a   proposal   requested   by   community   members.      Specifically,   we   
heard   the   request   for   this   proposal   from   the   Englewood   Community   Action   Council   and   at   a   meeting   
of   the   Englewood   Community   Leadership   Steering   Committee   in   calendar   year   2017.      
   
Following    the    December    1st    announcement,    CPS    continued    an    extensive    community    engagement   
process   involving   community   meetings,   parent   meetings,   a   public   hearing,   and   regular   discussions   
with    elected    officials    and    the    Englewood    Steering    Committee.    Based    on   feedback,    CPS    will    continue   
to   move   forward   with   the   development   of   a   new,   state-­‐‑of-­‐‑the-­‐‑art   school   at   Robeson’s   site,   but   the   
district   will   delay   the   closure   of   Harper,   Hope   and   TEAM   over   the   next   three   years   to   allow   students   
to   finish   high   school   at   their   current   school.      
   
II.   Summary   of   Action   
   
Robeson    is    a    neighborhood    high    school    located    at    6835    S.    Normal    Blvd.    in    the    Englewood   
neighborhood    and    CPS’    Network    11.    Robeson    currently    serves    128    students    in    grades    9-­‐‑12.        The   
Chicago   Board   of   Education   voted   on   February   28th,   2018   to   close   Robeson   High   School   at   the   end   of   
this   school   year   (school   year   2017-­‐‑2018),   effective   June   2018.   
   
As    a    result    of    this    action,    all    current    students    and    families    at    Robeson    will    receive    significant   
enrollment   support   to   choose   the   school   that   they   will   attend   in   the   following   school   year,   based   on   
their   individual   educational   needs   and   priorities.   As   part   of   this   process,   every   student   will   be   given   
numerous   options   and   individualized   attention   in   order   to   attend   a   higher   performing   school   based   
on   the   School   Quality   Rating   Policy   (“SQRP”).      
   
Chicago   Public   Schools   has   set   aside   $8.3   million   dollars   over   the   next   3.5   years   to   support   students   
from   Harper,   Hope,   Robeson   and   TEAM   Englewood.   Under   the   revised   plan,   this   funding   will   support   

    
   
current   students   at   Harper,   Hope   and   TEAM   in   the   form   of    program   support   funding   to   ensure   core   
subjects    are    available    and    students    can    graduate    with    all    required    classes.    The    funding    will    also   
support   all   students   from   Robeson   who   are   transferring   to   a   new   school   through   graduation.   
   
For    students    who    chose    not    to    submit    the    transfer    application,    a    neighborhood    high    school   
designation   will   be   assigned.   Starting   in   the   fall   of   2018,   the   northwestern   portion   (west   of   Racine   
Ave    and    north    of    67th    Street)    of    the    geographic    boundary    currently    assigned    to    Robeson        will    be   
assigned   to   Gage   Park   HS,   the   northeastern   portion   (east   of   Racine   Ave   and   north   of   67th   Street)   will   
be   assigned   to   Phillips   HS,   the   southeastern   portion   (east   of   Halsted   St   and   south   of   67th   Street)   will   
be   assigned   to   Chicago   Vocational   HS,   and   the   southwestern   portion   (west   of   Halsted   and   south   of   
67th   Street)   will   be   assigned   to   Bogan   HS.   
   
Supports   for   Robeson   Students:   
   
Transition   Teams   
   
Under    the    original    proposal,    CPS    allocated    funds    to    hire    additional    staff    to    support    students    as    they   
transition   from   their   current   school   to   a   different   school.   Under   the   revised   plan,   Robeson   will   still   
benefit   from   the   following   positions:      
   
●   Principal    Transition    Coordinator:    The    Principal    Transition    Coordinator    (“PTC”)    will    be   
responsible   for   overseeing   the   transition   team   and   transition   supports   for   current   students   
from   Robeson.   The   PTC   will   be   responsible   for   holding   all   members   of   the   transition   team   
accountable    for    achieving    key    milestones    along    each    student’s    transition    (i.e.    choosing    the   
school    each    student    will    transition    to,    preparing    an    academic    plan    and    preparing    a    safety   
plan).    The    PTC    will    also    be    responsible    for    overseeing    administrative    needs    such    as   
transferring   student   records   to   students’   respective   schools.   In   addition,   the   PTC   will   provide   
support   to   administrators   and   school   staff   at   transition   schools   to   ensure   they   are   prepared   
to    welcome    transitioning    students.    Principal    Transition    Coordinators    will    be    former    or   
current   CPS   Principals.   The   PTC   will   be   fully   on-­‐‑boarded   by   mid-­‐‑March   and   will   be   primarily   
located   at   Robeson   high   school.      
   
●   School-­‐‑Based   Transition   Coordinator:   The   School-­‐‑Based   Transition   Coordinator   (“SBTC”)   
will   be   the   central   point   of   contact   for   Robeson   students   and   their   families.   In   the   spring   of   
2018,   CPS   will   provide   this   additional   staffing   capacity   to   support   current   school   counselors   
to    meet    with    students    to    create    individualized    transition    plans,    including    choosing    a   
transition    school,    creating    academic    readiness    plans    and    safety    plans,    as    well    as    ensuring   
each    student    is    supported    by    coordinating    with   staff    at    transition    schools.    The    SBTC    will    be   
fully   on-­‐‑boarded   by   early   April.   
   
●   Student    Outreach    and    Re-­‐‑engagement    Center    (“SOAR”):    Before    students    transition    to   
their   new   schools,   CPS   SOAR   Center   staff   will   play   a   role   in   supporting   students   who   have   
dropped   out,   do   not   consistently   attend   school   or   are   significantly   behind   in   obtaining   credits.   
They   will   be   focused   on   supporting   students   in   enrolling   and   attending   a   transition   school.   In   
the   2018-­‐‑19   school   year,   the   SOAR   Center   will   follow   up   with   all   transitioning   students   from   
Robeson   High   School   to   track   attendance   and   enrollment   and   ensure   student   engagement   in   
learning.   Early   interventions   will   be   identified   for   students   who   demonstrate   disengagement.   
   
   
General   Supports   for   students   and   families      

    
   
   
Students    from    Robeson    will    receive    a    variety    of    supports    to    ensure    they    have    access    to    high    quality   
classroom   academics,   interventions   for   those   struggling   with   literacy   and   math,   counseling   and   social   
supports    and    student    safety    support.        The    goal    will    be    to    ensure    that    students    and    their    families   
receive   access   to   quality   instruction,   understand   their   rights,   available   school   options   and   are   safe   
and   secure   through   the   transition   process.   
   
Supporting    transitioning    students    at    Robeson    in    choosing    a    school    for    the    2018-­‐‑2019    school   
year      
   
To    support    students    who    choose    to    transfer,    CPS    will    provide    information    on    open    seats    and   
performance   at   CPS   schools   to   support   students   in   selecting   their   school.      
   
Timeline   for   Supporting   Transitioning   Students   
   
•  
•  
•  
•  
•  
•  
•  
•  
•  

Throughout    March:    Provide    all    students    at    Robeson    an    opportunity    to    meet    with    a    CPS    staff   
member   to   discuss   their   options   and   filling   out   an   application   
Throughout    March:    Hold    meetings    with    parents    from    Robeson    to    learn    about    other    high   
school   options   
[March   10th]:   Hold   a   High   School   Fair   at   Kennedy   King   College   (9:00   AM-­‐‑12:00   PM)   
[By   April   6th]:   Interested   students   submit   their   transfer   preferences   (up   to   10   schools)   
[By    April    27th]    Students    receive    their    enrollment    options    from    the    Office    of    Access    and   
Enrollment   
[By   May   18th]:   Students   submit   their   final   choice   
[By   June   7th]   Finalize   academic   readiness   plans   to   prepare   for   transition   
[By   June   7th]   Finalize   safety   plans   to   ensure   students   can   travel   safely   to   school   next   year   
[By   June   7th]    Provide   academic   student   “resumes”   to   schools   that   students   will   transition   to   
in   the   School   Year   2018-­‐‑2019   

Students   that   choose   to   transfer   will   also   be   given   the   opportunity   to   meet   with   school   staff   at   schools   
they    transition    to,    including    teachers,    principals    and    coaches,    prior    to    the    beginning    of    the    school   
year   (e.g.   over   the   summer).   
   
Support   for   families   
   
CPS   will   host   two   parent   meetings   for   parents   of   Robeson   students   in   March   2018.   Families   who   are   
looking    for    additional    guidance    on    school    options    should    attend    one    of    these    meetings.    For    families   
unable   to   attend   a   meeting,   the   Network   office   will   conduct   office   hours   to   help   families   navigate   the   
process.   Please   contact   your   Network   for   information.   
   

   

•  
•  

Email:   transitions@cps.edu      
Phone   number:   773-­‐‑535-­‐‑8230   

In   terms   of   additional   supports,   CPS   will   work   with   each   school   welcoming   students   from   Robeson   
to   create   a   plan   to   support   transitioning   students.   The   plan   will   include   requested   supports   to   ensure   
the    academic    and    social-­‐‑emotional    well-­‐‑being    of    all    students.    CPS    will    then    provide    funds   

    
   
proportional    to    the    number    of    transitioning    students    being    welcomed    at    the    school    students   
transition    to.    These    funds    will    be    adjusted    each    semester    based    on    the    number    of    transitioning   
students   present   at   each   school   in   that   semester.   Each   plan   will   include:   
   
Supporting   student   social-­‐‑emotional   needs   
   
CPS    understands    that    whenever    students    transition    into    new    situations    and    environments,   
additional   support   is   needed   to   help   them   adjust.   CPS   and   the   Office   of   Social   Emotional   Learning   
(“OSEL”)   will   consult   with   schools   that   receive   transitioning   Robeson   students   to   evaluate   existing   
SEL   supports   and   determine   additional   resource   needs   for   a   school-­‐‑specific   plan.   These   plans   may   
include   the   following:   
   
•  

•  
•  

•  
•  
•  
•  
•  

Establishing    a    climate    &    culture    team    to    lead    the    planning    of    school-­‐‑wide    practices    to   
promote    positive    relationships    and    a    welcoming,    supportive    and    trauma-­‐‑sensitive    school   
environment.   
Implementing   restorative   practices   (such   as   talking   circles   and   peer   councils)   to   encourage   
peer-­‐‑to-­‐‑peer   problem-­‐‑solving   and   resolution.   
Developing    behavioral    health    systems    to    identify    when    students    have    higher    levels    of    social   
and    emotional    need,    connect    them    to    targeted    interventions    and    track    their    progress    to   
ensure   success.   
Implementing    targeted    small    group    supports    or    circles    aimed    at    helping    students    work   
through   concerns   associated   with   transition,   as   needed.   
Accessing    social    &    emotional    or    trauma    interventions    for    students    in    need    of    more   
individualized   attention.   
Developing    Student    Leadership    and    Culture-­‐‑Building    Activities    to    ensure    students    feel   
welcome   in   schools   they   transition   to.   
Ensuring   continuity   of   existing   mentorship   programs   (e.g.   BAM   and   WOW)   to   serve   students   
throughout   the   transition   process.   
Providing    professional    development    and    training    opportunities    in    trauma-­‐‑sensitive   
practices,   restorative   practices,   social   emotional   learning   and   other   relevant   topics   to   staff   at   
schools   that   students   transition   to.   

   
Supporting   student   academic   needs   
   
All   students   at   Robeson   will   have   the   opportunity   to   engage   in   academic   supports   and   after   school   
employment    during    spring    2018    semester.    Students    will    earn    a    stipend    for    weekly    attendance.    The   
Department   of   Instructional   Supports   and   Network   11   worked   together   to   provide   opportunities   for   
students   to   be   able   to   take   credit   recovery   courses   so   they   can   at   least   be   on   track   for   graduation.      
   
After    students    choose    their    new    school,    the    principal    and    school    leadership    team    of    the    schools   
welcoming   students   will   receive   academic   resumes   on   each   transitioning   student   and   determine   how   
to   best   allocate   additional   district   resources   to   support   transitioning   students.   These   supports   could   
include:   
   
•  
•  

Academic   remediation   and   intervention   supports   such   as   tutoring   and   credit   recovery.   
Additional   staffing   to   support   students   in   classrooms.   

    
   
SAT    prep    sessions    are    also    being    offered    for    students    who    are    interested    in    improving    their   
chances   for   doing   better   in   the   SAT   in   the   spring.      
   
Safety   and   Security   
   
The   CPS   Office   of   Safety   &   Security   has   engaged   the   Englewood   community,   including   the   Community   
Leadership    Steering    Committee,    on    transitioning    student    safety.    The    Office    of    Safety    &    Security    will   
continue   to   work   with   Robeson   and   the   Englewood   community   to   ensure   that   appropriate   safety   and   
security   plans   are   in   place   to   support   students   that   transfer.   Safety   supports   discussed   to   date   are   
included    below.    These    supports    may    be    further    customized    based    on    the    feedback    received.   
Additionally,   resources   may   be   adjusted   to   meet   the   unique   needs   of   affected   students   (if   deemed   
necessary).   
   
•  

•  
•  
•  
•  

   

•  

Review   existing   safe   passage   routes   and   adjust   routes   as   appropriate   based   on   an   assessment   
of   the   schools   where   students   will   be   transitioning   to   
Partner   with   CTA   to   review   potential   staging   of   buses   to   facilitate   safe   and   smooth   dismissals      
Evaluate    transportation    support,    including    distribution    of    limited    use    CTA    cards    for   
transitioning   students   based   on   their   individualized   safety   plans   
Review   security   staffing   and   adjust   staffing   as   appropriate   in   schools   where   students   will   be   
transitioning   to   
Evaluate   security   systems   and   technology   in   schools   that   students   transition   to   

Support   for   students   with   diverse   learning   needs   
   
Students   with   disabilities   and   their   families   will   be   supported   in   the   transition   process   through   clear   
communication,   continual   support   for   academic   instruction   and   ensuring   the   schools   that   students   
transition   to   are   fully   able   to   implement   student   Individual   Education   Programs   (“IEPs”).   Students   
with   disabilities,   as   with   all   students   impacted   by   school   actions,   will   receive   intensive   support   to   
ensure    their    academic    and    social-­‐‑emotional    needs    are    met.        Students    with    disabilities    will    also   
receive   the   following   categories   of   support,   adjustable   to   individual   student/family   needs:   
   
Current   students   with   disabilities   will   continue   to   receive   the   following   supports,   required   by   law:   
   
•  
•  
•  

A   free   and   appropriate   public   education   (“FAPE”)   
The   implementation   of   the   student’s   IEP   in   the   least   restrictive   environment   (“LRE”)      
A   focus   on   student   academic   and   social   emotional   progress   

•  

As    students    move    through    this    process,    a    district    representative    from    the    Office    of    Diverse   
Learner    Supports    and    Services    (“ODLSS”)    will    be    assigned    to    students    choosing    to    transition   
from   Robeson.   The   district   representative   will   work   with   families   and   students   to   ensure   they   
are   informed   of   their   options   and   will   support   students   as   they   transition   to   their   new   school   for   
the   2018-­‐‑2019   school   year.   Specifically   the   district   representative   will:   

   
In    addition,    to    ensure    that    instructional    quality    is    maintained,    CPS    will    additionally    provide    the   
following   support:   
   

    
   

•  

Review    all    IEPs    with    the    school    students    transition    to    ensure    implementation    and   
provide    observations    of    classrooms    when    school    has    started    and    train    staff    on   
specialized   equipment   for   specific   student   needs   

   
Students   in   Temporary   Living   Situations   
   
The    CPS    Office    of    Students    in    Temporary    Living    Situations    will    continue    the    supports   
currently    provided    to    Students    in    Temporary    Living    Situations    (“STLS”)    as    required    by   
law.        These    include    free    school    meals,    enrollment    support,    provision    of    required    school   
uniforms   and   school   supplies   as   needed,   transportation   assistance   when   eligible,   and   waiver   
of   all   school   related   fees.   
•   Students   in   Temporary   Living   Situations   will   be   encouraged   to   attend   any   events   in   which   
they   can   meet   with   school   staff   and/or   learn   about   schools   to   transition   to   should   they   decide   
to   transfer.   
•   For   those   students   who   had   been   homeless   prior   to   the   2018-­‐‑2019    school,    their    school   of   
origin   will   become   the   first   school   they   enroll   in   for   the   2018-­‐‑2019   school   year.   
   
English   Language   Learners   
   
•  

Current   and   future   English   Language   Learners   (“ELs”)   will   receive   state   mandated   bilingual   
services   (Transitional   Bilingual   Education   (“TBE”)   or   Transitional   Program   of   Instruction   (“TPI”),   as   
required.      English   as   a   Second   Language   (“ESL”)   instruction   provided   by   an   ESL-­‐‑endorsed   teacher   is   
part   of   both   programs.      Meaningful   access   to   the   core   curriculum   is   provided   to   TBE   students   
through   native   language   instruction   in   the   core   content   (language   arts,   math,   science,   and   social   
studies).      For   TPI   students,   meaningful   access   to   core   curriculum   is   delivered   through   sheltered   
English   content   instruction   and   native   language   supports,   based   on   the   individual   student’s   need,   
and   provided   by   appropriately   endorsed   (bilingual-­‐‑   or   ESL-­‐‑endorsed)   teacher(s)   
   
Public   Comment   
   
CPS   held   two   community   meetings   and   one   formal   public   hearing   regarding   the   proposed   closure   of   
Englewood    High    Schools.    Public    comment    was    accepted    during    each    meeting    or    hearing    and    the   
transcripts   can   be   found   online   at   cps.edu/transitions.   The   community   meetings   and   public   hearing   
were   during   the   following   dates   and   times:   
Community   Meeting   #1   

Community   Meeting   #2   

Public   Hearing   #   1   

January   10th,   2018                                 
6:00-­‐‑8:00   PM   
Kennedy   King   College   
740   W.   63rd   St.   

January   17th,   2018   
6:00-­‐‑8:00   PM   
Hamilton   Park   Fieldhouse   
513   W.   72nd   St.   

January   30th,   2018   
6:00-­‐‑8:00   PM   
CPS   Loop   Office   
42    West    Madison    Street,   
Garden   Level,   Board   Room   

   
Further   Questions   and   Concerns:   
   
All   of   this   information   can   be   found   at   CPS.edu/Transitions.   If   you   have   any   questions   or   concerns   
regarding    this    transition    plan,    please    call    Chicago    Public    Schools    at    (773)    553-­‐‑1500    or    email   
Transitions@cps.edu.   

 