DRAFT TRANSITION PLAN
I.

Introduction

Chicago Public Schools (CPS) is committed to providing every child from every community with
a high-quality education that prepares them for success in college and in life. CPS students
continue to make record-breaking academic progress in every part of the city. Our vision is that
all CPS schools can build on this progress by offering high quality, rigorous instruction from
talented educators that help put Chicago students on a path to lasting success.
On October 19, 2018, the Local School Councils (LSC) of Cooper Dual Language Academy
(Cooper) and Orozco Community Academy (Orozco), with the support of their respective school
communities and elected officials, requested that the 6th, 7th, and 8th-grade neighborhood
boundary of Orozco be reassigned to Cooper gradually to allow Cooper to offer 6th grade by
School Year (SY) 2019-20, 7th grade by the SY2020-2021, and 8th grade by SY2021-2022. This
will allow for Orozco to expand its bilingual gifted program to serve more students, including
heritage speakers.
Following an extensive community-driven process, CPS will propose to the Chicago Board of
Education that the district reassign the boundaries of Orozco and Cooper.
The proposal involves the following changes:
To adjust the grade structures assigned to the shared Cooper/Orozco attendance area
boundary (described below*) such that:
● Effective July 1, 2019, Cooper will offer grades Kindergarten through sixth grade and
Orozco will offer grades seventh and eighth for students residing within the attendance
area; and
● Effective July 1, 2020, Cooper will offer grades Kindergarten through seventh grade and
Orozco will offer grade eighth for students residing within the attendance area; and
● Effective July 1, 2021, Cooper will offer grades Kindergarten through eighth grade for
students residing within the attendance area and Orozco will transition to a nonboundary/citywide elementary school.
● *Beginning at Hoyne Ave and the CB&Q RR; Northeast to Wolcott Ave; South to 16 th St;
East to Ashland Ave; South to 18th St; East to Laflin St; South to Cermak Rd; West to Blue
Island Ave; Southwest to Paulina St; North to 21st St; West to Wolcott Ave; and North to
the starting point.

1

 II. Summary of Proposed Action
CPS will propose to the Chicago Board of Education that Orozco’s boundary be reassigned to
allow Cooper to phase in grades 6-8 and offer 6th grade for SY2019-20, 7th grade by SY2020-21,
and 8th grade by SY2021-22. Upon completion of the boundary reassignment in SY2021-22,
Cooper will be a K-8 neighborhood school, while Orozco will be able to offer additional seats for
families in their bilingual gifted program.
This proposal is consistent with the Chief Executive Officer’s Guidelines for School Actions
(Guidelines) because it is a proposal requested by parents or community members via the
process to request proposals outlined in the Guidelines. Furthermore, the resulting space
utilization after the reassignment boundary change will not exceed either schools’ enrollment
efficiency range, as defined by the CPS’ Space Utilization Standards.
III. Safety and Security
At the present time, there are no safety concerns with this proposed action. If this proposal is
approved, the CPS Office of Safety & Security will work with the administrations of Orozco and
Cooper to review the school’s safety and security plan. A variety of supports for students and
the community nearby will be considered with feedback from parents. These supports may
include the following:
● First and foremost, if determined necessary by the Orozco or Cooper administration,
CPS will hold safety planning meetings to ensure that all safety efforts are coordinated
between CPS, administration, parents and the Chicago Police Department;
● A review of safety technology will be conducted to determine whether existing safety
technology needs to be enhanced. This review may include screening protocols;
● Review security officer staffing levels.
IV.

Supports for Students and Schools

CPS is committed to ensuring a successful transition pending Board approval of the proposal. To
accomplish this, CPS proposes the following supports to meet the academic, social and
emotional, and specific learning needs of affected students. These resources may be further
customized as feedback is obtained at community meetings and a public hearing regarding this

2

 proposal. Additionally, resources may be adjusted to meet the unique needs of affected
students if deemed necessary.

Support for Students’ Academic Needs
To ensure students receive high-quality academic instruction throughout the transition, the
following will occur:
● The allocation of funds and budget resources to equip future 6th, 7th, and 8th-graders
at Cooper with resources and materials needed for academic success.
● Academic Planning Teams: Cooper and Orozco will designate teachers to form
academic planning teams. These teams consisting of teachers, grouped by subject and
grade level, will meet to plan the curriculum, which will ease the transition of the
addition of 6th, 7th, and 8th-graders at Cooper and the expansion of the bilingual gifted
program at Orozco.
● Common Scheduling/Enrichment: Cooper will outline and discuss how the academic
programming at the school can be extended and enhanced in the schedule for the next
academic two years to support the addition of 6th, 7th, and 8th graders. Orozco will
outline how the bilingual gifted program can be extended and enhanced to serve
additional students, specifically heritage speakers.
● Assess the need for professional development: Since the school population at Cooper
will remain similar, professional development will be focused on integrating the staff to
ensure that the academic environment provides for a strong, continuous educational
focus for 6th, 7th, and 8th-grade students. At Orozco, the school will assess the need for
additional professional development as they expand the bilingual gifted program.
Support for Students’ Social and Emotional Needs
CPS’ Office of Social Emotional Learning (OSEL) will consult with the Orozco and Cooper school
communities to continue existing SEL supports and determine the need for additional resources
for a school-specific plan that may include the following:
● Assess the need for a climate and culture team that may consist of a group of
representative staff (including administrators, teachers, counselors, and security
officers), which will lead the planning of school-wide policies and practices to promote
positive relationships and a supportive school environment. This includes cultivating a
sense of community between all staff and students.

3

 ● Support both schools in ensuring their existing systems identify when students have
higher levels of social and emotional need, connect them to targeted interventions and
track their progress to ensure success. Guiding practices will be established through
collaboration to prepare for students who may need additional social and emotional
support. Training will be supported by CPS and, specifically, the OSEL.
● Assess the need for additional professional development for all teachers to help them
develop skills and resources that support all students.
Support for Specific Students’ Needs
Support for Diverse Learners
Students with disabilities and their families will be supported through clear communication,
continual support for academic instruction and ensuring that both Orozco and Cooper are fully
able to implement students’ Individual Education Programs (IEPs). Students with disabilities, as
with all students impacted by school actions, will receive intensive support to ensure their
academic and social-emotional needs are met. Students with disabilities will also receive the
following categories of support, adjustable to individual student/family need:
Current students with disabilities will continue to receive the following supports, required by
law:
●
A free and appropriate public education (FAPE)
●
The implementation of the student’s IEP in the least restrictive environment (LRE)
●
A focus on student academic and social-emotional progress
In addition, a district representative from the Office of Diverse Learner Supports and Services
(ODLSS) will be assigned to work with families and students at both schools. Specifically, the
district representative will:
●
●
●

Work with teachers on appropriate programming to support the diverse learners.
Make sure classrooms are appropriately set up for students with diverse learning needs.
Orozco and Cooper families can reach their District Representative, Ines Castaneda,
icastaneda2@cps.edu and the Deaf Hard of Hearing Manager, Faith Pritchard,
fmpritchard@cps.edu

Finally, the Office of Diverse Learners Support Services (ODLSS) will work with the students in
the Deaf and Hard of Hearing Cluster Program at Cooper to add additional grades to the
program over the next three years (6th grade for SY2019-20, 7th grade by SY2020-21, and 8th
grade by SY2021-22). At the same time, the program will be phased out at Orozco.

4

 Support for Students in Temporary Living Situations
● The CPS Department of Students in Temporary Living Situations (DSTLS) will continue
the support provided to Students in Temporary Living Situations (STLS) as required by
law. These include enrollment support, provision of required school uniforms and
school supplies as needed, transportation assistance when eligible, and waivers of all
school-related fees;
● Under the proposed re-assignment boundary change, returning STLS students to Cooper
may choose to attend Cooper or meet with DSTLS staff to identify enrollment options,
develop academic readiness plans and safety plans to support them throughout the
transition period.
● Similarly, returning STLS students to Orozco may choose to attend Orozco or meeting
with DSTLS staff to identify enrollment options, develop academic readiness plans and
safety plans to support them throughout the transition period.
● In addition, STLS liaisons will work with current 5th-grade families to ensure they
understand the application process for Orozco or other schools should they choose not
to continue on in their neighborhood school (Cooper);
● STLS staff is available if students wish to learn about additional schools to transition to;
● For students who were homeless before the 2018-19 school, their school of
origin will become the first school where they enroll for the 2018-19 school year;
● For families currently enrolled in the STLS program, younger siblings may attend
the same school that their older sibling elects;
● Additionally, CPS will provide professional development and support to staff on
providing transition services for STLS students.
Support for English Learners
● Current and future English Language Learners (ELs) will receive state-mandated bilingual
services (Transitional Bilingual Education (TBE) or Transitional Program of Instruction
(TPI), as required;

 English as a Second Language (ESL) instruction provided by an ESL-endorsed
teacher is part of both programs;

 Meaningful access to the core curriculum is provided to TBE students through
native language instruction in the core content (language arts, math, science,
and social studies). For TPI students, meaningful access to core curriculum is
delivered through sheltered English content instruction and native language
supports, based on the individual student’s need, and provided by appropriately
endorsed (bilingual- or ESL-endorsed) teacher(s).

5

 ● Cooper has been approved to offer Dual Language programming, implementing the
program in Pre-K and Kindergarten in SY 2018-19, with an expansion of one additional
grade level each year until the program is implemented in all grade levels.

 Dual Language becomes the main vehicle through which the required TBE
services are provided to English learners, eventually expanding to all grade
levels.
Support for Students’ Transportation Needs
● Provisions for specific student populations (i.e., student with disabilities), as determined
by the CPS transportation policy, will continue to apply.
V.

Additional Logistical Information

Information Regarding Choice of Schools
If this proposal is approved, Cooper will enroll 6th-graders in the 2019-2020 school year, 7thgraders in the 2020-2021 school year, and 8th-graders in the 2021-2022 school year. As this
transition occurs, Orozco will expand its bilingual gifted program. CPS is committed to providing
educational options that fit each student’s unique learning needs. To support families in
understanding their enrollment options, information from the Office of Access & Enrollment is
available:
● Online (www.cps.edu or www.cpsoae.edu),
● By email (oae@cps.edu),
● By phone (773-553-2060)
Public Comment
Community Meetings and Public Hearings
CPS will hold two community meetings and one formal public hearing regarding this proposed
action. Public comment will be accepted during each meeting or hearing. CPS is committed to
considering community feedback and will amend this draft transition plan accordingly.

Community Meeting

Community Meeting

Public Hearing

Wednesday, January 9th,
2019

Wednesday, January 16th,
2019

Thursday, January 31st
6:00-8:00 PM

6

 6:00-7:30 PM
Orozco Community Academy
1940 W 18th St.

6:00-7:30 PM
Cooper Elementary
1624 W 19th St.

CPS Central Office
42 West Madison Street

Further Questions and Concerns
All of this information can be found at CPS.edu/Transitions. If you have any questions or
concerns regarding this proposal and the DRAFT Transition Plan, please call Chicago Public
Schools at (773) 553-1500 or email Transitions@cps.edu.

7

 