Official Report of the Proceedings
of the

BOARD OF EDUCATION
of the City of Chicago
_________________________

Regular Meeting-Wednesday, January 22, 2014
10:30 A.M.
(125 South Clark Street)
_________________________

Published by the Authority of the Chicago Board of Education

David J. Vitale
President

Estela G. Beltran
Secretary

 January 22, 2014
ATTEST:

522/ 

Secretary of the Board of Education
of the City of Chicago

President Vitale took the Chair and the meeting being called to order there were then:
PRESENT: Dr. Hines, Mr. Ruiz, Ms. Zopp, Ms. Quazzo, Dr. Azcoitia, and President Vitale 6
ABSENT: Dr. Bienen -1

ALSO PRESENT: Mr. James Bebley, General Counsel, Ashley Gordon, Honorary Student
Board Member, and Ali Piracha, Shadow Student.

ABSENT: Dr. Barbara Byrd-Bennett - 1

President Vitale thereupon opened the floor to the CEO Report segment of the Board
Meeting. Mr. Mario Rossero, Director of Arts, proceeded with an update on the Arts Ed Plan. Dr.
Stephanie Whyte, Chief Health Officer, proceeded with the presentation on the New Physical
Education Policy Mr. Jack Elsey, Chief Innovation and Incubation Officer,
proceeded with a presentation on the 2014 Charter School Proposals through


President Vitale thereupon opened the floor to the Public Participation segment of the
Board Meeting.

President Vitale thereupon opened the floor to comments from the Board Members
regarding Public Participation.

President Vitale thereupon opened the floor to the Discussion of Public Agenda Items.
President Vitale thereupon proceeded with an early vote on Public Agenda items.


RESOLUTEON PROVIDING FOR THE ALLOCATION OF

2013 TAX COLLECTIONS TO DEBT SERVICE FUNDS
WHEREAS, 105 (the "Statute") requires the City Treasurer of the City of
Chicago (the "Treasurer"), as ex of?cio School Treasurer of the Board of Education of the City of Chicago
(the "Board"), annually to ailocate coiiections of taxes levied on behalf of the Board among the various
issues of its outstanding bonds and notes and its lease rental obligations payabie to the Public Building
Commission of Chicago and to deliver a report of such allocation to the County Coiiector in each county in

which the Board is located; and

WHEREAS. the Board, by a resolution adopted on March 12, 1980, established trusteed debt
service funds for those bonds, notes and lease rental obligations and appointed Continental National Bank
and Trust of Chicago as Trustee for those funds (the "Continental Bank?); and

WHEREAS, on August 31, 1994, Bank of America Illinois became the successor trustee of the
Board's debt service funds for the bonds, notes and lease rental obligations, which had formerly been

entrusted to Continental Bank; and on December 8, 1995, Bank of America Illinois sold its trust services to?

January 22, 2014

First Trust of Illinois, National Association; thereupon, First Trust of Illinois, National Association became
the successor trustee (the "Trustee") of the Board's debt service funds for the bonds, notes and lease
rental obligations which had formerly been entrusted to Bank of America Illinois; First Trust of Illinois,
National Association is now operating under the name of US. Bank Trust, National Association.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT HEREBY RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF EDUCATION OF THE
CITY OF CHICAGO:

Section 1. The Treasurer is authorized and directed to make an allocation, pursuant to the
Statute, of property taxes collected in 2014, the allocation to be substantially in the form as provided in
Exhibit A which is attached to and made a part of this Resolution. The Treasurer is authorized and
directed to deliver a report of that allocation to the County Collectors of Cook and DuPage Counties,
Illinois, the report of allocation to be substantially in the form as provided in Exhibit which is attached to
and made a part of this Resolution.

Section 2. This Resolution is effective immediately upon its adoption.

EXHIBIT A

I, Stephanie D. Neely, City Treasurer of the City of Chicago, as ex?of?cio School Treasurer of the
Board of Education of the City of Chicago (the ?Board?), allocate the amounts collected in 2014 from
property taxes levied on behalf of the Board and its leases with the Public Building Commission of Chicago
(the all as provided in this Allocation.

This Allocation is made pursuant to 105 ILCS (the ?Statute?). Pursuant to the Statute,
the Board has by a resolution, adopted on March 12, 1980, established debt service funds and various
accounts in those funds. (A copy of this Resolution entitled ?Resolution, As Amended, Establishing Debt
Service Funds for Notes, Bonds and Leases and Appointing A Trustee For Those Funds? (the
?Resolution"), and a subsequent amendatory resolution, adopted October 22, 1980, have previously been
filed with your office). Also, pursuant to the Statute, the Board appointed Continental Illinois National Bank
and Trust Company as Trustee for those debt service funds. Continental Bank has closed, and Bank of
America Illinois succeeded it as trustee. Bank of America sold its trust services to First Trust of Illinois,
National Association, and First Trust of Illinois has succeeded as successor Trustee (the ?Trustee?). First
Trust is now doing business as US. Bank Trust, National Association.

All amounts of collections so allocated to outstanding leases with the PBC as set forth below are
to be deposited, upon receipt by the County Collectors of Cook and DuPage Counties, Illinois, directly with
the Trustee for deposit by the Trustee in the appropriate debt service funds, and accounts in those funds,

all as provided in the Resolution and as stated above.

Allocation Among Outstanding Leases

There is allocated to the Public Building Commission Lease with the Board authorized by
Resolution of the Board designated as Lease 1993 Series A, 0.893873% of the total amount
of all property taxes extended for collection in 2014 for the benefit of the Board until the total amount so
allocated equals the'sum of $20,426,83300 The amounts of collections so allocated to that Lease are to
be deposited by the County Collectors with the Trustee for deposit in the Lease Account relating to that

Lease.

January 22, 2014

There is allocated to the Public Building Commission Lease with the Board authorized by
Resolution of the Board designated as Lease 1990 Series A, 1.363342% of the total amount
of all property taxes extended for collection in 2014 for the benefit of the Board until the total amount so
allocated equals the sum of $31 ,155,165.00. The amounts of collections so allocated to that Lease are to
be deposited by the County Collectors with the Trustee for deposit in the Lease Account relating to that
Lease.

There is allocated to the Public Building Commission Lease with the Board authorized by
Resolution of the Board designated as Lease 1990 Series B, 0.071026% of the total amount
of all property taxes extended for collection in 2014 for the benefit of the Board until the total amount so
allocated equals the sum of $1 ,623,083.00. The amounts of collections so allocated to that Lease are to be

deposited by the County Collectors with the Trustee for deposit in the Lease Account relating to that Lease.

Signed this day of 2013

 

Stephanie D. Neely, Ex-Officio Treasurer
Board of Education of the City of Chicago

EXHIBIT 
REPORT OF ALLOCATION

TO: COUNTY COLLECTORS OF COOK AND DUPAGE COUNTIES, ILLINOIS

Pursuant to 105 ILCS and a Resolution of the Board of Education of the City of
Chicago (the ?Board?), adopted January 23, 2013, I have, with respect to collections in calendar year 2013
of taxes levied on behalf of the Board, allocated amounts collected among the various issues of
outstanding leases with the Public Building Commission of Chicago. True and correct copies of that
Allocation are attached. On the basis of this Allocation, you are directed under this statute to pay the
amounts so allocated, upon receipt, directly to US. Bank Trust, National Association, Chicago, Illinois, as

Trustee, for deposit in the debtservice funds established by the Resolution of the Board for such leases.

Signed this day of 2013

 

Stephanie D. Neely, Ex?Officio Treasurer
Board of Education of the City of Chicago

January 22, 2014



RESOLUTION REGARDING TRANSFER OF INTEREST AND INVESTMENT EARNINGS EARNED
IN CALENDAR YEAR 2013 FROM TRUSTEED DEBT SERVICE FUNDS TO EDUCATIONAL FUND
WHEREAS, 105 ILCS requires the Board of Education of the City of Chicago (the
?Board?) to establish trusteed debt service funds for its outstanding bonds, notes and lease rental
obligations with the Public Building Commission of Chicago; and
WHEREAS, the Board, on March 12, 1980, adopted a resolution (the ?Debt Service Fund
Resolution?) establishing these debt service funds and appointing Continental Illinois National Bank and
Trust Company of Chicago (the ?Continental Bank?) as trustee; and
WHEREAS, on August 31, 1994, Bank of America Illinois became the successor trustee of the
Board?s debt service funds for the bonds, notes and lease rental obligations which had formerly been
entrusted to Continental Bank; and
WHEREAS, on December 8, 1995, Bank of America Illinois sold its trust services to First Trust of
Illinois, National Association; thereupon, First Trust of Illinois, National Association became the successor
trustee (the ?Trustee?) of the Board?s debt service funds for the bonds, notes, and lease rental obligations
which had formerly been entrusted to Bank of America Illinois; First Trust of Illinois, National Association is
now operating under the name US. Bank Trust, National Association; and
WHEREAS, the Debt Service Fund Resolution provides:
that in January of each year, the Trustee shall notify the Board of the
amount of interest and other investment earnings earned, through
December 31 of the prior year, in each bond, note and lease account
within the debt service funds; and
that by February 1 of any year, the Board may, upon receiving such
notification from the Trustee, withdraw interest or other investment
earnings in the debt service funds and may use all amounts withdrawn
for any lawful purpose of the Board; and
WHEREAS, the Board, on January 14, 1992, amended its Debt Service Resolution 

to provide that the Trustee can make a payment to the Board from the Lease Debt Service Fund account

only if after making such payment there remains on deposit in the Lease Debt Service Fund account ?an

amount sufficient to pay all principal and interest payments on the Lease for the full lease year (ending
November 30) for which the payment is to be made . . . and

WHEREAS, 105 ILCS 5/34?292 provides that: ?The board may from time to time withdraw
from any such debt service fund, to the extent not prohibited by the resolution of the board authorizing
issuance of such obligations, the amount of interest or other investment earnings in such funds but only to
the extent that the total amounts in such fund after such withdrawal shall not be less than the requirements
for that fund. Any other amounts deposited in any such debt service fund not required for payment of
principal of or interest on any obligation because that payment has been made or provided for may be
withdrawn by the board from the fund at any time, but only to the extent that the total amount in the fund
after the withdrawal is not less than the requirements for that fund . . . . Any amounts so withdrawn by the

board may be used for any lawful purpose of the board"; and

January 22, 2014

WHEREAS, the Trustee has notified the Board that the amount of interest and other investment
earnings earned through December 31, 2013, in the debt service funds equal $4,605.17. (the amounts
earned in the Lease Debt Service Fund and in each of the Lease Accounts within the Fund are as set forth
in Exhibit A to this Resolution).

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT HEREBY RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF EDUCATION OF THE
CITY OF CHICAGO:

1. Withdrawal of Interest Earnings from Lease Debt Service Fund. The Controller of the Board is
authorized and directed to withdraw, by February 1, 2014, the interest and other investment earnings
totaling $4,605.17 earned through December 31, 2013, in the Lease Debt Service Fund (and in the various
Lease Accounts within that Fund, as set forth in Exhibit A), provided that the withdrawal does not reduce
the amount in any Lease Account in the Lease Debt Service Fund below the total of all deposits in that
Lease Account made on or after January 1, 2014, and further provided that after said withdrawal, suf?cient
funds will remain in the account to pay all principal and interest payments for the current lease year (ending

November 30).

2. Authorization of Transfer to Educational Fund. The Board authorizes the transfer of moneys
withdrawn from the Lease Debt Service Fund, as provided by Sections 1 of this Resolution, to the
Educational Fund.

3. Presentation to Trustee. The Controller of the board is authorized and directed to present a
certified copy of this Resolution to the Trustee as soon as practicable.

4. Effectiveness. This Resolution is effective immediately upon its adoption.

 

EXHIBIT A
PBC - Lease Fund Amount
Fund 514 (Legacy Fund 546) PBC - Series 1993 $1,524.90
Fund 516 (Legacy Fund 547) PBC - Series 1990 $2,483.84
Fund 518 (Legacy Fund 548) PBC Series 1990 $596.43
Total Interest Earnings in Debt Service Funds $4,605.17

14-0122-RS3

2014 ANNUAL RESOLUTION DESIGNATING
CERTAIN POSITIONS AS POSITIONS
PURSUANT TO THE CHICAGO BOARD OF RESIDENCY POLICY
WHEREAS, the Chicago Board of Education (?Board?) has the power to require its employees to
be residents of the City of Chicago pursuant to Section 34-831 of the Illinois School Code (105 ILCS
and
WHEREAS, the Board has the authority under Section 34?18 of the Illinois School Code, 105

ILCS 5/34-18, to promulgate rules establishing procedures regarding the residence of its employees; and

January 22, 2014

WHEREAS, the Board, pursuant to the above articulated powers, promulgated its Residency
Policy (Board Report for its employees (?Residency Policy"); and

WHEREAS, the Residency Policy provides that all employees hired on or after November 20,
1996 will be required to be actual residents of the City of Chicago within six months from the day their
employment begins but permits the Board to grant three-year ?special needs waivers? to certain
applicants or employees who apply for a waiver and are hired to ?special needs? positions designated by
the Board on recommendation of the Talent Office; and

WHEREAS, the Talent Office has recommended to the Board that certain positions be
designated as ?special needs positions? based on vacancies, age of vacancies, and other experience in

recruiting and filing designated positions.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT HEREBY RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO BOARD OF
EDUCATION, THAT

1. The following positions are designated as ?special needs positions? for which special needs
waivers may be granted in accordance with the Residency Policy:

Engineering and Information Technology STEM Teachers

ESL and Bilingual Teachers

Guidance Counselors

Health Science (Career and Technical Education) Teachers

Librarians

Mathematics Teachers (including STEM Mathematics Teachers)

Nurses (including Health Service, School-Based and Career and Technical Education)
Occupational and Physical Therapy

Physical Education Teachers

Reading Teachers

ROTC Military Instructors, ROTC Supervisor, and ROTC Administrative Assistant
School 

Science Teachers (including STEM Science Teachers)

Sign language Interpreters

Special Education Teachers

Speech Pathologists

World Language Teachers in Low Incidence Languages Course Offerings including
Chinese, Arabic, Russian, Latin, and Farsi



2. Even though the above-captioned positions have been found to be "special needs? positions,
applicants and eligible employees are encouraged to establish or maintain residence in the City
of Chicago consistent with the purposes of the Residency Policy.

3. This Resolution shall be effective upon adoption, and shall replace all prior resolutions or other
Board actions that may be construed as conflicting with any provision set forth herein.

4. This Resolution shall remain in effect until amended by the Board or until the Board adopts a
2015 Annual Resolution Designating Certain Positions as ?Special Needs? Positions.

14-0122-RS4

APPROVE THE MID-TERM APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS
TO LOCAL SCHOOL COUNCILS TO FILL VACANCIES

WHEREAS, the School Code, 105 authorizes the Board of Education of the
City of Chicago ('Board') to appoint the teacher, non-teaching staff and high school student members of
local school councils of regular attendance centers to fill mid-term vacancies after considering the
preferences of the schools' staffs or students, as appropriate, for candidates for appointment as
ascertained through non-binding advisory polls;

WHEREAS, the Governance of Alternative and Small Schools Policy, B. R. 
(?Governance Policy?), authorizes the Board to appoint all members of the appointed local school councils
and boards of governors of alternative and small schools (including military academy high schools) to fill
mid-term vacancies after considering candidates for appointment selected by the following methods and
the Chief Executive Officer's recommendations of those or other candidates:

Membership Categog Method of Candidate Selection
Parent Recommendation by serving LSC or Board
Community Recommendation by serving LSC or Board

January 22, 2014

Advocate Recommendation by serving LSC or Board
Teacher/JROTC Instructor Non-binding Advisory Staff Poll
Student Non-binding Advisory Student Poll or Student Serving

as Cadet Battalion Commander or Senior Cadet
(military academy high schools)

WHEREAS, the established methods of selection of candidates for Board appointment to fill mid-
term vacancies on local school councils, appointed local school councils and/or boards of governors were
employed at the schools identified on the attached Exhibit A and the candidates selected thereby and any
other candidates recommended by the Chief Executive Officer have been submitted to the Board for

consideration for appointment in the exercise of its absolute discretion;

WHEREAS, the Illinois School Code and the Governance Policy authorize the Board to exercise

absolute discretion in the appointment process;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF EDUCATION OF THE CITY OF

CHICAGO:

1. The individuals identified on the attached Exhibit A are hereby appointed to serve in the specified
categories on the local school councils, appointed local schools and/or boards of governors of the
identified schools for the remainder of the current term of their respective offices.

2. This Resolution is effective immediately upon adoption.

Exhibit A

NEW APPOINTED MEMBERS

TEACHER MEMBER REPLACING SCHOOL
LaRita Harris Renee Butala Aldridge E. S.
Hailey Watts India Wilson Aldridge E. S.
Linda Ward Jose Padilla Beethoven E. S.
Michael Khoshaba Vanessa Viruet McClellan E. S.
Karen Jordan William Johnson Ruggles E. S.
Brian Lacey Roderick Lewis Ruggles E. S.
Daniel Sciortino Colleen Nelsen Tonti E. S.

Michael Vollinger Brian Cook Air Force Acad. H. S.
NON-TEACHER STAFF MEMBER REPLACING SCHOOL

Schmidt Melissa Barribeau-Whiting Bell E. S.

Joslyn Reyes Maria Holst Blaine E. 8.

Andrea Solms Beth Hickey Dore E. S.

PARENT MEMBER REPLACING SCHOOL

Juan Flores Jackie Dillard DeVry Adv Acad. H. S.

Susan Kreider

ADVOCATE MEMBER
Sarah Stockdale

14-0122-PO1

Position Vacant

REPLACING
Candace Goodwin

RESCIND BOARD REPORT 07-0627-P02

Barbara Vick E. C. 

SCHOOL
DeVry Adv Acad. H. S.

ADOPT A NEW PHYSICAL EDUCATION POLICY
THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER RECOMMENDS:
That the Board rescind Board Report and adopt a new Physical Education Policy.

PURPOSE: The Illinois School Code, 105 ILCS 5/27-6, requires that students receive daily physical
education in both elementary school and high school with limited exceptions enumerated for individual
student waivers, modi?cations or excused absences. Chicago Public Schools (CPS) holds a waiver
issued by the state to excuse students in grades 11 and 12 from the daily physical education requirement
without the need for an individual student request to be excused and this waiver expires at the end of the
2013-2014 school year. The District has elected to not seek renewal of this state waiver and therefore this
policy establishes requirements for 11?h and 12th grade students to individually request a waiver from daily
physical education as permitted by the Illinois School Code. This policy also establishes planning
requirements for high schools to transition course scheduling in anticipation of the state waiver ending
and also for elementary schools to adjust programming as needed to align with the daily physical
education requirement.

January 22, 2014

The Board values a well-rounded curriculum that includes physical education for both elementary and
high school students. This policy establishes the standards through which physical education is provided
to students to ensure the development of physically literate individuals who have the knowledge, skills,
and con?dence for academic success and lifelong health. This policy reflects the core concepts
enumerated in Minds in Motion, the District?s initiative to develop and galvanize support for a strategic
plan to strengthen physical education for all CPS students.

POLICY TEXT:
A. Physical Education Instruction: All schools shall provide every elementary and high school

student with high-quality physical education instruction that is:

Provided daily to elementary and high school students

Led by a teacher who meets the qualification requirements established by the state

Developed from standards?based curriculum

Informed by regular and varied assessment

Assessed using comprehensive and transparent grading criteria

Inclusive of all diverse learners, abilities, fitness levels, ethnicities and genders; and

Evaluated using tools adapted to the physical education environment, including the Physical
Education Addendum to the Framework for Teaching



Instruction shall maximize moderate to vigorous physical activity time for all students to achieve and
maintain a health-enhancing level of physical ?tness. In alignment with the Board?s Local School
Wellness Policy for Students, instruction shall engage all students in moderate to vigorous physical
activity during two thirds of physical education class time.

B. Physical Education Scheduling:

1. Grades 8: Elementary schools shall provide students in kindergarten through grade 8 with a
minimum 30 minutes of daily physical education or the equivalent of 150 minutes per week. It is
recommended that elementary schools provide students in grade 6 through grade 8 with daily physical
education for an average of 225 minutes per week. Schools may provide health education, including
sexual health education as outlined in the Board?s Sexual Health Education Policy, as a part of the
physical education program in grades 5-8. In such cases, a maximum of 60 minutes per week of health
education may be included as part of physical education programming in grades 5-8. Recess minutes
may not be used to satisfy any portion of the physical education instructional minutes required hereunder.

2. Grades 9- 12. Effective at the start of the 2014-2015 school year all high school students shall
be scheduled in a physical education course each semester in every grade level (9- 12) except when an
exception has been authorized in accordance with Section below. The CPS Physical Education Manual
shall specify which CPS courses qualify as a physical education course for purposes of compliance with
this policy. If a high school operates on a block schedule, students in grades 9-12 shall engage in
physical education in the same time increments as other core curricular courses throughout the week,
quarter, semester, year, or time in high school. A block schedule is defined as a system of scheduling
that entails longer class periods that meet fewer times per week, quarter, semester, or year.

C. Limited Duration Excused Student Absences in Elementarv School and High School: A
student with an injury or medical condition who presents an apprOpriate excuse from a person licensed
under the Medical Practice Act shall be excused for a limited duration from participation in a physical
education class or activity for the period of time covered by the Doctor?s authorization. A student may also
be excused from participation from physical education class when a parent/guardian presents an
appropriate excuse, including, but not limited to reasons related to religious Observances or prohibitions.
In all such cases, the parent/guardian shall provide written documentation, as specified in the CPS
Physical Education Manual, to support the need to be excused for a limited duration. Modified physical
education activities shall be provided for students whose physical or emotional condition prevents their
participation in the regular activities and course of study, as determined by a person licensed under the
Medical Practice Act.

D. Special Education: Any student requiring adapted physical education shall receive that service
in accordance with their individualized education program A school may, in accordance with the
procedures outlined in the CPS Physical Education Manual, excuse a student with an from a physical
education course if the student is participating in an adaptive athletic program outside the school setting.

Students in grades 3?12 who are eligible for special education may be excused from participation in
physical education class if the student?s parent/guardian agrees that the student must utilize the time set
aside for physical education to receive special education support and services, which agreement or
determination must be documented made part of the student?s 

E. Authorized Exceptions to Physical Education Course Enrollment in Hiqh School: The
Board recognizes the exceptions to the daily physical education requirement authorized by the Illinois
School Code which are currently the following:

1. Enrollment in Junior Reserve Of?cer?s Training Corps (JROTC) Program in Grades 9-12;

January 22, 2014

2. Enrollment in academic classes in Grades 11 and 12 required for on-track high school graduation,
provided that the failure to take such course would result in the student being unable to graduate;

NOTE: This exception may include the following circumstances: a student fails a course and must
retake the required course in Grades 11 or 12 in order to graduate, (ii) a student is enrolled in a
specialized diploma/certification program or dual degree program that requires specialty courses in
grades 11 and 12 in order to graduate International Baccalaureate Diploma, Early College
Program that leads to an Associate?s Degree.) Exceptions under this Section E.2. are permitted only
in accordance with the Physical Education Manual and only when scheduling of the course(s)
required to graduate do not allow room in the student?s schedule for physical education courses or
elective courses.

3. Enrollment in academic classes in Grades 11 and 12 required for college admission, provided that the
failure to take such classes would result in the student being denied admission to the college of their
choice;

NOTE: This exception may apply when a student is required to complete a particular course or
courses to be considered for entry in a particular college or college program student must take
calculus as a prerequisite for entry in a university?s engineering program). Exceptions under this
Section E.3. are permitted only in accordance with the Physical Education Manual and only when the
course requirements for college admissions do not allow room in the student?s schedule for physical
education courses.

4. Ongoing participation in an interscholastic athletic program in Grades 11 and 12, if student
participated in the interscholastic athletic program(s) during the prior school year; or

5. Enrollment in a marching band course for credit during the regular school day in Grades 11 and 12.

High school students may request an exemption under this Section E. in accordance with the procedures
outlined in the CPS Physical Education Manual. Approved exemptions: (1) apply only to the current
school year, and (2) require the student to enroll in another academic course in place of physical
education.

F. thsical Education Support and lnfra_structu;e: Schools shall designate safe, clean and
maintained spaces, both indoor and, if available, outdoor for physical education classes. Administrators
shall strive to ensure that other school activities do not displace physical education classes from their
designated spaces.

Schools shall strive to provide equipment that supports all students and all aspects of the physical
education curriculum. Schools shall also work to ensure that physical education teachers and classes
have access to tools and technology for instruction, evaluation, and communication. Administrators and
evaluators shall utilize evaluation tools that are adapted to the physical education environment in
accordance with the CPS Physical Education Manual.

It is recommended that all physical education teachers participate in annual professional development on
effective practices for physical education for a minimum of seven contact hours. School administrators
shall encourage physical education teachers to attend relevant professional development opportunities
designed for physical educators on school?wide professional development days.

G. Physical Education Oversight and Accountability:

1. Schools: By July 1, 2014, all elementary and high schools shall prepare and submit a three?year
physical education action plan that identi?es specific annual activities, enhancements and measurable
outcomes, as indicated in the CPS Physical Education Manual, to implement the requirements of this
policy and address any programming variances or gaps that require adjustment.

2. Office of Student Health and Wellness: The Of?ce of Student Health and Wellness shall
oversee school implementation and compliance with this policy and, in doing so, shall:

a. Provide technical assistance and support to assist schools with implementation of the policy and
improve programming functions;

b. Ensure schools are offered support services through various Central Office departments and
Network offices;

c. Establish a process for identifying and distributing resources made available by qualified
agencies and community organizations for the purpose of collaborating with schools to enhance
implementation of this policy;

d. Establish a process to gather regular reporting and feedback from individual schools, community
partners, students and parents on the implementation of the policy;

e. Conduct periodic evaluations and report on district-wide and individual schools? compliance with
the Policy to the Board twice per calendar year;

f. Expend grant funds awarded by the United States Department of Education to Chicago Public
Schools under the Carol M. White Physical Education Program Grant, a three-year grant to
support the implementation of high-quality daily physical education for elementary and high
school students across the district; and

9. Monitor individual student waiver requests granted by high schools.

January 22, 2014

The Secretary called the roll and the vote was as follows:
Yeas: Dr. Hines, Mr. Ruiz, Ms. Zopp, Ms. Quazzo, Dr. Azcoitia, and President Vitale – 6
Nays: None
President Vitale thereupon declared Board Reports 14-0122-RS1 through 14-0122-RS4 and
14-0122-PO1 adopted.
14-0122-CO1

10

 14-01 

TRANSFER OF FUNDS
Various Units and Objects

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER RECOMMENDS THE FOLLOWING:

The various transfers of funds were requested by the Central Of?ce Departments during the month of December . All

transfers are budget neutral. A brief explanation of each transfer is provided below:

1. Transfer from Literacy to Marie Sklodowska Curie Metropolitan High School

Rationale: Teacher extended day for SL projects.
Transfer From: Unit Literacy
Fund General Education Fund

Account Miscellaneous Charges
Program Service Learning

Grant Default Value
Transfer to: Unit Marie Sklodowska Curie Metropolitan High School
Fund General Education Fund

Account Teacher Salaries - Extended Day
Program Service Learning
Grant Default Value

Amount: $1,000.00

2. Transfer from Literacy to Marie Sklodowska Curie Metropolitan High School

Rationale: Food supplies for SL projects.
Transfer From: Unit Literacy
Fund General Education Fund

Account Miscellaneous Charges
Program Service Learning

Grant Default Value
Transfer to: Unit Marie Sklodowska Curie Metropolitan High School
Fund General Education Fund

Account Commodities - Food Supplies
Program Service Learning
Grant Default Value

Amount: 1,000.00

3. Transfer from Literacy to David Farragut Career Academy High School

Rationale: Teacher extended day for SL projects
Transfer From: Unit Literacy
Fund General Education Fund

Account Miscellaneous Charges
Program Service Learning

Grant Default Value
Transfer to: Unit David Farragut Career Academy High School
Fund General Education Fund

Account Teacher Salaries - Extended Day
Program Service Learning
Grant Default Value

Amount: $1,000.00

11

13700
115
57940
390003
000000

53101
115
51130
390003
000000

13 700
1 15

5 7940
390003
000000

53101
115
53205
390003
000000

13700
115
57940
390003
000000

53091
115
51130
390003
000000

January 22, 2014

4. Transfer from Literacy to Theodore Roosevelt Hi School

Rationale:

Transfer From:

Transfer to:

Amount:

Student transportation for SL projects.

Unit Literacy

Fund General Education Fund
Account Miscellaneous Charges
Program Service Learning

Grant Default Value
Unit Theodore Roosevelt High School
Fund General Education Fund

Account Pupil Transportation
Program Service Learning
Grant Default Value

$1,000.00

5. Transfer from Literacy to Edwin Foreman High School

Rationale:

Transfer From:

Transfer to:

Amount:

Teacher extended day for SL projects.

Unit Literacy

Fund General Education Fund
Account Miscellaneous Charges
Program Service Learning

Grant Default Value
Unit Edwin Foreman High School
Fund General Education Fund

Account Teacher Salaries - Extended Day
Program Service Learning
Grant Default Value

$1,000.00

588. Transfer for Facility Opers Maint - City Wide

Rationale:

Transfer From:

Transfer to:

Amount:

589. Transfer from Capital/Operations City Wide to Edison Park Element?

Transfer for utility payments.

Unit Facility Opers Maint - City Wide
Fund Public Building Commission 0 
Account Commodities - Electricity - Purchased
Program Utilities

Grant Default Value
Unit Facility Opers Maint - City Wide
Fund Public Building Commission 0 

Account Commodities Electricity Transmission
Program Utilities
Grant Default Value

$1,000,000.00

 

Rationale:

Transfer From:

Transfer to:

Amount:

13700
115
57940
390003
000000

46271

1 15
54210
390003
000000

13 700
1 15
57940
390003
000000

46131
115
51130
390003
000000

11880
230
53105
254004
000000

11880
230
53115
254004
000000

Funds Transfer From Award# 2010?481?00-05 To Project# 2012-28081-ANX Change

Reason 
Unit Capital/Operations - City Wide
Fund BABS - CIP Series 2010B

Account Capitalized 
Program Renovations

Grant Build America Bonds (Babs)
Unit Edison Park Elementary
Fund BABS - CIP Series 2010D

Account Capitalized Construction
Program Additions
Grant Build America Bonds (Babs)

$1,584,401.15

12

12150
481
56310
253508
610000

28081
481
563 10
009531
610000

January 22, 2014

January 22, 2014

590. Transfer from New School Development City Wide to AUSL Program Support

Rationale: Move Title II funds for AUSL ?om unit 13615 to the new unit, AUSL Program Support, in
the amount of $2,323,000. Unit 11116.

Transfer From: Unit New School Development - City Wide 13615
Fund Title II Teacher Quality 353
Account Services - Contractual 54105
Program Academic Support Services 231002
Grant Title - Teacher Quality 494045

Transfer to: Unit AUSL Program Support 1 1 1 16
Fund Title II - Teacher Quality 353
Account Services - Contractual 54105
Program Academic Support Services 231002
Grant Title - Teacher Quality 494045

Amount: $2,323,000.00

591. Transfer from New School Development - City Wide to AUSL Program Support

Rationale: Move AUSL professional development budget from 13615 to the new unit, AUSL Program
Support in the amount of $4,150,000. Unit 11116.

Transfer From: Unit New School Development City Wide 13615
Fund General Education Fund 1 15
Account Services - Contractual 54105
Program Academic Support Services 231002
Grant Default Value 000000

Transfer to: Unit AUSL Program Support 1 1 16
Fund General Education Fund 1 15
Account Services Contractual 54105
Program Academic Support Services 231002
Grant Default Value 000000

Amount: $4,150,000.00

592. Transfer from New School Development - CitXWide to AUSL Program Support

Rationale: Move AUSL management fee to the new unit-AUSL Program Support in the amount of
$4,589,900. Unit number 11116.

Transfer From: Unit New School Development - City Wide 13615
Fund General Education Fund 115
Account Services - Contractual 54105
Program Academic Support Services 231002
Grant Default Value 000000

Transfer to: Unit AUSL Program Support 111 16
Fund General Education Fund 1 15
Account Services - Contractual 54105
Program Academic Support Services 231002
Grant Default Value 000000

Amount: $4,589,900.00

593. Transfer from Grants Management Administration City Wide to Of?ce of Catholic Schools

Rationale: Transfer funding to Af?liate unit for use Within Title I non-public instruction.
Transfer From: Unit Grants Management Administration - City Wide 12625
Fund NCLB Title I Regular Fund 332
Account Services - Professional Technical 54125
Program Ecia?Nonpublic Inst Sup 370004
Grant Title I - Nonpublic Instruction Support Services Catholic 430142
Transfer to: Unit Of?ce of Catholic Schools 69510
Fund NCLB Title I Regular Fund 332
Account Services Professional Technical 54125
Program Eda-Nonpublic Inst Sup 370004
Grant Title I - Nonpublic Instruction Support Services - Catholic 430142
Amount: $7,553,205.27

*[Note: The complete document will be on File in the Office of the Board]

13

January 22, 2014



APPROVE THE CHICAGO PUBLIC NCLB DISTRICT IMPROVEMENT PLAN FOR THE 2013-2014
AND 2014-2015 SCHOOL YEARS

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER RECOMMENDS:

That the Board approve the Chicago Public Schools? NCLB district improvement plan (DIP) for the 2013-2014 and
2014-2015 school years.

DESCRIPTION: The Chief Executive Of?cer (CEO) is requesting approval of the two?year DIP summarized on the
attached Exhibit A which is required under the federal No Child Left Behind Act (NCLB). NCLB requires that DIP
identify strategies the district is pursuing or plans to pursue in order to make Adequate Yearly Progress (AYP).

In Illinois, any district failing to make AYP in reading and mathematics scores for ?ve consecutive years or more must
submit a school board-approved NCLB District Improvement Plan to the Illinois State Board of Education (ISBE) for
review. CPS has not made AYP for ten consecutive years. The attached DIP includes a range of strategies
addressing areas in which the District failed to meet AYP including reading and mathematics for all students and the
following subgroups: various racial/ethnic subgroups, English Language Learners (ELLs), students with disabilities,
and economically disadvantaged students. The DIP also contains content related to graduation rates for all students.

The DIP, which is fully aligned to the CPS Action Plan was completed collaboratively
across a variety of CPS departments using the Rising Star system provided by ISBE. Rising Star is a web-based
planning tool that includes the following components:

Self-Assessment: Districts use this section to assess their current level of implementation on 50 indicators
(41 required) of effectiveness developed by the Center on Innovation and Improvement 
For each required indicator, CPS provided a description of the current level of implementation, identi?ed a
priority rating and opportunity rating, and determined whether a plan would be developed for the indicator.

Plans: Districts use this section to develop a plan for high priority indicators. For those indicators for which
CPS determined a plan would be created, CPs provided a description of what successful implementation will
look like and speci?c tasks that CPS will undertake over the next two years.

In addition to missing AYP targets, CPS also failed to meet Annual Measureable Achievement Objectives (AMAOs)
for ELLs. For this reason, the DIP includes speci?c strategies and activities the District will take to improve outcomes
of ELL students, as well as the completed template for Title report. In addition, CPS has been
identi?ed by ISBE as ?Needs Assistance? under the LEA Determinations process under the Individuals with
Disabilities Education ACT (IDEA). For this reason, the DIP includes the completed Needs Assistance 2 (NA2)
template, which outlines corrective actions CPS is taking based on speci?c ?ndings from ISBE.

The DIP also addresses the District?s eligibility for the Race to the Top (RT3) grant through the completion of select
RT3 indicators. For these indicators, CPS addressed expectations speci?c to RT3 to ensure that actions around
these indicators were strategically aligned to ISBE and US Department of Education requirements. The DIP includes
required assurances for participating school districts.

Monitoring and support of the DIP will be the responsibility of the Of?ce of Accountability with the assistance of the
Chief Executive Of?ce, the Chief Instructional Of?ce, and the Talent Of?ce. The Chief Executive Of?cer or designee
is authorized to modify the DIP as necessary throughout the 2013-2014 and 2014?2015 school years in order to keep
information current and respond to ISBE and US Department of Education requirements.

By submitting the DIP, the Board of Education and CEO certify to ISBE that the following assurances have been met:

1. Strategies and activities have been founded in scienti?cally based research as required by NCLB, Section
1116(b)(3)(A)(i) and as de?ned in NCLB, Section 9101(37).

2. Technical assistance provided by the district serving its school is founded on scienti?cally based research
Section 1116(b)(4)(C)] as de?ned in NCLB, Section 9101(37).

3. The plan includes strategies and activities that support the implementation of the New Illinois Learning
Standards Incorporating the Common Core and ensures alignment of curriculum, instruction, and
assessment with the New Illinois Learning Standards Incorporating the Common Core.

4. The district will spend at least 10 percent of the funds made available under Title I, Part A, Subpart 2 of
NCLB, for the purpose of providing high?quality professional development.

FINANCIAL: Within budgetary appropriations.

14

CPS DISTRICT IMPROVEMENT PLAN

TABLE OF CONTENTS

District Improvement Plan
District Vision and Direction
District School Improvem en Processes
District Support for School Improvement and StudentAchievement
District Allocation of Resources for School Improvement
Teacher Leader E?ectiven ess and Supports

ELL Template for Title AMAOS

LEA Determination Needs Assistance for 2 Requirements

15

January 22, 2014

1-95
1-8

9?29
30-46
47-80
81-95
96-100

101-104-

16

 

Reports - Comprehensive Report

 

Status
02 The district develops and communicates its vision to?ensure college and career readiness for all students to all stakeholders school

board, primary caregivers, teachers, staff, and community). (2320) SC Full Implementation

01/13/2014

 

 

 

 

 

 

Assessment

 

Level of Development Initial: Full Implementation

 

In June 2013, CPS formally released the 5-Year Action Plan which articulates the vision and objectives for the district. Our vision is that every Chicago Public
Schools student in every neighborhood will be engaged in a rigorous, well-rounded instructional program and will graduate prepared for success in college,
Evidence that this indicator has been career and life. The Action Plan has been has been finalized and communicated to all CPS stakeholders, including school leaders, teachers, parents, and

fully and effectively implemented: community partners. All district objectives have clear explanations and rationale and all parties understand the activities and initiatives that need to be
completed in order to realize appropriate end state. The theory of change includes a vision for instructional improvement aligned to the plan for Common Core
standards implementation. It also include a a vision for how planning and instruction will meet the needs of all students, through a universal design approach.

 

 

 

 

The district and school(s) have an aligned vision/mission statement that supports a learning environment which is emotionally safe and . Status
conducive to learning. (2321) RT3
RT3 Expectations: The district implements the State-adopted survey of learning conditions or approved equivalent, subject to

availability of or State funding.

CII1 Full Implementation
01 /1 3/2014

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Assessment

 

Level of Development Initial: Full Implementation

January 22, 2014

17

The CPS vision/ mission statement is as follows: Every Chicago Public School student in every neighborhood will be engaged in a rigorous, well-rounded
instructional program and will graduate prepared for suCcess in college, career and life. This visionis further articulated in its School Effectiveness Framework
(SEF), which consists of a set of indicators that describe the essentials of an effective school. The SEF is aligned to the 5 Essentials for School Success created
by the Chicago Consortium on School Research (CCSR) and the Rising Star indicators. An entire section of this framework is devoted to describing an effective
school and classroom environment. CCSR and CPS define a supportive environment as one where the school is safe and orderly, teachers have high
expectations for students, and students are supported by their teachers and peers. Our SEF includes a scale on which school communities rate themselves

and a description of what both a ?typical" school and an ?effective? school looks like, so that schools can appropriately assess themselves and identify
priorities for improvement.

Evidence that this indicator has been
fully and effectively implemented:

 

 

Status

IA08 The school board and superintendent will present a unified vision for school improvement. (8) SP

In Plan

 

 

No Tasks Created

 

 

 

 

?Assessment

 

Level of Development Initial: Partial Development/ Implementation

 

Index: 6 (Priority Score Opportunity Score)

 

Priority Score: 3 (3 - highest, 2 - medium, 1 - lowest)

 

 

Opportunity Score: 2 (3 - relatively easy to address, 2 - accomplished within current policy and budget conditions, 1 - requires changes in current policy and
budget conditions)

 

 

 

 

 

January 22, 2014

18

1/13/2014 9:50:41 PM

City of Chicago SD 299
District Continuous Improvement Plan with RTIT3 SOW 3

 

Current level of development or
implementation:

 

CPS believes that to re-shape the school system into a dynamic system of great schools that is flexible and responsive enough to continuously adjust to student
need and ability, it must fundamentally change the way the district operates. In June 2013, CPS formally released the 5-Year Action Plan which articulates the
vision and objectives for the district. Our vision is that every Chicago Public Schools student in every neighborhood will be engaged in a rigorous, well-rounded
instructional program and will graduate prepared for success in college, career and life. Additionally, CPS has identified a multi-pronged approach to improving
instruction across all schools. First, the district is working on implementing the Common Core State Standards as defined by the CPS Content Frameworks in
Literacy and Mathematics. These Frameworks will better define what teachers teach at all grade levels, including ELLs and students with disabilities. Second,
the district is working on establishing a common framework that describes effective instruction?the CPS Framework for Teaching. This Framework will better
define how teachers teach and will include guidance for effective teaching students with a variety of needs, including ELLs, students with disabilities and
students in Early Childhood programs. This guidance will be grounded on Universal Design for Learning principles and include appropriate scaffolds for diverse
learners in developing academic and language proficiencies. The guidance will also build connections between the CCSS and the WIDA standards. Finally, the
district is focused on maximizing time in the classroom. By lengthening both the school day and year, teachers will have sufficient time to teach the CCSS and
to deliver this instruction in a way that is engaging for all children. All relevant stakeholders, including principals, teachers, parents, community organizations,
and students have been consulted on these initiatives and their feedback has been incorporated within the overall strategy. All central office departments
also have been working collaboratively to design and implement these major initiatives. For example, the Department of Language and Cultural Education, the
Office of Diverse Learner supports and Services and the Office of Early Childhood. Each office have been fully involved in the design of our content
Frameworks and associated tools, ensuring that sample unit plans and performance assessments are designed with all learners in mind. They have been fully
involved in the design of the Framework for Teaching and associated resource guides that are underway to ensure that instruction for ELLs and students with
disabilities is effectively captured as well as instruction for students enrolled in Early Childhood programs. They

were also fully involved in the design of the Full School Day, ensuring that time is maximized for all students.

 

Plan-

 

Assigned To

Sherry Ulery

 

 

 

How it will look when fully met:

In June 2013, CPS formally release the 5-Year Action Plan which articulates the vision and objectives for the district.
Our vision is that every Chicago Public Schools student in every neighborhood will be engaged in a rigorous, well-
rounded instructional program and will graduate prepared for success in college, career and life. The Action Plan has
been has been finalized and communicated to all CPS stakeholders, including school leaders, teachers, parents, and
community partners. All district objectives have clear explanations and rationale and all parties understand the activities
and initiatives that need to be completed in order to realize appropriate end state. The theory of change includes a vision
for instructional improvement aligned to the plan for Common Core standards implementation. It also include a a vision
for how planning and instruction will meet the needs of all students, through a universal design approach.

This indicator has been fully implemented.

 

 

 

January 22, 2014

19

City of Chicago SD 299

1/13/2014 9:50:41 PM District Continuous Improvement Plan with RTIT3 SOW 4

 

3 Target Date: 06/11/2013

 

 

Tasks

 

There are no tasks created for this Objective

 

 

. . . . . . 
The superintendent and other central office staff Will be accountable for school improvement and student learning outcomes. (9) a us

Title I Expectations: Describe the actions of the district for its schools that do not make Adequate Yearly Progress (AYP). (See Section In Plan
1116)

0 of 7 tasks completed

 

 

 

 

Assessment

 

Level of Development Initial: Partial Development/ Implementation

 

Index: 9 (Priority Score Opportunity Score)

 

Priority Score: 3 (3 - highest, 2 - medium, 1 - lowest)

 

 

Opportunity 5 or e: 3 (3 - relatively easy to address, 2 - accomplished within current policy and budget conditions, 1 - requires changes in current policy and
budget conditions)

 

 

 

 

 

 

January 22, 2014

20

 

Current level of development or

implementation:

 

Pillar 5 of the CPS Action Plan calls for sound fiscal, operational and accountability systems and states that every employee needs to be held accountable for
student outcomes and also provided with useful data and guidance in working toward these goals. The Action Plan includes a district scorecard to track the
district?s annual progress toward key performance indicators that holistically capture the results of our district's efforts to achieve our vision. Key
performance indicators are being established at the department level. At the school level, CPS has recently adopted a new school accountability policy called
the School Quality Rating Policy. The SQRP establishes a common definition of school quality in order to hold all schools - including charter, neighborhood, and
magnet schools - to a consistent set of measurable outcomes, including student academic growth, progress in narrowing the achievement gap for priority
groups, attendance, graduation, and college and career readiness. The SQRP also includes measures of school culture and climate. Each parent in the district
receives a school progress report that clearly communicates how their child's school is performing, and the CPS website includes a wealth of performance
data on each school and the district as a whole. For schools that are in Provisional Support or Intensive Support under the SQRP, or that do not make AYP and
are in school improvement, corrective action or restructuring status under NCLB, CPS ensures that a robust Continuous Improvement Work Plan (CIWP) is in
place. The CIWP is approved by the Chief of Schools for the school's network and the Board of Education and the progress of the school against the CIWP is
monitored by the Chief of Schools. CPS also runs comprehensive choice and SES programs for schools in federal status, and develops corrective action and
restructuring plans in collaboration with the school as appropriate. CPS is currently working with the Illinois Center for School Improvement to align the
district's support for priority and focus school with that of the Center. CPS is currently working on establishing partnerships between Network, Central
Office departments and schools in creating a climate of expectations and shared responsibility in the development of effective and compliant operations and
instructional practices for ELLs and students with disabilities. To that end, we are working on the development of improved monitoring systems to ensure
that Networks share responsibilities for both quality program implementation and results in student learning for all students, including ELLs and students with
disabilities. These include providing: Clear guidance to networks and schools about high quality supports for ELLs and students with disabilities; live data (via
the Chiefs dashboard) that ensures that Chiefs of Schools can track progress on English proficiency and academics of ELLs and students with
disabilities;regular compliance reports with corrective action plans for cases of non-compliance; and a follow up process to correct compliance findings. To
continue to strengthen the implementation of cohesive and effective supports and services for ELLs and students with disabilities across schools and
networks, the District will establish cohesion and clear expectations for cross-functional collaboration between central office staff,the compliance
facilitators working out in the field, and Network staff,including Community Relations representatives, network Instructional Support Leaders (ISLs), and
Family and Community Engagement Managers.

 

Plan

 

Assigned To

Ryan Crosby

 

 

 

The district will continue monitor its progress against the metrics established in the District Scorecard, as well as
monitor the progress of departments against a set of established key performance indicators aligned to the District
Scorecard. Further, CPS will continue to monitor school performance against the SQRP and communicate results
internally and externally through clear, easy?to-interpret reports and dashboards. Additionally, CPS will continue to
measure educator effectiveness through the REACH Students principal and teacher evaluation system, ensuring that all
students are receiving high quality instruction from effective educators. Data from these accountability systems will
allow the district to identify best practices and areas of success and course correct when results are not being realized.

 

 

 

January 22, 2014

21

 

How it will look when fully met:

Learning outcomes will also be monitored for priority groups to establish achievement gap baselines and monitor school
and district progress in closing these achievement gaps.

In schools that are far behind, CPS will also employ a diagnostic review process that will be used to identify the school's
needs so that appropriate support and intervention can be provided. In addition, CPS will refine/develop diagnostic
rubrics to ensure program quality for Special Education services, programs for English Language Learners, as well as
Early Childhood programs. Robust standards for program quality for ELL programs will be established and understood
widely by district leadership and will guide school improvement efforts.

 

Target Date: 07/01 /2014

 

 

Tasks

 

Development of Program Quality Rubrics for TPI, TBE and Dual Language programs for ELLS

  

 

        

   

Start Date

 

Assigned to Elizabeth Cardenas-Lopez

 

1 End Date 1 06/01/2013 Timeline

 

  

 

 

Comments

 

Task Completed

 

 

Professional Development around Rubrics/ Integration of Considerations for ELLs across Central Office Departments and Network Teams

 



     
 
 

 

 

 

Assigned to iElizabethCardenas-Lopez Start Datej [End Date Ice/o1/2014 ?Timeline I

 

 

  
    

 

 

Comments

 

 

 

 

 

Task Completed

 

 

 

 

 

January 22, 2014

22

 

 

Development/ Refreshing of Accountability Tools/ Protocols that integrate appropriate and rigorous measures for school improvement and student learning specific to ELLs.

 

 

Assigned to Ryan Crosby ?Start Date End Date 12/01/2014 lTimeline i

 

 

  
   

      
   

    

   

 

Budget1&11Funding?504rcesiS?) 5.

     

 

Comments

 

Task Completed

 

 

 

          

Continue to pilot the school diagnostic review in SIG schools and establish a plan for expansion to other high priority schools.

Assigned to Tracy Martin I Start Date 

 

      

End Date [06/30/2014

 

 

 

 

Comments

 

Task Completed

 

 

 

 

Increase capacity of teachers and instructional leaders to implement the Common Core emphasizing the language and literacy and needs of ELLs through professional
development supports. 

Assigned to Elizabeth Lopez-Cardenas Start Date End Date 06/01/2014 Timeline 1

 

 

 

 
 

  
    
 

 

 

 

 

Identify PD and training needs and priorities and develop a plan for layers of support, both instructionally and operationally.
The PD will be targeted to build administrator capacity around quality programs and practices for all ELLs across district
Comments including ELLs with disabilities. It will also develop capacity of bilingual teacher and mainstream classroom teachers to target
aspects of language and literacy development and provide additional strategies and approaches for ELLs and students with

 

 

 

 

January 22, 2014

23

 

disabilities, as informed by their needs and abilities.

 

Task Completed 1

 

 

Development of Guiding Principles, Models of instructigon and Monitoring Tools for and Dual Language programs for ELLs.

 

Assigned to

 

 

Elizabeth Cardenas-Lopez EStart Date End Date ice/o1/2o13 lTimeline 

 

  
     

   

 

      

 

 

These quality review rubrics will help identify instructional curricula gaps and provide detailed criteria for excellence across
all components of each program model for ELLs (Assessment, Curriculum, Instruction, Program Structure, Staff Quality and
Professional Development, Family and Community Engagement, Supports and Resources, and Special Education Supports and
Comments Services). DOLCE will lead the development of these quality rubrics along with the guiding principles and models of instruction
and tools required for effective implementation and supports to schools. This will provide clear common standards for district
leaders to reference in district-wide decision making about services to ELLs and to which all district leaders can have shared
ownership on the achievement of ELLs and be held accountable.

 

Task Completed

 

 

 

 

Establish SQRP metrics and a rating system for schools not covered by the current SQRP, including early childhood centers and specialty schools.

 

 

Assigned to

 

  

 

 

  
     

 

Ryan Crosby Start Date i End Date 03/31/2014 Timeline

 

 

Comments

 

 

Task Completed

 

 

 

 

Implement

 

 

Percent Tasks Completed 0%

 

 

January 22, 2014

24

Reports - Comprehensive Report

 

 

St 
The district improvement process is aimed at student academic, physical, social, emotional, and behavioral development. (2323) . a us
CI12 RT3 Expectations: The district implements a comprehensive district continuous improvement process (either Rising Star or an approved RT3 
. nt) - Full Implementation
quwae 09/30/2013

 

 

 

 

 

 

Assessment

 

Level of Development Initial: Full Implementation

 

CPS has adopted Rising Star as its tool for the District Improvement Plan. A cross-functional team of experts worked together to complete our assessments on

the required indicators and to build action plans for those high priority indicators that are not fully implemented. This team included representation from our

Chief Executive Office, Chief Administrative Office, Office of Family and Community Engagement, Office of Curriculum and Instruction, Department of

. . . . Language and Cultural Education and Office of Special Education and Supports (OSES). Priorities established in Rising Star were aligned to district

EVidence that this indicator has been . . . . . . . . . . . . .

fully and effectively implemente d: priorities for the 2011-2012 and 2012-2013 school years. The district 5 instructional priorities include implementation of the Common Core State Standards,
the WIDA standards, establishing the CPS Framework for Teaching and maXImizmg time in the classroom by lengthening both the school day and year. As of

the fall of 2013, CPS is currently in the process of updating the district improvement plan to align to the new CPS Action Plan

to update responsible departments and parties, and to update tasks for the 2013-14 school year. A cross-departmental

work team is being established to complete this work and to monitor the DIP on minimally a quarterly basisThe district's school improvement process is aimed at student academic, phySical, soc1al, emotional, and behaVioral development. (2324tsacom rehensive'schoolcontinuousim rovement roc 5 either Risin St ror roved 
equivafgr: a ions is ric suppor es a an app Full Implementation

 

 

09/30/2013

 

 

 

 

Assessment

 

Level of Development Initial: .Full Implementation

 

January 22, 2014

25

Evidence that this indicator has been
fully and effectively implemented:

10

CPS recently launched a new school improvement planning process, called the Continuous Improvement Work Plan (CIWP). The CIWP consists of four
components: self-assessment on the School Effectiveness Framework (aligned to Rising Star), goal setting on scorecard indicators, development of mission and
strategic priorities, developing a set of project milestones for acting on strategic priorities. In the spring of 2012, Networks and schools collaborated on the
development of CIWPs that addressed each school's strategic priorities and that are aligned to the district?s priorities. Many schools identified priorities
directly impacting student academic, social emotional and behavioral development, and some identified priorities that also address physical development.
During the 2012-13 school year, schools regularly reviewed progress on their CIWP with Instructional Leadership Teams (ILTs) and with their Network chiefs.
In the spring of 2013, schools updated their CIWPs as necessary in order to align with their 2013-14 budgets. Schools will continue to monitor their CIWPs
throughout the school year. During the fall of 2013, CPS will begin working with schools and networks to learn about the schools? experience working with the
new CIWP template and to update the CIWP tool as necessary to ensure that our planning processes are as effective as possible. This will include building a
web-based system to improve the ease of data entry, version control, and monitoring. This will also allow CPS to better track school progress and aggregate
data across the networks and district. We are also working with various departments to provide guidance for schools on how to develop priorities and
milestones in various areas, such as: Common Core implementation, social/emotional and behavior supports, physical education and health, arts integration,
and more. Finally, network teams, including network data strategists, will be provided throughout the year with opportunities for ongoing professional

 

learning and collaboration so that they are prepared to support school-based teams on the development, implementation and monitoring of their CIWP.

 

 



 

 

The district will build partnerships with municipal and civic leaders, includes them in district and school improvement planning, and Status
maintains regular communication with them. (1)


RT3 Expectations: The district uses school and district performance information from resources such as the Illinois Shared Learning SC 3
Environment (ISLE) and the redesigned State Report Card to support and build partnerships with municipal and civic leaders. 0 of 5 tasks completed

In Plan

 

 

 

Assessment

 

Level of Development

Initial: Partial Development/Implementation

 

Index:

4 (Priority Score Opportunity Score)

 

Priority Score:

2 (3 - highest, 2 - medium, 1 - lowest)

 

Opportunity Score:

2 (3 - relatively easy to address, 2 - accomplished within current policy and budget conditions, 1 - requires changes in current policy and
budget conditions)

 

 

 

Current level of development or
implementation:

 

CPS involves civic and municipal partners in conversations regarding the performance of schools by providing data from various systems. CPS engages
Aldermen in a variety of issues: operations and facilities, academic, space utilization, staffing, school climate, portfolio planning, and other education-related
requests. CPS informs state and federal legislators about our stances on issues and continue to advocate our stances. CPS works with these officials and
listens to the comments and concerns of their constituents. CPS uses the progress report data to engage in a dialogue with civic leaders on next steps.

 

 

 

 

 

January 22, 2014

26

 

11

 

Assigned To Michael Rendina

 

How it will look when fully met:

the ISLE data system.

CPS will involve civic and municipal leaders as partners in the conversation of the performance of schools. By using data from various
systems such as ISLE, the district will be able to report on high priority focus areas such as attendance, social/emotional activities, and
academic achievement. Based on the out comes of the data, CPS and community leaders will create long-term task forces that will work to
provide solutions to that address areas of deficiency. Once the ISLE system is fully implemented, CPS will use the data to engage the
members of the task forces and inform their ongoing work. CPS will work with these officials and listen to the comments and concerns of
their constituents. This plan will be fulfilled by the ongoing dialogue between civic leaders and CPS based on the evidence provide through

 

Target Date: 01/29/2014

 

 

Activities through the 2015 calendar year addressing the Expectations.

 

Year 1 - Through June 30, 2012 [District Scope of Work Activities]

 

Year 2 - Through June 30, 2012?[District Scope of Work Activities]

 

[Year 3 - July 1, 2012 through June 30, 2013 [District Scope of Work Activities]

 

Year 4 - July 1, 2012 through June 30, 2013 [District Scope of Work Activities]

 

?Year 5 - July 1, 2013 through December 22, 2015 [District Scope of work Activities]

 

Year 6 - July 1, 2013 through December 22, 2015 [District Scope of Work Activities]

 

 

Funds

 

Year 1 Year 2 Year 3
Through June 30, 2012 July 1, 2012 - June 30, 2013 July 1, 2013 - June 30, 2014

Year 4
July 1, 2014 to December 22, 2015

Total

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Tasks

 

 

2014 Illinois Interactive Report Card, Northern Illinois University, with support from the State Board of Education.

 

January 22, 2014

27

 

Develop and implement the ISLE system.

 

 

Phillip DiBartolo Timeline

 

Assigned to

 

  

 

 

 

 

Comments

 

Task Completed

 

 

 

Being professional development on the use of ISLE in the classroom and as a data system

 

 

Assigned to Susan Kai jwara-Ansai

G)
.E
.



 

 

 

 

Comments

 

Task Completed

 

 

 

Continue to inform community leaders on the districts goals and activities by providing data from the State Report Card and other various systems.

 

 

Michael Rendina

 

Assigned to

 

 

Comments

 

Task Completed

 

 

 

 

Communicate the benefits of the ISLE system to community leaders and parents.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Assigned to Michael Rendina Start Date 07/01/2014 End Date 06/30/2015 Timeline i

 

January 22, 2014

13

udget?szi-?unding soU?r?jesIS)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Comments

 

Task Completed

 

 

Use ISLE to inform the activities of task forces that are designed to address the needs of the district.

 

      

Assigned to Michael Rendina Start Date 07/01/2014 End Date 12/31/2015

 

 

 

 

 



 

 

Comments

 

Task Completed

28

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1 implement

 

Percent Tasks Completed 0%

 

Objective Status

 

 

 

 

 

The district will build partnerships with community organizations in district and school improvement planning and will maintain regular Status
communication with them. (2)

A02 RT3 Expectations: The district will use school and district performance information from resources such as the Illinois Shared Learning SC RT3 DTI
Environment and the redesigned State Report Card to support and build partnerships with community organizations. 

Title Expectations: Describe how the district will use funds under Title to support preschool programs such as Early Reading First
Head Start, and Even Start.

In Plan
0 of 3 tasks completed



 

 

 

 

 

 

 

January 22, 2014

29

14

Assessment

 

Level of Development Initial: Partial Development/ Implementation

 

Index: 6 (Priority Score Opportunity Score)

 

Priority Score: 3 (3 - highest, 2 - medium, 1 - lowest)

 

. (3 - relatively easy to address, 2 - accomplished within current policy and budget conditions, 1 - requires changes in current policy and
Opportunity Score: 2 . .
budget conditions)

 

 

 

The District engages with the community-based organizations (CBOs) through several mediums. Local School Councils at the school level and Community
Action Councils both have a strong representation of C805 and community leaders. Faith Based Initiatives partners with over clergy across the city to

support our students. Likewise at our network level, specific FACE staff is dedicated to fostering community specific relationships and partnerships to
enhance student support structures.

Current level of development or
implementation:

 

 

 

Plan

 

1 Assigned To Phillip Hampton

 

 

Community Leadership Development - Expand, train, and leverage CEO/community partnerships to expand offering and reach of

workshops, conferences, mentoring programs support to increase parent capacity, especially regarding school/program options, as

. well as to create additional channels through which we can share information.
2 How it Will look when fully met:

 

 

3 Target Date: 06/30/2014

 

 

4 Activities through the 2015 calendar year addressing the Expectations.

 

Year 1 - Through June 30, 2012 [District Scope of Work Activities]

 

Year 2 - Through June 30, 2012 [District Scope of Work Activities]

 

 

 

 

January 22, 2014

30

 

Year 3 - July 1, 2012 through June 30, 2013 [District Scope of Work Activities]

 

 

Year 4 - July 1, 2012 through June 30, 2013 [District Scope of Work Activities]

 

Year 5 - July 1, 2013 through December 22, 2015 [District Scope of Work Activities]

 

Year 6 - July 1, 2013 through December 22,2015 [District Scope of Work Activities]

 

 

Funds

 

Year 1 Year 2 Year 3

Through June 30, 2012 July 1, 2012 - June 30, 2013 July 1, 2013 - June 30, 2014

July 1, 2014 to December 22, 2015

.
ear 4 Total

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Tasks

 

Network and Collaborative level in addition to discuss School Report Cards.

Develop and facilitate a training session for C305 to discuss school performance and what it means for their schools and communities, through Informational Sessions at the

 

Assigned to Phillip Hampton Start Date 07/01 /201 3

 

 

Comments

 

Task Completed

 

 

 

 

 

Continue work with CBOs to help community members understand school performance through Town Halls, Focus Groups and Webinars.

 

 

Assigned to Phillip Hampton

   
 

 

 

{06/30/2014 Timeline 

. 1 Start Date 07/01/2013 

 

  
      

 

 

 

January 22, 2014

31

16

On an ongoing basis, the District may engage stakeholders to address targeted issues. These issues may include, but not
Comments limited, to the development of policy and strategic initiatives. Additionally, the District may seek engagement to address

specific challenges facing particular communities. Depending on the stage of planning or the urgency of the issue, varying
formats will be utilized.

 

Task Completed

 

 

 

Work with community groups to help community members gain a better understanding of school performance and its implications, through Community Dialogues and Community
Meetings which provide the opportunity for diverse, informed, andfacilitated public deliberation.

 

Timeline

 

Assigned to Phillip Hampton Start Date 07/01 /201 3 End Date 1 06/30/2014

 

 

 

negate 

 

    

 

 

Community Dialogues provide an opportunity for diverse representative of the community to engage in conversations
amongst themselves to provide collective feedback to the District which reflects that of the community at large. Community
Comments . . . . . . . . . .

Meetings prowde an effective medium for the District to directly convey information and receive feedback on key
challenges, strategies and initiatives, to ensure accessibility of accurate and timely information.

 

Task Completed

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Implement

 

Percent 

asks Completed 0%

 

Objective

Status

 

 

 



 

 

The district will build partnerships with parent organizations in district and school improvement planning and will maintain regular Status
communication with them. (3) -

RT3 Expectations: The district will use school and district performance information from resources such as the Illinois Shared Learning
Environment and the redesigned State Report Card to support and build parental engagement.

Title i Expectations: Describe how the district implements effective parental involvement strategies. (See Section 1118 for specifics)

In Plan
0 of 6 tasks completed

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

January 22, 2014

32

 

Assessment

 

Level of Development

Initial: Partial Development/Implementation

 

Index:

6 (Priority Score Opportunity Score)

 

Priority Score:

3 (3 - highest, 2 - medium, 1 - lowest)

 

Opportunity Score:

2 (3 - relatively easy to address, 2 - accomplished within current policy and budget conditions, 1 - requires changes in current policy and
budget conditions)

 

 

 

Current level of development or
implementation:

 

CPS looks to execute an engagement strategy that informs parents and utilizes their feedback in a more meaningful fashion. Local School Councils (LSCs) or
Appointed Local School Councils (ALSCs) are established at all CPS schools, and Parent Advisory Councils (PACs) are established at all Title I-eligible schools, and
Bilingual Parent Advisory Councils (BPACs) are established at all schools with a Transitional Bilingual Education program. These parent committees ensure
parent participation in the school's governance and school improvement planning process. LSCs have significant authority over school improvement planning,
budgeting and principal contracting at most schools. The District has established a parent advisory committee known as the Chicago Multilingual Parent
Council (CMPC) to advise the Department of Language and Cultural Education on matters pertaining to the development, implementation and
evaluation of the District's bilingual education and ESL programs. Membership of the CMPC is composed of delegates representing each Network
Collaborative, with proportional representation of all language groups in the school District, to the extent possible. establishes the guidelines and
operational procedures of the CMPC in accordance with 23 ll. Adm. Code 228.30 The CMPC as well as the Bilingual Advisory Committee (BAC) parent
groups meet regularly and it is during these meetings that diverse stakeholders are given the opportunity to present on topics related to bilingual education,
English language acquisition, ELL academic progress andparental involvement. In addition, parents have a set time to present concerns and
recommendations to the bilingual program implementation. Any items discussed during these meetings that require a response from the District via 
Director or Compliance Manager are given a follow-up by either the School Community Representatives assigned to the different schools, by members of the
compliance unit or by program director. In addition, is currently improving communication with the different members of the CMPC to ensure
that there is clear two-way dialogue. has taken the initiative of communicating and seeking advice from the members of the CMPC about the ISBE
Audit and DIP as a form of gathering their? recommendations. The District will continue to find a means to improve the process through which parents of ELLs
communicate and interact with and collaborate formally with the Office of Family and Community Engagement to ensure that the perspective of the
multicultural family community is reflected in District strategies and initiatives and that systems of monitoring ELLs language and academic proficiency are in
place and effectively implemented.

 

 

Plan

 

1 Assigned To

Phillip Hampton

 

 

 

Once fully implemented, parents will be fully informed about
their school?s performance, what it means, and what they can

 

 

 

January 22, 2014

 

do to strive for additional improvement. CPS wants to be sure
parents are truly partners across the districting in the effort to
building better neighborhood schools.

How it will look when fully met:

 

Target Date: 09/01 /2012

 

 

33

Activities through the 2015 calendar year addressing the Expectations.

 

Year 1 - Through June 30, 2012 [District Scope of Work Activities]

 

Year 2 - Through June 30, 2012 [District Scope of Work Activities]

 

Year 3 July 1, 2012 through June 30, 2013 [District Scope of Work Activities]

 

Year 4 - July 1, 2012 through June 30, 2013 [District Scope of Work Activities]

 

Year 5 - July 1, 2013 through June 30, 2014 [District Scope of Work Activities]

 

Year 6 - July 1, 2013 through June 30, 2014 [District Scope of Work Activities] 

 

Year 7 - July 1, 2014 through December 22, 2015 [District Scope of Work Activities] 

 

Year 8 - July 1, 2014 through December 22, 2015 [District Scope of Work Activities]

 

 

Funds
Year 1 - Year 2 Year 3 Year 4 Total
Through June 30, 2012 July 1, 2012 - June 30, 2013 July 1, 2013 - June 30, 2014 July 1, 2014 - December 22, 2015

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Tasks

 

Continue working with parents to build better schools through ongoing support from the Parent Support Center and Hotline.

Assigned to 1 Phillip Hampton . 1 Start Date 1 07/01/2013 I End Date 12/22/2015 Timeline

 

 

 

 

 

 

page-t ?FUndiing?Sources(S

  

 

  

 

 

   

 

 

January 22, 2014

34

 

 

 

 

 

Comments

 

Task Completed

 

 

 

community.

Establish formal collaboration between and FACE to ensure consistent two-way dialogue and sharing of information across the District with the multicultural/ multilingual

 

 

Assigned to Phillip Hampton I Start Date i 07/01/2013 End Date 06/30/2015

   

      
 

 

 

 

 

 

Comments

 

Task Completed

 

 

 

activities.

 

Work with parents to help build better neighborhood schools through Dialogue events which enable the District to most effectively gather parent insight on strategic issues and

 

 

Assigned to Phillip Hampton Start Date

 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Comments

account community specific needs, concerns, and priorities.

Dialogue events provide a timely opportunity to gather the collective insight of a particular community on a particular
issue. This associated data gathered at these events better enable senior leadership to make decisions which take into

 

Task Completed

 

 

 

Establish formal collaboration between and FACE to ensure consistent two-
community.

 

way dialogue and sharing of information across the District with the multicultural/ multilingual

 

 

 

 

 

January 22, 2014

35

20

-L 
Assigned to ?Fabehcardenas Opez and Start Date 07/01/2012 End Date 06/01/2014 Timeline
PhilHampton

 

 

 

The guiding principles, program models and operational and instructional protocols in development by will include tools
Comments for parents to understand how the District defines high-quality for programs for ELLs and use these to 1) seek quality
programs for their own children informed by their academic and language needs and expectations and 2) inform activity and
discussion via LSC/Bilingual Advisory Committee (BAD/Chicago Multilingual Parent Council (CMPC).

 

Task Completed

 

 

 

Proactively seek feedback from parents to help build better neighborhood schools through Dialogue events and meetings which enable the District to most effectively gather

 

Assigned to Phillip Hampton

     

 

      
 

parent insight on strategic issues and activities.
I Start Date i End Date 12/30/2015 Timeline 1

   

 

 

Comments

 

Task Completed

 

 

 

 

Support LSCs to fill vacant principal seats

 

 

 

 

Assigned to Phillip Hampton I Start Date 07/01 2013 End Date 09/30/2013 1 Timeline 1

 

Comments

 

Task Completed

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

January 22, 2014

36

21

 

:?Implement

 

Percent Tasks Completed 0%

 

Objective Status

 

 

 

Status
I A 07 In collaboration with its schools, the district will set district and school achievement targets for all students and for AYP subgroupsTitle I Expectations: Describe student academic assessments, if any, that are in addition to state academic assessments used. In Plan

 

 

 

 

Objective not assigned

 

 

 

 

Assessment

 

Level of Development Initial: Partial Development/ Implementation

 

Index: 4 (Priority Score Opportunity Score)

 

Priority Score: 2 (3 - highest, 2 - medium, 1 - lowest) .

 

 

Opportunity Score: 2 (3 - relatively easy to address, 2 - accomplished within current policy and budget conditions, 1 - requires changes in current policy and
budget conditions)

 

 

 

 

January 22, 2014

37

22

 

Current level of development or
implementation:

In addition to state assessments for AYP (ISAT, PSAE, and IAA in grades 3-8 and 11), CPS administers the Measures of Academic Progress (MAP) assessment in
grades 2-8, the EXPLORE in grade 9, the PLAN in grade 11, various formative assessments in grades and benchmark assessments in the high school
grades. These assessments are used for a variety of purposes including measuring individual student progress, identifying instructional strategies for
students in need of additional support, teacher and principal evaluation, school accountability under the School Quality Rating Policy (SQRP), and promotion of
student in benchmark grades. As part of the Continuous Improvement Work Plan, schools set annual goals on AYP-related assessments and other assessments,
both for the school as a whole and for priority groups. CPS provides schools with access to student achievement data that aids in the setting of goals and
monitoring progress throughout the year. This includes a dashboard through which principals are be able to access real-time data at the school, student
group, and student levels. Available data includes: assessment growth and outcomes, grades, attendance, misconducts, dropouts, and misconducts. CPS also
produces a set of annual reports for each school with assessment results broken down by student group. Recently CPS has updated the School Quality Rating
Policy and school progress reports to include indicators of progress for priority groups, including minority students, English Language Learners and students
with disabilities. For ELLs, these indicators include performance aligned with AMAO targets and, include District-wide measures to determine language
proficiency and academic growth specifically proficiency and progress on the ACCESS and student performance in reading and math for the ELL subgroup. For
students with disabilities, CPS is in the early stages of a process to identify appropriate assessments for measuring student growth for students for whom
state and local assessments are not reliable measures.

 

 

Plan

 

Assigned To

Not yet Assigned

 

 

process.

 

 

The district operates with district-level and school-level improvement teams. (16) . Status
I601 RT3 Expectations: The district establishes professional learning communities to support all aspects of the instructional improvement 

Full Implementation
10/ 07/ 201 3

 

 

 

Assessment

 

Level of Development

 

Initial: Full Implementation

 

 

 

January 22, 2014

38

1/13/2014 9:53:21 PM

Evidence that this indicator has been
fully and effectively implemented:

 

City of Chicago SD 299

23
District Continuous Improvement Plan with R'I'l'l'3 SOW

 

Schools currently have established Instructional Leadership Team and Teacher Team structures that include Bilingual Lead Teachers or other teachers of ELLs
to support cycles of continuous improvement. ILTs typically meet at their schools at least twice a month to analyze student progress and plan for
instructional improvement. In addition, Networks bring together all ILTs each quarter to learn abodt major instructional initiatives and reflect on their
systems, structures and school data. Bilingual Instructional Support Leaders (ISLs) collaborate and provide instructional support to bilingual and mainstream
classroom teachers to build capacity to use effective language and literacy practices in teaching ELLs. Continuous Improvement cycles are also established
with Networks through dashboard review and professional development. Networks are also responsible for helping to build and monitor the quality of
ILT structures, a process that will be further supported with a thorough School Quality Review process. Central office teams also focus on continuous
improvement through dashboarding. meets regularly with ISLs and Bilingual Lead Teachers and specific school principals based on the need of
intended intensity of strategic supports. These teams will maintain regular contact and convene periodically to remain abreast of each other?s efforts and
sustain implementation of guiding principles, program models and effective instructional models for robust language and academic supports for ELLs.

 

 

 

 

IBO3 For each restructuring school, the district will make reference to guidance from What Works When regarding how to assess what the SR
best restructuring options are given its unique district and school context. (1134) 

Status

In Plan
Objective not assigned

 

 

 

Assessment

 

Level of Development

Initial: Partial Development/Implementation

 

Index:

3 (Priority Score Opportunity Score)

 

Priority Score:

1 (3 - highest, 2 - medium, 1 - lowest)

 

Opportunity Score:

3 (3 - relatively easy to address, 2 - accomplished within current policy and budget conditions, 1 - requires changes in current policy and
budget conditions)

 

 

Current level of development or
implementation:

 

 

CPS has not typically used What Works in developing restructuring plans, although schools are expected to identify research-based practices in building a
restructuring plan. CPS will consider utilizing Wise Ways in future restructuring plans, depending on the outcome of ISBE's NCLB waivers.

 

Plan

 

Assigned To

Not yet Assigned

 

 

 

January 22, 2014

39

24

 

Status
?304 For each restructuring school, the district ensures that the restructuring options chosen reflect the particular and

weaknesses of the restructuring school. (1135) SR Full Implementation

1'1/20/2012

 

 

 

 

 

 

Assessment

 

Level of Development Initial: Full Implementation

 

Evidence that this indicator has been Each restructuring plan is developed through a collaborative effort between the school and the Network office. The strategies employed in each

restructuring plan are customized to the school's and weaknesses. For example, schools missing AYP in specific subgroups develop restructuring
fully and effectively implemented: . .
plans focused primarily on those subgroups.

 

 

 

 

 

 

Status
IBOS For each restructuring school, the district ensures that the restructuring plan reflects the resources available to ensure its success. SR
(1136) Full Implementation

01/09/2014

 

 

 

 

Assessment

 

 

Level of Development Initial: Full Implementation

 

 

Restructuring plans are developed within the budget available to the school. In cases where additional funds are not provided, schools are expected to
reallocate resources in the CIWP and associated budget to ensure successful implementation of the restructuring plan. CPS receives additional funding
. through a federal School Improvement Grant to implement intensive reforms in select restructuring schools. Fifteen high schools currently receive additional
EVidence that this Indicator has been . . . . . . . .
full and effectivel im lemented- funding through the School Improvement Grant (SIG). SIG funds, CPS is able to fully implement intenSive, sustainable reforms to increase student

achievement at its lowest performing high schools. For schools that receive School Improvement grants, 054 works with the school to ensure a comprehensive

budget allocation to ensure success. For schools that receive School Improvement grants, the Office of School Improvement works with the school to ensure a
comprehensive budget allocation to ensure success.

 

 

 

 

January 22, 2014

40

25

 

 

IB 0 6 For each restructuring school, the district ensures that the restructuring plan includes both changes in governance and a detailed pian SR
for school improvement. (1137)

 

Status

Full Implementation
01 09/ 201 4

 

 

 

Assessment

 

Level of Development

Initial: Full Implementation

 

 

Evidence that this indicator has been
fully and effectively implemented:

 

Restructuring plans are reviewed by the Network offices and the Office of Accountability to ensure that governance changes are included, and that the CIWP
has been updated to reflect the restructuring plan, as applicable. The Board of Education approves both the restructuring plan and the CIWP. T?I'he District?s
Office of Strategic School Support Services (054) works with select restructuring schools to radically and quickly transform them through the use of a
turnaround, restart, or transformation model. Funded through the School Improvement Grant (SIG), 054 implements intensive reforms in select schools in
order to substantially raise student achievement and make adequate yearly progress. At CPS, the SIG is being used to implement the transformation, restart
and turnaround intervention models at fifteen high schools. The Department of Language and Culture (DOLCE) and the Office of Diverse Learner Supports and
Services (ODLSS) meets with 054 to ensure items related directly to services for English language learners and diverse learners including but not limited to
compliance concerns are part of the conversation for schools in restructuring. Furthermore DOLCE and ODLSS receives a report of schools going through the
process of restructuring to determine if ELLs and diverse learners will be affected and how to best support them.

 

 

 

?507 The district will ensure that school improvement and restructuring plans include research-based, field-proven programs, practices, and

models. (1138)

 

Status

SR In Plan

Objective not assigned

 

 

 

 

Assessment

 

Level of Development

Initial: Partial Developme?nt/ Implementation

 

Index:

3 (Priority Score Opportunity Score)

 

 

Priority Score:

 

1 (3 - highest, 2 - medium, 1 - lowest)

 

 

 

 

 

 

January 22, 2014

41

26

 

Opportunity Score: 3 (3 - relatively easy to address, 2 - accomplished within current policy and budget conditions, 1 - requires changes in current policy and
budget conditions)

 

 

Current level of develo ment or While CPS expects schools and Networks to develop restructuring plans based on research and field-tested strategies, there is no formal process in place to
im lementation' ensure that each school has the same research base on which to draw in the development of the plan. Depending on the outcome of NCLB waivers, CPS
will consider revising the process in this area, for example by using What Works.

 

 

 

 

"p13,;

 

Assigned To Not yet Assigned

 

Status
IB 0 8 The district ensures that-school improvement and restructuring ptans include a clear vision of what the school will look like when

SR .
restructured or substantially improved. (1139) . Full Implementation

 

 

11/20/2012

 

 

 

 

AsSes?sment

 

Level of Development Initial: Full Implementation

 

Evidence that this indicator has been The restructuring planning template asks schools to provide a detailed description of each restructuring strategy, a description of how the school will

. . evaluate the success of the plan, and how.the school will monitor the implementation of the restructuring efforts. Schools also establish annual goals as a part
fully and effectively implemented: . . .
of their school improvement planning process.

 

 

 

Status
"309 The district ensures that an empowered change agent (typically the principal) is appointed to head each school that needs rapid

improvement. (24) . SR Full Implementation

 

 

 

01/09/2014

 

 

 

 

 

Assessment

 

 

January 22, 2014

42

Level of Development

27

Initial: Full Implementation

 

Evidence that this indicator has been
fully and effectively implemented:

 

CPS currently uses a principal eligibility process to assess all potential principal candidates and their readiness to be an effective school leader. Principal
candidates must pass the eligibility process in order to be appointed as a CPS principal. The newly developed principal competencies and principal evaluation
system ensure that a highly effective, empowered, and accountable principal is leading each CPS school. Furthermore, the district will guarantee that 

 

and OSES will play an active role in the eligibility process and participate in the development of Principal evaluations.

 

 

 

$10 The district ensures that the change agent (typically the principal) is skilled in motivating staff and the community, communicating clear SR
expectations, and focusing on improved student learning. (25)

 

 

Status

Full Implementation
01 09/2014

 

 

 

 

Assessment

 

Level of Development

Initial: Full Implementation

 

Evidence that this indicator has been
fully and effectively implemented:

 

 

CPS has established six principal practice competencies, including: Championing teacher and staff excellence through a focus on continuing improvement;
Creating powerful professional learning systems that guarantee learning for students; Building culture focused on college and career readiness; Empowering
and motivating families and the community to become engaged; Relentlessly pursuing self-disciplined thinking and action; and Leading school toward achieving
the vision of high expectations for all students. All principals must effectively show their ability in this area to earn eligibility as a principal candidate, and
principals are evaluated annually on these competencies through the principal evaluation system. Further, Pillar 4 of the CPS Action Plan focuses on committed
and effective teachers, leaders and staff. Pillar 4 identifies a plan to attract high quality talent system-wide, and to design and implement a system to induct

and support new leaders. It also establishes a plan to provide ongoing, differentiated professional development for experienced leaders, as well as appropriate
skills and capacity building for all employees.

 

 

 

 

I512 The district will prepare for setbacks, resistance, and obstacles on the path to substantial change in the context of school improvement

and restructuring. (27)

 

Status

SR In Plan

No Tasks Created

 

 

 

 

Assessment

 

January 22, 2014

43

Level of Development

28

Initial: Partial Development/ Implementation

 

Index:

2 (Priority Score Opportunity Score)

 

Priority Score:

1 (3 - highest, 2 - medium, 1 - lowest)

 

Opportunity Score:

2 (3 - relatively easy to address, 2 - accomplished within current policy and budget conditions, 1 - requires changes in current policy and
budget conditions) 

 

 

Current level of development or
implementation:

 

 

The district maintains a culture of continuous improvement which allows for learning, refinement, and improvement of our work based on internal and external
feedback, monitoring of student progress, and other obstacles to improvement. As needed, we will refine course correct management plans and budgets to

respond to roadblocks, lessons learned, changing dynamics, etc. Furthermore, the CPS Action Plan is a five year plan, recognizing that substantial change in
culture and process requires cannot happen overnight.

 

 

Plan

 

1 Assigned To

 

2 How it will look when fully met:

This plan has been deleted.

 

3 Target Date:

06/30/2012

 

 

 

Tasks

 

There are no tasks created for this Objective

 

 

 

 

 

ID01 A team structure for schools is officially incorporated into district policy. (36)

Status

55
Full Implementation

11/13/2012

 

 

 

 

 

Assessment

 

Level of Development

 

Initial: Full Implementation

January 22, 2014

44

1/13/2014 9:53:21 PM

Evidence that this indicator has been
fully and effectively implemented:

 

City of Chicago SD 299
District Continuous Improvement Plan with 50W

29

For all schools, a school improvement team is established annually to write or update the school improvement plan. This team includes 6-12 members, including
LSC members, teachers, parents, and school administrators. In most schools, there is considerable overlap between the school?s Instructional Leadership
Team and the teacher representatives on the school improvement planning team, which ensures alignment between the strategic plan of the school and the
vision for instructional decision-making. This also ensures that the specific needs of students, including ELLs and students with disabilities, are
addressed in the school improvement plan. CPS's system of Local School Councils (LSCs) ensure parent and teacher participation in the school's governance
and school improvement planning process. For schools that are not on probation under the CPS accountability system, LCSs have approval authority over the
school improvement plan. LSCs and Parent Action Councils (PACs) are presented the school improvement plan and approve as applicable before the plan is
submitted to the Board of Education. For schools that are on probation under CPS's accountability system or in school improvement status under NCLB, the
Board of Education assumes approval authority of the school?s improvement plan. This allows the Chief of Schools for the school's Network to play a more
integral role in the development of the plan. In these cases, the Chief of Schools and the Network team works with the principal and schoolbased planning team
to develop a school improvement plan and budget designed to address the areas of academic deficiency that led to the school being on probation or in school
improvement status.

 

 

 



 

 

The school?s Leadership Team regularly looks at school performance data and aggregated classroom observation data and uses that data Status
to make decisions about school improvement and professional development needs. (1154)
Title Expectations: Describe how teachers, in consultation with parents, administrators, and pupil services personnel, in targeted Full Implementation
assistance schools wiEl identify the eligible children most in need of services. (See Sections 1115) 01/10/2014

DTI

 

 

 

 

)Assessment

 

Level of Development

Initial: Full Implementation

 

 

Evidence that this indicator has been
fully and effectively implemented:

 

CPS has placed substantial effort over the'past several years on ensuring that each school has an Instructional Leadership Team (ILT). At this point,
instructional leadership teams are in place in all schools and networks actively manage school leaders in ensuring that the teams are high functioning. ILTs
receive regular training on key district initiatives and on interpreting and responding to data. ILTS are supported in this work by Chiefs of Schools and
Network data strategists. Data strategists receive ongoing training on developing and improving quality of ILT work, and hold regular meetings with each
school to review data and engage in strategic planning. With the rollout of an updated Dashboard for principals in Fall 2012, the ILT and Network teams
received access to a range of data at the network, school, subgroup and student levels. This Dashboard will improve the ability of these teams to quickly look
at data, identify areas of concern or subgroups of students in need of intervention, and make strategic decisions throughout the year. and ODLSS are
currently in the process of redesigning their approach to building the capacity of the ILTs to provide site-level guidance and support in the service of ELLs

and students with disabilities and to share responsibility for monitoring and continuously improving the quality of programs for ELLs and students with diverse
learning needs.

 

 

 

January 22, 2014

45

30

 

Reports - Comprehensive Report

 

 

The district will provide schools with technology, training, and support for integrated data collection, reporting, and analysis systems. (6)
IAO 6 RT3 Expectations: The district a) will perform requirements gathering, analysis, and systems enhancements needed for integrating local

student and educator data with and b) will implement a strategy to link student data across local systems to support the creation of In Plan 
integrated learner profiles. 0 of 6 tasks completed

Status

 

 

 

 

 

_-Assessment

 

Level of Development Initial: Partial Development/ Implementation

 

Index: 3 (Priority Score Opportunity Score)

 

Priority Score: 3 (3 - highest, 2 - medium, 1 - lowest)

 

 

Opportunity Score: 1 (3 - relatively easy to address, 2 - accomplished within current policy and budget conditions, 1 - requires changes in current policy and
budget conditions)

 

 

 

 

January 22, 2014

46

31

 

Current level of development or

implementation:

 

Current Level Description: Chicago Public Schools has commenced the formal requirements gathering process for ISLE technical integration. CPS continues to
engage in significant local efforts to link student data across local systems in support of integrated learner profiles, with a focus on those data elements that
will be needed to implement ISLE applications in 2014. Questions still remain about the specific data elements required for ISLE integration, and to replace the
existing feeds of student data for ISBE SIS. Additional engagement with principals representing ISLE, the IlliniCloud, and inBloom are required to answer
outstanding questions regarding data security, contracting relationships, ongoing financial support, and implementation plans for the software packages
once they are developed. CPS representatives sit on both the ISLE and inBloom advisory committees and are active participants in the process of steering
the ISLE initiative towards positive outcomes for CPS. Background: Starting in 2005, CPS began to implement a suite of web- enabled student information
systems. The suite is (Instructional Management Program and Academic Communications Tool) and is available to every school in the district. The
detail below provides information on each transactional module. Our daily user audience includes employees. CPS intends to leverage advances in the
K-12 technology space to begin to collapse the transactional tier into a model that begets one stop shopping for classroom educators. Our goal is to continue
to evolve and optimize in Support of the district's educational vision. IMPACT SIM is the official 'system of record? for the district. It is used for student
registration and enrollment, the management of student demographics, elementary class scheduling, student health, program placement and
program tracking. SIM via its Report Portal allows each school to access student information that ranges from registration to ELL status. We are currently
investigating ways to revamp student enrollment forms and ensure systematic methods of effectively capturing ELL profile and achievement data. IMPACT
Gradebook with Parent Portal is the primary conduit for the submission of daily attendance and grades at the school level. The Gradebook user base includes
22,000 teachers and 1000+ school and area administrators. Parent/Student Portal that allows for monitoring of grading and attendance events, with
subscribership of over 150,000 members. We have sent over 2 million text message alerts since-portal inception. IMPACT SSM tracks special education
services, holding approximately 55,000 Individualized Education Plans (IEPs). This system also tracks health services data for Medicaid reimbursement and
clinician credentials tracking. IMPACT CIM provides an integrated, remotely accessible system for teachers and administrators to access/ organize
assessment and achievement data to support differentiated classroom instruction. The system allows for collaborative lesson plans and digital curriculum
content. Data includes ISAT, PSAE, DIBELS, ISEL, EXPLORE, PLAN, PSAT, REACH, ACCESS for ELLs. IMPACT Verify serves as the district?s system for the entry
and tracking of student behavior: student code of conduct violations and site incidents, expulsion management, truancy monitoring, ELL status, and, safety
and security planning. Current State Cross System Linkage: CPS has built a central Data Warehouse that holds the transactional information from the IMPACT
systems. The Data Warehouse is a centrally managed hub that powers an analytics Dashboard. The Dashboard is accessible to all principals, network officers
and central office administrators charged with implementing the district's educational strategies and analysis/ performance measurements. The Dashboard
includes metrics defined by educational leaders as measures of continuous school improvement. The Dashboard allows for district, network, and school-level
metric review levels and allows for the ability drill down to individual student profile detail for any metric. This student level detail is the current ?learner
profile? standard in the district.

 

Plan

 

Assigned To

Phillip DiBartolo

 

 

 

Learner Profile Objective and Data Integration: Ultimately, the data provided to the ISLE solution will originate in the CPS enterprise
data warehouse. Recent changes to administration and the move to common core standards will drive additional changes to the
transactional systems and analytic measurements over the next 12 months. The assumption is that the local changes to educational

 

 

January 22, 2014

47

How it will look when fully met:

32

strategy will be made in fidelity with the learning maps and strategies required by the state; in that respect the work of calibrating our
internal systems to capture the right-data elements began long before an actual technical bridge will be built between systems. Success in
this endeavor will require that CPS and ISLE create and share a common data dictionary and definitions for key performance metrics and
root data elements. The technical objective for the Phase One implementationwith the ISLE system involves a feed of critical
teacher and student profile data from CPS to ISLE. The data provision would occur in much the same fashion as the existing fed to
the ISBE SIS from CPS. Specifically, CPS will establish a data feed to the new ISLE system viaa SIF-based data integration platform.

Changes to stored values will be captured within the CPS data center and the resulting ?delta? will be transmitted to the ISLE ODS in the
IlliniCloud .

Required Evidence:

1 Completion of a mapping of CPS to ISLE data elements

1 Calculation of the data volumes inherent in a load of daily changes to CPS data
1 Installation of data integration hardware in the CPS data center

1 Successful integration of data from CPS to the ISLE ODS

Integration Objective (User Experience): The CPS vision for participation in ISLE incorporates an element that is vital to the user
experience: unified login credentials. Specifically, CPS is expecting that the ISLE team will architect a solution that enables CPS teachers
to use their existing login and passWord to access the default/ required ISLE toolset once implemented.

Required Evidence:

- Completion of Integration with CPS Active Directory credentials for authentication using SAML authentication as proposed by inBloom.

Optional Elements: At this time, CPS does not have a definitive forecast as to ?opting in? to the anticipated suite of transactional or
teacher tools offered through ISLE.

 

 

Target Date:

09/01 /2014

 

 

 

 

Activities through the 2015 calendar year addressing the Expectations.

 

 

 

January 22, 2014

48

33

 

Year 1 - Through June 30, 2012 [District Scope of Work Activities]
Establish district team for ISLE implementation.
Commence outreach, requirements gathering, and IT systems analysis for ISLE implementation.

 

Year 2 - Through June 30, 2012 [District Scope of Work Activities]
Establish district team for ISLE implementation. 
Commence outreach, requirements gathering, and IT systems analysis for ISLE implementation.

 

Year 3 - July 1, 2012 through June 30, 2013 [District Scope of Work Activities]
Data Export Requirements Gathering I
Data Dictionary Requirements Reconciliation
Add capacity to the CPS Data Warehouse

Build Data Export Routine

Build User Integration Framework

 

Year 4 - July 1, 2012 through June 30, 2013 [District Scope of Work Activities]
Data Export Requirements Gathering 
Data Dictionary Requirements Reconciliation
Add capacity to the CPS Data Warehouse
Build Data Export ROutine
Build User Integration Framework

 

Year 5 - July 1, 2013 through June 30, 2014 [District Scope of Work Activities]
Continued ISLE technical integration 
Implement ISLE professional development and training plan
Initial ISLE launch in January 2014

 

Year 6 - July 1, 2013 through June 30, 2014 [District Scope of Work Activities]

Continued ISLE technical integration 
Implement ISLE professional development and training plan
Initial ISLE launch in January 2014

 

 

 

 

January 22, 2014

49

34

 

Year 7 - July 1, 2014 through December 22, 2015 [District Scope of Work Activities]
Full ISLE implementation

 

Year 8 - July 1, 2014 through December 22, 2015 [District Scope of Work Activities]
Full VISLE implementation 

 

 

Funds

 

Year 1 Year 2 Year 3
Through June 30, 2012 July 1, 2012 - June 30, 2013 July 1, 2013 - June 30, 2014

Year 4

July 1, 2014 - December 22, 2015 T?tal

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Tasks

 

Establish district team for ISLE implementation.

 

      

Assigned to Phillip DiBartolo Start Date 02/01 /201 3 End Date

   

0 0 0 0 0

         

   

03/31 /2013

 

Comments

 

Task Completed

 

 

 

 

Commence outreach, requirements gathering, and IT systems analysis for ISLE implementation

 

03/01 /201 3 End Date

 

 

 

 

Assigned to Phillip DiBartolo I Start Date 

 

 

 

03/31/2013 iTimeline 

 

 

Comments

 

Task Completed

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

January 22, 2014

50

35

 

Full ISLE implementation

 

Assigned to Phillip DiBartolo Start Date 09/01/2014 End Date 12/22/2015 1 Timeline 

 

 

 

   
       

   
     

        
 

 

?isua?g?afa Funding sourc?s?' 

 

Full implementation must be preceded by ISBE sharing the overarching data exchange framework between CPS and ALL state
systems. We must be absolutely certain of ANY discreet differences in the data feeds sourcing the ISBE SIS and ISLE.
Moreover, we need to ensure that ISBE is handling like data (here there is overlap) with consistency, At minimum, we need to
know about variance in update latency, data metric definition, etc.

Comments

 

Task Completed

 

 

 

Continued ISLE technical integration and initial ISLE launch in January 2014

t:

    

 

       

Assigned to

 

Phillip DiBartolo art Date

 

   

End Date 06/30/2014

 

 

 

Is there a recommended methodology from the state with respect to phasing the deployment? Our sense is that initial launch
Comments should involve a small, but representative group of schools so as to inform strategic or technical changes prior to full
implementation.

 

Task Completed

 

 

 

 

 

ISLE technical integration commences in January 2014. Technical integration involves two primary components: data integration and Account 


Assigned to I Phillip DiBartolo I Start Date 01/01 /201 nd Date 04/3 TimelineJ

 

0/2014

   
       
   

    

 

 

 

 

 

January 22, 2014

51

36

It would greatly benefit CPS to review any advance documentation on how the proposed solution will handle credentials
(Active Directory compatibility) with respect to both business process and technologies. We must begin to align our internal
strategies in advance of the commencement of activity.

Comments

 

Task Completed

 

 

 

Continued outreach, requirements gathering, and IT systems analysis for ISLE implementation

 

Assigned to Phillip DiBartolo Start Date 1 End Date 06/30/2013 Timeline

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The bulk of the requirements effort will occur during this period. It would be helpful for CPS to understand the overarching

governance model (business process) that ISBE intends to employ to vet potentially conflicting requirements from state
districts as they model the solution.

Comments

 

Task Completed

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Implement 

 

Percent Tasks Completed 0%

 

Objective Status

 

 

 

 

 

The district will regularly allocate/reallocate resources to support school, staff, and instructional improvement. (10)

RT3 Expectations: The district will provide sufficient flexibility in the use of time and re-allocates professional development resources
necessary for plan implementation.

. . . . 
HQT Expectation: The district will allocate/ reallocate funds, especially those available under Title to assist in getting all teachers 
highly qualified.

Title I Expectations: Describe how the district funds under Title I to support after school, before school, and summer school programs.

Status

lA10 In Plan

0 of 3 tasks completed

 

 

 

 

 

 

Assessment

 

January 22, 2014

52

37

 

Level of Development

Initial: Partial Development/Implementation

 

Index:

3 (Priority Score Opportunity Score)

 

Priority Score:

3 (3 - highest, 2 - medium, 1 - lowest)

 

Opportunity Score:

1 (3 - relatively easy to address, 2 - accomplished within current policy and budget conditions, 1 - requires changes in current policy and
budget conditions)

 

 

 

Current level of development or
implementation:

 

In FY2014, CPS launched Student Based Budgeting a new budgeting model that fairly and equitably allocates funding to schools on a per-pupil basis,
instead of having Central Office dictate the number and types of positions that schools are to receive. Under this model, schools receive a per-pupil amount
for every student enrolled, weighted by grade level and by (Least Restrictive Environment category for students with diverse learning needs). CPS also
closed 49 under-utilized schools and one program and transitioned the students to their new Welcoming Schools. This effort helped the district serve students
more efficiently and effectively, allowing us to focus our resources in fewer schools.

 

Plan

 

1 Assigned To

Ginger Ostro

 

2 How it will look when fully met:

Implement first phase of student based budgeting process that provides maximum flexibility for principals to drive success for our
students, followed by expansion to include all school based budgets.

 

3 Target Date:

06/30/2014

 

 

 

4 Activities through the 2015 calendar year addressing the Expectations.

 

Year 1 - Through June 30, 2012 [District stope'of Work Activities]

 

Year 2- Through June 30, 2012 [District Scope of Work Activities],

 

Year 3 - July 1, 2012 through June 30, 2013 [District Scope of Work Activities] 

 

Year 4 July 1, 2012 through

June 30, 2013 [District Scope of Work Activities]

 

Year 5 - July 1, 2013 through

December 22, 2015 [District Scope of Work Activities] .

 

Year 6 - July 1, 2013 through

 

December 22, 2015 [District Scope of Work Activities]

 

 

 

 

 

January 22, 2014

53

38

Funds

 

Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4 1 Total
Through June 30, 2012 July 1, 2012 June 30, 2013 July 1, 2013 - June 30, 2014 July 1, 2014 to December 22, 2015

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Tasks

 

Schools complete CIWP and budgets

 

 

 

 

07/31 /2012 End Date 06/30/2015 Timeline 

     
  

 

    
    

Assigned to Ryan Crosby Start Date

BUdge

 

 

This year CPS is introducing a new school improvement planning template called the Continuous Improvement Work Plan, or
CIWP. The CIWP replaces the with a more streamlined planning process and provides better tools for monitoring the
school's implementation of the plan, and for making adjustments throughout the year. Schools are completing the CIWP for
Comments the first time this spring. Local School Councils, Parent Advisory Councils and Chiefs of Schools will participate in the
development of the CIWP and budget at each school. For schools on probation or in NCLB school improvement status, the
Chief of Schools will approve the plan and budget, ensuring that resources are allocated to meet the needs of the students
and move the school towards a path off of probation and school improvement status. The BAC, as a standing committee of the
LSC is also asked to participate in the development of and/ or provide feedback on the CIWP



 

Task Completed

 

 

 

Support Principals through initial stages of SBB

 

 

 

   

Timeline I

      

 

?g e15

Assigned to Ginger Ostro I Start Date 07/01/2013 End Date 109/30/2013

 

 

Comments

 

 

Task Completed

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

January 22, 2014

54

39

 

 

Prepare SBB calculations as part of FY15 Budget development

Start Date Io1/01/2014 End Date 03/31/2014 lTimeline 

"Budget" 

 

Assigned to Ginger Ostro

 

 

    
   

   

     

 
 

 

 

Comments

 

Task Completed

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Implement

 

Percent Tasks Completed 0%

 

Objective Status

 

 

 

 

Status
The district ensures that key pieces of user-friendly data are available in a timely fashion at the district, school, and classroom levels. SS ELL
(11) Full Implementation
01/09/2014

lA11

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

?Assessment

 

Level of Development Initial: Full lmplemen tation

 

 

January 22, 2014

55

City of Chicago SD 299
1/13/2014 9:55:30 PM District Continuous Improvement Plan with SOW 40

CPS has made major investments in both assessments and technology systems over the past several years. As a result of these investments, school staff have
access to regular assessment data from grades K-11 delivered multiple times per year. These assessments are delivered electronically and results are available
immediately following administration. Real-time data on attendance, dropouts, grades and misconducts are also available through the District dashboard. We
are working to identify needed district systems, protocols, policies and procedures to ensure we have the right tools for measuring ELL proficiency of
Evidence that this indicator has been language and academic attainment. For example, using ACCESS data to monitor English proficiency and develop attainable goals teachers,-parents and students
fully and effectively implemented: can use to monitor English development progress as well as identifying and/or developing interim assessments. ELL assessment and related data is readily
available to school personnel by utilizing IMPACT SIM and Dashboard. The IMPACT system allows staff to access individual student data and filter by various data
points such as Program Year, Proficiency Level, Students to be Screened, Active Status, etc. and to generate an aggregate report of this information, known
as the Profile," which can be used to inform instruction and program decision-making. Schools can also generate ELL Reports that

summarize specific data for the entire school ELL population.

 

 

 

The district will recruit, train, support, and place personnel to competently address the problems of schools in need of improvement. Status

(14)

RT3 Expectations: The district will establish systems to recruit and support strong instructional leadership at the school-level, and In Plan

IA14 partners with teacher preparation programs to plan and implement pipeline strategies for High Poverty High Minority Schools. 0 of 8 tasks completed
HQT Expectation: The district will ensure that only highly qualified teachers are hired.

Title I Expectations: Describe the steps the district has taken or will take to ensure that all teachers and paraprofessionais in the

district are highly qualified. (See Section 1119) 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Assessment

 

Level of Development Initial: Partial Development/ Implementation

 

Index: 3 (Priority Score Opportunity Score)

 

Priority Score: 3 (3 - highest, 2 - medium, 1 - lowestOpportunity Score: 1 relatively easy to address, accomplis ed Within current policy and budget conditions, 1 reqUires changes in current policy and
budget conditions)

 

 

 

 

January 22, 2014

56

41

 

Office of Talentcurrently has strong external partnerships that assist the district in recruiting, selecting, and supporting school staff to work in high
needs schools. These programs include Chicago Teaching'Fellows, Teach for America, and AUSL for teachers and New Leaders for New Schools, UIC Principal
residents, and the newly formed Chicago Leadership Collaborative (CLC). These programs provide .hundreds of qualified and specialized teachers and school

Current level of development or leaders capable of addressing the needs of Chicago?s highest-needs students and communities. CPS Office of Talent is actively recruiting bilingual teachers
implementation: and principals. The Department of Language and Cultural Education provides direct support and guidance for the districts' English language learner and world

language personnel. It develops key program guides, tools, and resources to strengthen ELL and world language programs and ensures that schools are in
compliance with state, federal and district mandates that govern ELL education. also develops partnerships with universities for high quality
professional and program development to support professional growth of ELL personnel.

 

Plan

 

Assigned To Alicia Winckler

 

In order to fully meet the objective, CPS must not only have
active pipeline strategies that are already in place, but needs
accurate performance data with which to assess the success of
various pipelines. The implementation of PERA and new
performance evaluations will enable Talent Office to
assess pipeline providers of teachers and school leaders and
expand those that deliver candidates who are highly effective
with high-needs student populations, such as Students with
Disabilities and English Language Learners. diagnostic
program tools and protocols (currently in development) will
provide the standard of excellence with regard to Staff Quality
and Professional Development for programs designed to serve
ELLs and guide recruiting, training, and support of personnel.
and the Talent Office will collaborate to ensure that this
vision for excellence is embedded in metrics, evaluation and
hiring practices.

How it will look when fully met:

 

Target Date: 09/30/2015

 

 

 

Activities through the 2015 calendar year addressing the Expectations.

 

?Year 1 - Through June 30, 2012 [District Scope of Work Activities]

 

 

Year 2 - Through June 30, 2012 [District Scope of Work Activities]

 

 

January 22, 2014

42

 

57

 

Year 3 - Through June '30, 2012 [District Scope of Work Activities]

 

Year 4 - July 1, 2012 through June 30, 2013 [District Scope of Work Activities]

 

Year 5 - July 1, 2012 through June 30, 2013 [District Scope of Work Activities]

 

Year 6 - July 1, 2012 through June 30, 2013 [District Scope of Work Activities]

 

Year 7 - July 1, 2012 through June 30, 2013 [District Scope Of Work Activities]

 

Year 8 - July 1, 2012 through June 30, 2013 [District Scope of Work Activities]

 

Year 9 - July 1, 2012 through June 30, 2013 [District Scope of Work Activities]

 

 

Funds

Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4
Through June 30, 2012 July 1, 2012 - June 30, 2013, July 1, 2013 - June 30, 2014 July 1, 2014 to December 22, 2015

 

Total

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Tasks

 

District engages teacher and principal preparation programs in discussion about performance metrics the district will use in the future to evaluate candidate sources

Assigned to Alicia Winckler Start Date 07/01 /2012 I End Date 06/30/2013

 

[Timeline 1

    

   

 
 
    

   
       

          

 

 

0

 

Comments

 

Task Completed

 

 

 

 

 

District implements new teacher and principal evaluations

 

 

 

 

 

January 22, 2014

58

43

 

  
 

 

Assigned to Paulette Poncelett Start Date

   
    

       

lTimeline

  

07/01/2012 lEind Date 12/31/2015?

 

Comments

 

Task Completed

 

 

 

District begins implementation of new application and selection system, including technology to create better transparency for hiring managers into candidate pool and enhanced

 

        

Assigned to Alicia Winckler

 

 

candidate screening processes
End Date 06/30/2013 gTimeline 

    

 

 

 

Comments

 

Task Completed

 

 

 

As performance data on teachers and principals matures, the district will publish reports on the effectiveness of its teacher and principal preparation pipelines

 

 

 

 

   

      
 

 

 

Assigned to AliciaWinckler Start Date l08/01/2013 iEnd Date lTimeline i

0

 

Comments

 

Task Completed

 

 

 

 

 

 

District will adjust its pipeline strategies for teachers and principals in high-needs schools based upon the data we cultivate about the effectiveness of various programs?
graduates, including expanding pipelines, restricting or closing sources, or shutting down ineffective programs within the district's control

 

 

January 22, 2014

59

44

 

Assigned to AliciaWinckler Start Date 07/01/2012 A End Date 12/22/2015 ?Timeline

 

 

 

 

    
    

 
 

Budgets: winding; 5 ur?h "53(5)

 
  

 

Comments

 

Task Completed

 

 

New performance evaluation data will begin to show and weaknesses of various pipeline providers? graduates, for teachers and principals

 

     

Alicia Winckler

    

 

Assigned to

12/31 /201 5 Timeline

 

 

 

 

 

New Principal evaluations will be implemented in the 2012-13 school year. As data becomes available based upon new
Principal Competencies, Talent Office will be able to assess pipeline providers? and weaknesses in preparing
their graduates to lead CPS schools. This will be critical for strategic priority of ensuring a potent pipeline of highly
effective school leaders.

Comments

 

Task Completed

 

 

 

District begins implementation of mentoring support for all 1st year teachers and peer evaluation. This data will be used to begin assessing pipeline providers of teachers.

 

 

Assigned to Alicia Winckler Start Date 07/01 /2012 End Date

06/30/2013 Timeline

 
    

 

 

CPS intends to post Mentor Teacher roles by no later than June 1, 2012 with a target hiring date of no later than July 30,
2012 (subject to change). Candidates must pass the State evaluator certification assessment prior to being hired as
observing teachers? classroom practice is a core function of their job role. The inclusion of Mentor Teachers? observation
ratings of beginning teachers is subject to the agreement of the Chicago Teachers? Union, per State law.

Comments

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

January 22, 2014

60

45

 

Task Completed

 

District will develop (automated) mechanisms to ensure that staffing/ hiring for positions to serve ELLs can only be filled by properly certified personnel or those who have gone
through a proper waiver process.

 

 

 

 

      

Assigned to Alicia Winckler Start Date 07/01/2012 End Date 06/30/2014 I Timeline

 

      
    

 

 

CPS will have more accurate and electronic data on potential candidates in Taleo that will screen, and acknowledge those
individuals that meet the proper certifications earlier in the process to have more timely decisions with candidates.

Comments

 

Task Completed

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I Implement

 

Percent Tasks Completed 0%

 

Objective Status

 

 

 

 

 

Status
1802 The district examines existing school improvement strategies being implemented across the district and determines their value,

expanding, modifying, and culling as evidence suggests. (17) 55 Full Implementation

11/20/2012

 

 

 

 

 

 

Assessment

 

Level of Development  nitial:' Full Implementation

 

 

January 22, 2014

61

46

 

Evidence that this indicator has been
fully and effectively implemented:

In November 2011, Chicago Public Schools reorganized the Office of Performance and created the Office of Strategy, Research, and Accountability (SRA). This
office is tasked with driving a process of continuous improvement across the district. Two teams in this office lead the work: 1) The Strategy, Research 
Analytics team is leading central office departments through a continuous improvement process that involves establishing strategic plans, setting goals and
benchmarks, and conducting strategic analyses to assess performance of strategies, initiatives, and programs; 2) The Performance Data and Accountability
team leads strategic planning, measurement, and data review processes across the networks. Together, these units within SRA are working to provide
District leadership with data-based feedback on the strategies being implemented and this feedback is currently informing annual budget planning and other
senior leadership decisions. Both teams are closely working with the Department of Language and Cultural Education and OSES to ensure the ELL population
and our students with disabilities are considered while developing the improvement plan for the district.

 

 

 

The district provides the technology, training, and support to facilitate the school's data management needs. (1149) SP

 

Status

Full Implementation
01 /1 0/2014

 

 

 

 

Assessment

 

Level of Development

Initial: Full Implementation

 

 

Evidence that this indicator has been
fully and effectively implemented:

 

CPS has made major investments over the last several years in both data tools and training to support schools in their use of data. CPS has constructed a data
warehouse that contains data on grades, attendance, student behavior, enrollment, dropouts, and assessments. This data warehouse is accessible to our
schools through a performance management dashboard. The dashboard displays real time data on year-end and interim results. In addition to the technology
interface, this is the third year that each network has had access to a data strategist (previously called a data analyst). The data strategist supports the
chief and the schools in accessing, analyzing and making use of these data. Going forward, our work for sustaining these efforts will primarily involve
continued development of the skills of our network data strategists. We have been working on the implementation of two major technology upgrades. First,
we replaced the dashboard interface with an even more user-friendly front end. Second, we have improved the access of central office to the
warehouse for ad hoc queries and requests from networks and schools.

 

 

 

January 22, 2014

 

47

Reports - Comprehensive Report

 

 

 

- . . . . St
The district will ensure the delivery of the curriculum IS differentiated to meet the needs of all learners. (2328) . atus

D11 RT3 Expectations (when learning maps are available through ISLE): The district embeds learning maps as a central part of RT3
instructional practices at all grade levels.

In Plan
0 of 7 tasks completed

 

 

 

Assessment

 

Level of Development

Initial:

Partial Development/ Implementation

 

Index:

4

(Priority Score Opportunity Score)

 

Priority Score:

2

(3 - highest, 2 - medium, 1 - lowest)

 

Opportunity Score:

62

(3 - relatively easy to address, 2 - accomplished within current policy and budget conditions, 1 - requires changes in current policy and
budget conditions) 

 

 

Current level of development or
implementation:

 

 

Schools currently have access to a range of district-supported instructional materials adoptions that support differentiation for diverse learners. Beginning
in 2012-13, schools began to shift towards implementation of the Common Core Standards. To facilitate this shift, the district introduced the new CPS
Frameworks for Content Standards in Literacy and Mathematics that lay out required critical areas of focus for each quarter and provide tools and
templates for teachers to use to plan instruction aligned to the needs and abilities of all learners. In addition, the new CPS Framework for Teaching reflects
the shifts in planning and instructional practice the Common Care Standards require. This alignment between planning tools and measures of effective
instruction helps provide clear guidance for teachers on expectations for both curriculum and the delivery of instruction. Both guidance documents are in full
implementation this school year (2013-14). Finally, the district is currently vetting supplemental instructional materials for schools in the form of
informational text sets. These materials Will include options for ELLs written in their native language as well as materials written for a range of reading levels.

 

Plan

 

1 Assig ned To

Annette Gurley

 

 

 

 

The District will provide all teachers of literacy and mathematics with the new CPS Frameworks for Content Standards in ELA and Math to
support teachers in aligning units of instruction with the Common Core State Standards. The District will also provide teachers with CCSS-
aligned beginning-of-year and end-of-year assessments along with quarterly interims so that teachers can make adjustments to unit plans
and address the needs of particular students or groups of students. The District will also provide guidance and training on using the
Illinois English Language Proficiency Standards and their simultaneous implementation with the CCSS to teachers of ELLs. The District will

 

 

 

 

January 22, 2014

63

48

 

also provide all teachers with the new CPS Framework for Teaching, which describes effective delivery of differentiated instruction. This
tool will support ongoing observation and feedback of teachers to help them improve their delivery of differentiated instruction. In order
to ensure appropriate training and support, the District will provide quarterly professional development on the Content Frameworks and
Framework for Teaching for the Network teams. In addition, CPS is partnering with Harvard University?s Graduate School of Education
and the CAST Institute to train Network leaders on principles of universal design for learning. This training will empower Network leaders
with the knowledge and skills necessary to embed these principles in their summer teacher training. The goal will be for teachers to
understand high leverage ways to design Common Core aligned instruction to meet the needs of students of varied learner profiles. Each
Network will design an Institute for their teacher leaders to train them both on universal design principles, use of the Content
Frameworks and facilitating this learning with their colleagues. After the summer training, teachers will build units of study, in line with
the Content Frameworks, with these universal design principles embedded. During the school year, these units will be modified to better
meet the needs of the students they serve, after use of screening assessments and diagnostics. School use of programs and materials
resulting from the Academic Intervention/ Enrichment RFP will also provide students with additional, achievement-level instruction to
better meet their needs. Networks will primarily be responsible for supporting principals in implementing universally designed, Common
Core aligned curriculum through summer teacher training, regular principal meetings, Instructional Leadership team workshops, and
direct support to schools. Networks will also monitor the quality of data analysis and instructional planning for varied learners through
participation in and debriefing of school instructional leadership team meetings and teacher team meetings. CPS will know when this
objective is fully met through a school quality review process that is under development. The quality review indicators will be in line with
our School Effectiveness Framework and Standards for School Quality that includes measures for curriculum implementation and
differentiation of instruction. The quality review process will reflect an integrated Universal Design for Learning approach to emphasize
practices that address student diversity in general and particularly ensure that students with disabilities and English language learners
are thoughtfully supported. The district quality review process will include a cycle of feedback, supports, and monitoring mechanisms to
ensure that differentiated curriculum and instruction are implemented effectively.

How it will look when fully met:

 

Target Date: 06/30/2013

 

 

Activities through the 2015 calendar year addressing the Expectations.

 

Year 1 - Through June 30, 2012 [District Scope of Work Activities]

 

Year 2 - Through June 30, 2012. [District Scope of Work Activities]

 

iYe'ar 3 - July 1, 2012 through June 30, 2013 [District Scope of Work Activities]

 

Year 4 - July 1, 2012 through June30, 2013 [District Scope of Work Activities]

 

Year 5 - July 1, 2013 through June 30, 2014 [District Scope of Work, Activities]

 

 

 

 

 

January 22, 2014

49

 

Year 6 - July 1, 2013 through June 30, 2014 [District Scope of Work Activities]

 

Year 7 - July 1, 2014 through December 22, 2015 [District Scope of Work Activities]

64

 

Year 8 - July 1, 2014 through December 22, 2015 [District Scope of Work Activities]

 

 

Funds

 

Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4

Through June 30, 2012 July 1, 2012 - June 30, 2013 I July 1, 2013 - June 30, 2014 July 1, 2014 - December 22, 2015 Total

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Tasks

 

Development and implementation of beginning and end of year as well as interim assessments aligned to the CCSS in ELA and Math

l06/30/2015

 

        

Timeline

 

 

Assigned to Annette Gurley I Start Date 07/01/2012 End Date

  

 

   

   

 

 

0

 

Comments

 

Task Completed

 

 

 

 

Dissemination of the CPS Framework for Teaching and associated resource guides Early Childhood, Special Education, Bilingual, Career and Tech 

 

Assigned to Susan Kajiwara Ansai

 

 

 

Comments

 

Task Completed

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

January 22, 2014

65

50

Develop a mechanism to ensure that bilingual certified teachers/specialists are present at meetings to explicitly address considerations around language learning.

 

Assigned to Elizabeth Cardenas-Lopez Start Date

 

 

07/01/2013

 

End Date 06/01 /2014 Timeline I

 

    
 

  

  

  

 

 

 

Comments

 

Task Completed

 

 

 

compliance and continuous improvement of programs for ELLs.

Develop and implement comprehensive professional development/ training calendar that includes professional development opportunities related to ELLs and students with
disabilities. Specifically, these offerings will include professional development designed to build awareness and understanding of the Bilingual Handbook to ensure consistent

 

Susan Kajiwara Ansai and

?Signed to Elizabeth Cardenas-Lopez

Start Date

 

 

07/01 /201 3 End Date 06/30/2015 Timeline

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Comments

 

Task Completed

 

 

 

Ensure Network professional development and support plan for schools adequately addresses school's content training needs and monitoring for implementation.

 

 

Assigned to

   

0

1 Denise Little iStart Date 07/01/2013 End Date [12/31/2015 Timeline 

 

   
 

      

 

 

Comments

 

Task Completed

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

January 22, 2014

66

51

 

Develop comprehensive professional development calendar for Network Teams to address training on Content Frameworks and tools and the Framework for Teaching and resources
guides.

 

Assigned to

 

Susan Kajiwara Ansai Start Date 07/01 /2013 End Date 12/31 /2013

 

 

 
    

 

Comments

 

Task Completed

 

 

 

Dissemination of the CPS Frameworks for Content Standards in Literacy and Mathematics with embedded Universal Design for Learning principles.

 

Assigned to Cindy Green and Jessica Fulton Start Date 07/01/2012 End Date 06/01 /2013 Timeline

 

 

 

 

 

 

Guidance on differentiation using a Universal Design for Learning approach will be embedded in the Content Frameworks and
Comments toolsets to ensure that all learners are considered at the outset, with particular attention to students with disabilities and
English language learners.

 

Task Completed 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Implement

 

Percent Tasks Completed 0%

 

 

Objective Status

 

 

 

 

January 22, 2014

67

52

 

 

D13

 

The district will ensure that all district and school stakeholders are knowledgeable about Response to Intervention (Rtl) implementation by
providing support, guidance, training, and professional development. (2329) 
RT3 Expectations: The district?s implementation plan will ensure targeted interventions and differentiated supports aligned to the
new State Standards (CCSS)

 

Status

RT3, RTI In Plan

0 of 2 tasks completed

 

 

 

Assessment

 

Level of Development

Initial: Partial Development/ Implementation

 

Index:

4

(Priority Score Opportunity Score)

 

Priority Score:

2

(3 - highest, 2 - medium, 1 - lowest)

 

Opportunity Score:

 

(3 - relatively easy to address, 2 - accomplished within current policy and budget conditions, 1 - requires changes in current policy and

budget conditions)

 

 

Current level of development or
implementation:

 

All schools currently have access to and have had training on the District's Former toolkit. Implementation of comprehensive varies by school. We ran
an RFP to update our list of quality vendors of research based intervention materials and services. We will also be updating toolkit and
associated materials for the upcoming school year. The district is in the porcess of implementing a more robust 3 year professional development plan for MTSS
by training all central office, Netowrks and building administrators on the common language, common understanding of MTSS as well as developing a district

policy around MTSS expectations to ensure that schools know how to use these resources well.

 

 

1 Plan

 

1 Assigned To

Annette Gurley

 

 

2 How it will look when fully met:

 

 

The District has ensured that all schools have access to the 
Toolkit?which provides guidance to all schools on the

effective implementation of Rtl. All schools will receive clear
guidance on the process of identifying students in need of
intervention and will have access to centrally vetted academic
and social-emotional research-based interventions. School
teams (lLTs and teacher teams) will also have access to
protocols for analyzing data to determine the effectiveness of
interventions and appropriate next steps for individual
students and groups of students. This guidance will include

 

 

January 22, 2014

68

53

 

explicit guidance for ELLs who need intervention. Finally, all
schools will have access to screening, diagnostic and progress
monitoring assessments and data to inform appropriate
interventions.

Evidence of successful accomplishment of the objective will be the active intervention plans aligned to
the identified academic and/or social-emotional needs of each student.

 

Target Date: 06/30/2015

 

 

Activities through the 2015 calendar year addressing the R1'l'l'3 Expectations.

 

Year 1 - Through June 30, 2012 [District Scope of Work Activities]

 

Year 2 - Through June 30, 2012 [District Scope of Work Activities]

 

Year 3 July 1, 2012 through June 30, 2013 [District Scope of Work Activities] 1,

 

?Year 4 - July 1, 2012 through June 30, 2013 [District Scope of Work Activities]

 

Years - July?1,? 2013' through June 30, 2014 [District scope of Work Activities] 

 

 

Year 6 - July 1, 2013 through June 30, 2014 [District Scope of Work Activities]

 

Year 7 - July 1, 2014 to December 22, 2015 [District Scope of Work Activities]

 

Year 8 - July 1, 2014 to December 22, 2015 [District Scope of Work Activities]

 

 

Funds

 

Year 1 Year _2 Year 3 Year 4

Through June 30, 2012 July 1, 2012- June 30, 2013 July 1, 2013 - June 30, 2014 July 1, 2014 to December 22, 2015 Total

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Tasks

 

 

 

 

 

January 22, 2014

54

 

Update guidelines for use of screening assessments to identify students in need of intervention and benchmarks for progress monitoring.

 

 

Assigned to Annette Gurley /2013 End Date 06/30/2015 lTimeline 



  

     
    

iStart Date 107/01

    

 

 

 

Comments

 

Task Completed

 

 

Revisions to MTSS toolkit and professional development plan

 

Susan Kajiwara-Ansai 

Assigned to . Start Date 07/01/2013 End Date 06/30/2014 Timeline
Green/ Dalia Flores

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The District is working on updating the toolkit so that it reflects best practices in and better aligns to existing
Comments district resources and to ISBE's recommended guidelines. The District will ensure that its professional development calendar
includes opportunities for Network and school leaders.

 

Task Completed

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Implement

 

Percent Tasks Completed 0%

 

Objective Status

 

 

 

 

 

January 22, 2014

70

55

 

 

D7

 

 

The district will monitor to ensure the intended curriculum is implemented with fidelity. (2326) Status
RT3 Expectations: The district will establish a local assessment system that includes through-course, formative, and summative
assessments in a coherent framework that supports standards-aligned instruction and, where appropriate, the measurement of student SC SP RT3 DTI In Plan

growth, and a standards-based reporting system in Math, ELA, and Science. 0 of 4 tasks completed
Title I Expectations: Describe any other indicators that the district will use in addition to the academic indicators that the State uses to
determine Adequate Yearly Progress (AYP), if any (see Section 1111).

 

 

 

 

Assessment

 

Level of Development

Initial: Partial Development/Implementation

 

Index:

6 (Priority Score Opportunity Score)

 

Priority Score:

3 (3 - highest, 2 - medium, 1 - lowest)

 

Opportunity Score:

2 (3 - relatively easy to address, 2 - accomplished within current policy and budget conditions, 1 - requires changes in current policy and
budget conditions)

 

 

Current level of development or
implementation:

 

 

The district currently has a comprehensive suite of assessments at the elementary level to monitor student growth and fidelity of curriculum implementation.
This suite of assessments will evolve to reflect alignment to Common Core Standards and use of performance assessment in alignment with the CPS Content
Frameworks in Literacy and Mathematics, REACH and Framework for Teaching. In preschool, children are assessed three times each year with the
observational tool Teaching Strategies GOLD. This tool allows teachers to track each child?s progress and provides teachers with the information necessary
to develop plans for groups and individual children as they move through the developmental continuum. In the primary grades, schools use a primary literacy
assessment, REACH Performance Tasks (Type assessments) and benchmark assessments to measure foundational skills and comprehension and students'
progression of mastery of the CCSS. In intermediate and upper grades, students take a winter and spring adaptive growth assessment. Baseline data for fall
planning comes from the previous Spring assessment. We also have in place Benchmarks for K-12 aligned to the CCSS, that ask for students to demonstrate
learning aligned to the depth and breadth of the standards. We also administer the ISAT assessment once per year as an additional summative measure for
students including ELLs in grades 3-8. In high schools, we use the following assessments to monitor that a CRS-aligned curriculum with CCSS built-in is being
implemented with fidelity. We have a Spring EPAS post test and a winter EPAS check in test to measure growth across the year, for EXPLORE PLAN and ACT.
We also administer PSAE to all students including ELLs at the end of the junior year. In addition, the District will continue to work with and assist schools to
ensure that all students identified by the State as ELLs are assessed annually for English language proficiency in a timely manner with ACCESS for Our
District office and our Network offices will regularly review the results of these assessments and include this review in continuous improvement
conversations with each school. Finally, the District will be releasing an RFP to acquire a comprehensive progress monitoring tool for literacy and math, for
use across at least grades 3-10, in English andSpanish.

 

 

Plan

 

January 22, 2014

71

56

 

 

Assigned To John Barker

 

How it will look when fully met: developing end of

In addition to the assessments already in use, CPS is currently in the process of implementing Performance Tasks to fulfill the
Type Requirement of PERA. In SY13-14 tasks are available for nearly all core and non-core courses, Our work in SY14
and SY15 will be revising the tasks and ensuring coverage in courses with fewer teachers represented. In addition, CPS will be

developed with a vendor partner and piloted in SY14, with implementation in SY15.

course exams in science and social science, to meet PERA Type 1/2 requirements. These exams will be

 

Target Date: 06/30/2015

 

 

Activities through the 2015 calendar year addressing the Expectations.

 

Year 1 - Through June 30, 2012 [District Scope of Work Activities]

 

[Year 2 - Through June 30, 2012 [District Scope of Work Activities]

 

Year 3? July 1, 2012 through June 30, 2013 [District Scope of Work Activities]

 

Year 4 - July 2012 through June 30, 2013 [District Scope of Work Activities] 

 

Year 5 - July 1, 2013 through June 30, 2014 [District scope of Work Activities]7

 

 

Year 6 - July 1, 2013 through Junei30, 2014[District scopeof work hour/mes]

 

Year 7 - July 1, 2014 to December 22, 2015 [District Scope of Work Activities]

 

:Year 8- July 1, 2014 to December 22,2015 [District Scope of Work Activities]

 

 

Funds

 

Year 1 Year 2
Through June 30, 2012 July 1, 2012 - June 30, 2013

Year 3 Year 4

July1,2013-June30,2014 July1,2014to December22,2015 Tm?

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Tasks

 

 

January 22, 2014

72

57

 

 

Implement REACH Performance Tasks for the majority of PK-12 traditionally tested and non-tested teachers.

 

Assigned to Claudinette Swartz

Timeline 

 

 

Start Date I 07/01/2013 End Date

 

  
 

 

06/30/2014

  

 
 

   

 

Comments

 

 

Task Completed

 

 

 

Create and pilot end of course exams

 

Assigned to Mallory Wessel

 

 

 

    
 

Start Date 1 07/01/2013 End Date

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Comments

 

Task Completed

 

 

 

Implement end of course exams

 

I End Date

 

Assigned to Mallory Wessel

 

?nding/Satirce?s 

   

 

 

 

 

 

Comments

 

Task Completed

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Create, pilot and implement revised/ new Performance tasks for teachers not covered in SY15

 

 

 

January 22, 2014

73

City of Chicago SD 299

1/13/2014 9:58:47 PM District Continuous Improvement Plan with R'l'l'l'3 SOW

Assigned to Claudinette Swartz? 06/30/2014

58

 

 

Start Date 07/01/2013?

     

End Date

       

    
   

 

Timeline 

 

 

 

 

Comments

 

 

Task Completed

 

 

 

 

 

Implement

 

Percent Tasks Completed 0%

 

Objective Status

 

 

 

 

 

The district curriculum will encompass a set of knowledge, skills and behaviors of appropriate content and rigor to prepare students for 
both college and careers. (2327) I 
RT3 Expectations: For districts serving grades 9-12, the district will establish two or more Programs of Study promoting critical STEM
application areas; for other districts, as applicable, the district establishes an individual learning plan program, commencing?in 7th grade,
D9 that aligns to a Programs of Study model in the predominant feeder schools for high schools implementing STEM Programs of Study.

Title Expectations: (a)Describe the schoolwide and/or targeted assistance programs to be conducted in the district?s schools;
and where appropriate, -
Educational services outside such schools for children living in local institutions for neglected or delinquent children and for neglected
and delinquent children in community day school programs.
(See Sections 1114 &1115)

 

 

SC RT3, DTI

 

Status

In Plan
0 of 9 tasks completed

 

 

 

 

[Assessment

 

Level of Development Initial: Partial Development/ Implementation

 

 

Index: 6 (Priority Score Opportunity Score)

 

 

 

 

January 22, 2014

74

59

 

 

Priority Score:

3 (3 - highest, 2 - medium, 1 - lowest)

 

Opportunity Score:

2 (3 - relatively easy to address, 2 - accomplished within current policy and budget conditions, 1 - requires changes in current policy and
budget conditions) 

 

 

 

Current level of development or
implementation:

 

CPS is currently developing the Frameworks for Literacy and Math Content standards that will guide planning, instruction and assessment aligned to the
Common Core standards. These Frameworks are being developed by the Departments of Literacy and Math, in collaboration with Early Adopter CCSS pilot
schools, and are modeled after by the PARCC model content frameworks. They provide quarterly expectations and benchmarks for implementing the Common
Core standards. CPS is also in the process of developing a comprehensive high school course of study, aligned to the Common Core standards and workplace
readiness expectations. This Course of study, led by the Academic Learning and Supports unit, will provide the backbone for changes to graduation
requirements and will also lead to guidance to teachers, parents and students as they develop their individual learning plans including, on what the key
academic, social and career-ready expectations are at each level. CPS also currently offers STEM Programs of Study (P05) in various CTE pathways such as
Health Sciences, information Technology, and Manufacturing; these POS have been developed in partnership with industry and colleges. However, there is
need to build better articulation into 2-year and 4-year postsecondary institutions, and to strengthen industry engagement in implementation of STEM P05 in
CPS. CPS also recently launched an Individual Learning Plan that spans grades 6-12 and is currently mostly focused on scaling use of the ILP in grade 9. By
school year 2013-14, CPS plans to pilot the Individual Learning Plans to the middle grades. Going forward, CPS intends to strengthen and scale its STEM P05, in
particular in the near-term via its Early College STEM Schools (ECSS), which will each offer two or more Information Technology programs of study, and which
will all provide opportunity to earn significant college credit while in high school, which will partner closely with industry partners to integrate work-based
learning into the P05, which will drive core and CTE curriculum integration across the entire P05. All STEM POS will drive development of academic, technical,
and employability skills, with ongoing college and career planning efforts throughout high school. These P05 will accelerate students' trajectory into
postsecondary education or employment after HS.

 

 

 

 

1 Assigned To

Aarti Dhupelia

 

 

2 How it will look when fully met:

 

All STEM Programs of Study will offer students the opportunity to earn significant college credit and industry certification. Early College
STEM Schools (ECSS) will each offer two or more Information Technology programs of study, and will all provide opportunity to earn
significant college credit while in high school. These schools will be open to students throughout the city, but we will work with the
schools' predominant feeder elementary schools to pilot an ILP, housed in What's Next Illinois, to help students identify career goals. The
ILP is will be piloted at selected feeder schools in 2013-2014 and expanded to all predominant feeders in 2014-2015. ECSS will also partner
closely with industry partners to integrate work-based learning into the P05, which will drive core and CTE curriculum integration across
the entire P05. All STEM POS will drive development of academic, technical, and employability skills, with ongoing individualized college and
career planning efforts throughout high school. The P05 will be aligned with, and articulated to, college courses at our partner College(s).
The articulation process involves faculty examination of curriculum to ensure alignment and rigor, and enrollment in each POS course will
be tracked internally by using our CTE enrollment database. These POS will accelerate students? trajectory into postsecondary education
or employment after H5. This objective will be fully met within 4 years, at the end of FY16, which will be when we will have our first

 

 

January 22, 2014

75

60

 

class of ECSS graduating seniors. At this time, we will be able to see success through the new STEM POS and ECSS model having been fully
developed and implemented (as evidenced by POS and curriculum in place, work-based learning opportunities in place, college credit-
earning opportunities in place, and STEM integrated well throughout the schools), and through student outcomes (significant college
credit earned, industry certifications earned, internships and/ or job shadows completed, and stronger graduation and college enrollment
rates than the high schools exhibited under their old academic foci).

 

3 Target Date: 06/30/2016

 

 

4 Activities through the 2015 calendar year addressing the Expectations.

 

Year 1 - Through June 30, 2012 [District Scope of Work Activities]

Prepare to open five Early College STEM High Schools
Establish relationships with corporate partners
Begin aligning HS coursework to college coursework

 

Year 2 - Through June 30, 2012 [District Scope of Work Activities]
Prepare to open ?ve Early college STEM High Schools I
Establish relationships with corporate partners

Begin aligning HS coursework to college coursework

 

'Ye?ar3 - July 1, 2012 through June30, 2013 [District Scope of Work ActivitiesImplement work-based learning programs at all high schools, utilizing relationships with corporate partners

Design STEM Pro grams of Study aligned with City Colleges of Chicago?s Computer Information Science course sequences

Coordinate with community colleges on College and Career Readiness Program (CCRP) planning

 

Year 4 - July 1, 2012 through June 30, 2013 [District Scope of Work Activities]
Open ?ve Early College schools I I I I I 
Implement work-based learning programs at all high schools, utilizing relationships with corporate partners
Design STEM Programs of Study aligned with City Colleges of Chicago?s Computer Information Science course sequences
Coordinate with community colleges on College and Career Readiness Program (CCRP) planning

 

Year 5 - July 1, 2014 to December 22, 2015 [District Scope oi Work Activities]
All STEM students begin one of the three focused programs of study
All eligible students begin to take Early College courses
All students track progress on an ILP
Structures in place to ensure continuous alignment of our courses with programs at and other college partners

 

 

 

 

2014 Illinois Interactive Report Card, Northern Illinois University, with support from the Illinois State Board of Education.

January 22, 2014

76

 

Year 6 - July 1, 2014 to December 22,2015 [District Scope of Work Activities]

All STEM students begin one of the three focUsed programs of study
All eligible students begin to take Early College courses
All students track progress on an ILP

Structures in place to ensure continuous alignment of our courses with programs at and other college partners

 

Year 7 - July 1, 2013 through June 30, 2014 [District Scopeof Work Activities]

Choose and develop Individual Learning Plan I 
Complete alignment of HS Program of Study and College Program of Study with City Colleges of Chicago

Continue implementation of HS Program of Study with second year IT course which 15 the introductory IT course for college partner

Continue implementation of work-based learning solutions, including planning for internships

Accelerate student learning to enable students to become eligible for Early College opportunities

 

Year 8 - July 1, 2013 through June 30, 2014 [District Scope of Work Activities]

Choose and develop Individual Learning Plan

Complete alignment of HS Program of Study and College Program of Study with City Colleges of Chicago

Continue implementation of HS Program of Study with second year IT course which is the introductory IT course for college partner
Continue implementation of work-based learning solutions, including planning for internships

Accelerate student learning to enable students to become eligible for Early College opportunities

 

 

. Funds

 

Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4
Through June 30, 2012 July 1, 2012 - June 30, 2013 July 1, 2013 - June 30, 2014 July 1, 2014 to December 22, 2015

Total

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Tasks

 

 

Agree upon priority STEM career pathways for each Early College STEM School (ECSS).

 

Assigned to LBrenda Wilkerson 07/01/2012 End Date /30/2013 Timeline

 

Bud 

 

 

 

January 22, 2014

77

62

 

In collaboration with industry and postsecondary partners, the district will identify Information Technology Pathways that

nt
omme have high labor market demand and/ or growth potential.

 

Task Completed

 

 

 

Develop and implement plan for wrap-around supports needed to drive student success, including but not limited to counseling, after-school, tutoring, and data tracking support.

 

Assigned to Joshua Kaufman End Date 06/ 30/ 201 5 Timeline

 

  

 

i Start Date 07/01/2012

 

   

 

 

 

 

 

Supports will be differentiated for ELLs and students with disabilities, taking into consideration the delivery of supports for
maximum access, and tailored content of supports based on the needs different subsets of these groups.

Comments

 

Task Completed

 

 

 

Develop and implement aligned work-based learning tool kit and data tracking for all 5 EC55, in collaboration with industry partners, including opportunities such as mentorships,
job shadows, and internships. Implement internship portion of Work-Based Learning Plan

 

 

Assigned to Chadra Lang Start Date 07/01 /2012 End Date 12/31 /2015 Timeline

 

 

The district will outline a work-based learning continuum throughout a student?s high school career that will provide
Comments additional supports and exposure for students beyond the classroom. This will provide the framework for schools to organize
industry partners around work-based learning needs.

 

Task Completed

 

 

 

Develop and implement plan to market program across city to attract student/parent interest.

 

 

End Date 06/30/2015 1 Timeline

 

 

 

   

 

  
  

Assigned to Joshua Kaufman LS?tart Date 07/01/2012

 
 

 

 

   
 

 

 

 

 

 

January 22, 2014

78

 

 

 

With district support, schools will develop an elementary school and parent outreach strategy that will include but is not
Comments limited to hosting high school investigation events, parent open houses, educating counselors on ECSS, distributing
promotional material, etc.

 

Task Completed

 

 

 

Determine optimal staffing model to support ECSS, and support specialized staffing needs during ramp-up/incubation years

 

 

Assigned to Veenu Verma Start Date 07/01/2012

 

End Date . [06/30/2013

 

 

 

 

 

 

The district will identify program support needs to assist with model implementation and industry and postsecondary partner
Comments collaboration. In addition, there will be an assessment of flex IT teaching resources needed during the initial year or two of
ECSS.

 

Task Completed

 

 

 

Complete build-out and installation of equipment to support technology pathway. Determine optimal resource needs (lab set-'up, equipment, etc.) to support ECSS model and equip
school with necessary specialized learning materials during incubation years. Monitor equipment and identify any needs for replacement/ renewal

 

Assigned to Brenda Wilkerson I Start Date 07/01/2013 End Date 06/30/2015 ?Timeline

   
 

 

 
 

 

 

Based on the P05 outlined, the district will identify baseline lab, equipment, and material requirements and facilitate the
procurement of these resources.

Comments

 

 

Task Completed

 

 

 

 

 

 

January 22, 2014

64

 

Develop and implement comprehensive programs of study for 2 or more STEM career pathways for each ECSS, in collaboration with industry partners and City Colleges of Chicago,
and incorporating opportunities to earn significant college credit and industry certifications while in high school, and ensuring strong integration between core academic and STEM
career pathways coursework. Adapt, align and articulate IT Problem Solving Course with City Colleges of Chicago Adapt, align and articulate Intro to Programming and Intro to
Systems courses with City Colleges of Chicago. Monitor enrollment trends and course success at ECSS schools. Ensure smooth transfer of students within this Program of Study from
high school to college

Assigned to Joshua Kaufman Start Date 07/01 /2012 1 End Date 12/31 /201 5

 

i Timeline 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

    

 

The comprehensive programs of study (P05) will outline and guide a student?s experience in an ECSS and allow for multiple and
Comments stackable postsecondary pathways. It will map core academic and IT course requirements, industry certification attainment,
and the translation to postsecondary credit.

 

Task Completed

 

 

 

79

Provide professional development to school and college faculty to ensure strong delivery of ECSS model.

Assigned to Brenda Wilkerson Start Date 1 End Date A 06/30/2016

?55) 

 

 

 

 

 

    
   
   

 

 

Based on the POS outlined, partner and school input, the district will offer professional development that ensures schools are

Comments well-supported in delivering the ECSS model and ensuring acceleration of a student?s trajectory toward postsecondary
success.

 

Task Completed

 

 

 

 

Pilot individual learning plans (ILP) with select feeder schools, and implement ILP with predominant feeder schools.

     

 

    

   

   

   

        

Joshua Kaufman Timeline

 

Assigned to Start Date 12/31/2015

 

07/01/2013 End Date

 

 

 

January 22, 2014

80

65

 

Comments

 

Task Completed

 

 

 

 

1 Implement

 

Percent Tasks Completed 0%

 

Objective Status

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Status
lA12 The district will intervene early when a school is not making adequate progress. (12) In Plan

0 of 4 tasks completed

 

 

 

 

 

?Assessment

 

Level of Development Initial: Partial Development/ Implementation

 

Index: 6 (Priority Score Opportunity Score)

 

Priority Score: 3 (3 - highest, 2 - medium, 1 - lowest)

 

 

Opportunity Score: 2 (3 - relatively easy to address, 2 - accomplished within current policy and budget conditions, 1 - requires changes in current policy and
budget conditions)

 

 

 

 

January 22, 2014

81

66

 

Current level of development or
implementation:

 

Pillar 2 of the Action Plan focuses on systems of support that meet student needs and specifically commits to providing "timely and targeted school-wide
support to academically under-served neighborhood schoOIS." In furtherance of this commitment, the Chief Executive Officer has created the new Office of
Strategic School Support Services (054) to provide high need neighborhood schools with the comprehensive and coherent resources and supports they
require to engage in whole school transformation and dramatically increase student achievement. 054 manages a network of 22 "Reinvestment Schools" (21
elementary schools and 1 secondary school) and 15 secondary schools receiving federal School Improvement Grants. These schools have generally been on
probation and in federal or state school improvement status for years and have affirmatively agreed to join 054 and commit to the rigorous work of whole
school transformation. 054 is currently implementing the first formal step in this transformation effort, which is a school diagnostic review (SDR) for each
054 school. An SDR is an evidence-based process whereby an objective third party, in cooperation with cross-functional internal team members, analyzes a
school's qualitative and quantitative data and measures the quality of teaching and learning in the school and how well the school is organized to support this
work. The SDR culminates in a formal report that includes findings and recommendations. This report provides valuable insight into "what is going on behind
the numbers" and empowers the school community to understand the obstacles to student achievement and how they may be overcome. With these reports
in hand, schools will soon begin revising their school improvement plans (commonly referred to as Continuous Improvement Work Plans or CIWPs) to address
their highest priority needs and then will implement such plans with the support of 054. One of the critical supports 054 provides to schools is comprehensive
and coherent professional development designed to instill mastery of the Common Core State Standards. This professional development incorporates a blended
learning model of online courses, face-to-face training sessions and school-based coaches for both leaders and teachers. As a part of this offering, teachers
will receive pacing guides and short-cycle progress monitoring tools to enhance the quality of their instruction and will become versed in specific strategies
for creating a classroom environment of high expectations and respect. 054 schools will also beexpected to implement a coherent instructional program in
which the curriculum, professional development, instructional strategies and assessments are aligned. Another support to be offered by 054 is an extended
day program that includes academic intervention, acceleration, and enrichment opportunities for students. Additional resources will be leveraged to support
054 schools based on the priorities identified through the SDR process, such social-emotional services or family and community engagement. Finally,
consistent with the concept of "reciprocal accountability, all of the services and supports provided by 054 are designed to build the capacity of leaders and
teachers to increase student achievement dramatically, and these schools are expected to meet specific performance targets established by the Chief
Executive Officer to avoid more drastic interventions.

 

Plan

 

1 Assigned To

Tracy Martin

 

2 How it will look when fully met:

Develop and implement a school diagnostic review process to assess the performance of a school in relation to school
performance indicators defining effective schools; determine what is happening in schools relative to teaching and learning; guide
schools through a process of self-reflection and redirected practice; provide a structured response to help schools develop and
implement comprehensive, school-specific improvements based upon identified needs and interests; and provide schools with
information and support to establish best practices in both teacher practice and performance, thereby increasing student learning and
achievement.

 

 

 

 

 

January 22, 2014

67

 

Target Date: 06/30/2014

3

Tasks

 

1. Contract with a single provider that will support the development of the CPS Standards for Quality Schools and the development and implementation of the School Diagnostic
Review process prior to September. 2. Begin training CPS central office level staff to begin building internal capacity to lead this effort across the district. 3. Train 054 schools'
targeted school community members on the SDR process and how they will participate prior to September. 4. Train targeted Central Office staff on SDR process.

 

 

 

Assigned to Tracy Martin Start Date 07/01/2013 End Date [09/30/2013  Timeline I

 

 

 

  

    

 

Comments

 

Task Completed

 

 

 

82

1. Conduct first of two annual SDRs for all 054 schools in September. 2. Analyze the structured response produced by the SDRs to evaluate schools? progress and the effectiveness of
their current practices. 3. Collaborate with schools (and their Lead Partners if appropriate) to modify school improvement strategies and plans based on the results of the SDRs.

Tracy Martin

 

End Date lTimeline 

"mm?gammy.

Assigned to

mm

Etart Date 1



 

       

  
  
 

 

 

0

 

 

Comments

 

Task Completed

 

 

 

 

 

1. Conduct second of two annual SDRs for all 054 schools in January. 2. Analyze the structured responses produced by the SDR to evaluate schools' progress and the effectiveness of
their current practices. 3. Collaborate with schools (and their Lead Partners if appropriate) to modify school improvement strategies and plans based on the results of the SDRs.

 

 

 

Assigned to Tracy Martin Start Date 01/01/2014

 

 

January 22, 2014

Comments

 

Task Completed

 

 

 

1. Analyze the structured responses produced by the SDR to evaluate schools? progress and the effectiveness of their current practices. 2. Collaborate with schools (and their
Lead Partners if appropriate) to modify school improvement strategies and plans for the following school year based on the results of the SDRs.

Tracy Martin Start Date 04/01/2014 End Date 06/30/2014 iTimeline 

 

 

Assigned to

 

   

    
   

 

 

Comments

 

Task Completed

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

?y implement

 

Percent Tasks Completed 0%

 

Objective Status

 

 

 

 

 

The district will work with the school to provide early and intensive intervention for students not making progress. (13) Status

IA13 Title I Expectations: Describe how additional educational assistance will be provided to individual students assessed as needing help in ln Plan
meeting State standards. 

 

 

0 of 3 tasks completed

 

 

 

 

Assessment

 

Level of Eevelopment Initial: Partial Development/ Implementation

 

 

January 22, 2014

69

 

 

Index:

2 (Priority Score Opportunity Score)

 

Priority Score:

2 (3 - highest, 2 - medium, 1 - lowest)

 

Opportunity Score:

(3 - relatively easy to address, 2 - accomplished within current policy and budget conditions, 1 - requires changes in current policy and
budget conditions)

 

 

Current level of development or
implementation:

84

 

 

CPS is focused on implementation of the Common Core State Standards to address Tier I instruction. In addition to the guidance provided by the former 
Toolkit, a focus on intervention blocks has been incorporated into our Full School Day guidance in an effort to ensure that all students who are struggling
receive Tier II and Tier intervention during the school day during a designated time that does not interfere with core instruction. The development of
comprehensive academic intervention plan with associated professional development will be a focus area in the future. is partnering with the
Department of Literacy to ensure that professional development focused on the implementation of the Common Core standards to address Tier I instruction
incorporates principles of instruction for linguistic diversity, language and academic proficiency of ELLs. The Office of Early Childhood Education (ECE)
developed a plan of action in conjunction with OLCE to initiate the screening of preschool children who may be eligible for ELL services. This plan was piloted
during the 09-10 school year and was fully implemented in all CPS schools during the 10-11 school year. The early identification of children in need of ELL
services will allow identified students to begin receiving services as early as age 3. Teachers were trained and screening kits were distributed, and children
screened. The annual screening of preschool children is monitored by OLCE just as at all other grade levels. In addition, CPS has established district-wide
behavioral interventions for students, whose in-class or in-school behavior is a barrier to their learning, including anger management and trauma treatment.
CPS will continue to develop early, in-class interventions as well as more intensive interventions to address behavioral barriers to learning. Also, the district
provides Bilingual Summer Bridge and Summer Support for English Language Learners, these two programs provide intensive ready mathematics, and writing
to ELLs. The goal is to decrease the achievement gap by providing focused and differentiated support to ELLs.

 

 

 

 

1 Assigned To

Annette Gurley

 

2 How it will look when fully met:

 

 

Core instruction aligned to content standards and is universally designed for all students. All students, including English Language
Learners, students with diverse learning needs, and gifted students, are expected to reach graded-level academic goals and

develop positive social-emotional skills. It is expected that of students receiving core instruction, 80% will be proficient. For behavioral
core, this also means all schools have in place systems and structures to support positive academic behavior and social-emotional learning
in all settings. Schools have in place systems to identify the needs of all students throughout the school year, based on multiple data
measures ISAT, district assessments, attendance, suspension, grades). Data are analyzed and instruction and intervention is
delivered. Teachers regularly review and monitor student progress to determine learning trends and patterns to reinforce or emphasize
in subsequent instruction. To monitor and evaluate student progress, schools again use multiple measures, to guide and inform instruction
and intervention. Strategic instruction and/ or behavioral intervention is targeted additional support for some students who after
receiving quality core instruction, need additional time and/ or targeted instruction to reach proficiency on specific skill or standard.
Targeted intervention for a few students who, after receiving quality core instruction and strategic intervention, still need increase

 

 

January 22, 2014

70

 

time and intensity of instruction and/or behavioral supports.

 

3 Target Date: 06/30/2014

 

 

4 Tasks

 

Analyze incoming student data

Assigned to Annette Gurley

 

  

 

  

Timeline

 

?1 Start Date End Date

 

  
 

 

 

Comments

 

Task Completed

 

 

 

 

Review school systems and structures for core instruction, school climate, behavioral supports, data analysis and intervention

Assigned to Teaching and Learning I Start Date 1 End Date 3 Timeline 

 

85

   

   

 

 

Comments

 

Task Completed

 

 

 

Complete professional development for Principals and teachers

Su Start Date



 

 

Assigned to san Kaijwara-Ansai

 

End Date i [Timeline

   

  

 
 

 

 

Comments I

 

 

 

 

January 22, 2014

86

Task Completed

Implement

71

 

Percent Tasks Completed

0%

 

Objective Status

 

 

 

 

 

IC01 The school will report and document its progress to the superintendent, and the superintendent will report the school?s progress

to the school board. (28)

 

Status

SP In Plan

Objective not assigned

 

 

 

 

Assessment

 

Level of Development

Initial: Partial Development/ Implementation

 

Index:

2 (Priority Score Opportunity Score)?

 

Priority Score:

2 (3 - highest, 2 - medium, 1 - lowest)

 

Opportunity Score:

1 (3 - relatively easy to address, 2 - accomplished within current policy and budget conditions, 1 - requires changes in current policy and
budget conditions)

 

 

 

Current level of development or
implementation:

 

Over the past few years, CPS Networks of schools have implemented regular performance review sessions with the schools they serve. These sessions look
different from Network to Network, but across Networks Chiefs of Schools have regular data-based management touch points with their schools. 
provides Networks with ELL data and participates closely with networks during the performance review sessions to ensure goals and expectations are
established for measuring the growth and progress of ELLs language and academic proficiency during these sessions. Additionally, ODLSS also provides
Networks with data for students with diverse learning needs through the annual ?snapshot? process. Schools are currently working to develop continuous
improvement work plans that outline milestones for the strategies they plan to implement in the upcoming school year. Chiefs of Schools are beginning to
incorporate progress monitoring on these work plans into their regular performance review sessions.

 

I'Plan 

 

January 22, 2014

87

72

Assigned To Not yet Assigned

 

Status
02 The district designates a central office contact person for the school, and that person maintains close communication with the school and

an interest in its progress. (29) SP Full implementation

 

 

11/20/2012

 

 

 

 

Assessment

 

Level of Development Initial: Full Implementation

 

CPS has divided its schools into geographic Networks. Each Network of schools is served by a Chief of Schools, a Deputy Chief of Schools, a data strategist, a
family and community engagement specialist and a team of Instructional Support Leaders (ISLs), each with a specific focus Math content, ELLs, etc.).
Together these teams serve as the primary contact from the District to the schools. Early Childhood Program managers and directors provide direct support

Evidence that this indicator has been
fully and effectively implemented:

 

 

to chiefs, principals, and teachers as requested as all preschool programs are grant funded and administered on a citywide basis.

 

 

 

 

The district will provide a cohesive district curriculum guide aligned with state standards or otherwise places curricular expectations on

the school. (32)

RT3 Expectations: The district will establish a cohesive curriculum, aligned to State standards, that addresses and incorporates the

following: critical student transition points as applicable (PreK to elementary, middle to high school, and high school to 
postsecondary), including the use of alignment teams across these transition points; writing throughout the curriculum; CCSS in

Math and ELA across the curriculum, including the concept of text complexity for ELA and application for Math; and the CCSS Science
framework (when adopted).

Status

In Plan
0 of 8 tasks completed

 

 

 

 

 

Assessment

 

Level of Development Initial: Partial Developme'nt/ Implementation

 

Index: . 9 (Priority Score Opportunity Score)

 

 

Priority Score: 3 (3 - highest, 2 - medium, 1 - lowest)

 

 

 

 

January 22, 2014

88

73

 

Opportunity Score:

3 (3 - relatively easy to address, 2 - accomplished within current policy and budget conditions, 1 - requires changes in current policy and
budget conditions) 

 

 

 

Current level of development or
implementation:

 

We are currently in full implementation for CCSS-Literacy and have developed a 2.0 version of our Literacy Content framework that is aligned to the PARCC
Model Content Frameworks and provides resources and tools to support teachers with the implementation of CCSS-L. The framework provides guidance on
disciplinary literacy and writing across contents. We are in Year 2 of a 3 year transition to full implementation of the CCSS for Mathematics. A Math Content
Framework v2.0 has been released for implementation in SY13-14. It contains Planning Guides aligned to the Major Content outlined in the PARCC Model
Content Framework for grades K-Algebra II/Trigonometry. Included are content expectations for each grade/ course, high-quality tasks that integrate
mathematical content and practices, recommended assessments, sample units, and additional resources. The final version (version 3.0) of the Math Content
Framework will be released for implementation in SY14-15 which will be 100% aligned to Common Core expectations. The Science Content Framework has been

released for implementation in SY13-14. Potential updates will be informed by the state?s upcoming decision about the adoption of the Next Generation
Science Standards.

 

 

Plan

 

1 Assigned To

 

2 How it will look when fully met:

The District will provide all K-12 teachers with the new CPS frameworks for Content Standards that are aligned with the Common Core
State Standards, and eventually, Next Generation Science Standards (Science) which represent a set of expectations for student
knowledge and skills that high school graduates need to master to succeed in college and careers. CPS Frameworks for Content Standards
will apply Universal Design for Learning principles and they will include planning guides (which define the scope of content for each grade
level that teachers across CPS must teach) and a set of tools to support planning and implementation of the Standards. To further support
curriculum expectations the District will provide CCSS aligned beginning-of?the-year and end-of-year assessments along with quarterly
benchmarks that all teachers will use to make adjustments of unit plans and address the needs of all students or groups of students. The
District will also develop guidance for content area teachers (Science, Social Science, etc) with a focus on content area literacy and
academic language with the help of our CCSS Early Adopter Schools. All tools for content areas will employ a Universal Design for Learning
approach and include specific guidance for instructing English Language Learners using Illinois ELP Standards and WIDA tools (and the
Spanish Language Arts and SALSA standards as appropriate), as well as for instructing students with disabilities. Network teams will

deliver ongoing professional development for principals and teachers on the Content Frameworks to ensure effective planning and
implementation.

 

3 Target Date:

06/01 /2014

 

 

 

4 Activities through the 2015 calendar year addressing the RTIT3 Expectations.

 

Year Through June 30, 2012 [District Scope of Work Activities]

 

 

 

January 22, 2014

89

74

 

Year 2 - Through June 30, 2012 [District Scope of Work Activities]

 

Year 3 - July 1, 2012 through June 30, 2013 [District Scope of Work Activities]

 

'Year 4 - July 1, 2012 through June 30, 2013 [District Scope of Work Activities]

 

Year 5 - July 1, 2013 through June 30, 2014 [District Scope of Work Activities]

 

Year 6 - July 1, 2013 through June 30, 2014 [District Scope of Work ActiVities]

 

Year 7 - July 1, 2014 to December 22, 2015 [District Scope of Work Activities]

 

Year 8 - July 1, 2014 to December 22, 2015 [District Scope of Work Activities]

 

 

Funds

 

Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4

Through June 30, 2012 July 1, 2012 - June 30, 2013 July 1, 2013 - June 30, 2014 July 1, 201.4 to December 22, 2015 Total

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Tasks

 

 

 

Adjustments of Frameworks to include expectations for literacy in the content areas

 

 

  

   

10/01/2012 End Date

  

Start Date

 

 

06/01/2013 Timeline 

 

Assigned to Elizabeth Cardenas Lopez

   

 

 

1 Over the course of the 2012-2013 academic year, the District will monitor implementation of the Literacy Framework and
Toolsets and evaluate their usefulness for teachers and students across the district. Necessary adjustments to Framework
and Toolsets will be made as informed by teacher and principals? feedback and students? performance in Benchmark
Assessments. The Department of Literacy will continue to work with the Early Adopter Schools, Teacher Leader Professional
Learning Communities (PLCs) and as well as other content departments in CPS, to refine existing guides and Toolsets
and to create new ones. Toolsets that will be refined and newly developed will incorporate fully Universal Design principles for

Comments

 

 

 

January 22, 2014

90

75

 

learning, include the CCSS Language strands and integrate literacy and use of language in content areas with specific focus
in academic language.

 

Task Completed

 

 

3-Year development of CPS Mathematics Content Framework: Planning Guides for grades K-12 with corresponding sets of sample tools (sample tasks and performance assessments,

tool for analyzing and modifying lessons/ activities, samples of modified lessons, sample lesson plan template, etc.) to support district-wide implementation of Common Core.

 

  

 

 

Assigned to Jessica Fulton Start Date . 07/01 /2013 I End Date [05/31/2014 Timeline i

 

Key Dates: 06/30/2012 - version 1.0 06/30/2013 - version 2.0 06/30/2014 - Final ln 2012-2013, schools will begin
implementing the CPS Bridge Plan for Mathematics, the three-year blueprint that will guide the full implementation of the CPS
Mathematics Content Framework. It defines how the District will phase in new content and practice standards and build
capacity to make the requisite shifts in instruction. Since an immediate shift to full implementation of CCSS-M would create
large gaps in student learning, the first year of the Bridge Plan will focus on the development of planning guides 1.0 for grades
6-8, and High School Algebral and Geometry which define the scope of content that must be taught in 2012-13. Year 2
(2013-14)Planning Guides 2.0 will phase in K-5 and Algebra II, and continue adding new standards in grades 6-8, Algebra I, and
Geometry. Year 3 (2014-15) will mark full implementation of CCSS-M, K-12. Additionally, for each year of the Bridge Plan,
corresponding tools will support effective implementation of these standards. Development of the Planning Guides and its
components will be led by Department of Mathematics specialists and will engage stakeholders from across the district.
Planning resources and training will also reflect a universal design for learning lens, so that teachers proactively plan for the
diverse needs of the students in their classes.

Comments

 

Task Completed

 

 

 

Development of Science Performance Tasks: Beginning and End of Year Performance Tasks that will be used to measure student growth as well as teacher effectiveness.

 

 

 

 

     

 

 

 

      

 

.1 S) ..

 

Assigned to Jessica Fulton Start Date 07/ 01 2012 End Date I 06/ 30/ 201 3 [Timeline I
A . g. ,7 ?is?ffm__

 

 

Beginning and End of Year performance tasks developed by the District in close collaboration with teachers and will be used

 

 

January 22, 2014

91

76

Comments to measure student growth in Science in grades K-12. These benchmark assessments will also be used for teacher evaluation
in instances where a teacher only teaches science.

 

Task Completed

 

 

 

Development of CPS Science Content Framework: Planning Guides for grades K-12 with corresponding sets of sample tools (sample tasks and performance assessments, tool for
analyzing and modifying lessons/ activities, samples of modified lessons, sample lesson plan template, etc.) to support district-wide implementation of the Next Generation Science

 

  

 

 

Assigned to Jessica Fulton

Start Date

 

     
 

Standards.
07/01 /2012 End Date 06/30/2013 Timeline I

 

The upcoming release of the Next Generation Science Standards (estimated release: Dec 2012) will inform the strategy,
development and implementation of the CPS Science Content Framework. Planning Guides will define the scope of content
Comments that must be taught at each grade level. Additionally, corresponding tools will support effective implementation of these
standards. Development of the Planning Guides and its components will be led by Department of Science specialists and will
engage stakeholders from across the district. As with literacy and math, science resources will reflect universal design for
learning principles.

 

Task Completed

 

 

Ongoing development of tools to guide and support instruction of ELLs and Students with Disabilities using CCSS

 

   

Elizabeth Cardenas Lopez,

6/30 
Markay Winston, Gre Start Date 10/08/2013 a 0 /2014 imeline

Assigned to

 

 

 

 

 

 

The District will be vigilant to remain abreast of the national conversation regarding special populations and the CCSS,
Comments actively seek partnerships and resources to ensure that guides and supports for varied learner profiles are as robust and
current as possible.

 

Task Completed

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

January 22, 2014

92

77

 

 

 

Use of Mathematics Performance Tasks: Beginning and End of Year Performance Tasks that will be used to measure student growth as well as teacher effectiveness.

 

 

 

Assigned to Jessica Fulton Start Date 07/01/2013 End Date 06/30/2014 ?Timeline 

 
   

 

  

      

 
 

. meteaae?t?esm?esis)

    

 

 

In parallel with the 3-year CPS Bridge Plan for Mathematics, Beginning and End of Year performance tasks will be chosen from
a bank of MARS Tasks, which demand the type of substantial chains of reasoning and non-routine problem solving that
exemplify CCSS-M expectations. The selection of tasks will be led each year by the District in close collaboration with
Comments teachers. These assessments will include native language assessments, when possible, beginning with assessments in Spanish.
They will be used to measure student growth in mathematics in grades K-12. These assessments will also be used for teacher
evaluation. Teachers will also use MARS tasks formatively as interim assessments to inform planning and methods of
instruction.

 

Task Completed

 

 

 

Development of Literacy Performance Tasks: Beginning and End-of-Year Performance Tasks that will be used to measure student growth as well as teacher effectiveness along with

 

 

Assigned to Green

   
  
  

 

       

 

quarterly benchmark assessments
1 Start Date 107/01 /2012 End Date {06/30/2013 timeline i

 

 

Beginning and End-of-Year performance tasks along with quarterly benchmark assessments will be developed by the District
and in close collaboration with teachers to measure student growth in reading and writing in grades K-12. The beginning and
Comments end-of-year assessments will also be used for teacher evaluation. These assessments will include native language assessments,

when possible, beginning With assessments in Spanish. Teachers will develop end-of-unit performance tasks using sample
models provided by the District and will use student performance to inform planning and methods of instruction.

 

Task Completed

 

 

 

 

 

 

Development of CPS Literacy Content Framework: Planning Guides and sets of samples tools (literacy curriculum maps, unit plans, performance assessments, scoring tools and
lesson plans) to support district-wide implementation of Common Core.

 

 

 

January 22, 2014

93

78

Assigned to Elizabeth Cardenas Lopez [Start Date '07/01/2012

 

End Date ?06/30/2013 ?lTimeline I

 

      
 

 

  
  

BudgetE'iFundi?n??Source?81l5

 

 

The Literacy Content Framework will be developed using a backwards design and standards based model and it will apply

Universal Design Principles for curriculum and instruction. The District will provide literacy planning guides teachers will be
required to use to map their year-long instructional plans. Sample instructional tools such as curriculum maps, unit plans and

Comments . . . .

performance assessments Will be available to teachers to support successful implementation of the Common Core. Teachers

will identify standard based outcomes for all learners and will engage in the process of developing their own unit plans,

performance tasks and scoring tools in teacher teams in schools across the District starting in June 2012.

 

Task Completed

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Implement

 

Percent Tasks Completed 0%

 

Objective Status

 

 

 

 

Professional development is built into the school schedule by the district, but the school is allowed discretion in selecting training and Status
consultation that fit the requirements of its improvement plan and its evolving needs. (34) . 
IC07 Title I Expectations: Describe how the district will coordinate programs under Title I and Title II to provide professional development Full Implementation
for teachers and principals, and, if appropriate, pupil services personnel, administrators, parents and other staff, including district level 01/10/2014

staff. (See Sections 1118 1119(h))

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Assessment

 

Level of Development Initial: Full Implementation

 

 

January 22, 2014

94

79

 

Evidence that this indicator has been
fully and effectively implemented:

 

Each year the district dedicates days to professional development. This school year there were 3 full days prior to the start of school and one day at the end
of the year dedicated to teacher in-service workshops or equivalent professional educational experiences such as educational gatherings, demonstrations of
instructional materials, visitation of/ to other schools, institutions or facilities. In addition to those four days, each school received five and one half days to
use for school improvement and school professional development. Teachers were also given one and a half days to use at their discretion for individual
professional development needs. Each school is required to submit to their Network a professional development calendar listing the areas that they will be
addressing for the following school year. Next year, it is our intent to extend the school day and school year as we address student achievement needs. Next
year, there will be a total of 10 professional development days. Five of these days will occur before the school year begins?two of which can be used over the
summer for planning in teacher teams. There will be four days during the school year for data analysis and planning and then one day at the end of the year.
Additionally, schools will have time for weekly collaboration time during the school day and after students are dismissed for professional development. Schools
have the autonomy to use their professional development time and resources flexibly, to meet staff needs. While professional development is planned at the
discretion of the school to meet its own needs, Network and central offices provide professional development resources and offerings aligned with district
priorities. Specifically, the Office of Professional Learning has developed a core set of professional development modules aligned to major district priorities
(CCSS and REACH, for example) that can be used at the Network and school levels. The Office of Professional Learning is in the midst of developing additional
modules that align to the components of the new CPS Framework for teaching. Additionally, specialized departments also offer professional development for
particular groups of teachers that may need support beyond what a school can provide. For example, the Department of Language and Cultural Education
offers a variety of professional development opportunities for teachers of linguistically and culturally diverse students, including training for
teachers to become certified to administer the English language proficiency screeners and the annual assessment of ELLs ACCESS, and implementation of CCSS
and WIDA. also offers Bilingual Lead Teachers (BLTs) four (4) quarterly forums per year. In these meetings, BLTs receive training on operational and
instructional components, methods of teaching, differentiation of instruction and use of assessments. communicates the expectation that information
disseminated during these forums should be taken back to the schools and delivered to all school staff, and makes efforts to prepare BLTs and provide resources
for them to provide site-level professional development and supports. Additionally, is partnering with the Department of Literacy to ensure that
professional development focused on the implementation of the Common Core standards incorporates principles of instruction for linguistic diversity and the
language and academic needs of ELLs. Similarly, the Office of Special Education and Supports (OSES) provides professional development for teachers who work
with students with disabilities. They also provide ongoing professional development for case managers on issues related to quality implementation of special
education services, IEP development, and compliance issues. The Office of Early Childhood Education, in collaboration with and OSES has provided
Special Interest Groups (SIG) for teachers of children who are eligible for ELL services and for teachers requesting strategies for working with children who
have mild language and speech concerns In addition, multiple 5 part SIG are provided for both teachers and assistants along with presentations by national
early childhood experts and poster sessions by superior early childhood teachers. Offerings and schedules were modified for the 12-13 school year providing
for early childhood content trainings in early literacy and mathematics as well as strategies for working with children with special needs and ells. These
activities will be made available to schools on an as needed basis. In addition PD, Information Sessions, and SIG activities will be provided for Networks

as requested.

 

 

 

 

January 22, 2014

95

City of Chicago SD 299 80
1/13/2014 9:58:47 PM District Continuous Improvement Plan with SOW

 

. Status
I 08 .Staff development is built into the schedule for support staff aides, clerks, custodians, cooks) as well as classroom teachers. (35)

HQT Expectation: Staff development is used to support getting all teachers highly qualified. Full Implementation

 

 

01/09/2014

 

 

 

Assessment 

 

 

Level of Development Initial: Full Implementation

 

Principals build into the professional learning cycle, where appropriate, time for support staff to engage in learning that aligns and applies to their work needs.
Principals also provide release time for role-specific professional development opportunities clerks will attend Oracle training which is specific to their
role and responsibilities, Bilingual Lead Teachers attend quarterly forums organized by Case managers attend meetings organized by ODLSS).
fully and effectivelyimplemented: Teachers have collaboration time each week and meet with other teachers and instructional support staff special education resource teachers,
counselors, bilingual teachers, art teachers) to plan for instruction, review data, and discuss strategies to address students' needs. Principals also include

Evidence that this indicator has been

 

 

the full staff in whole staff meetings or development for matters that affect the entire school community.

 

 

 

January 22, 2014

City of Chicago SD 299
1/13/201410:00:24 PM District Continuous improvement Plan with RTIT3 sow 8?

Reports - Comprehensive Report

 

 

The school district's teacher and principal evaluation systems will incorporate both professional practice and student growth and

evaluation information is used to improve educator effectiveness.

RT3 Expectations: The school district will implement PERA's teacher evaluation requirements on a timeline that is at least as aggressive In Plan

RT3-1 as the following: (1) for Chicago Public Schools, when required by (2) by September 1, 2014 for Participating LEAs within the lowest RT3 0 of 10 tasks completed
performing 20% of districts, as defined by or (3) by September 1, 2015 for all other school districts. Participating LEAs must

implement PERA with a "no stakes" student growth component by September 1, 2013. The district must also establish a formal peer

evaluation system that is used for a significant portion of summative evaluations and can be used as part of evaluations during teacher

remediation. The district must use positive performance evaluations as one of the criteria for selecting peer evaluators.

Status

 

 

 

 

 

 

Assessment

Level of Development Initial: Partial Development/ Implementation

 

96

 

Index:

3

(Priority Score Opportunity Score)

 

Priority Score:

3

(3 - highest, 2 - medium, 1 - lowest)

 

Opportunity Score:

(3 - relatively easy to address, 2 - accomplished within current policy and budget conditions, 1 - requires changes in current policy and

budget conditions)

 

 

The new teacher evaluation system, REACH Students, will expand to include all teachers in 2013-14. REACH Students was implemented for non-tenured
teachers in 2012- 13, resulting in summative ratings being issued to non-tenured teachers in summer 2013. In 2013-14 tenured teachers in the two lowest
levels of performance in 2011- 2012, will receive a summative rating being issued' in summer 2014. In 2013- 14, CPS will begin the process of evaluating tenured
teachers in the two highest performance levels in 2011- 12 as part of a biennial cycle of evaluation, which will result in a summative rating being issued in
summer 2015. The summative rating for all teachers 15 comprised of 75% teacher practice and 25% student growth. The new principal evaluation system was
implemented for all principals in 2012-13. Principal practice was evaluated based on two formal observations completed by a network chief or deputy chief,
who supervise the principals. Multiple measures were used to determine student growth. A new school quality review process and principal incentives were
developed and aligned to the principal evaluation measures. The summative rating was comprised of 50% principal practice and 50% student growth measures.

Current level of development or
implementation:

 

 

 

 

Plan 

 

1

I Assigned To Alicia Winckler
I

January 22, 2014

97

82

 

How it will look when fully met:

This objective will be met when all teachers and principals are evaluated under the new systems
and the information is used to improve professional practice and student outcomes. Teacher
and principal evaluation information will be used to inform professional learning
opportunities. There will be a collaborative learning environment among teachers, principals,
and network chiefs. Collegial conversations will occur regularly between principals and
teachers and among teachers about improving instruction as defined by the CPS Framework for
Teaching. Collegial conversations will also occur between network chiefs and principals
focused on improving school leadership and student outcomes. Teachers and principals will
experience differentiated professional development and coaching opportunities. Teachers and
principals will focus on the CPS Vision of ensuring all students graduate prepared for success in
college, career, and life.

Both teachers and principals will understand the CPS multiple measures of effectiveness and will
utilize them to guide improvement. A new individual teacher evaluation report was developed
and disseminated in September 2013, accompanied by webinars and school-based team training.
Each report presents teacher practice and student growth measures. The report explains how
the multiple measures are combined for a summative rating. A similar report has been
developed for principals. These data will be used to identify areas in need of improvement.
Professional development opportunities and supporting materials will be developed and used by
teachers and principals to improve effectiveness.

Evaluation results will be used in Talent decisions to ensure all students have access to effective
teachers and school leaders.

 

Target Date:

 

10/01/2015

 

4 Activities through the 2015 calendar year addressing the Expectations.

 

 

 

 

 

2014 Illinois Interactive Report Card, Northern Illinois University, with support from the Illinois State Board of Education.

January 22, 2014

98

83

 

Year 1 - Through June 30, 2012 [District Scope of Work Activities]

Identify PERA joint committee members

Hold informal meetings of PERA joint committee

Convene Joint committee

Develop local evaluation plan, including student growth measures
Train all evaluators

 

Year 2 - Through June 30, 2012 [District Scope of Work Activities]

Identify PERAjoint committee members 

Hold informal meetings of PERA joint committee

Convene Joint committee

Develop local evaluation plan, including student growth measures
Train all evaluators

 

Year 3 - July 1, 2012 through June 30, 2013 [District Scope of Work Activities]

Implement PERA for teacher evaluations With "no stakes" student growth component
Implement PERA for principal evaluations

 

Year 4_ - July 1, 2012 through June 30, 2013 [District Scope of Work Activities]

implement PERA for teacher evaluations with "no stakes? student growth component
Implement PERA for principal evaluations

 

Year 5 #?July 2013-(through June so, 2014' [District scape or work?Activities]
Continued implementation for teacher?evaluationsl A A 0

Continued PERA implementation for principal evaluations
Convene joint committee to discuss a peer evaluation system

 

Year 6 - July 1, 2013 through June 30, 2014 [District Scope of Work Activities]

Continued PERA implementatidn for teacher evaluations
Continued PERA implementation for principal evaluations
Convene joint committee to discuss a peer evaluation system

 

3Year 7 July 1, 2014 is December 22, 2015 [District Scope of Work Activities] 
Continued PERA implementation fer teacher evaluations A 
Continued PERA implementation for principal evaluations

Convene joint committee to discuss a peer evaluation system

 

 

Year 8 - July 1, 2014?to December 22, 2015 [District Scope of Work Activities]

 

January 22, 2014

99

84

Continued PERA implementation for teacher evaluations
Continued PERA implementation for principal evaluations
Convene joint committee to discuss a peer evaluation system

 

 

Funds

 

Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4 Total
Through June 30, 2012 July 1, 2012 - June 30, 2013 July 1, 2013 - June 30, 2014 July 1, 2014 to December 22, 2015

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Tasks

 

CERTIFICATION: Ensure all principals are ISBE-certified to conduct teacher evaluation. Ensure all chiefs are ISBE-certified to conduct principal evaluation.

 

 
 

Assigned to Amanda Smith Start Date 08/01/2013 End Date 06/30/2014 Timeline 1

 

 

Comments

 

Task Completed

 

 

 

DATA ANALYSIS: Conduct a variety of analyses on teacher and principal evaluation data to focus efforts on high leverage improvements.

 

 

 

Start Date 07/01/2013 i 10/31/2015 Timeline

 

 

 

Comments

 

Task Completed

 

 

 

 

PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT (TEACHERS): Align professional development to teacher needs identified through the new evaluation system. Develop resources aligned to the CPS
Framework for Teaching, and make them accessible online. Connect individual teachers to workshops and/ or online tools targeted to their specific needs for improvement as

 

 

 

 

January 22, 2014

85

 

identified by the evaluation process.

 

 

Assigned to Susan Kaijwara-Ansai Start Date 07/01/2013 End Date 06/30/2014 Timeline

 

    

 

 

Comments

 

Task Completed

 

 

 

100

PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT (PRINCIPALS): Align professional development to principal needs identified through an analysis of 2012-13 data. Provide differentiated leadership
development through the Chicago Executive Leadership Academy. Strengthen implementation of REACH Students, with an emphasis on extending principal capacity to engage in

collegial conversations with teachers about improving teaching practice.
Pa tt el t/Ro mar
Assigned to Heap; 0 se Start Date 07/01/2013 End Date ?06/30/2014 ?Timeline 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Comments

 

Task Completed

 

 

 

 

COMMUNICATION: Establish REACH Ambassadors in every school for the purpose of improving communication about REACH Students. Develop resources and tools including webinars,
newsletters, and joint events with the CTU. Analysis of 2012-13 data suggests the following communication needs: improve teacher understanding of multiple measures of
effectiveness, connect the CPS Framework for Teaching to the implementation of Common Core Standards and clarify Talent implications of the new evaluation system. Work with
the Principal Advisory Board to address communication gaps.

 

 

 

 

 

Assigned to Michael Herring Start Date 07/01/2013 1 End Date 06/30/2014 1 Timeline 

 

    

  

 

Comments

 

 

January 22, 2014

86

 

 

Task Completed 1

 

 

EXPANDING REACH STUDENTS: Implement new frameworks to evaluate Related Service Providers, including social workers
and occupational/physical therapists.

nurses, speech and language pathologists,

 

Assigned to Michael Herring/ Kelli Easterly Start Date 1 07/01/2013 End Date 06/30/2014 Timeline 

 

   

  

      

 

 

Comments

 

Task Completed

 

 

 

101

RESEARCH: Participate in the PERA Based Research study. Participate in the Consortium on Chicago School Research study on REACH Students

Assigned to iAmanda Smith Start Date 1 07/01/2013 End Date 11/30/2013 Timeline 

 

 

 

      

 

 
 

 

 

Comments

 

Task Completed

 

 

 

 

JOINT COMMITTEE: A Joint Committee on Teacher Evaluation, made up of CPS and CTU leaders, meets biweekly to address procedural questions, develop materials and teacher
professional learning opportunities, and facilitate implementation of REACH Students. A subcommittee will research exemplary peer observation programs across the country in
order to inform the development of a peer observation program in Chicago.

Assigned to Paulette Poncelet Start Date I 07/01 /2013 End Date 1 02/28/2015 Timeline?j

 

 

 

 

    
 

 

    
   

 

 

Comments 

 

 

January 22, 2014

102

87

 

(Task Completed i

 

REFINING MULTIPLE MEASURES: Study 2012-13 teacher and principal evaluation data and results and refine multiple measures accordingly.

 

 

    
 

  

Assigned to John Barker End Date 06/30/2014

 

 

Comments

 

Task Completed

 

 

 

REFLECT AND LEARN: Coordinate district-wide roll out of new online system that will facilitate teacher and principal observation process, generate reports to monitor observations
and identify professional learning needs, and disseminate teacher and principal evaluation summary reports.

 

 

Assigned to Rannon Harris

 

   

 

 

 

  

Start Date 07/01 /201 3 End Date I 12/31 /2015 I Timeline

 

10

 

 

 

Comments

 

Task Completed

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

?3 Implement

 

 

Percent Tasks Completed 0%

 

Objective Status

 

 

 

 

 

January 22, 2014

103

88

 

 

 

The district will provide induction and mentoring supports to all beginning teachers and principals. Status
RT3-2 RT3 Expectations: The district will establish a one-year induction and mentoring program for beginning principals and a two-year RT3
induction and mentoring program for beginning teachers, subject to the availability of or State funding. In addition, the district

uses positive performance evaluations as one of the criteria for selecting mentors. 0 of 15 tasks completed

In Plan

 

 

 

 

Assessment

 

Level of Development

Initial: Partial Development/ Implementation

 

Index:

2 (Priority Score Opportunity Score)

 

Priority Score:

2 (3 - highest, 2 - medium, 1 - lowest)

 

Opportunity Score:

1 (3 - relatively easy to address, 2 - accomplished within current policy and budget conditions, 1 - requires changes in current policy and
budget conditions)

 

 

Current level of development or
implementation:

 

 

The teacher evaluation system, REACH Students, incorporates as measures of teacher effectiveness both professional practice using the CPS Framework for
Teaching and student growth. Student growth is 25% of the teachers? summative evaluation in 2013-14. The new teacher evaluation system was launched in
all CPS schools in the 2012-2013 school year. All PATs and TATs are evaluated and given a summative rating under the new teacher evaluation system. in 2013-
2014 Tenured teachers who were previously rated unsatisfactory/satisfactory will be evaluated and given a summative rating under the new teacher
evaluation system. The district is still developing a plan for a formal peer evaluation system.The principal evaluation system utilizes the new CPS principal
competencies as the basis for the effective practice component. The CPS principal competencies align with the new principal practice expectations cited by
ISBE principal best practice. The new principal evaluation system will meet or exceed the expectations of utilizing student growth as part of the evaluation
system as laid out in PERA. The prinicpal evaluation system was launched districtwide in 2012-13.

 

 

Plan

 

1 Assigned To

Susan Kai jwara-Ansai

 

 

 

Principal Induction/Mentoring: CPS will have fully implemented
the Chicago Leadership Collaborative (CLC) which will own
responsibility for developing aspiring principals, inducting new
principal hires, and providing mentoring/coaching support for
the first year as a principal. This will provide a seamless
system of development and support for aspiring and new
principals. Mentor principals who work with aspiring principals

 

 

 

January 22, 2014

104

89

 

and principal coaches who work with first-year principals will
be identified and selected based on their past experience in
generating student results. They will also be selected and
assessed on their past experience and ability to mentor/ coach
others to produce student results.

Teacher Induction/Mentoring: All new teachers in their first
year of teaching will receive sufficient induction and mentoring
support through NTC in alignment with other district

resources. This will increase teacher job satisfaction and
effectiveness, which will improve retention.

How it will look when fully met:

 

Target Date: 08/31/2015

 

 

Activities through the 2015 calendar year addressing the Expectations.

 

Year 1 - Through June 30, 2012 [DistrictScope of Work Activities]

 

Year 2 - Through June30, 2012 [District scope of Work Activities]

 

Year 3 - July 1, 2012 through June 30, 2013 [District Scope of Work Activities]

 

Year 4 - July 1, 2012 through June 30, 2013 [District scope or Work Activities] 

 

Year 5 - July 1, 2013 through December 22, 2015 [District Scope of Work Activities]

 

Year 6 - July 1, 2013 through December 22, 2015 [District Scope of work Activities]

 

 

i I: Funds

 

Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4

Through June 30, 2012 July 1, 2012 - June 30, 2013 July 1, 2013 - June 30, 2014 July 1, 2014 to December 22, 2015 Total

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Tasks

 

 

 

Recruit 100 new aspiring principal interns to participate in one of the principal preparation programs aligned to the CLC for the 2012-13, 2013-14, and 2014-15 school years.

 

 

 

January 22, 2014

105

90

 

  

Executive Director of the
Chicago Leadership Colla

Assigned to

Start Date 07/01 /2012 End Date 06/23/2016 Timeline

 

 

 

 

Comments

 

Task Completed

 

 

Enter into agreements with external partners to train

all mentor principals who will be mentoring/coaching aspiring principal interns during their residency.

 

 

Executive Director of the

Assigned to

 

Chicago Leadership Colla

 

Start Date 07/01/2012 End Date 12/31/2015 Timeline

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Comments

Every aspiring principal in a CLC principal preparation program will be assigned a mentor principal, who will provide support
and development opportunities throughout the internship. Mentor principals will receive training through one of several
external partners University of Illinois-Chicago, Teach for America, New Leaders for New Schools, Loyola University) to
norm them in CLC and principal preparation program expectations. Training will also include understanding the CPS principal
competencies, of which aspiring principals will be expected to master prior to securing a principalship in Chicago Public
Schools. A $5,000 stipend will be provided to all trained mentor principals working with an aspiring principal affiliated with one
of the CLC principal preparation programs. Stipends will be provided in two increments of $2,500 at the end of each semester
according to the CPS 2012-13 school year.

 

Task Completed

 

 

Develop a tool that will assess aspiring principal/ intern or first-year principal?s leadership development and mastery of the CPS principal competencies.

 

 

Executive Director of the
Assigned to

 

 

 

 

 

 

Chicago Leadership Colla

 

 

      

  

Start Date End Date 06/30/2013

 

 

 

 

 

January 22, 2014

106

 

 

 

Comments

A rubric or assessment tool will be created to provide clarity and description for the CPS principal competencies. This tool
can be used for self-assessment, as well as for development purposes for first-year principals and coaches. The tool will
explicitly demonstrate varying levels of mastery and provide concrete examples of each level as it relates to the principal.

 

Task Completed

 

 

Enter into an agreement with the New Teacher Center to provide principal induction services.

 

Assigned to

Executive Director of the
Chicago Leadership Colla

Start Date 07/01 /2012 End Date 06/30/2016 Timeline

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Comments

Any first-year principal new to the principalship will have principal induction and mentoring services for their first year in the
role, as defined by the ISBE New Principal requirements. Services will include at least 50 hours of face-to-face executive
leadership coaching, 20 hours of professional development, and at least one Illinois Administrators Academy course. NTC will
develop and execute a series of initial and on-going support aligned to ISBE New Principal requirements to provide necessary
development for first-year principal development. At least 50 hours of executive one-on-one coaching and mentoring will

focus on new principal?s development plans. At least four professional development sessions, including at least one Illinois
Administrators Academy course, engaging new principals in sharing best practices to create professional learning

communities and networks of support and growth. NTC will select and train mentors for induction and coaching services from
their own leadership/ coaching training model.

 

Task Completed

 

 

 

Provide mentoring for all 1st and 2nd year teachers

 

Assigned to

Herman Reeves

 

 

  

- 3 Start Date

 

  

 

 

1 Timeline

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

January 22, 2014

92

Comments

 

Task Completed

 

 

 

Provide induction/mentoring updates for Central Office, Chiefs and Principals

11/01/2013 1 End Date 07/31 /2016 lTimeline 

 

 

Assigned to Herman Reeves Start Date

 

  
 

 

 

Comments

 

Task Completed

 

 

 

107

Provide New Teacher Academies from August - January

  

 

 

 

Assigned to Herman Reeves Start Date 08/01 /201 3

     
   

Timeline

 

 

 

 

 

Comments

 

Task Completed

 

 

 

 

 

          

  
  

Review teacher data to ensure supports are working and to inform what other supports are needed
2013

Assigned to Herman Reeves 1 Start Date 1 08/01/

 

[EndD

ate 08/31/2016

 

      

  

 

 

Comments

 

Task Completed

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

January 22, 2014

93

 

 

Provide professional development

 

 

 

     

Assigned to Herman Reeves Start Date 107/01 /201 3 End Date 08/31 /2-016 Timeline

 

  
    
  

get unding A

 

Comments

 

Task Completed

 

 

 

Collaborate with CTU regarding the use of positive performance evaluations as one of the criteria for selecting mentors for teachers

 

 

 

 

 

 

Assigned to Susan Kaijwara-Ansai Start Date 12/ 31 2013 End Date 06/ 30/2014 Timeline

 

 

    
   

    

      

 

108

 

Comments

 

Task Completed

 

 

 

Build district internal capacity on coaching skills and strategies

 

     

 

 

Assigned to Herman Reeves 1 08/31/2016

 

 

 

 

Comments

 

Task Completed

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Hire mentors using positive performance evaluations as one of the criteria.

 

 

 

January 22, 2014

94

 

   

Herman Reeves

Assigned to Start Date 07/01/2015

 

 

 

 

 

Comments

 

Task Completed

 

 

 

109

Develop a review process that breaks down supports and effectiveness of first year and 2nd year teachers and their retention rates

 

 

 

Herman Reeves Start Date (07/01/2014 JEnd Date ?07/31/2015 Timeline

 

 

Assigned to

    
 

      

 

 

Comments

 

 

Task Com leted


 

 

14

Continued PERA implementation for teacher evaluations

Assigned to Susan Kaijwara-Ansai

 

 

 

 

    

 

 

 

06/30/2014 aneune 

 

Comments

 

Task Completed

 

 



Continued PERA implementation for principal evaluation

Susan Kaijwara-Ansai Start Date i07/ 01 /2013

 

 

   

 

 

  

 

Assigned to

jTimeline 1

  

 

 

 

 

 

January 22, 2014

110

 

 

Comments

 

Task Completed

 

 

 

 

 

Implement

 

Percent Tasks Completed 0%

 

 

Objective Status

 

 

 

 

 

January 22, 2014

111

96

ELL Template for Title AMAOs

 

For Title District Improvement Plan (DIP), the district must provide strategies and activities needed to ensure that ELLs meet Annual Measureable Achievement Objectives (AMAOs). Please note

that required Title DIP for districts that did not meet AMAOs for 2 consecutive years are different from the DIP fer districts that did not meet AMAOs for 4 consecutive years. (Title Public Law
107-110 SEC. 3122 Accountability)

Please Note: Rising Star currently has 6 indicators under Comprehensive Planning which are identified as ELL (ell). These six indicators are supported by a corresponding ELL - specific, evidence based

Wise Way and should be used for the Title DIP. However, districts also need to use the other fourteen indicators under SmartStart (SS) and SmartPlan (SP) as they apply to their planning goals for
improving the outcomes of English Language Learners.

Requirements for districts that did not meet AMAOs for 2-3 consecutive years:

The DIP shall specifically address the factors that prevented the district from achieving Title AMAOs targets 1(progress), (proficiency), and/or 3 (AYP for LEPs). The district must describe
objectives and strategies that will ensure that the district meets such objectives.

Requirements for districts that did not meet AMAOs for 4 or more consecutive years:

The District shall provide strategies and activities needed to ensure that ELLs meet AMAOs. The district must modify curriculum, instruction, and program to improve English Language Proficiency
(ELP) and academic achievement of ELL students in the district. First, the district must analyze the reasons that the previous DIP did not achieve the desired results. Then, describe the objectives
and strategies of the new or modified curriculum, instruction, and program supported by scientifically based research to improve ELP and academic achievement of ELL students in the district.

Directions:

Districts that did not meet Title AMAOs for 4 consecutive years must modify their program, curriculum, and instruction to ensure that ELLs meet AMAOs in future. Therefore, the district must
address all of the questions below. However, districts that did not make Title AMAOs for 2 or 3 consecutive years should address those questions that apply to their plan for improvement.

:yModification of Programs (Models)

 

1. Explain why the current ELL program model(s) should be modified to improve English language proficiency and academic achievement of ELL students in your district.

2. Indicate the new or modified program models that the district will implement.

 

Program models Self-contained Push-In Pull-Out Team Teaching Others

 

Transitional Bilingual Education

 

Dual Language/Two Way Immersion


it

 

Developmental Bilingual

I)
,3
fl) En:
in:


 

Sheltered English Instruction

 

?0
II)
0
ID

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

January 22, 2014

112

97

 

English as a Second Language

1?0

 

Content Based English as a Second Language

'03 {'41

 

Content Area Tutoring

i?

 

Newcomer Center

inOther Program models, please describe

Self-contained

Push-In

Pull-Out

Team Teaching

Others

 

Three schools in the district began implementing new dual language programs
over the last three years. Four additional schools have formed professional
Learning Communities and in some cases Dual Language Leadership Teams to
begin dual language program planning. 

 

 

Five schools are piloting the Quality Teaching for English Learners (QTEL)
professional development initiative. QTEL builds teachers' expertise in quality
instruction for ELLs by engaging them with research-based parctice that
supports students' academic and lingustic development. The model stresses the
use of scaffolding and supports to meet the specific learning needs of ELLs in a
high-challenge, high-support environment

 

Twenty-eight schools are piloting E.L. Achieve, a focused approach to
instruction for English Language Learners that explicitly builds receptive and
expressive language by connecting reading, writting, listening and speaking.

19..

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

proficiency and academic achievement of ELL students in your district.

 

3. Describe the objectives and strategies of the new or modified program model(s), supported by scientifically based research, that the district will implement to improve the English language

 

 

Curriculum

 

 

1. Explain why the current ELL curriculum should be modified to improve English language proficiency and academic achievement of ELL students in your district.

2. Describe how the district will implement the new or modified curriculum to improve the English language proficiency and academic achievement of ELL students in your district.

CPS does not mandate curriculum for individual schools, but it does recommend research-based instructional materials and instructional best practices for ELLs. The essential vehicle for

 

January 22, 2014

113

98

 

implementation of the additive bilingual approach will focus on building capacity through professional development targeting network ISLs, school principals as instructional leaders, bilingual and ESL
teachers, and general education teachers serving newcomers (in particular those from low-incidence languages) ELLs and former ELLs, We also intend to establishing stronger collaboration with
networks Instructional Support Leaders (ISLs) and chiefs. .

The district will systematically identify and recommend research-based models and instructional best practice to principals and teachers, providing resources at professional development sessions and
making them available online. A starting point is including guidelines and recommended resources in the Department of Language and Cultural Education?s Bilingual Handbook.

3. Describe the process for ensuring that the new or modified curriculum will be aligned with standards-based objectives and criteria.

All CPS curricula are aligned with the Illinois State Standards, and are in the process of being aligned with the Common Core Standards (CCSS). In the 2012-2013 academic year, 60 schools that are
?early adopters" of CCSS will continue to work closely with and the Department of Literacy to ensure consistency of programs for ELLs with standard-based curriculum. A subgroup of bilingual
teachers from the early adopter schools will function as a professional learning community/work group to review, analyze, modify and hone curricular units and other instructional tools that emerge
from the early adopters work through the lens of language learners, to ensure that there is alignment to WIDA ELD standards (and SALSA standards where necessary).

To complement the newly developed (CCSS-aligned) CPS Literacy Content Framework, the Office of Specialized Education Services and the Department of Literacy are collaborating on
developing further guidance, resources, and tools to assist teachers in considering diverse learner profiles at the forefront of planning CCSS-aligned units. All network teams have received
professional development from Harvard University on Universal Design for Learning and are designing professional development to facilitate the incorporation of the UDL principles into the standards-
based curriculum planning. Central office departments will support and build capacity of the network teams with tools and professional development (using ?train-the-trainer? or co-facilitation
models). By collaborating with direct liaisons at the network offices in critical areas of Special Education, Education of ELLs, and Early Childhood Education, central office departments will be better
able to determine particular needs at the local levels to them target and tailor supports in implementing standards based curriculum and instruction.

CPS is in the process of selecting thematic text-sets that are aligned to CCSS to be offered as a supplement to current language arts curriculum. has been involved in the selection process to
ensure that the sets reflect appropriate choices for teachers to align instruction based on students English language proficiency levels according to WIDA ELD standards, and that the rigor and
complexity of Spanish language texts are parallel to the Common Core literacy standards for English.

CPS has been invited to participate in the national ?Understanding Language? initiative based out of Stanford that ?aims to heighten educator awareness of the critical role that language plays in the
new Common Core State Standards and Next Generation Science Standards.? District participation in this work may include reviewing exemplars and other resources for instruction that is based on
CCSS and is tailored to meet the instructional needs of ELLs.

and the Department of Literacy are also collaborating on development of a district language and literacy framework to facilitate curriculum planning and instructional practices that address
the language needs of all students. In addition, will develop a calendar of PD activities targeting school and network staff on topics related to the alignment of the newly adopted CCSS, WIDA
ELD and SALSA standards and other issues related directly to effective instructional methodology.

 

Instruction

 

1. Describe how the district modifies and/or changes instruction to improve English language proficiency and academic achievement of ELL students in your district.

 

 

January 22, 2014

114

City of Chicago SD 299
1/10/201412:o9:32 PM District Continuous Improvement Plan with sow 99

The district is in the process of creating clear guidelines for consistent, continuous, high-quality instruction for ELLs across the different bilingual program models schools may choose. is
engaged in a partnership with the Pilsen Little Village Network to develop well-defined bilingual education program models and provide the professional development and program supports needed to
implement these models. The program models include dual language education, traditional TBE, late-exit TBE programs, and programs that add a heritage language component after students have
transitioned out of TBE so that they continue developing two languages. We will be using findings from this partnership to support other networks in defining and improving their bilingual programs.

In addition, has piloted the Quality Teaching for English Learners whole school professional development model that prepares principals and all teachers (bilingual and general education) to
provide rigorous, scaffolded instruction for ELLs in all content areas and in any language.

Currently most schools serving ELLs have a Bilingual Lead Teacher (BLT) or a person designated by the school principal whose role is to support instruction, coordinate program implementation and
advise school leadership on decisions affecting ELLs. schedules quarterly forums for the BLTs each school year in which they collaborate in planning activities to assist their colleagues and
students, as well as receive district updates and technical support. Themes include lesson planning, time distribution, assessments, and leadership skill-building. For FY2013, will implement a
new approach to our current BLT forums. The planning and content of the BLT forums will be developed as a joint effort between and Network staff. This approach will ensure that network
staff dealing directly with schools understand the importance of meeting the cognitive and linguistic needs of the district's ELL population. Furthermore, by establishing this joint effort the district
ensures clear means of communication between network and central staff that will clearly benefit the ELL population.

2. Describe the process for ensuring that the district aligns ELL instruction with standards and provides instruction/ activities that meet the needs of ELLs.

is participating in a series of "Grade Level Release Days" organized by the Department of Literacy to prepare teachers in "Early Adopter" school in the development of unit plans and
performance assessments aligned with CCSS. Bilingual Specialists serve as facilitators on these release days.

This year BLTs will participate in Professional Learning Community meetings. Their charge is to promote new instructional models for ELLs, and integrate these models into the district's CCSS.
In addition, The Department of Literacy has already presented about the CCSS and Illinois English Language Proficiency in the last quarterly BLT forum.

To support the networks in developing strong leadership and expertise on bilingual education, the district is in the process of creating a plan that will place bilingual specialists in every network.
These specialists will be funded, trained and managed by to ensure that they are highly qualified and can move forward the central vision for additive bilingual education. Among the many
responsibilities these new positions will be accountable for are: working in collaboration with network staff to develop a network plan for bilingual programs, structuring professional development

activities for bilingual and general education teachers on research-based instructional practices, aligning of instruction and Illinois learning standards and CCSS, modeling effective instruction for
ELLs and others to be developed

3. Describe how individual ELL student assessments will be used to guide instruction.

A range of available instruments for assessing individual ELL students are already being used to guide instruction. These include ACCESS, and Teachers rely on the data from these
assessments to design differentiated instruction for ELLs, including grouping most effective for promoting language development. The district is currently exploring assessment tools in native
languages; Schools have recently volunteered to pilot the EDL2 as a formative assessment tool for Spanish literacy, using the data to enhance Spanish literacy instruction and inform teachers of
English literacy about the native literacy skills so that they can be thoughtful in building upon these assets and facilitating cross-linguistic transfer. The district is anticipating the availability of the
PODER assessment as a tool to determine students' Spanish language development levels and inform more targeted native language instruction in Spanish. In the interim, some networks are working to
pilot the LAS Links assessment for a similar purpose. The district will ensure that data housed in the networks will analyze ELL assessment data and work in collaboration with network

 

 

January 22, 2014

115

1/10/201412209z32 PM

Instructional Support Leaders (lSLs) to develop more effective bilingual program models and instruction for ELLs. For FY2013 the district will ensure each network has a bilingual specialist that will be

working exclusively with each network?s ELL population.

City of Chicago SD 299
District Continuous Improvement Plan with RTIT3 SOW

100

 

 

January 22, 2014

116

For LEAs designated as ?Needs Assistance? for two or more consecutive years (NAZ) under the LEA Determinations process, ISBE, in accordance with Section 616(e) of IDEA and 34 CFR 300.604, must
choose one or more enforcement actions. This year ISBE chose to advise LEAs of available sources of technical assistance that may help address the State Performance Plan (SPP) Indicator area(s) in
which the LEA needs assistance. Therefore, LEAs using Rising Star must complete thefollowing to meet the NA2 requirement.

Fed NAZ Requirement Report

 

LEA Determinations
NAZ Requirement

 

Date:

 

12/19/2013

LEA Name: Chicago Public Schools #299
Superintendent: Barbara Byrd-Bennett
SPP Indicator area(s) for which the LEA needs assistance: Indicators 12,13, and 15

 

 

1. What national or state technical assistance resources did the LEA access to address the SPP Indicator area(s) in which it needs assistance? (Technical assistance resources are available at
and 

 

 



Indicator 12

 

The District utilized all available resources to address the findings identified in indicator 12 including:

ISBE guidance 10-2 Relating to Transitioning from Early Intervention to Early Childhood Special Education Services when Children Turn Three

Designing and Implementing Effective Early Childhood Transition Processes
Overview of Early Childhood Transition Requirements

'When I'm 3, where will I be? - A family's transition workbook"

Early Intervention to Early Childhood Transition FAQs

Early Intervention to Early Childhood Tracking Form

Statewide Collaborative Transition Training Presentation

Early Intervention to Early Childhood Federal Register Citations

Extended School year ServiCes for Students with Disabilities

Early Intervention to Early Childhoods Special Education Transition Memorandum
Child Find Screening Data Collection Form

 

 

January 22, 2014

117

City of Chicago SD 299
1/10/201412:09:02 PM District Continuous Improvement Plan with sow ?02

1 Illinois School District's Responsibility Toward Early Intervention and The Result Of Part of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act
1 Intergovernmental Agreement

Indicator 13

 

Transition Manager reviewed pertinent ISBE documents and sought/seeks ongoing technical assistance from Sue Walter from ISBE regarding compliance with indicator 13.
Illinois State Performance Plan (SPP) Indicator 13 - Desk Audit

Illinois State Performance Plan Indicator 13 - Checklist to Meet Requirements
Secondary Transition and the SPP Indicator 13 Data Verification Rubric

State Performance Indicator 13 Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) Document

NSTTAC evidence based secondary transition practices

NSTTAC Web-based examples and non-examples for indicator 13

NSTTAC age appropriate transition assessment guide

State Performance Plan Indicator 13 FAQs

TOTAL: Transition outreach for adult living training videos

Transition Practices Self-assessment

Illinois SPP Indicator 13 checklist

Recommended consent form for agency invitation for IEP meetings



Indicator 15

 

1 ODLSS continues to participate in regularly scheduled conference calls with the Illinois State Board of Education Assistant Superintendent for Special Education, Beth Hanselman, as a proactive
format for addressing concerns as they arise, including status reports on State Complaints and Due Process Compliance.
1 OSEP FAQ on Identification and Correction (9.03.08)

 

2. What actions did the LEA take as a result of accessing such technical assistance resources? (What policies/procedures/practices were revised to address the SPP indicator area(s) in which the LEA
needs assistance?)

 

Indicator 12

 

1 Convened a team of data to collect information, ?lter information, compare data, contact schools, families, and agencies to ensure
pertinent information is available for enrollment and evaluation purposes

1 Biweekly reports sent to CFCs to track enrollment and completion of cases

1 Established Saturday evaluations to address the increase in referrals for evaluation

 

 

 

January 22, 2014

118

City of Chicago SD 299
1/10/201412:o9:02 PM District Continuous improvement Plan with sow 103

1 Weekly meetings with the data the director for special education, the deputy for instruction, and the chief of?cer to review data,
follow up on issues and create action items to ensure timely evaluations, eligibility determinations, and enrollment of students are complete
Meet regularly with CFCs, advocates, and El groups to address issues and develop action items-to avoid issues in the future

1 Transition Liaison position redefined to School Entry Support Specialist. This was based on recommendations and collaboration with the
CFCs. This is now a year-round position. One additional position added.

1 Engaged community partners to better address this issue, including, but not limited to: The Ounce of Prevention; Disability Advocates;
Access Living; Department of Family and Supports and Services; Head Start City of Chicago.

1 Established an Early Childhood Advisory Group to address issues of noncompliance with early childhood aged evaluations. Through this
advisory group and through the Mayor's Office Taskforce on Education, CPS has committed to establishing and
maintaining 10 dedicated Evaluation Teams to address the influx in referrals and evaluations.

1 Children are now registered for evaluations using IFSPs.

1 27-month list used for outreach to families preparing to transition

1 El to EC Letter and Process Map developed with direct feedback from the CFCs. This letter is mailed to families identi?ed on the 27-month
list to introduce them to the transition process and welcome them transition process was developed in collaboration with the CFCs and DHS including procedures for increased contact with
Service Coordinators during the process from beginning to end.

1 SESSs have provided in-house transition workshops for CFC staff to clarify CPS procedures, discuss challenges, and strengthen
collaboration

1 El provider workshops developed with Starnet

I-t

Indicator 13

Chicago Public Schools has worked very hard to address the findings outlined in indicator 13 of the State Performance Plan, including:

Continued use of data reporting mechanism in IMPACT (July 2012 June 2013)
Informed all case managers of their role in Indicator 13 data collection and reporting (September 2012 June 2013).
Utilized a guidance document instructing schools on how to report outside agency invitation/consent information

Communicated via a memo to the district instructing schools to report information for the current school year by June 30, as well as how to
report this information moving forward.

1 Incorporated the Indicator 13 Rubric into transition training sessions to teach schools how to monitor their own work with this tool in
2012-2013.

1 Provided 1 :1 coaching and support on transition to all schools that had IEPs "desk audited" for Indicator 13 this year. This will continue with



 

 

 

2014 Illinois Interactive Report Card, Northern Illinois University, with support from the Illinois State Board of Education.

January 22, 2014

119

104

 

additional schools as part of our ongoing professional development plans.

1 Accessed and utilized all available resources provided by ISBE in addition to the personnel resources who support the transition services of

students with disabilities.

1 Chicago Public Schools has been supported through direct consultation by Sue Walter, ISBE Statewide Transition Consultant.
1 In addition, we developed a detailed plan for Indicator 13, which included the following activities:

Indicator 13 SFP7 9: Updated transitionplanning guidelines with examples of transition activities and goal writing, with clear
guidance on how both should be considered by the IEP Team and documented during the transition planning part of the IEP meeting,
including the present level of performance in the IEP.

Indicator 13 TPSA SFP8 and COLLABS Transition manager quarterly engaged local (Access Living), city (MOPD), and state

agencies (DRS) in meeting to address participation of CPS students in planned events hosted by the agencies for students and their

families that address career development activities and develop a comprehensive process to ensure that local, city, and state
agencies address the post-school needs of students with disabilities indicated during transition planning.

Indicator 13 TPSA COLLAB3 Administrators, case managers, teachers, parents, and counselors were offered trainings, career fairs,

and resources provided by the Office of Special Education and Supports (OSES) on transition planning in relation to the process of

student-centered transition planning, as well as their various roles in developing and/or implementing the transition plan.

l?

Indicator 15

 

The Office of Special Education and Supports (OSES) has worked to remediate all identified areas of noncompliance. Actions taken in the past
year to remediate findings include:

I-I

Utilized ISBE NSTTAC technical assistance resources to restructure transition department;

Held regular meetings with local STARNET Director and staff to discuss technical assistance available and develop and implement a
planning for utilization.

Developed a plan to refer specific schools/classrooms to STARN ET for targeted technical assistance and to provide targeted workshop
for ECSE staff, evaluations teams and others as needed and based on district data and needs assessments.

Collaborated with Proiect Choices (Earlv Choices) through STARNET to provide additional technical assistance and information.

January 22, 2014

January 22, 2014
The Board Secretary noted for the record that Board Report 14-0122-EX3 will be
Withdrawn from Agenda.
14-0122-EX3
WITHDRAWN

The Board Secretary noted for the record that Board Report 14-0122-EX4 will be
Withdrawn from Agenda.
14-0122-EX4
WITHDRAWN

120

 January 22, 2014

Individual CIWPs and budgets were developed collaboratively at each school with the assistance of the
Network Chiefs of Schools, the Of?ce of Innovation and Incubation, the Academy of Urban School
Leadership (AUSL), the Of?ce of Management and Budget, Local School Councils, parent and
community representatives and school personnel, as applicable. Each school?s CIWP includes speci?c
priorities and strategies, and each school?s budget includes specific expenditures, identified for correcting
educational and operational de?ciencies that resulted in the school being placed on probation or in school
improvement status. As applicable, a Parent Compact and Parent Involvement Plan were appended to
the CIWPs.

Once submitted to the Network Chief of Schools Offices, Of?ce of Innovation and Incubation, or AUSL,
CIWPs were reviewed to ensure that: areas in need of improvement were addressed, the stated targets
and activities were consistent with trend analyses and analysis of current conditions and that plans were
supported by schools' discretionary school improvement (state and federal) funds.

Monitoring of and'support for these CIWPs will be the responsibility of the Network Chief of Schools
Offices, Office of Innovation and Incubation, Of?ce of Strategic School Support Services, or AUSL, as
applicable, with the assistance of the Office of Accountability and the Office of Network Support. The
Network Chief of Schools, Chief of Strategic School Support Services, or the Chief Executive Officer of
AUSL are authorized to modify a probation school?s CIWP as necessary to correct de?ciencies
throughout the school year.

Copies of CIWPs will be available at each school, at each Network Office, and online at 

FINANCIAL: Within budgetary appropriations.

THIS SPACE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK

121

Exhibit A: Schools on Probation or in School Improvement Status

January 22, 2014

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2013-2014
Code School Name Probation Status 2013-2014 Federal Status 2013-2014 State Status
150162990250090 Ace Technical Charter High School Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 3
150162990252051 Addams Elem School Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 4
150162990252850 Albany Park Multicultural Elem Not on Probation Choice Academic Early Warning Year 1
150162990252054 Aldridge Elem School Probation Restructuring FlanrmL Academic Watch Status Year 2
150162990252270 Amandla Elem Charter Choice SES Academic Early Warning Year 2
150162990252912 Ames Middle School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 11
150162990250001 Amundsen High School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 1
150162990252895 Ariel Elem Community Academy Not on Probation Choice SES Academic Early Warnirj?ear 2
150162990252058 Armour Elem School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 11
150162990252059 Elem lnt'L Studies Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 6
150162990252922 Ashbum Community Elem School Not on Probation Restructuring Planning Academic Watch Status Year 2
15016299025243? Ashe Elem School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 11
15016299025214C Passages Elem Charter School Choice Academic Early WarninLYear 1
150162990250080 A?pi? Charter High School Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 5
150162990252061 Attucks Elem School Probation Restructuring implementation Academic Watch Status Year 11
150162990250839 Austin Bus Entrepreneurship HS Probation Restructuring Planning Academic Watch Status Year 2
150162990250840 Austin Polytechnical Academy HS Probation Corrective Action Academic Watch Status Year 1
150162990252063 Avalon Park Elem School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 11
150162990252966 Azuela Elementary School Not on Probation Choice Academic Early Warning Year 2
150162990252066 Barnard Elem Comp Math Sci Not on Probation Restructuring Planning Academic Watch Status Year 2
15016299025206? Barry Elem School Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 5
150162990252068 Barton Elem School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 1
150162990252069 Bass Elem School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 11
150162990252070 Bateman Elem School Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 3
150162990252800 Beasley Elem Magnet Academic Not on Probation Choice Academic Early Warning Year 1
150162990252078 Beaubien Elem School Not on Probation Academic Watch Status Year 2
150162990252079 Beethoven Elem School Probation Corrective Action Academic Watch Status Year 1
150162990252080 Beidler Elem School Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 1
150162990252081 Belding Elem School Not on Probation Choice SES Academic Early Warning Year 2
150162990252923 Belmont-Cragin Elem School Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 3
150162990252083 Bennett Elem School Probation Corrective Action Academic Watch Status Year 1
150162990250003 Bogan High School Not on Probation Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 1
150162990252083 Bond Elem School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 1!
150162990252089 Boone Elem School Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 7
150162990252100 Bouchet Elem Math 8: Science Acad Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 11
150162990250824 Bowen High School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 4
150162990252090 Bradwell Comm Arts Sci Elem Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 11
150162990252093 Brennemann Elem School Not on Probation Corrective Action Academic Watch Status Year 1
150162990252094 Brentano Elem Math Science Acad Not on Probation Choice SES Academic Early Warning Year 2
150162990252095 Bridge Elem School Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 3
150162990252096 Bright Elem School Probation Corrective Action Academic Watch Status Year 1
150162990252870 Brighton Park Elem School Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 8
150162990250834 Bronzeville Scholastic HS Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 3
150162990252220 Bronzeville Lighthouse Elem Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 3
150162990250788 Brooks College Prep Academy HS Not on Probation Corrective Action Academic Watch Status Year 1
15016299025236? Brown Elem Community Acad Not on Probation Corrective Action Academic Watch Status Year 1
150162990252097 Brown Elem School Probation Planning Academic Watch Status Year 2
150162990252098 Brownell Elem School Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 9
150162990252110 Brunson Math Sci Specialty Elem Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 11
150162990252102 Burbank Elem School Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 1
150162990252103 Burke Elem School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 9
15016299025210? Burnside Elem Scholastic Academy Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 3
150162990252109 Burroughs Elem School Not on Probation Corrective Action Academic Watch Status Year 1
150162990252112 Byme Elem School Not on Probation Academic Early Waming Year 1
150162990252113 Caldwell Elem Acad of Math Sci Probation Restructuring Planning Academic Watch Status Year 2
150162990252934 Calmeca Acad Elem School Probation Choice SES Academic Earty Warning Year 2
150162990252118 Cameron Elem School Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 11
150162990252963 Camras Elementary School Not on Probation Choice Academic Earty Warning Year 2
150162990252845 Canter Middle School Probation Planning Academic Watch Status Year 7
150162990252119 Canty Elem School Not on Probation Academic Watch Status Year 1
150162990252783 Cardenas Elem School Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 8
150162990252120 Carnegie Elem Schooi Probation Choice SES Academic Early Warning Year 2
150162990252122 Carroll Elem School Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 5
150162990252876 Carson Elem School Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 4
150162990252123 Carter Elem School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 3

 

 

 

 

 

 

122

January 22, 2014

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2013-2014
Code School Name Probation Status 2013-2014 Federal Status 2013-2014 State Status
150162990252372 Carver Primary School Probation Restructuring Planning Academic Watch Status Year 2
150162990250006 Carver Military Academy HS Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 12
150162990252862 Casals Elem School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 11
150162990252126 Cassell Elem School Not on Probation Academic Early Warning Year 1
150162990252106 Castellanos Elem School Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 1
15016299025228C Catalyst Circle Rock Elem School Corrective Action Academic Watch Status Year 1
150162990252230 Catalyst Elem Charter School Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 3
150162990252127 Cather Elem School Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 12
150162990252128 Chalmers Elem Specialty School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 1
150162990252129 Chappell Elem School Not on Probation Choice Academic Early Warning Year 1
150162990252130 Chase Elem School Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 8
150162990252886 Chavez Elem Multicultural Acad Ct Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 1
150162990252920 Chicago Academy Elem School Not on Probation Choice Academic Early Warning Year 1
150162990250820 Chicago Academy High School Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 4
150162990250772 Chicago HS for Agricult Sciences Not on Probation Academic Watch Status Year 4
150162990250851 Chicago HS for the Arts Not on Probation Academic Early Warning Year 1
150162990252170 Chicago Math Sci Elem Charter Restructuring Planning Academic Watch Status Year 2
150162990250795 Chicago Military Academy HS Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 8
150162990250140 Chicago Talent Dev High School Choice Academic Early Warning Year 1
150162990252010 Chicago lntemational Charter Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 1
150162990250850 Chicago Technology Academy HS Probation Choice Academic Early Warning Year 1
150162990252250 Chicago \?rtual Elem Charter Academic Watch Status Year 1
150162990250526 Chicago Vocational Career Acad HS Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 12
150162990252904 Christopher Elem School Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 1
150162990252936 Claremont AcademyElem School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 6
15016299025082? Clark Acad Prep Magnet High Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 6
150162990252132 Clay Elem School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 3
150162990250545 Clemente Community Academy HS Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 12
150162990252133 Cleveland Elem School Not on Probation Choice SES Academic Early Warning Year 2
150162990252134 Clinton Elem School Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 7
150162990252135 Clissold Elem School Not on Probation Academic Early Warning Year 2
150162990252918 Colemon Elem Academy Not on Probation Corrective Action Academic Watch Status Year 1
150162990252136 Coles Elem Language Academy Not on Probation Corrective Action Academic Watch Status Year 1
150162990250841 Collins Academy High School Probation Corrective Action Academic Watch Status Year 1
150162990252919 Columbia Explorers Elem Academy Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 4
150162990250846 Community Services West High Probation Academic Watch Status Year 2
150162990252139 Cook Elem School Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 11
150162990252142 Cooper Elem Dual Language Academy Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 3
150162990252145 Corkery Elem School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 1
150162990250543 Corliss High School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 12
150162990250008 Crane Technical Prep High School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 1
150162990252147 Crown Elem Comm Acd Fine Arts Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 1
150162990252617 Cutie Math-Sci Tech Elem Academy Not on Probation Choice SES Academic Early Warning Year 2
15016299025263? Cullen Elem School Probation Choice SES Academic Early Warning Year 2
15016299025061? Curie Metropolitan High School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 1
150162990252799 Curtis Elem School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 1
15016299025283? Daley Elem Academy Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 3
150162990252148 Darwin Elem School Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 7
150162990252954 Davis, Magnet Elem School Not on Probation Corrective Action Academic Watch Status Year 2
150162990252149 Davis Elem School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 11
150162990252150 Dawes Elem School Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 6
150162990252605 Depriest Elem School Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 11
150162990252153 Deneen Elem School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 11
150162990252154 Dett Elem School Probation Choice SES Academic Early Warning Year 2
150162990252158 Dever Elem School Not on Probation Academic Early Warning Year 2
150162990250832 Dewy Advantage Academy High Not on Probation Academic Watch Status Year 3
150162990252159 Dewey EIem Academy of Fine Arts Probation Restructuring Planning Academic Watch Status Year 2
150162990252825 De Diego Elem Community Academy Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 8
150162990252603 Dirksen Elem School Not on Probation Choice SES Academic Watch Status Year 3
150162990252160 DisneyElem Magnet School Not on Probation Academic Early Warning Year 2
150162990252161 Dixon Elem School Not on Probation Choice SES Academic Early Warning Year 2
150162990252927 Dodge Elem School Probation Choice SES Academic Early Warning Year 2
150162990252937 Doolittle Elem School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 6
150162990252167 Dore Elem School Not on Probation Academic Watch Status Year 1
150162990250831 Douglass Academy High School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 5
150162990252169 Drake Elem School Probation Corrective Action Academic Watch Status Year 1
150162990252173 Dubois Elem School Probation Corrective Action Academic Watch Status Year 1

 

 

 

 

 

 

123

January 22, 2014

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2013-2014
Code School Name Probation Status 2013-2014 Federal Status 2013-2014 State Status

150152990252175 Dulles Elem School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 11
150162990250531 Dunbar Vocational Career Acad HS Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 1
15016299025217? Dunne Technology Acad Elem Not on Probation Corrective Action Academic Watch Status Year 1
150162990252933 Durkin Park Elem School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 3
150162990252179 Dvorak Technology Acad Elem Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 7
150162990250798 Dyett High School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 8
150162990252743 Earhart Elem Opt for Knowl School Not on Probation Choice Academic Early Warning Year 1
150162990252180 Earle Elem School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 11
150162990252181 Eberhart Elem School Not on Probation Restructuanq Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 1
150162990252185 Edwards Elem School Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 5
15016299025218? Ellington Elem School Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 1
150162990252190 Ericson Elem scholastic Academy Probation Choice SES Academic Early Warning Year 2
150162990252190 Erie Elem Charter School Corrective Action Academic Watch Status Year 1
150162990252191 Esmond Elem School Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 1
150162990252192 Everett Elem School Probation Restructuring Planning Academic Watch Status Year 2
150162990252873 Evergreen Academy Elem School Not on Probation Restructumg Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 9
150162990252193 Evers Elem School Probation

150162990252913 Fair?eld Elem Academy Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 11
150162990252194 Falconer Elem School Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 6
150162990252195 Faraday Elem School Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 11
150162990252198 Famsworth Elem School Not on Probation Academic Watch Status Year 1
150162990250011 Farragut Career Academy HS Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 12
150162990250012 Fenger Academy High School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 12
150162990252202 Femwood Elem School Not on Probation Choice Academic Early Warning Year 1
150162990252203 Field Elem School Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 11
150162990252893 Finkl Elem School Not on Probation Restructuring implementation Academic Watch Status Year 3
150162990252204 Fiske Elem School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 1
150162990250013 Foreman High School Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 12
150162990252206 Fort Dearbom Elem School Probation Corrective Action Academic Watch Status Year 1
150162990252618 Foster Park Elem School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 11
150162990252946 Frazier Prep Acad Elem School Probation Restructuring Planning Academic Watch Status Year 2
150162990252209 Fuller Elem School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 6
150162990252210 Fulton Elem School Probation Restructuring implementation Academic Watch Status Year 1
150162990252211 Funston Elem School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 3
150162990250015 Gage Park High School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 12
15016299025220C Galapagos Elem Charter School Corrective Action Academic Watch Status Year 1
150162990252212 Gale Elem Community Academy Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 1 1
150162990252213 Gallistel Elem Language Academy Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 6
150162990252773 Garvey Elem School Not on Probation Choice SES Academic Early Warning Year 2
150162990252214 Garvy Elem School Not on Probation Academic Watch Status Year 2
150162990252215 Gary Elem School Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Year 11
150162990252236 Gillespie Elem School Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 11
150162990252290 Global Citizenship Elem Choice SES Academic Early Warning Year 2
150162990252220 Goethe Elem School Not on Probation Choice SES Academic Early Warning Year 2
150162990252222 Gompers Elem Fine Arts Opt School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 9
150162990252223 Goudy Elem School Not on Probation Restructuring Planning Academic Watch Status Year 2
150162990252224 Graham A Elem School Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 1
150162990252226 Gray Elem School Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 4
150162990250835 School of Social Justice HS Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 3
150162990252227 Greeley Elem School Not on Probation Choice SES Academic Early Warning Year 2
150162990252048 Green Elem School Not on Probation Corrective Action Academic Watch Status Year 1
150162990252229 Greene Elem School Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 3
150162990252230 Gregory Math Sci Elem Academy Not on Probation Choice Academic Early Warning Year 1
150162990252231 Gresham Elem School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 11
150162990252811 Gunsaulus Elem Scholastic Academy Not on Probation Restructuring Planning Academic Watch Status Year 2
150162990252235 Haines Elem School Not on Probation Restructuring Planning Academic Watch Status Year 2
150162990252239 Hale Elem School Not on Probation Restructuring Planning Academic Watch Status Year 6
150162990252092 Haley Elem Academy Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 11
150162990252240 Hamilton Elem School Not on Probation Academic Early Warning Year 2
150162990252241 Hamline Elem School Not on Probation Restructurigq Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 12
150162990252242 Hammond Elem School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 3
150162990252916 Hampton Elem Fine Perl Arts Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 8
150162990250779 Hancock College Preparatory HS Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 1
150162990252726 Hanson Park Elem School Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 4
150162990250016 Hanan Community Academy HS Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 12
150162990250017 Harper High School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 12

 

 

 

 

 

124

January 22, 2014

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2013-2014
Code School Name Probation Status 2013-2014 Federal Status 2013-2014 State Status
150162990252244 Harte Elem School Not on Probation Choice Academic Early Warning Year 1
150162990252246 Harvard Elem School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 11
150162990252247 Haugan Elem School Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 4
150162990252636 Hay Elem Community Academy Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 1
150162990252252 Hayt-Elem School Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 4
150162990252254 Healy Elem School Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 3
150162990252255 Hearst Elem School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 11
150162990252256 Hedges Elem School Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 9
150162990252258 Henderson Elem School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 1
150162990252259 Hendricks Elem Community Academy Probation Corrective Action Academic Watch Status Year 1
150162990252260 Henry Elem School Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 8
150162990252597 Hernandez Middle School Not on Probation Choice SES Academic Watch Status Year 1
150162990252823 Ninos Heroes Elem Academic Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 11
150162990252263 Herzl Elem School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 11
150162990252265 Hibbard Elem School Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 5
150162990252266 Higgins Elem Community Academy Not on Probation Corrective Action Academic Watch Status Year 1
150162990252267 Hinton Elem School Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 11
150162990250019 Hirsch Metropolitan High School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 11
150162990252268 Hitch Elem School Not on Probation Corrective Action Academic Watch Status Year 1
150162990252269 Holden Elem School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 3
150162990252270 Holmes Elem School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 11
150162990252961 Hope Inst Learning Acad ES Not on Probation Choice SES Academic Watch Status Year 1
150162990250799 Hope College Prep High School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 6
150162990252273 Howe Elem School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 11
150162990252275 Hoyne Elem School Probation Choice Academic Early Warning Year 1
150162990250020 Hubbard High School Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 1
150162990252276 Hughes Elem School Probation Restructuring Planning Academic Watch Status Year 2
150162990252620 Hughes Elem School Probation Choice SES Academic Watch Status Year 3
150162990252280 Hurley Elem School Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 5
150162990250021 Hyde Park Academy High School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 1
150162990250837 In?nity Math Science Tech HS Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 3
150162990252358 Inter-American Elem Magnet School Not on Probation Academic Watch Status Year 2
150162990252281 Irving Elem School Not on Probation Restructuring Planning Academic Watch Status Year 2
150162990252046 Jackson Elem School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 11
150162990252284 Jahn Elem School Probation Choice SES Academic Early Warning Year 2
150162990252285 Jamieson Elem School Not on Probation Choice SES Academic Early Warning Year 2
15016299025228? Jenner Elem Academy of The Arts Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 11
150162990252288 Jensen Elem Scholastic Academy Probation Corrective Action Academic Watch Status Year 1
150162990252290 Johnson Elem School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 11
150162990252775 Joplin Elem School Probation Corrective Action Academic Watch Status Year 1
150162990252889 Jordan Elem Community School Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 8
15016299025076? Juarez Community Academy HS Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 12
150162990250763 Julian High School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 1
150162990252292 Jungman Elem School Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 3
150162990252806 Kanoon Elem Magnet School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 1
150162990250022 Kelly High School Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 1
150162990250023 Kelvyn Park High School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 12
150162990250024 Kennedy High School Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 1
150162990250025 Kenwood Academy High School Not on Probation Restructuring Planning Academic Watch Status Year 2
150162990252294 Kershaw Elem School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 6
150162990252296 Kilmer Elem School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 9
150162990250039 King College Prep High School Not on Probation Restructuring Planning Academic Watch Status Year6
150162990252299 Kinzie Elem School Not on Probation Academic Watch Status Year 4
150162990252300 Kipling Elem School Not on Probation Choice SES Academic Early Warning Year 2
1501629902521 50 Kipp Ascend Elem Charter School Corrective Action Academic Watch Status Year 1
150162990252304 Kozminski Elem Community Academy Probation Restructuring Planning Academic Watch Status Year 2
150162990250026 Lake Wew High School Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 9
150162990252704 Langford A Elem School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 11
150162990252900 Lara Elem Academy Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 1
150162990252492 Lavizzo Elem School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 11
150162990252309 Lawndale Elem Community Academy Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 11
150162990252080 Learn Elem Charter School Choice SES Academic Early Warning Year 2
150162990252703 Lee Elem School Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 8
150162990252210 Legacy Elem Charter School Choice SES Academic Early Warning Year 2
150162990252714 Leland Elem School Not on Probation Choice SES Academic Early Warning Year 2
150162990252311 Lewis Elem School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 11

 

 

 

 

 

 

125

January 22, 2014

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2013-2014
Code School Name Probation Status 2013-2014 Federal Status 2013?2014 State Status
150162990252313 Libby Elem School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 11
15016299025004? Lincoln Park High School Not on Probation Academic Watch Status Year 8
150162990250040 Youth Connections Charter HS Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 1
150162990252896 Little \?llage Elem School Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 9
150162990252316 Lloyd Elem School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 8
15016299025231? Locke Elem School Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 9
150162990252881 Logandale Middle School Probation Corrective Action Academic Watch Status Year 1
150162990252964 Garcia Lorca Elementary School Not on Probation Choice Academic Early Warning Year 2
150162990252319 Lovett Elem School Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 1
150162990252321 Lowell Elem School Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 11
150162990252303 Lozano Elem Bilingual IntI Probation Restructuring Planning Academic Watch Status Year 2
150162990252323 Lyon Elem School Not on Probation Restructuring Planning Academic Watch Status Year 2
150162990252838 Madero Middle School Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 8
150162990252324 Madison Elem School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 8
150162990252326 Manierre Elem School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 11
150162990250616 Manley Career Academy High School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 12
150162990252328 Mann Elem School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 11
150162990250842 Marine Military Academy HS Not on Probation Corrective Action Academic Watch Status Year 1
150162990252330 Marquette Elem School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 11
150162990252331 Marsh Elem School Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 4
150162990250029 Marshatl Metropolitan High School Probation Restructuri?; Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 12
150162990252882 Marshail Middle School Probation Restructuang Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 9
150162990252334 Mason Elem School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 1
150162990250030 Mather High School Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 1
150162990252337 Mayer Elem School Not on Probation Academic Watch Status Year 5
150162990252802 Mays Eiem Academy Not on Probation Corrective Action Academic Watch Status Year 1
15016299025287? Mcauliffe Elem School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 5
150162990252339 Mcclellan Elem School Probation Corrective Action Academic Watch Status Year 1
150162990252341 Mccorrnick Elem School Not on Probation Restructuri?; Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 3
150162990252344 Mccutcheon Elem School Not on Probation Restruct?g Planning Academic Watch Status Year 2
150162990252346 Mckay Elem School Not on Probation Restrucmg Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 11
150162990252634 Mcnair Elem School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 11
150162990252349 Mcpherson Elem School Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 8
150162990252352 Melody Elem School Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 9
150162990252804 Metcalfe Elem Community Academy Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 4
150162990252452 Mireies Elem Academy Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 11
150162990252353 Mitchell Elem School Not on Probation Choice Academic Early Warning Year 1
150162990252354 Mollison Elem School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 3
150162990252355 Monroe Elem School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 8
150162990252356 Moos Elem School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 1
150162990250031 Morgan Pa?gh School Not on Probation Corrective Action Academic Watch Status Year 7
150162990252357 Morrill Elem Math Sci School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 11
150162990252844 Morton Elem Career Academy Probation Restructuring lmpiementation Academic Watch Status Year 11
150162990252362 Mount Vernon Elem School Not on Probation Restructuring lmpiementation Academic Watch Status Year 1
150162990252363 Mozart Elem School Probation Restructuring ImpIementation Academic Watch Status Year 1
150162990250836 Multicultural Acad of Scholarshp HS Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 3
150162990252365 Murphy Elem School Not on Probation Choice SE8 Academic Early Warning Year 2
150162990252180 Namaste Elem Charter School Restructumg Planning Academic Watch Status Year 2
150162990252368 Nash Elem School Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 11
150162990252924 National Teachers Elem Academy Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 8
150162990252369 Neil Elem School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 8
150162990252930 New Field Elem School Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 5
150162990252474 Sullivan Elem School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 1
150162990252371 Newberry Elem Math Science Acad Not on Probation Academic Early Warning Year 1
150162990252072 Nicholson Technology Acad Eiem Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 1
150162990252373 Nightingale Elem School Not on Probation Restructurigg Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 9
150162990252374 Nixon Elem School Probation Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 3
150162990252375 Nobel Elem School Not on Probation Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 9
150162990250060 Noble Street Charter High School Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 4
150162990252935 North River Elem School Not on Probation Corrective Action Academic Watch Status Year 1
150162990250825 North?Grand?gh School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 3
150162990252915 Northwest Middle School Probation Restructuring implementation Academic Watch Status Year 1
150162990250050 North Lawndale Charter HS Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 1
150162990250855 Ogden Int High School Not on Probation Academic Early Warning Year 1
150162990252381 Oglesby Elem School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 11
150162990252382 O'Keeffe Elem School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 11

 

 

 

 

 

 

126

January 22, 2014

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2013-2014
Code School Name Probation Status 2013-2014 Federal Status 2013-2014 State Status

150162990252383 Onahan Elem School Not on Probation Academic Early Warning Year 1
150162990252842 Orozco Elem Fine Arts Sciences Not on Probation Corrective Action Academic Watch Status Year 1
15016299025084? Orr Academy High School Probation Corrective Action Academic Watch Status Year 2
150162990252898 Ortiz De Dominguez Elem School Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 3
150162990252386 Otis Elem School Probation Corrective Action Academic Watch Status Year 1
15016299025238? O'Toole Elem School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 9
150162990252391 Palmer Elem School Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 6
150162990252394 Park Manor Elem School Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 1
150162990252392 Parker Elem Community Academy Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 11
150162990252395 Parkside Elem Community Academy Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 11
150162990252396 Pasteur Elem School Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 5
150162990252398 Peck Elem School Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 1
150162990252399 Peirce Elem Studies School Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 5
150162990252400 Penn Elem School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 11
150162990252864 Perez Elem School Not on Probation Restructuring Planning Academic Watch Status Year 2
150162990250030 Perspectives Charter High School Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 3
150162990252403 Peterson Elem School Not on Probation Corrective Action Academic Watch Status Year 1
150162990250034 Phillips Academy High School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 12
150162990250803 Phoenix Military Academy HS Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 8
150162990252385 Piccolo Elem Specialty School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 1
150162990252404 Pickard Elem School Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 11
150162990252289 Piisen Elem Community Academy Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 3
150162990252405 Pine Elem Fine Arts Academic Not on Probation Choice SES Academic Early Warning Year 2
150162990252406 Plamondon Elem School Not on Probation Choice SES Academic Early Warning Year 2
150162990252951 Plato Learning Acad Elem School Probation Choice SES Academic Watch Status Year 2
150162990252260 Polaris Elem Charter Academy Corrective Action Academic Watch Status Year 1
150162990252409 Portage Park Elem School Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 6
150162990252785 Powell Elem Paideia Comm Academy Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 5
150162990252410 Prescott Elem School Not on Probation Choice SES Academic Early Warning Year 2
150162990252958 Prieto Math-Science Elem Probation Choice SES Academic Watch Status Year 1
150162990252510 Pritzker Elem School Not on Probation Academic Early Warning Year 2
150162990250170 Prologue - Johnston Fine Arts HS Academic Early Warning Year 2
150162990250534 Prosser Career Academy HS Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 1
15016299025224C Providence-Englewood Elem Charter Choice SES Academic Early Warning Year 2
150162990252412 Prussing Elem School Not on Probation Choice SES Academic Early Warning Year 2
150162990252413 Pulaski School Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 7
150162990252414 Pullman Elem School Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 9
150162990250826 Raby High School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 4
150162990252807 Randolph Elem School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 1
150162990252416 Ravenswood Elem School Not on Probation Academic Watch Status Year 3
15016299025241? Ray Elem School Not on Probation Academic Early Warning Year 1
150162990252419 Reavis Elem Math Sci Spec Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 11
150162990252421 Reilly Elem School Not on Probation Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 9
150162990252422 Reinberg Elem School Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 5
150162990252423 Revere Elem School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 1
150162990250536 Richards Career Academy HS Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 12
150162990250828 Rickover Naval Academy High Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 3
150162990250766 Robeson High School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 12
150162990252724 Robinson Elem School Probation Restructuring Planning Academic Watch Status Year 2
150162990252426 Rogers Elem School Not on Probation Choice SES Academic Early Warning Year 2
150162990250035 Roosevelt High School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 1
150162990252428 Ruggles Elem School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 3
150162990252867 Ruiz Elem School Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 3
150162990252429 Ryder Elem Math Sci Spec School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 1
150162990252828 Sabin Elem Magnet School Not on Probation Corrective Action Academic Watch Status Year 1
150162990252706 Salazar Elem Bilingual Center Not on Probation Choice SES Academic Early Warning Year 2
150162990252914 Sandoval Elem School Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 3
150162990252829 Saucedo Elem Scholastic Academy Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 5
150162990252434 Sauganash Elem School Not on Probation Academic Early Warning Year 1
150162990252435 Sawyer Elem School Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year '7
150162990252436 Sayre Elem Language Academy Not on Probation Corrective Action Academic Watch Status Year 1
150162990252438 Scammon Elem School Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 6
150162990252442 Schmid Elem School Probation Restructuring Planning Academic Watch Status Year 2
150162990250806 School of Leadership High School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 7
150162990252444 Schubert Elem School Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 3
150162990250036 Schurz High School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 12

 

 

 

 

 

 

127

January 22, 2014

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2013-2014
Code School Name Probation Status 2013-2014 Federal Status 2013-2014 State Status
15016299025003? Senn High School Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 12
150162990252446 Seward Elem Communication Arts Ac Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 4
15016299025203C Shabazz international Restructuring Planning Academic Watch Status Year 2
150162990252453 Sherman Elem School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 11
150162990252454 Sherwood Elem School Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 3
150162990252455 Shields Elem School Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 1
150162990252456 Shoesmith Elem School Not on Probation Restructuring Planning Academic Watch Status Year 2
15016299025245? Shoop Math-Sci Tech Elem Academy Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 1
15016299025053? Simeon Career Academy High School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 1
150162990252768 Smith Elem School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 9
150162990252459 Smyser Elem School Not on Probation Restructuring Planning Academic Watch Status Year 2
150162990252460 Elem School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 11
150162990250859 Zaragoza High School Not on Probation Choice Academic Early Warning Year 1
150162990252960 South Shore Fine Arts Elem Probation Choice SES Academic Early Warning Year 2
150162990252462 Spencer Technology Acad Elem Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 11
150162990252469 Spry Elem Community School Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 1
150162990250818 Spry Community Links High School Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 4
150162990252464 Stagg Elem School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 1
150162990250041 Steinmetz College Prep HS Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 1
150162990252465 Stevenson Elem School Not on Probation Restructuring implementation Academic Watch Status Year 9
150162990252468 Stone Elem Scholastic Academy Not on Probation Academic Early Warning Year 1
150162990252472 Stowe Elem School Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 1
150162990250042 Sullivan High School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 1
150162990252475 Sumner Elem Math Sci Comm Acad Not on Probation Choice SES Academic Early Warning Year 2
150162990252476 Sutherland Elem School Not on Probation Academic Watch Status Year 1
15016299025247? Swift Elem Specialty School Not on Probation Corrective Action Academic Watch Status Year 1
150162990250043 Taft High School Not on Probation Academic Watch Status Year 1
150162990252478 Talcott Elem School Not on Probation Corrective Action Academic Watch Status Year 1
150162990252926 Talman Elem School Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 3
150162990252479 Tanner Elem School Not on Probation Restructuring Planning Academic Watch Status Year 2
150162990252943 Tarkington Elem School Not on Probation Restructuring implementation Academic Watch Status Year 4
150162990252480 Taylor Elem School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 3
150162990250843 Team Englewood Comm Acad HS Probation Corrective Action Academic Watch Status Year 1
150162990252901 Telpochcalli Elem School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 1
150162990252484 Thorp Elem School Probation Restructuring Planning Academic Watch Status Year 2
150162990250044 Tilden Career Communty Academy HS Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 12
150162990252766 Till Elem Math Science Academy Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 8
15016299025248? Tilton Elem School Probation Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 12
150162990252488 Tonti Elem School Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 7
150162990252490 Twain Elem School Not on Probation Restructuring Planning Academic Watch Status Year 2
150162990252040 Univ of Chicago Elem Charter Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 3
15016299025205C UNO Acad Elem School Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 3
150162990250829 Uplift Community High School Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 4
15016299025016C Urban Prep Acad West Campus HS Choice Academic Early Warning Year 1
15016299025010C Urban Prep Acad Englewood HS Restructuring Planning Academic Watch Status Year 2
150162990250844 VOISE Academy High School Probation Choice SES Academic Early Warning Year 2
150162990252494 Volta Elem School Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 5
150162990252315 Linne Elem School Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 9
150162990250046 Von Steuben Metro Science HS Not on Probation Corrective Action Academic Watch Status Year 6
15016299025249? Wacker Elem School Not on Probation Choice SES Academic Early Warning Year 2
150162990252498 Wadsworth Elem School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 9
150162990252500 Walsh Elem School Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 4
15016299025276? Ward Elem School Not on Probation Choice Academic Early Warning Year 1
150162990252502 Warren Elem School Probation Restructuring Planning Academic Watch Status Year 2
150162990250048 Washington High School Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 1
150162990252401 Washington Elem School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 5
150162990252504 Waters Elem School Not on Probation Academic Watch Status Year 8
150162990252505 Webster Elem School Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 7
150162990250049 Wells Community Academy HS Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 12
150162990252902 Wells Preparatory Elem Academy Probation Choice SES Academic Early Warning Year 2
150162990252506 Wentworth Elem School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 11
150162990252908 West Park Elem Academy Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 11
150162990252965 West Ridge Elementary School Not on Probation Choice Academic Early Warning Year 2
15016299025250? Westcott Elem School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 11
150162990252512 Whistler Elem School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 9
150162990252729 White Elem Career Academy Probation Restructuring Planning Academic Watch Status Year 2

 

 

 

 

 

 

128

January 22, 2014

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2013-2014
Code School Name Probation Status 2013-2014 Federal Status 2013-2014 State Status
150162990252513 Whitney Elem School Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 1
150162990252514 Whittier Elem School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 1
150162990250856 Williams Medical Prep High Not on Probation Choice SES Academic Watch Status Year 1
150162990252521 Woodson South Elem School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 3
150162990250830 World Language High School Not on Probation Restructuring Planning Academic Watch Status Year 2
150162990252542 Yates Elem School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 1
15016299025007C Young Womens Leadership Chartr HS Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 8
150162990252525 Young Elem School Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 11
150162990252897 Zapata Elem Academy Not on Probation Restructuring Implementation Academic Watch Status Year 4
14-0122-EX5

APPROVE RESTRUCTURING PLANS FOR SCHOOLS CLASSIFIED AS IN NEED OF
RESTRUCTURING UNDER THE NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND ACT (NCLB)

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER RECOMMENDS:

That the Board approve restructuring plans for schools that have recently entered restructuring status under
the federal No Child Left Behind Act (NCLB).

DESCRIPTION: A list of Chicago Public Schools requiring Board approval of restructuring plans is set out in
Exhibit A. This includes schools that entered restructuring status in the 2011-2012, 2012-2013, or 201 3?2014
school years.

When reviewing the list of schools on the ?Restructuring Implementation? it is important to remember that
school performance as measured by the Chicago Public Schools on the former Performance Policy Rating
and/or new School Quality Rating Policy reflects a picture of school quality that is more comprehensive than
the current rating system under AYP. Enacted in 2002, NCLB requires that all schools demonstrate that 100%
of students are at the meets/exceeds level of performance on state tests by 2014. This goal ensures that
virtually no schools across the state will meet AYP and even schools at the highest performance levels but
still short of the 100% goal ?will be required to submit restructuring plans.

A school is placed in NCLB restructuring status if it fails to make Adequate Yearly Progress (AYP) for five
consecutive years. Upon being identified as in need of restructuring, a school is placed in ?Restructuring
Planning? status, and the district must develop a restructuring plan. If the school fails to make AYP for a sixth
year, the school is placed in ?Restructuring Implementation" status, and the restructuring plan must be
implemented at the start of the subsequent school year.

NCLB requires a district to implement one of the following alternative school governance arrangements at a
school with restructuring status consistent with State law: Reopen the school as a public charter school;
(2) Replace all or most of the school staff who are relevant to the school?s failure to make (3) Enter into a
contract with an entity with a demonstrated record of effectiveness to operate the school; (4) Turn the
operation of the school over to the state; or (5) Any other major restructuring of the school?s governance
arrangement that makes fundamental reforms, such as significant changes in the school?s staffing and
governance, to improve student academic achievement and that have substantial promise of enabling the
school to make Most restructuring plans in CPS and other districts reflect ?other major restructuring.?

In developing the attached restructuring plans, a range of strategies and measures were considered by the
school principal and the Network Chief of Schools, Office of Innovation and Incubation, Office of Strategic
School Support Services, or AUSL, as applicable. School performance data were analyzed to establish an
individual plan for each school that targets specific interventions that address identified needs and
deficiencies. Parents and teachers at each schoot were provided with the opportunity to comment on the plan.

Monitoring and support of the DIP will be the responsibility of the Network Chief of Schools, Office of
Innovation and Incubation, Office of Strategic Support Services, or AUSL, as applicable. The Chief Executive
Officer or designee is authorized to modify a school?s restructuring plan as necessary in order to keep
information current and respond to ISBE and US Department of Education requirements.

The complete restructuring plan for each school is on file in the Office of Accountability.

FINANCIAL: Within budgetary appropriations.

129

January 22, 2014

Exhibit A: Schools Requiring Board Approval of NCLB Restructuring Plans

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Code School Name Restructuring Planning Year
150162990250090 Ace Technical Charter High School 2011-2012
150162990252051 Addams Elem School 2011-2012
150162990250824 Bowen High School 2011-2012
150162990252095 Bridge Elem School 2011?2012
150162990252876 Carson Elem School 2011-2012
150162990250820 Chicago Academy High School 2011-2012
150162990250772 Chicago HS for Agricult Sciences 2011-2012
150162990252919 Columbia Explorers Elem Academy 2011-2012
150162990250832 Devry Advantage Academy High 2011-2012
150162990252226 Gray Elem School 2011-2012
150162990252726 Hanson Park Elem School 2011?2012
150162990252247 Haugan Elem School 2011-2012
150162990252252 Hayt Elem School 2011-2012
150162990252254 Healy Elem School 2011-2012
150162990252299 Kinzie Elem School 2011-2012
150162990252331 Marsh Elem School 2011-2012
150162990252804 Metcalfe Elem Community Academy 2011-2012
150162990252930 New Field Elem School 2011-2012
150162990250060 Noble Street Charter High School 2011-2012
150162990250825 North-Grand High School 2011-2012
150162990252391 Palmer Elem School 2011-2012
150162990252785 Powell Elem Paideia Comm Academy 2011-2012
150162990250826 Raby High School 2011-2012
150162990252446 Seward Elem Communication Arts Ac 2011-2012
150162990250818 Spry Community Links High School 2011?2012
150162990252943 Tarkington Elem School 2011-2012
150162990250829 Uplift Community High School 2011-2012
150162990252500 Walsh Elem School 2011~2012
15016299025289? Zapata Elem Academy 2011-2012
150162990252070 Bateman Elem School 2012?2013
150162990252923 Belmont-Cragin Elem School 2012-2013
15016299025222C Bronzeville Lighthouse Elem 2012-2013
150162990250834 Bronzeville Scholastic HS 2012-2013
15016299025210? Burnside Elem Scholastic Academy 2012-2013
15016299025223C Catalyst Elem Charter School 2012?2013
150162990250827 Clark Acad Prep Magnet High 2012-2013
150162990252132 Clay Elem School 2012-2013
150162990252142 Cooper Elem Dual Language Academy 2012-2013
15016299025293? Doolittle Elem School 2012-2013
150162990252933 Durkin Park Elem School 2012-2013
150162990252893 Finkl Elem School 2012-2013
150162990252211 Funston Elem School 2012-2013
150162990252229 Greene Elem School 2012-2013

 

 

 

130

 

January 22, 2014

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Code School Name Restructuring Planning Year
150162990252269 Holden Elem School 2012?2013
150162990250837 Infinity Math Science Tech HS 2012?2013
150162990252341 Mccormick Elem School 2012-2013
150162990252354 Mollison Elem School 2012-2013
150162990250836 Multicultural Acad of Scholarshp HS 2012-2013
150162990252374 Nixon Elem School 2012?2013
150162990252898 Ortiz De Dominguez Elem School 2012-2013
150162990252396 Pasteur Elem School 2012-2013
150162990250030 PerspeCtives Charter High School 2012-2013
150162990252289 Pilsen Elem Community Academy 2012-2013
150162990252416 Ravenswood Elem School 2012?2013
150162990252422 Reinberg Elem School 2012?2013
150162990250828 Rickover Naval Academy High 2012-2013
150162990252428 Ruggles Elem School 2012-2013
15016299025286? Ruiz Elem School 2012-2013
150162990252914 Sandoval Elem School 2012?2013
150162990250835 School of Sociai Justice HS 2012-2013
150162990252444 Schubert Elem School 2012-2013
150162990252926 Talman Elem School 2012-2013
150162990252480 Taylor Elem School 2012?2013
150162990252040 Univ of Chicago Elem Charter 2012-2013
150162990252050 UNO Acad Elem School 2012-2013
150162990252521 Woodson South Elem School 2012?2013
150162990250830 World Language High School 2012-2013
150162990252054 Aldridge Elem School 2013-2014
150162990252922 Ashburn Community Elem School 2013-2014
150162990250839 Austin Bus Entrepreneurship HS 2013-2014
150162990252066 Barnard Elem Comp Math Sci 2013-2014
150162990252078 Beaubien Elem School 2013-2014
150162990252372 Carver Primary School 2013-2014
150162990252170 Chicago Math Sci Elem Charter 2013-2014
150162990250846 Community Services West High 2013-2014
150162990252192 Everett Elem School 2013-2014
150162990252946 Frazier Prep Acad Elem School 2013-2014
150162990252214 Garvy Elem School 2013?2014
150162990252223 Goudy Elem School 2013-2014
15016299025?2811 Gunsaulus Elem Scholastic Academy 2013?2014
150162990252235 Haines Elem School 2013-2014
150162990252276 Hughes Elem School 2013-2014
150162990252358 inter-American Elem Magnet School 2013?2014
150162990252281 Irving Elem School 2013?2014
150162990250025 Kenwood Academy High School 2013-2014
150162990250039 King College Prep High School 2013-2014
150162990252304 Kozminskl Elem Community Academy 2013-2014
150162990252303 Lozano Elem Bilingual 2013-2014
150162990252323 Lyon Elem School 2013-2014

 

 

 

131

 

January 22, 2014

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Code School Name Restructuring Planning Year
15016299025218C Namaste Elem Charter School 2013-2014
150162990252724 Robinson Elem School 2013-2014
150162990252030 Shabazz International 2013-2014
150162990252456 Shoesmith Elem School 2013-2014
150162990252459 Smyser Elem School 2013-2014
150162990252479 Tanner Elem School 2013-2014
150162990252490 Twain Elem School 2013-2014
15016299025010C Urban Prep Acad Englewood HS 2013-2014
150162990252502 Warren Elem School 2013?2014
150162990252729 White Elem Career Academy 2013?2014

14-0122-EX6

AMEND BOARD REPORT 13-0424-EX10
AMEND BOARD REPORT 12-0822-EX3
AMEND BOARD REPORT 12-0328-EX8
AMEND BOARD REPORT 
AMEND BOARD REPORT 11-0323-EX9
APPROVE THE RENEWAL OF THE CHARTER SCHOOL AGREEMENT WITH
LAWNDALE EDUCATIONAL AND REGIONAL NETWORK (L.E.A.R.N.) CHARTER SCHOOL, INC.

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER RECOMMENDS THE FOLLOWING:

Approve the renewal of the Charter School Agreement with Lawndale Educational and Regional Network
(L.E.A.R.N.) Charter School, Inc. for an additional five-year period. A new Charter School Agreement
applicable to this renewal term will be negotiated. The authority granted herein shall automatically
rescind in the event a written Charter School Agreement is not executed by the Board and the charter
school's governing board within 120 days of the date of this Board Report. The agreement authorized
herein will only take effect upon certi?cation by the Illinois State Board of Education. Information pertinent
to this renewal is stated below.

This December 2011 amendment is necessary to authorize the L.E.A.R.N. Charter School to 
establish a new elementary school campus in the fall of 2012 at a location to be determined, increase
the overall at capacity enrollment of the charter school by 625 to 3542 students in the fall of 2012, 
establish two new elementary school campuses to open in the fall of 2013 at locations to be determined,
and increase the overall at capacity enrollment of the charter school by 1250 to 4792 students in the
fall of 2013. Establishment of the additional campuses and the corresponding changes to enrollment are
contingent upon any required public hearings, evidence of community support and Board approval of the
locations of the campuses. The authority granted herein shall automatically rescind in the event written
amendments to the Charter School Agreement are not executed by the Board and the charter school?s
governing board within the timeframe specified in the amended Board Reports identifying and approving
the sites of the proposed campuses. The amended agreements authorized herein will only take effect
upon certification by the Illinois State Board of Education.

This March 2012 amendment is necessary to change the name of the L.E.A.R.N. Charter School 5tn
campus to the L.E.A.R.N. Charter School - Hunter Perkins Campus, identify the independent facility
at 3021 West Carroll as the location for the L.E.A.R.N Charter School 61h Campus, (0) change the
name of the L.E.A.R.N. Charter School Campus to the L.E.A.R.N. Charter School - East Garfield
Park Campus, change the name of the L.E.A.R.N. Charter School 3rd Campus to the L.E.A.R.N.
Charter School - Charles and Dorothy Campbell Campus, and identify the independent facility at
3021 West Carroll as the new location for the L.E.A.R.N. Charter School - Excel Campus beginning in
the 2013-2014 school year. The authority granted herein shall automatically rescind in the event a written
amendment to the Charter School Agreement is not executed by the Board and the charter school?s
governing board within 120 days of the date of this amended Board Report. The amended agreement
authorized herein will only take effect upon certification by the Illinois State Board of Education.

This August 2012 amendment is necessary to authorize L.E.A.R.N. Charter School to change the start

date of the L.E.A.R.N. Charter School East Garfield Park Campus from the fall of 2012 to the fall of
2013. No amendment to the Charter School Agreement is required for this change.

132

January 22, 2014

This April 2013 amendment is necessary toh authorize E. A. R. Charter School to change the start
date of the of L.E.A.R.N. Charter School- 8h Campus from the fall of 2013 to the fall of 2014, change
the name of L.E.A.R.N. Charter School? East Garfield Park Campus to L. E. A. N. Charter School -
Middle School Campus restrict the grades offered at L. E. A. R. N. Charter School- 7th Campus to
grades K-5, decrease the at capacity enrollment at L.E.A.R.N. Charter School- 7h Campus from 625
to 525 students, thereby decreasing the overall at capacity enrollment of the charter school by 100 to
4, 692 students, restrict the grades offered at L. A. N. Charter School- Middle School Campus to
grades 6- 8, identify the independent facility at 3021 West Carroll as the location for L. E. A. N. Charter
School- 7h Campus, and restrict the grades offered at L.E.A.R.N. Charter School- Excel Campus to
grades The authority granted herein shall automatically rescind in the event a written amendment to
the Charter School Agreement is not executed by the Board and the charter school?s governing board
within 120 days of the date of this amended Board Report. The amended agreement authorized herein
will only take effect upon certification by the Illinois State Board of Education.

This January 2014 amendment is necessary to ratify the authorization for L.E.A.R.N. Charter School to
temporarily relocate the L.E.A.R.N. Charter School - Middle School Campus and the L.E.A.R.N.
Charter School - 75 Campus to 1628 West Washington Boulevard from September 25, 2013 to December
23, 2013, and the L.E.A.R.N. Charter School Excel Campus to 751 South Sacramento from
September 23, 2013 to December 20, 2013. As of January 8, 2014, all three L.E.A.R.N. campuses have
returned to their original location at the independent facilig at 3021 West Carroll. The CEO asks that the
Board grant a waiver from the Charter School Capital and Facility Budget Policy, 08-0326-PO1, since the
temporary relocation of the three campuses was due to exiqent circumstances. The authoritv qranted
herein shall automatically rescind in the event a written amendment to the Charter School Agreement is
not executed by the Board and the charter school?s governing board within 120 days of the date of this
amended Board Report. The amended agreement authorized herein will only take effect upon certification
by the Illinois State Board of Education.

CHARTER SCHOOL: Lawndale Educational and Regional Network (L.E.A.R.N.) Charter School
212 S. Francisco Avenue
Chicago, IL 60612
Phone: (773) 826-0370
Contact Person: Greg White

OVERSIGHT: Office of Innovation and Incubation
125 s. Clark, 10th Floor
Chicago, IL 60603
(773) 553- 1530
Contact Person: 
Ssheels?Jack Elsey, Chief Officer

ORIGINAL AGREEMENT: The original Charter School Agreement (authorized by Board Report 01-0627?
EX7) was for a term commencing July 15, 2001 and ending July 15, 2006. The agreement authorized the
operation of a single facility charter school with enrollment not to exceed 400 students in grades
Kindergarten through 8. The charter and Charter School Agreement were subsequently renewed for a
term commencing July 16, 2006 and ending July 15, 2011 (authorized by Board Report 06-0222-EX14).
The agreement authorized the operation of a single facility charter school serving no more than 450
students in grades Kindergarten through 8. The charter and Charter School Agreement were
subsequently amended as follows:

0 Board Report Approved the correction of the date of the renewal term for the
Charter School Agreement.

. Board Report Approved the establishment of two new campuses, one to open in
the fall of 2008 (Excel Campus) and one to open in the fall of 2009 (2009 Campus). Each campus
would serve an at capacity enrollment of 600 students in grades Kindergarten through 8.

0 Board Report Approved the location of the 2008 Campus (Excel Campus) at 2745
W. Roosevelt Road.

0 Board Report 08-0723-EX12: Approved the change in location of the 2008 Campus (Excel
Campus) to 2401 W. Congress Parkway and the name of the 2008 Campus to the L.E.A.R.N.
Charter School Excel Campus.

0 Board Report 08-1217-EX3: Approved the change in name of the L.E.A.R.N. Charter School
located at 1132 S. Homan Avenue to the L.E.A.R.N. Charter School Romano Butler Campus.

. Board Report 09-0527-EX5: Approved the facility located at 212 S. Francisco as the location for
the L.E.A.R.N. Charter School 2009 Campus.

0 Board Report 09-0923-EX3: Approved the change in at capacity enrollment of the Romano Butler
Campus from 450 to 525 and for the entire charter from 1650 to 1725 students.

0 Board Report 09-0923-EX3: Approved the establishment of two new campuses, one to open in
the fall of 2010 (the South Chicago Campus) at 8914 S. Buffalo Avenue and the second to open
in the fall of 2011 at 7110 S. Coles Avenue (2011 Campus). Each campus would serve an at
capacity enrollment of 596 students in grades Kindergarten through 8. The at capacity enrollment
for the entire charter school would be 2321 in the fall of 2010 and 2917 in the fall of 201 1.

133

January 22, 2014

0 Board Report 10-0623-EX10: Approved the modifications of at capacity enrollment of the Excel
Campus from 600 to 525 and the Romano Butler Campus from 525 to 600 students.

CHARTER RENEWAL PROPOSAL: L.E.A.R.N. Charter School, Inc. submitted a renewal proposal on
September 1, 2010, to continue the operation of the L.E.A.R.N. Charter School under a unified mission.
The Charter Schodl shall serve grades Kindergarten through 8 with a maximum student enrollment of
2917 students.

L.E.A.R.N. Charter School is authorized to operate a pre~kindergarten program in the same building as
the charter school. The children enrolled in the pre-kindergarten will not be included in the enrollment of
the charter school and the pre-kindergarten program will not be governed by the Charter School
Agreement. To the extent the Board provides funding for the pre-kindergarten program, that program will
be subject to a separate agreement with and separate funding authorized by the Office of Early Childhood
Education. A material breach of any contract between the Board and L.E.A.R.N. Charter School for the
operation of a pre-kindergarten program or the charter school may be treated as a breach of the other
contract.

The agreement incorporates an accountability plan in which the school is evaluated by the Board each
year based on numerous factors related to academic, financial and operational performance.

In March 2011, L.E.A.R.N. Charter School also submitted a material modification to identify the facility
located at 1700 W. 83rd Street as the location for the 2011 Campus.

In August 2011, L.E.A.R.N. Charter School submitted a proposal to do the following: establish a new
elementary school campus to open in the fall of 2012 at a location to be determined, increase the
overall at capacity enrollment of the charter school by 625 to 3542 students in the fall of 2012, 
establish two new elementary school campuses to open in the fall of 2013 at locations to be determined,
and increase-the overall at capacity enrollment of the charter school by 1250 to 4792 students in the
fall of 2013. The elementary school campus opening in the fall of 2012 (6h Campus) shall begin serving
260 students in grades ln successive years, this campus will grow one grade at a time, until reaching
a capacity of 625 students in grades The elementary school campuses opening in the fall of 2013 (7
Campus and 8th Campus) shall each begin serving 260 students in grades K-3. ln successive years, each
campus will grow one grade at a time, until reaching a capacity of 625 students in grades K-8.

A public hearing on these proposed changes was held on Tuesday, November 22, 2011. The hearing
was recorded and a summary report of the hearing is available for review.

In November 2011, L.E.A.R.N. Charter School submitted a material modification to change the name of
the L.E.A.R.N. Charter School - 5th Campus to the L.E.A.R.N. Charter School - Hunter Perkins Campus. A
public hearing on the proposed change was held on Thursday, March 15, 2012. The hearing was
recorded and a summary report is available for review.

In February 2012, L.E.A.R.N Charter School submitted a material modification to identify the
independent facility at 3021 West Carroll as the location for the L.E.A.R.N. Charter School 6th Campus
which is to open in the 2012-2013 school year and change the name of that campus to L.E.A.R.N.
Charter School - East Garfield Park Campus. A public hearing on these proposed changes was held on
Thursday, March 15, 2012. The hearing was recorded and a summary report is available for review.

In February 2012, L.E.A.R.N Charter School submitted a material modification to change the name of
the L.E.A.R.N Charter School - 3rd Campus to the L.E.A.R.N Charter School - Charles and Dorothy
Campbell Campus and identify the independent facility at 3021 West Carroll as the new location for
the L.E.A.R.N Charter School - Excel Campus in the 2013-2014 school year. A public hearing on these
proposed changes was held on Thursday, March 15, 2012. The hearing was recorded and a summary
report is available for review.

In July 2012, L.E.A.R.N. Charter School requested that the start date of the L.E.A.R.N. Charter School 
East Garfield Park Campus be changed from the fall of 2012 to the fall of 2013.

In January 2013 L.E.A.R.N Charter School submitted a material modification to change the start date
of the of L.E.A.R.N. Charter School- 8th Campus from the fall of 2013 to the fall of 2014, change the
name of L.E.A.R.N. Charter School East Garfield Park Campus to L.E.A.R.N. Charter School - Middle
School Campus, (0) restrict the grades offered at L.E.A.R.N. Charter School - 7?h Campus to grades 
decrease the at capacity enrollment at L.E.A.R.N. Charter School - 7th Campus from 625 to 525
students, thereby decreasing the overall at capacity enrollment of the charter school by 100 to 4,692
students, restrict the grades offered at L.E.A.R.N. Charter School - Middle School Campus to grades
6-8, identify the independent facility at 3021 West Carroll as the location for L.E.A.R.N. Charter School
- 7?1 Campus, and restrict the grades offered at L.E.A.R.N. Charter School - Excel Campus to grades
K-5. A public hearing on the proposed changes was held on Monday, April 15, 2013. The hearing was
recorded and a summary report is available for review.

134

January 22, 2014

In September 2013, L.E.A.R.N. Charter School requested to temporarily relocate the L.E.A.R.N. Charter
School - Excel Campus, L.E.A.R.N. Charter School Middle School Campus and L.E.A.R.N. Charter
School - 7th Campus due to exigent circumstances at its facility at 3021 W. Carroll. The CPS Facilig
Department worked to assist L.E.A.R.N. Charter School in identifying a facility at 751 S. Sacramento as a
temporary location for the L.E.A.R.N. Charter School - Excel Campus from September 23, 2013 to
December 20, 2013. The CPS Facility Department also worked to identify a facility at 1628 W.
Washington Boulevard as a temporary location for the L.E.A.R.N. Charter School - Middle School
Campus and the L.E.A.R.N. Charter School - 7th Campus from September 25. 2013 to December 23.
2013.

As of January 8, 2014, all three L.E.A.R.N. campuses have returned to their oriqinal location at the
independent facility at 3021 W. Carroll.

 

Year At Capacity 2010 2011 At Capacity
Campus Name Opened Address Grades Enrollment Enrollment
Romano Butler 1132 S.

Campus 2001 Homan K-8 583 600

Congress
Parkway

(204%
751 8.

Sacramento
(9/2013 to

12/2013)
3021 W.

Carroll

 

 

?2943)
As of 1/2014
Excel Campus 2008 K-5 339 525
Charles and
Dorothy
Campbell 212 S.
Campus 2009 Francisco K-8 326 600
South Chicago 8914 S.
Campus 2010 Buffalo 216 596
Hunter Perkins 1700 W. 83rd 236 (in the
Campus 2011 Street K-8 fall of 201 1) 596

Washington
Blvd. (9/2013
to 12/2013)
3021 W.
Carroll
As of
Middle School 1/8/2014 260 (in the
Campus 2013 6-8 fall of 2013) 625
1628 W.
Washington

(10/2013 to
12/2013)
3021 W.
Carroll
As of 1/2014 260 (in the
Campus 2013 fall of 2013) 525

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

260 (in the
Campus 2014 TBD fall of 2014) 625

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CONTINGENT APPROVAL: Approval to open one new elementary school campus in the fall of 2012 and
two new elementary school campuses in the fall of 2013 and the execution of the amendments to the
Charter School Agreement are contingent upon a final review and approval of the new elementary school
proposals, an assessment of the District?s need for these charter school campuses based upon
demographics and student demands, evidence of community support, any required subsequent public
hearings, and Board approval of the proposed school sites. Approval of the 2012 and 2013 campuses is
also contingent upon the school operator meeting benchmarks established by the Office of Innovation
and Incubation. These benchmarks will be communicated to the school operator in a formal Letter of
Conditions with all deadlines to be met by March 15, 2012 for the 2012 campus, and March 15, 2013 for
2013 campuses. The Office of Innovation and Incubation will oversee the enforcement of these deadlines;
failure to meet these deadlines may, at the option of the Board, result in the rescission of the authority
granted herein and the denial of the approval to open these new campuses. A final review of these new
campus proposals will be conducted by the Chief Executive Officer on or before April 15, 2012 for the
2012 campus, and April 15, 2013 for 2013 campuses to determine final approval or denial of the new
campus proposals. The recommendation to approve the new elementary school campuses will be
subject to Board approval as indicated by subsequent amendments to this Board Report.

135

January 22, 2014

All sites for the 2012 and 2013 campuses must be located in high need or overcrowded communities.

CHARTER EVALUATION: After receiving the charter renewal proposal, the Office of New Schools
conducted a comprehensive evaluation of L.E.A.R.N. Charter School?s performance and operations. This
evaluation included a review of the proposal, facilities surveys, financial and governance analyses, and
site visit of the school in which teaching and learning, leadership and governance, learning community
and services for ELL students and students with special needs were assessed. A public hearing was
conducted on Thursday, March 10, 2011 to receive public comment on the application to renew the
Charter School Agreement with L.E.A.R.N. Charter School for an additional five years. In addition, the
Office of New Schools evaluated the school?s student performance. From 2006-2007 to 2009-2010,
L.E.A.R.N. Charter School received 16 out of 24 high ratings and 6 out of 24 middle ratings on their
absolute student indicators found in the framework put forth by the district for assessing charter school
pupil performance. From 2006-2007 to 2009-2010, (L.E.A.R.N.) Charter School?s student attendance
averaged 95.8%. In 2010, the percentage of students meeting/exceeding state standards on the ISAT
Composite was 83.1%, an increase of 14.6 percentage points from 2006-2007. The committee
recommends that, based on the school?s performance on these and other accountability criteria,
L.E.A.R.N. Charter School be authorized to continue operating as a charter school.

RENEWAL TERM: The term of L.E.A.R.N. Charter School?s charter and agreement is being extended for
a five (5) year term commencing July 1, 2011 and ending June 30, 2016.

AUTHORIZATION: Authorize the General Counsel to include relevant terms and conditions, including
any indemnities to be provided to the charter school, in the written Charter School Agreement and
amendment, which shall reflect resolution of any and all outstanding issues between the Board and the
governing body of the charter school including, but not limited to: site location, enrollment, funding,
educational program, financial controls and practices, academic accountability and evaluations. Authorize
the President and Secretary to execute the Charter School Agreement and amendment. Authorize the
Interim Senior Executive Director of the Office of New Schools to issue a letter notifying the Illinois
State Board of Education of the action(s) approved hereunder and to submit the approved proposal and
signed Charter School Agreement to the Illinois State Board of Education for certification.

LSC REVIEW: Approval of Local School Councils is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL: The financial implications will be addressed during the development of the 2014-2015 fiscal
year budgets. Since the School Code of Illinois prohibits the incurring of any liability unless an
appropriation has been previously made, expenditures beyond FY14 are deemed to be contingent
liabilities only, subject to appropriation in subsequent fiscal year budgets.

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General - Each Party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 
the Inspector General of the Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations.

Conflicts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
Provisions of 105 which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to,
former Board members during the one-year period following expiration or other termination of their
terms of office.

Indebtedness - The Board's indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 1996 (96-0626-PO3), as amended
from time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics - The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 (11-0525-P02), as amended from time to
time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

14-0122-EX7

AMEND BOARD REPORT 13-0522-EX104
AMEND BOARD REPORT 13-0424-EX7
AMEND BOARD REPORT 12-0328-EX9
AMEND BOARD REPORT 12-0125-EX3
APPROVE THE RENEWAL OF THE CHARTER SCHOOL AGREEMENT WITH ACADEMY OF
COMMUNICATIONS AND TECHNOLOGY CHARTER CHICAGO SCHOOLS

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER RECOMMENDS THE FOLLOWING:

Approve the renewal of the Charter School Agreement with the Academy of Communications and
Technology Charter School for an additional 5-year period. A new Charter School Agreement applicable
to this renewal term will be negotiated. The authority granted herein shall automatically rescind in the
event a written Charter School Agreement is not executed by the Board and the charter school's
governing board within the time specified in an amended Board Report approving the location of the
school. The agreement authorized herein will only take effect upon certification by the Illinois State Board
of Education. Information pertinent to this renewal is stated below.

136

January 22, 2014

The March 2012 amendment is necessary to identify 4837 W. Erie Street as the new location of the
Academy of Communications and Technology Charter School. The authority granted herein shall
automatically rescind in the event a written Charter School Agreement is not executed by the Board and
the charter school?s governing board within 120 days of the date of this amended Board Report. The
agreement authorized herein will only take effect upon certification by the Illinois State Board of
Education.

This April 2013 amendment is necessary to change the charter school name from Academy of
Communications and Technology Charter School to KIPP Chicago Charter Schools, correct the
existing address for the charter school which is located at the Nash Annex from 4837 W. Erie to 4818 W.
Ohio,(c) authorize the original charter campus at 4818 W. Ohio to be named the KIPP Create Campus,
and change the existing name of the charter school operator to KIPP Chicago Schools as a result of
the proposed merger of two charter school operators, Academy of Communications and Technology
Charter School and KIPP Chicago Schools, into one charter school operator to be named KIPP Chicago
Schools. The authority granted herein shall automatically rescind in the event a written amendment to
the Charter School Agreement is not executed by the Board and the charter school's governing board
within 120 days of the date of this amended Board Report. The amended agreement authorized herein
will only take effect upon certification by the Illinois State Board of Education.

This April 2013 amendment is also necessary to establish one new elementary campus in the fall of
2013 at a location to be determined with a corresponding increase in the overall at capacity enrollment of
the charter school by 360 to 720 students in the fall of 2013 and establish one new elementary
campus in the fall of 2014 at a location to be determined with a corresponding increase in the overall at
capacity enrollment of the charter school by 540 to 1,260 students in the fall of 2014. Establishment of
the additional campuses and the corresponding changes to enrollment are contingent upon any required
public hearings, evidence of community support and Board approval of the locations of the campuses.
The authority granted herein shall automatically rescind in the event written amendments to the Charter
School Agreement are not executed by the Board and the charter school?s governing board within the
timeframe specified in the amended Board Reports identifying and approving the sites of the proposed
campuses. The amended agreements authorized herein will only take effect upon certification by the
Illinois State Board of Education.

This May 2013 amendment is necessary to authorize KIPP Schools to identify the CPS facility at 5515
South Lowe as the location of the KIPP Chicago Charter Schools - KIPP Bloom Campus. The authority
granted herein shall automatically rescind in the event a written amendment to the Charter School
Agreement is not executed by the Board and the charter school?s governing board within 120 days of the
date of this amended Board Report. The amended agreement authorized herein will only take effect
upon certification by the Illinois State Board of Education.

This January 2014 amendment is necessary to authorize KIPP Chicaqo Schools to identify the CPS
facility at 1440 South Christiana as the location of the KIPP Chicago Charter Schools - Elementary
School Campus and change the name of the KIPP Chicaqo Charter Schools - Elementary School
Campus to the KIPP Chicago Charter Schools KIPP Ascend Primary Campus. The authority Granted
herein shall automatically rescind in the event a written amendment to the Charter School Agreement is
not executed by the Board and the charter school?s governing board within 120 days of the date of this
amended Board Report. The amended agreement authorized herein will only take effect upon
certification by the Illinois State Board of Education.

SCHOOL OPERATOR: KIPP Chicago Schools
1945 Halsted Avenue
Chicago, IL 60608
Phone: (312) 733-8108
Contact Person: Nicole Boardman

CHARTER SCHOOL: KIPP Chicago Charter Schools
4818 W. Ohio
Chicago, IL 60644
Phone: (312) 733-8108
Contact Person: Nicole Boardman

OVERSIGHT: Office of Innovation and Incubation
125 s. Clark, 10?h Floor
Chicago, IL 60603
(773) 553-1530
Contact Person: Jack Elsey, Chief Officer

ORIGINAL AGREEMENT: The original Charter School Agreement (authorized by Board Report 97?0122?
EX4) with the Academy of Communications and Technology (ACT) Charter School was for a term
commencing July 1, 1997, and ending June 30, 2002. In 2002, the charter and Charter School Agreement
were renewed (authorized by Board Report for a two?year term commencing July 1, 2002,
and ending June 30, 2004. In 2004, the charter and Charter School Agreement were renewed (authorized
by Board Report 04-0428-EX3) for a three-year term commencing July 1, 2004 and ending June 30,
2007. The charter and Charter School Agreement were further renewed (authorized by Board Report 07-
for a five-year term commencing July 1, 2007 and ending June 30, 2012. The Charter School
Agreement authorized the operation of a single facility charter school focusing on communications and
technology for students in grades 7-12 with enrollment not to exceed 450 students. The charter and
Charter School Agreement were subsequently amended as follows:

137

January 22, 2014

. Board Report Approved 3 change of the address of the charter school to 2908 W.
Washington, Chicago, lL 60612 for the 2007 2008 school year only.

. Board Report Approved a relocation of the charter school to its original location at
4319 W. Washington, Chicago, IL 60624.

a Board Report Approved the addition of a sixth grade to the current grade structure
at the charter school for the beginning of the 2010-2011 school year.

. Board Report Approved ACT Charter School?s request to not add a sixth grade to
the current grade structure at the charter school for the beginning of the 2010?2011 school year.

0 Board Report Approved ACT Charter School?s request to voluntarily suspend its
educational services after the 2009-2010 school year for a period of no more than 2 years. To
remove suspension of charter status, ACT Charter School was required to notify the Office of
New Schools of its intent to reinstate educational services by submitting a proposal that outlined
the educational, financial and operational practices of the charter school. The proposal had to be
submitted in accordance with the timelines established by the Office of New Schools through the
new schools selection process or within six months of the anticipated date of reinstatement of
educational services by the charter school. This proposal required Board approval prior to the
reinstatement of educational services at ACT Charter School.

0 Board Report Approved 4837 W. Erie Street as the new location of the Academy
of Communications and Technology Charter School.

CHARTER RENEWAL PROPOSAL: The ACT Charter School submitted a material modification and
renewal proposal on November 2, 2011, to reinstate the operation of the ACT Charter School under a
mission to provide a college-preparatory education to urban youth empowering them to take their place in
society as competent, confident, creative and compassionate citizens of the world. This renewal proposal
requests to enter into a new five?year charter agreement and to change the grades served from grades 7-
12 to grades 5-8 and to allow Chicago to manage the operations of the school starting in the fall of
2012. The ACT Charter School will resume services in the fall of 2012, serving 90 students in grade 5.
The school will add a grade each year until reaching full capacity in the 2015-2016 school year, serving a
maximum of 360 students in grades 5-8.

ACT Charter School entered into a multi-year educational management agreement with Chicago to
provide comprehensive school management services at the charter school beginning in the fall of 2012.

The agreement incorporates an accountability plan in which the school is evaluated by the Board each
year based on numerous factors related to academic, financial and operational performance.

In February 2012, the Board proposed a new location for ACT Charter School. ACT Charter School shall
be located at 4837 W. Erie Street beginning with the 2012-2013 school year. A public hearing for the
proposed location was held on Thursday, March 15, 2012. The hearing was recorded and a summary
report is available for review.

This site will require that the ACT Charter School share its facility with the Henry H. Nash Elementary
School. The two schools will share their facility in accordance with the Board?s Shared Facility Policy, 05-
O126-PO1.

In February 2013, ACT submitted a proposal to change the charter school name from Academy of
Communications Charter School to Chicago Charter Schools, correct the existing address for
the charter school which is located at the Nash Annex from 4837 W. Erie to 4818 W. Ohio, authorize
the original charter campus at 4818 W. Ohio to be named the Create Campus, and change the
existing name of the school operator from Academy of Communications and Technology Charter to 
Chicago Schools. The governing boards of Academy of Communications and Technology Charter School
and Chicago Schools will merge to become one charter school operator to be named Chicago
Schools.

The elementary school campus named Bloom Campus is also expected to open in the fall of 2013
at a facility to be determined, serving 90 students in grade 5. ln successive years, that campus will add
one grade per year until reaching an at capacity enrollment of 360 students in grades 5 through 8. The
overall at capacity enrollment of the whole charter school will increase by 360 to 720 students for the fall
of 2013. An elementary campus is expected to open in the fall of 2014 at a facility to be determined,
serving 150 students in grade K. In successive years, that campus will add one grade per year until
reaching an at capacity enrollment of 540 students in grades through 4. The overall at capacity
enrollment of the whole charter school will increase by 540 to 1,260 students for the fall of 2014. A public
hearing on the proposed changes was held on April 15, 2013. The hearing was recorded and a summary
report is available for review.

138

January 22, 2014

In March 2013, the CEO recommended to the Board that the CPS facility at 5515 South Lowe be
identified as the location of the KIPP Chicago Charter Schools KIPP Bloom Campus that is scheduled
to open in the fall of 2013. This site will require that the KIPP Chicago Charter Schools - KIPP Bloom
Campus share its facility with Hope College Preparatory High School. The two schools will share their
facility in accordance with the Board?s Shared Facility Policy, 05-0126-PO1.

A publich hearing on the proposed co- location was held on May 7 2013 at Board Chambers, 125 South
Clark, 5h floor. The hearing was recorded and a summary report is available for review

In January 2014. the Office of New Schools recommended that KIPP Chicaqo Schools identify the CPS
facility at 1440 South Christiana as the location of the KIPP Chicaqo Charter Schools - Elementarv
School Campus. Also KIPP Chicaqo Schools requested to change the name of the KIPP Chicagg
Charter Schools - Elementary School Campus to the KIPP Chicago Charter Schools - KIPP Ascend
Primary Campus.

This site will require that the KIPP Chicago Charter Schools KIPP Ascend Primary Campus share its
facility with KIPP Ascend Charter School. The two schools will share their facility in accordance with the
Board?s Shared Facility Policy. 05-0126-PO1.

A public hearing on the proposed location and camus name change will be held on January 21. 2014 at
Board Chambers. 125 South Clark St.. 5th floor. The hearing was recorded and a summary report is
available for review.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Campus Year Opened Address At Capacity 2012-13 At Capacity
Name Grades enrollment Enrollment
KIPP Create 2012 4818 West 5 8 81 360
Ohio
KIPP Bloom 2013 5515 South 5 8 90 (in 2013- 360
Lowe 2014)
Elementary 2014 150 (in 2014- 540
Seheelr? South 2015)
Ascend Christiana
Primam

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CHARTER EVALUATION: In May 2011, the Charter School Agreement was amended to voluntarily
suspend the charter and the agreement effective June 30, 2010 for a period of no more than two years
(10-0526-EX4). In accordance with that amendment. ACT Charter School was required to submit a
proposal outlining the educational, financial, and operational practices to be put in place in order to
reinstate the charter and agreement in accordance with the timelines established by the Office of New
Schools through the new schools selection process or within six months prior to the resumption of
educational services. On November 2. 2011, ACT Charter School submitted a proposal to enter into an
agreement with KIPP Chicago to manage the operations of the school starting in the fall of 2012. The
Portfolio Office reviewed the plans included in the proposal to improve the academic performance and
operations of the ACT Charter School. A public hearing was conducted on Wednesday, January 11,
2012 to receive public comment on the application to renew the Charter School Agreement with ACT
Charter School for an additional five years.

RENEWAL TERM: The term of ACT Charter School?s charter and agreement is being extended, subject
to resolving outstanding issues including finalization of a facility to house the school, for a five (5) year
term commencing July 1, 2012 and ending June 30. 2017.

AUTHORIZATION: Authorize the General Counsel to include relevant terms and conditions, including
any indemnities to be provided to the charter school, in the written Charter School Agreement and
amendment, which shall reflect resolution of any and all outstanding issues between the Board and the
governing body of the charter school including, but not limited to: site location, enrollment. funding,
educational program. financial controls and practices academic accountability and evaluations. Authorize
the President and Secretary to execute the written Charter School Agreement and amendment.
Authorize the Senior Executive Director of the Office of New Schools and?LnnevatNe?Meelets to issue a
letter notifying the Illinois State Board of Education of the action(s) approved hereunder and to submit
the approved proposal and signed Charter School Agreement to the Illinois State Board of Education
for certification.

 

LSC REVIEW: Approval of Local School Councils is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL: The financial implications will be addressed during the development of the 2014?2015 fiscal
year budget. Since the School Code of Illinois prohibits the incurring of any liability unless an
appropriation has been previously made, expenditures beyond FY14 are deemed to be contingent
liabilities only, subject to appropriation in subsequent fiscal year budgets.

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 ILCS
the Inspector General of the Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations.

139

January 22, 2014

Board Member Dr. Hines abstained on Board Report 14-0122-EX7.
Board Member Ms. Quazzo abstained on Board Report 14-0122-EX7.
President Vitale indicated that if there were no objections, Board Reports 14-0122-EX1,
14-0122-EX2, and 14-0122-EX5 through 14-0122-EX7, with the noted abstentions, would be
adopted by the last favorable roll call vote, all members present voting therefore.
President Vitale thereupon declared Board Reports 14-0122-EX1, 14-0122-EX2, and
14-0122-EX5 through 14-0122-EX7 adopted.
The Board Secretary noted for the record that separate roll call votes would be taken on
consideration of an amendment to an existing charter and consideration of new campuses.
The Board Secretary proceeded with Board Report 14-0122-EX8 and noted that this report
is the Amendment for Nobel Network of Charter Schools to 1) Increase the At-Capacity
Enrollment; 2) For Consideration to Establish the ITW David Speer Academy Campus as a New
High School Campus to Open in the Fall of 2014; and 3) For Consideration to Establish the Exeter
Academy Campus as a New High School Campus to Open in the Fall of 2014. The Board Secretary
noted that separate roll call votes will be taken for each Action.
14-0122-EX8
FINAL

140

 January 22, 2014

This April 2009 amendment is necessary to authorize the Noble Network of Charter Schools to identify a
location for the Bain NUSH Grammar School Campus at 1454 W. Superior,(b) increase the first year enrollment
of the Chicago Bulls College Prep Campus by 30 seats to 230,and increase the first year enrollment of the
Muchin College Prep Campus by 80 seats to 280.The authority granted herein shall automatically rescind in the
event a written Charter School Agreement is not executed within 120 days of the date of this Board Report. The
agreement authorized herein will only take effect upon certification by the Illinois State Board of Education.

This August 2009 amendment is necessary to(a) approve the withdrawal of the Noble Street Charter School 
Bain NUSH Grammar School Campus proposal, decrease the overall at capacity enrollment of the charter
school by 600 to 5,396,and (0) correct the address of the Noble Street Charter School - Golder College Prep
Campus. The authority granted herein shall automatically rescind in the event a written amendment to the
Charter School Agreement is not executed by the Board and the charter school?s governing board within 120
days of the date of this Board Report. The amended agreement authorized herein will only take effect upon
certification by the Illinois State Board of Education.

This November 2009 amendment is necessary to authorize the Noble Network of Charter Schools to 
establish a new campus in the fall of 2010 to be located at 6350 S. Stewart, increase the overall at capacity
enrollment by 600 to 5,996 students, and approve the withdrawal of the Noble Street Charter School 
Osborn College Prep Campus. The authority granted herein shall automatically rescind in the event a written
amendment to the Charter School Agreement is not executed by the Board and the charter school?s governing
board within 120 days of the date of this amended Board Report. The amended agreement authorized herein
will only take effect upon certi?cation by the Illinois State Board of Education.

This April 2010 amendment is necessary to authorize the Noble Network of Charter Schools to increase the
at capacity enrollment of the Noble Charter School Pritzker Campus by 151 students to an at capacity
enrollment of 750 and increase the overall at capacity enrollment of the charter by 151 students to 6,147
students. The authority granted herein shall automatically rescind in the event a written amendment to the
Charter School Agreement is not executed by the Board and the charter school?s governing board within 120
days of the date of this amended Board Report. The amended agreement authorized herein will only take effect
upon certification by the Illinois State Board of Education.

This September 2010 amendment is necessary to approve changing the name of the Noble Street Charter
School Englewood Campus to the Noble Street Charter School John and Eunice Johnson College Prep
Campus. A written amendment to the original Charter School Agreement is required. This amendment is also
necessary to approve entering into an Amended and Restatement Charter School Agreement to incorporate
revisions to the existing Charter School Agreement and Accountability Plan. The authority granted herein for the
Amended and Restated Charter School Agreement and amendment to the original Charter School Agreement
shall automatically rescind as to both in the event such agreements are not executed by the Board and the
charter school?s governing board within 120 days of the date of this amended Board Report. Each agreement
authorized herein will only take effect upon certification by the Illinois State Board of Education.

This January 2011 amendment is necessary to authorize the Noble Network of Charter Schools to add
grades 6 through 8 to the Noble Street Charter School Gary Comer College Prep Campus, increase the at
capacity enrollment of the Noble Street Charter School Gary Comer College Prep Campus by 200 to 800
students and increase the overall at capacity enrollment of the entire Noble Network of Charter Schools by
200 to 6,347 students.

This January 2011 amendment is also necessary to increase the at capacity enrollment at the Noble Street
Charter School UIC College Prep Campus by 300 students to a new at capacity enrollment of 900, the
Noble Street Charter School Chicago Bulls Campus by 400 students to a new at capacity enrollment of 1000
and the Noble Street Charter School Muchin College Prep Campus by 250 students to a new at capacity
enrollment of 850,thereby further increasing the overall at capacity enrollment of the entire charter school by 950
students to 7,297students in the fall of 2011. The granting of enrollment increases for charter schools in CPS
facilities does not commit the Board to provide funding for capital improvements at these facilities. The authority
granted herein shall automatically rescind in the event a written amendment to the Charter School Agreement is
not executed by the Board and the charter school?s governing board within 120 days of the date of this amended
Board Report. The amended agreement authorized herein witl only take effect upon certification by the Illinois
State Board of Education. -

This December 2011 amendment is necessary to authorize the Noble Network of Charter Schools to 
establish two new high school campuses in the fall of 2012 at locations to be determined, increase the
overall at capacity enrollment of the charter school by 1800 to 9097 students in the fall of 2012, establish two
new high school campuses to open in the fall of 2013 at locations to be determined, and increase the overall
at capacity enrollment of the charter school by 1800 to 10,897 students in the fall of 2013. Establishment of
these additional campuses and the corresponding changes to enrollment are contingent upon any required
public hearings, evidence of community support, and Board approval of locations for these campuses. The
authority granted herein shall automatically rescind in the event written amendments to the Charter School
Agreement are not executed by the Board and the charter school?s governing board within the timeframes
specified in the amended Board Reports identifying and approving the site locations for the proposed campuses.
The amended agreements authorized herein will only take effect upon certification by the Illinois State Board of
Education.

This March 2012 amendment is necessary to authorize the Noble Network of Charter Schools to identify the
independent facility located at 8710-56 S. Aberdeen Street as the location for the Noble Street Charter School 
Silver Campus which is to open in 2012-2013 school year, identify the independent facility located at 931 S.
Homan as the location for the Noble Street Charter School Purple Campus which is to open in the 2012?2013
school year, increase the at capacity enrollment at the Noble Street Charter School - Bulls Campus from
1,000 to 1,150 students, increase the at capacity enrollment at the Noble Street Charter School - Comer

141

January 22, 2014

Campus from 800 to 900 students, increase the at capacity enrollment at the Noble Street Charter School 
Johnson Campus from 600 to 800 students, increase the at capacity enrollment at the Noble Street Charter
School Pritzker Campus from 750 to 800 students, (9) increase the at capacity enrollment at the Noble Street
Charter School - Noble Campus from 600 to 650 students, and increase the overall at capacity enrollment for
the charter school by 550 students to 11,447 students. The authority granted herein shall automatically rescind
in the event a written amendment to the Charter School Agreement is not executed by the Board and the charter
school?s governing board within 120 days of the date of this amended Board Report. The amended agreement
authorized herein will only take effect upon certification by the Illinois State Board of Education.

This April 2013 amendment is necessary to authorize the Noble Network of Charter Schools to increase the
at capacity enrollment at Noble Street Charter School Golder College Prep Campus from 599 to 650 students,
increase the at capacity enrollment at Noble Street Charter School ?John and Eunice Johnson College Prep
Campus from 800 to 850 students, increase the at capacity enrollment at the Noble Street Charter School 
Muchin College Prep Campus from 850 to 900 students, increase the at capacity enrollment at the Noble
Street Charter School Pritzker College Prep Campus from 800 to 875 students, increase the at capacity
enrollment at the Noble Street Charter School Rauner College Prep Campus from 599 to 650 students, 
increase the at capacity enrollment at the Noble Street Charter School ?Rowe?Clark Math Science Academy
Campus from 599 to 650 students, (g)increase the overall at capacity enrollment of the charter school by 328 to
11,775 students in the fall of 2013,and correct the address of the Noble Street Charter School Gary Comer
College Prep Campus from 7200 S. Ingleside to 7131 S. South Chicago. The authority granted herein shall
automatically rescind in the event a written amendment to the Charter School Agreement is not executed by the
Board and the charter school?s governing board within 120 days of the date of this amended Board Report. The
amended agreement authorized herein will only take effect upon certification by the Illinois State Board of
Education.

This May 2013 amendment is necessary to authorize the Noble Network of Charter Schools to identify the
CPS facility at 821 E. 103rd Street as the location of the Noble Street Charter School- Crimson Campus that is
scheduled to open in the fall of 2013, identify the CPS facility at 2710 E. 89th Street as the location for the
Noble Street Charter School? Orange Campus that is scheduled to open in the fall of 2013, and relocate
grades 6 through 8 of the Noble Street Charter School Gary Comer College Prep Campus ina CPS facility at
1010 E. 72nd Street. The authority granted herein shall automatically rescind in the event a written amendment
to the Charter School Agreement is not executed by the Board and the charter school?s governing board within
120 days of the date of this amended Board Report. The amended agreement authorized herein will only take
effect upon certification by the Illinois State Board of Education.

This January 2014 amendment is necessary to authorize the Noble Network of Charter Schools to increase the
at capacity enrollment for the Noble Street Charter School Gary Comer College Prep Campus from 900 to
1,200 students. thereby increasing the overall at capacity enrollment of the charter school by 300 to 12,075
students.

This January 2014 amendment is also necessary to submit for consideration the proposal to establish two new
high school campuses to open in the fall of 2014. First, the Noble Network of Charter Schools proposes to
establish the Noble Street Charter School - David Speer Academy Campus at a temporary location, 2456
N. Mango Avenue, in the fall of 2014. Beginning in the fall of 2015, the Noble Network of Charter Schools
proposes to move the David Speer Academy Campus to its proposed permanent location at 5321 W.
Grand Avenue. Second, the Noble Network of Charter Schools proposes to establish the Noble Street Charter
School - Exeter Academy Campus at a temporary location, 17 N. State Street, in the fall of 2014. Each campus
is proposed to serve an at capacity enrollment of 900 students. If approved, this would increase the overall at

capacity enrollment of the charter school by 1,800 to 13,875 in the fall of 2014.

If approved, establishment of the two additional campuses and changes to enrollment are contingent upon the
renewal of the Charter School Agreement with the Noble Network of Charter Schools upon expiration of this
renewal term ending June 30, 2014.

CHARTER SCHOOL: Noble Network of Charter Schools
1010 North Noble Street
Chicago, IL 60622
Phone: (773)862?1449
Contact Person: Michael Milkie, Superintendent

OVERSIGHT: Office of Innovation and Incubation
125 s. Clark, 10th Floor
Chicago, IL 60603
(773) 553?1530
Contact Person: Jack Elsey, Chief Officer

ORIGINAL AGREEMENT: The original Charter School Agreement (authorized by Board Report98?0429-EX12)
was for a term commencing July 2, 1998 (with the charter school opening for the 1999 2000 school year) and
ending June 30, 2004 and authorized the operation of a charter school serving no more than 500 students in
grades 9 12. The charter school was located at 1010 North Noble Street. The charter and Charter School
Agreement were subsequently renewed for a term commencing July 1, 2004 and ending June 30, 2009
(authorized by Board Report charter and Charter School Agreement were subsequently
amended as follows:

0 Board Report Approved the establishment of 2 new campuses located at 4131 West
Cortland Avenue (Cortland Campus) and 1337 West Ohio Street (Ohio Campus) and an increase of
the enrollment cap to 1698. Also approved the change in charter school holder from Noble Street
Charter School to Noble Network of Charter Schools.

142

January 22, 2014

0 Board Report Approved the name change for the Cortland Campus to the Pritzker
Campus and for the Ohio Campus to the Rauner Campus.

0 Board Report Approved the establishment of 2 new high school campuses and to
increase the overall at capacity enrollment by 1,198. The Brown Campus is located at 1460 West
Superior Street and will serve a maximum student enrollment of 599 students in grades 9-12. The
Maroon Campus is located at 3645 West Chicago Avenue and will serve a maximum student
enrollment of 599 students in grades 9?12.The Noble Network of Charter Schools enrollment cap
increased to 2,896 students.

- Board Report Approved the name change for the Brown Campus to the Golder
College Prep Campus and the Maroon Campus to the Rowe-Clark Math Science Academy
Campus.

0 Board Report 07-1024-EX5: Approved the establishment of 2 new high school campuses and to
increase the enrollment cap by 100 students to 2996 for the 2007 2008 school year and by
1ZOOstudents for the 2008 2009 school year. The Comer Campus is located at 7200 South
lngleside and will serve a maximum student enrollment of 600 students in grades 9?12. The UIC
Campus is located at 2350 West Ogden Avenue and will serve a maximum enrollment of 600
students in grades 9-12. The Noble Network of Charter Schools enrollment cap increased to 4196.

. Board Report Approved the change in location for the UIC Campus from 2350 West
Ogden Avenue to 1231 South Damen Avenue.

. Board Report 08-1022-EX11: Approved the establishment of 3 new campuses in the fall of 2009
and to increase their overall at capacity enrollment by 1800 to 5996 for the 2009 2010 school
year. The Chicago Bulls College Prep Campus will be located at a site to be determined and will
serve a maximum enrollment of 600 students in grades 9?12. The Muchin College Prep Campus will
be located at 1 N. State, Chicago, IL60602 and will serve a maximum enrollment of 600 students in
grades 9-12. The Bain NUSH Grammar School will be located at a site to be determined and will
serve a maximum enrollment of 600 students in grades Also approved was the establishment
of 1 new campus in the fall of 2010with an additional increase of the at capacity enrollment by 600
to a new total of 6596 for the 2010 2011 school year. The Osborn College Prep Campus will be
located at a site to be determined and will serve a maximum enrollment of 600 students in grades 9-
12. In addition the name change for the Comer Campus was approved. The campus will now be
known as the Gary Comer College Prep Campus.

The agreement incorporates an accountability plan where the school is evaluated by the Board each year based
on numerous factors related to its academic, financial and operational performance.

CHARTER RENEWAL PROPOSAL: The Noble Network of Charter Schools (Noble Street) submitted a renewal
proposal on September 5, 2008, to continue the operation of the Noble Street Charter Schools under a unified
mission. Noble Street has since modified its renewal proposal to include commitments to operate the eleven
(11) campuses unified through the use of uniform assessment plans and performance standards, curriculum
and school calendar alignment, as well as standard governance, operational, employment, educational and
admissions policies. The Charter School shall serve grades 12 with a maximum student enrollment of 4796
students and 6596 upon subsequent Board approval of the location of the three (3) campuses with sites to be
determined.

In March 2009, the Board proposed the location for the Noble Street Charter School Chicago Bulls College
Prep Campus. The Chicago Bulls College Prep Campus will be located at 2040 W. Adams. A public hearing for
the proposed location was held on March 18, 2009 at Best Practices High School, located at 2040 W. Adams.
The hearing was recorded and a summary report is available for review.

This site will require that the Chicago Bulls College Prep Campus share its facility with Best Practices High
School. The two schools will share their facility in accordance with the Board?s Shared Facility Policy, 05-0126?
P01.

In April 2009, the Noble Network of Charter Schools identified a location for the Bain NUSH Grammar School
Campus. The Bain NUSH Grammar School Campus will be located at 1454 W. Superior. Noble Network of
Charter Schools also submitted a material modification to increase the first year enrollment of the Chicago Bulls
College Prep Campus by 30 seats to 230, and to increase the first year enrollment of the Muchin College Prep
Campus by 80 seats to 280. A public hearing for the proposed location and enrollment increase was held on
Monday, April 20, 2009. The hearing was recorded and a summary report is available for review.

In August 2009, the Noble Network of Charter Schools notified the Office of New Schools that it would like to
withdraw its proposal to open the Bain NUSH Grammar School Campus and change the overall at capacity
enrollment for the charter school. A public hearing for this proposed change was held on Monday, August 17,
2009. The hearing was recorded and a summary report is available for review.

In addition, the Noble Network of Charter Schools submitted a material modification to correct the address of the
Golder College Prep Campus. The correct address for the Golder College Prep Campus is 1454 W. Superior.

On July 15, 2009, the Noble Network of Charter Schools submitted a proposal to open a new high school. Noble
Network proposes to establish the Noble Street Charter School Englewood Campus to be located at 6350 S.
Stewart and to increase the overall at capacity enrollment by 600 students to 5,996. This site will require that

143

January 22, 2014

Noble Street Charter School Englewood Campus share its facility with Reed Elementary School. The two
schools with share their facility in accordance with the Board?s Shared Facility Policy, The
Englewood Campus is scheduled to open in the fall of 2010 and will serve 150 students in grade 9. In
successive years, the Englewood Campus will grow one grade at a time, until reaching a capacity of 600
students in grades 9-12. Public hearings, as required by statute, were held on June 23, 2009, September 10,
2009 and November 9, 2009. The public hearings were recorded and summary reports for all hearings are
available for review.

In February 2010, the Noble Network of Charter Schools submitted a material modification to increase the at
capacity enrollment of the Noble Charter School Pritzker Campus by 151 students to an at capacity enrollment
of 750 and increase the overall at capacity enrollment of the charter by 151 students to 6,147 students. A
public hearing on the proposed changes was held on April 15, 2010. The hearing was recorded and a summary
report is available for review.

In July 2010, the Noble Network of Charter Schools submitted a material modification to change the name of the
Noble Street Charter School Englewood Campus to the Noble Street Charter School John and Eunice
Johnson College Prep Campus. A public hearing on the proposed change was held on Thursday, September 9,
2010. The hearing was recorded and a summary report is available for review.

In addition, the Of?ce of New Schools proposes to amend the existing charter school agreement for the charter
school to incorporate revisions to the Charter School Agreement and Accountability Plan. The Charter School

Accountability Plan has been revised to align with the Board?s standards for evaluation of student performance.
The execution of the amended and restated Charter School Agreement will further the goal of uniformity in
performance measurement, accountability and other terms and conditions among all charter schools.

In August 2010, the Noble Network of Charter Schools submitted a material modification to add grades 6
through 8 to the Noble Street Charter School Gary Comer College Prep Campus, increase the at capacity
enrollment of the Noble Street Charter School Gary Comer College Prep Campus by 200 to 800 students and
(0) increase the overall at capacity enrollment of the entire Noble Network of Charter Schools by 200 to 6,347
students. The Noble Street Charter School ?Gary Comer College Prep Campus will begin serving approximately
60 students in grade 6 beginning in the fall of 2011. The campus will grow to serve 800 students in grades 6
through 12 at capacity.

Noble Network of Charter Schools also submitted a material modi?cation in October 2010 to increase the at
capacity enrollment for the following campuses: UIC College Prep Campus by 300 students to a new at
capacity enrollment of 900, Chicago Bulls Campus by 400 students to a new at capacity enrollment of 1000,
Muchin College Prep Campus by 250 students to a new at capacity enrollment of 850, thereby further
increasing the overall at capacity enrollment of the entire charter school by 950 to 7,297 students in the fall of
2011.

Public hearings on the proposed changes were held on Tuesday, December 7, 2010 and Tuesday, January 18,
2011. The hearings were recorded and a summary report for both hearings is available for review.

In August 2011, the Noble Network of Charter Schools submitted a proposal to do the following: establish
two new high school campuses to open in the fall of 2012 at locations to be determined with corresponding
increases in the overall at capacity enrollment of the charter school by 1800 to 9097 students in the fall of 2012
and establish two new high school campuses to open in the fall of 2013 at locations to be determined with
corresponding increases in the overall at capacity enrollment of the charter school by 1800 to 10,897 students in
the fall of 2013. A public hearing on these proposed changes was held on Tuesday, November 22, 2011. The
hearing was recorded and a summary report of the hearing is available for review.

In January 2012, the Noble Network of Charter Schools submitted a material modification to identify the
independent facility located at 8710-56 S. Aberdeen Street as the location for the Noble Street Charter School 
Silver Campus which is to open in 2012-2013 school year, identify the independent facility located at 931 S.
Homan as the location for the Noble Street Charter School Purple Campus which is to open in the 2012-2013
school year, (0) increase the at capacity enrollment at the Noble Street Charter School Bulls Campus from
1,000 to 1,150 students, increase the at capacity enrollment at the Noble Street Charter School Comer
Campus from 800 to 900 students, increase the at capacity enrollment at the Noble Street Charter School 
Johnson Campus from 600 to 800 students, increase the at capacity enrollment at the Noble Street Charter
School ?Pritzker Campus from 750 to 800 students, (9) increase the at capacity enrollment at the Noble Street
Charter School Noble Campus from 600 to 650 students, and increase the overall at capacity enrollment
for the charter school by 550 students to 11,447 students. A public hearing on these proposed changes was
held on Thursday, March 15, 2012. The hearing was recorded and a summary report of the hearing is available
for review.

In January 2013, the Noble Network of Charter Schools submitted a material modi?cation to increase the at
capacity enrollment at Noble Street Charter School ?Golder College Prep Campus from 599 to 650 students, 
increase the at capacity enrollment at Noble Street Charter School ?John and Eunice Johnson College Prep
Campus from 800 to 850 students, (0) increase the at capacity enrollment at the Noble Street Charter School 
Muchin College Prep Campus from 850 to 900 students, increase the at capacity enrollment at the Noble
Street Charter School ?Pritzker College Prep Campus from 800 to 875 students, increase the at capacity
enrollment at the Noble Street Charter School ?Rauner College Prep Campus from 599 to 650 students, 
increase the at capacity enrollment at the Noble Street Charter School Rowe-Clark Math Science Academy

144

January 22, 2014

Campus from 599 to 650 students, (9) increase the overall at capacity enrollment of the charter school by 328 to
11,775 students in the fall of 2013, and(h) correct the address of Noble Street Charter School - Gary Comer
College Prep Campus from 7200 S. Ingleside to 7131 S. South Chicago. A public hearing on the proposed
changes was held on Monday, April 15, 2013. The hearing was recorded and a summary report is available for
revrew.

In March 2013, the CEO recommended to the Board the following actions:

identi?ed the CPS facility at 821 E. 103rd Street as the location of the Noble Street Charter School 
Crimson Campus that is scheduled to open in the fall of 2013. This site will require that Noble Street
Charter School Crimson Campus share its facility with George H. Corliss High School.

identi?ed the CPS facility at 2710 E. 89th Street as the location for the Noble Street Charter School Orange
Campus that is scheduled to open in the fall of 2013. This site will require that Noble Street Charter School
Orange Campus share its facility with James H. Bowen High School.

relocated grades 6 through 8 of the Noble Street Charter School Gary Comer College Prep Campus in a
CPS facility at 1010 E. 72?d Street. This site will require that grades 6 through 8 of Noble Street Charter
School Gary Comer College Prep Campus share its facility with Paul Revere Elementary School.

All of the aforementioned campuses will share their facilities in accordance with the Board?s Shared Facility
Policy, 05-0126-PO1.

A public hearing on the proposed co-locations was held on May 7, 2013 at Board Chambers, 125 S. Clark St, 5th
floor. The hearing was recorded and a summary report is available for review.

On September 30, 2013,the Noble Network of Charter Schools submitted a proposal in response to the Request
for Proposals issued by the Board in August 2013. It proposed to increase the at capacity enrollment for the
Noble Street Charter School Gary Comer College Prep Campus from 900 to 1.200 students. thereby
increasing the overall at capacity enrollment of the charter school by 300 to 12,075 students.

In addition. the Noble Network of Charter Schools proposed to establish a new high school cafmpus. the Noble
Street Charter School ITW David Speer Academy Campus, to be temporarily located in an independent fap?y
at 2456 N. Mango Avenue for the 2014-2015 school year only. Starting in the 2015?2016 school year. the Noble
Network of Charter Schools proposed the permanent location for the David Speer Academy Campus to be
located in an independent facility at 5321 W. Grand Avenue. It is proposed that the campus will open in the fall
of 2014 and will serve 270 students in grade 9. ln successive years, that campus will grow onggrade at a time.
until reaching a capacity of 900 students in grades 9-12. thereby increasing the overall at capacity enrollment of
the charter school to 12,975 in the fall of 2014.

Further. the Noble Network of Charter Schools prcLosed to establish a new high school campus, the Noble
Street Charter School Noble Exeter Academy Campus. to be temporarmr located at 17 N. State Street. The
Noble Exeter Academy Campus is proposed to open in the fall of 2014 and will serve 260 students in grade 9. ln
successive years, that campus will grow one grade at a time. until reaching a @acity of 900 students in grades
9?12, thermfurther increasing the overall at capacity enrollment of the charter school to 13,875 in the fall of
2014.

Also. if approved, the establishment of the two additional cam?ses and changes to enrollment are contingent
upon the renewal of the Charter School Agreement with the Noble Network of Charter Schools upon expiration
of this renewal term ending June 30. 2014.

A public hearing on campuses and enrollment increases was held on Tuesday. January 7, 2014.
The hearing was recorded and a summary report is available for review.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

At
Year At Capacity 2008 2009 Capacity
Campus Name Opened Address Grades Enrollment Enrollment
1010 N.
Noble Campus 1999 Noble 9?12 513 650
Pritzker
College Prep 4131 W.
Campus 2006 Cortland 9-12 436 875
RaunerCollege 1337 W.
Prep Campus 2006 Ohio 9?1 2 401 650
GolderCollege 1454 W.
Prep Campus 2007 Superior 9-12 316 650
Rowe?Clark
Math Science
Academy 3645 W.
Campus 2007 Chicago 9-12 297 650
1231 S.
Canggus 2008 Damen 9?12 185 900
7131 8.
South
Chicago 
Gary Comer 1010 
College Prep 2008 Street
Campus 6?12 165 ?0900

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

145

January 22, 2014

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Chicago
BullsCollege Prep 2040 W. 230
Campus 2009 Adams 9?12 (in 09 1Q 1150
MuchinCollege 280
Prep Campus 2009 1 N. State 9-12 (in 09 10) 900
John and Eunice 
Johnson 6350 S.
CollegePrepCam Stewart 150
JUS 2010 9?12 (in 10 850
8710-56 8.
Aberdeen St. 260
Noble- Silver 2012 9?Homan St. 260
Noble- Pwle 2012 9-103rd 260
CrimsonC?pus 2013 Street 9-12 (in 13 A) 900
2710 E. 89?? 260
Or?eC?nus 2013 Street 9?12 (in 13 900

 

CONTINGENT APPROVAL: Approval to open two new high school campuses in the fall of 2012 and two new
high school campuses in the fall of 2013 and the execution of the amendments to the Charter School
Agreement are contingent upon a final review and approval of the new high school proposals, an assessment of
the District?s need for these charter school campuses based upon demographics and student demands,
evidence of community support, any required subsequent public hearings, and Board approval of the proposed
school sites. Approval of the 2012 and 2013 campuses is also contingent upon the school operator meeting
benchmarks established by the Office of innovation and Incubation. These benchmarks will be communicated to
the school operator in a formal Letter of Conditions with all deadlines to be met by March 15, 2012 for 2012
campuses, and March 15, 2013 for 2013 campuses. The Office of Innovation and Incubation will oversee the
enforcement of these deadlines; failure to meet these deadlines may, at the option of the Board, result in the
rescission of the authority granted herein and the denial of the approval to open these new campuses. A final
review of these new campus proposals will be conducted by the Chief Executive Officer on or before April 15,
2012 for 2012 campuses, and April 15, 2013 for 2013 campuses to determine final approval or denial of the new
campus proposals. The recommendation to approve the new high school campuses will be subject to
Board approval as indicated by subsequent amendments to this Board Report.

All sites for the 2012 and 2013 campuses must be located in high need or overcrowded communities.

Final approval of Noble Street Charter School Noble Exeter Academy Campus is contingent upon the Noble
Network of Charter Schools submitting information regarding parent and community engagement, the proposed
educational plan, school leadership, and a viable permanent facility vapril L2014. The specifics regarding
these contingencies and the requested submission will be communicated bv the Chief Executive Of?cer or her
designee to the Noble Network of Charter Schools in a formal Letter of Conditions. The Board herebv directs
the Chief Executive Officer or her desiqnee to monitor the deadlines set forth in the Letter of Conditions,
oversee the evaluation of the submission by the Noble Network of Charter Schooj and provide a written report
regarding compliance with the Letter of Conditions to the Boardpv May 1, 2014. Thereafter, this will be re?
presented to the Board for a determination regarding whether the contingencies have been satisfied. Failure to
meet this contingencv according to the terms set forth in the Letter of Conditions may, at the option of the BoapL
result in the rescission of the authority granted herein.

CHARTER EVALUATION: After receiving the charter renewal proposal, the Office of New Schools conducted a
comprehensive evaluation of Noble Street?s performance and Operations. This evaluation included a review of
the proposal, facilities surveys, financial analysis, and academic site visits of the seven campuses in which
teaching and learning, leadership and governance, learning communities and services provided to English
Language Learners and students with special needs were assessed. A public hearing was conducted on
December 4, 2008to receive public comment on the application to renew the Charter School Agreement with
Noble Network of Charter Schools for an additional five years. There was no public testimony, oral or written,
from anyone in opposition of the renewal of Noble Network of Charter Schools. Since 2004-2005, the charter
school?s attendance rate has exceeded 94%. in 2007-2008, zero percent of students at the Noble Street
campuses dropped out of school. While Noble Street experienced a slight decline in the percent of students
meeting/exceeding state standards on the PSAE Composite, Noble Street?s average ACT Composite score has
stayed above an 18. in 2007?2008, Noble Street?s graduation rate ranked in the top 20 percent of
district high schools. From 2004-2005 to 2007-2008, Noble Street received 37 out of 49 high ratings and 10 out
of 49 middle ratings on their absolute student indicators found in the framework put forth by the district for
assessing charter school pupil performance. The percentage of high ratings has increased over time. Looking
across all of the school performance indicators, Noble Street Charter School can be categorized as ?Making
Reasonable Progress? toward achieving pupil performance standards using the framework put forth by the
district for assessing charter school pupil performance.

RENEWAL TERM: The term of the Noble Network of Charter Schools? charter agreement is being extended for
a five (5) year term commencing July 1, 2009 and ending June 30, 2014.The renewal agreement will incorporate
specific conditions to be ful?lled by the charter holder and the specific timeframes in which they must be
fulfilled.

146

January 22, 2014

The Board Secretary proceeded with the separate roll call vote on 14-0122-EX8, Action 1,
Noble to Increase the At-Capacity Enrollment.
The Secretary called the roll and the vote was as follows:
Yeas: Dr. Hines, Mr. Ruiz, Ms. Zopp, Ms. Quazzo, Dr. Azcoitia, and President Vitale – 6
Nays: None
President Vitale thereupon declared Action 1, Noble to Increase the At-Capacity
Enrollment adopted.
The Board Secretary proceeded with the separate roll call vote on 14-0122-EX8, Action 2,
Consideration to Establish the ITW David Speer Academy Campus as a New High School Campus
to Open in the Fall of 2014.
The Secretary called the roll and the vote was as follows:
Yeas: Dr. Hines, Mr. Ruiz, Ms. Zopp, Ms. Quazzo, Dr. Azcoitia, and President Vitale – 6
Nays: None
President Vitale thereupon declared Action 2, Consideration to Establish the ITW David
Speer Academy Campus as a New High School Campus to Open in the Fall of 2014 adopted.
The Board Secretary proceeded with the separate roll call vote on 14-0122-EX8, Action 3,
Consideration to Establish the Exeter Academy Campus as a New High School Campus to Open
in the Fall of 2014.
The Secretary called the roll and the vote was as follows:
Yeas: Dr. Hines, Mr. Ruiz, Ms. Quazzo, and President Vitale – 4
Nays: Ms. Zopp and Dr. Azcoitia – 2
147

 January 22, 2014
President Vitale thereupon declared Action 3, Consideration to Establish the Exeter
Academy Campus as a New High School Campus to Open in the Fall of 2014 adopted.
The Board Secretary proceeded with Board Report 14-0122-EX9, Consideration of a
Proposal for Charter and Charter School Agreement Submitted by Be the Change Charter School.
14-0122-EX9
FAILED OF ADOPTION

148

 January 22, 2014

The Secretary called the roll and the vote was as follows:
Yeas: None
Nays: Dr. Hines, Mr. Ruiz, Ms. Zopp, Ms. Quazzo, Dr. Azcoitia, and President Vitale – 6
President Vitale thereupon declared Board Report 14-0122-EX9 failed of adoption.
The Board Secretary proceeded with Board Report 14-0122-EX10, Consideration of a
Proposal for Charter and Charter School Agreement Submitted by Chicago Education Partnership.
14-0122-EX10
FINAL

149

 January 22, 2014

DESCRIPTION: The Charter Schools Law (105 ILCS et seq., as amended) provides that up to
70 charter schools may be operated in the City of Chicago. Proposals to operate charter schools are
submitted to the Board for evaluation pursuant to the standards set forth in 105 ILCS and the
Board convenes a public meeting to obtain information to assist in its decision to grant or deny each
proposal and report its action to the Illinois State Board of Education. The State Board determines
whether the approved charter school proposal and the proposed contract satisfy the provisions of the
Charter Schools Law and, if so, certifies the charter school.

CHARTER APPLICATION PROPOSAL: The Chicago Education Partnership Charter school proposal
was submitted by Chicago Education Partnership, Inc. and received by the Board in two tiers: a Tier 1
proposal was due in September 2013, and a Tier 2 proposal, considered ?final and complete? in
accordance with the Charter Schools Law, in December 2013. Chicago Education Partnership?s mission
is to create a school that dramatically transforms the lives of K-8 students and prepares them for success
in college and in life through the delivery of a rigorous and personalized academic program, a focus on
holistic education and the development of strong character. Chicago Education Partnership?s school
model is based on an extended school year/extended school day. It will meet the needs of all learners
including English Language Learners, students with special needs, students in need of remediation and
those in need of accelerated learning. The Chicago Education Partnership Charter School will be a
college preparatory school which views excellence as commitment to constant improvement, through a
rigorous education that seeks to develop the potential of each student. The educational program of the
school will include: student?centered, personalized learning academic philosophy, culture of high
expectations established, self-pacing and mastery based advancement, blended instructional model,
data?driven instruction, a pyramid of interventions for students to meet social/emotional needs and a deep
partnership with the By The Hand Club for Kids. The school is slated to open in the fall of 2015 serving a
maximum of 180' students in gradesK-1.The school will add grades in subsequent years with an at
capacity enrollment of 810 students in grades The school will be located across two adjoining
facilities in the Austin neighborhood. Grades will be located at 400 N. Leamington Avenue and
Grades 7 and 8 will be located at 415 N. Laramie Avenue. A community meeting and a public hearing on
charter school submissions submitted in 2013, as required by statute, were held on December 16, 2013
and January 7, 2014.

TERM: If approved, the term of the Chicago Education Partnership charter and agreement shall
commence July 1, 2015 and end June 30, 2020.

CONTINGENT APPROVAL: Final approval of this proposal is contingent upon Chicago Education
Partnership, Inc. submitting responses regarding its academic capacity, including, but not limited to
information regarding: the identi?cation of a principal with a proven track record of driving student
academic achievement with similar student populations in a school setting, a curriculum map with
learning standards for each grade and subject in the ?ve?year contract, and systems, traditions, and
structures to achieve the proposed school culture by July 1, 2014. The specifics regarding these
contingencies and the requested submission will be communicated by the Chief Executive Officer or her
designee to Chicago Education Partnership, Inc. in a formal Letter of Conditions. The Board hereby
directs the Chief Executive Officer or her designee to monitor the deadlines set forth in the Letter of
Conditions, oversee the evaluation of the submission by Chicago Education Partnership, Inc., and provide
a written report regarding compliance with the Letter of Conditions to the Board by October 1, 2014.
Thereafter, this will be re-presented to the Board for a determination regarding whether the contingencies
have been satis?ed. Failure to meet this contingency according to the terms set forth in the Letter of
Conditions may, at the option of the Board, result in the rescission of the authority granted herein.

AUTHORIZATION: Authorize the General Counsel to include relevant terms and conditions, including
any indemnities to be provided to the charter school, in the written Charter School Agreement. Authorize
the President and Secretary to execute the written Charter School Agreement. Authorize the Senior
Director of the Office of New Schools to issue a letter notifying the Illinois State Board of Education of the
action(s) approved hereunder and to submit the approved proposal and signed Charter School
Agreement to the Illinois State Board of Education for certification.

LSC REVIEW: Approval of Local School Council is not applicable to this report.
AFFIRMATIVE ACTION: Not applicable.

FINANCIAL: The financial implications will be addressed during the development of the2015-2016 fiscal
year budget. Since the School Code of Illinois prohibits the incurring of any liability unless an
appropriation has been previously made, expenditures beyond FY15 are deemed to be contingent
liabilities only, subject to appropriation in subsequent fiscal year budgets.

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General - Each Party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 ILCS
the Inspector General of the Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations.

Conflicts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
Provisions of 105 ILCS which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one-year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of
office.

150

January 22, 2014

The Secretary called the roll and the vote was as follows:
Yeas: Dr. Hines, Mr. Ruiz, Ms. Zopp, Ms. Quazzo, and President Vitale – 5
Nays: Dr. Azcoitia – 1
President Vitale thereupon declared Board Report 14-0122-EX10 adopted.
The Board Secretary proceeded with Board Report 14-0122-EX11, Consideration of a
Proposal for Charter and Charter School Agreement Submitted by Concept Schools for Operation
of Horizon Science Academy – Chatham Charter School.
14-0122-EX11
FINAL

151

 January 22, 2014

The Secretary called the roll and the vote was as follows:
Yeas: Dr. Hines, Mr. Ruiz, Ms. Zopp, Ms. Quazzo, Dr. Azcoitia, and President Vitale – 6
Nays: None
President Vitale thereupon declared Board Report 14-0122-EX11 adopted.
The Board Secretary proceeded with Board Report 14-0122-EX12, Consideration of a
Proposal for Charter and Charter School Agreement Submitted by Concept Schools for Operation
of Horizon Science Academy – Chicago Lawn Charter School.

152

 January 22, 2014

14-0122-EX12
FINAL

CONSIDERATION OF A PROPOSAL FOR CHARTER AND CHARTER SCHOOL AGREEMENT
SUBMITTED BY CONCEPT SCHOOLS, AN ILLINOIS NOT-FOR-PROFIT CORPORATION
(HORIZON SCIENCE ACADEMY CHICAGO LAWN CHARTER SCHOOL)

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER RECOMMENDS:

Consideration of a proposal for charter and Charter School Agreement submitted by Concept Schools for
the operation of Horizon Science Academy Chicago Lawn Charter School, an Illinois not-for?profit
corporation for a five?year term, beginning July 1, 2014. Approval will be contingent as detailed below.
The authority granted herein shall automatically rescind in the event a written Charter School Agreement
is not executed by the Board and the charter school's governing board by June 1, 2014. The agreement
presented for consideration herein will only take effect upon certification by the Illinois State Board of
Education. Information pertinent to this matter is stated below.

SCHOOL OPERATOR: Concept Schools
2250 E. Devon Avenue Suite 215
Des Plaines, Illinois 60018
Phone: 224-678-5547
Contact: Salim Ucan, Vice President

CHARTER SCHOOL: Horizon Science Academy Chicago Lawn Charter School
5401 S. Western Avenue
Chicago, Illinois 60609
Phone: 224-678?5547
Contact: Salim Ucan, Vice President

of Innovation and Incubation
125 s. Clark, 10th Floor
Chicago, IL60603
773-553-1530
Contact Person: Jack Elsey, Chief Officer

DESCRIPTION: The Charter Schools Law (105 ILCS et seq., as amended) provides that up to
70 charter schools may be operated in the City of Chicago. Proposals to operate charter schools are
submitted to the Board for evaluation pursuant to the standards set forth in 105 ILCS and the
Board convenes a public meeting to obtain information to assist in its decision to grant or deny each
proposal and report its action to the Illinois State Board of Education. The State Board determines
whether the approved charter school proposal and the proposed contract satisfy the provisions of the
Charter Schools Law and, if so, certifies the charter school.

CHARTER APPLICATION PROPOSAL: The mission of Horizon Science Academy Chicago Lawn
Charter School will be to prepare its students for college by creating an effective learning environment of
higher standards and expectations with a challenging college preparatory mathematics, science,
engineering and technology (STEM) curriculum. The school will implement Concept Schools design, a
proven successful, student?centered, and evidenced-based educational design, currently being
implemented in thirty charter schools in the Midwest. The main characteristics of Concept design are: 1.
Rigorous college preparatory curriculum with a math, science and technology emphasis, 2. Longer school
days and extended school year, 3. Small school and class sizes, 4. Personalized education and 5. Data-
driven instruction. Horizon Science Academy Chicago Lawn will be located in Chicago Lawn at a 5401
S. Western Avenue. The school will open in the fall 2014 and will serve no more than 450 students in
grades They will grow to serve 725 students in grades A community meeting and a public
hearing on charter school submissions submitted in 2013 were held on December 16, 2013 and January
7, 2014, respectively.

TERM: If approved, the term of the Concept Schools charter and agreement shall commence July 1,
2014 and end June 30, 2019.

CONTINGENT APPROVAL: Final approval of this proposal is contingent upon Concept Schools
submitting information regarding the identification of principal with a proven track record driving student
achievement with similar student populations, partnerships in Chicago Lawn, and a viable permanent
facility by April 1, 2014. The specifics regarding these contingencies and the requested submission will
be communicated by the Chief Executive Officer or her designee to Concept Schools in a formal Letter of
Conditions. The Board hereby directs the Chief Executive Officer or her designee to monitor the
deadlines set forth in the Letter of Conditions, oversee the evaluation of the submission by Concept
Schools, and provide a written report regarding compliance with the Letter of Conditions to the Board by
May 1, 2014. Thereafter, this will be re-presented to the Board for a determination regarding whether the
contingencies have been satisfied. Failure to meet this contingency according to the terms set forth in the
Letter of Conditions may, at the option of the Board, result in the rescission of the authority granted
herein.

153

January 22, 2014

The Secretary called the roll and the vote was as follows:
Yeas: Dr. Hines, Mr. Ruiz, Ms. Zopp, Ms. Quazzo, and President Vitale – 5
Nays: Dr. Azcoitia – 1
President Vitale thereupon declared Board Report 14-0122-EX12 adopted.
The Board Secretary proceeded with Board Report 14-0122-EX13, Consideration of a
Proposal for Charter and Charter School Agreement Submitted by Connected Futures Academies.
14-0122-EX13
FAILED OF ADOPTION

154

 January 22, 2014

The Secretary called the roll and the vote was as follows:
Yeas: None
Nays: Dr. Hines, Mr. Ruiz, Ms. Zopp, Ms. Quazzo, Dr. Azcoitia, and President Vitale – 6
President Vitale thereupon declared Board Report 14-0122-EX13 failed of adoption.
155

 January 22, 2014
The Board Secretary proceeded with Board Reports 14-0122-EX14 through 14-0122-EX17,
Consideration of Proposals for Charter and Charter School Agreements Submitted by Curtis
Sharif STEM Academy for Charter Schools 1, 2, 3 and 4.
14-0122-EX14
FAILED OF ADOPTION

156

 January 22, 2014

LSC REVIEW: Approval of Local School Council is not applicable to this report.
AFFIRMATIVE ACTION: Not applicable.

FINANCIAL: The financial implications will be addressed during the development of the 2014-2015 fiscal
year budget. Since the School Code of Illinois prohibits the incurring of any liability unless an
appropriation has been previously made, expenditures beyond FY15 are deemed to be contingent
liabilities only, subject to appropriation in subsequent fiscal year budgets.

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General Each Party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 
the Inspector General of the Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations.

Conflicts The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
Provisions of 105 which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one?year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of
of?ce.

Indebtedness - The Board's indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 2006 as amended
from time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 (11-0525-PO2), as amended from time to time
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

14-0122-EX15

FAILED OF ADOPTION

CONSIDERATION OF A PROPOSAL FOR CHARTER AND CHARTER SCHOOL AGREEMENT
SUBMITTED BY CURTIS SHARIF STEM ACADEMY
(CURTIS SHARIF STEM ACADEMY CHARTER SCHOOL 2)

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER RECOMMENDS:

Consideration of a proposal for charter and Charter School Agreement submitted by Curtis Sharif STEM
Academy. If approved, the term of the Charter School Agreement would be for a ?ve-year period,
beginning July 1, 2015. The authority granted herein shall automatically rescind in the event a written
Charter School Agreement is not executed by the Board and the charter school's governing board by
June 30, 2015. The agreement presented for consideration herein will only take effect upon certi?cation
by the Illinois State Board of Education. Information pertinent to this matter is stated below.

SCHOOL OPERATOR: Curtis Sharif STEM Academy
313 East 60?? Street
Chicago, Illinois 60637
Phone: 312-813?4625
Contact: Deborah Um'rani, Design Team Leader

CHARTER SCHOOL: Curtis Sharif STEM Academy Charter School 2
Locatidn to be Determined
Phone: 312-813-4625
Contact: Deborah Um'rani, Design Team Leader

OVERSIGHT: Of?ce of Innovation and Incubation
125 s. Clark, 10th Floor
Chicago, IL 60603
773-553-1530
Contact Person: Jack Elsey, Chief Of?cer

DESCRIPTION: The Charter Schools Law (105 et seq., as amended) provides that up to
70 charter schools may be operated in the City of Chicago. Proposals to operate charter schools are
submitted to the Board for evaluation pursuant to the standards set forth in 105 and the
Board convenes a public meeting to obtain information to assist in its decision to grant or deny each
proposal and report its action to the Illinois State Board of Education. The State Board determines
whether the approved charter school proposal and the proposed contract satisfy the provisions of the
Charter Schools Law and, if so, certi?es the charter school.

CHARTER APPLICATION PROPOSAL: The Curtis Sharif STEM Academy Charter School 2 proposal
was submitted by Curtis Sharif STEM Academy and received by the Board in two tiers: a Tier 1 proposal
was due in September 2013, and a Tier 2 proposal completed the proposal in accordance with the
Charter Schools Law, in December 2013. The Curtis-Sharif STEM Academy?s mission is to provide a
college preparatory elementary education that integrates a STEM curriculum, the ?ne, cultural, visual and
performing arts, character education, the humanities, and healthy living in an academically and
intellectually rigorous, culturally empowering, socially nurturing, safe, orderly environment to develop
creative, respectful scholars and leaders who are empowered to be positive in?uences in their homes and
communities. The CSSA educational environment exposes students, beginning in Kindergarten and at

157

January 22, 2014

whatever point they enter the Pipeline to Excellence?, to a curriculum that focuses on inquiry
based learning, critical thinking skills, problem-based learning, the scienti?c method, the Socratic method,
the arts and an international baccalaureate curriculum framed by the common core standards to engage
students in intellectual inquiry in every subject area.

The school is slated to open in the fall of 2015 at a location to be determined and will serve a maximum of
165 students in grades K-5. The school will add grades in subsequent years with an at capacity
enrollment of 300 students in grades A community meeting and a public hearing on charter school
submissions submitted in 2013 were held on December 16, 2013 and January 7, 2014, respectively.

If approved, the identi?cation of a facility will be required to be submitted to the Board for consideration.

TERM: If approved, the term of the Curtis Sharif STEM Academy charter and agreement shall commence
July 1, 2015 and end June 30,2020.

AUTHORIZATION: Authorize the General Counsel to include relevant terms and conditions, including
any indemnities to be provided to the charter school, in the written Charter School Agreement. Authorize
the President and Secretary to execute the written Charter School Agreement. Authorize the Senior
Director of the Office of New Schools to issue a letter notifying the Illinois State Board of Education of the
action(s) approved hereunder and to submit the approved proposal and signed Charter School
Agreement to the Illinois State Board of Education for certi?cation.

LSC REVIEW: Approval of Local School Council is not applicable to this report.
AFFIRMATIVE ACTION: Not applicable.

FINANCIAL: The financial implications will be addressed during the development of the 2015?2016 fiscal
year budget. Since the School Code of Illinois prohibits the incurring of any liability unless an
appropriation has been previously made, expenditures beyond FY16 are deemed to be contingent
liabilities only, subject to appropriation in subsequent ?scal year budgets.

GENERAL CONDITIONS:
Inspector General - Each Party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 ILCS
the Inspector General of the Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations.

Conflicts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
Provisions of 105 ILCS which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one-year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of
office.

Indebtedness - The Board's indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 2006 as amended
from time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics The Board?s Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 as amended from time to time
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

14-0122-EX16
FAILED OF ADOPTION

CONSIDERATION OF A PROPOSAL FOR CHARTER AND CHARTER SCHOOL AGREEMENT
SUBMITTED BY CURTIS SHARIF STEM ACADEMY
(CURTIS SHARIF STEM ACADEMY CHARTER SCHOOL 3)

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER RECOMMENDS:

Consideration of a proposal for charter and Charter School Agreement submitted by Curtis Sharif STEM
Academy. If approved, the term of the Charter School Agreement would be for a ?ve?year period,
beginning July 1, 2016. The authority granted herein shall automatically rescind in the event a written
Charter School Agreement is not executed by the Board and the charter school's governing board by
June 30, 2016. The agreement presented for consideration herein will only take effect upon certification
by the Illinois State Board of Education. Information pertinent to this matter is stated below.

SCHOOL OPERATOR: Curtis Sharif STEM Academy
313 East 60?? Street
Chicago, Illinois 60637
Phone: 312-813?4625
Contact: Deborah Um'rani, Design Team Leader

CHARTER SCHOOL: Curtis Sharif STEM Academy Charter Schooi 3
Location to be Determined
Phone: 312-813-4625
Contact: Deborah Um'rani, Design Team Leader

158

January 22, 2014

OVERSIGHT: Of?ce of Innovation and Incubation
125 s. Clark, 10?? Floor
Chicago, IL 60603
773-553?1530
Contact Person: Jack Elsey, Chief Of?cer

DESCRIPTION: The Charter Schools Law (105 ILCS et seq, as amended) provides that up to
70 charter schools may be operated in. the City of Chicago. Proposals to operate charter schools are
submitted to the Board for evaluation pursuant to the standards set forth in 105 ILCS and the
Board convenes a public meeting to obtain information to assist in its decision to grant or deny each
proposal and report its action to the Illinois State Board of Education. The State Board determines
whether the approved charter school proposal and the proposed contract satisfy the provisions of the
Charter Schools Law and, if so, certi?es the charter school.

CHARTER APPLICATION PROPOSAL: The Curtis Sharif STEM Academy Charter School 3 proposal
was submitted by Curtis Sharif STEM Academy and received by the Board in two tiers: a Tier 1 proposal
was due in September 2013, and a Tier 2 proposal completed the proposal in accordance with the
Charter Schools Law, in December 2013. The Curtis-Sharif STEM Academy?s mission is to provide a
college preparatory elementary education that integrates a STEM curriculum, the ?ne, cultural, visual and
performing arts, character education, the humanities, and healthy living in an academically and
intellectually rigorous, culturally empowering, socially nurturing, safe, orderly environment to develop
creative, respectful scholars and leaders who are empowered to be positive influences in their homes and
communities. The CSSA educational environment exposes students, beginning in Kindergarten and at
whatever point they enter the Pipeline to Excellence?, to a curriculum that focuses on inquiry
based learning, critical thinking skills, problem-based learning, the scienti?c method, the Socratic method,
the arts and an international baccalaureate curriculum framed by the common core standards to engage
students in intellectual inquiry in every subject area.

The school is slated to open in the fall of 2016 at a location to be determined and will serve a maximum of
165 students in grades The school will add grades in subsequent years with an at capacity
enrollment of 300 students in grades K-8. A community meeting and a public hearing on charter school
submissions submitted in 2013 were held on December 16, 2013 and January 7, 2014, respectively.

If approved, the identi?cation of a facility will be required to be submitted to the Board for consideration.

TERM: If approved, the term of the Curtis Sharif STEM Academy charter and agreement shall commence
July 1, 2016 and end June 30, 2021.

AUTHORIZATION: Authorize the General Counsel to include relevant terms and conditions, including
any indemnities to be provided to the charter school, in the written Charter School Agreement. Authorize
the President and Secretary to execute the written Charter School Agreement. Authorize the Senior
Director of the Office of New Schools to issue a letter notifying the Illinois State Board of Education of the
action(s) approved hereunder and to submit the approved proposal and signed Charter School
Agreement to the Illinois State Board of Education for certification.

LSC REVIEW: Approval of Local School Council is not applicable to this report.
AFFIRMATIVE ACTION: Not applicable.

FINANCIAL: The financial implications will be addressed during the development of the 2016-2017 fiscal
year budget. Since the School Code of Illinois prohibits the incurring of any liability unless an
appropriation has been previously made, expenditures beyond FY17 are deemed to be contingent
liabilities only, subject to appropriation in subsequent ?scal year budgets.

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General - Each Party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 ILCS
the Inspector General of the Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations.

Conflicts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
Provisions of 105 ILCS which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one-year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of
office.

Indebtedness The Board?s indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 2006 (96-0626-P03), as amended
from time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 (11-0525-P02), as amended from time to time
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

159

January 22, 2014

14-0122-EX17

FAILED OF ADOPTION

CONSIDERATION OF A PROPOSAL FOR CHARTER AND CHARTER SCHOOL AGREEMENT
SUBMITTED BY CURTIS SHARIF STEM ACADEMY
(CURTIS SHARIF STEM ACADEMY CHARTER SCHOOL 4)

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER RECOMMENDS:

Consideration of a proposal for charter and Charter School Agreement submitted by Curtis Sharif STEM
Academy. If approved, the term of the Charter School Agreement would be for a ?ve-year period,
beginning July 1, 2016. The authority granted herein shall automatically rescind in the event a written
Charter School Agreement is not executed by the Board and the charter school's governing board by
June 30, 2016. The agreement presented for consideration herein will only take effect upon certi?cation
by the Illinois State Board of Education. Information pertinent to this matter is stated below.

SCHOOL OPERATOR: Curtis Sharif STEM Academy
313 East 60?? Street
Chicago, Illinois 60637
Phone: 312-813?4625
Contact: Deborah Um'rani, Design Team Leader

CHARTER SCHOOL: Curtis Sharif STEM Academy Charter School 4
Location to be Determined
Phone: 312-8134625
Contact: Deborah Um'rani, Design Team Leader

OVERSIGHT: Of?ce of Innovation and Incubation
125 s. Clark, 10th Floor
Chicago, IL 60603
773-553?1530
Contact Person: Jack Elsey, Chief Of?cer

DESCRIPTION: The Charter Schools Law (105 ILCS et seq., as amended) provides that up to
70 charter schools may be operated in the City of Chicago. Proposals to operate charter schools are
submitted to the Board for evaluation pursuant to the standards set forth in 105 ILCS and the
Board convenes a public meeting to obtain information to assist in its decision to grant or deny each
proposal and report its action to the Illinois State Board of Education. The State Board determines
whether the approved charter school proposal and the proposed contract satisfy the provisions of the
Charter Schools Law and, if so, certi?es the charter school.

CHARTER APPLICATION PROPOSAL: The Curtis Sharif STEM Academy Charter School 3 proposal
was submitted by Curtis Sharif STEM Academy and received by the Board in two tiers: a Tier 1 proposal
was due in September 2013, and a Tier 2 proposal completed the proposal in accordance with the
Charter Schools Law, in December 2013. The Curtis-Sharif STEM Academy?s mission is to provide a
college preparatory elementary education that integrates a STEM curriculum, the ?ne, cultural, visual and
performing arts, character education, the humanities, and healthy living in an academically and
intellectually rigorous, culturally empowering, socially nurturing, safe, orderly environment to develop
creative, respectful scholars and leaders who are empowered to be positive influences in their homes and
communities. The CSSA educational environment exposes students, beginning in Kindergarten and at
whatever point they enter the Pipeline to Excellence?, to a curriculum that focuses on inquiry
based learning, critical thinking skills, problem-based learning, the scienti?c method, the Socratic method,
the arts and an international baccalaureate curriculum framed by the common core standards to engage
students in intellectual inquiry in every subject area.

The school is slated to open in the fall of 2016 at a location to be determined and will serve a maximum of
165 students in grades K-5. The school will add grades in subsequent years with an at capacity
enrollment of 300 students in grades A community meeting and a public hearing on charter school
submissions submitted in 2013 were held on December 16, 2013 and January 7, 2014, respectively.

If approved, the identification of a facility will be required to be submitted to the Board for consideration.

TERM: If approved, the term of the Curtis Sharif STEM Academy. charter and agreement shall commence
July 1, 2016 and end June 30, 2021.

AUTHORIZATION: Authorize the General Counsel to include relevant terms and conditions, including
any indemnities to be provided to the charter school, in the written Charter School Agreement. Authorize
the President and Secretary to execute the written Charter School Agreement. Authorize the Senior
Director of the Office of New Schools to issue a letter notifying the Illinois State Board of Education of the
action(s) approved hereunder and to submit the approved proposal and signed Charter School
Agreement to the Illinois State Board of Education for certification.

160

January 22, 2014

The Secretary called the roll and the vote was as follows:
Yeas: None
Nays: Dr. Hines, Mr. Ruiz, Ms. Zopp, Ms. Quazzo, Dr. Azcoitia, and President Vitale – 6
President Vitale thereupon declared Board Reports 14-0122-EX14 through 14-0122-EX17
failed of adoption.
The Board Secretary proceeded with Board Report 14-0122-EX18, Consideration of a
Proposal for Charter and Charter School Agreement Submitted by Great Lakes Academy, Inc.
14-0122-EX18

161

 January 22, 2014

The Secretary called the roll and the vote was as follows:
Yeas: Dr. Hines, Mr. Ruiz, Ms. Zopp, Ms. Quazzo, and President Vitale – 5
Nays: Dr. Azcoitia – 1
President Vitale thereupon declared Board Report 14-0122-EX18 adopted.
The Board Secretary proceeded with Board Report 14-0122-EX19, Consideration of a
Proposal for Charter and Charter School Agreement Submitted by Intrinsic Schools for School 2.

162

 January 22, 2014

14-0122-EX19

FINAL

CONSIDERATION OF A PROPOSAL FOR CHARTER AND CHARTER SCHOOL AGREEMENT
SUBMITTED BY INTRINSIC SCHOOLS, AN ILLINOIS CORPORATION
(INTRINSIC CHARTER SCHOOL 2)

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER RECOMMENDS:

Consideration of a proposal for charter and Charter School Agreement submitted by Intrinsic Schools, an
Illinois not-for-profit corporation for a five-year term, beginning July 1, 2015. Approval will be contingent
as detailed below. The authority granted herein shall automatically rescind in the event a written Charter
School Agreement is not executed by the Board and the charter school?s governing board by April 1,
2015. The agreement presented for consideration herein will only take effect upon certification by the
Illinois State Board of Education. Information pertinent to this matter is stated below.

SCHOOL OPERATOR: Intrinsic Schools
33 N. LaSalle St. Suite #3400
Chicago, Illinoi560602
Phone: 312-384-9903
Contact: Melissa Zaikos, Chief Executive Officer

CHARTER SCHOOL: Intrinsic Charter School2
4540 W. Belmont (Year 1)
Phone: 312-384-9903
Contact: Melissa Zaikos, Chief Executive Officer

of Innovation and Incubation
125 s. Clark, 10?? Floor
Chicago, IL60603
773-553-1530
Contact Person: Jack Elsey, Chief Officer

DESCRIPTION: The Charter Schools Law (105 ILCS et seq., as amended) provides that up to
70 charter schools may be operated in the City of Chicago. Proposals to operate charter schools are
submitted to the Board for evaluation pursuant to the standards set forth in 105 ILCS and the
Board convenes a public meeting to obtain information to assist in its decision to grant or deny each
proposal and report its action to the Illinois State Board of Education. The State Board determines
whether the approved charter school proposal and the proposed contract satisfy the provisions of the
Charter Schools Law and, if so, certifies the charter school.

CHARTER APPLICATION PROPOSAL: The Intrinsic Charter School proposal was submitted by Intrinsic
Schools and received by the Board in two tiers: a Tier 1 proposal was due in September 2013, and a Tier
2 proposal completed the proposal in accordance with the Charter Schools Law, in December 2013.
Intrinsic Charter School?s mission is to prepare all students for 21St century post-secondary success and
to cultivate independent, intellectually curious learners. To achieve this, the Intrinsic Charter School
model leverages technology to personalize learning and is informed by the experience of great teachers.
At Intrinsic Charter School, students will have the opportunities to navigate their own learning and find
their passions through purposefully designed curricular experiences. The model includes three innovative
features: personalized learning, student autonomy, and technology-enabled instruction. The school
environment will balance high expectations, often seen at no-excuses charter schools, with the room to
be inquisitive, characteristic of Montessori schools. The Intrinsic culture will be characterized by a focus
on mastery, autonomy and community. The school is slated to open in the fall of 2015 serving a
maximum of 186 students in grade 9.The school will add grades in subsequent years with an at capacity
enrollment of 959 students in grades 7?12. The school will be located at 4540 W. Belmont in year 1 and
will move to a location to be determined in the Northwest side.

A community meeting and a public hearing on charter school submissions submitted in 2013 were held
on December 16, 2013 and January 7, 2014, respectively.

TERM: If approved, the term of the Intrinsic Schools charter and agreement shall commence July 1, 2015
and end June 30, 2020. 

CONTINGENT APPROVAL: Final approval of this proposal is contingent upon the 2013-2014 academic
performance of the existing Intrinsic Charter School on the School Quality Rating Policy (SQRP) as
indicated by the Chicago Public Schools? Department of Accountability. It is expected that the existing
Intrinsic Charter School?s 2013?2014 academic performance will result in a tier 1 or tier 2 rating on the
SQRP. Final approval is also contingent upon Intrinsic Schools submitting information regarding clear
metrics and criteria to evaluate network and school leaders and a viable permanent facility by January 1,
2015. The specifics regarding these contingencies and the requested submission will be communicated
by the Chief Executive Officer or her designee to Intrinsic Schools in a formal Letter of Conditions. The
Board hereby directs the Chief Executive Officer or her designee to monitor the deadlines set forth in the
Letter of Conditions, oversee the evaluation of the submission by Intrinsic Schools, and provide a written
report regarding compliance with the Letter of Conditions to the Board by October 1, 2014. Thereafter,
this will be re-presented to the Board for a determination regarding whether the contingencies have been

163

January 22, 2014

The Secretary called the roll and the vote was as follows:
Yeas: Dr. Hines, Mr. Ruiz, Ms. Zopp, Ms. Quazzo, Dr. Azcoitia, and President Vitale – 6
Nays: None
President Vitale thereupon declared Board Report 14-0122-EX19 adopted.
The Board Secretary noted for the record that Board Report 14-0122-EX20 will be
Withdrawn from Agenda.
14-0122-EX20
WITHDRAWN

164

 January 22, 2014

CHARTER SCHOOL: Intrinsic Charter School 3
Location to be determined
Phone: 3123849903
Contact: Melissa Zaikos, Chief Executive Of?cer

OVERSIGHT: Of?ce of Innovation and Incubation
125 s. Clark, 10?? Floor
Chicago, IL 60603
773-553-1530
Contact Person: Jack Elsey, Chief Of?cer

DESCRIPTION: The Charter Schools Law (105 ILCS et seq, as amended) provides that up to
70 charter schools may be operated in the City of Chicago. Proposals to operate charter schools are
submitted to the Board for evaluation pursuant to the standards set forth in 105 ILCS and the
Board convenes a public meeting to obtain information to assist in its decision to grant or deny each
proposal and report its action to the Illinois State Board of Education. The State Board determines
whether the approved charter school proposal and the proposed contract satisfy the provisions of the
Charter Schools Law and, if so, certi?es the charter school.

CHARTER APPLICATION PROPOSAL: The Intrinsic Charter School proposal was submitted by Intrinsic
Schools and received by the Board in two tiers: a Tier 1 proposal was due in September 2013, and a Tier
2 proposal completed the proposal in accordance with the Charter Schools Law, in December 2013.
Intrinsic Charter School?s mission is to prepare all students for 21St century post-secondary success and
to cultivate independent, intellectually curious learners. To achieve this, the Intrinsic Charter School
model leverages technology to personalize learning and is informed by the experience of great teachers.
At Intrinsic Charter School, students will have the opportunities to navigate their own learning and ?nd
their passions through purposefully designed curricular experiences. The model includes three innovative
features: personalized learning, student autonomy, and technology-enabled instruction. The school
environment will balance high expectations, often seen at no-excuses charter schools, with the room to
be inquisitive, characteristic of Montessori schools. The Intrinsic culture will be characterized by a focus
on mastery, autonomy and community. The school is slated to open in the fall of 2016 sewing a
maximum of 186 students in grade 9. The school will add grades in subsequent years with an at capacity
enrollment of 959 students in grades 7?12. The school will be located at a location to be determined. A
community meeting and a public hearing on charter school submissions submitted in 2013 were held on
December 16, 2013 and January 7, 2014, respectively.

If approved, the identification of a facility will be required to be submitted to the Board for consideration.

TERM: If approved, the term of the Intrinsic Schools charter and agreement shall commence July 1, 2016
and end June 30, 2021.

AUTHORIZATION: Authorize the General Counsel to include relevant terms and conditions, including
any indemnities to be provided to the charter school, in the written Charter School Agreement. Authorize
the President and Secretary to execute the written Charter School Agreement. Authorize the Senior
Director of the Office of New Schools to issue a letter notifying the Illinois State Board of Education of the
action(s) approved hereunder and to submit the approved proposal and signed Charter School
Agreement to the Illinois State Board of Education for certification.

LSC REVIEW: Approval of Local School Council is not applicable to this report.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION: Not applicable.

FINANCIAL: The financial implications will be addressed during the development of the 2016?2017 ?scal
year budget. Since the School Code of Illinois prohibits the incurring of any liability unless an
appropriation has been previously made, expenditures beyond FY17 are deemed to be contingent
liabilities only, subject to appropriation in subsequent fiscal year budgets.

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General Each Party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 ILCS
the Inspector General of the Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations.

Conflicts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
Provisions of 105 ILCS which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one-year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of
office.

Indebtedness The Board's indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 2006 as amended
from time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 (11-0525-P02), as amended from time to time
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

165

January 22, 2014
The Board Secretary noted for the record that Board Report 14-0122-EX21 will be
Withdrawn from Agenda.
14-0122-EX21
WITHDRAWN

166

 January 22, 2014

The Board Secretary noted for the record that Board Report 14-0122-EX22 will be
Withdrawn from Agenda.
14-0122-EX22
WITHDRAWN

167

 January 22, 2014

The Board Secretary noted for the record that Board Report 14-0122-PR1 will be
Withdrawn from Agenda.
14-0122-PR1
WITHDRAWN

168

 January 22, 2014

USER INFORMATION 

Contact:
11610 - Diverse Learner Supports Services

125 South Clark Street 8th Floor
Chicago, IL 60603
Winston, Ms. Markay L.

773-553-1800

Contact:
14050 - Of?ce of Student Health Wellness

125 South Clark Street
Chicago, IL 60603
Whyte, Mrs. Stephanie A.
773.553.1886

TERM:
The term of each agreement shall commence on April 1, 2014 and end on March 31, 2016. The
agreements shall have three (3) options to renew for periods of one (1) year each.

EARLY TERMINATION RIGHT:
The Board shall have the right to terminate each agreement with 30 days written notice.

DESCRIPTION OF PURCHASE:

Vendors will provide specialized educational equipment and accessories to the Of?ce of Diverse Learner
Supports and Services and the Of?ce of Student Health and Wellness at the prices speci?ed in the
agreements. The category awarded to each vendor is indicated on the attachment. Applicable
subcategories will be indicated in the bid contracts.

The following are the categories for specialized educational equipment and accessories:
Assistive Technology: Categories 1 through 16

Category 1 - Alternate Computer Input Access Devices Mid-Tech, Category 2 - Alternate Computer Input
Access Devices High-Tech, Category 3 - Refreshable Braille Display, Category 4 - Portable Media
Players for Digital Text, Category 5 - Electronic Magni?cation Device, Category 6 - Image Creator for
Students With Visual Impairments, Category 7 - Switches, Category 8 - Switches, Category 9 -
Non-Technology Based, Communication Book, Category 10 Mounting Systems for Switches, Category
11 Mounting Systems for Devices, Category 12 - Slant Boards, Category 13 - Assistive Technology 
Switch Adapted Technologies, Category 14 - Assistive Technology - Mounting Accessories, Category 15 -
Assistive Technology - Low Tech Communication Devices, Category 16 - Assistive Technology - Voice
Ampli?cation System for Communication

Health and Therapeutic Equipment: Categories 17 through 35

Category 17 - Adaptive Furniture - Changing Table and Medical Couch, Category 18 Adaptive Furniture
- Corner Chair, Category 19 - Adaptive Furniture - Stationery Seating, Category 20 - Adaptive Furniture -
Adjustable Wheelchair Desk, Category 21 - Adaptive Furniture - Bolster Chair, Category 22 - Adaptive
Furniture - Seating-Mobility Base, Category 23 - Adaptive Furniture - Wooden Ergonomic Pediatric Chair,
Category 24 - Adaptive Furniture - Wooden Desk Chair with Arm Rests, Category 25- Adaptive Furniture 
Sidelyer, Category 26 - Adaptive Furniture - Mobile Chairs, Category 27 - Assistive Devices - Mobile Floor
Sitters, Category 28 - Assistive Devices - Wheelchairs, Category 29 Assistive Devices - Standers,
Category 30 - Assistive Devices - Folding Wheelchair, Category 31- Assistive Devices - Walkers,
Category 32 - Assistive Devices - Lift, Category 33 - Recreational Equipment - Toileting Chair and
Accessories, Category 34- Recreational Equipment - Cushions, Category 35 - Recreational Equipment -
Wedges,

Vision/Hearing Screening Equipment: Categories 40 through 42

Category 40 - Vision Screening, Category 41 - Hearing Screening, Category 42 - Accessories

OUTCOMES:
Goods provided by the Vendors will enable the Board to fulfill students' Individual Education Program
requirements and will enhance students' abilities to participate in school activities and maximize Ieaming.

COMPENSATION:
Vendors shall be paid in accordance with the unit prices contained in their agreement; total not to exceed
the sum of $1,200,000.00 in the aggregate for all vendors.

169

January 22, 2014

AUTHORIZATION:

Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant terms and conditions in the written agreements.
Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the agreements. Authorize the Chief Of?cer of
Instructional Learning Supports Services and the Chief Health Of?cer to execute all ancillary documents
required to administer or effectuate the agreements.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION:

The MBENVBE goals for this agreement include 15% total MBE and 5% total WBE participation. Thus
contracts for subsequent vendors from the pool created by this agreement will be subject to aggregated
compliance reviews and monitored on a quarterly basis.

LSC REVIEW:
Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL:

Charge to:

Unit 11610 Diverse Learner Supports and Services $1,175,000.00

Fund: 114 Special Education

Fund 220 Federal Special Education IDEA Programs

FY 14 $294,000.00

Unit 14050 - Of?ce of Student Health and Wellness

Fund: 115 General Education

FY 14 $25,000.00

Future year funding is contingent upon budget appropriation and approval.

Not Applicable

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 ILCS
the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations.

Con?icts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 ILCS which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of
office.

Indebtedness - The Board's Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 1996 as amended
from time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics - The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 (11-0525-P02), as amended from time to time,
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability - The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current

?scal year is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in the subsequent ?scal year
budget(s).

170

1)

2)

3)

4)
Vendor 46635

ABLENET, INC

2625 PATTON ROAD
ROSEVILLE, MN 55113
Deb Houseth

800 322-0956

Categories: 2, 14

5)
Vendor 17922

DYNAVOX SYSTEMS, LLC

2100 WHARTON STREET, SUITE400
PITTSBURGH, PA 15203

Jill Schlosser

800 344-1778

Category: 11

6)
Vendor 20899

HARRISON AND COMPANY
2421 SOUTH 25TH AVE
BROADVIEW, IL 60155
Mary Grace Harrison

888 345-4005

Categories: 17, 18, 20, 21, 22: (Ht-13), 24, 27,
29, 30, 31, And 32: (Ht-62 And Ht?64)

171

January 22, 2014

Vendor 45608

HUMANWARE USA, INC DBA HUMANWARE
1 UPS WAY

CHAMPLAIN, NY 12919

Francine Callaghan

800 722-3393
Category: 5 (At-13 And At14)

Vendor 31994

MAXI AIDS 1
0 BOX 3209
FARMINGTON, NY 11735
Shemy Graer

516 752-0521

Categories: 4, 19, And 26

Vendor 14981

SCHOOL HEALTH CORPORATION DBA
ENABLEMART

865 MUIRFIELD DRIVE

HANOVER PARK, IL 60133

Scott Jacobson

800 232-1305

Categories: 1, 7, 8, 9, 10, 12, 13, 15,22:

(Ht-14, Ht?15 And Ht-16), 23, 25, 28, 32: (Ht-65
And Ht-66Vendor 12875

WOODLAKE TECHNOLOGIES, INC.
666 WEST HUBBARD STREET
CHICAGO, IL 60654

Ralph Samek

31 2 733-9800

Categories: 3, 5, 11, And 14

January 22, 2014

14-0122-PR2

AUTHORIZE NEW AGREEMENTS WITH VARIOUS VENDORS FOR THE PURCHASE OF
SPECIALIZED ADAPTED EQUIPMENT, TESTING MATERIALS, MAINTENANCE, TRAINING AND
WARRANTY SERVICES

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Authorize new agreements with various Vendors for the purchase of specialized adapted equipment,
testing materials, maintenance, training and warranty services for the Of?ce of Diverse Learner Support
and Of?ce of Student Health and Wellness at an aggregate cost not to exceed $2,628,000.00. Vendors
were selected on a competitive basis pursuant to Board Rule 7-2. Written agreements for these
purchases are currently being negotiated. No goods or services may be ordered or received, and no
payment shall be made to any Vendor prior to execution of their written agreement. The authority granted
herein shall automatically rescind as to each Vendor in the event their agreement is not executed within
90 days of the date of this Board Report. Information pertinent to these agreements is stated below.

Specification Number 13-25005?

Contract Administrator Escareno, Miss Masocorro 773-553-2280

USER INFORMATION 

Contact:
11610 - Diverse Learner Supports Services
125 South Clark Street 8th Floor
Chicago, IL 60603
Winston, Ms. Markay L.
773-553-1800
TERM:

The term of each agreement shall commence on April 1, 2014 and shall end on March 31, 2016. The
agreements shall have three (3) options to renew for a period of one (1) year each.

EARLY TERMINATION RIGHT:
The Board shall have the right to terminate each agreement with 30 days written notice.

SCOPE OF SERVICES:

Each Vendor will provide related services such as training, maintenance, and warranty services in the
category/categories and sub-categories designated for each Vendor in this Board Report and their
agreement.

1. Assistive Technology for Students with Disabilities.

2. Educational Testing Equipment.

3. Speech-Language Educational Testing Equipment.

4. Occupational Therapy Functional and Motor Assessments and Educational Testing Equipment.

5. Physical Therapy Gross Motor and Functional Movement Assessments and Educational Testing
Equipment.

6. Maintenance, Training and Repair Calibration Services for Health Therapeutic, Vision and Hearing
Equipment.

DELIVERABLES:

Each vendor will provide a variety of Specialized Adapted, Health and Therapeutic Equipment, Clinical
Testing Materials, including related services such as Training, Maintenance, Calibration, and Warranties
and Extended Warranties, as it related to their awarded products and services referenced in each
Vendor's Agreement.

OUTCOMES:
Goods and services provided by the Vendors will enable the Board to fulfill students' IEP requirements
and will enhance each student's ability to participate in school activities and learn.

COMPENSATION:
Vendors shall be paid in accordance with the unit prices contained in their respective agreement;
aggregated compensation for all Vendors not to exceed the sum of $2,628,000.00.

REIMBURSABLE EXPENSES:
None.

AUTHORIZATION:

Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant terms and conditions in the written agreements.
Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the agreements. Authorize the Chief Of?cer of
Instructional Learning Supports and the Chief Health Of?cer to execute all ancillary documents required to
administer or effectuate the agreements.

172

January 22, 2014

AF FIRMATIVE ACTION:

The MBENVBE goals for this agreement including 15% total MBE and 5% total WBE participation. Thus
contracts for subsequent vendors from the pool created by this agreement will be subject to aggregated
compliance reviews and monitored on a quarterly basis.

LSC REVIEW:
Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL:

Unit: 11610 - Diverse Learner Supports Services 2,603,000.00
Fund: 114 - Special Education

Fund: 220 - Federal Special Education IDEA Programs

FY - 12014 $650,750.00

Unit: 14050 - Of?ce of Student Health Wellness
Fund: 115 - General Educational
FY - 2014 $25,000.00

Future year funding is contingent upon budget appropriation and approval.

Not Applicable

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 ILCS
the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations.

Con?icts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 ILCS which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of
office.

Indebtedness - The Board's Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 1996 (96-0626-PO3), as amended
from time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics - The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 as amended from time to time,
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability - The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current
?scal year is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in the subsequent ?scal year
budget(s).

THIS SPACE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK

173

1)

4)
Vendor 46635

ABLENET, INC

2625 PATTON ROAD
ROSEVILLE, MN 55113
Deb Hovseth

800 322-0956

Category 1

Vendor 31002

ADVANCED KEYBOARD TECHNOLOGY,
0 BOX 186

PASO ROBLES, CA 93447

Mike Capaci

805 237-2055

Category 1

6)
Vendor 42654

DON JOHNSTON INC.
26799 W. COMMERCE DRIVE
VOLO, IL 60073

Marci Buttler

847 740?-0749

Category 1

174

January 22, 2014

Vendor #11917

E.M. VITU, INC

299-B PETERSON ROAD
LIBERTYVILLE, IL 60048-0000
Ed Vitue

847 367-4004
Category 1

Vendor 31994

MAXI AIDS 1
0 BOX 3209
FARMINGTON, NY 11735
Sherry Graer

516 752-0521
Category 1

Vendor 19839

INC

2100 WHARTON STREET., STE 400
PITTSBURGH, PA 15203

Jill Schloser

412 995-4059

Category 1

7)

8)

9)

10)
Vendor 29718

MULTI-HEALTH SYSTEMS, INC

0 BOX 950

NORTH TONAWANDA, NY 14120?0950
Khira Ray

800 456-3003

Categories 2, 3, 4, 5

11)
Vendor 27389

PRENTKE ROMICH COMPANY
1022 HEYL RD

WOOSTER, OH 44691

Teresa Henderson

330 262-1984

Category 1

Vendor 26122 12)
Assessment Resources, Inc.
16204 North Florida Avenue

Lutz, FL 33549

Kay M. Cunningham

813 968-3003

Categories 2, 3, 4, 5,

175

January 22, 2014

Vendor 31751

SALTILLO CORPORATION
2143 TOWNSHIP RD., 112
MILLERSBURG, OH 44654
Leona Hershberger

330 674-6722
Category 1

Vendor 14981

SCHOOL HEALTH CORPORATION DBA
ENABLEMART

865 MUIRFIELD DRIVE
HANOVER PARK, IL 60133
Georgia Fisher

800 232-1305
Categories 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6

Vendor 12875

WOODLAKE TECHNOLOGIES, INC.
666 WEST HUBBARD STREET
CHICAGO, IL 60654

Ralph Samek

312 733-9800

Category 1

January 22, 2014

14-0122-PR3

AMEND BOARD REPORT 13-0626-PR17
APPROVE ENTERING INTO AN AGREEMENT WITH VARIOUS VENDORS FOR SAFE HAVEN SITES
AND SERVICES

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Approve entering into agreements with the vendors identified below to provide safe haven sites and
services for Chicago Public School students at a cost not to exceed WOW-06 $2 090 000.00 in the
aggregate. These vendors were selected on a competitive basis pursuant to Board Rule 7-2. Written
agreements for each vendor's services are currently being negotiated. No services shall be provided by
and no payment shall be made to any vendor prior to execution of such vendors written agreement. The
authority granted herein shall automatically rescind as to each vendor in the event their written agreement
is not executed within 90 days of the date of this Board Report. Information pertinent to these agreements
is stated below.

 

This Januarv 2014 amendment is necessary to increase the funding bv $1 .000.000.00. This funding was
received bv the Chicago Department of Family Support Services to expand the Safe Haven

Program services for 25 additional sites. Written amendments to the agreements are required. The
authority granted herein shall automatically rescind as to each vendor in the event their amendment is not
executed within 90 days of the date of this amended Board Report.

Specification Number 13-250015

Contract Administrator: Escareno, Miss Masocorro 773?553-2280

VENDOR:

1) Vendor 67456
NEW LIFE PILSEN

2512 SOUTH OAKLEY
CHICAGO, IL 60608
Robert Belfort

773 851-7021

2) Vendor 94890
EMMANUEL COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
CORP.

6844 S. INDIANA
CHICAGO, IL 60637
Roosevelt Walker
773 858-9671

3) Vendor 94883
EBENEZER COMMUNITY

3555 W. HURON STREET
CHICAGO, IL 60624

Leon Miller

773 762-5363

USER INFORMATION 

Contact: 14060 - Family Community Engagement Of?ce
125 Clark Street - 5th Floor
Chicago, IL 60603
Hampton, Mr. Phillip Raynard
773-553-1517

TERM:
The term of each agreement shall commence upon July 1, 2013 and end on June 30, 2014. Each
agreement shall have two (2) options to renew for periods of one (1) year each.

EARLY TERMINATION RIGHT:
The Board shall have the right to terminate each agreement with 30 days written notice.

176

January 22, 2014

SCOPE OF SERVICES:

Vendors shall provide (or subcontract with third parties to provide) sites and services to elementary and/or
high school students in at least forty (40) different sites/locations during designated time
periods throughout the school year in the targeted communities. Vendors shall include workshops on
study skills, conflict resolution, anger management, character building, and positive communication and
act as safe place for the students to go after school, during summer, winter and spring breaks, and
whenever there are any emergency services that are needed during the year.

OUTCOMES:

Vendors services shall result in the following outcomes:

(1) Students likelihood to participate in violent behavior or become a victim of violence is reduced.

(2) Parents are provided child care support during daytime hours while students receive educational
enrichment activities including: problem solving, positive communication strategies, anger management
strategies, and discussions about violence in the community, guidance regarding truancy prevention, and
tutoring in a safe environment during non-school hours.

COMPENSATION:

Vendors shall receive $250 per day per site on days that require four hours of operation during the
summer, winter and spring breaks. Vendors shall receive $200 per day per site on days that require three
hours of operation during the after school programs.

Vendors shall be paid upon invoicing after services have been performed; total compensation to all

vendors shall not exceed the sum of {Fl?6967006760 $2,090,000.00.

REIMBURSABLE EXPENSES:
None.

AUTHORIZATION:

Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant terms and conditions in the written agreements
and amendments. Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the written agreements 
amendments. Authorize the Chief of Family and Community Engagement to execute all ancillary
documents required to administer or effectuate these written agreements.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION:

Pursuant to Section 5.2 of the Remedial Program for Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise
Participation in Goods and Service Contract, MNVME provisions of the Program do not apply to
transactions where the vendors providing services operate as Not-for-Pro?t organizations.

LSC REVIEW:
Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL:

Charge to: Family and Community Engagement, Unit 14060, Fund: 332, Title I
FY14: $2,070,000

Fund: 124, School Special Income Fund

FY14: $20,000

Fiscal year funding is contingent upon budget appropriation and approval.

Not Applicable

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 ILCS
the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations.

Con?icts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 ILCS which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of
of?ce.

Indebtedness - The Board's Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 1996 (96-0626-PO3), as amended
from time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics - The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 (11-0525-P02), as amended from time to time,
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability - The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current

?scal year is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in the subsequent ?scal year
budget(s).

177

January 22, 2014

14-0122-PR4

AUTHORIZE FIRST RENEWAL AND EXTENSION OF AGREEMENT WITH NATIONAL TRAINING
NETWORK FOR SCHOOL PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT SERVICES IN MATHEMATICS

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Authorize the renewal and the extension of the agreement with National Training Network to provide
professional development services in mathematics to twenty-nine CPS schools in the AUSL Network at a
total cost for the option period not to exceed $2,752,150.00. A written document exercising this option is
currently being negotiated. No payment shall be made to National Training Network during the option
period prior to execution of the written document. The authority granted herein shall automatically rescind
in the event a written document is not executed within 90 days of the date of this Board Report.
Information pertinent to this option is stated below.

Specification Number 12-250039

Contract Administrator Flores, Miss Nanzi 773653-2280
VENDOR:

1) Vendor 64910
NATIONAL TRAINING NETWORK, INC
PO. BOX 36
SUMMERFIELD, NC 27358
Nicole Beck
336 643-0607

USER INFORMATION 

PM Contact:
13615 - New School Development - City Wide

125 South Clark Street - 5th Floor
Chicago, IL 60603

Sanford, Mr. Jarvis Tramell
773-553-1490

ORIGINAL AGREEMENT:

The original Agreement (authorized by Board Report as amended by 13-0626-PR19) in
the amount of $2,165,050.00 is for a term commencing February 5, 2013 and ending February 4, 2014,
with the Board having three (3) options to renew for one (1) year terms. The original agreement was
awarded on a competitive basis pursuant to Board Rule 7-2.

OPTION PERIOD:
The agreement is being renewed for one year and further extended to align with the Board?s ?scal year;
the renewal term will be for a term commencing February 5, 2014 and ending June 30, 2015.

OPTION PERIODS REMAINING:
There are two (2) option periods remaining for periods of 12 months each.

SCOPE OF SERVICES:

Vendor will continue to provide the following consulting services to drive forward the turnaround model at
29 schools: 1. Johnson School of Excellence ("Johnson"), 2. Myra Bradwell Communications Arts and
Sciences ES ("Bradwell"), 3. Tarkington School of Excellence ("Tarkington"), 4. Morton School of
Excellence ("Morton"), 5. Charles Deneen Elementary School ("Deneen"), 6. Curtis School of
Excellence ("Curtis"), 7. Orr Academy High School 8. Wendell Phillips Academy High School
("Phillips"), 9. Marquette School of Excellence ("Marquette"), 10. Amos A Stagg School, 11. Brian Piccolo
Middle School, 12. Chicago Academy Elementary School, 13. Chicago Academy High School, 14. Collins
Academy High School, 15. Dewey Academy Of Multicultural Studies, 16. Dodge Renaissance Academy,
17. Eric Solorio Academy High School, 18. John Foster Dulles Elementary School of Excellence, 19. John
Harvard Elementary School of Excellence, 20. Julia Ward Howe School, 21. Isabelle O'Keeffe, 22. Leslie
Lewis School, 23. Melville Fuller, 24. National Teachers' Academy (NTA), 25. Pablo Casals, 26.
Theodore Herzl School, 27. Thomas Chalmers Specialty School, 28. William T. Sherman Elementary
School of Excellence, and 29. William Carter School:

Work with the Academy of Urban School Leadership to provide math professional development
to teachers. This work will include intensive on-going professional development to teachers, principals,
and AUSL mathematics staff centering on pedagogy and content critical to the improvement of student
achievement in mathematics. NTN will align their work with the Common Core State Standards and the
eight mathematical standards of practice.

178

January 22, 2014

Provide, at a minimum, two on-site coaching visits per month per school for math teachers and principals.
These visits will take the form of modeling, implementation, guidance, coaching, collaboration, and review
of the best practices identi?ed by NTN.

Support the teachers' efforts through instructional tools including video lessons, Assisting Through
Looking at Students (ATLAS), the NTN website, and E-communications.

Develop CPS's and AUSL's capacity to provide future and ongoing training through the use of online
resources, webinars, and in-person sessions, including ongoing scope and sequence of the training.
National Training Network will continue to provide the above consulting services to drive forward
the turnaround and training academy model at twenty-nine schools as listed previously.

DELIVERABLES:
Vendor will continue to provide weekly summaries to school and AUSL leadership outlining coaching
support provided at each school.

OUTCOMES:

Vendor's services will result in these twenty-nine schools achieving turnaround and training academy
school goals and the replication of best practices in other turnaround and training academy schools. This
will allow these schools and the students they serve to realize higher academic outcomes.

COMPENSATION:
During this renewal term Vendor shall be paid as speci?ed in the agreement; total not to exceed the sum
of $2,752,150.00.

AUTHORIZATION:

Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant terms and conditions in the written option
document. Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the option document. Authorize the Network
Chief to execute all ancillary documents required to administer or effectuate this option agreement.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION:

The MBENVBE goals for this agreement include 30% total MBE and 7% total WBE participation.
However, the Of?ce of Business Diversity recommends a full waiver of the goals required by the
Remedial Program for Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise Participation in Goods and
Services Contracts, be granted due to the proprietary Professional Development training necessary to
provide these services. The scope of services called for in this agreement is not further divisible.

LSC REVIEW:
Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL:

Various School Funds.

$2,752,150, FY14 and FY15

Future year funding is contingent upon budget appropriation and approval.

Not Applicable

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 ILCS
the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations.

Con?icts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 ILCS which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of
office.

Indebtedness - The Board's Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 1996 (96-0626-PO3), as amended
from time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics - The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 (11-O525-P02), as amended from time to time,
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability - The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current

?scal year is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in the subsequent ?scal year
budget(s).

179

January 22, 2014



AUTHORIZE FIRST RENEWAL AGREEMENTS WITH CLAMPETT INDUSTRIES, LLC DBA EMG
AND JACOBS PROJECT MANAGEMENT COMPANY (JPMCO) TO PROVIDE BIENNIAL FACILITY
ASSESSMENT SERVICES

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Authorize first renewal agreements with Clampett Industries, LLC DBA EMG and Jacobs Project
Management Company (JPMCO) to provide biennial facility assessment services to the Department of
Facilities at a total cost not to exceed $1,722,819.00. Written agreements for this renewal option are
currently being negotiated. No services shall be provided by and no payment shall be made to any vendor
prior to execution of their renewal agreement. The authority granted herein shall automatically rescind as to
each vendor in the event their renewal agreement is not executed within 90 days of the date of this Board
Report. Information pertinent to this option is stated below.

Specification Number: 12-250002
Contract Administrator: Hernandez, Miss Patricia 773-553-2280
VENDOR:

1) Vendor 64882
CLAMPETT INDUSTRIES, LLC DBA EMG
222 SCHILLING CIRCLE, STE 275
NUNT VALLEY, MD 21031
Matthew Munter
800 733-0660X2709

2) Vendor 67331
JACOBS PROJECT MANAGEMENT
COMPANY (JPMCO)
525 WEST MONROE, STE 200
CHICAGO, IL 60661
Jim McLean
312 251-3000

USER INFORMATION:

Contact: 11860 - Facility Operations Maintenance
125 South Clark Street 16th Floor
Chicago, IL 60603
Taylor, Ms. Patricia 
773-553-2960

ORIGINAL AGREEMENT: The original Agreements (authorized by Board Report 12-0523-PR20) in the
amount of $6,590,916 are for a term commencing the date the agreement was signed and ending May 31,
2014, with the Board having two (2) options to renew for periods of twelve (12) months each. The
agreements were awarded on a competitive basis pursuant to Board Rule 7-2.

OPTION PERIOD:
The agreements are being renewed for a term commencing June 1, 2014 and ending May 31, 2015.

OPTION PERIODS REMAINING:
There is one option period for twelve months remaining.

EARLY TERMINATION RIGHT:
The Board shall have the right to terminate this agreement with 30 days written notice.

SCOPE OF SERVICES:

Vendors will continue to provide biennial facility assessments for every facility in the Board's portfolio.
Vendors will perform a detailed assessment of every campus as provided by CPS, including special
assessments and assessing some non-CPS charter school campuses. Vendors will be required to assess
the following: elements, exterior, mechanical, electrical, plumbing, fire protection, interior, grounds, ADA
accessibility, and facility performance standards.

DELIVERABLES:
Vendors will deliver roughly 350 separate assessments that will be performed within the next twelve
months.

OUTCOMES:

Vendors' assessments will be used to inform and prioritize the annual five and ten year capital improvement
budgets for the District.

180

January 22, 2014

COMPENSATION:
During this option period vendors shall be paid at the rates set forth in their respective contract; total not to
exceed sum of $1 ,722,819.00 in the aggregate, which sum is inclusive of all reimbursable expenses.

REIMBURSABLE EXPENSES:

Vendors shall be reimbursed for the following expenses: mileage for personal or company vehicles when
used for travel for multiple project sites only and any other reimbursable expenses as agreed to with prior
written approval from the Board. The maximum compensation amount reflected herein is inclusive of all
reimbursable expenses.

AUTHORIZATION:

Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant terms and conditions in the written renewal
agreements. Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the renewal agreements. Authorize Chief
Facilities Officer to execute all ancillary documents required to administer or effectuate this option.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION:

This contract is in full compliance with the goals required by the Remedial Program for Minority and Women
Owned Business Participation Plan) for Goods and Services Contracts. The goals forthis contract
are 30% total MBE and 7% total WBE participation, and will be monitored on a quarterly basis.

LSC REVIEW:
Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL:

Various Capital Funds

Facility Operations Maintenance, 11860

$1,722,819.00, FY14 and FY15

Future year funding is contingent upon budget appropriation and approval.

Not Applicable

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 ILCS
the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel necessary
to conduct those investigations.

Conflicts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of office.

Indebtedness - The Board's Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 1996 as amended from
time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics - The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 (11-0525-P02), as amended from time to time,
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability - The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current fiscal
year is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in the subsequent fiscal year budget(s).

14-0122-PR6

AUTHORIZE FIRST RENEWAL OF PRE-QUALIFICATION STATUS AND AGREEMENTS WITH
AMER-I-CAN ENTERPRISE ll, INC AND PROLOGUE W.E.B. DUBOIS ACADEMY FOR AUDITORIUM
RESTORATION STUDENT EMPLOYMENT PROGRAM

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Authorize the first renewal of the pre-qualification status and agreements with Amer?l-Can Enterprise II, Inc
and Prologue W.E.B. Dubois Academy for auditorium restoration student employment program at a cost not
to exceed $2,000,000 in the aggregate. Written renewal agreements are currently being negotiated. No
services shall be provided by and no payment shall be made to any contractor during this option period prior
to the execution of their written renewal agreement. The pre-qualification status approved herein for each
contractor shall automatically rescind in the event such contractor fails to execute the Board's renewal
agreement within 120 days of the date of this Board Report. Information pertinent to this option is stated
below.

Specification Number 1 1-250059

Contract Administrator: Hernandez, Miss Patricia 773-553?2280

181

January 22, 2014

VENDOR:

1) Vendor 21503
ENTERPRISE II, INC

3260 WEST WARREN
CHICAGO, IL 60624
Harold Davis Jr

773 988-5588
312-633?9346

2) Vendor 01135
PROLOGUE W.E.B. DUBOIS ACADEMY

1135 NORTH CLEAVER, 2ND FLR.
CHICAGO, IL 60642

Dr. Nancy E. Jackson

773 935-9925

773-935-1215

USER INFORMATION:

Contact: 11860 - Facility Operations Maintenance
125 South Clark Street 16th Floor
Chicago, IL 60603
Mcguffage, Mr. Terrence William
773-553-2960

TERM:

The original agreements (authorized by Board Report 12-0425-PR11 as amended by 13-0828-PR12) in
the aggregate amount of $1 million are for a term commencing May 1, 2012 and ending April 30, 2014 with
the Board having the right to renew the agreements for two (2) additional 24 month periods.

RENEWAL PERIOD:
The renewal term of this pre-qualification period is for 24 months, effective May 1, 2014 and ending April 30,
2016.

OPTION PERIODS REMAINING:
There is one option period remaining for 24 months.

SCOPE OF SERVICES:
Each pre-qualified contractor shall continue to provide the following services:

Work with the Board's Career and Technical Education (CTE) Department to select high school students for
participation in this program.

Pay each high school student in the program $8.25/hour. High school students can only work a maximum
of twenty-five (25) hours/week during the school year, and forty (40) hours per week during the summer.

Perform auditorium renovation services identified in scopes of work in compliance with all applicable laws,
rules, codes and regulations.

Procure all permits, licenses and approvals.
Plan, coordinate, administer and supervise the work.

Procure all materials and equipment required for each awarded project.

Prepare and submit timely status and progress reports and update project completion schedules when
requested by the Board.

Meet with Board representatives as required to discuss work in progress and other matters.

Provide all necessary labor and materials to complete project successfully. Specific projects will be bid and
awarded on the basis of both cost to renovate the auditorium and the skills training proposed.

COMPENSATION:
The sum of payments to all pre-qualified contractors during this renewal term shall not exceed $2,000,000
in the aggregate.

182

January 22, 2014

USE OF POOL:

The Department of Operations is authorized to receive services from the pre-qualified pool as follows:
pre-qualified contractors shall be eligible to bid on the Board's various auditorium renovation projects. Each
project shall be awarded to the lowest, responsive, responsible Bidder.

AUTHORIZATION:

Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant terms and conditions in the written renewal
agreements. Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the renewal agreements. Authorize Chief
Facilities Officer to execute all ancillary documents required to administer or effectuate the renewal
agreements.

AF FIRMATIVE ACTION:

The MBENVBE goals for this agreement include: 26% total MBE and 5% total WBE participation. However,
pursuant to the Remedial Program for Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise Participation in
Goods and Services Contracts, the aggregate compliance method for MNVBE compliance will be utilized.

Thus, orders for subsequent vendors from the pool created by this agreement will be subject to aggregated
reviews and monitored on a quarterly basis.

LSC REVIEW:
Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL:

Capital Funds or Fund 230

Facility Operations Maintenance, 11860

$2,000,000, FY14, FY15, and FY16

Future year funding is contingent upon budget appropriation and approval.

Not Applicable

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 ILCS
the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel necessary
to conduct those investigations.

Conflicts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 ILCS which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of office.

Indebtedness - The Board?s Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 1996 (96-0626-PO3), as amended from
time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics - The Board?s Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 (11-0525-P02), as amended from time to time,
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability - The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current fiscal
year is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in the subsequent fiscal year budget(s).

14-0122-PR7

AUTHORIZE SECOND RENEWAL AGREEMENT WITH HILL MECHANICAL OPERATIONS, INC. FOR
BUILDING ENGINEERING SERVICES

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Authorize the second renewal agreement with Hill Mechanical Operations, Inc. to provide building
engineering services to at a total cost for the renewal period not to exceed $5,100,000. A written renewal
agreement is currently being negotiated. No payment shall be made to Hill Mechanical Operations, Inc.
during the option period prior to execution of the written document. The authority granted herein shall
automatically rescind in the event a written document is not executed within 90 days of the date of this
Board Report. Information pertinent to this option is stated below.

Specification Number: 09-250042

Contract Administrator: Hernandez, Miss Patricia 773-553-2280

VENDOR:

1) Vendor 24034
HILL MECHANICAL OPERATIONS, INC
11045 GAGE AVE.
FRANKLIN PARK, IL 60131
Harold Hacker
847 451-5600

183

January 22, 2014

USER INFORMATION 

Contact:
11860 - Facility Operations Maintenance

125 South Clark Street 16th Floor
Chicago, IL 60603

Mcguffage, Mr. Terrence William
773-553-2960

ORIGINAL AGREEMENT:

The original Agreement (authorized by Board Report 09-1216-pr7) in the amount of $1 1 ,820,720 is for a
term commencing February 24, 2010 and ending February 23, 2013, with the Board having two (2)
options to renew for one (1 year term. The original agreement was awarded on a competitive basis
pursuant to Board Rule 7-2. The agreement was renewed (authorized by Board Report 13-0123-PR10)
in the amount of $5,100,000 for a term commencing February 23, 2013 and ending February 23, 2014.

OPTION PERIOD:
The agreement is being renewed for one (1) year commencing February 24, 2014 and ending February
23, 2015.

OPTION PERIODS REMAINING:
There are no option periods remaining.

SCOPE OF SERVICES:

Vendor will continue to provide licensed and quali?ed building engineers to be placed as permanent
building engineers in various Board facilities. The building engineer will plan, coordinate and supervise
the entire operations and maintenance of the respective school in accordance with good, professional
practice and the facility plan for each school approved by the Department of Facilities. The building
engineer shall be responsible for all the operations and maintenance of all building mechanical equipment
and, as directed, monitor the subcontractor work crews and review their performance and compliance
with contract specifications.

DELIVERABLES:
Vendor will provide licensed operating engineers at various Board Facilities.

OUTCOMES:
Vendor's services will result in safe and economical operation and maintenance of mechanical and other
operating systems of Board facilities.

COMPENSATION:
Vendor shall be paid during this option period as speci?ed in the agreement; total not to exceed the sum
of $5,1 00,000.

AUTHORIZATION:

Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant terms and conditions in the written option
document. Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the option document. Authorize Chief
Facilities Of?cer to execute all ancillary documents required to administer or effectuate this option
agreement.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION:

Vendor agrees to comply with the contract-specific goals within the Remedial Program for Minority and
Women Owned Business Enterprise Participation in Goods and Services contracts. The Equal
Employment Opportunity Compliance (EEOC) diversity goal for this agreement is set at 30% minority
staf?ng (15% African-American, 15% Latino) and 2% female staf?ng.

LSC REVIEW:
Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL:

Fund: 230

Facilities Operations and Maintenance, 11860

$5,100,000, FY14 and FY15

Future year funding is contingent upon budget appropriation and approval.

Not Applicable

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 ILCS
5/34-13. 1, the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations.

184

January 22, 2014

Con?icts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 ILCS which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of
of?ce.

Indebtedness - The Board's Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 1996 (96-0626-PO3), as amended
from time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics - The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 (11-0525-P02), as amended from time to time,
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability - The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current
?scal year is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in the subsequent ?scal year
budget(s).

14-0122-PR8

AUTHORIZE SECOND RENEWAL AGREEMENT WITH THREE VENDORS TO PROVIDE
INTEGRATED PEST MANAGEMENT SERVICES

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Authorize second renewal agreements with three Vendors to provide integrated pest management services
to Chicago Public Schools at a total cost for the option period not to exceed $1,400,000. Written documents
exercising this option are currently being negotiated. No payment shall be made to any Vendor during the
option period prior to execution of their written document. The authority granted herein shall automatically
rescind as to each Vendor in the event their written document is not executed within 90 days of the date of
this Board Report. Information pertinent to this option is stated below.

Specification Number: 09-250081
Contract Administrator: Hernandez, Miss Patricia 773-553-2280
VENDOR:

1) Vendor 29371
PEST CONTROL CORP.
9948 S. MORGAN ST.
CHICAGO, IL 60643
Booker Brown
773 233-6769

2) Vendor 32619
QUALITY EXCELLENCE PEST CONTROL
1017 WENTWORTH
CALUMET CITY, IL 60409
Cartha McKenzie Jr.
708 730-1745

3) Vendor 39941
SMITHEREEN EXTERMINATING CO.
7400 N. MELVINA AVE.
NILES, IL 60714
David Harris-John
847 647-0010

USER INFORMATION:

Contact: 11860 - Facility Operations Maintenance
125 South Clark Street 16th Floor
Chicago, IL 60603
Mcguffage, Mr. Terrence William
773-553?2960

ORIGINAL AGREEMENT:

The original Agreements (authorized by Board Report 10-0224-PR4, as amended by Board Report
10-0526-PR2), were for a term commencing March 1, 2010 and ending February 28, 2012, with the Board
having two options to renew for periods of two years each. The agreements were renewed (authorized by
Board Report 12-0125-PR5) for a term commencing March 1, 2012 and ending February 28, 2014. The
Board did not renew the agreement with Andex Co. d/b/a Anderson Pest Solutions (vendor #23712). The
regions awarded to this Vendor were assigned to the next lowest responsible Bidder (region 5 was
assigned to Alpha-Omega Pest Control Corp (vendor 29371) and region 6 was assigned to Quality and
Excellence Pest Control (vendor #32619?. The original agreements were awarded on a competitive basis
pursuant to Board Rule 7-2.

185

January 22, 2014

OPTION PERIOD:
The term of the agreements is being extended for a two-year period commencing March 1, 2014 and ending
February 28, 2016.

OPTION PERIODS REMAINING:
There are no option periods remaining.

SCOPE OF SERVICES:
Vendors shall continue to furnish all supervision, labor, materials and equipment necessary to perform the
following:

1) Conduct an initial facility survey which will include all areas of the building, perimeter areas near the
building were pests may burrow and harbor, storage areas, and areas around dumpsters, waste piles
and/or grease containers;

2) Develop a comprehensive integrated pest management plan;

3) Perform routine inspections for signs of pests, suppress designated pests;

4) Develop recommendations for structural and procedural modifications necessary to achieve pest
prevention;

5) Perform all components of the Integrated Pest Management Plan in all areas of the building, and in
exterior perimeter areas of all buildings including those areas near and around waste containers and
dumpsters;

6) Develop and maintain records pertaining to pest management at each facility in accordance with the
Integrated Pest Management Plan and provide electronic updates to the Environmental Services Manager
as requested; and,

7) Respond to pest emergencies.

DELIVERABLES:
Vendors will continue to provide supervision, labor, materials, and equipment necessary to facilitate an
integrated pest management program.

OUTCOMES:
Vendors' services will result in a successful integrated pest management program for Chicago Public
Schools.

COMPENSATION:
The sum of payments to all Vendors during this renewal period shall not exceed $1,400,000 in the
aggregate.

AUTHORIZATION:

Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant terms and conditions in the written option
documents. Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the option documents. Authorize Chief
Facilities Officer to execute all ancillary documents required to administer or effectuate this option.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION:

Pursuant to Remedial Program for Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise Participation in Goods
and Services Contracts, the per Contract and Category Goals method for MNVBE participation will be
utilized. Thus, contracts for subsequent vendors created by this contract will be subject to compliance
reviews on a contract-by-contract basis. Aggregated compliance of the vendors will be reported on a
basis. The goals for this agreement are 25% total MBE and 5% total WBE participation.

LSC REVIEW:
Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL:

Fund2230

Facility Operations Maintenance, 11860

$1,400,000, FY14, FY15, and FY16

Future year funding is contingent upon budget appropriation and approval.

Not Applicable

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 ILCS
the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel necessary
to conduct those investigations.

Conflicts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 ILCS which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of office.

Indebtedness - The Board's Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 1996 as amended from
time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics - The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 (11-O525-P02), as amended from time to time,
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability - The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current fiscal
year is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in the subsequent fiscal year budget(s).

186

January 22, 2014

14-0122-PR9

AUTHORIZE NEW WITH SUPPLIERS FOR NATURAL

GAS SUPPLY SERVICES

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Approve entering into agreement(s) with one or more Natural Gas Suppliers to provide natural gas supply
services to all of the Board?s facilities. Suppliers will be selected on a competitive basis pursuant to a Request for

Proposal issued pursuant to Board Rule 7-2. Written agreement(s) with the supplier(s) will be negotiated. No
payment shall be made to any supplier prior to execution of a written agreement. The authority granted herein
shall automatically rescind as to each supplier in the event a written agreement for such selected supplier is not
executed within 120 days of the date of this Board Report. information pertinent to the agreement(s) and this
authorization is stated below.

THE RFP:

CURRENT
AGREEMENT:

PROPOSALS:

TERM:

EARLY
TERMINATION
RIGHT:

SCOPE OF
SERVICES:

OUTCOMES:

SECURITY
DEPOSIT:

COMPENSATION:

AUTHORIZATION:

The Board issued a Request for Proposals for Natural Gas Procurement for the
Board which invited the submission of proposals from Natural Gas Suppliers certified by
the Illinois Commerce Commission to provide natural gas supply services to all of the
Board?s facilities. The RFP contained a form of natural gas supply contract
(?Agreement?) that is preferred by the Board to be entered into between the Board and
the selected Proposer(s). The Agreement, which has been developed by the North
American an Energy Standards Board, is the most widely used contract in the natural gas
supply market and will be adapted to incorporate standard Board contract terms.

The Board has current contracts for natural gas supply with lntegrys Energy (which is
scheduled to expire on March 31, 2014) and Constellation Energy (which is scheduled to
expire on June 30, 2014).

Each Proposer has been invited to submit a proposal for a period of twenty-four (24)
months and a period of thirty?six (36) months. The natural gas supply contract will be
awarded by the Board based on the lowest cost qualified Proposer.

The initial term of the Agreement(s) will commence on April 1, 2014 and shall be for a
designated term of twenty-four (24) or thirty-six (36) months and may include options to
renew or extend the Agreement(s). The term of the Agreement(s) and the number and
period of any renewal or extension options will be determined by the Chief Financial
Officer and the Chief Facilities Officer dependent upon pricing and market conditions.

The Board will have the right to terminate the Agreement(s) at any time with 30 days prior
written notice.

The selected Proposer(s) will supply the Board?s full requirements for natural gas supply
(including, but not limited to, space and hot water heating to all of the Board?s facilities)
for a term of up to twenty-four (24) or thirty?six (36) months under a block index purchase
model that will allow the Board to purchase its required natural gas consumption in blocks
each month dependent on market forecast during the term of the Agreement(s).

The Board will secure natural gas supply services at a competitive rate while at the same
time providing the flexibility of being able to fix prices and make strategic purchases of
incremental blocks of natural gas as part of the existing CPS Energy Purchasing
Strategy. The Board will also be able to align its purchasers under the NYMEX Ni Hub
market versus the Chicago Citygate market which will improve the Board?s ability to
monitor and police prices provided by its natural gas supplier(s). The Agreement will
provide the Board with estimated annual savings of $800,000 and $2,400,000 over three
years.

The Board may be required to pledge security to secure the performance of its
obligations under the Agreement(s) in a form acceptable to the selected Proposer(s),
including, without limitation, a standby irrevocable letter of credit, a prepayment, a
security interest in an asset or a performance bond or guaranty.

The selected Proposer(s) will be compensated at the rates set forth in the Agreement(s)
based on the amount of natural gas required by the Board facilities each month.

Subject to the written approval of the Chief Financial Officer, authorize the President and
Secretary to execute the Agreement(s) with Proposer(s) selected by the Evaluation
Committee as described in the RFP. Authorize the General Counsel to include insurance
and indemnification provisions and other relevant terms and conditions in the
Agreement(s). Authorize the Chief Facilities Officer and General Counsel to execute all
ancillary documents required to administer or effectuate the Agreement(s).

187

January 22, 2014

AFFIRMATIVE

ACTION: Exempt.

LSC REVIEW: Local School Council review is not applicable to this matter.

FINANCIAL: Charge to Operations: Not to exceed $90 million over 36 months
Budget Classification: 11880?230?53125-254004

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General Each party to the Agreement(s) shall acknowledge that, in accordance With 105 ILCS 5/34?
13.1, the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain investigations
and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel necessary to conduct those
investigations.

Conflicts - The Agreement(s) shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the provisions
of 105 ILCS which restricts the employment of or the letting of contracts to, former Board members
during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of office.

Indebtedness The Board?s Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 1996 (96-0626-PO3), as amended from time
to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the Agreement(s).

Ethics - The Board?s Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 as amended from time to time, shall be
incorporated into and made a part of the Agreement(s).

Contingent Liability The Agreement(s) shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current fiscal
year is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in the subsequent fiscal year budget(s).

14-0122-PR10

AUTHORIZE THE PRE-QUALIFICATION STATUS OF AND NEW AGREEMENTS WITH SIX
CONTRACTORS TO PROVIDE EMERGENCY FACILITY RESTORATION SERVICES

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Authorize the pre-qualification status of and new agreements with six contractors to provide emergency
restoration services at a cost not to exceed $1 ,500,000 annually, $3,000,000 in the aggregate and approve
entering into a written master agreement with each contractor. Contractors were selected on a competitive
basis pursuant to Board Rule 7-2. A written master agreement for each contractor is currently being
negotiated. No services shall be provided by and no payment shall be made to any contractor prior to the
execution of their written master agreement. The pre-qualification status approved herein for each
contractor shall automatically rescind in the event such contractor fails to execute the Board's master
agreement within 120 days of the date of this Board Report. Information pertinent to this master agreement
is stated below.

Specification Number: 13-250074

Contract Administrator: Hernandez, Miss Patricia 773-553-2280

USER INFORMATION:

Contact: 11860 Facility Operations Maintenance
125 South Clark Street 16th Floor
Chicago, IL 60603
Mcguffage, Mr. Terrence William
773-553-2960

TERM:

The term of this pre-qualification period and each master agreement is for two (2) years, effective February
15, 2014 and ending February 14, 2016. The Board shall have the right to extend the pre-qualification
period and each master agreement for two (2) additional one (1) year periods.

SCOPE OF SERVICES:

Contractors will provide emergency restoration and/or remediation services. Emergency repairs will cover
damage from water, fire, mold, wind, vandalism and any other elements which includes repairs to, and/or
replacement of, building and/or any other Board property.

Services will include, but are not limited to: damage assessment and documentation including photos,
weekly progress reporting, fire, water and smoke remediation services, mold testing and abatement, air
quality testing and reporting, final air clearance certification, furniture removal and storage (if necessary),
full restoration of the Board's property.

COMPENSATION:
The sum of payments to all pre-qualified contractors for the pre-qualification term shall not exceed
$1,500,000 annually, $3,000,000 in aggregate.

188

January 22, 2014

USE OF POOL:
Work will be assigned on a rotating schedule based on capacity and type of emergency.

AUTHORIZATION:

Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant terms and conditions in the written master
agreements. Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the master agreements. Authorize Chief
Facilities Officer to execute all ancillary documents required to administer or effectuate the master
agreements.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION:

Pursuant to the Remedial Program for Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise Participation in
Construction Projects, (MNVBE Plan), the MNVBE goals for this contract include 25% total MBE and 5%
total WBE. Aggregated compliance of this pool contract will be monitored on a quarterly basis.

LSC REVIEW:
Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL:

Fund:230

Facility Operations Management, 11860

Risk Management, 12460

$1,500,000 annually, $3,000,000 FY14, FY15, and FY16

Future year funding is contingent upon budget appropriation and approval.

Not Applicable

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 
the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel necessary
to conduct those investigations.

Conflicts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 ILCS which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of office.

Indebtedness - The Board's Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 1996 (96-0626-PO3), as amended from
time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics - The Board?s Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 (11-0525-P02), as amended from time to time,
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability - The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current fiscal
year is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in the subsequent fiscal year budget(s).

1) 3)

Vendor 20262 Vendor 96770
ACTION CLEANERS, INC BELFOR USA GROUP, INC DBA BELFOR
PROPERTY RESTORATION

925 SETON COURT., STE 6
1509 BROOK DRIVE

WHEELING, IL 60090
DOWNERS GROVE, IL 60515

Jim O'Callahan
Hank Manalli

847 658-8988
630 953-8350

2) 4)
Vendor 99465 Vendor 99464

AMERICAN TECHNOLOGIES, INC OF FIRE WATER RESTORATION, LLC DBA
SERVPRO OF OAK LAWN

1175 FRONTENAC RD.
12620 S. HOLIDAY DR. STE A

NAPERVILLE, IL 60563
ALSIP, IL 60803

Doug Fairless .
Frank 

630 548-8150
708 239-1444

189

January 22, 2014

Vice President Ruiz abstained on Board Report 14-0122-PR10.
14-0122-PR11
FINAL

190

 191

SCHOOL

Barnard School

Carter School

Dixon School

Hammond School

Holmes School

Hughes School

Stockton School

CONTRACTOR

OLD VETERAN
CONSTRUCTION, INC

K.R. MILLER
CONTRACTORS, INC.

F.H. PASCHEN, S.N.
NIELSEN 
ASSOCIATES, LLC

K.R. MILLER
CONTRACTORS. INC.

K.R. MILLER
CO NTRACTORS. INC.

OLD VETERAN
CONSTRUCTION, INC

F.H. PASCHEN, S.N.
NIELSEN 
ASSOCIATES. LLC

CONTRACT CONTRACT



2652247

2656792

2651658

2648669

2656793

2655671

2650431

METHOD

IOC

10c

10c

IOC

10C



10c

CONTRACT
AWARD

30,867.00

137,452.00

23,997.00

1.085.918.00

139,603.00

61,055.00

89,346.00

AWARD ANTICIPATED FISCAL AFFIRM. ACTION

DATE

11/22/2013

12/6/2013

11/21/2013

11/14/2013

12/6/2013

12/4/2013

11/ 19/ 2013

Appendix A
January 2014

COMPLETION YEAR

DATE

12/31/2013

12/31/2013

3/30/2013

1/30/2013

12/31/2013

12/31/2013

12/31/2013

2014 4

2014

2014

2013 0

2014

2014

2014 PROJECT SCOPE AND NOTES

Provide aisle lights on main ?oor and balcony of auditorium, circuit to
existing emergency panel. Provide four additional emergency lighting
circuits to pick up additional emergency light fixtures at the existing
school (student toilet rooms, etc).

Replace damaged exterior doors assembly (per leaf) with new FRP doors
(Door 2). Main Building: Replace damaged exterior doors assembly (per
leaf] with new FRP doors (Door 4).

The intent of this work is to finish the exterior masonry repairs and
tuckpointing along with repair of water damaged plaster work on the
interior at the stairwell.

This project includes interior renovation of Gym/Auditorium ?ooring,
existing gym/auditorium doors and renovation of finishes.

Replace Exterior Doors #7 and #11- (3) 3?x7' door leaves. Provide
elastomeric sealant at base of frame at door Provide fasteners at loose
door #3 transom trim element. Scrape, prime and paint base of corroded
metal frame at door #3 to provide sound material to accept new
elastomeric sealant.

Contractor shall remove and replace (2) existing serving lines which do
not have steam tables with new MHFS serving lines including all utility
connections, power to mobile equipment, etc. Additional 100 lockers to
be installed due to increased enrollment.

Provide Assistive Listening Devices 1 of every 4 need to be hearing aid
compatible (27 total). Provide basic sound system 2 wall mounted
speakers 2 wireless microphones and amp with jack for external devices.
Provide signage for the availability of assistive listening devices.
Auditorium Balcony: Add free standing companion seat, align shoulder
with wheelchair. Provide 16"x 12" with SS accessible ?oor ventilation
grill with chamfered edge. Remove 3 existing seats to make 1 wheelchair
space and one companion seat space approx 60" 48" deep (per code)
Disperse locations. Replace 5% of Aisle Seats and Provide new accessible
aisle seat with lift arm (Rows Sides 

REASONS FOR
PROJECT

 

Reasons:

 

1. Safety

2. Code Compliance

3. Fire Code Violations
4. Deteriorated Exterior Conditions
5. Priority Mechanical Needs

6. ADA Compliance

7. Support for Educational Portfolio Strategy

8. Support for other District Initiatives

9. External Funding Provided

1,568,238.00

10f1

January 22, 2014

192

CPS JANUARY 2014

Chicago PUblic These change orderdates range from 01/19/12to11/18/13 and Date: 12,13,2013

Capital Improvement Program approval cycles rangefrom11/15/13to11/25/13 page: 1 of 6
CHANGE ORDER LOG

 

School Vendor Project Number Original Number Total Revised Total Oracle Board Number
Contract Change Change Contract of PO
Amount Orders Orders Amount Contract Number

Lyman Trumbull School
2013 Trumbull LTG 2013-25651-LTG
Polcurr, Inc. $52,835.59 1 $6,900.00 $59,735.59 13.06%
Change Date App Date Chan Order Descri tions Reason Code

2634744
01/27/13 11/15/13 Due to scheduling conflicts with building engineer, contractor is to be reimbursed for lost time and lost productivity. Asset Delay $6,900.00

 

ProjectTotal $6,900.00
Theodore Roosevelt High School

2012 Roosevelt CRICAR 2012-46271-M CR

Tyler Lane Construction, Inc. $16,706,278.00 42 $1,757,042.86 $18,463,320.86 10.52%
Change Date App Date Chan Order Descri tions

 

Reason Code
2306872

10/03/13 11/1 7/ 13 During site excavation, several sewer pipes on the south and east side of the school were not discovered as indicated on the Owner Directed 
survey. Based on the modified scope of work the contractor is to provide a credit to CPS for the following work:

(1) Catch basins with half trap on the South building elevation (west end).
(2) Catch basin with half trap on East building elevation (south end).

2499908 11-0525-PR8

10/03/13 11/25/13 The sanitary pipe exiting the buil ng and the associated manhole did not exist as shown on the drawings. As a result of this Discovered Conditions $28,834.00
. discovered condit?on the contractor needs to provide a new storm line that will exit the buil ?ng to a new catch basin with a
half trap.

 

Project Total $26,134.00
Philip Armour School

2011 ArmourADA 2011-22061-ADA

Scale Construction $3,060,598.00 20 $215,549.61 $3,276,147.61 7.04%
Change Date App Date Chan Order Descri tions Reason Code
2094883
01/19/12 11/20/13 Provide metal thresholds in lieu of specified wood thresholds. Base contractincluded metal thresholds, however, during Omission $3,721.00

construction itwas identi?ed that wood thresholds would not provide the required slope for ADA. The cost for change order is
the difference between the materials.

 

 

Project Total $3,721.00

 

The following change orders have been approved and are being reported to the Board in arrears. Report 

January 22, 2014

193

CPS JANUARY 2014

Chicago Public These change order dates rangefrom 01/19/12 to 11/13/1 3 and Date: 12?13/201 3
Capital Improvement Program approval cycles rangefrom 11/15/13to11/25/13 page: 2 of 6

CHANGE ORDER LOG

School Vendor Project Number Original Number Total Revised Total Oracle Board Number
Contract Change Change Contract of PO
Amount Orders Orders Amount Contract Number

   
  

  

   

Leslie Lewis School
2011 Lewis SIP-1 2011-24151-SIP-1

F.H. Paschen,S.N. Nielsen &Assoc $6,310,000.00 26 $442,215.00 $6,752,215.00 7.01%
Change Date App Date Chan Order Descri tions

 


2402357
11/04l13 11/15/13 In room 221 install new power and data wiring for new computertables to comply with the current CPS standards for a computer School Request $25,572.00
tab. This was not part of the base scope of work, since the SIP-1 project was intended to do structural repairs for the
1920 portion of the school, where room 221 located. The room had been used as a computerlab previously, but they did not
have sufficient and current power and data wrring. The school requested that the room be updated to meet current standards.
This request is what initiated the work and is considered a school request.

 

 

ProjectTotal $25,572.00
Charles Sumner Mathematics Science Community Academy

2014 Sumner Academy STK 2014-31221 -STK
F.H. Paschen, S.N. Nielsen &Assoc $459,000.00 2 $19,063.00 $478,063.00 4.15%
Chan Date Chan Order Descri tions

 

Reason Code

2617391 12-1024-PR8

11/13/13 11/25/13 Base contract required rodding of existing drain lines. Upon rodding, it was discovered that three areas of drain pipe required Discovered Conditions $14,160.00
replacement, which was not in the base scope.

 

 

ProjectTotal $14,160.00
Noble Street Charter High School - Chicago Bulls College Prep Campus

2012 Noble St. Bulls MCR-1 2012-66572-MCR-1
Tyler Lane Construction, Inc. $1,132,596.00 4 $40,978.42 $1,173,574.42 3.62%
Change Date App Date Chan Order Descri tions

 

Reason Code
2538913 11-0525-PR8
School Request $18,125.42

 

10/03/13 11/17/13 After execution of the GC's contract, construction work was restricted to evening hours and weekends. This change was
made due to additional summer school programming that was finalized after the project was planned.

 

Project Total $18,125.42
James Blaine School

2013 Blaine LTG-1 2013-22261-LTG-1

Polcurr, Inc. $38,558.64 1 $1,303.34 $39,861.98 3.38%
Change Date App Date Chan Order Descri tions Reason Code

2501095 11-1214-PR4
10/16/13 11/20/13 This change order is to provide corrective action to re?support all existing Iightfixtures 211 212. The scopefor this change Discovered Conditions $1,303.34
includes installing new mounting hardware for the existing light fixtures and then reattaching the fixtures to the new hardware.

 

 

 

Project Total $1,303.34

 

The following change orders have been approved and are being reported to the Board in arrears. Report 

January 22, 2014

194

CPS JANUARY 2014

Chicago PUblic SCh?? s These change order dates rangefrom 01/19/12to11/18/13 and Date: 12/13/2013
Capital Improvement Program approval cycles rangefrom 11/15/13to11/25/13 Page: 3 of 6

CHANGE ORDER LOG

School Vendor Project Number Original Number Total Revised Total Oracle Board Number
Contract Change Change Contract of PO
Amount Orders Orders Amount Contract Number

 

Marvin Camras Elementary School
2013 Camras BLR 2013-22691-BLR

Wight &Company $2,835,000.00 4 $85,118.47 $2,920,118.47 3.00%
Change Date App Date Chan Order Descri tions

 

Reason Code
2483868 11-0525-PR8
11/01/13 11/17/13 Subsequent to a water shut down to complete contract work, the existing pipe fittings leaked and sedimentfrom the existing Owner Directed $1 ,911 .58

piping obstructed filters causing blockage. Base scopedid not include replacement of the existing fittings nor cleaning of the
existing screens.

 

Project Total $1,911.58
John Dore School

2013 Dore NPL 2013-23001-NPL

F.H. Paschen, S.N. Nielsen Assoc $284,000.00 2 $6,054.00 $290,054.00 2.13%
Change Date App Date Chan Order Descri tions

 

Reason Code

2627587 11-0525-PR8
11/11/13 11/17/13 Labor, material and equipment required to install an additional 35LF of 6" reinforced curb required to complete the concrete Omission $795.00
edge around the playlot. The curb is required in order to have something to terminate the soft surface against. This was an
omission on the part of the AOR.

11111/13 11/17/13 Labor and equipment to trench dig footings for2 sets of playground equipment instead of auguring as planned by sub. This Discovered Conditions $5,259.00
was required due to existing soil conditions which included misc concrete, bricks and rubble discovered 18" down from surface.
These various sized pieces of rubble prevented the augur from (in ng properly. Work was completed on 

 

Project Total $6,054.00
Mahalia Jackson School

2013 Jackson CSP 2013-26651-CSP

Wight&Company $1,765,389.99 3 $29,223.42 $1,794,613.41 1.66%
Change Date App Date Chan eOrder Descri tions

 

Reason Code

2613861 
11/18/13 11/25/13 To ensure that the facility is readyfor the first day of school the following scope should be added to the base contract. Owner Directed $3,056.63

 

First Floor: Boys - replace (2) soap dispensers. Girls - re?support toilet partition, replace shroud at sink, Room 108, install 
black vinyl base near unit vent, patch/paint north exit door, patch ceramic tile at door., Room 114, install vinyl base throughout,
replace 2x4 light fixture lens.

Second Floor: Boys - replace (1) soap dispenser, make (1) urinal functional, Girls, replace (1) soap dispenser,

Third Floor: Boys - replace (2) soap dispenser, Girls, replace (1) soap dispenser, Room 301 replace missing glass, Room 308
replace door knob.

 

ProjectTotal $3,056.63

 

The following change orders have been approved and are being reported to the Board in arrears, Report 

January 22, 2014

195

CPS JANUARY 2014

Chicago PUblic These change order dates rangefrom 01/1 9/1 2to 11/18/13 and Date: 12,13,2013
Capital Improvement Program approval cycles rangefrom 11/15/131011/25/13 pag e: 4 of 6

CHANGE ORDER LOG

School Vendor Project Number Original Number Total Revised Total Oracle Board Number
Contract Change Change Contract of P0
Amount Orders Orders Amount Contract Number

   

 
     

DunbarVocational Career Academy
2011 Dunbar CR-1 2011-53021-MCR-1

Walsh Construction ll, LLC $8,247,300.00 15 $132,561.00 $8,379,861.00 1.61%
Change Date App Date Chan eOrder Descri tions

 

Reason Code

2315582 
11/14/13 11/25/13 CO Scope Issue: The construction drawings show new clerestory windows to replace the existing boiler house clerestory Omission AOR $2,508.00
windows. Unlike the former clerestory windows, the new windows are operable for ventilation purposes, however no electrical
power supply was included wit 'n the construction drawings to operate the new electric window operators. Contractor will need
to provide power to the new electric wind ow operators.

 

09/23/13 11/15/13 The construction documents call for the new stain/veil curtain wall to match the existing stainNell curtain wall. The existing Discovered Conditions $7,534.00
curtain wall mullion was 7-1/2 inches wide. The new curtain wall mullion was 6 inches wide as reviewed and approved by the
AOR. The resulting 1?1/2 inch gap required metal trim to cover the exposed sidewall at the 3-story stairwells.

10/15/13 11/21/13 This project was originally planned for one summer, however dueto the extensive long lead time for windows, the project carried Omission $56,261.00
over to two summers. Cory Davis of CPS and Jeff Pezza of Walsh negotiated the cost of the additional labor resulting in a
Change Order for $56,261.

 

Project Total $66,303.00
James Farnsworth School

2010 Farnsworth NAB 2010-23161-NAB
Blinderman Construction Co $4,619,000.00 21 $72,286.07 $4,691,286.07 1.56%
Change Date App Date Chan Order Descri tions Reason Code

2501020 
11/12/13 11/25/13 Replacement of an exhaustfan starter should have been part of the design but was omitted by the Architect. Omission $1,471.00

10/30/13 11/25/13 The City inspection for Occupancy cited non-compliant piping servicing the hand sink in room 114. The sink and piping Discovered Conditions $3,658.00
demol Ion was not part of the original scope of project but is required to gain city acceptance for the project.

 

 

 

ProjectTotal $5,129.00
Michelle Clark Academic Prep Magnet High School

2013 Clark ICR 2013-41051-ICR
Friedler Construction Co. $1,234,800.00 6 $17,357.60 $1,252,157.60 1.41%
Change Date A99 Date Chan Order Descri tions

 

Reason Code
2507462 11-0525-PR8

10/30/13 11/17/13 Per request of the school, the standard white board size was not adequate to meet the STEM curriculum requirements. Base Owner Directed $2,200.00
scope included white boards thatwould require seams that would interfere with the intended instructional projections.

 

 

Project Total $2,200.00

 

The following change orders have been approved and are being reported to the Board in arrears. Report 

January 22, 2014

196

Chicago Public These change orderdates rangefrom 01/19/12to11/18/13 and Date: 12/13/2013
Capital Improvement Program approval cycles rangefrom 11/1 5/1310 11/25/CHANGE ORDER LOG

School Vendor Project Number Original Number Total Revised Total Oracle Board Number
Contract Change Change Contract of PO
Amount Orders Orders Amount Contract Number

 

Perkins Bass School
2014 Bass NPL 2014-22161-NPL
F.H. Paschen, S.N. Nielsen Assoc $293,000.00 1 $2,072.00 $295,072.00 0.71%
Change Date App Date Chan Order Descri tions

 

Reason Code
2628307 11-0525-PR8
11/17/13 After the project was designed, bid, and awarded, some additional damage was doneto the chain link fence that separates the Discovered Conditions $2,072.00

school's play lot from the sidewalk. As work began on the new play structure it was discovered that these 4 additional fence
posts had been bent and would require replacing. This is a discovered condition.

 

 

Project Total $2,072.00
Eliza Chappell Elementary School

2013 Chappell 2013-22681-ICR
F.H. Paschen, S.N. Nielsen Assoc $153,300.00 1 $629.61 $153,929.61 0.41%
Change Date App Date Chan Order Descri tions

 

Reason Code
2549331 12-1024-PR8

11/18/13 11/20/13 The base contract included construction of a new wall to create a new storage room. However, the architect neglected to include Omission AOR $629.61
provisions for return air in the new space. The change order is for construction of a return air vent into the new room.

 

 

Project Total $629.61
Wolfgang A Mozart School

2014 Mozart STK 2014-24611-STK
Reliable &Associates $231,800.00 2 $157.50 $231 95750 0.07%
Change Date App Date Chan Order Descri tions

 

Reason Code
2621113 11-0525-PR8
10/07/13 11/20/13 The contractor shall install the new flues in a location roughly 24'6" from the main school wall. The contractor shall provide a Owner Directed 
credit for the reduced run of both the 8" and the 20" flues. The contractorshall also provide a 5/ copper drain pipe for the
boiler flue, and run it to the nearest open site drain (approx. 

11/07/13 11/17/13 The projectteam discovered that one of the boilers could not be tuned up due to a problem with damper motor on the burner. Discovered Conditions $1,457.50
The contractor will need to provide material and labor to repair the damper motor to facilitate completion of the base scope.

 

Project Total $157.50

 

The following change orders have been approved and are being reported to the Board in arrears. Report 

January 22, 2014

197

CPS JANUARY 2014

Chicago PUblic These change order dates rangefrom 01/19/12 to 11/18/13 and Date: 12/13/2013
Capital Improvement Program approval cycles rangefrom 11/15/13to11/25/13 Page: 6 of 6

CHANGE ORDER LOG

 

School Vendor Project Number Original Number Total

Contract Change Change Contract of PO
Amount Orders Orders Amount Contract Number

Revised Total Oracle Board Number

John Mccutcheon School
2013 McCutcheon SEC 2013-26201-SEC

Broadway Electric $156,660.00 2 $150,350.00 -4.03%
Change Date Apr; Date Chan 9 Order Descri tions

 

Ram?Costa
2537169 11-1214-PR4

10/24/13 11/17/13 Provide material and labor for Al door controller at the Principal?s Office. Door controller was not included in the contract School Request $2,440.00

documents and has been requested bythe school to make the system more functional with the school's needs.

 

Project Total $2,440.00

Total Change Orders for this Period $185,869.08

 

The following change orders have been approved and are being reported to the Board in arrears. Report 

January 22, 2014

January 22, 2014

14-0122-PR12

AUTHORIZE FIRST RENEWAL AGREEMENT WITH MESIROW INSURANCE SERVICES, INC. TO
PROVIDE INSURANCE BROKER AND CONSULTING SERVICES

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Authorize exercising the first option to renew the agreement with Mesirow Insurance Services, Inc.
(Mesirow) to provide insurance broker and consulting services to the Department of Finance/Bureau of
Risk Management at a cost not-to-exceed $400,000.00. A written renewal agreement is currently being
negotiated. No payment shall be made to Mesirow prior to the execution of the written renewal
agreement. The authority granted herein shall automatically rescind in the event a written agreement is
not executed within 90 days of the date of this Board Report. Information pertinent to this agreement is
stated below

Specification Number 11?250025
Contract Administrator: Seanior, Miss Pamela Dorcas 773-553-2280
VENDOR:

1) Vendor 84715
MESIROW INSURANCE SERVICES, INC

353 NORTH CLARK ST.
CHICAGO, IL 60654
Linda Price

312 595-7260
312-595?4339



USER INFORMATION 

Contact: 12310 - Chief Financial Of?cer
125 South Clark Street 14th Floor
Chicago, IL 60603
Rogers, Mr. Peter W.
773-553-2700

ORIGINAL AGREEMENT:

The original Agreement (authorized by Board Report 12-0125-PR12) in the amount of $400,000.00 is for
a term commencing March 1, 2012 and ending February 28, 2014, with the Board having two (2) options
to renew for twenty-four (24) months each. The original agreement was awarded on a competitive basis

pursuant to Board Rule 7-2.

OPTION PERIOD:
The term of this agreement is being renewed for twenty-four (24) months commencing March 1, 2014 and
ending February 28, 2016.

OPTION PERIODS REMAINING:
There is one (1) option period for a twenty-four (24) month term remaining.

SCOPE OF SERVICES:

Vendor will continue to provide Optional Risk Management Consulting Services - Risk Management will
have the option to assign consulting services for Mesirow to provide loss control services and to analyze
and make recommendations/solutions for critical exposures to the Board for a fee of $12,500 for 100
hours of services.

Risk Management will also have the option to have actuarial services signoff as certi?ed at a cost of
$5,000 per signoff.

DELIVERABLES:
Vendor will continue to:

-Submit ?nal underwriting proposals to Finance/Risk Management within the prescribed timeframe to
meet Board deadlines;

-P ace insurance coverage upon Board approval;

-Place program on a ?xed-fee basis without commission;

-Identify any and all entities that may bene?t from the placement of each program, identify any
commissions, contingencies, wholesale commissions, reinsurance, etc.;

198

January 22, 2014

-Review and validate the accuracy of invoice statements, billings, and any premium adjustmentsin
compliance with negotiated insurance wording;

-Review all policies and certify as accurate, in writing, upon delivery to Board;
-Issue endorsements and insurance certi?cates as needed or required;
-Submit a written report categorizing the Board's risk exposures;

-Prioritize Board's risk exposures and develop solutions;

-Prepare annual stewardship report;

-Use of Risk Pro computer program;

-Actuaria  Services without signoff;

-Written claim procedures; and

-Prepare insurance analysis with other system used by Board.

OUTCOMES:
Vendor's services will result in a comprehensive, cost?effective insurance program.

COMPENSATION:

Mesirow shall be paid an annual brokerage administrative fee of $139,500. Half of the fee will be paid
upon assignment of services; the second half will be paid upon delivery of accurate insurance policies.
Risk management loss control services will be paid at a ?at annual rate of $6,250. Certi?ed actuarial
reports will be billed at ?at $5,000 per signed report. Other consulting projects will be billed at rate of
$150 per hour thereafter and shall not exceed $22,000 annually. Insurance programs must be placed on
a fixed fee basis without commissions, and will be reported separately to the Board.

AUTHORIZATION:

Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant terms and conditions in the written option
document. Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the option document. Authorize Chief
Procurement Of?cer to execute all ancillary documents required to administer or effectuate this option
agreement.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION:

This contract is in full compliance with the goals required by the Revised Remedial Plan for Minority and
Women Business Enterprise Contract Participation. The MNVBE participation goals for this contract
include: 25% total MBE and 5% total WBE. The vendor has identi?ed and scheduled the following ?rms
and percentages during the renewal period.

TOTAL MBE 25%

African American

Insurers Review Services 12.5%

225 North Michigan Avenue, Suite 902
Chicago, IL 60601

CS Insurance Strategies, Inc.
542 S. Dearborn Street, 8th Floor
Chicago II 60605

Hispanic

Rolei Financial Services Corporation 12.5%
737 N. Michigan Ave Suite 1300

Chicago, IL 60611

TOTAL WBE 5%

WBE

Risk Innovations, Inc. 5%
1202 N. 75th St.

Downers Grove, IL 60516

LSC REVIEW:
Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL:

Fund 210

Risk Management, 12460

$200,000, FY14

$200,000, FY15

Future year funding is contingent upon budget appropriation and approval.

CF Not Applicable

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 ILCS
the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations.

199

January 22, 2014

Con?icts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 ILCS which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of
office.

Indebtedness - The Board's Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 1996 (96-0626-P03), as amended
from time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics - The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 (11-0525-P02), as amended from time to time,
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability - The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current
?scal year is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in the subsequent ?scal year
budget(s).

Vice President Ruiz abstained on Board Report 14-0122-PR12.

14-0122-PR13

AUTHORIZE SECOND RENEWAL AND EXTENSION OF AGREEMENTS WITH NINE CONSULTANTS
TO PROVIDE FIELD SERVICES FOR TECHNOLOGY SPECIAL PROJECTS

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Authorize the second renewal and extension of agreements with various vendors to provide ?eld services
for special projects for all schools and departments at a total cost for the renewal period not to exceed
$675,000. Written agreements exercising this option are currently being negotiated. No payment shall be
made to any vendor during the renewal period prior to execution of their written document. The authority
granted herein shall automatically rescind as to each vendor in the event their written document is not
executed within 90 days of the date of this Board Report. Information pertinent to this option is stated
below.

Specification Number: 09-250061

Contract Administrator Sinnema, Mr. Ethan Cedric/ 773-553-2280

USER INFORMATION 

Project
Manager: 12510 - Information Technology Services

125 South Clark Street - 3rd Floor
Chicago, IL 60603
Foster, Mr. Belvie 

773-553-1300

ORIGINAL AGREEMENT:

The original Agreements (authorized by Board Report 10-O428-PR22) in the amount of $3,000,000 are for
a term commencing June 1, 2010 and ending February 28, 2013, with the Board having two (2) options to
renew for one (1) year terms. The original agreement was awarded on a competitive basis pursuant to
Board Rule 7-2. The agreements were renewed (authorized by Board Report 13-0227-PR1 1) in the
amount of $1,750,000 for a term commencing March 1, 2013 and ending February 28, 2014.

OPTION PERIOD:

The term of this agreement is being renewed for one year and extended for an additional four (4) months
to align the term with the Board's ?scal year; the renewal term will commence March 1, 2014 and end
June 30, 2015.

OPTION PERIODS REMAINING:
There are no option periods remaining.

SCOPE OF SERVICES:

Vendors will continue to provide services for individual "project?based" one?off jobs supporting computers,
desktop applications, sewers, printers and peripherals in the area of which they are pre-qualified.
Schools, area networks, and central of?ce departments may purchase these services at their options via
requisition to the Department of Procurement, which will send a purchase order to the vendor. Vendors
will provide one or more of the following types of services as indicated below.

a. Level Two Support - Desktop and Basic Server Support
b. Level Three Support - Advanced Server and Technical support

200

January 22, 2014

c. Ancillary Support - Supplemental Support for Key Personnel

Charter schools may purchase services at their option pursuant to the terms and conditions of this
agreement by issuing their own purchase order(s) to vendors. The Board shall not be liable for the failure
of any Charter School to pay any invoices, costs, charges, and/or fees billed by vendors to the Charter
School. Charter schools will solicit and acquire services directly from vendors. Charter schools shall be
responsible for the payment of all invoices, costs, charges, and fees billed by vendors to the Charter
School.

DELIVERABLES:
Qualified vendors will continue to provide services for individual "project-based" one-off jobs in support of
computers, desktop application, servers, printers and peripherals.

OUTCOMES:
Vendors' services will result in the completion of individual "project-based" one-off jobs supporting
computers, desktop applications, servers, printers and peripherals.

COMPENSATION:
During this renewal period vendors will be compensated as specified in their respective agreement; total
compensation payable to all vendors shall not exceed $675,000 in the aggregate.

AUTHORIZATION:

Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant terms and conditions in the written option
documents. Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the option documents. Authorize Chief
Procurement Of?cer to execute all ancillary documents required to administer or effectuate this option.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION:

This agreement is in full compliance with the goals required by the Remedial Program for Minority and
Women Owned Business Enterprise Participation in Goods and Services Contracts. The awarded
vendors will achieve 100% MNVBE compliance as each of the awarded vendors are either MBE or WBE
certified. This award was made pursuant to a Sheltered Market solicitation, in an effort to achieve
increase MNVBE participation.

LSC REVIEW:
Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL:

Various Funds and Units

$675,000

FY 14, FY 15

Future year funding is contingent upon budget appropriation and approval.

Not Applicable

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 
the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations.

Con?icts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of
of?ce.

indebtedness - The Board?s Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 1996 (96-0626-PO3), as amended
from time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 (11-0525-P02), as amended from time to time,
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability - The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current

?scal year is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in the subsequent ?scal year
budget(s).

201

1) 6)
Vendor 13462
ADVANCE ELECTRONIC COMPUTER

PO. BOX 168043
CHICAGO, IL 60616
Dan Gan

312 326-6188

2) . 7)
Vendor #19018
ADVANCED SYSTEMS CONSULTANT,

PO BOX 3176

JOLIET, IL 60434-3176
Rose Wennlund

815 521-9924

3) 8)
Vendor 45666
ADVOTEK, INC

148 OGDEN AVE.
DOWNERS GROVE, IL 60515
Diana Conley

630 964-7762

4) 9)
Vendor 49725
PACE SYSTEMS, INC

2040 CORPORATE LANE
NAPERVILLE, IL 60563
Wayne Liu

630 395-2212

5)
Vendor 32334
QUANTUM CROSSINGS, INC.

111 EAST WACKER DRIVE, SUITE 990
CHICAGO, IL 60601

Roger Martinez

312 467-0065

14-0122-PR14

January 22, 2014

Vendor 29748
SMART TECHNOLOGY SERVICES, INC

156 N.JEFFERSON ST., STE. 200
CHICAGO, IL 60661

Quentin Patterson

312 612-8223

Vendor 23659
SOLAI CAMERON, INC

2335 NORTH SOUTHPORT AVE.
CHICAGO, IL 60614

Mallar Solai

773 506-2720

Vendor 62107
SUNRISE TECHNOLOGY, INC

429B NORTH WEBER RD., #287
ROMEOVILLE, IL 60446

Trina Fresco

312 421 -9191

Vendor 63090

ENTEPRISES, LLC
400 N. MICHIGAN AVE SUITE 500
CHICAGO, IL 60611

Samantha Gregory

312 256-9090

Vice President Ruiz abstained on Board Report 14-0122-PR13.

AUTHORIZE FIRST RENEWAL OF PRE-QUALIFICATION STATUS AND AGREEMENTS WITH
ENTERPRISE FM TRUST AND RYDER TRUCK RENTAL INC. TO PROVIDE LEASED VEHICLES

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Authorize the first renewal of the pre-qualification status and agreements with Enterprise FM Trust and
Ryder Truck Rental, Inc. to provide lease vehicles at a cost not to exceed $600,000 in the aggregate.
Written renewal agreements are currently being negotiated. No services shall be provided by and no
payment shall be made to any vendor prior to the execution of their written renewal agreement. The
pre-qualification status approved herein for each vendor shall automatically rescind in the event such
vendor fails to execute their renewal agreement within 90 days of the date of this Board Report. Information

pertinent to this option is stated below.

Specification Number 10-250059

Contract Administrator 
VENDOR:

1) Vendor 94765
ENTERPRISE FM TRUST
395 ROOSEVELT RD.
GLEN ELLYN, IL 60137
Craig Lyman
630 534-7705

202

Hernandez, Miss Patricia/ 773-553-2280

January 22, 2014

2) Vendor 37941
RYDER TRUCK RENTAL, INC.
1050 WEST PERSHING RD.
CHICAGO, IL 60609
Loren Ahlgren
773 523-5555X320

USER INFORMATION:

Contact: 11870 - Student Transportation
125 South Clark Street 16th Floor
Chicago, IL 60603
Osland, Mr. Paul G.
773-553-2960

ORIGINAL AGREEMENT: The original agreements (authorized by Board Report 11-0126-PR5) in the
aggregate amount of $2,400,000 are for a term commencing on March 1, 2011 and ending on February 28,
2014 with the Board having the rig ht to extend the pre-qualification period and each master agreement for2
additional twelve month periods. The original agreements were awarded on a competitive basis pursuant to
Board Rule 7-2.

OPTION PERIOD:
The renewal term of this pre-qualification period is for 12 months, effective March 1, 2014 and ending
February 28, 2015.

OPTION PERIODS REMAINING:
There is one (1) option period for twelve (12) months remaining.

SCOPE OF SERVICES:

Vendors shall provide leased vehicles and the maintenance and repairs for these vehicles to support
various Board Departments and services, including food services; safety and security; warehouse and
distribution services; and city-wide facility maintenance services. The categories of vehicles that may be
leased include, but are not limited to, sedans, SUVs, vans and box trucks.

COMPENSATION:
The vendors shall be paid as specified in their respective agreements; the sum of payments to all
pre-qualified vendors for the renewal term shall not exceed $600,000 in the aggregate.

USE OF POOL:

The Department of Transportation is authorized to lease vehicles from the pre-qualified pool as follows:
The Board will bid out the fleet vehicle(s) to be leased to the pre-quali?ed vendors. The vendors will
respond with pricing and maintenance plans for the vehicle(s) and an award will be made based upon the
submitted proposal.

AUTHORIZATION:

Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant terms and conditions in the written renewal
agreements. Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the renewal agreements. Authorize Chief
Operating Officer to execute all ancillary documents required to administer or effectuate the renewal
agreements.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION:

The MNVBE goals for this agreement are 35% total MBE and 5% total WBE participation. Pursuant to the
Remedial Program for Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise Participation in Goods and
Services Contracts, the Per Contract method for MNVBE participation will be utilized. Thus, contracts for
subsequent vendors from the pool created by this agreement will be subject to aggregated compliance
reviews and monitored on a basis.

LSC REVIEW:
Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL:

Multiple Funds, Multiple Units

FY14, $600,000

Future year funding is contingent upon budget appropriation and approval.

Not Applicable

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 
the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel necessary
to conduct those investigations.

203

January 22, 2014

Conflicts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 ILCS which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of office.

Indebtedness - The Board's Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 1996 (96-0626-PO3), as amended from
time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics - The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 (11-0525-P02), as amended from time to time,
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability - The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current fiscal
year is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in the subsequent fiscal year budget(s).

Vice President Ruiz abstained on Board Report 14-0122-PR14.

14-0122-OP1

RATIFY TEMPORARY LEASE AGREEMENT WITH
LAWNDALE EDUCATIONAL AND REGIONAL NETWORK CHARTER SCHOOL, INC.

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Ratify entering into a temporary lease agreement with Lawndale Educational and Regional Network
Charter School, Inc. at 1628 W. West Washington Boulevard in Chicago, Illinois for use as
a charter school. A written lease agreement is currently being negotiated. The authority granted herein
shall automatically rescind in the event a written lease agreement is not executed within 90 days of the
date of this Board Report.

TENANT: Lawndale Educational and Regional Network Charter School, Inc.
212 South Francisco Avenue
Chicago, IL 60612
Contact: Greg White (773) 826-0370

LANDLORD: Board of Education of the City of Chicago

PREMISES: Tenant used a portion of the building located at 1628 W. West Washington Boulevard as set
forth in the lease agreement.

USE: Tenant used the Premises to operate two charter campuses, L.E.A.R.N. 7tln Campus and
L.E.A.R.N. Middle School Campus, and for no other purpose. Tenant?s amended Charter School
Agreement was authorized by Board Report 

TERM: The term of the temporary lease commenced on September 25, 2013, and ended on December
23, 2013. Tenant operated L.E.A.R.N. 7?h Campus within the Premises from October 10, 2013, through
December 23, 2013. Tenant operated L.E.A.R.N. Middle School Campus within the Premises from
September 25, 2013, through December 23, 2013.

RENT: One dollar 

OPERATING AND UTILITIES EXPENSES: Tenant procured all operating services from Landlord.
Landlord provided all operating services at Landlord?s then?current rate (which is subject to increase).
Tenant shall pay its share of all operating and utilities expenses. Landlord shall deduct such operating
and utilities expenses from Tenant?s general education quarterly payments.

MAINTENANCE, REPAIRS AND CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS: Tenant shall be responsible for all
maintenance, repairs and capital improvements to the Premises.

AUTHORIZATION: Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant terms and conditions in the
written lease agreement. Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the lease agreement.
Authorize the Chief Operating Officer to execute any and all ancillary documents related to the lease
agreement.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION: Exempt.

LSC REVIEW: Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL: Rent payable to the General Fund.

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 ILCS
the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations.

204

January 22, 2014

The Secretary called the roll, with the noted abstentions, and the vote was as follows:
Yeas: Dr. Hines, Mr. Ruiz, Ms. Zopp, Ms. Quazzo, Dr. Azcoitia, and President Vitale – 6
Nays: None
President Vitale thereupon declared Board Reports 14-0122-PR2 through 14-0122-PR14
and 14-0122-OP1, with the noted abstentions, adopted.
14-0122-EX23

205

 14-0122-EX24

January 22, 2014

REPORT ON PRINCIPAL CONTRACTS (RENEWAL)

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING:

Accept and file copies of the contracts with the principals listed below whose contracts were renewed by
the Local School Councils pursuant to the Illinois School Code and the Uniform Principal?s Performance

Contract 

DESCRIPTION: Recognize the selection by local school councils of the individuals listed below to the
position of principal subject to the Principal Eligibility Policy, and approval of any
additional criteria by the General Counsel for the purpose of determining consistency with the Uniform

Principal?s Performance Contract, Board Rules, and Law.

The Illinois Administrators Academy has veri?ed that the following principals have completed 20 hours of
Professional Development. The RENEWAL contracts commence on the date specified in the contract

and terminates on the date specified in the contract.

NAME

Zanata Abd ul-Ahad

Christopher Brake

Adell Brock

Valerie Bryant

Roger Johnson

Donald Morris

FROM

Contract Principal
Hampton

Contract Principal
Bndge

Contract Principal
Carroll?Rosenwald

Contract Principal
Irving

Contract Principal
Volta

Contract Principal
Burroughs



Contract Principal
Hampton

Network: 10

PM 117970
Commencing: July 1, 2014
Ending: June 30, 2018

Contract Principal

Bridge

Network: 1

PM 120385
Commencing: July 1,2014
Ending: June 30, 2018

Contract Principal
Carroll-Rosenwald
Network: 10

PM 121172
Commencing: July 1, 2014
Ending: June 30, 2018

Contract Principal

Irving

Network: 6

PM 139961

Commencing: April 27, 2014
Ending: April 26, 2018

Contract Principal

Volta

Network: 1

PM 116227
Commencing: July 1, 2014
Ending: June 30, 2018

Contract Principal
Burroughs

Network: 8

PM 126532
Commencing: July 1, 2014
Ending: June 30,2018

LSC REVIEW: The respective Local School Councils have executed the Uniform Principal?s Performance
Contract with the individuals named above.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION STATUS: None.

FINANCIAL: The salary of these individuals will be established in accordance with the provisions of the
Administrative Compensation Plan.

PERSONNEL IMPLICATIONS: The positions to be affected by approval of this action are contained in
the 2013-2014 school budgets.

206

January 22, 2014

14-01 22-AR1

REPORT ON BOARD REPORT RESCISSIONS

THE GENERAL COUNSEL REPORTS THE FOLLOWING:

I. Extend the rescission dates contained in the following Board Reports to March 26, 2014
because the parties remain involved in good faith negotiations which are likely to result in an
agreement and the user group(s) concurs with this extension:

1. Reaffirm Board Report 1 1-0727-OP1: Approve Entering into a Reciprocal Shared
Use Agreement and Temporary Construction License Agreement with the Chicago Park District and
to Consent to the Amendment of Planned Development#808 in Connection with the Construction and
Use of Athletic Facilities at North Grand High School and Greenbaum Park.

User Group: Real Estate

Services: License Agreement

Status: In negotiations

2. 11-0928-PR1 3: Approve Entering into an Agreement with Bluecross Blueshield of Illinois For HMO
Health Care Administration Services.

User Group: Office of Human Capital

Services: HMO Health Care Administration Services

Status: In negotiations

3. Approve Entering into an Agreement with United Healthcare Services, Inc. to
Provide HMO (Exclusive Provider Organization) Administrative Services.

User Group: Office of Human Capital

Services: HMO Health Care Administration Services?

Status: In negotiations

4. Approve the Renewal of the Charter School Agreement with Chicago Charter
School Foundation.

User Group: Portfolio Office

Services: Charter School

Status: In negotiations

5. Approve the Renewal of the Charter School Agreementwith Perspectives Charter
School.

User Group: Portfolio Office

Services: Charter School

Status: In negotiations

6. Approve Renewal of Lease Agreement with Perspectives Charter School for
Calumet School, Located at 8131 S. May.

User Group: Real Estate

Services: Lease Agreement

Status: In negotiations

7. Approve Renewal of Lease Agreement with Perspectives Charter School for
Raymond School, Located at 3663 S. Wabash Ave.

User Group: Real Estate

Services: Lease Agreement

Status: In negotiations

8. Approve Entering into an Agreement with Sedgwick Claims Management
Services, Inc. for Administrative Services for Short Term Disability (STD) Plan Services.

User Group: Office of Human Capital

Services: Administrative Services

Status: In negotiations

9. 13-0522-EX4: Approve the Establishment of the Little Black Pearl Art and Design Academy and
Entering into a School Management and Performance Agreement with Little Black Pearl Workshop,
an Illinois Not-For?Profit Corporation.

User Group: Alternative Network

Services: School Management and Performance

Status: In negotiations

10. Amend Board Report Approve the Granting of a Charter and
Entering into a Charter School Agreement with the Montessori Network, Inc., an Illinois Not For Profit
Corporation.

User Group: Office of Innovation and Incubation

Services: Charter School

Status: In negotiations

207

January 22, 2014

11. 13-0522-EX103: Amend Board Report 13-0424-EX6: Amend Board Report 12-0328-EX7:
Amend Board Report 11-1214-EX3: Amend Board Report 11-0126-EX8: Amend Board Report 10-
Amend Board Report 10-O428-EX3: Amend Board Report Amend Board
Report Amend Board Report 09-0422-EX3: Amend Board Report 
Amend Board Report Approve The Renewal of the Charter School Agreement with
Noble Network of Charter Schools.

User Group: Office of Innovation and Incubation

Services: Charter School

Status: In negotiations

12. Amend Board Report 13-0424-EX7: Amend Board Report 
Amend Board Report 12-O125-EX3: Approve the Renewal of the Charter School Agreement with
Academy of Communications and Technology Charter School/KIPP Chicago Schools

User Group: Office of Innovation and Incubation

Services: Charter School

Status: In negotiations

13. 13-0626-OP2: Approve Renewal Lease Agreement with ASPIRA Inc. of Illinois (ASPIRA Charter
School) for Haugan School, 3729 W. Leland Avenue.

User Group: Real Estate

Services Lease Agreement

Status: In negotiations

14. Approve Renewal Lease Agreement with ASPIRA Inc. of Illinois (ASPIRA Charter
School) for a Portion of Moos School at 1711 N. California Avenue

User Group: Real Estate

Services Lease Agreement

Status: In negotiations

15. 13-0626-OP4: Approve Renewal Lease Agreement with Betty Shabazz International Charter
School for a Portion of Dusable School at 4934 S. Wabash Avenue.

User Group: Real Estate

Services Lease Agreement

Status: In negotiations

16. Approve Renewal Lease Agreement with Betty Shabazz International Charter
School John School (Sizemore Academy), 6936 S. Hermitage Avenue.

User Group: Real Estate

Services: Lease Agreement

Status: In negotiations

17. 13-0626-OP6: Approve Renewal Lease Agreement with KIPP Ascend Charter School for a
Portion of Penn School, 1616 South Avers Avenue.

User Group: Real Estate

Services: Lease Agreement

Status: In negotiations

18. 13-0626-OP7: Approve Renewal Lease Agreementwith KIPP Ascend Charter School for Lathrop
Elementary School, 1440 S. Christiana Avenue

User Group: Real Estate

Services: Lease Agreement

Status: In negotiations

19. 13-0626-OP8: Approve Renewal Lease Agreement With North Lawndale College Preparatory
Charter High School for a Portion of Collins High School, 1313 8. Sacramento Drive.

User Group: Real Estate

Services: Lease Agreement

Status: In negotiations

20. Approve Renewal Lease Agreement With University of Chicago Charter School
Corporation Donoghue Campus for Donoghue School, 707 E. 37th Street

User Group: Real Estate

Services: Lease Agreement

Status: In negotiations

21. Approve Renewal Lease Agreement with University of Chicago Charter School
Corporation Woodlawn Campus for a Portion of Wadsworth Elementary School, 6420 S. University
Avenue.

User Group: Real Estate

Services: Lease Agreement

Status: In negotiations

22. 13-0626-OP11: Approve Renewal Lease Agreement with University of Chicago Charter School
Corporation Woodson Campus for a Portion of Woodson South School, 4444 S. Evans Avenue.
User Group: Real Estate

Services: Lease Agreement

Status: In negotiations

208

January 22, 2014

23. 13-0626-OP12: Approve Renewal Lease Agreementwith Young Women?s Leadership Charter
School for Senstake School, 2641 S. Calumet Avenue.

User Group: Real Estate

Services: Lease Agreement

Status: In negotiations

24. 13-0626-OP13: Approve New Lease Agreement with Frazier Preparatory Charter High School
for a Portion of Frazier Academy, 4027 W. Grenshaw Street.

User Group: Real Estate

Services: Lease Agreement

Status: In negotiations

25. 4: Ratify New Lease Agreement with Union Park High Schools, Inc. fora Portion of
Crane High School, 2245 W. Jackson Boulevard.

User Group: Real Estate

Services: Lease Agreement

Status: In negotiations

26. 13-0626-PR10: Approve Entering into an Agreement with AVID National Centerfor Membership
Fees, Professional Development, and Classroom Curriculum Libraries.

Services: Professional Development

User Group: Academic Learning and Support

Status: In negotiations

27. 5: Approve Entering into Agreements with Various Vendors for Supplemental Social
Emotional Learning Services.

Services: Social Emotional Learning Services

User Group: Office of Pathways to College and Careers

Status: 14 of 23 fully executed, the remainder are in negotiations

28. Approve Entering into an Agreement with National Training Network for
Professional Development Services in Mathematics.

Services: Professional Development

User Group: Portfolio Office

Status: In negotiations

29. Approve Exercising the First Option to Renew the Agreement with Caremark
PCS Health LLC for Consulting, Pharmacy Benefits and Management, and other Services.
Services: Pharmacy Benefits and Management

User Group: Office of Human Capital

Status: In negotiations

30. 13-0724-EX4: Amend Board Report 13-0123-EX3: Amend Board Report 12-0822-EX5: Amend
Board Report Amend Board Report Approve the Renewal of the
Charter School Agreement with Youth Connection Charter School.

Services: Charter School

User Group: Office of Innovation and Incubation

Status: In negotiations

31. Approve Exercising The Second Option and Amending to Add a Third Option to
Renew the Agreement with ACT, Inc. for The Purchase of Test Materials and Related Services.
Services: Purchase of Test Materials

User Group: Assessment

Status: In negotiations

32. Amend Board Report Amend Board Report 12-0725-PR10:
Amend Board Report Amend Board Report 11-O824-PR18: Approve Exercising the
Option to Renew the Agreements and Extend Renewal Agreements with Various Vendors for the
Purchase of Specialized Equipment, Testing Materials, Maintenance, Training and Warranty Services.
Services: Purchase of Specialized Equipment

User Group: Diverse Leaner Supports Services

Status: 13 of 14 fully executed, the remainder remain in negotiations

33. Approve Exercising the First Option to Renew and Amend the Agreement with
Benefits Express Services, for Flexible Spending Account Services.

Services: Flexible Spending Account Services

User Group: Office of Human Capital

Status: In negotiations

34. Authorize First Renewal Agreementwith Jacobs Project Management Company
for Project Director Services.

Services: Project Director Services

User Group: Facility Operations Maintenance

Status: In negotiations

209

January 22, 2014

President Vitale thereupon declared Board Reports 14-0122-EX23, 14-0122-EX24, and
14-0122-AR1 accepted.
President Vitale proceeded to entertain a Motion to go into Closed Session.
Board Member Dr. Hines presented the following Motion:
14-0122-MO1

210

 January 22, 2014

Vice President Ruiz moved to adopt Motion 14-0122-MO1.
The Secretary called the roll and the vote was as follows:
Yeas: Dr. Hines, Mr. Ruiz, Ms. Zopp, Ms. Quazzo, Dr. Azcoitia, and President Vitale – 6
Nays: None
President Vitale thereupon declared Motion 14-0122-MO1 adopted.
CLOSED SESSION
RECORD OF CLOSED SESSION
The following is a record of the Board's Closed Session:
(1)

The Closed Meeting was held on January 22, 2014, beginning at 3:35 p.m. at the Central
th
Service Center, 125 South Clark Street, and President’s Conference Room 6 Floor, and
Chicago Illinois 60603.

(2)

PRESENT: Dr. Hines, Mr. Ruiz, Ms. Zopp, Ms. Quazzo, Dr. Azcoitia, and President Vitale –
6

(3)

ABSENT: Dr. Bienen - 1
A.
B.
C.
D.
E.
F.
G.
H.
I.

Other Reports
Warning Resolutions
Terminations
Personnel
Collective Bargaining
Real Estate
Security
Closed Session Minutes
Individual Student Matters

No votes were taken in Closed Session.
After Closed Session the Board reconvened.
Members present after Closed Session: Dr. Hines, Mr. Ruiz, Ms. Quazzo, Dr. Azcoitia, and
President Vitale – 5
Members absent after Closed Session: Dr. Bienen and Ms. Zopp - 2
President Vitale thereupon proceeded with the Agenda Items.
14-0122-AR2

211

 January 22, 2014

DESCRIPTION: In accordance with the provisions of the Workers? Compensation Act, the General
COunsel has determined that this settlement is in the Board?s best interests.

LSC REVIEW: Local school council approval is not applicable to this report.
AFFIRMATIVE ACTION STATUS: Not applicable.

FINANCIAL: Charge to Workers? Compensation Fund - General Fixed Charges Account #12470-210?
57605-119004?000000 FY 2014 $175,000.00

PERSONNEL IMPLICATIONS: None

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 ILCS
the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain

investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations.

Conflicts The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 ILCS which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to, former
Board member during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of of?ce.

Indebtedness The Board's Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26,1996 as amended
from time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics The Board?s Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 (11-0525-P02), as amended from time to time,
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current

fiscal year is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in the subsequent fiscal year
budget(s).

14-0122-AR3

COMPENSATION - PAYMENT FOR LUMP SUM SETTLEMENT FOR
MARIA TINOCO - CASE NO. 09 WC 10445

THE GENERAL COUNSEL REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Authorized settlement of the Workers? Compensation claim of Maria Tinoco, Case No. 09 WC 10445 and
subject to the approval of the Illinois Workers? Compensation Commission, in the amount of $260,000.00.

DESCRIPTION: In accordance with the provisions of the Workers? Compensation Act, the General
Counsel has determined that this settlement is in the Board?s best interests.

LSC REVIEW: Local school council approval is not applicable to this report.
AFFIRMATIVE ACTION STATUS: Not applicable.

FINANCIAL: Charge to Workers? Compensation Fund - General Fixed Charges Account #12470?210?
57605?119004?000000 FY 2014 $260,000.00

PERSONNEL IMPLICATIONS: None

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 ILCS
the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations.

Conflicts The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 ILCS which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to, former
Board member during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of office.

Indebtedness The Board?s Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26,1996 as amended
from time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics The Board?s Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 as amended from time to time,
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current

fiscal year is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in the subsequent fiscal year
budget(s).

212

January 22, 2014
The Secretary called the roll and the vote was as follows:
Yeas: Dr. Hines, Mr. Ruiz, Ms. Quazzo, Dr. Azcoitia, and President Vitale – 5
Nays: None
President Vitale thereupon declared Board Reports 14-0122-AR2 and 14-0122-AR3
adopted.
14-0122-EX25

14-0122-EX26

213

 January 22, 2014

President Vitale indicated that if there were no objections, Board Reports 14-0122-EX25
and 14-0122-EX26 would be adopted by the last favorable roll call vote, all members present
voting therefore.
President Vitale thereupon declared Board Reports 14-0122-EX25 and 14-0122-EX26
adopted.
14-0122-RS5

The Secretary presented the following Statement for the Public Record:
This Resolution accepts in part and rejects in part the hearing officer’s findings and
conclusions and accepts recommendation.

214

 January 22, 2014

14-0122-R36

RESOLUTION APPROVING CHIEF EXECUTIVE RECOMMENDATION
TO DISMISS EDUCATIONAL SUPPORT PERSONNEL

WHEREAS, on January 10, 2014 the Chief Executive Officer-submitted a written recommendation, includ-
ing the reasons for the recommendation, to the Board to dismiss the following educational support per-
sonnel pursuant to Board Policy 04-0728-PO1:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Name School Effective Date
Ronnell Bryant City Wide Food Services January 22, 2014
Timothy Daniels O?Keeffe Elementary School January 22, 2014
Manuel Flores Lane Tech High School January 22, 2014
Horace Flournoy Sherman Elementary School January 22, 2014
Yvonne Treadwell VOISE Academy High School January 22, 2014
Williams Faraday Elementary School January 22, 2014

 

WHEREAS, the Chief Executive Of?cer followed the procedures established by her prior to making the
recommendation;

WHEREAS, the Board has reviewed the reasons for the Chief Executive Officer?s recommendation;

WHEREAS, the Chief Executive Officer or her designee has previously notified the affected educational
support personnel of their pending dismissal;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED:

1. That pursuant to Board Policy the above?referenced educational support personnel are
dismissed from Board employment effective on the date set opposite their names. 

2. The Board hereby approves all actions taken by the Chief Executive Officer or her designee to effec-
tuate the dismissal of the above?named educational support personnel.

3. The Chief Executive Of?cer or her designee shall notify the above-named educational support per-
sonnel of their dismissal.

14-0122-RS7

RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING THE HONORABLE TERMINATION
OF REGULARLY CERTIFIED AND APPOINTED TEACHERS

WHEREAS, the Chicago Board of Education (?Board") has the power under Sections 34-8.1,
34?16 and 34-84 of the Illinois School Code (105 ILCS 5/34-1, et. seq.) to lay off employees; and

WHEREAS, the Board has the power under Section 34-18(31) of the Illinois School Code to
promulgate rules establishing procedures governing the layoff or reduction in force of employees; and

WHEREAS, the Board has the power under Section 34-19 of the Illinois School Code to delegate
to the Chief Executive Officer the authorities granted to the Board provided that such delegation
and appropriate oversight procedures are made pursuant to Board by-laws, rules, regulations, adopted
pursuant to Section 34-19 of the Illinois School Code; and

WHEREAS, the Board, pursuant to the above articulated powers, promulgated its Policy
Regarding Reassignment and Layoff of Regularly Appointed and Certified Teachers ("Reassignment
Policy") on July 23, 1997 and amended from time to time thereafter, and which is incorporated into
collective bargaining agreements; and

WHEREAS, the Board has delegated its power to layoff tenured teachers in accordance with the
Reassignment Policy to the CEO under Board Rules 2-13, and 4-1 and 4.6; and

WHEREAS, the Reassignment Policy provides that teachers honorably terminated under its
provisions, who are rehired in a permanent teaching position within two school years after their honorable
termination, shall have their tenure and prior seniority restored as of the date of rehire; and

WHEREAS, the employee(s) identified on Attachment A were removed from the attendance
center to which they were assigned pursuant to Section 2 of the Reassignment Policy, and the Chief
Executive Officer directed that each employee receive a notice of removal and each employee did receive
said notice; and

WHEREAS, all of the identified employees failed to secure a permanent appointment within at
least 10 school months after they received their notice of removal and the Chief Executive Officer directed
that each of the identified employees receive at least 14 days? notice that they would be honorably
terminated from service and each employee has received said notice.

215

January 22, 2014

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT HEREBY RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO BOARD OF
EDUCATION as follows:

That the employee(s) listed on Attachment A are honorably terminated from service effective on
the date of honorable termination indicated on Attachment A, pursuant to the Board's
Reassignment Policy.

That those employee(s) listed on Attachment A, who were tenured at the time of their honorable
termination, shall have their tenure and full seniority restored without further formal Board action,

if they are rehired by the Board to a permanent teaching position within two (2) years of the date
of their honorable termination.

That this Resolution shall be effective upon adoption, and shall replace all prior resolutions or other Board
actions that are in conflict herewith.

ATTACHMENT A

REASSIGNED SCHEDULED FOR HONORABLE TERMINATION

216

First Name Last Name Termination Date
Linda Abdullah January 25, 2014
Aredia Adeleke January 25, 2014
Luisa Ali January 25, 2014
Doreen Alyinvoch January 25, 2014
Brian Arceneaux January 25, 2014
Denise Archbold January 25, 2014
Anita Archibald January 25, 2014
Leslie Archibald January 25, 2014
Lois Ashford January 25, 2014
Darren Barlow January 25, 2014
Peter Bartels January 25, 2014
Lowery Boatwright January 25, 2014
Pamela Bonds January 25, 2014
Annette Bonds January 25, 2014
Faquitta Bonner January 25, 2014
Venus Bowden January 25, 2014
Lynda Bradford January 25, 2014
Earl Brakes January 25, 2014
Laverne Browne January 25, 2014
Wallace Bryant January 25, 2014
Erma Cannon January 25, 2014
Lourdes Castro January 25, 2014
Pamela Castro January 25, 2014
Christopher Chandler January 25, 2014
Claudette Collins January 25, 2014
Leah Cooper January 25, 2014
Anthony Cordero January 25, 2014
Marsha Craig January 25, 2014
Sandra Crowther January 25, 2014
Bruce Cuscaden January 25, 2014
Dawn Dawson January 25, 2014
Christine Decatus January 25, 2014
Marie Deenik January 25, 2014
Alida Diaz January 25, 2014
Hirut Ejigu January 25, 2014
Tanya Ellis January 25, 2014
John Evans January 25, 2014
Dwayne Ezell January 25, 2014
Patricia Fallon January 25, 2014
Laurie Farmer January 25, 2014
Nancy Farrell January 25, 2014
Dana Ford January 25, 2014

Linette
Florence
Sheronda
Taurus
Kenneth
Jessica
Michael
Irma
Darlene
Vera
Susan
Joseph
Gwendolyn
Edmond
Anjinea
Denise
Don
Rochelle
Milka
Sandra
Theresa
Anjail
Linda
Ewa
Tony
Shanalin
Robin
Kimberly
Robert
Susan
Annyce
Dennis
Sandra
Dwayne
Margaret
Rose
Debra
Ronnie
Rochelle
Brian
Karina
Josefina
Veronica
Paul
Janet

Charles
Gloria
Rosalyn
Mylinda
Wilfred
Elva
James
Sherita
Laura
Albertina
Rozlyn

Sandra
Sheila

Foreman
Gage
German-Edwards
Gilmore
Goldberg
Guzlas
Hamill
Harbin
Harrington
Harris
Hemeren
Herrmann
Holmes
Holmes
Hopson
Howard
Huddleston
Ingram
Jevremovic
Johns
Jones
Kenyatta
Killingworth
Krason
Lee
Leo-Bain
Long
Maman
Marshall
McDonald
Mitchell
Mitchell
Monroe
Moore
Noak
Oatis
Pedersen
Porter
Porter
Reykjalin
Rice
Rodriguez
Romanowski
Rosencrans
Sandifer

Saporito
Seymour

Shaw

Shepard
Simmons
Smith
Smith
Smith?Toledo
Sokolow
Spratley
Taylor
Taylor
Taylor

217

January 25, 2014
January 25, 2014
January 25,2014
January 25,2014
January 25, 2014
January 25, 2014
January 25, 2014
January 25, 2014
January 25, 2014
January 25, 2014
January 25, 2014
January 25, 2014
January 25, 2014
January 25, 2014
January 25, 2014
January 25, 2014
January 25, 2014
January 25, 2014
January 25, 2014
January 25, 2014
January 25, 2014
January 25, 2014
January 25, 2014
January 25, 2014
January 25, 2014
January 25, 2014
January 25, 2014
January 25, 2014
January 25, 2014
January 25, 2014
January 25, 2014
January 25, 2014
January 25, 2014
January 25, 2014
January 25, 2014
January 25, 2014
January 25, 2014
January 25, 2014
January 25, 2014
January 25, 2014
January 25, 2014
January 25, 2014
January 25, 2014
January 25, 2014
January 25, 2014

January 25, 2014
January 25, 2014

January 25, 2014
January 25, 2014
January 25, 2014
January 25, 2014
January 25, 2014
January 25, 2014
January 25, 2014
January 25, 2014
January 25, 2014

January 25, 2014
January 25, 2014

January 22, 2014

January 22, 2014

President Vitale indicated that if there were no objections, Board Reports 14-0122-RS5
through 14-0122-RS7 would be adopted by the last favorable roll call vote, all members present
voting therefore.
President Vitale thereupon declared Board Reports 14-0122-RS5 through 14-0122-RS7
adopted.
Board Member Dr. Azcoitia presented the following Motion:
14-0122-MO2

Board Member Dr. Hines moved to adopt Motion 14-0122-MO2.
The Secretary called the roll and the vote was as follows:
Yeas: Dr. Hines, Mr. Ruiz, Ms. Quazzo, Dr. Azcoitia, and President Vitale – 5
Nays: None
President Vitale thereupon declared Motion 14-0122-MO2 adopted.
Board Member Ms. Quazzo presented the following Motion:

218

 January 22, 2014
14-0122-MO3

Vice President Ruiz moved to adopt Motion 14-0122-MO3.
The Secretary called the roll and the vote was as follows:
Yeas: Dr. Hines, Mr. Ruiz, Ms. Quazzo, Dr. Azcoitia, and President Vitale – 5
Nays: None
President Vitale thereupon declared Motion 14-0122-MO3 adopted.
Board Member Dr. Hines presented the following Motion:
14-0122-MO4

Vice President Ruiz moved to adopt Motion 14-0122-MO4.
The Secretary called the roll and the vote was as follows:
Yeas: Dr. Hines, Mr. Ruiz, Ms. Quazzo, Dr. Azcoitia, and President Vitale – 5
Nays: None

219

 January 22, 2014
President Vitale thereupon declared Motion 14-0122-MO4 adopted.
Vice President Ruiz presented the following Motion:
14-0122-MO5

Board Member Dr. Hines moved to adopt Motion 14-0122-MO5.
The Secretary called the roll and the vote was as follows:
Yeas: Dr. Hines, Mr. Ruiz, Ms. Quazzo, Dr. Azcoitia, and President Vitale – 5
Nays: None
President Vitale thereupon declared Motion 14-0122-MO5 adopted.
Board Member Ms. Quazzo presented the following Motion:
14-0122-MO6

Vice President Ruiz moved to adopt Motion 14-0122-MO6.
The Secretary called the roll and the vote was as follows:
Yeas: Dr. Hines, Mr. Ruiz, Ms. Quazzo, Dr. Azcoitia, and President Vitale – 5
220

 January 22, 2014
Nays: None
President Vitale thereupon declared Motion 14-0122-MO6 adopted.
OMNIBUS
At the Regular Board Meeting of January 22, 2014 the foregoing motions, reports and
other actions set forth from number 14-0122-MO1 through 14-0122-MO6 except as otherwise
indicated, were adopted as the recommendations or decisions of the Chief Executive Officer and
General Counsel.
Vice President Ruiz abstained on Board Reports 14-0122-PR10, 14-0122-PR12,
14-0122-PR13, and 14-0122-PR14.
Board Member Dr. Hines abstained on Board Report 14-0122-EX7.
Board Member Ms. Quazzo abstained on Board Report 14-0122-EX7.

ADJOURNMENT
President Vitale moved to adjourn the meeting, and it was so ordered by a voice vote, all
members present voting therefore.
President Vitale thereupon declared the Board Meeting adjourned.
I, Estela G. Beltran, Secretary of the Board of Education and Keeper of the records thereof,
do hereby certify that the foregoing is a true and correct record of certain proceedings of said
Board of Education of the City of Chicago at its Regular Board Meeting of January 22, 2014 held at
the Central Service Center 125 South Clark Street, Board Chamber, Chicago, Illinois, 60603.

Estela G. Beltran
Secretary

221

 January 22, 2014

INDEX
AR – REPORTS FROM THE GENERAL COUNSEL
14-0122-AR1 Report on Board Report Rescissions ................................................................ 207 - 210
14-0122-AR2

Workers’ Compensation – Payment for Lump Sum Settlement for David
Brewer – Case No. 10 WC 3700 ............................................................................ 211, 212

14-0122-AR3

Workers’ Compensation – Payment for Lump Sum Settlement for Maria
Tinoco – Case No. 09 WC 10445 ................................................................................... 212

CO – COMMUNICATION
14-0122-CO1 Communication Re: Location of Board Meeting of February 26, 2014 125 S. Clark Street (Board Chamber) ............................................................................. 10
EX – REPORTS FROM THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
14-0122-EX1 Transfer of Funds*
*[Note: The complete document will be on File in the Office of the Board] ...... 11 - 13
14-0122-EX2

Approve the Chicago Public Schools' NCLB District Improvement Plan for
the 2013-2014 and 2014-2015 School Years ......................................................... 14 - 119

14-0122-EX3

Approve Application for a Modification of ISBE Rule ................................................ 120

14-0122-EX4

Approve Updates to the 2012-2014 Continuous Improvement Work Plans
and Related Budgets for Schools on Probation and for Schools with School
Improvement Status ............................................................................................. 120 - 129

14-0122-EX5

Approve Restructuring Plans for Schools Classified as in Need of
Restructuring Under the No Child Left Behind Act (NCLB) ............................. 129 - 132

14-0122-EX6

Amend Board Report 13-0424-EX10 Amend Board Report 12-0822-EX3 Amend
Board Report 12-0328-EX8 Amend Board Report 11-1214-EX5 Amend Board
Report 11-0323-EX9 Approve the Renewal of the Charter School Agreement
with Lawndale Educational and Regional Network (L.E.A.R.N.) Charter
School, Inc. ............................................................................................................ 132 - 136

14-0122-EX7

Amend Board Report 13-0522-EX104 Amend Board Report 13-0424-EX7 Amend
Board Report 12-0328-EX9 Amend Board Report 12-0125-EX3 Approve the
Renewal of the Charter School Agreement with Academy of Communications
and Technology Charter School/KIPP Chicago Schools .................................. 136 - 140

14-0122-EX8

Amend Board Report 13-0522-EX103 Amend Board Report 13-0424-EX6 Amend
Board Report 12-0328-EX7 Amend Board Report 11-1214-EX3 Amend Board
Report 11-0126-EX8 Amend Board Report 10-0922-EX3 Amend Board Report
10-0428-EX3 Amend Board Report 09-1123-EX9 Amend Board Report 09-0826-EX10
Amend Board Report 09-0422-EX3 Amend Board Report 09-0325-EX14 Amend
Board Report 08-1217-EX7 Approve the Renewal of the Charter School
Agreement with Noble Network of Charter Schools
Action 1: Increase the at capacity enrollment for the Noble Street Charter School –
Gary Comer College Prep Campus – Adopted
Action 2: Establish the Noble Street Charter School – ITW David Speer Academy
Campus as a New High School Campus to Open in the Fall of 2014 – Adopted
Action 3: Establish the Noble Street Charter School – Exeter Academy Campus
as a New High School Campus to Open in the Fall 2014 – Adopted ............... 140 - 147

14-0122-EX9

Consideration of a Proposal for Charter and Charter School Agreement Submitted
by Be the Change Charter School, an Illinois Not-For-Profit Corporation ..... 148, 149
i

 January 22, 2014
EX – REPORTS FROM THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER (Cont.)
14-0122-EX10 Consideration of a Proposal for Charter and Charter School Agreement
Submitted by Chicago Education Partnership, an Illinois Not-For-Profit
Corporation............................................................................................................ 149 - 151
14-0122-EX11 Consideration of a Proposal for Charter and Charter School Agreement
Submitted by Concept Schools, an Illinois Not-For-Profit Corporation
(Horizon Science Academy – Chatham Charter School) ................................... 151, 152
14-0122-EX12 Consideration of a Proposal for Charter and Charter School Agreement
Submitted by Concept Schools, an Illinois Not-For-Profit Corporation
(Horizon Science Academy – Chicago Lawn Charter School) .......................... 153, 154
14-0122-EX13 Consideration of a Proposal for Charter and Charter School Agreement
Submitted by Connected Futures Academies, an Illinois Not-For-Profit
Corporation............................................................................................................. 154, 155
14-0122-EX14 Consideration of a Proposal for Charter and Charter School Agreement
Submitted by Curtis Sharif STEM Academy (Curtis Sharif STEM Academy
Charter School 1) ................................................................................................... 156, 157
14-0122-EX15 Consideration of a Proposal for Charter and Charter School Agreement
Submitted by Curtis Sharif STEM Academy (Curtis Sharif STEM Academy
Charter School 2) ................................................................................................... 157, 158
14-0122-EX16 Consideration of a Proposal for Charter and Charter School Agreement
Submitted by Curtis Sharif STEM Academy (Curtis Sharif STEM Academy
Charter School 3) ................................................................................................... 158, 159
14-0122-EX17 Consideration of a Proposal for Charter and Charter School Agreement
Submitted by Curtis Sharif STEM Academy (Curtis Sharif STEM Academy
Charter School 4) ................................................................................................... 160, 161
14-0122-EX18 Consideration of a Proposal for Charter and Charter School Agreement
Submitted by Great Lakes Academy, Inc., an Illinois Not-For-Profit
Corporation............................................................................................................. 161, 162
14-0122-EX19 Consideration of a Proposal for Charter and Charter School Agreement
Submitted by Intrinsic Schools, an Illinois Not-For-Profit Corporation
(Intrinsic Charter School 2) ................................................................................... 163, 164
14-0122-EX20 Consideration of a Proposal for Charter and Charter School Agreement
Submitted by Intrinsic Schools, an Illinois Not-For-Profit Corporation
(Intrinsic Charter School 3) ................................................................................... 164, 165
14-0122-EX21 Consideration of a Proposal for Charter and Charter School Agreement
Submitted by Intrinsic Schools, an Illinois Not-For-Profit Corporation
(Intrinsic Charter School 4) ................................................................................... 166, 167
14-0122-EX22 Consideration of a Proposal for Charter and Charter School Agreement
Submitted by Intrinsic Schools, an Illinois Not-For-Profit Corporation
(Intrinsic Charter School 5) ................................................................................... 167, 168
14-0122-EX23 Report on Principal Contracts (New) ........................................................................... 205
14-0122-EX24 Report on Principal Contracts (Renewals).................................................................. 206
14-0122-EX25 Warning Resolution – Amy Arter, Tenured Teacher, Assigned to Albert G. Lane
Technical High School .................................................................................................. 213

ii

 January 22, 2014
EX – REPORTS FROM THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER (Cont.)
14-0122-EX26 Adopt Finding that Pupil is a Non-Resident of the City of Chicago Indebted to the
Chicago Public Schools for Non-Resident Tuition ............................................ 213, 214
MO – MOTIONS
14-0122-MO1 Motion to Hold a Closed Session ........................................................................ 210, 211
14-0122-MO2

Motion Re: Maintain as Confidential Redacted Portions of Closed Session
Minutes for the Period Beginning July 1995 Through December 2011 .................... 218

14-0122-MO3

Motion Re: Open for Public Inspection all Closed Session Minutes for the
Period Beginning January 2012 Through June 2012 ................................................. 219

14-0122-MO4

Motion Re: Adopt Closed Session Minutes from December 18, 2013 and
Maintain as Confidential Closed Session Minutes from July 2012 Through
December 2013 ............................................................................................................... 219

14-0122-MO5

Motion Re: Authorize Destruction of Closed Session Audio Recordings for the
Period Beginning January 2012 Through June 2012 ................................................. 220

14-0122-MO6

Motion Re: Approval of Record of Proceedings of Meeting Open to the Public
(December 18, 2013) ...................................................................................................... 220

OP – REPORTS FROM THE CHIEF ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER
14-0122-OP1 Ratify Temporary Lease Agreement with Lawndale Educational and Regional
Network Charter School, Inc. ................................................................................ 204, 205
PO – POLICY
14-0122-PO1 Rescind Board Report 07-0627-PO2 and Adopt a New Physical Education
Policy............................................................................................................................ 7 - 10
PR – REPORTS FROM THE CHIEF PROCUREMENT OFFICER
14-0122-PR1 Authorize New Agreements with Seven Vendors for the Purchase of
Specialized Educational Equipment and Accessories ..................................... 168 - 171
14-0122-PR2

Authorize New Agreements with Various Vendors for the Purchase of
Specialized Adapted Equipment, Testing Materials, Maintenance, Training
and Warranty Services ......................................................................................... 172 - 175

14-0122-PR3

Amend Board Report 13-0626-PR17 Approve Entering Into an Agreement
with Various Vendors for Safe Haven Sites and Services ................................. 176, 177

14-0122-PR4

Authorize First Renewal and Extension of Agreement with National Training
Network for School Professional Development Services in Mathematics ...... 178, 179

14-0122-PR5

Authorize First Renewal Agreements with Clampett Industries, LLC DBA EMG
and Jacobs Project Management Company (JPMCO) to Provide Biennial
Facility Assessment Services .............................................................................. 180, 181

14-0122-PR6

Authorize First Renewal of Pre-Qualification Status and Agreements with
Amer-I-Can Enterprise II, Inc and Prologue W.E.B. Dubois Academy for
Auditorium Restoration Student Employment Program ................................... 181 - 183

14-0122-PR7

Authorize Second Renewal Agreement with Hill Mechanical Operations, Inc.
for Building Engineering Services ....................................................................... 183 -185

14-0122-PR8

Authorize Second Renewal Agreement with Three Vendors to Provide
Integrated Pest Management Services ................................................................ 185, 186

14-0122-PR9

Authorize New Agreement(s) with Suppliers for Natural Gas Supply
Services .................................................................................................................. 187, 188
iii

 January 22, 2014
PR – REPORTS FROM THE CHIEF PROCUREMENT OFFICER (Cont.)
14-0122-PR10 Authorize the Pre-Qualification Status of and New Agreements with Six
Contractors to Provide Emergency Facility Restoration Services .................. 188 - 190
14-0122-PR11 Report on the Award of Construction Contracts and Changes to Construction
Contracts for the Board of Education's Capital Improvement Program ......... 190 - 197
14-0122-PR12 Authorize First Renewal Agreement with Mesirow Insurance Services, Inc.
to Provide Insurance Broker and Consulting Services .................................... 198 - 200
14-0122-PR13 Authorize Second Renewal and Extension of Agreements with Nine Consultants
to Provide Field Services for Technology Special Projects ............................. 200 - 202
14-0122-PR14 Authorize First Renewal of Pre-Qualification Status and Agreements with
Enterprise FM Trust and Ryder Truck Rental, Inc. to Provide Leased
Vehicles.................................................................................................................. 202 - 204
RS – RESOLUTIONS
14-0122-RS1 Resolution Providing for the Allocation of 2013 Tax Collections to Debt Service
Funds ............................................................................................................................. 1 - 3
14-0122-RS2

Resolution Regarding Transfer of Interest and Investment Earnings Earned in
Calendar Year 2013 from Trusteed Debt Service Funds to Educational Fund ........ 4, 5

14-0122-RS3

2014 Annual Resolution Designating Certain Positions as "Special Needs"
Positions Pursuant to the Chicago Board of Education's Residency Policy .......... 5, 6

14-0122-RS4

Approve the Mid-Term Appointment of Members to Local School Councils
to Fill Vacancies ............................................................................................................. 6, 7

RS – RESOLUTIONS FROM THE BOARD OF EDUCATION
14-0122-RS5 Resolution by the Board of Education of the City of Chicago Regarding the
Dismissal of Derrick Jones, Tenured Teacher, Assigned to Percy L. Julian
High School .................................................................................................................... 214
14-0122-RS6

Resolution Approving Chief Executive Officer’s Recommendation to Dismiss
Educational Support Personnel ................................................................................... 215

14-0122-RS7

Resolution Authorizing the Honorable Termination of Regularly Certified and
Appointed Teachers ............................................................................................. 215 - 218

iv

 