 

Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Minutes of the Finance Committee

11:30 AM
Thursday, March 1, 2018 Cook County Building, Board Room,
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois
ATTENDANCE
Present Chairman Daley, Vice Chairman Sims, Commissioners Arroyo, Boykin, Deer, Fritchey, Gainer,

Goslin, Moody, Moore, Morrison, Schneider, Silvestri, Suffredin and Tobolski (15)
Absent Commissioner Butler and Garcia (2)

Also Present: Joshua Myers - National tax expert/lead researcher of CCA Report
Brian Fabes - CCA CEO

Rasmus Lynnerup Principal Civic Consulting Alliance
Thomas aconetty - Deputy Assessor of Valuations and Appeals

PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Chairman Daley asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public speakers, in accordance
with Cook County Code.

See attachment

18-1604
Sponsored by: JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI, LUIS ARROYO JR, EDWARD M. MOODY, RICHARD R.
BOYKIN, DEBORAH SIMS, JOHN A. FRITCHEY, DENNIS DEER and STANLEY MOORE, Cook
County Board of Commissioners

PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
PROPERTY TAX INCENTIVE - PREVAILING WAGE REQUIREMENT

BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 74 TAXATION,
Section 74?71 of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as follows:

Sec. 74-71. - Laws regulating the payment of wages.

Living wage requirement.

(1) Unless expressly waived by the County Board, any Employer occupying a property that receives
a property tax incentive for Class 6b industrial property, Class 8 industrial property, or Class 9
multifamily residential property shall pay not less than the Living Wage, as de?ned in the Cook
County Procurement Code (Cook County, 111., Code, Ch. 34, Art. 1V, Div. 1 34-121), to each
of its onsite Employees, unless such Employees? Wages are governed by Federal or State
prevailing wage law. For purpose of this Section, the term "Employee" shall mean an Employee
who performs duties or services for an Employer on average at least 30 hours per week in any
two-week period for which the Employee is paid; "hours per week" shall mean hours for which
an Employee is paid or entitled to payment by the Employer for a period oftime during which no
duties are performed by the Employee due to vacation, holiday, illness, incapacity, jury duty,
military duty or approved leave of absence.

(2) On and after July 1, 2020, the owner of any property that receives a property tax incentive shall
notify all Employers who occupy such preperty as lessees of the requirements of this Section.
Upon commencement of a lease, on or after July 1, 2020, of a property that receives a property
tax incentive, any new lessee shall be required to submit to the municipality or the Cook County
Board, as the case may be, an af?davit stating that such lessee is paying a Living Wage to its
Employees in compliance with this Section. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the
requirements of this Section shall not apply to an Employer who was a lessee and not an
owner?occupant of a property that receives a property tax incentive prior to July 1, 2020.

(3) This Section shall not apply to Employers that are not?for-pro?t organizations or funded by
Federal grants or Federal loans or Employers who are lessees but are not owners of a property
that receives a property tax incentive prior to adoption of this amended Ordinance. Further, this
Section shall not apply to Employers who can demonstrate to the County Board that compliance
with the requirements of this Section would cause such Employer to be in violation of the terms
of a collective bargaining agreement between the Employer and a labor union.

(4) Every Employer required to pay the Living Wage shall notify its Employees of the Living Wage
requirements and shall notify all of its Employees annually of any adjustment to the Living Wage.
In addition, the Employer shall notify its Employees that if any Employee contends that the
Employer is not paying a Living Wage or has otherwise violated this section, that Employee may
?le a complaint with the Cook County Commissioner on Human Rights ("Commission"). The
Commissioner shall investigate alleged violations of the Living Wage Ordinance and is authorized
to adopt regulations for the proper administration and enforcement of its provisions. If at the
conclusion of the Commission's investigation, the Commission ?nds that the Employer has
violated this section, it shall in the case of an Employer receiving a prOperty tax incentive,
notify the Assessor; or (ii) in the case of a Contractor or a subcontractor required to pay the
Living Wage, notify the CPO, who shall exercise such remedies as are in the best interest of the

County, including ordering the Employer to pay back pay and penalties, as provided in this
section.

(5) If an Employer is found to be in violation ofthis section, such Employer may be required to pay
back pay to each affected Employee, and may also be ?ned by the County up to $100.00 for
each affected Employee for each day paid at less than the Living Wage. Such penalties will not

Page 2 of 13

be imposed on any Person except after a hearing (Cook County, 111., Code, Ch. 2, Art. 1X).
Further, if an Employer is found to be in violation of this section, the property tax incentive for
this property is subject to revocation.

(6) If an Employer is found to have retaliated against an affected Employee, the Employer?s prOperty

tax incentive may be terminated unless such Employer appropriately reinstates or compensates
such Employee.

(7) For the purposes ofthis Section:

Property tax incentive means a reduction in the assessment level as set forth in Division 2 of this
Article for Class 6b industrial property, Class 8 industrial property, or Class 9 multifamily residential
property. "Property tax incentive? shall not include a Class 9 designation granted to supportive living
facilities, which establish an alternative to nursing home care for low income older persons and persons
with disabilities under Medicaid and which are certi?ed by the State Department of Public Aid pursuant to
Division 2 ofthis Article; and

Sales tax means the Retailer?s Occupation Tax, the Service Occupation Tax and/or the Use Tax.

(8) Living Wage Af?davit. Every municipality or the Cook County Board that provides a Resolution
or Ordinance or authorized of?cer letter, as the case may be, to an applicant for a Class 6b
industrial property or a Class 8 industrial property tax incentive shall maintain in its ?les and
records documentation that such municipality or the County Board received and ?led the Living
Wage Af?davit submitted by the owner or lessee of such property stating that such owner or
lessee is paying a Living Wage to its Employees in compliance with this Section. Further, an
applicant or lessee of a Class 9 multifamily residential property tax incentive shall provide the
municipality or the Cook County Board, as the case may be, a Living Wage Af?davit which shall
be maintained by such municipality or the Cook County Board in its ?les and records.

Prevailing wage requirement.

(1) Any owner of real estate that on or after January, 2018 is an applicant for, or recipient of, any
Property Tax Incentive under any Assessment Class as set forth in Division 2 of this Article for
which a Resolution or Ordinance from the municipality or the County Board is or was required,
or where an authorized of?cer letter is or was obtained in lieu of such Resolution or Ordinance,
shall pay all laborers, workers and mechanics engaged in Construction work within, or relating to
Construction proiects within, the subiect property not less than the prevailing rate of wages paid
for work of a similar character on public works in Cook County. This requirement extends to all

contractors, subcontractors. and lessees who perform such Construction work, whether or not at
the direction of the owner.

(2) The prevailing rate of wages shall be the same as the then-current rate for Cook County
determined pursuant to the Illinois Prevailing Wage Act (820 1LCS l30/0.01 et seq).

(3) Unless otherwise de?ned herein, the de?nition of any terms used in this Section which are
Page 3 of 13

also used in the Illinois Prevailing Wage Act (820 ILCS et seq.) shall be the same as that
set forth in the Illinois Prevailing Wage Act.

For the purposes of this Section:

Property Tax Incentive means a reduction in the assessment level as set forth in Division 2 of this
Article for any property regardless of the Assessment Class.

Construction means all work on any newly constructed building or structure, or any alteration,
improvement, repair, renovation, rehabilitation, demolition, deconstruction, maintenance, or reconstruction
of existing building or structure, regardless of the public or private nature ofthe proiects or ownership.

(4) Any owner of real estate that on or after January 2018 is an applicant for, or recipient of, any
Property Tax Incentive under any Assessment Class as set forth in Division 2 of this Article for
which a Resolution or Ordinance from the municipality or the County Board is or was required,

or where an authorized of?cer letter is or was obtained in lieu of such Resolution or Ordinance,
shall:

keep, or a cause a contractor, subcontractor, or lessee performing the Construction work to keep,
for a period of 5 years from the date of the last payment made, records of all laborers, mechanics, and
other workers engaged in Construction work within, or relating to Construction proiects within, the subiect
property; the records shall include the worker's name, (ii) the worker?s address, the worker's
telephone number when available, (iv) the worker's social security number, the worker's classi?cation
or classi?cations, (vi) the worker's gross and net wages paid in each pay period, (vii) the worker's number
of hours worked each day, the worker's starting and ending times of work each day, (ix) the
worker's hourly wage rate, the worker's hourly overtime wage rate, (xi) the worker's hourly fringe
bene?t rates, (xii) the name and address of each fringe bene?t fund, the plan sponsor of each fringe
bene?t, if applicable, and (xiv) the plan administrator of each fringe bene?t, if applicable; and

no later than the 15th day of each calendar month ?le, or cause a contractor, subcontractor, or
lessee performing the Construction work to ?le, with Cook County a certi?ed payroll for the immediately
preceding month. A certi?ed payroll must be ?led for only those calendar months during which such
Construction work has occurred. The certi?ed payroll shall consist of a complete copy of the records
identi?ed in this subsection but may exclude the starting and ending times of work each day. The
certi?ed payroll shall be accompanied by a statement signed by the owner or an of?cer, employee, or
agent of the owner which avers that: he or she has examined the certi?ed payroll records required to
be submitted by this Section and such records are true and accurate; and (ii) the hourly rate paid to each
worker is not less than the general prevailing rate of hourly wages required by this Section. An owner is
not prohibited from relying on the certi?cation of a contractor, subcontractor, or lessee provided the owner
does not knowingly rely upon a false certi?cation. Cook County shall keep the records submitted in
accordance with this subsection for a period of 5 years from the date of the last payment for
Construction work. The records submitted in accordance with this subsection shall be considered
public records, except an employee's address, telephone number, and social security number, and made
available in accordance with the Freedom of Information Act. Cook County shall accept any reasonable
submissions that meet the requirements of this Section.

Page 4 of 13

(5) The recipient must provide credible evidence that, at all times after it receives and maintains any
tax incentive designation under Division 2 of this Article, if any Construction, occurs at the
subject property, then any contractors, subcontractors, or lessees who perform such work must
participate in an active apprenticeship and training program approved and registered with the
United States Department of Labor's Office of Apprenticeship, if the contractor or subcontractor
employs people in a covered occupation.

(6) Prevailing Wage Af?davit. Every municipality or the Cook County Board that provides a
Resolution or Ordinance or authorized of?cer letter, as the case may be, to an applicant for, or a
recipient of, any Property Tax Incentive as set forth in Division 2 of this Article shall maintain in
its files and records documentation that such municipality or the County Board received and filed
the Prevailing Wage Affidavit submitted by the owner of such property stating that such owner
shall pay, or cause a contractor, subcontractor, or lessee to pay, the prevailing rate of wages in
compliance with this Section and comply with subsections and of this Section. The
failure to ?le such affidavit and supporting documents within the time established by the
Assessor's rules shall result in the loss of the incentive for the period relating to the non??ling or
revocation under Section 74-73.

or Federal Laws.

(1) Except where a Person has requested an exception from the Assessor and the County Board
expressly ?nds that granting the exception is in the best interest of the County, such Person
including any Substantial Owner (as de?ned in Cook County, 111., Code, Ch. 34, Art. 34-367)
shall be ineligible to receive any property tax incentive noted in Division 2 ofthis Article if, during
the ?ve-year period prior to the date of the application, such Person or Substantial Owner (as
defined in Cook County, 111., Code, Ch. 34, Art. 34-3 67) admitted guilt or liability or has been
adjudicated guilty or liable in anyjudicial or administrative proceeding of committing a repeated
or willful violation ofthe Illinois Wage Payment and Collection Act, 820 ILCS 115/1 et seq., the
Minimum Wage Act, 820 ILCS 105/1 et seq., the Illinois Worker Adjustment and
Retraining Noti?cation Act, 820 65/1 et seq., the Worker Adjustment and Retraining
Notification Act, 29 U.S.C. 2101 et seq., the Employee Classification Act, 820 ILCS 185/] et
seq., the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, 29 U.S.C. 201, et seq., the Illinois Prevailing Wage
Act, 820 ILCS 130/ 1 et seq., or any comparable state statute or regulation of any state, which
governs the payment of wages.

 

(2) The Assessor shall obtain an affidavit or certification from every Person and Substantial Owner
(as de?ned in Cook County, 111., Code, Ch. 34, Art. 34-367) who seeks a prOperty tax
incentive from the County as noted in Division 2 of this Article certifying that the Person or
Substantial Owner (as de?ned in Cook County, 111., Code, Ch. 34, Art. 34?367) has not
violated the statutory provisions identified in Subsection of this Section.

(3) 1f the County or Assessor becomes aware that a Person or Substantial Owner (as de?ned in
Cook County, 111., Code, Ch. 34, Art. 34-367) has admitted guilt or liability or has been
adjudicated guilty or liable in anyjudicial or administrative proceeding of committing a repeated

Page 5 of 13

or willful violation ofthe Illinois Wage Payment and Collection Act, 820 ILCS I 15/1 et seq., the
Illinois Minimum Wage Act, 820 ILCS 105/1 et seq., the Illinois Worker Adjustment and
Retraining Noti?cation Act, 820 ILCS 65/1 et seq., the Worker Adjustment and Retraining
Notification Act, 29 U.S.C. 2101 et seq., the Employee Classification Act, 820 ILCS 185/1 et
seq., the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, 29 U.S.C. 201 et seq., or any comparable state
statute or regulation of any state, which governs the payment of wages during the ?ve?year
period prior to the date of the application, but after the County has reclassi?ed the Person's or
Substantial Owner's (as de?ned in Cook County, 111., Code, Ch. 34, Art. 34?367) subject
property under a property tax incentive classi?cation, then, after notice from the Assessor of
such violation, the Person or Substantial Owner shall have 45 days to cure its violation and
request an exception or waiver from the Assessor. Failure to cure or obtain an exception or
waiver of ineligibility from the Assessor shall serve as grounds for revocation of the classi?cation
as provided by the Assessor or by the County Board by Resolution or Ordinance. In case of
revocation or cancellation, the Incentive Classi?cation shall be deemed null and void for the tax
year in which the incentive was revoked or cancelled as to the subject prOperty. In such an
instance, the taxpayer shall be liable for and shall reimburse to the County Collector an amount
equal to the difference in the amount of taxes that would have been collected had the subject
property not received the property tax incentive.

Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.

A motion was made by Commissioner Tobolski, seconded by Commissioner Arroyo, to accept as
substituted 18-1604. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Chairman Daley, Vice Chairman Sims, Commissioners Arroyo, Boykin, Deer, Fritchey, Gainer,
Goslin, Moody, Moore, Morrison, Schneider, Silvestri, Suffredin and Tobolski (15)

Absent: Commissioners: Butler and Garcia (2)

SUBSTITUTE 18-1604

Sponsored By: JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI, LUIS ARROYO JR., RICHARD R. BOYKIN, EDWARD M.
MOODY, County Commissioners

PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
PROPERTY TAX INCENTIVE PREVAILING WAGE REQUIREMENT

BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 74 TAXATION, Section
74-71 ofthe Cook County Code is hereby amended as follows:

Sec. 74-71. - Laws regulating the payment of wages.

Living wage requirement.

Page 6 of 13

(1) Unless expressly waived by the County Board, any Employer occupying a property that receives
a property tax incentive for Class 6b industrial property, Class 8 industrial property, or Class 9
multifamily residential property shall pay not less than the Living Wage, as defined in the Cook
County Procurement Code (Cook County, 111., Code, Ch. 34, Art. IV, Div. 1 34-121), to each of
its onsite Employees, unless such Employees' Wages are governed by Federal or State prevailing
wage law. For purpose of this Section, the term "Employee" shall mean an Employee who
performs duties or services for an Employer on average at least 30 hours per week in any two-
week period for which the Employee is paid; "hours per week" shall mean hours for which an
Employee is paid or entitled to payment by the Employer for a period of time during which no
duties are performed by the Employee due to vacation, holiday, illness, incapacity, jury duty,
military duty or approved leave of absence.

(2) On and after July 1, 2020, the owner of any property that receives a property tax incentive shall
notify all Employers who occupy such property as lessees of the requirements of this Section.
Upon commencement of a lease, on or after July 1, 2020, of a property that receives a property
tax incentive, any new lessee shall be required to submit to the municipality or the Cook County
Board, as the case may be, an af?davit stating that such lessee is paying a Living Wage to its
Employees in compliance with this Section. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the
requirements of this Section shall not apply to an Employer who was a lessee and not an owner-
occupant of a property that receives a property tax incentive prior to July 1, 2020.

(3) This Section shall not apply to Employers that are not-for?profit organizations or funded by Federal
grants or Federal loans or Employers who are lessees but are not owners of a property that receives
a property tax incentive prior to adoption of this amended Ordinance. Further, this Section shall
not apply to Employers who can demonstrate to the County Board that compliance with the
requirements of this Section would cause such Employer to be in violation of the terms of a
collective bargaining agreement between the Employer and a labor union.

(4) Every Employer required to pay the Living Wage shall notify its Employees of the Living Wage
requirements and shall notify all of its Employees annually of any adjustment to the Living Wage.
In addition, the Employer shall notify its Employees that if any Employee contends that the
Employer is not paying a Living Wage or has otherwise violated this section, that Employee may
?le a complaint with the Cook County Commissioner on Human Rights ("Commission"). The
Commissioner shall investigate alleged violations of the Living Wage Ordinance and is authorized
to adopt regulations for the proper administration and enforcement of its provisions. If at the
conclusion of the Commission?s investigation, the Commission ?nds that the Employer has
violated this section, it shall in the case of an Employer receiving a property tax incentive,
notify the Assessor; or (ii) in the case of a Contractor or a subcontractor required to pay the Living
Wage, notify the CPO, who shall exercise such remedies as are in the best interest of the County,
including ordering the Employer to pay back pay and penalties, as provided in this section.

(5) If an Employer is found to be in violation of this section, such Employer may be required to pay
back pay to each affected Employee, and may also be ?ned by the County up to $100.00 for each
affected Employee for each day paid at less than the Living Wage. Such penalties will not be
imposed on any Person except after a hearing (Cook County, 111., Code, Ch. 2, Art. IX). Further,
if an Employer is found to be in violation of this section, the property tax incentive for this property
is subject to revocation.

Page 7 of13

(6) If an Employer is found to have retaliated against an affected Employee, the Employer's property
tax incentive may be terminated unless such Employer appropriately reinstates or compensates
such Employee.

(7) For the purposes of this Section:

Property tax incentive means a reduction in the assessment level as set forth in Division 2 of this
Article for Class 6b industrial property, Class 8 industrial property, or Class 9 multifamily residential
property. "Property tax incentive? shall not include a Class 9 designation granted to supportive living
facilities, which establish an alternative to nursing home care for low income older persons and persons
with disabilities under Medicaid and which are certified by the State Department of Public Aid pursuant to
Division 2 ofthis Article; and

Sales tax means the Retailer's Occupation Tax, the Service Occupation Tax and/or the Use Tax.

(8) Living Wage Af?davit. Every municipality or the Cook County Board that provides a Resolution
or Ordinance or authorized officer letter, as the case may be, to an applicant for a Class 6b
industrial property or a Class 8 industrial property tax incentive shall maintain in its ?les and
records documentation that such municipality or the County Board received and ?led the Living
Wage Af?davit submitted by the owner or lessee of such property stating that such owner or lessee
is paying a Living Wage to its Employees in compliance with this Section. Further, an applicant
or lessee of a Class 9 multifamily residential property tax incentive shall provide the municipality
or the Cook County Board, as the case may be, a Living Wage Af?davit which shall be maintained
by such municipality or the Cook County Board in its ?les and records.

Prevailing wage requirement.

(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in Section 74-71(b) to the contrary, and for the avoidance
of doubt, any real estate granted any Property Tax Incentive under any Assessment Class as set
forth in Section b) on or before July 1, 2018 shall not be subiect to the terms and
conditions of Section 74-7 1 Real estate for which an application for any classi?cation is ?led
with the Assessor on or before July 1, 2018 and which thereafter is determined by the Assessor to
be eligible for the classi?cation under the terms and conditions of this Division after July I, 2018,
shall not be subject to the terms and conditions of Section 74-71( 

(2) Any owner of real estate that on or after July 1, 2018 is an applicant for, or recipient of, any
Property Tax Incentive under any Assessment Class as set forth in Division 2 of this Article for
which a Resolution or Ordinance from the municipalitLor the County Board is or was required.
or where an authorized of?cer letter is or was obtained in lieu of such Resolution or Ordinance,
shall pay all laborers, workers and mechanics engaged in Construction work within the subiect
property not less than the prevailing rate of wages paid for work of a similar character on public
works in Cook County. This requirement extends to all contractors, subcontractors, and lessees
who mform such Construction work, whether or not at the direction of the owner.

(3) The prevailing rate of wages shall be the same as the then-current rate for Cook County determined
pursuant to the Illinois Prevailing Wage Act (820 ILCS 130/001 et seq).

Page 8 of 13

(E) Unless otherwise de?ned herein, the de?nition of any terms used in this Section which are also

used in the Illinois Prevailing Wage Act (820 ILCS 130/001 et seq.) shall be the same as that set
forth in the Illinois Prevailing Wage Act.

For the purposes of Section 74?71( 

Property Tax Incentive means a reduction in the assessment level as set forth in Division 2 of this
Article for any property regardless of the Assessment Class for which a Resolution or Ordinance
from the municipality or the County Board is or was required, or where an authorized of?cer letter
is or was obtained in lieu of such Resolution or Ordinance.

Construction work means all work on any newly constructed building or any improvement or
renovation on any existing building or structure, on any real estate receiving a property tax
incentive involving laborers, workers or mechanics, regardless of the public or private nature of
the proiect. This includes any maintenance, repair, assembly, or disassembly work performed on
equipment whether owned, leased, or rented.

(5) Any owner of real estate that on or after July 1, 2018 is an applicant for, or recipient of, any
Property Tax Incentive under any Assessment Class as set forth in Division 2 of this Article for
which a Resolution or Ordinance from the municipality or the County Board is or was required,

or where an authorized of?cer letter is or was obtained in lieu of such Resolution or Ordinance,
shall:

keep, or a cause a contractor, subcontractor, or lessee performing the Construction work within
the subiect property to keep, for a period of 5 years from the date of the last payment made,
records of all laborers, mechanics, and other workers engaged in Construction work within the
subiect property. Such records shall include the worker?s name, (ii) the worker's address, 
the worker?s telephone number when available, (iv) the worker's social security number, the
worker's classi?cation or classi?cations, (vi) the worker's gross and net wages paid in each pay
period, (vii) the worker's number of hours worked each day, the worker's starting and
ending times of work each day, (ix) the worker's hourly wage rate, the worker's hourly
overtime wage rate, (xi) the worker's hourly fringe bene?t rates, (xii) the name and address of
each fringe bene?t fund, the plan Sponsor of each fringe bene?t, if applicable, and (xiv)
the plan administrator of each fringe bene?t, if applicable; and

no later than the 15th day of each calendar month ?le, or cause a contractor, subcontractor, or
lessee performing the Construction work to ?le electronically with the Cook County Bureau of
Economic Development a certi?ed payroll for the immediately preceding month. A certi?ed
payroll must be ?led for only those calendar months during which such Construction work has
occurred. The certi?ed payroll shall consist of a complete copy of the records identi?ed in this
subsection but may exclude the starting and ending times of work each day. The certi?ed
payroll shall be accompanied by a statement signed by the owner or an of?cer, authorized
employee, or agent of the owner which avers that: he or she has examined the certi?ed payroll
records required to be submitted by this Section and such records are true and accurate; and (ii)
the hourly rate paid to each worker is not less than the genera] prevailing rate of hourly wages
required by this Section. An owner is not prohibited from relying on the certi?cation of a
contractor, subcontractor, or lessee provided the owner does not knowingly rely upon a false
certi?cation. Cook County shall keep the records submitted in accordance with this subsection

Page 9 of 13

 for a period of Syears from the date of the last payment for Construction work. The records
submitted in accordance with this subsection shall be considered public records, except an
employee's address, telephone number, and social security number, and made available in
accordance with the Freedom of Information Act. Cook County shall accept any reasonable
submissions that meet the requirements of this Section.

(6) The recipient must provide credible evidence that. at all times after it receives and maintains any
tax incentive classi?cation under Division 2 of this Article, if any Construction work, occurs at
the subject property, then any contractors, subcontractors, or lessees who perform such work must
micipate in an active apprenticeship and training program approved and registered with the
United States Department of Labor?s Of?ce of Apprenticeship, if the contractor or subcontractor
employs people in a covered occupation.

(7) Prevailing Wage Af?davit. Every municipality or the Cook County Board that provides a
Resolution or Ordinance or authorized of?cer letter, as the case may be, to an applicant for, or a
recipient of, any Property Tax Incentive as set forth in Section 71-74 shall maintain in
its ?les and records documentation that such municipality or the County Board received and ?led
the Prevailing Wage Af?davit submitted by the owner of such property stating that such owner
shall pay, or cause a contractor, subcontractor, or lessee to pay, the prevailing rate of wages in
compliance with this Section and comply with subsections and of this Section. The
failure to ?le such af?davit and supporting documents within the time established by the
Assessor's rules shall result in the loss of the incentive for the period relating to the non??ling or
revocation under Section 74-73.

or Federal Laws.

(1) Except where a Person has requested an exception from the Assessor and the County Board
expressly ?nds that granting the exception is in the best interest of the County, such Person
including any Substantial Owner (as de?ned in Cook County, 111., Code, Ch. 34, Art. 34-367)
shall be ineligible to receive any property tax incentive noted in Division 2 of this Article if, during
the ?ve-year period prior to the date of the application, such Person or Substantial Owner (as
de?ned in Cook County, 111., Code, Ch. 34, Art. 34-3 67) admitted guilt or liability or has been
adjudicated guilty or liable in any judicial or administrative proceeding of committing a repeated
or willful violation ofthe Illinois Wage Payment and Collection Act, 820 ILCS 115/1 et seq., the
Illinois Minimum Wage Act, 820 ILCS 105/1 et seq., the Illinois Worker Adjustment and
Retraining Noti?cation Act, 820 ILCS 65/ 1 et seq., the Worker Adjustment and Retraining
Noti?cation Act, 29 U.S.C. 2101 et seq., the Employee Classi?cation Act, 820 ILCS 185/1 et seq.,
the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, 29 U.S.C. 201, et seq., the Illinois Prevailing Wage Act,
820 ILCS 130/1 et seq., or any comparable state statute or regulation of any state, which governs
the payment of wages.

(2) The Assessor shall obtain an af?davit or certi?cation from every Person and Substantial Owner
(as de?ned in Cook County, 111., Code, Ch. 34, Art. 34-3 67) who seeks a property tax incentive
from the County as noted in Division 2 of this Article certifying that the Person or Substantial
Owner (as de?ned in Cook County, 111., Code, Ch. 34, Art. 34?367) has not violated the
statutory provisions identi?ed in Subsection of this Section.

Page 10 of13

Q) If the County or Assessor becomes aware that a Person or Substantial Owner (as de?ned in Cook
County, 111., Code, Ch. 34, Art. 34?367) has admitted guilt or liability or has been adjudicated
guilty or liable in any judicial or administrative proceeding of committing a repeated or willful
violation of the Illinois Wage Payment and Collection Act, 820 ILCS 1 15/1 et seq., the Illinois
Minimum Wage Act, 820 ILCS 105/1 et seq., the Illinois Worker Adjustment and Retraining
Noti?cation Act, 820 ILCS 65/1 et seq., the Worker Adjustment and Retraining Noti?cation Act,
29 U.S.C. 2101 et seq., the Employee Classi?cation Act, 820 ILCS 185/1 et seq., the Fair Labor
Standards Act of 1938, 29 U.S.C. 201, et seq., the Illinois Prevailing Wage Act, 8201LCS 130/1 et
$9.4m any comparable state statute or regulation of any state, which governs the payment of wages
during the ?ve-year period prior to the date of the application, but after the County has reclassi?ed
the Person's or Substantial Owner's (as de?ned in Cook County, 111., Code, Ch. 34, Art. 34-
367) subject property under a property tax incentive classi?cation, then, after notice from the
Assessor of such violation, the Person or Substantial Owner shall have 45 days to cure its violation
and request an exception or waiver from the Assessor. Failure to cure or obtain an exception or
waiver of ineligibility from the Assessor shall serve as grounds for revocation of the classi?cation
as provided by the Assessor or by the County Board by Resolution or Ordinance. In case of
revocation or cancellation, the Incentive Classi?cation shall be deemed null and void for the tax
year in which the incentive was revoked or cancelled as to the subject property. In such an instance,
the taxpayer shall be liable for and shall reimburse to the County Collector an amount equal to the
difference in the amount of taxes that would have been collected had the subject property not
received the property tax incentive.

Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.

No action taken as substituted

18~2142
Sponsored by: BRIDGET GAINER, TONI PRECKWINKLE (President), LUIS ARROYO JR,
RICHARD R. BOYKIN, JERRY BUTLER, JOHN P. DALEY, DENNIS DEER, JOHN A. FRITCHEY,
GREGG GOSLIN, EDWARD M. MOODY, STANLEY MOORE, SEAN M. MORRISON, TIMOTHY O.
SCHNEIDER, PETER N. SILVESTRI, DEBORAH SIMS, LARRY SUFFREDIN and JEFFREY R.
TOBOLSKI, Cook County Board of Commissioners

PROPOSED RESOLUTION

REQUESTING A HEARING OF THE FINANCE COMMITTEE TO PRESENT AND DISCUSS
THE CIVIC CONSULTING ALLIANCE STUDY ON THE COOK COUNTY PROPERTY TAX
ASSESSMENT SYSTEM

WHEREAS, the President of the Cook County Board of Commissioners announced in July 2017 a study
to be conducted by the Civic Consulting Alliance analyzing Cook County assessment practices; and,

Page 11 of 13

WHEREAS, the Cook County Assessor is responsible for assessing 1.8 million parcels of real estate on
an annual basis; and,

WHEREAS, the property valuation process of the Cook County Assessor is governed by the Illinois
Constitution and Statutes; and,

WHEREAS, 35 ILCS 200/9?5 et. seq. sets the standards that the Cook County Assessor must follow
when setting property values; and,

WHEREAS, state law requires the Cook County Assessor to establish rules to be followed in assessing
property; and,

WHEREAS, Illinois court decisions have further governed property valuation and the admissibility of
evidence in property tax litigation; and,

WHEREAS, the Cook County Assessor uses computer programs and other tools to set assessment
levels; and,

WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners provides the Cook County Assessor with a
budget for staff and resources to properly assess all properties.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Cook County Assessor and the Civic Consulting
Alliance appear before the Finance Committee of the Cook County Board of Commissioners on or before
the scheduled Wednesday, March 14, 2018 board meeting to present and discuss the results of the Civic
Consulting Alliance study analyzing Cook County?s property tax assessment system.

A motion was made by Commissioner Gainer, seconded by Commissioner Boykin, to recommend
for approval 18-2142. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Chairman Daley, Vice Chairman Sims, Commissioners Arroyo, Boykin, Deer, Fritchey, Gainer,
Goslin, Moody, Moore, Morrison, Schneider, Silvestri, Suffredin and Tobolski (15)

Absent: Commissioners: Butler and Garcia (2)

Page 12 of13

ADJOURNMENT

A motion was made by Commissioner Tobolski, seconded by Vice Chairman Sims, to adjourn the
meeting. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Chairman Daley, Vice Chairman Sims, Commissioners Arroyo, Boykin, Deer, Fritchey, Gainer,
Goslin, Moody, Moore, Morrison, Schneider, Silvestri, Suffredin and Tobolski (15)
Absent: Commissioners: Butler and Garcia (2)

Respectfully Swami; ZS 2L

Secretary

 

Chairman

A video recording of this meeting is available at 

Page 13 of13

FINANCE COMMITTEE MARCH 1, 2018

SPEAKERS LIST (FINAL) FOR

ITEMS 18-2142 (CCA Report on Assessments) and 18-1604 (Tax Incentive Prevailing Wage Requirement)

Item 18-2142

009??

Mark 
Clem Balanoff
Sarah Brune

Eric Russell

Item 18-1604






30.
31.
32.

Reggie Greenwood
David C. Dillon
Scott Duerkop

Jim Garrett
Zachary Mottl

Don Finn

Kristi Delaurentiis
Doug Beckman
Hon Keith Pekau

. Hon Rich Hofeld

. Hon Richard Reinbold

. Hon John Ostenburg

. Hon Gene Williams

. Hon James Ford

. Hon Riley Rogers

. Hon Robert Polk

. Hon Patty Eidam

. Hon Don Degraff

. John Watson

. Hon Hank Kuspa

. Hon Sheila Chalmers-Currin
. Hon Sterling Burke

. Tim Williams

. Mike Marzal

. Tom Mick

. Sandra Zoellner

. Patrick Hoban

. Bree Breedlove

. Bishop Donald Luster Sr.

Street Express
Beth Wanless
Melissa Whitley
Pete Saunders

Chicago Urban Fine Arts Commonwealth
Our Revolution Illinois

The Illinois Campaign for Political Reform
Tree of Life Justice League Illinois

Chicago Southland Economic Development Corporation
Dillon Nash, Ltd.

Jones Lang Lasalle

Chicago Southland Convention and Business
Atlas Tool 8: Die Works, Inc. and Tma

Chicago Cook County Building Trades

South Suburban Mayors Managers Association
Village of Thornton

Village of Orland Park

Village of Homewood

Village of Richton Park

Village of Park Forest

Village of Lynwood

City of Country Club Hills

Village of Bolton

Village of Burn ham

Village of Lansing

Village of South Holland

Village of South Holland

City of Oak Forest

Village of Matteson

Village of Olympia Fields

Village of Riverdale

City of Blue Island

Village of Park Forest

Village of Park Forest

Village of Tinley Park

Business Owner State Farm

R.E.A.L. Municipal Solutions Llc/Mo Phi Premium Maxwell

Illinois Realtors, Chicago Association Of Realtors
Elliott And Associates
City of Calumet City

FINANCE COMMITTEE MARCH 1, 2018
SPEAKERS LIST (FINAL) FOR

ITEMS 18-2142 (CCA Report on Assessments) and 18-1604 (Tax Incentive Prevailing Wage Requirement)

33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
33.
39.
40.
41.
42.
43.
44.
45.
46.
47.
48.
49.

Matt Frank

Brian Liston
John Nyhan
John Schneider
Mitch Simborg
Keeana Barber
Peter Tsantilis
John Coleman
Ted Stalnos
John C. Melaniphy
William Sa nd rick
Helen Lacek

Tad Lagastee
Justin Fierz

Dan Allen
Jonathan Jones
Kevin Tobin

Village of Schaumburg

Liston Tsantilis

Illinois Property Tax Lawyers Association
Village of Franklin Park

Simborg Real Estate

WDB Marketing

Liston Tsantilis, P.C.

Transwestern

Calumet Area Industrial Commission
Village of Wheeling

Sandrick Law Firm

Windsor Estates Assisted Living
Lagastee Mulder

Midwest Industrial Fund

Construction Industry Service Corporation (Cisco)
Chicago Regional Council of Carpenters
Tobin Development

