 

Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Minutes of the Asset Management Committee

Wednesday, November 14, 2018 9:15 AM Cook County Building, Board Room
118 North Clark Street, Chicago. Illinois

ATTENDANCE
Present: Moore, Arroyo, Morrison, Silvestri, Sims and Tobolski (6)
Absent: Butler. Garcia and Schneider (3)

PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Chairman Moore asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public speakers, in accordance

with Cook County Code.

No Public Speakers

Iii-(1804

COMMITTEE MINUTES

Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 07J?19r?201 8

A motion was made by Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Sims, to approve
l8-6804. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Moore. Arroyo. Morrison. Silvestri. Sims and Tobolski (6)

Absent: Butler. Garcia and Schneider (3)

 

COMMITTEE MINUTES

Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 12/] 4/20lo

Asset Management Committee Committee Minutes November I4, 2018

 

A motion was made by Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Sims, to approve
17-4344. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Moore, Arroyo, Morrison, Silvestri, Sims and Tobolski (6)

Absent: Butler, Garcia and Schneider (3)

LN-(le

Presented by: JESSICA CAFFREY, Director, Real Estate Management Division

PROPOSED INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT

Department: Real Estate Management

Other Part(ies): Illinois State Toll Highway Authority

Request: Request to Enter into Intergovernmental Agreement

Goods or Services: Transfer of Real Property

Agreement Number(s): NIA

Agreement Period: One-Time Agreement

Fiscal Impact: None

Accounts: 

Summary: An intergovernmental agreement between the County of Cook and Illinois State Toll Highway
Authority for the transfer of three land parcels to the County at no cost. The parcels have been declared
excess by the Tollway and the County will acquire the parcels as part of its redevelopment efforts to
potentially create a multimodal transportation facility for public use at the Rosemont Transit Center.
Authority for this property transfer is permitted under the Local Government Property Transfer Act (50

ILCS et the Intergovernmental Cooperation Act (SILCS 220i] et seq.). and Article VII,
Section 10 ot?the Illinois Constitution.

Page 2 of 6

Asset Management Committee Committee Minutes November 14, 2018

 

A motion was made by Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Arroyo, to
recommend for approval 18-6221. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Moore, Arroyo. Morrison, Silvestri, Sims and Tobolski (6)

Absent: Butler, Garcia and Schneider (3)



Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE (President), Cook County Board Of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE

AUTHORIZING THE ACCEPTANCE OF REAL ESTATE FROM THE FOREST
PRESERVE DISTRICT OF COOK COUNTY

WHEREAS, the County of Cook, a body politic and corporate of the State of Illinois is the
owner of real estate located in Rosemont, Cook County, Illinois commonly known as the Rosemont
Transit Center; and

WHEREAS, the Forest Preserve District of Cook County. an Illinois Special District is the
owner of real estate located in Roscmont, Cook County. Illinois, legally described on Exhibit A (?District
Real Estate"), which is located adjacent to County holdings in Rosemont; and

WHEREAS, the County desires to obtain title to the District Real Estate from the District in connection
with public improvements to be made at the Rosemont Transit Center; and

WHEREAS, the provisions of Article VII. Section lOof the 197011linois Constitution and the provisions
oi" the Intergovernmental Cooperation Act. SILCS 22H 9! seq. authorize and encourage the
intergovernmental cooperation set forth in this Ordinance; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to the Local Government Property Transfer Act. SOILCS 60303161 seg., the
District has duly adopted a Resolution, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit B, which declares
that the District is authorized by law to convey the title to the District Real Estate to the County by quit
claim deed; and

WHEREAS, the Director ol? Real Estate Management for the County ("Director of Real Estate
Management") has advised the Board of Commissioners of Cook County ("Cook County Board"). and
the Cook County Board so agrees. that the District Real Estate is desirable for County purposes: and

WHEREAS. the County Board, pursuant to its home rule and statutory authority, including the Local
Government Property Transfer Act. SOILCS t305f0.0] et seq. adopts this Ordinance, by a vote of
two-thirds or more of its members, which Ordinance authorizes the acceptance of the District Real Estate
by the County.

Page 3 of 6

Asset Management Committee Committee Minutes November 14, 20.18

 

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF
COOK COUNTY, ILLINOIS AS FOLLOWS:

Section 1:
The foregoing recitals are incorporated herein as ?ndings of the Board of Commissioners of Cook County,
Illinois.

Section 2:

The County Board determines that the acquisition of the District Real Estate from the District is in the
public interest. The County Board hereby authorizes the acquisition of the District Real Estate from the
District, by quit claim deed, for nominal consideration, for the public purpose of improving the Rosemonl
Transit Center in accordance with the County?s authority. Such acquisition shall be by quit claim deed
from the District subject only to restrictions, covenants and easements as shown of record.

Section 3:

The President of the Cook County Board of Commissioners and the Cook County Comptroller, or the
Director of Real Estate Management are hereby authorized to execute and deliver any and all other
documents or instruments and take any and all steps necessary or desirable to effectuate such
conveyance.

Section 4:

This Ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage and approval in the manner
provided by law.

Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption

A motion was made by Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Arroyo, to
recommend for approval 18-6236. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Moore, Arroyo. Morrison, Silvestri, Sims and Tobolski (6)
Absent: Butler, Garcia and Schneider (3)

13-6340

Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE (President). Cook County Board Of Commissioners
PROPOSED RESOLUTION

AUTHORIZING THE TRANSFER OF REAL ESTATE FROM THE COUNTY OF COOK
TO THE FORE-ST PRESERVE DISTRICT OF COOK COUNTY

WHEREAS, the County of Cook, a body politic and corporate of the State of Illinois (?County?), is the
owner of real estate located in Oak Forest, Cook County, Illinois, legally described on Exhibit A (?County

Page 4 of 6

Asset Management Committee Committee Minutes November 14, 20M

 

Real Estate?) commonly known as the Oak Forest Hospital Campus, which is located adjacent to District
holdings: and

WHEREAS, the Forest Preserve District of Cook County. an Illinois Special District is the
owner of property adjacent to the County Real Estate: and

WHEREAS, the District desires to obtain title to the County Real Estate for the public purposes oi
maintaining open space and improving the land to the extent permitted by law; and

WHEREAS, the provisions of Article VII. Section 10 of the Constitution and the provisions
of the Intergovernmental Cooperation Act. SILCS 22!] et seq. authorize and encourage the
intergovernmental cooperation set forth in this Ordinance; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to the Local Government Property Transfer Act, SOILCS 605/00] et seq. the
District has duly adopted an Ordinance, a copy of which is submitted hereto as Exhibit which declares
that it is necessary or convenient for the District to use, occupy or improve the County Real Estate for the
aforementioned public purposes and the Ordinance further declares that the District is authorized by law
to receive title to the County Real Estate and will accept any transfer of title to the County Real Estate
made by the County to the District; and

WHEREAS, the Director of Real Estate Management for the County ("Director of Real Estate
Management") has advised the Board of Commissioners of Cook County ("Cook County Board"). and
the Cook County Board so agrees, that it is desirous that the County Real Estate be maintained as
required by law and as public open space by the District; and

WHEREAS, the County Board adopts this Resolution. by a vote of two-thirds or more of its members,
which Resolution authorizes the conveyance of the COunty Real Estate to the District for nominal
consideration, pursuant to its home rule and statutoly authority, including the Local Government Property
Transfer Act. 50 ILCS 60510.0] et seq.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF
COOK COUNTY, ILLINOIS AS FOLLOWS:

Section 1:
The i?bt?cgoing recitals are incorporated herein as ?ndings of the Board of Commissioners of Cook County,
Illinois.

Section 2:

The President of the Cook County Board of Commissioners is hereby authorized to execute on behalf oi
the County of Cook. a quit claim deed. in substantially the same form as the document attached hereto and
incorporated herein as Exhibit C. conveying the County Real Estate to the District, subject to any
covenants. conditions and restrictions contained therein. which quit claim deed shall be attested and
delivered by the appropriate County of?cials.

Page 5 of 6

Asset Management Committee Committee Minutes November 14, 20 I 8

 

Section 3:

The President of the Cook County Board of Commissioners and the Director of Real Estate Management
are hereby authorized to execute and deliver any and all other documents or instruments and take any and
all steps necessary or desirable to effectuate such conveyance.

Section 4:
This Resolution shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage and approval in the manner
provided by law.

A motion was made by Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Arroyo, to
recommend for approval 18-6240. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Moore, Arroyo, Morrison, Silvestri, Sims and Tobolski (6)
Absent: Butler, Garcia and Schneider (3)
ADJOURNMENT

A motion was made by Commissioner Sims, seconded by Commissioner Arroyo, to adjourn
the meeting. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Moore, Arroyo, Morrison, Silvestri, Sims and Tobolski (6)

Absent: Butler, Garcia and Schneider (3)

Respectfully submittedChairman Secretary

 

A video recording oi?this meeting is available at .IegistaruIm.

 

Page 6 of 6

