Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Finance Committee
Tuesday, June 26, 2018

10:30 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room,
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in writing,
their name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in advance of the
meeting. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a time specified in
the meeting agenda. Authorized public speakers who are not present during the specified time for public
testimony will forfeit their allotted time to speak at the meeting. Public testimony must be germane to a
specific item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not exceed three minutes; the Secretary
will keep track of the time and advise when the time for public testimony has expired. Persons authorized
to provide public testimony shall not use vulgar, abusive, or otherwise inappropriate language when
addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately; failure to speak to an item that is germane to the
meeting, or failure to adhere to the time requirements may result in expulsion from the meeting and/or
disqualify the person from providing future testimony.
18-3651
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE (President), Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
COOK COUNTY MEDICAL EXAMINER’S ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 38, Health and Human
Services, Article VI, Medical Examiner, Division 1, Generally, Sections. 38-109 through 38-148 of the
Cook County Code, is hereby amended as follows:
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY
Sec. 38-109. - Office of coroner eliminated.

The office of Coroner of Cook County is hereby eliminated. This article shall be known and may be
cited as the Cook County Medical Examiner's Ordinance.
Sec. 38-110. - Definitions.

Page 1 of 18

 Finance Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

June 26, 2018

[The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article ordinance, shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:]
***
Sec. 38-119. - Deaths subject to investigation; establishing manner and cause of death.

Where a death has occurred under any of the circumstances enumerated in Section 38-118, then an
investigation, including autopsy if necessary, shall be conducted sufficient to establish manner and cause
of death, and the Medical Examiner shall recover and retain any and all evidence for use in the
investigation. The Medical Examiner shall obtain specimens necessary to determine the cause and manner
of death and retain them in accordance with nationally established practice guidelines for forensic
pathology. The Medical Examiner shall have the authority to retain tissue specimen necessary to
determine the cause and manner of death without notification or family permission and will have the
authority to retain such body parts as the Medical Examiner deems necessary in the public interest with
notification to any identified next-of-kin. The Medical Examiner shall have the authority to dispose of
retained body parts or tissue specimen in an appropriate manner consistent with law, including using
anonymized tissue samples for research in lieu of destruction.
An investigation into a death does not necessarily imply that an autopsy and/or a scene examination
will be performed. The necessity of aAn autopsy and/or a scene examination will be determined
byconducted at the Medical Examiner’s discretion based on the criteria specified in Section 38-118 and
generally accepted guidelines for conducting medico-legal death investigations.
Sec. 38-120. - Deaths subject to investigation; death certificate.

In deaths subject to investigation under Section 38-118, the Medical Examiner, upon completion of
his/her investigation and examination, shall cause a death certificate to be issued specifically setting forth
the cause, circumstances and manner of death, if determinable, or if undeterminable, so state.
Sec. 38-121. - Deaths subject to investigation; duty to notify.

Any person, including, but not limited to, any law enforcement officer, physician, nurse, ambulance
attendant, hospital director or administrator, or funeral director who may become aware of a death subject
to investigation under Section 38-118 mayshall immediately report such death to the Office of the Medical
Examiner or to any law enforcement officer; any such report to a law enforcement officer shall be
immediately transmitted to the Medical Examiner.
Sec. 38-122. - Deaths subject to investigation; examination of scene.

Upon receipt of a report pursuant to Section 38-121, the Medical Examiner or his/her appointed
representative shall go to the location of the body and take charge of same, and shall begin his/her

Page 2 of 18

 Finance Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

June 26, 2018

investigation with an examination of the scene except when permission for removal has been approved
pursuant to Section 38-123 or removal is otherwise authorized under 38-123 to preserve such body from
damage or destruction, or to protect life, safety, or health. Any such removal of the body pursuant to
Section 38-123 shall not preclude the Medical Examiner or his/her appointed represented from examining
the scene.
Sec. 38-123. - Deaths subject to investigation; permission required for removal.

No dead human body whose death may be subject to investigation under Section 38-118, or the
personal property of such a deceased person, shall be handled, disturbed, embalmed or removed from the
place of death by any person except with the permission of the Medical Examiner, unless the same shall
be necessary to preserve such body from damage or destruction, or to protect life, safety, or health.
Whenever the Medical Examiner shall lawfully assume jurisdiction of a body, it shall not be
removed or released from his/her jurisdiction except upon his/her direction and consent or as otherwise
permitted in this Section.
***
Sec. 38-125. - Procedures and powers in investigation into cause of death.

(a) The Medical Examiner shall have the power to establish and supervise the procedures to be
utilized in the conduct of investigations necessary to establish the cause and manner of death. The
Medical Examiner, at his/her option, shall have the power to call and conduct public hearings in cases of
public interest.
(b) The Medical Examiner shall have the power to issue subpoenas requiring persons to give
information under oath and to produce books, records, papers or such other documents or objects the
Medical Examiner shall deem necessary to establish the cause or manner of death. The Medical
Examiner or a hearing officer acting in his/her behalf shall have the power to administer the necessary
oath or affirmation to such witness. Any witness appearing at an investigation or public hearing shall have
the right to be represented by counsel.
(c) The Medical Examiner shall have the power to request and obtain medical and/or mental health
records within 24 hours of the first day of business operations of a hospital or physician's office that has
treated a decedent under investigation by the Medical Examiner.
(d) The Medical Examiner shall have the power to request and obtain hospital admission blood
samples on any in-hospital death under investigation by the Medical Examiner. Hospitals shall retain
admission blood samples for 2448 hours following the death of a patient who will fall under investigation
by the Medical Examiner as described in Section 38-118.
(e) Violation of the terms of this Section will be subject to the terms delineated in Section 38-148.

Page 3 of 18

 Finance Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

June 26, 2018

***
Sec. 38-131. - Deaths subject to investigation; release of the body.

Upon completion of the Medical Examiner's investigation and examination, the Medical Examiner
shall release the body of the decedent to the decedent's next-of-kin, personal representative, friends, or to
the person designated in writing by the decedent or to the funeral director selected by such person or
other authorized person, as the case may be, for proper disposition.
***
Sec. 38-137. - Retention of human remains.

Notwithstanding other provisions in this Article ordinance, if the Medical Examiner determines that a
body needs to be retained greater than 90 days then the Medical Examiner shall provide a written report
to the Advisory Committee and County Board stating the reason for retention. The Medical Examiner
shall report to Advisory Committee and County Board on this matter quarterly.
***
Sec. 38-141. - Advisory committee.

***
(d) Attendance. The members of this Committee shall attend meetings to be held at the Medical
Examiner's Office on a quarterly basis, beginning with the third quarter of the fiscal year in which this
Ordinance [Article] is enacted.
***
Sec. 38-144. - Fees.

The Medical Examiner shall charge the following fees with the amounts as set in Section 32-1 of
this Code.
***
(18) Conference room use fee. Fee charged for use of the Medical Examiner’s Conference Room
located in the basement of the Office of the Cook County Medical Examiner. Conference room
use fees shall be paid to the Cook County Medical Examiner in advance, unless special
circumstances warrant a fee waiver which may be granted at the discretion of the Medical
Examiner.

Page 4 of 18

 Finance Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

June 26, 2018

***
Sec. 38-148. - Penalty for violation.

Any person who knowingly violates any provision of this Oordinance [Article] may be fined not more
than $1,000.00 and imprisoned not more than six months per violation.
***
BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 32 Fees,
Sec. 32-1 of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as follows:
Sec. 32-1. Fee schedule.

The fees or charges provided for or required by the below-listed sections shall be as shown
below:
CHAPTER 38, HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES

38-144(1)

Autopsy report

50.00

38-144(2)

Toxicology report

25.00

38-144(3)

Miscellaneous reports, including artist's drawings,
but not including police reports

25.00

38-144(4)

Permit to cremate a dead human body

100.00 50.00

38-144(5)

Return fee

300.00

38-144(6)

Death certificate amendment fee

20.00

38-144(7)

Storage fee

500.00

38-144(8)

Photographs, radiographs, histology slides

actual cost or $3.00
whichever is greater

38-144(9)

Charge to non-county owned hospitals for the
acceptance of fetal remains not falling under the
jurisdiction of the medical examiner, per fetus

100.00

Confirmation of death letter, per letter

5.00

38-144(10)

Page 5 of 18

 Finance Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

June 26, 2018

38-144(11)

Tissue procurement morgue use fee, per case

250.00

38-144(12)

Student and resident rotation fees, per month

500.00

38-144(13)

Staff supervision of external experts fee, per hour,
one hour minimum

100.00

38-144(14)

Toxicology send-out fee

100.00

38-144(15)

Laboratory use fee, per day (subject to waiver)

250.00

38-144(16)

Expert witness fee, Chief Medical Examiner, per hour,
one hour minimum (subject to waiver)

600.00

Expert witness fee, Assistant Chief Medical Examiner,
per hour, one hour minimum (subject to waiver)

550.00

38-144(16)

38-144(16)

Expert witness fee, Assistant Medical Examiners,
per hour, one hour minimum
(subject to waiver)

500.00

38-144(17)

Cremation fee (subject to waiver)

250.00

38-144(18)

Conference Room (basement) use fee
per hour, two hour minimum
(subject to waiver)

100.00

Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately in relation to the Ordinance Amendments
provided in Chapter 38, Sections 38-109 through 38-148; the fee Ordinance Amendments provided in
Chapter 32 Fees, Section 32-1 in regards to Section 38-144 shall take effect on December 1, 2018..end

18-4201
Sponsored by: SEAN M. MORRISON, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
AMENDMENT TO SECTION 74-63 ASSESSMENT CLASSES
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that CHAPTER 74 TAXATION,
ARTICLE II REAL PROPERTY TAXATION, DIVISION 2 CLASSIFICATION SYSTEM FOR
ASSESSMENT, SECTION 74-63 ASSESSMENT CLASSES of the Cook County Code is hereby
amended as Follows:

Page 6 of 18

 Finance Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

June 26, 2018

Sec. 74-63. - Assessment classes.

Real estate is divided into the following assessment classes:
***
(7)

Class 6b. Real estate used primarily for industrial purposes, consisting of all newly constructed
buildings or other structures, including the land upon which they are situated; or abandoned
property, including the land upon which such property is situated; or all buildings and other
structures which are substantially rehabilitated to the extent such rehabilitation has added to
their value, including qualified land related to the rehabilitation. Land qualifies when the
rehabilitation adds vertical or horizontal square footage to the improvements. The amount of
land eligible for the incentive shall be in such proportion as the square footage added by the
rehabilitation bears to the total square footage of the improvements on the parcel.
***
d.

In the instance where real estate does not meet the definition of abandoned property as
defined herein, the municipality or the County Board, as the case may be, may still
determine that special circumstances justify finding that the property is deemed
"abandoned" for purpose of Class 6b, unless:
1.

There has been a purchase for value and the buildings and other structures have not
been vacant and unused prior to such purchase; or

2.

There has been no purchase for value and the buildings and other structures have been
vacant and unused for less than 24 continuous months.

The finding of abandonment, along with the specification of the special circumstances, shall
be included in the Resolution or Ordinance supporting and consenting to the Class 6b
application. If the Ordinance or Resolution is that of a municipality, the approval of the
County Board is required to validate such a finding that the property is deemed
"abandoned" for purposes of Class 6b, and a County Resolution to that effect shall be
obtained. The applicant must obtain the municipal enabling Ordinance with the required
finding of special circumstances and present such municipal Ordinance to the Board of
Commissioners of Cook County prior to its determination as to whether it will validate such
a finding that the property is deemed "abandoned" for purposes of Class 6b and provide a
County Resolution to that effect. A certified copy of an Ordinance or Resolution finding
that special circumstances exist, as well as a certified copy of a County Ordinance or
Resolution validating such a finding that the property is deemed "abandoned" for purposes
of Class 6b need not be filed at the time of filing the Class 6b eligibility application with the
Assessor, but must be filed with the Assessor no later than the date an assessment appeal

Page 7 of 18

 Finance Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

June 26, 2018

is filed to request the class change to Class 6b. If the Resolution is not filed at the time of
the Class 6b eligibility application, the applicant shall instead file, at that time, a letter from
the municipality or the County as the case may be, confirming that a Resolution or
Ordinance regarding special circumstances has been requested.
If the real estate is located within an Industrial Growth Zone, prior to filing a Class 6b
eligibility application with the Assessor and in lieu of an Ordinance or Resolution, an
applicant may obtain from an authorized officer of the municipality or an authorized officer
of the Cook County Bureau of Economic Development if the real estate is located in an
unincorporated area, a letter stating that the municipality or the County Board, as the case
may be, supports and consents to the filing of the Class 6b application with the Assessor.
Such authorized officer shall have been designated by the legislative body of the
municipality or, in the case of an unincorporated area, by the Cook County Board.
A copy of the authorized officer letter and a certified copy of the legislative action
designating the authorized officer shall be included with the Class 6b application and
submitted to the Cook County Bureau of Economic Development for verification prior to
filing of the application with the Assessor.
In addition, the letter from the authorized officer shall:
1. Describe the redevelopment objective of the municipality;
2. State the applicant's intended use of the property; and
3.

State that an Economic Disclosure Statement, as defined in this Division, was received
and filed by the municipality or County Board, as the case may be.

Following verification that the Class 6b application is in an Industrial Growth Zone and has
been properly submitted with a letter from an authorized officer and a certified copy of the
legislative action designating the authorized officer, the Bureau of Economic Development
will forward the application to the Assessor's Office for filing. A certified copy of the
legislative action designating the authorized officer and the authorized officer letter shall be
included with the Class 6b application at the time of filing the application with the Assessor.
The applicant must demonstrate that the industrial development project qualifies for the
Class 6b classification.
Temporary Emergency Economic Recovery Modification (TEERM) Program: In the
instance where real estate does not meet the definition of abandoned property as defined
herein, the municipality or the County Board, as the case may be, may still determine that
special circumstances justify finding that the property is deemed "abandoned" for purpose
of a Class 6b under the TEERM Program if:

Page 8 of 18

 Finance Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

June 26, 2018

1. There has been no purchase for value; and
2.

The buildings and other structures have been vacant and unused for at least 12
continuous months.

The finding of abandonment, along with the specification of the special circumstances, and
a determination that the applicant's participation in the TEERM Program is necessary for
the development to occur, and that without such designation the industrial enterprise would
not be economically viable causing the property to be in imminent risk of remaining vacant
and unused, shall be included in the Resolution or Ordinance supporting and consenting to
the Class 6b application under the TEERM Program.
In addition, the Ordinance or Resolution where applicable shall:
1. Describe the redevelopment objective of the municipality;
2. State the applicant's intended use of the property; and
3.

State that an Economic Disclosure Statement, as defined in this Division, was received
and filed by the municipality or County Board, as the case may be.

If the Ordinance or Resolution is that of a municipality, the approval of the County Board is
required to validate such a finding that the property is deemed "abandoned" for purposes of
Class 6b, and a County Resolution to that effect shall be obtained. The applicant must
obtain the municipal enabling Ordinance with the required finding of special circumstances
and present such municipal Ordinance to the Board of Commissioners of Cook County
prior to its determination as to whether it will validate such a finding that the property is
deemed "abandoned" for purposes of Class 6b and provide a County Resolution to that
effect. A certified copy of an Ordinance or Resolution finding that special circumstances
exist, as well as a certified copy of a County Ordinance or Resolution validating such a
finding that the property is deemed "abandoned" for purposes of Class 6b need not be filed
at the time of filing the Class 6b application with the Assessor, but must be filed with the
Assessor no later than the date an assessment appeal is filed to request the class change to
Class 6b. If the Resolution is not filed at the time of the Class 6b application, the applicant
shall instead file, at that time, a letter from the municipality or the County as the case may
be, confirming that a Resolution or Ordinance regarding special circumstances has been
requested.
Critical Emergency Employee Retention Modification (CEERM) Program: In the instance
where real estate does not meet the definition of abandoned property as defined herein, the
municipality or the County Board, as the case may be, may still determine that special
circumstances justify finding that the property is deemed "abandoned" for purpose of a
Class 6b under the TEERM Program if:

Page 9 of 18

 Finance Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

June 26, 2018

1. There has been no purchase for value; and
2.

The buildings and other structures have been vacant and unused for at least 3
continuous months.

At least 250 positions would be retained at the subject location and the applicant's
participation in the CEERM Program is necessary for the development to occur, and that
without such designation the industrial enterprise would not be economically viable causing
the property to be in imminent risk of remaining vacant and unused, shall be included in the
Resolution or Ordinance supporting and consenting to the Class 6b application under the
CEERM Program.
In addition, the Ordinance or Resolution where applicable shall:
1. Describe the redevelopment objective of the municipality;
2. State the applicant's intended use of the property; and
3.

State that an Economic Disclosure Statement, as defined in this Division, was received
and filed by the municipality or County Board, as the case may be.

If the Ordinance or Resolution is that of a municipality, the approval of the County Board is
required to validate such a finding that the property is deemed "abandoned" for purposes of
Class 6b, and a County Resolution to that effect shall be obtained. The applicant must
obtain the municipal enabling Ordinance with the required finding of special circumstances
and present such municipal Ordinance to the Board of Commissioners of Cook County
prior to its determination as to whether it will validate such a finding that the property is
deemed "abandoned" for purposes of Class 6b and provide a County Resolution to that
effect. A certified copy of an Ordinance or Resolution finding that special circumstances
exist, as well as a certified copy of a County Ordinance or Resolution validating such a
finding that the property is deemed "abandoned" for purposes of Class 6b need not be filed
at the time of filing the Class 6b application with the Assessor, but must be filed with the
Assessor no later than the date an assessment appeal is filed to request the class change to
Class 6b. If the Resolution is not filed at the time of the Class 6b application, the applicant
shall instead file, at that time, a letter from the municipality or the County as the case may
be, confirming that a Resolution or Ordinance regarding special circumstances has been
requested.
Sustainable Emergency Relief (SER) Program: In the instance where real estate does not
meet the definition of abandoned property as defined herein, the municipality or the County
Board, as the case may be, may still determine that special circumstances justify finding
that the property is deemed "qualified" for purpose of Class 6b under the SER Program if:

Page 10 of 18

 Finance Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

June 26, 2018

1.

The industrial enterprise that occupies the premises has been at the same location for a
minimum of ten years prior to the date of application for the SER Program; and

2.

The industrial enterprise that occupies the premises submits evidence of hardship
supporting a determination that participation in the SER Program is necessary for the
industrial enterprise to continue operations at its current location and maintain its staff,
and that without such designation the industrial enterprise would not be economically
viable causing the property to be in imminent risk of becoming vacant and unused.

The finding that a property is qualified, along with the specification of the special
circumstances, and a determination that the applicant's participation in the SER Program is
necessary for the industrial enterprise to continue operations at its current location and
maintain its staff, and that without such designation the industrial enterprise would not be
economically viable causing the property to be in imminent risk of becoming vacant and
unused, shall be included in the Resolution or Ordinance supporting and consenting to the
Class 6b application under the SER Program.
In addition, the Ordinance or Resolution where applicable shall:
1. Describe the redevelopment objective of the municipality;
2. State the applicant's intended use of the property; and
3.

State that an Economic Disclosure Statement, as defined in this Division, was received
and filed by the municipality or County Board, as the case may be.

If the Ordinance or Resolution is that of a municipality, the approval of the County Board is
required to validate such a finding that the property is deemed "qualified" for purposes of
Class 6b, and a County Resolution to that effect shall be obtained. The applicant must
obtain the municipal enabling Ordinance with the required finding of special circumstances
and present such municipal Ordinance to the Board of Commissioners of Cook County
prior to its determination as to whether it will validate such a finding that the property is
deemed "qualified" for purposes of Class 6b and provide a County Resolution to that effect.
A certified copy of an Ordinance or Resolution finding that special circumstances exist, as
well as a certified copy of a County Ordinance or Resolution validating such a finding that
the property is deemed "qualified" for purposes of Class 6b need not be filed at the time of
filing the Class 6b application with the Assessor, but must be filed with the Assessor no
later than the date an assessment appeal is filed to request the class change to Class 6b. If
the Resolution is not filed at the time of the Class 6b application, the applicant shall instead
file, at that time, a letter from the municipality or the County as the case may be,
confirming that a Resolution or Ordinance regarding special circumstances has been
requested.

Page 11 of 18

 Finance Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

June 26, 2018

Applications for Class 6b incentives pursuant to the TEERM Program or SER Program or
CEERM Program must be received by the Assessor's Office on or before November 30,
2018 to receive consideration.
The Assessor shall provide by rule for the filing of annual reports by recipients of Class 6b
incentives granted pursuant to the SER Program as to the use of the property and the
number of persons employed at the Class 6b site. In such reports, recipients shall be
required to certify whether the industrial enterprise that occupied the premises at the time
of the SER application continues its operations at that location. In addition, recipients of
Class 6b incentives granted pursuant to the SER Program shall be required to report to the
Assessor within 30 days if the industrial enterprise that occupied the premises at the time
of the SER application ceases operations at that location. A copy of such reports will be
forwarded by the Assessor's Office to the Secretary of the County Board for distribution to
members of the County Board from the affected districts. Failure to file such reports within
the time established by the Assessor's rules shall result in loss of the incentive for the
period relating to the non-filing. Additionally, if the industrial enterprise that occupied the
premises at the time of the SER application ceases operations at that location, then the
Class 6b incentive granted pursuant to the SER program shall terminate.
e.

This classification shall continue for a period of 12 years from the date such new
construction (excluding demolition, if any) or such substantial rehabilitation was completed
and initially assessed, or in the case of abandoned property, from the date of substantial
re-occupancy, or in the case of incentives granted pursuant to the TEERM Program, from
the date of the notice of approval. In the case of incentives granted pursuant to the SER
Program, this classification shall continue for a period of 12 years from the date of the
notice of approval, or until the industrial enterprise that occupied the premises at the time of
the SER application ceases operations at that location if that occurs sooner.

f.

Unless a Class 6b granted pursuant to the TEERM Program or the SER Program or the
CEERM Program, this incentive may be renewed during the last year a property is entitled
to a ten percent assessment level pursuant to Section 74-64(7), if the following
requirements are met:
1.

The taxpayer notifies the Assessor's Office of intent to request renewal of the incentive
from the municipality or the County Board if the real estate is located in an
unincorporated area;

2.

The municipality in which the real estate is located or the County Board, if the
estate is located in an unincorporated area, adopts a Resolution expressly stating
the municipality or the County Board, as the case may be, has determined that
industrial use of the property is necessary and beneficial to the local economy,
supports and consents to renewal of the Class 6b; and

Page 12 of 18

real
that
the
and

 Finance Committee

3.

NOTICE AND AGENDA

June 26, 2018

A copy of the Resolution and a completed renewal application are filed with the
Assessor's Office before the expiration of the ten percent assessment level period.
***

Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.

18-4207
Sponsored by:
BRIDGET GAINER, RICHARD R. BOYKIN, JOHN A. FRITCHEY, LARRY
SUFFREDIN, JESÚS G. GARCÍA, LUIS ARROYO JR, JERRY BUTLER, DENNIS DEER, GREGG
GOSLIN, EDWARD M. MOODY, STANLEY MOORE, SEAN M. MORRISON, TIMOTHY O.
SCHNEIDER, PETER N. SILVESTRI, DEBORAH SIMS and JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI, Cook
County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
AN ORDINANCE REQUIRING A FISCAL IMPACT NOTE FOR PENDING LEGISLATION

BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 2 - Administration,
Article III. - County Board, Division I. -- Generally, Section 2-77 is hereby amended as follows:
Section 2-77 Fiscal impact review.

(a) Short title. This Section shall be known and may be cited as the Fiscal Impact Review Ordinance.
(b) Impact note required.
(1) Every measure before the County Board including, but not limited to, any ordinance,
resolution, motion, contract approval, or any amendment thereto (collectively and individually
"measure"), except those measures making a direct appropriation or approving a contract for a
specified amount to be expended within one fiscal year, the purpose or effect of which is to
expend any County funds or to increase or decrease the revenues of the County, or to require the
expenditure of their own funds either directly or indirectly, shall have prepared for it a brief
explanatory statement or note ("fiscal note") which shall include a reliable estimate of the
probable impact of such measure upon the County's annual budget. The Cook County Chief
Financial Officer shall prepare a fiscal impact statement for all ordinances or resolutions that
propose to or would otherwise:
i) expend any funds or increase or decrease the revenues of the County, either directly or
indirectly; or
ii) appropriate funds; or
iii) increase or decrease existing appropriations; or
iv) increase or decrease the fiscal liability of the County; or

Page 13 of 18

 Finance Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

June 26, 2018

v) sell or lease any County asset, including revenue streams from that asset, if the
anticipated revenue from the sale or lease of the asset is greater than $5,000,000,00.
(2) If an ordinance authorizes capital expenditures or appropriates funds for capital expenditures,
a fiscal note shall specify by year any principal and interest payments required to finance such
capital expenditures. In addition, increased operational costs, by year, shall be specified. In no
event shall a fiscal note be required to estimate out-year costs for more than five years.
(c) Responsibility and deadline for furnishing the fiscal note.
1.

The Secretary of the Board chief sponsor of the item under consideration shall request, promptly
after the introduction of the measure before the County Board, the Chief Financial Officer of the
County to prepare a fiscal note impact statement promptly after the introduction of the measure
before the County Board setting forth the information specified in this Section regarding any
measure.

2.

The fiscal impact statement shall be provided to all Commissioners at least 72 hours prior to the
consideration of the ordinance or resolution by the Board of Commissioners; provided a request
by a Commissioner to prepare the fiscal impact statement is made earlier, the Chief Financial
Officer shall prepare the fiscal impact statement and provide it to the Commissioner within 48
hours of such request.
(2) (3) No measure may be called for a final vote by the County Board until delivery of the fiscal
note according to the provisions of this Section, except that whenever, because of the complexity
of the measure, additional time is required for the preparation of the fiscal note the Chief Financial
Officer shall provide each member of the County Board and the President of the County Board
with a statement of reasons why the fiscal note cannot be supplied in seven business days, and
request an extension of time not to exceed five additional business days within which such fiscal
note is to be furnished. Such extension shall be granted only with the consent of the majority of
the members of the County Board and shall not extend beyond the end of the fiscal year in which
the request was made. In no event may such extensions be used to unduly delay or hinder the
consideration of the measure by the County Board. The County Board shall authorize the drafting
of any rules of regulations which shall be subject to County Board approval, to ensure compliance
with this Section.
(3)(4) In connection with the preparation of the fiscal note, all County officials and employees
shall upon request cooperate with the Chief Fiscal Officer in providing information.

(d) Form and content.
1.

The fiscal note shall be factual in nature, as brief and concise as may be, and shall provide as
reliable an estimate, in dollars, as is possible under the circumstances. The fiscal note shall include
both the immediate effect, and if determinable or reasonably foreseeable, the long-range effect of

Page 14 of 18

 Finance Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

June 26, 2018

the measure.
2.

If, after careful investigation it is determined that no dollar estimate is possible, the fiscal note
shall contain a statement to that effect, setting forth the reasons why no such estimate can be
given. A brief summary or work sheet of computations used in arriving at the fiscal note figures
shall be included.

(e) Preparation of fiscal note.
1.

No comment or opinion shall be included in the fiscal note with regard to the merits of the
measure for which the fiscal note is prepared; however, technical or mechanical defects may be
noted.

2.

The work sheet shall include, insofar as practicable, a breakdown of the costs upon which the
fiscal note is based. Such breakdown shall include, but need not be limited to, costs of personnel,
materials and supplies, and capital outlay. The fiscal note shall also include such other information
as is required by the rules and regulations which may be promulgated by the County Board with
respect to the preparation of such fiscal notes. The fiscal impact statement shall, to the degree
possible, consist of an estimate in dollars of the anticipated change in revenue, expenditures, or
fiscal liability under the provisions of the ordinance or resolution. It shall also include a statement
as to the immediate effect and, if determinable or reasonably foreseeable, the long-range effect of
the measure. If after investigation, it is determined that no dollar estimate is possible, the fiscal
impact statement shall contain a statement to that effect, setting forth the reasons why no dollar
estimate can be given. The fiscal impact statement shall include an explanation of the basis or
reasoning on which the estimate is founded, including all assumptions involved. A copy of the
fiscal note shall be delivered to each member of the Board and the President of the County
Board, according to the provisions of subsection (b) of this Section.

3.

The original of the fiscal note and the work sheet shall be signed by the Chief Financial Officer or
such person as the Chief Financial Officer may designate.

(f) No restrictions on committee testimony. The fact that a fiscal note is prepared for any measure shall
not preclude or restrict the appearance before any committee of the County Board, of any official or
authorized employee of any County commission, department, agency or other entity who desires to be
heard in support of or in opposition to the measure.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption...end

18-2073
Sponsored by:
JESÚS G. GARCÍA, LARRY SUFFREDIN and RICHARD R. BOYKIN, Cook
County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED SUBSTITUTE TO 18-2073

Page 15 of 18

 Finance Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

June 26, 2018

PROPOSED ORDINANCE
AN ORDINANCE TO ESTABLISH A CONSENSUS REVENUE FORECASTING
COMMISSION FOR COOK COUNTY
Sponsored by: JESUS G. GARCIA and LARRY SUFFREDIN, COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter 2 Administration,
Article III, County Board, Division sections 2-84 through 2-85 of the Cook County Code, is hereby
enacted as follows:
Sec. 2-84. An Ordinance to establish a Consensus Revenue Forecasting Commission for Cook
County

(a) The purpose of the Commission will be to develop a consensus revenue forecast on an annual
basis to be updated quarterly. The forecast will include but not be limited to: Sales and taxes,
Property Taxes, Cigarette Taxes, Fuel Taxes and other sources of County revenue.
(b) The Commission will also be responsible for evaluating and forecasting any new revenue sources
proposed by the Board and or Executive.
(c) The forecast will be completed no later than September 15th of each fiscal year, and will be
updated quarterly thereafter, to enable coordination with the County Budget and to allow for
mid-year adjustments.
(d) The Commission will have seven members appointed by the County Board President and
confirmed by the County Board, but also by virtue of their respective positions including:
Chairman of the Business and Economic Development Committee, Chairman of the Pension
Committee, Chairman of the Finance Committee, the Chief Financial Officer of Cook County, an
economist working for the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, an academic economist with
expertise in local economic conditions housed at a University located in Cook County, one
member of the public with expertise in public finance.
(e) Board Members will serve for three years and can be reappointed for consecutive terms.
(f) The Commission has the authority to purchase subscriptions to economic and financial data,
engage outside forecasting resources and hire staff as needed as approved by the Board of
Commissioners.
(g) All meetings of the Commission will be open to the public.

Page 16 of 18

 Finance Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

June 26, 2018

(h) The forecast and assumptions will be made publicly available on the County’s website.
Effective Date: This Ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption

18-4109
Sponsored by: DENNIS DEER, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
AMENDMENT
COMPLIANCE

TO

COUNTY

CONTACTS

REGARDING

SEXUAL

HARASSMENT

BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 42, Human Relations,
Section. 42-40 of the Cook County Code, is hereby amended as follows:
Sec. 42-40. - County contracts .

(a) Prohibition. No person who is a party to a contract with Cook County ("County") shall
engage in unlawful discrimination or sexual harassment against any individual in the terms or conditions of
employment, credit, public accommodations, housing, or provision of County facilities, services or
programs. "Sexual harassment" has such meaning as is ascribed to it in other sections of this article.
(b) Contract provisions. The purchasing agent Chief Procurement Officer for the County, and
all other department heads, as authorized, shall include a provision in all County contracts that sets forth
the County's policies with respect to unlawful discrimination and sexual harassment, as embodied in this
article, and that requires every contractor to certify its compliance with these policies and its agreement to
abide by such policies as a part of the contractor's contractual obligations. In certifying its compliance
with this section, every Contractor shall certify that it has policies, procedures, and training advising
employees of the illegality of sexual harassment and the rights and remedies for aggrieved employees. All
County contracts shall further provide that if any party to a contract with the County is found to have
violated any provision of this article, or furnished false or misleading information in any investigation,
hearing, or inquiry held pursuant to this article, that contract may be subject to a declaration of default and
termination.
(c) Exception. This section applies only to contracts executed after the effective date of the
ordinance from which this article is derived.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption

Page 17 of 18

 Finance Committee NOTICE AND AGENDA June 26, 2018

 

gm 

Secretary

 

 

Page 18 af18

