Allegheny County Council
436 Grant Street
Pittsburgh, PA 15219
Phone (412) 350-6490

Meeting Minutes
Wednesday, March 14, 2018
4:00 PM

Conference Room 1

Committee on Budget and Finance
Paul Klein, Chair; Sam DeMarco, Nick Futules, Bob Macey, Chuck Martoni, Sue Means
and John Palmiere, Members.

 Committee on Budget and Finance

Meeting Minutes

March 14, 2018

I. Call to Order
The meeting was called to order at 4:02.

Invited Guests:
William D. McKain, CPA, County Manager or Designee
Mary C. Soroka, Director, Budget and Finance or Designee
Mr. McKain was present from the Office of the County Manager.
Ms. Soroka, Ms. Berbekec and Ms. Perez were present from the Department of Budget
& Finance.
Mr. Barker and Ms. Roka were present from the Office of County Council.

II. Roll Call
Members Present:

1-

Paul Klein

Members Absent:

5-

Sam DeMarco ,Nick Futules,Bob Macey,Chuck Martoni andJohn Palmiere

Members Phone:

1-

Sue Means

Members
Non-Members:

2-

Anita Prizio andPatrick Catena

III. Approval of Minutes

10552-18

Motion to approve the minutes of the Committee on Budget and Finance
meeting held on February 28, 2018.
A motion was made by Means, seconded by Klein, that this matter be Passed.
The motion carried by a unanimous vote.

IV. Agenda Items
Resolutions

10538-18

A Resolution of the County of Allegheny amending the Grants and Special Accounts
Budget for 2018 (Submission #01-18).

Sponsors: Chief Executive

At the request of the Chair, Ms. Roka read the title of the bill and Mr. McKain provided a
brief overview, noting that the first grant is newly awarded by PCCD to the Medical
Examiner's office for the purpose of covering expenses relating to staff training and travel
necessary for re-accreditation, as well as supplies to be used for training purposes. Ms.
Soroka noted that some of the funding will also be used to keep some staff certifications
current. Mr. McKain indicated that 53 staff members would receive training in one
fashion or another.
In response to questions from the Chair, Mr. McKain indicated that re-accreditation is on
a four year timeframe, and discussed the process by which the grant application was
derived and filed. Mr. McKain and Ms. Soroka noted that there is no match requirement
Allegheny County Council

Page 1

Printed on 6/11/2018

 Committee on Budget and Finance

Meeting Minutes

March 14, 2018

for this or any other of the grants covered by the resolution.
Mr. McKain noted that the second grant is from NACCHO to the Health Department for
the purpose of strengthening the capabilities of local medical reserve corps opioid
response capabilities, primarily within the City of Pittsburgh.
Ms. Means noted that any assistance in fighting the opioid epidemic is appreciated, and
Mr. McKain agreed.
Mr. McKain noted that the third grant is a $10,000 increase to an already budgeted
$200,000 grant from DEP to reduce the threat of mosquito-borne illness in the County.
In response to questions from Ms. Means, Mr. McKain noted that there are ample
opportunities to use funds for the delineated purpose, and offered to provide data
regarding success criteria.
Mr. McKain noted that the third grant is a $25,054 increase in a previously budgeted grant
from PCCD to the Court of Common Pleas to provide improved opioid training to court
personnel, enhance supervision tools available to probabtion officers who are responsible
for individuals with opioid addictions, and to improve equipment and materials.
Ms. Means repeated her thoughts on the desirability of obtaining additional tools for
fighting the opioid epidemic.
A motion was made by Means, seconded by Klein, that this matter be
Affirmatively Recommended. The motion carried by a unanimous vote.

V. Adjournment
The meeting was adjourned at 4:14.

Allegheny County Council

Page 2

Printed on 6/11/2018

 