  
  
42  W.  Madison  Street  •  Chicago,  Illinois  60602  
Telephone:  773/553-­1600    

   
December   1,   2017   
Staff   and   Local   School   Council      
Staff   and   Local   School   Council   
Wilma   Rudolph   Elementary   Learning   Center   
Hope   Institute   Learning   Academy      
110   North   Paulina   Street   
1628   West   Washington   Boulevard   
   
Re:   
Proposed    Co-­‐‑location    of    Wilma    Rudolph    Elementary    Learning    Center    and    Hope    Institute   
Learning   Academy   
   
Dear   Staff   and   Local   School   Council   Members:      
Chicago   Public   Schools   (CPS)   is   committed   to   providing   every   child   from   every   community   with   a   
high   quality   education   that   prepares   them   for   success   in   college   and   in   life.   CPS   students   continue   to   
make    record-­‐‑breaking    academic    progress    in    every    part    of    the    city.    Our    vision    is    that    all    CPS    schools   
can   build   on   this   progress   by   offering   high   quality,   rigorous   instruction   from   talented   educators   that   
help   put   Chicago   students   on   a   path   to   lasting   success.   
   
To   provide   the   students   of   Rudolph   Elementary   Learning   Center,   located   at   110   North   Paulina   Street,   
with   an   improved   and   enhanced   learning   environment,   I   am   proposing   the   co-­‐‑location   of   Rudolph   
Elementary   Learning   Center   with   Hope   Institute   Learning   Academy,   located   at   1628   W.   Washington   
Boulevard.            
   
This    proposal    is    consistent    with    the    Chief    Executive    Officer’s    Guidelines    for    School    Actions   
(Guidelines)    for    co-­‐‑locations    because    it    is    a    proposal    formally    requested    by    several    members    of    the   
Rudolph    school    community.    Specifically,    we    have    heard    the    request    for    this    proposal    from    the   
Principal,   Local   School   Council   (LSC)   Chair   and   other   staff   and   community   members   at   Rudolph.   The   
resulting   space   utilization   data   after   the   co-­‐‑location   will   not   exceed   the   facility’s   enrollment   efficiency   
range,   as   defined   by   the   CPS’   Space   Utilization   Standards.   Additionally,   the   students   impacted   by   this   
proposed   co-­‐‑location   are   being   provided   with   an   ADA   accessible   building.   
   
If   this   proposal   is   approved   by   the   Board   of   Education   of   the   City   of   Chicago   (Board),   CPS   will   co-­‐‑
locate   Rudolph   Elementary   Learning   Center   with   Hope   Learning   Institute   Academy.   
   
If   you   would   like   more   detail   about   the   proposed   co-­‐‑location,   please   refer   to   the   Draft   Transition   Plan   
that   is   included   with   this   letter.   
   
As    a    next    step,    CPS    will    hold    two    community    meetings    and    one    public    hearing    to    hear    further   
feedback   on   CPS’   proposal   (meeting   information   is   below).   Following   the   meetings   and   hearing,   the   
Board   of   Education   may   vote   on   this   proposal   as   early   as   February   of   2018.   
   
   

   

   
  
42  W.  Madison  Street  •  Chicago,  Illinois  60602  
Telephone:  773/553-­1600    

   
Public   Comment   on   this   Proposal      
   
I   invite   you   to   share   your   feedback   on   this   proposal   during   the   following   two   community   meetings   
and   one   public   hearing   noted   below:   
Community   Meeting   1   
   
January   10,   2018                  
6   to   8   p.m.   
Hope   Institute   Learning   Academy   
1628   W   Washington   Boulevard   

Community   Meeting   2   
   
January   17,   2018                  
6   to   8   p.m.   
Hope   Institute   Learning   Academy   
1628   W   Washington   Boulevard   

Public   Hearing   
   
January   29,   2018   
4:30   to   5:30   p.m.   
CPS   Central   Office   
42   West   Madison   Street   

   
   
   
   
   
   
   
If   you   wish   to   comment   at   the   community   meetings   or   hearing,   you   must   sign   up   to   speak   on   the   day   
of,   at   the   designated   location,   beginning   one   hour   before   the   designated   start   time   and   ending   one   
hour   after   the   start   of   the   meeting   or   hearing.   You   will   have   two   minutes   to   speak,   unless   the   hearing   
officer   or   meeting   organizer   provides   an   extension.      The   hearing   will   conclude   at   the   stated   end   time   
or   following   the   comments   of   the   last   person   who   has   signed   up   to   speak,   whichever   occurs   first.   
   
Further   Questions   and   Concerns:   
All   of   this   information   can   be   found   at   CPS.edu/Transitions.   If   you   have   any   questions   or   concerns   
regarding   this   proposal   and   the   Draft   Transition   Plan,   please   call   Chicago   Public   Schools   at   (773)   553-­‐‑
1500   or   email   Transitions@cps.edu.   
         
Sincerely,   
   
   
   
Forrest   Claypool   
   
Chief   Executive   Officer      
Chicago   Public   Schools      

   

   

   
   
   

   
   
   

 