Detroit Water and Sewerage
Department
Meeting Minutes - Final

735 Randolph
Detroit, Michigan 48226
(313) 224-4704 Office
dwsd.legistar.com

Board of Water Commissioners
Wednesday, August 1, 2018

2:30 PM

5th Floor Board Room, Water Board Building

Capital Improvement Plan Committee Meeting

1.

CALL TO ORDER
Chairman Coleman called the meeting to order at 3:36 p.m.

2.

ROLL CALL
Present:

3.

4 - Commissioner Linda Forte, Commissioner Michael Einheuser,
Commissioner Lane Coleman and Commissioner John Henry Davis

APPROVAL OF AGENDA
Chairman Coleman requested approval of the agenda.
A motion was made by Commissioner Linda Forte, seconded by Commissioner
Michael Einheuser that the agenda be approved. The motion carried by a
unanimous vote.

4.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Chairman Coleman requested approval of the minutes of July 10, 2018.
A motion was made by Commissioner Linda Forte, seconded by Commissioner
Michael Einheuser that the minutes be approved. The motion carried by a
unanimous vote.

5.

PUBLIC COMMENTS (3 minutes per speaker)
There was none.

6.

COMMUNICATIONS
There was none.

7.

UNFINISHED BUSINESS
Revised CIP Committee Charter/Planning Calendar (18-0004)

8.
A.

NEW BUSINESS

18-0152

CIP Quarterly Report

Detroit Water and Sewerage Department

Page 1

 Board of Water Commissioners
Sponsors:
Attachments:

Meeting Minutes - Final

August 1, 2018

Mobley
CIP QTR3 FY 2018

This Communication or Report was received and filed.

18-0175

The Board of Water Commissioners for the City of Detroit, Water and Sewerage
Department authorizes the Director to take necessary and appropriate actions to
effectuate the introduction and passage by Detroit City Council of the New
Post-Construction Stormwater Management Ordinance, and also authorizes
the Director to take such other action as may be necessary to accomplish the intent
of this vote.
Sponsors:
Attachments:

Mobley
2018-07-26 Section 56 Detroit SW Ordinance_BOWC
2018-07-26 Stormwater Management Design Manual

A motion was made by Commissioner Linda Forte, seconded by Commissioner
Michael Einheuser that this Resolution, BOWC be recommended for approval .
The motion carried by a unanimous vote.

18-0174

The Board of Water Commissioners for the City of Detroit, Water and Sewerage
Department authorizes the Director to implement a New Stormwater
Management Plan Review fee schedule, effective upon City Council
adoption of the Post Construction Stormwater Management Ordinance, and
also authorizes the Director to take such other action as may be necessary to
accomplish the intent of this vote.
Sponsors:
Attachments:

Mobley
2018-07-26 PCSWMO Stormwater Management Plan Review
Fee_BOWC
2018-07-26 Stormwater Management Design Manual

A motion was made by Commissioner Lane Coleman, seconded by
Commissioner John Henry Davis that this Resolution, BOWC be recommended
for approval. The motion carried by a unanimous vote.

18-0177

The Board of Water Commissioners for the City of Detroit Water and Sewerage
Department (DWSD), authorizes the Director to execute on behalf of the
DWSD the Development Agreement between City of Detroit Housing &
Revitalization Department (HRD), DWSD, and Douglass Acquisition
Company LLC (DAC), regarding an Affordable Housing Agreement
between HRD and Bedrock Management Services LLC, of which DAC is
an affiliate, to provide for the construction of affordable housing units at the
former Frederick Douglass public housing site (Douglass Site), on the
following conditions outlined in the motion, and also authorizes the Director to
take such other action as may be necessary to accomplish the intent of this vote.

Detroit Water and Sewerage Department

Page 2

 Board of Water Commissioners

Sponsors:

Meeting Minutes - Final

August 1, 2018

Pospiech

Attachments:

Council Letter & Resolution_Dev Agreement with Douglass
Acquisition Co.

A motion was made by Commissioner Michael Einheuser, seconded by
Commissioner John Henry Davis that this Resolution be recommended for
approval. The motion carried by a unanimous vote.

9.

OTHER MATTERS
There was none.

10.

NEXT MEETING
September 5, 2018

11.

ADJOURNMENT
Chairman Coleman requested a motion to adjourn.
A motion was made by Commissioner Michael Einheuser, seconded by
Commissioner John Henry Davis that the meeting be adjourned. The motion
carried by a unanimous vote.

There being no further business, the meeting adjourned at 4:24 p.m.

Detroit Water and Sewerage Department

Page 3

 