Allegheny County Council
436 Grant Street
Pittsburgh, PA 15219
Phone (412) 350-6490
Fax (412) 350-6499

Meeting Minutes
Tuesday, March 13, 2018
4:00 PM

Conference Room 1

Committee on Public Works
Bob Macey, Chair; Sam DeMarco, Cindy Kirk, Paul Klein, Robert Palmosina, Denise
Ranalli-Russell and DeWitt Walton, Members

 Committee on Public Works

Meeting Minutes

March 13, 2018

I. Call to Order
The meeting was called to order at 4:00.

Invited Guests:
William D. McKain, CPA, Allegheny County Manager or designee(s)
Stephen Shanley, Director, Allegheny County Department of Public Works
Mr. McKain was present from the Office of the County Manager.
Mr. Shanley was present from the Department of Public Works.
Mr. Barker was present from the Office of County Council.

II. Roll Call
Members Present:

3-

Robert Palmosina,DeWitt Walton andBob Macey

Members Absent:

4-

Sam DeMarco ,Cindy Kirk,Paul Klein andDenise Ranalli-Russell

Members
Non-Members:

1-

Sue Means

III. Approval of Minutes

10553-18

Motion to approve the minutes of the February 14, 2018 meeting of the
Committee on Public Works.
A motion was made by Palmosina, seconded by Walton, that this matter be
Passed. The motion carried by a unanimous vote.

IV. Agenda Items
Ordinances

10536-18

An Ordinance authorizing the County of Allegheny to acquire by condemnation
certain right-of-way and temporary construction easement areas from a parcel
required to reconstruct Jacks Run Bridge No. 4 carrying Jacks Run Road over Jacks
Run in Ross Township, and to take such further action as may be necessary under
applicable law, including the Eminent Domain Code.

Sponsors: Chief Executive

At the request of the Chair, the clerk read the title of the bill and Mr. McKain summarized
its provisions, noting that the bridge in question is in need of repair and is of significant
importance to the community in which it is located. Mr. McKain noted that the County's
efforts at reaching an amicable agreement to purchase the easements in question had
not yet succeeded; the County had an appraisal and offered $3,000 plus relocation of a
fense and construction of an access ramp (a total of over $23,000 in total compensation
value), but the property owners had not yet agreed to terms.
In response to a question from the Chair, Mr. Shanley noted that the bridge is classified
as structurally deficient and that the County is continuing to attempt to negotiate, but the
Allegheny County Council

Page 1

Printed on 4/26/2018

 Committee on Public Works

Meeting Minutes

March 13, 2018

bridge's condition gives rise to a timeliness issue regarding the project.
In response to a question from Ms. Means, Mr. McKain noted that the offer remains open
and negotiations can take place even after the Council approves the ordinance
(assuming that it does so). Mr. McKain summarized how the process would continue
should the eminent domain seizure become necessary. Mr. Dillon noted that the fence
relocation would have to take place regardless, due to the fence's proximity to the work
area.
A motion was made by Palmosina, seconded by Macey, that this matter be
Affirmatively Recommended. The motion carried by a unanimous vote.

V. Adjournment
The meeting was adjourned at 4:09.

Allegheny County Council

Page 2

Printed on 4/26/2018

 