  
  
42  W.  Madison  Street  •  Chicago,  Illinois  60602  
Telephone:  773/553-­1600    

   
December   1,   2017   
   
Parent   or   Guardian   of   a   Student   at   
Parent   or   Guardian   of   a   Student   at   
Wilma   Rudolph   Elementary   Learning   Center   
Hope   Institute   Learning   Academy   
110   North   Paulina   Street   
1628   W   Washington   Boulevard   
   
Re:    Proposed    Co-­‐‑location    of    Rudolph    Elementary    Learning    Center    and    Hope    Institute    Learning   
Academy      
   
Dear   Parent   or   Guardian:   
   
Chicago   Public   Schools   (CPS)   is   committed   to   providing   every   child   from   every   community   with   a   
high   quality   education   that   prepares   them   for   success   in   college   and   in   life.   CPS   students   continue   to   
make    record-­‐‑breaking    academic    progress    in    every    part    of    the    city.    Our    vision    is    that    all    CPS    schools   
can   build   on   this   progress   by   offering   high   quality,   rigorous   instruction   from   talented   educators   that   
help   put   Chicago   students   on   a   path   to   lasting   success.   
   
To   provide   the   students   of   Rudolph   Elementary   Learning   Center,   located   at   110   North   Paulina   Street,   
with   an   improved   and   enhanced   learning   environment,   I   am   proposing   the   co-­‐‑location   of   Rudolph   
Elementary   Learning   Center   with   Hope   Institute   Learning   Academy,   located   at   1628   W.   Washington   
Boulevard.            
   
This    proposal    is    consistent    with    the    Chief    Executive    Officer’s    Guidelines    for    School    Actions   
(Guidelines)   for   consolidations   because   it   is   a   proposal   formally   requested   by   several   members   of   
the   Rudolph   school   community.   Specifically,   we   have   heard   the   request   for   this   proposal   from   the   
Principal,   Local   School   Council   (LSC)   Chair   and   other   staff   and   community   members   at   Rudolph.   The   
resulting    space    utilization    data    after    the    consolidation    will    not    exceed    the    facility’s    enrollment   
efficiency    range,    as    defined    by    the    CPS’    Space    Utilization    Standards.    Additionally,    the    students   
impacted   by   this   proposed   consolidation   are   being   provided   with   an   ADA   accessible   building.   
   
If   this   proposal   is   approved   by   the   Board   of   Education   of   the   City   of   Chicago   (Board),   CPS   will   co-­‐‑
locate   Rudolph   Elementary   Learning   Center   with   Hope   Institute   Learning   Academy.   
   
If    you    would    like    more    detail    about    the    proposed    consolidation,    please    refer    to    the    Draft    Transition   
Plan   that   is   included   with   this   letter.   
   
As    a    next    step,    CPS    will    hold    two    community    meetings    and    one    public    hearing    to    hear    further   
feedback   on   CPS’   proposal   (meeting   information   is   below).   Following   the   meetings   and   hearing,   the   
Board   of   Education   may   vote   on   this   proposal   as   early   as   February   of   2018.   
   

   

   
  
42  W.  Madison  Street  •  Chicago,  Illinois  60602  
Telephone:  773/553-­1600    

   
Public   Comment   on   this   Proposal   
I   invite   you   to   share   your   feedback   on   the   proposed   co-­‐‑location   for   Rudolph   and   Hope   during   the   
following   two   community   meetings   and   one   public   hearing   outlined   below:   
   
Community   Meeting   1   
Community   Meeting   2   
Public   Hearing   
   
   
   
January   10,   2018                  
January   17,   2018                  
January   29,   2018   
6   to   8   p.m.   
6   to   8   p.m.   
4:30   to   5:30   p.m.   
Hope   Institute   Learning   Academy    Hope   Institute   Learning   Academy    CPS   Central   Office   
1628   W   Washington   Boulevard   
1628   W   Washington   Boulevard   
42   West   Madison   Street   
   
If    you    wish    to    comment    at    the    community    meetings    or    hearing,    please    adhere    to    the    following   
procedures.      You   must   sign   up   to   speak   on   the   day   of,   at   the   designated   location,   beginning   one   hour   
before   the   designated   start   time   and   ending   30   minutes   after   the   start   of   the   meeting   or   hearing.      You   
will    have    two    minutes    to    speak,    unless    the    hearing    officer    or    meeting    organizer    provides    an   
extension.      The   hearing   will   conclude   at   the   stated   end   time   or   following   the   comments   of   the   last   
person   who   has   signed   up   to   speak,   whichever   occurs   first.   
   
Thank   you   in   advance   for   your   feedback   as   we   work   to   provide   all   Chicago   Public   School   students   
with   the   high   quality   education   they   deserve.      After   the   community   meetings   and   public   hearing,   I   
will    review    a    written    report    from    the    hearing    officer    and    at    that    time,    I    may    recommend    that    the   
Board   consider   and   approve   the   co-­‐‑location   of   Rudolph   and   Hope.   
   
Further   questions   and   concerns   
All   of   this   information   can   be   found   at   CPS.edu/Transitions.      If   you   have   any   questions   or   concerns   
regarding    this    proposal    and    the    Draft    Transition    Plan,    please    email    transitions@cps.edu    or    call   
Chicago   Public   Schools   at   (773)   553-­‐‑1500.   
   
   
Sincerely,   
   
   
   
Forrest   Claypool   
   
   
   
Chief   Executive   Officer      
   
   
Chicago   Public   Schools      
   
   

   

   

 