 

Board of Commissioners of Cook County

Minutes of the Finance Committee

Tuesday, June 26, 2018 10:30 AM Cook County Building, Board Room,
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

ATTENDANCE
Present: Chairman Daley, Vice Chairman Sims, Commissioners Arroyo, Boykin, Butler, Deer, Fritchey,
Gainer, Garcia Goslin, Moody, Moore, Morrison, Schneider, Silvestri, Suffredin and Tobolski

(17)

PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Chairman Daley asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public Speakers, in accordance
with Cook County Code.

1. Mark - Chicago Urban Fine Arts Commonwealth

18?3651
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWIN KLE (President), Cook County Board ofCommissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT

COOK COUNTY MEDICAL ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 38, Health and Human
Services, Article VI, Medical Examiner, Division 1, Generally, Sections. 38?109 through 38?148 of the
Cook County Code, is hereby amended as follows:

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 38-109. - Of?ce of coroner eliminated.

The of?ce of Coroner of Cook County is hereby eliminated. This article shall be known and may be
cited as the Cook County Medical Examiner's Ordinance.?

Sec. 38?110. Definitions.

{The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this artiele?ordinance, shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning}



Sec. 38?119. - Deaths subject to investigation; establishing manner and cause of death.

Where a death has occurred under any of the circumstances enumerated in Section 38-1 18, then an
investigation, including autopsy if necessary; shall be conducted suf?cient to establish manner and cause
of death, and the Medical Examiner shall recover and retain any and all evidence for use in the investigation.
The Medical Examiner shall obtain specimens necessary to determine the cause and manner of death and
retain them in accordance with nationally established practice guidelines for forensic pathology. The
Medical Examiner shall have the authority to retain tissue specimen necessary to determine the cause and
manner of death without noti?cation or family permission and will have the authority to retain such body
parts as the Medical Examiner deems necessary in the public interest with noti?cation to any identi?ed
next-of?kin. The Medical Examiner shall have the authority to dispose of retained body parts or tissue
Specimen in an appropriate manner consistent with law, including using
anonymized tissue samples for research in lieu of destruction.

An investigation into a death does not necessarily imply that an autOpsy and/or a scene examination
will be performed. The?necessi?eef?aAn autopsy and/or a scene examination will be deteemined?
byconducted at the Medical Examiner?s discretion based 

generally accepted guidelines for conducting medico-legal death investigations.
Sec. 38-120. Deaths subject to investigation; death certi?cate.

1n deaths subject to investigation under Section 38-1 18, the Medical Examiner, upon completion of
his/her investigationand?examinatien, shall cause a death certi?cate to be issued speci?cally setting forth
the cause, circumstances and manner of death, ifdeterminable, or if undeterminable, so state.

Sec. 38?121. - Deaths subject to investigation; duty to notify.

Any person, including, but not limited to, any law enforcement of?cer, physician, nurse, ambulance
attendant, hospital director or administrator, or funeral director who may become aware of a death subject
to investigation under Section 38-1 18 maysjill immediately report such death to the Of?ce of the Medical
Examiner or to any law enforcement of?cer; any such report to a law enforcement of?cer shall be
immediately transmitted to the Medical Examiner.

Sec. 38?122. Deaths subject to investigation; examination of scene.

Upon receipt of a report pursuant to Section 38-121, the Medical Examiner or his/her appointed
representative shall go to the location of the body and take charge of same, and shall begin his/her
investigation with an examination of the scene except when permission for removal has been approved
pursuant to Section 38~123 or removal is otherwise authorized under 38?123 to preserve such body from
damage or destruction, or to protect life, safety, or health. Any such removal of the body pursuant to
Section 38~123 shall not preclude the Medical Examiner or his/her appointed represented from examining
the scene.

Page 2 of 46

Sec. 38-123. Deaths subject to investigation; permission required for removal.

No dead human body whose death may be subject to investigation under Section 38-] 18, or the personal
property of such a deceased person, shall be handled, disturbed, embalmed or removed from the place of
death by any person except with the permission of the Medical Examiner, unless the same shall be
necessary to preserve such body from damage or destruction, or to protect life, safety, or health.

Whenever the Medical Examiner shall lawfully assume jurisdiction of a body, it shall not be
removed or released from his/her jurisdiction except upon his/her direction and consent or as otherwise
permitted in this Section.

=5?er

Sec. 38-125. Procedures and powers in investigation into cause of death.

The Medical Examiner shall have the power to establish and supervise the procedures to be
utilized in the conduct of investigations necessary to establish the cause and manner of death. The
Medical Examiner, at his/her option, shall have the power to call and conduct public hearings in cases of
public interest.

The Medical Examiner shall have the power to issue subpoenas requiring persons to give
information under oath and to produce books, records, papers or such other documents or objects the
Medical Examiner shall deem necessary to establish the cause or manner of death. The Medical
Examiner or a hearing of?cer acting in his/her behalf shall have the power to administer the necessary
oath or affirmation to such witness. Any witness appearing at an investigation or public hearing shall have
the right to be represented by counsel.

(0) The Medical Examiner shall have the power to request and obtain medical and/or mental health
records within 24 hours ofthe first day of business operations ofa hospital or physician's office that has
treated a decedent under investigation by the Medical Examiner.

The Medic-a1 Examiner shall have the power to request and obtain hospital admission blood
samples on any death under investigation by the Medical Examiner. Hospitals shall retain
admission blood samples for 3.14% hours following the death ofa patient who will fall under investigation
by the Medical Examiner as described in Section 38-1 18.

 



Sec. 38-131. - Deaths subject to investigation; release of the body.

Upon completion of the Medical Examiner?s investigation?and?examinatien, the Medical Examiner
shall release the body of the decedent to the decedent?s next-of?kin, personal representative, friends, or to
the person designated in writing by the decedent or to the funeral director selected by such person or other
authorized person, as the case may be, for proper disposition.

Page 3 of 46



Sec. 38-137. - Retention of human remains.

Notwithstanding other provisions in this Article-ordinance, if the Medical Examiner determines that a
body needs to be retained greater than 90 days then the Medical Examiner shall provide a written report to
the Advisory Committee and County Board stating the reason for retention. The Medical Examiner shall
report to Advisory Committee and County Board on this matter quarterly.



Sec. 38-141. - Advisory committee.


Attendance. The members of this Committee shall attend meetings to be held at the Medical
Examiner?s Office on a quarterly basis, beginning with the third quarter of the ?scal year in which this

Ordinance {w?c?iele} is enacted.

aura:

Sec. 38-144. - Fees.

The Medical Examiner shall charge the following fees with the amounts as set in Section 32?1 of
this Code.


(18) Conference room use fee. Fee charged for use of the Medical Examiner?s Conference Room
located in the basement of the Office of the Cook County Medical Examiner. Conference room

use fees shall be paid to the Cook County Medical Examiner in advance. unless special
circumstances warrant a fee waiver which may be granted at the discretion of the Medical

Examiner.

an?:

Sec. 38?148. - Penalty for violation.

Any person who knowingly violates any provision of this Qgrdinance {?Artielel?may be fined not more
than $1,000.00 and imprisoned not more than six months per violation.

Page 4 of 46



BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 32 Fees,
Sec. 32-1 of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as follows:

Sec. Fee schedule.

The fees or charges provided for or required by the below?listed sections shall be as shown
below:

CHAPTER 38, HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES

 

384440) Autopsy report 50.00
38?1440) Toxicology report 25.00
381-144(3) Miscellaneous reports, including artist's drawings,
but not including police reports 25.00
353-144(4) Permit to cremate a dead human body 100 00 50.00
38-1446) Return fee 300.00
38?144(6) Death certi?cate amendment fee 20.00
38-1440) Storage fee 500-00
323-144(8) Photographs, radiographs, histology slides actual cost or $3.00
whichever is greater
3 8?144(9) Charge to non?county owned hospitals for the
acceptance of fetal remains not falling under the
jurisdiction of the medical examiner, per fetus 100.00
238-144(10) Con?rmation of death letter, per letter 5.00
38-1440 1) Tissue procurement morgue use fee, per case 250.00
38?1440 2) Student and resident rotation fees, per month 500.00
38-144( 1 3) Staff supervision of external experts fee, per hour,
one hour minimum 100.00
335-144(14) Toxicology send-out fee100.00

Page 5 of 46

38?144( 1 5) Laboratory use fee, per day (subject to waiver) 250.00

318-144(16) Expert witness fee, Chief Medical Examiner, per hour,
one hour minimum (subject to waiver) 600.00

38?144( 1 6) Expert witness fee, Assistant Chief Medical Examiner,
per hour, one hour minimum (subject to waiver) 550.00

38-144(16) Expert witness fee, Assistant Medical Examiners,
per hour, one hour minimum 500.00
(subject to waiver)

 

 

38-144( 1 7) Cremation fee (subject to waiver) 250.00
38-144(18) Conference Room (basement) use fee 100.00
per hour, two hour minimum
(subject to waiver)

Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately in relation to the Ordinance Amendments
provided in Chapter 38, Sections 38-109 through 38?148; the fee Ordinance Amendments provided in
Chapter 32 Fees, Section 32?1 in regards to Section 38?144 shall take effect on December 1, 2018.

A motion was made by Commissioner Arroyo, seconded by Commissioner Suffredin, to recommend
for approval 18-3651. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Chairman Daley, Vice Chairman Sims, Commissioners Arroyo, Boykin, Butler, Deer, Fritchey,
Gainer, Garcia Goslin, Moody, Moore, Morrison, Schneider, Silvestri, Suffredin and Tobolski

(17)

18420]
Sponsored by: SEAN M. MORRISON, Cook County Board ofCommissioners

PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT

AMENDMENT TO SECTION 74-63 ASSESSMENT CLASSES

BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that CHAPTER 74 TAXATION,
ARTICLE 11 REAL PROPERTY TAXATION, DIVISION 2 CLASSIFICATION SYSTEM FOR

ASSESSMENT, SECTION 74-63 ASSESSMENT CLASSES of the Cook County Code is hereby
amended as Follows:

Page 6 of 46

Sec. 74?63. - Assessment classes.

Real estate is divided into the following assessment classes:



(7) Class 62). Real estate used primarily for industrial purposes, consisting of all newly constructed
buildings or other structures, including the land upon which they are situated; or abandoned
property, including the land upon which such property is situated; or all buildings and other
structures which are substantially rehabilitated to the extent such rehabilitation has added to
their value, including quali?ed land related to the rehabilitation. Land quali?es when the
rehabilitation adds vertical or horizontal square footage to the improvements. The amount of
land eligible for the incentive shall be in such proportion as the square footage added by the
rehabilitation bears to the total square footage of the improvements on the parcel.



d. In the instance where real estate does not meet the definition of abandoned property as
defined herein, the municipality or the County Board, as the case may be, may still
determine that special circumstances justify ?nding that the property is deemed
"abandoned" for purpose of Class 6b, unless:

I. There has been a purchase for value and the buildings and other structures have not
been vacant and unused prior to such purchase; or

2. There has been no purchase for value and the buildings and other structures have been
vacant and unused for less than 24 continuous months.

The finding of abandonment, along with the Specification of the special circumstances, shall
be included in the Resolution or Ordinance supporting and consenting to the Class 6b
application. If the Ordinance or Resolution is that of a municipality, the approval of the
County Board is required to validate such a finding that the property is deemed
"abandoned" for purposes of Class 6b, and a County Resolution to that effect shall be
obtained. The applicant must obtain the municipal enabling Ordinance with the required
finding of special circumstances and present such municipal Ordinance to the Board of
Commissioners of Cook County prior to its determination as to whether it will validate such
a finding that the property is deemed "abandoned" for purposes of Class 6b and provide a
County Resolution to that effect. A certified copy of an Ordinance or Resolution finding
that special circumstances exist, as well as a certified copy of a County Ordinance or
Resolution validating such a finding that the property is deemed "abandoned" for purposes
ofClass 6b need not be ?led at the time of?ling the Class 6b eligibility application with the
Assessor, but must be ?led with the Assessor no later than the date an assessment appeal

is filed to request the class change to Class 6b. lfthe Resolution is not filed at the time of
the Class 6b eligibility application, the applicant shall instead file, at that time, a letter from

Page 7 of 46

the municipality or the County as the case may be, continuing that a Resolution or
Ordinance regarding special circumstances has been requested.

If the real estate is located within an Industrial Growth Zone, prior to ?ling a Class 6b
eligibility application with the Assessor and in lieu of an Ordinance or Resolution, an
applicant may obtain from an authorized of?cer of the municipality or an authorized of?cer
of the Cook County Bureau of Economic Development if. the real estate is located in an
unincorporated area, a letter stating that the municipality or the County Board, as the case
may be, supports and consents to the ?ling of the Class 6b application with the Assessor.
Such authorized of?cer shall have been designated by the legislative body of the
municipality or, in the case of an unincorporated area, by the Cook County Board.

A copy of the authorized of?cer letter and a certi?ed copy of the legislative action
designating the authorized of?cer shall be included with the Class 6b application and
submitted to the Cook County Bureau of Economic Development for veri?cation prior to
?ling of the application with the Assessor.

In addition, the letter from the authorized of?cer shall:
1. Describe the redevelopment objective of the municipality;
2. State the applicant's intended use of the property; and

3. State that an Economic Disclosure Statement, as de?ned in this Division, was received
and ?led by the municipality or County Board, as the case may be.

Following veri?cation that the Class 6b application is in an Industrial Growth Zone and has
been properly submitted with a letter from an authorized of?cer and a certified copy of the
legislative action designating the authorized of?cer, the Bureau of Economic Development
will forward the application to the Assessor?s Of?ce for ?ling. A certi?ed copy of the
legislative action designating the authorized of?cer and the authorized of?cer letter shall be
included with the Class 6b application at the time of?ling the application with the Assessor.
The applicant must demonstrate that the industrial development project quali?es for the
Class 6b classi?cation.

Temporary Emergency Economic Recovery Modi?cation (TEERM) Program: In the
instance where real estate does not meet the de?nition of abandoned property as de?ned
herein, the municipality or the County Board, as the case may be, may still determine that
special circumstancesjustify ?nding that the property is deemed "abandoned" for purpose
of a Class 6b under the TEERM Program if:

1. There has been no purchase for value; and

Page 8 of 46

2. The buildings and other structures have been vacant and unused for at least 12
continuous months.

The ?nding of abandonment, along with the speci?cation of the special circumstances, and
a determination that the applicant's participation in the TEERM Program is necessary for
the development to occur, and that without such designation the industrial enterprise would
not be economically viable causing the property to be in imminent risk of remaining vacant
and unused, shall be included in the Resolution or Ordinance supporting and consenting to
the Class 6b application under the TEERM Program.

In addition, the Ordinance or Resolution where applicable shall:
1. Describe the redevelopment objective of the municipality;
2. State the applicant?s intended use of the property; and

3. State that an Economic Disclosure Statement, as de?ned in this Division, was received
and ?led by the municipality or County Board, as the case may be.

If the Ordinance or Resolution is that of a municipality, the approval ofthe County Board is
required to validate such a ?nding that the property is deemed "abandoned? for purposes of
Class 6b, and a County Resolution to that effect shall be obtained. The applicant must
obtain the municipal enabling Ordinance with the required ?nding of special circumstances
and present such municipal Ordinance to the Board of Commissioners of Cook County
prior to its determination as to whether it will validate such a ?nding that the property is
deemed "abandoned" for purposes of Class 6b and provide a County Resolution to that
effect. A certi?ed copy of an Ordinance or Resolution ?nding that special circumstances
exist, as well as a certi?ed copy of a County Ordinance or Resolution validating such a
?nding that the property is deemed "abandoned" for purposes of Class 6b need not be ?led
at the time of ?ling the Class 6b application with the Assessor, but must be ?led with the
Assessor no later than the date an assessment appeal is ?led to request the class change to
Class 6b. If the Resolution is not ?led at the time of the Class 6b application, the applicant
shall instead ?le, at that time, a letter from the municipality or the County as the case may
be, con?rming that a Resolution or Ordinance regarding special circumstances has been
requested.

Critical Emergency Employee Retention Modi?cation (CEERM) Program: In the instance
where real estate does not meet the de?nition of abandoned property as de?ned herein. the
municipality or the County Board. as the case may be, may still determine that special
circumstances iustify ?nding that the prOpertv is deemed "abandoned? for purpose of a
Class 6b under the TEERM Program if:

1. There has been no purchase for value; and

2. The buildings and other structures have been vacant and unused for at least 3
Page 9 of 46

continuous months.

At least 250 positions would be retained at the subiect location and the applicant's
participation in the CEERM Program is necessarv for the development to occur, and that
without such designation the industrial enterprise would not be economically viable causing
the property to be in imminent risk of remaining vacant and unused. shall be included in the
Resolution or Ordinance supporting and consenting to the Class 6b application under the

Progl?am.

In addition, the Ordinance or Resolution where applicable shall:
1. Describe the redevelopment obiective of the municipalitv:
2. State the applicant?s intended use of the property; and

3. State that an Economic Disclosure Statement. as de?ned in this Division. was received
and ?led by the municipality or County Board. as the case may be.

If the Ordinance or Resolution is that of a municipalitv, the approval of the Countv Board is
required to validate such a ?nding that the pmertv is deemed "abandoned" for purposes of
Class 6b. and a Countv Resolution to that effect shall be obtained. The applicant must
obtain the municipal enabling Ordinance with the required ?nding of special circumstances
and present such municipal Ordinance to the Board of Commissioners of Cook Countv
prior to its determination as to whether it will validate such a ?nding that the property is
deemed "abandoned" for purposes of Class 6b and provide a County Resolution to that
effect. A certi?ed copv of an Ordinance or Resolution ?nding that special circumstances
exist. as well as a certi?ed copy of a Countv Ordinance or Resolution validating such a
?nding that the property is deemed "abandoned" for purposes of Class 6b need not be ?led
at the time of ?ling the Class 6b application with the Assessor. but must be ?led with the
Assessor no later than the date an assessment appeal is ?led to request the class change to
Class 6b. If the Resolution is not ?led at the time of the Class 6b application, the applicant
shall instead ?le. at that time. a letter from the municipality or the County as the case may
be. con?rming that a Resolution or Ordinance regarding special circumstances has been
requested.

Sustainable Emergency Relief (SER) Program: In the instance where real estate does not
meet the definition of abandoned property as de?ned herein, the municipality or the County
Board, as the case may be, may still determine that special circumstances justify ?nding
that the property is deemed ?quali?ed" for purpose of Class 6b under the SER Program if:

1. The industrial enterprise that occupies the premises has been at the same location for a
minimum of ten years prior to the date of application for the SER Program; and

2. The industrial enterprise that occupies the premises submits evidence of hardship
supporting a determination that participation in the SER Program is necessary for the

Page 10 of 46

industrial enterprise to continue Operations at its current location and maintain its staff,
and that without such designation the industrial enterprise would not be economically
viable causing the property to be in imminent risk of becoming vacant and unused.

The ?nding that a property is quali?ed, along with the speci?cation of the special
circumstances, and a determination that the applicant's participation in the SER Program is
necessary for the industrial enterprise to continue operations at its current location and
maintain its staff, and that without such designation the industrial enterprise would not be
economically viable causing the property to be in imminent risk of becoming vacant and
unused, shall be included in the Resolution or Ordinance supporting and consenting to the
Class 6b application under the SER Program.

In addition, the Ordinance or Resolution where applicable shall:
1. Describe the redevelopment objective of the municipality;

2. State the applicant's intended use of the property; and

La.)

State that an Economic Disclosure Statement, as de?ned in this Division, was received
and ?led by the municipality or County Board, as the case may be.

If the Ordinance or Resolution is that of a municipality, the approval of the County Board is
required to validate such a ?nding that the property is deemed "quali?ed" for purposes of
Class 6b, and a County Resolution to that effect shall be obtained. The applicant must
obtain the municipal enabling Ordinance with the required ?nding of special circumstances
and present such municipal Ordinance to the Board of Commissioners of Cook County
prior to its determination as to whether it will validate such a ?nding that the property is
deemed "quali?ed" for purposes of Class 6b and provide a County Resolution to that effect.
A certi?ed copy of an Ordinance or Resolution ?nding that special circumstances exist, as
well as a certi?ed copy of a County Ordinance or Resolution validating such a ?nding that
the property is deemed ?quali?ed" for purposes of Class 6b need not be ?led at the time of
?ling the Class 6b application with the Assessor, but must be ?led with the Assessor no
later than the date an assessment appeal is ?led to request the class change to Class 6b. If
the Resolution is not ?led at the time of the Class 6b application, the applicant shall instead
?le, at that time, a letter from the municipality or the County as the case may be,
con?rming that a Resolution or Ordinance regarding special circumstances has been
requested.

Applications for Class 6b incentives pursuant to the TEERM Program or SER Program 
CEERM Program must be received by the Assessor's Of?ce on or before November 30,
2018 to receive consideration.

The Assessor shall provide by rule for the ?ling of annual reports by recipients of Class 6b
incentives granted pursuant to the SER Program as to the use of the property and the
number of persons employed at the Class 6b site. In such reports, recipients shall be

Page 11 of 46

required to certify whether the industrial enterprise that occupied the premises at the time
of the SER application continues its operations at that location. In addition, recipients of
Class 6b incentives granted pursuant to the SER Program shall be required to report to the
Assessor within 30 days if the industrial enterprise that occupied the premises at the time
of the SER application ceases operations at that location. A copy of such reports will be
forwarded by the Assessor?s Office to the Secretary of the County Board for distribution to
members of the County Board from the affected districts. Failure to ?le such reports within
the time established by the Assessor's rules shall result in loss of the incentive for the
period relating to the non??ling. Additionally, if the industrial enterprise that occupied the
premises at the time of the SER application ceases operations at that location, then the
Class 6b incentive granted pursuant to the SER program shall terminate.

e. This classi?cation shall continue for a period of 12 years from the date such new
construction (excluding demolition, if any) or such substantial rehabilitation was completed
and initially assessed, or in the case of abandoned property, from the date of substantial
re?occupancy, or in the case of incentives granted pursuant to the TEERM Program, from
the date of the notice of approval. In the case of incentives granted pursuant to the SER
Program, this classi?cation shall continue for a period of 12 years from the date of the
notice of approval, or until the industrial enterprise that occupied the premises at the time of
the SER application ceases operations at that location if that occurs sooner.

f. Unless a Class 6b granted pursuant to the TEERM Program or the SER Program or the
CEERM Program, this incentive may be renewed during the last year a property is entitled
to a ten percent assessment level pursuant to Section if the following
requirements are met:

1. The taxpayer noti?es the Assessor's Office of intent to request renewal of the incentive
from the municipality or the County Board if the real estate is located in an
unincorporated area;

2. The municipality in which the real estate is located or the County Board, if the real
estate is located in an unincorporated area, adopts a Resolution expressly stating that
the municipality or the County Board, as the case may be, has determined that the
industrial use ofthe property is necessary and bene?cial to the local economy, and
supports and consents to renewal of the Class 6b; and

3. A copy of the Resolution and a completed renewal application are ?led with the
Assessor's Of?ce before the expiration of the ten percent assessment level period.



Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.

A motion was made by Commissioner Morrison, seconded by Commissioner Tobolski, to suspend
the rules 18?4201. The motion carried by the following vote:

Page 12 of 46

Ayes: Chairman Daley, Vice Chairman Sims, Commissioners Arroyo, Boykin, Butler, Deer, Fritchey,
Gainer, Garcia Goslin, Moody, Moore, Morrison, Schneider, Silvestri, Suffredin and Tobolski

(17)
PROPOSED SECOND SUBSTITUTE TO ITEM 18-4201
PROPOSED ORDINANCE
Presented by: SEAN M. MORRISON, County Commissioner

AMENDMENT TO SECTION 74-63 ASSESSMENT CLASSES

BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that CHAPTER 74 TAXATION,
ARTICLE II REAL PROPERTY TAXATION, DIVISION 2 CLASSIFICATION SYSTEM FOR
ASSESSMENT, SECTION 74-63 ASSESSMENT CLASSES ofthe Cook County Code is hereby
amended as Follows

Sec. 74-63. - Assessment classes.

Real estate is divided into the following assessment classes:
Class I . Unimproved real estate.
(2) Class 2. Real estate:

a. Used as a farm;

b. Used for residential purposes when improved with a house, an apartment building of not
more than six living units, or residential condominium, a residential cooperative or a
government subsidized housing project, if required by statute to be assessed in the lowest
assessment category;

c. Improved with a building put to commercial and residential use, of six or less units where
the building measures less than 20,000 square feet of above grade space; or

d. Real estate improved with a single room occupancy building, as de?ned in this division,
provided that:

1. At least one-third of the single room occupancy units are leased at no more than 80
percent of the current ?Fair Market Rent Schedule for Existing Housing for Single
Room Occupancy Units" as set by the United States Department of Housing and Urban
Development (hereinafter schedule");

2. No single room occupancy units are leased at rents in excess of 100 percent of the
current FMR schedule;

3. The overall maximum average rent per unit for all single room occupancy units in the
building shall not exceed 90 percent ofthe current FMR schedule; and

Page 13 of 46

(5.)

(6)

(7)

4. The subject property is in substantial compliance with all local building, safety and
health codes and requirements.

e. Used as a licensed bed and breakfast, as defined under the laws of Cook County municipality
where the property is situated, or registered as a Bed Breakfast with the State of Illinois
under the statute as established under 50 820/1 et seq., the Illinois Bed and Breakfast
Act, with six rentable units or less and with all said units contained in one improvement
where one of the units is owner occupied and where the owner occupant is entitled to a
Homeowner's Exemption pursuant to the Illinois Property Tax Code, Chapter 35, Title 4,
Article 15, provided a Bed and Breakfast is not required to be qualified for Homeowner
Exemptions.

In the event that the owner fails to comply with these requirements, the Class 2 classi?cation shall
be revoked.

Class 3. All improved real estate used for residential purposes which is not included in any other
class.

Class 4. Real estate owned and used by a not-for-pro?t corporation in furtherance of the purposes
set forth in its charter unless used for residential purposes or operating as a golf course and/or
driving range. If such real estate is used for residential purposes, it shall be classified in the
appropriate residential class.

Class 5a. All real estate not included in Class 1, Class 2, Class 3, Class 4, Class 5b, Class 6b,
Class C, Class 7a, Class 7b, Class 7c, Class 8, Class 9, Class or Class ofthis Section.

Class 519. All real estate used for industrial purposes as defined herein and not included in any
other class.

Class 6b. Real estate used primarily for industrial purposes, consisting of all newly constructed
buildings or other structures, including the land upon which they are situated; or abandoned
property, including the land upon which such property is situated; or all buildings and other
structures which are substantially rehabilitated to the extent such rehabilitation has added to their
value, including quali?ed land related to the rehabilitation. Land qualifies when the rehabilitation
adds vertical or horizontal square footage to the improvements. The amount of land eligible for
the incentive shall be in such proportion as the square footage added by the rehabilitation bears
to the total square footage of the improvements on the parcel.

a. An applicant must obtain from the municipality in which the real estate is located or the
County Board if the real estate is located in an unincorporated area, an Ordinance or
Resolution expressly stating that the municipality or County Board, as the case may be, has
determined that the incentive provided by Class 6b is necessary for development to occur on
that specific real estate and that the municipality or County Board, as the case may be,
supports and consents to the Class 6b application to the Assessor.

In addition, the Ordinance or Resolution shall:

I. Describe the redevelopment objective of the municipality;
2. State the applicant?s intended use of the property; and
3. State that an Economic Disclosure Statement, as defined in this Division, was received

and filed by the municipality or County Board, as the case may be.

Page 14 of 46



A certi?ed copy of the Ordinance or Resolution need not be ?led at the time of ?ling the
Class 6b eligibility application with the Assessor, but must be ?led with the Assessor no
later than the date an assessment appeal is ?led to request the class change to Class 6b. If the
Resolution is not ?led at the time of the eligibility application, the applicant shall instead
?le, at that time, a letter from the municipality or the County, as the case may be, con?rming
that a Resolution or Ordinance supporting the incentive has been requested. If the real estate
is located within an Industrial Growth Zone, prior to ?ling a Class 6b eligibility application
with the Assessor and in lieu of an Ordinance or Resolution, an applicant may obtain from
an authorized of?cer of the municipality or an authorized of?cer of the Cook County Bureau
of Economic Development if the real estate is located in an unincorporated area, a letter
stating that the municipality or the County Board, as the case may be, supports and consents
to the ?ling ofthe Class 6b application with the Assessor. Such authorized of?cer shall have
been designated by the legislative body of the municipality or, in the case of an
unincorporated area, by the Cook County Board-

A copy of the authorized of?cer letter and a certi?ed copy of the legislative action
designating the authorized officer shall be included with the Class 6b application and
submitted to the Cook County Bureau of Economic Development for veri?cation prior to
?ling ofthe application with the Assessor. The applicant must demonstrate that the industrial
development project quali?es for the Class 6b classi?cation.

In addition, the letter from the authorized of?cer shall:

1. Describe the redevelopment objective ofthe municipality;
2. State the applicant's intended use ofthe property; and

3. State that an Economic Disclosure Statement, as de?ned in this Division, was received
and ?led by the municipality or County Board, as the case may be.

Following veri?cation that the Class 6b application is in an Industrial Growth Zone and has
been properly submitted with a letter from an authorized of?cer and a certi?ed copy of the
legislative action designating the authorized officer, the Bureau of Economic Development
will forward the application to the Assessor?s Of?ce for ?ling.

A copy of the Resolution or letter confirming that a Resolution has been requested, or the
letter from an authorized of?cer if the real estate is in an Industrial Growth Zone, along with
and a certi?ed copy of the legislative action designating the authorized of?cer, whichever is
?led with the application, will be forwarded by the Assessor's Of?ce to the Secretary of the

County Board for distribution to the members of the County Board from the affected
districts.

Class 6b applications for newly constructed or substantially rehabilitated buildings and other
structures must be made to the Assessor within one year prior to the commencement of such
new construction or substantial rehabilitation to qualify for a Class 6b incentive. With respect
to abandoned property, the Class 6b application must be made to the Assessor prior to the
commencement of the reoccupation of the vacant and unused property.

In the instance where real estate does not meet the de?nition of abandoned property as
de?ned herein, the municipality or the County Board, as the case may be, may still determine

Page 15 of 46

that special circumstances justify ?nding that the property is deemed "abandoned" for
purpose ofClass 6b, unless:

I. There has been a purchase for value and the buildings and other structures have not
been vacant and unused prior to such purchase; or

2. There has been no purchase for value and the buildings and other structures have been
vacant and unused for less than 24 continuous months.

The ?nding of abandonment, along with the speci?cation of the special circumstances, shall
be included in the Resolution or Ordinance supporting and consenting to the Class 6b
application. If the Ordinance or Resolution is that of a municipality, the approval of the
County Board is required to validate such a finding that the property is deemed "abandoned?
for purposes of Class 6b, and a County Resolution to that effect shall be obtained. The
applicant must obtain the municipal enabling Ordinance with the required ?nding of special
circumstances and present such municipal Ordinance to the Board of Commissioners of
Cook County prior to its determination as to whether it will validate such a ?nding that the
property is deemed "abandoned" for purposes of Class 6b and provide a County Resolution
to that effect. A certi?ed copy of an Ordinance or Resolution ?nding that special
circumstances exist, as well as a certi?ed copy of a County Ordinance or Resolution
validating such a ?nding that the property is deemed "abandoned" for purposes of Class 6b
need not be ?led at the time of ?ling the Class 6b eligibility application with the Assessor,
but must be ?led with the Assessor no later than the date an assessment appeal is ?led to
request the class change to Class 6b. If the Resolution is not ?led at the time of the Class 6b
eligibility application, the applicant shall instead ?le, at that time, a letter from the
municipality or the County as the case may be, con?rming that a Resolution or Ordinance
regarding special circumstances has been requested.

If the real estate is located within an Industrial Growth Zone, prior to ?ling a Class 6b
eligibility application with the Assessor and in lieu of an Ordinance or Resolution, an
applicant may obtain from an authorized of?cer of the municipality or an authorized of?cer
of the Cook County Bureau of Economic Development if the real estate is located in an
unincorporated area, a letter stating that the municipality or the County Board, as the case
may be, supports and consents to the ?ling of the Class 6b application with the Assessor.
Such authorized of?cer shall have been designated by the legislative body of the
municipality or, in the case of an unincorporated area, by the Cook County Board.

A copy of the authorized officer letter and a certi?ed copy of the legislative action
designating the authorized of?cer shall be included with the Class 6b application and
submitted to the Cook County Bureau of Economic Development for veri?cation prior to
?ling ofthe application with the Assessor.

In addition, the letter from the authorized of?cer shall:

1. Describe the redevelopment objective of the municipality;
2. State the applicant's intended use of the property; and

3. State that an Economic Disclosure Statement, as de?ned in this Division, was received
and ?led by the municipality or County Board, as the case may be.

Page 16 of 46

Following veri?cation that the Class 6b application is in an Industrial Growth Zone and has
been properly submitted with a letter from an authorized of?cer and a certi?ed copy of the
legislative action designating the authorized of?cer, the Bureau of Economic Development
will forward the application to the Assessor's Of?ce for ?ling. A certi?ed copy of the
legislative action designating the authorized of?cer and the authorized of?cer letter shall be
included with the Class 6b application at the time of ?ling the application with the Assessor.
The applicant must demonstrate that the industrial development project quali?es for the
Class 6b classi?cation.

Temporary Emergency Economic Recovery Modi?cation (TEERM) Program: In the
instance where real estate does not meet the de?nition of abandoned property as de?ned
herein, the municipality or the County Board, as the case may be, may still determine that
special circumstances justify ?nding that the property is deemed "abandoned" for purpose
of a Class 6b under the TEERM Program if:

1. There has been no purchase for value; and

2. The buildings and other structures have been vac-ant and unused for at least 12
continuous months.

The ?nding of abandonment, along with the speci?cation of the special circumstances, and
a determination that the applicant's participation in the TEERM Program is necessary for the
development to occur, and that without such designation the industrial enterprise would not
be economically viable causing the property to be in imminent risk of remaining vacant and
unused, shall be included in the Resolution or Ordinance supporting and consenting to the
Class 6b application under the TEERM Program.

In addition, the Ordinance or Resolution where applicable shall:

l. Describe the redevelopment objective of the municipality;
2. State the applicant's intended use ofthe property; and

3. State that an Economic Disclosure Statement, as de?ned in this Division, was received
and ?led by the municipality or County Board, as the case may be.

lfthe Ordinance or Resolution is that ofa municipality, the approval of the County Board is
required to validate such a ?nding that the property is deemed ?abandoned" for purposes of
Class 6b, and a County Resolution to that effect shall be obtained. The applicant must obtain
the municipal enabling Ordinance with the required ?nding of special circumstances and
present such municipal Ordinance to the Board of Commissioners of Cook County prior to
its determination as to whether it will validate such a ?nding that the property is deemed
"abandoned" for purposes of Class 6b and provide a County Resolution to that effect. A
certi?ed copy of an Ordinance or Resolution ?nding that special circumstances exist, as well
as a certi?ed copy of a County Ordinance or Resolution validating such a ?nding that the
property is deemed ?abandoned" for purposes of Class 6b need not be ?led at the time of
?ling the Class 6b application with the Assessor, but must be ?led with the Assessor no later
than the date an assessment appeal is ?led to request the class change to Class 6b. If the
Resolution is not ?led at the time of the Class 6b application, the applicant shall instead ?le,
at that time, a letter from the municipality or the County as the case may be, con?rming that
a Resolution or Ordinance regarding Special circumstances has been requested.

Page 17 of 46

Critical Emergency Employee Retention Modi?cation (CEERM) Program: In the instance
where real estate does not meet the definition of abandoned property as de?ned herein. the
municipality or the County Board. as the case may be. may still determine that special
circumstances iustify ?nding that the property is deemed "abandoned" for purpose of a Class
6b under the CEERM Program if:

1. There has been no purchase for value; and

2. The buildings and other structures have been vacant and unused for at least 3 continuous
months; and

3. The applicant has provided sufficient documentation to establish that such applicant will
create or maintain at least 250 iobs for em?oyees at the subiect location. For purposes of
this Section. the term "employee" shall mean an individual who performs duties or services
at the subiect location on average at least 30 hours per week in any two-week period for
which such individual is paid; "hours per week" shall mean hours for which an individual
is paid or entitled to payment for a period of time during which no duties are performed by
such individual due to vacation. holiday, illness. incapacitvLiury dutv, military duty or
approved leave of absence.

The finding of abandonment, along with the speci?cation of the special circumstances. and
a determination that the applicant's participation in the CEERM Program is necessary for the
development to occur. and that without such designation the industrial enterprise would not
be economically viable causing the property to be in imminent risk of remaining vac-ant and
unused. shall be included in the Resolution 0r Ordinance supporting and consenting to the
Class 6b application under the CEERM Program.

In addition. the Ordinance or Resolution where applicable shall:

1. Describe the redevelopment obiective of the municipality; and
2. State the applicant?s intended use of the property; and

3. State that an Economic Disclosure Statement, as de?ned in this Division. was received
and filed by the municipality or the County Board. as the case may be.

The CEERM Program shall be limited to the party who is the initial applicant
of the Class 6b incentive under the CEERM Program and the subiect of the municipal
Resolution or Ordinance.

If the Ordinance or Resolution is that of a municipality. the approval of the County Board

is required to validate such a finding that the property is deemed "abandoned" for purposes

of Class 6b, and a County Resolution to that effect shall be obtained. The applicant must

obtain the municipal enabling Ordinance with the required ?nding of special circumstances

and present such municipal Ordinance to the Board of Commissioners of Cook County_

prior to its determination as to whether it will validate such a finding that the property is
Page 18 of 46

deemed "abandoned" for purposes of Class 6b under the CEERM Program and provide a
County Resolution to that effect. A certi?ed copy of an Ordinance or Resolution ?nding
that Special circumstances exist, as well as a certi?ed copy of a County Ordinance or
resolution validating such a ?nding that the property is deemed ?abandoned? for purposes
of Class 6b need not be ?led at the time of ?ling the Class 6b application with the
Assessor. but must be ?led with the Assessor no later than the date an assessment appeal is
?led to request the class change to Class 6b. If the Resolution is not ?led at the time of
the Class 6b application. the applicant shall instead ?le, at that time. a letter from the
municipality or the County as the case may be, con?rming that a Resolution or Ordinance
regarding special circumstances has been requested.

Sustainable Emergency Relief (SER) Program: In the instance where real estate does not
meet the de?nition of abandoned property as de?ned herein, the municipality or the County
Board, as the case may be, may still determine that special circumstances justify ?nding that
the property is deemed "quali?ed" for purpose of Class 6b under the SER Program if:

1. The industrial enterprise that occupies the premises has been at the same location for a
minimum of ten years prior to the date of application for the SER Program; and

2. The industrial enterprise that occupies the premises submits evidence of hardship
supporting a determination that participation in the SER Program is necessary for the
industrial enterprise to continue operations at its current location and maintain its staff,
and that without such designation the industrial enterprise would not be economically
viable causing the property to be in imminent risk of becoming vacant and unused.

The ?nding that a property is quali?ed, along with the speci?cation of the special
circumstances, and a determination that the applicant's participation in the SER Program is
necessary for the industrial enterprise to continue operations at its current location and
maintain its staff, and that without such designation the industrial enterprise would not be
economically viable causing the property to be in imminent risk of becoming vac-ant and
unused, shall be included in the Resolution or Ordinance supporting and consenting to the
Class 6b application under the SER Program.

In addition, the Ordinance or Resolution where applicable shall:

1. Describe the redeveIOpment objective ofthe municipality;
2. State the applicant's intended use of the property; and

3. State that an Economic Disclosure Statement, as de?ned in this Division, was received
and ?led by the municipality or County Board, as the case may be.

If the Ordinance or Resolution is that of a municipality, the approval of the County Board is
required to validate such a ?nding that the property is deemed "quali?ed? for purposes of
Class 6b, and a County Resolution to that effect shall be obtained. The applicant must obtain
the municipal enabling Ordinance with the required ?nding of special circumstances and
present such municipal Ordinance to the Board of Commissioners of Cook County prior to
its determination as to whether it will validate such a ?nding that the property is deemed

Page 19 of 46

"quali?ed" for purposes of Class 6b and provide a County Resolution to that effect. A
certi?ed copy of an Ordinance or Resolution ?nding that special circumstances exist, as well
as a certi?ed copy of a County Ordinance or Resolution validating such a ?nding that the
property is deemed "quali?ed" for purposes of Class 6b need not be ?led at the time of ?ling
the Class 6b application with the Assessor, but must be ?led with the Assessor no later than
the date an assessment appeal is ?led to request the class change to Class 6b. If the Resolution
is not ?led at the time ofthe Class 6b application, the applicant shall instead ?le, at that time,
a letter from the municipality or the County as the case may be, con?rming that a Resolution
or Ordinance regarding special circumstances has been requested.

 

The Assessor shall provide by rule for the ?ling of annual reports by recipients of Class 6b
incentives granted pursuant to the SER Program as to the use of the property and the number
of persons employed at the Class 6b site. In such reports, recipients shall be required to
certify whether the industrial enterprise that occupied the premises at the time of the SER
application continues its operations at that location. In addition, recipients of Class 6b
incentives granted pursuant to the SER Program shall be required to report to the Assessor
within 30 days if the industrial enterprise that occupied the premises at the time of the SER
application ceases operations at that location. A copy of such reports will be forwarded by
the Assessor's Of?ce to the Secretary of the County Board for distribution to members of the
County Board from the affected districts. Failure to ?le such reports within the time
established by the Assessor?s rules shall result in loss of the incentive for the period relating
to the non-?ling. Additionally, if the industrial enterprise that occupied the premises at the
time of the SER application ceases operations at that location, then the Class 6b incentive
granted pursuant to the SER program shall terminate.

This classi?cation shall continue for a period of 12 years from the date such new construction
(excluding demolition, if any) or such substantial rehabilitation was completed and initially
assessed, or in the case of abandoned property, from the date of substantial re-occupancy, or
in the case of incentives granted pursuant to the TEERM Program or the CEERM Program,
from the date of the notice of approval. In the case of incentives granted pursuant to the SER
Program, this classi?cation shall continue for a period of 12 years from the date of the notice
of approval, or until the industrial enterprise that occupied the premises at the time of the
SER application ceases operations at that location if that occurs sooner.

Unless a Class 6b granted pursuant to the TEERM Program or the SER Program or the
CEERM Program, this incentive may be renewed during the last year a property is entitled
to a ten percent assessment level pursuant to Section if the following requirements
are met:

I. The taxpayer noti?es the Assessor's Of?ce of intent to request renewal of the incentive
from the municipality or the County Board if the real estate is located in an
unincorporated area;

2. The municipality in which the real estate is located or the County Board, if the real
estate is located in an unincorporated area, adopts a Resolution expressly stating that
the municipality or the County Board, as the case may be, has determined that the

Page 20 of 46

(3)



industrial use of the property is necessary and bene?cial to the local economy, and
supports and consents to renewal of the Class 6b; and

3. A copy of the Resolution and a completed renewal application are ?led with the
Assessor's Of?ce before the expiration of the ten percent assessment level period.

Class 6b incentives that are granted pursuant to the TEERM Program or SER Program or
the CEERM Program are not renewable. For all other Class 6b incentives, the number of
renewal periods is not limited as long as the property continues to apply and meet the
requirements for Class 6b.

A copy of the request for renewal of the incentive will be forwarded by the Assessor's Of?ce
to the Secretary of the County Board for distribution to members of the County Board from
the affected districts.

If no renewal is obtained, the incentive shall be phased out over the next two years, pursuant
to Section After expiration of the last incentive period, the real estate shall revert
to the applicable classi?cation under this Division.

The Assessor may adopt rules consistent with this subsection necessary to ensure proper

review of all factors relevant to determine eligibility for the bene?ts provided under Class
6b.

The Assessor shall provide by rule for the ?ling oftriennial reassessment reports by all Class
6b recipients as to the use of the property and the number of persons employed at the Class
6b site. A copy of such reports will be forwarded by the Assessor's Of?ce to the Secretary
of the County Board for distribution to members of the County Board from the affected
districts. Failure to ?le such reports within the time established by the Assessor?s rules shall
result in loss ofthe incentive for the period relating to the non-?ling.

Class C. Real estate which is to be used for industrial or commercial purposes, including

abandoned property, as de?ned in Section 74-62, including the land upon which such property is
situated; or vacant land; where such real estate because of contamination has undergone
environmental testing and remediation and has received a "No Further Remediation Letter? from
the site remediation program.

a.

To be eligible for a Class classi?cation an applicant must have received a "No Further
Remediation Letter" con?rming achievement of the remediation objectives based on the
industrial or commercial use.

The owner of the property is rendered ineligible for the Class classi?cation by having
previously owned or operated the site, directly or indirectly, or having been a partner or being
associated through a family or business relationship with anyone who has owned or operated
the site, which ownership or operation caused the contamination which was remediated
pursuant to a site remediation, except for an employee who worked for an owner, as defined
herein, that operated the site. A present owner or employer who can successfully demonstrate
that the owner or employer was not responsible for the contamination may be eligible for
Class classi?cation.

An applicant must obtain from the municipality in which the real estate is located or the
County Board if the real estate is located in an unincorporated area, an Ordinance or
Resolution expressly stating that the municipality or County Board, as the case may be, has
determined that the incentive provided by Class is necessary for development to occur on

Page 21 of 46

that Speci?c real estate and that the municipality or County Board, as the case may be,
supports and consents to the Class application to the Assessor. A certi?ed c0py of the
Ordinance or Resolution must be ?led at the time of application for the Class classi?cation.
A copy of that Ordinance or Resolution, whichever is submitted, will be forwarded by the
Assessor?s Of?ce to the Secretary of the Board for distribution to the members of the County
Board from the affected districts.

In addition, the Ordinance or Resolution shall:

1. Describe the redevelopment objective of the municipality;
2. State the applicant's intended use of the property; and

3. State that an Economic Disclosure Statement, as de?ned in this Division, was received
and ?led by the municipality or County Board, as the case may be.

To qualify for the Class classi?cation, an application for Class classi?cation must be
made within one year of the receipt of the "No Further Remediation Letter". Where an
application for Class classi?cation encompasses less than all of the contiguous property
owned by the applicant upon which remediation has been completed, the one-year limitation
will be waived for any subsequent separate application for Class classi?cation for the
remainder or for additional portions of the property, provided that such subsequent
application is made within seven years.

Additionally, to qualify for the Class classi?cation, the estimated remediation costs,
including site investigation, testing, oversight, remediation and removal costs, monitoring,
and engineering and legal fees associated with the remediation process, must total at least
$100,000.00, or alternatively, must total at least 25 percent of the market value of the real
estate as determined by the Assessor?s property record card in the year prior to the
remediation, whichever is less.

The initial Class classi?cation shall continue for a period of 12 years for both industrial
and commercial property. For industrial property, this incentive may be renewed during the
last year a property is entitled to a 6-percent assessment level, if the following requirements
are met:

1. The taxpayer noti?es the Assessor's Of?ce of the taxpayer's intent to request renewal
of the incentive from the municipality, or the County Board if the real estate is located
in an unincorporated area;

2. The municipality in which the real estate is located or the County Board, if the real
estate is located in an unincorporated area, adopts a Resolution expressly stating that
the municipality or County Board, as the case may be, has determined that the industrial
use of the property is necessary and bene?cial to the local economy, and supports and
consents to renewal of the Class and



A copy of that Resolution and a completed renewal application are ?led with the Of?ce
of the Assessor before the expiration of the l6?percent assessment level period.

The number of renewal periods is not limited as long as the property continues to apply and
qualify for Class C. Any property which applies for Class treatment on or before the
adoption date of the ordinance from which this division is derived will be eligible for this
renewal term at the end of their original incentive period subject to the above requirements.

Page 22 of 46



The notice of intent to request renewal which is ?led with the Assessor's Office will be
forwarded by the Assessor?s Of?ce to the Secretary ofthe Board for distribution to members
of the County Board from the effected districts.

no

If, on November 23, 1999, a property is receiving Class treatment, but the assessment level
is higher than 16 percent, that taxpayer may apply for renewal as outlined above and receive
a l6-percent assessment level for the prescribed period beginning after the filing and
approval of the resolution and renewal application. However, if, as of that effective date, the
taxpayer's assessment is higher than 16 percent and the taxpayer is granted a renewal of the
incentive for subsequent years, no reduction of the current assessment level based on renewal
of the incentive will be granted. If no renewal is obtained, the incentive shall be phased out
over the next two years, pursuant to Section 74-64. After such ten-year period expiration of

the last incentive period, the real estate shall revert to the applicable classi?cation under this
Division.
h. For commercial properties, once the original 12-year incentive period has expired, the

commercial Class incentive will expire. The incentive classi?cation will not be subject to
renewal and the real estate shall revert to the applicable classi?cation under this Division.

i. The Assessor shall review the application and supporting documentation to determine
eligibility for the Class classi?cation. The Assessor may adopt rules consistent with the
foregoing necessary to ensure proper review of all factors relevant to determine initial and
continued eligibility for the benefits provided under the Class classi?cation.

j. The Assessor shall provide by rule for the ?ling oftriennial reassessment reports by all Class
recipients as to the use of the property and the number of persons employed at the Class
site. Such reports shall be veri?ed. Failure to ?le such reports within the time established

by the Assessor's rules shall result in loss ofthe incentive for the period relating to the non-
?ling.

Class 7a. Real estate used primarily for commercial purposes, comprising a quali?ed
commercial development project, as determined pursuant to Section located in an area
in need of commercial development, where total development costs, exclusive of land, do not
exceed $2,000,000.00, consisting ofall newly constructed buildings or other structures, including
the land upon which they are situated; or abandoned property, as de?ned in this Division,
including the land upon which such property is situated; or all buildings and other structures
which are substantially rehabilitated to the extent such rehabilitation has added to their value,
including quali?ed land related to the rehabilitation. Land qualifies when the rehabilitation adds
vertical or horizontal square footage to the improvements. The amount of land eligible for the
incentive shall be in such proportion as the square footage added by the rehabilitation bears to the
total square footage of the improvements on the parcel.

a. In the instance where real estate does not meet the de?nition of abandoned prOperty as
de?ned herein, the municipality or the County Board, as the case may be, may still determine
that special circumstances justify that the property is deemed "abandoned" for purposes of
Class 7a. The ?nding of abandonment, along with the speci?cation of the special
circumstances, shall be included in the Resolution or Ordinance supporting and consenting
to the Class 7a application.

In addition, the Ordinance or Resolution shall:

Page 23 of 46

1. Describe the redevelopment objective of the municipality;
2. State the applicant's intended use of the property; and

3. State that an Economic Disclosure Statement, as de?ned in this Division, was received
and ?led by the municipality or County Board, as the case may be.

Notwithstanding the foregoing, special circumstances may not be determined to justify
finding that a property is deemed "abandoned" where:

A. There has been a purchase for value and the buildings and other structures have not
been vacant and unused prior to such purchase; or

B. There has been no purchase for value and the buildings and other structures have been
vac-ant and unused for less than 24 continuous months.

If a municipality enacts enabling legislation which identi?es, by permanent index
numbers, speci?c retail corridors or geographies within the boundaries of such municipality
that it deems to be distressed and in need of development; authorizes the submission of
applications for a Class 7a incentive for properties within such retail corridors, and 
designates the authorized officer of such municipality, then applicants for a Class 7a
incentive located in such retail corridors may obtain and submit, in lieu of an Ordinance or
Resolution, a letter from the authorized of?cer of the municipality approving the submission
of the Class 7a incentive application and a certi?ed copy of the municipal enabling
legislation.

A copy of the authorized of?cer letter and a certi?ed copy of the municipal enabling
legislation shall be included with the Class 7a application and submitted to the Cook County
Bureau of Economic Development for veri?cation prior to ?ling of the application with the
Assessor.

In addition, the letter from the authorized of?cer shall:

1. Describe the redevelopment objective of the municipality;
2. State the applicant's intended use of the property; and

3. State that an Economic Disclosure Statement, as de?ned in this Division, was received
and ?led by the municipality or County Board, as the case may be.

Following veri?cation that the Class 73 application is in a retail corridor, as de?ned herein,
and has been properly submitted with a letter from an authorized of?cer and a certi?ed copy
of the municipal enabling legislation, the Bureau of Economic Development will forward
the application to the Assessor?s Of?ce for ?ling. The Resolution or Ordinance, or the
authorization letter and a certi?ed copy of the municipal enabling legislation (if applicable),
must be ?led with the eligibility application. If the Ordinance or Resolution is that of a
municipality, the approval of the County Board is required to validate such a ?nding that the
property is deemed "abandoned" for purposes of Class 7a and a Resolution to that effect shall
be included with the Class 7a eligibility application ?led with the Assessor.

This classi?cation shall continue for a period of 12 years from the date such new construction
(excluding demolition, if any) or such substantial rehabilitation was completed and initially
assessed, or in the case of abandoned property, from the date of substantial re?occupancy.

Page 24 of 46

(10)

This incentive classi?cation will be subject to renewal. Upon termination, the real estate
shall revert to the applicable classi?cation under this Division.

The Assessor shall provide by rule for the ?ling oftriennial reassessment reports by all Class
7a recipients as to the use of the property and the number of persons employed at the Class
7a site. Such reports shall be veri?ed. Failure to ?le such reports within the time established

by the Assessor's rules shall result in loss ofthe incentive for the period relating to the non-
?ling.

Class Real estate used primarily for commercial purposes, as defined in this Division,

comprising a quali?ed commercial deveIOpment project, as determined pursuant to Section 74-
65(a), located in an "area in need of commercial development?, where total development costs,
exclusive of land, exceed $2,000,000.00, consisting of all newly constructed buildings or other
structures, including the land upon which they are situated; or abandoned property, as defined
herein, including the land upon which such property is situated; or all buildings and other
structures which are substantially rehabilitated to the extent such rehabilitation has added to their
value, including quali?ed land related to the rehabilitation. Land quali?es when the rehabilitation
adds vertical or horizontal square footage to the improvements. The amount of land eligible for
the incentive shall be in such proportion as the square footage added by the rehabilitation bears
to the total square footage of the improvements on the parcel.

a.

In the instance where real estate does not meet the de?nition of abandoned property as
de?ned herein, the municipality or the County Board, as the case may be, may still determine
that special circumstances justify ?nding that the property is deemed "abandoned" for
purposes ofClass 7b. The ?nding ofabandonment, along with the speci?cation ofthe special
circumstances, shall be included in the Resolution or Ordinance supporting and consenting
to the Class 7b application.

In addition, the Ordinance or Resolution shall:

1. Describe the redevelopment objective ofthe municipality;
2. State the applicant's intended use ofthe property; and

3. State that an Economic Disclosure Statement, as de?ned in this Division, was received
and ?led by the municipality or County Board, as the case may be.

Notwithstanding the foregoing. special circumstances may not be determined to justify
?nding that a property is deemed ?abandoned" where:

A. There has been a purchase for value and the buildings and other structures have not
been vacant and unused prior to such purchase; or

B. There has been no purchase for value and the buildings and other structures have been
vacant and unused for less than 24 continuous months.

If a municipality enacts enabling legislation which identi?es, by permanent index
numbers, speci?c retail corridors or geographies within the boundaries of such municipality
that it deems to be distressed and in need of development authorizes the submission of
applications for a Class 7b incentive for properties within such retail corridors, and 
designates the authorized of?cer of such municipality, then applicants for a Class 7b
incentive located in such retail corridors may obtain and submit, in lieu of an Ordinance or
Resolution, a letter from the authorized of?cer ofthe municipality approving the submission

Page 25 of 46

of the Class 7b incentive application and a certi?ed copy of the municipal enabling
legislation.

A copy of the authorized of?cer letter and a certified copy of the municipal enabling
legislation shall be included with the Class 7b application and submitted to the Cook County
Bureau of Economic Development for veri?cation prior to ?ling of the application with the
Assessor.

in addition, the letter from the authorized of?cer shall:

1. Describe the redevelopment objective of the municipality;
2. State the applicant?s intended use of the property; and

3. State that an Economic Disclosure Statement, as defined in this Division, was received
and ?led by the municipality or County Board, as the case may be.

Following veri?cation that the Class 7b application is in a retail corridor, as de?ned herein,
and has been properly submitted with a letter from an authorized of?cer and a certi?ed copy
of the municipal enabling legislation, the Bureau of Economic Development will forward
the application to the Assessor?s Of?ce for ?ling.

The Resolution or Ordinance, or authorization letter and certi?ed copy of the municipal
enabling legislation (if applicable), must be ?led with the eligibility application. If the
ordinance or resolution is that of a municipality, the approval of the County Board is required
to validate such a ?nding that the property is deemed "abandoned" for purposes ofClass 7b
and a resolution to that effect shall be included with the Class 7b eligibility application ?led
with the Assessor.

b. This classi?cation shall continue for a period of 12 years from the date such new construction
(excluding demolition, if any) or such substantial rehabilitation was completed and initially
assessed, or in the case of abandoned property, from the date of substantial re?occupancy.
This incentive classi?cation will be subject to renewal. Upon termination, the real estate
shall revert to the applicable classi?cation under this Division.

c. The Assessor shall provide by rule for the ?ling oftriennial reassessment reports by all Class
7b recipients as to the use of the property and the number of persons employed at the Class
7b site. Such reports shall be veri?ed. Failure to ?le such reports within the time established
by the Assessor's rules shall result in loss of the incentive for the period relating to the non-
?ling.

(l 1) Class 7C or Commercial Urban Relief Eligibility Real estate used primarily for
commercial purposes, consisting of all newly constructed buildings or other structures, including
the land upon which they are situated; or abandoned property, including the land upon which such
property is situated; or all buildings and other structures which are substantially rehabilitated to
the extent such rehabilitation has added to their value, including quali?ed land related to the
rehabilitation. Land quali?es when the rehabilitation adds vertical or horizontal square footage to
the improvements. The amount of land eligible for the incentive shall be in such proportion as the
square footage added by the rehabilitation bears to the total square footage of the improvements
on the parcel.

Page 26 of 46

An applicant must obtain from the municipality in which the real estate is located or the
County Board if the real estate is located in an unincorporated area, an Ordinance or
Resolution expressly stating that:

The property, site, or area is deemed a redevelopment priority by the municipality, and

(ii) The municipality or County Board, as the case may be, has determined that the
incentive provided by Class 7c is necessary for development to occur on that speci?c

real estate and that the municipality or County Board, supports and consents to the Class
70 application to the Assessor.

In addition, the Ordinance or Resolution shall:

1. Describe the redevelopment objective of the municipality;
2. State the applicant's intended use of the property; and

3. State that an Economic Disclosure Statement, as de?ned in this Division, was received
and ?led by the municipality or County Board, as the case may be.

If a municipality enacts enabling legislation which identi?es, by permanent index
numbers, speci?c retail corridors or geographies within the boundaries of such municipality
that it deems to be distressed and in need of development; authorizes the submission of
applications for a Class 7c incentive for properties within such retail corridors, and 
designates the authorized of?cer of the such municipality, then applicants for a Class 70
incentive located in such retail corridors may obtain and submit, in lieu of an Ordinance or
Resolution, a letter from the authorized of?cer ofthe municipality approving the submission

of the Class 7c incentive application and a certi?ed copy of the municipal enabling
legislation.

A copy of the authorized of?cer letter and a certi?ed copy of the municipal enabling
legislation shall be included with the Class 7c application and submitted to the Cook County
Bureau of Economic Development for veri?cation prior to ?ling ofthe application with the
Assessor.

In addition, the letter from the authorized of?cer shall:

1. Describe the redevelopment objective ofthe municipality;
2. State the applicant?s intended use of the pr0perty; and

3. State that an Economic Disclosure Statement, as de?ned in this Division, was received
and ?led by the municipality or County Board, as the case may be.

Following veri?cation that the Class 70 application is in a retail corridor, as de?ned herein,
and has been properly submitted with a letter from an authorized of?cer and a certi?ed COpy
of the municipal enabling legislation, the Bureau of Economic Development will forward
the application to the Assessor's Of?ce for ?ling.

In order to determine Class 70 applications, an application for Class 7c shall be submitted to

the Assessor and the Bureau of Economic Development. Upon receipt ofthe application and

all the necessary supporting data, the Economic Development Advisory Committee ofthe

County, within 30 days return the application to the Assessor with a ?nding stating whether

the conditions of Subsections of this Section are present. The Assessor shall
Page 27 of 46

review the application, supporting data, ?ndings of the Committee and other appropriate
facts. Where the Assessor ?nds the conditions of Subsections of this Section
exist, the Assessor shall, within 30 days of the receipt of the Committee's ?ndings, certify
the commercial development project eligible for Class 7c treatment under this Division.

Where the Economic Development Advisory Committee does not return a ?nding stating
whether the conditions of Subsections of this Section are present within 30
days, and upon further application of the requesting party, the Assessor may review the
application, supporting data, and other appropriate facts and certify the commercial
development project eligible for Class 70 treatment and grant the incentive.

(1) That the Property?s (the real estate that is subject of the Incentive application)
Assessed Value, Equalized Assessed Value or Real estate taxes for three of the last
six years, have declined or remained stagnant due to the depressed condition;

(2) There is a reasonable expectation that the development, re-development or
rehabilitation of the commercial development project is viable and likely to go
forward on a reasonably timely basis if granted Class 7c designation and will
therefore result in the economic enhancement of the property;

(3) Certi?cation of the commercial development project for Class 7c designation will
materially assist development, redevelopment or rehabilitation of the property and
the commercial development property would not go forward without the full
incentive offered under Class 7c; and

(4) Certi?cation of the commercial development project for Class 7c designation is
reasonably expected to ultimately result in an increase in real property tax revenue
and employment opportunities of the property.

A certi?ed copy of the Ordinance or Resolution, or authorization letter and certi?ed copy of
the municipal enabling legislation (if applicable), need not be ?led at the time of ?ling the
Class 7c eligibility application with the Assessor, but must be ?led with the Assessor no later
than the date an assessment appeal is ?led to request the class change to Class 7c. If the
Resolution is not ?led at the time ofthe eligibility application, the applicant may instead ?le,
at that time, a letter from the municipality or the County, as the case may be, con?rming that
a Resolution or Ordinance supporting the incentive has been requested.

A copy of the Resolution or letter con?rming that a Resolution has been requested,
whichever is ?led with the application, will be forwarded by the Assessor's Of?ce to the
Secretary of the County Board for distribution to the members of the County Board from the
affected districts.

Class 7c applications for newly constructed or substantially rehabilitated buildings and other
structures must be made to the Assessor within one year prior to the commencement of such
new construction or substantial rehabilitation to qualify for a Class 7c incentive. With respect
to abandoned property, the Class 7c application must be made to the Assessor prior to the
commencement of the reoccupation of the vacant and unused property. For the purpose of
this Incentive [Class 70] "abandoned property" shall mean property where the buildings and
other structures, or portions thereof, have been vacant and unused for more than 12
continuous months and as established by rule of the Assessor.

Page 28 of 46

(12)

This classification shall continue for a period of three years from the date such new
construction (excluding demolition, if any) such substantial rehabilitation was completed

and initially assessed, or in the case of abandoned property, from the date of substantial
occupancy.

Class 7c incentives that are granted are renewable.

The incentive shall be phased out after ?ve years, pursuant to Section After
expiration of the last incentive period, the real estate shall revert to the applicable
classification under this Division.

The Assessor may adopt rules consistent with this subsection necessary to ensure proper
review of all factors relevant to determine eligibility and continued eligibility for the bene?ts
provided under Class 7c.

Class 7c Applications must be received by the Assessor?s Of?ce on or before November 30,
2019, to receive consideration.

Renewal. The Class 7c Incentive shall be limited to only one renewal. The applicant may
apply for a renewal on or after the third year of the Incentive, but before the expiration of
the ?fth year of the Incentive. The applicant must obtain the municipal enabling Ordinance
and present such municipal Ordinance to the Board of Commissioners of Cook County as to
whether it will validate the renewal. The Incentive may be renewed unless otherwise limited
herein.

Effective Year. The Class 7c Incentive shall be effective for the tax year the application for
the Incentive is ?led. In addition, the Class 7c Incentive may be applied for only one year
prior to the tax year in which the Incentive was applied via a certi?cate of error.

(Items 8. Real estate used primarily for industrial and commercial purposes, consisting of all

newly constructed buildings or other structures, including the land upon which they are situated;
or abandoned property, as de?ned in this division, including the land upon which such property
is situated; or all buildings and other structures which are substantially rehabilitated to the extent
such rehabilitation has added to their value, including quali?ed land related to the rehabilitation.

a.

Land quali?es when the rehabilitation adds vertical or horizontal square footage to the
improvements. The amount of land eligible for the incentive shall be in such proportion as
the square footage added by the rehabilitation bears to the total square footage of the
improvements on the parcel. Such real estate must be either obtained through the Cook
County Tax Reactivation Project or must be located in one of the following designated
geographical areas:

I. An area which has been certi?ed as in need of substantial revitalization in accordance
with the provisions of Section 

Is.)

An enterprise community as proposed and approved by the County Board on June 22,
l994, or the Chicago City Council on May 18, 1994, and the municipality in which such
real estate is located, or, if in an unincorporated area, the County must by lawful
Resolution determine that such real estate is consistent with an overall plan for the
rehabilitation of the area; or



Any one of the following ?ve townships: Bloom, Bremen, Calumet, Rich and Thornton.

Page 29 of 46

b.

In the instance where real estate does not meet the de?nition of abandoned property as
de?ned herein, the municipality or the County Board, as the case may be, may still determine
that special circumstances justify that the prOperty is deemed ?abandoned" for purpose of
Class 8, unless:

1. There has been a purchase for value and the buildings and other structures have not
been vacant and unused prior to such purchase; or

2. There has been no purchase for value and the buildings and other structures have been
vacant and unused for less than 24 continuous months-

The ?nding of abandonment, along with the speci?cation of the special circumstances, shall
be included in the Resolution or Ordinance supporting and consenting to the Class 8
application.

In addition, the Ordinance or Resolution where applicable shall:

1. Describe the redevelopment objective of the municipality;
2. State the applicant?s intended use of the property; and

3. State that an Economic Disclosure Statement, as de?ned in this Division, was received
and ?led by the municipality or County Board, as the case may be.

If the Ordinance or Resolution is that ofa municipality, the approval of the County Board is
required to validate such, a ?nding that the prOperty is deemed "abandoned" for purposes of
Class 8, and a Resolution to that effect shall be obtained. The applicant must obtain the
municipal enabling Ordinance with the required ?nding of Special circumstances and present
such municipal Ordinance to the Board of Commissioners of Cook County prior to its
determination as to whether it will validate such a ?nding that the property is deemed
"abandoned" for purposes of Class 8 and provide a County Resolution to that effect. A
certi?ed copy of an Ordinance or Resolution ?nding that special circumstances exist, as well
as a certi?ed copy of a County Ordinance or Resolution validating such a ?nding that the
property is deemed "abandoned" for purposes of Class 8 need not be ?led at the time of ?ling
the Class 8 application with the Assessor, but must be ?led with the Assessor no later than
the date an assessment appeal is ?led to request the class change to Class 8. If the Resolution
is not ?led at the time of the Class 8 application, the applicant shall instead ?le, at that time,
a letter from the municipality or the County as the case may be, con?rming that a Resolution
or Ordinance regarding special circumstances has been requested.

if the real estate is located within an Industrial Growth Zone, prior to ?ling a Class 8
eligibility application with the Assessor and in lieu of an Ordinance or Resolution, an
applicant may obtain from an authorized of?cer of the municipality or an authorized of?cer
of the Cook County Bureau of Economic Development if the real estate is located in an
unincorporated area, a letter stating that the municipality or the County Board, as the case
may be, supports and consents to the ?ling ofthe Class 8 application with the Assessor. Such
authorized of?cer shall have been designated by the legislative body of the municipality or,
in the case of an unincorporated area, by the Cook County Board.

A copy of the authorized of?cer letter and a certi?ed copy of the legislative action
designating the authorized of?cer shall be included with the Class 8 application and
submitted to the Cook County Bureau of Economic Development for veri?cation prior to

Page 30 of 46

?ling of the application with the Assessor. The applicant must demonstrate that the industrial
deveIOpment project quali?es for the Class 8 classi?cation.

In addition, the letter from the authorized of?cer shall:

1. Describe the redevelopment objective of the municipality;
2. State the applicant?s intended use of the property; and

3. State that an Economic Disclosure Statement, as de?ned in this Division, was received
and ?led by the municipality or County Board, as the case may be.

Following veri?cation that the Class 8 application is in an Industrial Growth Zone and has
been properly submitted with a letter from an authorized of?cer and a certi?ed copy of the
legislative action designating the authorized of?cer, the Bureau of Economic Development
will forward the application to the Assessor's Of?ce for ?ling.

Temporary Emergency Economic Recovery Modi?cation (TEERM) Program: In the
instance where real estate does not meet the de?nition of abandoned property as de?ned
herein, the municipality or the County Board, as the case may be, may still determine that
special circumstances justify that the prOperty is deemed ?abandoned" for purpose of Class
8 under the TEERM Program, if:

I. There has been no purchase for value and the buildings; and

2. The buildings and other structures have been vac-ant and unused for at least [2
continuous months.

The ?nding of abandonment, along with the speci?cation ofthe special circumstances, shall
be included in the Resolution or Ordinance supporting and consenting to the Class 8
application under the TEERM Program.

In addition, the Ordinance or Resolution shall:

1.. Describe the redevelopment objective of the municipality;
2. State the applicant?s intended use of the property; and

3. State that an Economic Disclosure Statement, as de?ned in this Division, was received
and ?led by the municipality or County Board, as the case may be.

lfthe Ordinance or Resolution is that ofa municipality, the approval of the County Board is
required to validate such, a ?nding that the property is deemed "abandoned" for purposes of
Class 8, and a Resolution to that effect shall be obtained. The applicant must obtain the
municipal enabling Ordinance with the required ?nding of special circumstances and present
such municipal Ordinance to the Board of Commissioners of Cook County prior to its
determination as to whether it will validate such a ?nding that the property is deemed
"abandoned" for purposes of Class 8 and provide a County Resolution to that effect. A
certi?ed copy of an Ordinance or Resolution ?nding that special circumstances exist, as well
as a certi?ed cepy of a County Ordinance or Resolution validating such a ?nding that the
property is deemed "abandoned" for purposes ofClass 8 need not be ?led at the time of ?ling
the Class 8 application with the Assessor, but must be ?le-d with the Assessor no later than
the date an assessment appeal is ?led to request the class change to Class 8. If the Resolution

Page 31 of 46

is not ?led at the time ofthe Class 8 application, the applicant shall instead ?le, at that time,
a letter from the municipality or the County as the case may be, con?rming that a Resolution
or Ordinance regarding special circumstances has been requested.

 

Critical Emergency Emplovee Retention Modi?cation (CEERM) Program: In the instance
where real estate does not meet the de?nition of abandoned property as de?ned herein, the
municipality or the County Board, as the case may be, may still determine that special
circumstances iustifv ?nding that the property is deemed "abandoned? for purpose of a Class
8 under the CEERM Program if:

1. There has been no purchase for value; and

2. The buildings and other structures have been vacant and unused for at least 3 continuous
months; and

3. The applicant has provided suf?cient documentation to establish that such applicant will
create or maintain at least 250 iobs for employees at the subiect location. For purposes of
this Section, the term "employee" shall mean an individual who performs duties or services
at the subiect location on average at least 30 hours per week in anv two-week period for
which such individual is paid; "hours per week? shall mean hours for which an individual
is paid or entitled to payment for a period of time during which no duties are performed by
such individual due to vacation. holiday. illness, incapacity, iury duty, military duty or
approved leave of absence.

The ?nding of abandonment. along with the Speci?cation of the special circumstances, and
a determination that the applicant's participation in the CEERM Program is necessary for the
development to occur. and that without such designation the industrial enterprise would not
be economically viable causing the property to be in imminent risk of remaining vacant and
unused, shall be included in the Resolution or Ordinance supporting and consenting to the
Class 8 application under the CEERM Program.

In addition. the Ordinance or Resolution where applicable shall:

1. Describe the redevelopment obiective of the municipality: and
2. State the applicant?s intended use of the property; and

3. State that an Economic Disclosure Statement, as de?ned in this Division, was received
and ?led by the municipality or the County Board. as the case may be

The CEERM Program shall be limited to the party who is the initial applicant

of the Class 8 incentive under the CEERM Program and the subiect of the municipal

Resolution or Ordinance.

If the Ordinance or Resolution is that of a municipality, the approval of the County Board
is required to validate such a ?nding that the property is deemed "abandoned" for purposes
of Class 8, and a County Resolution to that effect shall be obtained. The applicant must

Page 32 of 46

obtain the municipal enabling Ordinance with the required ?nding of Special circumstances
and present such municipal Ordinance to the Board of Commissioners of Cook County
prior to its determination as to whether it will validate such a ?nding that the property is
deemed "abandoned? for purposes of Class 8 under the CEERM Program and provide a
County Resolution to that effect.

A certi?ed copy of an Ordinance or Resolution ?nding that Special circumstances exist. as
well as a certi?ed copy of a County Ordinance or resolution validating such a ?nding that
the property is deemed ?abandoned? for purposes of Class 8 need not be ?led at the time
of ?ling the Class 8 application with the Assessor, but must be ?led with the Assessor no
later than the date an assessment appeal is ?led to request the class change to Class 8.

if the Resolution is not ?led at the time of the Class 8 application. the applicant shall
instead ?le, at that time. a letter from the municipality or the County as the case may be,
con?rming that a Resolution or Ordinance regarding special circumstances has been

reg uested.

c. A copy of the Resolution or letter con?rming that a Resolution under the TEERM
Program or the CEERM Program. as the case may be, has been requested, whichever is
?led with the application, will be forwarded by the Assessor's Of?ce to the Secretary of the

County Board for distribution to the members of the County Board from the affected
districts

d. This classi?cation shall continue for a period of 12 years from the date of new construction
(excluding demolition, if any) or substantial rehabilitation was completed and initially
assessed, or in the case of abandoned property, from the date of substantial re?occupancy, or
in the case of incentives granted pursuant to the TEERM Program or the CEERM Program
from the date ofthe notice of approval.

e. Unless it was granted pursuant to the TEERM Program or the CEERM Program, this
incentive may be renewed during the last year a property is entitled to a ten-percent
assessment level pursuant to Section 74-64(1 if the following requirements are met:

1. The taxpayer noti?es the Assessor?s Of?ce of the taxpayer?s intent to request renewal

of the incentive from the municipality, or the County Board if the real estate is located
in an unincorporated area;

2. The municipality in which the real estate is located or the County Board, if the real
estate is located in an unincorporated area, adopts a Resolution expressly stating that
the municipality or County Board, as the case may be, has determined that the industrial
or commercial use of the property is necessary and bene?cial to the local economy, and
supports and consents to renewal of the Class 8; and

3. A copy of that Resolution and a completed renewal application are ?led with the
Assessor's Of?ce before the expiration of the ten?percent assessment level period.

Class 8 incentives that are granted pursuant to the TEERM Program or the CEERM Program
are not renewable. For all other Class 8 incentives, the number of renewal periods is not
limited as long as the property continues to apply and meet the requirements for Class 8.

Page 33 of 46

g. A copy of the request for renewal of the incentive will be forwarded by the Assessor's Of?ce
to the Secretary of the County Board for distribution to the members of the County Board
from the affected districts.

h. If no renewal is obtained, the incentive shall be phased out over the next two years, pursuant
to Section 74-64(1 1). After expiration of the last incentive period the real estate shall revert
to the applicable classi?cation under this Division.

i. The Assessor may adopt rules consistent with this subsection necessary to ensure proper
review of all factors relevant to determine eligibility for the bene?ts provided under Class 8.

j. The certi?cation of an area as in need of substantial revitalization shall expire ?ve years from
the date such certi?cation is granted. The Assessor shall notify the applicant ofthe date of
expiration of certi?cation one year before the date of the expiration of the certi?cation. Such
certification, pursuant to the same criteria, may be extended for one additional ?ve?year
period subject to reapplication by the appropriate local goveming body within the period
from one year to six months prior to the expiration of the initial five?year period.

k. The Assessor shall provide by rule for the ?ling of triennial reassessment reports by all Class
8 recipients as to the use of the property and the number of persons employed at the Class 8
site. A copy of such reports will be forwarded by the Assessor's Of?ce to the Secretary of
the County Board for distribution to members of the County Board from the affected
districts. Failure to ?le such reports within the time established by the Assessor's rules shall
result in loss ofthe incentive for the period relating to the non-?ling-

(13) Class 9. All real estate otherwise entitled to Class 3 classi?cation under this division, provided
that such real estate, consisting of land and existing buildings and structures is multifamily
residential real estate; either has undergone major rehabilitation, or is new construction, or both;
has at least 35 percent ofthe dwelling units leased at rents affordable to low~ or moderate?income
persons or households; and is in substantial compliance with all applicable local building, safety
and health requirements and codes.

a. To qualify for the Class 9 classi?cation, the applicant must:

1 . File an eligibility application with the Assessor prior to commencement of rehabilitation
and/or of new construction;

2. Either undertake and complete a major rehabilitation of the subject property, or
undertake and complete construction of a new building;

3. Maintain the subject property, including any new construction, in substantial
compliance with all local building, safety and health codes and requirements for the
duration of the Class 9 classi?cation period;

4. Lease, for the duration of the Class 9 classi?cation period, at least 35 percent of the
dwelling units of the subject property, including any new construction, to tenants at
rents which will not exceed rents affordable to low? and moderate-income persons or
households;

5. Agree to make a current listing of Class 9 tenants and their income available to the
Assessor upon request;

6. Further agrees to annually provide the tenants with a list of the permissible Class 9
rents;

Page 34 of 46

(14)

7. Agree to notify tenants of the upcoming Class 9 expiration at least one year prior to the
termination of the incentive treatment; and

8. File annually with the Assessor, on or before a date determined by the Assessor, for the
duration of the Class 9 classi?cation period, a swom statement verifying continuous
compliance with the Class 9 provisions of this Division.

No applicant shall discriminate on the basis of race, color, sex, marital status, religion,
national origin or ancestry, or on any other basis prohibited under Federal, State or local law.

Upon completion of the major rehabilitation, the applicant must supplement the application
by submitting evidence showing that major rehabilitation did, in fact, occur, the date that the
major rehabilitation was completed and that the real estate complies with all applicable local
building, safety and health requirements and codes. Upon completion of the new
construction, the applicant must supplement the application by submitting an occupancy
permit showing the date that the new construction was completed and ready for occupancy,
and evidence that the real estate complies with all applicable local building, safety and health
requirements and codes.

Beginning January l, 2000, the Class 9 classi?cation shall have an initial duration of ten
years from the date that the major rehabilitation was completed. That period may be extended
for additional ten?year periods if:

1. An application is ?led with the Assessor at least 12 months before the expiration of the
incentive period;

2. The applicant presents evidence that the real estate currently complies with all
applicable local building, safety and health requirements and codes; and

3. The Assessor determines that all application quali?cations, except the major
rehabilitation or new construction requirement, were maintained during the incentive
period.

When the Class 9 classi?cation is due to expire or is terminated by action ofthe owner or
the Assessor, the property owner shall, in a manner and form determined by the Assessor,
notify all Class 9 tenants of the date of the termination of Class 9 classi?cation. Once the
Class 9 classi?cation is terminated, the real estate shall revert to the applicable classi?cation
under this Division.

Class 8. Real estate otherwise entitled to Class 3 classi?cation under this division, consisting

of land and existing buildings and structures, which is has been subject to a Section 8 contract
renewal. The portion ofthe land and building eligible for the incentive shall be in such proportion
as the number of Section 8 units bears to the total number of units. The proportion shall be applied

only to property used for residential purposes, and not to portions of the property, if any, used for
commercial purposes.

E1.

Property quali?es for the Class classi?cation if its Section 8 contract has been renewed
pursuant to one of the following alternatives:

1. HUD has approved renewal of the Section 8 contract under the mark up to market
option, after ?nding that:

i. The property has received a physical inspection score of at least 60, in an inspection
by HUD's Real Estate Assessment Center, con?rming that the property is decent,

Page 35 of 46

safe, sanitary and in good repair with no uncorrected exigent health and safety
(EHS) violations;

ii. The property does not have a low- and moderate-income use restriction that cannot
be eliminated by unilateral action by the owner. If, however, the current rent is
lower than the use restriction, HUD may use the mark up to market option to
increase the rents to the use restriction level, which would be a renewal qualifying
for the classi?cation; and

A rent comparability study conducted by HUD has demonstrated that comparable
market rents are above 100 percent of the HUD Fair Market Rent.

HUD has approved a contract renewal for ?ve years of the Section 8 contract under the
mark up to market under HUD's discretionary authority, after finding that the property
meets at least one of the required criteria:

i. A vulnerable population is affected,

ii. There is a low vacancy rate in the area, which would make tenant based assistance
dif?cult to use, or a lack ofcomparable housing, or

The project is a high priority for the local community, as demonstrated by a
contribution of state or local funds to the property.

HUD has approved renewal ofa Section 8 contract for a not for pro?t corporation under
any available option under HUD's renewal procedures as described in HUD's Section 8
Renewal Policy Guidelines.

Additional requirements for quali?cation for the classi?cation are:

At least 20 percent ofthe living units must be Section 8 units for qualifying low- and
moderate?income persons.

The owner must agree to retain at least the existing number of Section 8 units for at
least ?ve years after the expiration of the expiring or expired Section 8 contract.

For the duration of the Class classi?cation period, applicant must ?le annually with
the Assessor, on or before a date determined by the Assessor, a sworn statement
verifying continuous compliance with the Class provisions of this Division.

Applicant must agree to notify the Assessor's Office if the Section 8 contract is
terminated prior to its expiration date. Applicant shall provide to the Assessor's of?ce
a copy of any notice of default or notice of abatement received from HUD.

When the applicant applies to HUD for a contract renewal, no less than 120 days prior to the
expiration of the contract, the applicant shall notify the Assessor's Of?ce of the application,
on a form provided by that of?ce. Upon receiving approval of the contract renewal from
HUD, the applicant shall ?le an application for the incentive with the Assessor's Of?ce, on
a form provided by that of?ce. The application shall be supported by a copy of HUD's letter
approving the contract renewal and a copy of the executed renewal contract.

Any property which, as of November 23, 1999, has an existing Section 8 contract with a
mark up to market Option may apply for Class classification for the any portion ofthe 2001
assessment year encompassed within the contract term, and for the remainder ofthe contract

Page 36 of 46

(15)

term, including any renewals approved with the mark up to market option. The classi?cation
shall continue until the expiration or termination ofthe Section 8 contract.

Any property which, as of (DATE AMENDMENT APPROVED), has an existing Section 8
contract renewal may apply for Class classi?cation for any portion of the 2006 assessment
year encompassed within the contract term, and for the remainder of the contract term,
including any renewals approved with the mark up to market Option, mark up to market
option under HU D's discretionary authority or a Section 8 contract that has been renewed by
a not-for-pro?t corporation under any available option under renewal procedures as
described in Section 8 Renewal Policy Guidelines. The classi?cation shall continue
until the expiration or termination of the Section 8 contract.

The incentive may be renewed if the Section 8 contract is again renewed under any of the
following three options: 1) the mark up to market option, 2) the mark up to market option
under discretionary authority; or 3) by a not?for-profit corporation under any
available option under HUD's renewal procedures as described in HUD's Section 8 Renewal
Policy Guidelines. Upon ?ling an application with HUD, no less than 120 days prior to
termination of the contract, for renewal of the Section 8 contract, the taxpayer shall provide
notice to the Assessor's Of?ce of its application for renewal. The taxpayer shall provide a
copy to the Assessor?s Of?ce of approval of the contract renewal, or noti?cation of
other action.

The Assessor's Of?ce shall adopt rules consistent with this subsection necessary to ensure
proper review of all factors relevant to determine initial and continued eligibility for the
bene?ts provided under Class S.

Class L. Real estate which is to be used for commercial or industrial purposes and which is

designated as Class 3, Class 4, Class Sa or Class 5b pursuant to this Division; is a landmark or
contributing building; and has undergone substantial rehabilitation. The substantial rehabilitation
must constitute an investment by the owner of at least 50 percent of the building's full market
value as determined by the Assessor in the assessment year prior to the commencement of the
substantial rehabilitation.

a.

Generally, the incentive shall apply only to the building and will not apply to the land
underneath the building. However, if the entire building has been vacant and unused for at
least 24 continuous months prior to the ?ling ofthe eligibility application with the Assessor,
the land upon which the building is situated shall also be eligible for the incentive.

Prior to ?ling a Class L- eligibility application with the Assessor, an applicant must obtain
an Ordinance or Resolution from the unit of local govemment in which the real estate is
located, which expressly states that the local government:

1. Has determined that the incentive provided by Class is necessary for the substantial
rehabilitation of the property;



Supports and consents to the granting ofthe incentive; and



Has reviewed and accepted its preservation commission?s written recommendation of
the project for the Class incentive. This recommendation will specify the project?s
budget and proposed scope of work and will specify that the project will meets or
exceeds the Standards of the United States Department of the Interior for Rehabilitation,
Preservation, Restoration, and Reconstruction of historic properties.

Page 37 of 46

4. In addition, the Ordinance or Resolution shall:
i. Describe the redevelopment objective of the municipality;
ii. State the applicant?s intended use of the property; and

State that an Economic Disclosure Statement, as defined in this Division, was
received and filed by the municipality or County Board, as the case may be.

A certi?ed copy of the Ordinance or Resolution need not be filed with the Assessor at the
time the Class eligibility application is filed but the Ordinance or Resolution must be filed
with the Assessor no later than the date an assessment appeal is filed to request the class
change to Class L.

If the Ordinance or Resolution is not filed at the time of the eligibility application is filed,
the applicant shall instead, include the following items with the eligibility application:

1. A letter from the municipality or the County, as the case may be, confirming that a
Resolution or Ordinance supporting the incentive has been requested; and

2. A copy of the preservation commission?s recommendation of the project.

A copy of the Resolution or letter confirming that a Resolution has been requested,
whichever is filed with the application, will be forwarded by the Assessor's Office to the
Secretary of the Board for distribution to the members of the County Board from the affected
districts.

Additionally, to qualify a landmark building or contributing building for Class 
classification, an eligibility application must be made to the Assessor within one year prior
to the commencement of substantial rehabilitation. After the substantial rehabilitation has
been completed, the preservation commission shall review the project to determine that it is
eligible under Subsection (14) of this Section. The applicant must supplement the eligibility
application with a copy of the determination of the preservation commission prior to
classification of the real estate as Class L.

The initial Class classi?cation shall continue for a period of 12 years from the date such
substantial rehabilitation was completed and initially assessed.

For property which was initially classified as Class 3, 4 or 5b, this incentive may be renewed
during the last year a property is entitled to a l6-percent assessment level, if the following
requirements are met:

I. The taxpayer notifies the Assessor's Of?ce of the taxpayer's intent to request renewal
of the incentive from the municipality, or the County Board if the real estate is located
in an unincorporated area;

2. The municipality in which the real estate is located or the County Board, if the real
estate is located in an unincorporated area, adOpts a resolution expressly stating that the
municipality or County Board, as the case may be, has determined that the industrial
use of the property is necessary and beneficial to the local economy, and supports and
consents to renewal of the Class and

3. A copy of that Resolution and a completed renewal application are filed with the Office
of the Assessor before the expiration of the incentive period.

Page 38 of 46

The number of renewal periods is not limited as long as the property continues to apply and
qualify for Class L. The notice ofintent to request renewal which is filed with the Assessor's
Office will be forwarded by the Assessor's Of?ce to the Secretary of the County Board for
distribution to members of the County Board from the affected districts.

i. If, as ofNovember 23, 1999, a property is receiving Class treatment, but the assessment
level is higher than 16 percent, that taxpayer may apply for renewal as outlined above and
receive a 16?percent assessment level for the prescribed period beginning after the filing and
approval of the Resolution and renewal application. However, if as of the effective date, the
taxpayer's assessment is higher than 16 percent and the taxpayer is granted a renewal of the
incentive for subsequent years, no reduction of the current assessment level based on renewal
ofthe incentive will be granted. If no renewal is obtained, the incentive shall be phased out
over the next two years, pursuant to Section 74?64. After expiration of the last incentive
period, the real estate shall revert to the applicable classification under this Division.

j. For commercial properties, once the original 12?year incentive period has expired, the
commercial Class incentive will expire. The incentive classification will be subject to
renewal subject to subsection 

k. The Assessor shall adopt rules consistent with the foregoing necessary to ensure proper
review of all factors relevant to determine initial and continued eligibility for the benefits
provided under Class L.

l. The Assessor shall provide by rule for the filing of triennial reassessment reports by all Class
recipients as to the continued landmark status ofthe property and the number of persons
employed at the Class site. Failure to file such reports within the time established by the
Assessor's rules may result in loss of the incentive for the period relating to the non-filing.

m. The Assessor shall provide the Chairman of the Business and Economic Development
Committee of the Cook County Board, annually on or before December 1, a report of each
Class that was designated in the prior year. Such report shall consist of the address of the
Class designated property, the date such designation was granted, the amount of property
taxes that were not assessed each year during which the Class incentive was in effect for
such property, and if provided by the applicant, the aggregate amount of the investment in
the project and the number of jobs generated in connection with such project.

(1 6) Class 10. Used as a licensed bed and breakfast, as defined under the laws of the Cook County
municipality where the property is situated, or registered as a Bed Breakfast with the State of
Illinois bed and Breakfast Act, as established under 50 ILCS 820/1 et seq, the Illinois Bed and
Breakfast Act, with six rentable units or less and with all said units contained in one improvement
where none of the units is owner occupied and a Homeowner's Exemption pursuant to the Illinois
Property Tax Code, Chapter 35, Title 4, Article 15 shall be available if allowed by law, provided
a Bed and Breakfast is not required to be qualified for Homeowner Exemptions.

(Code 1980, 13-14; Ord. of6-6?l977, p. 3802; Ord. of9-19?l977, p. 5752; Ord. of 5?16-1978, p. 4122;
Ord. of 1-2-1979, p. 543; Ord. No. 80-0-14, 3-3-1980; Ord. No. 84-0-36, 86-0?17,
5-19?1986; Ord. No. 88-0-36, 6-20-1988; Ord. No. 90-0-02, 12-4-1989; Ord. No. 90-0?05, 12-18-1989;
Ord. No. 95?0-07, 1?04-1995; Ord. No. 96?0?25, 11?19-1996; Ord. No. 97-0-13, 5-6-1997; Ord. No. 97-
0-24, 1 1-6-1997; Ord. No. 96-0-25, 11-19-1996; Ord. No. 00-0-10, 4-18-2000; Ord. No. 01-0-24, 9-6?
200]; Ord. No. 02-0-14, 2, 4-9?2002; Ord. No. 04-0-30, 7?13?2004; Ord. No. 06?0-09, 2, 2?15-2006;
Ord. No. 06-0-47, 11-2-2006; Ord. No. 07?0-30, 13-0?36, 14-

Page 39 of 46

1930, 15?6257, 16-1895, 16-2598, 4?13?
2016; Ord. No. 16-3191, 6-8?2016; Ord. No. 17?0293, 3-22-2017; Ord. No. 17?3303, 7-19-2017; Ord. No.
17-4339, 17-5209, 

Sec. 74?73. Revocation or cancellation of incentive classi?cation.
The following Incentive Classifications are subject to revocation herein: Class 6b (special

circumstances); Class 6b TEERM Class 6b Class 6b Class 7a; Class 7b; Class 7c;
Class 8; and Class 8 TEERM and Class 8 

 

 

The incentive may be revoked under the following circumstances:
(1) By rule, as provided by the Assessor;

(2) By the County Board by Resolution 0r Ordinance, which is based on a report from the Bureau
of Economic Development that has been approved by the Economic Development Advisory
Committee ofthe County;

(3) By the County Board by Resolution or Ordinance at the request of the Municipality by
submission ofa Municipal Resolution or Ordinance; and

(4) By request of the taxpayer to cancel.

A basis for revocation pursuant to Section or 3) above includes, but is not limited to,
the following:

(1) Failure to comply with the requirements of Section 74?71 or 74?72;

(2) Delinquency in the payment of any property taxes administered by Cook County or by a local
municipality; or

(3) Inaccuracies or omissions in documents submitted by the taxpayer, including, but not limited to,

the application and the Economic Disclosure Statement.

In case of revocation or cancellation, the Incentive Classi?cation shall be deemed null and void for the
tax year in which the incentive was revoked or cancelled as to the subject property. In such an instance, the
taxpayer shall be liable for and shall reimburse to the County Collector an amount equal to the difference
in the amount of taxes that would have been collected had the subject property been assessed as a Class 5
property and the amount of taxes collected under the Incentive Classification as determined by the Assessor.

(Ord. No. 14?1930, 6?18-2014; Ord. No. 17-0293, 3-22-2017.)

A motion was made by Commissioner Morrison, seconded by Commissioner Moody, to approval as
substituted 18?4201. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Chairman Daley, Vice Chairman Sims, Commissioners Arroyo, Boykin, Butler, Deer, Fritchey,
Gainer, Garcia Goslin, Moody, Moore, Morrison, Schneider, Silvestri, Suffredin and Tobolski

(17)

Page 40 of 46

18-4207

Sponsored by: BRIDGET GAINER, RICHARD R. BOYKIN, JOHN A. FRITCHEY, LARRY
SUFFREDIN, JESUS G. GARCIA, LUIS ARROYO JR, JERRY BUTLER, DENNIS DEER, GREGG
GOSLIN, EDWARD M. MOODY, STANLEY MOORE, SEAN M. MORRISON, TIMOTHY O.

SCHNEIDER, PETER N. SILVESTRI, DEBORAH SIMS and JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI, Cook County
Board ofCommissioners

PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT

AN ORDINANCE REQUIRING A FISCAL IMPACT NOTE FOR PENDING LEGISLATION

BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 2 - Administration,
Article - County Board, Division I. -- Generally, Section 2?77 is hereby amended as follows:

Section 2-77 Fiscal impact review.

Short title. This Section shall be known and may be cited as the Fiscal Impact Review Ordinance.

Impact note required.

(I) Every measure before the County Board including, but not limited to, any ordinance,
resolution, motion, contract approval, or any amendment thereto (collectively and individually
?measure"), except those measures making a direct appropriation or approving a contract for a
specified amount to be expended within one ?scal year, the purpose or effect of which is to
expend any County funds or to increase or decrease the revenues of the County, or to require the
expenditure of their own funds either directly or indirectly, shall have prepared for it a brief
explanatory statement or note (?fiscal note?) which shall include a reliable estimate ofthe
probable impact of such measure upon the County's annual budget. The Cook Countv Chief

Financial Officer shall prepare a ?scal impact statement for all ordinances or resolutions that
propose to or would otherwise:

i) expend any funds or increase or decrease the revenues of the County, either directlv or
indirectly; or
ii) appropriate funds; or
increase or decrease existina appropriations; or
iv) increase or decrease the fiscal liabilitv of the County: 0r
v) sell or lease any County asset, includina revenue streams from that asset, if the
anticipated revenue from the sale or lease of the asset is greater than $5.000.000,00.

(2) If an ordinance authorizes capital expenditures or appropriates funds for capital expenditures,
a fiscal note shall specify by year any principal and interest payments required to ?nance- such
capital expenditures. In addition, increased operational costs, by year, shall be specified. In no
event shall a fiscal note be required to estimate out?year costs for more than five years.

Page 41 of 46

 Responsibility and deadline for ?imishing the fiscal note.

1. The Seeretalyef?the?Beard?chief sponsor of the item under consideration shall 
the Chief Financial Of?cer ofthe

County to prepare a ?scal nete impact statement after the introduction of the measure
before the County Board setting forth the information speci?ed in this Section regarding any
measure.

2. The ?scal impact statement shall be provided to all Commissioners at least 72 hours prior to the
consideration of the ordinance or resolution by the Board of Commissioners; provided a request
by a Commissioner to prepare the ?scal impact statement is made earlier, the ChiefFinancial
Of?cer shall prepare the ?scal impact statement and provide it to the Commissioner within 48
hours of such request.

 

GB (1) No measure may be called for a ?nal vote by the County Board until delivery of the ?scal
note according to the provisions of this Section, except that whenever, because of the complexity
of the measure, additional time is required for the preparation of the ?scal note the Chief Financial
Of?cer shall provide each member of the County Board and the President of the County Board
with a statement of reasons why the ?scal note cannot be supplied in seven business days, and
request an extension of time not to exceed ?ve additional business days within which such ?scal
note is to be furnished. Such extension shall be granted only with the consent of the majority of
the members of the County Board and shall not extend beyond the end of the ?scal year in which
the request was made. In no event may such extensions be used to unduly delay or hinder the
consideration of the measure by the County Board. The County Board shall authorize the drafting
of any rules of regulations which shall be subject to County Board approval, to ensure compliance
with this Section.

83mm connection with the preparation of the ?scal note, all County of?cials and employees
shall upon request cooperate with the Chief Fiscal Of?cer in providing information.

Form and content.

1. The ?scal note shall be factual in nature, as brief and concise as may be, and shall provide as
reliable an estimate, in dollars, as is possible under the circumstances. The ?scal note shall include
both the immediate effect, and if determinable or reasonably foreseeable, the long-range effect of

the measure.
2. If, after careful investigation it is determined that no dollar estimate is possible, the ?scal note

shall contain a statement to that effect, setting forth the reasons why no such estimate can be

given. A brief summary or work sheet of computations used in arriving at the ?scal note ?gures
shall be included.

Page 42 of 46

(6) Preparation of fiscal note.

1. No comment or Opinion shall be included in the ?scal note with regard to the merits of the

measure for which the ?scal note is prepared; however, technical or mechanical defects may be
noted.

2. The work sheet shall include, insofar as practicable, a breakdown of the costs upon which the
?scal note is based. Such breakdown shall include, but need not be limited to, costs of personnel,
materials and supplies, and capital outlay. The ?scal note shall also include such other information
as is required by the rules and regulations which may be promulgated by the County Board with
respect to the preparation of such ?scal notes. The ?scal impact statement shall, to the degree
possible. consist of an estimate in dollars of the anticipated change in revenue. expenditures. or
?scal liability under the provisions of the ordinance or resolution. It shall also include a statement
as to the immediate effect and, if determinable or reasonably foreseeable. the long-range effect of
the measure. If after investigation. it is determined that no dollar estimate is possible. the ?scal
impact statement shall contain a statement to that effect. setting forth the reasons why no dollar
estimate can be given. The ?scal impact statement shall include an explanation of the basis or
reasoning on which the estimate is founded. including all assumptions involved. A copy of the
?scal note shall be delivered to each member of the Board and the President of the County
Board, according to the provisions of subsection of this Section.



The original of the ?scal note and the work sheet shall be signed by the Chief Financial Of?cer or
such person as the Chief Financial Of?cer may designate.

No restrictions on committee testimony. The fact that a ?scal note is prepared for any measure shall
not preclude or restrict the appearance before any committee of the County Board, of any of?cial or
authorized employee of any County commission, department, agency or other entity who desires to be
heard in support of or in opposition to the measure.

Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption

A motion was made by Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Vice Chairman Sims, to recommend
for deferral 18?4207. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Chairman Daley, Vice Chairman Sims, Commissioners Arroyo, Boykin, Butler, Deer, Fritchey,
Gainer, Garcia Goslin, Moody, Moore, Morrison, Schneider, Silvestri, Suffredin and Tobolski

(17)

18?2073

Sponsored by: JESUS o. LARRY SUFFREDIN and RICHARD R. BOYKIN, Cook
County Board of Commissioners

PROPOSED SUBSTITUTE TO 18-2073

PROPOSED ORDINANCE
Page 43 of 46

AN ORDINANCE TO ESTABLISH A CONSENSUS REVENUE FORECASTING
COMMISSION FOR COOK COUNTY

Sponsored by: JESUS G. GARCIA and LARRY SUFFREDTN, COUNTY COMMISSIONERS

BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter 2 Administration,
Article 111, County Board, Division sections 2?84 through 2-85 of the Cook County Code, is hereby
enacted as follows:

Sec. 2-84. An Ordinance to establish a Consensus Revenue Forecasting Commission for Cook
County
The purpose of the Commission will be to develop a consensus revenue forecast on an annual
basis to be updated quarterly. The forecast will include but not be limited to: Sales and taxes,
Property Taxes, Cigarette Taxes, Fuel Taxes and other sources of County revenue.

The Commission will also be responsible for evaluating and forecasting any new revenue sources
proposed by the Board and or Executive.

(0) The forecast will be completed no later than September 15th of each ?scal year, and will be
updated quarterly thereafter, to enable coordination with the County Budget and to allow for
mid-year adjustments.

The Commission will. have seven members appointed by the County Board President and
confirmed by the County Board, but also by virtue of their respective positions including:
Chairman of the Business and Economic Development Committee, Chairman of the Pension

Committee, Chairman ofthe Finance Committee, the Chief Financial Officer of Cook County, an
economist working for the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, an academic economist with
expertise in local economic conditions housed at a University located in Cook County, one
member ofthe public with expertise in public ?nance.

(6) Board Members will serve for three years and can be reappointed for consecutive terms.

The Commission has the authority to purchase subscriptions to economic and financial data,
engage outside forecasting resources and hire staff as needed as approved by the Board of
Commissioners.

All meetings ofthe Commission will be open to the public.

The forecast and assumptions will be made publicly available on the County?s website-

Effective Date: This Ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption

Page 44 of 46

A motion was made by Commissioner Garcia, seconded by Commissioner Suffredin, to
recommend for deferral as substituted 18-2073. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Chairman Daley, Vice Chairman Sims, Commissioners Arroyo, Boykin, Butler, Deer, Fritchey,
Gainer, Garcia Goslin, Moody, Moore, Morrison, Schneider, Silvestri, Suffredin and Tobolski
(17)
18-4109

Sponsored by: DENNIS DEER, LUIS ARROYO JR, RICHARD R. EOYKIN, JERRY BUTLER, JOHN
P. DALEY, JOHN A. FRITCHEY, JESUS G. GARCIA, GREGG GOSLIN, EDWARD M. MOODY,
STANLEY MOORE, SEAN M. MORRISON, TONI PRECKWINKLE (President), TIMOTHY O.
SCHNEIDER, PETER N. SILVESTRI, DEBORAH SIMS, LARRY SUFFREDIN and JEFFREY R.
TOBOLSKI Cook County Board of Commissioners

PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT

AMENDMENT TO COUNTY CONTACTS REGARDING SEXUAL HARASSMENT
COMPLIANCE

BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 42, Human Relations,
Section. 42-40 of the Cook County Code, is hereby amended as follows:

Sec. 42-40. - County contracts.

Prohibition. NO person who is a party to a contract with Cook County ("County?) shall engage
in unlawful discrimination or sexual harassment against any individual in the terms or conditions of
employment, credit, public accommodations, housing, or provision of County facilities, services or
programs. Sexual harassment" has such meaning as is ascribed to it in other sections of this article.

Contract provisions. The parehasingagent Chief Procurement Of?cer for the County, and all
other department heads, as authorized, Shall include a provision in all County contracts that sets forth the
County's policies with respect to unlawful discrimination and sexual harassment, as embodied in this article,
and that requires every contractor to certify its compliance with these policies and its agreement to abide
by such policies as a part of the contractor's contractual obligations. In certifying its compliance
with this section, every Contractor shall certify that it has policies, procedures, and training advising
employees of the illegality of sexual harassment and the rights and remedies for aggrieved employees. All
County contracts Shall further provide that if any party to a contract with the County is found to have
violated any provision of this article, or furnished false or misleading information in any investigation,

hearing, or inquiry held pursuant to this article, that contract may be subject to a declaration of default and
termination.

ExCEpn?on. This section applies only to contracts executed after the effective date of the
ordinance from which this article is derived.

Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adOption
Page 45 of 46

A motion was made by Commissioner Deer, seconded by Commissioner Garcia, to recommend for
approval 18-4109. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Chairman Daley, Vice Chairman Sims, Commissioners Arroyo, Boykin, Butler, Deer, Fritchey,
Gainer, Garcia Goslin, Moody, Moore, Morrison, Schneider, Silvestri, Suffredin and Tobolski
(17)

ADJOURNMENT

A motion was made by Commissioner Tobolski, seconded by Commissioner Moody, to adjourn the
meeting. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes Chairman Daley, Vice Chairman Sims, Commissioners Arroyo, Boykin, Butler, Deer, Fritchey,
Gainer, Garcia Goslin, Moody, Moore, Morrison, Schneider, Silvestri, Suffredin and Tobolski

(17)

Respectfully submitted,

Chairman Secretary

 

A video recording of this meeting is available at 

Page 46 of 46

