CHICAGO PLAN COMMISSION
121 North LaSalle Street
Council Chambers - 2nd Floor, City Hall
Chicago, Illinois 60602
March 9, 2015

1:00 P.M.
MINUTES

PRESENT
Martin Cabrera
Olga Camargo

ABSENT
Les Bond
Daniel Sih

Linda Searl

Euclid Walker

Smita Shah

Bishop John R. Bryant

Michael Kelly
Terry Peterson
Rebekah Scheinfeld
Patricia Scudiero
Andrew Mooney
Alderman Ray Suarez
Alderman Walter Burnett
Alderman Thomas Tunney

Alderman Edward Burke
Alderman Joseph Moore
Alderman Daniel S. Solis

I

The Chairman called the meeting to order at 1:08 PM and then undertook a roll
call to establish the presence of a quorum. The hearing commenced with ten
members present.

II.

A court reporter was present to record the proceedings. A transcript is available
for the purpose of pursuing all matters in greater detail and is a part of the
permanent public record of the Special Hearing of the Chicago Plan Commission
held on March 9, 2015.

IV.

The following inter-agency items numbered 1 through 4 under Acquisitions
and Dispositions were approved by a roll call vote of 10 -0-1 with
Commissioner Kelly being recused. Yeas – Commissioners Camargo,
Mooney, Peterson, Scheinfeld, Scudiero, Searl, Shah, Suarez, Tunney and
Cabrera

 1. A resolution recommending a proposed ordinance authorizing the disposition of
Chicago Park District-owned property to the City of Chicago for a Presidential
library, museum and open space for property located in Jackson Park at 6101
South Stony Island Avenue consisting of the property generally bounded by
South Stony Island Avenue on the west, East Hayes Drive on the south, South
Cornell Drive on the east and Midway Plaisance on the north. (15-021-21)
2.

A resolution recommending a proposed ordinance authorizing the acquisition by
the City of Chicago of Chicago Park District-owned property for a Presidential
library, museum and open space for the property located in Jackson Park at
6101 South Stony Island Avenue consisting of the property generally bounded by
South Stony Island Avenue on the west, East Hayes Drive on the south, South
Cornell Drive on the east and Midway Plaisance on the north. (15-024-21)

3. A resolution recommending a proposed ordinance authorizing the disposition of
Chicago Park District-owned property to the City of Chicago for a Presidential
library, museum and open space for the property located in Washington Park at
5200 South Ellsworth Drive consisting of the property generally bounded by
South Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Drive on the west, East Garfield Boulevard on
the south and South Ellsworth Drive on the east and southeast. (15-022-21)
4. A resolution recommending a proposed ordinance authorizing the acquisition by
the City of Chicago of Chicago Park District-owned property for a Presidential
library, museum and open space for the property located in Washington Park at
5200 South Ellsworth Drive consisting of the property generally bounded by
South Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Drive on the west, East Garfield Boulevard on
the south and South Ellsworth Drive on the east and southeast. (15-023-21)
C. ADJOURNMENT 1:16 P.M.

 