Metropolitan Water Reclamation
District of Greater Chicago

100 East Erie Street
Chicago, IL 60611

Meeting Minutes
Special Meeting

Chairman of Finance Frank Avila, Commissioner Kenneth
Dunkin, Commissioner Martin J. Durkan, Vice-President
Barbara J. McGowan, Commissioner Josina Morita,
Commissioner Debra Shore, Commissioner Kari K. Steele,
Commissioner David J. Walsh, President Board of
Commissioners Mariyana T. Spyropoulos
Thursday, November 1, 2018

1:00 PM

Board Room

DEPARTMENTAL BUDGET PRESENTATIONS

Call Meeting to Order
Kari K. Steele, Chairman for the Committee on Budget and Employment, called
the meeting to order at 2:15 p.m.

Roll Call
Present:

7-

Absent:

2-

Frank Avila; Kenneth Dunkin; Martin J. Durkan; Debra Shore; Kari K. Steele; David
J. Walsh; and Mariyana T. Spyropoulos
Barbara J. McGowan; and Josina Morita

Public Comment
Mike Archey, GTM Strategies, addressed the Board regarding biogas

Clerk to Read Call of the Meeting

Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago

Page 1

 Special Meeting

1

Meeting Minutes

18-1152

November 1, 2018

To the Honorable President and
Members of the Board of Commissioners
of the Metropolitan Water Reclamation
District of Greater Chicago
Ladies and Gentlemen:
At the direction of President Mariyana T. Spyropoulos and presiding Chairman
of the Committee on Budget and Employment, Kari K. Steele, a Special Meeting
will be held on Thursday, November 1, 2018, at 1:00 p.m. in the Board Room,
100 East Erie Street, Chicago, Illinois.
The purpose of this meeting is to present and accept the 2019 Executive
Director’s Budget Recommendations and related changes.
The Executive Director’s Budget Recommendations is available for review on
the District’s website, www.mwrd.org <http://www.mwrd.org>.

/s/ Jacqueline Torres
Clerk
Attachments:

2019 Budget Executive Director Presentation.pdf
2019 Budget Presentation Department Slides.pdf
A motion was made by Mariyana T. Spyropoulos, seconded by Kenneth Dunkin,
that this Report be Adopted. The motion carried by acclamation. Chorus of ayes
- No nays

2

18-1138

Authority to Accept the Executive Director’s 2019 Budget Recommendations
and the Attached Changes

Attachments:

BF-19 Consolidated Packet.pdf
A motion was made by Debra Shore, seconded by Kenneth Dunkin, that this
Agenda Item be Adopted. The motion carried by the following roll call vote:

Aye:

6-

Frank Avila; Kenneth Dunkin; Martin J. Durkan; Debra Shore; Kari K. Steele; David
J. Walsh

Absent:

3-

Barbara J. McGowan; Josina Morita; Mariyana T. Spyropoulos

Open Discussion
John P. Murray, Acting Executive Director, presented the 2019 Budget
Recommendations

Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago

Page 2

 Special Meeting

Meeting Minutes

November 1, 2018

Summary of Requests
Acting Executive Director
1. Mariyana T. Spyropoulos requested the current spending on overtime and severance
year to date, as well as what is included
Maintenance and Operations
1. Mariyana T. Spyropoulos questioned if the amount budgeted for methane gas
detection should be increased
2. Debra Shore requested if resources are in the budget to address cyber security for the
District's industrial control systems
3. Debra Shore requested the details for the increased cost of solids utilization
4. Debra Shore requested information on the increase in wastewater collection at Kirie
and Hanover Park and if attributable to I / I
Engineering
1. Mariyana T. Spyropoulos questioned the increase in budget for court reporter costs
and safety repairs when 2017 actual expenditures were $13,000 and $0, respectfully
2. Mariyana T. Spyropoulos requested the list of projects included in the $6 million
change order for carry over contracts
Stormwater
1. Debra Shore questioned the maintenance of the space to grow projects and also
recommended that installations of over 3 years be reviewed by the District for proper
maintenance
2. Mariyana T. Spyropoulos requested the number of rain barrels that will be purchased
with the $50,000 budget allocation
Monitoring and Research
1. Frank Avila recommended that M & R staff attend more international workshops
General Administration
1. Debra Shore requested the Board consider including hazardous waste pick up in the
budget. Kari K. Steele suggested the District partner with the State of Illinois and Frank
Avila suggested the District educate the community about hazardous waste
Information Technology
1. Debra Shore suggested the District consider adding a Chief Information Security
Officer
2. Frank Avila suggested adding CISCO certification as a requirement for new IT
employees
Human Resources
1. Debra Shore requested more information on the Table Top Exercise that was done as
part of the emergency action plan
2. Frank Avila requested adding more internship opportunities to the budget

Adjournment
The Special Meeting of November 1, 2018 was adjourned at 4:30 p.m.
/s/ Jacqueline Torres, Clerk

Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago

Page 3

 Special Meeting

Meeting Minutes

November 1, 2018

APPROVAL:
In accordance with the provisions of 70ILCS 2605/4, each of the foregoing agenda
items duly adopted by the Board of Commissioners of the Metropolitan Water
Reclamation District of Greater Chicago this November 1, 2018, are hereby approved.
APPROVED:
/s/ Mariyana T. Spryopoulos
President Board of Commissioners of the
Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago
November 1, 2018

Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago

Page 4

 