Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Board of Commissioners
Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations Committee
Wednesday, January 17, 2018

9:00 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA

There will be a meeting of the Committee or Subcommittee of the Board of Commissioners of Cook
County at the date, time and location listed above to consider the following:
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in writing,
their name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in advance of the
meeting. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a time specified in
the meeting agenda. Authorized public speakers who are not present during the specified time for public
testimony will forfeit their allotted time to speak at the meeting. Public testimony must be germane to a
specific item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not exceed three minutes; the Secretary
will keep track of the time and advise when the time for public testimony has expired. Persons authorized
to provide public testimony shall not use vulgar, abusive, or otherwise inappropriate language when
addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately; failure to speak to an item that is germane to the
meeting, or failure to adhere to the time requirements may result in expulsion from the meeting and/or
disqualify the person from providing future testimony.
18-1653
COMMITTEE MINUTES

Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 12/13/2017
17-5210
Sponsored by: LARRY SUFFREDIN, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE
AN
ORDINANCE
CREATING
ADMINISTRATIVE RULES

THE

COMMITTEE

Page 1 of 6

ON

DEPARTMENT

 Legislation and
Intergovernmental Relations
Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

January 17, 2018

BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 2 - Administration,
Article III - County Board, Division 1 - Generally, Section 2-84 - Review of Administrative Rules is
hereby enacted as follows:
Sec. 2-84. - Review of Department Administrative Rules

(a) Establishment and Purpose: The Committee on Department Administrative Rules (for purposes
of this Section, “the Committee”) is hereby established. The purpose of the Committee shall be the
creation and promotion of adequate and proper rules by Cook County Departments.
(b) Applicability. All Rules drafted, published and/or implemented by any Department shall be
reviewed in accordance with this Section. For purposes of this Section, the term Rule is defined as a
Department’s statement of general applicability that implements, applies, interprets, or prescribes law or
policy, but does not include:
(i) statements concerning only the internal management of an agency and not affecting private rights
or procedures available to persons or entities outside the Department,
(ii) informal advisory rulings;
(iii) intra-agency memoranda; or
(iv) the prescription of standardized forms.
(c) Powers: The Committee may:
1.

Examine any proposed rule, amendment to a rule, and repeal of a rule to determine whether the
proposed rule, amendment to a rule, or repeal of a rule is within the statutory authority upon which
it is based; whether the rule, amendment to a rule, or repeal of a rule is in proper form; and
whether the notice was given before its adoption, amendment, or repeal and was sufficient to give
adequate notice of the purpose and effect of the rule, amendment, or repeal.

2.

Consider whether the Department has considered alternatives to the rule that are consistent with
the stated objectives of both the applicable statutes and regulations and whether the rule is
designed to minimize economic impact on small businesses.

3. Conduct hearings on proposed and/or existing Rules;
4.

Receive and review oral or written testimony from Department employees or public witnesses
pertaining to Proposed or Existing Rules;

Page 2 of 6

 Legislation and
Intergovernmental Relations
Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

January 17, 2018

5. Undertake studies and investigations concerning rulemaking and Department Rules;
6. Monitor and investigate Department’s compliance with the provisions of this Act;
7. Make periodic investigations of the rulemaking activities of all Departments;
8.

Evaluate and report on all rules in terms of their propriety, legal adequacy, relation to statutory
authorization, economic and budgetary effects, and public policy;

9.

Request from any Department an analysis of the effect of a new rule, amendment or repealer,
including and direct economic effect on the persons regulated by the rule; any anticipated effect
on the proposing Department’s budget and the budgets or other Departments; the Department’s
justification and rationale for the intended rule, amendment or repealer; and/or any anticipated
effects on County Revenues;

10. Review the statutory authority on which any administrative rule is based;
11. Suggest rulemaking by a Department if the Department’s rules are incomplete, inconsistent or
otherwise deficient.
(d) Notice and Publication: Upon issuing a Rule, a Department shall submit the proposed Rule to
the Board of Commissioners, who shall send the Rule to the Committee. The Committee shall schedule a
public hearing on the Rule before the next regularly scheduled meeting of the Board of Commissioners.
The Secretary shall publish Notice of both meetings distribute the proposed Rule per established
procedures.
Each agency shall make available for public inspection all final orders, decisions, and opinions, except
those deemed confidential by State or federal statute and any trade secrets.
(e) Comments: The Committee will encourage members of the public to submit comments on
proposed rules directly to the proposing Department. This policy will not limit the Committee from
considering comments or problems not submitted to the Department first.
(f) Committee Action: After conducting a public hearing on a proposed Rule, the Committee may
accept the proposed Rule as written, reject the Rule entirely, or object and modify the proposed Rule.
1. Acceptance - If the Committee accepts the Rule, the Rule shall go into effect 30 days after
acceptance.
2. Rejection/Objection - If the Committee rejects or objects to a proposed rule, amendment to a rule,
or repeal of a rule, it shall certify the fact to the issuing Department and include with the

Page 3 of 6

 Legislation and
Intergovernmental Relations
Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

January 17, 2018

certification a statement of its specific objections.
The Department may:
i. Modify the proposed rule, amendment or repealer to meet the Committee’s objections;
ii. Withdraw the proposed rule, amendment or repealer in its entirety; or
iii. Refuse to modify or withdraw the proposed rule, amendment, or repealer
1. Modification - If a Department elects to modify a proposed rule, amendment or repealer to meet
the Committee’s objections, it shall make those modifications that are necessary to meet the
objections and then resubmit the rule, amendment or repealer to the Committee within 30 days of
the public hearing. Failure of a Department to respond to the Committee's objections to a proposed
rule, amendment, or repealer within 30 days shall constitute withdrawal of the proposed rule,
amendment, or repealer in its entirety.
If the Committee determines that the modifications do not remedy the Committee’s objections, it shall
notify the Department in writing and shall recommend legislative action to remedy the objection.
2. Failure to Object - Failure of the Committee to object to any proposed rule, amendment, or repealer
or any existing rule shall not be construed as implying direct or indirect approval of the rule or
proposed rule, amendment, or repealer.
BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 2 Administration, Article III - County Board, Division 1 - Generally, Section 2-84 - Review of
Administrative Rules is hereby amended as follows:
Sec. 2-106. - Committees.

***
(n) Standing committees. The standing committees, the standing subcommittees and the number of
members to be appointed to each (including Chair and Vice-Chair, but excluding ex officio members)
are as follows:
(1) Department Administrative Rules, five members.
(1) (2) Audit, seven members. (The County Auditor and Chief Financial Officer are ex officio,
nonvoting members of the Audit Committee.)
(2) (3) Asset Management, nine members.

Page 4 of 6

 Legislation and
Intergovernmental Relations
Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

January 17, 2018

(3) (4) Business and Economic Development, nine members.
(4) (5) Contract Compliance, nine members.
(5) (6) Criminal Justice, Committee of the Whole.
(6) (7) Environmental Control, seven members.
(7) (8) Finance, Committee of the Whole, with the following subcommittees with the number of
members indicated:
a. Litigation, seven members.
b. Tax Delinquency, five members.
c. Workers' Compensation, five members.
(7) (8) Health and Hospitals, Committee of the Whole.
(8) (9) Homeland Security and Emergency Management, Committee of the Whole.
(9) (10) Human Relations, seven members.
(10) (11) Labor, nine members.
(11) (12) Law Enforcement, seven members.
(12) (13) Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations, Committee of the Whole.
(13) (14) Pension, seven members.
(14) (15) Roads and Bridges, Committee of the Whole.
(15) (16) Rules and Administration, nine members.
(16) (17) Technology and Innovation, nine members.
(17) (18) Veterans, seven members.
(18) (19) Workforce, Housing and Community Development, five members.
(19) (20) Zoning and Building, Committee of the Whole.

Page 5 of 6

 NOTICE AND AGENDA

Legislation and
Intergovernmental Relations
Committee

January 17, 2018

***
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
Legislative History :

9/13/17 -

Board of Commissioners

-

refer to the Legislation and Intergovernmenta

Legislative History :

11/7/17 -

Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations Committee

Secretary
Chairman:
Suffredin
Vice-Chairman: Fritchey
Members:
Committee of the Whole

Page 6 of 6

-

recommend fo

 