TRANSITION PLAN
For the Proposed Closure of
TEAM Englewood Community Academy High School

I.

Introduction

Chicago Public Schools (CPS) is committed to providing every child from every community with
a high quality education that prepares them for success in college and in life. CPS students
continue to make record-breaking academic progress in every part of the city. Our vision is that
all CPS schools can build on this progress by offering high quality, rigorous instruction from
talented educators that help put Chicago students on a path to lasting success.
On December 1, 2017, CPS proposed ​the closure of ​TEAM Englewood Community Academy
High School (TEAM) ​located at 6201 S. Stewart in the Englewood neighborhood. ​Following the
December 1st announcement, CPS continued an extensive community engagement process
involving community meetings, parent meetings, a public hearing, and regular discussions with
elected officials and the Englewood Steering Committee. Based on the feedback received, CPS
adjusted its proposal to allow current students at TEAM to graduate from their school.
II.

Summary of Action

In order to efficiently manage district resources, CPS is proposing to close TEAM at the end of
the 2018-2019 school year. This proposal is consistent with the Chief Executive Officers
Guidelines for School Actions (Guidelines) because as of November 1, 2018, there were zero
students enrolled at TEAM.
III.

Safety and Security

Because there are no students enrolled at TEAM, there will be no direct impact on students’
safety. Current CPS students who were previously enrolled at TEAM at any point during
SY17-18 are being provided transition supports pursuant to the 'Updated Transition Plan' posted
to the CPS school action website on 7/7/2018
(​https://schoolinfo.cps.edu/SchoolActions/Download.aspx?fid=6463​).

IV.

Supports for Students and Schools

Academic Needs for Students
Because there are no students enrolled at TEAM, there will be no direct impact on students’
academic needs. ​Current CPS students who were previously enrolled at TEAM at any point
during SY17-18 are being provided transition supports pursuant to the 'Updated Transition Plan'

 posted to the CPS school action website on 7/7/18
(​https://schoolinfo.cps.edu/SchoolActions/Download.aspx?fid=6463​).
Social Emotional Needs of Students
Because there are no students enrolled at TEAM, there will be no direct impact on students’
social and emotional needs.
Students with Diverse Learning Needs
Because there are no students enrolled at TEAM, there will be no direct impact on students
with diverse learning needs.
Students in Temporary Living Situations
Because there are no students enrolled at TEAM, there will be no direct impact on students in
temporary living situations.
English Learners
Because there are no students enrolled at TEAM, there will be no direct impact on students
who are English Language Learners.
Transportation
Because there are no students enrolled at TEAM, there will be no direct impact on students’
transportation needs.

V.

Information Regarding Choice of School

No students are affected by this proposal. For general information regarding school choice,
please visit go.cps.edu.
VI.

Public Comment

CPS will hold two community meetings and one formal public hearing regarding the proposed
closure of TEAM. Public comment will be accepted during each meeting or hearing and the
transcripts can be found online at cps.edu/transitions. The community meetings and public
hearing are during the following dates and times:

 Community Meeting

Community Meeting

Public Hearing

Tuesday, January 8th, 2019
6:00-7:30 PM
Kershaw Elementary
6450 S Lowe Ave

Thursday, January 17th,
2019
6:00-7:30 PM
Kershaw Elementary
6450 S Lowe Ave

Wednesday, January 30,
2019
5:30pm - 6:30pm
CPS Central Office
42 West Madison Street

Further Questions and Concerns:
All of this information can be found at CPS.edu/Transitions. If you have any questions or
concerns regarding this transition plan, please call Chicago Public Schools at (773) 553-1500 or
email Transitions@cps.edu.

 