Allegheny County Council
436 Grant Street
Pittsburgh, PA 15219
Phone (412) 350-6490

Meeting Minutes
Wednesday, February 28, 2018
4:00 PM

Conference Room 1

Committee on Budget and Finance
Paul Klein, Chair; Sam DeMarco, Nick Futules, Bob Macey, Chuck Martoni, Sue Means
and John Palmiere, Members.

 Committee on Budget and Finance

Meeting Minutes

February 28, 2018

I. Call to Order
The meeting was called to order at 4:04.

Invited Guests:
William D. McKain, CPA, County Manager or Designee
Mary C. Soroka, Director, Budget and Finance or Designee
Mr. McKain was present from the Office of the County Manager.
Ms. Soroka and Mr. Cox were present from the Department of Budget & Finance.
Mr. Biondo was present from the Law Department.
Mr. Barker and Ms. Roka were present from the Office of County Council.

II. Roll Call
Members Present:

3-

Sue Means,John Palmiere andPaul Klein

Members Absent:

2-

Sam DeMarco andChuck Martoni

Members Phone:

2-

Nick Futules andBob Macey

IV. Agenda Items
Resolutions

10498-18

A Resolution of the County Council of Allegheny County, Pennsylvania, authorizing
participation in the 2017-2018 Nursing Home Intergovernmental Transfer Program
proposed by the Pennsylvania Department of Human Services; authorizing the transfer
of funds as required by the said program and further granting authorization for any and
all lawful actions necessary to effectuate Allegheny County’s participation in said
program.

Sponsors: Chief Executive

At the request of the Chair, the clerk read the title of the bill and Mr. McKain described
its provisions, noting that this marks the third consecutive year of participation for
Allegheny County and indicating that the program essentially temporarily pools nursing
home appropriations made by a number of counties for the purpose of leveraging
additional federal funding through the Medicaid program.
Mr. McKain and Ms. Soroka noted that the revenue turnaround has been rapid, so the
County is without the cash in question for less than a month, and the expected result this
year is an additional $4 million or so, depending upon market conditions. Mr. McKain and
Ms. Soroka noted that the County's contribution would be about $15 million this year.
In response to questions from Ms. Means, Mr. Biondo noted that the timing of the
resolution has varied somewhat in years past, but the funding is actually sent in May, and
Ms. Soroka noted that returns in the previous two years have been $2.8 million and $3.8
million in additonal funding.
Allegheny County Council

Page 1

Printed on 4/26/2018

 Committee on Budget and Finance

Meeting Minutes

February 28, 2018

A motion was made by Means, seconded by Palmiere, that this matter be
Affirmatively Recommended. The motion carried by a unanimous vote.

V. Adjournment
The meeting was adjourned at 4:13.

Allegheny County Council

Page 2

Printed on 4/26/2018

 