Allegheny County Council
436 Grant Street
Pittsburgh, PA 15219
Phone (412) 350-6490
Fax (412) 350-6499

Meeting Minutes
Thursday, May 31, 2018
4:00 PM

Conference Room 1

Committee on Economic Development & Housing
Dewitt Walton, Chair; Tom Baker, Patrick Catena, Sam DeMarco, Nick Futules, Bob
Macey and John Palmiere, Members

 Meeting Minutes

Committee on Economic
Development & Housing

May 31, 2018

I. Call to Order
The meeting was called to order at 4:00.

Invited Guests:
William D. McKain, CPA, Allegheny County Manager or designee(s)
Robert Hurley, Director, Allegheny County Department of Economic Development
Mr. McKain was present from the Office of the County Manager.
Mr. Hurley was present from the Department of Economic Development.
Mr. Reidbord was present from Walnut Capital.
Mr. Stanton was present from Dream Greener Lawn & Landscape.
Mr. Barker was present from the Office of County Council.

II. Roll Call
Members Present:

2-

Bob Macey andDeWitt Walton

Members Absent:

1-

Sam DeMarco

Members Phone:

4-

Tom Baker,Patrick Catena,Nick Futules andJohn Palmiere

Members
Non-Members:

3-

Sue Means,Robert Palmosina andDenise Ranalli-Russell

III. Approval of Minutes
IV. Agenda Items
Ordinances

10578-18

An Ordinance approving the sale of a parcel of property identified as 3342 Fifth
Avenue, 4th Ward, Pittsburgh (Oakland) PA, Block and Lot 28-E-19, for the sale
price of $2,100,000.00 to Walnut Capital - Fifth, LP, a Pennsylvania Limited
Partnership.

Sponsors: Chief Executive

At the request of the Chair, the clerk read the title of the bill and Mr. Hurley summarized
its provisions, noting that the transaction at issue involves a building formerly used by
the Program for Female Offenders, which has moved to another location. The proposed
development is a mixed use office building with accompanying parking, and Mr. Hurley
indicated that the planned timeline for completion would be sometime in 2020, with PJ
Dick as the primary contractor.
In response to a question from Mr. Macey, Mr. Hurley noted that the County has an
agreement with Walnut Capital that stipulates that the property will remain on the tax rolls
for at least 10 years, and also indicated that there is a possibility that the parcel may
become part of a TRID, depending upon the BRT project.
Allegheny County Council

Page 1

Printed on 9/6/2018

 Meeting Minutes

Committee on Economic
Development & Housing

May 31, 2018

In response to a question from Ms. Means, Mr. Hurley noted that the appraised value is
approximately $1.3 million, and that the County does have a right of first refusal under the
development agreement, should Walnut Capital opt to sell the property.
A motion was made by Macey, seconded by Baker, that this matter be
Affirmatively Recommended. The motion carried by a unanimous vote.

10621-18

An Ordinance approving the sale of a parcel of property identified as 4991 Library
Road, Bethel Park PA, comprised of Block and Lots 392-F-225, 392-F-215,
392-F-175, 392-F-165, 392-G-110 and 392-F-200, for the sale price of
$400,000.00 to Dream Greener Lawn and Landscape, LLC.

Sponsors: Chief Executive

At the request of the Chair, the clerk read the title of the bill and Mr. Hurley summarized
its provisions, noting that most of the property at issue had previously been subject to a
sale agreement and the buyer backed out of the transaction, and that the County opted
to attempt to sell the property again because Warehouse Number 5 is of no value to the
County. Mr. Hurley noted that the prospective buyer wishes to expand his buisness and
that a re-zoning would be necessary and that the municipality appears to be receptive to
that concept, but that the sale is contingent upon the re-zoning taking place. Mr. Hurley
indicated that the Montour Trail had been given the opportunity to purchase the property,
and that the developer and the Trail may have future discussions regarding the trail and
the parcels at issue.
The Chair noted that the sale of this particular parcel has experienced several difficulties,
but that it now appears to be on track, and thanked the Department and buyers for their
efforts.
Mr. Macey and Mr. Stanton discussed Dream Greener's business operations and reasons
for wanting to expand.
In response to a question from Mr. Macey, Mr. McKain noted that the County has ample
maintenance capabilities at other nearby locations, and that this particular facility has
deteriorated to the point that it would be cost-prohibitive to rehabilitate or re-use it.
In response to questions from Ms. Means, Mr. Hurley noted that the property is being
sold as-is, and that the buyer could in theory re-sell the property, although Mr. McKain
suggested that market conditions likely mitigate towards the buyer retaining possession.
Ms. Means thanked Mr. Stanton for investing in the community.
A motion was made by Macey, seconded by Palmiere, that this matter be
Affirmatively Recommended. The motion carried by a unanimous vote.

V. Adjournment
The meeting was adjourned at 4:21.

Allegheny County Council

Page 2

Printed on 9/6/2018

 