 
 

           
 
 April 15, 2014 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Item No. 7 

             
RESOLUTION NO. 2014-CHA-40

 

A RESOLUTION REVISING THE BOARD OF
COMMISSIONERS COMMITTEE STRUCTURE
WHEREAS,

the Chicago Housing Authority (the “Authority”) has been created by, and
exists under, the Housing Authorities Act, 310 ILCS 10/1 et seq., as amended
(the “Act”); and

WHEREAS,

pursuant to the Act, the management and control of the Authority is vested in
ten commissioners (herein after referred to as the "Board of Commissioners"
or the “Board”); and

WHEREAS,

Section 8 of the Act provides that the Authority shall have “all the powers
necessary or convenient to carry out and effectuate the purposes and
provisions” of the Act, 310 ILCS 10/8; and

WHEREAS,

Section 1 of the By-Laws of the Authority provides, inter alia, that:
The commissioners may by resolution make any delegation of discretionary
powers or ministerial duties, to be exercised in accordance with the standards,
limitations, and controls which shall be set up in such resolution and which
shall not be inconsistent with the “Act in Relation to Housing Authorities” to
any committee or committees of one or more chosen from among their number.
Any action taken in the name of the Authority by a person or persons to whom
such powers or duties have been delegated shall be the action of the Authority
and binding upon it, provided such action is pursuant to and within the scope of
the delegation resolution, and consistent with “An Act in Relation to Housing
Authorities”; and

WHEREAS,

the Board by Resolution No. 2008-CHA-52 revised the Board's Committee
structure for the then existing Board Committees of Finance, Operations and
Facilities, and Tenant Services; and

WHEREAS,

the Board by Resolution No. 2012-CHA-49 established a Personnel Committee
consisting of three (3) members; and

WHEREAS,

the Board by Resolution No. 2014-CHA-5 established an Audit Committee
consisting of three members, comprised of two (2) members from the Board
and one (1) member from the general community; and

WHEREAS,

the Board has determined that it is in the Authority's best interest to establish a
Real Estate Development Committee; and

 WHEREAS,

the Board has determined that it is in the Authority's best interest to (1) combine
the Finance Committee and the Personnel Committee; (2) clarify the purpose of
the Operations and Facilities Committee in light of the newly created Real
Estate Development Committee; and (3) change the membership composition
of the Committees.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY,
COOK COUNTY, ILLINOIS, AS FOLLOWS:
Section 1.

Incorporation of Recitals. The recitals set forth above are incorporated in
their entirety as if fully set forth in this Section 1.

Section 2.

Establishment of Committees. The Board hereby provides for and establishes
five (5) Committees of the Board with the titles and areas of responsibilities as
follows:
1.

Finance and Personnel Committee: the consideration of all matters
related to the revenues and outlays of the Authority, including all
purchases and contracts, and the policies and procedures related
thereto, reviewing matters pertaining to personnel as set forth in
Resolution No. 2012-CHA-49 as amended by Resolution No. 2013CHA-98 including but not limited to, overseeing the activities of the
Chief Executive Officer and authorized staff regarding the personnel
matters delegated to the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Resolution
No. 2012-CHA-49 as amended by Resolution No. 2013-CHA-98.

2.

Real Estate Development Committee: the consideration of all
matters relating to the creation, acquisition, or development of any and
all new units to be subsidized by CHA; the redevelopment or
disposition of any and all real property owned by or under the control
of CHA; the demolition of any housing units owned by or under the
control of CHA; and the rehabilitation of any housing units that shall in
the future be counted toward the 25,000 unit goal of the Authority's
Restated and Amended MTW Agreement.

3.

Operations and Facilities Committee: the consideration of all matters
related to: the operation, maintenance, and repair of facilities, and to
the extent not a responsibility of the Real Estate Development
Committee, professional and construction services for the
redevelopment, modernization, demolition and replacement of
facilities, and the policies and procedures related thereto; and the
operation and administration of the Housing Choice Voucher program.

4.

Tenant Services Committee: the consideration of all matters related
directly to the social and personal well-being of residents, including
tenant selection and retention, security, youth programs, elderly
programs, employment training and readiness programs and other
economic development issues.
2 

 

 5.

Audit Committee: the consideration of all audit and other matters as
specifically set forth in Resolution No. 2014-CHA-5, as such resolution
may be amended from time to time.

Section 3.

Ex-officio member; Chair. The Chairperson of the Board shall be an exofficio voting member of each Committee, but shall not be counted present for
purposes of establishing a quorum of the Committee, unless also an official
member of any such Committee. The Chairperson will appoint the Committee
members to each Committee, and will select one of the Committee members to
serve as the Committee chair for each Committee.

Section 4.

Composition of Committees. In addition to ex-officio member, each
Committee shall consist of five (5) Commissioners as regular members, with
the exception of the Audit Committee, whose membership is governed by
Resolution No. 2014-CHA-5, as such resolution may be amended from time to
time.

Section 5.

Meetings. Each committee may meet, when deemed necessary, prior to the
monthly meeting of the full Board of Commissioners to consider issues
pertinent to such Committee. Each committee shall establish annually a
calendar of its regular meetings for the next twelve months and the Committee
Chair, Chairman of the Board of Commissioners ("Chairman"), or any two (2)
Committee members may call a special meeting upon at least 48 hours prior
notice, all in compliance with the Open Meetings Act.

Section 6.

Voting. The affirmative vote of 3 members of a committee is necessary to
adopt any motion or resolution unless a greater number is otherwise required.

Section 7.

Vacancies.
Any vacancy on a Committee created by a vacancy in any
Commissioner's office shall be filled by the person succeeding to such
Commissioner's office.

Section 8.

Effective date. This Resolution shall be in full force and effect after its passage as
provided by law, and shall and is hereby deemed to supersede Resolution No. 2008CHA-52 in its entirety. Any other resolutions or parts thereof in conflict herewith
are hereby repealed to the extent of such conflict.    

3 
 

 