MINUTES OF THE ANNUAL AND REGULAR MEETING
OF THE
COMMISSIONERS OF THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
July 15, 2014
The Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority held its Annual and Regular Meeting of the
Board of Commissioners on Tuesday, July 15, 2014 at approximately 8:40 a.m. at the CHA Corporate
Offices, 60 E. Van Buren, 12th Floor Loft in Chicago, IL.
Chairwoman Z. Scott called the meeting to order and upon roll call, those present and absent were as
follows:
Present:
Matthew Brewer
Dr. Mildred Harris
Harriet Johnson
Jack Markowski
Bridget Reidy
Z. Scott
Francine Washington
Absent:

Mark Cozzi
Rodrigo Sierra

Also present were Michael Merchant, Chief Executive Officer, Scott Ammarell, Chief Legal Officer;
Chicago Housing Authority Staff Members and the General Public.
There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as follows:
Upon Motion made by Chairwoman Scott and properly seconded by Commissioner Markowski, the
Commissioners adjourned to Executive Session. Chairwoman Scott announced that pursuant to the
Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2, the Board would adjourn for approximately one hour to discuss
personnel related matters; purchase, sale and lease of real estate property; pending, probable or
imminent litigation; review of closed minutes and audit reviews.
The Commissioners subsequently reconvened in Open Session and upon roll call, those present and
absent were as follows:
Present:
Matthew Brewer
Dr. Mildred Harris
Harriet Johnson
Jack Markowski
Bridget Reidy
Z. Scott
Francine Washington
Absent:

Mark Cozzi
Rodrigo Sierra
1

 There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as follows:
After Motion made by Commissioner Washington and seconded by Commissioner Brewer the Minutes
for the Regular and Closed meetings of June 17, 2014 were unanimously approved as submitted.
Pursuant to the By-Laws, at the Annual Meeting of the Authority, the election of officers takes place.
Chairwoman Z. Scott nominated Commissioner Rodrigo Sierra to fill the positions of Vice-Chair.
There being no other nomination on the slate, nominations were then closed and upon Motion made
and properly seconded by Commissioner Brewer the voting resulted in unanimous approval for the reelection of Commissioner Sierra to the position of Vice-Chairman of the Chicago Housing Authority.
Commissioner Washington then nominated Lee Chuc-Gill to fill the position of Secretary and
Custodian of Records. There being no other nomination on the slate, nominations were then closed and
upon Motion made and properly seconded by Commissioner Reidy the voting resulted in unanimous
approval for the re-election of Lee Chuc-Gill as Secretary, Custodian and Keeper of Records for the
Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority.
Commissioner Reidy, Chairwoman of the Operations and Facilities committee, then presented the
report of the Joint Tenant Services and Operations Committee. Per Commissioner Reidy, a Joint
Tenant Services and Operations Committee meeting was called to order on Wednesday, July 9, 2014,
at approximately 1:05 p.m. at the 60 E. Van Buren Corporate Offices. Present at the meeting were
Commissioners Brewer, Markowski, Reidy and Washington. While there was a quorum for the
Operations Committee there was not a quorum for the Tenant Services Committee. At the
recommendation of the Chief Legal Officer, Commissioners and the public were briefed on the four
items appearing on the agenda, and the items were open to comments and questions from
Commissioners and the public, but for the record, no vote was taken.
On behalf of the Joint Tenant Services and Operations Committee, Commissioner Reidy then
presented an Omnibus Motion for the approval of Items 2 through 5.
(Item 1-This number not used)
(Item 2)
The resolution for Item 2 approves contract award to Housing Choice Partners of Illinois (HCP), in an
amount not-to-exceed $2,945,263 for a two year base term with three one-year option periods to
provide CHA’s Mobility Counseling Program for eligible families move to Opportunity Areas. In
2014, the Mobility Program will have a specific, targeted emphasis on families with school-age
children. HCP will provide counseling workshops for Mobility Program participants that address
topics such as identifying the appropriate housing options, school choice for youth, and analyzing
communities (e.g. resources, crime statistics, transportation, and employment opportunities, etc.),
while addressing the fears and hesitations that participants may feel from relocating to a new
community. HCP will assist participants in identifying appropriate units (e.g. unit and community
tours) and help facilitate the process of completing and submitting all required documentation to
CHA’s HCV department. HCP will provide follow-up support in the months and year(s) after they
make the move to an Opportunity Area. It is anticipated that a minimum of 400 families will move to
an Opportunity Area each year (800 during the base term) as a result of Mobility Services. In April
2014, CHA issued a Request For Proposal (RFP) for Mobility Counseling Programs for eligible CHA
families to move to Opportunity Areas. 111 vendors were solicited and 34 vendors picked up a copy
of the RFP. Of the 3 responses received, two vendors participated in Oral Presentations. Based on the
2

 written responses and presentations, proposals were scored. The evaluating committee scored HCP
higher than the other vendor who participated in oral presentation.
RESOLUTION NO. 2014-CHA-68
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated July 9, 2014 entitled
“AUTHORIZATION TO ENTER INTO A CONTRACT WITH HOUSING CHOICE
PARTNERS OF ILLINOIS TO PROVIDE CHA’S MOBILITY COUNSELING
PROGRAM”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to
enter into a contract with Housing Choice Partners of Illinois in  an  amount  not‐to‐
exceed $2,954,263 for a two-year base term with three one-year option periods to
provide the Mobility Counseling Program.
This award is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE,
Section 3 and insurance requirements.

(Item 3)
The resolution for Item 3 awards contract to All Chicago Construction, Inc. for the modernization
upgrades at Jane Addams Family Resource Center in the firm fixed amount of $4,489,614 plus a notto-exceed amount of $269,373.84 in contingency strictly limited to potential change orders justified as
a Discovered Condition or city code compliance issues for a total amount not-to-exceed $4,758,990.84.
The community center was originally part of the Roosevelt Square Master Plan, whereas, the CHA
committed to the residents to renovate the building. The existing building requires ADA retrofits and
renovations to meet current code and be utilized to the maximum capacity. The adjacent building is
currently in a similar state of disrepair and houses several essential functions including property
management and the security camera system. The result of this project would combine the functions
of the two buildings into one; thereby reducing overall operating costs for the site and freeing up the
adjacent land to be re-developed in the future. The CHA is required under Federal Regulations to
provide ADA compliant access to all of its non-dwelling structures. In April 2014, CHA issued an
Invitation for Bid to provide services for the modernization upgrades at Jane Addams Family Resource
Center. The advertisement ran in the Chicago Sun-Times, the Chicago Defender, Extra, on the CHA
website, and on BuySpeed Online. The pre-bid conference and site visit were held on April 18, 2014.
The CHA issued a single addendum on April 23, 2014. It provided the environmental scope for
reference. The CHA received and opened 6 bids on May 15, 2014. The lowest responsive and
responsible bidder was All Chicago, Inc. at $4,489,614.
RESOLUTION NO. 2014-CHA-69
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated July 9, 2014 entitled
“AUTHORIZATION TO EXECUTE A CONTRACT WITH ALL CHICAGO, INC.
FOR THE MODERNIZATION UPGRADES AT JANE ADDAMS FAMILY
RESOURCE CENTER”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to
enter into a contract with All Chicago, Inc. for the modernization upgrades at Jane
Addams Family Resource Center in the firm fixed amount of $4,489,614 plus a not to
3

 exceed amount of $269,376.84 in contingency strictly limited to potential change orders
justified as a Discovered Condition or City of Chicago Building Code changes for a
total amount not to exceed $4,758,990.84. The Scope of Work is to be completed within
three hundred (300) calendar days of the date set forth in the Notice to Proceed. The
Jane Addams Family Resource Center is located at 1254 Loomis St. in Chicago, IL.
This award is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE,
Section 3, and bonding and insurance requirements.
(Item 4)
In March 2014, CHA issued a Request for Proposal (RFP) soliciting competitive proposals from firms
qualified to provide asset assessment and strategic planning services. The advertisement ran in the
area newspapers, on the CHA website, and on BuySpeed Online. The CHA received and opened 4
bids, and of the respondents, one was an M/W/DBE vendor. The recommended awardee is Clampett
Industries, LLC whose best and final fee proposal was in the fixed fee amount of $1,388,715.00.
Clampett Industries, LLC (dba EMG) was most competitive in how they described the plan for staffing
key positions, their method of assigning work and the proposed database structure. Further, they have
over 26 years of experience in asset assessments and strategic planning. In 2010, EMG was the prime
contractor for physical needs assessments and reserve studies for the CHA. Their public housing
clients include, but are not limited to, Los Angeles, Baltimore, Cuyahoga Metropolitan, Philadelphia,
Cook County, Newark, Milwaukee, and Atlanta. Accordingly, the resolution for Item 4 approves
award of contract to Clampett Industries, LLC for asset assessment and strategic plan consulting
services in the firm fixed amount of $1,388,715. In 2013, HUD issued the Physical Needs Assessment
(PNA) Rule that requires: All 3000+ PHAs nationwide to complete a comprehensive PNA for each of
their public housing developments once every five years and to update these assessments annually.
The rule requires modernization and life-cycle replacement repair needs projected over a 20-year
period rather than a 5-year period and integrates performance of the PNA with an energy audit at least
once every 5 years. This asset assessment and strategic plan deliverables will provide CHA with the
information necessary to understand its short and long term capital needs, prioritize capital investments
using a web-based management system, and establish an informed estimate of future costs. The
general scope of work includes: a facilities assessment and condition study, as well as inspection of
100% of the residential units consistent with the HUD Green Physical Needs Assessment (GPNA)
criteria; completion of Rental Assistance Demonstration (RAD) physical condition assessment and
energy audits in select CHA properties, which allows proven financing tools to be applied to at-risk
public and assisted housing; and delivery of a strategic capital plan recommendation for short- and
long-range capital plan development.
RESOLUTION NO. 2014-CHA-70
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated June 11, 2014 entitled
“AUTHORIZATION
TO
EXECUTE
CONTRACT
WITH
CLAMPETT
INDUSTRIES, LLC FOR ASSET ASSESSMENT AND STRATEGIC PLAN
CONSULTING SERVICES”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to
enter into a contract with Clampett Industries, LLC to provide asset assessment and
strategic planning services to the CHA in the firm fixed fee amount of $1,388,715.00.

4

 This award is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with applicable CHA
MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3, and bonding and insurance requirements.
(Item 5)
CHA is almost at the end of its wait lists for family public housing, tenant-based HCV, and project-based
HCV. In addition, CHA has a significantly reduced the number of residents who have yet to satisfy their
Right of Return under the Relocation Rights Contract. In order to meet its public housing occupancy and
HCV utilization goals, CHA needs to open its wait lists for these three programs in 2014. Accordingly, the
resolution for Item 5 approves award of contracts in the amounts of $5,000 to organizations that will assist
with wait list lottery outreach or $24,000 to organizations that will assist with wait list lottery outreach,
registration and technical assistance efforts. The resolution also approves an increase to compensation
amounts and amend contracts with existing CHA vendors (if necessary) to provide additional services,
including a call center, development and hosting of an online registration form, marketing and printing of
flyers, posters, and other collateral materials, and advertising. The CHA will use one registration process
for all three wait list lotteries: Family Public Housing, Tenant-based HCV, and Project-based HCV.
Registrants will have the option to submit their name for one, two, or all three wait list lotteries. The
recommended dates for the wait list lottery registration are Wednesday, October 1 through Friday, October
31. After the registration period is closed, the CHA will conduct three lotteries to establish separate waiting
lists for each program. The new wait lists that are generated through this process will not be utilized until
the existing wait lists are exhausted. The goal is for 99% of registrants to submit their registration forms via
an online portal. (In 2010, approximately 99% of all forms were submitted online.) The CHA will also
utilize a call center that can answer questions from registrants and walk them through the registration form.
The CHA anticipates approximately 25,000 calls per day to the call center. The CHA will advertise the wait
list lottery registration opportunity broadly starting in September. The CHA will advertise in print media,
social media, and on public transportation. In addition, the CHA is exploring radio and television
advertising opportunities for the wait list lottery registration. The CHA will work closely with its partners,
including Sister Agencies (Chicago Park District, Chicago Public Schools, Department of Family and
Support Services, Chicago Public Library) and aldermanic offices to spread the word about the wait list
lottery registration.
RESOLUTION NO. 2014-CHA-71
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated July 9, 2014 entitled
“AUTHORIZATION TO AWARD CONTRACTS TO ORGANIZATIONS TO
PROVIDE WAIT LIST LOTTERY OUTREACH, REGISTRATION, AND
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND TO INCREASE COMPENSATION AMOUNTS
AND AMEND EXISTING CHA CONTRACTS TO PROVIDE ADDITIONAL WAIT
LIST LOTTERY REGISTRATION SERVICES”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer, or his designee, to
award contracts in the amount of $5,000 to organizations to provide wait list lottery
outreach, and to award contracts in the amount of $24,000 to organizations to provide
wait list lottery outreach, registration and technical assistance services. In addition, the
Chief Executive Officer, or his designee, is authorized to amend contracts and increase
the compensation amounts with existing vendors, as deemed necessary, to provide
additional services, including a call center, development and hosting of an online
registration form, marketing and printing of flyers, posters, and other collateral
materials, advertising, and other goods and services that may be necessary or
appropriate, in support of the CHA’s opening of its family public housing, tenant-based
5

 Housing Choice Voucher, and project-based Housing Choice Voucher wait list lottery
registration. The aggregate amount authorized to support all wait list opening activities
is $3,115,000.
Any contract awards or amendments will be subject to the contractors’ compliance with the CHA’s
MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 and insurance requirements.
The Motion to adopt resolutions for Items 2 thru 5 was seconded by Commissioner Markowski and the
voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Matthew Brewer
Dr. Mildred Harris
Harriet Johnson
Jack Markowski
Bridget Reidy
Z. Scott
Francine Washington
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, Chairwoman Scott thereupon declared said Motion carried and
said resolutions adopted.
Commissioner Jack Markowski, Chairman of the Real Estate Development Committee, then presented
his report. Per Commissioner Markowski, the Real Estate Development Committee held its regular
meeting on Wednesday, July 9, 2014 at approximately 2:00 p.m. at the CHA Corporate Offices.
Present at the meeting were Commissioners Brewer, Cozzi, Reidy and I. Present also, but not counted
for the quorum was Commissioner Washington.
Commissioner Markowski then presented an Omnibus Motion for the approval of Items 6 and 7.
(Item 6)
The resolution for Item 6 approves an agreement to enter into a Housing Assistance Payments Contract
for Milwaukee Avenue Apartments (MAA). MAA is a new construction of a 4-story elevator building
in Avondale containing 32 fully accessible units consisting of 25 one-bedroom and 7 two-bedroom
units. The PRA mix will be 9 one-bedroom and 2 two-bedroom units. CHA provided a preliminary
commitment letter in July 2013 and all financing has since been secured and the developer plans to
close in August 2014. The building amenities include a community room, library computer labs,
laundry facilities, on-site supportive services and property management offices. The developer for
MAA is Full Circle Communities, Inc., a non-profit corporation whose mission is to create and
preserve affordable housing and provide services to the residents. Full Circle will contribute at least
75% of the project’s cash flow and developer fee to provide services. It is the intent of the
owner/manager of Milwaukee Avenue Apartments to lease all of the PRA-assisted units to eligible
disabled families from the CHA’s waiting lists. CHA will refer disabled families from the Public
Housing and PRA waiting lists as well as disabled families whose right of return under the Relocation
Rights Contract has not been satisfied. The CHA waiting lists will be exhausted prior to utilization of
a site-based waiting list.

6

 RESOLUTION 2014-CHA-72
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the Board
letter dated July 9, 2014 requesting authorization to execute an AHAP and HAP
contract for Milwaukee Avenue Apartments;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to
execute an AHAP and HAP contract for Milwaukee Avenue Apartments.

(Item 7)
The resolution for Item 7 approves a Housing Assistance Payments Contract for Illinois Accessible
Housing Initiative (IAHI) Phase II. The developer for this complex is Home First Illinois (HFI). HFI
received State funds to acquire 200 condo units in Cook County over multiple phases that would be made
accessible to physically disabled people transitioning out of nursing homes. Phase I, consisting of 20 units
in two stages, was approved by the CHA Board in August 2012 and in May 2013. The CHA Board
approved a preliminary commitment letter for Phase II in July 2013 for an additional 25 units. The
developer has obtained the necessary funds from IHDA to acquire those units and make them accessible.
At this, time HFI has acquired 12 units and has three under contract consisting of four studios, nine onebedroom, and two two-bedroom units in eight condominium buildings located in six community areas.
When site control has been secured for the remaining 10 units in Phase II, HFI will submit a supplemental
PRA application for CHA Board approval of those specific units. These units will count toward CHA’s
200-unit Section 811 commitment to the State. HFI was created to develop and own supportive housing
for very low-income people with physical disabilities. HFI received $5 million in Build Illinois Bonds
funds from IHDA in 2011 to develop accessible housing for households referred through the Money
Follows the Person (MFP) program. All of Phase I is complete and under a PRA HAP contract. IHDA has
committed an additional $10 million to HFI to acquire 50 more units in Chicago and Cook County. The
units will be managed by Affordable Property Management Specialists, which has been in business since
2006. It is the intent of the owner/manager of IAHI Phase II to lease all of the PRA-assisted units to
physically disabled applicants referred from the State of Illinois’ Money Follows the Person program. Any
applicants that are also on CHA’s waiting list will be given a priority preference.

RESOLUTION 2014-CHA-73
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the Board
letter dated July 9, 2014 requesting authorization to execute a HAP contract for Illinois
Accessible Housing Initiative Phase II;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to
execute a HAP contract for Illinois Accessible Housing Initiative Phase II.

The Motion to adopt resolutions for Items 6 and 7 was seconded by Commissioner Brewer and the
voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Matthew Brewer
Dr. Mildred Harris
Harriet Johnson
Jack Markowski
Bridget Reidy
7

 Z. Scott
Francine Washington
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, Chairwoman Scott thereupon declared said Motion carried and
said resolutions adopted.
In the absence of Committee Chair, Mark Cozzi, Commissioner Jack Markowski presented the report
for the Finance & Personnel Committee.
Per Commissioner Markowski, the Finance & Personnel
Committee meeting was held on Wednesday, July 9, 2014, at approximately 2:15 p.m. at the CHA
Corporate Offices, 60 E. Van Buren, 12th Floor Loft. After presentation by staff, discussion and vote
on Items 8 and 9, commissioners adjourned to closed meeting to discuss Item 10. Commissioners then
returned to open session and approved Item 10. Item 10 was also discussed in today’s closed meeting.
On behalf of the Finance & Personnel Committee, Commissioner Markowski then presented an
Omnibus Motion for the approval of Items 8 and 9 and amended Item 10.
(Item 8)
The resolution for Item 8 approves a Cooperative Purchasing Agreement with Chicago Public School
(CPS) to utilize its master Equipment Purchase Agreement with Dell marketing L.P. for the supply,
delivery and installation of personal computers, mobile equipment, server storage and related support
services in the amount not-to-exceed $1.9 M. The CPS entered into the Dell Master Equipment
Purchase Agreement on or about November 15, 2012 and it expires October 31, 2015. The Agreement
is renewable, multi-year contract. Although the CHA could enter into its own Master Equipment
Purchase Agreement, because of the much smaller volume of personal computers, the CHA could not
achieve the same advantageous discount levels that have been obtained by the CPS through its volume
master agreement. The CHA’s aging inventory exceeds the normal industry standard for computer
useful life. End of life equipment is more susceptible to failure with continuous day to day usage.
Over 90 percent of CHA’s computers have been in use for five (5) years or longer. The  majority  of 
CHA’s  personal  computers  are  five  years  old  or  older.    Due  to  the  age  of  the  computers  they  are 
failing more frequently, which could result in loss of productivity requiring use of more resources and 
time to maintain.  Expanding server storage will provide sufficient data capacity for CHA’s current and 
future initiatives. Additional storage will also be added to CHA’s Disaster Recovery site. Utilizing an 
Inter‐Government Agreement with CPS allows CHA to achieve competitive pricing.
RESOLUTION NO. 2014-CHA-74
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter July 9, 2014 entitled
“AUTHORIZATION TO ENTER INTO A COOPERATIVE PURCHASING
AGREEMENT WITH CHICAGO PUBLIC SCHOOLS TO UTILIZE ITS MASTER
EQUIPMENT PURCHASE AGREEMENT WITH DELL MARKETING L.P. FOR
THE SUPPLY, DELIVERY AND INSTALLATION OF PERSONAL COMPUTERS,
MOBILE EQUIPMENT, SERVER STORAGE AND RELATED SUPPORT
SERVICES”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to
enter into a cooperative purchasing agreement with Chicago Public Schools to utilize its
Master Equipment Purchase Agreement between the Chicago Public Schools and Dell
8

 Marketing L.P. for the supply, delivery and installation of personal computers, mobile
equipment, server storage and related support services in the amount not-to-exceed $1.9
million for a term of sixteen (16) months with two (2) two (2) year options.
(Item 9)
The resolution for Item 9 approves award of contract to Efficiency Energy LLC for Energy Policy Act
Coordinator Services. In March 2014, the CHA issued a solicitation for Energy Policy Act Coordinator
Services. Efficiency Energy LLC was the sole respondent. The proposal was reviewed and deemed to
be responsive. Efficiency Energy LLC is a certified Small Business Enterprise by the Coalition of
Southern California Public Agencies. The CHA has performed energy retrofit work on several
properties, including 23 properties that received retrofit work between 2009 and 2012. These properties
are eligible for Sec. 179D tax credits as part of the Energy Policy Act of 2005. The IRS included a
Special Rule which allows governmental entities to transfer a tax deduction of $0.60/sq. ft. to $1.80/sq.
ft. to tax-paying ‘Designer’ entities or contractors who provide qualifying lighting, HVAC, and building
envelope retrofit improvements and new construction projects that were placed in service from
December 31, 2005 to December 31, 2013. Efficiency Energy will negotiate with CHA contractors
eligible to claim available 179D tax credits to obtain the required certification(s), provide the market
valuation and monetize the benefit to create savings and provide rebates to the CHA. Efficiency Energy
LLC will provide a Sec. 3 Business Concern, or qualified Resident, an opportunity with Certification
Providers to receive training on the DOE approved software used to model building energy use and/or to
provide site visit documentation in accordance with the IRS procedures.
Commissioner Reidy recused from voting on Item 9 only.
RESOLUTION NO. 2014-CHA-75
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board letter dated July 9, 2014 entitled: “AUTHORIZATION TO ENTER INTO
A TWO (2) YEAR CONTRACT WITH THREE (3) ONE-YEAR OPTIONS
WITH EFFICIENCY ENERGY LLC FOR ENERGY POLICY ACT
COORDINATOR SERVICES”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute a contract with Efficiency Energy LLC for contingent fee
based compensation in the amount(s) of 25% of monetized 179D tax benefits up
to $1,000,000, 20% of monetized benefits from $1,000,000 to $2,000,000, and
15% of monetized benefits above $2,000,000.
This award is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s applicable
MBE/WBE/DBE/ Section 3 hiring and insurance requirements.

(Amended - Item 10)
The Board is required to ratify the selection, appointment and removal of employees below grade 72.
Accordingly, Item 10 approves the offer of employment to 19 student interns; promotion of 3
employees; offer of employment to applicants for 7 different positions throughout the Authority; work
week reduction for 1 employee and lateral transfers for 2 employees. Accordingly, the resolution for
Item 10 ratifies the mentioned personnel actions.

9

 RESOLUTION NO. 2014–CHA-76
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated July 9, 2014, entitled
“Approval of Personnel Actions”:
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the requested personnel actions.

The Motion to adopt resolutions for Items 8, 9 and 10 was seconded by Commissioner Harris and the
voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Matthew Brewer
Dr. Mildred Harris
Harriet Johnson
Jack Markowski
Bridget Reidy (Recused on Item 9 only)
Z. Scott
Francine Washington
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, Chairwoman Scott thereupon declared said Motion carried and
said resolutions adopted.
Michael Merchant, Chief Executive Officer then presented his monthly report to the Commissioners.
Chairwoman Scott then invited residents and the public at large to address the Board.
There being no further business to come before the Commissioners, upon Motion made and seconded
the Annual and Regular board meeting of July 15, 2014, was adjourned.

s/b:

s/b:

Lee Chuc-Gill, Secretary
Custodian and Keeper of Records

10

Z. Scott
Chairwoman, Chicago Housing Authority

 