MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING
OF THE
COMMISSIONERS OF THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
April 19, 2016
The Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority held its Regular Meeting of the Board of
Commissioners on Tuesday, April 19, 2016, at approximately 10:55 a.m. at the Northeastern Illinois
University, Carruthers Center for Inner City Studies, 700 East Oakwood Boulevard in Chicago, IL.
Chairman Hooker called the meeting to order and upon roll call those present and absent were as
follows:
Present:
Matthew Brewer
Craig Chico
Dr. Mildred Harris
John Hooker
Harriet Johnson
Jack Markowski
Francine Washington
Absent:

Mark Cozzi
Bridget Reidy

Also present were Eugene Jones, Chief Executive Officer; James Bebley, Chief Legal Officer; Chicago
Housing Authority staff members and the General Public.
There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as follows:
In the absence of Commissioner Bridget Reidy, Chairwoman of the Tenant Services Committee, ViceChairman Craig Chico presented her report. Per Commissioner Chico, the Tenant Services Committee
held its regular meeting at approximately 10:00 a.m. at the CHA’s Corporate Offices. Commissioner
Chico chaired the meeting and the following committee members were present as well:
Commissioners Harris and Washington. Present also, but not counted for the quorum were
Commissioners Brewer, Markowski and Chairman Hooker.
On behalf of Tenant Services Committee, Commissioner Cozzi presented a Motion for the approval of
Item 1.
(Item 1)
In September 2014, the Board of Commissioners approved a revision to CHA’s HCV Administrative
Plan and to the Admissions and Continued Occupancy Policy to allow CHA to participate in
demonstration programs/special initiatives. One such special initiative that is currently in place is the
Deinstitutionalization Special Initiative, through which CHA has committed 400 tenant-based
vouchers to the State of Illinois for Colbert and Williams class members (which are currently or
formerly institutionalized persons with a disability). The State of Illinois Department of Human
Services (IDHS) currently provides rental subsidies for people with serious and persistent mental
illness through its Bridge Subsidy program. Approximately 325 of these subsidized renters currently
live in privately-owned units located throughout the city of Chicago. These 325 Bridge Subsidy
1

 recipients are not Colbert or Williams class members, so they are not eligible for CHA’s existing
Deinstitutionalization Special Initiative. Due to the lack of a 2016 State budget, there is no ongoing
funding for these Bridge Subsidies, and these 325 tenants are at-risk of eviction and eventual
homelessness. To prevent these extremely vulnerable tenants from becoming homeless, IDHS and the
Illinois Housing Development Authority (IHDA) are requesting that CHA provide tenant-based
Housing Choice Vouchers to these tenants. Accordingly, the resolution for Item 1 approves revisions
to the Housing Choice Voucher (HCV) Deinstitutionalization Special Initiative to increase the number
of tenant-based vouchers available by 325, for a total of 725and expand the eligibility criteria to
include persons with severe and persistent mental illness who have received assistance through the
State’s Bridge Subsidy program
RESOLUTION NO. 2016-CHA-40
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated April 19, 2016
entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO REVISE HOUSING CHOICE VOUCHER
DEINSTITUTIONALIZATION INITIATIVE”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to
approve revisions to the HCV Deinstitutionalization Initiative, as described in the
“Chicago Housing Authority Demonstration Program and Special Initiatives Overview”
document attached hereto.

The Motion to adopt resolution for Item 1 was seconded by Commissioner Johnson and the voting was
as follows:
Ayes:
Matthew Brewer
Craig Chico
Dr. Mildred Harris
John Hooker
Harriet Johnson
Jack Markowski
Francine Washington
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, Chairman Hooker thereupon declared said Motion carried and
said resolution adopted.
Matthew Brewer, Chairman of the Real Estate Operations Development committee, then presented his
report. Per Commissioner Brewer, the Real Estate Operations Development Committee held its
monthly meeting earlier today. Commissioner Brewer chaired the meeting and the following
committee members were present as well: Commissioners Markowski and Washington. Although
Chairman Hooker and Commissioners Chico and Harris were also present they were not counted
toward the quorum since they are not members of the Real Estate Development Committee.
Committee member then discussed, voted and recommend for approval the six items appearing on the
agenda.
On behalf of the Real Estate Operations Development committee, Commissioner Brewer presented an
Omnibus Motion for approval of Items 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, and 7.

2

 (Item 2)
The resolution for Item 2 approves the proposed FY2016 Moving to Work (MTW) Annual Plan
Amendment and grants authorization to submit the document to HUD for approval. A 30-day public
comment period was conducted. Announcements for the public comment process appeared on CHA’s
website and in the Chicago Defender, Chicago Sun-Times and Hoy newspapers. CHA also distributed
resident notices across public housing properties and sent an email notification to HCV participants.
During the public comment period, both residents and the public alike were able to submit comments
orally and in writing, regarding the information contained in the proposed FY2016 MTW Annual Plan
Amendment. CHA held two public hearings during the 30-day comment period. Prior to finalizing the
proposed FY2016 MTW Annual Plan Amendment, CHA gave consideration to comments received
during the public comment period. CHA has complied with the requirements of the Amended and
Restated MTW Agreement and HUD regulations regarding annual plans and amendments.

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2016-CHA-41
the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated April 19, 2016
requesting approval of the Proposed FY2016 MTW Annual Plan Amendment, attached
hereto;

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the Proposed FY2016 Moving to Work
Annual Plan Amendment and grants authorization to the Chief Executive Officer, the
Board Chairperson, or their designee to make any final updates as deemed necessary.

THAT

this approval of the Proposed FY2016 MTW Annual Plan Amendment supersedes any
and all conflicting language found in prior CHA MTW Annual Plans.

THAT

the Board of Commissioners grants authorization to submit the Proposed FY2016 MTW
Annual Plan Amendment to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development
upon Board approval. Such approval shall constitute conclusive evidence of the Board’s
approval of any and all such changes.

(Item 3)
The resolution for Item 3 approves a preliminary commitment letter for Property Rental Assistance
(PRA) for Sarah’s Circle. Sarah’s Circle is located at 4838 N. Sheridan and currently operates 22 units
of permanent supportive housing and a 50 bed shelter in Uptown for women in need of services, which
is open 24 hours a day, 365 days of the year. Leasing and Management Company, Inc. will serve as
property manager. Their mission is specifically focused on serving homeless women in need,
especially those who have suffered from domestic violence, violence on the streets, mental illness,
substance abuse and other traumatic experiences such as sexual assault. Sarah’s Circle development
plan includes the demolition of a run-down one-story structure and the new construction of a 7-story
building that will be connected to Sarah’s Circle’s adjacent facility. The development will consist of
40 studio units to be located on floors 3 through 7, and a 50-bed short term shelter with supportive
services for homeless women, which will be located on the second floor. PRA assistance will be
provided to 14 of the 40 studio units. The remaining units will be subsidized through a combination of
HUD’s Chronic Homeless Initiative program and the Chicago Low Income Housing Trust Fund. Six
of the non-PRA units will be designated for the State Referral Network. Building amenities include a
community room, a full service kitchen, a fitness center, case management offices, laundry facilities,
supportive services facilities and an outdoor patio. Brinshore Development LLC is the developer for
Sarah’s Circle. Sarah’s Circle was founded in 1980 in the Uptown neighborhood.
3

 RESOLUTION 2016-CHA-42
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the Board
letter dated April 19, 2016 requesting authorization to execute a preliminary
commitment letter valid for one year for Property Rental Assistance for Sarah’s Circle;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to
execute a preliminary commitment letter valid for one year for Property Rental
Assistance for Sarah’s Circle.

(Item 4)
The CHA is in need of continuing the Architectural and Engineering (A&E) services for the new 2016
major capital improvement and capital maintenance projects. The current A&E Indefinite Delivery
Indefinite Quantity (IDIQ) contracts were originally approved by the Board in November 2013. The
twelve contracts included one option to extend services for one year through December 31, 2016,
subject to the approval of the CHA Board of Commissioners. The Board authorized the option year for
eleven A&E contracts in November 2015, excluding HPZS. The Department of Procurement and
Contracts requested supplemental documentation concerning the financial capacity of HPZS in light of
the asset transfer and ownership change, which was received following the November board meeting.
Upon review, HPZS’s supplemental documentation was deemed sufficient to permit the exercise of its
option year. Accordingly, the resolution for Item 4 approves the exercise of Option Year 1 for one
IDIQ contract for Authority-wide Architectural and Engineering services with Studio AH, LLC d/b/a
HPZS. The Option Year will not require any additional funding because the IDIQ program has a
remaining reserve balance of $19,800,000, which is sufficient for projects in 2016. After the expiration
of the Option Year, the contracts for authority-wide architectural and engineering services will be
solicited.
RESOLUTION NO. 2016-CHA-43
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated April 19, 2016
entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO EXERCISE OPTION YEAR 1 FOR ONE (1)
CONTRACT FOR AUTHORITY-WIDE ARCHITECTURAL AND ENGINEERING
SERVICES”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to
amend an Indefinite Delivery Indefinite Quantity Contract for Authority-wide
architectural and engineering services to exercise Option Year 1 with Studio AH, LLC
d/b/a HPZS.

(Item 5)
The resolution for Item 5 authorizes the Chief Executive Officer to execute an amendment to an
existing Housing Assistance Payments Contract (HAP) for 108 units at Anchor House Apartments for
a 15-year term; and add seven additional apartment units to the Anchor House HAP for a 15-year term.
Anchor House Apartments is a two-story, low-rise elevator apartment building located in the Auburn
Gresham community containing 115 units consisting of 53 studios, 33 one-bedrooms, 24 twobedrooms, 5 three-bedrooms and an on-site management and maintenance office. Currently Project
Based Voucher assistance is being provided to 108 of the 115 units. Building amenities include an
on-site laundry facility and an urban garden that produces a host of fresh fruits and vegetables that
4

 encourages resident participation in gardening and healthy eating. Public transportation and highways
are easily accessible to the residents of Anchor House. The developer, Anchor House, L.P./Woodlawn
Community Development Corporation Anchor House, L.P., was formed in 1995, with the assistance
and sponsorship of the Woodlawn Community Development Corporation (WCDC), for the purpose of
redeveloping what was once a manufacturing building. The owner/manager of Anchor House
Apartments will continue to lease all of the PRA-assisted units to eligible individuals and families
from CHA’s waiting lists. CHA will make these referrals from the Public Housing and PRA waiting
lists as well as individuals and families whose right of return under the Relocation Rights Contract has
not been satisfied. CHA’s waiting lists will be exhausted prior to utilization of a site-based waiting
list.

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2016-CHA-44
the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board letter dated April 19, 2016 entitled: Authorization to approve an amendment of
an existing Housing Assistance Payments (HAP) Contract for Anchor House
Apartments;

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee
to: 1) execute an amendment to the existing Housing Assistance Payments Contract
(HAP) for 108 units within the Anchor House Apartments for a term of 15-years; and
2) add seven (7) additional apartment units to the Anchor House HAP for a 15-year
term.

(Item 6)
Each PHA is responsible for developing and administering utility rate allowances in compliance with
HUD regulations. The CHA has not modified the Public Housing utility rate allowances since 2007.
Accordingly, in November 2015, the CHA issued a Request for Proposal (RFP) for the solicitation of a
professional services contract to engage a firm to establish or confirm property-based utility rate
allowance schedules reflective of current local utility rates and with energy consumption expected by
an energy-conservative household of modest circumstances, consistent with the requirements of a safe,
sanitary and healthful living environment. An internal evaluation committee reviewed the proposals
and came to a unified consensus to recommend the contract award to Quercus Consulting. The
resolution for Item 6 approves award of contract to Quercus Consulting, Inc. to complete a utility rate
allowance survey for an amount not-to-exceed $200,190.00. Once the Utility Allowance Survey has
been completed, and new allowances are established or existing ones are confirmed; the CHA will
perform an annual review as required under HUD regulations and share a copy of the annual review on
the CHA website for increased transparency
RESOLUTION NO. 2016-CHA-45
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
memorandum dated March 15, 2016 - entitled “RECOMMENDATION TO AWARD A
CONTRACT TO QUERCUS CONSULTING TO PERFORM A UTILITY RATE
ALLOWANCE SURVEY”,
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to
award a contract to Quercus Consulting, Inc. to perform a utility rate allowance survey
5

 in an amount not-to-exceed $200,190.00, and for a base term of one hundred and fifty
(150) business days.
(Item 7)
In October 2015 CHA released a Request for Proposal (RFP) for diversity marketing and outreach
services and solutions. The RFP was advertised in area newspapers. In addition, 70 vendors were
directly solicited and notification of the solicitation was sent to 66 Assist Agencies. Of the seven
proposals received all were deemed responsive. After the Evaluation Committee completed its review
of the seven proposals, the total points awarded each Respondent resulted in three firms falling within
the competitive range and moving forward with oral presentations. Best and Final Offers were then
requested from the three finalists. Based upon the evaluations of the written proposals, oral
presentations, and the overall proposed fee it was determined that Erie Neighborhood House (ENH)
and Spanish Coalition for Housing (SCH) provided the best overall service and value to CHA.
Accordingly, the resolution for item 7 approves contract award to Erie Neighborhood House and
Spanish Coalition for Housing to provide targeted marketing and outreach services. CHA understands
the importance of tailoring messages to the different communities across the Chicagoland area. The
enhanced CHA strategy expands beyond primary dimensions of diversity (e.g. race and ethnicity) and
looks to reach out to individuals from different generations, professional backgrounds, sexual
orientation, veteran status, etc. The services to be provided by ENH and SCH include, but are not
limited to, conducting a minimum of two culturally-sensitive workshops per month in each
Community Area in an effort to increase participation of underrepresented populations in CHA’s
programs and activities.
RESOLUTION NO. 2016-CHA-46
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the Board
letter dated April 19, 2016 entitled “RECOMMENDATION TO award fixed fee
performance-based contracts to ERIE NEIGHBORHOOD HOUSE AND SPANISH
COALITION FOR HOUSING to provide targeted marketing and outreach services”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to
execute fixed fee performance-based contracts with Erie Neighborhood House and
Spanish Coalition for Housing for a not-to-exceed amount of $2,049,987 for a one-year
base term and two (2) one-year option periods; $683,329 for the one-year base term;
$683,329 for two (2) one-year option periods each, to provide targeted marketing and
outreach services.
This award is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE/
Section 3 hiring and insurance requirements.

The Motion to adopt resolutions for Items 2 through 7 was seconded by Commissioner Harris and the
voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Matthew Brewer
Craig Chico (abstains from voting on Item 3 only)
Dr. Mildred Harris
John Hooker
Harriet Johnson
Jack Markowski (abstains from voting on Item 5 only)
Francine Washington
Nays:

None
6

 There being no questions or discussion, Chairman Hooker thereupon declared said Motion carried and
said resolutions adopted.
Jack Markowski, Chairman of the Finance & Audit committee, then presented his report. Per
Commissioner Markowski, the Finance & Audit Committee held its regular meeting earlier today, here
at the Northeastern Illinois University Auditorium. Commissioner Markowski chaired the meeting
and the following committee members were present as well: Commissioners Brewer and Harris.
Present also but not counted for the quorum were Chairman Hooker, Vice-Chairman Chico and
Commissioner Washington. Committee members then discussed, voted and recommend for approval
the following item:
On behalf of the Finance & Audit committee, Commissioner Markowski presented a Motion for the
approval of Item 8.
(Item 8)
As part of the Chicago Housing Authority’s (“CHA’s”) ongoing effort to streamline and improve its
internal operations, several projects have been identified which require industry best practices and
process improvement. To assist with these projects, the CHA issued a solicitation seeking consulting
services to perform a variety of projects for multiple divisions, including Investment, Finance,
Development and Property. Four firms responded to the solicitation and only Bronner Group, LLC,
Crowe Horwath, LLP and TAG Associates scored within the competitive range. Accordingly, the
resolution for Item 8 approves award of contracts with Bronner Group, LLC, Crowe Horwath, LLP and
TAG Associates each for a not to exceed amount of $100,000 for a two-year base term and with three
one year options, for an aggregate not to exceed amount of $300,000 to provide financial advisory and
consulting services. The recommended vendors each specialize in one of the three major categories
found in the scope of work. Bronner Group, LLC is a consulting firm that focuses solely on public
sector clients and has extensive expertise working with public housing agencies as well as with
residents, applicants, landlords, regulators, vendors, partners and financial institutions. Crowe
Horwath LLP is one of the largest public accounting, consulting and technology firms in the U.S. and
it provides audit, tax, risk and performance services to public and private entities across the country.
TAG Associates is a consulting firm dedicated to providing development and financial consulting
services to low-income housing providers. The Chief Investment Officer will provide reporting to the
Board of Commissioners on each task order engagement under this authorization with identification of
return on investment attributes.
RESOLUTION NO. 2016-CHA-47
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the Board
letter dated April 19, 2016 entitled: “AUTHORIZATION TO ENTER INTO
CONTRACTS WITH BRONNER GROUP, LLC, CROWE HORWATH, LLP AND
TAG ASSOCIATES EACH FOR A NOT TO EXCEED AMOUNT OF $100,000 FOR
A TWO-YEAR BASE TERM AND WITH THREE ONE YEAR OPTIONS, FOR AN
AGGREGATE NOT TO EXCEED AMOUNT OF $300,000 TO PROVIDE
FINANCIAL ADVISORY AND CONSULTING SERVICES”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive or his designee to enter into
contracts with Bronner Group, LLC, Crowe Horwath, LLP and TAG Associates each
for a not to exceed amount of $100,000 for a two-year base term and with three one
7

 year options, for an aggregate not to exceed amount of $300,000 to provide Financial
Advisory and Consulting Services.
This award is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s applicable
MBE/WBE/DBE/ Section 3 hiring and insurance requirements.
The Motion to adopt the resolution for Item 8 was seconded by Commissioner Washington and the
voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Matthew Brewer
Craig Chico
Dr. Mildred Harris
John Hooker
Harriet Johnson
Jack Markowski
Francine Washington
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, Chairman Hooker thereupon declared said Motion carried and
said resolution adopted.
Chairman Hooker then announced the resignation of Commissioner Harriet Johnson. According to the
Chairman, exactly four years ago, Mayor Emanuel’s office announced the appointment of
Commissioner Johnson to the CHA Board. On behalf of the Board of Commissioners and CHA staff,
and in recognition and appreciation for Commissioner Johnson’s leadership and dedication,
Commissioner Johnson was presented with a plaque, a resolution and a bouquet of flowers.
Commissioner Johnson thanked the Board Members and staff for their kinds words and un-wavering
support and bid everybody a fond farewell. Immediately after the presentation, Commissioner Johnson
left the meeting in session.
Chairman Hooker then presented commissioners and the public with an overview of his CHA
activities.
Eugene Jones, Chief Executive Officer, then presented his monthly report to the Commissioners.
Chairman Hooker then invited residents and the public at large to address the Board.
At the conclusion of public testimony, upon Motion made by Chairman Hooker and properly seconded
by Commissioner Washington, the Commissioners adjourned to Closed Session. Chairman Hooker
announced that pursuant to the Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2, the Board would adjourn for
approximately 30 minutes to discuss personnel related matters; purchase, sale and lease of real estate
property; pending, probable or imminent litigation; review of closed meeting minutes and audit
reviews.
The Commissioners subsequently reconvened in Open Session at approximately 1:05 p.m.
Chairman Hooker called the meeting to order and upon roll call those present and absent were as
follows:
Present:
Matthew Brewer
Craig Chico
8

 Dr. Mildred Harris
John Hooker
Jack Markowski
Francine Washington
Absent:

Mark Cozzi
Harriet Johnson
Bridget Reidy

There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as follows:
Chairman Hooker announced that during closed session, commissioners discussed matters related to
Items 9 and 10
Commissioner Washington then presented an Omnibus Motion for the approval of Items 9 and 10.
(Item 9)
The resolution for Item 9 approves the following personnel actions: offer of employment to five
applicants; reclassification of 3 employees and promotion of four employees.
RESOLUTION NO. 2016–CHA-48
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated April 19, 2016,
entitled “Approval of Personnel Actions”:
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the requested personnel actions.

(Item 10)
RESOLUTION NO. 2016-CHA-49
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated April 19, 2016
entitled “Request for authorization to: 1) Acquire through CHA affiliate FCD 19
residential condominium units at Jackson Square at West End ; 2) use the Federal
Home Loan Bank line of credit for the acquisition and other costs; 3) Negotiate and
execute transaction and related financing documents; 4) Authorize the pledge of
Government National Mortgage Association securities; and 5) Perform such actions as
may be necessary or appropriate to implement the foregoing.”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to:
1) Acquire through CHA affiliate FCD 19 residential condominium units at Jackson
Square at West End; 2) use the Federal Home Loan Bank line of credit for the
acquisition and other costs; 3) Negotiate and execute transaction and related financing
documents; 4) Authorize the pledge of Government National Mortgage Association
securities; and 5) Perform such actions as may be necessary or appropriate to
implement the foregoing.

9

 The acquisition of the 19 condominium units is subject to HUD notification and other
interested parties’ consultations and/or approvals as required.
The Motion to adopt the resolutions for Items 9 and 10 was seconded by Commissioner Markowski
and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Matthew Brewer
Craig Chico
Dr. Mildred Harris
John Hooker
Jack Markowski
Francine Washington
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, Chairman Hooker thereupon declared said Motion carried and
said resolution adopted.
There being no further business to come before the Commissioners, upon Motion made and seconded,
the Regular board meeting of April 19, 2016, was adjourned.

s/b:

Chairman John Hooker
Chicago Housing Authority

s/b:
Lee Chuc-Gill, Secretary
Custodian and Keeper of Records

10

 