PORT AUTHORITY OF ALLEGHENY COUNTY
MINUTES OF THE REGULAR BOARD MEETING
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2018
The Regular Meeting of the Board of Port Authority of Allegheny County was held on Friday, October
26, 2018, at 9:30 a.m., at the Authority’s Administration Offices, 345 Sixth Avenue, Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania, 15222-2527, pursuant to due public notice given as required by law.
Board Members:
Jeff Letwin, Chair
Jennifer Liptak
Michelle Zmijanac
Ann Ogoreuc
John Tague
Stephanie Turman
D. Raja
Senator Jim Brewster
Representative Dom Costa
Rob Vescio
Rob Kania
Joel Lennen, General Counsel

Media:
Ed Blazina, Post-Gazette

Port Authority Staff:
Katharine Kelleman, chief executive officer, Bill Miller, chief operations officer, Keith Wargo, chief
engineer, Mike Cetra, chief legal officer, Pete Schenk, chief financial officer, Jim Ritchie, chief
communications officer, Jeffrey Devlin, chief information officer, David Huffaker, chief development
officer, Jerimaine Ward, manager Contract Administration, Ed Typanski, director Grants and Capital
Projects, Adam Brandolph, Public Relations representative, Inez Colon, director Employment, Melissa
Dunbar, Professional Services contract specialist, Deborah Skillings, Community Outreach
coordinator, John DeAngelis, manager Contract Administration, Eric Wells, director Employee
Relations and OEO, Josh Banyas, manager Capital Programs, Don Rivetti, acting deputy of
Maintenance Operations, Vasti Amaro, chief of staff, Diane Williamson, executive assistant.
Other:
Carolyn Lenigan, Glenn Walsh, Carl Boltan, WRA, James Keener, President ACTC, Brian Schull,
SAF, Josh Malloy, PPT, Damon Rhodes, April Gray, Cosmos Technologies, Ted Kielur, ATU Local
85, Steve Palonis, ATU Local 85, Mel Packer, PPT, Laura Wiens, PPT, Joe Cusick, Cusick
Consulting, Dan Frederick, Monaloh, Ed Reese, AECOM, Dan Yablonsky, PPT.
The Chair called the October 26, 2018 Regular Meeting of the Board to order.
After the recital of the pledge of allegiance, a recommendation was made for approval of the minutes
of the September 28, 2018 Regular Meeting. A motion was made, seconded and unanimously
passed.
The Chair called on Ms. Kelleman for a report of the Chief Executive Officer. Ms. Kelleman first
acknowledged active and retired employees who passed in September (Pat Sipes, assistant manager
Road Operations, Larry Brooks, bus assignment shifter, Arthur Proviano, retired instructor, retired
1

 operators Kurt Steppling, Robert Wilson, Keith Markham, Elberta Swisshelm and William Kozikowski,
retired director Administrative Services, Larry Andria, William Riggs, retired laborer, William
Harrington, retired signal maintainer and James Primm, retired auto repairman), followed by a
moment of silence.
Ms. Kelleman continued reporting that overall, we remain strong on our ridership. Our bus numbers
were up in September, with light rail down slightly. Since we had fewer weekdays in September this
year than last year, we did not see the same increase; however, we are still tracking ahead of last
year.
Ms. Kelleman wants to start a new tradition at our Board meetings by recognizing employees who
have gone beyond the call of duty. Due to time constraints, we will recognize only one employee
each month. This month, Ms. Kelleman acknowledged Mr. Michael McGrath, an operator out of the
Ross Garage who has been with Port Authority for 18 years. A rider called Customer Service
describing Michael as the best operator I have seen in a long time. She stated, “He is very polite,
helpful and made sure I got to the right stop.”
Next Ms. Kelleman reported on Rail~Volution, an international conference held in Pittsburgh this year
which focused on using transit to improve communities. We are honored to have hosted the
conference this year as it is the largest transit and community development conference in the nation,
and it is usually held in cities such as Denver, Seattle or Portland. It is fantastic to get the feedback
from folks around the world on our system. They loved the Library Line, especially for what they have
seen with systems that have been out there for a 100 years. It was good for us to hear from people
who have gone to places such as Denver where everything is so bright, shiny and new.
Ms. Kelleman continued by stating that it is also wonderful to have experts from around the world
come and talk to us about our systems and how we can make some improvements. The most
important part of this conference for us as the host city is to receive technical information, and we
received good feedback about where we can take this in the future. We also cannot say enough
about our local leadership, County Executive Rich Fitzgerald and Mayor Peduto for making this
happen. Ms. Kelleman also acknowledged Port Authority’s TOD Manager, Ms. Breen Masciotra, who
helped coordinate the event.
Next Ms. Kelleman reported that this month we have started putting new buses on the road. We
have 10 of the 69 buses new buses in service, with the remainder being delivered and put into
service by the end of the year. Ms. Kelleman stated that we are very excited about the new buses in
service, which are possible because of generous Federal, State and Allegheny County support.
Ms. Kelleman concluded her report by reminding everyone that Halloween is happening next week.
We will be communicating with our divisions to remind them to be extra cautious on the roads.
That concluded the report of the Chief Executive Officer.
The Chair called on Ms. Zmijanac for a report of the Performance Oversight Committee. Ms.
Zmijanac reported that the Performance Oversight Committee met on Thursday, October 18, and the
minutes from the previous meeting were approved by the Committee.

2

 At the Committee meeting, CFO Peter Schenk reported that Total Operating Income through the first
quarter of the fiscal year was $938,225 ahead of budget, primarily due to higher Passenger
Revenues, and Total Expenses were approximately $4.8 million under budget. Total Subsidies are
$3.6 million ahead of budget, due to a timing issue.
Ms. Zmijanac reported that there were three resolutions reviewed by the Performance Oversight
Committee.
The Committee first reviewed two procurement items and determined that the bids were in
accordance with the Authority’s procurement policies and procedures, the prices to be fair and
reasonable, the bidders to be responsible and the bids responsive. The Performance Oversight
Committee recommended for award the two items listed in the resolution for the total amount of
approximately $3.1 million.
On behalf of the Performance Oversight Committee, Ms. Zmijanac respectfully requested approval of
the resolution. It was moved, seconded and unanimously agreed that the resolution be approved as
presented.
Ms. Zmijanac presented the next resolution seeking authorization to award a general construction
contract, plumbing construction contract and an electrical construction contract for the Paint Booth
Installations at the Ross and East Liberty Garages. Bid Documents were prepared and publicly
advertised. Three bids were received for the general contract, two bids were received for the
plumbing contract and three bids were received for the electrical contract.
Ms. Zmijanac stated that the Performance Oversight Committee recommends that the General
Contract be awarded to Mosites Construction Company, Inc., in the amount of $3,213,000; the
plumbing contract be awarded to Wheels Mechanical Contracting and Supplier, Inc., in the amount of
$185,000; and the electrical contract be awarded to Merit Electrical Group, Inc., in the amount of
$252,700, all subject to completing the pre-award requirements.
On behalf of the Performance Oversight Committee, Ms. Zmijanac respectfully requested approval of
the resolution. It was moved, seconded and agreed that the resolution be approved as presented
with one abstention from Chair Jeff Letwin in regard to the Mosites contract.
The final resolution presented by Ms. Zmijanac sought authorization to adopt an amended Collective
Bargaining Agreement with the Port Authority Transit Police Association covering transit officers.
Ms. Zmijanac reported that the Committee was advised at the meeting that the Collective Bargaining
Agreement with Port Authority and the Police Association expired on July 31, 2018. Following a
mediation session before a mediator appointed by the Pennsylvania Labor Relations Board, Port
Authority and the Police Association agreed, subject to Board approval and union ratification, on
proposed terms and conditions for an amended agreement to be effective August 1, 2018 through
July 31, 2023.
The officers have ratified the proposed terms and conditions of the amended agreement. Thus, the
recommendation is for Port Authority to approve and ratify the proposed terms and conditions of the
amended agreement as set forth in the summary attached to the resolution as Exhibit 1.
3

 On behalf of the Performance Oversight Committee, Ms. Zmijanac respectfully requested approval of
the resolution. It was moved, seconded and unanimously agreed that the resolution be approved as
presented.
That concluded the report of the Performance Oversight Committee.
The Chair called on Mr. Tague for a report of the Planning and Stakeholder Relations Committee.
Mr. Tague reported that the Planning and Stakeholder Relations Committee met last week.
The Committee heard an overview of the evolution of transit-oriented development activities within
the organization for the last four years that laid the groundwork for the Authority to develop joint
development solicitation procedures. These activities have included the establishment of Boardadopted TOD guidelines, the Station Improvement Program and the internal TOD Advisory
Committee.
Mr. Tague then presented a resolution proposing adoption of the procedures for joint development
solicitations, a copy of which is included as Exhibit A to the resolution. This resolution would
establish an important means to demonstrate open, transparent and legally compliant standards as
the Authority continues to evaluate and identify sites it owns that may be appropriate for future joint
development projects. The resolution would also authorize the Authority to adopt and implement
procedures for competitive negotiations for joint development, effective for any new TOD projects
involving Port Authority-owned property commenced on or after November 1, 2018.
On behalf of the Planning and Stakeholder Relations Committee, Mr. Tague respectfully requested
approval of the resolution. It was moved, seconded and unanimously agreed that the resolution be
approved as presented.
Mr. Tague then gave a brief update about our two advisory bodies. The Committee for Accessible
Transportation did not meet in October, but has a meeting scheduled for early November.
The Allegheny County Transit Council did meet. The Authority’s new Chief Information Officer, Mr.
Jeffrey Devlin, attended the meeting to discuss his role at the Authority along with some of the areas
that his group will be focused on going forward.
Mr. Tague concluded his remarks by reporting that he had the opportunity, along with several Board
members, to attend the Rail~Volution Conference. He commended Port Authority staff, especially
Breen Masciotra, who served on the Rail~Volution National Steering Committee, along with several
other Pittsburghers. It was a wonderful opportunity to showcase Pittsburgh and the vision of
Pittsburgh of tomorrow.
That concluded the report of the Planning and Stakeholder Relations Committee.
The Chairman next called on Mr. Vescio for a report of the Technology Committee. Mr. Vescio
reported that the Technology Committee met on Thursday, October 18. There were no resolutions
presented to the Committee this month.
Mr. Jeff Nichols, Informational Technology risk and compliance lead, did however present on the
Authority’s progress toward assuring compliance with credit card protections under Payment Card
4

 Industry Data Security Standards, generally called the PCI Compliance. The presentation was
informative and highlighted the importance of appropriate cyber security controls protecting our
sensitive security information.
That concluded the report of the Technology Committee.
During the public comment period, a few speakers shared their concerns with the proposed fare
payment technologies. Although they see it as an opportunity to make transit more equitable and
accessible with a mobile fare app, as well as the ability to address limitations of the ConnectCard,
they stated that Port Authority needs to ensure that the mobile app is accessible by as large a
ridership as possible. It was also noted at the meeting that it is important that the software and
hardware are adaptable for future needs and not propriety to an outside entity, rider privacy is
protected and improvements are made to the existing system to allow for payment for multiple riders,
multiple fare types and compatibility with other regional services and modes.
Before adjourning, the Chair reminded the Board that the November 30, 2018 has been rescheduled
for Friday, December 7, 2018.
There being no further business to conduct, the meeting was adjourned.
The next Regular Meeting of the Board will be Friday, October 26, 2018.

5

 