COMMISSION ON CHICAGO LANDMARKS
NOTICE OF A REGULAR MEETING
The Commission on Chicago Landmarks will hold its regular
meeting on Thursday, January 10, 2019, at 12:45 p.m. in City
Hall, 121 North LaSalle Street, Room 201-A, 2nd Floor.
The Permit Review Committee will hold its regular meeting in City
Hall, 121 North LaSalle Street, in Room 201-A on Thursday,
January 10, 2019, at 1:30 p.m.
Attached is a copy of the agendas for the Commission meetings.

David Reifman
Secretary

 DRAFT
DRAFT AGENDA
COMMISSION ON CHICAGO LANDMARKS
Regular Meeting – Thursday, January 10, 2019
City Hall, 121 North LaSalle Street, Room 201-A
12:45 p.m.

1. Approval of the Minutes of Previous Meeting
Regular Meeting of December 6, 2018
2. Report from the Department of Planning and Development
PILSEN DISTRICT
WARD 25
18th Street between Leavitt and Sangamon Streets, and 13 blocks bounded by 18th Street to
the north, Ashland Avenue to the west, 21st Street to the south, and Racine Avenue to the east
3. Preliminary Decision on Permit Application for Demolition Pursuant to §2-120-740 through
§2-120-825 of the Municipal Code
PILSEN DISTRICT
1822 South Throop Street

WARD 25

4. Post-1930 Architectural Survey - Informational
OLD TOWN TRIANGLE DISTRICT

WARD 43

5. Permit Review Committee Reports
Report on Projects Reviewed at the December 6, 2018, Permit Review Committee Meeting
Report on Permit Decisions by the Commission Staff for the Month of December 2018
6. Announcements
Meeting of the Program Committee: Review of Suggestions* Received from the Public
for Chicago Landmark Designation and Nominations to the National Register of Historic
Places will be held:
Date:
Thursday, January 24, 2019
Time:
11:00 a.m.
Location: City Hall, 121 North LaSalle Street, Room 300-A, 3rd Floor
*Deadline for submissions: Tuesday, January 15, 2019

 All suggestions must be submitted on a suggestion form available on the Chicago
Landmarks website at:
http://www.cityofchicago.org/city/en/depts/dcd/supp_info/chicago_landmarkspublicationsandadditionalinformation.html or from the Historic Preservation office.
7. Adjournment

 NOTICE OF PUBLIC MEETING
DRAFT PERMIT REVIEW COMMITTEE
THURSDAY, January 10, 2019
City Hall, 121 N. LaSalle St., Room 201-A
1:30 p.m.

DRAFT AGENDA:
1. 1848 N. Lincoln
43rd Ward
Old Town Triangle District
Proposed rehabilitation of a raised, three-story building including a rooftop deck and access
enclosures, rear addition, and construction of a new garage utilizing an existing curb-cut.
2. 4816 N. Broadway
46th Ward
Uptown Theater
Proposed exterior and interior rehabilitation of the theater for a live-event venue including
reinstallation of previously removed terra cotta, masonry repair/replacement as needed,
marquees and signage, and complete interior rehabilitation.
3. 1442 N. Astor
43rd Ward
Astor Street District
Proposed exterior/interior renovation including demolition of front façade of non-historic
addition, construction of new, three-story, side addition and combined two- and one- story,
rear addition with attached one-story garage.
4. 1537 N. Damen
1st Ward
Wicker Park District
Proposed installation of flush-mount, 34’x17’, vinyl advertising sign on south elevation.
5. 1418 N. Milwaukee
1st Ward
Milwaukee Avenue District
Proposed installation of flush-mount, 24’x18’, vinyl advertising sign on south elevation.

Dijana Cuvalo, AIA
Historic Preservation Division
Bureau of Planning, Historic Preservation & Sustainability
Department of Planning and Development

 PERMIT REVIEW COMMITTEE
Summary of projects and staff recommendations, January 10, 2019
DRAFT
1. 1848 N. Lincoln
43rd Ward
Old Town Triangle District
Proposed rehabilitation of a raised, three-story building including a rooftop deck and access
enclosures, rear addition, and construction of a new garage utilizing an existing curb-cut.
Applicant:

Bill and Lisa Deakin, owner
John DeSalvo, architect
Nick Ftikas, Law Offices of Sam Banks

Staff Recommendation: Staff recommends that the Committee find that the project, with the
following conditions, meets the criteria set forth in the
Commission’s Rules and Regulations, the Commission’s
Guidelines for Alterations to Historic Buildings and New
Construction, and Standards 4, 9 and 10 of the U.S. Secretary of
the Interior’s Standards for Rehabilitation of Historic Buildings
and therefore, the project will not have an adverse effect on the
significant historical and architectural features of the landmark
property or district and approve the project with the following
condition:
1. Proposed project is approved as shown on exhibits dated
10/29/18. As proposed the rear addition and the new garage
will be clad with common brick.
2. 4816 N. Broadway
46th Ward
Uptown Theater
Proposed exterior and interior rehabilitation for a live-event venue including reinstallation of
previously removed terra cotta, masonry repair/replacement as needed, marquees and
signage, and complete interior rehabilitation.
Applicant:

UTA II, LLC, owner
Farpoint Acquisitions, LLC and Uptown HM Investments, LLC, applicants
The Lamar Johnson Collaborative, architect

Staff Recommendation: Staff recommends that the Committee find that the project, with the
following conditions, meets the criteria set forth in the
Commission’s Rules and Regulations, the Commission’s
Guidelines for Alterations to Historic Buildings and New
Construction, and Standards 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9 and 10 of the U.S.
Secretary of the Interior’s Standards for Rehabilitation of Historic
Buildings and therefore, the project will not have an adverse effect
on the significant historical and architectural features of the
landmark property and approve the project with the following
conditions:

 1. As proposed, previously removed and salvaged terra cotta shall
be reinstalled to the greatest extent possible. A report that
includes an inventory of the salvaged terra cotta pieces,
analysis of their condition, photographs, elevation drawings
noting their original location, and recommendations regarding
potential for reinstallation shall be submitted to Historic
Preservation staff for review and approval prior to any repair
and reinstallation work;
2. As proposed, damaged or missing terra cotta will be replaced
with new terra cotta or GFRC matching the historic terra cotta
in size, shape, profiles, color, texture and finish. Any required
new brick shall match the historic brick in size, color, texture
and finish. New mortar shall match the historic in
type/strength, color, texture, and profile. Historic Preservation
staff shall review and approve replacement samples prior to
order and installation;
3. As proposed, historic doors and windows shall be retained and
repaired wherever possible. Any required new doors and
windows shall match the historic in size, configuration, interior
and exterior profiles, and decorative details. Historic
Preservation staff shall review and approve enlarged
dimensioned details of existing and proposed doors and
windows with the permit application;
4. As proposed, the Magnolia elevation marquee will be repaired
and two new marquees will be installed on the building. The
new marquee on the Broadway elevation will replicate the
original 1925 marquee as closely as possible based on historic
documentation and the smaller Lawrence marquee will be
based on the design of the missing 1925 marquee. Enlarged
details of the proposed marquees shall be submitted with the
permit application;
5. Proposed new additions on the north elevation, including the
restroom addition, elevator addition, and mechanical
units/enclosures, are approved as submitted. Historic
Preservation staff shall review and approve all cladding
materials prior to order and installation;
6. Masonry cleaning shall be done with gentlest means possible.
Historic Preservation staff shall review and approve cleaning
specifications and samples;
7. Details of the proposed signage shall be submitted with the
sign applications;
8. Enlarged elevations, sections and details of the new box office
and all proposed concession areas, including counters, cabinets,
shelving, signage, electrical and plumbing attachments, etc.,
shall be submitted to Historic Preservation staff for review and
approval;
9. Enlarged drawings and dimensioned details of the tiered
auditorium floor, stage, railings, upper level seating, and any
new theatrical equipment and rigging proposed to be installed
shall be submitted with the permit application;

 10. The stabilization, cleaning, and repair of interior wall and
ceiling finishes of all public areas inside the Uptown Theater is
still under development. As proposed, the objective is to
maintain the building’s historic public spaces; to stabilize their
intact decorative features and finishes; in some cases to
replicate missing and damaged decorative features and
finishes; and overall to bring the public interiors to a finished
condition. Detailed interior wall and ceiling finish scope
drawings and specifications shall be submitted to Historic
Preservation staff for review and approval; and,
11. Details and information regarding any exterior and interior
lighting, code-required and wayfinding signage, fire alarm
panel, any code-required changes to stairs, egress doors, and
any required alterations to address life safety and accessibility
shall be submitted to Historic Preservation staff for review and
approval.
3. 1442 N. Astor
43rd Ward
Astor Street District
Proposed exterior/interior renovation including demolition of front façade of non-historic
addition, construction of new, three-story, side addition and combined two- and one- story,
rear addition with attached one-story garage.
Applicant:

Margaret Elliott, owner
Chip von Weise/von Weise Associates, architect

Staff Recommendation: Staff recommends that the Committee:
Proposed Partial Demolition:
1. Preliminarily find that the one-story structure located at 1440
North Astor Street is non-contributing to the character of the
district and its removal will not have an adverse effect on the
significant historical or architectural features of the district;
2. Preliminarily find that the proposed partial demolition does not
trigger Section 2-120-825 requiring demolition of 40% or more
of any building located in a landmark district to be approved by
City Council;
Proposed New Construction:
3. Find that the proposed project, with the following conditions,
meets the criteria set forth in the Commission’s Rules and
Regulations, the Commission’s Guidelines for Alterations to
Historic Buildings and New Construction, and Standards 9 and
10 of the U.S. Secretary of the Interior’s Standards for
Rehabilitation of Historic Buildings and therefore, the project
will not have an adverse effect on the significant historical and
architectural features of the landmark property and district and
approve the project with the following conditions:

 a) Version 6 of the new, three-story construction proposed in
drawings dated August 13, 2018, which, though connected
to the historic building, has been designed to read as a
separate structure on the street in line with the street’s
architectural and historic characteristics, be approved;
b) The portion of the historic, three-story façade of 1442
North Astor to be restored shall match the historic
including all limestone quoins and coursing as documented
in historic photograph(s);
c) A report by a licensed structural engineer addressing the
proposed structural work, relative to how the remaining
structure should be braced and protected during demolition
and construction, shall be submitted for Historic
Preservation staff review and approval, as part of the permit
plans. The recommended measures, sequencing, and
protections shall be incorporated in the structural and
architectural drawings; and,
d) The project as proposed would require a zoning variation
and/or adjustment to allow the existing structure to be
expanded to the rear of the lot. As these portions of the
project are not visible from the public way, staff
recommend that the Commission takes no position
regarding any requested variance/adjustment relative to the
zoning code requirements.
4. 1537 N. Damen
1st Ward
Wicker Park District
Proposed installation of flush-mount 24’x17’, vinyl advertising sign on south elevation.
Applicant:

1537 N. Damen, LLC, owner
365 Outdoor, LLC, applicant

Staff Recommendation: Staff recommends that, considering the special circumstances
including that the application is part of a settlement agreement that
resolves litigation in the Circuit Court of Cook County between the
City and 365 Outdoor, and given that the proposed sign will be
installed on the secondary side of the building on common brick
and the sign will not damage or obscure any historic architectural
features, the Committee approve the proposed sign with the
following condition:
1.

All attachment holes to be located in masonry joints.

5. 1418 N. Milwaukee
1st Ward
Milwaukee Avenue District
Proposed installation of flush-mount, 24’x18’, vinyl advertising sign on south elevation.
Applicant:

1418-20 N. Milwaukee Enterprises, LLC, owner

 Project Outdoor, LLC, applicant
Staff Recommendation: Staff recommends that, considering the special circumstances
including that the application is part of a settlement agreement that
resolves litigation in the Circuit Court of Cook County between the
City and Project Outdoor, and given that the proposed sign will be
installed on the secondary side of the building on common brick
and the sign will not damage or obscure any historic architectural
features, the Committee approve the proposed sign with the
following conditions:
1. Attachment holes to be located in masonry joints to the greatest
extent possible; and,
2. Masonry on the south elevation shall remain unpainted.

 