MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING
OF THE
COMMISSIONERS OF THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
May 20, 2014, 2014
The Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority held its Regular Meeting of the Board of
Commissioners on Tuesday, May 20, 2014 at approximately 8:45 a.m. at the CHA Corporate Offices,
60 E. Van Buren, 12th Floor Loft in Chicago, IL.
Chairwoman Z. Scott called the meeting to order and upon roll call, those present and absent were as
follows:
Present:
Matthew Brewer
Dr. Mildred Harris
Harriet Johnson
Jack Markowski
Bridget Reidy
Z. Scott
Rodrigo Sierra
Francine Washington
Absent:

Mark Cozzi
Bridget Reidy

Also present were Michael Merchant, Chief Executive Officer, George Brown, Deputy Chief Legal
Officer; Chicago Housing Authority Staff Members and the General Public.
There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as follows:
Upon Motion made by Chairman Scott and properly seconded by Commissioner Sierra, the
Commissioners adjourned to Executive Session. Chairwoman Scott announced that pursuant to the
Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2, the Board would adjourn for approximately one hour to discuss
personnel related matters; purchase, sale and lease of real estate property; pending, probable or
imminent litigation; review of closed minutes and audit reviews.
At approximately 8:46 a.m., Commissioner Bridget Reidy joined the meeting in session.

1

 The Commissioners subsequently reconvened in Open Session and upon roll call, those present and
absent were as follows:
Present:
Matthew Brewer
Mark Cozzi
Dr. Mildred Harris
Harriet Johnson
Jack Markowski
Bridget Reidy
Z. Scott
Rodrigo Sierra
Francine Washington
Absent:

None

There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as follows:
After Motion made by Commissioner Brewer and seconded by Commissioner Johnson the Minutes for
the Regular and Closed meetings of April 15, 2014 were unanimously approved as submitted.
Commissioner Rodrigo Sierra then presented the report for the Finance & Personnel Committee. Per
Commissioner Sierra, the Finance & Personnel Committee did not officially meet due to a lack of
quorum. However, Commissioners and the public were briefed on the items appearing on the agenda,
and the items were open to comments and questions from Commissioners and the public, but for the
record, no vote was taken.
On behalf of the Finance & Personnel Committee, Commissioner Sierra then presented an Omnibus
Motion for the approval of Items 1 through 3.
(Item 1)
Since 1999, the Authority has contracted with a third party administrator (TPA) to provide claim
services for both the Authority and its Private Managers Insurance Program (PMIP). The TPA
manages the Authority’s Workers’ Compensation, First Party Property, General, Auto, Employment
Practices and Public Officials Liability claims along with General Liability claims and Workers’
Compensation under the PMIP. The TPA has provided services such as a comprehensive claim and
management reporting system, payment of all claim costs, investigation and determination of liability
and coverage, thereby assisting the Authority in analyzing its risk and associated costs. In February
2014, the Authority released Request for Proposals for Third Party Administrator for Property and
Casualty Insurance. The solicitation was sent to 94 vendors; of those, 20 picked up the solicitation
with 5 qualified as M/W/DBE vendors. The pre-proposal meeting was held on February 11th, where
representatives from 6 firms were represented. However, only one (1) proposal was received for
consideration. Accordingly, the resolution for Item 1 approves award of contract to Cannon Cochran
Management Services for third party administrator services. Costs associated with this contract are
billed based on the type of claim submitted. The rate per claim will not change over the life of the
contract. The TPA does charge an annual administration fee, which is $22,500 for the first two years
and escalates to $30,000 for the final year. The estimated total cost for the life of the contract, based
on the 5-year average claim volume for the Authority and PMIP, is $787,725. If the claim volume
increases, the expense will exceed the estimate.
2

 RESOLUTION NO. 2014-CHA-41
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated May 14, 2014 entitled
“AUTHORIZATION TO ENTER INTO A CONTRACT WITH CANNON
COCHRAN MANAGEMENT SERVICES, INC. (CCMSI) FOR THIRD PARTY
ADMINISTRATOR SERVICES”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to
enter into a contract with Cannon Cochran Management Services, Inc. to provide third
party administrator claim services for an amount not-to-exceed $307,690.00 for the
two-year base contract period of July 1, 2014 through June 30, 2016. It is further
recommended that the Board authorize the CEO or his designee, at their discretion,
subject to satisfactory contract performance and funding availability, to exercise Option
Year 1 for an amount not-to-exceed $158,845.00, option Year 2 for an amount not-toexceed $159,845.00 and option year 3 for an amount not-to-exceed $161,345.00 for an
aggregate amount not-to-exceed $787,7250.00.
This award is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE,
Section 3, and insurance requirements

(Item 2)
In June 2011, the CHA issued Request for Proposal (RFP) to solicit qualified firms to provide high
volume print/duplication and document preparation services for the entire Authority. Aloha was
determined to offer an excellent proposal that met the requirements of the RFP and was found to
provide the best overall value. In April 2012, the Board of Commissioners approved a contract with
Aloha for two (2) years with two (2) one (1) year options. Aloha has performed according to the
contract and has provided reliable and quality services to the CHA throughout the term of the
agreement. Accordingly, the resolution for Item 2 approves the two option year terms with Aloha
Document Services in an amount not-to-exceed $245,000.
RESOLUTION NO. 2014-CHA-42
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter May 14, 2014 entitled
“RECOMMENDATION TO AUTHORIZE THE EXERCISE OF THE TWO (2)
OPTION YEAR TERMS WITH ALOHA DOCUMENT SERVICES FOR HIGH
VOLUME PRINTING AND DUPLICATION SERVICES AT THE DISCRETION OF
THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER OR HIS DESIGNEE”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to
exercise the two (2) one-year option terms under Contract No. 11111 with Aloha
Document Services for high volume print/duplication and document preparation
services for the Chicago Housing Authority (“CHA”) in an amount not-to-exceed
$245,000 for each option term, for a total additional funding amount not-to-exceed
$490,000.00 for the two (2) combined option terms, each of which may be exercised at
the discretion of the Chief Executive Officer or his designee.
3

 (Amended Item 3)
RESOLUTION NO. 2014–CHA-43
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated May 14, 2014,
entitled “Approval of Personnel Actions”:

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY

THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the requested personnel actions.

The Motion to adopt resolutions for Item 1, 2 and Amended Item 3 was seconded by Commissioner
Reidy and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Matthew Brewer
Mark Cozzi
Dr. Mildred Harris
Harriet Johnson
Jack Markowski
Bridget Reidy
Z. Scott
Rodrigo Sierra
Francine Washington
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, Chairwoman Scott thereupon declared said Motion carried and
said resolution adopted.
Commissioner Mildred Harris, Chairwoman of the Tenant Services Committee then presented her
report. Per Commissioner Harris, the Tenant Services Committee meeting was held on Wednesday,
May 14, 2014 at approximately 1:10 p.m. at the CHA Corporate Offices. Commissioner Harris then
presented an Omnibus Motion for the approval of Items 4 and 5 discussed, voted and recommended
for Board approval by the Tenant Services Committee.
(Item 4)
CHA’s Resident Services Division is charged with engaging youth in out-of-school time activities that
provide safe, productive experiences and that put youth on the path toward long-term success. In order
to accomplish this goal, Resident Services has developed an extensive network of programs available
to youth during summer months. The resolution for Item 4 approves an increase to the Resident
Services budget in the amount of $1,000,000 in anticipation of the need for exigent contracts that
mitigate summer violence for CHA youth. These additional funds will be utilized to provide
programming including, but not limited to, restorative justice initiatives, evening and weekend youth
engagement activities (e.g. weekend sports leagues) and additional summer employment opportunities
(e.g. increase SYEP capacity). Due to the unique circumstances surrounding this request, including
the inability to pinpoint specific violent hotspots that may arise during the summer, CHA is unable to
identify specific requirements in advance that are needed to issue a competitive procurement.
Therefore, in order to respond with the urgency required by reactive programming, CHA will first seek
to partner with both its existing contracted service providers and contractors procured through CHA’s
4

 Sister Agencies (e.g. DFSS, Chicago Park District, Chicago Public Schools, etc.). The resolution for
Item 4 also accepts a grant award not-to-exceed $920,700 from DFSS to provide stipends for 1,500
youth and young adults ages 16-24 to participate in a SYEP. With funding from DFSS, the SYEP is
being implemented as part of the Mayor’s One Summer Chicago initiative. One Summer Chicago is a
collaborative effort between the city of Chicago, Cook County and city and business communities to
provide summer programming for youth. The DFSS grant agreement stipulates that grant funds may
only be used for youth worker stipends. CHA’s match funds of $920,7000 will cover the cost of
program implementation and supervision of the youth participants.
RESOLUTION NO. 2014-CHA-44
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated May 14, 2014 entitled
“RECOMMENDATION TO 1) INCREASE RESIDENT SERVICES BUDGET IN
ANTICIPATION OF THE NEED FOR EXIGENT CONTRACTS THAT MITIGATE
SUMMER VIOLENCE FOR CHA YOUTH, 2) AUTHORIZE THE CEO OR HIS
DESIGNEE
TO
EXECUTE
OR
AMEND
CONTRACTS
AND
INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENTS AS MAY BE DEEMED NECESSARY
TO IMPLEMENT THE FOREGOING, 3) ACCEPT AN AWARD AND EXECUTE A
GRANT AGREEMENT WITH THE CITY OF CHICAGO DEPARTMENT OF
FAMILY AND SUPPORT SERVICES FOR THE SUMMER YOUTH
EMPLOYMENT PROGRAM, AND 4) AMEND SERVICE PROVIDER
CONTRACTS TO PROVIDE THE SUMMER YOUTH EMPLOYMENT
PROGRAM”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to:
1) Increase the Resident Services’ budget in the amount of $1,000,000 in anticipation of
the need for exigent contracts that mitigate summer violence for CHA youth; 2) Use
their discretion to execute and amend contracts and Intergovernmental Agreements (e.g.
DFSS, Chicago Public Schools, Chicago Park District) to implement anti-violence and
other youth programming at CHA sites as needs are identified throughout the summer;
3) Accept a grant award and execute a grant agreement with the city of Chicago
Department of Family and Support Services (“DFSS”) in the amount of $920,700 for
the Summer Youth Employment Program (“SYEP”). This grant award from DFSS may
only be utilized to pay stipends for 1,500 youth workers; and 4) Increase the
compensation amounts and amend the contracts with seven (7) of CHA’s current
Service Providers in an additional aggregate amount not-to-exceed $920,700 to
implement and administer SYEP.
This award is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE,
Section 3 and insurance requirements.

(Item 5)
CHA’s Resident Services Division is charged with supporting youth and adults on the path to selfsufficiency, of which, post-secondary education is an increasingly important step. However, many
available scholarship and financial aid options only cover tuition, leaving a need for many students
when purchasing books, paying student fees, housing, and travel expenses. This financial gap can
derail a student’s education, even if tuition is covered. In addition to tuition assistance, funds awarded
5

 through the CHA Scholarship Program may be used to assist with these other education related
expenses. International Scholarship and Tuition Services, Inc. (ISTS) was competitively procured in
2013 to manage all aspects of a Scholarship Program for CHA college-bound youth and adults. ISTS
has developed eligibility requirements, selection criteria and scoring procedures for both merit and
need based scholarship awards. While it was originally anticipated that the first scholarship awards
would occur for the 2014-15 school year, based on CHA’s request, ISTS distributed certain
scholarships to CHA residents that were not originally contemplated in the scope of work. This
resulted in the scholarship fund for the 2014-15 academic year to be partially depleted. Accordingly,
the resolution for Item 5 approves increasing the contract and exercising the three one-year options
not to exceed $1,020,750 with ISTS. The Scholarship Program will provide between 100 and 250
scholarships per year to CHA college-bound youth and adults in amounts ranging from $1,000 to
$2,500, starting with the 2014-2015 school year.
RESOLUTION NO. 2014-CHA-45
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated May 14, 2014 entitled
“AUTHORIZATION TO INCREASE THE CONTRACT AND EXERCISE THREE
ONE-YEAR OPTIONS WITH INTERNATIONAL SCHOLARSHIP AND TUITION
SERVICES, INC. TO PROVIDE POST-SECONDARY SCHOLARSHIPS FOR CHA
COLLEGE-BOUND YOUTH AND ADULTS”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to
increase the base term funding of Contract No. 11336 with International Scholarship
and Tuition Services, Inc. in an amount not-to-exceed $152,250 for additional
scholarship funds, for an aggregate not-to-exceed amount of $387,250 for the base term.
The Board of Commissioners further authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee, at their discretion and upon expiration of the previous term, subject to funding
availability and satisfactory contract performance, to exercise the first, second and third
one-year options, in an amount not-to-exceed $289,500 per option term, consisting of
$250,000 in scholarship awards and $39,500 for program administration each year. The
new aggregate contract total, including the base term, amendment and all option years
will be an amount not-to-exceed $1,255,750.
This award is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE,
Section 3, and insurance requirements.

The Motion to adopt resolutions for Items 4 and 5 was seconded by Commissioner Washington and the
voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Matthew Brewer
Mark Cozzi
Dr. Mildred Harris
Harriet Johnson
Jack Markowski
Bridget Reidy
Z. Scott
Rodrigo Sierra
Francine Washington
6

 Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, Chairwoman Scott thereupon declared said Motion carried and
said resolutions adopted.
Commissioner Bridget Reidy, Chairwoman of the Operations and Facilities committee then presented
her report. Per Commissioner Reidy, the Operations Committee did not officially meet due to a lack
of quorum. However, Commissioners and the public were briefed on the four items appearing on the
agenda, and the items were open to comments and questions from Commissioners and the public, but
for the record, no vote was taken. .
On behalf of the Operations Committee, Commissioner Reidy then presented an Omnibus Motion for
the approval of Items 6 through 8.
(Item 6)
The resolution for Item 6 approves a new lease agreement with the Illinois Institute of Technology for
the premises located at 10 W. 35th Street, 5th Floor. The total per-square-foot cost of the proposed IIT
lease is the lowest of all the sites that HCV surveyed when heating and janitorial costs were
considered. The building has ample parking for participants and staff. The building features an
auditorium that seats nearly 150 and is available for CHA use. Remaining at 10 W. 35th St. avoids any
costs associated with moving the HCV South Office.
RESOLUTION NO. 2014-CHA-46
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated May 14, 2014 entitled
“AUTHORIZATION TO ENTER INTO A NEW LEASE AGREEMENT WITH
ILLINOIS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to
enter into a lease agreement with Illinois Institute of Technology for the premises
located at 10 W. 35th Street, 5th Floor for a base term of three (3) years in an amount not
to exceed $1,130,646 with two (2) one-year extension options in an amount not to
exceed $399,781 and $411,774, respectively.

(Item 7)
The resolution for Item 7 ratifies the Contract Modification for Contract No. 1117 in the amount of
$19,419.16 with Pan Oceanic Engineering Co. The contract modification associated with the above
contract will repair an undermined collapsed storm water sewer in the emergency fire lane The Capital
Construction Department has verified that the amount to perform the work by the contractor was
within an acceptable range of the CHA’s Independent Cost Estimate.
RESOLUTION NO. 2014-CHA-47
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated May 14, 2014
entitled “APPROVAL OF THE RATIFICATION OF A CONTRACT
MODIFICATION FOR CONTRACT 11117 FIRE LANE RENOVATION AT 2960 S.
FEDERAL”;
7

 THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY

Current
Contract Value

Cumulative Change Order
Total

All Change Orders as a
Cumulative % of Original
Contract

Cumulative Amount Over
$100,000?

Fire Lane
Renovation
@ 2960 S.
Federal

Original
Contract Value

% of Contract - This Change
Order

Project

Contract Modifications to be
Approved (May Board)

Pan-Oceanic Engineering Co.

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the ratification of a $19,419.16 contract
modification for contract 11117 Fire Lane Renovation at 2960 S. Federal with the
following contractor:

Contract

General Contractor

THAT

Revised
Contract
Amount

11117

$1,437,500.00

$1,526,186.68

$19,419.16

1.35%

$108,105.84

7.52%

Yes

$1,545,605.84

Cumulative Total

$ 19,419.16

This item is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE,
Section 3 and insurance requirements.
(Item 8)
The resolution for Item 8 approves supplemental police coverage and funding, not-to-exceed
$2,000,000 for the Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) with the Chicago Police Department (CPD)
for Summer 2014. It is anticipated that CHA will add up to 32 additional police officers for the
summer months to increase the level of supplemental police coverage at certain CHA properties. In
addition to these services, the CPD will continue to provide statistics, and relevant data including
crime reports.
RESOLUTION NO. 2014-CHA-48
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the Board
Letter dated May 14, 2014 titled “AUTHORIZATION TO INCREASE
SUPPLEMENTAL POLICE
COVERAGE AND FUNDING FOR THE
INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEEMENT WITH THE CHICAGO POLICE
DEPARTMENT FOR SUMMER 2014”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to
amend the Intergovernmental Agreement with the Chicago Police Department to
increase the funding for the 2014 by an amount not-to-exceed $2,000,000 to provide up
to 32 additional police officers at certain CHA properties.

8

 The Motion to adopt resolution for Item 6, 7 and 8 was seconded by Commissioner Markowski and the
voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Matthew Brewer
Mark Cozzi
Dr. Mildred Harris
Harriet Johnson
Jack Markowski
Bridget Reidy
Z. Scott
Rodrigo Sierra
Francine Washington
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, Chairwoman Scott thereupon declared said Motion carried and
said resolution adopted.
Commissioner Jack Markowski, Chairman of the Real Estate Development committee then presented
her report. Per Commissioner Markowski, the Real Estate Development Committee did not officially
meet due to a lack of quorum. However, Commissioners and the public were briefed on the items
appearing on the agenda, and the items were open to comments and questions from Commissioners
and the public, but for the record, no vote was taken. .
Commissioner Markowski then presented an Omnibus Motion for the approval of Items 9 through15.
(Amended Item 9)
The resolution for Item 9 approves a Predevelopment Loan Agreement with the Lathrop Community
Partners, LLC and approves execution of a Preliminary Commitment Letter for Lathrop Phase I.
Phase I plans include the historic redevelopment of 14 buildings on the north side of Diversey. Phase I
also includes plans to demolish two existing buildings, one located at the southwest corner of Diversey
and Damen, the other at the opposite northwest corner, to be replaced with two new mid-rise, mixeduse residential and commercial buildings.
The total number of units in Phase I are to be
determined. The proposed $3,441,283 CHA loan for Phase I will not exceed 75% of eligible Lathrop
Phase I third party predevelopment costs consistent with HUD cost control guidelines. The total Phase
I predevelopment budget is $4,864,377 and the Developer will cover the remaining 25% of costs. This
Phase I loan will help fund predevelopment costs including architectural and engineering design
development and construction documents, permit fees, technical reports, surveys and related real estate
services. All Phase I predevelopment funds loaned will be repaid in full to CHA at the Phase I
transaction closing. These repayment funds will then become available for remaining redevelopment
phases, with the initial predevelopment loan acting as a revolving predevelopment loan for future
phases. The Preliminary Commitment Letter will be valid for one year in order to allow the Developer
to secure development and construction financing from other sources. Once all financing is secured,
the full development and finance plans for Lathrop Phase I will be submitted to CHA Board prior to
submission for HUD’s review and approval to close and start construction on Phase I.

9

 WHEREAS,

Amended - RESOLUTION NO. 2014-CHA-49
the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated May 16, 2014
entitled Authorization to 1) Enter into a Predevelopment Loan Agreement with
Lathrop Community Partners, LLC in an amount not to exceed $3,441,283; 2)
Execute a Preliminary Commitment Letter for Lathrop Phase I; and 3) Execute
and deliver such other documents and perform such actions as may be necessary
or appropriate to implement the foregoing.

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated May 16, 2014
entitled Authorization to 1) Enter into a Predevelopment Loan Agreement with
Lathrop Community Partners, LLC in an amount not to exceed $3,441,283; 2)
Execute a Preliminary Commitment Letter for Lathrop Phase I; and 3) Execute
and deliver such other documents and perform such actions as may be necessary
or appropriate to implement the foregoing.
This award is subject to the Developer’s compliance with CHA’s
MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 and insurance requirements.

(Item 10)
The resolution for Item 10 approves submittal of a Development Proposal, Evidentiary Documents and
Supplemental Disposition Application to HUD; commit CHA funds not-to-exceed $12,900,000 for the
Parkside IIB Rental Development; execute a Ground Lease; execute a Remediation Agreement not-toexceed $2,097,492 with Parkside Phase IIB LP and Parkside Associates, LLC for environmental
remediation activities at the Parkside Phase IIB Rental Development and execute other documents as
may be necessary to implement the foregoing. Parkside IIB Rental is the fourth phase of the Cabrini
Green Extension North redevelopment at Parkside of Old Town. Phase IIB is a 106-unit mixedincome, multi-family residential rental development consisting of 36 public housing units; 27
affordable units and 43 market rate units. . The project includes two buildings, a 94-unit nine-story
elevator building along Division St. (including five townhouse-style units and two walk-up flats on the
rear façade of the building) and a 12-unit three-story walk-up. The property is to be developed by
Parkside Associates, LLC, an Illinois limited liability company. The total estimated development
budget for the Parkside Phase IIB Rental development is approximately $40,951,529 and includes the
CHA Loan of approximately $12,442,319 to be funded with a combination of CHA General and
Program Income funds. Additional project sources include approximately $1,478,746 for the
following: $366,000 from previous grant funds disbursed for demolition, $10,000 in Cabrini HOPE VI
funds for final HUD close-out of the Grant, and $1,102,746 of CHA General Funds for site
remediation, CHA administrative fees and CHA Initial Operating Deficit Reserve. The estimated
remediation cost for the Parkside IIB development is $1,048,746. CHA’s contractual responsibility for
remediating foreseen and unforeseen environmental conditions is capped at 200% of this estimated
total cost and equals $2,097,492. The required M/W/DBE participation commitment is 40% of the
estimated remediation cost. Additionally, the contractor will meet or exceed its Section 3 requirement.
RESOLUTION NO. 2014-CHA-50
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated May 14, 2014 entitled
authorization to 1) Submit a Development Proposal, Evidentiary documents, and
Supplemental Disposition Application to the United States Department of Housing and
10

 Urban Development; 2) Commit Chicago Housing Authority funds not to exceed
$12,900,000 for the Parkside IIB Rental development; 3) Execute a Ground Lease with
Parkside Phase IIB, LP; 4) Execute a Remediation Agreement for an amount not to
exceed $2,097,492 with Parkside Phase IIB, LP and Parkside Associates, LLC for
environmental remediation activities at the Parkside Phase IIB Rental Development;
and 5) Execute and deliver such other documents and perform such actions as may be
necessary or appropriate to implement the foregoing.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to
1) Submit a Development Proposal, Evidentiary documents, and Supplemental
Disposition Application to the United States Department of Housing and Urban
Development; 2) Commit Chicago Housing Authority funds not to exceed $12,900,000
for the Parkside IIB Rental development; 3) Execute a Ground Lease with Parkside
Phase IIB, LP; 4) Execute a Remediation Agreement for an amount not to exceed
$2,097,492 with Parkside Phase IIB, LP and Parkside Associates, LLC for
environmental remediation activities at the Parkside Phase IIB Rental Development;
and 5) Execute and deliver such other documents and perform such actions as may be
necessary or appropriate to implement the foregoing.
This award is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE,
Section 3 and insurance requirements.

(Item 11)
The resolution for Item 11 approves the Tenant Selection Plan, Lease, Lease Riders and Bylaws for
Washington Park, Taylor Homes and Stateway Gardens Replacement Housing at the private
development known as Rosenwald and amends the ACOP. The building has been shuttered since
1999. The new Rosenwald mixed use development will return 239 quality housing opportunities, 120
Senior & 119 Family housing units and 78,700 SF of commercial space to the Bronzeville Community.
CHA will participate in 60 seniors units under the ACC program and 60 senior units under the PRA
program. The Rosenwald transaction and funding was previously approved by the CHA’s Board of
Commissioner on November 19, 2013. It is understood that the developer has an interest and desire to
implement its own lease forms and policy that encourage consistent community standards for the
effect. The property specific requirements for the applicants contained in the Tenant Selection plan are
based on the CHA’s Minimum TSP. The authorization of approval of the Tenant Selection Plan, lease,
lease riders, bylaws and amendment to the CHA Admissions and Continued Occupancy Policy is
required by HUD to facilitate the transaction closing. The public notice was published on March 20,
2014. The public comment period was from March 24, 2014 through April 23, 2014 and the public
comment hearing that was held on April 8, 2014.
RESOLUTION NO. 2014-CHA-51
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated May 14, 2014 entitled
“Authorization for 1) approval of the Tenant Selection Plan, lease, lease riders, and
bylaws for Washington Park, Taylor Homes and Stateway Gardens replacement
housing at the private development known as Rosenwald; 2) amend the CHA
Admissions and Continued Occupancy Policy to incorporate such documents as an
11

 addendum thereto; and 3) execute and deliver such other documents and perform such
actions as may be necessary or appropriate to implement the foregoing.”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves 1) the attached Tenant Selection Plan,
lease, lease riders, and bylaws for Washington Park, Taylor Homes and Stateway
Gardens replacement housing at the private development known as Rosenwald; 2)
amend the CHA Admissions and Continued Occupancy policy to incorporate such
documents as an addendum thereto; and 3) execute and deliver such other documents
and perform such actions as may be necessary or appropriate to implement the
foregoing.

(Item 12)
The Ida B. Wells Homes, Madden Park Homes and Clarence Darrow Homes commonly known as
Madden Wells Darrow are a part of CHA’s plan to transform blighted neighborhoods into vibrant
residential, retail and commercial communities. Madden Wells Darrow has completed two phases of
its redevelopment into what is now the Oakwood Shores mixed income residential community which
includes the Oakwood Shores Terrace Mercy Hospital and Medical Center. In order to sustain its
vibrancy, Oakwood Shores is in desperate need of retail and grocery stores. To that end, CNI, an
Illinois not-for-profit corporation and SCC, an Illinois corporation intends to form a joint venture
entity and, in partnership with Mariano’s Market, they are proposing to develop a grocery store and
complementary retail space on the CHA Land. The CHA Land that the Developer seeks to acquire and
develop is within the Ida B. Wells Homes development. More specifically, it is approximately 8.2
acres of real property bounded by East 38th Street on the north, South Martin Luther King Drive on the
west, East Pershing Road on the south, and South Rhodes Avenue on the east. Additionally, CHA
shall dedicate approximately one acre of its land for a new 38th Street and the city of Chicago shall
vacate a portion of Vernon Avenue in support of the development. CHA and the city of Chicago shall
enter into an IGA to effect the dedication and vacation of the streets. Upon construction completion,
Mariano’s Market intends to lease space for their grocery store and to use its best efforts to recruit
CHA residents for permanent jobs. The Developer has offered to purchase the CHA Land for the sale
price of Five Million Five Hundred Thousand and No/100 Dollars ($5,500,000). CHA believes that
the CNI offer of $5,500,000 represents a fair value for the property. The offered purchase price is
subject to adjustments based on the results of due diligence investigations including but not limited to
environmental assessments, geotechnical studies, traffic studies, utility studies and feasibility studies
that demonstrate that the Developer’s projected budget is insufficient to address the conditions
revealed by these investigations. It is also contingent upon CHA’s agreement to file an application
with the Chicago Department of Transportation for the vacation of Vernon Avenue located within the
boundaries of the CHA Land. In accordance with federal regulations, CHA has consulted with the
residents who will be affected by the proposed disposition and obtain written comments from the
residents to be submitted to HUD. Accordingly, the resolution for Item 12 approves a Purchase and
Sale Agreement with CNI and Safeway Construction Company, Inc.; approves submitting a
Disposition Application to HUD for the sale of CHA land located within the Wells development and to
execute and deliver such other documents necessary to implement the foregoing.
RESOLUTION NO. 2014-CHA-52
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated May 14, 2014 entitled
Authorization to 1) Enter into a Purchase and Sale Agreement with Chicago
12

 Neighborhood Initiatives, Inc. (“CNI”) and Safeway Construction Company, Inc.
(“SCC”), acting through a to-be formed joint venture entity; 2) Submit a Disposition
application to the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development
(“HUD”) for the sale of Chicago Housing Authority (“CHA”) land located within the
Ida B. Wells Homes development (the “CHA Land”) and to Dedicate approximately an
acre of CHA Land as a new 38th Street; 3) Execute a deed in fee simple to CNI and
SCC acting through a to-be-formed joint venture entity; 4) Enter into an
Intergovernmental Agreement (“IGA”) with the city of Chicago for a Land Exchange;
and 5) Execute and deliver such other documents and perform such actions as may be
necessary or appropriate to implement the foregoing.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to
1) Enter into a Purchase and Sale Agreement with Chicago Neighborhood Initiatives,
Inc. (“CNI”) and Safeway Construction Company, Inc. (“SCC”), acting through a to-be
formed joint venture entity; 2) Submit a Disposition application to the United States
Department of Housing and Urban Development (“HUD”) for the sale of Chicago
Housing Authority (“CHA”) land located within the Ida B. Wells Homes development
(the “CHA Land”) and to Dedicate approximately an acre of CHA Land as a new 38th
Street; 3) Execute a deed in fee simple to CNI and SCC acting through a to-be-formed
joint venture entity; 4) Enter into an Intergovernmental Agreement (“IGA”) with the
city of Chicago for a Land Exchange; and 5) Execute and deliver such other documents
and perform such actions as may be necessary or appropriate to implement the
foregoing.

(Item 13)
The resolution for Item 13 approves an agreement to enter into a Housing Assistance Payments
Contract for Kenmore Plaza Apartments. This contract will result in more affordable housing
opportunities for families by providing Property Rental Assistance (PRA) for up to 195 apartments.
The Kenmore Plaza Apartments Preservation is an occupied 28-story elevator building containing 324
units in the Edgewater community area consisting of 54 studios, 216 one-bedroom and 54 twobedroom units. Up to 29 studios, 128 one-bedroom and 38 two-bedroom units will be PRA for seniors.
One hundred ninety-five units will receive enhanced vouchers from HUD, which may be converted to
PRA with tenants consent. All units converted to PRA will be funded by HUD through the enhanced
vouchers, not from CHA’s HCV allocation. Of the 324 units, 129 will remain under an existing HUD
HAP contract. Building amenities include a community room and kitchen, a large outdoor courtyard,
garden and sitting area, a secured entry, laundry facilities and on-site management. Kenmore Plaza
Tenants Association is a non-profit corporation formed in 1996 to acquire Kenmore Plaza, and is
governed by a board of directors comprised of five residents. All strategic decisions for the building
are made by the board in consultation with the residents. The Habitat Company, which has managed
the property since 1997, will remain as property manager. The building is currently fully occupied.
Current residents who elect to convert their enhanced voucher to PRA will remain in their units. At
turnover, it is the intent of the owner/manager of Kenmore Plaza to lease all of the PRA-assisted units
to eligible seniors from CHA’s waiting lists. CHA will make referrals from its Public Housing and
Project Based Voucher (PBV) waiting lists as well as seniors whose right of return under the
Relocation Rights Contract has not been satisfied. The CHA waiting list of applicants will be
exhausted prior to utilization of a site-based waiting list.
13

 RESOLUTION NO. 2014-CHA-53
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the Board
letter dated May 14, 2014 requesting authorization to execute an AHAP and HAP
contract for PRA assistance for Kenmore Plaza.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to
execute an AHAP and HAP contract for PRA assistance for Kenmore Plaza
Apartments.

(Item 14)
The resolution for Item 14 approves an agreement to enter into a Housing Assistance Payments
Contract for Lake Village East. This contract will result in more affordable housing opportunities for
individuals by providing Property Rental Assistance (PRA) for up to 143 apartments. Lake Village
East consists of three occupied buildings: one 26-story high rise & two 3-story walk-ups containing
218 units in the Kenwood community area consisting of 50 studios, 75 one-bedroom, 75 two-bedroom
and 18 three-bedroom units. Up to 29 studios, 45 one-bedroom, 60 two-bedroom and 9 three-bedroom
units will be PRA for Working Families. One hundred forty-three households will receive enhanced
vouchers from HUD, which may be converted to PRA with tenants’ consent. All units converted to
PRA will be funded by HUD through the enhanced vouchers, not from CHA HCV allocation. Of the
218 units, 43 will remain under an existing HUD HAP contract and an estimated 32 will be market
rate. Building amenities include a resident lounge & community room, a large outdoor courtyard &
sitting area, laundry facilities, on-site management, part-time door & maintenance staff and 160 offstreet parking spaces. Ansonia Properties, LLC, developer, was founded in 2002. Its principals have
over 25 years of experience in developing, financing and operating multifamily affordable and market
rate housing. Metroplex has managed the property since 1983 and will continue in this role under new
ownership. The building is currently fully occupied. Current residents who elect to convert their
enhanced voucher to PRA will remain in their units. At turnover, it is the intent of the owner/manager
of Lake Village East to lease all of the PRA-assisted units to eligible individuals from the CHA’s
waiting lists. CHA will refer families from the Public Housing and PRA waiting lists as well as
families whose right of return under the Relocation Rights Contract has not been satisfied. The CHA
waiting lists will be exhausted prior to utilization of a site-based waiting list.
RESOLUTION NO. 2014-CHA-54
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the Board
letter dated May 14, 2014 requesting authorization to execute an AHAP and HAP
contract for Lake Village East;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to
execute an AHAP and HAP contract for Lake Village East.

14

 (Item 15)
The resolution for Item 15 approves and agreement to enter into a Housing Assistance Payments
Contract for Belray Apartments and Major Jenkins. This contract will result in more affordable
housing opportunities for individuals by providing Property Rental Assistance (PRA) for up to 150
apartments as detailed below. Belray Apartments is an occupied 4-story elevator building containing
70 studio apartments in the Lakeview community area. All 70 units are currently subsidized under the
HUD-funded Moderate Rehabilitation (Mod Rehab) program, administered by the Chicago Housing
Authority (CHA). Major Jenkins Apartments is an occupied 4-story elevator building containing 160
studio apartments in the Uptown community area. Of the 160 units, 80 are currently under PRA and
the other 80 are subsidized under the Mod Rehab program. For both properties, when the owner opts
out of the Mod Rehab contract, HUD provides enhanced vouchers which residents can elect to be
project-based. Building amenities for both properties include a community room and large kitchen,
laundry facilities, a Tenant Leadership Program, art therapy, resident activities, on-site property
management and supportive services offices. Mercy Housing Lakefront (MHL), developer, has over
28 years of experience in developing and managing affordable housing throughout Chicago and
Southeast Wisconsin. Mercy Housing Management Group will continue to serve as the property
manager. It is the intent of the owner/manager of Belray Apartments and Major Jenkins to lease all of
the PRA-assisted units to eligible individuals from the CHA’s wait lists. CHA will refer families from
the Public Housing and PRA wait lists as well as families whose right of return under the Relocation
Rights Contract has not been satisfied. The CHA wait lists will be exhausted prior to utilization of a
site-based waiting list. Current residents who elect to convert their enhanced voucher to PRA will
remain in their units and at turnover, the owner/manager will follow the occupancy process outlined
above.
RESOLUTION NO. 2014-CHA-55
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the Board
letter dated May 14, 2014 requesting authorization to execute an AHAP and HAP
contract for PRA assistance for Belray Apartments & Major Jenkins;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to
execute an AHAP and HAP contract for PRA assistance for Belray Apartments &
Major Jenkins.

The Motion to adopt resolutions for Items 9 through 15 was seconded by Commissioner Sierra and the
voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Matthew Brewer
Mark Cozzi
Dr. Mildred Harris
Harriet Johnson
Jack Markowski
Bridget Reidy
Z. Scott
Rodrigo Sierra
Francine Washington
Abstain:
Bridget Reidy (on Items 10 and 15 only)
Nays:
Francine Washington (on Items 9 and 12 only)
15

 There being no questions or discussion, Chairwoman Scott thereupon declared said Motion carried and
said resolution adopted.
Michael Merchant, Chief Executive Officer then presented his monthly report to the Commissioners.
Chairwoman Scott then invited residents and the public at large to address the Board.
There being no further business to come before the Commissioners, upon Motion made and seconded
the May 20, 2014 meeting of the Board of Commissioners was adjourned at approximately 11:10 a.m.

__________________________________
Z. Scott
Chairwoman, Chicago Housing Authority
_____________________________
Lee Chuc-Gill, Secretary
Custodian and Keeper of Records

16

 