Mayor’s Bicycle Advisory Council Meeting Minutes
1.

2.
3.

4.

5.

6.
7.

September 7, 2016 3:00 pm – 4:30 pm
Introductions
MBAC members present
FHWA: Greg Piland
Co-Chairs Rebekah Scheinfeld, CDOT Commissioner and Sean
West Town Bikes: Alex Wilson
Wiedel, CDOT Asst. Commissioner
Community Representatives: Jacob Peters, Joe Sislow
Active Transportation Alliance: Carmen Aiken, Ron Burke, Jim
Others present: Allan Mellis, Andrzej Brzoznowski, Angela Ford, Anna
Merrell, Kyle Whitehead
Schibrowsky, Anne Alt, Aubry Phillips, Becky Howe, Ben Price, Brendan
CDOT: Mike Amsden, Katie Bowes, Lauren Crabtree, Rosanne
Kevenides, Brian Beerman, Brian Elmore, Deb Mell, Elizabeth Adamczyk,
Ferruggia, Charlie Short, David Smith, Amanda Woodall
G. Norwood, Greg Osborne, Hannah Slodounik, Howard Zar, Jacob Kelly,
CLOCC: Eric Goodwin
Jakub Maszynski, Jeff Robinson, Jeff Sobczyk, Jerry Mandujano, Jes
CDPH: Margarita Reina
Standefer, John Amdor, John Morrison, Joseph Kelly, Justin Hughes, Kathy
Chicago Park District: Heather Gleason, Brendan Daley
Schubert Kevin Zolkiewicz, Kim Messina, Kristen O’Toole, Lindy Sloan,
Chicago Police: Robert Tietz
Maggie Melin, Marty Mueller, Michael McCarthy, Michelle Stenzel, Nathan
DCASE: Connor Kelly
Rennicke, Peter Taylor, Philip Garofalo, Randy Neufeld, Susan Levin, Tim
Gustafson, Veronica Ward, Yasmeen Schuller, Zack McKinney
Approval of Minutes – The meeting minutes from June 2016 were approved
Bike Crash/Fatality Update; Vision Zero Update –
a. 4 fatalities year-to-date as reported by the Chicago Police Department, up from 2 in 2015; the five-year average between 2010 and 2014
based on data provided by the Illinois Department of Transportation is 4
b. Mayor Emanuel launched the Vision Zero Chicago Initiative via a press release on Sept. 6. The City will release a three-year Vision Zero
Action Plan in the fall of 2016. The plan will look at traffic safety as a public health issue and identify priorities for the City’s
engineering and education initiatives, as well as enforcement support to reduce crashes. Multiple City departments such as Health, Fleet
& Facilities, the Police Department, Business Affairs and Transportaton are all currently working with stakeholders and the public to
develop the final goals and strategies included in the plan.
Bike Lane Update –Mike Amsden
a. Pending Construction – 3 miles of protected lanes, 14 miles of buffered lanes, and 1.75 miles of neighborhood bike routes.
b. Bikeway restriping – 11 miles completed, 12 miles pending
c. Bikeway resurfacing – Kinzie (Desplaines to Wells), Dearborn (Madison to Wacker), and Randolph (Michigan to Clinton)
d. Projects in design – Neighborhood Greenways on Manor, Cortland/Wood, in the South Loop, Glenwood/Greenview, and
School/Roscoe; concrete upgrades to bike lanes on Dearborn, Milwaukee, Harrison, and Elston
e. South/West Side Outreach for projects on Chicago Ave., Polk, Kedzie, Torrence, 103rd Street, and Stony Island
Q: How can we contact CDOT for project consideration, or with comments/concerns?
A: Email us at cdotnews@cityofchicago.org or cdotbikes@cityofchicago.org
Q: In Columbus, OH I saw signage for no parking in the bike lanes. Can CDOT install similar signage?
A:We will use signage as a last resort, but will consider it in certain areas
Q: Does CDOT reach out to drivers as part of the bike lane design process?
A: All projects include an outreach process and factor in demands from all road users to come up with design solutions.
Divvy Update – Amanda Woodall
a. 2016 Expansion completed – 584 Stations; 5,800+ bikes. Includes Evanston and Oak Park
b. Ridership - ~19 million miles traveled; 8.9 million trips; 34,000+ annual members
c. Impact – 44% of the City’s geography served; 64% of the City’s populations lives within ½ mile of a station; 52% of the population
served is non-white
d. Divvy for Everyone Year One – 1,600+ members; ~35% African-American;~15% Hispanic; 46% female; 82% have used Divvy
e. New Program Features: can now enroll at Little Village Central States SER and Slow Roll Chicago events; D4E transitional pricing at
$50/year or $5/month; Cash payments accepted at 7-Eleven or Family Dollar stores using PayNearMe
Learn to Ride Update – Charlie Short
a. 37 students at two locations; were able to accommodate all but two participants
South Lakefront Trail Construction – Heather Gleason, Chicago Park District
a. 2015 Survey of Trail Users with ATA and Cara used to develop recommendations for trail signage, education, and other strategies to
improve Lakefront trail use.
i. Insufficient knowledge of “proper” path etiquette reported by 75.95% of respondents
ii. Separated lanes for different traffic – i.e. runners, cyclists – reported by 83.12% of respondents
b. Striping improvements, signage, and trail separation – pavement markings in design
c. Proposed pedestrian path will include 14’ wide asphalt trail with a 3’ wide soft surface shoulder
d. Proposed commuter path will include a 12’ wide asphalt trail
e. South Lakefront Trail separation will start at 31st and run south to 51st
f. Next steps – Lakefront Trail updates on Park District website and social media; 31st Trail separation will be completed by midSeptember; Graphics on the trail will be painted when the trails is not as active.
g. Construction to start on 35th – 51st in mid-September
Q: When does Big Marsh open?
A: At the end of November.
Q:What about the rest of the trail?
A: We repave more every year. South side this year, north side is coming. We’re designing through the winter. North side reconstruction
is tentative for Fall 2016.
Q: What about trails/parks in the rest of the city?
A: We work with partners to improve signage and trail markings. For the Major Taylor Trial, we’re considering what access at parks
needs to happen. It’s something we want to develop.

 8.

Go Garfield Park – Maggie Melin, Jacob Kelly, Joseph Kelly
a. Garfield Park is the 5th neighborhood in the Go Program
b. Goals: reduce drive-alone trips; increase trips by foot, bicycle, transit, and carpool; foster a sense of community around walking and
bicycling activities; support local businesses and community efforts
c. Three Go Garfield Park ambassadors hired for 2016
d. 930 Go Kits delivered to Garfield Park residents
e. Events including bike rides, bike rodeos, GirlTrek walks and community tabling events
Q: How do we report debris in the bike lane?
A: Call 311. There is a specific code to report debris in the lanes.
Q: What is the sustainability of the Go Programs after the summer is complete?
A: We’ve been working with some of the Go Ambassadors and many of the communities to continue the programs after funding is
finished. We give them the “keys” to the program and support them as much as possible.

9.

Greencorps Youth – Sean Wiedel and Zack McKinney
a. Core areas in horticulture and biking
b. Ten-to-one youth to mentor ratio
c. 6 weeks of paid work experience for youth ages 15-19. Youth drawn from CPS at-risk-for-violence high schools
d. Nearly 3,000 youth have participated in the program since 2013
10. Community Representative Comments
Q: Is there a way to know what detours are on the Lakefront Trail with signage?
A: That’s a good idea. The Park District will look into it.
Q: Can we prioritize that high-traffic bike lanes stay open during construction?
A:CDOT is working with contractors to make sure this happens.
Q: How does the Water Department fit in with bike lanes and construction?
A: As a sister department, CDOT is enforcing accommodation rules and coming up with additional accommodations
Q:What about signage and detours during the Milwaukee reconstruction?
A: CDOT is working with the Alderman’s office about the detours. It’s on our radar and we will work with the community to find the
most useful detour.
11. Public Input/Questions/Comments
Q: Is there an education improvement program/initiative/plan for CDL holders?
A: This is a discussion and area of focus for Vision Zero working groups, outreach, and education to improve safety for the most
vulnerable road users.
Q: What do we need to tell representative to make sure legislative changes occur?
A: Voicing your concerns to your representatives is helpful. Vision Zero will help come up with the most practical and achievable
solutions to affect changes.
Q: How can we improve safety for bicyclists when drivers are turning right across concrete barrier protected bike lanes?
A: Typically what we see in PBLs with concrete is a reduction in crashes. Intersections are a critical component of that design and we
do more treatments at intersections for cyclists than anywhere else.
Q: Could the MasterCard Ventra cards be tied to Divvy for the unbanked?
A: There are a lot of challenges with that, including associated fees to the user. We’re open to it and are exploring the possibilities with
CTA and their Ventra partners. At this point, PayNearMe is the best option for those without a credit card.
Q: What can we do as citizens to have tickets issued to cars in bike lanes?
A: CDOT works with the Department of Finance to address problem areas. Please let us know where these areas are.
Q: Will the bollards be replaced on the Vincennes bike lane?
A: Bollards will be reinstalled this fall.

 