Mayor’s Bicycle Advisory Council Meeting Minutes

1.

December 7, 2016 3:00 pm – 4:30 pm
Introductions
DPD: Todd Wyatt
MBAC members present
Co-Chairs Rebekah Scheinfeld, CDOT Commissioner and Luann
FHWA: Greg Piland
Hamilton, CDOT Deputy Commissioner
IDOT: Scott Kristiansen
Active Transportation Alliance: Jim Merrell
Community Representatives: Jacob Peters, Joe Sislow, Romina Castillo
CDOT: Mike Amsden, Katie Bowes, Lauren Crabtree, Rosanne
Others present: Allan Mellis, Anne Alt, Bob Kastigar, Brad Gregorka,
Ferruggia, Angel Montalvo, Kathleen Murphy, Charlie Short,
Bryan Young, Claire Roggeveen, Colin Fleming, Dan Black, Elizabeth
David Smith, Amanda Woodall
Adamczyk, Greg Osborne, Hannah Slodounik, Jay Readey, Jerry
Chicago Park District: Brendan Daley, Matt Freer
Mandujano, John Zappa, Kathy Schubert, Marty Mueller, Mary Wisniewski,
CMAP: John O’Neal
Rey Phillips, Sarah Dandelles, Scott Long, Susan Levin, Tim Gustafson,

2.

Approval of Minutes – The meeting minutes from September 2016 were approved with one amendment

3.

Bike Crash/Fatality, Vision Zero, and Year-End Updates –
a. Six fatalities year-to-date as reported by the Chicago Police Department, with zero fatalities recorded in both October and
November; the five-year average between 2010 and 2014 based on data provided by the Illinois Department of
Transportation is 0.2
b. Throughout 2016, a dozen City departments have contributed to the draft Action Plan, setting City priorities and
identifying resources. CDOT staff is now collecting input from transportation advocates and citywide nonprofits. The
Action Plan calls for extensive community-based outreach and additional planning in High Crash Areas once it is released.
We anticipate the release of the Action plan in early 2017. Please send comments and contributions to
rmf@chicagocompletestreets.org.
c. Bicycling.com named Chicago America’s Best Bike City on September 19, 2016.
d. The Randolph protected bike lane, part of the Loop Link, opened this fall. The lane from Michigan Ave to Clinton St. will
be installed in fall 2017. Constructions projects between State St. and Dearborn, and Franklin and Wells, require
temporary accommodations until mid-2017
e. The 35th Street Bridge opened this fall as well. This pedestrian- and bicycle-only bridge connects the Lakefront Trail to
Bronzeville and surrounding neighborhoods. The bridge has built in lighting, ADA access, and is wide enough to
accommodate emergency vehicles.

4.

Bicycling Ambassador Year-End Recap – The Ambassador team attended 800 events during the 2015-2016 season, educating
100,175 people. Events included education at 145 parks, 66 enforcements, and 106 schools. To download a copy of the Final
Report, visit www.chicagocompletestreets.org/education

5.

Bike Parking – updates on indoor bike parking for commercial buildings. Benefits of building-supplied bike parking vs. sidewalk
racks include more places to park bikes, protection against the elements, and long-term and secure parking spots. More information
about bike parking is available at www.chicagocompletestreets.org/bikeparking or by contacting Kathleen Murphy at
kmurphy@samschwartz.com

6.

Friends of Big Marsh – The Big Marsh Bike Park opened in late fall 2016. The park is ~40 acres, laid out to make maximum use
of exposed slag areas. The framework plan includes habitat restoration for wetland, open water, and upland. Amenities include
trails and a second entrance/parking lot. Big Marsh water levels will be managed with a new control structure. Ecological goals for
the area include enhanced water quality, storm water treatment, invasive species removal, enhancement of wildlife habitat, and
management and control of phragmites. Bike Park features include small and large Pump Park, technical single track, jump lines,
and a multipurpose trail. More information is available at www.bigmarsh.org

7.

Slow Roll Year-End Recap – Slow Roll hosts its Signature Ride Series every Wednesday evening from May to October. All rides
are community based and hosted in partnership with community organizations and institutions. Each ride meets on Wednesday
evening at 6:30 pm. The ride starts at 7:00 pm. The Special Ride Series includes any ride outside of the Signature Ride Series. All
rides are posted on the Slow Roll Facebook page. Slow Roll also engages in advocacy. Areas of interest include healthy respect for
community, culture, and history; community ownership of the planning process; and equitable distribution of bicycle resources.

8.

Community Representative Comments
Q: How can we help keep the bike lanes vehicle-free?
A: CDOT is working with the Dept. of Finance to address problem areas. When you post blockages on social media, be sure to
include the location of the bike lane. Active Trans will share their data with CDOT.
Q: Can rideshare and delivery drivers receive education on not parking in the bike lanes?
A: CDOT is working with BACP regarding this type of education.
Q: What can the community do to identify connection bike lane routes and other lanes for the next budget cycle?
A: Work with your Alderman and local community to support the routes and lanes that will work best for your neighborhood.
Q: How can bike shops get bike racks installed?
A: All requests for rack installation can be made through bikeparking.chicagocompletestreets.org
Q: Can Divvy stations be installed at Ping Tom Park, the 95th Street Red Line, Chicago State University?

 A: Divvy is currently assessing the feasibility of how/can we add stations in the next year. You can suggest station locations online
at https://member.divvybikes.com/stations
9.

Public Input/Questions/Comments
Q: Does the city have any connection with Uber and Lyft drivers about regulations?
A: The Department of Business Affairs and Consumer Protection (BACP) regulates rideshare divers and is the best location for
their regulation requirements
Q: Is there anything planned to improve the intersection at Franklin and Washington?
A: CDOT has some ideas and are open to suggestions. Forward suggestions about this intersection to cdotbikes@cityofchicago.org
Q: When will the Loomis bridge open?
A: The bridge will open in 2017
Q: City regulations state that bicycle riders over the age of 12 aren’t allowed to ride on the sidewalk. What about giving people
over 65 the ability to ride on the sidewalk?
A: The city’s goal is to keep people safe enough so that they would prefer to ride on the street and in the bike lanes.

 