Mayor’s Bicycle Advisory Council Meeting Minutes
March 9, 2016 3:00 pm – 4:30 pm
1. Introductions
MBAC members present:
DPD: Todd Wyatt
Co-Chairs Luann Hamilton, CDOT and Rebekah Scheinfeld, CDOT Commissioner
West Town Bikes: Garth Katner, Alex Wilson
Active Transportation Alliance: Clare McDermott, Jim Merrell, Viva Yeboah
Community Representatives: Anne Alt, Bob Kastigar, Kathy Schubert Others present:
CDOT: Brian Almdale, Mike Amsden, Katie Bowes, Mimi Phillips, Charlie Short,
Sarah Dandelles, Melanie Eckner, Philip Garofalo, Brad Gregorka, Jenn Kastigar,
Sean Wiedel
Brendan Kevenides, Chester Kropidlowski, Debbie Liu, Scott Long, Mary Lopez,
CLOCC: Romina Castillo, Eric Goodwin, Katherine Nickele
Deloris Lucas, Allan Mellis, Marty Mueller, Greg Osborne, Kristen O'Toole., S.
CMAP: John O’Neal
Rucker, Josh Sikich, Justin Sondak, Natalie Watson, Frank Zurek
CDPH: Margarita Reine
CPD: Robert Tietz, Michael Yzaguirre
2.
3.

Approval of Minutes – The meeting minutes from December 2015 were approved
Bike Crash/Fatality Update; Vision Zero Focus City Announcement
•
1 fatal crash in December 2015
•
Total of 7 fatalities for 2015 according to CPD
•
No fatalities in 2016
•
Chicago has been named as one of ten focus cities for the national Vision Zero Network
4. Divvy Expansion – Sean Wiedel
a.
Divvy service area is now 87 square miles
b. Expansion will include infill stations, expanding service area, and new stations in Evanston & Oak Park
c.
13 stations in Oak Park and 10 Stations in Evanston
d. Separate contracts for each city for Divvy stations; no additional costs to Chicago
e.
Logged 6.6 million trips;30% increase in trips in 2015;Projected 20% increase in trips for 2016
f.
Divvy 4 Everyone program working with Slow Roll to promote riding with Divvy
Q: How can we get stations farther south?
A: Use the Divvy website to suggest stations; connect with city during the far south side meetings
Q: Have there been studies showing large central cities expanding to suburbs?
A: Yes, DC, Boston and San Francisco have regional systems, Divvy will apply best ideas to service area expansion.
Q: Will the City of Chicago be paying to operate and maintain suburb Divvy stations?
A: No, Intergovernmental agreements will be in place and Chicago will not be paying for Evanston or Oak Park’s equipment or operations.
5. 2016 Bikeways Update – Mike Amsden
a.
CDOT has met with Aldermen and the Community Advisory Groups to discuss the South and West Side implementation initiative
b. 2 pronged approach to build support for new better bikeways in communities
c.
Prioritize projects for implementation over a specified time-period
d. Install projects that are supported and used by local residents
e.
Developed a prioritization model consisting of a technical analysis of proposed routes identified in the Streets for Cycling Plan 2020 (high,
medium, and low-priority routes)
f.
Continuing public meeting in 2016 – 3/21, 3/23, 4/11 and 4/12
g. Prioritization Plan to be ready in 2016
h. Snow near Divvy stations, and Potholes & snow in the bike lane are now an option on 311’s website and call center
i.
To report debris in the bike lane you must call the 311 call center
Q: Where are the meetings posted?
A: They are posted on ChicagoCompleteStreets.org
Q: I am concerned about the 9th Ward, does the Alderman show any interest?
A: Yes, the Alderman has been very engaged.
Q: Where can people find more information about West Town Bike’s Circuit project?
A: Visit WestTownBikes.org
Q: There are currently metal plates in the Dearborn bike lane that do not have a ramp/lip to assist people riding bikes to safely ride over the plates. Where can I report
this?
A: Call 311 and report. There should be asphalt at the metal plate approaches that help people safely ride over the metal plates.
Q: Puddles are forming in the Dearborn bike lane, what can be done?
A: CDOT will be looking into that issue.
6. 2016-2018 Community Representative Recruitment – Charlie Short
a.
Looking for 5 new MBAC community representatives to collect information about bike facilities, Divvy, bike racks, bike education, etc. to bring
to the attention of MBAC every quarter
b. Current terms end in June
c.
Representatives should be prepared to collect information from multiple sources
d. Representatives will come from the following geographic areas: North, Northwest, West, Mid-South, and South.
e.
Looking for Bike Week nominations; adopting a more public nomination process this year
f.
Contact charlie.short@chicagocompletestrets.org or alex@westtownbikes.org to nominate
Q: Are you looking for a youth voice at all?
A: Yes, but they should not too young and should live in Chicago (i.e. high school student)
Q: Are bike shop owners excluded?
A: Definitely not excluded.
7. Winter Wonder and MBAC Awards Nominations – Charlie Short
a.
Awards for snow shoveling excellence
b. Looking for nominations
8. Bike to Work Week 2016 – Clare McDermott and Jim Merrell, Active Transportation Alliance
a.
Bike to Work Week will now be called “Bike Week”
b. Bike Week will celebrate biking in Chicago and to showcase our city’s diverse community of people and organizations
c.
The Active Transportation Alliance will now produce the event instead of the City of Chicago
d. Event Date: June 10-17; Rally on June 17
e.
Bike Week will include a rally, parties, a Slow Roll ride, Bike Commuter Challenge and Clif Bar Checkpoint Challenge, and more
f.
How to get involved: participate in Bike Commuter Challenge, host a DIY Pit Stop, reserve a table at Bike Week, share your Bike Week
calendar, and join the Active Transportation Alliance Advisory Group.

9.

Bike Ambassadors – Katie Bowes and Charlie Short
a. CDOT Bike Ambassadors walked through proper helmet fitting and discussed how they teach children at schools and events how to fit their
helmets using the “eyes, ears, mouth” method.
b. It is best to use at least 1 u-lock to secure you bike. Ideally, use 2 u-locks or 1 u-lock in combination with a cable lock.

 c.

Perform the ABC bike safety check every time you are about to ride your bike (A: check your air pressure, B: check to make sure your breaks
work, C: check to make sure your chain is in good condition)
Q: What is the life span of a helmet?
A: about 2-4 years depending on how often you use it. When a helmet get older, it begins to harden and fall apart, reducing its safety benefits. When purchasing a new
helmet look at the certification sticker which lists the date the helmet was manufactured, buy as close to that date as possible.
Q: Do you teach people about registering their bikes?
A: Yes. We also suggest that people etch their driver’s license onto the bike, which will make it fast and easy to return stolen bikes that the city has recovered.
Q: How can people request a Bike Ambassador to come to their event?
A: Contact the city.
Q: How can people get Police Officers on bikes at events?
A: Contact your District Officer. City currently has 600 bikes in their fleet and every district has a portion of those bikes.
10. Community Representative Comments – addressed prior to the March 9 meeting
11. Public Input/Questions/Comments
•
Deloris Lucas from We Keep You Rollin’ would like to collaborate with bring Divvy to the far south side and would like to assist in the SFC2020
implementation outreach
•
MPC is hosting “Streetfight with Janet Sadik-Khan” March 29, from 5pm – 7pm
•
Chicago Department of Health recently launched Healthy Chicago 2.0: Community Health Assessment and Improvement Plan
•
West Town Bikes is hosting the 4th annual “Heels on Wheels Fashion Show” on March 26th at 7pm to fundraise the Girls Bike Club
Q: Will Open Streets come back to Chicago?
A: Currently, there are no plans to bring Open Streets back to Chicago.

 