Mayor’s Bicycle Advisory Council Meeting Minutes
Co-Chairs: Rebekah Scheinfeld, CDOT
Luann Hamilton, CDOT

Date:

June 6, 2018

3:00 pm- 4:30 pm

Time:

MBAC Members in Attendance
Name

Department/Agency

Name

Department/Agency

Alex Wilson

West Town Bikes

Margarita Reina

CDPH

Jim Merrell

Active Transportation Alliance

Charles Billows

Finance

Eric Goodwin

CLOCC

Greg Piland

FHWA

John O’Neal

CMAP

Todd Wyatt

DPD

Debbie Liu

Community Rep

Joe Sislow

Community Rep

Jacob Peters

Community Rep

Proceedings
Meeting called to order at 3:05 by Chair Scheinfeld
February MBAC meeting minutes approved

Agenda and Notes
Topic

Facilitated by

Pedestrian Crash Fatality Update –

Chair Scheinfeld

a) CPD fatality statistics not yet available for May 2018. No bicyclist fatalities are known to CDOT as of this
meeting. b) Last fatality back in February occurred in a Vision Zero high crash area and the driver was
charged with felony
Visio Zero Update -

Co-chair Hamilton

a) Eric is leaving the team and a new senior and junior planner to come on board soon. b) Vision Zero West
Side will host events in late summer. c) The city has secured partial funds for South Side and is currently
persuing funding for Northwest Side. d) Alderman Railey will be chair of Downtown Task Force
Divvy Outreach Team –

Johntuanay Johnson

a) Divvy for Everyone partnering with LISC to do mobile and on-site registration. b) Also partnering with
community orgs to promote D4E- collaborating with West Town Bikes and Blue Cross Blue Shield on an
education program. c) Launched new Divvy app.
Dockless Bikeshare Pilot Update –

Ranjani Prabhakar

a) Pilot launched on May 1 till November. b) Vendors are in charge of distributing educational material in the
pilot area. c) Meetings to review data with stakeholders will be scheduled in the upcoming months. d) Some
vendors will face-in more bikes into the pilot program e) Refer to the June MBAC presentation in the
chicagocompletestreets.org website for more information on this update.
Bike Project Updates –
a) A total of 17.2 miles of bike lanes installed in 2017. b) In 2018, the bike team has scured a lot of Federal
funded projects. c) At the Major Taylor Trail is addressing and improving connectins on 103th. d) In the
Downtown are, Clinton has a new protected bike lane, improving connectins to Loop and upgrading existing
protected bike lanes

Brad Huff - CDOT

 Mayor’s Bicycle Advisory Council Meeting Minutes
Agenda and Notes - continue
Topic

Facilitated by

Bicyclist Ticketing Follow Up -

Glen Brooks Jr.

a) CPD uses enforcement as a tool for safety. b) CPD data analysis found a high concentration of bicyclist
ticketing in Districts 4, 10, 11, 25. c) Mr. Brooks had a conversation with Commanders from those Districts
and found that there are a disproportionate level of violent incidents in those Districts. d) Vehicle
enforcement is consdiered an overal violence reduction strategy and bikes are considered vehicles. e) The
final data analysis is not yet available and will be available only by request. f) About 10% of bicyclist ticketing
result in an arrest.
Christina Whitehouse

Bike Lane Uprising a) It is a member base initiative. b) One of its outcomes has been looking at how much unrealized revenue
slide. c) A heat map with data on submissions can be found in their website. d) Among the repeat
offenders there are multiple City vehicles. e) Its main goal is to build relationships and partnerships. k)
Call to action: become a volunteer!
Community Representatives Comments Joe: Request for better City coordination with construction sites
Debbie: How is the City handling the increase of scooters? There are multiple in Chinatown now. –
Response – The City does not have a program this year and an ordinance has not been drafted.
Jacob: Thank you for the new designed infrastructure in the North Side.

Community Reps

Actions

Lead

CDP would like to develop better strategies to address the high concentration of bicyclist tickets in the four
Districts listed above.

CDP

Public Comment
Jean Smiling Coyote- Read a letter requesting CDOT to address the high number of bicylists riding on the sidewalks in the north Side.
CDP – Helmets should be more accessible for unexpereince riders, specially on Divvy Bikes
ATA – Reminder about Chicago Bike Week. Bike Rally will take place on June 21 in Daley Plaza. Reminder about the Boulevard Lake
Front Ride
th

West Town Bikes – Reminder about Tour de Fat June 30 back in Humboldt Park
Divvy Rep – New Divvy app is up and running. Divvy is turning 5 years old and will be hosting 5 community rides and other events.

Adjournment at 5:00

 