Mayor’s Bicycle Advisory Council Meeting Minutes

1.

March 8, 2017 3:00 pm – 4:30 pm
Introductions
CLOCC: Adam Becker, Gladys Hansen-Guerra
MBAC members present
Co-Chairs Rebekah Scheinfeld, CDOT Commissioner and Luann
FHWA: Greg Piland
Hamilton, CDOT Deputy Commissioner
Finance: Charles Billows, Bill Kenan
Active Transportation Alliance: Ron Burke, Kyle Ryan, Kyle
Community Representatives: Deloris Lucas, Debbie Liu, Jacob Peters,
Whitehead
Romina Castillo
CDOT: Mike Amsden, Katie Bowes, Lauren Crabtree, Rosanne
Others present: Allan Mellis, Anne Alt, Bob Kastigar, Brad Gregorka,
Ferruggia, Charlie Short, David Smith, Sean Wiedel, Amanda
Bryan Young, Dan Black, Hannah Slodounik, Kathy Schubert, Marty
Woodall
Mueller, Scott Long, Susan Levin, Trina Grieshaber, Riley O’Neil,
CDPH: Margarita Reina
Waymond Smith, Shukuntla Rucker, Audrey Wennick, Angel Amado,
Chicago Park District: Brendan Daley
Daniel Marcaro, Mary Lopez, Carol Maher, Ben Fossett, Jakub Muszynski,
Andrew St. Paul, Michael Okelman, Jesus Trejo

2.

Approval of Minutes – The meeting minutes from December 2016 were approved.

3.

Bike Crash/Fatality and Year-End Updates
a.
b.

1 fatality year-to-date as reported by the Chicago Police Department; the five-year average between 2010 and 2014 based
on data provided by the Illinois Department of Transportation is 0.2
For the year 2016, 6 fatalities were reported, down from 7 for the year 2015. Of note:
i. 5 of the 6 crashes involved a commercial vehicle
ii. 4 of the 6 crashes involved a motorist making a merge or a turn
iii. 4 of the 6 crashes occurred during weekday commuting hours (7-9 am; 4-6 pm)
iv. 4 of the 6 crash victims were under the age of 30

4.

Bike Lane Parking Enforcement: The Department of Finance deploys enforcement aids to cite vehicles parking in bike lanes
across the city. 1,300 citations were issued during 2016.. Utilize the 311 code for “Vehicle Parked in a Bike Lane” to report areas of
concern

5.

MBAC Survey Results: Survey available 1/3 – 1/31/2017
a.
b.
c.
d.
e.
f.
g.

6.

125 people responded, 63% male, 36% female
Respondents were 83% white, 4% Asian, 3% Other and 2% Black or African American
Biggest single age group is 25-34. The majority of respondents were over age 35
Only 41% of respondents attended one or more MBAC meetings in 2016
Of respondents who attended at least one MBAC meeting in 2016, the majority are interested in City initiatives and crash
update agenda items; less interest in project profiles
When asked about changing the meeting format, the largest group didn’t want a change. No consensus from the other
respondents
CDOT has no plans to change the meeting content or format at this time.

Vision Zero Action Plan – Focus Goal Activity
a. Severe crashes affect thousands of Chicagoans. 544 people were killed and another 9.480 were seriously injured from
2010 – 2014
b. Crashes are a social equity issue.
i. People of High and Medium Hardship comprise 82% of Chicago’s traffic fatalities.
ii. Areas of High Economic Hardship have more than 3 times the number of fatalities per 100.000 residents than
Low Economic Hardship areas
c. The Action Plan establishes the framework for further progress, using data, connecting resources, and establishing policies
and processes that will enable communities to make their streets safer.
d. The Action Plan establishes interim benchmarks for a three-year period
e. Four Goals:
i. Target resources in communities disproportionately affected by severe traffic crashes
ii. Influence measurable change in behaviors and perceptions to build a citywide culture of safety
iii. Make streets safer for all users
iv. Encourage and implement policies, training, and technologies that create safer vehicles and professional drivers
f. High Crash Areas Input Session: How can we build support for cycling in these target areas?

 7.

Community Representative Comments and Questions:
Q: When is the Riverdale Multimodal Plan happening?
A: The consultant has been selected and the process is moving forward
Q: Will green lanes be repainted or refreshed this year?
A: CDOT will replace missing paint but not refresh
Q: When will Milwaukee be restored on the Northwest Side?
A: This is a Water Management project
Q: What is the timeline for Vision Zero?
A: the Plan will be released at the end of March; two high crash areas will get outreach as soon as the Plan is released.
Public input will be at the Community Area level, since solutions will be designed community by community
Q: Will there be an extension of the West Side bike lanes?
A: There are 3 areas on the west side and 3 on the South side that are under consideration
Q: Has there been a discussion about better connecting the River Trail to the bike lane network?
A: CDOT continues to look for solutions to that.

8.

Public Comments and Questions:
- Division at Clybourn needs resurfacing
Q: When will steel plates be installed on the bridge at Loomis and Canal?
A: Loomis is a complex bridge; Canal will see improvements when the bridge is updated
Q: When are plastic bollards replaced?
A; All damaged and destroyed bollards are replaced in the spring

 