Mayor’s Bicycle Advisory Council Meeting Minutes
September 13, 2017 3:00 pm – 4:30 pm
1. Introductions
MBAC members present:
Co-Chair Rebekah Scheinfeld, CDOT Commissioner
Luann Hamilton, CDOT Deputy Commissioner
Active Transportation Alliance – Julia Gerasimenko, Jim
Merrell, Kyle Whitehead
CDPH – Margarita Reina
CDOT – Mike Amsden, Lauren Crabtree, Rosanne
Ferruggia, Angel Montalvo, Tyler Rose, Sean Wiedel,
Amanda Woodall
CLOCC – Lindsey Arenberg, Kathryn Bernstein, Eric
Goodwin, Gladys Hansen-Guerra
CMAP – John O’Neal
FHWA – Greg Piland

Community Representatives: Debbie Liu, Jacob Peters,
Joe Sislow
Bike Ambassadors: Jose Briceno, Joseph Kelly, Morning
Wilder, Andriana Vera
Vision Zero West Side: Brittanni Batts, DeAndre
Bingham, Katie Bowes, Antonio Redmond
Others present: Elizabeth Adamczyk, Anne Alt, E.
Blanks, Shiri Burson, Sarah Dandelles, Stanley Daniel,
Melanie Eckner, Eric Garcia, Trina Grieshaber, Tim
Gustafson, Margot Hintz, Bob Kastigar, Michael Lange,
Jenna Leinwohl, Scott Long, Carol Maher, Alan Mellis,
Anastesia O’Connor, Riley O’Neil, Greg Osborne, Jacob
E. Peters, Shukuntla Rucker, Kathy Schubert, Charlie
Short, Hannah Slodounik, Lilliane Webb, Christina
Whitehouse, Alex Wilson, John Wirtz, Howard Zar

2. Approval of Minutes - The meeting minutes from June 2017 were approved.
3. Bicycle Crash/Fatality Update
a. There have been three fatalities this year. We are not observing a strong continuation of 2016 trends.
b. All three fatal crashes occurred in Vision Zero High-Crash Areas on the west and near-west side.
4. Vision Zero Update
a. VZ West Side community meetings to be held on September 26th, 27th and 30th.
b. The Large Vehicle Safety Enhancements Ordinance was passed and announced by the Mayor’s Office on June
28. It requires contractors to phase installation of additional mirrors and sideguards to vehicles by 2021.
5. Bike Ambassador Update
a. Summer 2017 outreach is completed and outreach is transitioning toward school and senior focus.
6. Milwaukee Avenue Pilot Project
a. Interim Treatments Program installed along Milwaukee Avenue through Wicker Park and Bucktown.
b. Project follows guidelines of Vision Zero Action Plan for high crash corridors.
c. Dash Bike Lanes allow cars 9-feet of space and can accommodate larger vehicles.
e. Updated bike network map will be available December 2017.
7. Better Bike Share Partnership Grant Opportunity
a. $25k-$65k grants available to collaborations of non-profit community-based organizations, cities, and bike
share operators.
b. Deadline for letter of interest is October 6. Grant runs through April 2018-May 2019.
c. Website for application: betterbikeshare.org
8. Lakefront Trail Separation Update
a. Lakefront trail separation from Ardmore to 71st street underway, funded through donation.
c. Trail striping is similar to on-street bike lanes. Pedestrian right-of-way indicated through yield signs.
d. Project to be completed by end of 2017.
e. Website for information: chicagoparkdistrict.com/lakefront-trail
10. Community Representative Comments
Q: Will there be new signage on the Lakefront Trail?
A. Once trail is completed signage will be reevaluated.
Q: Are Chicago Park District policies changing in correspondence to Lakefront Trail?
A. Trail network is resource for all Chicago Park District needs, refuse removal, and loading/unloading. Chicago
Park District is committed to keeping bike portion open at all times, even with events. Any closings will be posted
on the Chicago Park District website.
Q. What can community members do to find partners for closing gaps on North Branch Trail?
A. Talk to Alderman about the zoning process with plan developer.
11. Public Comment

 i. 20th anniversary of Critical Mass at the end of September.
ii. West Town Bikes bikeways plan, The Circuit, is in federal process.
iii. A community member is developing app for biking in Chicago, her website is whitehouseuprising.com.

 