Mayor’s Bicycle Advisory Council Meeting Summary
Co-Chairs: Rebekah Scheinfeld, CDOT
Luann Hamilton, CDOT

Date:

December 12

3:00 pm- 4:30 pm

Time:

MBAC Members in Attendance
Name

Department/Agency

Name

Department/Agency

Garth Katner

West Town Bikes

Margarita Reina

Chicago Dept. of Public Health

Julia Gerasimento

Active Transportation Alliance

Luann Hamilton

CDOT, MBAC Co-chair

Gladys Hansen-Guerra

Consortium to Lower Obesity in
Chicago Children

Rebekah Scheinfeld

CDOT, MBAC Co-chair

Debbie Liu

Near South Side Community Rep

Jacob Peters

North Side Community Rep

Proceedings
Meeting called to order at 3:09 by Co-Chair Luann Hamilton
September MBAC meeting minutes approved

Agenda and Notes
Bicycle Crash/ Fatalities Report

Presented by

a)ZERO Bicycle fatalities between Sept. & Nov. b) Jesse Rodriguez’ fatality was reclassified as pedestrian
after investigation – he was holding his bike when crossing. c) In 2018, FIVE cyclists have been killed.

Luann Hamilton

Vision Zero Update
a)Reviewing Vision Zero West Side Plan – to be uploaded to the VZ website by the beginning of 2019. b)
th
Hosted VZ Steering Committee on Oct. 14 c) Downtown Task Force reviewed draft recommendations at
rd
the Dec. 3 meeting. d) The Milwaukee Ave Rapid Delivery Project will be realeasing an evaluation in the
following weeks. e) Side Guard reporting is in process with 2FM.

Luann Hamilton

Bike Ambassadors Report
a) It is the longest running program of this kind in North America. b) Conducting traffic safety workshops at
elementary schools and Drivers’ Ed. c) Facilitating outreach to seniors. d) Partnering with Police
Departments to lead engagement. f) Most engagement events take place in Vision Zero Areas. g) Report
to be uploaded in Complete Streets website.

Angel Montalvo

Logan Bouleveard Project Updates
a)Top recommendations: consider East/West access to and from Chicago River and importance of
accessing trail networks. b) Project partners: Port Urbanism, Active Transportation Alliance & Logan
Square Neighborhood Association. c) Recommendations: connect to The 606, increase visibility for
pedestrians and cyclists, narrow lanes and instal buffered bike lanes.

Steve Simons & Sean
McKay

Winter Bike Lane Maintenance
a)The department uses specialty equipment for proteted bike lanes. b) All on-street bike facilities are
maintained by CDOT or Dept. of Sanitation (DSS). c) CDOT & DSS coordinate snow removal to ensure
efficiencey since there are timing issues when snow storms hit: snow gets pushed into lanes by Streets and
Sanitation and snow is pushed from sidewalks by businesses. d) New 311 code in the system to report
snow in bike lanes.

Maureen West &
Michael Drake

New MBAC Format 2019
a)MBAC will pilot new format in 2019 b) Will define community areas, organize meetings by geography and
provide more resources to Community Reps c) Field visits will be scheduled d) Schedule meeting with all
Council members in late January e) More information to come
Community Reps Goals for 2019
Jacob: will schedule more regular meetings with Aldermen. Joe: wants to use skills to collect, analyze and
visualize data to better advocate for cycling. Debbie: would like to incorporate bilingual Learn to Ride in
Chinatown. Deloris: will better connect people with Cal-Sag Trail and develop a community shuttle.

David Smith

 Mayor’s Bicycle Advisory Council Meeting Summary

Agenda and Notes
Public Comment
Dockless bike share program should become permantent in the South Side and expand to the rest of the City.
Active Transportation Alliance – facilitating a scooter survey and leading outreach meetings with Mayoral candidates. Active
Transportation Alliance will be reporting back to the Council and public at MBAC meetings.
Q. Will scooters be part of the conversations during MBAC?
A. CDOT will be addressing issues and facilitating discussions about scooters at future MBAC meetings.

Adjournment at 5:00

 