Mayor’s Bicycle Advisory Council Meeting Minutes
March 7, 2018 3:00 pm – 4:30 pm

West Town Bikes: Garth Katner, Damian Lee, Alex Wilson
Community Representatives: Romina Castillo, Deloris Lucas, Debbie Liu,
Jacob Peters, Joe Sislow
Others present: Christopher Allen, Anne Alt, Charles Avery, Dan Black,
Benjamin Brown, Trevor Clarke, Sarah Dandelles, Stan Daniel, Sarah
Dennis, George Devereuz, Melanie Eckner, Wesley Epplin, Randy Faust,
Kelly Goldthorpe, Brad Gregorka, Trina Grieshaber, M. Harkenrider, Craig
Jakobsen, Johntuanay Johnson, Robert Kastigar, Brendan Kevenides, Scott
Long, Michael McCarthy, Matthew McMunn, Stacey Meekins, Allan Mellis,
Phillip Moore, Jakub Muszynski, Michael Okelman, Reily O’Neil, Oboi
Reed, Jim O’Reilly, Cindy Santana, Kathy Schubert, Tania Sebastian,
Hannah Slodounik, Gabriel Sheer, Scott Smith, David Stanford, Minh
Truong, Alvaro Villagran, Sarah Vogel, Lilliane Webb, Katie Witherspoon,
Mary Wisniewski, Mark Woyiva, Howard Zar

1.

Introductions
MBAC members present
Co-Chairs Rebekah Scheinfeld, CDOT Commissioner and Luann
Hamilton, CDOT Deputy Commissioner
Active Transportation Alliance: Julia Gerasimenko, Jim Merrell,
Steve Simmons
CDOT: Mike Amsden, Lauren Crabtree, David Smith, Sean
Wiedel, Amanda Woodall
CDPH: Margarita Reina
CLOCC: Gladys Hansen-Guerra, Eric Goodwin, Katherine Nickele
CMAP: John O’Neal
FHWA: Greg Piland
Finance: Bill Kenan

2.

Approval of Minutes – The meeting minutes from December 2017 were approved.

3.

Bike Crash/Fatality and Year-End Updates
a. 2016 and 2017 remained flat with any change in fatalities. A nation-wide rise in fatalities is trending over recent years.
b. 5 of 6 cyclist fatalities in 2017 occurred in VZ west side neighborhoods.
c. The 2016 trend of right-hook crashes involving large trucks did not repeat in 2017.
d. 2018 shows one fatality in March.

4.

Vision Zero Update
a. VZ Action Plan was released in June 2017; VZWS community outreach pilot program followed through the end of 2017.
b. 2018 initiatives include roundtable meetings for next VZWS steps, new grant applications for south side and north-west
side, and a downtown policy-driven approach to safety improvements.
c. High Crash Corridors – CDOT is drafting a framework plan for 43 HCCs, about 70 miles. Four HCC improvement
programs in summer 2018 will be funded through Invest in Cook, including portions of Ashland, Western, Chicago, and
Halsted.
d. Electronic crash reporting is now in all police vehicles. Data should be available to public in spring 2018.
e. The first High Crash Coordination Committee was held in January to bring city-wide departments together, developing
approaches to understand and prevent future crashes.

5.

Ride Illinois: Bicycle Policy 2018
a. 2017 policy changes included legalizing drivers to pass solids center lines to safety pass cyclists. Clarification and updates
on taillight policy includes that cyclists can use a reflector or taillight state-wide. Bicycling on shoulder is now legal.
b. 2018 – A mini grant will be available for schools and driver’s education programs that want to distribute the bike safety
quiz. 17 elementary schools and 92 driver’s programs have applied to date.
c. The Illinois Bike Summit will be Monday, May 7th, 2018.

6.

Chaddick Institute Projects
a. Chaddick conducted a 2017 study about how bike laws change across IL cities. Found that few mandate helmets, fines
vary, sidewalk riding is an issue everywhere. All cities were found to struggle with how to enforce bike laws.
b. In CA there is a diversion program where in lieu of ticketing, cyclists receive citations and are require to take an online
safety course.
c. Recommendations include changing the laws toward behaviors that cyclists can safely and easily follow, such as the Idaho
Stop. There is evidence that Idaho Stop is safer, but it has yet to be adopted in a major metropolitan area.

7.

Equiticity and Bicyclist Ticketing
a. Modification of the Equiticity MBAC presentation will be available on Equiticity blog.
b. Equiticity is a movement to advance mobility, equity, and racial justice in black and brown neighborhoods in Chicago.
c. Goals include improving health, creating jobs, making neighborhoods more livable.
d. Cyclists have confided to Equiticity that they feel racially profiled while cycling in Chicago. Racial profiling of cyclists
could contribute to reducing the number of cyclists on the south and west sides.
e. Chicago Tribune has published two articles confirming racial profiling of cyclists by the CPD.
f. Glen Brooks of Chicago Police Department invites Equiticity to meet with CPD for creating strategies and solutions.

8.

Community Representative Comments
a. Romina Castillo – 2017 deaths were mostly in VZWS and there is a lack of bike connections going north to south. Please
keep working with the WS on infrastructure improvements and connections.
b. Deloris Lucas – Far south side has few resources other than We Keep You Rollin’ for biking and walking. The south side
needs a greater inclusion of resources.
c. Joe Sislow – Thanks to Oboi Reed and Equiticity for continuing dialogue on improvements.

 d.
e.
9.

Jacob Peters – How do we increase equitable bicycle investments in the city?
Debbie Liu – Community in the near south side is feeling displaced with gentrification.

Public Comment
a. CDOT needs public community support to build and safe and equitable bike network. CDOT cannot advocate everyone on
the behalf of themselves and needs community support to introduce new projects – there is a struggle with support on the
west side. Contact your alderman and go to community meetings.
b. West Town Bike’s Circuit Plan is in the planning process.
c. Bike Lane Uprising has documented 800+ cases of parking in the bike lane. Department of Finance takes information from
311 to guide locations of Parking Enforcement Aides.
d. June meeting will provide updates about Weber Spurr trail, bridge development on the North Shore Channel trail, and
Manor Greenway project.
e. Active Trans will post a statement on the blog following the MBAC meeting.

10. Adjournment

 