Mayor’s Bicycle Advisory Council Meeting Minutes
June 14, 2017 3:00 pm – 4:30 pm
1. Introductions
MPAC members present:
Co-Chair Rebekah Scheinfeld, CDOT and Luann
Hamilton, CDOT Deputy Commissioner
Active Transportation Alliance – Jim Merrell
CDPH – Margarita Reina
CDOT – Mike Amsden, Katie Bowes, Lauren Crabtree,
Rosanne Ferruggia, Luann Hamilton, Angel Montalvo,
Tyler Rose, David Smith, Amanda Woodall
CPD – Brendan Daley
Department of Finance – Chuck Billows, Bill Kenan
Department of Planning and Development – Todd Wyatt
FHWA – Greg Piland

Community Representatives: Debbie Liu, Jacob Peters,
Joe Sislow
Others present: Elizabeth Adamczyk, Anne Alt,
Brittanii Batts, DeAndre Bingham, Dan Black, Shiri
Burson, Sarah Dandelles, Melanie Eckner, Sharon
Feigon, Eric Garcia, Brad Gregorka, Justin Haugens,
Milan Jackson, Johntuanay Johnson, Bob Kastigar,
Damien Lee, Chenchen Liu, Debbie Liu, Scott Long,
Jerry Mandujano, Carolyn Marsh, Stacey Meekins,
William Mehilos, Alan Mellis, Justin Omokaye, Greg
Osborne, Antonio Redmond, Christian Rivera, Shukuntla
Rucker, Kathy Schubert, Charlie Short, Shameka Turner,
Lilliane Webb, Xia Xiang

2. Approval of Minutes - The meeting minutes from February 2017 were approved
3. Bicycle Crash/Fatality Update
a. 2 fatalities year-to-date as reported by the Chicago Police Department, including fatality from June 5th, 2017
b. 5-year average for January – June is 0.4
4. Vision Zero Update
a. Vision Zero Action Plan was announced publicly on Monday, June 12th
b. Key plan components include large vehicle safety equipment and community-based traffic safety
c. Vision Zero West Side outreach team hired four community outreach leaders to focus on Austin, West Garfield
Park, East Garfield Park, North Lawndale and the Near West Side.
5. Milwaukee Avenue Pilot Project
a. Project goals include improving accommodations for walking, biking and transit by implementing projects
identified in the Wicker Park Bucktown Master Plan, and includes Vision Zero action items.
b. Milwaukee/Damen/North is a high crash intersection for both bicyclists and pedestrians, according to 2011, 2012
and 2015 analyses. Pedestrian and bicyclist crashes represent 66% of injury crashes and 68% of serious injury
crashes on Milwaukee Avenue high crash corridor.
c. Project plan includes high visibility crosswalks, conversion of slip lane to pedestrian space, elimination of some
turn lanes or turn movements, possible curb bumpouts and a before/after study of effects.
d. Plan will investigate the effects of 20 MPH speed limit on Milwaukee Ave.
e. Construction scheduled to begin in August, evaluation to take place in 2018 and 2019.
6. Bike Ambassador Update
a. Outreach season is underway with team of 8 Bike Ambassadors, 5 teams of Junior Ambassadors.
b. Learn to Ride is scheduled again for summer 2017, accepting students for lessons at the Chicago Center for
Green Technology and Kennedy King College through August 12th.
7. Divvy Update
a. New stations are being planned for 2017, pending coordination with IDOT. Station locations can be requested
through the website.
8. Divvy Outreach Leaders
a. Goals include increasing ridership of stations in 2015 and 2016 expansion areas focusing on South Shore
neighborhood and having Divvy membership reflect City’s diversity.
b. Outreach areas include Financial Opportunity Center locations with objectives to provide support to D4E signup
sites and build genuine outreach partnerships.
c. Outreach is supported by feedback from community residents, station assessments, and low ridership data.
9. Department of Finance 311 Update
a. 311 now has a special code to report parking in the bike lane. Data is received and given to enforcement aides
who can check for violations. Previously, 311 was required to transfer to 911 and this code allows for easier
tracking, data collection and enforcement.
10. Community Representative Comments
Q: Is Google Maps accurate for showing construction and street closures?
A. Yes, the City issues permits electronically which is easy to provide to mapping services.

 Q. What information can I give to community members who are walking or bike and wish to avoid bulgaries?
A. The Chicago Police Department is best situated to answer.
Q. How do we ensure that 2018 street resurfacing projects have bike lanes?
A. All new streets are subjected to and reviewed by the Complete Streets Plan. The best way for community input is
through the local Alderman, community groups, and SSA.
Q. Patching jobs on Milwaukee are nice until north of Belmont. Are there more plans for resurfacing?
A. Arterial streets have long term master plans for reconstruction, not just resurfacing. Addison and Belmont is
phased for the end of the year.
11. Public Comment
i. There is restriping and bike lane extensions planned for the South side this year.
ii. Division and Clybourn needs to be repaved, CDOT is working with IDOT to schedule.
iii. Rules of the Road was recently updated through the Secretary of State office, new drivers will see at least
one question about bikes on driver’s test.
iv. Big Marsh has a lot of trucks in the surrounding industrial area, can cause unsafe situations for cyclists
going to and leaving from the park.

 