PRELIMINARILY ADOPTED
MINUTES FROM
COMPLETE COUNT COMMISSION MEETING
July 25, 2018
The meeting was called to order at 10:08 a.m. Chairperson Stroger asked for a roll call
for attendance. Those members present in person were Emily Burke, Eira Corral
Sepulveda, Miguel del Valle, Karen Eng, Alex Esparza, Kathie Kane-Willis, Theresa
Mah, Leon Rockingham, Evelyn Rodriguez, Griselda Vega Samuel and Chairperson
Stroger. Those members present on the phone were Michael Inman, Rose Joshua, Jackie
Petty and Kristy Stephenson. Commission Stanley Moore was unable to attend the
meeting but was represented by a member of his staff.
The minutes from the meetings of March 27 and May 5, 2018 were adopted and will be
published on the Secretary of State’s website as required by the Open Meetings Act.
Chairperson Stroger introduced the two new members of the Commission, Theresa Mah
and Eira Corral Sepulveda. They both spoke briefly about their experience as an elected
official and their experience on prior census outreach efforts.
Chairperson Stroger reviewed the work the Secretary of State’s Office has done since the
last meeting. This work included a new brochure to help recruit subcommittee members
and a website. The website is still under construction but should be up within the next
few weeks. Members were shown a draft of the brochure an asked for their feedback.
Chairperson Stroger also indicated a second brochure was being developed for the
general public but a draft was not ready for review in time for the Commission meeting.
Commission Member Vega Samuel asked about languages other than English for the
brochures and website. Chairperson Stroger indicated the website would be programmed
to allow individuals to use a computer icon to translate the site into languages other than
English. The languages would more than likely be Spanish, Chinese, Korean, Polish,
Hindi and French. The brochures would also be available on the website for translation.
Members discussed the need for broader timeframes to accomplish goals and the use of
the Google docs page created by Chairperson Stroger. Commission members can load
documents to make them available for all Commission members including a database list
of members and contact information for the subcommittees. Discussions took place
regarding the placement of a Google calendar for census timelines, Commission timelines
and for the members to load events that might be of interest to other Commission
members. Chair Stroger indicated the office would continue to work on this and inform
the Commission when it was ready and available. Member Rodriguez indicated there
might be IT issues accessing Google from City of Chicago computers due to security
issues.
Chairperson Stroger indicated she would like the Commission to begin meeting on a
monthly basis and an agreement was made that the 4th Tuesday of every month would

 serve as the set date for future Commission meetings. The method of the meetings may
vary from webinar to video conferencing to try and accommodate all the members and
travel expenses.
Chairperson Stroger suggested that the subcommittee chairs have a regular conference
call with her between Commission meetings just to keep everyone informed as to any
progress or problems they are encountering. These conference calls will take place
approximately mid-way between each scheduled Commission meeting.
Chairperson Stroger asked for the subcommittee chairs to report on their efforts since the
last Commission meeting. As Co-Chair of the State/Local Government Subcommittee,
she gave a report. This was followed by Member Burke for the Business Subcommittee
and Member Vega Samuel and Member Kane-Willis for the Hard to Count
Subcommittee.
Member Vega Samuel asked whether the Secretary of State’s Office, via the local
libraries, would be available to lend support local outreach efforts through meeting space
and photocopying, etc. Chairperson Stroger indicated she would talk with the State
Library Director to see what efforts could be made. Chairperson Stroger also indicated
she may try and have the Library Director available for the next Commission meeting for
discussions.
Ms. Ellisa Johnson and Ms. Theresa Le of the Census Bureau gave a power point
presentation to the Commission members about the importance of outreach and education
efforts. She also indicated the Census Bureau was available to do specialized training for
the subcommittees to educate, encourage and engage the general public about the
importance of the census. Chairperson Stroger indicated she would work with her to set
up date(s) for training, particularly the subcommittee chairs, but all members were
welcome to attend training. Ms. Johnson indicated the Hard to Count Subcommittee may
need a specialized training.
Chairperson Stroger indicated she hoped this training could start prior to the next
Commission meeting. Because of distance and travel expenses, different methods of
training were discussed including the use of Skype. Ms. Johnson indicated the Census
Bureau would have resources available for the Commission to help with education and
outreach efforts.
Commission members questioned the use of corporate sponsorship or support for census
efforts. Ms. Johnson indicated that while companies such as McDonalds and Walgreens
would be working on a national campaign for census education, states should try and
create state-wide partnerships with companies as well. Ms. Johnson suggested public
utility companies as possible partners.
Due to audio difficulties, the Commission members on the phone had to be disconnected
from the meeting at this time.

 Following the Census Bureau presentation, Irene Lyons, General Counsel to the
Commission and Secretary White, reminded members they are all statutorily required to
complete Open Meetings Act training. She indicated the training is available on the
Illinois Attorney General’s website. Mary Riseling, administrator for the Commission,
indicated she would email a link to all Commission members to complete their training.
Member Mah asked whether they must complete training if they had already done so for
an unrelated appointment. Ms. Riseling informed her and the other members if they had
previously completed training, they should provide her with a copy of their Certificate of
Completion from the Attorney General for the Commission files.
Member Mah questioned Chairperson Stroger on the status of the $1.5 million in grant
money appropriated by the General Assembly for Fiscal Year 2019 budget. Chairperson
Stroger indicated the Secretary of State’s Office had conducted a meeting with the
General Assembly about the money because the statutory language did not indicate a
recipient or parameters for awarding the grant money. Chairperson Stroger indicated the
Secretary of State’s Chief of Staff will ask the General Assembly to better define the
intent of the appropriation during the 2018 Veto Session in November. She indicated the
Secretary of State’s Office will be ready to take applications for the money once
parameters have been clearly delineated by the General Assembly. Rep. Mah indicated
some of the appropriation money was intended to be used for administrative costs of the
Commission. Chairperson Stroger responded that the statutory language did not clearly
define this intent and no money could be spent on administrative efforts until such intent
is specified by the General Assembly.
Two members of the State/Local Government Subcommittee. who were in the audience,
addressed the Commission. Ms. Brenda Dixon with the State Board of Education and
Ms. Diaz-Castillo with the Department of Human Services indicated the use of text
messaging and targeting specific audiences would be of importance in outreach and their
agencies may be able to help in those efforts. Chairperson Stroger thanked them for their
input and indicated she, as Co-Chair of the Subcommittee, would be in touch with them
to discuss the matter further.
The meeting was adjourned at 12:29 p.m.

 