PRELIMINARILY MINUTES FROM
COMPLETE COUNT COMMISSION MEETING
October 23, 2018
The meeting was called to order at 10:13 a.m. Chair Stroger asked for an attendance roll
call. Those members present at the Chicago location were Eira Corral Sepulveda, Miguel
del Valle, Theresa Mah, Leon Rockingham, Griselda Vega Samuel, and Chair Stroger.
There were no members present at the Springfield location. Those members present by
phone were Helena Buckner, Emily Burke, Karen Eng, Scott Gryder, Emil Jones, Rose
Joshua, Kathie Kane-Willis, Stanley Moore and Kristy Stephenson.
There was no quorum present but the membership decided to preliminarily adopt the
minutes from the three previous meetings so they could be posted to the website. A
formal adoption of those minutes was held until a meeting with a quorum was available.
Chair Stroger introduced Ms. Helena Buckner as the newest member of the Commission.
Ms. Buckner was recently appointed by Secretary White and currently serves as a Board
Member in Macon County.
Chair Stroger reminded the Subcommittee Co-Chairs that their reports for the Interim
Report were due to her by October 30.
Commission Member Vega Samuel updated the Commission on the work of the HardTo-Count Subcommittee. The subcommittee has been having conversations with various
communities and expressed concern about counting people attending universities and
general census participation apathy. Commission Member del Valle indicated the most
asked question from the community concerned the citizenship issue. There are also
concerns about the Census questionnaire’s gender question and the possible need for a
binary response to be included with the male/female response. Commission Member
Vega Samuel indicated these are questions that should be clear on the Interim Report.
Chair Stroger gave an update on the Subcommittee on State and Local Government. She
indicated meetings have been occurring with various members of the Subcommittee and
letters had been sent to various mayors throughout the state encouraging them to form
localized Complete Count Committees in their jurisdictions.
Commission Member Mah indicated there had been no meetings of the Education
Committee since the last Commission meeting but they were working on a plan
concerning school and university involvement. She indicated the Census issue had come
up during a meeting of the Black Elected Officials and suggested someone from the
Subcommittee on State and Local Government attend an upcoming meeting of the
organization.
Joe Natale with the Illinois State Library spoke to the membership and indicated the two
main library systems in Illinois, Heartland and RAILS, that operate outside Chicago,
have agreed to work with the Commission and other local entities to allow use of local
libraries to complete census questionnaires. He also indicated he was working on
obtaining speaking time at the upcoming April conference on the 2020 Census. Mr.

 Natale stated he was going to enter into discussions with the Chicago Public Library
about using the local city branches for census participation and suggested census forms
be made available at the local library branches to assist in outreach and participation.
Other Commission members suggested the Commission try and obtain a presence at
state-wide conferences such as the Township Officials as well as getting participation
from the Department on Aging to reach Illinois’ older members.
Professor Dan Lewis of the Northwestern University Center for Civic Engagement spoke
to the Commission about his group’s civic efforts and past endeavors and offered use of
the organization for 2020 Census outreach, particularly those colleges and universities in
the Chicago metropolitan area. He indicated approximately 90% of the student
population at Northwestern are registered voters. He is very interested in working with
the Commission and neighborhood organizations to mobilize university students to work
within the communities on this project. Commission Member Mah indicated her interest
in working with him and a representative from Forefront, who was attending the meeting,
also indicated interest in working with Professor Lewis. Commission Member Joshua
asked whether this outreach effort could also include community colleges and Professor
Lewis indicated in the affirmative. It was also suggested that the Commission consider
Chicago Public Schools high school students, who are enrolled in civic classes, be
considered for census education and outreach. They would be considered trusted voices,
particularly as it relates to communication with their parents and grandparents about
census participation.
Theresa Le from the U.S. Census Bureau gave a short update on the Bureau’s efforts and
provided a handout to Commission members about job recruitment. Ms. Le indicated she
had been taking notes of the various inquiries made of the Census during this meeting
and would get back with the members. Among the questions were the length of time it
would take to complete the census questionnaire on the telephone, a request for a list of
the local Complete Count Committees currently active in Illinois and will the Census
Bureau make available information and a supply of paper questionnaires to assist the
pubic if they come into a library to complete the 2020 Census.
Chair Stroger also indicated there was a printed supply of the general brochure, created
by the Commission, available at the meeting and everyone was welcome to take a supply
with them upon adjournment.
There was a short discussion regarding the postponed press event and kickoff. Chair
Stroger indicated the press event would probably be pushed back until after the end of
2018. She also indicated there was interest among some Commission members to have a
Chicago and downstate press event when it was rescheduled.
Sharon Brticevich, with the Secretary of State’s Office, spoke about the status of the RFP
on the census grant money appropriated in FY 2019. Questions were asked by
Commission Members Vega Samuel and del Valle about the review process including the
make-up of the membership of the review committee and the applicant grading process.
It was indicated the deadline for applicant submission may need to be extended to
accommodate the public comment questions continuing to be received by the office and

 any additional questions regarding the grant proposals should be submitted to Ms.
Brticevich in writing.
The meeting was adjourned at 11:44 a.m.

 