PROPOSED MINUTES FROM
COMPLETE COUNT COMMISSION MEETING
March 27, 2018
The meeting was called to order at 10:00 a.m. by Chairperson Stroger. Secretary White
was introduced and made brief comments about the important role the Commission has in
the upcoming census, particularly as it relates to those populations which are historically
underreported. After his comments, Secretary White turned the meeting back over to
Chairperson Stroger.
Chairperson Stroger asked for a roll call for attendance. Those members present in
person were Emily Burke, Miguel del Valle, Alex Esparza, Scott Gryder, Michael Inman,
Leon Rockingham, Evelyn Rodriguez, Griselda Vega Samuel and Chairperson Stroger.
Those members present on the phone were Rose Joshua, Stephanie Schmitz Bechetler for
Kathie Kane-Willis, Jackie Petty, State Representative Ryan Spain and Kristy
Stephenson.
Chairperson Stroger made opening remarks informing the members of her background
and asked the members to introduce themselves. She discussed the two statutory
timelines for reports to the Illinois General Assembly, the first being November 30, 2018
and the final report being due June 30, 2019. In addition, Chairperson Stroger inquired
whether anyone from the group would be willing to serve as a Vice Chair of the
Commission. She asked if any members were interested to please contact her after the
meeting. She further indicated if more than one person was interested in serving as Vice
Chair, Secretary White would be presented with the names and make the final decision.
The announcement of the Vice Chair shall occur at the next meeting.
Chairperson Stroger announced to the Commission that there was no appropriation by the
General Assembly for the Commission; therefore, there could be no Director or Assistant
Director hired at this time as part of the Commission’s efforts. She indicated that an
appropriation may need to be a part of the report to the General Assembly in the first
report due in November. She further indicated that while there was no appropriation
provided, the members could seek reimbursement for travel expenses to Commission
meetings and that the Secretary of State’s Office would make arrangements through their
operational budget allocation to get members reimbursed. She told members that the
state reimbursement process may take 6 months or more and if they had the ability to
seek reimbursement through their current employers, members may want to consider
utilize that process.
Chairperson Stroger introduced the scheduled speakers from the U.S. Census Bureau’s
Regional Office in Chicago. Ms. Gail Krmenec, Assistant Regional Census Manager,
and Ms. Elissa Johnson, Partnership Coordinator for the Census Bureau, presented a
power point presentation to the group outlining the census process, the schedule and
process for obtaining individual information from Illinois’ population, and the
importance of outreach and education to the communities. They commended Illinois for

 their early efforts and discussed the success they have had in California (with a $2M
budget), Indiana and Minnesota.
Chairperson Stroger indicated that she had received reports from the Census Bureau on
Indiana, Minnesota and other states from the 2010 census and she would share those
reports with the members of the Commission as soon as possible.
There was a brief discussion about the lack of information or documentation from
Illinois’ 2010 census outreach efforts. The Census Bureau indicated they had shared
some information with Chairperson Stroger on what they were able to find in their
records. Chairperson Stroger indicated that information would be shared with the
Commission members as soon as possible.
Ms. Krmenec and Ms. Johnson also informed the Commission of their need to hire many
new employees to help in the census process. They requested that Commission members
let them know when they identified persons for consideration for these positions and
provide their information to them.
There were questions from the Commission members to the Census Bureau following
their presentation, particularly with regard to outside corporate funding to help with
outreach efforts and ensuring Illinois population under age 5 was accurately counted.
Ms. Krmenec and Ms. Johnson indicated they had worked with groups such as the Joyce
Foundation and Forefront in the past and they were currently working on some corporate
sponsorship from companies such as Walgreens.
Ms. Krmenec and Ms. Johnson indicated that the 2010 infrastructure of the Complete
Count Commission had many local government components and many of those local
groups had to rely on internal money to support their efforts. They further indicated that
the mayors’ association and other groups were excellent outlets for recruitment of
associations and organizations to help with outreach. They mentioned the State of
Michigan having a non-profit association assisting their efforts.
The Census Bureau also indicated they had been in contact with Governor Rauner’s
Office to establish a government liaison to work with. Chairperson Stroger asked for the
name of the individual so the Commission could get in contact with him/her to coordinate
efforts. The Census Bureau did not have the name but indicated they would provide it to
the Commission.
Commission members also questioned how the Census Bureau counts particular groups
of residents that are in group settings and not in their permanent residence. These groups
include students attending college, individuals incarcerated in prisons and mental
institutions and persons assigned to one of Illinois’ military bases. Representative Spain
asked how the Census Bureau determined what area is listed for them on the census. Ms.
Krmenec and Ms. Johnson indicated it was determined by law that the individual is
counted at the location he/she is residing on April 1 of the census year. Representative
Spain asked for a copy of the statute and Chairperson Stroger indicated it would be

 provided to him. Commission member Burke remarked that the 2010 census failed to
identify and count an entire dormitory of students at SIU Carbondale.
Commission Member del Valle asked the Census Bureau about the citizenship question
that was to appear on the census form and how they planned to address it. Ms. Krmenec
and Ms. Johnson indicated they had just been made aware of the final decision to include
the question prior to coming to the Commission meeting so they were not able to answer
the question at that time but hoped the Commission would be able to help in outreach to
reassure the public on that issue.
Following the Census Bureau’s presentation and the question and answer period that
followed, Chairperson Stroger announced that the Commission would like to form
subcommittees to help the Commission in their goals. She indicated that the Chairs of
the subcommittees could work within their own communities or areas of expertise and
bring people in to work on them. While those members would not be a member of the
Commission, they would be important to the Commission’s work and the Chair of the
subcommittees would report back to the Commission on progress being made or where
assistance was needed. The subcommittees announced include but were not limited to
education, social services/community based organizations, media/social media
coordinator, faith based organizations, the LGBTQIA community, immigrant community,
veterans, persons with disabilities, homeless, seniors, government outreach, the business
community and recruitment of volunteers and employees. After a few questions from
Commission members about the subcommittees, Chairperson Stroger asked for anyone
interested in Chairing a particular subcommittee to talk to her after the meeting.
Chairperson Stroger asked the membership about the frequency of meetings and meeting
locations. It was established that the webinar format used for the meeting seemed to
work for the membership but video conferencing could also be an option for the
Commission. Video conferencing would require membership to travel to one of two
places, one in the Chicago metro area and one in the downstate region, perhaps
Springfield. Video conferencing would require members to have to travel, unlike this
meeting where membership could log on to their home or work computers and not have
to do any travel.
It was decided that the meetings should occur no less than every six weeks. The next
meeting was set for Tuesday, May 1, 2018 and would probably continue in the webinar
format. Chairperson Stroger indicated a meeting notice would be sent out as soon as a
location and format were secured.
On a motion from Member Gryder and a second by Member Rockingham, the meeting
was adjourned at 11:48 a.m.
Adopted by the Commission on July 25, 2018

 