PROPOSED MINUTES FROM
COMPLETE COUNT COMMISSION MEETING
May 1, 2018
The meeting was called to order at 10:00 a.m. by Chairperson Stroger. Chairperson
Stroger asked for a roll call for attendance. Those members present in person were Emily
Burke, Miguel del Valle, Karen Eng, Alex Esparza, Scott Gryder, Kathie Kane-Willis,
Jackie Petty, Evelyn Rodriguez, Griselda Vega Samuel and Chairperson Stroger. Those
members present on the phone were Senator Emil Jones, Leon Rockingham and
Representative Ryan Spain.
Due to a lack of a quorum, the adoption of the minutes from the March 27, 2018 meeting
was deferred to a future date.
Chair Stroger informed the committee that there had been inquiries from members
concerning the position of Vice Chair. She was waiting to speak with Secretary White
before a decision is made and asked the Commission that the matter be deferred to a
future meeting date.
Chair Stroger opened up discussion on the revised list of subcommittees for the
Commission, which was submitted to her by other members of the Commission. The
membership reviewed the revised list and verbally agreed it was acceptable. The revised
list consists of seven subcommittees:
1. Hard to Count Groups
2. Community Based Organizations/Faith Based Community/Social Services
3. Business Community
4. Local Government
5. State Government
6. Schools/Higher Education
7. Media/Social Media
Ms. Vega Samuel of MALDEF and Ms. Kane-Willis of the Chicago Urban League
agreed to serve as Co-Chairs of the Hard To Count Subcommittee. Other Commission
members who agreed to serve and assist were Ms. Eng, Mr. Esparza, Ms. Rodriguez, Mr.
Rockingham and Senator Del Valle.
Ms. Kane-Willis and Ms. Rodriguez agreed to participate on the Community Based
Organizations/Faith Based Community/Social Services subcommittee. At this time, there
were no volunteers to Chair this subcommittee and Chair Stroger indicated she would
work towards finding someone interested in the position of Chair. (NOTE: After
adjournment of the Commission, Ms. Jackie Petty, who was not present at the time of this
discussion, indicated her interest in serving on this subcommittee.)
Ms. Burke indicated her interest in Co-Chairing the Business Community Subcommittee
along with Mr. Inman who was not present at the meeting. Mr. Rockingham and Mr.
Esparza also indicated their interest in serving on the subcommittee. Ms. Burke indicated

 this subcommittee would reach out to the unions, local chambers of commerce and other
community leaders to serve as members of the subcommittee to get diverse participation
with differing interests.
Ms. Rodriguez indicated her interest in participating in the Local Government
Subcommittee and would liaise with other municipalities about participation.
Chair Stroger indicated she would work together with other Commission members on the
State Government subcommittee. Senator del Valle indicated his interest in serving on
this subcommittee and indicated that the Commission could possibly look at combining
the Local Government and State Government subcommittees. He indicated this
subcommittee’s duties should also include work on an appropriation from the General
Assembly for the Commission, subcommittee activities, resources and initial outreach
efforts.
Senator del Valle indicated his willingness to participate in the School/Higher Education
subcommittee.
Ms. Kane-Willis, Mr. Gryder and Ms. Burke expressed interest in helping on the
Media/Social Media subcommittee. Ms. Ellisa Johnson, appearing on behalf of the
Census Bureau, spoke up to indicate that media, particularly social media, would need to
be creative to adapt for different segments of the population.
Chair Stroger indicated a preliminary report to the Illinois General Assembly was due in
November of 2018. Senator del Valle asked that the Commission not wait to include an
appropriation in the preliminary report but to ask for monies while the General Assembly
is currently in session. He stressed the importance of getting an appropriation as soon as
possible to help with the organizational efforts. He asked the Chair to speak with
Secretary White and to ask him for an appropriation during the current Spring Session of
the Illinois General Assembly.
Ms. Ellisa Johnson, of the Census Bureau, briefed the membership on the status of the
Census Bureau’s Regional Office and their current efforts. The Regional Office has
opened an office on Jackson Boulevard in Chicago. Among their current efforts, they are
focusing on recruiting people for employment with the Bureau. Per a Commission
member’s request, a copy of the Commission membership list, with email addresses, will
be sent to Ms. Johnson. The Census Bureau can then include the Commission members
in all future Census Bureau alerts with information and employment opportunities so they
can share the information within their communities. Ms. Johnson further indicated some
preliminary studies with certain segments of the population have been ongoing to
determine messaging to further citizen participation in the 2020 Census. She advised she
would share those findings with the Commission membership as soon as they are
available.
Chair Stroger asked whether the Census Bureau would be willing to provide training for
Commission members and subcommittees if requested. Ms. Johnson indicated it could

 be arranged and directed the members’ attention to the draft copy of the 2020 Training
Manual in the provided documents for this meeting. Chair Stroger indicated that
electronic copies of the manual would be sent to the members after today’s meeting for
membership distribution to interested parties.
The first scheduled speaker for the meeting was Ms. Carrie Davis, Democracy Program
Director with the Joyce Foundation. Using the handout provided to the Commission, she
explained outreach strategies used in the 2010 census efforts and how they will adapt
changes for outreach in the 2020 Census. She also spoke about the financial role the
Joyce Foundation can play in helping with 2020 outreach efforts. She indicated the high
level of interest in the 2020 Census will help to increase fundraising efforts.
The second scheduled speaker was Ms. Dawn Melchiorre, Chief Program and Policy
Officer for Forefront. Ms. Melchiorre indicated Forefront, like the Joyce Foundation,
helps provide funding and resources for census outreach efforts. They have 200 members
across the state which provide support with offices in Chicago and Springfield and they
will also have a downstate office in Galesburg. The organization has a good relationship
with the Census Bureau and wants to work with the Commission to coordinate and
support outreach efforts and participation.
Members asked questions about private and public funding resources. Ms. Melchiorre
indicated that Representative Greg Harris and Senator Steans were working with the
Illinois General Assembly on funding and support efforts. Ms. Kane-Willis indicated
other Commission members should contact their legislators about the importance of the
2020 Census and needed funding.
Senator del Valle questioned how the money would be appropriated and suggested that
the Secretary of State’s office should be the coordinator of the appropriation. Ms.
Johnson with the Census Bureau closed the comments with encouraging Commission
members to look to Minnesota’s efforts and how the money was coordinated through
their Governor’s Office.
The next meeting of the Commission was set for June 12, 2018. Whether the meeting
would be a webinar or a video conference was left to be determined and announced to the
membership at a later date. The meeting was adjourned at 11:49 a.m.
Adopted by the Commission July 28, 2018

 