PRELIMINARILY ADOPTED
MINUTES FROM
COMPLETE COUNT COMMISSION MEETING
August 28, 2018
The meeting was called to order at 10:10 a.m. Chairperson Stroger asked for a roll call for
attendance. Those members present in person at the Chicago location were Former Senator
Miguel del Valle, Alex Esparza, State Senator Emil Jones III, Kathie Kane-Willis, State
Representative Theresa Mah, Evelyn Rodriguez, State Representative Ryan Spain, Griselda
Vega Samuel and Chair Stroger. Those members present in person at the Springfield location
were Mayor Michael Inman. Cook County Board Commissioner Stanley Moore was unable to
attend the meeting but was represented by Warren Callahan.
Due to lack of a quorum, the minutes from the July meeting were not adopted.
Chairperson Stroger indicated the Commission would have future meetings utilizing video
conferencing with locations in Springfield and Chicago and would also make telephone
conferencing available from remote locations. She indicated there were several members who
wanted to call in for this meeting and were unable to do so.
Chair Stroger announced training by the Census Bureau had been scheduled for September 13th
at the offices of the Secretary of State located at 17 North State Street The Chair asked about
available times for those interested and indicated the time for September 13th would be
announced in the immediate future via email to the members.
Chair Stroger inquired from the Subcommittee Chairs whether a status conference call between
meetings among the Chairs of the Committees would be beneficial. The conference call would
occur approximately midway between each Commission meeting. The Subcommittee Chairs
indicated there would be a benefit and Ms. Riseling, with the Secretary of State’s Office,
indicated she would get in touch with the Chairs to determine a day of the week and time when
the Subcommittee Chairs are all available.
Chair Stroger announced that Secretary White was preparing a letter to various mayors across the
state encouraging them to form local Complete Count Committees.
Commission Member Inman suggested the need for the presence of the Illinois Municipal
League (IML) to assist in generating support for census outreach and participation at the local
levels of government. He further said he would get the name and contact information for the
IML Executive Director to Chairperson Stroger. Commission Member Inman also suggested an
information exhibit be set up at the IML annual conference in September 2019 and would ask
those preparing the program to provide a break out session on the subject.
Commission Member Vega Samuel indicated the Hard To Count Subcommittee had been
meeting and currently has representatives from 10 of the 11 recognized hard to count groups.
They are missing someone from the Polish community but indicated they were working on
obtaining someone representing that community at an upcoming meeting.

 Chairperson Stroger introduced Rebecca Lang and Ernesto Martinez from the Secretary of
State’s Office and indicated they would be assisting the Commission with social media needs.
Chairperson Stroger indicated Commission Member Emily Burke, Co-Chair of the Business
Subcommittee meeting, was unable to attend the meeting but Co-Chair Inman was present from
the Springfield location. Chairperson Stroger indicated the Co-Chairs are very interested in
getting a training date set up for the Business Subcommittee so they can move forward with
recruitment and outreach.
The Subcommittee Brochure was reviewed by the Commission and a typographical error was
found. The Chair will work with the Secretary of State’s Communication’s Department to make
the needed change, along with other minor changes suggested by Commission members.
Commission Member Spain asked that the brochure be made available to the Commission
members in a pdf format once completed so it could be printed and made available upon
demand. The Chair indicated the brochure would be available on the 2020 Illinois Census
webpage currently under construction by the Secretary of State’s Information Technology
Department.
The Commission reviewed a draft of the general brochure and numerous suggestions for change
were made by Commission members. The Chair is taking those suggestions back to the
Secretary of State’s Communication’s Department to be considered and another draft generated.
Commission Member Vega Samuel inquired about the audience for the general brochure and
suggested the need for an education piece now and another towards the end of 2019 with the
message changing from outreach and education to participation. Ellisa Johnson, with the U.S.
Census Bureau, indicated the Census Bureau would also be producing brochures and materials
and she would send a pdf of the Bureau’s information to the Commission members.
Commission members reviewed a snapshot of the opening page of the upcoming 2020 Illinois
Census website. Suggestions were made by Commission members and will be sent to the
Secretary of State’s Information Technology Department for consideration.
Joe Natale, from the Illinois State Library, was a guest of the Commission and discussed the
activities and services available, via university and public libraries, to assist the Commission
with outreach and education efforts during the next two years and to aid in census promotion and
participation. Mr. Natale discussed the State Library’s ability to use the Talking Book and
Braille Division and the literacy programs. Mr. Natale suggested a Commission or census
presence at the Illinois Library Association’s annual conference and workshops with new library
directors could be beneficial to assist local outreach and education efforts.
Commission members asked Mr. Natale about the utilization of the public library computers for
members of the public wanting to respond to the census questionnaire, this would include those
members of the general public without library cards. Mr. Natale indicated he would discuss the
matter with the State Library’s Deputy Director.

 Chair Stroger asked Mr. Natale about the possibilities of a poster contest with a message
regarding census participation as a means of education and outreach. Mr. Natale indicated it was
a possibility and would confer with Chair Stroger at a later date on the issue.
Chair Stroger indicated she had been in communication with the Mayor Emanuel’s Office and
the Cook County Board concerning a public kickoff of the 2020 Illinois Census. She indicated
there is a follow-up meeting scheduled to discuss dates for the event. Commission members
agreed that a date sooner rather than later was appropriate.
Commission Member Mah indicated a letter had been sent to the Secretary of State’s Office from
the Speaker’s Appropriations Staff. It regarded the allocation in the Fiscal Year 2019 budget and
how the money was to be utilized. Chair Stroger indicated she was not familiar with the letter
and she would check with the Executive Office of the Secretary about receipt of it. Commission
Member Mah stated she would get a copy of the letter and forward it to the Chair. Commission
Member Jones indicated he was of the opinion changes needed to be made to the statutory
language in order to clarify the use of the appropriation.
A short discussion was had regarding the pending deadline for the first report to the General
Assembly in November. Commission Member del Valle stated the report should be written by
the Executive Director for the Commission. Chair Stroger indicated that the legislation
establishing the Executive Director position did not provide an appropriation and until that
occurs, an Executive Director or Assistant Director could not be hired. The members inquired
from the Chair how quickly the position could be filled following an appropriation. The Chair
indicated the process could be relatively quick. Commission Member Rodriguez suggested a job
description be developed as soon as possible so Commission members could circulate it for
possible applicants.
Commission Member Spain spoke to the urgency and challenges of the Commission.
Chair Stroger asked if there was anyone on the Commission willing to work with Secretary of
State staff on the initial report to the General Assembly. Commission members Kane-Willis and
Vega Samuel indicated they would be available to help. Chair Stroger indicated staff would be
in contact with them.
Chair Stroger announced the dates for Complete Count Commission meetings through
November. Those dates are September 25, October 23 and November 27, 2018. She indicated a
meeting notice would be sent out in the next few days to hold the place on the members’
calendars and as soon as locations were arranged, a supplemental notice with that information
would be forwarded to the members.
The meeting adjourned at 11:41 a.m.

 