January 15, 2019

Item No. 6

RATIFICATION OF FORMATION OF FOUR LEGAL ENTITIES AND AUTHORIZATION TO SECURE
FINANCING FOR FOUR SENIOR RAD PROPERTIES.
Properties:
Property 1:
Address:
Ward:
Alderman:
Property 2:
Address:
Ward:
Alderman:

Presenter:

Daniel Hudson Burnham Apts.
1930 W. Loyola
50th
Debra Silverstein

Property 3:
Address:
Ward:
Alderman:

Lorraine Hansberry Apts.
5670 W. Lake Street
29th
Chris Taliaferro

Harry Schneider Apts.
1750 W. Peterson
40th
Patrick O’Connor

Property 4:
Address:
Ward:
Alderman:

Vivian Carter Apts.
6401 S. Yale
20th
Willie Cochran

Ann McKenzie, Chief Development Officer

Recommendation
The Chief Executive Officer recommends that the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing
Authority (“CHA” or the “Authority”): (1) Ratify the formation of four legal entities, (2) Authorize
closing transactions for the refinancing of up to four senior properties (“Properties”) and the
reimbursement to Chicago Housing Authority of costs related thereto; (3) Authorize securing
permanent financing in an aggregate amount not to exceed $32 Million; (4) Authorize the
transfer of the Properties to the respective new legal entities, finance the sale through Seller
financing to those legal entities and ground lease the underlying land; (5) Authorize the
assignment of the existing Rental Assistance Demonstration housing assistance payment
contracts to the new owners; and (6) Authorize the execution and delivery of such other
documents and perform such actions as may be necessary or appropriate to implement the
foregoing.
The requested actions in this item compiles in all material respects with all applicable CHA Board
of Commissioner’s policies and all applicable federal regulations. Staff have completed all
necessary due diligence to support the submission of this initiative.
1

 Property Summary
Building Name

Address

Residents Served

Daniel Hudson Burnham Apts.
Harry Schneider Apts.
Lorraine Hansberry Apts.
Vivian Carter Apts.

1930 W. Loyola
1750 W. Peterson
5670 W. Lake
6401 S. Yale

Seniors
Seniors
Seniors
Seniors

Funding
No additional CHA funding needed.
Background

Daniel Hudson Burnham Apartments is a 6-story designated senior housing building located at 1930 W.
Loyola. The building, which contains 181 units (179 RAD residential units and 2 non-dwelling units), was
built in 1982 and is located on an approximately 2.3-acre site. This property converted to RAD PBV on
September 30, 2016.
Harry Schneider Apartments is a 13-story designated senior housing building located at 1750 W. Peterson.
The building, which contains 175 units (174 RAD residential units and 1 market rate unit), was built in 1976
and is located on an approximately 1.1-acre site. This property converted to RAD PBV on May 27, 2017.
Lorraine Hansberry Apartments is a 9-story designated senior housing building located at 5670 W. Lake
Street. The building, which contains 169 units (168 RAD residential units and 1 non-dwelling unit), was
built in 1976 and is located on an approximately 2.1-acre site. This property converted to RAD PBV on
November 21, 2017.
Vivian Carter Apartments is a 14-story designated senior housing building located at 6401 S. Yale. The
building, which contains 224 units (221 RAD residential units and 3 non-dwelling units), was built in 1971
and is located on an approximately 1.8-acre site. This property converted to RAD PBV on May 31, 2018.

Development Entities and the Plan
The attached resolution authorizes the formation of owner entities, with related documents
needed for the formation of said entities and authorizes various significant actions which will be
taken. Such actions include the execution and delivery of various financing, acquisition, and
other development and/or management documents.
Finance
Interest Rates:

The aggregate interest rate for each loan will be
determined but will not exceed 6.5%.

Borrowers:

Single purpose entities for each property.

Maturity Date:

15 to 40 years.
2

 Purpose:

To finance the costs of the limited renovation
planned and fund other affordable housing.

Permanent Financing:

In 2019, the permanent debt will commence with an
aggregate of loans not to exceed $32 Million.

These properties are part of the CHA LLC’s wider portfolio of properties that have converted to
RAD PBV.

Respectfully Submitted:

______________________
Ann McKenzie
Chief Development Officer

3

 RESOLUTION NO. 2019-CHAWHEREAS,

the Chicago Housing Authority proposes to authorize Chicago Housing
Administration LLC to refinance four RAD properties (Daniel Hudson Burnham
Apts., Harry Schneider Apts., Lorraine Hansberry Apts., and Vivian Carter Apts.)
with a total of 742 rental units in Chicago, Illinois; and

WHEREAS,

the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated January 15, 2019 entitled “Ratification of formation of four
legal entities and Authorization to secure financing for four senior RAD
properties..”

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE CHICAGO HOUSING
AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the formation of four legal entities is ratified;

THAT,

the Chief Executive Officer, or his designee, is authorized to close the transactions
for the refinancing of up to four senior RAD properties and the reimbursement
to Chicago Housing Authority of costs related thereto;

THAT,

the Chief Executive Officer, or his designee, is authorized to secure permanent
financing in an aggregate amount not to exceed $32 Million;

THAT,

the Chief Executive Officer, or his designee, is authorized to transfer the
Properties to the respective new legal entities, finance the sale through Seller
financing to those legal entities and ground lease the underlying land;

THAT,

the Chief Executive Officer, or his designee, is authorized to assign the existing
Rental Assistance Demonstration housing assistance payment contracts to the
new owners; and

THAT,

the Chief Executive Officer, or his designee, is authorized to execute and deliver
such other documents and perform such actions as may be necessary or
appropriate to implement the foregoing.
This award is not subject to compliance with CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE/Section 3
hiring and insurance requirements.

_______________________________
Eugene E. Jones, Jr.
Chief Executive Officer
Chicago Housing Authority
4

 