REGULAR MEETING
OF
THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
Charles Hayes Family Investment Center, 4859 S. Wabash, Chicago, Illinois

Tuesday, January 15, 2019
9:15 am

AGENDA

I.

Roll Call

II.

Centering Thoughts – Commissioner Mildred Harris

III.

Presentation of Resolutions and Committee Reports
Tenant Services Committee Report – Meghan Harte, Chairwoman
Item No. 1
Recommendation to award contract for Employment Placement Services.
Recommended Awardees: Employment & Employer Services; Centers for New
Horizons and Phalanx Family Services, in an aggregate amount of $8,349,243 for
a two-year base term and three one-year option terms – Mary Howard, Chief
Resident Services Officer
Real Estate Operations Development Committee Report – Matthew Brewer, Chairman
Item No. 2
Approval of the FY2019 Housing Choice Voucher (HCV) Administrative Plan –
Cheryl Burns, Chief HCV Officer; Derek Messier, Chief Property Officer
Item No. 3

Authorization to approve the renewal of a Housing Assistance Payments
contract for a 15-year term for Liberty Square Apartments, Spaulding and
Trumbull Apartments and Senior Suites of Auburn Gresham – Derek Messier,
Chief Property Officer

Item No. 4

Authorization to enter into an Intergovernmental Agreement with the city of
Chicago Police Department for Supplemental Police Services for 2019 and 2020
– Derek Messier, Chief Property Officer

Item No. 5

Authorization to execute a Contract Modification for Contract No. 12070 for the
renovation of 1000 N. Sedgwick – Diana Liu, Chief Construction Officer

Item No. 6

Ratification of formation of four legal entities and authorization to secure
financing for four senior RAD properties – Ann McKenzie, Chief Development
Officer

Item No. 7

Authorization to approve the Tenant Selection Plan for Parkside 4 Phase 2 – Ann
McKenzie, Chief Development Officer

 IV.

Report from Chief Executive Officer – Eugene Jones

V.

Public Participation

VI.

Closed Meeting
•
Commissioners will vote on whether to go into closed meeting pursuant to the Open
Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2, to possibly discuss matters under the following exceptions:
personnel related matters under (c)(1) and (c)(2); purchase, sale and lease of real estate
property under (c)(5) and (c)(6); pending/imminent/probable litigation under (c) (11);
review of closed meeting minutes under (c) (21) and audit reviews under (c) (29).

VII.

Open Session Resumes – Roll Call

VIII.

Approval of Minutes for the Closed and Regular Meetings of November 20, 2018.

IX.

Presentation of Matters from Closed Session
Item No. 8
Acquisition of a 57-unit residential building located at 1221 West Sherwin – Ann
McKenzie, Chief Development Officer
Item No. 9

XI.

Approval of Personnel Actions – Tenelle Barnes, Chief Human Resources Officer

Adjournment

2

 