Proposed Reassigned Boundary Change of Orozco Community Academy
and Cooper Dual Language Academy
January 9, 2019
Orozco Community Academy
1940 W. 18​th​ St.
6:00-7:30 PM
CPS Staff in Attendance
Cristina Carreto, Minerva Garcia Sanchez, Judith Camacho, Carla Escobar, Lauro Roman, Jaime
Guzman, Cheryl Nevins, Efrain Martinez, Nurys Uceta Ramos, Ana Diaz
CPS Presentation
Ms. Cristina Carreto, Family and Community Engagement Manager for Network 7, welcomed the
audience and proceeded to give a brief overview of the presentation structure: introduction, meeting
logistics, presentation on school action, and time for public comments. She introduced Ms. Minerva
Garcia Sanchez, Chief of Schools for Network 7, who presented the proposed action. She welcomed
Vice-President of the Board of Education, Mr. Jaime Guzman, who was present.
Ms. Carreto explained that the meeting would be 90-minutes long consisting of a short
presentation and public comments to follow. She advised that the meeting would be in English and
Spanish. She advised that there was a stenographer and a note-taker present so all public comments and
questions would be on record. She explained that each speaker would have two minutes to speak and/or
ask questions. She reminded the audience that there would be a second community meeting next
Wednesday, January 16​th​ at Cooper Elementary from 6:00 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. She advised that on or around
February 2019, recommendations will be made to the Chicago Public Schools (CPS) Board of Education
after the community meetings and hearings are held and at that time the CPS Board will vote on any
recommended school actions. She notified the audience that if they do not have an opportunity to
comment or feel more comfortable sending an e-mail, they may do so at ​transitions@cps.edu​.
Ms. Minerva Garcia Sanchez explained that she would go through the overview of the proposed
school action. The proposal will be to adjust the Cooper attendance area grades served to include sixth
grade in 2019-2020 school year, then the following year to adjust the Cooper attendance area grades
served to include seventh grade in the 2020-2021 school year, and in the following year to adjust the
Cooper attendance area grades served to include the eighth grade in the 2021-2022 school year. And
additionally, Orozco will then expand its bilingual gifted program to serve more bilingual students.
She shared that the school community, elected officials, including an Illinois State
Representative, the Cook County Commissioner – now U.S. Congressman, and 25​th​ Ward Alderman, and
Orozco and Cooper LSC’s have advocated for the reassigned boundary change. Also in support of the
proposed school action are community leaders and educational partners, including Cooper/Orozco Parent

 Collaboration, Chicago Commons Association, Chicago Mariachi Project/Pilsen Arts & Culture
Committee, Frida Kahlo Community Organization, Pilsen Education Task Force - School Specialization
Initiative, Pilsen Neighbors Community Council, and the Resurrection Project - Quality of Life Plan –
Educational Component.
Ms. Sanchez then proceeded to supply in-depth detail regarding the proposal. She stated that
Cooper is an attendance area school located at 1624 W. 19​th​ Street that serves K-5, with a pre-K program.
Cooper currently serves 418 students. Cooper currently has 73 students in grade 5 that would be eligible
to stay at Cooper for grade 6 in SY19-20. Orozco is located at 1940 W. 18​th​ Street and serves K-8 grade in
its bilingual gifted program with a pre-K program, and 6-8​th​ grade in its neighborhood program. Orozco
currently served a total of 542 students with 116 students in grade 6 and 110 students in grade 7 and 110
in grade 8.
Ms. Carreto opened the public comments portion of the meeting by reminding everyone of the
registration process in order to make a public comment and the two minute time limit.
Public Comments
Marissa Santiago:​ Parent. The proposal would benefit a lot of the children that live in the southwest side.
We live in McKinley Park. We need Orozco to look like this. I would have to commute further north in
order for my children to go to a school like this. There aren’t many schools like this in the south side that
look like this.
Anabel Perez:​ Parent and Cooper LSC member. I am in support of having this gifted program and also in
support of Cooper including grades K-8. I have a child that attends Cooper and I was a student at Cooper.
Lots of students and parents are in support of this. We have other parents here that are in support,
including parents from Orozco.
Ana Padillo​: Representative of Pilsen Neighbors Community Council. I’m here as a representative from
Pilsen Neighbors Community Council, we are here to show our organizational support for the expansion
for the Bilingual Gifted Program at Orozco. We support this because it started over two years ago with a
parent to parent conference listening campaign. Our organizer began working with parents to develop
their leadership and therefore organize for the betterment of education of their children. The result of our
listening campaign in the Pilsen Schools have resulted in specialization of two other Pilsen schools, this
specialization has brought an IB program and STEM program which has given quality education to the
Pilsen Children Not only has these specialization initiatives brought excellent academic programs but we
believe that this will encourage hundreds of families to choose Pilsen Public schools as schools of
academic choice to expand their enrollment and save our Pilsen schools from future school closures.
Jose Reguenda: ​Representative of Pilsen Alliance. Present at the behest of some parents concerns about
the transition. Sounds like an amazing opportunity to bring much needed resources and better
programming to the students of the school and community which we absolutely support. The only
concern is whether it would limit the community programming, does this really mean that we’re going to
take less students from a community school programming, and do we do a disadvantage to future
students? Wants all students to have access to these programs in the future. Not here to derail any work
but if students are not in attendance of these schools right now but would like to be in the future, would
they have access to these programs. Asks that it gets shared more with the community.

 Angel Salgado:​ Orozco LSC member. This project isn’t known by him. Wants LSC to be taken into
account. Does not know if they are good or bad changes because they haven’t been talked about at LSC
meetings. Asks organizers of this project to speak to the Orozco LSC. He asks for consideration and asks
that the Orozco LSC gets a vote on the matter.
Efrain Martinez:​ Orozco Principal. He welcomed everyone. He received text messages from Orozco and
Cooper moms and they are all in support of the boundary change.
Marissa Santiago:​ Parent. Confused about Mr. Salgado’s comment. When this was presented, she
presented it at an LSC meeting. She and other parents collected signatures from parents. The LSC was
asked about what they thought about the changes. Even Mr. Salgado signed the petition that was
presented to the LSC.
Maria Isabel Carillo:​ Parent. In support of proposal. How can anyone not support this plan?
Maria Sanchez:​ Parent of Orozco student. Proud of the progress she’s seen in her child. The reason that
she wants to speak is because she was one of the moms that was gathering signatures for the petition. She
received a signature from Mr. Salgado.
Antonia Castro:​ Mom of Cooper students. She is in favor of this change. She had a daughter at Orozco
and another in Cooper. Having her children go to both schools was tough. She has to take one child to one
school and one to another school. If there is an opportunity for them to go to the same school, she prefers
this.
Angel Salgado:​ Orozco LSC member. Wanted to clear up what he said. The proposal was never on the
agenda at an LSC meeting. About the signature that he added to the petition – he says he signed it in
reference to expanding the boundary but never the entire project. This was not voted on at the LSC
meeting. There was a lack of attention by the leaderships. He did sign but they did not explain that they
were going to close the regular program. Expansion was talked about. They did not talk about the regular
program.

Public comments ended at 6:39 p.m.

 