Forest Preserve District of Cook County
Board of Commissioners
Capital Development Committee
Tuesday, January 22, 2019

9:00 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA
There will be a meeting of the committee or subcommittee of the Forest Preserve District of
Cook County Board of Commissioners at the date, time and location listed above.
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in writing,
their name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in advance of the
meeting. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a time specified in
the meeting agenda. Authorized public speakers who are not present during the specified time for public
testimony will forfeit their allotted time to speak at the meeting. Public testimony must be germane to a
specific item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not exceed three minutes; the Secretary
will keep track of the time and advise when the time for public testimony has expired. Persons authorized
to provide public testimony shall not use vulgar, abusive, or otherwise inappropriate language when
addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately; failure to speak to an item that is germane to the
meeting, or failure to adhere to the time requirements may result in expulsion from the meeting and/or
disqualify the person from providing future testimony.
19-0146
COMMITTEE MINUTES

Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 02/09/2016
18-0405
Presented by: ARNOLD RANDALL, General Superintendent
REPORT
Department: Planning & Development
Request: Receive and File

Page 1 of 2

 NOTICE AND AGENDA

Capital Development Committee

January 22, 2019

Report Title: 2019 Update to the 5-Year Capital Improvement Plan
Report Period: Five (5) Years, 2019-2023
Summary:

This report is an update of capital improvement projects and funding needs for the next five

(5) years (2019-2023).

Capital improvement needs were identified by Forest Preserves of Cook County

(the “Forest Preserves”) staff, partner organizations and members of the public.
downloaded

from

the

Forest

Preserves’

website

at

www.fpdcc.com/cip

The draft can be

<http://www.fpdcc.com/cip>.

Additional requests and comments can also be submitted on that web page or on the Forest Preserves’
Facebook page. A final report will be issued at the January 2019 board meeting.
Legislative History :

12/11/18 -

FPD Board of Commissioners

-

refer to the Capital Development Com

Secretary
Chairman:
Arroyo
Vice-Chairman: Sims
Members:
Britton, Deer, Johnson, Moore, K. Morrison, S. Morrison, Silvestri

Page 2 of 2

 