Forest Preserve District of Cook County
Board of Commissioners
Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations
Tuesday, January 22, 2019

9:15 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA
There will be a meeting of the committee or subcommittee of the Forest Preserve District of
Cook County Board of Commissioners at the date, time and location listed above.
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in writing,
their name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in advance of the
meeting. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a time specified in
the meeting agenda. Authorized public speakers who are not present during the specified time for public
testimony will forfeit their allotted time to speak at the meeting. Public testimony must be germane to a
specific item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not exceed three minutes; the Secretary
will keep track of the time and advise when the time for public testimony has expired. Persons authorized
to provide public testimony shall not use vulgar, abusive, or otherwise inappropriate language when
addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately; failure to speak to an item that is germane to the
meeting, or failure to adhere to the time requirements may result in expulsion from the meeting and/or
disqualify the person from providing future testimony.
19-0141
COMMITTEE MINUTES

Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 09/11/2018
18-0515
Presented by: ARNOLD RANDALL, General Superintendent
PROPOSED APPOINTMENT
Appointee(s): Alan M. Bell, Maria Pesqueira, and Shelley Spencer
Position:

New Conservation and Policy Council members. The Conservation and Policy Council
Page 1 of 3

 Legislation and
Intergovernmental Relations

NOTICE AND AGENDA

January 22, 2019

advises the President, Board of Commissioners and General Superintendent on specific steps to
implement the Next Century Conservation Plan, the Forest Preserves of Cook County’s ambitious
long-range plan to restore our forest preserves to ecological health and ensure that all the residents of
Cook County are welcome at the Forest Preserves of Cook County.
Department/Board/Commission: Conservation and Policy Council
Effective date: 1/1/2019
Expiration date: This appointment will remain in effect until 12/31/2021.
Summary: Alan M. Bell is a partner at the law firm of Charity & Associates, P.C., focusing on

municipal finance and real estate finance. He is also the founder and president of The Elements Group,
which focuses on nature-oriented development projects.
Maria Pesqueira is President of the Healthy Communities Foundation, and has served for 15 years as
President & CEO to Mujeres Latinas en Accion, and previously led The National Museum of Mexican
Art’s Development team. She has held leadership roles in various national and local boards including
the National Council of La Raza, Illinois Partners for Human Services, Community Memorial
Foundation and the Aetna Medical Advisory Board.
Shelley Spencer is a four-time Emmy winning producer/writer who helps people communicate their
message, mission and vision through long and short form videos. As the Supervising Producer at
WYCC PBS Chicago, Shelley developed Chicago’s True Nature, the Emmy-award winning
documentary about the Forest Preserves of Cook County.

Legislative History :

12/11/18 -

FPD Board of Commissioners

Page 2 of 3

-

refer to the Legislation and Intergover

 Legislation and
Intergovernmental Relations

NOTICE AND AGENDA

Secretary
Chairman:
Suffredin
Vice-Chairman: Britton
Members:
Committee of the Whole

Page 3 of 3

January 22, 2019

 