 
 

           
 
 
 December 12, 2014 
             

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

Item No. 10 

 
 
APPROVAL OF FY2015 COMPREHENSIVE BUDGET

 

To the Honorable Board of Commissioners

RECOMMENDATION
It is recommended that the Board of Commissioners approve and adopt the FY2015 Comprehensive
Budget.
The Executive Vice President (EVP) of Finance; and the Office of the General Counsel have completed
all necessary due diligence to support the submission of this initiative and recommend the approval of
this item accordingly.
CORPORATE GOAL:
The FY2015 Budget provides funding for initiatives to develop healthy, vibrant communities; to ensure
safe, decent and sustainable housing; and to provide services to residents, targeted to their needs.
GENERAL BACKGROUND:
The Chicago Housing Authority is required to submit for approval by the Board, a balanced annual
Comprehensive Budget detailing each of its funding sources (MTW Fund, Section 8 Non-MTW fund,
HOPE VI and Other Grant Programs) and, the use of budgeted funds.
The FY2015 Comprehensive Budget totaling $976.4 million includes the following fund categories:
 MTW Fund. Total revenue for FY2015 is $955.3 million. The MTW Fund combines the LowRent, Capital and Section 8 programs into a block grant as allowed by HUD under the
Amended and Restated MTW agreement. Total MTW Fund revenues consist of Dwelling
Rental Income, Interest Income, Capital Grant Funds, Housing Assistance Subsidy, Operating
Subsidy, MTW Reserves and Other Income.


Section 8 Fund (Non-MTW). Total revenue for this program is $16.1 million. These
contracts provide appropriations for approximately 1,277 of Mod Rehab vouchers, 685
Veteran's Affairs Supportive Housing (VASH) vouchers, and 50 Mainstream vouchers for
housing assistance based on annual contributions contracts from HUD.



Hope VI Fund. Total revenue equals $3.3 million. These funds are used to support relocation,
revitalization, community and supportive services programs.



Other Funds. Total revenue is $1.6 million. Revenue consists of federal and local grants that
will be used to enhance or augment funding for critical programs and services that the CHA
provides to its residents.

 The estimated sum of all revenues for FY2015 plus the amount of FY2014 fund balance available for
appropriation in FY2015 is equal to the estimated sum of all expenditures to be made/incurred during
FY2015 and any unpaid liabilities at the beginning of FY2015.
The Board action recommended in this action complies in all material respects with all applicable
Chicago Housing Authority board policies and all applicable federal (HUD) laws.
The Executive Vice President (EVP) of Finance, CFO concurs with the recommendation to submit the
FY2015 Comprehensive Budget totaling $976.4 million.
The CEO/President recommends that the Board of Commissioners approve the FY2015 Budget as
submitted and forwarded to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development all necessary
budget documents and supporting information when applicable.

2 
 

 RESOLUTION NO. 2014-CHA-126

WHEREAS,

the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board letter dated December 10, 2014,
entitled “APPROVAL OF THE FY2015 COMPREHENSIVE BUDGET”;

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners, hereby approves the attached
COMPREHENSIVE BUDGET” and finds with respect to said Budget:
1.

2.

3.

THAT,

 

 

“FY2015

that the proposed expenditures are necessary for the efficient and economical
operation of the Chicago Housing Authority for the purpose of serving lowincome families;
that the financial plan is reasonable in that it indicates funding sources
adequate to cover all proposed expenditures, and does not provide for use of
Federal funding in excess of that payable under the provisions of the applicable
Federal regulations; and
that all proposed rental charges and expenditures will be consistent with
provisions of law and the Annual Contributions Contract in accordance with
the Amended and Restated Moving To Work Demonstration Agreement of the
Chicago Housing Authority with the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development.

the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer are authorized to execute and
forward to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development all necessary
budget documents and supporting information when applicable.

 

3 
 

 