 . CODE EDC 19-01-02-308
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF DECEMBER 18, 2018 MEETING
RESOLVED, that the minutes of the Regular meeting of December 18, 2018 are
hereby approved and all actions taken by the Directors present at such meeting, as set

forth in such minutes, are hereby in all respects ratified and approved as actions of the
Economic Development Corporation.

January 22, 2019

500 Griswold,Sui?re 2200 Detroit, Michigan 48226 (313) 963-2940

ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
BOARD OF DIRECTORS REGULAR MEETING
TUESDAY, DECEMBER 18, 2018 8:30 AM.

BOARD MEMBERS PRESENT: Kimberly Clayson

BOARD MEMBERS ABSENT:

SPECIAL DIRECTORS
PRESENT:

SPECIAL DIRECTORS
ABSENT:

OTHERS PRESENT:

Linda Forte
Damon Hodge
Chris Jackson
Kwaku Osei
Jonathan Quarles
Matthew Roling

Marsha Bruhn

Maurice Cox (Ex-Officlo)
John Naglick (Ex-Of?cio)
Thomas Stallworth

None

Jon Newton (East Riverfront)
Marvin Thomas 0-94 Industrial Park Project)

Pierre Batten 
Cleveland Dailey 
Gay Hilger 
Malinda Jensen 
Paul Kako 

Glen Long, Jr. 
Rebecoa Navin 
Mariangela Pledl 
Kelly Shovan 



Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit

MINUTES OF THE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
BOARD OF DIRECTORS REGULAR MEETING

TUESDAY, DECEMBER 18, 2018

DETROIT ECONOMIC GROWTH CORPORATION

500 GRISWOLD, SUITE 2200

8:30 A.M.

CALL TO ORDER

Noting that a quorum was present, Chair Forte called the Regular meeting of the Economic
Development Corporation Board of Directors to order at 8:39 am.

GENERAL
Approval of Minutes

Ms. Forte asked if there were any additions, deletions or corrections to the minutes of the
November 13, 2018 Regular Board meeting. Hearing none, the Board took the following 
ac?on:

On a motion by Mr. Roling, seconded by Mr. Hodge, Resolution Code EDC 18?12-
02-307 was unanimously approved.

Receipt of Treasurer?s Reports
Ms. Shovan reviewed the Treasurer's Report of Receipts and Disbursements for the
month of October 2018. With there being no questions, the Board took the following

action:

On a motion by Mr. Roling, seconded by Mr. Quarles, Resolution Code EDC 19-
12-03-233 was unanimously approved.

Ms. Shovan reviewed the Treasurer?s Report of Receipts and Disbursements for the
month of November 2018. With there being no questions, the Board took the following
action:

On a motion by Mr. Damon, seconded by Mr. Roling, Resolution Code EDC 19-
12-03-234 was unanimously approved.

December 18, 2018

500 Griswold,Suite 2200 - Detroit,Michigon 48226 - (313) 963-2940

PROJECTS

Small Business and Commercial Corridor Revitalization Program: Authorization to
Replenish Funding for Community Development Block Grant Subrecipient

Agreement

Ms. Pledl advised that, as the Board is aware, at the request of the City of Detroit (the
?City?) Mayor?s Office, the EDC is administering small business and commercial corridor
revitalization programs known as Motor City Match and Motor City Re-Store (the
?Programs?).

Community Development Block Grant funds from the City for Programs
implementation were transferred to the EDC pursuant to previous Community
Development Block Grant subrecipient agreements. There is a need to replenish the
CD86 funding to continue to support the Programs. Subject to City Council approval, the
City?s Housing and Revitalization Department has agreed to allocate additional CDBG
funding to further support the Programs in the amount of One Miliion Five Hundred
Thousand 00/100 Dollars for the term of January 1, 2019 through the
current termination date of June 30, 2019 (the ?Agreement"). The proposed scope of
services and budget were included as Exhibits A and B, respectfuily.

EDC staff recommended that the EDC Board of Directors authorize the execution of the
Agreement. A resolution was included for the Board?s consideration.

With there being no questions or discussion, the Board took the following action:

On a motion by Ms. Clayson, seconded by Mr. Ruling, Resolution Code EDC 18-
12-91-80 was unanimously approved.

l-94 Industrial Park: Stokes et al EDC?Engagement of Counsei

Ms. Navin explained that in the Spring of 2018, a group of plaintiffs filed a complaint
against the City of Detroit and various industrial users in and around the l-94 Industrial
District, claiming certain tortious acts and inverse condemnation on account of the I-94
industrial Park and other nearby industrial sites. in Fall of 2018, the judge granted the
plaintiffs? motion to add the EDC and certain other parties to the case. Counts against the
EDC include negligence, nuisance, and violations of the Michigan Environmental
Protection Act, the Economic Development Corporations Act, and the Equal Protection
clause of the Constitution. The plaintiffs are seeking class certification.

Staff recommended the engagement of Fink and Associates (?Fink?) to act as counsel to
the EDC in this matter at a blended rate of $275 per hour. Fink has a demonstrated history
of defending the other pubtic authorities (DDA and DBRA) in lawsuits arising out of projects
and has ample experience in class action lawsuits. In addition, as Fink has served as
counsel to the City on various litigation matters in the past, staff believes that such
experience will be helpfui as coordination with the City on this matter will be important.

A resolution approving the engagement of Fink was included for the Board?s consideration.

December 18, 2018

Mr. Jackson questioned who was representing the Plaintiff in the lawsuit. Ms. Navin
responded that she believes that it is Alice Jennings. Mr. Jackson then asked who the
Judge in the case was and Ms. Navin said she would have to get back to him on that. Ms.
Clayson asked if it would be possible for the Board to get a copy of the Complaint. Ms.
Navin responded that we would send the Summons and Complaint, as well as the answers
to Mr. Jackson?s questions, following the meeting.

Subsequent to the discussion, the Board took the following action:

On a motion by Ms. Clayson, seconded by Mr. Jackson, Resolution Code EDC
1842-12-62 was unanimously approved.

East Riverfront: Approval to Change Contractor Selection for Stockpile Removal

Ms. Navin stated that on November 13, 2018, the EDC Board approved the use of ideal
Contracting to remove the soil stockpile deposited at 2155 Dubois. As the Board will recall,
removal of the soil stockpile is necessary to facilitate the construction of a parking lot at
this site and complete the necessary geotechnical and assessments of the ground below.
The cost proposal from the selected firm changed after approval by the Board. Due to the
change in the cost proposal, EDC staff has determined it is in the best interest of the EDC
to utilize the next most responsive bidder, Rickman Enterprises.

EDC staff had previously received three responses, all from Detroit-based firms. The

purpose of soliciting a proposal from interested and qualified professional constructors
was to remove the soil stockpile as follows:

. Soil stockpile removal and disposal based on results submitted by NTH
Consultants environmental testing results.
. Removal of overgrown vegetation, trees and brush.

EDC staff requested approval for the execution of a construction services agreement with
Rickman Enterprises, a Detroit-based business, for an amount not to exceed one hundred
fortyetwo thousand two hundred and 00/100 dollars A resolution was
included for the Board?s consideration.

Subsequent to a discussion, the Board took the following action:

On a motion by Mr. Queries, seconded by Mr. Osei, Resolution Code EDC 18-
12?52-11 was unanimously approved.



OTHER MATTERS

PUBLIC COMMENT

ADJGURNMENT

With there being no further business to come before the Board, Ms. Forte adjourned the

meeting at 8:52 am.

December 18, 2018

 CODE EDC 18-12-0g-307
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit

 

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF NOVEMBER 13. 2018 MEETING
RESOLVED, that the minutes of the Regular meeting of November 13, 2018 are
hereby approved and alt actions taken by the Directors present at such meeting, as set

forth in such minutes, are hereby in respects ratified and approved as actions of the
Economic Development Corporation.

December 18, 2018

500 Griswold,Suite 2200 - DetroitMiohigon 48226 - (313) 963?2940

. CODE EDC 18-12-03-233
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit

 

ACCEPTANCE OF REPORT FOR OCTOBER ?018

RESOLVED, that the Treasurer's Report of Receipts and Disbursements for the
period ending October 31, 2018, as presented at this meeting, is hereby in all respects
accepted as action of the Economic Development Corporation.

December 18, 2018

500 Griswold,Suite 2200 DetroitMiChigCin 48226 (313) 963-2940

CODE EDC 18-1 2-03-2134
Economic Deveiopment Corporation of the City of Detroit

 

ACCEPTANCE OF REPORT FOR NOVEMBER 2018

RESOLVED, that the Treasurer's Report of Receipts and Disbursements for the
period ending November 30, 2018, as presented at this meeting, is hereby in all respects
accepted as action of the Economic Development Corporation.

December 18, 2018

500 Griswold, Suite 2200 DetroitMiChian 48226 (313) 9632940

. CODE EDC 18?12-91-80
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit

 

SMALL BUSINESS AND COMMERCIAL CORRIDOR REVITALIZATION PROGRAM:
AUTHORIZATION TO REPLENISH COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANT
SUBRECIPIENT AGREEMENT

WHEREAS, at the request of the City of Detroit (the ?City") Mayor?s Of?ce, the
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit is administering smalt
business and commercial corridor revitalization programs known as Motor City Match and
Motor City Re?Store (the ?Programs"); and

WHEREAS, Community Development Block Grant funding from the City
for the Programs implementation that were transferred to the EDC pursuant to Community
Development Block Grant subrecipient agreements has been depleted; and

WHEREAS, subject to City Council approval, the City?s Housing and
Revitalization Department has agreed to allocate additional CDBG funding to further
support the Programs in the amount of One Miilion Five Hundred Thousand and 00/100
Dollars for the term of January 1, 2019 through June 30, 2019; and

WHEREAS, the proposed scope of services and budget of which are attached
hereto as Exhibits A and B, respectfully (the ?Agreement"); and

WHEREAS, the EDC Board of Directors has determined that the Agreement is
appropriate and otherwise consistent with the statutory purposes; and

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT, RESOLVED, the Agreement is hereby approved.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that any two Of?cers, or any one of the Officers and
any one of the Authorized Agents or any two of the EDC's Authorized Agents, shall
hereafter have the authority to negotiate and execute the Agreement and all other
documents, contracts, or papers, and take all actions, necessary or appropriate to
implement the provisions and intent of this resolution on behalf of the EDC.

BE IT RESOLVED, that all of the acts and transactions of any officer or
authorized agent of the EDC, in the name and on behalf of the EDC, relating to matters
contemplated by the foregoing resolutions, which acts would have been approved by the
foregoing resolutions except that such acts were taken prior to execution of these
resolutions, are hereby in all respects confirmed, approved and ratified.

December 18, 2018

500 Griswold,3uite 2200 - Detroit, Michigan 48226 - (313) 963-2940

CODE EDC 1842-12-52
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit

 

l-94 INDUSTRIAL PARK: STOKES ET AL EDC - ENGAGEMENT OF COUNSEL

WHEREAS, the EDC has been named an additional plaintiff in a lawsuit against
the City and various industrial users in and around the l-94 industrial Park, with the
following counts against the negligence, nuisance, and violations of the Michigan
Environmental Protection Act, the Economic Development Corporations Act, and the
Equal Protection clause of the Constitution; and

WHEREAS, Staff recommends the engagement of Fink and Associates (?Fink?) to
act as counsel to the EDC in this matter at a blended rate of $275 per hour, due to its
experience defending public authorities and the City against lawsuits, including class
action lawsuits; and

WHEREAS, the EDC Board has determined that engagement of Fink is in the best
interests of the EDC and the l?94 industriai Park project.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE ITRESOLVED, that the EDC Board of Directors hereby
approves the engagement of Fink.

BE ITFURTHER RESOLVED that the EDC Board of Directors hereby authorizes
any two of its Officers or any two of its Authorized Agents or any one Officer and any one
Authorized Agent to negotiate and execute all documents, contracts and papers and take
such other actions necessary or appropriate to implement the provisions and intent of this
resolution on behaif of the EDC.

BE IT FINALLY RESOLVED, that all of the acts and transactions of any Officer or
Authorized Agent of the EDC, in the name and on behalf of the EDC, relating to matters
contemplated by the foregoing resolutions, which acts would have been approved by the
foregoing resolutions except that such acts were taken prior to execution of these
resolutions, are hereby in all respects confirmed, approved and ratified.

December 18, 2018

500 GriswoldSuite 2200 - Detroit, Michigan 48226 - (313) 963-2940

 CODE EDC 18-12-5241
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit

 

EAST DISTRICT: APPROVAL OF CONSTRUCTION SERVICES FOR
SOLL. STOCKPILE REMOVAL

WHEREAS, removal of an existing soil stockpile at 2155 Dubois is necessary to
facilitate the construction of a parking iot at the site and complete the necessary
geotechnicai and assessments of the ground below; and

WHEREAS, environmental testing of the soil was completed, and results indicate
that the disposal of the soil must occur at a specially designated waste facility; and

WHEREAS, the Economic Development Corporation of The City of Detroit 
invited experienced, qualified and licensed contractors to submit proposals for the proper
removal of soil (the ?Services"); and

WHEREAS, on November 13, 2018 the Board of Directors of the EDC approved
the execution of a Construction Services Agreement with ideal Contracting for the
performance of Services (Code EDC and

WHEREAS, the EDC staff has determined that, following a change in ideal
Contracting?s cost proposal, it is in the best interest of the EDC to utilize the next most
responsive bidder, Rickrnan Enterprises, to complete the Services; and

WHEREAS, EDC staff is requesting approval for the execution of a Construction
Services Agreement with Rickman Enterprises for the performance of the Services in a
not to exceed amount of one hundred forty-two thousand two hundred and 00/100 dciiars


NOW, THEREFORE, BE iT, RESOLVED, that the EDC Board of Directors hereby
authorizes the execution of a Construction Services Agreement with Rickrnan Enterprises
for the provision of the Services for the aggregate amount not to exceed one hundred
forty-two thousand two hundred and 00/100 doilars 

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that any two Of?cers, or any one of the Officers
and any one of the Authorized Agents or any two of the EDC's Authorized Agents, shali
hereafter have the authority to negotiate and execute a Construction Services Agreement
consistent with the above described terms, together with such other terms and conditions
that are determined by such Authorized Agents and/or Officers to be customary or
appropriate and not inconsistent with this resolution, and to negotiate and execute other
documents, contracts, or papers, and take all actions, necessary or appropriate to
implement the provisions and intent of this resolution on behalf of the EDC.

500 Griswold,Suite 2200 - Detroit,Michigon 48226 .. (313) 963-2940

BE IT RESOLVED, that all of the acts and transactions of any officer or
authorized agent of the EDC, in the name and on behalf of the EDC, relating to matters
contemplated by the foregoing resolutions, which acts would have been approved by the
foregoing resolutions except that such acts were taken prior to execution of these
resolutions, are hereby in all respects confirmed, approved and ratified.

December 18, 2018

