JOURNAL OF THE COMMISSION
CHARTER COUNTY OF WAYNE
STATE OF MICHIGAN
NO. 1

ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING - 2019
__________
FIRST DAY

Commission Chamber, Mezzanine, Guardian Building, Detroit, MI
Tuesday, January 8, 2019
10:00 a.m.

In conformance with the Wayne County Home Rule Charter, the Constitution and
applicable Statutes of the State of Michigan, and pursuant to the previous Commission’s
Rules, the Commissioners-elect to the Wayne County Commission assembled in the
Commission Chamber in the Guardian Building in Detroit on the fifth business day after
January 1st, the 8th day of January, 2019 at 10:05 a.m., and was called to order by the
Acting Clerk of the Commission, Pamela Lane.

SWEARING IN CEREMONY
Following the processional, the Wayne County Sheriff’s Department Honor
Guard led the audience in the Pledge of Allegiance.

1

 INVOCATION
Commissioner Alisha R. Bell introduced Reverend James Moss, Pastor of Living
Waters Church, who gave the following invocation:
“God, our Father in Heaven, whose ways are just and judgements are true,
thank you for this opportunity not only to stand before your people, but to stand for your
people. Season our hearts and our minds with the elegant grace that only you can that
prioritize those who cry out to us for a great and fair place to live, for a great and fair
place to raise our families, start and run our businesses, to work and as we are faced
with the important, yet sensitive, decisions as leaders, spokesmen and women for our
brothers and sisters. Help us to remember, oh God, that it’s all for shared spaces and
as we go in and out of communities, as we dissect legislature for fairness and equality,
and as we sometimes will have to indulge in unpopular subject matter to prevent evil
from overtaking our schools, our churches, our synagogues, our parks, our malls and all
the places assigned to us to help make a cohesive living space for us all herein, help us
of God to remember that it’s all for shared spaces. Now as we uphold the integrity and
responsibility of our position, God, let us not forget to infuse patience, civility, honesty,
discretion and loyalty in every step and move that we make in this Earth. Cover our
lives, our families, our steps as we come and we go, and we will do our best to never
forget that in every victory, in every triumph it is because of your grace and mercy that
we were able to attain favorable results. In your matchless name, we pray and praise.
Thank God, AMEN”

CERTIFICATION OF COMMISSIONERS-ELECT AND ROLL CALL
Acting Clerk of the Commission, Pamela Lane, advised that the Board of
Canvassers duly certified the following list of Commissioners-elect:
First District
Second District
Third District
Fourth District
Fifth District
Sixth District
Seventh District
Eighth District
Ninth District
Tenth District
Eleventh District
Twelfth District
Thirteenth District
Fourteenth District
Fifteenth District

TIM KILLEEN
JEWEL WARE
MARTHA G. SCOTT
ILONA VARGA
IRMA CLARK-COLEMAN
MONIQUE BAKER MCCORMICK
ALISHA R. BELL
DIANE WEBB
TERRY MARECKI
MELISSA DAUB
ABDUL “AL” HAIDOUS
GLENN S. ANDERSON
SAM BAYDOUN
RAYMOND E. BASHAM - Excused
JOSEPH PALAMARA

2

 CONSTITUTIONAL OATH OF OFFICE
The following named Commissioners took and subscribed the Constitutional
Oath of Office, which was administered by the following:

Mr. Mose Primus administered the Oath of Office to Commissioner Tim Killeen
of the First District.
Sheriff Benny Napoleon administered the Oath of Office to Commissioner
Jewel Ware of the Second District.
The Honorable Cylenthia LaToye Miller, 36th District Court, and Alasia
Chavious, great-granddaughter of Commissioner Scott, administered the Oath of Office
to Commissioner Martha G. Scott of the Third District.
Blake Hirt, grandson of Commissioner Varga, administered the Oath of Office to
Commissioner Ilona Varga of the Fourth District.
Pastors James and Melanie Moss, son-in-law and daughter of Commissioner
Clark-Coleman, administered the Oath of Office to Commissioner Irma Clark-Coleman
of the Fifth District.
Maya and Keianna McCormick, daughters of Commissioner Baker McCormick,
administered the Oath of Office to Commissioner Monique Baker McCormick of the
Sixth District.
Kranston Young Sr., husband of Commissioner Bell, Kranston Young II, son of
Commissioner Bell and Morgan Young, daughter of Commissioner Bell, administered
the Oath of Office to Commissioner Alisha R. Bell of the Seventh District.
Tom Webb, father of Commissioner Webb, administered the Oath of Office to
Commissioner Diane L. Webb of the Eighth District.
Aleksander Salmon, grandson of Commissioner Marecki, administered the Oath
of Office to Commissioner Terry Marecki of the Ninth District.
Kristy Pagan, State Representative, administered the Oath of Office to
Commissioner Melissa Daub of the Tenth District.
Norman Haidous, son of Commissioner Haidous, administered the Oath of
Office to Commissioner Abdul “Al” Haidous of the Eleventh District.
The Honorable Mark Slavens, Wayne County Circuit Court, administered the
Oath of Office to Commissioner Glenn S. Anderson of the Twelfth District.

3

 Liliana Baydoun, daughter of Commissioner Baydoun, administered the Oath of
Office to Commissioner Sam Baydoun of the Thirteenth District.
Commissioner Raymond E. Basham of the Fourteenth District was excused.
Luke Westerdale, grandson of Commissioner Palamara, administered the Oath
of Office to Commissioner Joseph Palamara of the Fifteenth District.

ELECTION OF WAYNE COUNTY COMMISSION OFFICERS
Commissioner Palamara, supported by Commissioner ClarkColeman, nominated Commissioner Alisha R. Bell as Chair of the Wayne County
Commission.
There being no other nominations, the Acting Clerk of the Commission
proceeded to announce that Commissioner Alisha R. Bell, having received the
unanimous vote of the members serving, was duly elected Chair of the Wayne
County Commission, and the resolution was thereby adopted by a voice vote.
[Resolution No. 2019-001]

The Acting Clerk of the Commission announced that the next order of business
was the election of the Vice-Chair of the Commission, following, which she requested
nominations for the Vice-Chair of the Commission.
Commissioner Ware, supported by Commissioner Marecki,
nominated Commissioner Joseph Palamara as Vice-Chair of the Wayne County
Commission.
There being no other nominations, the Acting Clerk of the Commission
proceeded to announce that Commissioner Joseph Palamara, having received the
unanimous vote of the members serving, was duly elected Vice-Chair of the Wayne
County Commission, and the resolution was thereby adopted by a voice vote.
[Resolution No. 2019-002]

The Acting Clerk of the Commission announced that the next order of business
was the election of the Vice-Chair Pro Tempore of the Commission, following which, she
requested nominations for the Vice-Chair Pro-Tempore of the Commission.
Commissioner Clark-Coleman, supported by Commissioner Webb,
nominated Commissioner Jewel Ware as Vice-Chair Pro Tempore of the Wayne
County Commission.

4

 There being no other nominations, the Acting Clerk of the Commission
proceeded to announce that Commissioner Jewel Ware, having received the unanimous
vote of the members serving, was duly elected Vice-Chair Pro Tempore of the Wayne
County Commission, and the resolution was thereby adopted by a voice vote.
[Resolution No. 2019-003]

The Acting Clerk of the Commission administered the Constitutional Oath of
Office to Commissioner Alisha R. Bell, as Chair of the Wayne County Commission,
Commissioner Palamara, as the Vice-Chair of the Commission and Commissioner Jewel
Ware, as Vice-Chair Pro Tempore of the Commission.

At this point in the proceedings, Acting Clerk of the Commission relinquished the
gavel to Chair Alisha R. Bell, who gave the following remarks:
“Good morning again; let me first do a few acknowledgements. We have here in
the chamber today, of course, our Sheriff, Benny Napoleon; Judge Slavens and Judge
Miller; Representative Pagan; Register of Deeds Bernard Youngblood; former
Commissioners Keith Williams, Shannon Price and two former Chairs of the
Commission, Art Blackwell and Ricardo Solomon. [Chairwoman Bell asked if there were
other elected officials and if they would please stand – former Commissioner Bernard
Parker stood]; Mayor of Lathrup Village Mykale Garrett; State Senator Dana Polehanki.
Thank you to all our elected officials and our former commissioners especially, who are
here with us today. Well, good morning. I am so honored to be the 9th chair of the
Wayne County Commission since our charter went into effect 37 years ago; and the
second woman, second to my good friend Jewel Ware. I have my father with me, James
Bell; I have my children, who you saw earlier, Kranston II, Morgan and of course my
husband, Kranston Sr.; I have the general, which is my sister, Sonya Johnson; and of
course my mother, former Commissioner Edna Bell. As you all know, quite literally, I
would not be here if she had not believed that I could serve the residents of District 7
and the residents of Wayne County as well, as she served during her tenure as
commissioner. Thank you mother for this opportunity, thank you, I love you. I couldn’t do
any of this or be here without the love and support of my family, and I am so grateful to
have them here with me today. Thank you to all my family, I love you. Let me also
recognize my friends who are here, as well as the residents of District 7 that I have
proudly served for 16 years. Thank you for your confidence in me and allowing me to
serve you for another term and of course another big thank you to my staff Beverly,
Michelle and Dustin. They make me look good every day. Thank you for what you’ve
done. I could not do what I do without them. Also to the Commission staff, we have the
most talented, professional and dedicated staff of anywhere, so thank you Commission
staff for all that you do for us every day. I would like to take this opportunity to
acknowledge our three new Commissioners: Commissioner Monique Baker McCormick,
Commissioner Melissa Daub and Commissioner Sam Baydoun. Each of them brings a
diverse career experience and vast talents that will serve this body well. Welcome
aboard new commissioners. I would like to congratulate also our newly elected Wayne
County Executive, Warren Evans, as he begins his second term in office. During his first
term, working together with the Commission, we were able to begin the process of a
5

 new justice center, as well as improve our financial position. I look forward to continuing
to work with Warren Evans as we continue on the path of making this the best county to
live in and to strive in and to be the best residents and the best county in the state of
Michigan. Let me also congratulate the dean of the Wayne County Commission, ViceChair Pro Tem Jewel Ware, for her guidance, leadership and her mentorship over the
years. I look forward to working with you again Jewel; and also, to our Vice-Chair, Joey
Palamara, our second dean. He has a vast amount of experience and he’s valued all
throughout Wayne County and I look forward to working with you as the Vice-Chair,
Commissioner Palamara. Now, a few more thank yous! I would like to give a special
thank you to my colleagues on the Wayne County Commission. Thank you for trusting
me to serve and to lead this honorable body. I do not take this position lightly and I do
not take it for granted. I promise to work hard every day to work on behalf of the citizens
and residents of Wayne County. Thank you for your trust in me. I will not let you down.
Over the years, the Wayne County Commission has implemented important
policies that have truly benefited the residents of our County. We’ve mandated free lead
testing for children under six years old; we’ve allocated extra funding to the Prosecutor’s
Office to assist her in investigating the 11,000 untested rape kits; we’ve funded the
Register of Deeds Office to crack down on fraudulent deeds that were ravaging some of
our communities; we’ve established a stringent Ethics Ordinance to make sure that all
County employees follow the rules and policies entrusted to us by the public; and we
passed the Stepping Up resolution to ensure that people who suffer from mental illness
and substance abuse are not housed in our jails, but are getting the treatment that they
deserve. As we move on to this new term, one of my priorities for this body is to address
bail bond reform. There are too many people who are housed in our jails simply
because they are too poor to bail out. It is not fair for those people to go home and for
others to stay housed in our jails just because they don’t have the funds. It’s a fairness
issue as well as an economic issue. So I would like this Wayne County Commission to
work with our Sheriff’s Office, and all of our electeds, to make sure we address this very
important issue and be a leader nationally on bail bond reform. Additionally, I would like
for us to reinstitute the Tri-County Summit.
There are issues that affect southeastern Michigan, and we need all hands on
deck for them to be addressed. The legislative body, Oakland, Macomb and of course,
working along with the Detroit City Council, and Wayne County – we have the expertise
and the talent to get things done and find solutions to the problems here in southeastern
Michigan. We can address road infrastructure, we can address regional transportation
and human trafficking, for example. All of these issues we can address working together
as a southeastern region and I know that we can provide sound solutions as the
regional leaders that we are. Lastly, as most of you know, I am a proponent of
continuing education for elected officials. There are always best practices to learn that
help us serve our constituents better. I sincerely encourage all of my colleagues to
become active in the Michigan Association of Counties as well as the National
Association of Counties. Personally, I have gained a tremendous amount of knowledge
from attending these events at NACo and MAC and I have brought several ideas back
to Wayne County from my experiences by attending these organizations. I look forward
to us being the best commissioners we can be by embracing the resources and
educational opportunities that these organizations bring. So you all get involved now.
Finally, we must never forget that the Wayne County Commission is the co-equal
6

 branch of county government and we must remain thoughtful and independent in order
to fulfil the duties that the residents of Wayne County entrusted us to do. We were
elected by the people to serve the people and I look forward to working with all of you
each and every day, as well as all of our countywide electeds, as we continue to grow
and move Wayne County forward. Finally, we are the people closest to the ground of
our residents. As we strive to connect the unconnected and serve the underserved, let
us remember, that our diversity is our strength and our unity is our power. Thank you
very much, and I look forward to serving this body.”

CONSIDERATION OF STANDING RULES OF THE COMMISSION
Rule 2 of the Commission's Rules of Procedure provides, in part:
“...The Commission shall also adopt Temporary
Rules of Procedure...."

Commissioner Anderson, supported by Commissioner Marecki, pursuant
to the Commission’s Standing Rules of Procedure, moved adoption of the Rules as
the Temporary Rules of Procedure for 60 days.
There being no discussion, Chair Bell requested a vote on adoption of the
foregoing matter and resolution, which prevailed, a majority of Commissioners
serving having voted therefore by the following Roll Call:
The Commissioners voted as follows:
Yea -- Commissioners Anderson, Baker McCormick, Baydoun, Clark-Coleman, Daub,
Haidous, Killeen, Marecki, Scott, Varga, Webb, Vice-Chair Pro Tempore Ware,
Vice-Chair Palamara, Chair Bell -- 14
Nay -- None
Abstain -- None
Not Voting -- None
Excused -- Commissioner Basham -- 1

[Resolution No. 2019-004]

READING, CORRECTING AND APPROVAL OF THE JOURNAL
Vice-Chair Pro Tempore Ware, supported by Vice-Chair Palamara,
moved approval of the proposed Journal of the Seventh Day Annual Meeting held
on December 20, 2018.

7

 The Commissioners voted as follows:
Yea -- Commissioners Anderson, Baker McCormick, Baydoun, Clark-Coleman, Daub,
Haidous, Killeen, Marecki, Scott, Varga, Webb, Vice-Chair Pro Tempore Ware,
Vice-Chair Palamara, Chair Bell -- 14
Nay -- None
Abstain -- None
Not Voting -- None
Excused -- Commissioner Basham -- 1

PUBLIC COMMENTS
Pursuant to the Wayne County Commission’s Rules of Procedure, Chair Bell
invited comments from the public. There were no members of the public wishing to
make remarks.

At this point in the proceedings, Chair Bell requested a special moment of silence for
the family of 5, who lost their life due to a drunken driver.

Resolutions in Memoriam
1.

By Commissioner Baydoun in memory of Issam Abbas

2.

By Commissioner Baydoun in memory of Dr. Rima Abbas

3.

By Commissioner Baydoun in memory of Ali Abbas

4.

By Commissioner Baydoun in memory of Isabella Abbas

5.

By Commissioner Baydoun in memory of Giselle Abbas

Chair Bell requested all to stand for a moment of silence in honor of
the foregoing individuals.

REMARKS BY MEMBERS
Pursuant to the Wayne County Commission’s Rules of Procedure, there were
no members requesting Remarks to be added to the journal.

8

 The time being 11:43 a.m., Chair Bell declared the Commission
adjourned until Thursday, January 24, 2019.

Pamela Lane
Acting Clerk of the Commission
PL:mm

9

 