Minutes of the meeting of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee of the Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System held Friday, December 14, 2018 at the hour of 10:00 A.M.
at 1950 W. Polk Street, in Conference Room 5301, Chicago, Illinois.
I.

Attendance/Call to Order
Acting Chair Hammock called the meeting to order.
Present:

Acting Chair M. Hill Hammock (Substitute Member) and Directors Mary
Driscoll, RN, MPH and Layla P. Suleiman Gonzalez, PhD, JD (3)
Directors David Ernesto Munar, Heather M. Prendergast, MD, MS, MPH and
Mary B. Richardson-Lowry
Patrick T. Driscoll, Jr. and Patricia Merryweather (Non-Director Members)

Absent:

Chair Ada Mary Gugenheim (1)

Additional attendees and/or presenters were:
Debra Carey – Deputy Chief Executive Officer,
Operations
Valerie Hansbrough, MD – Provident Hospital of
Cook County
Richard Keen, MD – John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital
of Cook County

II.

Trevor Lewis, MD – John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital
of Cook County
Jeff McCutchan –General Counsel
Deborah Santana – Secretary to the Board
John Jay Shannon, MD – Chief Executive Officer
Ronald Wyatt, MD – Chief Quality Officer

Public Speakers
Acting Chair Hammock asked the Secretary to call upon the registered public speakers.
The Secretary called upon the following registered public speaker:
1.

III.

George Blakemore

Concerned Citizen

Report from Chief Quality Officer
A. Regulatory and Accreditation Updates
B. Metrics (Attachment #1)
Dr. Ronald Wyatt, Chief Quality Officer, provided an overview of the metrics. The Committee reviewed
and discussed the information.
During the discussion of slide 6 of the metrics, Director Driscoll requested that the actual numbers of
hospital acquired infections be provided in a table format.
With regard to slide 9 of the metrics, Dr. Wyatt noted that there were less than seven (7) surveys
submitted by patients, so staff could not validate the numbers. Director Richardson-Lowry suggested that
an analysis be done comparing the number of patients surveyed versus the number of surveys returned, to
try to determine the reason for the low response rate.

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee
Friday, December 14, 2018
Page 2

III.

Report from Chief Quality Officer (continued)
C. Report from the Department of Surgery (Attachment #2)
Dr. Richard Keen, Chair of the Department of Surgery, provided an overview of the Report from the
Department of Surgery, which included information on the following subjects:





IV.

Surgical Education and Training
Medical Student Affiliations
Surgery Strategic Goals for 2018
Appendix – Department of Surgery Operating Room Cases

Action Items
A. Approve appointments and reappointments of Stroger Hospital Department Chair(s) and Division
Chair(s) (Attachment #3)
Debra Carey, Deputy Chief Executive Officer of Operations, provided an overview of the proposed
initial appointment of the following Stroger Hospital Division Chair:
Name
Bernhard Ortel, MD

Department/Appt Term
Medicine
3/01/2018 – 2/28/2021

Title
Division Chair of
Dermatology

Director Suleiman Gonzalez, seconded by Director Driscoll, moved to
approve the proposed initial appointment of the Stroger Hospital Division
Chair. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

B.

Executive Medical Staff (EMS) Committees of Provident Hospital of Cook County and John H.
Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County
i. Receive reports from EMS Presidents
ii. Approve Medical Staff Appointments/Re-appointments/Changes (Attachment #4)
Dr. Trevor Lewis, President of the EMS of John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County, provided
his report. He stated that at the recent EMS meeting, they received a presentation and approved the
inpatient and outpatient opiate guidelines. They also received reports from the Department of
Surgery, Medical Records Committee and Pharmacy and Therapeutics. New candidates were slated
for the upcoming election for EMS. The annual meeting will be held on January 22nd at 4:00 P.M.
Dr. Valerie Hansbrough, President of the EMS of Provident Hospital of Cook County, provided her
report. She stated that staff have started performing LASIK surgeries at Provident Hospital; oralmaxillary and plastic surgery services have also been performed. They anticipate further services to
be provided in 2019.
Director Driscoll, seconded by Director Suleiman Gonzalez, moved to
approve the Medical Staff Appointments/Re-appointments/Changes for John
H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County. THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee
Friday, December 14, 2018
Page 3

IV.

Action Items
B.

Executive Medical Staff (EMS) Committees of Provident Hospital of Cook County and John H.
Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County (continued)
Director Suleiman Gonzalez, seconded by Director Driscoll, moved to
approve the Medical Staff Appointments/Re-appointments/Changes for
Provident Hospital of Cook County.
THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.

C. Minutes of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting, November 16, 2018
Director Driscoll, seconded by Director Suleiman Gonzalez, moved to accept
the Minutes of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting of
November 16, 2018. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.
D. Any items listed under Sections IV and V

V.

Closed Meeting Items
A. Medical Staff Appointments/Re-appointments/Changes
B. Claims, Litigation and Quality and Patient Safety Matters
C. Matters protected under the federal Patient Safety and Quality Improvement Act of 2005 and the
Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996
The Committee did not recess into a closed meeting.

VI.

Adjourn
As the agenda was exhausted, Acting Chair Hammock declared the meeting
ADJOURNED.
Respectfully submitted,
Quality and Patient Safety Committee of the
Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
M. Hill Hammock, Acting Chair

Attest:

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Deborah Santana, Secretary

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee
Friday, December 14, 2018
Page 4

Requests/follow-up:
Request:

Request made regarding metrics, to have the actual numbers of hospital acquired infections
provided in a table format. Page 1

Follow-up:

Regarding Provident Hospital patient experience metrics, a suggestion was made to analyze the
numbers of patients surveyed versus the number of surveys returned. Page 1

 