MEETING OF THE GOVERNING BOARD
OF THE CHICAGO DEVELOPMENT FUND
NEW MARKETS TAX CREDITS PROGRAM

City Hall, Room 1000
121 North LaSalle Street
Chicago, Illinois

Tuesday, September 11, 2012
4:00 p.m.

Andrew Mooney, Chairman
Stephanie Neely
Alexandra Holt
Rafael Leon

Thomas Tunney

Lois Scott

Tracy Sanchez
Mitchell Holzrichter
Tony Smith

Benjamin King

Robert Stephan

Reported by: Karen M. Kane

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781-9586

 

CHAIRMAN MOONEY: We will call the board
meeting for the Chicago Development Plan together.
Those present are myself, Andrew Mooney as
Chairman, Stephanie Neely, Alex Holt, and Lois
Scott.

Let's see. The first matter on the
agenda is the approval of minutes of the last
meeting. Is there a motion?

MS. NEELY: Motion.

MS. SCOTT: Second.

CHAIRMAN MOONEY: It?s been moved and
seconded.

All in favor say aye.

(Chorus of ayes.)

CHAIRMAN MOONEY: Okay. We'll move to a few
reports and then we've got, I think it's three
resolutions.

MR. SMITH: Five, actually.

CHAIRMAN MOONEY: Oh, five.

MR. SMITH: Yeah. Great. Thank you.

Tony Smith with S.B. Friedman 
Company.

So our traditional status update on

previously approved and closed transactions.

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781?9586

 

I'm happy to report that all of
the transactions that were approved at the last
board meeting, all three of them I?m sorry, I
guess two at the most recent meeting everything
that's been approved so far in 2012 has closed
right up through the Leslie Shankman Orthogenic
School and the Hyde Park Day School project back in
June.

So an updated map here showing the
distribution of those financed investments around
the City of Chicago.

In terms of construction status, 11
out of the 16 are substantially complete and open.
And then five projects, which are the five most
recent closings Truong Enterprises is actually
having a grand opening in a couple of weeks and
we're going to pass on an invite from Truong to the
members of the board as well as the advisory board,
you're all cordially invited. And being an ethnic
produce distributor, they'll probably have a nice
spread.

MS. NEELY: Just to entice you a little bit.
MR. SMITH: Oakwood Shore Terraces, which

closed in March, Chicago Family Health Center,

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781-9586

 

Swedish Covenant Hospital, and Hyde Park Day
School, which all closed in June. So those are
all kind of in the early stages of construction.

So, again, an update of the closed
deal types by number: Community Facilities still
of the heaviest weighting within the portfolio, but
within that, a good balance, so five community
facility education projects, four health care
projects, two other types of community facilities,
a job training, and then the Salvation Army Kroc
Center, and then five industrial or business
expansion projects to date.

In terms of overall status of
allocations, James Simmons from our office has
created this nifty new chart to show credits coming
in and then getting deployed from each of the four
rounds that GDP has successfully been awarded so
far.

So you could see this consistent
pattern of getting award and then having about
$80 million or so unclosed allocation and then
deploying it.

The rate of deployment has increased

in most recent years. And so we're totaling

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781-9586

 

$184.6 million of deployed allocations since 2008,
and then currently $53.45 million is unclosed.

MS. NEELY: And how much of that is from 2011
Round 8? How much do we have of that?

MR. SMITH: Let's see. I believe it's:
$6.7 million of the remainder is from the 2010,
the Round 8 allocation, and the rest is from the
Round 9.

MS. NEELY: I'm sorry. is from Round 8?

MR. SMITH: I believe so, yeah.

MS. NEELY: Okay. And then the rest is
Round 9.

MR. SMITH: And then the rest is Round 9. So
the first two rounds are fully closed out.

So $238 million total in allocations
to date. Again, that $184.6 closed. No deals
currently in the closing process, but three deals
on the docket for today that would begin closing
very quickly.

And then the Roseland Plaza
transaction is still up in dry dock getting
restructured with a new lender and tax credit
investor, with a current projected size of $12.3

million. So that would come back to the board with

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781?9586

 

new structure if and when it reaches a state of
readiness for that.

So if you assume that that's going
to happen 

CHAIRMAN MOONEY: Is there a drop?dead date
on that when we need to have these-placed?

MR. SMITH: Yeah, there are drop-dead dates
with each of the allocations GDP has remaining.
We?re not Close to any of those dates, though. I
think it?s a five?year window from initial
execution of each allocation agreement.

So the Round 8 allocation agreement
I think was signed in April of 2011. So it will be
five years from then.

It's really more I call those
the stick deadlines. It's really more the carrot
deadlines that are kind of driving CDF at this
point to remain eligible for future allocations.

CHAIRMAN MOONEY: I was concerned
specifically about the Roseland project.

MR. SMITH: Oh, okay. With Roseland, CDF has
no obligation currently to tie up credits for that
deal; but it being a high priority of both CDF and

the City of Chicago, it seems to continue to make

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781-9586

 

sense to at least sort of soft circle the $12.3.
But, yeah, if deadlines cropped up, it would be an
obligation to keep the credits open.

80 in terms of just general
competitive dynamics, the New Markets world remains
fairly aggressive in terms of industrial pricing
and competition for deals, so that's good news for
CDF's borrowers mainly.

Pricing was in the low 705.

70 cents per dollar of tax credit a year ago is now
pretty consistently in the 76 to 80?cent range. So
the Shankman deal closed at 76 cents and the
Swedish Covenant deal closed at 76 cents. Two of
the deals we see before us todaywe're kind of pushing that upper
range of historical pricing.

It's still sort of an arms race
among different CDEs in the industry to deploy
quickly, particularly CDF's rate of allocations,
and deployment is kind of up in the range of the
national footprint CDEs. Many of those have
committed. Most or all of the allocations they got
in this most recent round, February 2012 round, and

are rapidly trying to close that allocation out.

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781-9586

 

Treasury since our last board
meeting announced the 2012 QEI deadline, so that's
the deadline by which CDF needs to capitalize a
certain amount of its past allocation to be
eligible for more. So that's really one of the
most relevant deadlines that we?re looking at right
now.

CDF has minimum percentages as shown
in this table of each its prior round allocations
that would need to be fully closed out to be
eligible for future credits. So if you see, the
fourth round threshold the CDF has met by closing
out all of its fourth round credits. The same with
the seventh round.

With the eighth round credits, the
minimum threshold is 40 percent and CDF sits at
63 percent, so no problem there.

It's really the ninth round
allocation where CDF is just shy of the minimum
percentage that would need to be closed by
October 31st of this year in order to be eligible
for new allocation.

MS. NEELY: And with what we have on the

table, do you think we're going to make that, or

 

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781?9586

 

no?

MR. SMITH: Well, we have a resolution on the
table today to authorize prefunding, which is
exactly what CDF did last year with the Oakwood
Shores transaction.

MS. NEELY: And where will that take us?

What percent?

MR. SMITH: That would well, there's some
flexibility in the prefunding, but that would take
CDF I think well over 60 percent 

MS. NEELY: Okay. So we should be okay.

MR. SMITH: Yeah, yeah. There's a way to
close credits by October 31st essentially.

CHAIRMAN MOONEY: Let the record show that
Alderman Tom Tunney has joined us. 

MR. SMITH: And that is it as far as just the
general status update.

CHAIRMAN MOONEY: Okay. Any questions on any
of the projects?

Okay. If not, let's go on to the
next.

MR. SMITH: Sure. So the 2012 application
for New Markets credits.

So we?ve tried several times to find

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781?9586

 

meeting dates that were further in advance of the
application deadlines so there could be more
discussion about this; but, unfortunately, as James
from our office can attest, we got bounced around
quite a bit and we ended up here we are on one
day before the submittal deadline to talk about the
application.

So hopefully the Board will agree
that it's a good idea to submit.

MS. NEELY: That will make it interesting
enough. Give you some gray hair.

MR. SMITH: That's right. Well, just to make
you happy, CDF would be asking for the maximum this
year because Treasury has lowered the maximum to
100, and GDP has a reasonable basis to ask for
$100 million based on its $50 million plus a year
deployment track record, and the Treasury's
guidance that you should ask for roughly a two?
year deployment allocation.

So this is a provisional round. So,
in other words, Treasury is taking in applications
and scoring them, then holding them until unless
and until Congress takes action to reauthorize and

extend the New Markets program.

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
{312) 781*9586

 

there's been some hopeful signs.
Senate Finance Committee passed a two?year
extension earlier this year at $3.5 billion a year,
so the same size the program has been for the last
two years.

But it?s going to be a showdown,
basically, at the end of this year regarding tax
policy in general.

The last time New Markets got
extended, it was in late 2010 attached to the Bush
tax cut extension. This year it could be tied to
any kind of compromise that happens before the debt
ceiling deal kicks in or as part of some kind of
massive tax reform. Or your guess is as good as
mine, if not probably better, actually.

It will be a probably a very
highly competitive round, again, just anecdotally,
based on talking to folks in the industry.

So last year 70 awards were given
out. This year Treasury sent some signals that
they might do more awards, so a 
smaller average award size. But the application
count keeps skyrocketing with each round. So as

competitive or more than last year's 

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781?9586

 

MS. SCOTT: How many applications were there
last year?

MR. SMITH: 314.

MS. SCOTT: And they awarded about 70?

MR. SMITH: Yes.

MS. NEELY: And last year we had a huge
debate about how much money to ask for.

MR. SMITH: Right.

MS. NEELY: And we decided to Up it. So
what's your case for this hundred million? So just
because it?s been --

MR. SMITH: Yeah, yeah. Last year was 111.
The ceiling is 125. So, yes, CDF asked for 111,
but this year capped at 100.

MS. SCOTT: You don't get any brownie points
for asking for 94, do you?

MR. SMITH: 98.6?

You know, we haven't really seen a
pattern of that. I mean, it's good to have an ask
that ties to your real track record in your
pipeline. But CDF has enough of a track record at
this point that 100 is reasonable.

MS. SCOTT: Okay.

MS. NEELY: Do we need a motion for that?

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781?9586

 

MR. SMITH: Well, a little bit more on the
application first.

So some just highlights as far as
what's in the draft we're working on.

So continuing practice of
providing below market senior and subordinate debt
products, focusing on flexibility, particularly
trying to get some smaller deals done.

CDF has actually already done a
couple deals that are kind of on the small size of
what New Markets participants are willing to do.

So Imperial Zinc was $6 million back
in 2009; Charter Steel was $4.9 million in 2010.
So those are relatively small in the New Markets
world.

CDF is stating in its application
that it wants to continue to serve those small
borrowers to try and make the program accessible,
choose as wide a range of businesses as it can,
continuing to emphasize the very highly distressed
parts of the city. So 100 percent of deals
have been in areas of greater economic distress,
and they continue to be in greater economically

distressed census tracts with the 2010 census. So,

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
{312) 781-9586

 

really, not just areas that barely qualify, but
areas that are truly in need.

In terms of project categories, it's
kind of a continuation and slight expansion of what
CDF has done so far.

So industrial has been a big focus,
but there's a couple small business deals,
including a transportation company, that are coming
up in the pipeline that seem to suggest some good
interesting community impacts and seem relatively
consistent with what CDF has done so far.

And then continuing community
facilities, grocery?anchored retail and then
sustainability projects.

We have one such sustainability
project on the table today with the ACE Solar
transaction.

MR. TUNNEY: I have a comment question and
comment, not being on this committee for that long
a time, though, is this high quality job
creation 

MR. SMITH: Uh-huh.

MR. TUNNEY: and industrial expansion of

small businesses. I mean, since it is such a

 

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781~9586

 

competitive award, I would think we would try to
have more zinc companies, more job creators of
good jobs especially in distressed areas.

I mean, all due respect, a grocery
store is great for some areas and it does have
jobs, but you have to have disposable income to be
able to shop and you have to have a decent job.

And, you know, I'm just you know,
I just feel sometimes that I'd like to see more job
creators at medium and, you know, whatever 
whatever they call it h- living wages, so to speak,
you know.

So I mean, I just you know, I
just -- I think whatever we get is great, but, you
know, I guess as chairman of economic development,
I just would like to see, you know you know,
especially in distressed areas, that they give
some, you know, sustainable jobs.

MS. NEELY: How many-jobs are typically
created with a grocery store?

MR. SMITH: Let's see. Well 

CHAIRMAN MOONEY: It depends on the size of
the store.

MR. SMITH: A wide range.

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781-9586

 

MS. NEELY: Let's talk about an Aldi's which
we've looked at before or something like that.

MR. SMITH: Those create relatively few. In
fact, Aldi's has sort of a light staffing model,
like 10 or 15 jobs.

I think the WaluMart Neighborhood
Market that's on the docket today, that's somewhere
in the 100 kind of range of jobs there.

MS. NEELY: SO that's kind Of 

MS. SCOTT: They're quality jobs, I think.

MS. NEELY: But it's a fulfilling the food

  

desert issue, which is very big, you know. I agree
with you, but -- job creation is certainly
important, but the food desert issue can't be 

MS. SCOTT: Do we have a pipeline that we can
select and pick and choose, or are we still trying
to fill a pipeline?

MR. SMITH: You know, the pipeline is
starting to get to the point where there may need
to be some hard decisions in the next couple board
meetings.

But, for example, that
transportation company I mentioned, that's 100

new jobs and there?s they're fairly accessible,

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781*9586

 

actually. You only need a high school education
and drug free and a clean driving record, basically,
to be eligible. And there's about $3500 per job of
training that the company provides.

So it's not an industrial job. But
I think I think that's sort of what you're
implying is sort of an attractive deal for 

MR. TUNNEY: To get people working so they
can consume more Aldi products.

MR. SMITH: Right.

MR. TUNNEY: It's sad. It's sad, being from
the South Side and seeing what?s happened.

MR. SMITH: Right. We definitely we
generate some statistics about CDF's past portfolio
as part of the application, and we'd be happy to
circulate, that sort of analyzes the job quality
across the deals CDF's done so far, as well as the
accessibility. And there's some pretty interesting
and actually fairly compelling outcomes from even
some of those community facility deals where you
don't think of jobs as being the point.

MS. NEELY: Well, I think the model,
though and feel free to correct me the model

is kind of changing in terms of jobs, too, in this

 

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781?9586

 

economy. The full?time benefit paying jobs are few
and far between. And so even if it's a part?time
job, a job is a job. And, you know, I don't think
we should just foo?foo that. I agree that we
should look at which ones are which are which
we could prioritize, but, you know, a job is a job.
We need to make sure that we are feeding people
healthy choices in terms of food, too.

CHAIRMAN MOONEY: It's always a balance.

MS. NEELY: It is. It is.

CHAIRMAN MOONEY: Are you finished on the
application?

MR. SMITH: Yes. Thank you.

CHAIRMAN MOONEY: Okay. Any other questions
or comments?

If not, I'll take a motion to 

MS. SCOTT: Motion.

MS. NEELY: Second.

CHAIRMAN MOONEY: It's been moved and
seconded. All those in favor say aye.

(Chorus of ayes.)
CHAIRMAN MOONEY: We have three projects?
MR. SMITH: We do, yes.

CHAIRMAN MOONEY: I?m sorry. I neglected,

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781-9586

 

shouldn?t have, didn't intend to, that Rafael
Leon, who is chairman of our Advisory Committee, is
here with us today.
The Advisory Committee met a week or
so ago to review all of these projects with us.
And before we vote on the next one, I would ask
Rafael to give us the input from the Advisory
Committee.
Tony, go ahead.
MR. SMITH: Thank you.
So here's a healthy foods deal. So
very apropos to the discussion we just had.
This project is called Shops and
Lofts at 47. It is a mix?use project at 47th and
Cottage Grove.
This project has gone through a
number of different iterations throughout its 
MS. NEELY: Is it going to look like this
(indicating)?
MR. SMITH: Yeah.
Throughout the project history
there's been an attempt to sort of change the tone
of development in that corridor and, in fact, a

couple of the iterations of the project were just

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781-9586

 

single?story surface retail with a parking lot.

And so I think the planning process
in the 4th Ward has sort of driven the rendering
you see and basically construction that matches it.

MS. NEELY: So these apartments, are these
market rate apartments? Are these condos? What
are these?

MR. SMITH: They are rental apartments. At
one point back in '06??07 they were condos, but

that's not possible 

MS. NEELY: I see. Market rate rentals?
MR. SMITH: They are mixed income. 80 it's
96 total units. 72 of those are restricted

affordable, including some CHA replacement units.
The rest are market.
MS. NEELY: So it's mostly a CHA replacement.
MR. SMITH: Mostly I think it's the income
restricted affordable. It's non?CHA.

MS. NEELY: How many CHA replacement?

MR. SMITH: Let?s see. I think we -- no, we
don?t have it here. I'm sorry.
CHAIRMAN MOONEY: They become a they take

a master lease, and then the folks who are eligible

on the waiting list will qualify and are passed by

 

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781-9586

 

management.

MS. SANCHEZ: They provide capital dollars 
the Shops and Lofts. Yeah, they provide capital
dollars and then they have they provide annual
contribution contracts for the operating subsidy.
They basically pay the Operating costs of the
building for the CHA units. So that they pay a
break even; so that no money is lost on operating a
CHA unit. They give the developers they
reconcile at the end of the year on them.

MS. NEELY: This is my neighborhood and

I've never heard the term "Grove Park" in my entire

life.

CHAIRMAN MOONEY: I think it's wrong. It's
not Grove Park. I don't know how that crept in
here.

MS. NEELY: Well, I've never heard of it.

MR. TUNNEY: Can I ask the number of parking
spaces?

MR. SMITH: That we would have to send to you
after the meeting.

MS. NEELY: So there's going to be a lot on
sort of the back of the south side of it, I

assume?

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781-9586

 

MR. SMITH: It?s sort of a full lot
development. So here's the aerial currently
(indicating). Area shown in yellow. So all of
that area will be redeveloped.

The parking is in the interior of
the site, a little bit at surface and then much of
it underground and then structure. So it's a very
urban style format, very dense, very high quality.

So the primary tenants in the
commercial piece, which is the subject of --

MR. TUNNEY: We have that even at like
Southport and at the Jewel there. It went from
surface to kind of interesting.

CHAIRMAN MOONEY: So it can only accommodate
parking on the side. But the Wal?Mart area at
least has a good security program, so we'll see.

MS. NEELY: We got to stay on top of that.

CHAIRMAN MOONEY: Wal?Mart is a having a
quality tenant like Wal-Mart is important to making
this thing work.

MS. SCOTT: I know this is an important
project. I just want to make sure I understand the
project economics.

So overall how much is public money

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781?9586

 

going into this project and how much is private
money going into the project?

MS. NEELY: Yeah, what's the total? Do we
have all the numbers?

MR. SMITH: We have the numbers on the
commercial side in more detail, and then on the
residential side we have less. I apologize, the
numbers are swimming around in my head. Let me
pull this up.

CHAIRMAN MOONEY: We're providing TIF, and
CHA land.

MS. NEELY: We?re providing the land?

CHAIRMAN MOONEY: Uh-huh. We acquired the
property. It used to be a liquor store, as you
will recall. They had to move all the liquor.

MR. SMITH: So the commercial side has
$6.8 million of senior debt and about half a
million of sponsor equity in it. Those are truly
private funds, out of about $12 million.

MR. TUNNEY: 6.8. And what was the other
one?

MR. SMITH: About half a million of sponsored
equity. So $7.3 million of non-TIF, non?New Market

sources in the commercial piece.

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781-9586

 

CHAIRMAN MOONEY: As is typical in these kind
of projects, we have to be careful in the mix of
the commercial funding with the residential part.
And the New Markets goes into the commercial piece
of this.

MR. SMITH: Right.

MS. SCOTT: And the housing portiOn is about
how much?

MS. SANCHEZ: The housing portion at this
time is $33 million. It's $16 million tax exempt
bonds. On this project we've got $550,000 of
tentative home loans. There will be tax credits
generated from the bonds. Another approximately
$900,000. And we have tax credit equity from the
bonds of approximately $8.4 million. And we?ve got
TIF of about $11.4 million.

MS. SCOTT: So about $20 million of that
33 is public, ballpark, something like that?

MS. SANCHEZ: Ballpark.

CHAIRMAN MOONEY: Tracy, why don't you send
around after the meeting 

MS. SANCHEZ: I have a breakdown of the usage
for the commercial and residential.

CHAIRMAN MOONEY: I have to give credit to

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781-9586

 

the developers who are from out of town. They have
stuck with this thing through thick and thin. It's
called Skilken Development. They're from Columbus,
Ohio. And they were found actually by the
neighborhood based on a market study that was done
at ICSC back in like 2005, maybe, 2006. And they
had the project ready to go on the market. They've
stayed with it ever since.

MS. NEELY: When is this scheduled to break
ground?

MR. SMITH: They were shooting for October or
so, but I think given the complexity of the closing
with the New Markets and the housing, it will
happen around year?end. And they?ll break ground
shortly thereafter.

MS. SCOTT: Just an issue I think that we
should have on the record, and that is whether
the New Markets Tax Credit program should be
benefitting companies like Wal~Mart. I think we
should address that.

CHAIRMAN MOONEY: Well, there's no direct
payment or subsidy to Wal?Mart.

MS. NEELY: And we had something similar. We

had the Aldi?s deal that we were doing, but they

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781-9586

 

were just going to be the anchor tenant. So
they're not actually benefiting, there?s just a
structure that they're going to occupy.

MR. SMITH: They?re paying north of $15 a
square foot, which is pretty healthy. It's the
cost of mainly structured parking, trying to jam it
all into the site and have this dense mix of uses
that's creating the gap.

MS. NEELY: And just going back to your
point, the $20 million of so?called public money,
does that include the land?

MR. TUNNEY: Is Wal?Mart the only tenant?

MR. SMITH: They're 41,000 out of the 55,000
total. So they're the only pre?leased tenant. The
rest will be kind of smaller, you know, coffee
shop, restaurant, sandwich shop, kind of retail.

MS. NEELY: Has anyone committed, you know,
Starbucks or anybody like that, committed?

MR. SMITH: No. I think the tenant strategy
is or the developer strategy is to break ground,
start to go vertical, because then you can command
better rents with prospective tenants after that
point. And Wal?Mart is enough pre?lease to get to

that point.

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781-9586

 

CHAIRMAN MOONEY: We wouldn't be at this
point without the Wal?Mart lease.

Any comments?

MR. SMITH: 80 job creation 
MS. NEELY: You said 100?
MR. SMITH: I said 100, and I was incorrect.

There's 50 full?time public jobs.
MS. NEELY: That?s Wal?Mart.

MR. SMITH: Yeah, that's the Wal?Mart

permanent jobs, yeah. And we don?t have specific
tenants yet for the rest of the space. But that
will create maybe another another 15 or 20 or so

I

will be my best guess at this point.

80 full?time Wal?Mart employees in
Illinois typically receive about $12.85 an hour.
They do have access to benefits and 401(k), and
then they get in?store discounts.

MS. NEELY: And are they is there any type
of requirement that they hire from within the
neighborhood?

MR. SMITH: I believe the developer has an
arrangement with Quad Communities Development
Corporation to emphasize local hiring, and there's

also a couple of special covenants on Wal?Mart's

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781?9586

 

merchandising; there's like a local sourced
products section, and they won't sell certain
formats of liquor in the store, in response to the
black community's request.

MS. NEELY: I'm sorry, what does that mean?

MR. SMITH: I think it means 40?ounce beer.

MR. TUNNEY: Or pints.

(Discussion off the record.)

CHAIRMAN MOONEY: Back on the record.

MR. SMITH: So we also took a quick look at
the leakage concept, which is basically an analysis
using ESRI business which is a map?based
demographic software that looks at how much grocery
demand exists in the neighborhood versus how much
grocery sales activity is currently taking place.

And so if there?s an imbalance
between those two, it either means that the area is
importing sales, in other words, selling more than
its current residents demand, and so getting
out-of?area traffic; or the opposite. In this
case, it's definitely a deficit of retail sales in
the area of about $46 million within grocery, which
is the primary category that Wal-Mart would serve.

MS. NEELY: And when was this done?

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781?9586

 

MR. SMITH: This is very current data. I
think it?s 2010 census basis.

MS. NEELY: The reason I ask is that a
grocery store just closed, Michael's, it just
closed on 47th in Lake Park Points, and it was
always empty, but the prices were really high in
there.

MR. SMITH: So this -- it might be
exacerbated.

MS. NEELY: Yes.

MR. SMITH: So, in other words, this is
meeting a demand that currently exists and is unmet
in the neighborhood, particularly the grocery
component.

So the deal structure of this is,
again, it's just the commercial piece, which is
the smaller portion of the transaction. It?s
about $12.1 million total budget. Proposed CDF
allocation would be $11.75 million, which generates
about $3.4 million of tax credit equity.

New Markets investor would be
JPMorgan Chase. They would also be the senior
lender and the TIF lender. And then the City of

Chicago would provide TIF subsidy to the commercial

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781?9586

 

piece that would justify a portion of Chase's loan.
So that's about a million four of TIE for this side
of the deal.

And that's all I have.

MS. SCOTT: So in terms of size, where will
this rank in terms of size?

MR. SMITH: Kind of medium size. Yeah, I
would say a lot of deals are clustered in this
range.

CHAIRMAN MOONEY: Any other questions,
comments?

I'm looking for a motion.

MS. NEELY: Motion.

MS. HOLT: Second.

CHAIRMAN MOONEY: It's been moved and
seconded. All in favor say oh, I'm sorry?

MR. LEON: No comments on this one.

CHAIRMAN MOONEY: All in favor say aye.

(Chorus of ayes.)

CHAIRMAN MOONEY: Thank you.

Go ahead.

MR. SMITH: So I mentioned we had a

sustainability project in the portfolio on the

docket for today, and this is it.

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
{312) 781-9586

 

It's called ACE or Affordable
Community Energy. It's a very distinctive project,
very different from what CDF has done so far for
several reasons.

Basically what the project would be
is a renewable energy installation in 11 different
rental housing properties that are currently
managed by Hispanic Housing Development
Corporation. So it would be a mixture of solar
equipment, combined heat and power, which is this
sort of washing machine looking device here that
captures waste heat in the hot water system and
turns it into additional power, and then energy
efficiency upgrades to the buildings.

So the portfolio is primarily in the
Logan Square and Humboldt Park areas. All the
buildings are existing rental properties with
100 percent affordable tenant mix. All are in
New Markets qualified census tracts.

And the project sponsor is ACE,
Inc., which is a start?up business that is majority
owned by Hispanic Housing Development Corporation,
but ACE is a for?profit.

It's basically a new business model

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781-9586

 

energy service company; so a company that comes
in and installs these improvements to buildings and
then sells a more predictable energy cost to the
underlying building, and then takes a spread
between those two numbers to earn its return.

MS. NEELY: Is Affordable Community Energy a
minority?owned company?

MR. SMITH: Given that Hispanic Housing is
the majority owner, certainly for New Markets
purposes it would count. I don't know about the
City of Chicago definitions, but 

MS. SCOTT: It's owned by a nonprofit.

MR. SMITH: Yeah, it's owned by a nonprofit
whose board is majority minority.

MR. TUNNEY: Explain exactly how this return
is going to happen.

MR. SMITH: Sure. So I think we have no,
we don't.

So they come in and make this array
of improvements in the building, which are going to
generate power and theyire going to create energy
savings. So in turn the existing building owner is
going to pay them close to what they currently pay

for their total energy bill. They're going to pay

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
{312) 781n9586

 

that to ACE instead of to the utility companies.

ACE in turn is going to pay the
end the utility company uses a lower bill, and
then they?ll capture the spread.

MS. SANCHEZ: And that's for approximately
10 years, I think?

MR. SMITE: Yeah, right.

MS. SANCHEZ: And then after 10 years, then
Hispanic Housing would then give the equipment to
the existing owners, and then they would capture
the savings from year 10 to like year 30 for the
remaining life on the equipment.

MS. SCOTT: They continue to own the
equipment prior to 

MS. SANCHEZ: For the first 10 years, ACE
will own the equipment. Then after 10, from like,
you know, 11 to 30, when hopefully it will still
have useful life, then the current building owners
will be able to capture that savings in the
utility 

MS. NEELY: What is the useful life typically
of this equipment?

MR. SMITH: 25 years plus.

MS. SCOTT: But you say the current owners,

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781-9586

 

which is Hispanic Housing, since they own the

building?
MR. SMITH: Yes. Well, some of them are
partnerships. They have tax credit investors. But

Hispanic's the general partner.

MS. SANCHEZ: This pilot program is for their
own building, but the model could then be used so
they could do it in other buildings.

MS. SMITH: I just know that solar panels,
they might last for 25 years, but they're not
accountably reliable for 25 years because the
technology is Changing.

Not to say we shouldn't do it.

MR. TUNNEY: Because I know we're trying to
do that on our private investment thing. But so
energy price they're saying I'm paying $300 a
month for a unit, and I will continue to pay $300
a month for the period of the following years
regardless of where the cost per therm or whatever-
whatever, because you have natural you?re going
to have increases in prices, you'll obviously
you'll have more efficiencies, and that?s the whole
idea.

But what is the net the net, when

 

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781-9586

 

your prices go up and you've got energy, and how do
you kind of control that? Because you're really
saying, I'm going to pay fixed fees, basically, for
the next 10 years?

MR. SMITH: The next 10 years, right.

MR. TUNNEY: What I'm basically paying now?

MR. SMITH: Yeah.

MR. TUNNEY: And then the whole risk is now?

MR. SMITH: Transferred to the energy service
company.

MR. TUNNEY: At least for the first 10 years,
and then after that, if there is m~

MS. NEELY: But I'm confused by that, because
if there's energy efficiencies, why would I want
to 

MS. HOLT: No, I think what they're probably
doing is the energy services company has got a deal
with are they using is it set up to use the
materials, the energy in the building, or are they
selling it back to ComEd?

MR. SMITH: It's all to be used onsite in the
buildings, just based on the projected production
rates. I mean, theoretically it's negative net

metering, it's called.

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
{312) 781?9586

 

MS. HOLT: Right. But they?re probably
also they probably got some they might have
a deal with ComEd as well for energy credits,
because ComEd has got to sell a certain amount of
solar RECs, right?

MR. SMITH: Right, right. That's definitely
part of the revenue stream.

MS. HOLT: Something like the RECs. There
might definitely be some energy credits that are
going here as well; I don't know.

MR. SMITH: Yeah, that's one of their major
projected revenue streams is the sale of SRECs,
yeah. It's not very underwritable by the bank,
PNC, in this deal, but that's definitely part of
it.

So the proof of concept is let's
demonstrate SRECs are a viable revenue stream for a
business like this.

MS. SCOTT: And if use of building changes
and energy use increases, who is responsible?

MR. SMITH: Sorry? If the building energy
use goes up 

MS. SCOTT: Change in use of the building.

Maybe it used to be apartments and they decide to

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781-9586

 

for office building, where the tenant usage
changes 

MR. SMITH: As I understand it, the energy
service company is on the hook for 

MS. SCOTT: Change in use 

MR. SMITH: essentially everything that
happens are you talking about a change in land
use?

MS. SCOTT: Change in use of the building.

MR. TUNNEY: It's all residential.

MR. SMITH: Yeah, they're all residential
currently.

CHAIRMAN MOONEY: They're all residential.
They?re all tax credit projects.

MR. SMITH: Yeah, based on that regime, I
think that?s a limited risk. It's really 
cost of energy is the primary sort of short?term
benefit that the buildings get. They get cost
predictability. And then after the 10 years,
the ownership of the equipment reverts to the
buildings, and then they get basically a windfall.
They have this renewable equipment and efficiency
upgrade that doesn't cost them anything at that

point, so they begin to get 100 percent of the

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781?9586

 

benefit after year 10.

MS. SCOTT: So this is a lO?year deal. And
the payback is very successful?

MR. SMITH: It's about 10 years on the mix
between the efficiency and the renewables.

(Overlapping discussion amongst

attendees.)

MR. LEON: At the end of the day, I mean,
this is a company owned by Hispanic Housing.

MS. SCOTT: Right. They're doing it for
themselves.

MR. LEON: They?re doing it for themselves.
It improves their cash flow substantially because
you can predict what it will be.

One of the questions that we had
for Andrew was whether this is a program that
eventually could be done on a larger scale.

MR. SMITH: And that's definitely part of
the story on this transaction. It's not just the
specific set of improvements of about $6 million
that's getting financed with this transaction.
It's also HUD has explicitly provided $900,000
in grant funds for this project as an energy

innovation pilot program basically to see if this

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781?9586

 

type of model is viable for affordable housing,
does it lower the long?term costs of owning and
managing affordable housing as a sort of a housing
preservation angle.

And so there's extensive reporting
back to HUD. And they're also a co?grantee with
Enterprise Community Partners. And so there's 
within their grant group is extensive reporting and
sharing best practices as well on whether this
model is working.

CHAIRMAN MOONEY: Which was basically the
response to Rafael's question, which is that this
is a pilot program, and we'll have to see how it
works out.

MR. SMITH: Right.

CHAIRMAN MOONEY: If it does have some legs
on it, we'll try and introduce it into the
affordable housing stock.

MR. TUNNEY: Is it 100 percent affordable,
all these units, and what are the projected rent
increases over the next 10 years? So your
occupancy costs would actually decrease based on 
even the affordable is is the rent going to go

up on a certain percentage every year?

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781-9586

 

the rent roll projected to go up
over the next 10 years; therefore, the occupancy
costs going down as a percentage?

CHAIRMAN MOONEY: I'll turn that around just
a little bit and ask Rafael to respond to it given
his portfolio.

Rents will go up, but not because of
the utility costs. There will be other maintenance
costs 

MR. LEON: Just in principle.
CHAIRMAN MOONEY: They will go up, but they
will go up at the affordable incline.

But the important thing is that it
makes these buildings much more sustainable in
the long run because it provides the capital to a
not?for?profit or affordable housing development
which they would not otherwise have in order to
change these systems.

Am I right?

MR. LEON: Yeah, absolutely.

MR. SMITH: So this is one of those
relatively Small deals that we were talking about
for the application purposes. It's a $6.25 million

proposed allocation, so about a million nine of net

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781-9586

 

tax credit equity.

New Markets investor would be PNC
Bank, who CDF recently closed its first deal with
on the Shankman Orthogenic School.

They would also be a senior lender
in the transaction, as well as providing bridge
financing for the HUD grant, as well as the 1603

credits, which are a renewable energy investment

tax credit. That?s also part of the deal
structure. So it?s actually converted to a cash
grant under a Treasury program. PNC is going to

bridge that Treasury payment because that comes in
when the panels are placed in service.

So a couple different layers of
private financing that HUD grants. There's some'
DCEO funds in here. There's property replacement
reserves from the client buildings themselves. So
a whole stack of little sources that add up to the
leveraged side of the deal. And then tax
credit equity of about a million nine.

MS. NEELY: What are the soft costs in a deal
like this?
MR. SMITH: There's assessment costs, so

looking at the structural capability of the

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, ENC.
(312) 781?9586

 

building to hold up these panels on the roof.

There's the cost of designing the
business model and filing all the paperwork with
Treasury to keep your 1603 cash grant rights, stuff
like that.

MR. TUNNEY: And the developer fee?

MR. SMITH: The developer fee you mean the
amount of it? It's $670,000.

MR. TUNNEY: So the existing building we?re
retrofitting, I don't what is the development 
what is the ?u

MR. SMITH: It's purely it's a renewable
energy development fee. So there?s no real estate
improvements happening here. It's purely equipment
being put into the buildings.

So ACE would be essentially paying
itself a developer fee from the project costs for
all the work involved in putting the deal together
and doing that work.

In turn, they're actually plowing
that capital back into the transaction as part of
the leveraged source, as well as working capital
for ACE to start up.

MS. NEELY: So on a cash flow basis, it's net

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781-9586

 

zero.

MR. SMITH: Yeah. All the money is staying
in the deal, mostly in the capital side of the
deal, but some of it in the operations base.

MS. SCOTT: Same thing on the structuring of
the deal. With the structure 

MR. SMITH: Same thing, yeah.

MS. SCOTT: What about does the developer
fee come back into the 

MR. SMITH: The developer fee let's see 
well, the structuring fee is reinvested immediately
at closing. The developer fee is paid out during
construction and creates working capital for ACE.
It also creates a tax credit basis on the 1603. So

that's part of the reason it was sized the way it

was.
CHAIRMAN MOONEY: Okay. Further comments?
Rafael, anything further?
MR. LEON: NO.
CHAIRMAN MOONEY: Is there a motion to accept
the deal?

MR. TUNNEY: Motion.

CHAIRMAN MOONEY: Second?

MS. NEELY: Second.

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781?9586

 

CHAIRMAN MOONEY: Moved and seconded. All
those in favor say aye.

(Chorus of ayes.)

MR. SMITH: So I'd actually like to suggest
we flip the order of the last two resolutions to
make sure we get the pre?funding one. I think the
North Park dissussion will be longer and more
intricate. 

CHAIRMAN MOONEY: Okay.

MR. SMITH: The PowerPoints that you have now
are in the correct order.

So, as we discussed before, CDF
needs to close a little bit more tax credit
allocation before October 31st to remain eligible
for its 2012 application. And so pre~funding is on
the table here at this meeting as a mechaniSm to
make sure there's a way to close those additional
credits by October 31st.

The ACE deal may close by
October 31st in full fashion, and so that would
preclude the need to do this.

North Park University also has some
potential to do that. I'd say Shops and Lofts does

not; it's a year?end kind of deal.

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781-9586

 

last year CDF did a pre?funding
essentially for exactly the same reason with the
Mercy Oakwood Shores transaction.

What a pre?funding is, is CDF is
an intermediary in the transaction structure. It
receives capital from the tax credit investor and
then lends it to the underlying project. It?s a
sort of a two?step process.

The pre?funding is just that first
step, receiving the qualified equity investment
from the tax credit investor and then essentially
putting those funds in a lockbox until you have the
underlying transaction ready to fund.

So separating those two steps: In
practice, it's fairly common in the New Markets Tax
Credit world, driven mainly by these brief deadline
issues.

So in a pre?funding transaction, the
main issue to be sort of have on your risk radar
is there's a 12?month window to deploy the capital
from the pre?funding down to a qualifying project
or else there's a risk of tax credit recapture.

There's also potentially an

additional six-month cure period that the IRS has

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781-9586

 

set forth in private letter rulings, but you don't
want to count on that as part of your time frame to
deploy the capital.

So the resolution you have in your
packet today would authorize CDF to pre?fund up to
$24 million, so that would be essentially two out
of these three deals that are on the table today.
So not only a way to hit the October 31st deadline,
but also to show a very healthy rate of deployment
of capital before this key milestone where Treasury
is going to check up on progress on October Blst.

So any amount up to that would be
the pre~funding resolution.

The QEI would have to occur on or
before October 31st. The investor would, if past
precedent holds up, would sign an agreement with
CDF where they have a right to pull their capital
back out by roughly May 2012 if there's been no
pushdown of funds to these projects or approved
replacement projects.

CDF would be obligating itself to
reimburse the investors for the legal fees
associated with this, but if, and only if, the

whole transaction unwinds. So essentially that

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781?9586

 

sort of doomsday scenario.

And certainly CDF would only be
using the proceeds of the qualified equity
investment to fund deals that the governing board
had approved. So that?s also within the scope of
the pre?funding resolution that is before the ACE
deal or the Shops and Loft deal, or it could also,
if it receives approval today, the North Park deal.

And just a kind of a resummarization
of the risks and benefits. So essentially the
main risk is if the pre-funding happens and no
qualifying project is funded by May 2012, the
investor could pull their capital back out,
essentially take their ball and go home, and so
that batch of tax credits would be unusable.

CDF would have that legal fee
liability I mentioned.

The mitigating factors for that:
Basically CDF would be only doing this tied to
approved deals that have a very high likelihood
of closing. So there's an exit strategy clearly
identified.

And then another $300 million in

projects in CDF's pipeline. So if these projects

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781?9586

 

hit hiccups, then there's backups that can be
identified and funded instead.

And then, of course, the main
benefit, the main reason for doing this is to meet
this October 31st deadline, and then a secondary
goal is to show a rapid rate of deployment for
competitiveness reasons.

MS. NEELY: It seems to me that the benefits
far outweigh the risks.

MS. SCOTT: But surely on that go ahead.

MS. NEELY: No, that?s just my point. Go
ahead.

MS. SCOTT: When we look at the rapid
deployment, they're actually looking at the actual
project underlying it and whether it's pre?funding.

MR. SMITH: You know, nobody knows for Sure
exactly how Treasury evaluates this. We do know
that they have direct access to all the QEI
information. I mean, it's an online system you
enter all the QEIs into. Typically all the
thresholds tie to that.

In some cases they ask you about
your full heat funding progress, as well as the

loan down to the project level. But the consensus

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781?9586

 

throughout the industry is generally the QEI
progress matters.

MS. SCOTT: And so we basically say to
JPMorgan and PNC, yeah, we're going to have New
Markets Tax Credits planned for the project even
though they're earmarked 

CHAIRMAN MOONEY: It's for a project.

MS. SCOTT: Okay.? So they don't have any
discretion.

CHAIRMAN MOONEY: NO.

MR. SMITH: Right. CDF would only agree
to push the money down to projects that CDF has
approved.

MS. SCOTT: So it would have to approve them
first.

MS. NEELY: Oh, yeah.

MR. SMITH: Yes. And --

CHAIRMAN MOONEY: They're essentially the
projects we're approving today.

MR. SMITH: You do see 

MS. HOLT: They're like pre?funding for the
projects that are on 

MR. SMITH: Right, yeah.

MS. SCOTT: Okay.

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781-9586

 

MS. HOLT: They are projects that were
proposed months ago.

MS. SCOTT: Okay.

MR. SMITH: You do see in the industry CDEs
taking in blind prenfundings and then, you know,
figuring out the deal later. But that's certainly
not anything CDF has ever had to do and probably
not advisable for CDE to let in 

MR. STEPHAN: Somebody just pointed out, too,
in the alternative, it may come to a point where
the deal falls through with PNC, do you have the
ability in theory to then transfer that to another
bank or another investor who would want to
purchase, so you're not sort of lost in PNC
(inaudible).

MS. Scott: Do we know whether (inaudible).

MR. SMITH: It usually is based on whether
the investor has claimed the first year of tax
credit or not because they technically have 
December 31st, whether or not the money has been
pushed down, the investor can claim a tax credit
for year one.

VOICE: I would Suspect that they would not

(inaudible) declare a profit (inaudible) difficult

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781?9586

 

situation (inaudible).

CHAIRMAN MOONEY: Any further comments?

MS. NEELY: I think the benefits far outweigh
the risks.

I'll make the motion.

MS. HOLT: Second.

CHAIRMAN MOONEY: Okay. Moved and seconded.
All those in favor?

(Chorus of ayes.)

CHAIRMAN MOONEY: Okay. We'll try not to
turn this into a long saga.

MR. TUNNEY: Before we get to that, this
bottom this what are the legal fees if it is
not identified?

MR. SMITH: The investor doesn't tell you up
front it's going to be exactly this, but I would
say for a QEI?only closing, you know, 15, $20,000,
you would probably a good size range.

CHAIRMAN MOONEY: I don?t mean to exaggerate
the problem, but we want to make sure everyone is
aware of the issue. So go ahead.

MR. SMITH: So North Park University is the
final transaction proposed for approval today.

And, as mentioned in your packets, the Advisory

 

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781?9586

 

Board has given a conditional recommendation on
this one, so that's why I saved it for last for a
potentially longer discussion.

The project is a 100,000 square foot
LEED Gold Science and Community Life building on
North Park University's Albany Park campus. So it
really upgrades and modernizes their science and
nursing curriculum with a few ancillary functions.

The university views this as really
competitive critical to their competitiveness
in those disciplines, and it's 100 percent net new
expansion of the university. They're not tearing
down any academic buildings to make this building
possible.

It's in the Albany Park neighborhood
at 5141 North Christiana.

Likely closing time frame could be
as soon as October 31st, but very likely by
year?end if not by that October date.

MS. NEELY: What ward is that?
MR. SMITH: It's Alderman Marino.

The site plan. So here you see the

new building in red dropping into the existing

campus in the fairly tight urban footprint that

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
{312) 781-9586

 

North Park has.

MS. NEELY: Any new jobs being created, or is
it just reallocating existing staff?

MR. SMITH: Right when the building opens it
will be reallocation, but there's a lot of backfill
space throughout the campus, and so we do have
projections later on in the presentation about what
the backfill would be. I

The university is expanding, and so
that's the, sort of the rationale here.

MS. NEELY: I apologize. I don't know this
university. Is it an accredited university?

MR. SMITH: Uh-huh. And I should also point
out that just to the south here, Von Stueben Metro
Science High School is nearby, and North Park has
had a long history of interacting with CPS high
schools with summer programs. And so Von Stueben
would probably benefit significantly from 

CHAIRMAN MOONEY: We're working very closely
with North Park on a number of different fronts,
including a new boathouse that we're building, and
they on the river, a new boathouse as well
as a new soccer and football stadium that they are

financing but will be open to the neighborhood. So

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781?9586

 

are working closely with them and they are in
expansion mode.

MS. NEELY: Okay.

MR. SMITH: So the university currently has
about 3200 studentswith the university to try to pin down the impacts
on the city of Chicago population in particular,
this being Chicago Development Funds.

So about 1200 of those students are
from the city of Chicago. 318 of those are state
MAP grant recipients, so essentially sufficiently
low income to receive that particular layer of
student financing. 51 of them from the local ZIP
code. So a very neighborhood~serving, city?serving
University.

The average family income of the
Chicago students is just under $50,000 a year, so
that's 68 percent of the area median. 40 percent
of the student body from households earning $34,000
a year or less. 35 percent of the undergrads are
first generation college attendees.

In particular, sort of from an
economic development perspective, the nursing

program is of interest. That's another growing

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781-9586

 

program within North Park. Currently about

220 students at a very high rate of passing the
licensure exams on the first try, and then in turn,
that almost always leads to a job placement within
six months with a starting salary of $48,000 to
$52,000. So sort of an accessible high quality job
path potentially for students from Chicago.

The students also perform a lot
of public service through their placement in the
medical programs, so they're stationed in hospitals
and clinics across the city. Many of those are in
low?income parts of the city.

There's also a lot of community
outreach programming. So summer programs are
offered at no cost in biology, chemistry, physics,
and mathematics for students from local high
schools, which have a very high proportion of
low?income students, and that enrolls about
100 students per summer.

And then in terms of job creation 
so this is the backfill projection that you were
asking about, Treasurer Neely it says 63 new
faculty and staff are projected to be added to the

university in total facilitated by this net new

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781~9586

 

increase, and those would be jobs full4time jobs
with benefits.

And I guess just a little more
context on North Park University, their motto is
that they're intentionally urban, purposefully
multicultural, and distinctively Christian 
that's the third one which is the subject of
some of our discussion here today.

MS. NEELY: There it is.
MR. SMITH: So a bit more on the proposed
transaction.

This a $44.7 million building that

would be funded through tax exempt bonds, through

fund raising of the university, and through if
the transaction is approved CDF tax credit
equity. So $12 million up to $12 million is the

proposed amount of allocation; about $3.5 million
of net equity added to the deal.

MS. NEELY: Who is the issuer of the tax
exempt bonds?

MR. SMITH: North Park University would be
the issuer, and then Chase would be the direct
purchaser of the bonds.

So jumping into I guess any

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781?9586

 

questions on the deal aspects before we jump into
complicated church/state issues?

MS. NEELY: Let's just go for it.

MS. SCOTT: Who is their banker, do we know?

MR. SMITH: The individual at Chase?

MS. SCOTT: Yes. So Chase is doing the
underwriting as well?

MR. SMITH: Yeah. There is a woman by the
name of Allison Santos, I want to say, in the tax
exempt bond group.

So North Park.is a religiously
affiliated university. Evangelical Covenant Church
is the sponsoring denomination 

CHAIRMAN MOONEY: Which, incidentally, would
be the same sponsoring organization as Swedish
Covenant Hospital. It?s all part of when
Andersonville was settled by the Swedes, they moved
out along Foster Avenue, and so you ended up with
Swedish Covenant and North Park University.

MR. TUNNEY: After they left Belmont and
Clark.

MR. SMITH: So the current policies
associated with all of their employment is that

they do not discriminate on any basis prohibited by

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781?9586

 

law. With being a religious organization, they
have some exemptions.

Their hiring practices for the
majority of their positions do consider the
individual's faith as part of the criteria. So, in
other words, they generally hire only Christians,
and they want values consistent with the church.

This is not a factor in student
admissions, which is CDF's primary reason for
considering the transaction is to offer this
resource to the Chicago student population.

They do consider faith in certain
financial aid programs, and so we actually have a
breakdown in the packet of sort of the aspects of
their currents financial aid breakdown that looks
at this issue.

So this I guess the best
precedent for this deal is probably the Salvation
Army transaction in 2010, which some only a
couple folks were involved with GDP at that time.

So in that situation, CDF negotiated
an antidiscrimination covenant with the borrower
which did not completely bind them to not

discriminate. They retained some religiously?based

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781~9586

 

rights to discriminate, but those were sort of set
forth in a very systematic way and put in a box,
essentially, by this covenant.

MS. NEELY: Do you have a copy of that?

MR. SMITH: The Salvation Army covenant? We
don't have that with us today. We can send that
around immediately, though.

We do have a 

CHAIRMAN MOONEY: Do you happen to have the
current one?

MR. SMITH: No. We asked Bob Stephan, CDF's
counsel on the deal, to join us, too, for this.

MS. NEELY: How are they defining covered
employees, if you have

MR. SMITH: Yeah. So covered employees in
this current draft of the covenant, which is not
final, by any means, but it's something that North
Park has indicated they would be comfortable with,
covered employees are defined as employees that 
I'm sorry covered employees are a certain
slice of their employees; they are maintenance,
janitorial I'm sorry, I need a copy of the
covenant to 

MS. NEELY: Painter, carpenter, electrician,

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781?9586

 

stationary engineer, and groundskeeper.

MR. SMITH: Yes.

MS. NEELY: So it sounds like everything
except for faculty staff.

MR. SMITH: They make administrative 

MS. NEELY: Right.

MR. SMITH: Yeah.

MR. STEPHAN: Secretarial.

MS. NEELY: Is included or not included?

MR. STEPHAN: Is not included.

MR. SMITH: Not.

MS. NEELY: So faculty and staff.

MR. SMITH: So they're willing to make a
distinction between covered employees who would not
be discriminated against for any protected class
that's in the Chicago Human Rights Ordinance, and
then noncovered employees, who would have the
freedom to do so but within the bounds of their
current policy, which is they list a sort of a
smaller group of protected classes that they don't
discriminate against in their hiring practices.

So that is up at the top in
romanette They would not discriminate based

on race, national origin, sex, age, disability,

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781?9586

 

marital status, or status as a disabled vet or

Vietnam?era vet.

MS. SCOTT: Where is sexual orientation?
MR. SMITH: It?s not in their definition.
MS. NEELY: It's in protected class.

MR. SMITH: So, in other words, it's not in
the university's list that would apply to all of
their employees. It is in the list for covered
employees. So essentially it's drawing a line
between those two.

MS. NEELY: So, in plain English, that means
they would not hire a gay professor.

MR. SMITH: I don?t think they have a policy
that explicitly says that, but 

MS. HOLT: 'They don't want to say that they
won't do it.

MR. SMITH: Yeah, they do not want a covenant
that they will not do that.

MS. HOLT: Yeah.

MR. SMITH: I think the main areas probably
of sensitivity are religion and sexual orientation,
which are definitely not on that list.

MS. NEELY: That's why I said a gay professor.

MR. SMITH: Right.

 

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
{312) 781?9586

 

MS. NEELY: Would they hire non?Christian
professors?

MR. SMITH: It doesn't appear that they
would.

They have not said this is exactly
what we would and would not do within our HR
practice, but they are basically giving themselves
the room to not do that.

MR. TUNNEY: And then if you're equating this
to the Salvation Army, is this I don?t know what
their policy 

MS. NEELY: The SalvatiOn Army was not --
didn't deal with a lot of hiring issues. It was
more, because it was a community facility, if
someone wanted to have a parenthood meeting in one
of the meeting rooms, those are the kinds of issues
we dealt with with the Salvation Army. I don't
really recall issues with regard to hiring
practices.

MR. SMITH: There actually there was a
mechanism in the Salvation Army covenant and
this covenant is structure based on that starting
point.

But, basically, there was mission 

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781?9586

 

or, sorry ministry positions and non-ministry
positions defined within the Salvation Army
covenant. Ministry positions, they could
discriminate 

MS. NEELY: Right, ministry, right.

MR. SMITH: based on the right. And
non-ministry positions, they have the same the
standard provisions of --

MR. LEON: And the Salvation Army, they also
had an issue of sexual orientation.

MR. SMITH: And religion.

MS. NEELY: And the use of common rooms.

MR. LEON: Right.

MS. NEELY: They wanted to control what
message was being delivered in the common rooms.

MR. SMITH: Right.

In practice, that was much more of a
quasi~public facility than this is.

MS. NEELY: Right.

MR. SMITH: But the North Park University
definitely wants to also control assembly within
this building. It?s primarily a university
building, but it's possible the public might use it

for certain functions.

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781-9586

 

MS. NEELY: How are you getting around that
with regard to the stadium? I know that they're
owning up that they said that the community could
use it. Are they so called policing what the
community --

CHAIRMAN MOONEY: I don't think so. I think
there are arrangements with the school, the Park
District for 

MR. LEON: And I guess from our perspective,
from the Advisory Board, the issue of using public
funds for an entity that has the requirement of
being Christian, so whether you separate the church
and the state 

CHAIRMAN MOONEY: Well, let's be clear,
careful, though. The requirement has to do with a
certain part of their employment. It does not
affect the students and does not affect all
employees.

MS. SCOTT: So it's faculty. Are we
confirmed it's restricted to faculty?

MR. SMITH: It's faculty, administration 

MS. HOLT: Everybody except for, it looks
like, their service providers and their trades and

students.

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781~9586

 

Otherwise, what they're saying is
with respect to their faculty and staff, they want
to discriminate based upon, for some reason I
believe it must be an oversight color, which is
not in those categories, gender identity, religion,
ancestry, sexual orientation, parental status,
military discharge status, and source of income.

But they will not discriminate
for the wide range of things against students and
covered employees. But for the faculty and staff,
they want to be able to discriminate based on those
things I just listed.

MS. NEELY: Race is one of them?

MS. HOLT: Color. That is, they will not
discriminate based on those are the exceptions --

MS. NEELY: So what?s the difference between

race and color?

MS. HOLT: I think it's a mistake. I think
because your protected class definition. If
you're looking at -- that's your protected class,
though. The protected class is your students 

MR. STEPHAN: I'm getting this -- pardon our
oversight I think we can likely add that to our

romanette 

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781?9586

 

MS. HOLT: As I said, it's probably just a
typo. It's basically sexual orientation, gender
identity, and religion. Some weirdness about
parental status and source of income, but I
don?t think that's substantive. I think the
substantive 

MS. NEELY: I just don't know why we would
agree to allow them to discriminate on any basis.

MS. HOLT: Well, I mean, they can. We're not
agreeing to allow them to. I mean, I guess the
question is whether we wish to fund.

MS. NEELY: Why would we want to fund an
entity that will discriminate on any basis?

MS. HOLT: Then why did we do it for
Salvation Army? Because they discriminate on their
ministry staff, right?

MS. NEELY: But there was not a lot of I
meanministry staff and 

MR. SMITH: They did agree to proportions in
the Salvation Army, it was 20 percent ministry
positions 

MS. NEELY: Yeah, they made a lot of
concessions, including the use of common rooms.

MR. SMITH: Right. The only restrictions

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781-9586

 

they retained on that, I believe, were political
events.

MS. NEELY: Right.

MR. SMITH: They retained the right to block
political events.

MS. NEELY: They're apolitical because they
want their 501(c)(3) status, so they prohibited
political events, which is not discriminatory.

MR. SMITH: And I think they also retained
the rights to prohibit any kind of religion
ceremonies from the facility.

MS. HOLT: Again, it does not say Muslim
ceremonies. It's any religion. So to me that's
also not discriminatory. It?s just saying we
prohibit religious ceremonies, which I think we all
got comfortable with because it didn't single out
any particular group.

MS. SCOTT: Any of the charter schools that
we've done, are there any 

MS. NEELY: What about the Christian school?

MR. SMITH: Yeah, Christ the King back in
'09, this issue didn't really crop up in that
situation.

MS. SCOTT: They're Jesuit.

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781-9586

 

MS. NEELY: But I don't know if 

MR. SMITH: We haven't done a deep dive
retroactively to figure out what 

MS. NEELY: Okay. I don't know if and I
vaguely remember this, but I don't remember them
saying that they wouldn't hire non?Christians at a
Jesuit school, in all honesty.

MR. LEON: Right. I don't recall if 
(Overlapping discussion unable
to be captured by court
reporter.)

MS. NEELY: There are non?Christian

professors at (inaudible).

MS. HOLT: Some. But do they have some
reserved for 

MS. NEELY: But there's a difference between
discriminating and limiting, right? I mean, we
can I have no problem with limiting 

MS. SCOTT: No, we're not just saying any.
You're saying on some, a basis of our decision
is 

MS. HOLT: I asked the question, and it's
something we don't have the answer to, which means,

did we ask Christ the King for the same kind of

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
{312) 781-9586

 

thing? Did we ask them about their discrimination,
whether it's based on religion or sexual
orientation or parental status or whatever the
things are that are at issue here?

MR. LEON: I don't remember 

MR. SMITH: Mayer Brown did a legal review on
behalf of CDF regarding the church/state issues
associated with the deal Christ the King, yes 
but there was not a specific line of inquiry or a
covenant on this issue. Salvation Army was the
first one that that 

MR. HOLZRICHTER: We did do a we did take
a look at both their admissions policy with respect
to students, as well as their hiring policies.

I can't tell you off the top of my
head what they were, but I think we were all
comfortable at that time.

The idea of the covenant didn?t come
up until Salvation Army, which suggests to me that
at least with the board at that time, no one had
any issue with the policies.

MR. SMITH: Right.

MS. HOLT: Well, I think people have a

concern about them discriminating against students

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
{312) 781-9586

 

here. That seems like where 

MR. SMITH: Right.

MS. HOLT: the faculty situation, who
they're hiring to have a specific mission in the
world.

MR. SMITH: Right.

MR. LEON: And just to provide a little bit
of context between the difference between Christ
the King and the Salvation Army, the Salvation Army
transaction came up when there was a story in
New Orleans about this gay lesbian who wanted to
bring her partner to a graduation party, and she
was not allowed. And then that's when it became
an issue at that time with the Salvation Army
transaction. It was happening at the same time, so
it was in the paper all the time. So we asked the
question, and that's what happened.

MR. SMITH: Right. And certainly anecdotally
it does not appear that North Park has nearly the
same kind of reputational issues, particularly with
sexual orientation, that Salvation Army does. They
have a very active GLBT student group. They have
the Axelson Center, which is their nonprofit

management program, recently awarded the center on

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781-9586

 

Halsted with the Management Excellence Award. They
have actually blocked 

MS. NEELY: But why would you say we reserve
the right to not hire a certain group of people?

MR. SMITH: It's religiously based.

CHAIRMAN MOONEY: It's religiously based.

MR. STEPHAN: Here's let me just here?s
their hiring guidelines, policy guidelines, at
least what I think are their current guidelines.

Employees of North Park University,
except for those identified specifically to CDF for
carve?out on the attached spreadsheet, which is
this list we talked about, are expected to be
practicing Christians in faith and action.

The University does not expect
conformity to a particular written creed or
established set of personal behaviors or religious
practices. However, North Park's institutional
position on these matters is necessarily informed
by and congruent with our sponsoring denomination,
the Evangelical Covenant Church.

In the hiring process, the
University assumes responsibility to make clear the

mission and identity of the school and of the

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781-9586

 

University?s founding church, expecting all
employees to be supportive of the North Park
educational mission.

MS. NEELY: So with the Salvation Army, just
for you guys to know, they were almost denied. In

fact, I think they were denied.

MR. SMITH: It was deferred.
MS. NEELY: It was denied and then, you know,
we withdrew the motion. And that's when the

Salvation Army made significant sort of changes.

So, you know, I don't know if that's
going to happen with this deal that they're on the
borderline of being denied and that we'll ask them
to make concessions, but

MS. SCOTT: I'm looking at Christ the King,
which we did as well, right?

MS. NEELY: Not as big a deal.

MS. SCOTT: It doesn't matter. But the
mission is to provide a Christian education, a
Catholic education.

MS. NEELY: Yeah, there's a difference
between a mission because I agree with it,
it's 

MS. HOLT: Christ the King is not going to

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781?9586

 

hire gay faculty to teach the kids.

MS. NEELY: How do you know that? My son
goes to FXW, and they have gay faculty and Jewish
faculty.

MS. HOLT: I'm sorry. So I?d like to see
their hiring policies and see what their position
is, and see if they would sign this. It's Catholic
education, and we know where the Catholic church
stands on these things.

MS. NEELY: Right. And all I'm saying is
Frances Xavier Warde has two tracks. They have
their Christian school and they welcome everyone.
And so even though they're a Christian school that
is associated with the Archdiocese 

MS. HOLT: I'm not talking about welcoming
the students. I'm talking about the faculty.

MS. NEELY: And I'm telling you there's
Jewish faculty there. My son's math teacher is a
Jewish person.

CHAIRMAN MOONEY: Well, my guess is that
there's a relatively diverse faculty at North Park
as well. We can check that out.

MS. HOLT: One of the requirements of

Christ the King is to participate in the adult

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781-9586

 

faith formation.

MR. LEON: At the same time, as a policy
decision?maker, which you speak of, you made a
decision at the time that could have been wrong,
that doesn't mean you have to keep making the same
mistakes.

MS. NEELY: No, agreed.

(Overlapping discussion unable to
be captured by court reporter.)

MS. NEELY: And Mayer Brown is saying that?

MR. HOLZRICHTER: Well, Mayer Brown's opinion
is on the basis of making sure that that was 
Christ the King was the first religiously?
affiliated school was confirming that at the
time of this action, CDF wouldn't be violating the
separation of church and state, right? So that
neither the City of Chicago nor CDF would be
violating any constitutional law.

But as Rafael mentioned, there?s a
separate policy question.

MS. NEELY: Right.

MR. HOLZRICHTER: And I think Mayer Brown
has felt the same conditions should apply to each

of the deals so that you're not violating federal

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781-9586

 

approving a transaction. So there's a
separate policy question if you choose to do so.

MS. NEELY: So what question would you like
us to answer with regard to Christ the King?

CHAIRMAN MOONEY: Well, I think that we've
already two precedents. That we're willing to
invest in these enterprises as long as they don't
discriminate against the users. And that in
both instances, they are able to with some
limitations, they're able to hire according to
their constitutional right.

Is that a policy that we're willing
to continue with?

MR. TUNNEY: And time is of the essence in
this thing today?

MR. SMITH: As far as board action?

MR. TUNNEY: In terms of maybe getting do
we have a legal opinion you know, you said that
for Salvation Army and for Christ the King, but is
our legal advice on this is what I'm hearing it
meets the Constitution but it doesn't meet
necessarily our policy goals for the City?

MR. SMITH: Yes.

MR. TUNNEY: And our attorneys are fine with

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781-9586

 

that?

MR. HOLZRICHTER: Yeah.

MR. STEPHAN: If you look at the first
sentence in the covenant, they covenant and agree
to comply with all applicable laws, which you would
expect they would. So --

MS. NEELY: Why would they not why would
they 

MR. TUNNEY: I don't like the idea of term 
just for the term of the loan. That but for they
didn't have the loan, they wouldn't this
building is going to last 50 years or 100, and 
which, you know, I mean, that to me, when I read
that, it was like, oh, just so long as we have the
money. But you wouldn?t be able to build it
without the loan.

MR. SMITH: So that could suggest a policy of
a permanent restricted covenant on the real estate,
for example.

MR. TUNNEY: It?s not our real estate 

MS. SCOTT: I think we should ask them if
they would include in their covenant color,
ancestry, sexual orientation, and I think that's

it. And see what they say.

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781-9586

 

MS. NEELY: And, again, that's what we did
with Salvation Army. We went back to them and

asked, and they 

MS. SCOTT: I?m not saying I'm a no vote if
they don't, but I'd like I think we should
add a 

MR. STEPHAN: And I think color, again, was
an oversight. I mean, I think it's just matching
up 

MS. NEELY: Let's hope so.

MR. STEPHAN: Well, I?m fairly confident of
that.

(Overlapping discussion.)

MS. SCOTT: Let's agree to have a policy that
we all agree on.

MR. STEPHAN: But I think that if you're
including sexual orientation, I think well, at
least based on our discussions, my response would
be that they would reject that.

We can ask that, but that was the
point of all these other, you know, romanettes that
you see, was trying to carve something that we
could reach agreement on. If they included it in

the first sentence, I don't you know, we

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781-9586

 

wouldn't need any of the rest of the language.
So we can certainly ask for that.

CHAIRMAN MOONEY: Let's be clear. What are
we asking for?

MR. STEPHAN: Well, I thought I heard that we
wanted to just ask for a 

MS. SCOTT: A proposal. Although, I guess
the question is, to the flip side, would we ask
Christ the King to say that they would, you know,
remove the faith requirement from their hiring,
which I don't think they'll do.

CHAIRMAN MOONEY: No, of course not.

MS. SCOTT: Right?

CHAIRMAN MOONEY: And we didn't ask that of
Salvation Army, either, did we?

MR. SMITH: Well, there were basically two
classes of employees created: ministry positions,
for which they didn't remove that criteria, and
then non?ministry, for which they agreed to not
discriminate.

CHAIRMAN MOONEY: They agreed to a good
portion of faculty versus non?faculty.

MR. SMITH: Right. So the proportions are

not as favorable in this transaction as they are in

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781?9586

 

the Salvation Army. There was 20 percent ministry
positions; 80 percent non. Here, you know, it
seems like a fairly limited swap with the
university that will be covered employees.

MR. HOLZRICHTER: I think, also, just to
clarify, I know they can be related, but the 
there's a difference. Christ the King's faith?
based program is to be distinguished not like
here we have two classifications. There are the 
there's a religious test and the sexual orientation
test.

And I think what I heard, just to
clarify the proposal, was that we'd add sexual
orientation to the list, but I didn't hear you
say 

MS. SCOTT: I don't think that they're saying
anything about religion.

MR. HOLZRICHTER: So essentially what they're
reserving the right to discriminate on the basis of
religion and sexual orientation.

MR. STEPHAN: Well, right, because sexual
orientation is obviously related to their
religious or they'll tell you related to

their religious beliefs.

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781?9586

 

MS. SCOTT: And Christ the King, they can
discriminate (inaudible).

MR. STEPHAN: I don't --

MR. HOLZRICHTER: And just to clarify,
with Christ the King that didn't come up, their
faith?based policy, it may or may not. But that
was their issue was over the faith?based hiring
policy, not the sexual orientation.

CHAIRMAN MOONEY: So again I ask, what is the
proposal?

MS. SCOTT: I don't know. I retract I
withdraw it, I'll tell you that.

MR. TUNNEY: I don?t understand. I'm sorry,
I may be -- I don't understand what -- they are
allowed to discriminate hiring educational and
staff.

MS. NEELY: Correct. Based on sexual
orientation and religion.

So there?s no issue with the
separation of church and state. So the question
becomes a policy question. Do we want to provide
funds for an entity that has a policy that's not in
with the City's policy.

MR. LEON: Well, as to policy, there's the

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781-9586

 

human rights ordinance with regard to the sexual
orientation. It's not at that point it's not
just a policy decision between sexual orientation
because there is a human rights 

(Overlapping discussion.)

MS. NEELY: What does the Advisory Board say?

MR. LEON: That we will approve it
conditionally if resolving this issue about
the religion. We didn't focus on the sexual
orientation for that. But it should be
satisfactory to the City of Chicago.

MS. NEELY: I think we should focus on both.

MR. LEON: Sure, right. It should be to the
satisfaction of the City.

MS. NEELY: So is that where we are, asking
them to make concessions on this or to see what
they come back with before we approve?

MR. SMITH: It could a denial. It could be a
conditional approval with specific must?haves. It
could be, you know, nonconditional approval. I
think those are really the three most viable
options probably.

CHAIRMAN MOONEY: Well, I think we have to be

careful that we either follow the precedent that we

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781-9586

 

set, or that we establish new policy going forward,
which is that essentially no religious or any
organization, regardless if it was religious or
not, that establishes some, I don't want to use the
term discriminatory basis for employment, is not
going to be eligible for GDP funds. And that would
include in the future Christ the King and it would
include in the future the Salvation Army.

MS. NEELY: And the only thing I can say is
with Christ the King we're making that assumption,
but we don't know. That's all I'm saying.

MS. SCOTT: No, it says it on their website.

MS. NEELY: Yeah, but their mission does
not mean 

MS. SCOTT: It wasn't their mission. It was
on their hiring page that candidates should agree
to participate in the faith development.

MS. NEELY: I don't know what that means.
That doesn't sound like 

MS. SCOTT: Well, the point of the matter is
if you ask Christ the King (inaudible) you do have
a religious school run by a religious order that
has certain beliefs that are inconsistent with what

we are saying right here. The likelihood that they

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781?9586

 

would sign this is pretty slim.
(Inaudible discussion touching
on human rights ordinance.)

MR. STEPHAN: Well, just to clarify, so
romanette in the first paragraph, that's the
university's own current HR policy.

(Inaudible discussion.)

CHAIRMAN MOONEY: Well, we do a lot of Church
developments. We do a lot of Catholic Charities,
for example, a lot of senior housing, Catholic
Charities, family housing.

(Inaudible discussion.)

MR. TUNNEY: This is already in the gay

community with Catholic Charities.
(Inaudible discussion.)

MR. SMITH: The calculation is that the,
roughly the $3 million benefit from the New Markets
structure, if they earned or they drew down
5 percent on that per year, that?s $150,000. Their
average grant is $7,000 per student, so it's about
21 students per year that they couldn't help out
with their own grants.

MS. HOLT: But that still I think doesn?t

answer my question, which is, how much of their

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781-9586

 

grants are actually funded by general funds versus
special purpose funds? If they're funded by
special purpose funds, they can't take it for this
general purpose, right?

MS. SCOTT: Are we talking about a wealthy
university with a large endowment, or are we
talking about 

MR. SMITH: No, we're not.

(Inaudible discussion.)

MR. SMITH: We can definitely run those
figures.

MS. HOLT: I'm wondering, I mean, they
say that's what's going to happen. I'm wondering
if they're going to let it.

CHAIRMAN MOONEY: I'm wondering, is there a
way to carve out the nursing school, or the this
particular building, or this particular program,
so that we don't run into the general issues?

MR. SMITH: With respect to the faculty of
the nursing program, you're saying?

MS. NEELY: Is there any precedent for that?

MR. SMITH: I mean, the statements they've
made to us are pretty sweeping about their faculty.

We could certainly inquire on that

 

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781-9586

 

line, but I strongly suspect the answer is going to
be that they need to reserve their right to apply

the religious test in hiring.

MS. NEELY: Tom, what do you think?
MR. TUNNEY: I mean, there's precedent
before. I don't know, I think we I think if we

did a policy for this, we would limit a lot of
funding projects moving forward. You know, I

just you know, I don't even the human rights
ordinance also includes gender identity, I think,
never mind orientation.

MS. NEELY: Again, with Salvation Army, we
asked them for concessions. I think it is in
terms of a policy, we should ask them.

Now, if they say no 

CHAIRMAN MOONEY: The problem is what are we
asking them for?

MS. HOLT: Well, did we ask for concessions
in the ministry sense?

MR. STEPHAN: No, ministry was always carved
out. It?s just, again, as a percentage, it was low
enough where I think we got comfortable, and it was
truly ministry positions versus, you know, faculty

and staff, which may be different.

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781-9586

 

MS. SCOTT: A math teacher.

MS. HOLT: It?s a religious university,
though. I don?t know how different, I mean,
frankly, that is.

MR. SMITH: Part of the additional framework,
the Salvation Army did not define their facility in
a way that would qualify for 501(c)(3) bonds. This
facility is going to be financed with bonds
as well, so it's sufficiently secular for that
purpose.

Salvation Army said this whole
thing is a church. Even though to GDP and to the
neighborhood, it looked like a community center,
it was religiously affiliated. So that sort of
prompted the need to draw that line between
ministry and non?ministry.

MS. HOLT: But and the thing is I mean,
it's a little bit of a false representation there.
We're talking about ministry staff for the
Salvation Army who do who are project managers,
who are directors, who are doing administrative
functions, they're not just ministering.

MS. NEELY: But you're saying you want

them both, you want 

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781?9586

 

MS. HOLT: I'm not saying that. I have not
said that at any point in time, Stephanie. What I
said was, we're making a little bit of a false
distinction here.

And so if I just want to
understand what we said with respect to the
ministry staff, what we said with respect to
Salvation Army.

MR. SMITH: And what we said specifically
was no more than 20 percent of the staff shall be
ministry, and that non?ministry positions are
subject to this same covered employees concept.

MS. HOLT: Right.

MS. SCOTT: But we didn't say that at all in
Christ the King. 

MR. SMITH: Correct.

MS. NEELY: So we've already changed our
policy. So Christ the King, just because it was
done not in the same way, the policy now is the way
that we did 

MS. SCOTT: Well, what happens if Christ the
King comes back and they request another loan?

MS. NEELY: We're going to do it the same way.

MS. SCOTT: We say no?

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781-9586

 

MS. NEELY: To Christ the King, no, we'll say
the policy has changed, and this is the way we're
doing it now.

It's very similar to what we see in
the Board?s pension fund. That was that Board.
This is this Board. And so the policy has changed.

MS. HOLT: But I guess the question is what
is the policy? Because we gave exceptions to
Salvation Army. We gave exceptions to Salvation
Army that has some parallels to the faculty here,
right? This is not the ministry staff, they're
administrative staff. They run the place. And
there are some parallels there.

So I guess the question is, are
we giving exceptions here or are we not giving
exceptions here?

MR. STEPHAN: Just to clarify, the definition
of ministry positions in the Salvation Army, yeah,
is shall be defined to mean those positions whose
primary duties consist of engaging in church
governance.

Now, again, if they view the
community center as a church, what does that mean?

Supervising religious order or conducting or

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781?9586

 

supervising religious ritual, including prayer
meetings, worship instruction, or evangelistic
outreach.

MS. HOLT: And how is the (inaudible).

MR. STEPHAN: I don't know exact numbers, but
Tony's correct that they covenanted not more than
20 percent of any time their employees, full or
part-time employees would hold ministry positions.

MS. NEELY: So I think that one was
responsible. Again, we asked for the concessions,
restrict the ministry. And we asked for
concessions because it wasn?t going to pass
otherwise. And they knew that.

MR. STEPHAN: They were fine, I think, with
the employment all along. The concessions came
with the rental of the facility, which, as Tony
points out, I think was viewed differently than
this facility in that it was viewed as much more
of a community center, and therefore a public
facility, than this educational building. 80
there was much there was more of a focus,
understandably, I think, on the rental of that
facility.

MR. TUNNEY: As I said, is time of the

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781?9586

 

essence? I mean, you were talking about this

'October 31st deadline. I mean, you were talking

about trying to have this discussion and make a
decision today.

MR. STEPHAN: CDF yeah, CDF does not
need the North Park University deal to meet its
October 31st thresholds. The timeline of the
North Park University project is such that they are
probably going to finalize their plan of finance in
the next two weeks with or without tax credits, and
then they'll make the adjustments internally with
the financial aid resources, at least that?s what
they have represented, to fill the gap if CDF's not
in the deal.

So time is of the essence more just
for the project development as opposed to for
anything with CDF.

MS. NEELY: Did we do a phone poll for
Salvation Army? Didn?t we 

MR. STEPHAN: Actually, there was a second
meeting very quickly after the first.

MS. NEELY: Okayi I know that I wasn't
sure if we did a phone poll or if we actually had a

meeting. But we can do a phone poll, can't we, if

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781?9586

 

back? We cannot? ?Okay.
No, I wasn't sure.
MR. HOLZRICHTER: We have to have an
in?person meeting.
MS. NEELY: Okay. So we can always have
another meeting about it.

CHAIRMAN MOONEY: So my concern is that if we

defer and we go back to the (inaudible).
MR. HOLZRICHTER: You have to do emergency
meetings. Well, we'd have to do emergency

meetingslive face to face
meeting. You can't rely on telephone.

CHAIRMAN MOONEY: So my concern is that if we
defer on this, that I don't know what we are going
back to add on the agreement.

MR. STEPHAN: I think, to put more color on
sort of the discussion with them, I think they're
looking for clarity more than anything else. You
know, will this be available? They'd very much
appreciate it. They're not claiming that they'll
go out of business if they don't receive the
assistance.

So if the Board determines they

can't get there, then they'll still be around

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
{312) 781-9586

 

tomorrow, they'll still build the project, and
they'll understand.

It's, I think, a little less of a
sort of showdown situation than the Salvation Army
was.

CHAIRMAN MOONEY: And the bigger policy
question is that if we do this with North Park,
it will essentially, from my perspective, will
essentially exclude other religious projects from
this organization 

MS. NEELY: I?m sorry, but how do we get
there when we've got those funds, where we gave
the Salvation Army, and they weren't excluded?

CHAIRMAN MOONEY: If religious sponsored
organizations that have as wide a, perhaps a hiring
policy, which North Park does, which I think will
include Christ the King, we could go back to North
Park and say, okay, quantify. We can do that.

MS. NEELY: (Inaudible.)

CHAIRMAN MOONEY: Who are we talking about?
In the case of the Salvation Army, that's a clear
distinction. In the case of North Park 

MS. NEELY: I thought you said this

particular facility.

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781?9586

 

CHAIRMAN MOONEY: Oh. We're talking about
the nursing --

MS. NEELY: Right. For this facility.

CHAIRMAN MOONEY: Finance the facility?

MS. NEELY: Right.

CHAIRMAN MOONEY: We could try it, I suppose.

MS. NEELY: All they can say is no. I just
don't know how we don't say something.

MR. TUNNEY: That's what I'd like to know,
what, you know, the -- when you say faculty and
staff. I mean, I see the religious you know,
the teachers and whatever. But staff to me seems a
little bit more open. It should be more it
should be less discriminatory. I mean, if you're a
religious institution, you have people that are
teaching you. I mean, I can see that faith based,
but what does faculty and staffing? What is staff?

CHAIRMAN MOONEY: Yeah, right.

MR. STEPHAN: We've attempted to push them
on that issue, and we've basically said the same
thing, that logic would suggest that, you know,
secretarial staff, do they really need to be deeply
integrated with the church? And they said 

MS. NEELY: Like someone that's in the mail

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781-9586

 

room.

MR. STEPHAN: Yeah. And so far they've said
no, just janitorial and maintenance is what we can
live with.

But I do think if we?re identifying
areas that might have some give, that's a good
candidate.

MS. NEELY: Yep. That?s a place that
actually they could compromise on.

MR. LEON: Tony, did you say that they do
have very specific religious (inaudible).

MR. SMITH: Yes.

MR. LEON: And they could (inaudible). If
they eliminate asking the allegiance of the
potential (inaudible) 

MS. HOLT: Well, if they're I mean, from
their perspective they believe that they have a
mission and right? And particularly to those
that interact with students, because they feel
that's what 

MS. NEELY: But they can ask, but can they
discriminate on the answer?

MR. STEPHAN: Yes, as a religious 

(overlapping discussion).

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 78l~9586

 

MR. LEON: But they're basing their
discrimination 

(Overlapping discussion.)

MS. NEELY: By asking is not, so that?s not
discriminatory. I'm asked my gender and my race,
it?s not discrimination. It's if you use
information to discriminate.

MR. TUNNEY: Somehow I seem to get just
the instruction being taught at a religious
institution. This is any of the support staff,
right? You know. It just seems to me that might
be at least a good question to ask.

MS. SCOTT: Those specific roles not involved
in educating.

MS. NEELY: But can we ask them for that?

CHAIRMAN MOONEY: We can ask them for
anything. They can simply turn it down. But if we
do, it sets a new precedent for the Board, which I
find disturbing because 

MR. TUNNEY: Well, I see the consistency
when we go moving forward that we?re at least not
discriminating by what we're asking moving forward.
That, you know, we understand you?re a religious

institution, and you need to further that religious

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781-9586

 

cause, because you wouldn't be in business without
that cause 

MS. NEELY: But it's consistent with
Salvation Army by asking. So by not asking, in my
opinion, changes us back to what we did with Christ
the King. And so if we have a policy that we're
going to ask, and that?s what we've done in this
most recent, then we need to continue the policy of
asking.

MS. SCOTT: But isn?t the policy to
(inaudible). We can ask and they can say no.

MS. NEELY: But we don't have (inaudible)
because we asked the Salvation Army, and they gave
it to us.

MS. SCOTT: I think that they didn't give us
everything.

MS. NEELY: No, they didn't.

MS. SCOTT: What's different here?

MS. SANCHEZ: That?s why we even asked for a
nondiscrimination, you know, covenant right now.
Now they without asking, we wouldn?t have that.
So we actually had the conversation and, you know,
Tony didn't have that conversation. So the

conversation has started, but it sounds like you

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781*9586

 

may want to go one more step, which is that it's
not unreasOnable to ask them if they would 

MS. NEELY: But the difference, the
difference is we asked the Salvation, the Board
directed staff to ask the Salvation Army. This is
staff doing it on their own. And I think there
needs to be a support direction to that. I think
that that is the difference, in my mind.

MS. HOLT: I think it's probably also a
cumulative effect that we as a Board need to keep
in mind about what are we doing? Are we generally
doing more good than evil? I don?t know about
evil. As they're looking at it I'm just trying
to think it through in my mind.

93 percent of their students receive
grants from scholarship. 40 percent, 40 percent
come from households of $34,000 a year, which I
would consider low income. They're training for
nursing programs, which we need in our community.

They're getting good jobs, high quality jobs.

_We're talking about job creation for 15 jobs for a

Wal?Mart, and here we're trying to train people for
good jobs, $48,000, $52,000, $52,000 a year, in

communities where we need them. So I think that

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781?9586

 

there's 

MS. NEELY: There's a lot of good. So that?s
on the one hand. And all that is good. And all
I'm suggesting is to continue with the policy we
have of asking them to the Board asking, not
staff, with all due respect but having board
direction of saying this is our concern. They may
come back and say we're not giving at all. We gave
our best. And then we have a decision to make.

But to not give them the
opportunity, I don't think that's right.

STEPHAN: And so it sounds like you're
articulating, Treasurer Neely, is a policy of
trying to maximize the envelope of non-
discrimination, essentially.

MS. NEELY: Yes.

MR. STEPHAN: And that would be to conserve
the policy of negotiation.

MS. NEELY: Right.

MR. STEPHAN: Which and specifically,
though, would be to try to expand the definition of
covered employees to include all positions other
than support staff.

MS. NEELY: The primary role is not, but

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781-9586

 

MR. STEPHAN: And then also to increase
the overlap 

MS. NEELY: Not involved in 

MR. STEPHAN: Kind of like 

MS. NEELY: the education of students.
And the student counselors. And social workers,
and (inaudible).

MR. STEPHAN: See, that's where they started
to respond to us where they said, well, the
secretarial staff does interact with our students,
and they do represent the university differently
than 

MS. NEELY: Well, how does the lawn guy?

MR. STEPHAN: Well --

MR. TUNNEY: And then social workers, excuse
me, but these kids need counseling. And they might
not know what their orientation is when they
arrive, you know. And I, you know, I don't want
someone to say, well, you need to be what's the
word? It's a better word for it.

MS. NEELY: Exercise?

MR. TUNNEY: No, but, you know, the ex?gay
movement or whatever the hell they call it now.

I'm just you know, I just I don't know if

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781-9586

 

mean, I just I know, I get the religion
part of it.

MR. STEPHAN: One specific anecdote that --
just since you mentioned that angle, they
specifically blocked a group called Exodus from
having a conference on campus in the last couple
years about that that organization?s mission is
to, you know, cure homosexuality.

CHAIRMAN MOONEY: Well, the irony here is
that from a conventional religious perspective,
North Park (inaudible) religious institutions.

All right. It's getting very
late. My suggestion is that that we engage in
conversation with them, see how far we can push it,
and then either they'll say no well, whatever
they say, I think we should count on bringing this
Board back together again in a week or so. I'm
sorry to do that, but we need a little more time to
talk with staff. But I think we need we also
need more definition on the number of staff and how
the staff is delineated and so on. And I would
like to investigate to a certain extent whether we
can do a carve?out on the (inaudible).

MR. TUNNEY: You know, I'm just thinking of

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781-9586

 

101

 

 

the politics of this all, especially for the Mayor.
So is he is the Mayor you know, I mean, I
think, you know, with all due respect, I don?t know
whose attorneys are representing who, but if this
gets out to be a bigger political issue, the Mayor
is on the hook, you know.

Two, is Corporation Counsel
completely versed in this field?

MS. SANCHEZ: They have been a part of the
conversation. They were part of the negotiation
with the Salvation Army as well.

MR. TUNNEY: Just so long as I'm 

MS. NEELY: Do we need a motion to table this
or 

CHAIRMAN MOONEY: No. I think the Chair will
move that we defer this until the time when we meet
again.

But I think the alderman's comment
is correct that what we're doing here is continuing
the discussion of North Park.

I think we do need to be careful
that we avoid another Chick-fil?A type of
discussion here where this thing gets out of hand

way too quickly.

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781?9586

 

102

 

 

MR. TUNNEY: You won't hear it from me. You
won't hear it from me on Chick?fil?A, either.

CHAIRMAN MOONEY: That was certainly not
directed to you, but just in general that we need
to be very careful on both religious and sexual
grounds because it will establish policy for CDF.
And that is a big concern of mine.

MS. NEELY: And can we just make sure race is
not in the mission?

MR. STEPHAN: Color.

MS. NEELY: Color. I?m sorry.

MR. SMITH: So essentially is that part of
the direction, to investigate the nuances between
the human rights ordinance and their own language?

CHAIRMAN MOONEY: Yes. That's actually the
best way to put that.

MR. LEON: Can I request that you communicate
to the Advisory Board your last statement that it
doesn't get out there to everybody?

CHAIRMAN MOONEY: I can tell them that. I
think we'll let that sleeping dog lay or lie.

Okay. And, Tracy, you'll work with
Tony to set up a new date to get together?

MS. SANCHEZ: Yes.

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781?9586

 

103

 

 

CHAIRMAN MOONEY:

this is an important issue.

to go

there

than motion to adjourn,

Anything else,
over?
MR. SMITH: NO.
CHAIRMAN MOONEY:
a motion to adjourn?
Motion.

MS. NEELY:

MS. SCOTT: Second.

CHAIRMAN MOONEY:

I'm sorry about that,

Okay.

Wait.

but

Tony, that we need

I appreciate it. Is

I'm sorry. Rather

is there a motion to recess

All those in favor

until a time certain?
MS. NEELY: Revised motion.
CHAIRMAN MOONEY: Okay.

say aye.

(Chorus of ayes.)

CHAIRMAN MOONEY:

'Thank you.

(The hearing adjourned at

5:57 

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781?9586

 

104

 

 

STATE OF ILLINOIS 

COUNTY OF COOK 

I, Karen Kane, a Certified Shorthand
Reporter in and for the County of Cook and State of
Illinois, do hereby certify that I reported in
shorthand the proceedings of said hearing as
appears from my stenographic notes so taken and

transcribed under my direction.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set
my hand and affixed my seal of office at Chicago,

Illinois, this 29th day of October 2012.

 

Certified Shorthand Reporter

 

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781?9586

 

