MEETING OF THE GOVERNING BOARD
OF THE CHICAGO DEVELOPMENT FUND
NEW MARKETS TAX CREDITS PROGRAM

City Hall, Room 1000
121 North LaSalle Street
Chicago, Illinois

Friday, October 23, 2009

 

9:00 a.m.

Christine Raguso, Chairperson
Stephanie Neely, Treasurer
Margaret Laurino, Alderman
Carrie Austin, Alderman
Eugene Munin, Budget DirectOr
Gene Saffold, CFO

William Eager

Rafael Leon

Mitchell Holzrichter

Tony Smith

Jolene Saul

Scott Fehlan

Lori Lypson

Reported by Shari L. Szerbat

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781-9586

 

CHAIRPERSON RAGUSO: Welcome, everyone, to the
fourth quarter 2009 meeting of the Chicago
Development Fund.

MR. SAFFOLD: Well, thank you.

MR. MUNIN: Was that for the record or 

CHAIRPERSON RAGUSO: Welcome to the Department
of Community Development. I?m not sure if you've
been up here before.

MR. MUNIN: have.

CHAIRPERSON RAGUSO: So I'd like to take a
roll call. Alderman Austin?

ALDERMAN AUSTIN: Here.

CHAIRPERSON RAGUSO: Alderman Burke?

(No response.)

Alderman Laurino?

(No response.)

Anne McNabb? We should probably
take her off.

(No response.)

MR. SMITH: Oh, I'm sorry. That was supposed
to be changed.

CHAIRPERSON RAGUSO: Yes. Strike that.

Gene Saffold?

MR. SAFFOLD: Here.

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781n9586

 

CHAIRPERSON RAGUSO: Gene Munin?

MR. MUNIN: Here.

CHAIRPERSON RAGUSO: Stephanie Neely?

(No response.)

Commissioner Raguso?

Here.

We have a quorum. First order of
business, approval of the minutes from May 20th,
2009, our Governing Board meeting.

ALDERMAN AUSTIN: Madam Chair, I move that we
approve the minutes from the last Governing Board
meeting.

MR. SAFFOLD: Second.

CHAIRPERSON RAGUSO: All those in favor?

(Chorus of ayes.)

Minutes are approved.

Second order of business, status of
approved and special transactions in the Chicago
Development Fund pipeline. I would ask 8.8.
Friedman to walk us through the presentation.

ALDERMAN AUSTIN: What's your name again?

MR. SMITH: My name is Tony Smith, S.B.
Friedman Company. Thank you.

Thanks, everybody, for coming out in

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781?9586

 

terrible weather and budget season and all that.
This is one of the great perks of being budget
director is to be on the Chicago Development Fund
Board.

MR. MUNIN: Among many.

MR. SAFFOLD: It was a key draw, key
attraction.

MR. SMITH: This has been a pretty busy period
for Chicago Development Fund since the last meeting,
so just running through the transactions that CDF
has approved on which there's been significant
action.

So in the May 2009 meeting, this
body voted on the Christ King deal, the Gary Comer
College Prep deal, the Greater West Town deal. I
believe the Imperial Zinc deal was voted on in the
prior meeting, but all four of those deals have
closed.

Imperial Zinc closed in 2009. Christ
King and Gary Comer College Prep closed in June
2009, and Greater West Town Community Career
Training Economic Development Center closed in
September. And then the Homan Square Powerhouse,

which was the first transaction that this body

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781-9586

 

approved and GDP financed, just reached completion
in August.

We actually have a representative
from the U.S. Treasury and a couple of our folks
and some people from U.S. Bank there right now doing
a tour of the facility, and it?s absolutely gorgeous.
It just won a national rehabilitation or,
historic rehab award as well.

So this was am just to refresh
everybody's memory, it was a $15 million allocation
from Chicago Development Fund, which translates into
about four and a half million of gap financing
subsidy.

The school is operated by the Henry
Ford Learning Institute of Dearborn, Michigan.

It's a charter high school in North Lawndale. it's
on the old Sears campus, the former power plant that
used to provide energy to the campus.

It was a $43 million project, as I
mentioned, closed -- or, completed in August 2009.
They're now operating with two out of the four grade
levels in the school, and they're going to add
additional grade levels next year and the year

after. So at full capacity, which is two years

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781-9586

 

from now, it will serve about 500 students.

It's a very green structure. They
have a geothermal heating and cooling system in a
railroad embankment next to the property. They're
anticipating that they're going to get LEED Gold
certification after the Green Building Council has
reviewed the completed building.

And it's an historic rehabilitation
according to National Park Service Standards. It's
an historic tax credit deal, so not a cheap building
to build, and so a lot of tax credit equity from
U.S. Bank both in the New Markets arena and historic
tax credit arena.

There are a couple more shots of the
completed building.

(Treasurer Neely is now present.)

ALDERMAN AUSTIN: Are there ?n this is the
same building, right?

MR. SMITH: Yeah.

ALDERMAN AUSTIN: Are there any contaminants
in there? Were there any tanks or anything?

MR. SMITH: There was some remediation within
the building during the demolition phase because

there was still it was basically a forest of

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781-9586

 

power generation equipment from the facility. So
the first step was demolishing or, removing all
of that equipment and abating any contaminants that
may have been remnants.

ALDERMAN AUSTIN: Okay. So from US EPA, you
got certificates for that?

MR. SMITH: Yeah.

ALDERMAN AUSTIN: For remediation?

MR. SMITH: Yeah. They're in compliance with
all the environmental requirements.

ALDERMAN AUSTIN: And what was the cost?

MR. SMITH: The cost of the cleanup itself?

ALDERMAN AUSTIN: Um?hmm.

MR. SMITH: I don't know that off the top of
my head. I can certainly dig that up.

ALDERMAN AUSTIN: Please.

MR. SMITH: Sure. So just a couple shots
here. This is the mm on the left, that's the back
of the building. They had to build an extensive
fire escape system to meet CPS standards, so
basically adding this new superstructure outside of
the building in the rear. But they've done it in a
very attractive fashion, so it's quite an amenity

for the building.

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781-9586

 

the middle, that's one of the
classroom spaces. All the interior rooms are very
unique because the building is it's a power
plant, so it's an interesting reuse of that
structure. So they're actually incorporating the
old legacy pieces in the building as an educational
tool.

There's still some coal conveyor
equipment, and the big chimney is still on the
building, so they use that as part of the curriculum
to instruct on energy production then and now as
well as some architectural curriculum.

ALDERMAN AUSTIN: So how did they incorporate
that part into the class structure?

MR. SMITH: You know, they've done it a couple
different ways. I think they tour the building, and
then they look at the old equipment and describe how
it was used. And then they are focusing on energy
production in their current curriculum as well as
newer technology and sort of contrasting the two
technologies, using that as a jumping off point to
talk about coal as the less clean energy source
versus newer sources.

ALDERMAN AUSTIN: The reason why I'm asking

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781?9586

 

because, you know, I have a solar energy power
plant out by us, and I'm trying to see how I can
integrate education at my college out there. So
I'm trying to see how one can fold into the other
or how I can start anew as to folding it into a
different energy source.

CHAIRPERSON RAGUSO: Alderman 

ALDERMAN AUSTIN: Yes.

CHAIRPERSON RAGUSO: can we ask that the
folks, the administrators from the school, maybe
come down and visit with you so that they can tell
you how they've incorporated it into their curriculum
to give you some ideas on how you can implement it?

ALDERMAN AUSTIN: Yes, that would be great.
Thank you.

MR. SMITH: Next up, Imperial Zinc. This one
closed in May of 2009, so this is a much smaller
deal, $6 million financing from Chicago Development
Fund.

So this was a facility that had been
operating in the Pullman neighborhood for a long
time. It had a large fire in August of 2008 and
was at a decision point as to whether they wanted

to rebuild in place a larger and higher production

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781m9586

 

capacity or to relocate.

So Chicago Development Fund provided
6 million of allocation which translated into about
a million four of actual subsidy value to the
project, and that was enough to make the economics
work for Imperial to rebuild with a larger facility.
So that preserved 40 jobs and allowed it to add 45
jobs when they get up to full production capacity
at lO3rd next to the Bishop-Ford.

They're actually doing quite well in
their construction. As you can see, the photograph
looks very much like the rendering, probably closer
than any other building I've ever seen. It's a
simple building, so maybe that's why.

The shell is complete. They're
painting the shell, and they think they're going to
open in February 2010, which is a little bit ahead
of schedule.

ALDERMAN AUSTIN: And what is it that they
provide?

MR. SMITH: They process zinc, so they produce
zinc anodes and alloys.

ALDERMAN AUSTIN: Okay.

MR. SMITH: So they'll actually add 55 new

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781-9586

 

positions eventually.

And the third transaction this
closed in early June -- the Christ King College
Prep. This was a $17 million NMTC allocation from

Chicago Development Fund, just over 5 million in
terms of actual subsidy value to the project. LISC
also provided $14 million of allocation, so a total
of 31 million in allocation for this $35 million
deal.

This is a 100,000 square foot
facility, which actually some of the CDF staff
again an and I'm not sure if the Chair is going to
be joining us, but at least a couple CDF staff are
going to be touring with the U.S. Treasury rep
that's in town today.

This is under construction in the
Austin community area. It's a it's operating on
the Cristo Rey model, which has already been
implemented in one school in Chicago. For 600
students, this would provide internship placements
in local businesses which in turn helps to generate
the subsidy that deeply subsidizes the students'
tuition.

Gary Comer College Prep also closed

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781*9586

 

early June. This is at $21.5 million NMTC
allocation from Chicago Development Fund or about 
it was 5.6, 5.7 million or so subsidy value
generated by that for the project.

This is a new charter high school
facility in the Revere neighborhood within the
Greater Grand Crossing community. It's a charter
school that's going to be operated by Noble Network
of Charter SchoOls, which is one of the premier
operators in the city.

The building is under construction
with an expectation of the students being able to
move in for the 2010/2011 academic year, and it,
will serve 530 students at completion.

It's next to the Gary Comer Youth
Center, which is an existing facility that the Comer
Foundation put in place a couple years ago which
provides after?school programming. It provides
meals before school and a host of other services,
including hosting the South Shore Drill Team, so a
very complementary facility here with the high
school and a very efficient sharing of facilities.

This is part of the Comer

Foundation's broader efforts to really transform

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781-9586

 

the Revere community and reverse some of the
disinvestments that happened over the last few
decades. So this includes investment in the middle
school that?s a couple blocks away where Gary Comer
attended long ago. And he's put about $7 million
into improvements there. Then they still have
about 90 to 100 scattered site housing units in the
immediate neighborhood as well.

The facility is anticipated to get
LEED certification at completion. And there was
also capital provided by Northern Trust, both
traditional bank debt and the New Markets Tax
Credits equity.

Kind of a coup for Chicago
Development Fund because this was Northern Trust?s
first New Markets Tax Credits transaction, and
that's one of the major issues in this arena, that
some of the banks that were participating in the
program, like Citibank and National City Cap
Market, have really pulled back on their investment
in the credit due to profitability issues.

So finding new players to actually
begin investing in the program is important to keep

the appetite up for the credits to keep the pricing

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781?9586

 

point where it can provide meaningful subsidy
to the deals.

And then the most recent one to
close, really a major combination of different
financing programs from every level of government,
state, federal and local, this is the Greater West
Town project or the Community Career Training 
Economic Development Center.

This is a 60,000 or so square foot
rehab of an old envelope factory at North Sacramento,
500 North Sacramento, right near the Chicago Center
for Green Technology on the West Side.

Greater West Town Community
Development project has been in operation for about
20 years. It's really a phenomenal organization.
They provide adult vocational training in high?tech
woodworking as well as in shipping and receiving
and logistics.

And then they also serve about 150
high school students, all of whom have previously
dropped out of the CPS system. So it's a charter
school for those students providing a normal high
school education as well as an added vocational

training. And they actually graduate 70 percent of

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781?9586

 

those students, which 

ALDERMAN AUSTINrunning this facility?

MR. SMITH: It's the Greater West Town
Community Organization.

CHAIRPERSON RAGUSOthe
high school, though who is the principal? I
can't remember her name.

MR. SMITH: I don't remember off the top of
my head.

CHAIRPERSON RAGUSO: This was -- for the
Board, this was one of the most challenging projects
to finance. It had so many different layers in it
to get it donejust goes to
show you what it's taking to get projects done these
days.

But we did it, and they're under
construction, and it's going to give folks in this
community and folks who otherwise wouldn't have a
chance jobs, a second chance at a good career.

ALDERMAN AUSTIN: Well, the reason why I'm
inquiring, because a facility such as this would
work well on the far South Side given the over?

crowdedness of all of our schools that the

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781-9586

 

disadvantaged and disenfranchised students that I
have.

So I need to be able to get in touch
with the individual on how we can structure
something like this out in the far South because
Alderman Beale, myself and Alderman Pope all have
industrial areas that have large existing
buildings 

CHAIRPERSON RAGUSO: If you would like 

ALDERMAN AUSTIN: -- that don?t have
contaminants in them.

CHAIRPERSON RAGUSO: I would be happy to
set up that meeting for you.

ALDERMAN AUSTIN: All right. Thank you.

MR. SMITH: So this m~ the structure for this
deal included 3.1 million in TIF assistance from
the City which was structured in a very careful way
to allow it to serve as a leveraged source for the
New Markets Tax Credits transaction, 9.3 million in
allocation from Chicago Development Fund, which
translated into 2.8 million of subsidy.

And then CDF actually then reached
out to the State of Illinois Department of Commerce

Economic Opportunity and took advantage of a new

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781-9586

 

program that was created this year called the
Illinois State New Markets Tax Credit Program.

That?s essentially a parallel program
to the federal, and the state is just began
rolling it out in April of this year. So they
provided also 9.3 million of state allocation which
provided another million three or so of benefit to
the project.

So by layering these sources
together and then also maxing out Greater West
Town's available capital for the project and their
borrowing capacity with Harris Bank, the deal was
able to get done.

MR. SAFFOLD: How much was their bank loan?

MR. SMITH: Two and a half million tied to
project cash flow and then 2.1 tied to TIF from
Harris.

MR. SAFFOLD: What's their cash flow then?
I'm just curious in terms of are there grant monies,
or do they have a revenue stream?

MR. SMITH: Yeah, they have they get a
staple of grants from state, federal and local
sources, and they provided a very strong operating

history of being able to maintain those grants as

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781-9586

 

well as some philanthropic contributions. So the
underwriting really focused heavily on that track
record, and you know, if you lose this source, can
you replace it with another source, that sort of
thing.

So an update on Muntu Performing
Arts Center which is a transaction that first came
before this body a long time ago. I believe it was
the fall of 2008. So this is a 40,000 square foot
facility proposed in the Kenwood community area on
Greenwood.

So that one got very close to
closing, but it got tied up in credit crunch issues.
Seaway Bank, which was one of the participating
lenders in the deal, decided at the eleventh hour
that they were not able to participate, and that
effectively put the project on hold.

Since that time, Muntu began
exploring using an existing facility and doing a
renovation project instead of building a new
facility. So at this point, it's a project that
CDF is supportive of, but the deal would need to be
restructured and would need to come before this body

again if the transaction was to go forward.

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781?9586

 

TREASURER NEELY: What are they doing with the
eyesore that's on the corner?

MR. SMITH: The property that the City
conveyed them? I don?t know. 1 believe the City
is going to have that reconveyed back to the City.

CHAIRPERSON RAGUSO: Treasurer Neely, we're
still working with them. It's obviously a cash flow
issue. The dollars just aren't working. We were
excited about this opportunity because we thought
it would complete the corner.

But we still stay in constant
communication with them trying to figure out if
there is a way to make it work, and we're also
working with the local elected officials to
determine if there are any other potential users to
renovate the eyesore, as you referred to, that
exists today.

MR. SMITH: Testa Produce, this again came
before the Board at first last fall. This is a
local food processor and distribution facility.

You probably see their trucks all over town.
They're the blue trucks with the gold lettering on
them, and they all run on biodiesel, which I found

interesting in talking to them.

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781*9586

 

It's a 100,000 square foot facility
that would be extremely green, LEED?Platinum. It
would be the first food processing and distribution
facility in the country that would achieve
LEED-Platinum. It's located in the Stockyards
Industrial Corridor.

U.S. Bank was initially going to be
the lender to this project as well as the tax credit
investor, and they spent three or four months
underwriting Testa's operating history in detail
and then looking very carefully at its first and
second quarter '09 sales results. And U.S. Bank
decided that they could not do a construction loan
at this time.

However, we've been finding out that
U.S. Bank is substantially more conservative than
some other lenders in town, so Testa is essentially
regrouping and talking to a couple other lenders at
this point to see if they can access a similar
amount of construction debt from one of them.

In particular, they've banked with
Harris for a long time, and so Harris is likely to
have a better understanding of the operating

strength of the company and how to value it for

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781-9586

 

underwriting purposes.

So just an illustration of the credit
crisis and how it impacts projects. This is a $20
million project that the appraisal for the the
proposed facility came in at 11 and a half million
due to the really distressed real estate market at
this point.

So it's challenging, but we're still
hopeful that that deal can get done in some form,
but again, that would probably need to come back to
this body since the nature of the capital structure
needs to change, and the project cost may change as
well.

ALDERMAN AUSTIN: So at this time, we're going
to put this project on hold?

MR. SMITH: Correct. Yeah, yeah.

TREASURER NEELY: It was approved, but now
it's ~w

MR. SMITH: Right.

So just an overall summary of the
fourth round allocation. In terms of allocation
that has been closed, legally committed in a
binding way to projects, 68.8 million out of CDF's

total $100 million allocation is now closed. That

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781~9586

 

leaves 31.2 million. So to date the closed projects
include four community facilities and one industrial
project.

So based on these closings that
happened since the last meeting, CDF met two
deadlines. One was a mid June deadline which would
allow CDF to compete for allocation in this 2009
round. And actually we're expected to hear news on
that very shortly.

TREASURER NEELY: What did we ask for again?

MR. SMITH: We asked for 125. You never get
what you ask for, though. So next week is the
expected date to hear more about that.

And then CDF also met a deadline in
its allocation agreement to have 60 percent of its
allocations closed by the end of September 2009.

TREASURER NEELY: Chair, can you send an
e?mail out to the body so that we know what our
allocation is?

CHAIRPERSON RAGUSO: When we get it,
absolutely.

MR. SMITH: There are a number of projects
still in CDF's pipeline. Whether they can take

advantage of this allocation, the remaining 31.2

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781-9586

 

million, or potential future allocations is based
on what CDF foresees and what the timing of these
projects is.

But so we have five projects in
what we call the intake phase where we're having
discussions upfront before they file an application,
helping them understand how New Markets Tax Credits
could work with their projects and advising them on
how to fill out the application; nine projects that
have submitted applications that are pending,
essentially waiting for evidence that the
transactions are more ready to move forward; and
then these two, Testa and Muntu, that are in the
restructuring phase.

So a total of 16 projects in our
pipeline, and we continue to get inquiries that 
for new projects of various sorts. In terms of
what types of projects those are, nine of those are
community facilities, three are industrial, and
then four are grocery anchor projects.

GDP is very excited about the
prospect of getting a grocery deal done since that's
the third mission component that so far we haven't

been able to close anything in.

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781?9586

 

Overall continued high demand for
the allocation. 209 million of total requested
allocation among these various prospects I
mentioned. The submitted applications within that
group represent 126 million, so over a 4?to?1 demand
for the remaining credits. So it's really a
function of who's ready and who can get the most
benefit from New Markets Tax Credits within that
time frame.

So just some examples of some of
these potential projects. Aldi is looking at doing
a couple new store facilities in the city. One
would be a replacement of an older existing store
at 63rd and Wallace with a new prototype that's up
to the street. It's a lot more attractive.

They would also look to do a second
store as part of the same financing at 83rd and
Stewart. So they submitted an application looking
to try to get 7 million of NMTC allocation involved
in that transaction.

TREASURER NEELY: IS 63rd and Wallace
considered a grocery desert?
MR. SMITH: It is, yeah.

CHAIRPERSON RAGUSO: Treasurer, all of our

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781?9586

 

targets for these allocations are in the identified
food deserts.

MR. SMITH: So we're currently working with
Northern Trust and trying to put something together
to bring back before this body in a subsequent
meeting with that.

Ultra Foods is also another prospect.
There's a site at 63rd and Halsted there's a
proposal on the table to do a grocery?anchored
shopping center that includes that as the anchor,
60,000 square foot full?line Ultra Foods.

So these are in the orbit of Kennedy?
King College and the new recent investments the
City's made, so part of an overall sort of a

secondary strategy of CDF's to concentrate

?investments really to try to make a heavier impact

in key zones in the city that need it.

Then Finkl Steel, a major producer
of certain specialty steel projects. They've been
in Lincoln Park for a very long time, over 100
years. They're seeking to move into a much newer,
much higher capacity facility, and they?re looking
at a site on the South Side.

This would allow Finkl to remain in

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781-9586

 

Chicago and preserve 300 very highwquality
industrial jobs. So GDP is working closely with
the City of Chicago and in discussions with Finkl
to see if a New Markets Tax Credit transaction can
help this along and then also, perhaps, relieve
some pressure on other requests for City subsidy
to the transaction.

MR. SAFFOLD: How much are they looking for?

MR. SMITH: We need to chat with them about
that,

CHAIRPERSON RAGUSO: They're looking for TIF.
They're looking for New Market Tax Credits.

MR. SAFFOLD: They're looking for grants.

CHAIRPERSON RAGUSO: They're looking for
grants. They're looking to the State. I mean,
again, it's that whole plethora of funding
opportunities.

MR. SMITH: One concept is that the Chicago
Development Fund New Markets Tax Credits'
participation could replace the existing utility
tax flow that they're paying at their Lincoln Park
facility, and so that could stay in the City budget,
and then only the incremental could be pledged, and

then New Markets could make up the difference.

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781-9586

 

would also hope to get other New
Markets allocatees to provide credits to the
transaction, so perhaps either further reducing
City participation or increasing their gap financing
with the deal or both.

TREASURER NEELY: Any thoughts as to what
would go in the existing facility?

CHAIRPERSON RAGUSO: As you know, it's in a
planned manufacturing district which it's called
for manufacturing. They have been in to see
Commissioner Patti Scudiero to rezone the prOperty
to allow for residential, and from the City's
perspective, from a land use perspective, planned
manufacturing districts are sacred land for
insuring that we preserve our manufacturing base.

So there are no prospects right now
to go in and utilize Finkl. They?re still
obviously fighting to change it to residential to
allow for retail. So Commissioner Scudiero has
opined that it is to remain a planned manufacturing
district, and the zoning will not change.

MR. SMITH: Any further questions?

CHAIRPERSON RAGUSO: I would like for the

minutes to reflect that we've been joined by the

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781~9586

 

treasurer for the City of Chicago, Stephanie Neely.

And so while we're on this, Tony, I
would give the floor also to you to discuss with
the Board the status of the 2009 allocation with
New Markets Tax Credits.

MR. SMITH: Right. So this is actually a big
week in the New Markets Tax Credits world.
Novogradac, which is one of the two major accounting
firms in the industry, is having a conference over
at the Swissotel yesterday and today. Our Chair
gave the keynote address yesterday and showed off
some of the same projects we talked about today.

It went over really well.

And so today we actually have a rep
from the CDFI Fund at the U.S. Treasury who is in
charge of the allocations to the tax credits and
monitoring the program, she's in town, and she's
currently at the Homan Powerhouse with U.S. Bank
and with CDF staff.

And then she's actually coming here
to meet with Commissioner Raguso and Bill Eager
after this meeting, and then we're going to go tour
the Christ the King facility with them.

So good timing, and then hopefully

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781-9586

 

next week we'll hear some news about the future
allocation. I think that's about it.

CHAIRPERSON RAGUSO: I did want to share with
the Board, we have an Advisory Board that meets
before we come to you who does all the homework
before we present to you a package, and we are
joined by the chairman of that Board, Rafael Leon.

One thing that we suggested at the
last Advisory Board meeting was for the Board
members to take a tour of the sites that they are
putting forth. And these are unbelievable projects
in neighborhoods where we desperately need something.
And to pull these projects off, it's a great feat.

30 I don't know if there's any
interest from this Board to go tour the facilities
that you're approving and that you're making happen.
But if that's something you all would be interested
in, I would be more than happy to organize a quick
tour of these facilities so you could see them.

ALDERMAN AUSTIN: Well, I do want to tour the
one 

CHAIRPERSON RAGUSO: The Roman Powerhouse.

ALDERMAN AUSTIN: Yes, that one and the 

CHAIRPERSON RAGUSO: Greater West Town

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781-9586

 

Training Center.

ALDERMAN AUSTIN: Yes.

CHAIRPERSON RAGUSO: Yes, I agree with you.
So if there are no further questions or matters of
business --

ALDERMAN AUSTIN: Oh, I have a question.

CHAIRPERSON RAGUSO: Yes, ma'am.

ALDERMAN AUSTIN: In regards to, I guess, a
question that I asked at a previous meeting maybe
I received it. I don't recall -- a map or an
overlay of projects that we've done throughout the
city and with identification, did we ever get that?

MR. SMITH: Yes, it's been provided.

ALDERMAN AUSTIN: Could I get it again?

CHAIRPERSON RAGUSO: We will resend it to you.

ALDERMAN AUSTIN: Because I honestly don't
remember it.

CHAIRPERSON RAGUSO: Absolutely. No problem.
Do all the Board members want to see just a
physical ?w

TREASURER NEELY: Sure.

CHAIRPERSON RAGUSO: Fine. We'll send that
out, too.

Any other matters? Do I have a

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781?9586

 

motion to adjourn the meeting?
MR. SAFFOLD: So moved.
CHAIRPERSON RAGUSO: Second?
ALDERMAN AUSTIN: Second.
CHAIRPERSON RAGUSO: All those in favor?
(Chorus of ayes.)
The meeting is adjourned. Thank
you, Board, for coming.
(Which were all the proceedings

had.)

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781-9586

 

STATE OF ILLINOIS 

COUNTY OF COOK 

I, Shari L. Szerbat, a Certified
Shorthand Reporter in and for the County of Cook
and State of Illinois, do hereby certify that I
reported in shorthand the proceedings of said
hearing as appears from my stenographic notes so

taken and transcribed under my direction.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set
my hand and affixed my seal of office at Chicago,

Illinois, this 28th day of October 2009.

3M siege

Illinois CSR License 084w003222

 

URLAUB BOWEN ASSOCIATES, INC.
(312) 781-9586

 

