SSA 5 Regular Commission Meeting Minutes
October 25, 2018

PRESENT
Bonnie Dinell-Dimond
Alex J. Alemis
Angela Hurlock
Robert Loncar

ABSENT
Dorothy Hudson

SERVICE PROVIDER
Tom Schell
Dave Price
Diane Abbott
Guests:
Alma Torres and Mitchell Gray
Albert Garcia and Crystal Senda
Carlos Gonzalez
Meeting was called to order at 2:10 p.m.

1. Approval of Agenda
A motion to approve the agenda was made by Angela Hurlock, seconded by Robert
Loncar. Motion carried.
2. Approval of the Minutes
The minutes of the September 27, 2018, meeting were reviewed. There being no
corrections or additions to the minutes, a motion to approve the September 27,
2018, meeting minutes was made by Angela Hurlock, seconded by Robert Loncar.
Motion carried.
The minutes of the October 2, 2018, special meeting, to review the 2017 Annual
Financial Report with the auditors, were reviewed. There being no corrections or
South Chicago Parents and Friends, Inc. is accredited by the Commission for Accreditation of Rehabilitation Facilities (CARF).

 MINUTES OF A REGULARL MEETING
OF THE COMMISIONERS OF SSA 5

October 25, 2018

additions to the minutes, a motion to approve the October 2, 2018, meeting minutes
was made by Robert Loncar, seconded by Angela Hurlock. Motion carried.

3. Financial Report
Financial Reports for the month ending September 30, 2018, were reviewed and
discussed. Mr. Schell reviewed the revenues and expenses for the month of
September. After further discussion regarding the Financial Reports, a motion to
accept the September Financial Reports was made by Robert Loncar, seconded by
Angela Hurlock. Motion carried.

4. Cash Flow / Receivables
Mr. Schell provided the commissioners with a copy of the September, 2018 bank
reconciliation. After discussion, a motion to accept the September bank
reconciliation was made by Angela Hurlock, seconded by Robert Loncar. Motion
carried.

Mr. Schell reported that as of the date of the meeting, cash in the bank totaled
$536,655.

5. Items for Approval
Mr. Schell presented the September and October invoices for payment approval.
After a brief discussion regarding the invoices, a motion to approve the September
and October invoices was made by Alex J. Alemis, seconded by Angela Hurlock.
Motion carried.
Dave Price presented a new Façade Rebate application from David Perez. The
application is to remove a bubble awning and repair/tuck-point the brick after
removal. After reviewing application and a brief discussion, a motion to approve the
façade rebate application for $1,875.00 was made by Robert Loncar, seconded by
Alex J. Alemis. Motion carried.
Dave Price proposed a shopping bag initiative. Dave suggested it will be a great way
to increase interest in the Commercial Avenue shopping district as well as be an
advertising tool for the SSA 5. The bags would be in English and Spanish. One side
of the bag will say “Special Service Area 5 Commercial Avenue”. The other side to
say “South Chicago I shop locally”. Commissioners requested to have the bags in
the color red and if possible without incurring an additional cost, to also have bags in
the color blue. A motion to purchase 5,000 bags at the cost of $1.73 each, and a
$45.00 each side set of fee was made by Angela Hurlock, seconded by Alex J.
South Chicago Parents and Friends, Inc. is accredited by the Commission for Accreditation of Rehabilitation Facilities (CARF).

 MINUTES OF A REGULARL MEETING
OF THE COMMISIONERS OF SSA 5

October 25, 2018

Alemis. Motion carried.
Dave Price presented a quote for Real-Time Incident Reporting from Sprint Mobile
Hotspot. This will allow the security firm to do up-to-date reporting on incidents in the
SSA 5. The cost to be $80.00 a month. A motion to purchase the Real-Time Incident
Reporting service for $80.00 a month was made by Robert Loncar, seconded by
Angela Hurlock. Motion carried.

6. Program Manager Report
Dave Price presented the TTI Bowling Chart and the target areas to improve with
the goals to improve them. Dave stated that once the work is completed, he will
count the façade rebates that were awarded. Dave pointed out that the number of
security incidents are lower but that is due to the new security firm not labeling
incidents in the same fashion as the last firm.
Dave Price introduced the potential new commissioners and Bonnie Dinell-Dimond
requested that they share a little information about themselves and why they would
like to serve as SSA 5 Commissioners. Alma Torres spoke on behalf of the Director
of the Latino Resource Institute but this is not related to new commissioner. She
spoke about their security concerns. Albert Garcia from State Farm Insurance, and
Carlos Gonzalez from Dulce Café spoke about their interest. The 3rd Commissioner
candidate, Mr. Laurentino Ramirez, Program Manager of the Spanish Coalition for
Housing was unable to attend the meeting. The commissioners suggested each
potential commissioner fill out the application and return as soon as possible.
At this time, Dave Price had another appointment and left the meeting.
Dave had a slide listing the progress in the Green Committee thus far. The lots have
been cleared and look great. It was requested that Dave investigate the Tree
Planting from the Forestry Department.
Mr. Schell suggested that the commissioners review the security report. There were
no questions or discussion regarding the report.
Mr. Schell stated the Homeless Survey Proposal will be tabled until the next meeting
when Dave Price could present it.
Angela Hurlock discussed the Criminal Trespass Affidavit Program and stated that
businesses signed up to be a part of this program. Business owners sign an affidavit
that if someone is loitering in front of their store, the police have permission to
remove the person from the premises.
Mr. Schell gave an update on the Christmas Decorations stating they will be hung
before or around Thanksgiving. Mr. Schell stated the solar lights will not work as
planned. The sample tried did not light up the decorations as hoped.
South Chicago Parents and Friends, Inc. is accredited by the Commission for Accreditation of Rehabilitation Facilities (CARF).

 MINUTES OF A REGULARL MEETING
OF THE COMMISIONERS OF SSA 5

October 25, 2018

Mr. Schell stated that Dave Price left the meeting to meet with the school regarding
the People Plaza and that it sounds like this project is moving forward.
Mr. Schell stated that Dave Price will address the Facebook Page at the next
meeting.
Immaculate Conception Church requested the SSA 5 help in their fundraiser. The
SSA 5 is part of Government/State and cannot send money to churches. If the
members choose to help out of their own pockets they can.

7. Old / New Business
Alex J. Alemis stated that the Jackson Hewitt Façade Rebate approved project
had some extra issues with tuck-pointing. The cost may remain the same yet the
work required may be shifted to address these unexpected costs.
Alex J. Alemis presented that the C & G window frames were not going to be the
bronze frames as he initially presented. It was requested that the frames be the
clear instead of the white as not to contrast the front of the buildings too
drastically.
Angela Hurlock requested the SSA support the annual Thanksgiving dinner if no
other agency is helping to fund this event. Robert Loncar motioned to request up
to $1,000 for assistance with the Thanksgiving dinner at the YMCA only if it is not
already taking place through another entity, seconded by Alex J. Alemis. Motion
Carried.
Robert Loncar offered to invite a graphic designer to the next meeting to present
SSA 5 official logo ideas and the cost to develop SSA 5 logo.

8. Adjournment
There being no additional business, a motion to adjourn the meeting at 4:10 p.m.
was made by Robert Loncar, seconded by Alex J. Alemis. Motion carried.

Next Regular Scheduled Meeting – November 29, 2018 at 2:00 p.m.

South Chicago Parents and Friends, Inc. is accredited by the Commission for Accreditation of Rehabilitation Facilities (CARF).

 South Chicago Parents and Friends, Inc. is accredited by the Commission for Accreditation of Rehabilitation Facilities (CARF).

 South Chicago Parents and Friends, Inc. is accredited by the Commission for Accreditation of Rehabilitation Facilities (CARF).

 