SSA 5 Regular Commission Meeting Minutes
November 29, 2018

PRESENT

ABSENT

Bonnie Dinell-Dimond
Alex J. Alemis
Angela Hurlock
Robert Loncar
Dorothy Hudson
Albert Garcia
Laurentino Ramirez
Carlos Gonzalez
SERVICE PROVIDER
Dave Price
Diane Abbott

Tom Schell

GUESTS
Albert Garcia
Laurentino Ramirez
Carlos Gonzalez
India Daniels, City Bureau (Civic Journalism Lab)
Ebony Ellis, City Bureau (Civic Journalism Lab)
Daniel Richards (Alliance of the Southeast)
Meeting was called to order at 2:15 p.m.

1. Approval of Agenda
A motion to approve the agenda was made by Robert Loncar, seconded by Alex J.
Alemis. Motion carried.

South Chicago Parents and Friends, Inc. is accredited by the Commission for Accreditation of Rehabilitation Facilities (CARF).

 MINUTES OF A REGULAR MEETING
OF THE COMMISIONERS OF SSA 5

November 29, 2018

2. Approval of the Minutes
The minutes of the October 25, 2018, meeting were reviewed. There being no
corrections or additions to the minutes, a motion to approve the October 25, 2018,
meeting minutes was made by Alex J. Alemis, seconded by Dorothy Hudson. Motion
carried.

3. Financial Report
Financial Reports for the month ending October 31, 2018, were reviewed and
discussed. Dave Price reviewed the revenues and expenses for the month of
October. After further discussion regarding the Financial Reports, a motion to accept
the October Financial Reports was made by Robert Loncar, seconded by Dorothy
Hudson. Motion carried.

4. Cash Flow / Receivables
Dave Price provided the commissioners with a copy of the October, 2018 bank
reconciliation. After discussion, a decision to postpone the vote to approve the
October bank reconciliation was tabled until the next meeting.
Dave Price reported that as of the date of the meeting, cash in the bank totaled
$482,255.

5. Items for Approval
Dave Price presented the October and November invoices for payment approval.
After a brief discussion regarding the invoices, a motion to approve the October and
November invoices for Illinois Security, SCPF, and WGN was made by Angela
Hurlock, seconded by Alex J. Alemis. Motion carried. (The invoice for AJ Iron Works
was not approved since the work has not been completed.)

6. Program Manager Report
Dave Price presented the TTI Bowling Chart and the target areas to improve with
the goals to improve them. Dave stated that he will count the clean-up events as
special events if volunteers were involved and if a landscape firm was involved, they
will count as Public Way Aesthetics. Dave Price went over each area and the status
of the goals.
Dave Price presented the security report from the month of October. Dave Price said
according to the data gathered, the biggest reason for calls to the security firm were
loitering problems and with McDonalds being the problem area.
South Chicago Parents and Friends, Inc. is accredited by the Commission for Accreditation of Rehabilitation Facilities (CARF).

 MINUTES OF A REGULAR MEETING
OF THE COMMISIONERS OF SSA 5

November 29, 2018

After a brief discussion regarding a recent incident, it was discussed that the security
firm work with the safe passage patrols and allow these representatives to remain
anonymous.
Dave had a slide presentation listing the progress in the Green Committee thus far.
Seven lots have been cleared and some are ready for the next step while others
require more prep work to be ready for gardens and adoption. Dave Price discussed
one of the lots that required the landscaper to redo some unauthorized work he
completed.
Dave Price stated that Arnold Mireles LSC approved the People Plaza proposal to
rent parking lot for six month June – November at $1,000.00 per month. Dave Price
said the lot needed some repairs and he was not certain this project would move
forward in the way expected. Local business representatives have requested to use
the parking lot for parking instead of the People Plaza.
Dave Price stated that he would like to conduct face book promotional blasts of any
and every event the SSA 5 participates in or runs for a minimal charge. The
commissioners stated that Dave does not need approval to move forward with this
type of promotion.

7. Old / New Business
Alex J. Alemis stated that the three façade rebate projects will require more work
than anticipated. It was recommended by the commissioners that the façade rebate
applications be amended to reflect the additional required work and then the
amended applications will be presented to the commissioners for approval.
Adjournment
There being no additional business, a motion to adjourn the meeting at 4:15 p.m.
was made by Robert Loncar, seconded by Dorothy Hudson. Motion carried.

Next Regular Scheduled Meeting – December 20, 2018 at 2:00 p.m.

South Chicago Parents and Friends, Inc. is accredited by the Commission for Accreditation of Rehabilitation Facilities (CARF).

 South Chicago Parents and Friends, Inc. is accredited by the Commission for Accreditation of Rehabilitation Facilities (CARF).

 South Chicago Parents and Friends, Inc. is accredited by the Commission for Accreditation of Rehabilitation Facilities (CARF).

 