SSA 5 Regular Commission Meeting Minutes
December 20, 2018

PRESENT
Bonnie Dinell-Dimond
Alex J. Alemis
Angela Hurlock (Arrived 3:00 p.m.)
Dorothy Hudson

ABSENT
Robert Loncar

SERVICE PROVIDER
Tom Schell
Dave Price
Diane Abbott
GUESTS
Albert Garcia
Laurentino Ramirez
Ishmael Cuevas 10th Ward Alderwoman’s office
Meeting was called to order at 2:25 p.m.

1. Approval of Agenda
A motion to approve the agenda was made by Alex J. Alemis, seconded by Dorothy
Hudson. Motion carried.
2. Approval of the Minutes
The minutes of the November 29, 2018, meeting were reviewed. There being no
corrections or additions to the minutes, a motion to approve the November 29, 2018,
meeting minutes was made by Dorothy Hudson, seconded by Alex J. Alemis. Motion
carried.

South Chicago Parents and Friends, Inc. is accredited by the Commission for Accreditation of Rehabilitation Facilities (CARF).

 MINUTES OF A REGULAR MEETING
OF THE COMMISIONERS OF SSA 5

December 20, 2018

3. Financial Report
Financial Reports for the month ending November 30, 2018, were reviewed and
discussed. Mr. Schell reviewed the revenues and expenses for the month of
November. After further discussion regarding the Financial Reports, a motion to
accept the November Financial Reports was made by Dorothy Hudson, seconded
by Alex J. Alemis. Motion carried.

4. Cash Flow / Receivables
Mr. Schell provided an explanation for holding the approval of the October, 2018
bank reconciliation at last month’s meeting. After discussion, a motion to accept the
October bank reconciliation was made by Alex J. Alemis, seconded by Dorothy
Hudson. Motion carried.
Mr. Schell provided the commissioners with a copy of the November, 2018 bank
reconciliation. After a discussion, a motion to accept the November bank
reconciliation was made by Alex J. Alemis, seconded by Dorothy Hudson. Motion
carried.
Mr. Schell reported that as of the date of the meeting, cash in the bank totaled
$377,239.84.

5. Items for Approval
Mr. Schell presented the November and December invoices for payment approval.
After a brief discussion regarding the invoices, a motion to approve the November
and December invoices was made by Alex J. Alemis, seconded by Dorothy Hudson.
Motion carried.
Mr. Schell proposed the Audit Engagement Letter from Knutte & Associates. After a
discussion, it was presented that Knutte could conduct the 2018 SSA 5 audit for the
amount of $6,500.00. A motion to accept Knutte & Associates for the 2018 audit of
the SSA 5 was made by Dorothy Hudson, seconded by Alex J. Alemis. Motion
carried.
Mr. Schell presented the 2018 Budget Reconciliation. After a comprehensive
discussion regarding the changes, a motion to approve the budget reconciliation
was made by Angela Hurlock, seconded by Dorothy Hudson. Motion carried.

6. Program Manager Report
Dave Price presented the TTI Bowling Chart and the target areas to improve with
the goals to improve them.
South Chicago Parents and Friends, Inc. is accredited by the Commission for Accreditation of Rehabilitation Facilities (CARF).

 MINUTES OF A REGULAR MEETING
OF THE COMMISIONERS OF SSA 5

December 20, 2018

Dave Price went over each area and the status of the goals. Dave Price discussed
the need to meet and develop new goals for the new year. Angela Hurlock
requested to open the goal setting meeting to all the residents and those that have
businesses in the SSA 5. It was decided that Dave Price would forward the UIC
report to the commissioners for review prior to the goal setting meeting scheduled
for Thursday, January 17, 2019 at 2:00 p.m. at MB Financial.
Dave Price presented the security report from the month of November. Dave Price
said according to the data gathered, the biggest reason for calls to the security firm
were loitering problems and with McDonalds being the problem area.
Dave Price presented an update from the security committee meeting. The
committee discussed establishing a security rebate program. Possible security
rebate items include: cameras, windows, lighting, intercoms, gates/fencing, and
graffiti removal. After discussion regarding the options and ideas, it was decided that
Dave Price would gather more information on other SSA’s using rebate programs as
well as how to apply this program in the SSA 5.
Dave Price said he wants to hold an event/meeting to present the new 311 initiative
to the SSA 5 community. Dave would like to engage the community residents and
business owners and help them to know, understand, and use their resources.
Dave Price presented the Green Committee report. The committee has selected two
locations for community gardens for next year. The most ideal locations were 3104
and 3108 E. 92nd Street. The committee also wants to get the cleaned up lots
adopted and beautified.
Dave Price stated that Arnold Mireles LSC approved the People Plaza proposal to
rent parking lot for six month June – November at $1,000.00 per month. Dave Price
said the lot needed some significant repairs and he was not certain this project
would move forward in the way expected. Local business representatives have
requested to use the parking lot for parking instead of the People Plaza.
7. Old / New Business
Mr. Schell distributed the 2019 SSA 5 meeting dates to the commissioners. Mr.
Schell stated that he would present the 2019 calendar from the Department of
Planning once he received it as well as the training dates for new commissioners.
Mr. Schell presented information regarding a graphic designer named Sandy Duran.
The artist requested two (1) hour meetings to discuss ideas and concepts for the
SSA 5 logo and branding. Mr. Schell will schedule the meetings and let the
commissioners know the dates in the hopes of having the banners and designs by
April 1, 2019.

South Chicago Parents and Friends, Inc. is accredited by the Commission for Accreditation of Rehabilitation Facilities (CARF).

 MINUTES OF A REGULAR MEETING
OF THE COMMISIONERS OF SSA 5

December 20, 2018

Mr. Schell gave commissioners the Office of Inspector General, 3 rd Quarter Report
concerning the SSA 5. The report includes information regarding the previous
service providers theft of city SSA funds (OIG Case #16-0334) and a synopses of
criminal case State of Illinois versus Alyssa Cornejo (18 CR 0291201) (#16-0334).

Adjournment
There being no additional business, a motion to adjourn the meeting at 4:25 p.m.
was made by Angela Hurlock, seconded by Bonnie Dinell-Dimond. Motion carried.

Next Regular Scheduled Meeting – January 24, 2019 at 2:00 p.m.

South Chicago Parents and Friends, Inc. is accredited by the Commission for Accreditation of Rehabilitation Facilities (CARF).

 South Chicago Parents and Friends, Inc. is accredited by the Commission for Accreditation of Rehabilitation Facilities (CARF).

 South Chicago Parents and Friends, Inc. is accredited by the Commission for Accreditation of Rehabilitation Facilities (CARF).

 