Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Human Relations Committee
Tuesday, February 19, 2019

1:30 PM

Cook County Building, Board Room
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA

There will be a meeting of the Committee or Subcommittee of the Board of Commissioners of Cook
County at the date, time and location listed above to consider the following items and to hold a Public
Hearing on 19-0832, Proposed Resolution:
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in writing,
their name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in advance of the
meeting. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a time specified in
the meeting agenda. Authorized public speakers who are not present during the specified time for public
testimony will forfeit their allotted time to speak at the meeting. Public testimony must be germane to a
specific item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not exceed three minutes; the Secretary
will keep track of the time and advise when the time for public testimony has expired. Persons authorized
to provide public testimony shall not use vulgar, abusive, or otherwise inappropriate language when
addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately; failure to speak to an item that is germane to the
meeting, or failure to adhere to the time requirements may result in expulsion from the meeting and/or
disqualify the person from providing future testimony.
19-1817
COMMITTEE MINUTES

Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 09/26/2018
19-1291
Sponsored by:
KEVIN B. MORRISON,
ANAYA, Cook County Board of Commissioners

DENNIS

DEER,

STANLEY

MOORE

and

ALMA

E.

PROPOSED ORDINANCE
ESTABLISHING A COOK COUNTY
AND CULTURAL COMPETENCY

COMMITTEE

Page 1 of 5

ON

ADDRESSING

BIAS,

EQUITY,

 Human Relations Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

February 19, 2019

BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 2- Administration,
Article VI, Boards, Commissions, and Committees, Division 1 - generally sections 2-480 through 2-482 of
the Cook County Code, is hereby enacted as Follows:
Sec. 2-480. Short Title.
This Division shall be known and may be cited as the “Cook County
Committee on Addressing Bias, Equity, and Cultural Competency” (The Committee)
Sec. 2-481. - Policy and Purpose.

(a) Policy. This ordinance hereby creates a Committee to make recommendations to the President
and the Cook County Board of Commissioners, as well as the Cook County Government, as a whole,
regarding the need for increased training and an evaluation of policies and procedures relating to
addressing bias and creating a more equitable, culturally competent Cook County Government.
(b) Purpose.
(1) Cook County shall explore ways in which to address training, policies, and procedures that
decrease bias and increase cultural competency to produce a more equitable and productive
government.
(2) The Cook County Human Rights Ordinance protects all people who live and work in the County
from discrimination and harassment in employment, public accommodations, housing, credit
transactions, and County facilities, programs and services. Cook County strives to build upon the
Human Rights Ordnance to maintain that discrimination in any form will not be tolerated and
seeks to make Cook County a more equitable and inclusive government that affirms the identities
and humanity of all Cook County employees and residents
(3) Addressing bias and creating a more equitable government will help create a more productive
workforce and allow Cook County Government to provide better public service to the residents
of Cook County.
Sec. 2-482. - Cook County Committee on Addressing Bias, Equity, and Cultural Competency.

(a) This advisory Committee shall consist of:
(1) The four (4) lead sponsors of this ordinance to serve as co-chairs of the Committee.
(2) The Cook County Board President or their designee; Cook County Health and Hospital System
representative(s) as determined by the Cook County Health and Hospital System Chief
Executive Officer or their designee. Cook County Sheriff Department representative(s) as

Page 2 of 5

 Human Relations Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

February 19, 2019

determined by the Cook County Sheriff or their designee. Cook County Office of the Chief
Judge representative(s) as determined by the Cook County Chief Judge or their designee. Cook
County State’s Attorney representative(s) as determined by the Cook County State’s Attorney
or their designee. Cook County Bureau of Human Resources representative(s) as determined by
the Cook County Bureau Chief of Human Resources or their designee.
(3) Community-based advocacy organizations, experts in diversity, equity, and inclusion training,
government training professionals and advocates of equity within government, and other
government officials as invited by the Committee members from the Cook County Board of
Commissioners.
(b) The Committee members will serve for the six months, following the adoption of this ordinance,
needed to research this issue and to develop a final report. The Committee can decide to meet at an
agreeable time, date, and location beyond that time as it sees fit.
(c) The Committee shall review and make recommendations in writing on the success and
challenges of current policies and procedures of Cook County Government and the Cook County Health
and Hospital System in regard to training employees on implicit/explicit bias and cultural competency.
(d) The Committee shall review and make recommendations in writing on current best practices and
proposals from similar government entities across the United States that address training, policies, and
procedures that decrease bias and increase cultural competency to produce a more equitable and
productive government.
(e) The Committee shall review and make recommendations in writing a plan for implementation of
County-wide training on bias and cultural competency with a focus on specialized training for
departments, as needed.
(f) The Committee the advisory Committee shall meet twice a month on the 2nd and 4th Tuesday of
the month or otherwise designated by the chairs of the Committee for the six (6) months following the
adoption of this ordinance.
(g) The Committee shall report its findings to the President of the Cook County Board and the Cook
County Board of Commissioners on or before September 30, 2019.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption
Legislative History :

1/24/19 - Board of Commissioners - refer to the Human Relations Committee

Page 3 of 5

 Human Relations Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

February 19, 2019

19-0832
Sponsored by:
KEVIN B. MORRISON, DENNIS DEER, ALMA E. ANAYA, LUIS ARROYO JR,
SCOTT R. BRITTON, JOHN P. DALEY, BRIDGET DEGNEN, BRANDON JOHNSON, BILL
LOWRY, DONNA MILLER, STANLEY MOORE, PETER N. SILVESTRI, DEBORAH SIMS and
LARRY SUFFREDIN, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
CONDEMNING
THE
TRUMP
ADMINISTRATION’S
TREATMENT
GENDER NON-CONFORMING AND INTERSEX INDIVIDUALS

OF

TRANSGENDER,

WHEREAS, the Trump administration and the Department of Health and Human Services is considering
narrowly defining gender as a biological, immutable condition determined by genitalia at birth; and
WHEREAS, The Cook County Board of Commissioners has been informed of this by Commissioner
Kevin B. Morrison and LGBTQ advocates; and
WHEREAS, Commissioner Kevin B. Morrison and LGBTQ advocates see this effort as a hateful
attempt to roll back recognition and protections of transgender, gender non-conforming, and intersex
people; and
WHEREAS, This proposed definition would essentially eradicate federal recognition of the estimated 1.4
million Americans who identify as a gender other than the one they were assigned at birth; and
WHEREAS, This proposed definition would erase children who are born with intersex conditions, which
is about 1.7 percent of the population, having been born with a reproductive or sexual anatomy that
doesn't fit the typical definitions of female or male; and
WHEREAS, This position makes irrelevant and discounts what transgender, gender non-conforming and
intersex people understand about themselves and discounts what medical providers know and understand
about their transgender, gender non-conforming, and intersex patients; and
WHEREAS, This redefining would force genetic testing to resolve any dispute, denying transgender and
gender non-conforming individuals their autonomy and humanity; and
WHEREAS, Children born with intersex conditions often have male and female genitalia that do not fit
the Trump administration’s proposed definitions; and
WHEREAS, The Trump administration has already attempted to bar transgender people from serving in
the military; and
WHEREAS, Cook County is affirming and welcoming of all individuals to self-identify; and

Page 4 of 5

 Human Relations Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

February 19, 2019

WHEREAS, Cook County stands with the transgender, gender non-conforming, and intersex community
and affirms that intersex, gender non-conforming, and transgender people #WontBeErased; and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, That we, the Cook County Board President and Cook
County Board of Commissioners do hereby honor the identities of transgender, gender non-conforming
and intersex people, celebrate them, affirm their lives and call on President Trump and the Department of
Health and Human Services to stop any attempt to narrowly define gender as biological; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, That suitable copies of this resolution are presented to President
Donald J. Trump and Secretary of Health and Human Services Alex M. Azar II.
Legislative History :

1/24/19 - Board of Commissioners - amend

Legislative History :

1/24/19 -

Board of Commissioners

-

refer as amended to the Human Relations Co

Secretary
Chairman:
Deer
Vice-Chairman: K. Morrison
Members:
Anaya, Johnson, Miller, Sims and Suffredin

Page 5 of 5

 