MINUTES
Belle Isle Park Advisory Committee Meeting Minutes
Thursday January 17th, 2019
Location: Belle Isle Nature Center
Meeting called to order at 9:05 a.m.

EXCUSED ABSENCES

No Quorum established
Could not approve the Roll Call and Excused Absences

PRESENT FOR BIPAC
Chair Michele Hodges
Rev. Lonnie Peek
Michael Curis

DNR STAFF PRESENT
Ron Olson
Scott Pratt
Jacob Brown

REVIEW AND APPROVAL OF MINUTES
No Motion due to lack of Quorum

General Updates
Ron Olson

•
•
•

Hosted the new Governor in a short but impactful meeting
Daniel Eichinger has been appointed as the new head director of the DNR
The new administration will be reviewing the budget and setting priorities

BELLE ISLE PARK ADVISORY COMMITTEE
MINUTES – JANUARY 17, 2019
1

 Michelle Hodges: Would like to welcome Daniel Eichinger to a future meeting and also invite
Keith Creagh show appreciation for his efforts and leadership and say goodbye.

DNR Law Enforcement Update
With colder weather there are less visitors and less events there is nothing major to report.

Park Operations Update
Mike Terrell
Jacinda Bingoff
•
•
•

The positions to be posted for the State of Michigan consist of: 1 General Office Assistant
for the events office. 3 ranger positions, 2 will be seasonal and the other will be an 11-month
position.
Winter projects continue. New faucets are installed, toilets repaired, fixing picnic tables
around the island, brush removal and basic maintenance continues.
Working with a contractor to cut the hazardous willow trees.

Michelle Hodges: Has there been an update as far as the gas main?
Michael Terrell: No. We have gas on the island, but they originally said 30 days for repair, so
we are hoping it will be completed by Spring.
Ron Olson: There was also a water main break.
Michelle Hodges: Is it affecting any of the facilities?
Michael Terrell: No, we isolate the breaks so that it does not affect the facilities.

Infrastructure Updates
Amanda Treadwell
(See attached)

BELLE ISLE PARK ADVISORY COMMITTEE
MINUTES – JANUARY 17, 2019
2

 Michelle Hodges: Have you heard anything about the mobility strategy?
Ron Olson: No not just yet. Funding is always an issue and we are looking into figuring that out.
Michelle Hodges: Has there been any communication with the Auto Show?
Ron Olson: No. As stated in the last BIPAC meeting no one has reached out in reference to
the Auto Show.
Rev. Lonnie Peek: What is the total cost for all of the infrastructure updates?
Amanda Treadwell: About 30 million.
Rev. Lonnie Peek: I think it’s very important to point out that there have been a lot of investments
made into Belle Isle since the state began to manage the park
Ron Olson: The city has funds available to help with the water system here on the park so that
is a great help.
Michelle Hodges: And we are in dialog with them regarding the greenhouses which were not
Apart of the original lease but are still in need of significant repair and other various issues.

Outreach and Upcoming Events
Darlisa Rickman
•
•
•

We are very busy this time of year dealing with many special events and we are looking
forward to getting new staff.
Currently revising and updating policies and procedures.
There will no longer be greenspaces available for rental on the island. For clarification
greenspace was the area surrounding shelters. There will be Event Spaces available in
preapproved spaces on the island to help with the traffic issues.

Belle Isle Conservancy Update
Chair Michelle Hodges
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Feb. 2nd will be Shiver on the River hosted by the Friends of Detroit River from 10-3pm at the
Casino
April 27th is the Spring Clean up
Expect a June groundbreaking for the Piet Oudolf garden and planting implemented in the Fall and
Spring with an opening slated for Fall 2020
Clean up on June 29th following the fireworks
Sept. 21st International Coastal Clean-up day
100th Anniversary of Belle Isle Park to be celebrated in May 2019
The Grosse Pointe Public Library is hosting a document on Piet Oudolf on Jan. 23rd
Buffalo Olmstead Parks Conservancy came to visit
There is a large archive of Cass Gilbert documents at the New York Historical Society. Cass Gilbert
was the original architect of the Belle Isle Fountain.
BELLE ISLE PARK ADVISORY COMMITTEE
MINUTES – JANUARY 17, 2019
3

 Ron Olson: Please visit the Belle Isle website and submit stories and photos to celebrate the history of
Belle Isle.

PUBLIC COMMENTS (3 minutes each)
Michael Betzold

Unequivocally against the Auto Show activities being held on Belle Isle, as part
of the Grand Prix especially.

Andy Pellarino

Would like to know if the 75-100 trees on the island are going to be replaced.

Ron Olson

Some but not all of the trees will be replaced some.

Carole Rhoades

Would like to add that Minnesota also has a Cass Gilbert archive. Does not want
the Detroit Auto Show to be allowed to come to Belle Isle and feels that the Piet
Oudolf Garden is more in line with the mission statement of the DNR and will be
a bigger attraction for the park. The Food Truck Rally was an impetus to traffic
on and off the island.

COMMITTEE MEMBER ITEMS
Michelle Hodges: In regard to the Auto Show it would be premature to speak out on any issue facing the
park before having all the facts. We would like to approach this in a very community minded way.
Rev. Lonnie Peek: With the Auto Show moving to the summer this is a transition for the City of Detroit,
its best to be open minded and we look at each situation individually.

Motion to Adjourn: No Quorum
Moved by: Scott Pratt
Seconded by: Michael Curis
Meeting Concluded: 10:13 a.m.
NEXT REGULAR MEETING:
February 21st, 2019
Nature Center
BELLE ISLE PARK ADVISORY COMMITTEE
MINUTES – JANUARY 17, 2019
4

 Belle Isle Park
Detroit, MI 48207
9:00 a.m. – 11:00 am.

Approved: ___________________________
Michele Hodges

______________________________
Ronald A. Olson, Chief

Date: ______________________________

BELLE ISLE PARK ADVISORY COMMITTEE
MINUTES – JANUARY 17, 2019
5

 PARKS AND RECREATION DIVISION

January 17, 2019

BELLE ISLE PARK
INFRASTRUCTURE UPDATE

Internal Affairs Building

New Belle Isle Park Headquarters
The contractor is working to complete
substantial completion punch list. Key
item holding up certificate of occupancy is
the window installation.
DNR is now scheduled to move into the
new Headquarters in March.
Phase 2 work will begin in early 2019.
Phase 2 work will consist of two separate
projects, completion of garage and site
work.
The garage work was cut from the initial
contract due to construction bids coming
in above the construction budget. Phase
2 will complete work with FY 2019 Funds.

James Scott Memorial Fountain

ADA Assessible Walk

The contractor has completed a significant
portion of work on the fountain. The
concrete curbs are poured, grading of the
sloped landscape has been regraded to
reduce slope of lawn surface.
The marble cutting is underway. WCI will be
complete marble installation in spring, when
temperatures provide suitable conditions for
masonry work. Masonry work anticipated to
take approximately 3 weeks.
Mechanical and Structural Improvements
$150,000 of the $400,000 raised for
Fountain repairs will fund masonry and
water proofing repairs to the fountain,
cascades and concrete weir floor.

Site work will include parking area, utility
and sidewalk work.

Belle Ilse Advisory Commit

1

 PARKS AND RECREATION DIVISION

January 17, 2019

Belle Isle Iron Belle Trailhead – Phase 1
BELLE ISLE TRAILS
IRON BELLE TRAILHEAD
The DNR and BIC are
reviewing map and
interpretive panels for
Trailhead kiosks and trail
wayfinding signs.
The scope of work has
been scheduled into 2
phases. Parking lot and
site work is complete.
Phase 2 - The restroom
building, plaza area and
amenities installation will
begin in Spring 2019.

Relocation of temporary access road for Lake Okonoka work is
complete

IRON BELL LOOP TRAIL
90% CD’s have been
submitted to MDNR for
Review
November 20th: Final
comments were due from
MDNR
Bid Documents for phase 1
of trail work anticipated to
be advertised in 2019.
Phase 1 Trail Construction
scheduled for Spring 2019.

Completed parking lot
2

 January 17, 2019

PARKS AND RECREATION DIVISION

Anna Scripps Whitcomb Conservatory Repairs
Progress update:
•

Revised Work Schedule: Additional scope of
work approved. New completion date in
contract schedule is July 16th, 2019.

•

Public Access Schedule:
Conservatory will be open this weekend,
Saturday though Monday 10 a.m. to 5.pm. for
the Holiday Weekend.
Pending construction activities requiring
additional closures, the Conservatory will be
open Saturday and Sundays, 10 a.m. to 5.pm.
The weekend hours will be reviewed weekly by
DNR staff.

•

Revised Scope of Work:
Added scope of work includes replacement of
additional steel members at Columns 5-11,
replacement of additional tension ring
members and additional abatement required to
remove four columns. These changes are due
to field conditions where after the steel was
cleaned of debris and rust the steel members
were assessed and found to require
replacement. The additional abatement is
needed to remove columns that were welded
on the backside of the member as well as the
accessible side.

•

Revised Work Order Total: $2,537,000

•

Ongoing Work:
Next set up steel was at galvanizer last week
and will be delivered to site end of this week.
Ideal will put up next two trusses over next two
weeks. Ideal will remove the next two columns
by the end of next week.
Abatement will begin for the next columns to
be removed the last week in January.

3

 PARKS AND RECREATION DIVISION

January 17, 2019

Belle Isle Aquarium and Anna Scripps Whitcomb Conservatory
THE FOLLOWING PROJECTS FUNDED BY THE WILLIAM DAVISON FOUNDATION ARE UNDERWAY

1. Belle Isle Aquarium and Conservatory Drainage Study
– G.H. Forbes currently working with contractor to schedule scoping.
2. Belle Isle Aquarium Geothermal System Feasibility Assessment
- Sample Boring tests will be complete by early March
- Areas for boring tests/future fields were identified as A.) the ASWC formal garden
lawns, B.) Lawn in NE corner of BIA lawn and C.) lawn west of the Conservatory
near parking lot.
- Approximately 31,200 sf will be needed for future vertical well field
- A draft report of the geothermal option will be submitted late March
- When geothermal system has been selected, PBA will begin engineering bid
documents
3. Cost Comparison Evaluation of the original1904 Conservatory Design vs. the current
1950 design to guide future improvements of the Conservatory glazing design and
vestibule renovation
- Final report to be submitted to DNR and BIC by the end of February.
4. Aquatic life support system evaluation
- 75% Draft report has been submitted to the DNR and BIC review.

4

 January 17, 2019

PARKS AND RECREATION DIVISION

The Detroit River

Boating Access

• DNR and DTMB staff will
review the latest draft
assessment submitted by
OHM Advisors.
• 90% Draft Report will be
shared with City of Detroit
GSD for review when
completed.

PARTNER COORDINATED PROJECTS

Lake Okonoka Habitat Restoration
Friends of The Detroit River
•
•
•
•

MDOT has approved the construction permit for the Lakeside Dr. Bridge. Construction
Permits for the Strand culvert will require additional revisions to submitted plans.
DNR – PRD will assume cost of bridge maintenance upon completion and inspections as
required by MDOT.
MDOT will contract construction oversight for bridge work to be funded by the Friends of
the Detroit River
Z-Contractors will mobilize this week. Mobilization work will include implementing traffic
detour around the Strand through Woodside.

McArthur Bridge Maintenance
Michigan Department of Transportation (MDOT)
•

Construction team has not remobilized

DTE Boring
1. The 34” casing was installed December 2018.
2. Next week, DTE’s contractor will be pulling the inner conduit. Following this the contractor
will finish the civil scope and pull the conductor thru.
3. Current schedule is to complete major activities by 2nd week of February with restoration
scheduled for April.
4. DTE will energize the conductor cable at a later date.

5

 PARKS AND RECREATION DIVISION

January 17, 2019

PARTNER COORDINATED PROJECTS, CONT’D.

DTE Boring, Cont’d.

DTE Contractors pulling casing through opening.

Oudolf Garden Detroit - Piet Oudolf Garden –
The Piet Oudolf Garden design is underway for the Nancy Brown
Peace Carillon Tower. Insite Design is coordinating with Piet Oudolf to
complete the site design and facilitate permits and reviews required for
garden construction.
The Memorandum of Understanding between the BIC, the Friends of
Oudolf Detroit and the DNR was executed December 20, 2018. The
agreement permits the Piet Oudolf Garden to be located on Belle Isle
Park at the Nancy Brown Peace Memorial.
The anticipated construction time is Spring 2019 for site work and first
phase planting to follow in the fall 2019. The second phase of planting
is anticipated for spring 2020.

DEQ - UST Removal
DEQ’s work to remove the hydraulic lifts in the Park Headquarters
garage is complete.
Gas sampling in the garage will take place Wednesday, January 23rd.

6

 PARKS AND RECREATION DIVISION

January 17, 2019

PARTNER COORDINATED PROJECTS, Cont’d.
Belle Isle Boat House – Friends of Detroit Rowing (FODR)
Physical Assessment and Facility Master Plan
•
•
•
•

The DNR will provide $175,000 to match funds raised by the FODR to assess the current
condition o the building and site.
The Belle Isle Boathouse Master Plan Committee (FODR, BIC and DNR staff) selected 4
consultants from the 13 RFQ’s submitted.
Thursday, January 16th the FODR invited the 4 professional firms to submit proposals for the
Facility Assessment and Master Plan work.
The successful consultant is expected to have a contract in place by late spring 2019.

BIC - Belle Isle Beach Revitalization
•
•

Quinn Evans has submitted a draft of the beach house physical assessment to the DNR and
BIC for review.
Quinn Evans, BIC and DNR staff will meet to review the draft and project in the first week in
February.

North Shoreline fishing: No update currently. A project team meeting is currently being scheduled.
(SAW) Stormwater, Asset Management, and Wastewater- No update currently
Athletic Complex Handball Courts• Architect’s and structural engineer review recommend that the roofs of the handball courts be
removed. The system has a faulty design in the gutter and drainage design and the extensive
structural roof repairs needed are predicted to be required again in the future.
Lake Okonoka Shelter and Playground Improvements –
•
•

Contractor has been providing submittal for review prior to construction
Construction will begin in Spring 2018 and be complete by the end of June.

FY 2019 NEW PROJECTS
1. James Scott Memorial Fountain Masonry Maintenance and Weir Concrete Floor Repair
2. Athletic Shelter Roof Replacement
3. Flynn Pavilion Roof Repairs
4. Maintenance and Operations barn and site improvements

7

 