January 9th, 2019. Chicago Transit Board Regular Meeting Minutes.
Noticed for 10:00 AM; Commenced at 10:30 AM.
AGENDA: The posted agenda for the meeting is available at www.transitchicago.com
, “Chicago Transit
Board”, “Meeting Notices, Agendas, and Minutes”, (1/9/2019)(Regular Board Meeting),”Agenda”.

ROLL CALL: Directors Terry Peterson (Chairman), Arabel Alva Rosales (Vice-Chairman), Alejandro S
Kevin Irvine, Robert Patterson, Andre Youngblood. Johnny Miller was absent.
PUBLIC COMMENT: Julia Gerasimenko, and Charles Perry

COMMENDATIONS: President Carter and the Board honored the recipients of the CTA Transit Rode
competition. President Carter also introduced a video highlighting CTA’s achievements during the
eight years.

MINUTES: Chairman Peterson next asked for a motion to approve the regular board meeting minu
December th
12
, 2018. The motion was moved, seconded, and approved with five yes votes and one
abstention (Patterson).

EXECUTIVE SESSION: At the conclusion of the executive session and the return of the Board to the
meeting, Chairman Peterson asked for a motion to approve an ordinance authorizing execu
collective bargaining agreement, containing the terms of a tentative agreement with the Internati
Union of Operating Engineers, Local 399. The motion was moved, seconded, and approved with s
votes.

COMMITTEE ON FINANCE, AUDIT, AND BUDGET: Committee Chairman Alejandro Silva prese
report. The committee reviewed the monthly (January) report on Finance, and approved the Dece
12th, 2018 committee meeting minutes. Mr. Silva also stated that all other Committee agen
listed on the Committee Agenda, were presented, reviewed, discussed, placed on the omn
recommended for Board approval. Mr. Silva concluded his report.

Chairman Peterson asked for a motion to approve the omnibus as stated by Director Silva. After b
moved and seconded, the motion was approved with six yes votes.
All approved January 2019 Board ordinances are available on-line, www.transitchicago.com
. “Chicago
Transit Board”, “Board Ordinances”, Ordinance Numbers 019-1 through 019-4.

CONSTRUCTION REPORT: Chief Infrastructure Carole Morey presented the Construction Repo
report is available on-line at www.transitchicago.com
, “Chicago Transit Board”, “Presentations made to
the Chicago Transit Board”, (January 2019), “Construction Report”.
NEW BUSINESS: None
th
MOTION TO ADJOURN: Chairman Peterson asked for a motion to adjourn
, 2019
the January
Chicago
9
Transit Board meeting. That motion was moved and approved by unanimous voice vote.

1

 