Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Rules and Administration Committee
Wednesday, February 20, 2019

10:30 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA

There will be a meeting of the Committee or Subcommittee of the Board of Commissioners of Cook
County at the date, time and location listed above to consider the following:
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in writing,
their name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in advance of the
meeting. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a time specified in
the meeting agenda. Authorized public speakers who are not present during the specified time for public
testimony will forfeit their allotted time to speak at the meeting. Public testimony must be germane to a
specific item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not exceed three minutes; the Secretary
will keep track of the time and advise when the time for public testimony has expired. Persons authorized
to provide public testimony shall not use vulgar, abusive, or otherwise inappropriate language when
addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately; failure to speak to an item that is germane to the
meeting, or failure to adhere to the time requirements may result in expulsion from the meeting and/or
disqualify the person from providing future testimony.
19-1827
COMMITTEE MINUTES

Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 01/23/2019
19-1714
Presented by: KAREN A. YARBROUGH, County Clerk
JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

COOK COUNTY CLERK, Karen A. Yarbrough, presented in printed form a record of the Journal of
Proceedings of the regular consent calendar meeting held on 1/23/2019.

Page 1 of 2

 Rules and Administration
Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

February 20, 2019

19-1716
Presented by: KAREN A. YARBROUGH, County Clerk
JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

COOK COUNTY CLERK, Karen A. Yarbrough, presented in printed form a record of the Journal of
Proceedings of the regular meeting held on 1/24/2019.

Secretary
Chairman:
Suffredin
Vice-Chairman: Degnen
Members:
Daley, Deer, Lowry, Miller, S. Morrison, Silvestri, Sims

Page 2 of 2

 