Commissioners

Marisel A. Hernandez, Chairwoman

William J. Kresse, Commissioner/Secretary
Jonathan T. Swain, Commissioner

Lance Gough, Executive Director

Board of Election Commissioners

Board of Election Commissioners for the City of Chicago
Minutes of Regular Board Meeting
December 11, 2018,9:30 a.m.

69 West Washington Street, 8th Floor Conference Room, Chicago, Illinois 60602

Board Members:

Marisel A. Hernandez, Chairwoman

William J. Kresse, Commissioner/Secretary
Jonathan T. Swain, Commissioner
Staff:

Lance Gough, Executive Director
Adam W. Lasker, General Counsel
James P. Allen, Communications Director
Peter Peso, Deputy Chief Administrative Officer
Gary Rycyzyn, Consultant
Geneva Morris, Videographer
Irish Sheehy
Guests:

Helene Gabelnick, League of Women Voters of Chicago (LWV Chicago)
C. Betty Magness, Rainbow PUSH Coalition

I.

Call to Order: The Chairwoman called the meeting to order at 9:33 a.m.

II.

Roll Call: All members were present.

III.
Consideration of Agenda: Commissioner Kresse moved to strike the approval
of Minutes of the Special Board Meeting November 6, 2018, as that meeting was
recessed and reconvened at a later date and the minutes therefore are incomplete
at this time. Commissioner Swain seconded the motion. The motion was passed by
3:0 vote of the Board.
69 West Washington Street, Suites 600/800, Chicago IL 60602• 1.312.269.7900•fax 1.312.263.3649• TTY 1.312.269.0027
chicagoelections.com •email: cboe@chicagoe!ections.net

 Regular Board Meeting -December 11,2018
Chicago Board of Election Commissioners

IV.

Approval of Minutes
A.
Minutes ofthe Regular Board Meeting of October 23,2018:
Commissioner Swain made a motion to approve the Minutes of the
Reguiar Board Meeting of October 23, 2018. Commissioner Kresse
seconded the motion. The motion and the Minutes were approved by
unanimous vote of the Board.

B.

Minutes ofthe Special Board Meeting of November 6,2018:This item
was differed (See ili, above.)

V.

Executive Director's Report
Executive Director Lance Gough reported:
• Mr. Gough held a post-eiection debriefing with some of the managers on
November 30th.

• We may have some new polling places and early voting sites.
• Warehouse setting up and preparing for next election.
• This is the longest period, about 7 months, of extended staff hours. We
are going to let staff off on Christmas Eve at 1:00 p.m.. New Year's Eve

1:00 p.m., Christmas Day and New Year's Day the office will be closed,
and the staff will have full days off. Otherwise we are working 7 days a
week.

• We have approximately 15 Wards that will be ready to go with Vote by
Mali ballots as soon as we get the top of the ballot ready (after objections
and any court cases are determined).
A.

Assistant Executive Director

Assistant Executive Director Charles Holiday was absent due to
coordinating Electoral Board related matters including Records Exams.
B.

Communications Director

Communications Director Jim Allen reported:
• He has been busy with news media and Freedom of Information Act

(FOiA) requests regarding candidates/objections filings.

Page 2 of7

 Regular Board Meeting - December 11,2018
Chicago Board of Election Commissioners

During this election Steve James(of the film Hoop Dreams fame)is
working on a documentary. He is currently watching line-by-line
objections and will be following up to and including Election Day, and
possibly during post-election processes.
The Board has had an agreement CPURx since 2013 to host the
Board's website and manage web servers. Our agreement expired in
September;they have been highly effective with traffic load. There is
a lot more stress from us than originally contracted for, particularly
mandating security protocols. They have asked for a modest 6%
increase to support us through April or May of 2019. After that they
are looking to move on. We are "too much"for them, and they have
recommended some top tier resources for us, e.g., Microsoft. To
cover the modest increase, Mr. Allen is putting in a purchase order for
Mr. Cough's approval (as it is less than $10,000). After the April
election we will go through a bid process.
VI.

Old Business

A.

Infrastructure Projects and Changes In Election Administration: Mr.
Cough indicated that right after the April election he plans on
continuing where we left off on this project.

B.

Electronic Poll Books: ES&S are meeting with the Board's IT people
regarding Voter History; no sign off yet. Commissioner Swain inquired
as to whether Media View will be available. Mr. Allen has sent request
to ES&S regarding one change to the bar chart roll over, wants them

to be presented differently. Mr. Allen said that they are considering
possibly using screen shots that include data and bar charts that are
refreshed hourly.

C.
D.

Voting Equipment: Nothing new to report at this time.
Legislation: Ceneral Counsel Adam Lasker reported that the veto
session is over. The pre-trial detainee bill that we were tracking was
vetoed and so was the bill that includes Crosscheck and ERIC. The next

legislative session begins the 2"^ week of January.
If we are going to propose any new legislation, it can be proposed at
any time, but preferably at the beginning of a session
There was a discussion as to some of the topics for which the Ceneral
Counsel and the Board may wish to propose legislation. Among the

Page 3 of 7

 Regular Board Meeting - December 11,2018
Chicago Board of Election Commissioners

topics: Vote Centers and Vote by Mail (VBM); having students out of
school on election day. Also the requirement that Early Voting should
start 40 days before Election Day should be rolled back; as Mr. Lasker
pointed out,the February election is less than 40 days before the April
election.

Commissioner Swain suggests we revisit legislation about signing
petitions for the same office and party during the same election. The
technology has developed to determine who has signed multiple
petitions, but it causes a burden on voters as to prove which petition
they signed first.
VII.

New Business

A.

Board action pursuant to 10ILCS 5/10-8 and Section 500.11 ofthe
Board's General Rules on Administration to determine whether the

following petitions for advisory questions of public policy are in
apparent conformity with mandatory provisions of the Illinois Election
Code:

General Counsel Lasker explained that our staff has performed
reviews of all petitions that were filed with us for the February 26,
2019 ballot and according to the Board Policy if there is an objection
we let the objection run its course, if no objection the Board's staff
reviews for conformity. The Board has reviewed all candidate
petitions for which no objections were filed and found no cases of lack
of apparent conformity. There were several referenda petitions for
which no objections were filed (the objection filing deadline has
passed), and there are some that did not fulfill the statutory
requirement of a minimum signature requirement. Mr. Lasker pointed
out that the Illinois Supreme Court, as recently as 2015 has ruled that
ballot access signature requirements are a mandatory requirement
and they are to be strictly enforced; there is no such thing as
"substantial compliance". Mr. Lasker proceeded to inform the Board
of the referenda petitions that the staff has identified as not fulfilling
that requirement:

Page 4 of?

 Regular Board Meeting - December 11,2018
Chicago Board of Election Commissioners

o There were two separate sets of petitions that were filed seeking to
create an Austin Mental Health District. The signature requirement for
each of the petitions would have been 2,835 signatures. The first set
of petitions had only 1,323 signatures, the second set of petitions had
only 1,854 signatures.

There were several advisory referenda petitions found to be problematic:
o One which would have created a marijuana tax revenue question in

the 30*^ Precinct of the 16*"^ Ward which would have required 19
signatures, but only filed 17.

o Assessment Limits Referenda for Ward 19 that required 2,028
signatures, but only 10 signatures were filed.

o Marijuana Tax Revenue question for the l?'"^ Precinct of the 24*^ Ward
that required 21 signatures, only 20 signatures were filed.
o Assessment Limits Referenda proposed for Precinct 38 of Ward 48
required 47 signatures only 35 signatures were filed.

There were four other additional separate petition sets filed where they
did not specify the Precinct or Ward or any of the territory for which the
wanted the questions to be submitted. They left the lines blank and we
would have no idea which ballot to put them on. The Election Code does
require that each petition set have a heading that not only contains the
information about the question itself, but also the territory for which it is
to be proposed to the voters. That is a mandatory requirement and these
have failed to meet that requirement:
o Homelessness Treatment referendum in an unspecified territory.
o Three separate questions that would have dealt with Assessment
Limits in three unspecified territories.

Mr. Lasker reminded the Board that when the staff does signature
reviews on these,they do not do a line-by-line analysis as to whether
each individual signature is genuine or proper, all the staff does is count
up the total of what is apparent on the face of the forms. With that in
mind, Mr. Lasker proposed a motion to find that those referenda as
described are not In apparent conformity with mandatory provisions of
Illinois Election Code and they shall not be certified to the February 26,
2019 ballot.

Page 5 of 7

 Regular Board Meeting -December 11,2018
Chicago Board of Election Commissioners

Discussion ensued.

Commissioner Swain moved that the questions of public policy, as
described by Mr. Lasker are not in apparent conformity and will not be
certified to the ballot. Commissioner Kresse seconded the motion and

the motion was passed by unanimous vote of the Board.

B.

Approval of a Resolution authorizing disposai of records from the
November 8,2016, General Election in accordance with the Illinois
Election Code and Local Records Act.

Mr. Lasker explained that certain records of State and Federal elections
must be retained for at least 22 months following an election. It has been
more than 22 months since the November 2016 election. There is no

pending litigation related to that election. The materials are not "FOIA-

able". We need the space that these records are taking up to prepare for
the next election.

Commissioner Kresse moved to approve the Resolution authorizing the
disposal of the above referenced records. Commissioner Swain seconded

the motion. The motion and the Resolution were passed by 3:0 vote of
the Board.

Vlll.

Legal Report

General Counsel Adam Lasker reported:
• The Board's Staff did a great job facilitating 181 cases.

• We have 18 new Hearing Officers who had participated in 6 hours of
training, then a mock trial, and watched experienced officers in morning
sessions before conducting their own initial hearings in the afternoon.
• The initial hearings were to schedule briefing sessions and they have all
moved on from there.

• There are many Records Exams, and Assistant Executive Director Charles
Holiday is coordinating them.

• The citywide offices had a 12,500 minimum signature requirement. There
were many challenges to these signatures.

Page 6 of?

 Regular Board Meeting -December 11,2018
Chicago Board of Election Commissioners

• Mr. Lasker noted that he had changed the 30 minutes Initial hearing
intervals to 15 minutes.

The Chair thanked Mr. Lasker for training and organizing the Hearing Officers.
Things went very smoothly. Mr. Lasker pointed out that Barbara Goodman, a
very experienced Hearing Officer (having worked as a Hearing Officer with the
State Board, the County Clerk and with us) had set up the curriculum and the
experienced Hearing Officers were great at mentoring the new Hearing
Officers.

IX.

Financial Report: none.

X.

Public Comment: none.

XI.

Executive Session: none.

XII. Adjournment: It was noted that the Board won't need a special board
meeting before the next Regular Board meeting but will need to convene the
electoral board. If there is a need for the Board to convene as the Board of

Elections there will be enough time during the Electoral Board meetings to call a
special Board meeting, if necessary. Commissioner Swain moved to adjourn until
the next scheduled Regular Board Meeting of December 27^^. Commissioner Kresse
seconded the motion. The motion passed by unanimous vote of the Board. The
Board adjourned at 10:04 a.m.
Submitted,

CommissloAef William J. Kresse

Secretary

Page 7 of 7

 