Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Criminal Justice Committee
Wednesday, February 20, 2019

1:15 PM

Cook County Building, Board Room
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA

There will be a meeting of the Committee or Subcommittee of the Board of Commissioners of Cook
County at the date, time and location listed above to consider the following:
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in writing,
their name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in advance of the
meeting. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a time specified in
the meeting agenda. Authorized public speakers who are not present during the specified time for public
testimony will forfeit their allotted time to speak at the meeting. Public testimony must be germane to a
specific item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not exceed three minutes; the Secretary
will keep track of the time and advise when the time for public testimony has expired. Persons authorized
to provide public testimony shall not use vulgar, abusive, or otherwise inappropriate language when
addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately; failure to speak to an item that is germane to the
meeting, or failure to adhere to the time requirements may result in expulsion from the meeting and/or
disqualify the person from providing future testimony.
19-1340
COMMITTEE MINUTES

Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 09/11/2018
19-0687
Sponsored by:
ALMA E. ANAYA, LUIS ARROYO JR, SCOTT R. BRITTON, JOHN P. DALEY,
DENNIS DEER, BRIDGET DEGNEN, BRIDGET GAINER, BRANDON JOHNSON, BILL
LOWRY, DONNA MILLER, STANLEY MOORE, KEVIN B. MORRISON, SEAN M. MORRISON,
PETER N. SILVESTRI, DEBORAH SIMS, LARRY SUFFREDIN and JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI,
Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE
TO REGULATE THE REGIONAL GANG INTELLIGENCE DATABASE

Page 1 of 4

 Criminal Justice Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

February 20, 2019

BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter 46 Law Enforcement,
Article II, Sheriff, Division sections 46-37.4 through 46-37.5 of the Cook County Code, is hereby enacted
as follows:
Sec. 46-37.4 An Ordinance to regulate the Regional Gang Intelligence Database

(a) The Office of the Sheriff shall be prohibited from finalizing negotiations with any law
enforcement agency that would discontinue the Cook County Sheriff’s current management of the
Regional Gang Intelligence Database (RGID) until any pending investigations or requests pertaining to
RGID with the Office of the Independent Inspector General (OIIG) are completed and made public and a
public hearing on the matter is held.
(b) The Office of the Sheriff shall be prohibited from designating any individual a gang member
and/or inputting any individual’s information into any gang database, unless the OIIG concludes that these
gang designations have a legitimate law enforcement related purpose that outweighs the harm caused to
individuals who are designated as gang members, and in those circumstances the gang designations must
be verified in accordance with professionally accepted standards and be submitted to regular audits.
(c) Such designations must also be free from racial discrimination.
(d) The Office of the Sheriff shall provide individuals notification of their designation and an
opportunity to challenge this designation. Such an appeal process should be developed with experts and
advocates on this topic to ensure it is not costly or burdensome to individuals.
(e) The Office of the Sheriff shall further be prohibited from sharing gang designations and/or
information contained in RGID with any third party, except that the OIIG may access RGID for the sole
purpose of auditing its policies and practices.
(f) The Office of the Sheriff is required to provide a written notice to every individual who is
currently or who has been designated a gang member since 2013 in one or more of databases the Sheriff
has access to. The notice will state:
(1) The date the individual was designated a gang member, associate, and/or affiliate;
(2) The gang(s) with which the individual is alleges to have been affiliated;
(3) The basis for the designation and the location where the designation took place;
(4) The name of the officer(s) who made the initial designation;
(5) Any external agencies that have access to that designation, and the dates on which any (6)
external agency accessed that designation;

Page 2 of 4

 Criminal Justice Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

February 20, 2019

(6) And the most recent date of any audit or assessment of the accuracy of that designation.
(g) On an annual basis, the Office of the Sheriff will publish both a statement detailing the actions it
has taken to comply with the requirements of this ordinance, data about the individuals designated as gang
affiliated, and data and status on appeals received, disaggregated by:
(1) Race/ethnicity;
(2) Gender;
(3) Age;
(4) Alleged gang affiliation(s);
(5) Basis for identifying gang affiliations(s);
(6) Location of police interaction that led to designation(s);
(7) Date of first designation(s);
(8) Number of arrests for serious or violent crime(s);
(9) Number of individuals added while detained at Cook County Jail;
(10) Number and status of appeals upon notification and
(11) Basis for null descriptions.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption
Legislative History :

12/12/18 - Board of Commissioners - refer to the Criminal Justice Committee

Secretary

Page 3 of 4

 Criminal Justice Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

Chairman:
Moore
Vice-Chairman: Johnson
Members:
Committee of the Whole

Page 4 of 4

February 20, 2019

 