Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations Committee
Wednesday, February 20, 2019

11:00 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA

There will be a meeting of the Committee or Subcommittee of the Board of Commissioners of Cook
County at the date, time and location listed above to consider the following:
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in writing,
their name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in advance of the
meeting. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a time specified in
the meeting agenda. Authorized public speakers who are not present during the specified time for public
testimony will forfeit their allotted time to speak at the meeting. Public testimony must be germane to a
specific item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not exceed three minutes; the Secretary
will keep track of the time and advise when the time for public testimony has expired. Persons authorized
to provide public testimony shall not use vulgar, abusive, or otherwise inappropriate language when
addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately; failure to speak to an item that is germane to the
meeting, or failure to adhere to the time requirements may result in expulsion from the meeting and/or
disqualify the person from providing future testimony.
19-1819
COMMITTEE MINUTES

Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 01/23/2019
19-1439
Presented by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED APPOINTMENT
Appointee(s): Commissioner Brandon Johnson
Position: Ex officio Member

Page 1 of 6

 Legislation and Intergovernmental
Relations Committee

February 20, 2019

NOTICE AND AGENDA

Department/Board/Commission: Medical Examiner’s Advisory Board
Effective date: Immediate
Expiration date: Serving for the length of his Cook County Commissioner term

1/24/19 -

Legislative History :

Board of Commissioners

-

refer to the Legislation and Intergovernmenta

19-1298
Presented by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED APPOINTMENT

Vera Davis, Dorian Carter, Dr. Francis Carroll, Kelley D. Nichols-Brown, Marjorie

Appointee(s):

Manchen, Honorable Ginger Rugai, Trina Janes, Rebecca Darr, Echelle Mohn, and Claudia Castro
Position: Commissioner
Department/Board/Commission: Cook County Commission on Women's Issues
Effective date: 1/24/2019
Expiration date: 2/24/2021
Legislative History :

1/24/19 -

Board of Commissioners

-

refer to the Legislation and Intergovernmenta

19-0604
Sponsored by:
LARRY SUFFREDIN, ALMA E. ANAYA, LUIS ARROYO JR, SCOTT R.
BRITTON, JOHN P. DALEY, DENNIS DEER, BRIDGET DEGNEN, BRIDGET GAINER,
BRANDON JOHNSON, BILL LOWRY, DONNA MILLER, STANLEY MOORE, KEVIN B.
MORRISON, SEAN M. MORRISON, PETER N. SILVESTRI, DEBORAH SIMS and JEFFREY R.
TOBOLSKI, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE
CREATING

A

BID

PREFERENCE

FOR

BUSINESSES

Page 2 of 6

OWNED

BY

PEOPLE

WITH

 Legislation and Intergovernmental
Relations Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

February 20, 2019

DISABILITIES
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 34 - Finance, Article
IV - Procurement, Division 6 - Bid Incentives and Preferences, Section 34-242 - Businesses Owned by
People with Disabilities is hereby enacted as follows:
Sec. 34-242 . - Businesses Owned by People with Disabilities

(a) Preference for Businesses Owned by People with Disabilities: The CPO shall give a
preference of five percent of the amount of the Contract to a Responsible and Responsive PDBE. The
CPO shall develop procedures for implementation of this Section.
(b) Certification - The CCD shall certify a Person as a PDBE when it is a small business:
(1) That is at least 51 percent owned, controlled, and managed by one or more qualified Disabled
Persons; and
(2) That has its home office in Illinois.
(c) In lieu of conducting its own certifications, the CCD by rule may accept formal certifications by
other entities, provided that Cook County’s requirements are met.
(d) In order to increase awareness and provide opportunities for PDBE’s, the CCD shall provide
education, outreach, and the dissemination of information to PBDE regarding the County's certification
program and available opportunities. The CCD, in collaboration with other departments, shall from time to
time, by way of seminars, workshops, and internet-based communications, make available to the business
community such information, documents, and personnel as well as:
(1) Assist otherwise eligible businesses in applying for, gaining, and maintaining certification;
(2) Assist the business community in understanding the manner in which to properly complete a
Utilization Plan including how a full or partial waiver may be requested, and the manner in which
such a request may be supported;
(3) Identify best practices by other governmental entities and private sector firms that may improve
the Program; and
(4) Identify systemic or organizational problems and related solutions associated with certification
and contract participation.
BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 34 -

Page 3 of 6

 Legislation and Intergovernmental
Relations Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

February 20, 2019

Finance, Article IV - Procurement, Division 6 - Bid Incentives and Preferences, Sections 34-229 Definitions and Section 34-237. - Veteran-owned businesses are hereby amended as follows:
Sec. 34-229. - Definitions.

***
Disadvantaged refers to individuals who are mentally, physically, economically, or educationally
disadvantaged, including, but not limited to, individuals who are living below the poverty line,
developmentally disabled, mentally ill, substance abusers, recovering substance abusers, elderly and in
need of hospice care, gang members, on welfare, or people with arrest or conviction records.

Disability or Disabled means, with respect to an individual, a physical or mental impairment that
substantially limits one or more of the major life activities of the individual, a record of physical or mental
impairment that substantially limits one or more of the major life activities of the individual, or being
regarded as an individual with a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more of the
major life activities of the individual.
Earned Credit means the amount allocated to a Contractor upon completion of a Qualifying
Contract through which the Contractor met or exceeded the goals for the utilization of Former Offenders,
Apprentices or youth.
***

Labor hours means the total hours of workers receiving an hourly wage who are directly employed
at the work site. "Labor hours" shall include hours performed by workers employed by the contractor and
all subcontractors working at the work site. "Labor hours" shall not include hours worked by nonworking
foremen, superintendents, owners and workers who are not subject to prevailing wage requirements.
Persons with Disabilities Owned Business Enterprise (PDBE) means a small business (i) that is
at least 51 percent owned, controlled and managed by one or more Persons with a Disability, or in the
case of a corporation, at least 51 percent or more of the stock of which is owned, controlled, and
managed by one or more Persons with a Disability; (ii) that has its home office in Illinois, as certified by
the CCD under policies and procedures promulgated by the CCD.
Qualifying Contract means a Contract for Public Works with a Bid Price of $100,000.00 or more,
for which the Contractor is eligible for Earned Credits.
***
Sec. 34-237. - Veteran-owned and Persons with Disabilities Owned businesses.

Page 4 of 6

 Legislation and Intergovernmental
Relations Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

February 20, 2019

(a) It is the goal of the County to award each year not less than three percent of its total
expenditures for supplies, equipment, goods, and services to VBEs, and SDVBEs, and PDBEs. The
CCD may count toward its three-percent yearly goal that portion of all Contracts in which the
Contractor subcontracts with a VBE, or SDVBE, or PDBE. CCD shall submit an annual report to the
County Board that shall include, at a minimum, the following for the preceding fiscal year:
(1) The number of responsible VBEs, and SDVBEs, and PDBEs that submitted a Bid or proposal;
(2) The number of VBEs, and SDVBEs, and PDBEs that entered into Contracts, the specific
industry or category of goods, services, or supplies for each Contract, and the total value of
those Contracts;
(3) The participation of VBEs, and SDVBEs, and PDBEs at both contractor and subcontractor
levels;
(4) The total number of the County's certified VBEs, and SDVBEs, and PDBEs available for
participation in procurement, by category or industry; and
(5) Whether the County achieved the goal described in this subsection.
(b) Each year, the CCD shall review the three-percent goal with input from the Cook County
Chairman of Veterans Affairs, the Cook County Director of Veterans Affairs, countywide veterans'
service organizations, countywide service organizations for people with disabilities and from the business
community including VBEs, and SDVBEs, and PDBEs, and shall make recommendations to the County
Board regarding continuation, increases, or decreases in the percentage goal. The recommendations
shall be based upon the number of VBEs, and SDVBEs, and PDBEs and on the continued need to
encourage and promote businesses owned by qualified veterans and people with disabilities.
(c) The CPO will make best efforts to recruit and solicit bids and make procurements from VBEs,
and SDVBEs, and PDBEs.
(d) The above-stated goal shall not be treated as a quota nor shall it be used to discriminate against
any person or business enterprise on the basis of race, color, national origin, religion, or sex or disability.
(e) The CCD, in consultation with the Using Agency and the CPO, shall consider the size and
complexity of the procurement before establishing contract specific goals and shall only be required to
establish contract specific goals on procurements that have an available pool of certified VBEs, and
SDVBEs, and PDBEs for supplies, materials and equipment, or services.
(f) The provisions of this Division 6, Section 34-237(a) shall be effective as of July 1, 2013. The
Contract Compliance Director shall as soon as practicable develop and implement procedures and any

Page 5 of 6

 Legislation and Intergovernmental
Relations Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

February 20, 2019

corresponding regulations for certifying and monitoring utilization of VBEs, and SDVBEs, and PDBEs.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect August 1, 2019.
Legislative History :

12/12/18 -

Board of Commissioners

-

Secretary
Chairman:
Suffredin
Vice-Chairman: Britton
Members:
Committee of the Whole

Page 6 of 6

refer to the Legislation and Intergovernmen

 