PUBLIC LIGHTING DEPARTMENT
CAPITAL

 

Public Lighting Department
AGENCY MISSION

The mission of the Public Lighting Department (PLD) is to support the Public Lighting Authority (PLA) as it maintains
the upgraded street light system. PLD works with TMC Alliance and DTE Energy (DTE) to assure the safety of the
general public and to provide reliable power to customers through the City's distribution system as the City assists with
converting customers to DTE's system.
On February 5, 2013, the PLA was created pursuant to Public Act 392 of 2012. The PLA is separate municipal authority
with the mission to improve, modernize and maintain the street lighting infrastructure in the City of Detroit with
brighter, more reliable, more energy efficient lights. It is a completely separate legal entity from the City of Detroit. In
2014, the PLA issued debt obligations of$185 million to fund street lighting improvements. Pursuant to Public Act 392
of 2012, Utility Users' taxes of $12.5 million annually will be utilized to repay this debt issue. Through an inter-local
agreement, the City provides additional funds to the PLA to finance the operations and maintenance of the lighting
system.
On July 1, 2014 the City entered into the Energy Delivery Services Agreement (EDSA) with DTE to transition electric
customers to DTE. The agreement stipulates the City will allow PLD customers to become DTE customers and that
the City will exit the electric business over a five to seven year period. During this transition period, the City, through
its contraccqr will operate and maintain the electric grid with DTE reimbursing the City and its contractor for all
expenses related to the delivery of electrical power.
Excluded from this agreement are decommissioning, abatement and salvage operations. PLO currently coordinates chis
activity in line with the transition of customers.

DESCRIPTION OF ASSETS

The administrative offices of the Public Lighting Department are located at 9499 Grinnell.

LOCATION

CONDmON

5425 W. Jefferson

Impaired

32 Sub-stations throughout the city

31-Active,
One Impaired

8800 Byron

Impaired

Offices and Warehouse

9449 Grinnell

Impaired

Underground Conduit

1,500 lvliles of conduit

:AsSETS

.11istersky Power Plant
Sub Stations
Herman Kiefer Steam
Generation Plant

Vehicles

4- Light duty trucks in use by PLO

1~1

 ACCOMPLISHMENTS

-PROJECT NAME
.. ·,c

Improve Electrical Grid

Clean Pole Yard

Fiber Optics

Fiber Optics
Fiber Optics

•

_,,

PROJE<;;r DESC~PTION_
,',

..

._,

I '.

i ,:

Improve electrical distribution grid to
reduce outages. Example: used to
average close to 300 school outages per
year, cutrent outages near zero.
Cease operations at pole yard in 2016.
Clear rubble from pole yard on
Grinnell near ai!port to retutn use of
the property to the Airport.
Iu conjuuctiou with DOIT, run £ibex
optics from Police facilities to DPHS
using PLD conduit.
Locate route for redundant fiber optic
run from Police facilities to DPHS
usirur PLD conduit.
In conjunction with DOIT, install fiber
optics between Police precincts.

COST

':J .: .• •-

_,_, ·-

STA'Fl:JS

:FiJNDING
--

-;

SOURCE

Complete

DTE Energy

$153,251

99%
Complete

General Fund

$321,324

Complete

General Fund

$20,000

76%
Complete

General Fund

$200,000

9%
Complete

General Fund

PROPOSED FIVE-YEAR CAPITAL PLAN

The focus of PLD capital plan is to the maintain the City's electrical distribution grid during the transition to DTE
Energy, as the City of Detroit phases out of the electric service business. As assets are no longer needed, they will be
decommissioned and made ready for sale. The city continues to set aside funds in anticipation of the decommissioning
of PLD substations and the Mistersky Power Plant. The current City of Detroit Four-Year Financial Plan allocates $1
million each year for PLD decommissioning activity.
PROJECT NAME

PROJECT D ESCRIPTION

1MPR.OVEMENT 'rYPB

Fiber optics

Install fib et optics as requested. PLO currently has 5/6 lease agreements
for access to PLO conduits. Expect to enter into more lease agreements
in the future.

Program Expansion

Decommission
Mistersky power
plant; de-energize 3 tie
lines

Project 3 to 4 years to sell Mistersky property. Tie lines (3) will need to
be de-energized.

Contraction

Decommissioning
substations

Pill own 31 substations, all but 1 is currently active, that are scheduled
to be obsolete in 3 to 5 years. Once these facilities are no longer needed
by DTE Entergy to servi_ce former PLD customers, PLD plans to
remove salable metals and satisfy any required environmental
remediation to make the properties available for sale. This includes
substation removal from DPS schools at $3,000 to $4,000 each,

Contraction

 PUBLIC LIGHTING AUTHORITY

 

Public Li'g hting Authority

"

...bli, Llghting Authority

AGENCY MISSION

The Public Liglftin:g Authority (PLA) is a state_:cr~ted authority with the mission to improve, modernize and maintain
the street lightir;ig infrastructure in the City o~ Detroit with brighter, more .reliable, more energy efficient lights. It is a
completely separate legal entity from the City ofD etroit.

Overview:•._ -·
OU" February 5, 2013, th,e City created the; J?ubllc Llghting
Authority (PLA), a separate municipal corporation, pursuant to
Michigan Public Act 392 of2012 (as amended) - the Municipal
Lighting Authority Act, MCL 123.1261 and PLA Order, to
manage and maintain the city's public lighting system. Pursuant
to PA 392, the PLA has issued bonds, the proceeds of which
the PLA used to construct/improve the public street lighting
system of the City, pursuant to the ·terms of the lnler-loral
Agree111cnt far the Construction and Financing of a Public LJghting
Sys/em between the City and the PLA (the C&F Agreement).
The PLA also bears responsibility for the ope.ration and maintenance of the portion of the City's public lighting system
that the PLA has constructed and improved, in accordance with the terms of the Interlacal .Agreement for Operation,
Maintenance and Management ef a Public Lighting System between the City and the PLA. Under PA 392 and the various
agreements with the PLA, the City has no liability for, and undertakes no full faith and credit obligation in c;onnection
'
with, the Act 392 Bonds or the C&F Agreement.
In connection with the transition of the City's lighting work to the PLA, the City is required to cause the existing and
future revenue generated from the utility tax that it will continue to levy as security for, and as the primary source for
the repayment of, the Public Act 392 Bonds. The total amount of the pledged revenues to which the PLA is entitled, in
any calendar year, is the lesser of (a) $12.5 million and (b) the total revenues generated by the utility tax: levied by the
City.
This dedicated revenue st.team and its independent status enabled the PLA and the :Michigan Finance Authority to sell
$185 million in bonds to fund the relighting of the city. The original goal was to sell $160 million worth of bonds, but
a very favorable interest rate of 4.53 percent enabled the authority to sell $185 million in bonds.
The City believed that the transition of the City's lighting work to the PLA and the transactions described above were
the City's best viable option to fix its public lighting system and provide the level of lighting services that the City's
residents expect.
The Public Lighting Authority is overseen by a five-member board that is appointed by the Mayor and City Council. All
board members are residents of Detroit.

ACCOMPLISHMENTS

In February 2014, PLA began rebuilding Detroit's street lighting infrastructure by installing new, bright energy efficient
LED lights in our neighborhoods first. Today, Detroit is completely relit, with 65,000 new streetlights installed by the
end of 2016. PLA mission is now dedicated to keeping the lights on. The Light Emitting Diode (LED) lights the

 Authority has installed on. city streets are brighter and more
energy efficient than the high-pressure sodium lights that were
replaced. In addition, these lights have a Longer life than high
pressure sodium lights. Also, t,o improve reliability, the PL.A
eliminated the city's old series-circuit lighting system. Now, one
blown light does not cause all of the lights on the circuit to go
out.

•

•
-•

The new lights in neighborhoods are 150-watt
equivalent LED lights, twice as bright as the 75-watt
equivalent High Pressure Sodium lights that were
standard under the.old system. ,
Qn th~ collector'·streets; the new street lights are 250-watt equivalent, where the old lights were 150-watt
iquivalent.
Major thoroughfares received 400-watt equivalent lights. Work was completed in 2016.

PROPOSED FIVE·YEAR CAPITAL PLAN

IMPROVEMENT

Tn>E
LED Llghts

rocesses.

WestJeffe.rson (between
Third & 8th Streets)

Install 40 new metal poles/foundations.

W. Grand Boulevard

Relocate 30 wood poles and install 60 arms and luminaires on
either side of the medians.

Citywide Steel, Wood & Pole
Removal

All remaining/abandoned poles will be collected after proje<:t
completion.

Program Expansion

Program Expansion
Program Replacement
Contraction

Vernor Highway Lighting
Project

Construction services to convert approximately 3 miles on
Vernor Highway between Clark Street and Woodmere Street
from a 480 volt street lighting circuit to 120 volt system (a total
of 188 li hts, 6- li htingcabinets and 22,000 feet of cable/wire.

Program Replacement

Streetscape Lighting Projects

As patt of the City's beautification projects in the area of
Kercheval, Riopelle, and W. McNichols.

Program Expansion

Citywide LED Lights
Replacement

Begin phased replacement of LED lights which have a useful
life of 10 yea.ts.

Program Replacement

 DETROIT BUILDING AUTHORITY
CAPITAL

 

Detroit Building Authority
AGENCY MISSION

The Detroit Building Authority (DBA) is primarily responsible for administering capital projects, as determined by each
respective city department, with identified Capital Agenda funds or grant funds. Critical functions include encumbering
funds through contracts of lease; managing the bid/RFP/RFQ process; issuing contract awards; securing the necessary
clearances; advising contractors of Executive Order 2007-1 requirements; execution of contract documents; monitoring
design development and construction for each DBA capital project; reviewing and approving contract invoices; overseeing
payments to vendors.
The DBA has the following sti:ategic priorities:
1.

2.

3.

Capital Project Management: The DBA administers capital improvement projects for city departments,
utilizing their capital improvement funds or grant funds, in order to enhance the City's ability to deliver quality
and efficient services to its citizens.
Commercial Real Estate and Property Management: The DBA is responsible for creating and maintaining
a database of all City-owned commercial property, in addition to managing and maint.aining all of the properties
in the database. The DBA is also responsible for managing the sale of property, which includes tracking
applications through the process, obtaining City Council approvals, and finalizing sale transactions.
Demolition Project Management: The DBA manages demolition activities on behalf of the City and the
Detroit Land Bank Authority, including all necessary due diligence prior to the actual demolition, in order to
stabilize and revitalize neighborhoods across Detroit.
DESCRIPTION OF ASSETS

The Detroit Building Authority operates and maintains the Detroit Public Safety Headquarters for the City of Detroit.
The facility houses the following entities:
•
•
•
•
•
•

Detroit Fire Department
Detroit Police Department
Board of Police Commissioners
Department of Innovation & Technology
Detroit Building Authority
:Michigan State Police (MSP owns their approximately 56,000 sq. ft. area through the Detroit Public Safety
Headquarters Condominium Association)

The Detroit Public Safety Headquarters is an approximately 400,000 sq. ft. facility that includes an eight-story parking deck
with parking for 1,500 vehicles. The City of Detroit cuttently shuttles city employees from the garage deck to the Coleman
A. Young Municipal Center, the Detroit Water Board Building, and Cadillac Tower.

 ACCOMPLISHMENTS

Detroit Public Safety Headquarters

New freight elevator

$500,000

Complete

Operating
Operating

Parking garage repairs

$500,000

Complete

Building elevator upgrades

$30,000

Complete

Operating

Concrete apron replacement

$40,000

Complete

Operating

LED lighting upgrades

$100,000

Complete

Operating

Domestic water pump

$50,000

Complete

Ope.rating

Main building exhaust fans

$40,000

Complete

Operating

Garage elevators

$60,000

Complete

Operating

Exterior LED lighting upgrades

$40,000

Complete

Operating

New 911 dispatch center

Build out of the new emergency
911 dispatch center.

$4,500,000

Complete

E-911 Surcharge;
Capital Fund

Real Time Crime Center

Design and build of the Real
Time Crime Center at Detroit
Public Safety Headquarters.

$3-,500,000

Complete

Capital Fund

New Eighth Precinct

Re.oovation of e.xisting fom,e.r
adult wellness facility into a new
Eighth Precinct.

$7,300,000

Substantially
complete

General Fund/ Public Private Partnership

$710,000

Substantially
complete

Capital Fund

$1,400,000

Completed
July 2018

Capital Fund

Facility improvements

Detroit Police Department

Third Precinct renovation
900 Merrill Plaisance
renovation

Phase II renovation of the
ground floor into a Police lobby
and business desk.
Renovation of the existing
facility for the Detroit Police
Depamnem.

Municipal Parking Department
II

PROJECT DESGRIP'DlON

COS'l'

STATUS

FuNDINGSOUROB

Upgrade garage revenue control
systems at Ford and .Millennium
garages to maintain PCI compliance

$430,000

Completed
July 2018

MPD garage and
meter revenue surplus

Install SO new kiosks designated for
Woodward parking kiosks installation after construction of the
Q Line was completed.

$488,617

Completed
March 2018

MPD garage and meter
revenue swplus

$738,629

Completed
April2018

MPD garage and meter
revenue surplus

PROJB°':N~
Garage revenue control
equipment

Additional license plate
recognition units for
Enforcement Division

Installed 21 LPR units in 19 vehicles
to achieve the budgeted revenue
targets.

 Detroit Water & Sewerage Department
CeST.

FUNDING SOURCE

STATUS

Provided detailed property condition
assessment. DWSD to use
information to create capital plan for
building.

$209,000

Assessment
complete

DWSD

Central Services Facility
6425 Huber Street
Detroit, MI 48211

Provided space planning,
programming, and detailed property
condition assessment. DWSD to use
assessmei:it to create capital plan for
campus.

$1,790,000

Space blocking
plan & assessment
complete

DWSD

West Yard

Provide detailed property condition
assessment.

$28,182

Project starting
early 2019

DWSD

$594,380

Complete

DPW

$3,000,000

95%
Complete.

DPW

$1,100,000

Construction
complete

DPW

COST

STATUS

Water Board Building
735 Randolph Street
Detroit, MI 48226

Department of Public Works
CeST

PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Southfield Service Yard
122~5 Southfield Freeway
Detroit, MI 48228
Michigan & 19th Service
Yard

Traffic Management
Control at the Real Time
Crime Center.

Facility renovations and
beamificatioos
Demolition of old asphalt plant,
renovation of the existing four-story
Traffic & Engineering Building, new
truck scale
Build out of the video wall,
software, and hardware. Program
relocated from Michigan & 19th

General Services/Detroit Recreation Dep~ent
1

;;r 'PROJBC11NAME

PROJECI' DESCRIPl'lON

"

=

.

FUNDING SOURCB

Hart Plaza

Structural rehabilitation and
renovation.

$900,000

Complete

COBO Dispute
Funds

Kemeny Recreation
Center

Renovations and additions to
Kemeny Recreation Center.

$9,500,000

Complete by
Sept/Oct 2018

Capital Fund

1~'7

 Coleman A. Young International Airport

Manairco, lac.
11499 Conner Street
Detroit, MI 48213

Renovation and refulacement of over
300 LED .runway ghts (supplier)

$128,037

Lumacurve
11499 Conner Street
Detroit, :MI 48213

Renovation and replacement of over
100 LED runway signs {supplier).

$204,230

95%
Complete

General Funds

Labor for the installation of
the LED runway lights and
signs Qabor).

$72,875

95%
Complete

General Funds

Engineering, planning, and
topography services for runway
repaving and grooving.

$450,474

95%
Complete

General Funds

Tremper Building
Seivices, LLC
11499 Conner Street
Detroit, MI 48213
QoE Consulting
4100 Capital City Blvd,
#2
Lansin , Ml 48906

Complete

General Funds

Detroit Department of Transportation
·PltOJBCJ:i DBSCRIPl'lON

G:OST

Roofin¥t Central &
Gilbert erminals

Patch and Repair various ru:eas on
roofs located at two DD OT
terminals.

$450,000

Overhead door
replacement at Central
& Gilbert Terminals

Replace approximately 90 overhead
doors.

$1,800,000

98%
Complete

FfA

Complete

FfA

UNITS OF SERVICE

'

:·•

,.

-

_,•~-

.

..

•

.•

ACTIVlTY

'

MBAsl,lRBMENT

COST PBR ACI'IVlff

Physical Addresses

Varies

Physical Addresses

Varies

1,007 residential demolitions as ofJune 29, 2018:

•
•

946 properties currently under contract for demolition

•

1,542 properties currently under contract for
environmental survey

•

528 properties out for environmental RFP

•

3,931 properties in the residential pipeline

915 properties out for demolition RFP

78 commercial demolitiohs as ofJune 29, 2018:

•
•
•

•
•

24 properties currently under contract for demolition
45 properties out for demolition RFP
264 properties currently under contract for
environmental due diligence
27 properties out for e.nvii:onmenr.al RFP
360 properties in the commercial pipeline

 Interdepartmental Agreements Related to Demolition
1.

Reorganization with the Detroit Land Bank Authority
The DLBA and DBA are reevaluating the responsibilities and organizational sttuctu.t:e of each authority in order to
efficiently and effectively deliver demolition and related services to the residents of Detroit. The DLBA will manage
the procurement process for all Hardest Hit Fund (f-:IHF) demolitions going forward, and the DBA will continue to
manage field operations for the demolition program. For the DBA, this includes an evaluation of current staffing
and salaries to align with our revised operational mandate and projected revenues.

2. New RFQ Process for Hardest Hit Fund Demolition
The DBA has worked with the DLBA to create a new Request for Qualifications (RFQ) process which will eliminate
the redundant review of identical documents and significantly expedite the review and approval of bids for abatement
and demolition work. The new process will cut the number of documents submitted with each bid from 20 to 4.
3.

Fire Damaged Structures
The DBA continues to evolve the demolition strategy on fire-damaged structures by collaborating with BSEED,
DLBA, HRD, and OCP for both the backlog and ongoing process. Upcoming HHF demolition RFP groups are
being analyzed to ensure fire-damaged structures are prioritized. Metrics and goals have been finalized and are being
monitored daily to move properties through the pipeline at a pace to achieve City demolition goals.

4.

Partnership with Health Department
Working in conjunction with the Health Department, the OBA is adding additional controls to mitigate the risk
of lead dust dispersion around demolition sites. These controls include:
•
•
•
•

Enhanced notification of demolitions for nearby residents
Enhanced wetting protocols to better control dust migration
Additional field staff to enforce changes to the scope of services
No planned demolitions during the spring and summer months within ZIP codes with the highest
percentage of children with elevated blood lead levels

Opportunities for Co-Location
DBA's Real Estate Unit is currently identifying a central location in which to consolidate the administrative staffs of the
Health Department, DESC/Workforce Devdoptnent, DDOT, and GSD.

1~Q

 Proposed Five-Vear Capital Plan
P~O~CTNAME

Citizen Tax. Help
Center

Bl\O,JECT DES~9N

Build out of a new Citizen Tax Help
Center in CAYMC

TOTAL

COST

$3,200,000

$3,200,000

IMPROVEMENT ,,

TYPE
Program
Expansion

PROJECT
PERIOD
FY2019
and
FY2020

;11UNDING
SOURCE

Otyof
DetroitExit
Financial!

 Detroit Building Authority (DBA)

-.

- ~ GO-a«,n~
~men-ded
· VoterAuth VotterAuth. - Budget·•
FY2~'19
categc,ry . . Amount
Gp eo~

Prajl!°ct Na·me
Citizen Tax Help Center buildout

Profect Prc,je-ct tmpactcin Impact on
Staffing _
Status Umeline Bud~
N

0

NOi

NSt

FUndfng
Source
Exit Financing

n/a

Total

$

- S 1,600,000

$

-

-

-.

FY2019-20
$ 1,600,000

.
FY2D20-21 , i:v2021-22

s

Exit Financing

-

$

$1,600,000 $ 1,600,000 $

- $

$ 1,600,000 $ 1,600,000 $
$ 1,600,000 $ 1,600,000 $

- $

Funding Sources Summary
Total

Five-Year Capl(al Plan,

-

s
-

Total

'FY2D22•23

FY,202.J:.24

$

$

$

. $

$

$

$ 3,200,000

$

$

$ 3,200,000

- $ 3,200,000

.

$ 3,200,000

PROJECT STATUS: M=project is maintaining current infrastructure; N=Project will result in new development
PROJECT TIM EUN E: P=project is proposed; O=project is ongoing; U=cproject is one time and underway
IM PACT ON OPERATING BUDGET: AF=additional funding required; RF=results in reduction offunding; NOl=no operating impact
IMPACT ON STAFFING BUDGET: AS=additional staffing required; RS"results in reduction of staffing; NSl=no staffing impact

.....

...a

 DETROIT ECONOMIC GROWTH
CORPORATION

EDCITAX AUTHORITIES

 

Detroit Economic Growth Corporation
AGENCY MISSION

The Detroit Economic Growth Corporation (DEGC) was established in 1978. The mission is to design and implement
innovative solutions that drive investment, create jobs, and advance the economy of Detroit through public-private
collaborations.
t\mo/ify

To achieve this mission, DEGC will:

•
•

Lead Industrial Land Development: Lead development efforts that unlock
economic growth citywide
Manage the city's public economic development authorities Downtown Development Authority, Economic Development Corporation,
Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority and others with a primary
objective to contribute to Detroit's diverse economic base.

Attract • : ,

Faclllt.ate

and Direct : ! Business

'1nvesttn~.,it
Growth
'-'
'
....

:•.

•

'1

,

~

-·, Leadtand
Develo~ment

•

Facilitate Business Gtowth:1 Support small and large businesses to locate and

•

Attract and Direct lnvcstment:2 Showcase Detroit's assets and build the business case for investment

grow in Detroit

As staff to the city's public economic development authorities and facilitators of the city's industrial land use strategy,
at times redevelopment tJrojects will require the authorization of City Council and coordination with various city
agencies to ensure successful project completion. Several projects will require public support to design, imtJlemcnt and
finance district plans and site assemblage strategies to encourage business invesunent in the city.
Once complete, these projects will attract residents and businesses to Detroit, increasing the City's economic
competitiveness, and expanding its tax base.
DEGC: Real Estate & Financial Services
Lead Industrial Land Development

In partnership with the Planning & Development and Housing & Revitalization Departments, the DEGC has begun to
devise strategies to assemble large industrial sites for future development opportunities citywide. This process includes
but is not limited to the following activities proposed <luring the five-Yeat Plan:
•
•

Manage environmental revic-w and due diligence activities for 11..ichigan State Fairgrounds site, former AMC site
and other sites as funded by city of Detroit via funding agreements approved by Detroit City Council
Launch economic incentive districts using tax incentives for commercial & industrial projects

A detailed description of th.is component of the DEGC m.is~ion is not incli1ded in th<: Capital Agenda since these activities <lo not require the
need to fund cap.ital projects.
2 A detailed description of this component of the DEGC mission L~ not included in the C,pit'11 Agenda since these activities do not require the
need to fund capital projects.
t

 •
•

Facilitate site preparation activities in partnership with city agencies as directed to activate development ready
sites city wide
Coordinate public infrastructure improvements as needed to support transformational economic development
projects

Facilitate Tax Abatement Review & Analysis
As Detroit competes with other cities across the state, the nation and the world for corporate investment and lucrative
adaptive development deals, the use of economic development tools often seal the deal. Investment starts at the local
level of government so the DEGC through its contract with the City of Detroit facilitates the financial underwriting
and fiscal impact review for all the real and personal property tax abatement applications submitted to the City of Detroit
for review and approval. The benefit of the development or business investment must outweigh the cost of the foregon.e
tax revenue to lure jobs and economic development DEGC provides its professional expertise to advise when and how
incentives should be granted. DEGC typically reviews real and personal property tax abatements which are commonly
used in already developed cities. While all tax jurisdictions will forego some tax dollars in the short-term when abatement
is granted, in the lot:ig term, a tremendous gain occurs in revenues, jobs and investment. All abatements are reviewed
and approved by the Detroit Oty Council and the State Tax Commission. The terms of the abatements vary depending
on the type and governing state sta.tute.3

Eastern Market Planning & Implementation Framework
Beginning in 2018, on behalf of the City of Detroit and The Nature Conservancy, DEGC launched a planning study
called the Eastern Market Neighborhood Framework and Centralized Storm Water Management Features Master Plan.
The Study builds on past Eastern Market planning initiatives to create an action-oriented set of recommendations to
improve the quality of life in and around the market, support economic development and overall sustainability. This
includes fortifying the food sector as a pillar of regional economic growth and looking at new ways to improve access
to healthy, green, affordable and fair food choices in Detroit and throughout Southeast Michigan. The centralized storm
water management feature of the masterplan is also an integral element and has the potential of catalyzing future
development in the area.
The plan seeks to deliver several outcomes, none more important than amplifying what's already great about Eastern
Market's vibrant mixed-use neighborhood, and its nacional recognition as an inclusive, resilient and robust regional food
production/distribution hub. That means optimizing all the area's resource~ while maintaining its history of supporting
a healthier, wealthier and happier Detroit.
To ensure inclusive engagement, the planning team developed a comprehensive approach to engaging the public
including residents, businesses, customers, vendors, property owners, developers, the community and public-sector
partners, to ensure that stakeholders are well informed. More importantly, to utilize their input to guide future
recommendations. The objective: deliver a comprehensive growth strategy that ensures Eastern Market's development
equitably benefirs all its stakeholders.
The plan includes approximately 1.1 square miles incorporating the Eastern Market core and the surrounding Eastern
Market residential neighborhood. It is framed by Gratiot on the southeast, Jo,eph Campau on the northeast, Warren
Avenue on the northwest, and I-75 Chrysler Freeway on the southwest.
DEGC is partnering with a variety of organizations to ensure the plan is representative, thorough and comprehensive.
This includes the city's Planning & Development and Housing & Revitalization departments, the Mayor's office and

'Sec llppendix for tax abatement program descriptions.

 the Department of Neighborhoods. Also represented: Eastern Market Corporation, Detroit Water and Sewerage
D epartment, The Nature Conservancy and Deaoit Public Works.

DEGC: Public Authority Administration & Management Services

_

............
- ............
...

,.~

Ford Motor Company Corktown Campus - Michigan Central Station
Ford Motor Company is seeking more than $100 million .in tax abatements from the City of Detroit as part of a proposed
$238.6 million a.id package for its Corktown tech campus. Ford is estimated to spend $738 million to renovate the
historic Michigan Central Station and other blighted structures. ihis development is consistent :Vith the Corktown
neighborhood.

1 QI:;

 Total proposed tax abatements to equal $238,559,497 from the following sowces:
ABATEMENT TYPE

SOURCE

DJn'ROtr
'

Renaissance Zone (PA
376 of 1996)

Commercial
Rehabilitation Act (PA
210 of 2005)

Obsolete Properties
Rehabilitation Act (PA
146 of 2000)
Neighborhood
Entetprise Zone (PA
147 0£1992)

17 year abatement on most state
and local Real and Personal
Property Taxes, City Cotporate
Income Taxes and Utility Users'
Taxes. Personal Income Tax
abatement is not included.
Tax incentive used to encourage
renovation/ rehabilitation of aging
commercial or construct new
commercial properties. 10-year
abatement.
Tax incentive used to encourage
redevelopment of commercial or
mixed used commercial that are
contaminated, blighted ot
functionally obsolete. 12 year
abatement
Residential housing developments.
12-year abatement

Total

011HER T-A:XING

ENTlTI~S

T01M,L

$89,771,001

$119,025,790

$208,796,791

$3,844,090

$4,211,995

$8,056,085

$8,552,104

$10,211,573

$18,763,677

$1,126,630

$1,807,314

$2,933,944

$103,293,825

$135,256,672

$238,550,497

For the CRA and OPRA incentives, taxable values are frozen \!,t pre-improvement VJl].4-e (except for debt mills); for
the NEZ - Rehabilitation incentive, taxable values are frozen at pre-improved value; and for the Renaissance
Zone incentive, abatements of real and personal property taxes, City Corporate Income Tax, and Utility Users Tax are
granted; however, personal income tax abatement is not included.

Economic Benefits of Ford Motor Company Corktown Campus
2,500 direct permanent jobs; 2,500 indirect jobs in Ford facilities; 2,000 construction jobs;
• Spin-off jobs and economic impact will create business/employment opportunities for residents
$738 million direct investment estimated
• Rehabilitation of blighted Michigan Central Station and Book Depository building and infill
development
• Total of five primary development sites in Corktown
$370.lmillion in net fiscal benefit to the City (DEGC analysis)
Benefit to Ford - Operating cost reduction from reduced taxes to ensure long-term viability
• Average annual reduction in Detroit rdated taxes: estimated $2.97million ($104 million total
reduction)
• Average total annual reduction from all taxing jurisdictions including Detroit: $6.85 million ($240
million total reduction)
• Total tax obligation reduction Net Present Value: $104 million
Value of cash flows over a period of time

 BENEFITS FOR DETROIT FROM FORD PROJECT

[

Job Creation

[

Bllght removal

]$

l

Reduced costs for clwolopws
creating new or rehabllltated
housing ancl commerdal

5,0~Jr)+ du·-:-ct, 1ndJn, ! t (-:11,i ·-pin off I' ibt cxpt..Cil~d 1,pvn ptoi,=-r.:
<.rir,f;!. ~11",t); : 1,0(~{J t•,:11p .-•r~~,.i c(.11!:lrvcf:.(1 :1 iJ:J~ ·,. .!h l,,lol h11·t:
r._,,1,'li1l1nc ~1h

RJwbd1!u!, ··1 .li1d1iq":1 ( ,- 1·,lr;:I ~l,.11;( n - o fcn~J\lo11d1r111 ,y111b ,I of
De:twil d,:1h1 : - I() v:brc.:1: 1),1Y<:d-u·,t, fuul,l'f GLCc;T:ihl,• t,, the: 1,:ibi,c

ror,!

j'.,

C'J:l t llifh,d ;c \'.,)l'Klll(J- 'd :li1 r_o:rn:;,mity ond ~111ull l,u·-:n~ :;;
:-: ,:Iv/,: ,-,:,n.1 v_.:,:1d opt,c,:1
,;ntrepr,;ni)1:1·:;

:,,r

to

1pacn

Neighborhood lmprovem.nb

Ina-ease In tax base; both
property tax values and
Income tax revenues

Improved qualtty of llh for
residents

[

Increased saNty

~

*
$
)$

ford \•1.II ;:c1·:.,·1;·•.:10 1,1 cil/ 11w:-,'•:·r plor,run:J, 1rnr.<.porld1cn
mli(::_.! JU( ~•·: t:~

r,,-,: r\ .{J c~:d c,tlir:~ -n1:1ol1v~s o~cund Cork1•)\ 1n
1

[I\ ri1 1 in,onw~ lax rcvcm1,, from i11crc>o,ed
,;111plc>ym,~:1 t, inf di d,,v,-,1, jl11,,·n11111111d,·r-ul1ltz..:J or vc1cunl prorerlIF;,;

L!1nK1t,~d $7 rrnllk,n nn,:l•nll 1

Su,ipuri'. u v1b1c11t C•) lli'lkf,_:ul J1~tr1d crnJ pr,•;,er',e~ h1;;for,c prnp,,l11c~

,n l,,~1,,11cdly ~11,11ifica11I n•~i(jliborh'.)od

rn,d ;"okr,tmlly drm]t'rou, bu1/d,n~J\ in
w ,1/1'.;orhQoi/, ,.::1,1,t,,_,n ,:,f :,c:f,, pcd:.llfJ <1:tcrnot1v•::,

(,.,,~, ci,~i"1, ,\ bii},lhl

1()7

 DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
The Downtown Development Authority (DDA) was established by Public Act 197 of 1975 to correct and prevent
deterioration within the DDA business district, encourage historic preservation, authorize the creation and
implementation of development plans and establish a tax increment financing mechanism to incentivize development.
The DEGC provides staff services to the DDA through the renewal of an annual contract.
The DDA, a public corporation for the City of Detroit has been authorized to fund its General Fund (operating) budget
by an ad valorero tax of one mill on real and tangible personal property not exempt by law in the downtown development
district, and by a levy on the increased assessed value of a tax increment district, and the issuance of negotiable revenue
and tax increment bonds to finance the development activities of the DDA.
A useful tool of downtown development authorities is the power tci utilize tax increment financing (TIF), a.method of
funding public purpose investment in a designated redevelopment area by capturing the incremental increase in tax
revenues resulting from the difference between the established base year and the current year. TIF is based on the
premise that new jobs and tax revenues would not have happened wtless the authorities using TIP were created. These
revenues are then dedicated to finance capital projects or to service the debt on bonds sold for capital projects to further
develop in the designated areas, Dollars are needed from all taring jurisdictions to ensure there will be enough to attract
the economic development.
The DDA is governed by a Board of Directors, the members of which are appointed by the Mayor and confumed by
the City Coruicil. Annually, the DDA Board .reviews and authorizes the DDA staff to submit the ODA budget to City
Council for its approval.

Glty crf Detroit Downtown Development Authority

------

-

-

•-----

ix»-.~1r11[H'1',t,MA,11t01

u,c.tr. ( > t . ~ N I ~ N a ~
~ CATA4.~l Ol""(l.~N' l"lllro..(<;f _,.t,i.

I

~I

t

--

- 1

 Profile of Assets: DDA District
The ])DA controls several properties '\'11:ltrun the DDA District as part of.a master plan to further e,:;onomic development
activities in downtown Detroit. As the ml!,!ket .co.nditions continue to improve; th~se properties will be made available
for new investment opportunities. T he DDA will work to accomplish this by executing a plan to acquire, demolish,
rehabilitate, and reposition important landmark buildings and parcels for business oppo:tt:unities, new mixed-use
develo~ment and to further upgrade ~ublic open spaces.
t,J,AP

t

_,,.,.•

,I

'
RA
.,. ./

•

1

Map of OOA Do,wntown & WRF Properties

,~- ,..

',.

•l

--·,.._

v.... ,, ...

.... ..
I ...

\

e··
,
.>'

r:·-

~--··
~

\:.:
;r: •

.

.....
.......

J ......

~

..,,

•

,P-.

e,. t

C.)

.,

··-·

..

\

,"
"'·..... .., ..

1C)Q

""''
.,

.,.....~··

...
.,

- -,.._,,
~·-

\

\

~

.........

-·~
'

.t

....... ..

"•~....

1,1

,,/

1 . . . . . . . ..,..

\

lr

•....

~

~

•lo,,'••

\

''

,,, :.,•

/

'•7 •

.. • , . • •

........ .
........

"'"'_.,,

l

.:

.i

'

I,.

\\-.

•J

\.,...

~

...
,.,-·"

.,..___
t-•

....

.

•l

t
\

·l

 Profile of Assets: Little Caesars Arena
The DDA has undertaken the financing and development of a "catalyst development project" (as defined by PA 197)
that includes the construction of little Caesars Arena and ancillary development. Total investment cost is estimated at
$865 million of which 37% of these costs were publicly financed.

FtlNQING

~0U_NT
(IN MILU0NS)

:Ptmue/PRIVATE
·:

.

.AMOUNr REPAID
TOPA"llE

. ,, ,'·lPRif.fcmAL ONLY)'

2014 A (True-Exempt Bonds)

$250

ODA/Michigan Strategic Fund (MSF)

$0

2014 B (Public Bonds)

$200

Olympia Development of Michigan
(ODM)/MSF

$200

2017 (Tax-Exempt Bonds)

$36

DDA/MSF

$0

ODA

$35

DOA-Tax Increment Financing (TIF)

N/A

ODM

est. $340

ODM

NIA

In 2014, the Michigan Strategic Fund sold $450 million in two series of bonds. In 2017, t.he Michigan Strategic Fund
approved DDA's request to issue anot.her $36 million in tax-exempt revenue bonds to fund construction improvements
and related costs to help the Detroit Pistons move to Detroit. Under the transaction structure for both the 2014ABonds
and the 2017 Bonds, the outstanding bonds ate subject to mandatory refinancing prior to January 1, 2019. At the time
of the initial bond sale, it was determined that a short- term interest period would be more advantageous than a 30-year
fixed rate period. There has been continued revenue growth in the Downtown Development area and the tax receipts
collected in the Downtown Development District continue to increase. Bonds payments ate being made according to
schedule and are currently scheduled to mature in 2051.

Olympia Development of Michigan (ODM) privately financed the remaining cost of the project. In 2017, ODM repaid
the $200 million 2014 B bonds 28 years ahead of schedule. By paying off the public bonds early, it strengthened the
balance sheet of the DDA which will allow more financial leeway to invest in other projects within the DDA boundaries.

 DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
Profile of Assets: Paradise Valley District
The DDA collaborated with the City of Detroit and area property owners to implement a redevelopment strategy to
honor the legacy of Paradise Valley with a vision that celebrates the cultural influences of African Americans over the
years. The District is bordered by East Grand River, Centre Street and Randolph Street. Over the years, the DOA
acquired several key properties around the small triangular public space knowns as Bea Buck Park (formerly Harmonie
Park). The DDA managed extensive park renovations, streetscape improvements and public lighting upgrades totaling
an estimated $17 million. In 2013, the DDA also helped pay for high-efficiency lighting, HVAC updates, roofing and
window upgrades on the five buildings owned by the DDA in the District.

In 2016, the DDA issued a RFP for the disposition and redevelopment of the five buildings and three parking lots
clustered around the park. Five development proposals were selected for a variety of mixed-use projects included a
boutique hotel, several retail and restaurant opportunities, multifamily housing, a 150-space parking garage, and
additional public right-of-way improvements. The DDA continues to negotiate the final terms of the development
agreements and anticipates that all of properties "vill be conveyed to private ownership within the next two years.
Paradise Valley District
"•'

.
0

----

D• ■ l1:1pw..-.l'tt

?01

 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
The Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit (EDC) was established under Act No. 338 of the
Public Acts of 1974, as amended. Its purpose is to encourage economic development within the City of Detroit by
assisting with the location and expansion of industrial and commercial enterprises in the City. The EDC is governed by
its Board of Directors, who are, with certain exceptions, appointed by the Mayor subject to the consent of City Council.
The DEGC provides ad.mi.nisttative and management services to the EDC through a Professional Services Agreement
with the EDC. The City of Detroit provides operational and program adrninisttative support through a contract with
the DEGC for EDC related activities. The City Council must approve the DEGC/EDC contract.
The EDC assembles and manages properties to enhance the availability and quality of sites, support public infrastructure
improvements for advanced manufacturing. and mixed use commercial districts while enhancing the physical
characteristics and overall image of designated EDC tiroject plan areas.
The EDC uses various tools and techniques to achieve this vision:
1.

Make sites "development ready" by completing acquisitions for assembly, removing obsolete infrastructure and
vacating selected interior streets.
2. Assemble and re-purpose vacant and underutilized land to create larger, flexible areas for economic development
purposes.
3. Use site development to strengthen and diversify mixed-use development and reinforce the urban, walkable
character of the area.
4. Provide for loans, grants, transfers and conveyances of funds and property by municipalities.
5. Provide for the issuance of bonds.

 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Profile of Assets: Springwells Industrial Park Project
The Springwells Industrial Park Project consisted of approximately 83 acres and is located in a heavy- industrial area at the
intersection of the Detroit and Rouge Rivers between W. Jefferson Avenue and the Detroit River, bordered on the west by
the Rouge River and on the east by industrial properties.
The project involved the EDC completing the redevelopment of an industrial subdivision within the project area,
including the acquisition of undeveloped portions of the property, and selling the unsold lots to industrial users and/ or
developers. The project allowed for the reclamation and redevelopment of this sparsely developed and polluted
industrial area, elim.inate blight, and helped alleviate conditions of unemployment and underemployment within the City
by attracting and/or retaining new industrial enterprises to the City.
In 2016, the EDC Board accepted the good faith offers from the Michigan Department of Transportation (MDOT)
with respect to portions of two parcels owned by the EDC in the Springwells Industrial Park, as depicted on the
following map. These parcels are required in order to place footings for the Gordie Howe International Bridge. In
addition, the EDC Board received a request from :MDOT to lease parcel 12A and Lot 1 depicted on the following map
to lYIDOT and/ or the Windsor Detroit Bridge Authority (WBDA) for construction laydown and storage during the
construction of tlie bridge project.

-..

_

,,..,.,.. ..

1.....'-IN1.....--411 " .....

(v? ,.. 1,111•L~

:::;-.,~,. d••r,

.....

.._.,

Legend

.....:..,..

'f~'",1... 4-11

 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Profile of Assets: 1-94 Industrial Park

The I-94 Industrial Park is a 190-acre, city-owned light industrial park suited for advanced manufacruring and
transportation and logistics operations. The project was approved in 1999 and assembly was completed in· 2009. The
DEGC, in partnership with the Mayor's Office, Planning & Development Department, and the Housing &
Revitalization Department, will continue to market the remaining industrial parcels for advanced manufacturing
prospects.
The EDC is currently managing the following EDA projects in the I-94 Industrial Park:
•
•

Economic Development Administration (EDA) Grant: $3,197,160
Georgia Street Reconstruction Project - street improvement project within industrial park between St. Cyril and
Mt. Elliot

 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Profile of Assets: East Riverfront District
The EDC controls several properties as part of a master plan to further economic development activities in the East
Riverfront district As the market conditions continue to improve, these properties will be made available for new
investment opportunities. T he EDC will work to accomplish this by executing a plan to acquire, demolish, rehabilitate,
and reposition important landmark buildings and parcels for business opportunities, new mixed-use development and
to further upgrade public open spaces. The DEGC's primary role in the redevelopment of the East Riverfront District
is as follows:

1.

Facilitate real estate development including the disposition of public land and assist property owners with
structuring their deals and accessing financing.

2.

Support business owners in opening businesses in the East Riverfront district particularly retail.

3.

Identify short tertn and long-term solutions for parking and access to the riverfront. For this, the DEGC is
completing a packing and .i;nobility study along with making improvements to publicly-owned vacant lot to allow
for interim parking.

4.

DEGC will continue to partner with and support the Detroit Riverfront Conservancy (DRFC), a 501(c)(3)
organization, responsible for the establishment, improvement, operation, maintenance, securing, programming
and expansion of the Detroit Riverwalk and associated green spaces.

I

I

....

.. J ••

,

_,
'" •

It

··'

•' I ..

.....,... .....

• • t. '

\:- .•:. f

.

I

I

,..

,,, .

---

~'"""~~~~ ..~. -- ..
~

.,.
.. -i'-

. '11i1ap of EOC·~ - ,-ro~~ ctl..cs. (#1)

.• :~
·"

"'.,.:,.,..,..,.,.t-r"

~

,,,, ...... ..
~,§>·

' ' .,.
.....I.fl •

,"r)

..

. ~•""· r

'- ... ,,.

.~--

:::·.

,·

-~ .

..... ,~·· \.

Lcacnd
-

NEIGHBORHOOD DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION (NOC)
?oi;

to<: ~0,...,11~•

..'i,.

 The NDC is an Economic Development Corporation subsidiary created to assist in housing and neighborhood
development. The NDC is governed by its nine-member Board of Directors appointed by the Mayor and approved by
City Council. The major activity of the NDC consist of the development of the Jefferson Village project, a mixed-use
commercial and residential project located on the lower east side of Detroit
.,,..,., .... ,.

......... ,_._

M-;.-,, of NDC Properties

·--

I- • - •

t . , . . .. . , . _ .

... ..... ·.-::·

----

j"7._ , , , •• ,._., .... , ,_,

<.;

..

·

. ,'-·

..,

... _

.. '

_ _ _n , • • • - ~

-"'4,

\.

"I.

,'

'.

'

'

DETROIT BROWNFIELD REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
The City of Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority (DBRA) was established pursuant to Michigan Public Act
381 of 1996 ("Act 381 "), as amended, to promote the revitalization of environmentally distressed and blighted areas
within the boundaries of the City of Detroit. Under Act 381, substantial redevelopment throughout Detroit has been
supported by Brownfield incentives. Since the program's inception, the DBRA has facilitated the approval of over 200
plans for Brownfield redevelopment including residential, mixed-use, retail, industrial, office and commercial uses with
a total investment amount exceeding $9.3 billion. 4
Developers of properties that qualify as contaminated, blighted, or functionally obsolete and are part of an approved
Brownfield plan, may be eligible for Tax Increment Financing (TIF) reimbursement - increases in property taxes that
result from new investments - for both environmental and non-environmental activities. These activities include
baseline environmental assessments; due care activities; additional response activities; lead, asbestos and mold
abatement; demolition; site preparation; and infrastructure improvements.
The DBRA is governed by its Board of Directors, who receive input from the DBRA Community Advisory Committee
(the DBRA-CAC). DBRA Board members are, with certain exceptions, appointed by the mayor subject to the consent
of City Council.
The Brownfield Redevelopment Financing Act, as amended (Act 381), effective July 24, 2017 approved a new tool,
Transformational Brownfield Plans (TBP), which allows developers the opportunity to capture a portion of specific
incremental taxes for a specific period of time to make these projects financially feasible. A TBP must have a
transformational impact on local economic development and community revitali2ation based on the extent of
brownfield redevelopment and growth in population, commercial activity and employment that will result from the
4

DBRA Projects, see appendix.

 plan. The plao tnust be for a mixed-use devdopment project with planned integration of some combination of retail,
office, residential or hotel uses. The total capital investment must exceed $500 million. The TBP allows for the capture
of five new sources of tax revenues associated with a project, in addition to the standard inc.temental revenue from
property taxes. The additional tax revenues include the following:
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)

Construction Period focome Tax;
Construction Period Sales Ta.x. Exemptions;
Construction Period Use Tax Exemptions;
Income Tax Captures; and,
Withholding Tax Capture

The Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority and Detroit City Council must approve the project before project is
approved by the Michigan Strategic Fund. No more than five TBPs may be approved in one calendar year statewide
and no more than five TBPs in any individual local unit <>f government for the duration of the project, which ends
December 31, 2022.5
In May 2018, the Michigan Strategic Fund approved Bedrock's use of this financing tool for four transformational
projects in Detroit:
•
•
•
•

The redevelopment of the iconic Hudson's site
The transformation of the fou.t acre Monroe Blocks site co the east of Campus Marcius
Restoration of the historic Book Building and Book Tower
•··
The expansion of the One Campus Martius building, which will create new office space for an est4nated 1,500
high-wage jobs occupying the new developments

The four projects represent ao estimated $2.15 billion in new i.nyesttne:°t an<;! will suppo.tt an estimated 22,000 new joqs
- 15,000 jobs related co the coostruction of the projects and ov!!.[ 7,000 new permanent jobs occupying the office, retail,
hotel, event, and exhibition spaces. Construction has already started on the Hudson's site and Book Tower, an.d the
Mon.roe project and the One Campus Martius will be underway in e~ly 2019.

LOCAL DEVELOPMENT FINANCE AUTHORITY
T he City of Detroit Local Development Finance Authority (LDFA) was established pursuant to Michigan Public Act
281 of 1986, as amended, to prevent conditions of unemployment and promotes growth in D etroit. The LDFA. can
support projects such as industrial facility revitalizations, technology park development, stteetscnpe improvements and
more. Funding comes from caxes collected because o f new growth within the new development areas.
The LDFA is governed by an eleven-member board of directors. Seven appointed by the Mayor and approved by City
Council, two appointed by the Detroit School Board, ooe appoiated by the Wayne County Board of Commissioners
and one appointed by the Wayne Councy Community College.
The LDFA undertook the Jefferson/Connor Industrial Revitalization Project on the city's east side to assist Chrysler
Corporation in creating jobs and constructing a new manufacturing facility. The LDFA issued a series ofTax Increment
Tax Exempt Bonds paid to the City of Detroit as additional reimbursement for the City's identifiable public facilities
expenditures of $118,745,000. The LDPA's main purpose is to collect taxes within the tax increment district and pay
debt service on the bonds that were issued to conseruct the Jefferson Avenue Chrysler Plant Current bond obligations
5 MEDC

Transforma.tional BrownCicld Plan Program Gui<lclin~s, p. 1 (2017).

?.07

 mature in July 0f 2021. LDFA has received about $4 million annually in revenues in recent years. If furore annual
revenue holds const.ant, projections indicate that LDFA may struggle to cover the final year of debt service. However,
revenue assessments can fluctuate and the LDFA could receive more tax increment financing revenues than projected.
DEGC staffis monitoring performance and coordinating alternative strategies with the Finance Department to identify
another source of economic development funds to utilize to fund the gap.

DETROIT NEXT MICHIGAN DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Detroit Next Michigan Development Corporation (D-NlvIDC), was established pursuant to Michigan Public Act 275
of 2010, as the seyenth and final Next Michigan Development Corporation, seeks to attract eligible multi-modal
businesses. to key employment districts within the city. These districts have a high potential for growth in key industries:
maoufacmring, transportation, distribution and logistics. As a part of Next Michigan Development Corporation, Detroit
is granted the ability to offer tax incentives like renaissance zones, real and personal property tax exemptions, and local
development financing. To date, Detroit has awarded one DNMDC designation to Flex-N-Gate Detroit, a 450,000square foot manufacturing facility in the I-94 Industrial Park.
·

Flex-N-Gate

•

$100M manufacturing facility employing 400-700 FTEs

•

Next Michigan Renaissance Zone

•

Competitive bid with sites in Canada, Indiana, and Ohio

•

$16.3M in gross fiscal benefit and $6.SM in net fiscal benefit

•

400-700 permanent jobs

 EIGHT MILE WOODWARD CORRIDOR IMPROVEMENT AUTHORITY
The Eight :Mile Woodward Corridor Improvement Authority (EMWCIA) was created by a City of D etroit, :Michigan
ordinance effective February 15, 2008. The ordinance was adopted pursuant to :Michigan Public Act 280 of 2005, as
amended. The EMWCIA was established to correct and prevent deterioration in the Eight Mile/Woodward area and
to authorize the devdopment of approximately 35-acre brownfield site located at the southeast corner of the Woodward
Ave and 8 Mile Road. Funding for the EMWCIA D evelopment and Tax Increment Financing Plan comes from an
increase in property taxes as a result from the new investment at the site.

Gateway Marketplace
Gateway Marketplace (formerly known as The Shoppes at Gateway Park) is an outdoor shopping mall with
approximately 350,000 square feet of .retail space. G1-a.nd Rapids-based Meijer opened a 190,000 square foot Meijer
Super Center as the anchor cenant. Gateway Ma.rkecplace brings fresh food options and necessary goods and services
to an underserved area and provides entry level jobs wid1 opportunicy for advancement with Meijer and several national
retailers including K&G Superstores, Marshalls, Planet Fitness, and McDonald's. Tax increment receipts began to flow
through during the year ended June 30, 2014 due to the increased deve.lopmen t. The project has exceeded expectations.

?.fiQ

 Appendix

TRADITIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT TOOLS

Type

Description
Often used to enable job training or offsetting start-up
costs or other expenditures a bus.iness may need to
make to hire or expand.
Example: Motor Ciry Match
Administered by the Detroit Economic Corp (EDq
Example: Retail Loan Fund
As authorized by State and Local Communities.
Example: Commercial Rehabilitation Act, Obsolete
Property, Rehabilitation Act
Land assembly for redevelopment purposes.
Example: Flex-n-{!ate
As authorized by State and Local Communities.
Example: Next Michigan Tax Credits (NMTq, Low
Income Housing Tax Credits
As authorized by State and Local Communities.
Example: DDA, Brownfields

.

Cash Grants
,,

Low-interest loans
Tax Abatements
Land Building Acquisition Assistance

Tax Credits

Tax Increment Financing (TIF) capture districts

DEGC ABATEMENT EVALUATION PROCESS
But-For Analysis
•

Must demonstrate project would not occur without the support of the tax abatement

Economic Benefits
•
•
•

New employment and/or retention of jobs
Represents an industry that the city is attempting to bring to Detroit or expand (e.g., manufacturing) or projects
that will change or advance the Detroit economy
Project helps, develops or renews blighted properties or underinvested areas.

Fiscal Benefits
•

Project provides an increase in tax revenues that's greater than the abatement.

•

Evidence of other sources of funding (owner funds, banks, state, etc.) showing economic viability

Strategic Benefits
•

Project is consistent with the city's plans, corridor strategies, or other city strategic initiatives including:
Inc.cease employment or reduce blight
• Support local hiring and training programs for Detroit residents for construction/permanent employment
Support local opportunities for Detroit-based businesses

?.11

 OVERVIEW
The Commercial Re,;lwelopment Tax Abatement is an Incentive used to encourage the renovation and expansion of
aging facilities and assist in the building of new commercial facilities. The act provides a tax exemption for property of
which the prirnctry purpose is the operation of a comm~I business enterprise. Mixed-use de~opments m;,y be
eligible, but t'1e abatement will ap~y only to the commercial portion of the property. The advantage to the ta•payer is a
savlngs on property taxes.

TAX IMPACT

For a restored facility, t~ tax exemption freezes the taxable value of the buildin9 at the current value for the local taxes
for up to 12 years, exempting from local property tax all real property improvements. For a new facility. the tax exemption P!'Q\lides a 50% reduction in the number of mills levied, exdudlng only State Education Taxes.
POLICY ANO ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA
• Applicant must own 75% of tne state equalized value of the commercial property located within
commercial redevelopment district

a proposed

• Appl/cant must demonstrate that "but for" the abatement the project is not financially feasible

· The approval of an abatement must provide a net positive revenue gain to the city
• Project is consistent with the city's comprehensive plans, appliC<lble corridor $trategies or other strategic
initiatives including tliring and procurement plans
• A replacement facility means commercial property ta be acquired, constructed. altered, or Installed for the
purpose of being 5ubstlluted to.- obsolete commerc:ial property
• A restored facility means changes to obsolete commercial property as may be required to restore the property
to an eccnomically efficient condition
• The property within the district must have been zoned oommercial or industrial before June 21, 1975
Receiving a PA 255 tax abatement is a two-step process: first a PA 255 District must be established before Initiating a
project and only then can a PA 255 Certificate be awarded. Work on the project may not begin before the establishment
of the district.

DISTRICT PROCESS
1.

Project S<:Opfng, evalui,tton and statutory review meeting with DEGC

2,

Application intake and financial review: Applicant submits project narrative and project financials to DEGC for
underwriting and to determine economic and fiscal impacts

3.

DEGC presents the project and recommendation to City officials for consideration

4.

Applicant submits letter reque-;ling the establishment of the PA 255 District to City of Detroit Clerl<'s Office

5.

City departments draft supporting reports and documentation

6.

Detroit City Council holds a public hearinlJ and adopts a resolution establishing the district

CERTIFICATE APPLICATION PROCESS

2.

owner of the qualified property within the district files an application ror a PA 255 Certificate with the City of
Detroit Clerk's Office (State of Michigan form 4757)
TaK Abatement Agreement is developed and signed by the Applicant

3.

City Council holds public hearing and adopts resolutioo to approve the Certificate

1.

 .,)
rrA1~
.....

,om AHHIVERSAR!

Commercial Rehabilitation Act

OVERVIEW
The Commen;lal Ruh.,b!Otatloo TaK Abatement Is an incentlw used to encourage tile radevelopment of commercial
propwty. The Act provides a taK axamption f0f property of which ~ primary purµose is the operation of a commercial
b1.1$iness, multifamily residential (5 or more units) or qualified retail food estabUstvnenl:5. The advantage to the taxpayer
is a uvlngs on property taxes.

TAX IMPACT
lhe taK incentive troozes the taxable value of !he building at the curreot value for the IOCill property taKes for up to 10
years. exampling from loe;,t property taic all raal property improvements. School Operating end State Education taxes

are not abated.
POLICY AND ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA
• Applicant must own So,/, of all taxable value of the property located within a proposed commercial
rehllbilltatlon dlmict
• The area of the commen:lal Relulbilitallori District must be not fess than 3 acres In Jize, located In a downtown
or bus4ness area. or contain a QOallfled ret'all food establishment
• Appliainl must demonstrate that "but for" the abatement the project Ila not flnanc:lally feM1ble
• The approval of an abatement must prDVlde a nat l>OSltlVe ravanue gain to the c;lty
• Project Is conslstllht with the city's com~lve plens. appllc:able conido,r strategies or other stnitegic
lnltlattves lndudlng hiring and proc;urament plans
• To receive a certtlleate. the c:omme,ciat property must be a qualified racillty; which is a bu IIding or group of
contiguoos bulldlng, at commercial property whld'I IS 15 years or older
• A qualified facility may Include wcant property or other commercial p~rty which, within the immediately
preceding 15 y!J,lrs, was commerclal property

Receiving a PA 210 tall abatement is a two-step process; first a PA 210 District must be a$tabllshed and only then can a
PA 210 Cert/Hcate be awarded. Commencement of the Nlha.billtation of the qualified f8cility eannoc occur earlier t'1an 6
months before Iha applicant flies the application for the Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption Certificate.

DISTRICT PROCESS
ProjKt seoplng, evalia~ and statutory mvlaw meeting with DEGC

1.

2.

Application Intake and financial review: Applicant subnlits project narrative end project f!nanclals to DEGC for

underwriting and to determine eeo~mlc and ftsclll Impacts
DEGC preHl'IUo the pro)ect af\d reconwnendation to city officials for consideration

3.
4.

Appltcant subm Its letter requesting the establishment of the PA 210 District to City of Detroit Clerk's Offlc9

5.
6.

City departmenti; dreft supponlng t11POrts and documentation
Detroit City Council holds a ptJ bflc hearing and adopts a resolution establishing the district

CERTIFICATE APPLICATION PROCESS
1.

owner of the qualified property within ti\& district flies an applk:atlon for a PA 210 Certificate with the City of
Detroit Clark's Office (State of Michigan form 4507)

2.

Tax Abatemeot Agreement 15 developed and signed by the Applicant
City Council holds public hearing and adopts resolution to approve the Certifkote

3.

?1-:\

 OVERVIEW

The Neighborhood Enterprise Zone (NEZ) Program tax abatement t!flcourages the d81191opment and rehabilitation of
residential housing, specifically in communltle~ in which it would not Olherwise ocCl.l r. The act provides a tax emmption
tor pro~rty of which the purpose ts rnslaentlel. Miwed-use developments milY bE eligible, but the abatement will apply
only to tile residential portion of the property. The advantage to the taxpayer is a savings on property tal<es.

TAX IMPACT
For a rehablfltated facl!lty, the tax !!Xemptton freezes the taxable value or the rehabilitated portion of the facillty for up
to 15 years (17 years for a rehabilitated facility in a qualified historic building), exempting frnm locel property ta~ all real
property impr01rements. For a new f.lcility, apply either one-half of the state's principal resld,,nce exemption (PRE)
millage rate ot one-half of the state's non-PRE millage rate depending on the principle residence status of the facility.
The taxes are adjusted the final three years of the NEZ tax abatement.
POLICY AND ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA

• Each NEZ must contain nO( hm thM 10 platted patc411S of land Which are compact and contiguous. or if
located in a downtown rellit1'1i:za tion dis trlct may contain IMS than 10 platted parcels If ttl!I platted PG(CeiS
together contain 10 OI' more l;,c:;ilities.
· I mprowmi,nts must meet the rehabilitation Q»t requirements ;JS set out by PA 147 of 1992. as amended
• lllll'e is a 60 day waiting period, by millite, before City COllndl QI!\ vot,e on the resolution to estabUs/1 an NEZ zone

• Applicant must dem011stR1te that "bot for" the abatement the project is not financially feasible

• The approv.ol or an abatement must provide a net posltllfe revenue gain to t~ City
• Project is consistent with the City's comprehensive plans, app!lenble corridor strategies or other strategic
Initiatives including h Iring and procurGment plans
Receiving a NEZ tax abatement is a two~tep process; first a NEZ zone must be ~t•blished and only then can a NEZ
Certificate be-awarded. A developer or owner may not begin construcliotl untll a NEZ zone has been est.iblis l>ed. An
application for a Certificate may be submitted after construction begins.

DISTRICT PROCESS

1.

Project scoping, evaluation and statutory review meeting with OEGC

2.

Appllcatlon Intake and financial revi&W: Ae>t>llcant submits pmject narnitlw and project financials to OEGC for
und&rwrltlng and to determine economic and liscal Impacts

3.

OEGC presents the project and recommendation to City officials for consideration

ti.
5.

AppllC!lnt submits letter requesting the establishment of the NEZ to City of Detroit Clerk's Office
City departments draft supporting reports and documentation

6.

Detroit City Council holds a public hearing and adopts a resolution establishing the NEZ zone

CERTIFICATE APPLICATION PROCESS

2.

Owner of the qualified property within the district files an application tor a NEZ Certificate with the City of
Detroit Clerk's ornce (State of Michigan form 4nS)
Tax Abatement Agreement is develope.d and sigried by the App!lcant

3.

City Council holds public hearing and adopts resolution

I.

to approve the Certificate

 OVE'RVIEW
The New Personal Property Tax Abatement is an inc;entlvv used to encour<tge new or expanding b~iainess in the State of
Michigan. The eligible types of businfiS arec manufacturing, mining, ·, .search and development, whokt$ale tJado, or
office operat/Ofls. In ordf!f' to Qualify for the t ax abatement. rhe personal property must be placed in ari "eligible district".
Only new personal property wi!I be exempted vnder the tax abatamenl The advantage to the taxpayer is a savings on
property taxes,
TAX IMPACT

Tl,ere are no taxes on personal property that is covered under the new personal property tax exemption This is a 100"
tax exemption. The ten:n lim it is established by the local governmental unit on a by-project basis.
POLICY ANO ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA
• An owner or lessee of an eligible busingss may file an application for an exemption
• Any personal property that ls purchased after the ex9mptton is granted qualifies for the 11,a,mption
• An "eligible district• is any one of: an Industrial Oevelopment District a Renaissance Zone. an Ente,prtse Zone,
a Brownfield Reaewlopment Zone, an Empowerment Zone, an Authority District« Development Ar@a, a
Downtown District, or II Next Michigan Oll\1!1opment District
Appjlcant mu,t demONtrate that "but for" tha abatement the project Is oot ftoanclally faa&lble
The approval of an abatement must provide a net l)osltive nr,,enue gain to the Otv
Project Is oonslstent with the City's comp,ehensl...., plans. applicable 00rridor strategies or other strategic
initiatives In.e luding hiring and procurement plans
Receiving a PA 328 111~ abatement Is a two•step process: ii must be determined that the bu$iness is an eligible business
and that it is located within an •eliglbla district". than a PA 328 Certificate can ba awarded. Only new personal property
purch11Sed after the Certificate Is In place is eligible for the exemption.

DISTRICT DETERMINATION PROCESS
1.
Project scoping, eveiuatlon and stalu tory n,view mei!ting with DEGC
2.
Determine if the business is eligible and If the location Is within en 11ligible district
3.
Application Intake and financial review: Applicant submits project n11m,tlve and project financials to OEGC for
ullderwritlng and to determine economic: and fiscal impacts
DEGC presents the project and l'f!commendation to city offic;als for consideration
4,
CERTIFICATE APPLICATION PROCESS
l.
Applicant submits letter reque..ting the establishment of the PA 328 Certificate and application to City of
Detroit Oerk·s Office (State of Michigan form 3247)
2
City departments drafl supporting reports and documentation
l.
TaK Abatement Agreement Is developed and signed by the Applic,,nt
4.
City Council holds public hearing and adopts resolution to approve the Cortilicate

?.1 C.

 Obsolete Property Rehabilitation Act

OVERVl£W
The- Obsol1tte Propvrty Rithabllftatlori TDlC Abet<lmll<lt (OPRA) Is 110 iflC8"tive UAd to eo<:ourage the redlJ\lelOpmanl of
commerclDI or commardal mixed used buildings that are contaminated, bllghted, or functionally obw!ete. Commercial
housing property 1150 lnclude.s a llulld/ng or group otconttguous buildings previously u59d for Industrial purpoSti th.at
will be converted to II multlpl1HJnlt dwelling or dwelling unit In II mu1tiple•purpose slNcture, used ro, residential
purposos. The ad11antaoe to tho taKpayer Is a savings on property taxes.
TAX IMPACT
The tax Incentive freezes tha taxable v1tue or the building at the current value for the local property taxes Por up to 12
years, &~ampti ng from locaI property tax all raal property ImproV@ment~ School Oper11t1no and StaNI Education taxes
er~ not ob11ted
POLICY AND ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA

• Ap pllcanl must haye 50" of all taxable value of th• property located within a propOMl<I ob,olatlt property
rehabIll tat1on dlstnct
• Al:Jl)llcant must cklmonstr&te 111.,t "bl.It for" t/\8 11batamant the project Is nor rloandally feasible
· Toa a pprova I of an abaternen t must provide a net posltiwl - u e gain lo the City
• Project is consistent with Ille City's camprellenslve plll'IS, applicable corridor strategle9 or other strategic
initiatives Including hlrtng and pracurament plans
• Obsolescence (s defined 11s bilghtt!d, functionally obsolete, or II facillty, as defined by the natural resources and
environmental protection act
ReceMng an OPRA taM abatement Is a two-step process; first an OPRA Distnet m111t be este llilshed and on!), tllen <:an
an OPRA Certiftc:,, te be awerded. Won, on the project may not begin before the establishment of the d i!trk:L
DISTRICT PROCESS

l.
2.

3.

Introduction, project scopi!\Q and •tatutcry review m08ting with DEGC
A.oQllcatlOll I nteke and flnanclal review: Applicant submits project narrative and project llnanci11ls to OEGC for
underwriting and to determine economic and fiscal impacts
DEGC p,esents the project and nicommendatl011 to City olflclels for consideration

4.

Applicant submits letter requestln9 the es1<1bllshment of the OPRA Dlstrio;t to City of Detroit Clerk's Office

5.

City departm,mts draft &upportlng reports and docum1tntatlon

6,

Detroit City Council holds a public hearing and adopts a resolution establishing the dlstrtct

CERTIFICATE APPLICATION PROCESS
1.
Owner of the ciuelified obsolete prOl)erty within the district files an application for an OPRA Cartlflcate with
the City of Detroit Clark'$ Office (Store of Mlchloeo rorm 3674)
2.

Tax Abatement Agreement is de-,eloped and signed by the Applic11nt

l.

City Council holds public haaring and adopts resolution to approve the Certll'lcate

 DETROIT HOUSING COMMISSION

 

DETROIT HOUSING COMMISSIOtN
AGENCY MISSION

The Detroit Housing Commission (DHC) is a Michigan public body corporate organized as a housing agency otJerating
under authority granted under the Michigan Housing Facilities Act, MCL 125.653 et. seq, In August 2004, DHC
separated from the City of Detroit Municipal Government, and became an independent government agency. In July
2005, the Mayor of the City of Detroit and the Secretary of the U.S. Housing and Urban Development (HUD) signed
a voluntary cooperative endeavor agreement which turned over the Commission as well as administrative conttoL to
the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. 'This action was taken due to years of poor scoring by the
Commission onHUD's report card system. After 10 years of oversight by HUD, the Housing Commission was returned
to local control on March 16, 2015. The Detroit Housing Commission is govern by a Mayoral appointed five member
Board of Commissioners and the day to day operations are managed by the Executive Director.

Mission
The Detroit Housing Commission is to effectively & efficiently develop, manage, & preserve quality affordable housing.

Vision
•

Develop and Maintain Community Partnerships

•

Promote High Quality Customer Service

•

Sustain Sound Fiscal Management

•

Ensure Operational Sustainability
D ESCRIPTION OF ASSETS

DHC currently manages 20 family and elderly public housing developments totaling 3,416 units. In addition, the
Commission has been awarded three HOPE VI revitalization grants (Woodbridge Estates, the Villages at Parkside and
Gardenview Estates). DHC also administers app.roximately 5,100 Housing Choice Vouchers under the Section 8
program.
1,

NA.MB

LOOA'11ION

Algonquin Apartments

4711 Trumbull and
1520 W. Forest
(48208)
3526 St. Antione
(48201]
4801 E. Nevada
(48234)
3200 John C. Lodge
(48201)

Brewster Homes
Charles Terrace/Sojourner Truth Homes
Cornerstone

Diggs/Forest Park Place

Emerald Springs

YEARBUJLD

MAJORR:EHAB

1331 East Canfield
(48207)
5825 Emerald
Springs Circle
(48212)

.
D.ESClUPTlO;N

1912

2 Bedroom

1994

2 and 3 bedroom

1941

2 and 3 bedroom

2012

1 Bedrooms (4)
2 Bedrooms (90)
3 Bedrooms (67)
4 Bedrooms (19)
3-6 bedroom at Diggs; 1-2 bedroom
at Forest Park, a Senior Communitv
206 Rental Units (Phases IA, IB, and
II)

1974/
1971
1941
Updated 2013

50 Off-site rental housing

?17

 DESCRIPTION OF A SSETS {CONTINED)

~AME
I•

,, .

LOCA'l'ION

·-·· '
Harriet Tubman Apartments
Gardenview Estates

YEARBUILD

M.AJORi'REHAB

,.

2450 W. Grand Blvd.
(48208)
16461 Van Buren
Ave (48228)

1971
2015

D ESORIP'FlON
:,. . ·' ;·, -·"
~·· -., .,
'General
Occupancy
Community
541 Rental Units

·.- "'.:'
Housing

66 Homeownership Units
Greenbrooke Manor

19805 Greenfield
#30 (48235)

Riverbend Towers
Sheridan Place I and II Apartments

4386 Conner (48215)
7501 & 7601 E.
Jefferson (48214)
14313 Crescent
Drive (48223)
1231 W. State Fait
(48208)
Warren Ave and
Conner
Detroit, MI
4100 West Warren
(48210)
4106 Supreme Dr.
(48201)
3521 John C. Lodge
(48201)
1300 Martin Luther
King Drive (48201)

Smith Homes
State Fait Apartments
Villages of Parkside

Warren West Apartments
Woodbridge Estates Homeownership
Woodbridge Senior Village
Woodbridge Senior Enhanced

1964

1-2 Bedrooms

1983

one (1) bedroom

1942

2, 3 and 4 bedroom

2015

General
Occupancy
Community
Major remodel in 2015

1969

1 (116)-2 (27) bedroom 143 total

2003

114 Rental Units

1953

1-2 bedroom
high-rise
community
100 units Senior community

Elderly and Near-Elderly

Scattered Sites

Housing

Senior

Various single family homes

ACCOMPLISHMENTS

The Detroit Housing Commission receives funding from the United States Department of Housing and Urban
Development to develop, acquire, construct, renovate, rehabilitate and maintain public housing units within the City of
Detroit. The Commission has been awarded over $46,769,325 million dollars in federal grants from the U.S. Department
of Housing and Urban Development for the years 2013-2018. These grant dollars are specifically directed towards
replacement housing from previously demolished public housing developments and the rehabilitation ofDHC's cunent
public housing stock.
In 2015, DHC began a new "Five Year Plan 2015-2019" which had the goal of strategically laying out the direction of
the commission through the modernization of public housing developments and the demolition of dilapidated
developments. Some of the Commission's recently completed projects and major initiatives include:
Woodbridge Estates & Cornerstone Estates

DHC will invest approximately $166 million dollars in federal grants and private funds for the revitalization and
modernization of Woodbridge & Cornerstone Estates. The $166 million originates from the following grant sources:
HOPE VI, Comprehensive Grant Program, Demolition Grants, Replacement Housing Factor, Public Housing Capital
Fund Program, City of Detroit infrastructure funds, and Low Income Housing Tax Credit Equity. DHC is currently
working on the last phase, Phase 9 which is a senior apartment building. 'When Phase 9 is complete, DHC will have
completed the renovation of 297 public housing units, and completed construccion of 327 units for the Public Housing
Program, and an additional 247 units which are Tax Credit and 113 Market Rental Units complete this development.

 Gardtnview &tates
The ,l)ettoit Housing Commission has received approximately $46 million dollars in federal grants for this site. The
$46 million dollars is made up of the following grant sources: HOPE VI, Major Revitalization of Obsolete Properties
and Replacement Housing Factor. By 2015, DHC had completed construction on the new Boys and Girls Oub; as well
as 541 rental units. DHC has completed construction of 9 rental phases and is currently working on the 10th phase.
Phase five, which is currently under construction, will bring total units to 638 (308 of the rental units are A CC-Public
Housing Units, 272 will be Low Income Housing Tax Credit Units 58 will be Market Rate Units.

Emerald Springs (Charles Terra,ce)
Io the sp.ring of 2011 , DHC broke ground on the new Emerald Springs. Constructlon was completed in 2013 the
development now consist of 206 new units of which 105 are Low Income Public Housing Units and 101 are Low
Income Tax Credit Units. The total cost of the project was approximately $43 million dollars. The City of D etroit
funded over $1.8 million dollars for new infrastructure for the property. DHC provided $19 million in Federal Grants.
The remaining funding came from Low Income Housing Tax Credits and other public funding ($21.5 million).

As of 201 8, the Commission h as completed the following capital improvements at the following developments ovei: the
past five years:

:,
P.ROJECT NAME

Brewster Homes

Sojow:ner Truth Homes

Diggs Homes

D ouglass Homes
Forest Park Apartments

Harriet Tubman Apartments

Lee Plaza/Woodland
Apartments
Rive.tbend Apartments

PROJECT DESORIP'rroN

Replacement of 472 concrete porches,
Replacement of asphalt shingles on
250 units, renovation of bathrooms in
229 units and ADA interior and
exterior renovations.
Replacement of roofs on 29 buildings
and iosularioo of attics in all buildings,
renovation of 10 ADA units and
selective asphalt parking lot and
concrete sidewalk replacement.
Substantial Unit Renovations of 10
units, replacement of underground
electric for site lighting and selective
concrete sidewalk replacement.
Demolition of (4) high-rise, (2) midrise and (1 9) row homes.
Replacement of HVAC system in all
97 units along with exterior
waterproofing, roof replacement and
pai:ki.n_g lot recoostruction.
and
New
exterior
railings
watei:pcoofiog, new buildmg make-up
air unit, ADA interior and extcno.c
renovations, domestic and heating
boiler replacements.
Disposition of both properties.
Transferred to OBA-Detroit Land
Bank for redevelopment.
Replacement of building HVAC (fancoil) system, ADA intcdor and
exterior renovations and parking lot
reconstruction.

?:1()

STATUS

FUNDING SOURCE

Completed

Federal Grants- H UD

Complete

Federal Grants- HUD

Completed

Federal GWJ.ts- HUD

Completed

Federal Grants- HUD

Completed

Federal Grants- HUD

Completed

Federal Grants- H UD

Completed

Federal Grants- HUD

Completed

Federal Gr.1J1ts- H UD

 Gardenview Estates (continued)

l>ROJECT NAME ~.-,
.•

...,

Scattered Sites

Sheridan Place Aparonents

Smith Hom~s

State Fair Aparonents

Warren West Apartments

Woodbridge Senior Village

Algonquin Apartments

Greenbrook Manor

'.PR0JEC'r''l)ESCRIPTION
•1:-•.:

STATUS

·1 I

I

-

Replacement of asphalt shingles on 22
homes, complete renovation of a
home on Northlawn and the
demolition of 70 homes and the
disposition of 127 homes and 45.
Selective puking lot and sidewalk
replacement,
Camera
system
upgrades, buildiog entry and intercom
system replacement, installation of 5
new boilers, replacement of both
Make-Up Air_ (MUA) systems and
ADA renovations in 31 apartments.
Replacement of asphalt shingles on all
156 units, complete renovation of 10
units, drainage upgrades to the
community building and interior
ADA renovations.
New
exterior
railings
and
waterproofing, new building MakeUp Air (MUA), ADA interior and
exterior renovations and domestic and
heating boiler replacement.
of all windows,
Replacement
replacement of roof, replacement of
building fire alarm system, upgrades
to first floor HVAC system,
Replacement of domestic and heating
boilers and site improvements
including parking lot, sjdewalk and
fumting.
Replacement of 8 boilers and
associated pumps, interior and
exterior
ADA
renovations,
replacement of (2) chillers and
upgrades ro the security systems at
entry areas of each of the three
buildings.
and
substantial
Acquisition
renovation of 12 unit property along
with interior and exterior ADA
upgrades, replacement of all windows
and the replacement of (1) toof.
Acquisition
and
substantial
renovation of 32 unit property,
interior and exterior ADA upgrades,
replacement of all electric panels,
replacement of interior handrails and
the replacement of air conditioning
units.

'
.

·-

_,

FUNDING $OURCE'

.

'·

.

Completed

Federal Grants- HUD

Completed

Federal Grants- HUD

Completed

Federal Grants- HUD

Completed

Federal Grants- HUD

Completed

Federal Grants- HUD

Completed

Federal Grants- HUD

Completed

Federal Grants- HUD

Completed

Federal Grants- HUD

 P ROPOSED FIVE- YEAR C APITAL PLAN

Detroit Housing Commission Development Program
Gardenview Estates
The Commission anticipates making substantial progress in the revitalization of the former Herman Gardens
Development The proposed plan calls for approximately 75,000 square feet of new commercial space on Joy
Road, approximately 640 residential rental units (of which 308 unit will be affordable) and the possibility of
approximately 170 for-sale/homeownership opportunities. The total budget for this development is roughly
$250 million dollars.

Parkside
The Commission anticipates continuing the redevelopment of the Parkside Development during the next five

years.
Capital Fund Program-Five-Year Action Plan
US D epar tment o fHousmg an d U r ban D eveIoomenf

..

OffiICC 0 f P u blicandid'
o 1an H OUSlD!?

Part I: Summary

PHA Name/Number Delralt Housing Commission Ml-001

DeveloP.')lent NUl'l\ber and
Name

k

.- -., :;-

\

~-:

Wotl< Statement
for Year I
FFY 2011
...

..

B.

· Physical Improvement, Subtotal

C.
0.

Management Improvements
PHA-Wlde Non--dwellln9
Stru,;ture, and Equipment
Adrnlnhtration
Olher. '
Operations
Demolillon
Development
Copllol Fund Financing - Debt
Service
Total CFP Funds
Total Non-CFP Funds
Grand Tot.cil_ __ _.. _i.• __ . ---1 -1. • • ---·-

E.
F.

G.
H.
I.
J.

K.
L

M.-

X briginal S-Year Plan
0 Revi5ion No:

Localily (Oty/ Couhty & Stale)
Delfolt/Wayne Michigan
Work Statement for
Ye.:lr 2
FFY 2019

Wark Statement for
Year 3
FFY 2020

Worli Stblemllht far
Year 4
FFY 2021

$5,040,000

$5,060,000

$5,055,000

$5,005,000

100,000
0

100,000
0

100,000
0

100.000
0

858,6l 0
970,271
1,717,220

858,610
950,271
1,717,220

8,58,610
955,271
1,717,220

858,610
1,005,271
1,717,220

400,000

400,000

8,586,102

8,586,102

8,586,102

8,586,102

5 .. $1,.58.6,102

$8,586,102

$8,586,102

Wolk'Statemeot for
Years
FFY 2022
-·

Annual Stotem~nt

-

$8,586,102.

_P1;1rt II: Supporting Pages - Physical Needs Work Stat&ment(s}
Wolll
Slot,tllMftl

,.,

Y-1 fl'Y

~II

Wort. Stalo,...nl ror YNr 2

Wort, Sta..,...nl for Yeon 3

Work Stalo,...nl for Yoon 4

FFY 2019

FFY 2020

FFY2021

Development

Nu"'b•r/Nome
Genorcl DeJCrlptlon

olMoJ..-\Vor1<
Cotego,Je,
HA Wido One,ollorn
HA Wld• Adm!n
HA Wido Mot Ima
HA Wide
&
Co,k
HA Wldo Cont:.--,,.
MI00100001
lln1"'1ol•r Homen

f

MIOOIOOOOI

lll!
11111b

250,000

ilre-w,flill,- Hameo1
HVAC Uoarode,

I

Stot,m1ne

M/00100002

r,.,,, lh,/1

Soj<>umw
bnovof;an•

HAWIJoO-at•
HAW/iloA""'"
HA Wrdo M<,I /mp
HA W1t1o Fo.. I Coob

~

o .....1opmenr
Numb•r/Namo
Gonoro I DeKnpllon

.f

ofMolo,-WCM'k
Ca1tgorf.M

1.717 220
6$4,610
100000
650,000

HA W",de 0---'-1
HA Wide Admln

HA W",do Mal /mp
HA Wld• Fees &

[

FFY 2022
&llmotad
CoSl

200,000

HA Wide CanlnMnct

-

M/00100001
.,.WI,.,
HDmN fN,y
MIOOI00002

Sol~mor Tn,fh Untt
leno'!lotion1
MIOOJ00002

l0027I
425,000

300,000

sso,ooo

~

1,717,220
658,610
100,000
650,000

HAW.I.0-01.,..
HAWrdo Admln
HA W.d. Met Ima
tiA Wide Faa1 &

a

C:ost

i

~

1717220
858,610
100.000
650,000

MI0010000I

325,000

E...,..,,,, Hciffie, su~
llo~llno

MIOOI00002
SoJoumi,ir Trvlh Entry

HA Wkte Contin..• -

355 271

MIOOIOOOOI

200,000

lrew11er Homos SU•

600,000

Doon

11Tio,oV9C'll•nlt
MIOOIOOOOI
&t....,.Jttr Hi>mtt.

250,000

El1ctrlc Uoarode

Fo,.,,

I 00,000

Mt00l00002
SoJownar Trvlh Unit
leno't'ot!-ora

?.?.1

.Ettlmot.ct

0

Co111

J0S.271

MIOO I 00003

Number/Nam•
of Mo lot Work
Cal19c.rios

HA Wide ContM-

Porte Unit RM OV011otls

Sojo.fll'M! Tnnh

f<;,dt.N & •alla,

D•"'•l~m•nt
Geni,ml De1erlptlon

C..,t,

320,271
100.000

Aoo,ing

Annuol

Number/Nome
Coteg.orl.,_

IJl7,220
658,610
100,000
650.000

E\1imaroct Co:,1

Development

Gena,rol Des.crlpUor,
of Ma\o, Wo,lc

}

noe,

s..

E,tlmciJed
Con

Work Stolomont for Year, S

200,000

 Port II: Supporting Pages - Physiccil Needs Work Statemenl(s)
W•rli'.
Statement

.WorkStat•-nt for Yecir2

,.,

Yeat I ff'(
2.01•

FF-Y 2019
Ml00100002
Solourm!lr Trulh Wotor
Hoo1e-r1
MIOOl 00003 Diggs
Home-$ U,ilt
~e,navofloru
MIOO I 00003 Diggs

200,000

200,000

50,000

I D0,000

MIOO 1 00007' Ha.-rlet
Tubma11 Fire Syslems

1 OOJOOO

MtOOIOOOl l

550,000

33,000

75,000

MIOOJOOOOJ Dlgg,

150,000

MIOOI00002
SolcLrme r Tf11th

100,000

33,000

75,000

HorniM 5I1e
Jmcrovemen11.

150,0D0

MIOO 100007 Ila r,le>

1,250,000

MI00100011

325,000

Ml00f00012

33,000

700,000

100,000

300,000

MIOO l 00007 Harriet
Tubman lloof

Mroo10001I

MIOOI00012

75,000

MIOOIOOOl 1

33,000

MIOOIOOOl2

150,000

50.000

M100100007 Hcrrfet
TtJbman Comm°"
Arecr; tfVAC

35,000

250,000

Ml00100012

33,000

34,000

MI001000I3

75,000

75,000

M100100013

33,000

550,000

75,000

MI0010001J
Srnthm,,d Slie:; Sl1o

100,000

MrOOl000\4

34,000

75,000

S,attered Sites Unit

700,000

Sheridan Placo
Elec:trlcol U pgrode\

MI00100015

75,000

MIOOI 00013

:l3j000

MIOO I 000 I 3

75,000

MIOOIOOOl.<I

,34,000

5ccttered Sftos Si'h,
lm..,rov@fflen11

MI001000I4

73,000

Srotterl!ld S11@1 Unil
Rl!llnovi,tl0nt

Rli!lnOVQIIOns

MI00100015

MI00100012

Sc:onered Srte, Unit
Removotlon1

lmn.roveml!'nh

buerlor Renovations
MI00\00015
Sherrdan PIGce Unit

33,000

Scoltoted Situ Srte
lm..,rovemanh

Sc:onered Slre1 Unit
Renoval1ons

Ml00100015

UD,gmd.81 COlUM
MI00100012

Scano,e:d Site I Unit
Reno...oP!ons

Scattered Sltcts Sile
lmoto'fements

MI00\0001.<I

250,000

s~ot1-Arflrl !ill@-1 Site
tmoroveCNH'l.11

Sconered Sites Unit
li:enoval Ion$

MI00100014

Mf0010001 l

Rlvorbeod HVAC

lmoro,..emeru,
75,000

150,000

Ml 00 100007 H'1 rriet
Tubman Unit
Ref'IOVOU011

Scattered Sites SIie

Ml00100013

50,000

200,000

Jtlverbend Gef!ero1or

MI00100013

MIOO I 00003 Olgg,

200,000

Home,: U.nlf
Re1"1ovc;1tlcn

Rlvefbt!!nd C0Jm1Cn
A reo Uncr'°'d&!.

Q.lll!lnoli!otloru

Skeddafl Ploce
Electrical U pQ r'odei

MIOOIOOOOJ Diggs
Morr11n U r.lt RenO"Ycil IC)f'I

Sh11Jr~a'1 Pli;m11

Sheri da11 P1oca
E1dl!!lrior' RanoYallons

Ml00100003 D;gg>

rrru')M,,Cd'len11,

Scatfeted Slt&1 Un It
l{eMYotfons

Scattered. Sites Unll
RenoYC1tlOfl$

200,000

)fome-1 Site

Scolrered Sire1 S11e
lm1Jrovemerih

34,000

MIOOI00003 Fon><>
Pork Unit Ranc,vollom

Uoarade5

5rntte-~lll!lcl :;lhH U1111
R:e~ovatlons

75j000

Mr00100003 Dlgg,

150,000

Homes Elecutc:al

S111!15 Site
lmorovttff'lantl

Scattered Slte1 Sire
lmpro..,emenh

MIOOI 00075

Ml 00100003 forei1
Pcitk She

Sc□tt9red

Sccltered Sites UnlJ
R_.1'1.0VOlJoru:

MIOOl00015

Ml 00 I 00003 F<>m1

lmprove-mll!lnb

Sltt!11 Unlt
Reno,..otro·m

Scanc::i rod Slw.i SIto
lmpro...ements

MIOOIOOOlJ

200,000

Sc□tMrnd

Scaltered Slle$ Unit
ff:encvaUam;

Ml00I00014

FfY 2022

Homas Site

S,ottored Slfe5 Site
lmarove.menti

Scottefe-d SIie$ Site
lmproveml!!I nu

Mf00100013

FFY202 1

lmr,irovemeM1

Ml00100003 Dlgg>

Rrv11.-bend Exlerlor
~enovotfam

Rlv■tbe11d Fire
Svstem1

MIOOI00013

Work5tote111enl foJ Yecir. 5

Park \IV1nd ows

Tubmcn Unit
Renova tlonS

llen0vallcm

MI00100012

350,000

W_orli Slolement for Yean 4

Fumoces.

Tubmcm Unlt

MI00100012

M 100100003 foro<r

PCl,k Wlridows

Home'!> Furnaces

Ml00100007 Horrltit

I

(continued}

Work Stot•rilenl for Yecin :J
FfY 2020

75,000

Sheridon Plooe Roof
Exhaust Fem

MI00100015

200,000

Sherldcri Ploce Slte
lmprovlll!lfflein ts

IUnn oano~I
MIOOl 000 I 6 Smllh

'.:!00,000

Homes Unl1
Renavotlon

MIOO l 000 I 7 Slate

1 ootooo

Fa It Ffr111 Sy1ten11
MI0010001 B Warren
Wesr Common Ax-e-01

MIOOIOOOl9

roo.ooo
150,000

35,000

Al gonqu In SIie

150,000

/AI00\00018

300,000

30,000

400,000

150,000

M/00100019

MI00100015

MI001000l6 Smllh

MIOOI00028

35,000

MIOO 100017 State

50,000

50,000

Ml00l0006S

500,000

50,000

800,000

l 50,000

Parkllde II Unit
Rll!mcvotlon1

A\I00100009

150,000

200,000

MIOO 1 000 l 6 Srrillh
Homi!'1 Unit$

200,000

MIOO!OOOl7-5tate

75,000

M100I 000 I T Srote

35,000

Fair Common Arf!lo,

MI00100018 Warren
We~• Unll RenO'r'Ol]Of\S

200,000

MIOOl 000 l B Wcrr(!n
We1t Unit fl:enov-0Ilofls

!00,000

MIOOlOOOl 9

300,000

Ml00I000I9

500,000

W00dbrldge Sor1lo,
Unit

MIOO l 0001 8 W orren
Wes.I (Qmmon ArIlla
Uocirodo,

200,000

MI00100020

150,000

Ml00100029

50,000
150,000

35,000

Ml00100029

50,000

MIOOl00065

250,000

Pcricilds II Site
lmorovemenu

500,000

Ml00100065

150,000 _

Parlofde n Unir
Ren0vctlon,

Pa rkslde IV RooF
R'epiocemenf

MIOOl00009

MIOOI00028

Gteenbrook Un II$

Porkdde II Unit
Ren,ovotron~

MI001000D9

200,000

~~~,:HA?'1r1meou.

G reenbroak Unh~

Ml00100065

MI00100019
Woodbtldge Common
Areas

Algon,q uiri Ap,ortn,en ts
Unih

Po,k,ldo- IV Unit
Renovations:

500,000

fclr Sit@
lmprov.eiml!lnl1

Wo-odbrldgc EJC.Ie1lor

MI00100065

MIOO 10001 6 Smlih
Hon·1,n Ex.terlor

Folr Unlr ~el\0Vci1lon:s

Ml00100029

200,000

ll«l.Q'llolloru

Homo1 E.t.rC!I rior

Park1.Lde II R:aof
Re,:ila cemen,t

Woodbrld;o &1a1c,1

IX

MIOOIOOOIS

MI00100015
Sherickm f'laoc Uni!

She,lc;k1 n Pio~ 11
Rep loco C::hlllc:.-

G rsenb rook Menor
Applfaflc:es

G.-eenbrook Morior
Common Area
Uoorodes

80,000

Sheridan Ploeo Unll
Renovatiom

Al;on.qi.lfn Electrlcol
Upg~de5

1moroven'lants

MIOOI0005 ◄

M100l000l7 Stolo
Fair Unit Renovotlon1

MI00100015
Sherldetn. Place
Elevator

Woodbrtd9e Sentor
VIUo'°'&HVAC

Vlllooe ~VAC

Ml00100029

J00,000

Wo,tt>r-. W01t HYAC
Upgrode1

Woodbridge Senror

MI00100028

iAIOO 1 ODO 1 6 5ml lhi
Ham&s HVAC
Uggrode

150JOOO

Pcrksld~ IV Unll
~enovctron,

MIOOI 00009

250,000

P.:;uk,rd~ IV :Sile
lmproveml!lnh

MIOOT00009

150,000

Park-iido IV Uni1
~enoYatlont

~ll~lolol of-Elllinalod Coal

$t.S16,1~

,Svbtotol of E11f-od Coll

1,,

n .!u,102

.S..btotal,• f Eotllrio"4! Coll

ii.Mi..icn

s~~~..."l:...,

SI 1ili.:un1

 DETROIT LAND BANK AUTHORITY

 

Detroit Land Bank Authority
AGENCY MISSION

The Detroit Land Bank is a public authority dedicated to returoing Detroit's vacant, abandoned, and foreclosed property
to productive use.
Detroit Land Bank Authority (DLBA) budget priorities are targeted toward initiatives that will grow our sales and
programs, The DLBA current programs include Auction, Rehabbed and Ready, Own It Now, Side Lots, Community
Partnership and demolition.
Public Act 258 of 2003, known as the "Land Bank Fast Track Act'', allowed for the creation oflocal land bank ,i.µthorities
by a county/or multi.pk coun,ties, or a qualified city (Det.roit), through intergovernmental agreements. The DLBA was
created in 2008 and in 2014 the activities of the land bank were greatly expanded.
The DLBA is the largest land owner in the City of Detroit; holding title to approximately 25% of all parcels in the City
of Detroit. The Inventory Division of DLBA manages the acquisition, data management, property management, client
services, title management, and coordination of DLBA owned properties with other public partners. Inventory strives
to sttategically identify. ways to move and manage 94,000+ properties back to productive ose. The DLBA is currently
home to 94,558 properties. Historically, the DLBA has held title to approximately 112,000 p~operties since January
2014. The agency has been.able to move out of ~ts inventory more than 13,000 properties since 2014 through various
sales programs.
Each year the total number of properties coming into the DLBA's
ownership has outpaced the nutnber of properties exiting the DLBA
h~.c:k, into private ownership. 2017 was the first year that the number
of properties .ceceived frotnthe Wayne County Treasurer's Unsold Tax
Foreclosure Auctions was lower than the number of properties sold
through all of our sales programs. For the first tlme in the DLBA's
short history, its ownership is declining. This table shows the
pe.11centa.ge cl1ange of tl1e DLBA's ownership year over year, since
January 2014.

OF

DA1TE

PR0PER'PCES
2014
2015
2016
2017
2018

arm
Janu

PERCEN'FAGB
CHANGll
,(Yl/..\it PVltll
Yl!Aft

1,469

100%

48,540
96,419
99,738
96,740

3,20'4%
99%

/' '3%
-'3%

DLBA INVENTORY - HARDEST HIT FUND (HHF) VS. NON-HHF
P,ROPERTY

NON•

NE>NRESID:BNTlAL

R.S~mENTIAL

U)T

Sl1RUQU1lE

0

76

164

HHF

428

568

TOTAL

428

644

~0.0F

:ACCESSORY

1:'ARGnLS)

STRU.crURE

NotHHF

R:ESIDEN1J1AL

llESIDBNTlAL

LOT

S'l'RU<::'11JR8

GRWD
T0rAL

9

18,582

10,927

29,673

104

43

47,186

17,167

64,885

268

52

65,768

28,094

94,558

??~

CL.ASS'
lJNDBR

RBVrn\V

 DLBA PROGRAMS
Auction
The DLBA continues to auction homes daily on the website www.buildingdetroit_,org. Sales through this platform
remain strong.
Rehabbed & Ready
Rehabbed & Ready is a philanthtopic initiative aimed to improve residential market values and bolster home ownetship
in the City of Detroit. Through collaboration with Quicken Loans, dilapidated DLBA inventory are undergoing full
rehabilitation, bringing houses to at- or above-market conditions. As a neighborhood-based initiative, there are parallel
efforts in place to reduce blight and encourage occupancy via the DLBA's existing demolition, nuisance abatement
programs and other Disposition programs in the Rehabbed & Ready selected neighborhoods.

Own-it-Now
The Own It Now program operates more like a traditional real estate sale with offers accepted over a period of time.

Side Lots
Allows property owners adjacent to an eligible side lot to purchase the lot.
Community Partnership Program
The Community Partnership program continues to encourage faith- and community- based organizations to transform
the neighborhoods that they serve through projects such as home rehabilitation, deconstruction, new construction, lot
beautification, community gardens, and pocket parks. This program allows organizations to present proposed projects
through development plans.
Buy Back Program
The Occupied Properties Buy Back Pilot provides an opportunity for an eligible otcupant in a Detroit Land Bank
Authority (DIBA) owned house the ability to purchase that house. This Pilot allows responsible current occupants to
remain in the house and help to stabilize the neighborhoods. The applicant is eligible for the Pilot if they meet certain
conditions.
Nuisance Abatement Program
The Detroit Land Bank Authority launched the Nuisance Abatement Program (NAP) in the Spring of 2014. Since then,
NAP has made strides in combating blight to stabilize and rebuild neighborhoods for the general health, safety, and
welfare of the community.
Demolition
The DLBA, in partnership with the Mayor's Office, City Council, and the Detroit Building Authority (DBA), continues
to manage a program that tackles blight reduction through targeted demolitions using Federal Hardest Hit Funds
allocated to Detroit from the State of Michigan, as well as funds f.tom the City of Detroit and other sources for nonhardest hit properties. Demolition Expenses include: Demolition General, Demo Asbestos Survey, Other Surveys,
Demo Winter Grade, Abatement Remediation, Demo over 25,000 Demo Non-Reimbursable, Demo Non HHF, Demo
Utility Cut, and Demo Clean Fill.

 Summary of Detroit Land Bank Funding Sources:
►

►

►
►
►

Federal Hardest Hit Funds (HHF)
through the Michigan State Housing
Development Authority: MSHDA
-teimbnrses DI.BA for approved and
accurate invoices for demolished
homes in the Hardest Hit Fund areas
of Detroit.
City of Detroit Line of Credit: the
City extends an advance for the
repayment of demolition invoices
upon HHF reimbursement from the
MSHDA (see above.)
City of Detroit Operating Grant:
The City supports the operations of DLBA through an annual General Fund appropriation.
Sales proceeds from the various DBLA programs net of discounts.
Private Donations, gifts and grants.

As ofJ une 2018, the Hardest Hit Fund reimbursable expenses paid exceeded $150 million and reimbmsements from
MSHDA were greater than S140 million. Thanks to the gracious support of both City Council and the City of Detroit,
the Demolition Advance Fund sigtuficantly funded vendor payments through the program. To date, there is a balance
of $5 million owed that will be paid in full upon the completion of the program. We look forward to our continued
partnership with thr. C:ity Council in eliroinacing Detroit's blight.
R~est Hit Fµnds Allocated

to th~ Detroit Land Bank Authority
·,:_;,.

·,1

DATE

ALLOCATION AMOUNT

REFUNDS

NUMBER OF DEMOLITIONS

HHFl

2014-201 5

$57,342',669

$5,454,600.21

3,998

HHF2

2017

$50,000,719

$1,211,534.41

2,940

HHF3

2018

$21,255,000

$25,998.25

1,478

HHF4

2018

$41,901,646

$15.00

Est 2,700

HHFS

2018

$88,153,425

$300.00

Est. 5,200

$258,653,459

$6,692,447.87

Total

Neighborhood Stabilization Program (NSP)

DLBA was awarded NSP Program Income funds for demolition in the amount of $4.3 million with very specific
eligibility requirements. Specifically, the structures had to be owned by tbe DLBA, located in approved census tracts
(pre-determined by HUD), and undergo Section 106 H.istorical Review. To date, the DLBA has demolished 273
structures with NSP funding, perhaps most nombly, Bl:tckwell Middle School. To date, tbe DLBAbas completed ics
spend down, and closed out this program.

?.?i:;

 Non-HHF MSHDA Grant
In August 2017, i11 partnership with the Detroit Building Authority, the DI.BA was awarded a $458,000 non-HHF grant
from MSHDA that is to be used for the demolition of blighted residential structures within the City of Detroit. As a
pre-condition of the award, the City of Detroit was required to match the MSHDA grant funds; therefore $916,000 will
be used to demolish 60 additional blighted properties. The Detroit Building Authority is serving as the administrator
and project manager for this project. The 60 properties
that were·selected in large part, fall outside 0£ the traditional HHF bonndaries. The demolition of these structures is
expected to be completed ·on or before February 28, 2019.
·
PROPOSED F1ve~YEAR PLAN

LandStructure
ComputersE ui ment

$250,000

$250,000

$250,000

$250,000

$250,000

$1,250,000

$51,000

$50,000

$150,000

$55,000

$50,000

$356,000

Software

$155,000

$55,000

$30,000

$130,000

$30;000

$400,000

Truck

$162,000

0

0

0

0

$162,000

Furniture

$10,000

$10,000

$10,000

$10,000

$10,000

$50,000

TOTAL

$628,000

$365,000

$440,000

$445,000

$340,000

$2,218,000

CATEG©RY

Land - Structure

$1,250,000

Computers Hardware
& Software

$756,000

Vehicles

$162,000

Furniture

$50,000

TOTAL

$2,218,000

Nuisance Abatement Program- In lieu of costly litigation for abandon homes
in private ownership, owners opt to sell their property for $500 to the DLBA
~e Buy It). This program is aggressively ramping up to assist in eliminating
b · ht of rivatel held ro e.tties and further redevelo nei hborhoods.
1. Upgrades and replacement of hardware and software as needed to
support daily operations, including continued investment in Salesforce,
the operational software that maintains key information on all of the
DLBA's inventory.
2, Technology upgrades and key investments will help support all of the
DLBA's ro rams and back-office su ort.
In mder to better monitor, support and maintain the vast inventory ofDLBAowned properties on a daily basis, the DLBA is requesting to invest in vehicles
through the City of Detroit's Fleet Program. The DLBA is in need of:
1. 2 midsize vehicles to support the Disposition Team
2. 2 midsize vehicles to support the Inventory Team
3. 2 vans: 1 utility van for equipment and 1
15- assen er van to su ort Cornmuni Relations
The age of the current furniture is over 7 years old and will be gradually
re laced over the next five ears as needed.

 0.3.303. 
Oozwmm<>zo<

 

Detroit Riverfront Conservancy
AGENCY MISSION

The Detroit Riverfront Conservancy (DRFC), a 501(c)(3) organization, is responsible for the establishment,
improvement, operation, maintenance, sccuricy, programming and expansion of the D etroit R.iverwalk and associated
green spaces. Through its public/ private partnerships, the DRFC will support the development of the Riverfron t district
and facilitate community access to the waterfront.

Vision
Trans form Deu.oit's international ruverfront-the fa<?e of the· city-into a beautiful, exciting, safe, accessible worldclass gathering place for all.

Goals
The DRFC will:
• Develop a collective sense of ownership, accessibility and responsibility;
• Enhance Detroit's image to emphasize its iconic, international Riverfront; and
• Create and maintain an inviting destination for all.

DESCRIPTION OF ASSETS & ACCOMPLISHMENTS

The East Rj.verfront
The first phase of the Detroit waterfront ttansformarion
project, three-and-a-half miles of the East Riverfront,
spans from Joc Louis Arena to G.ibriel Richard Park and
is more than 80 percent complete.
The completed portions of the East Riverfront, along with
its sister rails- to-trails greenway, the Dequindre Cut, are
populated with approximately three million visitors
annually who come to walk, run, bike, spend time with
family and friends and cake advantage of the quality of life
that a revitalized Riverfront provides.
The East Riverfront project, includes the Detroit
Rive.i.walk and four plazas and pavilions. This series of
paths, parks and green spaces along the Detroit River will
extend a distance of about three and a half miles from the
Civic Center .t o east of the MacArthur Bridge on Belle Isle.
The Riverwalk aveni,gcs 62 feet in width and includes a
pedestrian section, a bicycle path and landscaping.
The Ease Riverwalk pathway was designed to
accommodate the natucal shoreline. In some places, a soft
shore approach allows a close connection with the river,
while in od,ers, the walk is slightly farther away with seeps
leading to the river. lo od1cr 11reas, the R.iverwalk

??7

overhangs the water, providing a shaded, safe
environment for 6sh spawning. At four points along the
RivcLwalic, the _p athway broadens out into plazas-Cullen
Plaza, GM Plaza, Mc. Elliott Park & Pavilion, and Gabriel
Richard Park Plaza--that house pavilions with ~sitor
amenities such as restrooms, concessions, and canopies
for shade and shelter. These plazas and pavilions are key
access points, serving as the "front doors" to the
Riverwalk. The plazas also are venues for environmental,
geographical and historical education, family activities,
recreation and entertainment

In the summer of 2012, the Conservancy launched the
final construction phases to complete the East Riverfront
project and connect the Riverwa1k and its associated green
spaces along the waterfront.

Th~ first construction phase included a complete
transformation of Mt. Elliott Park, which reopened in
J une 2014. The second construction phase included
enhancements to Gabriel Richard Park and developing the
parcels of land ro the west and case of Aretha Franklin
Amphitheatre. The final phase will provide for the
construction of public space along the Uniroyal site.

 Mt. Elliott Park

Cullen Plaza

Mt. Elli9tt Park was completely renovated and reopened
to the public in 2014. The centerpiece of the park is a
Great Lakes schooner-themed water feature with water
cascades and "kid activated" water cannons, wind chimes
and many other interactive features. The park includes a
cafe, winding walkways, fishing piers, and resttooms. It is
located at 120 Mt. Elliott in Detroit at the foot of Mt.
Elliott and Wight Streets.

Cullen Plaza is home to many of the East Riverfront's
roost popular attractions,· including the lovely Culle~
Family Carousel, an in-laid granite map of the Detroit
River, a standing glass sculptured map of the St. Lawrence
Seaway, a children's playscape, playful fountains and lush
landscaping. '

Gabriel Richard Park

Also located at Cullen Plaza are the Riverwalk Cafe and
Wheelhouse Detroit, a bike shop offering bike rentals,
tours ' retail and service. The DRFC's commemorative
bricks and pavers are located at Cullen Plaza, as well as at
Gabriel Richard Park Plaza.
.

This beloved City of Detroit park is located just east of the
MacArthur Bridge to Belle Isle. The Detroit Riverfront
Conservancy has enhanced the area with a plaza :;ind a
pavilion located along the river's edge. This also serves as
the eastern most point for the Riverwalk.
New enhancements completed in 2015 include an
environmentally-friendly parking lot and pathways to
better link the park with Jefferson Avenue, lighting the
labyrinth and new restroom facilities. Additionally, a new
birding station features four wildlife-spotting scopes (two
of which are universally-accessible) and an interpretive
panel identifying various birds that can be found along the
Riverfront.
William G. Milliken State Park and Harbor
As the first urban park in Michigan, William G. Milliken
State Park and Harbor (formerly Tricentennial
Park) offers 31 acres carved out on the banks of the
Detroit River-a green oasis in the midst of downtown
Detroit.
The first phase of the park - the harbor - was opened to
the public in 2004 and offers several covered picnic areas,
shoreline fishing and a 52-slip harbor. A 63-foot light
tower marks the harbor entrance. It is a scaled-down
replica of the lighthouse at Tawas Point State Park,
originally built in 1876.
The second phase of the William G. Ivfilliken State Park
opened in 2009. It includes a wetlands demonstration area
that illustrates how wetlands act as nature's water filtration
system. The Riverwalk passes through the park in the area
closest to the Detroit River. The park is maintained by the
State of Michigan.

The pavilion building at Cullen Plaza houses public
facilities as well as the Conservancy's operations offices
and the security command center.
Atwater Beach
On August 27, 2018, the Detroit Riverfront Conservancy
broke groW1d on the much-anticipated Atwater Beach
project. The Atwater Beach project transforms a 3.2 acre
former industrial site along the East Riverfront into a
family-oriented destination for people of all ages. Atwater
Beach will feature a large, sandy beach area, green space
for picnics, playscape, music gardens, a 1,000 square feet
shed structure with patio area and a unique barge for food
and drink. Ample seating will be available throughout the
area. Construction is expected to be completed by the
summer of 2019. Funding was provided by the William
Davidson Foundation, John S. and James L. Knight
Foundation, the Mona and Richard Alonzo Fund and a
grant from Gannett/USA Today Nenvork.
Dequindte Cut
The Dequindre Cut Greenway officially opened to the
public in May of 2009. The two-mile greenway, developed
through a public, nonprofit and private partnership, offers
a pedestrian link between East Riverfront, Eastern Market
and many of the residential neighborhoods in between.
Formerly a Grand Trunk Railroad line, the Dequindre Cut
is a predominately below-street level greenway that runs
parallel to St. Aubin Street, between Mack Avenue and
Atwater Street, just north of the Riverfront. Well-known
for its examples of urban artwork and graffiti, the
greenway features a 20-foot-wide paved pathway, which
includes separate lanes for pedestrian and bicycle traffic.
A half-mile extension of the Dequindre Cut officially
opened in April 2016. It runs from Gratiot Avenue to
Mack A venue and takes pedestrians into the heart of

 Eastern Markee. Also along this stretch, the Wilkins Street
Plaza with its soaring canopy, bike racks and a variety of
seating options, provides a place for pedestrians to take a
b.teak while visiting the Dequindre Cuc. Entrance ramps
to the Cut are located at Atwater Street, Franklin Street,
Woodbridge Street, Lafayette Street, Gratiot Avenue,
Wilkins Street and Mack Avenue.

benches, trash receptacles and plenty of lush green space
for a variety of outdoor activities. The DRFC has
expanded the wjdth of the popular Riverwalk along this
pared co 30 feet to better accommodate adequate space
for walking, running, biking and fishing. Safety and
security improvements include new railings, lighting,
security cameras and call boxes.

The Detroit Riverfront Conservancy is responsible for the
operations, maintenance and programming of the
Dequindre Cut.

The DRFC continues to work with key stakeholders
including the City of Detroit towards a strategic plan for
revitalizing the West Riverfront.

In April 2018, DRFC announced the selection of the
design team Michael Van V alkenburgh and Associates
(MVVA) to lead the transformation of West Riverfront
Park into a dynamic gathering place. The MVVA team will
begin to develop the park concept with input from the
community through 2018 and into 2019. Construction is
expected to begin in 2020 with an anticipated completion
date in 2022.

I

I

II

The West Riverfront Project
The ultimate vision for the Detroit International
Riverfront is 5½ miles of open Riverfront from the
Ambassador Bridge to Gabriel Richard Park, just east of
the Belle Isle Bridge.
The Detroit Riverfront Conservancy's fuse phase of work
has been focused on the East Riverfront - 3 ½ miles from
Joe Louis Arena to Gabriel Richard Park. W'hile the focus
continues on completing the East Riverfront, the
Conservancy is also working towards the West. The West
Riverfront project runs from just west ofJoe Louis Arena
to Riverside Park, at the foot of West Grand Boulevard.

In D ecember 2007, the DRFC purchased 26 acres on the
West Riverfront, the site of the former Detroit Free Press
printing plant. This site at 1801 W. Jefferson is now the
22-acre West Riverfront Park. Visitors will find three new
pathways linking the Riverfront to West Jefferson Avenue,

?.?.Q

' I

I

 WAYNE COUNTY PORT AUTHORITY

 

Detroit/Wayne County Port Authority
AGENCY MISSION
The Detroit/\X'ayne County Port Authority (D\'•?CPA) is a government agency advancing southeastMicb.igan'~ maritime
and related indnstries with the purpose of delivering prosperity and economic benefit to our cici;,,ens and busine.'ises.
Por more than 35 years, the DWCPA has worked to holster the community by being tl1e connection between ·che
maritime industry and the Crear Lakes region, raising awareness of the importance of the Port of D etroit and how the
cargo and ves~cl activity generates economic impact for the State of .l\ficbigan.

Ovctview
The DWCPA was cre;ited in 1978 through the HcnelLaw-T. Stopcynzski Porr. Aurhoriry Act, MCL.A
120.101 ct. seq. (1978). Governed by a five-member
board (one from the State, b.i.ro from the County and
two from the City), tlie jurisdiction of the Port
Aud10rity encompasses approximately 32 miles of
\vatctfront within \X'ayne Connty.
Under the Porr Authority An, the DWCPA may "do
all acts and things necessary or converuent to promote
and mcrease commerce and recreation within the
territorial jurisdicr.ion." The D\VCPA has du:
authority to enter into contracts for land an1uisition,
improvement and other aspects of real estate
development. Creative financing procedures allow the
D\'v'CPJ\ to float development bonds in order to
advance projects that promute the Port's mission.

Tb<.: Port J\n1hori1y ovcr~ees more 1han 17 million
tons of cargo at 29 private and public sector tenninal
facilities in the Port of Detroit each year. International
and domestic high-grade steel products, coal, iron ore,
cement, aggregate and other road building
commodities are shipped in and our of Detroit's port.
It is the third largest sl:ecl-handling port in the nation.

DWCPA is operated ~y a

member
board
r
'"'I
'I_ •

it1f•J

.•

International Relations

Wiln an,nlomation/il IIOldor ••l•l)'
across 11\e Do1,o,1 R,-. Ille OWCPA bu ■

Plflnar}l~ln toro,vn•nalrs.

~:r=r , .,

~=·
Tt,o

s5f!~s.

~

The Pon i\.urhorir-v
was created to advocate on behalf
q,,o_...,_,,:..,,...~:..
£ 1"'...,
'-J
~ ~rtyWayM(:Qu,'ll'f'P-, 1~
V ) l : J l - - ~•I
~
of the marine industry. This advocacy is directed al
"'"•"""' """"
• ~ " ' -0_,._..,._, _ _
improving inftas1rucrurr. repair and devdopmenl:, brownfield remediation, and cargo marketing and generation, as well
a:; facilirnrjng financial a~sistance to businc~sc~ needing to grow their opei:alions and create jobs. The Port i\ mhority
own~ tl1e City uf Dcr.roi.t's only general cargo terminal, located in Southwest Dcttoit. This terminal is responsiblr for
rbe inbou1Jd movement of sted :rnd project c:irgo that is utilized by the regiun's indusl ries.
The Porl A n1hori1y is also leading Detroit's return to maritime tourist activities marketing Detroit ;is a port of oil for
( ;re:it Lakes cruises, tall ships, ;uid other passenger charter vessel~.

?7-1

 ACCOMPLISHMENTS

Public Dock & Terminal

With regard to passenger operations, work is largely complete at the Carl M.
Levin Public Dock and Terminal. For the first time ever, 2018 will see the Port
Authority hosting over 20 cruise ship clockings, as well as Detroit's ascendance
as a "turnaround port," where cruises begin and end. This results in
considerably more money spent in the City by passengers, with more hotel and
restaurant usage on top of general commerce. On, August 5, 2018, the Victory
II cruise ship became the first such vessel in a generation to begin or end a trip
in Detroit.
Riverfront- Portal View

DWCPA, for the second consecutive year, open to the public the Portal View, a
repurposed shipping container that's been transformed into an interactive,
educational resource showcasing the maritime industry's history and future.
Located on the Detroit Riverfront at the foot of Bates and Atwater, the
container features Great Lakes maritime artifacts, educational boards, and an
interactive computer (provided by Boat Nerd) that shows realtime tracking of
vessels passing the Portal View along the Detroit River.

EPA Revolving Loan Fund
The DWCPA, in conjunction with the Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority was awarded a FY 2016
Brownfield Revolving Loan Fund worth over $800,000. DWCPA and DBRA will be work together over the next year
to identify eligible projects and determine the highest and best use for this funding.
Port ofOetroit/Detroit Marine Terminal

The Detroit Marine Terminal, owned by the Detroit/Wayne County Port Authority·and operated by Nicholson
Terminal and Dock Company, has been in operation since 2005. In the first eight months of the 2018 shipping season,
the Detroit Marine Terminal received 45 vessels for a total of 210,275 net tons. The Ecorse terminal owned by
Nicholson received nine vessels for a total of 50,471 net tons. Moreover, the Trenton Marine Terminal received roughly
40,000 tons of sugar in the shipping season.
Another aspect of the DWCPA's ownership .of DMT is the Master Concession Agreement with the Ambassador Port
Company, which has had a stifling effect on development in the port region. DWCPA is continually looking for ways
to move beyond this agreement or amend it to allow for the facilitation of investment the region needs.
Pon Security Grants

The Detroit/Wayne County Port Authority was awarded a $750,000 port security
grant in 2015 to install a radar system on the Port Detroit Terminal Building from US
Homeland Security. Installation was completed in 2016, and the system provides
enhanced coverage of the Detroit River for security operation by the U.S. Coast
Guard and the U.S. Border Pat.rol as well as other law enforcement agencies. Moving
forward, DWCPA will continue to pursue grant opportunities that will allow it to
assist the law enforcement community.

 PROPOSED FIVE-YEAR PLAN

Customs and Border Pro tection Space

One area within the Terminal that needs to be addressed is the Customs and Border Protection space that has been
built out T b.rough the use of a Pott security grant, DWCPA built out space in the building for U.S. Customs and Border
Protection (USCBP) to operate. However, devdopments with USCBP regulations have prevented that from happening.
Currently, cruise ship passengers needing clearance into the US ate bussed to the clearance facility at the
D ettoit/Windsor Tunnel. This bas proven to be more efficient than the use of jump kits on the dock; however, it is
desired that one day, a proper Reimbursable Services Agreement will be executed between DWCPA and USCBP. It
estimated that equipment costs to finish this project would range from $200,000 to $250,000. It is important to note
that at that point. D WCPA would be expected to pay for CBP officers as well. Given the effectiveness of the current
situation, it is expected that D WCPA will continue to use the current process.
General Cargo Dock

Second, and more importantly, are improvements needed at the general cargo dock owned by DWCPA and ope.rated
by Nicholson Terminal & Dock Company. In order to accommodate modern cargoes and expanded operations,
significant investments are needed at the site. Currently, the site is in need of roughly $4 million in improvements,
including improved paving, security enhancements, roof repairs, and adding rail access to the site. Funding foe these
projecrs has not yet been identified; however, DWCPA is exploring working with a consultant with a proven record of
success with federal grant programs to seek out that avenue of funding. Further, DWC{A is open to exploring its own
ability to issue revenue bonds to assist in the financing of these projects, but of course, any grant opportunities would
be preferable.
Moreover, in addition to the basic needs of the freight terminal outlined above, further assistance is sought to prepare
the cargo dock to be able to handle the types of cargo e.xpected to be more popular in the future. Containerized cargo
is the modern method of movmg non-bulk cargoes, a.ad its growth in the Great Lakes regiun has not yet been fully
realized. While the move to just-in-rime delivery harmed the Great Lakes from a shipping standpoint in the past,
currently shippers are looking at all ways to save money in the shipment of goods, and the Great Lakes may provide a
legitimate option for a large portion of domestic cargoes into and out of Detroit, as well as international cargoes headed
to the Midwestern United Stares, with Detroit poised to be a strategic location with multiple international border
crossings, interstate access, deep water access, and access to airports and railroads.
Projects that must be undertaken to fully modernize the cargo dock include the relocation of power lines, paving,
drainage improvements, new cargo handling equipment, and security screening equipment required by U.S. Customs
and Border Protection of adequately screen cargoes. The cost of completing all the identified projects is expected co
exceed $10 million. Again D WCPA intends to work with a consultant co help identify grant opportunities :.ind the best
way to pursue them; however, all possible funding sources will be entertained.

 APPENDIX A
CITY OF DETROIT
SOURCES OF FUNDING DETAIL

 

CAPITAL FUNDING SOURCES

--

FUMJIRGSOURa

DESCRIPTION

General Obligation Bonds- Unllmlted Tax

General Obligation Unllmlted Tax Bonds are voter authorized debt Issued under a
municipality's full faith, credit and taxing power for capital Improvement projects.

General Obligation Bonds- Limited Tax

This debt does not require prior voter authorization. To the extent debt service on
this category of obligations is not provided from a special revenue source, the
payment Is provided form the City's General Fund.

Michigan Transportatlo'n Fund- Road Bonds

On November 16, 2017, the Michigan Finance Authority issued $124,500,000 In
re.venue bonds on behalf of the City of Detroit for Major and l ocal Street
improvements. Two scheduled draws to date of $1,000,000 and $33,000,000 were
made in November 2017 and April 2018, respectively. Remaining draws are
scheduled to occur in each October and April, with the flrial draw on October 1, 2020.

Earnlngs on Investments

In addlti<in to the proceeds from t he sale of general obligation bonds, t he Interest
earned on the Investment of unspent bond proceeds can also be' used for projects
t hat were voter authorized.

Revenue Bonds

Revenue bonds are municipal bonds that flnance income-producing projects and are
secured by a specified revenue source. Typically, revenue bonds can be issued by any
government agency or fund that Is managed in the manner of a business- enterprise
agencies, such as entitles having both operating revenues and expenses. Revenue
bonds are typlca lly used to finance water and sewerage projects and parking
improvements.

Operating Contributions

This funding method re lies on general tax and operating receipts rather than on debt
issuance. It is th1t most conservative approach possible for funding capital projects.

Post-Bankruptcy Funds: Quality of Life and Exit
Financing

The City Post Bankruptcy began implementation c;,f a $1.7 billion program of
reinvestment and restructuring Initiatives made possible by confirmation of the Plan
of Adjustment. The reinvestment and restructuring Initiatives provided funds for,
among other areas, (a) Public safety equipment, fadlitfes and services; (bl blight
n:!mtidlatlon; (c) upgrades to City Infrastructure, operations, and Information
technology; and (d) public transportation improvements. Funding was obtained
through debt financing.

Strategic Neighborhood Fund

Invest Detroit and the City have partnered to raise $56M Ir\ philanthropy, and $15M
in State CRP, to match $59M in City funds towards economically catalyzing projects
In the following 7 neighborhoods: Grand River Northwest, Jefferson Chalmers,
Campau/Banglatown,
Warrendale/Cody
Rouge,
Gratiot/7-mlle,
Russell
Woods/Nardln Park, East Warren/ Cadieux. These funds will also help complete
projects in t he 3 neighborhoods originally designated as SNF: Uvernois/McNichols,
Southwest, and lslandview/Greater Villages.
SNF projects fall Into 5 categories and pitch materlals approved by the Mayor Include
the following proposed sources:
1.
Neighborhood planning to understand community needs - $3M City
2.
Improving streetscapes to create safe and walkable neighborhoods $49M City (road bond)
3.
Redeveloping parks to offer attractive and active public spaces - $14M
Philanthropy, $7M City
4.
Rehabilitating single-family homes to stabilize residential communities $7M Philanthropy
5.
Strengthening commercial corridors to support commercial, mixed use
and multi-family development - $35M philanthropy, $15M State CRP
All SNF projects are intended to be complete within 5 years.

Private Sources

Philanthropic, non-proflt foundations and corporations have made significant
investment in various city assets and services.

A-1

 CAPITAL FUNDING SOURCES
DESQIIP110N

FUNDING SOURCE
. •·

,·.

-~

•·

Detroit Historical Society

The City entered into an agreement with fhe Detroit Historical Society, a Michigan
nonprofit corporation, to manage the operations of the Detroit Historical Museums.
The City retains owner5hip of all the assets of the Detroit Historical Museums, which
Includes the Detroit Historical Museum, the Dossln Great Lakes Museum and Historic
Fort Wayne. The Historical Society has access to capital funding thr~ugh the City's
annual capital budget process.

Detroit Zoological Society

The Detroit Zo ologlca I Socl ety has consistently provld ed generous support for Detroit
Zoological Institute development and regularly contributes to Its annual support.
Financial support can be provided from general operating revenues, including
membership dues, investment income, special event proceeds, spec/al gifts, grants,
and.sponsorships. For large projects, a specific capital campaign may be launched for
that purpose.

EHtern Market Corporation

The Eastern Market Corporation is a non-profit, public-private- "umbrella
organization» created to equally Include representatives of the City of Detroit,
Eastern Market stakeholders and persons with a special interest in the market,
Including corporate and foundation contributors. The City retains ownership of the
public areas of the Eastern Market and has membership on the Board of Directors of
the Eastern Market Corporation.

Aviation Grants

Detroit City Airpqrt is eligible for Federa I funding under the Airport Improvement
Program (AIP), established by the Airport and Airway Improvement Act of 1982.These
funds are generated through aviation taxes and used in projects to renovate and
rehabilitate public areas of airports solely for increasing the level of service ~o a II
passengers.

Grants submitted under the HUD Consolldatlon Plan:

The U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Consolidated Plan is
a collaborative process to establish a unified vision for community development
actions. The plan describes community development, affordable housing, homeless,
and supportive housing needs, conditions, and strategies for a five-year period. The
plan Includes the annual funding applications for the Community Development Block
Grant (CDBG), Emergency Shelter Grant, HOME, and the Hou~lng Opportunities for
Persons With AIDS (HOPWA) programs.

•
•
•

•

Community Development Block Grant
{CDBG):
Neighborhood Opportunity Fund (NOF)
HOME Investment Pa rt ners hlps (HOME)
Program
The Housing Opportunities for Persons with
AIDS (HOPWA) program

The Community Development Block Grant program Is a Federal program operated by
the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. This program provides
entitlement grants to local governments for community development activities.
The Neighborhood Opportunity Fund (NOF) Is a local program using CDBG funds for
neighborhood improvement projects proposed by neighborhood organizations.
These projects should be limited in scope and completed within one year. This
program ls subject to CDBG regulations.
The Home Investment Partnerships (HOME) program is a Federal program operated
by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. This program provides
grants to cities and others to increase the supply of safe and affordable rental and
ownership housing for low-income families.
The Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS (HOPWA) program Is a Federal
program operated by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. This
program provides grants to large cities with over 1,500 AIDS cases. Funds are to be
used to meet the housing and related service needs of people with AIDS and their
families in Wayne County (including Detroit).

HUD Section 108 Loans

Section 108 offers state and loca I governments the ability to transform a small
portion of their Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) funds into federally
guaranteed loans large enough to pursue physical and economic revitalization
projects capable of revitalizing entire neighborhoods.

A-2

 CAPITAL FUNDING SOURCES
FUNDING Sti>URCE-

DESCRIPTION

-

Lead Hazard Reduction Demonstration Grant:

The lead Demonstration Grant is a Federal competitive grant program operated by
the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development.

Environmental Grants

Annual grants from the State of Michigan Department of Environmental Quality
available to the City through the Department of Environmental Affairs (DEA) are:
Site Reclamation Bond Grants; Site Redevelopment Grants; Revolving Loan Funds and
Site Assessment Grants.
LWCF funds are limited to the development of basic outdoor recreation facll!ties and
cannot be used for buildings or ma lntenance arid renovation.

U.S. Department of Interior Land and Water
conservation Fund (LWCF):
Port S,ecurity Grant Program

Michigan Gas and Weight T.ixe.s (ACT 51)

The Port Security Grant Program (PSGP) plays an ·Important role in the
implementation of the National Preparedness System by supporting the building,
sustainment, and delivery of core capabllJtles essentlal to achieving the National
Preparedness Goal of a secure and resilient nation.
The primary source of street capital is the State tax on motor fuels and vehicle
llcenslng fees, which are distributed to municipalities by formLJ!a.

Michigan Natural Resources Trust Fund

The Trust Fund accumulates principal to the fund by using fees from oil, gas and
mineral resource permits from lease and royalty rights on state land in northern
Michigan.

Michigan Transportation Economic Development Fund

Transportation Economic Development Fund was created in 1987 to provide funding
for road projects related to economic development and redevelopment
opportunities. All ACT 51 recipient governmental units are eligible for this fund.

Better Utilizing Investments to Leverage Development
(BUILD)- US Department of Transportation Grant

BUILD Transportation grants replace the pre-e~isting Transportation Investment
Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER) grant program. Awarded on a competitive
basis, these grants are utilized for surface transportation infrastructure projects:
road, rail, transit and port projects
Transportation Alternatives Program (TAP) is a competitive grant program that uses
federal transportation funds designated by Congress for specific activities that
enhance' the intermodal transportation system and provide safe alternative
transporta.tion options.

Transportation Alternatives Program (TAP)

Transportation Grants

These funds are generally provided based upon an 80/20% formula-FTA supplies 80%
and W% is provided by MOOT. The purpose of these grants is to supply major capital
Items; such as: buses, service equipment, service vehicles; communications
equipment, facility Improvements, and safety and security needs to be utilized in the
ma lntenance and enhancement of the daily operations within the Detroit
Department of Transportation.

Fixed guideway capltal Investment grants

The discretionary Capital Investment Grant (CIGJ program provides funding for fixed
guideway investments such as new and expanded rapid rail, commuter rail, light rail,
streetcars, bus rapid transit, and ferries, as well as corridor-based bus rapid transit
investments that emulate the features of rail.
Competitive grant program - relm burs es 25% of the cost of replacing outdated fleet.

U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's Natlonal Clean
Diesel Funding Assistance Program
Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program

The primary goal of the Assis ta nee to Firefighters Grants (AFG) Is to enhance the
safety of the public and firefighters with respect to fire-related hazards by providing
direct financial assistance to eligible fire departments, nonaffiliated Emergency
Medical Services organizations, and State Fire Training Academies. This funding is for
critically needed resources to equip and train emergency personnel to recognized
standards, enhance operations efficiencies, foster interoperability, and support
comm unity resilience.

Community foundation for Southeastern Michigan
Pistons Palace fund
Wayne County Park MIiiage

$125,000/year available for a set list of 34 Detroit parks
Renewed in 2016, tax levied annually and allocated by the Wayne County Parks
commi5sion to improve and operate parks and related facilities. Detroit typically is
awarded -264K/year

 CAPITAL FUNDING SOURCES
As indicated on page 12 of the Executive Summary, the City currently has $286 million in voterapproved, unissued UTGO authority. This Capital Agenda includes an immediately need of $235
million for projects during the plan period. The City plans to issue approximately $115 million in
one series and the balance in a second series in order to align projects with spending capacity.

- $
3,000,000

1,700,000
4Z,435,155

10,000,000
11
Total

n

Table 7. New GO Bond Funding by Voter Authorization
Vot.r~llon
P\lbllc.safety
Recreation & Museums
Ecol'lomlcl>elleloPment

Tra nsoortation
Total

Fnl-11 -.
mNO
FY2D-Z1
FY21..ZZ
FY2Z•2J
Aw-Y'em'Total
$16.M7,Z64 $ 32.633.300 $ 23,938,300 $ 2¥15.!J55 $ :t]!S(\000 $ 103,484,119

..........._

28,578,000

-

-

$ 4'.lSZ,OSJ

$~7H'lllVI

26.072.161

u--

-

l8JOOOOOO

12,550,000

-1
18;5()1,849

1nnnnnnn

1111.nA.621
:z&,072,.2'1

-

-~.849

$ 54.,988,300 $ 57,667.,804 $ 13~.000 $ 235,369,457
I

 APPENDIX 
CITY OF DETROIT DEBT POLICY

 

COLEMAN A. YOUNG M UNICIPAL CENTER
2 Wooo WARDAVB., SUITE ll00

DETROJT, MICHIGAN 48226
313-628-2535
FAX: 31 3-224-2 135
WWW .DETROITMI. Gov

PHONE:

CITY OF D ETROIT

OFFICE OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL O FFICER

CFO DIRECTIVE
No. 2018-101-007
SUBJECT: Debt Issuance and Management
ISSUANCE DATE: May 1, 2018
EFFECTIVE DATE: May 1, 2018

1. AUTHORITY
1.1. State of Michigan Public Act 279 of 1909, Section 117.4s (2), as amended by Public
Act 182 of 2014, states the chief .financial officer shall supervise all financial and
budget activities of the city and coordinate the city's activities relating to budgets,
financial plans, financial management, financial reporting, financial analysis, and
compliance with the budget and financial plan of the city.
1.2. State of Michigan Public Act 34 of 2001 states various requirements relative to the
borrowing of rhoney,and the issuance of certain debt and securities, as well as other
various requirements.

1.3. State of Michigan Public Act 227 of 1985 st~tes auth~rities granted to local units of
government r~_g arding the issuance of debt, as well as other various requirements.
1.4. State of Michigan Public Act 436 of,2012 .all'Jws local units of government to issue
financial recovery bonds i1:1 amounts greater than fimit~tions established by City
Charter or Public Act 436 of 2012.
1.5. The 2012 Charter of the City. of Detroit, Article 8, Chapter 5, provides various types
of, and requirements for, borrowing, as well as other various requirements.
1.6. The 1984,D etroit City Code, Chapter 18, Article II, Section 18-2-24 requires the City
to issue a tax statement and a bond statement to represent amounts required to be
raised to support the adopted budget.
1.7. The 1984 Detroit City Code, Chapter 18, Article VII, provides various requirements
for registered city bonds.

2. OBJECTIVES
2.1. To establish the conditions for the issuance and management of debt.
2.2. To create policies that minimize the City's debt service and costs, while maintaining
and preserving access to the capital markets in a cost-effective manner.
2.3. To provide guidelines for the City to manage its debt program in accordance with its
financial resources in order to retain the highest possible credit ratings.
2.4. To help improve the quality of decision-making, provide justification for the debt
structure, identify policy goals, and demonstrate a commitment to long-term financial
planning, including a multi-year capital plan.
2.5. To outline the legal, credit and policy frameworks under which the City issues its
debt obligations and to document pre- and post- issuance objectives.
B-1

 CFO Directive No. 2018-101-007

Page 2 ofll

3. PURPOSE

3.1. To establish the City's debt issuance and management policy.
4. RESPONSIBILITIES
4.1. As delegated by the Chief Financial Officer (CFO), the Deputy CFO- Treasurer
(Treasurer), in coordination with the Chief Deputy CFO./ Finance Director, shall be
responsible for the administration and oversight of this Directive and shall ensure
coordination of activities ·with the CFO's Office and the Office of Budget.
4.2. The Deputy CFO- Budget Director (Budget Director) shall be responsible for certain
activities as stated in this Directive.
4.3. The CFO's Office, with assistance from other City departments and agencies as
, necessary, shall be responsible for certain analyses and communications with credit
rating agencies as stated in this Directive.

5. POLICY
5 .1. Definition of Debt

5.1.1. This Directive covers all obligations of the City to repay, with or without interest,
in installments and / or at a later date, some amount of money utilized for the
purchase, construction, or operation of City resources. This includes, but is not
limited to, notes, bond issues, capital leases, and loans of any type (whether from
an outside source such as a bank or from another internal fund).
5.1.2. This Directive does not cover other obligations such as contracts payable, Joans
payable (for example U.S. Department of Housing and Development Section 108
loans), and net pension liability obligation (NPO) and/ or pension Unfunded
Actuarial Liability (UAL) and Other Post-Employment Benefits (OPEB) UAL.
5.2. General Guidelines
5.2.1. Debt shall only be incurred for those purposes provided by City Charter and State
law, including Public Act 34 of 2001, Public Act 279 of 1909, and other
applicable laws.
5.2.2. Debt shall only be issued in conformance with all applicable state and federal
laws, City Charter and ordinances, and as well as this Directive.
5.2.3. Should the City issue a municipal security that contains the limited tax full faith
and credit pledge of the City, it shall issue a notice consistent Public Act 34 of
2001.
5.2.4. The City shall pay all debt and interest on debt in a timely manner consistent with
requirements of the borrowings and shall ensure that all outstanding debt are
budgeted.
5.2.5. Long-term debt shall not be used to finance current operations. Long-term debt
shall only be used for capital purchases or construction identified through the
City's capital improvement/ budget processes.
5.2.6. Short-term debt may be used for certain projects and equipment financings as
well as, in rare cases, for operational borrowing; however, the City will minimize
the use of short-term cash flow borrowings by maintaining adequate working
capital and detailed budget management.

 CFO Directive No. 2018-101-007

Page 3 ofll

5.2.7. Use of non-debt revenues to fund some capital projects is desirable as it
constitutes "pay-as-you-go" financing and, when applied to debt eligible projects,
reduces the debt burden of the City. Decisions to use current non-.d ebt revenue
funding within the Capital Agenda / Plan of the City will have an immediate
impact on resources available to annual operating budgets, and requires the
recognition that certain costs of public facilities and other capital projects should
be supported on a current basis rather than paid for over time. As such, current
non-debt revenues should be used for any projects in the Capital Agenda / Plan
not eligible for debt financing by virtue of limited useful life.
5.2.8. In accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles used by state and
local governments and Federal / State law, the maturity of the underlying debt
may not be more than the useful life of the assets purchased or financed with the
debt, not to exceed 30 years; however, an exception may be made with respect to
Federally-sponsored loans, provided such an exception is consistent with law and
accepted leading practices and industry standards. In addition, debt incurred for
operating expenses must be repaid within the same fiscal year of issuance or
incurrence.
5.2.9. The City shall seek to structure debt with level or declining debt service payments
over the life of each individual bond issue or loan. Tlie City will not backload,
use ·wrap-around techniques,. balloon payments or other exotic formats to pursue
the financing of projects. When refunding opportunities, natural disasters, other
non-general fund revenues, or external factors occur, the City may utilize nonlevel debt methods. However, the use of such methods should be clearly
delineated in the CFO's recommendation to the City Cmmcil.
5.2.10. The City chooses not to use derivatives or other exotic financial structures in the
management of its debt portfolio..Prior to utilizing such structures, the CFO must
submit a written management report to the Mayor and the City Council outlining
the potential benefits and consequences of doing so.
5 .2.11. The City shall not pledge any City revenues to its conduit bond financings and
has no moral obligation to repay bondholders of conduit financing issued under
its authority.
5.2.12. The City shall select a method of sale that maximizes the financial benefit to the
City. All methods of sale shall be approved by the CFO.
5.2.13. All financial reports, bond prospectus and Annual Information Statements shall
represent a full, complete and accurate disclosw-e of financial conditions and
operating results. All reports and disclosures shall conform to guidelines
established by the Securities Exchange Commission (SEC), the Internal Revenue
Service (IRS), this Directive and other requirements determined by the CFO.
5 .2.14. The City recognizes the value of variable rate debt obligations and that cities have
greatly benefited from the use of variable rate debt in the financing of needed
infrastructure and capital improvements. However, the City also recognizes there
are inherent risks associated with the use of variable rate debt and will implement
steps to mitigate these risks, including market fluctuations and interest rate
assumptions, bond insurance and liquidity, letters of credit, and arbitrage rules.

 CFO Directive No. 2018-10 1-007

Page 4 of 11

5.2.15. All costs associated with the initial issuance or incurrence of debt, management
and repayments of debt ( including interest, principal and fees and / or on-going
charges) shall be fully disclosed prior to any action by the C ity Council.
5.2.16. The City w ill refund debt when it is in the best financial interest of the City to do
so. The CFO's Office and the Office of the Treasury shall have the responsibility
to analyze outstanding bond issues for refunding opportunities. The decision to
refinance must be approved by the C ity Council, and all plans for current or
advance reftu1ding of debt must be in compliance with State laws and regulations.
5 .2.17. The City shall require any and all professionals engaged in the process of issuing
debt to clearly disclose all compensation and consideration received related to the
services provided in the debt issuance process by both the City and the lender or
conduit issuer, if any. This requirement includes any ..soft" costs or compensation
in lieu of direct payments.
5.2.18. In an effort to maintain and improve its credit ratings·, the CFO's Office, with the
assistance of other City deprut rnents and agencies as necessary, shall keep an
open line of communication with the nationally recognized credit rating agencies
and shall infonn them of maj or financial events and other applicable City matters
in a timely and trru1sparent manner.

5.3. Types of Debt and Purpose / Need for Financing
5.3. 1. There are four primary purposes, in no particular priority order, for which the
City may issue debt. The CFO shail review and approve all borrowings prior to
submission to the City Council. ,

5.3.1.l. Long-Term General Obligation (GO) Debt for Capital hnprovements. All
proposed financings for long-term capital improvements shall be identified
in the City's Capital Agenda / Plan, as well as the annual adopted budget
and Four-Year Financial Plan. Bonds are normally issued with a final
maturity of not less than twenty (20) and no more than thirty (30) years,
having a level-debt amortization.

5.3.1.2. Short-term GO Debt (such as Bond Anticipation Note). This may only be
issued with a short-term maturity for the following instances :
•

To provide interim financing to take advantage of a favorable interest
rates within the rules established b y the IRS wh ich shall eventually be
refunded with the proceeds of long-tenn obligations, or;

•

For the application of short-tenn financing that is not for interim
financing, so long as the CFO approves a plan for amortizing the
principal amount of the short-term financing in a manner reasonably
similar to the City's treatment of fixed-rate bonds.

5. 3 .1.3. Essential Vehicle and Equipment Needs. The City finances certain essential
equipment and vehicles. The underlying assets must have a minimum useful
life of three (3) years. Short-tenn financings, including loans and capital
lease purchase agreements, are executed to meet such needs.
5.3.1.4. Refinancing/ Refunding of Existing Debt. The CFO's Office and the Office
of the Treasury shall periodically evaluate the C ity's existing debt portfolio
and execute refinancings / refundings when economically beneficial. As a
guideline, aggregate new present value savings, expressed as a% of the par

 CFO Directive No. 2018-101-007

Page 5 ofll

amounts of the refunded bonds, should achieve a level of 3 % and above for
a current refunding and 3 % and above for an advance refunding. The CFO
will consider a refunding only when one or more of the following
considerations are met:
•

Lower interest rates resulting in debt service cost savings;

•

Eliminate restrictive or burdensome bond covenants; or

•

When there is a financial benefit to the City as determined by the CFO.

5.3.2. The City may issue Revenue Bonds which are secured by the pledge of a
particular stream of revenue for their repayment in contrast to GO debt, which
pledges general tax revenues. The revenues pledged may also be those of a special
revenue fund or revenue received :from or in connection with a project. Revenue
supported debt should be limited to ensure that debt service coverage ratios are
sufficient and at least equal to or higher than the ratings on the City's outstanding
parity debt. Such coverage ratios shall be maintained during the life of any bonds
secured by that particular revenue stream.
5.3.3. The City may issue various forms of appropriation-backed debt to fund capital
improvements, facilities, and equipment issued directly by the City or another
entity as' a conduit issuer. Under such arrangement, the City enters into a longterm lease with the conduit issuer and the City's lease payments fund the debt
service on the bonds. Appropriation-backed debt is useful in situations where a
separate revenue stream is available to partially offset the lease payments, thereby
differentiating the project from those funds with GO debt. Because these long~
term leases constitute an obligation of the Ci Ly similar to GO debt, the value of
the lease should be included in the City's debt capacity calculations.
5.3.4. The issuance of taxable debt may be useful in situations where private activity or
other considerations make tax-exempt debt disadvantageous or ineligible per
federal tax code requirements. The City recognizes that taxable debt will
generally be at a higher cost because investors are not able to deduct interest
earnings from their taxable income, and as such should be cautious of its use.
However, taxable debt may be issued in instances where the additional costs,
including marketing, legal and other upfront costs over the life of the bond, are
outweighed by the advantages of the financing to be achieved.
5.4. Debt Affordability
5.4.1. Notwithstanding any City Charter provision to the contrary, the City's new
indebtedness incurred for all public purposes, as well as the maximum interest
rate, shall be consistent Public Act 34 of 200 I, Public Act 279 of 1909, and other
applicable laws.
5.4.2. Debt levels and their related annual costs are important long-term obligations that
must be managed within available resources. As part of the City's budget process,
the City shall consider trends in revenues and expenditures to its governmental
funds and trends in assessed valuation as it considers the portion of its Capital
Agenda/ Plan to be funded with debt.
5 .4.3. Paying principal and interest on general obligation debt is the first claim on City
revenues. As such, in order to achieve and/ or maintain the highest possible credit
rating, the City should adhere to several ratios and guidelines in deciding how

 CFO Directive No. 2018-101-007

Page 6 ofll

much additional GO debt may be issued. Ultimately, the decision as to whether
or not to assume new debt shall be based on the City's ability to afford new debt
and service it, as determined by an objective and analytical approach considering,
among other conditions, the below factors / ratios. These factors/ ratios and other
metrics generated by the Office of the Treasury (based on leading government
practices of other highly rated municipalities and / or other local government
credits, as appropriate) shall be calculated and reported, at a minimum, annually
in conjunction with the capital budget processes, the annual financial audit, and
as needed for fiscal analysis and reported to the CFO, Mayor and the City
Council.
•

Overall Debt as a % of Assessed Valuation. This ratio measures debt levels
against the property tax base, which generates the tax revenues that are the
main source of debt repayment. Total d~bt, both existing and proposed,
should be kept at about 1.5% of full market .value (substantially the same
assessed value) of taxable real property in the City.

•

Debt Service as a % of the General Fund. This ratio reflects the City's
budgetary flexibility to adapt spending levels and respond to changes in
economic conditions. Required annual debt service expenditures should be
kept at about 10-15% ofthe City's General Fund. The General Funds excludes
other special revenue tax supported funds.

•

Overall Debt per Capita. This ratio measures the burden of debt placed on the
population supporting the debt and is widely used as a measure of an issuer's
ability to repay debt. Total debt outstanding and annual amounts issued, when
adjusted for inflation, should not cause real debt per capita (i.e., after
elimination the effects of inflation) to rise significantly.

•

Ten-year Payout Ratio. This ratio reflects the amortization of the City's
outstanding debt. A faster payout is considered a positive credit attribute. The
rate of repayment of bond principal should be kept at highest affordable level
possible given other budget priorities.

•

Per Capita Debt to Per Capita Income. This ratio reflects a community's
economic strength as an indicator to income levels relative to debt. Total debt
outstanding and annual amounts proposed should not cause the ratio of per
capita to per capita income to rise significantly above approximately 5%.

5.5. Debt Issuance and Structuring
5.5.1. The ability to borrow cost-effectively depends in large measure upon the City's
credit ratings as assessed by the three nationally recognized credit rating services.
The CFO's Office shall be responsible for maintaining relationships with the
credit rating services that currently assign ratings to the City's various debt
obligations. The CFO's Office shall be responsible for determining whether or
not a rating shall be requested on a particular financing, and which of the rating
agencies shall be asked to provide such rating. Debt structuring practices shall
take into account, in no priority order, the following:
•

Size - based on capital project needs;

 CFO Directive No. 2018-101-007

Page 7 ofll

•

Term - the City maintains a preference for the shortest possible average
maturity considering the project type and availability of annual payment
resources;

•

Amortization of Bonds - the City generally prefers level principal for general
obligation bonds unless a specific revenue has been identified for general
obligation bonds or other bonds. However, the City may consider other
amortization structures as appropriate and legally pennitted by law;

•

Interest Rate - to enhance the effectiveness of annual capital budgeting, fixed
interest rate structures are the City's preference for long useful life,
infrastructure and buildings; and

•

Call Provisions - the Financing Team will recommend to the CFO the use of
a call option on a case-by-case basis. The City's preference is for optional call
provisions when appropriate.

5.6. Issuance and Method of Sale

5.6.1. The City shall issue its debt obligations through a competitive sale unless the
CFO determines that such a sale method will not produce the best results for the
City. Generally, a negotiated sale process may be used when the City is
attempting to market more complex bond transactions such as a new credit
structure; or at times when a competitive sale does not produce bids or produces
bids that are unsatisfactory to the City. In determining whether to use a
competitive or negotiated method of sa le, the City shall utilize a sale method
expecting to achieve the lowest overall cost of capital depending on the size and
characteristics of the proposed issue and the applicable market conditions at the
time of sale. The conditions, which indicate the appropriate method for selling a
particular bond issue, are generally described below:
5.6.2. Competitive Sale Criteria
5.6.2. l. Bond prices are stable and/ or demand is strong;
5.6.2.2. Debt issuance mark~ts are stable;
5.6.2.3. The credit rating is well established and stable;
5.6.2.4. There are no complex explanations required during marketing regarding a
specific project, media coverage, political structure, political support, tax
status, funding, or credit quality;
5.6.2.5. The bond type and structural features are conventional; and
5.6.2.6. The transaction size is manageable.
5.6.3. N~gotiated Sale Criteria
5.6.3. l . Bond prices are volatile and / or demand is weak and / or the supply of
competing bonds is high;
5.6.3.2. Debt issuance markets are less stable and market t iming is important for
circwnstances such as refinancing transactions that are interest rate
sensitive;
5.6.3.3. Coordination of multiple components of the financing is required;
5.6.3.4. The credit rating is not well established and stable;

 CFO Directive No. 2018-101-007

Page 8 ofll

5.6.3.5. Sale and marketing of the bonds will require complex explanations about
the City's projects, media coverage, political structure, political support, tax
status, funding, or credit quality;
5.6.3.6. The bond type and/ or structural features are non-standard;
5.6.3.7. Early structuring and market participation by underwriters is desired;
5.6.3.8. Large transaction size; and
5.6.3 .9. Strong retail participation is desired and expected to enhance pricing efforts.
5 .6.4. Direct Bank Loans or Limited Public Offering. The City may sell debt obligations
through a direct bank loan or limited public offering when appropriate.
5.6.5. Credit Enhancement. The City may use credit enhancements to improve
marketability of City obligations. Types of credit enhancement include letters of
credit, bond insurance, cash or bond funded reserves, or other public or private
credit enhancements. The rationale for credit enhancements shall be documented.
5.6.6. Offering Documentation. Offering documentation shall be used for all types of
debt issued of the City and purchased by public or private third parties.
5. 7. Composition of Service Providers / Financing Team
5.7.1. Members of the Financing Team may be selected by the City at the direction and
approval ofthe CFO and, when applicable, the Law Department and City Council
through the :following methods: (1) Request for Qualifications (RFQ), (2) Request
for Proposals (RFP), or (3) other processes as determined by the CFO in
accordance with laws and regulations.
5.7.2. The City's Financial Advisor may be requested by the City to assist the City in
the selection of other service providers, including but not limited to underwriter,
trustee, escrow agents, verification agents, and printers. Selection of other service
providers will reflect economic inclusion and diversity goals established by the
City.
5. 7 .3. Services Providers / Financing Team. The CFO is responsible for establishing a
competitive solicitation and selection process for securing professional services
that are required to develop and implement the City's debt program. Goals of the
solicitation and selection process shall include, but is not limited to, the following:
encouraging participation from qualified service provides, both national and
local, and securing services at competitive prices. Service Providers / Financing
Team entities may include, but is not limited to, the following:
5.7.3.1. Bond Counsel. Bond Counsel shall be selected for any and all debt
issuances. The Corporation Counsel, pursuant to City Charter Section 7.5201, and in consultation with the CFO, shall select Bond Counsel in
accordance with the City's procurement policies and procedures. Bond
Counsel will be responsible for preparing the necessary ordinances, legal
agreements and other documents necessary to execute a financing. All debt
issued by the City will include an approving legal opinion of a nationally
recognized bond counsel.
5.7.3.2. Disclosure Counsel. The City may retain Disclosme Counsel for all public
issuances. Disclosure Counsel may be required to deliver a customary

 CFO Directive No. 2018- l O1-007

Page 9 ofll

IO(b)-5 opinion on City offering documents and work with City staff to
develop and draft all disclosure documents for a bond financing.
5.7.3.3. Financial Advisor. The City shall use the services of an Independent
Registered Municipal Financial Advisor (IRMA) as its advisor. The
Financial Advisor shall advise and assist the City in structuring the
transaction and timing, in addition to other general financial planning /
analyses as requested by the City. If there are any potential conflicts of
interest, they should be waivc,d by the CFO prior to appointment or
restrictions on conflicting relationships must be disclosed prior to the
appointment. Financial Advisors must meet all standards related to
avoidance of conflict ofinterest as set forth in SEC and Municipal Securities
Rulemaking Board (MSRB) rules and regulations.
5.7.3.4. Underwriter. Undeiwriters must meet all standards related to avoidance of
conflict of interest as set forth in SEC and MSRB rules and regulations. For
a competitive or negotiated sale, the criteria used to select an underwriter
shall be the bid providing the lowest true interest cost to the City and other
factors determined by the CFO. The City will maintain a list ofUnderwriters
to use for debt issuance pursuant to a RFQ process and as approved by the
CFO. Firms eligible to submit a response to the RFQ must be listed in the
most recent edition of the Bond Buyer Red Book or a similar publication if
the Bond Buyer Red Book is no longer published. Firms that merge or leave
the industry are dropped from the eligibility list and may be replaced with
another qualified firm as determined by the CFO. The CFO shall select an
Underwriter for each debt issuance; l Tnderwriters will be required to
demonstrate sufficient capitalization and experience related to the debt
issuance being proposed. The CFO will consider the following additional
criteria, in no priority order, when selecting an Underwriter and / or
members of an underwriting syndicate:
•

Overall experience;

•

Experience with the particular sire and type of financing;

•

Familiarity with City issues;

•

Experience of the public finance team assigned to the financing;

•

Previous experience as managing or co-managing underwriter;

•

Type of firm (i.e. national, regional, local, MBE, etc.);

•

Location of firm and presence in the City and the State;

•

Demonstrated commitment to the City;

•

Financial market knowledge;

•

Investor and distribution capability;

•

Financial strength, as evidenced by the firm's current financial
statements;

•

Resources to complete the financing;

•

Compensation; and

 CFO Directive No. 2018-101-007

•

Page 10 ofll

Other items as determined by the CFO.

Underwriters must present all Municipal Advisor Rule documentation prior
to any communications with representatives of the City in relation to a
contemplated financing. All transaction fees will be evaluated by the CFO
or their designee and, if requested by the City, the City's Financial Advisor.
All transactions fees shall be approved by the CFO or their designee using
a methodology determined by the CFO or their designee prior to the
distribution of any offering documentation.
5.7.3.5. Trustee/ Paying Fiscal Agent. A Trustee/ Paying Agent is the institution,
usually a commercial bank or trust company, appointed in the indenture or
bond resolution to act as the agent of the issuer to pay principal and interest
from monies provided by or on behalf of the issuer. Paying Agent duties are
typically limited to receiving money from the issuer and paying principal
and interest to bondholders on behalf of the issuer. A Trustee, in addition to
performing the duties of a Paying Agent, is responsible for establishing and
holding the funds and accounts relating to the bond issue, including
accounts for bond proceeds and pledged revenues, determining that the
conditions for disbursement of proceeds and revenues have been met, and,
in some cases, collecting revenues and executing investments. The Trustee
/ Paying Agent solicitation and selection is typically coordinated by the
Financial Advisor in consultation with the City for a new bond issuance.
The City will monitor the ongoing performance of a Trustee/ Paying Agent.
5.7.3.6. Other Service Providers. Other professionals may be se,lected by CFO or
their designee on an as needed basis subject to the processes and approvals
described in this Directive, as well as applicable law and other regulations.
These include, but are not be limited to, the services of escrow agents, bond
insurance providers, credit and liquidity banks, verification agents, title
insurance companies and services related to printing.
5.8. Post-Issuance Management and Compliance. The Office of the Treasury shall be
responsible for verifying compliance with all undertakings, covenants, and
agreements for each bond issuance on an ongoing annual basis, in addition to various
debt certifications that may be required by the CFO and, if applicable, State law.
5.9. Investment of Bond Proceeds. The Treasurer shall direct the Trustee to invest the
proceeds of a bond sale until those proceeds are used for the intended purpose. The
investments shall be made to minimize negative arbitrage to the greatest extent
possible and to ensure the highest level of security.
5.10. Transparency, Reporting, and Disclosure
5.10.1. The City shall provide full and complete financial disclosure to credit rating
agencies, Electronic Municipal Market Access (EMMA), other levels of
government, and the public in order to share clear, comprehensible, and accurate
financial information.
5.10.2. The CFO's Office shall ensure relevant information is posted to the City's public
website and the City's investors relations public website. The CFO's Office shall
review the information on these websites no less than quarterly to ensure the most
recent information is available. The CFO 's Office shall continuously review new
methods and tools to improve and enhance transparency.

 CFO Directive No. 2018-101-007

Page 11 ofll

5.10.3. The Office of the Treasury shall monitor key credit/ debt indicators and shall
report those indicators to the CFO's Office, at a minimum, on an annual basis.
The indicators, adjusted to take into account a planned debt issuance, shall also
be reported to the CFO as part of the CFO's review of a proposed debt issuance.
These indicators include, but are not limited to, the following:
•

Full Value Per Capita

•

Fund Balance as a% ofrevenues

•

Net Direct Debt/Operating Revenues

•

Net Direct Debt/Full Value

The CFO's Office may periodically request additional key credit/ debt indicators
from the Office of the Treasury. As such, the Treasurer shall ensure leading
practice / industry standard credit / debt indicators are maintained and updated, at
a minimum, annually.
5.10.4. Arbitrage Rebate Reporting. The Office of the Treasury shall maintain a system
of record keeping and reporting to meet the arbitrage rebate compliance
requirements as required by the federal tax code. This shall include tracking
investment earnings on bond proceeds, calculating rebate-able earnings, and
remitting any rebate payments to the federal government. No less than every five
(5) years, the Treasurer may lead a process to select a qualified third party (such
third party may include Bond Counsel) to assist the City in fulfilling its
obligations with regard to arbitrage compliance.
5. l 0.5. Ongoing Disclosure. The City shall meet continuing disclosure requirements in a
timely and comprehensive manner, as stipulated by the SEC Rule 15(c)2-12 and
other applicable laws, rules and regulations, as well as set forth in the continuing
disclosure agreements implemented with each financing. The Office of the
Treasury shall be responsible for providing ongoing disclosure infonnation to the
Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board's MSRB Electronic Municipal Market
Access (EMMA) system, the central repository designated by the SEC for
ongoing disclosures by municipal issuers. Annually, the Office of the Treasury
shall conduct an audit of EMMA filings of outstanding continuing disclosure
obligations to determine compliance with provisions of existing continuing
disclosure agreements. The Treasurer may lead a process to select a qualified
third party (such third party may include Bond Counsel or Disclosure Counsel)
to assist the City in the maintenance of its continuing disclosure undertakings.

APPROVED

_Jc~
~
11
ChiefFinancial Officer, City ofDetroit

 APPENDIX 
CITY OF DETROIT CREDIT RATINGS

 

City of Detroit
Credit Ratings
as of 7/25/201 8
S&P

Moody's
D etr0it Rated Item

Moody's 1st, 2nd, 3fd &:: 4th· Lien DS.A

J2/1~/.2017 .:' ·. · _

I

I

Long-term Short-te(m Long-term I Short-term
Aaa

AAA

Aa1

AA+

Aa2

AA

P rime

A-1+

P-1

m u : :_ -¥_..... _. .• & J - ~ . n . -wo

Raring description

High grade

Aa3

Investment-grade

Al

A-1

A2

A3
Baa1

n

I

Baa2

Baa3

P-2

I

P-3

I

ABBB-+

BBB
BBBBB+

Ba2

BB
BB-

Ba3

A-3

B2

B3

B

Nor prime

I

Highly speculative

-B-

Substantial risks
Extremely speculative

~

Caa3

CCC-

Ca

cc
-

r
I

Lower medium grade

N on-investment grade
speculative

IIB

Bl

Caa2

A-2

-

Bal

Caal

Upper medium grade

C

D efault imminent with little
prospect for recovery

-C
D

I

In default

Non-investment grade
AKA high-yield bonds
AKA junk bonds

 APPENDIX 

DETROIT METROPOLITAN AREA
ECONOMICS DEMOGRAPHICS

 

DETROIT AREA ECONOMICS & DEMOGRAPHICS

As the City moves from recovery to expansion, and the conversation changes from which businesses
are leaving to which businesses are coming, the capital planning process has necessarily broadened to
take into account not only the specifically stated capital needs of the City departments but also the
environment in which the City operates. The capital strategy now looks for ways to utilize City
resources and assets in a way that continues to support long-term residents, attract new residents and
visitors, and bring new employers to the city. The strategy has a unique but welcome challenge; how
to best accommodate the City as it transforms and modernizes beyond what anyone could imagine
five years ago in the throes of bankruptcy.
Population Stabilization and Demographic Shifts
The 2017 population estimate for the City of Detroit from the U.S. Census Bureau was approximately
673,000 people, do.:vri 5. 7% from the near 714,000 counted in 2010. Since 2014, the population decline
has been estimated to be decelerating closer to zero. 1 Although there is no clear forecast of what year
a turning point will occur, it is reasonable
Ale Pyramid
to expect and prepare for a growing
-1y..,.
residential and working population in the
next few years.
101o14-

...,_

1a1u1,-.
2Dto24i'f'll'I

The age profile of the City has not
211on,...
significantly changed. The median age is
JG10:Myo111
!lto!I_.
34.6 years, younger than Michigan overall
4Dlo44yo111
at 39.8 years. Approximately 75% of the
Ulaq .....
City's population is over the age of 18,
IOIOl4191olt)I. .
with 17% being in their twenties. In
901084comparison, for the State and Wayne
Ut.U)'Oll'I
County, about 14% of their respective
1ato74,._
1tl011populations are in their twenties. While
IOl•H~
still significant, the City's share of
HpoN ... population that is 65 and older is 1%
·1111
•D
lower than Wayne County and 2% lower : _"",__,,,,,,____,_
than the overall state.2

1
2

U.S. Census Bureau, 2017 Population Estimates.
U.S. Census Bureau, 2017 I-Year American Community Survey.

D-1

...... .,...

•

ICl!l

 Employment and Wages in Detroit and the Region
Employment and wage data specific to Detroit remains limired, but through the Local Area
Unemployment Statistics program estimates, we are able tO take a closer look at employment and
unemployment trends for city residents. Similar to \Xlayne County, the number of employed residents
has grown modestly, neatly 2% per year on average since 2014 and the unemployment rate has fallen
precipitously from levels seen during and immediately after the Great Recession. The most recent
unemployment rate, reported for August 2018, was 9.2% with an average unemployment rate of9.3%
in 2017. While fluctuating from month to month due to new entries and exits in the labor force, the
unemployment rate has generally stabilized around 9% in the last 12 months as the number of
employed residents has consistently remained close to 226,000. Although city unemployment rates are
at lows that have not been seen since 2001, steady and consistent increases in employment would
signal further improvement in the city's socioeconomic position.3
Wage data for Wayne County remains the most local data available and works as a proxy for observing
historical income trends with residents that work inside and outside of the city as well as non-residents
who work in the city. Average annual wages in \X!ayne County were slow to increase immediately after
the recession and remain volatile. From 2010 to 2017, nominal wages have grown on average 2.79%
year to year.'1 Tt is important to note that once adjusted for inflation, using either national or Metro
Detroit Consumer Price Index figures, the average change for annual real wages is effectively flat.
Detroit Labor Force

-

1
1

I

..
I!

Bureau of Labor Statistics, Local ll..rca Unemployment Starisrics.
Bureau of b,bor Stati~Lic,, (2uarterly Census of P.mploymcnt ~,id \llages.

D- 2

 Housing Supply/Foreclosures /Demolitions
Foreclosures 1n Detroit have
Detroit Foreclosure Activity 2014-2017
declined significantly since 2015,
down by approximately 89% for
60,000
owner-occupied properties. The
50,000
current trend show foreclosures are
40,000
30,000
less common; annual foreclosure
rates have fallen below pre-recession 1 20,000
10,000
levels. Further, many of the factors
0
generating
foreclosuresShow Cause
Final
Occupied
Owner
Foreclosures Foreclosures Occupied
underwater loans and low home
1
equity values---continue to trend in
■ Year 2015 ■ Year 2016 ■ Year 2017
a pos1t1ve direction.
Serious '
delinquencies (including loans delinquent by 90 or more days and loans either in foreclosure or not
sold at auction) had returned to pre-recession levels by 2014.5
Other factors contributing to the reduction in foreclosures include outreach programs implemented
by the City, Wayne County, and private partnerships, such as the· Homeowners' Property Tax
Assistance Program and the Right of First Refusal program which allows tenants an opportunity to
buy the home where they live if the owner is in foreclosure.
The city's demolition efforts helped to revitalize the market through an aggressive public-private
partnership to eliminate blight in Detroit. Over $250 million in Hardest Hit Funds (HHF) from the
U.S. Department of Treasury have been allocated to Detroit for this purpose. Since the program was
implemented in 2014, more than 15,520 vacant buildings have been demolished or are projected to
be demolished. 6
Blight removal has increased local wealth, even as it has taken properties off the tax rolls. A detailed
data report released in October 2015 shows a significant increase in total home equity of homes in
demolition target zones. The value of homes within 500 feet of a HHF demolition increased by 4.2%,
and the value of homes in zones where a multifaceted blight removal program was deployed increased
by 13.8%.7 The City estimates that the resulting increase in overall property values already exceed $209
million. 6 There is considerable upside potential for the City's property markets if Detroit's recovery
can be sustained. The City's capital planning strategy is designed to underpin and promote this
recovery.

5

Urban Institute, Detroit Ho11.ring Tracker, Q1 2016.
http://www.detroitmi.gov/demolition
7 Multi-faceted blight elimination includes HHF demolition, nuisance-abatement lawsuits, sales of side lots to neighbors
and home auctions. Research per The Skillman Foundation, Rock Ventures, and Dynamo Metrics, in partnership with the
City of Detroit. Report details can be found at Demolitionlmpact.org.
s http://www.freep.com/ story/ news /local/ michigan/ detroit/ 2016/07/19 / detroit-rcaches-blight-rnilestone-1 OOOOdemolitions/87284392/

6

D- 4

 Housing Market Trends and Conditions
The median value of owner-occupied homes in the City of Detroit was $50,200 in 2017, up from the
most recent low of$36,800 during the bankruptcy period in 2013. For comparison, the median home
value for Detroit remains half of Wayne County's median home value and less than a third of
Michigan's, $114,400 and $155,700 respectively, Although home values are not where they were prerecession, the overall trend has been moving in the right direction with the share of owner-occupied
homes worth less than $50,000 decreasing to 49.8% from the typical range of 55% to 60% estimated
in the past four years. While the in~ease in home value is generally a positive trend, it may not
immediately translate to residents being better' off.
Another challenge of Detroit's housing market is the ratio of renter-occupied homes to owneroccupied homes. Slightly more than 50% of households in Detroit are renter occupied and has
persistently been so since 2011. Before, most homes were owner-occupiecj. at a rate comparable to
Wayne County but that has changed since the housing market bust that created a new normal. Having
a larger renter-occupied population than owner-occupied population is not uncommon; other large
Midwestern cities such as Chicago, Cleveland, and St. Louis have a similar household composition. In
a similar vein to median home value, as one would expect, median rents have also seen a decrease but
have been estimated to.remain within $760 ,to $780 dollar range since 2013.

Median Homa Value

"

2010

2011

201:1

D-3

2014

2011

2011

2017

 APPENDIX 

STRATEGIC NEIGHORHOOD FUND 
AFFORDABLE HOUSING LEVERAGE
FUND

 

.Strategic ..
.Neighborhoo?
Fund 2.0

One City. For all of us.

 

 

 undo-M want. mammal:

I runs-1. r1- .. men?w-
- 

II. In" m-w-?-y-u-MI 
'nnlla511.1231.?

nu. I

Irm- 


a I.- u. I 



12.1.2.1? -

 


ahhmuauw?h
. 3  mew-marem yum-Hum rep-1::
.. 
- :I-n-r-rr-r-r-m wen-n rm.- arm-.1
i .. 
i .

 

Iii-linkin- MM thin-Ink uni-?




main-Inn Int?,-
- .Jaw-3"" uni-Id IL hi- I. ill! in I .mlla'. Barn ?1 
15m: I i'iMm! 

1:11-1:11 . rum-'rurwwa muzauu annual-21111111411.
mam-1: 15.1.2533 Mil-hm .am im' Human"; i 134.11.; .. .3 an . I
35335??! 3' 5'



u? 
I 31:11.

uua- 1 
.
I man
I "IllI

 

     
 
 
 

  

 

3:331.11:: 1.11l?rI?n?u? I I u.
Tau-Ii". 1" ?t 
Inn-I u- I. mum an it.? um . I null - EBA 1gI'll.11I?ll I: II



    

 

  
    
  
  
    
  
 
  

      

  
   

  
    

    
    
 

I I II our??unk
in MI. lot-nun .111119. "1 
myIn. huh-I1 -
. .
dull?: If: an I uI-u'iiI-uu'n has I
..H . I. 
I-r-n II 11,- .r if if 4' TJJI I I
I VII.121? 1? a, - 
lgquo- .- I'$113". 3.11.1.1 ?11.11?rl'121-31131! .- I .. . ME.
..- ?111? ?Hll ..JIKJ: 
at}. - 
-. . 1 1.1: 156.11?" v-flI.ul- v.1, 
- 1' f? I: IvIA- Ilii
a r- 111:uI;llr E. 
o. 
Iii-'33, I Fri FE .1: g; 
?55- in - --.'Ilsi: .1 . 
Ti 32'; ?911: 11-1ill{1'1 
I. I'i i91- 
5; Ix _15 In 35 ?rrk - - ii..1- All2-an. . run-.111! var-.mrlm-v. I. I 
I. 31,11. luau-IBM..- [-2163th 
. .., .- 
I I .. I. ran. . . 1, ?Huey?? . . 

 
 

Strategic
Neighborhood

One City. For all of us.

  
 

-- INVEST DETROIT
7,1?2?
DETROIT

 

.-,

HI

~.·:.~•;'- ~-l 1,I·· :
.
·
_
I
•
· ~
. \~u ..-~
-•1"
-,' ,-.:.,;.~•1 ·
•. .......-'l'_'(

~~11~
• . ., .
,(']
~-I.

Table of Contents

.

•

~

•

'

~

~-'$.~•"'.V-~
.. - .-";f-'>.i

r1~·,·.:,~....,, -·~.:-~

I

!

-

·l°1•U;,,-;,,;), ·:~-,_.-

.• "

.>:--:- .
,1,

·1·"
JI,

,,.

;..... ,.

'

,,

~-:. ~ .

~~;,,,,.,.i.,,,o~nc\,,'1b_o.,l,&o
hol:;~f.i J~(_•?;.
, t' ln\'/e,tV,Jlog,,
,.,,. .\, ,
.
~, .
·.~,-

~
~ s ~ .;;
.,·I.~.:•I\\.',\• r • ":?•>;t
• ' . _,i:t_
- ~ · ' " "· · l

1

•. -

I·

I

l.

:-r ·:

'J,

.

The City of Detr:oit and Invest
Detroit are raising $56M over
five years in philanthropic support
for the launch of the Strategic
Neighborhood Fund 2.0.

The Tools
Planning with the Neighborhoods p.16
Streetscapes p.18
Parks p.20
Single-Family Housing p.22
Commercial Corridors p.24

This effort leverages an -additional $187M to
bring a set of five proven and expanded tools
to seven more Detroit neighborhoods.

T~~
lslandview / Greater Villages p.32
Vernor / Southwest p.34
Livernois-McNichols p.36

The Next Seven
Grand River Northwest p.44
Jefferson Chalmers p.46
Campau/ Banglatown p.48
Warrendale / Cody-Rouge p.50
Gratiot/ 7-Mile p.52
Russell Woods I Nardin Park p.54
East Warren / Cadieux p.56

Strategic Alignment
Greenways p.60
Complementary Services p.66
Conclusion p.72
V

~-

-

1

' ,. "\l•l.< . . . . ·-y·

..: · ~

,-f~~-,._, .,.1_~r_f1'-J f~t

Introduction p.1
Investment Areas p.4
How We Got Here p.6
Our Journey to the Neighborhoods p.8
Expanding a Tested Approach p.10

,n: U:Jr
· ;J, ~
·'\U

'.\'
•' '.
• '·,
I,.<r:.,
Li, '. "".
} '.

'

~

;.,•

:.

~,

~

 It is through partnership,
coordination and community
support that we will create
one City. For all of us.
Learning from our $30M pilot effort through
the first iteration of the Strategic Neighborhoorl
Fund (SNF), SNF 2.0 will c.oDtLnue,a_p..§!h Qf,
inclusivegrowth _ac;oss_Qetroit to create
livable, walkable, and vibrant neighborhoods
for all Detroiters.
Coordinated implementation between
stakeholders, along with community input and
representation, will revitalize main streets,
parks, streetscapes, and single-family housing
in seven additional neighborhoods. This united
front of partners and inclusive approach
will bring a tested and improved model that
provides flexibility to stabilize and grow each
unique neighborhood.

j'.~

tr

;.i+

"-".;.,f!;.'.,,.'<;.. : - ,6

t

tff• .!

INTRODUCTION

 ~

, . ~ - - ~ ~ • ~ . : - · . - , , ~'!~',,-==----.,,..,.,,,---_,__~
1

.-•.-~,$"'•~~~,l.}'i!1Y.-,.,,~-.,...-\;;<,"
~',ii-'::-i,:'.\iL'••~~c(fs,.~-:--~
_ ,.., l -~~;';l........._..__1;"'",t•:
..
• ·
...t..1.- .,:i!:~\lf..;,,;,'t""'
••..
"-·.I 1'1.-. I
.-J•• . ,

Investment Areas

I

-----=-•-=-::;._.; ;,~-··;.. .;r-;_____;·-•....:'~~----;;.:..~

~----- - · - - - - - - - - - - ,- - ~
.:......
&: --r-- ~ ;;..:
~ ·.:...
·' .;;..
"
-~- - ·,: --

Planning Projects
~

Strntcgic Neighborhood Fund {SN F) First Three

c:.::J SNF Next se-_•en

I

·~ - - - ,

..-.~ •

.

.

°W.-.""·{.!'~<"'.,W'-"
..
~~~;

-~... . · -

 Woodward Corridor Results~

How We Got Here

l£p~ ~ l .e~"1l_n_9~

P:.r! c1c:,tor·,: 3u~;r.:t1r.::;- ;_'"l ~C'l.d'lt'I"'.·,: [ •_t·c1t

Tl-.c C1:}· c f Detroit, lrw~st D~t,oit, -i3r.d partners ore: pur::uing
.;r u:-tan r!d~-.,c~o;:>:nent s.tr4'lC9'! unhke 3ny irnp\e:-n~m1:::d in
A:nef'ic? \Vt: began In 2011 •:.11th tt:e \"lo::dwilrd Corr1d01 h:it:ati, e
t hat b1t;l.:9iit c::::crdin~te=::: investment into t he Gre:31~: Do·,•1ntovm

~

.i

u

~JOO

H

S:250

In o,d~r t o .t>t abi;i:z.e tile Cit•i 'S core busi nc&3 d 1strici:. Ou r prJ.113 r y

..............:;,
.;;

-=)

gcal •::a• ::, sr-ur dev•1':pmcnt b·, filling fioonc:al gap< 'Nith J)2ti..nt
ln·..:e~:m,:ut s to p omote r.,Jrk.et ;;ue-ng:hcnir,g and sti:ibiliz3tior,. And
t 13 v.;urkinCJ , fhi~ n,c:;hcd anr.ticted new developme nt anc.J c"3dd l: ion.jl in•1cstment of mere than S7B in Greater Downt ovm .Jligried
.,.11h pul:>lic ir"'<es°~'116nt in en<J along th!! Olir.e, 'Ncodward·s 3.3-rnilc
r:Crc..:-tc'3r sy:.tcrn. Jt soon bcr.c:ime d iec1r that b ringing rcde·,1e,J~,,;>mcnt
t eals ir to neignbod·. codswou:d be t.'le next vital st ep In c-ontinuing
th~ momentum ~nd vision t o supPQ<t the en'.ire city

5200

Ocv~lopme.nt Cos ts.
Ot,,,1

S175
$1~0

Our initi~1ne•ghborh::c d pilot tit orted \'t;tf, tho -:reation of the
first s:,OM Stra:~gic Ne,~hborhood Fund. We begari our work by

li~tcn:ng tc the c o.-rununity's need~. e xplor(ng existing auets.
aoo ~~:;~s\tn~ ge:=:-grJphi':::'s tt-~l could q u1ck:y bE::n~flt from
t::.rsJeted invl.?strnenr. Arm8c.J w ith a kt:y scH o f metric:3 t o id entify
where 1hesc o ;;ip:ir~unities ex:~tcd , the firrit t hree nt!'ig hborhoods
•::e(e chc~n- ls1.Jodv1e--::;'Grcater \'illcJ~cs. Vernor/Sou:h,.,·cst,
;j,n;J L!•:•:1rnoi:;-~-,;,:: N1cho:s.

~

;.. cr.l;:~1 ::r..d s:;,-.,:,,n-; t'f:::e:=1 :.;, Of(.~r. in;i
.,F..;.r:1.l..t::.c x-ni-~• t-:::.;•, ::q

Thr~·.19h !he~e first tlu~e r:cighbor hcod:;, we learned three
:mi:::ort;,r,t le.:.>::ms:

,,;i;;s.r,,
--

•''Gal>

- .••··
......... •···

,.,

·----························
MarketA4 lD

I.

llbll~:1 I
.n~.t

701';.

7\ll...

~t.•_:j

201b

2G17

2013

1 :-·:,;•

-

Number of unit,

ft

Dollars P<!r ~Q/ft

20 20

-

':OZl

Millions

We should go dcepet. For o neighbo,hcoJ :o uuly lhrivc, we
must comider a l'lider array of tools-parks. bette, connectivity
and mobility. stronger commercial corridors, housing inter,·cn•
lions. and stron,1 community input end suppo rt.
2

3

We must continue t o focus on afford abilit y, A Detroit to:
.sll o~ cs rru: ;:1os that low-in~orne residents s.hoult.J ~hare in
tk recc·,er·, cf the City. ond t hey should t:e s<Jpporte~· and
protected as morket conditions and neighborhood dcnsit·,
improves, 5 t~F works alongside the City's Affordable Hous,119
leveroge fund (AHLF) t o achieve tl11t.

Affordable hou$ing Is central 10the City's induslve growth
~ a n d l)lays !I key role ln1heabUjtyto retain~

Coordination l s the key. Ir, order to be t;uc c-e:::;sful. v.'e must be

·re,fden11;attiect tjew rttsldenta.;and create mbcecl-lncome
coriununlties. The Cliy aeeded AHLF With $SO million and

t1ig~y coordin:ltr.d ;;o that we a re fu!ly tevc:ragir~ s~rergths,

int.ndt.t o graw !he fwld wtlli philamtvOCllc suppon to $250

~ddil:cn.1I tools. and aligned :11itiatives n ., heakh ,,nd human
si:'rvi¢~,;:. e::h:c.ltic n. moUilitY, and wor~ force d~velowm~nt.

million.which win unlock S76S mlDlan In total inwstmen1.

6

INTRODUCTION

 Our Journey to the Neighborhoods

L ,9 -J

J

.

~-._.

I ii

r:11

...

5'IilT:I:

f: ~: ?'._. ». :s '

,
t

01. 2018: Aiiotdable Housing
levarsgc Ftlnd (AHLF) annou
preserv.:a,on of 10.000 offo1
unit~ ond crnat,on oi 2000 r.

affordubfe units o,·ar five )'cra

n

~ ·-

n

-

---

18: Mayor , , e Dugga
launch~ SNF 2.0 and AHLF
.::ap,u,I campaigns to expand
:JP-se proven tool~ Into sev
more n~c hborhoods

•

T3rget Densities

-

100•• UPA

i.IQ GO UPA

-

40 UPA
10 UPA

S.TR/..ffEG!C
1"\J!::!GHBORHOOD

ma
011: Published the
ooclward Corridor
nit1alive. a 1rans11 oriented
evelopment plan

n•uSMkl::I

FUND
,...,-DE-.1_K-,O-IT-1

2015 •
03. 2015: L,ve6 Alliance
created by public/p11va\e
partnership tc se,rve L1veno1s•
McN,chols ne hborhood

2011-13: Woodward corridor
Initiative impleml'Jlted through
cata 1,1.ic project investment in
greater downtown

2014T

2016·

Q3, 2014: City of Detroit and
I nvesl Derroit identify three
neighborhoods to pilot the
model and learnings from
the Downtown and Midtown
work: lslandview/Greater
Villages. Vernor/Southwest.

Ql, 2016: Invest Detroit

n

acqu·ires property in West
Village and iniljates early
roncepts for The Coe
Ql, 2016: Mayor Mike Duggan
launches the Strategic
Neighborhood Fund (SNF)
capital campaign

2017•
Q2, 2017: Fitz Forward
selected to rehabilii8te
over 10D homes and
200 vacant lots in tne
Fctzgerald neighbor_hood
Q4, 2017, SNF surpasses
its $30M public-prl~a!J¼philanthr0plc fund raising goal
ahead of schedule ·
Q4, 2017: Cl ty a nno"u nces

Joe Louis Greenway. 26 miles
of non-motodzed tr'ansit

II

Q4, 2017, The Coe
Is completed and
open wilh fully leasoo

,!

.. : ·-:'?

 Expandin§ ·a Tested Ap1:>t0~ch,
Voltmlmi:nn!clp:11>111

SNF 2.0 builds off of learnings from the pilot in the first three
neighborhood•. Beginning with key metrics such as neighborhood
density, strong local leadership, and proximity to historic commer-

In~

,_..,:'1f1'1111'Jiellort1

cial corridors and other neighborhood assets,. we have chosen an
additional seven to bring much-needed investment.
Grand River Nonhwest
2

Jefferson Chalmers

J

Campau/Bang latown

4

Warrendale/Cody-Rouge

5

Gratiot/7-Mile

6

Russell Woods/Nardin Perk

7

East Warren/Cadieux

Within these seven neighborhoods, we wm
implement five primary tools~
To achieve fuH implementation of this p l a n , ~
i.-lPmHill'll"i ti,.:,, 1nuiDodm,..nt n~~ nvPr th,:a n,:.rl fivR ,l@Ar,:t

llleighborhood planning to understand
community needs

2
J

Improving streetscapes to create safe
and walkable neighborhoods

Philanthropic

Redeveloping parks to offer attractive
and active public spaces

4

5

SNF

Grants
Plaoning with the
Neighborhood

Rehabilitating single-family homes to
stabilize residential communities
Strengthening oomm ercial corridors to

- -

~

~
i.,~

~
- ''

City

- ' . f"'\'i ..."
,.,_ ,, ,

"' $SM

J_~~ i.;...~

multifamily development

.

Single Family Houses

$7M

~i~·

Commercial Corridors

Total SNF 2.0

Investment

,, ..
'

$49M

~- .,$_14'!'1
~

Parks

-~ ,.':-

..

Streetscapes

support commercial, mixed-use and

State

I

$56M

::-·,
r.••..._
<,

•

,$7M

, $3M
$49M

',.

' . ~.!.-: •>: ~..';,~.~

-·- - .,.

,,. " .. .
.~ $15M

$59M

$15M

$21M

$7M

'~ OM

$130M

Plus an additional $113M in equity & commercial debt= $243M in total investmen1

10

snc~T~131- i,£ 1(iHE.k,R~()Q-...: ;I 11'-J[J •- .....

INTRODUCTION

 !"~

,.,.__,.'.·te..~:

.

·!:.-::...........:!,

............
:::·.:;;,.··

·~ .

•.••'fl!
•• iJ •

...

~-~- •
.....~:",.... L

~~

~i.

~':~!9~

...-~1--•

..............
..... ..
111111,..U..:\
'

~

~19! I'.'!' ..,_
• ::, ....

.....,.

 I
~i .

P!t~r-~!J\tr~ \•Vith

I

~1~.8

The framework for SNF 2.0 relies on five
key components that all work together
stren then each nei hborhood's core:

I--Jsi1;/1hn;--hnnds

=

Z
:.~~

_I

•

•

Cl

w

--·, ".·.
'. .:~
;;:·::~:~;< :_-.
7:!f "''\;,~ -. ;. ·_ :
J

Cl

() I r1

-

{:./:~~..:

i, .

,

~

•

. -C--11'1_-f ',
~_-_:
.

4.... ~ /

'

!:T~'"~ !
-:i~.,_..}t..-{':
~.J-·
t
,?-,_ .., I

k•,

,,.?-',fJn -· ,.,;#?,':":.

a'l

'•"t~;_.)
.:•·'4.'~': ~◄ .i__.w-~

... ~

t
~ "ij.
-. .~-~ ' .l ,:·,,I !, \··
r:J_ .~-~.1.,;,.n:
.• .m:Ji;.~
l"'l
••.•
,..•. ... .• ,.,, . , , " r ..- ~ ,.•.. " •·t ..
, I !J-:
f t
! ......
~
l
,•
il~ - Q ■ __.o:·c"tJ: ,:j_ i-·1··
!, ''l!' •.,;t : ;I•t 1•- 1·- "'
r·~ .. ,_. , .,._ . ;• ,r~
. ..'$• i)
~ ; ,. ... . .
.• -

I

;I

--~~\·

-

',

,.

••

•, '1

~~---k·.,t•~

. • ......
"'-'
't, '':

~ 1--•::

•.a I j '
j,o. , • .

-

~~ '
'\ -

I

'

•

: 6I

: i'

•

,~ ~

't

,

F-3
, ~

'f=. l,

J\

i-

\\1

-:~ ~

---=--;=...p;-

I'
1,.

:..~
. ____
J ~
fl_,__·~,-. ;.,.. . -.::_~_' .,::.;._~
.

!_;

!

\\

nrr1c1CJ

. .

~:·11, \ • I

~~..!.~fl,.s- .

.. -

·

I

1•
·
·
•
~
ii .-::-..~l~-il

._. . . . .

.

-

i: - - .

•

$ /IVI to

,r

~ \\f1
\f r'·.'l"-1 •
:

;

·.'1---·

I':-:~,..
I/

I;.
1:

'l

'•

i· -

-,[' \

,\,-- J:J~.- ~--~4
. , '.r:~_

r\

~ -•
'.·• · ;,.

' "'• -.. ~
~;, • ~ I

• ---'

-·.

.,..

I

t -,

-·.

--:. . . •

.,:. '

"~·.---

"'V >,,

•

-

- ,..,I_
.. ._r_ •-

.:l:i!r-•-\

1 ~ . \ " ' .t

·::.

t

.

~-=-~;,I'/ ~ ' - ~
!,,\\
·~~ ;..
~-~~',.'\

~',1\'

,,J,.
i

n1 rl

r,

C

"'
~

!:'iii

■

r,

 SNF1 used partlcipatory budgeting. a democratic process
where residents decide how to allocate funds. in Vernor/
.:~, ,,••- -~JlJ';"~
~ JQ!!~J!!mitree of 28 residents (made up of
neighbors, SIU
~ m m u ~ t s . end business<!s)
( ,
was<ereated ~o deslgl) a!ld-execme a 11rocess to colleci ideas

Planning with the Neighborhoods

nl!I.

The success of SNF 2.0 relies on input and support from residents
and community stakeholders. Commun~y engogement tools such
as planning studies, participatory budgeting. and support for local
developers have been used with much success in the pilot.

q, c v, , Mfi'o'w d>i~~ thi!'a~~cal&l'$250:0Cl'O. The OOri'IJTiltJEi~:and

volunt~,ga,the~ed'hundreds.of ld.eas that wfll bti;voted on
by resloents. This p~ss'.eml?OWess ~den!!_end stuiel!~ ,

y, _l!e.f.<1,I! 2!,!_he,!!_e~n;_J!!~'!ll~£<?!!.s;):th.!!.,~.btill<!,l~
their ?.acl~ }.11 cl,'!!,qj,Jly ~~~9.! wlihj_~.:'Pfu_~~ thel'.~ll._hborliood:

.

Wiih\n SNf:'1 lj p~rarn w~.tl!t'\'.elGPed tqldentify,_and mentQr
architects,developers,-and builders who.are.Detroit-bas~-and
R_eppJ.a o_f,coloe.,lf!es_alndlvldyalS'ond thi!lf<OOIJ1P.3nles will
augment thelr experience and skills through neighborhood

p"!§)~Jb1ln~ st tn,eJr ca_ea~'\)'Js,'.€,( ~j l!J!.O~i-FIC!c
developments in ttie future.The opportunity to grow enc!
support a ne_w,gel)~~Q/loflpcal:devSJ.OP.~f,S;!Jnd awhi~
wlll bee lie)' !k!V!J):-pl 1>&1¢1_frs-ffau"re S;U_<;_eess.

C=::-mi.;~.ii~
t!~:lftt'Tlt:f't1fflC'~l,i4"1

The City of Detroit's Planning and Development Department (POD)

will lead neighborhood planning studies in each of the seven
neighborhoods. The goal of these studi~s is to solicit the input of
residents. stakeholders. and community.partners over an 8 to 12
month period to get community input on torgeted investments
in their neighborhoods and. ultimately, a comprehensive vision
of the community_

Philanthropic
Grants
Plcnning with th€
rJeiqhborhoods

Citv

State

SNF
Investment

~11
16

 Example: Livernois-McNichols

Streetscapes
Robu>t strectscape> that are appealing to both pedestrians and
small businesses are lmportam In developing vibrant commercial
corridors. Streetscape lmpiovements in each neighborhood wlll be
based on ~mall business needs and community Input. Some of the
fnterventlons may Include relsed pedestrian cross,ngs. medmns.
and bump-outs for outdoor cafes and merchandising.

(bo(,n)

Among the dlffercnt.c"omponen\S of the Lhtemois•McNichols
Nelghbor~ood Framework.Plan. launched 1n the sprlng of 2016, is
the ldentificat1.~n of a srreetscape rmp,ovement strategy 101' both
McNlchbls (between Maryg,oveCollege and theUnlvet$ity of
Detroit Mercy) and livemo(s (along the historic Avenµe of Fashion).
Those pJannlng elfortis:wlll continue to progress 1hroughout 2018
with implemenl:l!tioo qnticlpate,!f In 2Cl1_~ , . __.~ ,:.. • , .
•. _,-·•
-~-~ --~·.::r..t :::• •~ .

Pl',rldnthropic

Grants
Streels:-..3;:,5

Ctt'I
$49M

StatP

SNF
lrwestment

S49M

1B

 Examples:
Ella Fitzgerald Park

F,1rl-:s
Vibrant and well-programmed parks are a c,itical part of healthy
urban living and a priority for new investment across the city. A key
part of SNF 2.0 plan is the creation of one ' catalytic' park in each
t argeted neighborhood.

c~=--

t"t l(· :'

Ello Fitz9erc1lr Park

Additional investment in these parks wi11 greatly enhance the way
residents connect to 1he,e green spaces and will be destinations for
Oerroiters ac,oss the City

Herner

-

.

.

.

...J :~-,_-:_

, . ,, .

r, J, ,

•.;~1-

l

',

:r·· •--~ ........·, . ~ )·.:,
.~_;
..
,_.
~1
_r ; ..1/
lAI
\ 1t..,. ;t
,,. . J,.~ -:~":"~ ~> ,· 'W -~ u

This effort i• part of a broader plan that Includes City iTwestmenl
In park Improvements across all of Detroit, with soccer hubs and
multi-sport p31ks that will be destinations for ,esldents and families.
The goHI is a full spectrum of park types for Detroit'• residents and
visitors-spaces to gather, fields for individuals and leagues to play,

(~,;.. ·< \'.} ,:;"t:·~~·I:!!~-,-~ >.
J!P~
- •. ·d\~~ .:"' r::::=:---:..,.'./,.#t
Jli; -.:
Jlaiil

and active "Spaces for organized re-sident groups.

- . _ii

.

The eniatlon of Ella Ru:gerald Park in Livemois•Mc:Nlchols_.is
transforming weani lots Into a public asset: sn lnnovatiw
!
1.11e,or,bOgtited lon.d,to p,(o.vl):le an Important civic asset In the

~

F\u;gerald n~_ig!;,bo;hood •
•·_; '.;- ~ 11: -~.--. I_' .;(;'·~;.::I
j7::f~.~:":".;""1• ~I,, I ~('.1i•

Clark Park

;

.
.,. .- I

. ;

';f

'"'·),

·.r ... - ~ ..
,; ,'.O:.·.,"'."~£:A' t . ,.,.,
•~~• ·:.
• ~~ C.:,.~I ~ ~ 1/9

, t;:. ·. •·: ·, -,-~.

~

i~•-,' ;
~

-- I;·•,.'

i ' ~ '.(\

'II..

.. ' -'\ '. ,

. ; A, • ...- .. ~ ..';.· ' ·,

•

•

'f ~. -

~~

.:,-~ . ..:~ ..

-

I

•

:-./~---~ . -~ . ·~ .. ,:..:__lo.-•;.::,,:,.~.:~ ,•:.-1.

:> ....· ::~··:, ). ' ",. ..·z,;f.,

, .•..:~ :~ ....

I ~. .
; _....,

r.;

~-~,~-~,_
~, ti'i~;i_~~~l
~l~; ~
""-L~f- t ~ •
,.,if.~ ~ t1
, { I·. •11
'I ,,.
•. • - l .,,.
... t

.. r.. ,

.(

C -

••

•.

.

~

;,.;f·~

Phili•·':.thrc·J;;....
(..:r;~nt.::

:::,1,.

S14M

$7M

Stuie

■
· d·n13'--~-.--:·_·&, ..-_. . I,_

snr
ln·. ~strnE-nt

Clatk Park in Southwest Detroit connects to the neighborhood's
reran corridono.provlde sare access that promotes waliabirity

S21M

betwee n both spaces.

'.'!0

lHETOOlS

2

 Example~:
LivernoisMcNichols

Single-Family Housing
Dotroit has a concentration of vacant single-family home structures,
mony owned by the Clty of Detroit and Its agencies. that can be
leveraged as an opponunrty to improve neighborhoods. There Is
o llmltod supply o f move-in ready homos throughout Detroit. Due
to the physical condition of the homes. low property values. ond
trght lending market. obtalnlng financmg for renovations is d,fficulL
Areas of public ownership of vacant housing can be transformed
by targe ted efforts to remove blight. add density. and improve
market conditions to make additional prlvate development feasible
and attractive.

In Livem~McNlchols. lheCity 1& p,loting ecomprehensllle
revlta!llation-strategy with the goal or creating o bRght-free·
quarter~uare'mUe. lhe prolect ar-ea ls located between
two longsuHjdi".19 ~dem!clnstitutions. Marygrove College
and the Unlverslty,.q_D.~1roiH,1c1oy, and Is bordered by two
growing commetcial conldo(s. Livernois Avenue and West
McNicholsRoad. O(der to tran-sfofm ~ vaca_nt lot arid
home ln the project area, the City worked with re.srdents to
establish a'plan with three componenu:
,

In

f

RellOValion of105 vacant homes both for sale arll! rem.
including affordable and market rote

2

Landscaplng and meintel)ance of more than 250 ~ n t
lots to aeate f)IJ)doctive'landscape

3

Creation oh g1eenwiy through the neighborhood to
Improve conriecdv1tY
~

.4

Fitz Forward--·--.

'

_,,..,, •\i'1-- "
"._'N...

1,~
,I

>; '

\j I
. >

. ' ,,,J '
;'"
i.'! Ij I-~ • "<'•
..
·• ' ,. : ' !

~

-

..

I

;_ ';_:·7·•;-;'\ _,. ,.• •
P.!

,,.:-.:. l~ •

Ph il21 ,ch rop,c

Grant.::;
S1ng1e-~~m1}:,
'-louiing

$7M

;,~It-,,

State

$NF
Investment

,

·•1

t, ••
,·.- ) ' l·,' '

-··I

• •.

'

C:

''

•

r1_ '"".~
".

I, • '
'

t
I' i ; I J> ·a,,
'

y,

.,.. . . '. •/ I
· .....~·( ·:~.· -~-,,'""'':'

,,/'

.,

.\

Fitz f'orward, a pannershlp betwe,,n local development llrms
Century Pan,iers and The Pl.ltform, Is leading the home
rehab aria vatant,!ot l111p1oveme,ns. T~Ol\V'..Parks and
Recreallon Oe_panm,mt ls leading the construction of the
park and greenway.

S7M

27

•

!!]- . .
'·•I •-- l!:;1
"
..
,.. '; ~"'
'j. • - ,.,
.,,- ::-- I_ .".:•.;'·-~,
.,;
1
-~ -. •
.,., : f.y ...f'i;'-: ! .:
f---

~

Each neighborhood w,ll hava a uniqua interven1ion depending
on inventory and communily Input. and d eeper affordability
will be supponed by the Ciw's S250M Affordable Hou•ing
Levera11e Fund (AHLF).

..
0'
\..:U \

'

~•·\~l(".!-=2.r,i1I\' t-.or1...- 1r, t'."I'!:!
- .,l•~l'!:d:J 1'>,.~n::.;1!.;.:"l.1

.

'' "
• • ....~ 1
.1
. " .' 1lt.-j1·
' ,,·
. .rh'
•• . ~' •.t,1
. ,·4
t :<r..,_·._·,
•' •
■ Jt~::- c ;_ ;
,,/ \ I ~t: .. ·,,,
-

t'-l

--·--rl9J'-1~·~·

.
· ! u ) '

-

THE TOOLS

 Example:
Kerchev~I/

Commercial Corridors
Strengthening commercial corridors is crucial to the urban fabric

Van-Dy$

and economic success of Detroit neighborhoods. When these
corridors are fully activated, they fill the everyday needs of residents through walking, shopping, good and services. and places to
interact. When 1hey are thrivingl they support local entrepreneurs,

grow small businesses, and provide quality job&.
In a city of predominantly detached single-femily housing, these
corridors can also provide mixed-use livi~g of different housing
types and si,es not found in mosl of the city. With over twenty years'
experience in this work. Invest Detroit is leading the effort on this
panicuiar component.

Similar to the approach in SN Fl, m-.crodistr'tcts of 810 15 blocks will
be identified for investment targets that will encourage outward
growth from these strengthened main street cores. Microdistrict
identification begins with in-depth asset mapping of each neighborhood's conditions. commercial corridors. and all potenUal property
and their ownership. Leveraging experts within the City, long-time

Detroit archltecture and urban planning partners, and in consultal ion with local partners, representative massings and pro-formas
will be crested for rehabilltations or oeJ.. construction. Next. we
will work with neighborhood leadershl~ to prioritize end sequence
projects based on theirlmportance to t~e community, location, site
control or partnership opportunity, and!finencial feasibility.

Streetscapes: Opparumi{y ta
.

'·

--,-

capture $'1.5B of retail'clemanc:i

Ph1lantl1 ropIc
Grants

City

St~tA

sr,F
lrwestment
,,~;-.,

Commercial
Cor.:-1dors.

$35M

$15M

·~

; .....

$SOM
~-;~. f:1:·

24

THETOOJ.S

t~· -

.: . , •.:...;.· ~ ;..,._1. ~ .--:~ ·>·. ·!• ·*.
-;::--;,~..~:'-'~ti-•,~. -;..~.......... ~--

z

 tfl
.,.I,~.~
__..,

r~:.~
.,,_
....

:~~.,,............
!~!::::~-;~
u1u1w.,,

......,....
-.,:;;

.......

11~•:~.. ••

_,,,.

I •''"~'!
N •

~-

;;

'."•~~·~~ ! • ~.'

::; ,;.,,..

•1

'I' )'.

I.. •·~: -' C:

•

■
,tit :

.......
·:.;:,::..L
·....~· ~~ :.:,

..... ,...

1"•l~. ': \~•~

-::
!:':'\''
1q..,,
.......

"

•"• ••ttt

• •

'l • 1•
,.- . . . '

• , .. "

•

,, -.
II'

• • .:. '

) I If'!!"',, ~,,__..,.. 1.,_
i .:I ~. • Utl 1 1, • • 1.·,- 11'1 ,m..; li1:1i1,
.... •I• f~l.411 I •:"° !'I' I l.■ tJl~I I 1 ! t~• t
.. ;;;.,; ,; • j;;;.; _-.., ii,ti,-KI •

,,..........
~;:..~.
........................
;" '• r1i1 ;

a,.-....1u

0

~· "~t"'

1101111~ .....

.-u...

I • ;, . .

"""!• ~ ··~ ~..,.•_•~-~ ! ,
.; ,:f:1:;;,;.i~~:..~•;,;.. ii. I,.., 1,u'f' !"'11i~i~•-•.~~~~"'
i11,.; 1 i I J,;," Mlt,.1ii111 I J
! ~·-~

.

~•J·•·~·•-~I_ ,,.,.

: ,.;,.;;, ••• i, •• i ;_

...
i~

,'t'-,

.,

"!.. · ~ ! ! ..._,, ···~ !·~~..~~""!'!

!ff!'U If-

... .. ..... -.:........... 11... t 'f -,... ': ~ •~•l ~• t • I t.., .,. •! I\ I

\ '• ••• •~

tu 1li

't~~~" t !:\~· ;~.~~.:~1;~~1::•:i~t~~~

a,_

..

'

.:

I

#f ;;,{·~:

I
.,..

 The First Three I

Investments

0

Catalytic Park

Streetscapes

Planning Projects
-

SNF First Three

-

 By learning and adapting, our pilot

in the first three neighborhoods is
working. The efforts in these areas
continue with a robust pipeline of
projects, and we have been able
to draw from our successes and
lessons to prove and shape our
plans for SNF 2.0.

Ttle-Mun.ay
l:M.iilding in
SclU\hwest Oe!rolt

Thougt, work iri these neighborhoods
continues with robust pipeline of projects,
clear successes have been identified that are
proving and shaping dur plans for SNF 2.0.

a

Horne in the uv,emon neighborhood

30

<?o.r, ;,:

'Ji·;;ii~<;w,i,,(\i:

F.•r.~· '!·'.)

THE FIRST THREE

 L

..
l

lslandview / '· • ·
Greater Villages

~/

,

C!
Ir , .

;,

;,

I I : ! i.

I

:; I: jl
: !

.'~

-

:!

1

I

.....

i

l·L I I ;

l)p_d~te·otdslandvlew / Greatet v.illages,
Within lslandview / Greater Villages, West Village is our first
neighborhood to prove that t argeted investment fn an 8 to 15 block
microdistrict can jumpstart a neighborhood's economic turnaround.

:1. i
•• I
I

The Coe, • mixed-income, mixed-use new construction project
opened in November 2017. Led by Cliff Brown and Woodborn
Partners, this 12-unit project was the first new construction in the
n ei!Clhborhood in over 30 years.

:, : !

l
:;.l !'1

! ; ~

.:..
u
...
-

-

I ,;

j

[ ;

~

1

;

: :

i'
.! -:

'" ,,..

t ·....:~

:

,: ,:.

L1 1 •,

/

..

n-

'. j '(7-

-.......

I

•t_:, ,1a'::

~

..

:I n•

... -~

,..

.,..

'.,
.. - ..-•...' .;;~.:
-

_

~;_:1 ::~~:..

:=;-;
,,

'

,

,,,, _..

l.!i ~

•

!

''-'..

l

~.t .' :~: :' : ~
_,- -:-- ~~. r.i:·.::-!' L

__

Completed picturenf rh~ " - .

I ~'

~~!-:::
. i

\

I

•

I II

....

i
I

~

"'
....
----=e , :: •:L,. .._ :..

SNF1 was able to support the installation of a MoGo bike
share st ation on Agnes Street two years ahead of schedule,
as weli as doubling the capac\ty of a community planning and
implementation effort to transform a neighborhood alley into a
green alley that would remediate storm weter flooding.
Through the City's community planning efforts, improvemenls lo
Kercheval slfeetscapes and Butzel Playfield are being finalized.

~.. ~--, ... '
1

,

A significantly larger mixed-income, mixed•use development is
planned at the corners of Kercheval and Van Dy~e. This project
will be approximately 75 new apartments with 20% of them
affordable at 80% and 60% AMI above 7,000 SF of new
local retail.

The City of Detroit is releasing • n RFP to rehabilitate 2B homes
and invest in 50 vacant lots just north <if Buztel Playfield.

...

. ~ . ·: \ !

' \ ~i:
mm
mm
□

Mntm City

Match (new smal/ business support)

Motor City Restore (existing small business support)
Single-Family Housing Proj"F Area

THE FIRST THREE

..

 " ,··'

.

••

-

_)

""t\

.•. _... _ ~\\
-!.... ;

,#

;.

\

"I_

,,;.

Vernor / Southwest

.Updat~otrVemGi'.:lSautbwest ;

.__-'.\

..

-~,·~

..

.-::,',.
: u>

~ ~

.. ~

:

\ ·'

...

.. '..)·

.---~c'l,lgan"X"I'.'!

t"\

....

."

.

~::

...

... - ...... ... t
~

,'
\,

'\

. \.~

~;,\_'. ·-q. ,-:,.

~
::..:
••. \.,nt
• .. .,,.

\

\

't

. \' ~'.

\ -.

. ~ ,<I>'I
" -

~•em■

.

•'°?.

...

V

...

.-.•

,.. .. :; ~
,?'''~ ., .,

-i'·

-·.\ .

\

,,,/
..~ ;.i._

~

-:,
;:..

.

""

.,

\

''.

..

.,;.~

►

Guided by communi ty priorities. The Munay is the first
development project In this geography. This rehab of seven
townhomes will st.blllze a key corridor in the neighborhood right
next to Western High School, guided by local developer Eme,y
Matthews end Ms firm Real E.tate Interests.
To complement the planning process the communlty requested
an even m ore democratic piocess for determining how to ln\181t
in pubnc good infrastructure. This panfcipatory budgeting
process Is a first In Detroit and kicked-off in January of 2018.

A larger investment ln !I mixed-income, moxed•use site at the
corners of Vernor and Hubbard fs planned for let.e 2018. This
project is expected to be 50 to 70 units above first-floor retall.
A developer wlll be selected through SNF1's Initiative 10 develop
Detroit talent in Spring of 2018,
Through the Vernor / Southwest neighborhood planning study,
investments and enhancements were Identified for Clark Park
and the adjacent stteetseape along Vernor.
In response to the neighborhood's desire to supPQrt businelSes
on W. Vernor, e ·zocalo" space with a fountain, recalling
traditional public spaces in Mexico, is planned for the north edge
of Clark Park along Vernor Highway•

-~..:-..
-~.~

I

~ ··o.,.,'..

(-,,,.1.,iJ,

• ".~

,_; ..

. >.~1 ,v,..
·"-",'
'\
~.;.;..,,~

IDI

·,.

• '\

The approach In Vernor/ Southwest relies on the activation and
engagement of the neighborhood by convening the strong l ~I
panners into one unifled strategy.

~

.... . ~-.'·-

·:..-\

··-·
n,, ·ii
· ,:~
.,

.

t"

{

. ..

~ '. ilia

. .~.[ __ ,
-lI·111'~
•- .
.
.. - • ., ·...._...,. ·

t-. . .

. .t.~ii~ ' •

-'••.-,
.· · ··".
-.•
- '.
.-•-.
' I· ~ ""'°~tr.·
.. ". j'.·.....
.
~•.'-••·•:)\ : "·I.Ill f,_i
'\......
.~- • ,.•..=-·' - 't,~, . ' '., -4 , ...,, _'· . .· ....... 11

-..l~

\

....

I

··/

\l

.._

·.

~

.•

.

· . h'

I

.

B<,gloy SIJo,ed Street Ronde!ing

Motor City Match (new small business suppart)
34

-

:~~
'

....

.;. 1P. HEf:1£· N-:i,:·:rtB<J~H•"::•)D =tit\D ".!"!-,

THE FIRST THREE

 ~

-- .

-•

tJ i;

;i

".'",

:•""'-

•

;

..... -·,
\

~

' '·

...· ,; i1'1 !f! t

Livernois-McNichols

rn 11t-i •'f.-\ Iii
I;

Livernois-McNiehols shows that beginning with strong community
assets and onehors and a holistic approach can revitalize a
ne;ghborhood where 40 % of the res idences are publicly owned.

l; :L <
1·:~ ; :
l j

i

Update'.<>tl•llvernois,MeNichofs

Through tl\.e netionaUy competitive Reimeginlng the Civic
Commons (RCC) initiative. vacant land and blighted home s were
repurposed into a new .City park, Ella Fitzgerald Park. in. the hoan
of the Fitzgerald neighborhood.

-~

i-HP

LI _,..

... :

~! f,"; t~• ~ ;
•i l• '•'
i' •r
I.·< ·,•1
•• <: •\:
• ; f.::.!
I • ..-1 • I

Vi

L :· . ,-,... ,.-.... 1·tfd t' '

II·'

~

~I

r1 !~i ;1t=• ,u. :•

!.:! ·ci ,~ ·· ._
t: ?

·J

; _;
-:
: ., j .. ,

/·!

Al

·~ ~.

1·•1 I

I

rI ,!! r ·........_-----·

I•-·--~~ ~

n

:!j H i',1~i t;.j

~t

., l , •··; :•· i

1·

►

Running through Ella Fitzgerald Park and connecting the
University of Detroit Mme'( on the east and Marygrove College
on the wost. new pedestrian greenways arc being built across
ten city blo,cks.

•

Over 100 vacant homes ere being rehabilitated and 200
vacant lo!$ programmed by a development collaborative
called Fitz Forward in responso to a City RFP. as pan of the
City's commitment to stabilize single-family housing in each
neighborhood geography.
Two one-unit commercial spaces 1ha1 suu ound already-active

businesses will be rehabllitated through partnership whh
aspiring de velopers as part of che commitment to growing a nd
supporting local talent.

i .. , : ·• ,

~-:ii'.: ( I \i = . :' II !• j
i'J 1•'1 ::' j_:t ~J r,; H
1_

,~ -~ N

1
•~,

i~{

University of ,,
I : . l 1; j
Detroit
Mercy · ;,l1 ' I
( ri ;l:,
-1·

, I
~

•

V
-

J •1 f

,. . .

1

·1·-- , .

(

t

j :~

nH
: , ':,
:·:i

i_

!· ;

~ >f j i i

~~. ...... , ,

-

-, , 11~ I s •• ': ~· ' •-~ ~- ••, .'"\"V t.,.- . '
i-: I'
I >• • • • I ' I
f .J
· •. ! : f • • i;,1 : • • • I i • :
1 .I'

I

I •• I

...
;

I(

0

I • '

I~:

l

•

,:

!

I

1•H1: 1

: · .-

!

l·

!_

j

.'

I

j

L

••

._

•

'

•

~

s.

~J

.'•· ..,I . . I I '

- ",I ;

I

ij

g

-.

~

! ; ; : . t, ! i
(· 'l •l•:1 1:; .. ,, ~
·'
~
' ! : ! . I ' • ! ! t· i • t • • ,= ··, j .
, ·1: •1il :_•I· ~-d•~:
~q • '.,.:; r- 1• f-i ·" "'I { :h
ll ·t' \
• I
~
I

,..
~

I. l

~I

.• 1 .• !
I

I

•

•

' .. . ) I -:

• • I _;

~

.

.

f

'I

·--

...

mm Molor CitY Match (ne w smell business suppon)

.: , f •• r : ••

. I! ti l i H
I

I

i •

i.,

• l

i~

? ; • '

.,.
!I .

Single-Fam~y Housing Projept Area

·' ""

-

.,

.

~-

; -!--

'i. 'ti• ;-~f·,, ~ \

,i

THE FIRST lHR[(

 ........ .........

!!'!!.•.•:t ,111u1u1t1•••1•u• ••
iii,iiii.i;,;,.iiiiiA

1i11ifu I

-~~~~!~!!!!!

........
..:..:;....

!!~•~~~·:~~

......................

na.it u .. u••11co•u ,...,_._..,..,

· ·- ·,-:.·~•"·"·

.-,.-.•• . --.L.
'·- - ..... L,
■

n.• ..,._..,.
:I

I

:••'

I

~

_ .... ;,.
tt''. I ....!I-":.-..-~"'
I'·1=.,,
,.........

"'l' •' · · I • , ~;~.:-~

;::~;

- ·· = I

•

.0 . . If ..

I

I

i

I . . .,

'!'-'.'.'t,'.'r

;;t~.;; ;;.~::\ .

;;.:.

-:n·•· \'.' \0:"• 1iu1 •"~ ' '7·7'~ ~•t

:,;1,.\1.1,11 .,....,..... •.: ._._....__ ....1,

.........u ...., ....

"'.I :.-.• '·;1•.u~~'!.,..1'~!=~::::la.':?"".'-t"·_.....:::...._i..:.,
.l II t ,·• ··i l•· :. · - .....,. -· ~ .. --- ··•~....-,..
t ...,, . ,. ...... ,,..,. •~--"'• "--• ----' ..................... .

i.,

• 4

·I t · • -u••• ·~••- •,

i

-

·-

.. •

-

M

rrw1.,~

-·

ff'I~ .......-:,,,,.,

If -

t i.

" •

,1,,..,-,-,:~-.•

1

, , ....,.

.
:- :=:·~·\,\'~\~,

•:, i-=ht·=l"''
• ' ~~, ·:.:·. V• •:\ ,\.......
~::-.-~ ·., ·.;
\ .
.. ,\~":'
' \ \•.
-.-,. •' ..... ,,....-~. .\\ ..
•• •

\ ·'

I.

\

'\

..

.:::\·;t•::·;i. ·:~:,.
·"" .,;; .,..

..., , , ....;.·;:..,- .;
_..},

,.
, '\ ,} ....

.

~ .. ..

-~'\\

:,.v• ••••• ' \ \ ~
'

...-;

~N·~
"
. -~~
\

' \ ·::::.
::~.:~.,:·
J.\'\•:~✓\
-. -~ ,':.~ \- ... \ : ,.-~~
'
.... • . ... $ .. -:' . . ., .. -~· • ., t, \':, \''.\\ • \ ·,
,,,.r:,.\o ; .. • ~.~'..' ,•....~ \ \ , ''\\:'\~,\c\) 't.
' .•ti'!'!
II

I

1•,

j;

,;

9"''4.

•

. ., ··"' . .. •' "' \'" ,. ?t\ \ \\.'- \\'

. ..

•.•"~:~ ~:.:
•.• .'!,'
.., ....

•
,.,~.;,..;i

~\""<";.:.,-·,...-~/\\\.
:;····. '\\}\:~
\.}\i\\
..,,.
,:>
•.
·
•.
'\
,.
•
-~v,
\·\
1'
.. ,
.• ,.,.\~~_,~ , .
,:;..... ·. ·..'\
"· ·.. ·':--\ ·.~:-~..
.
... "' ·.• ·.·.·... .' " .. \~'.'.
-...
. :.. -:-:. ·•.:,'
:-. -..·.-~.. "" .. . ' .\ -~
•',·
·...... . -..i. .... . ,•, •.
.... --•,........·:·\. . ..........
.. ,~.• , .\\~'
·· · :.,.f ~\\\'.\ \':,•.'(\\'

I.. ,,.. : " C
. ,... ~ .11.11

•:a • ,.

•

..

j

t

!·~~ ·• '·'

t

•

..

!.;;•.;i,,l:;,••~ "

•-rn:~~~• ~)

.,,J_~~ ~·t·.~
•f

••"lh

..j~.,~~..., ·,

._.._ ~~•u.1,

~•.~!'!'.
1!1111_'~.l,r ...~ '!''~!',~~~!~~· ftrlt~t ~ Hf ~-'~r.'":,~: ~
,i ,,I ,;m,J-Jwltt';,,. i••i ti I,•• tttt'lli ui I i111~I , t , .a"iian itl,..,.·..,, I
1_,.,.. ·f•t

~ !~~~ \'J•t•~·!~•~ tJU• ·•~" ,i.~•!~'!
~

.,...,.

.c

...

,;niitt'.j~,.- ii,,

.,._, ••

t1-

•I•

•

t·Y\ ~ . .

11

••t

•·•·••Jt .. ,

··

::·t·· 'X~n::~t--::~;"'•~

11

~

!''"'!-'~••;-: !U"H ft_ ~

,t41to.i.:. fh.•lltw-.it, ~ - _

IUh•tl:9111• •tllf

,-;.,.;,·,,·~.;~u·

1• •

..
~ \ '.

,,i ...;_, • ,.,. • Wd ,

,,;.: •• • ·

'

·w...

'

•

•

. . •,

\ • •

, , \ , (

.....

..

\ \

,

•

I

:

'.\.

'I. • '

--

.. \ ,· \

t.

\

' .. '\ '. ,•~

••' -··: . ·. ". \ ~ \\ \\\-, \t ·.• ,~·:\\\ \

,..

I

n ;....

\ ~ . , .• . • . \-\ -~
-:~.\\~ •. ' ). t .• ♦ \ ' \ \ \
~~
\ 14 \ \ • \ • ~ \ ~
•
\ •
"\ ' ~
\\ ••
\ ·~ ". \
i.. .•
~;\. ~ :\ \~•-\
'.

·~

\ • ,\ .
\" 1

.• \

i\ \ )

\ \\'

,\.,\'·· ·, .

.\

t'

\

\ \

".\\\

~\ ~
\ \~\ ~ ,~ \ .., \"\\', •• \ \ ~ .

"~,... .,\ '\,, ~\\ , ..., . \ '·. \_, . \ 't • ...,.•,
~~,

\

 Th e Next Seven

Investments

0

Catalytic Pa,k

Streetscapes

Planning Projects

m

$ NF Next Seven

 As evidenced in SNF1, we know
these interventions work best in
communities that have a key set of
assets that can b~tter catalyze
investments. A similar data-driven
approach has been used to identify
the next seven neighborhoods.
These areas were identified and sequenced
by an analysis focusing on higher residential
density that was supported_ by a central
commercial corridor and nearby public assets
such as parks-and schools. This allowed for the
identification of neighborhoods where there
were many strengths to build from and where
a little more coordination of resources and
investment could go a long way.

THE NEXT SEVEN

 Grand River Northwest
Place-Based Assets and Organizations:
►

Arts and culture center around Old Redford Theater

►

Destination grocery chain (Meijer)

►

Rogell Park

►

Five strong residential neighborhoods in Grandmont-Rosedale area

,

North Rosedale Park Community House

►

Long-serving community-based organiZBtions such as Grandmont-Rosedale Development
Corporation, Minock Park Block Association, Artist Village Detroit. and Detroit Blight Busters

.

,:,
,f
~;y.
f:'~_
~('
~

·~· • •

_.,

~It:

,Ji&.-: - . . ~~~

-\,

.

,~•\... -~_-;.-~ '.'),, '

·--~ -~ ..·- . ''

• ."

~i--~

'

~~-.
•,'-'}._

,··•.
....'Jif -~· . ;:- ~:· ...., • t.::...~-.,.;,~~-~- .

..

~'

-

...-,

-

?. b.... . .:..·~-~,1.;·:
l?~»- ~~"'.i~'-• ,4

I

-

-- •

"

~If- .

·,,\,-

-(~,p~;...

f "''''"' ,_

•.I

\.C.~~

, . •:- t'. ;j•.,S; ~ -:
1, -,~€.;f_,t.-'.j.,:',:,

~ ~

1'!:.:t.mJT:1•_·.J:•. r ,.1:.i, :1 ') ~.1:-:•: .-ni~ t,:,.;.;i•.:=.I

Ct:!li,-:1 R'.~cr ;·,•c1I...Pli.l::~

Neighborhood Information:

7,002
people

'f
~

SQMI

Rggell;Par_k

Q1,2017

Scl'l:OICfJ~ S•

Population Density

1Catalytic Park

Plannin,i Study Kickoff

- - Planning Area
-

Streetscape

■

Catalytic Park

'~.~
..'·'ti../)
~ .

'/ '·

·,...

4.:t

T,iE 1,iE>:T SEvrn

~

 Jefferson Chalmers

Jefferson Chalmers
Place-Based Assets and OrQanizations:
> Detroit River access via canal system and 160+ acres of public ri~erfront par1cs
> Existing historic mixed-use architecture along Jefferson

"\

_,,.$,.,..

......,~-

\

•

Dedicate<J community-based organizations including Jefferson East, Inc. and Eastside
Community Network

> Foundational prlor studies on which to build such as Lower Eastside Action Plan

"1-

•

New investment in public streetsc.ape, on-street parking, and protected bike lanes

►

4,000 jobs at nearby FCA Jefferson East Assembly facility

:::---<~·

Commu11it11 S\slt.eholder Mee[ing

Jct-inion & Ca. Sl'ol'l on €.. J~rs.on Ave

Neighborhood Information:

3418
people ., SQ Ml

Population Density

AB. tora ·Park

Q1,2.0J8

Catalytic Park

Planning Study Kickoff

THE NEXT SEVEN

 ~

Campau/ Banglatown

Campau / Banglatown

Place-Based Assets and Organizations:
►

'~

. , ...
.....
,,
t

-,

...

Diverse m il< of ethnic communities

►

Recent philanthropie<1lly funded cross-cultural exchange project

►

Increasingly stable population w ilh high owner occupancy

>

Dedicated community-based and arts organizations including the Bangladeshi American
Public Action Committee and Poworhouse Productions

►

Jayne/Lasky Perk. youth recreation playfields

►

Ride It Sculpture Park, youth•focused public gathering place

; . - ic!:-

Jayne/Lasky
Park

:I
I
Bangl,.row.n 81oea Cl1,1b

_,,,

Cnmmunity SOl:cer 1t Jhne!/la&ky F-ark

r

,.
Nei~hborhood Information:

~
-

Planning Area

-

7,234
people

SQMI

J_?.yne/Lasky
-..Rar,,k.,
.·.... .

Q2,2018

Catalytic Park

Planning Study Kickoff

.:_~

Population Density

Streetscape

■

Catalytic Park

THE NfXT SFVfN

 ..
Warrendale / Cody-Rouge

D
"'

~
if

[

~

~

a:
..,

·-

_.,.,..
Clllca!l!> I'/

-I

Playqround

~

Place-Based Assets and Organizations:
►

Youth-focused strategies iden1ified 1hrough philanthropic/corporate support

•

Diverse population shared with neighboring cities of Dearborn and
Dearborn Heights

..r

~

~

> Access to regional park and greenway ne1works through Rouge Park

\

.

►

Commercial growth potenl\al along Joy and Warren, including publicly
owned parcels

►

Dedicated community-oosed organizations include the Cody-Rouge Community Aciion
Alliance. the Jay-Southfield CDC. and the Warrendale Association

'It;

·,
!,
I•

Wcr1enC.1:!e t."lian..-=r A~dP.m-,

C~mrnuri1:y wed: in River ikrn;i~ P-prk,

~wariffl A~ ..";
\

I.

i

·\

'~°

,.

Neighborhood Information:

f

7,111
people
SQMI
Population Density

Planning Area
-

Rouge Park
Catalytic Park

Streetscape
■

Catalytic Park

50

THE. NEXT SEVEN

Q3i2018
Planning Study Kickoff

 Gratiot/ 7-Mile

Gratiot/ 7-Mile
Place-Based Assets and Organizations:
> Dense. stable, single-family housing in Regent Park

E8~i~Ave

I

.,,

•

1

,1 --

r

. \ . . . . , • ~ ~ ..,.

, ..-

.

►

Collaborative working relationship with neighboring Harper Woods community

►

Longstanding community-based organizations including the Osborn Neighborhood Allianoe.
Matrix Human Services, Life BUILDERS, and the Mohican Regent Association

►

Heilmann Playfield
Dense clusters of retail at Gratiot & 7-Mile. Gratiot & 8-M"rle, and Kelly Rd.

J

_

I

;1:,:-4

-~

~ .:ari~·; --

l.

Heilmann
-y~ ,._, 0 ::c-;,;, Playfield , :..-: .,.

Gf.i0t
1 ,

----

, .t..'.>'

TI:

II

• ~ECP.Elfl;l~;R~wr
...
CNTE~
..•

4

r-. i
...
......·..- ---·.·· 11
.... ..
,·-. :r'l

-::---:-=-~~~--=- :=---._

I

[7 M'1le: Av•

_ _:_~/{:✓

, ~a,....':~;•-uc.n:,~- -:--

J

·

.

-":

·

~

H&ilma11n Rec;:;-";n;cn Center

-

Community Work in the r.ieighborhocd

.

..,
~

'

Neighborhood Information:

6,140
people

·l'

. ··{- --- --

..

-~

-

Planning Area

-

Streetscape

■ C..talytic Park

-- .......

·--

~-~.,._ ........

,.~.,..·

·Plaitieid ·

Q.1,.2019-

,111.,
Population Density

Catalytic Park

...
52

THE NEXT Sf VEN

~

!'

Heili1fann

SQMI

., t

-·

Planning Study Kickoff

 Russell Woods/ Nardin Park

Russell Woods /
Nardin Park -

Place-Based Assets and Organizations:

.,

~-

'I.
\

.
'

Historic apanments and commercial buildings suitable for renovation

►

Music and arls legecy. with acti\/e neighborhood Jazz festival

►

Dedicated local community-based organizations including the PleaSllnt Heights Economic
Development Corporation and the Ru1Se1I Woods Neighborhood Association

►

Russell Woods Park and Zu•sman Playground

►

Central neighborhood location with COl\venient city-wide access

Fr,•--~~~?~}-.:tt(;~

\
\

....... .___. -·

...___,,. - ,:.-~

~~ ~

:-~:::;_,C;:::i('":~-f

\

l:m.ffltlYtadWJI
'

Dense, well-erafted residential homes

►

:~~~~ ~~~-~:~:rf:~;f~• -,~~•• •\;J:!• ~-1:=c I:.
r;;., - - _,:,_. -~/ .... ,."'.''1l•, ·: _, .. -•

°\
\

-

l!

►

i.

•

-

.

I

., ,..,, ...

ibc....i,d 4.llc.r. ~Mt

\

\

-

Streetscape

..

~

--~
..........JJ>..:

.~

'i
''

■

Catalytic Pa,k

i

.,.

\

Neighborhood Informat ion:

~

P,anning Area

1-ii~:onc .tr.::nitpr_1u1@

·'

....

-

-

5,987

people

,,

SOMI
Population Density

Rus~ell
Wosds•Park
Catalytic Parlt

;;
lHE Nf XT SfVFN

Q.l, 2018
Pla nning Study Kickoff

 East Warren /
Cadieux

East Warren/ Cadieux

""--,""

Place-Based Assets and Organizations:

,.

Jo. .

,!f.
"'l

........

'
)' ·'

I
.(u.~--~~~~

~

.

Mix of busiM$$1lS, churcheJ, retail and legacy neighborhood
shopping district on East Warren

►

Entenalnment landmark in historic Alger Theater

►

Dedialted community bused organizsti_ons include the East Engr,sh

►

Residents are engaged in shaping community revitalization

►

Convenient access to Balduck.. Mesmer. and Chandler Parb

~~--, ~ l~ _· ~ ' ,,. ,, . ■1·, ·

. .:~ ....,..~{ -"'-.Ip,,4
,.r,,,.-..,.._
..
,.
., . ~ .. ; , . ;; ' . ... .. i ~,'

a

,

i'

High-Quality, stable housing with higher household incomes

►

Village Association, MECCA. and Friends of The Alger

Balduck ?ark

...

►

....
.

.

l

,".

-~
'~:'.I
--..

. _,.~
.........
•··,''· ,
~' '
\.

•

·.

. •

~

)

'

,.:··-· rt ..,..,,;._
.·,", . . ·

',,,.:;.::.~

·-.· ~
•'.'·._ , ·

, ;_,.

P}·

. 1 ._

r~v.;••
'
~-

• :I

illl
Commun~ Er,9,;oement MtTting

MOJn1n.g11tle ComRM-rcl1J Corrido.

J
;

✓

.,;t-"1'

Neighborhood Information:

,,

8077
people • SQ Ml

Populatio n Density
-

Planning Area

-

Sueetscape
■ Cata lvtic Park

56

Balcluck
_.,
~Park

""""'

Catalytic Park

THE NEXT SEVEN

,Q.3_2019
Plan ning

Study Kickoff

 _._ • •

r-,!.~
,............

u-

_,,

. ,..........

_

. . . . .

=·
.!
I! •

~;;;;,111 ... ,...,, o!, 1.....,; ""· iiii,il ;,... I" ,1,1 i,, "'""' llh••"' • , •
.E
••,:, •J"l!!',tf,.'I'! 11m• -~- '!'"!~ t! ,~,..~ IMI I Nf' ••,.,••• •~»' ... I ··•r ~:••;..11: i", .tfi :,..;i.,..~ ;;, tti 1 ~•u •i1,;,i, .li..wf:~;..,;iiu, i
~!

Ill·•• :

•J~'~-:~!!\,r: .~::•!'~~Ul! !•~u PJU~•~ -~·~ ~ ·-~m'?1'7-!f:~•~ : ~ :.: I
~•tu.-. ... .,,•., .,.,,~diii.tlftl1 IA.~~nl..... ■ lo«,..• ..••••ti"' I ;r•r.o! i::,!
!.'~r::::::·;1 ~:!'~J~J!~~l '!!?.~.?~~=~'!•:.~:.~ ·~-! :'!!•!t{!.•~ ...
~~-•!~~•u.-~ i.=! ...,- J::~
u . u •J••• ••o , L)'.,11.'\:1..111,~ '"'~•• .,,,11""'11,_, « lo , • • • ..MhU'lt 1
: .. : • :;

~~~~.
............
"

,~m·~•~
"' ........,......,..., 1=·~ ·1
•,.11•.•...•~•.•a:-.•
♦,
r, • ..
J•• s:::--- ,
-,
•,1--- •
'\:

.~.. .....
~

1

i

J ,'II'•"',"\ I

f •" •.~•·
•_. .,,,.: .•,._:::,:, ,,,..
.,., ~
~J~Ui~..:.-.•.·A ..

llf

t'-"'.•:>.• •

IH,._,,.,;.; •4

·"'._ ";it..,.~,i

l~H , .....

1•• •M:-_•:•,•

:,.;,;;;, ,lU ,.:.••~:a. f''i ~ ,·,;a;

-

.,to,~~

·:1•.•·.~

.r uo•i.

...~.;~~..-~,...

.......,,,1

• ,,11 , ..

• •' ..... ~J.

..
•,
• ·,•

'

L

I;

---

li

1 ~'! ~'I
M;,I

'

. ..•·· :i-1 ·:~..

•

I.. ,.,.~ ,l C

...••

;,. w•:11•~.
,,u ••

,,.,..
·:.;;,;~.L
MIii~.■.-·:~

\.

.,•:

t~••u•• •• o• ...,.

..:,.:

, ....t .. 11

o;

.A•••• •••,~•••'."''~•.

~,O

. ,. . . . . ■11.f

•,1 • ,.
fl.'

I

·~\·•-llM".......,...

'i' •~~ •, •.~
.II •Mltl J•
1■1 'Mllil11.1111

.J'~4.;i.:,.:•;,:,i i:

....

'.!~
....:..

..

I • .-.:

I

.... ,.

....

..

~ :.,':' -~~~ I -~ ~~ I~~ I •~=~fll! ..... •
I J1,Ut

111•1 ll1lllollllll I 11111,1,ll

~

, IO

11• ,.... 1Ht"11'11..I ....... r Ill r1,1a.1•, t f

14 •,~ ;~•,~••

! ~•-•.•. •,•.,t·,·~·~!I. .,.. , ,.~ ... •·~":r.t'!

= ..;11i1\ ;~~ i1,·,, •• ;,

•.t•

Nttl

J t ... ,.. •• · -........... ..
.ii 'r, t ,.If~ II I I~=.~... 1ii fPll'it.0 ;i;:1i■1

:;::.iJ!t:~.;~;;.h; ;
■i

w.....

,.

=~·•~•~;::,.;•Ii I

•_;;;w~ ~;:.~.-.:;.• 1 J ~

...................... __, ,..,,. "'!

''!',"'!~•".~

~""4■ ••

' I
•

 IGreenways

~~

Signature G reenways
-

Joe Louis Greenv1:v•,'

-

Rouge River GreenwJy

-

/rcn Belle Greenway

--- ---

Rouge River Greenway

I!

 ..

Gtsen ways
An interconnected system of
greenways that connects the
entire city serves as an important
companion to the vision of SNF 2.0
and magnifies the impact of the
other revitalization tools.
These greenways will connect all Detroiters to
the SNF.neighborhoods while also providing
resider:its access to the Riverfront, Belle Isle,
and Downtown. Three signature-greenways
will be created: Joe Louis Greenway, Iron Belle
Greenway,.aAd Rouge Rtver Greenway. They will
form an.interconnected network to deliver 59
miles of g reenways.

:~1~ :'"F:."':.,f i~·~.r!-~:-6()i~HL·,un .tur~~-

STRATEGIC ALIGNMENT

 Rouge RiJ.er- Gr-e-enway:

Joe Louis @reenway

The Rouge River Greenway is envisioned as a community recreation

The Joe Louis Greenway is 31.5 miles of iralls that will include a
26-mile central loop of strategic on- and off-street blc.y cle and
pedestrian p_aths. Its completion will lfn~ Detroit neighborhoods
from the RiverWalk to the city's northeni border at 8-Mile Road,

trail and environmental e<Jucetional l!)(perience on the west side of
Detroit. Connecting the City's northern boundary and providing an
alternative north-south mobility option. the Rouge River Greenway
will llnk some of Detroit's signature parks. such as Rouge Park,
with n aighborhood cultu raI institutions. historic assets, and one
of Southeast Michigan's most important waterways. The Rouge
River Greenway will connect Detroit residents and visitors to the
rich envi ronm enta I hi$\Ory of the Rouge River and increase access
to recreation opportunities on the wast side of DetroiL It wHI also
improve the water quafijy and habitat of the Rouge River corridor
and will increa,:e land values in the neighborhood. Unique among
the three signature greenways, 10 miles of this more naturalized
13.5-mile route will traverse existin11 city property and exists largely
within the floodplain.

while providing dil'ect connections to fqur adjacent communities

• Dearborn. Hamtramck. Highland Park, .and Ferndale. It links four
of the planning areas targele<J by SNF and leverages over $700M
invested to dote "tn economic de~elopm~nt projects in adjacent
neighborhoods. The Joe Louis further connects residential and
mixed-use neighborhoods with major e,\,ployers, educational
opportunities, and civic amenities like Wayne State University.
Ea•tern Market, Henry Ford Hospital System, the Central Business
District, and Focus, Hope.

Iron Belle Greenw~y

•i~~• ·,/.;r:~;i:}
~

The Iron Belle Greenway is an on-street ~reenway. The 13.7 m;le
route will connect cast-siders to the Detroit Riverfront and Belle
Isle. while connecting cyclist from acr0$S the state to the Gordie
Howe lntenllllional Bridge. The route ln~ludes 10 miles of on-street
connectors from East Warren/Cadieux, Jefferson Chaim ers, and
Gratiol/7-Mlle. It builds on th~ Ci1)"s CCJ(ln;,r Creek Greenway, and
offers an alternative North-South route )vhlle connectl ng to key
open spaces. amenities. and employment ·opportunities.

~

II

Bl

,,

--::.

Concept for Rouoa Riwtr
Greetiway

i,,, ~r...~~::,·=--·•;:.

•'II \l>.,\,r,/1 lf11J~\,/r,f•~_;";,·.
, r+1p'-r'1•"'4'J. '-:·\•:"><·
1

~~1,t•'! \ i!::_,::)-lf.~;j~~i{(~·:_ ,,

T- .t..

c:;: ~\•.: ,..., .

lr

64

._ "!'

i ;::: : :-

~.i

i ::

1:-:: r:,,

:?- 1 ·.-~~ -"T' •

STRATEGIC ALIGNMENT

6

 Cornplementa_ry:ser.viees

The first improves both education and transportation access by
creating a bus loop among a cluster of public and charter schools,
as well as recreation centers, that can transport students from their
home to multiple schools and after-school options. The second is an
aher-school enrichment prOgram with activitles determined through
a community and school engagement process.

Health and human services are a necessary component in

supporting neighborhoods recovering from chronic neglect. The
City i$ piloting a variety of strategies to addre$$ the needs of
residents and partnering with the Un\versity of Michigan P011erty
Soh.1tions Lab to create innovative ioitiat~ves aimed at increasing

economic mobility and breaking the cycle of poverty in Detroil.
Strategies include prevention of unintended teen pregnancy
through clinician engagement and acce$$ to care and information,
reduction of gun violence by expanding Operation Ceasefire Detroit
city-wide, and proactive lead abatement programs in pilot zip codes
with high incidence of elevated blood lead levels.

fi
-:..;-

Dec.-oit at Work - \--lel!llthcere
Progr9m Gn11dualion

7

i
Barriers to education cau~ a host of challenges to neighborhoods
and communities ·struggling to !hrive. Many Detroit cMldren lack
access to quality schools and aher-school programs due 10 tt,e
challenge of simply getting there-famrnes withouta car or with
demanding work schedules cgmpounded by a la_ck of reliable public
transportation, or the after=hool programs ere too scattered or
don't exist. The C ,ty is launcftlng a two-pronged pilot program in
Northwest Detroit for K·B families to address these issues.

-

'

Pro~seci:rn,nsit Loop_

-

, .

A

After .Sch90I f.un Center Stop

Q

Recrealio~ Cent8t' Stop·

0 School Stop
(61 SNF N_e_ighborho~•
;··:

66

Map Boundary

~

"1.1..,

~~J

ir.l•{'inP<>r!:\}.

STRATEGIC ALIGNMENT

 The City's workforce development board, com prTsed of members
across business, nonprofit, and philanthropic sectors, has set e goal
of 40,000 more O..troiters employed in the n8)(1; five years to reduce
poveny and increase financial stebility and economic mobility.

The City of Detroit is focused on tra nsp<>rtation end mobility
improvements that make it easier. sefer, and more affordable to
get around Detroit. Later this y,,ar, the Mayor, with assistance from
Bloomberg Associates, will releaBe a strategic plan around transportation that wilf set the vision end goals for lhe next four years.

■I

~· ..

~

Rardolph loch C....or,

WoAfcroe ~opment

--r.·•:-,,,._:~
'~
·. .,.-.,;-:_ c,i\

""

.

-- ::t;--;l_.,,~
. -,_ - ... ..
-·

.

'--·

,It-:
.. :
·

,

.,

.

II

OOOT ~ in production

.~ -~)

!

To accomplish this goal, three ,tratcgic plllars !lave been created,
In advance of that plan, some key initiatives are already underway,
including adding three high-frequency routes to the City's current
bus network while extending the hours of other routes, off-board

I

Expanded training and career pat11wavs that increase the
number of employer-led training Pfograms linking directly to
jobs. and lnorea.s ed opportunity
youth and adults ro access
sklll t raining an<,! [ob opportunities1

for

2

Remove barr!ars through oompre~ensive services targeting
returning citlzens and a program t<> help·employees faclng

3

Systems change through tncreasetl funding. community
outreach strategies. and redasign;ng the workforce service
delivery model.

termination aucceed. and

• }i

i ~~ I ~•, ·,11

'

end mobile ticketing programs and techoology improvements.
providTng all-day. frequent, Ii mited-stop service between Detroit
&nd the suburi;>s, implementing pilot programs with Lyft to improve
access to workforce training, as well as additional bike lanes and
mobility options like car sharing.

·

68

i-o-.; U,'l'I"- i•;t~·-Ht~·-. i<r,,_.1·~,i_,, > ·Jf:j,,,.

~

STRATEGIC ALIGNMENT

ti

 I Investment Map

Investments

Rouge River Greenway

Signature Greenways

Q

Catalytic Park

- ~ Joe Loufs Greenway

•

Park - Capital Improvement Plan

-

Stree tscapes

- - Iron Belle Greenway

Planning Projects
-

SNF Flrst Three

c::J

SNF Next Seven

Rouge River Greenway

 Join Us!

~

0

~d~~

Nelghbo,7-7

If you believe in Detroit like we do, if you
have seen the power of engagement and
investment in our communities, or if you
si mply believe in scaling a proven, datadriven, highly-coordinated model that can
bring a community to life, join us in this next
phase of Detroit's transformation.

nvett0eti9ft,

~iatlone&
CDCs/CDOs

DEGC

SNF 2.0
Community
Partnerships

-~~i
Neighborhood
Residents

The City of Detroit and Invest Detroit are
seeking a total $56M in philanthropic
support for SNF 2.0.

~1-

e

tfflU

ttness<>wneis

'

.
I

l

e

0
SNF
lnvestmen1

Philan::;;i
I

Planning with the
Neighborhood

Grants

I

I

Streetscaoes
Parks

Single Fam;ly House~

I

!

$,4M

1~-

S35M

t

Total SNF 2.0

State

$3M

-

$49M

$56M

$3M
$49M

.-.
$7M

~

~4

. , . -_ • -1
. '- •: ~

i-

$7M

I

Commercial Corridors

Cily

S21M

$7M

$59M

--

$15M

~SOM

$15M

$130M

Plus an additional $113M in equity & commercial debt= $243M in total investment

72

CONCLUSIO N

 r

',

\

Thank You.-

For more information on·the Strategic
Neighborhood Fund 2.0, possib~e _naming
opportunities; and th1e many ways you can
participate-, .contact:
City of Detrc;*
Ryan Friedrichs. friedrlchar@detrol1ml.gov
Anhur Jemison. aJemlson@deuoiunl.gov

Invest Detroit
Dave Blasrlciewia. daveb@inll8Sldetroit.com
Mike Smith, mike.smith@investdelroit.com

Randy Hyde, randy.hyde@lnYeStdetroit.com

De5ign, Good Done Daily (gooddonedally.com)

Photos: Michelle aod Chris Gerard {cover, pages 5, 6, 12. 19, and 59),
Ali Lapetina (cover, pages 21, 34, and 53)

'~

l Ut

1
•·~

74

)

,,

 __ .....
:
~=
:;
"if? :•:
.. '... I
... ,i,_·•• ,·••

; ;;:.

:,.

.. ... ,.

:::·• ···=

..'

~

•··

••;':

-.... ...... ...
:. ....
----·..
..
...--,::
.....
:'.::
- .6,:;

•. : i
.. :~ ..i::~ ....
......
, . ... . ···"
.
: I ::
• =·:' ,~:!..,.
=·=·
:,,:

:• .::

•-

:

f'
...
!:::
:::·c:

=

iJ~ ....:: :. =a- ...
Si .. • = •·
:1•• .. • : .:

.'

A:

7!<•

•

111,ii ..

;

. ··-

•.•··
•· ·, ···(:",;
El

1\__.•.

? 1'-,1

-·--

=:·•

.

I·!

~::::
..•••
....
.......t:.ti

::--

'

p.-.-,;,
:

...
i;;,""
;;.:r ··=

::; ::

:,.:

..

,,;

;.,::

•••
-::-=
=--.=~, .
... r;

..--·= =·-

.
=
- ·=':

.:::•-

=
-

=•

=·:
-=· = -::.=·:
=-~

-·- ..

.... r1·=- s·.
••
~.. , ••.
!iii ,;,:
~.t"
,.. e=·=• =·1
•= ;,:: i. E ;:_: J:,
V
' •: :,, : •• ,ii I C
• ":·! ~·~
!,·l:"
~ .... l!I
/ • :.:=
.. ,Jt '= ·= I, '"'
.........
_··-51
DJ =•:
:'·= e:~ =•

/

, ~::§ f.!

•:•c
::-..~ ;·i ~: :

.I;

•'.1 ,.;.:
II~ !} l!'l 111 I ? I
. .. .. ...... . ..

-

•

-~
■
,U o lru,.d,h • Ill.. •1 tnp·
~

0

:.1c.
::

....·-:-

...
"

.

ii·::

·•

••

'i!

.. . -:: .:• i::-..
..:::.:
r: • ::·::
. ... .. ..i:;;
:.~:-:
....
·- ...
• •••• ...
~-.;.

;!
.:i--

I

•....... .
•'\

...,

- .. II 11t.''..

'
..........

 APPENDIX 

STRATEGIC PLAN FOR
TRANSPORTATION

 

City of Detroit



Strategic Plan
?m for Transportation

 

?This is the
roadmap
to make it
easier, safer,
and more

affordable for

everyone to
L- .L.. - 

*g'eLaround? 

Detroit.?

Mayer Mike Dug?gan

 

Table of Contents
Message-from Mayor Mrke Duggan,
Chief Operating Officer David Massaron,
Public Works Director Ron.Brundidge,
DDOT Director Angelica Jones, and
Planning Director Maurice Cox

4

Mobility in Detroit Today

6

Mobility in Detrqll:-2022

a

About this Plan

10

Economic Oppb.f1tunity

12
20

Public Safety
·-•

City Vibrancy an<f Be_auty:.

...
26

Communications and' Outreac!h

32

Strengthening City Functionality

38

One- and Four-Year:.
Bench mar.ks
.
=~·.
Acknowledg meats

:•'-:.

;i !/

"

1-

.44

1:..·,:~:'

66

3

 "A new level of collaboration
between City departments
is necessary to achieve
the goals of this Plan."
Mayor Mike Duggan

David Massaron

Chief Operating Officer

Ron Brundidge
Director,
Department of Public Works

Maurice Cox
Director,
Planning and Development Department

Angelica Jones,
Acting Director,
Department of Transportation (DDOT)

4

 We are building one Detroit for everyone. With

• Building a More Vibrant and Beautiful City

city services returning to levels Detroiters expect

of Detroit by bringing our neighborhood

and deserve, we've turned our attention to leading

Main Streets back to life with more activity,

an equitable revitalization of our neighborhoods.

public art and green infrastructure.

This includes creating and preserving affordable
housing, revitalizing neighborhood commercial
corridors, building and improving our parks, and
ensuring that every Detroiter has access to jobs and
job training through the Detroit at Work program.

• Improving Our Communications and
Outreach by including residents in planning
processes early and often, and rebooting
the look and feel of our transit system.
• Strengthening City Functionality by bringing

The crucial thread that ties all of these efforts

our infrastructure and operations into a state

together is our transportation system. We must

of good repair and having the right systems

give people more transportation choices so they

in place to deliver on our promises.

can access all of the new jobs and amenities
growing across the City. This Strategic Plan for
Transportation is the roadmap to make it easier,
safer, and more affordable for everyone to get
around Detroit. It is built on the core values of my
administration, which are:
• Increasing Economic Opportunity and Reducing
Poverty by delivering a high-quality transit service
that has been lacking, reducing car insurance
rates, and providing more ways for people
to access every neighborhood in Detroit.
• Improving Public Safety by reducing

Reaching these milestones over the next four years
won't be easy. We will need to strengthen our
partnerships with the State and region, identify new
funding and spend it wisely, and rethink how we
deliver transportation projects. We also must break
down traditional silos that exist in government and
work collaboratively across departments to move
our culture to a place where our customers come
first and we adopt the best practices of other cities.
This is the time to redefine Detroit's definition of
"transportation." We've worked hard over the last
four and a half years to get where we are today.

traffic injuries and fatalities and making

With this new plan as our guide, now we can move

everyone feel safe walking, biking, and

above and beyond.

taking transit to their destination.

5

 Mobility in
Detroit Today

Detroit is now a city of "more" - more jobs, more
restaurants, more recreational opportunities, and
more friends to visit. Revitalization that started in
Downtown is now spreading to neighborhoods
across the city.

I

.Ill

:,.

..

...

..
_.,.
~,,..

'I

~

I

l

- •.
J)

•
~

,

-

..

'
'fll,

-

-

\

4

,,
I

'

Gordie Howe Bridge:
The ea:0nstructi0n..,.0 f the
$2' billion intenriational
crossln9 will !!>ring
hur:idreds of new ,,,
c;onstruction j0bs fo
t he city.

✓

....

 Transportation is the key to all Detroiters being
able to access everything the City has to offer.
We must improve what we already have, from
our streets to our buses, and continue to add
more options so people have real choices to get
where they want to go.

~

),

-~

., .
Ii:.- Corktown: In summer 2©18, Ford anno.l!lnced plans
[• td redevelop, M k:higan Gemtral Statien and bring.
•~5,G€JG jobs fo.e::used en ~Irie future of t,1101:D'ility.
·

This strategic plan is the blueprint for how we
make these improvements over the next four
years and create one city, for all of us.

 When fully implemented, this plan will transform
transportation in our city.

Mobility in
Detroit 2022

Smart technology in traffic

Leading pedestrian intervals,

signals will improve traffic
flow and pedestrian access.

providing people on foot with
a head start at intersections,
wil I be piloted at five locatio s
in 2019.

The ParkDetroit app will includ: - - 0
additional features and we will

pilot new pricing techniques to
improve the availability of
on-street parking . • -~

~

DDOT will increase service

We will continue to work

on ten high-capacity routes and will
feature a new bus design and Wi-FL

with the state legislature to pass
auto insurance reform to reduce
the cost of insurance for 260,000
households in Detroit.

\
zr;;;;

•

Street safety improvements
will include new and better
crosswalks and shorter
crossings for people on foot.

• Public Works
will rehab or

resurface 300
miles of street.

L.

50 new bus shelters
will be installed by 2019
and all new shelters
will include maps
and real-time arrival
information by 2021.

DDOT will make it easier

to pay for the bus with
mobile ticketing and
off-board payments in 2019.

A new utility coordination committee

will coordinate roadway infrastructure
projects and reduce their impact on Detroiters.

 We will complete our new
road bond projects using
Complete Streets principles,
creating streets that are greener
and more p leasant for all.
.i

I

Clearer signage for loading
and parking will improve
curbside operations.

§((
J

-----. MoGo will expand to
Northwest Detroit in 2019.

~ .- ~..!7~

- - - - - - -- - - -- • We will reduce speeding
in neighborhoods and around schools,
parks and senior centers with a menu
of infrastructure options to calm traffic.

• New protected bike lanes
piloted on East Jefferson and across
Lower East Side neighborhoods in 2018
will roll out to additional communities.

 About
this Plan
This document is comprised of five
chapters, ·each reflecting a core pillar
of Mayor Mike Duggan's vision for
Detroit and the agencies' long-term

goals: economic opportunity, safety,
vibrancy, community outreach,

and

city functionality. Each is important
to the future of mobility in Detroit,
ensuring that all city residents have
affordable access to jobs and civic
life; safe, green and livable streets;

and the opportunity to shape their
neighborhoods in collaboration

with a responsive, productive city

The plan will provide the Mayor, the relevant
city agencies, and the public wit h a da;ta-driven
and t rackable summary of the Administration's
commitments, which can be used to mark
Detroit's progress toward achieving those goals.
To maximize their impact, the first-year benchmarks
in t his document can all be achieved with existing
or assured funding. W hile most of the four-year
benchmarks are also funded, several key transit
system and greenway improvement projects are
not yet achievable with current resources.
Though they will require additional efforts to
identify funding on the part of all our partner
agencies, these landmark t ransit projects will make

,,""

it safer, easier and quicker for any Detroiter to get
around, which is central to the progress we will
make as a city. Pursuing financial solutions for these
marquee projects and meeting t he goals of this
plan will be crucial t o the future of the streets, and
t he people, of Detroit.

government.
In all five chapters, the City's major goals
are summarized and followed by strategies
for achieving each goal. The appendix

(pages 44-65) contains additional detail
on the strategies and the one- and four-year
benchmarks that will g uide these efforts.

10

...

  

 

 

 

 

 

"3
:giul?ua?i? 
i. 

MIL r;

53% Pig?:

5: 



if] 
. "?jl -. We
- 

.4

 

pl.) .A

5? dl
. El 91.1.3 

Economic .
Opportunity

t::.conom,c upporcumty - - - - - - - - - - - - - - : - -

,....--........

Economic activity
in Detroit is
.
.
growing again,
from GrandmontRoseda le to Jefferson

(

Chalmers to the

th r1vi ng.: Downtown.
With growth·coroes greaterdemarid on our streets,
sidewalks and buses, as weU as an opportunity to
reimagihe our transpor,tat1on system and make it
work better for all Detroiters: But urban mobility. is
ab~ut ~ore.than infrastr,ucture: it is about ensuring
peopl~ can read1 jobs arrd opportunities:' that

( _.

neighborhood st(eets supporNi.nd !mprove the
economy; and employers have acce~s tq a diverse
workforce. We w~mt to mak~ it easier for anyone

JI

in this cit y t0 be·n~fit from OL!r city's resurgence by
improving ~mccl expandi ng option~ for Detroiters tq
get where th~y n~ed to go..
Central to this mission is a renewed, sustained
investment in DDOT that creates a transit system
that all residents will be proud to use. As more
people and jobs return to the city, reliable and
affordable transit will be critica I to sustain that
growth by lowering house-bold transportation costs
and reducing demand for scarce street space and
parking spots. At the sarne time, we must make
our streets and curbs smarter by implementing
state-of-the-art traffic ma·nagement, improved
operations and communication, and new mobility
technologies that are just coming on line. Each of
these components is critical, but with a coordinated
approach and a leading role for transit, we can truly
transform mobility in the_ Motor City.

14

.

,

 1. Improve transit
service for Detroiters
For too long, public
transportation was seen as

2. Make it easier
for people to access
jobs in Detroit
As jobs continue to move

the choice of last resort for

to Detroit, employees are

It costs more to own a

getting around this city. While

increasingly seeking new

vehicle in Detroit than in

we have made tremendous

mobility options. Meanwhile,

any other major United

strides over the last four years,

about 70 percent of Detroit

States city, which holds our

there is still much more work

residents commute to

residents back from accessing

to be done. Regardless of

suburban job centers that

opportunities. We must tackle

how the region approaches

aren't as well served by

the root cause of th is issue-

transit, we are committing to

transit as they should be.

the cost of car insurance in

building transit in Detroit that

Building on Suburban

Michigan- while also making

is a first choice for everyone.

Mobility Authority for

it easier for all Detroiters to

We will be adding more

Regional Transportation's

get around, even if they don't

service on main corridors so

(SMART} FAST service,

want, or have access to, their

you no longer have to plan

providing all-day, frequent

own car.

your day around when the

and fast connections

bus wil! come, provide better

between the city and

routes in neighborhoods,

suburbs, we will work towards

Legislature to pass auto

sustainable commuting

insurance reform and

infrastructure and systems

solutions that get Detroiters

lower the cost of auto

so the experience is easy

where they need to go.

insurance in Michigan

•
Reconfigure DDOT bus

Provide first m ile/
last mile connections

system to improv~ transit

between job centers and

service across Detroit

major transit routes

• Create bus routes with

•

• Work with t he State

and modernize our transit

and pleasant.
•

3. Make it more
affordable and
convenient to get
around Detroit

•

Manage transportation

service every 15 m inutes

demand in collaboration

on major corridors

with major employers

• Expand free ride pilot
for pregnant women to
prenatal and postnatal
doctors' appointments
• Complete a bus loop
program connecting
public and charter schools
to quality after-school

Implement model

programming to keep

bus st op program

Detroit students in Detroit

•

Make it easier to pay for transit

•

Prioritize transit in street
design and traffic signal t iming

• Increase participation in the
MoGo Access Pass program
•

Make it easier to live in Detroit
without owning a vehicle

15

 -~----

Economic Opportunity ····--•-- ··

4. Make Detroit the
global leader in
mobility innovation

-- -

5. Improve freight
operations
As we focus on moving

Detroit put the world on

people on Detroit streets,

wheels over a century ago

we need to ensure t hey work

No o ne likes sitting in traffic.

and will p lay a similar role

equally well for the growing

To manage the growing

system of trucks and trains

congestio n associated

autonomous and connected

delivering the freight and raw

with new jobs, events and

vehicle technology. The

materials that power the city.

residents, we must do a

new mobility ecosystem is

Working with communities

better job of managing this

already vast, from the start-up

and the private sector, the

demand. This will require

community led by Techstars

city will create a legible, high-

investments in technology as

Mobility to long-time partners

quality truck route network

well as improving the way we

like GM, FCA, and Ford,

that balances the needs of all

coordinate internally

which is bringing high-tech

users while improving safety

and communicate to the

jobs to Corktown. We are

and mobility where the road

motoring public.

committed to doing even

and rail systems intersect.

lead on 21st-century mobility.
Integrate autonomous and
connected technology into
the transportation network
•

6. Create a stateof-the-art traffic
management and
operations system

in the coming integration of

•

more to keep our city in the

•

----- -----------

Posit ion Detroit as the
most attractive destination

•

•

Create citywide truck

about traffic and

rout ing network

construction to the public

Enhance safety and

•

Build partnerships with
mobility companies on new

Update t raffic signal

mobility at railway

technology w ith smart

crossings and viaduct s

infrastructure
•

Develop enhanced traffic
signalization programs

for mobility companies
•

Provide b etter information

for major events
•

Enhance t raining of Detroit
Police Department (DPD}

services and infrast ructure

Traffic Control Officers
and Command
•

Coordinate and share
operation o f t raffic signals
and cameras with the
M ichigan Department of
Transportation (MOOT)

16

 1
•

11 t

n

7. Update parking
policies and
coordination
As we provide new options
for people to get around
without a car, we need to
ensure that parking policies
keep pace and sustain our
business community. Through
programs like Motor City
Match and our investment in
neighborhood main streets,
we are committed to p roviding
better information to driyers
and to improving the use and
management of our valua.ble
curb space, all while preparing
for a future where more
Detroiters can get around on
foot, bike and transit.
•

Reduce parking
requirements for new
development near transit

•

Improve curbside
management policies
and coordination

•

Improve parking space
availability information

•

Support retail through
new neighborhood
parking solutions

17

  

53:51:??
a .0.



gum

 

 

 

 

 

 

Building DDOT 2.0

A high-frequency-transit system
serving 60 percent of Detroiters

Four years ago, DDOT was at its lowest point. Buses
simply didn't show up or whenthey did, they were
old and dirty. Employee morale was- low. The only
people riding DDOT were those that had to.

Over the last four years, we have invested in new
buses and routes and improved operations, but
rnuch work remains. With this Strategic Plan, we are
launching DDOT will improve aliaspecls
of transit service, including new buses, more frequent
service and more, including:

Improved Customer Experience: We want to
make riding DDOT as attractive an experience

as possible. CustOmers will start to see
improvements immediately, from cleaner buses to
Wi-Fi on high-frequency mutt-is to new shelters.

More Reliable'Service: While DDOT buses
typically aren't clelayed'ov traffic congestion, the
time it takes people to line up and pay fares while
hoarding can knock them off schedule, and time
spent waiting for green lights can exacerbate
thet delay. With new mobile and off?board
ticketing options, more fare purchase locations,
and technology that gives buses priority at

traffic signals. DDOT will get you there faster.

lnteg rating New Mobility Services: Though we're
adding new service, in some neighborhoods
regular bus routes are not the best solution. We
will continue to launch new pilots to learn which
mobility options work best for every part 

Complete Rebranding:

The DDOT logo and color scheme hasn?t.
been updated in decades. it?s time for a
reboot of the paint job and more; every
aspect of cuetomer information, from bus
stop signs and maps to the website, will
be simpler, clearer and more legible.

More than 490.000 Detroiters will be able to access fast, frequent transit service

. . Mv 

 

Saf?w

21

Whether they are
.waiting for a bus,
walking to the
store, biking to the
park or driving to
work, all -Detroiters

-should feel equa'lly
wel.come, safe an.d
comfortable.
While the overall traffic crash rate is t rending
down, it is still the highest in the natio n. These
traffic crashes affect Detroiters on a daily basis,
from the loss of a loved one's life to the cost of
insuring and repairing a vehid.e. Crashes that
result in serious injury or death are preventable,
not just by reducing dangerous behavior like
distracted driving, but through street designs that
promote safer speeds and awareness, limit turning
conflicts, and provide better visibilit y for both
drivers and pedestrians.
We are co_mmitting to dramatically reducing the
fatality rate of our most vulnerable street users by
prioritizing the redesign of high-crash locations and
g rowing our toolbox of approaches to engineer
safer streets. Reaching these goals will require a
holistic effort among city departments and our
partners MOOT and the Wayne Count y Roads
Division. Safety will be a core factor in decisions on
how streets are designed, operated and funded,
where and how we can strengt hen enforcement of
traffic rules, how to improve our monitoring of what
happens on our buses and at our bus stops, and
how we talk about street safety with the public.

22

 1. Make our streets
safer for all modes
of travel
Making the streets of Detroit

2. Incorporate safety
improvements into
all street design
projects

safer requires us to take a

To manage traffic safety on

Each time a street is

our streets, we need to track

comprehensive approach to

resurfaced, we have an

crashes and injuries, speeding

addressing traffic crashes.

opportunity to make that

and other dangerous

Engineering is critical, but

street safer in a cost-effective

behaviors. We will develop

we also need to improve

manner. By refocusing

a rigorous and systematic

education and enforcement,

the use of city resources,

approach to collecting and

particularly around dangerous

we will make safety our

analyzing data and use

driver behaviors. We will

first priority as we plan

it to prioritize our street

use data to analyze where

and design all projects,

improvement project work.

collisions happen, determine

from routine resurfacing

what behaviors result in

to large capital projects,

fatalities and serious injuries

particularly in p,artnership

criteria to make well-informed

and reach drivers, cyclists,

with MDOT and the Wayne

transportation decisions and

and pedestrians to make

County Roads Division.

track performance over time

everyone better aware of their
responsibilities in the roadway.

•

Build safety analysis into
routine city, county and state

•

3. Improve data
collection and
analysis

Adopt a traffic fatality

resurfacing, capital projects

reduction target and identify

and operational programs

•

•

Develop data-based safety

Create a multi-agency
working group that reviews
high crash corridors and
recommends changes

high-crash locations
•

Reduce speeding in
neighborhoods and
around schools, parks
and senior centers

•

Improve enforcement
of current traffic laws

•

Develop a public education
campaign focused on how all
users should share the road

23

 . -·~·-~ ~-· - - J

4. Make walking and
biking a safe and
pleasant experience

5. Help Detroiters
feel safer using
the transit system

All Detroiters should feel

Ensuring our transit system

safe walking to the grocery

provides a viable and safe

store or biking to a park. A

alternative to driving is

number of steps are needed

crucial to grow ridership,

to improve the safety and

shift negative perceptions,

experience of walking and

and gain access to additional

biking in Detroit.

funding for large scale transit

Develop a Pedestrian

DDOT buses are down

Plan as part of the

66 percent since cameras

Transportation Master Plan

were installed on all vehicles

improvements, Incidents on
•

•

and 25 transit police were

Implement improved

hired. We will now expand

crosswalk program in

on this success by enhancing

high-priority areas
•

security at bus stops as well.

Install pedestrianscale lighting in key

•

commercial districts
•

Maximize sidewalk
improvements in commercial

Create a bus stop lighting
policy and program

•

Expand Project Green Light
to high-priority stops

and residential districts
•

Create and implement a
pedestrian signal policy

•

Update the Bicycle
Master Plan and develop
bicycle lane standards

•

Build out the protected bike
lane network based on the
results of the pilot programs

J

24

 • :;

•••

- -c-__•, ·,;

.

.

'

Bringing Project G·r een Ught
to our Transit System .
Starting in January 201.6, DPD· l~unched Project
Green Light, a real-time crime fighting tool that led, _
to a stark reduction in crime. _Gas stati_
ons, party .
stores, and other businesses that sign up receive
high-definition security cameras inside and outside_
their business that stream back to the Real Tirrie Crime Center at DPD. Since the launch, Project
Green Light business owne;s have noted that their ,
custome~s feel ~afer shopping at their stores.··
As we work to make Detroiters. feei safe using :__
the transit system, we will expand this innovative .
tool to transit stops. Since coming into office, _·.:·-

Mayor Duggan's Admini~tration has made several
improvements to DDOT security: adding tran_sit ,
·_ police thcit board coaches on a regular basis;
installing cam~ras on all buses; and improving
lighti~g at bus stop's. Building on this_success,we
. will i~stall Project Green Light at hig_h-fre~uency _
bus stop locations, where a flashing g reen light
will assure riders that they have the safety and
security th~y d·eserve ~o matter when they travel.
· '. C:omple~enting this program, we will also have
·.:. Transit Po lie~ ~n bikes to monitor activity alo~g bus
routes. Toge~her, we want these safety measures to
· encourag~ existing riders to travel more often and
- in; pire_new riders to use DDOTto get where they
· ·ne~d to
-. . . . .

•··•
1•..·,· -~
· ·--

DETROIT POUCE DEPARTMENT

GREE

go.

; > ~::.~-,;~: .

,,

  

 

55410155 . .,



 

 .
I



1th." 

 

City Vibrancy
and Beauty

. 

2?

M

VILJI

<IIIL <1111,.1 1;,o:::"<IUUIUI \...ILY

Streets can
be more than

simply asphalt
and striping
or a way to
move people

- and goods.
They are the places where we gather and meet our
friends and neighbors, where we shop, relax in an
outdoor cafe, go for a bike ride or walk, and host
festivals and special events. Streets should create
places and define our neighborhoods and our city.
Reaching this goal means we must design streets
that work for everyone no matter how they get

/'

\,.

around: on foot, bicycle, car or transit. They
should encourage safe travel speeds, provide
ample public space for all users as well as public
a·menities that foster public life. These aren't just
nice things to have - they can also be good for
the.economy, as people are encouraged to spend
more time and take advantage of local businesses.
w_e need to think holistically when we take on
any project in the public right of way, creating
Complete Streets that provide a wide range of
mobility choices, beautiful places, and traffic
safety. This will help to ensure that every dollar
we invest in our transportati~n infrastructure
provides multiple community benefits. To do this
successfully, we must understand the needs and
desires of the community and work alongside
our public, private and philanthropic partners.

28

 l. Design streets
that make the city
greener and more
pleasant for all

•

2. Foster art and
public life in our
neighborhoods

Incorporate landscaping and
storm water management
best practices into
transportation projects to

Our streets are part of

reduce flooding, beautify
Getting around Detroit

our city and cre_ate more

shouldn't just be fast, safe
•

we will introduce public art

Complete the

into projects to help brand

seniors and those with

by planting 10,000

them and reflect the unique

disabilities. A Complete

trees in three years

identity of the city's many

Streets policy will not just

•

guide the function of streets,

•

streets and communities.
Develop and implement a
Complete Streets program

also use plazas and pop-up
public spaces and special

neighborhood alleys

storm water management to
support healthy, sustainable

neighborhoods. We will

Partner with neighborhood
groups to improve

but also use greening and

•

Detroit's cultural vibrancy,

"10,000 Up" initiative

everyone, including children,

•

they support and reflect

sustainable communities

and efficient - it should be
an enjoyable experience for

our public life. To ensure

•

events such as open streets

Work in partnership with

to test ideas, engage the

MDOT and Wayne County

public, celebrate cultures and

to facilitate sustainable

communities, and create new

street designs

public places.

Create a citywide program

Build pedestrian and
bike infrastructure that

to help neighborhood
groups maintain sa.fe a·nd

connects people to
neighborhood destinations

attractive sidewalks and
arnenilies in retail districts

•

Incorporate public art into
transportation proje1=ts

•

• Plan and implement plazas
and public space programs
in the public right of way

•

Create a Corridor Health
Index to measure the impact
of City investments

•

Support Open Streets
programs in the city

29

 r'\ W"IUIOtl\. a11u UCCH.l l l l \ .U

'-11.J

3. Connect all Detroiters
with an off-street walking
and biking greenway network
Connecting Detro it's neig hborho ods t hrough
a citywide greenway network will provide
family friendly connections to retail corridors,
parks, the riverfront and other regional amenities
as well as additional affordable mobility options to
get t o jobs, education and transit. Greenways will
also help support neighborhood d evelopment
and repurpose vacant land, such as what has
successfully occurred around the Dequindre Cut.
•

Implement the Joe Louis Greenway Plan

•

Revise and p ublish a citywide greenway plan

•

Build out greenway network

30

 Designing New Main Streets
for Detroit Neighborhoods
A recent study of Detroit communities found that

initiatives needed to create a strong retail
environment and great, walkable neighborhoods
interconnected with non-motorized trails.

in just 11 neighborhoods, there is an annual retail
demand of $1.5 billion but today most of that
money is spent in nearby suburbs. One of the major
reasons Detroit currently has the lowest retailto-pof.Julation statistics is that our infrastructure
does not support a retail-friendly environment.
Wide, low volume streets with narrow sidewalks
and high speeds create unsafe and unfriendly
environments that often lack a sense of place.

To address this, the City passed a Road Bond
to fund $80 million in place-based investments
in 17 diverse neighborhoods. These projects
are focused in the same areas that were
studied for retail demand and are being
done alongside a series of transformational

t'?"·•
.. ·. l

..

-~~: ·,

)~~· ....... 1..'
•
I
• I
•"'
•, ~
"

. ..

.;•

Projects are tailored to the specific needs of the
community, but can include improved sidewalk
and street trees, lighting enhancements and street
furniture, traffic calming and road diets, place
making and branding. They are being aligned
with mixed developments, single family stabilization
efforts, Motor City Match and Motor City Restorefunded projects and park improvements.
All ofthe projects are aligned with strategic
planning efforts, and their locations and scopes of
work are being defined through the neighborhood
planning process. Of these 30 projects, seve1,
of them (including Livernois and Kercheval,
depicted below) will start construction in 2019.

  
 

i,


 

 



     
   
     
     
 
 
 

 

l4}

 


I 
0.13001 
if?? f?hnl '1'qu hat?; 
inn 1 
v: Alma Hum. ?lial: 
W5- 5,4.
Hmlii- 
it; in? L'lmu

#4
. HIM
Tn? can? 41
-. Po,? up 
i. . 

 
   
    

.. 
f??fqr;
?anHI-??
I Fair")


  
     

 

Communications

and Outreach

33

\.....,Ulll(IIUllr\...dLIUII~ c:IIIU VUlrtdt..fl

This plan won't

just reimagine
our streets; it wi 11
reinvent how we

communicate
with the people
of Detroif.
Building a better Detroit means building
streets that work for everyone. But changing
those streets is hard, pa rticu la rly ifthat
cha ~qe isn't being informed by those that
it will affect. We are committed to doing a
better job working with communities on how
we pl,in and implement new proj~cts.
Our· e ffo r ls must

oe

i:l

true partnership between

City departments ;::ind tho residents thilt mc1kc
up the more than 200 neighborhoods across the
city. This document is a commitment to improving
our outreach, education and communication on
transportation projects and changes to service
and operations. We will dedicate more time
and resources to listening to the concerns and
ideas in each neighborhood and explaining how
transportation improvements affect communities.

34

 1. Make the transit system easier
to use and more attractive
to residents

2. Better engage the community in
the planning and implementation
of transportation projects

DDOT service and safety have come a long way

The City is committed to improving

over the last four years, yet many Detroiters still

engagement and community education

view the system as unreliable and unsafe. Simply

around transportation projects. We will

adding more service is not going to achieve

include neighborhoods anhe beginning of

bur goal of increasing ridership by 25 percent;

the planning process, provide public education

we must do a better job of engaging our

about changes to the system, and follow up

existing and potential customers. This will

after projects are done to make sure they are

include a rebranding and media campaign,

meeting community needs, We believe that

improving our customer service options, re-

through community engagement arfd feedback,

engaging those who left the transit system, and

the transportation investments being made

making it easier for first-time riders to use the

today will meet the desires of al I Detroiters.

system. We will regularly survey our customers to
measu're the impact.of the changes and ensure

•

that DDOT is a'g~od choice for all Detroiters.
.

Make ifaasret for first-time r.iders to use DDOT

•

Lauoch media campaign to rebrand DDOT with

•

new logo, color$, paint scheme, and signs
' . .' ~.
Cortduct cor:npreheQsive customer
survey,' beth in-perso·n a-nd· o n line

•

·,

education protocols
•

,

•

r"

•,

Use flyers and newsletters to inform
the public on construction proj~cts ·

.

l_mprove dea~hn~ss of DDOT buses

Establish outreach and public

•

U_s_e data and surveys when developing
projects with corTlmunities

• Pro.vi de more and better education to
residents and business owners on their
. maintenance:responsibilities such as mowing,
shoveling, fencing; sidewalk repair, et~.
. ..,:,

Vernor

toOa,vntl:mri

STOP ID o

I6578]

35

  


. 

 

East Jefferson Bike Lanes:
Learning from Our Mistakes

As part of DPW's road marking contract for
20W, we planned to install bike lanes on East
Jefferson. A few weeks into the project, it
became clear that the lack of outreach and poor
implementation process had created confusion
in the neighborhood and with those that use
the street every day. Mayor Duggan made the
decision to pause the project and have a real

conversation with the community about bike lanes.

We held several public meetings to discuss
Side bike network with

communities. In addition to new bike access, we

the prospect of an Eas

explained that the changes to Jefferson would help
Calm traffic and reduce accidents. The only way
that this project would move forward is it Detroiters
believed these bike lanes were built for them -to
make their streets safer and to improve their actress
to amenities like the riverfront sclioois, and parks.
These community meetings culminate-(l in a
31 meeting vvl'iere the Mayor asked constiltients

to vote whether they wanted the network. With

DI

DETROIT 

District

approval from the audience we implemented
these bike lanes as a pilot in the summer of 9018.

Public engagement did not stop after the
community meetings. We developed a public
education and communications campaign
including: a press conference announcing the
new bike lanes and the safety improvements on
Jefferson: a brochure to explain the network and
how to use all modes of transportation on the
network; and deployment of Parking Enforcement
Officers as ambassadors to show people how to
use the new parking spaces and answer questions.

We plan to continue speaking with members of
the community throughout the next year to see
how people are reSponding to the changes to
their streets. Based on their feedback; we will
decide on the permanence ofthe network and
whether we'll expand the network to other parts
of the city. As we work to meet the goals outlined
in this strategic plan, we will use the East Jefferson

project as a model for public engagement.

i-
.
I

I.

CONVERTING LANIES IMPROVING SAFETY

 


. ..

 

 

 

   

3 Strengthening Cit;
Functipn?lity



As the city's
resurgence
continues, the
expectations of
citizens have
increased.
The streetlights are back on, trash is collected
regularly and we are putting our transportation
assets back into a state of good repair. From
repairing roads to buying new buses to
replacing sidewalk slabs, constituents are seeing
considerable improvements. While the state
of good repair of our transportation system is
improving, the task of managing and investing in
our infrastructure remains formidable. To meet
the.goals set in this plan, we must better manage
our assets, staff and performance to use limited
taxpayer dollars effectively and efficiently.
We are committed to improving our asset
management system to better coordinate
projects and minimize damage to road
surfaces and underground utilities.. This new
system will allows us to track, oversee and
improve our transportation portfolio.
The transformational projects that we envision
in this plan are only possible if we have the right
management structure and properly trained
staff. We have already rolled out a management
structure that aligns our transportation staff under
one Chief of Transportation. We will encourage
staff to incorporate best practices from other cities
and invest in training to improve project delivery.

40

 l. Bring facilities into

2. Establish a

a state of good
repair and improve
maintenance

management
structure and staff
capacity to support
the City's
transportation vision

This plan recommends
increased investment in our

•

roads and sidewalks along with

To carry out a plan of this

Detroit-needs a clear, ~mified

new tools to ensure resources

mag nitude, we need a

vision for project planning and

are spent wisely.

st rong management team

execution. This includes inter-

and staff and will move

agency cooperation, policies

Implement new asset

all t ransportation r:elated .

and metrics to e':'sure taxpayer

management system

departments under one ·point

dollars are well spent.

and other infrastructure

of leadership.

tracking tools
• Increase investment in road

• Establi$h targets and
•

rehabilitat ion, resurfacing
and sidewalk maintenance
•

3. Set a shared set of
policies, principles
and guidelines
to ·achieve the
Administration's
transportation vision

•

Plan and distribute paving

MDOT and Wayne County
to expand state and county

encourages walking and

Develop a centrally
Capital Investment Plan for
all transportat ion p rojects

on road condition, traffic

• Work collaboratively with

assumptions t o p roduce
an urban environment that
public transporta~ion

coordinated five-year

program resources based
safety data and road usage

Create a d ear point of
t ransportation leadership

•

Develop staff and align
departments to plan for

•

Improve development-review
policies to enhance t he public
right-of-way whil,e,pronioting

\

economic; development

and implement complex
transportation projects

resources dedicated to Detroit
• Establish new policies and
guidelines to better coordinate
utility construction to avoid
unnecessary road work on
recently resurfaced streets
•

Improve maintenance
operat io ns by using
performance-based metrics

41

 4. Improve bus system
management
and operations

5. Make Detroit

a model employer

by offering

but more work is needed to

comprehensive
commuting solutions
to City employees

become the transportation

As we encourage p rivate

option of choice for residents

sector employers to

and commuters. DDOT will

rethink how t hey assist

DDOT has made major
improvements in seryice,

refocus its staff and technology

their employees' commute,

on its customers to regain trust

we can become a model

.among long-time customers

ourselves by offering better

and bring in new riders. This

alternatives to single-driver-

includes investing in facilities

vehicle commuting for all

and b uses to bring them into a

our employees. This includes

state of good repair.

encouraging our staff to try
ot her t ransportation modes

•

Improve operational

such as transit, biking and

efficiencies and customer-

walking.

focused tools to make transit
service more reliable and

•

attractive to more riders
•

employees commut ing

and repeat annually

Restructure DDOT i;oles
to provide more effective

•

customer-focused s·ervice

··1
~ ,
!
I: ,(~1~

•

tnvest in replacing, expanding

Offer discounted transit
passes to City employees

•

Provide car sharing

and overhauling t he

options for employees

DDOT bus fleet to make

who only occasionally

service more reliable
•

Conduct survey of

Build a new Coolidge

need to use a vehicle for
work-related activities

Bus Terminal to increase
conn~ctivity

i

J

42

 Re?habilitating and Resurfacing.
300' Miles of Roadway in'lFour Years

In 

City would-complete 300 ini'los of major road
rehabilitation and Iotal street i?eSLiriacing Within
Four-years. This iiwestmentwas part of-a $125
million bond investment: program to revitalize
outdated comrnei'tiel corridors. improve roe?ds'a
and replace broken sidewalk sienna. Funding for the
improvements wilizcome from increased reveniieg
theCity i3 receiving from'-ite-5hare of state gag
taxes and fees..The?Cit.y wii.?
also?ieverage a, range oi otlieritinding sources to

make these vital roadway iinpmvernente.

To this investment, the City is deitir'oyirig
new too}: andiupdating it 

to prio riti 2e no manage. prOie?t?s. 

City. plan and dis-tribute paying resourct-?as
based or: asses-sec] i'Ocaicl-Conditioi-is, [traffic safety
tiara, road usage, potential project bene?ts and
Utility coordination. The City-will' raise eetaiplish

an 'Coordimtt'ion Committee to 
prevent utilityr worker's ii'oin unne?essaufily digging
up ne'wijg resurfaced roads.- By combining new
in?eat'ments in city'r?oade and 'iJi'ocessOr; 
i'oir?deployi'ng end protecting those 'inuestiriei'tts,
the City aim?; to bring pergent of major. 

state-of good years!

 

 

One- and FourYear Benchmarks
Each of these city agencies, offices and external partners will be critical to meeting the goals outlined in this
plan. The following pages list the one- and four-year benchmarks that we will use to measure our progress.

d~1·n· ~r

DEPARTMENTS/OFFICES

PARTNERS

BSEED - Building, Safety Engineering

AATA-Ann Arbor Transit Authority

and Environmental ~epartment

DDP - Downtown Detroit Partnership

Corporation Counsel

Detroit Charter Schools

DDA - Downtown Development Authority

DPSCD - Detroit Public School Community District

DDOT - Detroit Department of Transportation

DRC- Detroit Regional Chamber

DEGC - Detroit Economic Growth Corporation

Ford - Ford Motor Company

DESC- Detroit Employment Solutions Corporation

GLWA - Great Lakes Water Authority

DHD - Detroit Health Department

GM - General Motors

DolT - Department of Information Technology .

Invest Detroit

DON - D·epartment of Neighborhoods

MDNR - Michigan Department of Natural Resources

DPD -Detroit Police Department

MOOT - Michigan Department of.Transportation

DPW -'Department of Public Works

MEDC - Michigan Economic

OTC - Detroit Transportation Corpor.Jtion

Development Corporation

(People Mover)

MSP - Michigan State Police

DWSD - l?etroit Water and Sewer Department

MoGo - Detroit Bike Share System

GSD - General Services Department

NACTO - National Association of

HR - Human Resources

City Transportation Officials

HRD - 'Housing and Revitalization Department

SEMCOG - Sout.heast Michigan Council

Mayor's Office

of Governments

Mayor's Office of Communications

SharedStreets

MPD - Municipal Parking Department

Skillman Foundation

OCFO- Office of the Chief Financial Officer

SMART - Suburban Mobility Authority

Office of Special Events
Office of Sustainability

-

u

for Regional Transportation
Techstars Mobility

OMI - Office of Mobility and Innovation

Wayne County - Wayne County Roads Division

PDD - Planning and Development Department

WDBA - Windsor-Detroit Bridge Authority

PLA - Public Lighting Authority

Oline

44

  

 

Economic Opportunity

l - Goal: Improve transit service for Detroiters
Create bus routes
with service every
15 minutes on
major corridors

• Launch new high-frequency bus
service (15 minutes or better)
on 3 of DDOT's high ridership
corridors; with this addition,
Detroit will have 5 high frequency
routes (Woodward, Gratiot, Seven
Mile, Greenfield and Jefferson)
serving 27,000 weekday riders

Implement model
bus stop program

• Launch new high-visibility
bus stop sign program
• Install SO new bus shelters
with new signs and new
maps on prioritized routes
• Pilot new bus islands to
speed passenger boarding

• Purchase 30 additional buses to run
high-frequency, 24-hour bus service
on 10 corridors il'l the city, improving
service for 41,000 weekday riders

SMART

• All bus stops upgraded with new signs

DDOT

• Install 200 new and
replacement bus shelters

DPW

• All shelters have a wayfinding
map and Wi-Fi connections

DDOT

SMART
GSD

• Upgrade high-priority shelters
to have real time arrival and
departure information
• Expand bus islands to
additional locations

Make it easier to
pay for transit

• Simplify fa re structure
and introduce a day pass
• Create mobile bus pass
and payment app
• Pilot "pay before boarding"
program on Woodward corridor

• Implementation is underway for unified
fare payment system (including DDOT,
SMART, 0-Line and People Mover)
• Upgrade 50 percent of
fare boxes on DDOT buses to
accept electronic payment

DDOT
OMI
SMART
OTC

AATA

• Increase the number of
places you can buy DDOT
passes by 50 percent

Reconfigure
crosstown routes

• Complete planning for
reconfiguration of transit
options on crosstown routes

• Implement changes to "12 crosstown
routes" to increase weekday
ridership by 5,000 including
Cadillac/Harper, Clairmount,
Chicago/Davison, Joy, McNichols,
Plymouth, Chalmers, Chene, Conant,
Conner, Russell, Schoolcraft

DDOT

Prioritize transit in
street design and
traffic signal timing

• Adopt the National Association
of City Transportation Officials'
(NACTO) Transit Street Design
Guide, which provides design
guidance to' prioritize transit
and improve service quality

• Complete Downtown
transit improvements

DPW

• Identify street design
improvements in Downtown
to reduce transit delays

• Install transit signal priority on
Woodward and five additional
high-ridership routes

OMI

DDOT
MOOT

OMI
Q Line

• Evaluate feasibility of transitonly lane on Woodward
• Identify transit signal
priority locations
• Work with MOOT to improve
transit service along Gratiot
with transit signal priority,
bus stop enhancements,
or other improvements as
part of the 1-94 project

46

 Strategies

2 - Goal: Make it easier for people to access jobs in Detroit
Provide first mile/
last mile connections
between job
centers and major
transit routes

Manage transportation
demand in
collaboration with
major employers

• Launch pilot with Lyft around
late-night first/last mile on
53-Woodward Route
• Partner wit h one employment
location outside of city
limits to create mobility
solutions for Detroiters
• Create Get to Work program
that combines DDOT with
new mobility service options
to get people to DESC
training programs and jobs
• Pilot DDOT program allowing
customers with DDOT tickets
to use MoGo for free

• Create a working group of
the ten largest employers,
including City of Detroit,
to assess transportation
demand management
recommendations from
Downtown Transportation Study

• Provide lower-density areas of the
city with mlcrotra nsit service
• 10 percent more Detroit at Work
participants being offered this
service feel confident they can
use public transportation and first
mile/last mile solutions to reach
their desired employment

OMI
DDOT
SMART
DESC
Private mobility
providers
DESC

• Create a transportation
management association
• Reduce parking demand
rate at five companies

OMI
MPD
DDA
DDP

HR

• Investigate feasibility of a central
organization (transportation
management association)
that assists employers with
commuting solutions
• Support creation of employer
sponsored pass that could be
used to access multiple forms
of public transportation

Private Sector
DPW

3 - Goal: Make it more affordable and convenient to get around Detroit
Work with the State
Legislature to pass
auto insurance reform
and lower the cost
of auto insurance
in Michigan

• Advocate at the State Legislature
to pass auto insu ranee reform

Improve access to
prenatal and postnatal
doctors' appointments

• Expand SisterFriends and Make
Your Date Transportation Pilot
to teen pregnancy di nics

• Car insurance premiums_
lowered by 15-50 percent

• Increase the rate of Detroit women
getting prenatal care and improve
outcomes for babies born in Detroit.

Mayor's Office
State
Legislature

DHD

• Measure program success
in increasing women
attending prenatal visits
• Determine if program should
be made permanent

Complete a bus
loop program
connecting public
and charter schools
to quality afterschool programming
to keep Detro it
students in Detroit

• Pilot a school bus loop on
the Northwest Side with
12 Detroit Public Schools
and charter schools

• Expand bus loop program to two
additional Detroit neighborhoods

DEC
DPSCD
Detroit Charter
Schools
Skillman
foundation

47

 Increase
participation in
MoGo's Access
Pass program

• Collaborate with MoGo to
market their Access Pass as part
of the City's marketing efforts

• 20 percent ofnew annual MoGo
members are Access Pass holders

MoGo

Make it easier
to live in Detroit
without owning
a vehicle

• Launch pilot with Maven
for on-street car share

• Create regional MoGo service
in Livernois-McNichols and
southern Oakland County with
20 stations and 200 bikes
• Have car share available in
every City Council district

PHD

• Assist MoGo expansion effort,
including addition of e"bikes
• Explore feasibility and
identify fund ing sources for
free transit pass p rogram for
public housing residents

• Pilot free transit pass program
for public housing residents
if determined feasible

HRD
DEGC
Maven
MoGo
DTE

4 - Goal: Make Detroit the global leader in mobility innovation
Integrate
autonomous
and connected
technology
into the
transportation
network

• Conduct autonomous vehicle
pilot t o allow Detroiters to
experience the technology
and p rovide feedback
• Use FHWAAdvanced Traffic
and Congestion Management
Technologies Deployment
grant in collaboration with
MDOT to make it safer to
cross the street and provide
information to residents

• Implement autonomous
vehicles as a transit solution
in partnership with DDOT

OMI
DEGC

• Complete connected technology
pilots on four corridors (Jefferson,
Vernor, Michigan, Livernois) as part
of FHWA grant and identify how
solutions will scale across Detroit

DDOT

• Market the PlanetM Landing
Zone co-working space to
the mobility industry as their
entry point in Detroit
• Conduct survey of mobility
companies to better
understand their needs and
gaps that exist in Detroit
• Conduct initial feasibility study
to create a mobility innovation/
research center in Detroit

• Increase the number of employees
in the mobility industry in
Detroit by 25 percent

PHD

• Locate a mobility innovation and
research center in Detroit

DEGC

• Pilot public fast-charging
station for electric vehicles

• Pilot new car sharing model
in neighborhoods using
pre-owned vehicles

DTE

• Create simple process for companies
that want to test or de ploy new
technologies or services

Lear

DPW

• Conduct three pilots around
connected technology that
address issues with traffic safety
• Develop ROW permit process for
devices (kiosks, street furniture,
etc) that offer public Wi-Fi

Position Detroit
as the most
attractive
destination
for mobility
,.companies

Build
partnerships
with mobility
companies on
new services and
infrastructure

• Pilot transit signal priority
using DSRC (Dedicated Short
Range Communications)
• Conduct two mobility pilots with
start-up companies to support
local innovation and attract small
mobility companies to Detroit.

• Attract three mobility
start-up accelerators in Detroit

OMI

DRC
MEDC
Universities
Private Industry

GM

MEDC
Techstars
Mobility

48

 l~yl',~,r hc-11chn1,/ tL:

5 - Goal: Improve freight operations
Create citywide
truck routing
network

• Complete study to determine
proper truck routes on city streets
and more consistent ways to mark
routes and enhance enforcement
• Pilot new policies and
standards in Southwest

• Reconfigure truck route network in key
neighborhoods with high truck activity

DPW

• Make truck route plan available
for all users an d install signs
th roughout the city as appropriate

MOOT

POD

Wayne County
DPD

Enhance safety
and mobility at
railway crossings
and viaducts

• Improve conditions at at least
four viaducts with lighting
for pedestrians or murals
• Support MOOT in federal grant
applicatio·n to improve intermodal
freig ht terminal activities

• If federal grant for i ntermodal
freight termin"iil activities is
successfu I, work underway to
improve the Delray interchange
• Improve W. Jefferson railroad
crossing for cars and pedestrians

DPW
Railroads
MOOT
POD
GSD

6 - Goal: Create a State-of-the-art traffic management and operations system
Provide the
public with better
information
about traffic and
construction

• Coordinate all city traffic cameras
to the Real Time Crime Center
• Join the Waze Connected Citizen
program, providing updates
to Waze users and receiving
traffic data back from Waze
• launch an online tool to provide
information on cu rrent and future
street and sidewalk closures
• Review current traffic
management structure to
improve the organization
and communication of:
Day-to-day coordination
of traffic management
- Gameday/special
event planning and
implementation
- Information to public
about traffic de Iays
and construction.

Update traffic
signal technology
with smart
infrastructure

• Connect 80 percent of the
city's traffics ignals to the
traffic management center
• Complete first deployment of
emergency vehicle preemption at
prioritized corridors/intersections
• Install connected vehicle
technology at five
intersections Downtown

• Implement new co_nstruction
permitting system to identify
expected traffic impacts and
malntenance ofthe right-of-way
for pedestrians, cyclists and drivers
• Provide real time information on
street dos urns, incidents and other
data to the public, map companies
<1nd autonomous vehicles
• Dat a agreements are in place
with all map companies to
share data both ways

DPW
DolT
OMI
NACTO
SharedStreets
DDP

• Implement interagency
playbook for major events
• Develop and launch integrated
signal management and timing plans
with MOOT and Wayne County
• Provide public with real-time
traffic information and mode
choices for special events and
other high-traffic situations

• Equip all emergency response ,v ehicles
with signal preemption technol ogy
• Retrofit 100 traffic signals for connected
vehicles and infra~tructure

DPW

OMI
MOOT

• Complete 20 pllots around safety
and connectivity using traffic signals

49

 Develop
enhanced traffic
signalization
programs for
major events

• Complete first annual review
of Downtown signal timing
p)an using existing cameras

• Develop predictive analytics for
traffic travel times around events

DPW
DPD
Universities

• Develop standard traffic
plans for all types of events

Enhance training
of DPD Traffic
Control Officers
and Command

• Develop and adopt new
training procedures for
Traffic Control personnel
• Complete evaluation and
review of existing DPD
resource allocation

• Equip officers with updated traffic
management policies and procedures

DPW

Coordinate and
share operation
of t raffic signals
and cameras
with MDOT

• Create video-sharing agreement
with MDOT so both agencies
have access to each other's video

• Complete video and data sharing
between City and MOOT on traffic

DPW

• Pilot DSRC in Downtown on
MDOT and city signals to allow
for testing and deployment of
connected vehicle technology

DPD

MOOT

• Install connected technology
on all MOOT signals

7 - Goal: Update parking policies and coordination
Reduce parking
requirements
for new
development
near transit

• Launch campaign to change
zoning ordinances to
support Transit Oriented
Development with reduced
parking requirements to
support more mixed use,
affordable development

• Change zoning ordinances to support
Transit Oriented Development with
reduced parking requirements
and other reductions in parking
requirements to support more mixed
use, affordable development

PHD

• Create policies for loading, curb cuts,
alleys, valet, and other businesses
related activities to create a business
friendly environment supporting
complete street policies

MPD

DDOT
PPD

• Incorporate bicycle parking
and facilities in new and
rehabilitated development

Improve curbside
management
policies and
coordination

• Create a working group to
review existing loading zone
policies and permit process
• Pilot "clear signage" project
on Griswold and evaluate
compliance and enforcement
• Complete on-street parking
pilot using block-by-block
zones and signage

• Develop curbside policy for
autonomous vehicles

• Implement new residential
parking permit policy

• Increase parking transactions
by 40 percent

• Implement process for
residents and businesses to
apply for parking meters
• Add additional parking
meters across the city to
increase parking turnover

• Pilot time-based loading zones

• Increase parking transactions
by 10 percent

• Implement pilot initiative for
off-hour deliveries Downtown

DPW
Mobility

• Pilot dynamic pricing of meters

• Create online database for
loading zone permits
• Track all permitted loading
zones in a GIS file

50

 Improve parking
space availability
information

• Allow customers to pay for
parking violations ',)lithin
ParkDetroit mobile app

• Develop parking wayflnding
information in Downtown
and business districts

• Evaluate feasibility of expanding
ParkDetroit app to include
private off-street facilities

• Integrate real-time information into
a mobile application that allows
customers to flnd and purchase
on- and off-street parking
• Update all curbside regulation signs

Private Sector

• Implement partnerships with owners
of underutilized parking lots to .
expand parking availability in higher
density commercial districts
• Pilot a commercial alley project
that uses adjacent vacant land to
provide parking for the businesses

MPD

• Develop new sign installation
policy to make curbside
regulations clear

MPD
DPW

• Establish a standard for marking
corner clearance zones with
signage and/or paint

Support retail
through new
neighborhood
parking solutions

• Pilot neighborhood parking
agree rnents in LivernoisMcNichols to make underutilized
parking lots available to more
people (customers and workers)

51

 Public Safety
S1r~u•u1<"s

O,,p.ai trnc,ntsl

1-yr•ar lwnch1n,J1 I<•;

P,Jrl 11Ci"<;

l - Goal: Make our streets safer for all modes of travel
Adopt a traffic
fatality reduction
target and
identify
high-crash
locations

• Conduct an analysis to identify
the top 50 crash locatio ns at an
intersection and a corridor IeveI
• Establish a traffic crash
reduction working group

• Reduce pedestrian fatalities
by 21 percent
• Install safety improvements at
ten high-crash corridors

DPD
PDD

DPW
MOOT

• Prioritize crash locations in
DPW capital projects
• Integrate traffic fatality reduction
principles and policies into city
projects as they are implemented
• Conduct targeted enforcement
at high crash locations to address
issues with driver behavior

Reduce
speeding in
neighborhoods
and around
schools, parks
and senior
centers

• Create a traffic calming
program with a menu of
infrastructure improvement
options that will help reduce
speed and improve safety

• Implement traffic calming measures
in 8 priority planning areas

DPD
PDD
DPW
MDOT

• Implement traffic calming
measures in t hree ne ig hborhoods
(Rosa Parks/Clairmont, Northwest
Grand River, Livernois McNichols)
based on community planning
• Work wit~ DPD to target
enforcement at high
crash locations
• Work with MDOT and the County
to prioritize improvements that
reduce speeding and lmprove
pedestrian and bicycle safety

Improve
enforcement
of traffic laws

• Increase enforcement for
violations at corner clearances
and no parking zones, parking
in bus stops and bike lanes,
and of other traffic laws.
• Coordinate transit policy
enforcement with DPD
enforcement to get better and
more coordinated enforcement
of traffic laws throughout the city

Develop a
public education
campaign
focused on how
all users should
share the road

• Pilot safety marketing and
education program as part
of the East Jefferson bike
lane implementation
• Explore sources of funding
and partnerships for citywide
safety education program

• Implement enhanced corner clearance
marking and parking enforcement
in priority neighborhood corridors

DPW

• Determine if increased personnel
dedicated to traffic enforcement
will improve results

State MSP

• Implement first phase of safety
campaign targeted at high-crash
locations and in conjunction
with project implementation

DPD

MPD

DPD
DPW
PDD

Mayor's Office
Secretary
of State
DPH

52

 Dcpi11 tn,c11t•1'
P<11 trH'I ~

2 - Goal: Incorporate safety improvements into all street design projects
Build safety
analysis into
routine city,
county and state
resurfacing,
capital projects
and o perationa I
programs

• Develop standard operating
procedures, toolkit (including
road diets, protected bike
lanes, pedestrian safety islands
and other forms of traffic
calming), methodology and
parameters for safety elements

• Fully incorporate procedure into
paving, markings and other programs

PDD
DPW
DDOT
MDOT
Wayne County

• Revise cost estimates of paving
and other operational programs

SEMCOG

3 - Goal: Improve data collection and analysis
Develop databased safety
criteria to make
wel I-informed
transportation
decisions
and track
performance
overtime

• Identify metrics driven approach
to prioritize safety improvements

• Integrate before/after evaluations
into project implementation

• Complete scope of work for the
Transportation Master Plan to
study high crash areas in depth
and devise design solutions
• Review crash report generation
procedures with DPD

• Work with SEMCOG to expand
their data portal to include
intersection count data

DPW

PDD
DolT
SEMCOG
MDOT

DPD
Universities

Create multiagency working
group that
reviews highcrash corridors
and recommends
changes

• Establish standard agenda
for each meeting, including
reviewing crash statistics,
updates on mitigation strategies,
a1,d funding opportunities

• Distribute safety dashboard
to working group monthly
• Install safety improvements along
five high-crash MDOT/County streets
• Establish an interdepartmental
traffic crash response team that
field investigates all fatalities
and serious injury crashes

DPD
PDD
DPW
MDOT
SEMCOG
Wayne County

4 - Goal: Make walking and biking a safe and pleasant experience
Develop a
Pedestrian Plan
as part of the
Transportation
Master Plan

• Develop plan to include tools
for safer streets, identify gaps
and barriers in the pedestrian
network, improvements to
pedestrian access to transit and
recommendations to increase
the quality of pedestrian space

• Pedestrian counts on targeted
commercial corridors
increase by 10 percent.
• Establish a database of pedestrian
counts which is maintained and
updated on regular intervals

PDD
DPW
DDOT

DON

• Conduct regular pedestrian
counts at priority corridors

Develop
improved
crosswalk
program in
high-priority
areas

• Establish a framework for
identifying intersections
that need a crosswalk and
implementation plan
• Install 20 new crosswalks at highpedestrian/high crash areas

• Install crosswalks and stop controls
(if needed) at top 100 safetyprioritized locations citywide.

POD
DPW
DDOT

53

 Install
pedestrian-scale
lighting in key
commercial
districts

• Develop methodology for
assessing lighting needs
along corridors identified in
the Road Bond Program and
key commercial districts

.

Install pedestrian lighting along
key corridors in the first tranche
of Road Bond projects

PLA
PDD
DPW
MDOT

Wayne County

Maximize
sidewalk
improvements
in commercial
and resi den ti al
districts

• Develop methodology for
prioritizing sidewalk repair based
on based on pedestrian demand,
density, ADA compliance and
areas of growth and special uses
such as schools, libraries, etc.
• Survey and rank sidewalk
conditions along major
streets and key neighborhood
connectors with selected
metrics along and nearby
corridors identified in the
Road Bond Program

• Replace 300,000 sidewalk flags across
the city by the end of the Road Bond
• Repair or replace sidewalks
in conjunction with all blight
removal efforts in residential and
commercial neighborhoods
• Continue improving sidewalks
on neighboring streets on
Road Bond projects

PPDD
DPW
MOOT
Wayne County

• Improve sidewalks on
neighboring streets on
initial Road Bond projects

Create and
implement
a Pedestrian
Signal Policy

• EvaI uate signal timing to
improve pedestrian safety
at priority intersections

• Pedestrian signals upgraded or
installed at all signalized intersections
identified by the signal policy

PPDD

• Develop program to
upg rade/i nsta II pedestrian
signals where needed

• Upgrade all pedestrian signals
to countdown signals

MDOT

• Develop policy for when to
implement leading ped estrian
intervals and pilot at five locations

Update the
Bicycle Master
Plan and develop
bicycle lane
standards

• Develop bicycle lane
standards that will be
applied to future projects
• Update the Bicycle Master Plan
with recommendations from the
Downtown Transportation Study
• Identify future bike projects in
neighborhoods as part of the
Transportation Master Plan

• Eliminate push-button pedestrian
signals wherever possible

• Participate in the design and
construction of bicycle facilities
as part of the Gordie Howe
International Bridge and 1-375
• Coordinate bike projects with
surrounding municipalities to ensure
Detroit's bicycle network connects
into a regional bicycle network

DPW

Wayne County

PDD
DPW
MDOT

• Evaluate the results of the East
Jefferson bike lane pilot
• Negotiate bicycle lanes into
the construction of the Gordie
Howe International Bridge and
1-375 reconstruction projects

54

 Build out
protected bicycle
lane network

• Pilot bike lane plan in East
Jefferson bike lane and measure
neighborhood usage.

• Upgrade existing protected
bike lanes that don't currently
meet proposed standards

• Ensure robust community
engagement, communication
throughout the
construction process
• Upgrade existing bicycle lanes
on Livernois and Grand River

• Based on results of East Jefferson
bike lane pilot, implement at
least an additional 20 miles
of protected bike lanes
• Based on results of East Jefferson pilot,
implement a network of protected
bike lanes in the Downtown

PDD
DPW

• Implement bike lanes through the
street resurfacing programs of
DPW, MDOT and the County

5 - Goal: Help Detroiters feel safer using the transit system

Create a bus stop
lighting program

• Develop lighting standards
for bus stops

• Install lighting at new shelters
(using pedestrian "piggybacks"
on poles where possible)
• Continue implementation
of new lighting policy at all
locations t hat meet criteria

Expand Project
Green Light
to improve
safety at highpriority stops

• Develop program expansion
criteria, scope and funding
• Deploy cameras at
pilot location(s)

• Install cameras at piloted
high-priority corridors

DDOT
PLA
PLO
DPW

DPD
DDOT
DPW

• Pilot incorporation of MioVision
traffic signal cameras into
Project Green Light
• Evaluate implementation
of emergency call boxes

55

 City Vibrancy and Beauty
Der a rt mc nt,/
P.:irtncrs

1 - Goal: Design streets that make the city greener and pleasant for all
Develop and
implement a
Complete Streets
program

Build pedestrian
and bike
infrastructure
that connects
people to
neighborhood
destinations

• Adopt the NACTO Urban
Street Design Guide and Urban
Bikeway Design Guide

• Initiate complete street
policy and implementation
guidelines through the
Transportation Master Plan
• Pilot Complete Streets design
principles on LivernoisMcNichols and East Jefferson

• Publish Complete Streets guidelines
and standards with metrics, design
criteria and g uidelines for project
selection, design, and construction
• Complete at least 12 Road Bond
projects usin.9 Complete Streets
design policy and guidelines

MOOT
DPW

POD
Wayne County

• Begin construction of nine
neighborhood corridor projects

• Complete 20 p riority
neighborhood corridor projects

DPW

• Develop plan for connecting
less dense neighborhoods
to hubs through greenways
and publictransit

• 85 percent of Detroiters can
walk or bike to a thriving
neighborhood main street

DEGC

PDD

GSD
Invest Detrojt

Create a Corridor
Health Index
to measure the
impact of City
investments

Incorporate
landscaping
and stormwater
management
best

practices into
transportation
projects to
reduce flooding,
beautify our
city and create
more sustainable
communities

• Collect outcome-based
metrics in¼ mile around 10
neighborhood corridors to
measure impact of projects and
service improvements. Metrics
to include: DDOT boarding and
alightings, pedestrian counts,
bike counts, parking transactions,
number of crashes, business
permits, residential rehab,
residential mortgages, crime.

• Measure trend in Corridor Health
Index over time to gauge impact,

• Adopt the NACTO Urban
Street Stormwater Guide

• Require p rivate d evelopment to
Include trees and landscaping
in the public way

DPW

• Implement stormwater management
best practices into at least two
place-based Road Bond projects

GLWA

• Incorporate street trees into
transportation projects
whenever possible
• Include tree planting in city
lead transportation projects
• Work with DWSD and GLWA to
identify areas of flooding risk
and incorporate stormwater
best management practices
into transportation projects in
these areas where feasible

DDOT
DPW
PDD
DPD
BSEED

• Establish maintenance
protocols for stormwater best
management practices and
ensure stewardship partnerships
are in place before installing
• Implement a t rails project
with stormwater b est
management practices

GSD
DWSD

Office of
Sustainability

• Incorporate stormwater
best management practices
into trail planning efforts

56

 St1Jtegies

Complete
the "10,000
Up" initiative
by planting
10,000 trees
in three years

• Pl ant 3,300 street trees focused
on commercial corridors and
remove 3,300 of dead trees
in the public right of way
• Plant 1 million daffodils

Partner with
neighborhood
groups to
improve
neighborhood
alleys

• Expand marketing of the City's
residential alley policy to
provide a trans pa rent process
to return alleys to homeowners
• Through Motor City Makeover,
provide equipment to block
clubs to clean their alleys

• Pilot an assessment program for
homeowners and/or commercial
owners to self-fund the repair of
an alley through ari assessment
or other program if they desire

• Establish Complete Streets Policy
for MDOT roadways in Detroit
and work with Wayne County
to adopt the policy as wel I
• Work with M DOT to create
sustainable, Complete Street
project designs that promote
urban environments in redesign
and reconstruction of I- 375,
Gordie Howe Bridge, and 1-94.

• Implement Complete Streets
projects with MDOT on Grand
River, Gratiot and Van Dyke

Work in
partnership
with MDOT and
Wayne County
to facilitate
sustainable
street designs

'

•

I 1-year benchmarks

Create a citywide
program to help
neighborhood
groups
maintain safe
and attractive
sidewalks and
amenities in
retail districts

• Create a task force to
explore how best the city
can sup port these efforts
• Identify funding streams

• Achieve goal of planting 10,000
street trees focused on commercial
corridors and removing 10,000 dead
trees in the public right of way
• Bring five municipally owned
parking lots into compliance with
City landscape standards

GSD
PDD
DPW
Philanthropy

DPW
DON
GSD
DON
Block Clubs

• Pilot a Complete Streets project
with Wayne County within the City

DPW
PDD
MDOT
Wayne County
SEMCOG

• Pilot a more formal community
organization/City partnership which
establishes a clear set of metrics,
oversight and budgeting process
along with City financial support

DEGC
POD

• Identify key partners

2 - Goal: Foster art and public life in our neighborhoods
Incorporate
public art into
transportation
projects

• Continue City Walls mural
program which enlists
neighborhood artists
in reducing blight
• Implement murals
at three viaducts
• Initiate a public arts
framework. plan to make
recommendations incorporating
art into streetscapes and
neighborhood branding
• Plan for the Arts Loop
in Old Redford

• Create policy for the solicitation
and integration of art into
identified transportation
initiatives, both small and large
• Pilot art integration into infrastructure
project and transit stops

DPW
PDD
DDOT
Mayor's Office
GSD
Special Events
Corporation
Counsel
BSEED

• Integrate artists into the
implementation and curation
of programming for Spirit Plaza

57

 Stratc91es

1-ycJr bcnchmMks

i:l-yc,1r benchmarks

Dcp~rtrncntc/
p
-

Plan and
implement
plazas and public
space programs
in the public
right of way

• Complete evaluation of
Spirit Plaza pilot project

• Implement seven pop-up tactical
urbanism p rojects to test Complete
Streets and p lacemaking concepts

PDD

• Continue to use tactical urbanism
techniques to pilot new ideas
and e ngage communities

MOOT

Support Open
Streets programs
in the city

• Fully implement Gratiot/
Randolph Plaza
• Investigate and outline new
public space initiatives,
policies and programs in the
Transportation Master Plan
• Continue to support DDP in
their Open Streets program
and identify additional Open
Streets opportunities.

• Increase the frequency of
Open Streets events
• Highlight d ifferent neighborhoods
with Open Streets events

ar tr ,crs

DPW

Special Events

DDP
GSD
DPH

PDD
County
DPW
DPD

3 - Goal: Connect all Detroiters with an off-street walking and biking greenway network
Implement
the Joe Louis
Greenway Plan

• Complete the fram ework plan
for the Joe Louis Greenway
• Acquire the Conrail right of way
• Acquire the next segment of
the Dequindre Cut between
Mack and E. Grand Boulevard

Revise and
publish a
citywide
greenway plan

• Construct the next phase of
the J_oe Louis Greenway
• lmplem ent on-street sections of the
Joe Louis Greenway through Road
Bond Complete Street~ projects
• Implement a stewardship p lan
partnership for the ma intenance and
operation of the Joe Louis Greenway

• Develop trail plan through
Transportation Master Plan

• Update the regional trails plan and
publish an updated trail map

• Develop funding strategy

• Continue to develop and strengthen
regional trail partners to plan and
implement connections to Detroit trails

• Work with state and local
de pa rtm ents/pa rtners
on the creation of an
implementation strategy

• Continue to work with WDBA to
connect Detroit trail network to Canada

DPW
PDD
GSD
Mayor's office
MOOT
MDNR

SEMCOG
Surrounding
cities

MDNR
WDBA

POD
DPW
DPH

MDNR
WDBA

58

 Str;iteg,es

l-y0M bonchrncir k5

4 ye.,r bcnchmn, I,s

Build out
greenway
network

• Implement the first phase
of the Beltline Greenway

• Construct the Old Redford Arts Loop

• Coordinate improvements and
incorporate stormwater best
management practices into the
Conner Creek Trail with MDOT at
1-94 and between the GLWA and
the Alliance for the Great Lakes
• Coordinate with MDNR and
MDOT on the construction
of bike lanes on the Belle
Isle Bridge and Belle Isle
• Com·plete upgrades
and extension of the
Campau Greenway

• Construct non-motorized bridge over
1-94 as part ofthe Conner Creek Trail

Departments/
p a1 t ners

MOOT
GLWA

DWSD

MDNR
County

DPW
GSD
PDD

• Support Riverfront Conservancy
in the implementation
of the Riverwalk

59

 Communications and Outreach
Dc p,,rtm on:,/
t·\ 1rtn o1s

1-yc cH OP.n ch rn,71 ks

1 - Goal: Make the transit system easier to use and more attractive to residents
Make it easier
for first-time
riders to use
DDOT

Launch media
campaign to
rebrand DDOT
with new
logo, colors,
paint scheme,
and signs

• Number of Detroit residents
who use transit at least once
a month is 55 percent

DDOT

• Number of Detroit residents who can
identify their neighborhood transit
route by name/number is 70 percent

DON

• Rebranding of DDOT
with new logo

• All p ublic materials have been
updated with the new brand.

DDOT

• Hire professional
information designer

• Two-thirds of buses will be
in the new paint scheme.

• Launch new DDOT website
• Complete a comprehensive
survey of DDOT riders on
how they use the system to
establish baseline metrics
• Pilot four free fare days to
remove initial barrier for
entry for new customers
• Launch Bus Ambassadors
program to show new and
existing riders how to use
the bus system (routes,
fares, hours of operation)

• Develop creative content
for DDOT including FAQs,
how-to videos, animations,
graphics, billboards, palm
cards, radio spots, social media
and new DDOT website

DPW

Mayor's Office of
Communications
Detroit Chamber
of Commerce
Business
Associations
Block Clubs

• Use wide variety for
delivery mfu:hanisms for
messaging including:
- Waler !.>ills, Green Light
partners, side lot sales,
flyers on buses
- Bi-weekly faith based videos
- Detroit at Work
website and job fair
- Quarterly newsletter
- Cable channels
• Identify key stakeholders
and validators
• Identify DDOT ad budget for
social media, billboards

Conduct
comprehensive
customer
survey, both
in-person
and online

• Conduct baseline survey before
major changes take place

• Repeat survey each year to
measure effectiveness and
impact on ridership

DDOT

60

 Str,1tc91cs

1-yu:ir I)e nc h"'"' I,s

I
.:l yc:~rb<!11l I11nM<s

Dc,pu1 trn~rntsl
p

Improve
cleanliness of
DDOTbuses

• Increase frequency of deep
cleaning of buses by 25 percent

• Rotate entire fleet of 300 coaches
through a major cleaning every 30 days

DDOT

• Implement a workforce
program to fill high turnover
positions (such as Coach Service
Attendants) for returning citizens

• Imp lement a t racking system
to indicate when each coach
is due for a major clean

di lrlCt S

2 - Go·al: Better engage the community in the planning and implementation of transportation projects
Establish
outreach and
public education
protocols

Use flyers and
newsletters to
inform the public
on construction
projects

• Include public engagement
for all neighborhood
t ransportation plans
• Establish protocols for how
the community (especially
those directly affected) will
be kept informed of progress
during construction, and
best practices for supporting
businesses during construction

• Design and implement
newsletters
• lntrodu ce newsletters for all
seven council districts

• Implement protocols on afl
transportation projects
• Document neighborhood
transportation needs in
neighborhood plans
• Engage citizens in the design
of Complete Streets projects
in the Road Bond

• Disseminate project flyers on
all place-based complete street
projects included ln the Road
Bond prior to construction start

• Refine and fina lize flyer design

• Provide data and surveys to
understand before and after
transportation projects

Provide more and
bettered ucation
to residents
and business
owners on their
maintenance
responsibilities
such as mowing,
shoveling,
fencing, sidewalk
repair, etc.

• Establish a t ask force to partner
with local organizations, the
Department of Neighborhoods,
General Services and others
to determine better ways the
Ciiy can communicate resident
and business responsibilities
and programs that might
support these efforts

DON
POD
Mayors Office of
Communications

DObl
POD
DPW
Mayor's Office of
Communications

• lnco~orate flyer creation
and lstribution into d esign
and construction contracts
Use data and
surveys when
d eveloplng
projects with
communities

DPW

• Provide three-year report
to evaluate progress

DPW

• Create an information packet that
can be regu larly distributed at public
engagement meetings outlining City,
resident and b usiness responsibilities

DON

POD

• Provide annual report on progress

GSD
DPW
PDD
Mayor's Office of
Communications

61

 City Functionality

l - Go al: Bring facilities into a state of good repair and improve maintenance
Increase
invest ment
in road
rehabilitation,
resurfacing
and sidewalk
maintenance

• Complete 100 miles of Major
Road Rehab and Local Road
Resurfacing by the end of 2019

Plan and
distribute
p aving progr.am
resources
based on road
condition, t raffic
safety data and
road usage

• Implement and t rain staff on
a pavement management
investment tool

• Incorporate local streets into
the pavement management
investment tool

PDD

• Formulate criteria for paving
pro gram decisions

• Adopt formal p roject selection criteria

DWSD

Work
collaboratively
with MOOT and
Wayne Coun ty to
expand state and
county resources
d edicated
to Det roit

• Complete 300 miles of Major Road
Rehab and Local Road Resurfacing
by the end of Road Bond
• Replace 300,000 sidewalk flags across
the city by the end of the Road Bond

DPW

• Achieve state of good repair on
on 60-70 percent of major streets
(a PA SER rating of five or better)

MOOT

• Create multi-year road needs
list that c,,n be updated each
year as data is reviewed

• Develop new policies for
resurfacing of trunkllnes
with111the city
• Work with MOOT to increase
their resurfacing budget on
MDOT trunkllnes In Detroit
• Review possible conversion
of stAte-owned trunklines
to City control

DPW

Wayne Coun~y
Utilities

• Establish partnership with
MDOT to review annual state
spending 011 local roads and
increase spending as needed
• Advocate to modiz CMAQ formula
to make funds avai able for nonmotorized transit projects

Mayor's Office
DPW
PDD
MOOT

Wayne County

• Work with MOOT to create a
process for the City to be a part of
the five year TIP planning process

Implement
new asset
management
system
and ot her
infrastructure
tracking tools

• Launch asset management
IT project with all relevant
departments
• Map all p rojects in GIS to prop erly
id entify and maintain asset s

• Complete new asset
management system
• Create a dashboard providing
real-time information for all
transportation projects
• Acquire and implement right of way
manag ement and permitting software

DolT
DPW
DWSD
DDOT
GSD
GLWA
MDOT
Wayne County

62

 Establish new
policies and
guidelines
to better
coordinate utility
construction
to avoid
unnecessary
road work
on recently
resurfaced
streets

• Establish a Coordination
Committee for work in the
right of way t o ensure utility
coordin ation for roadway
infra structure projects
• Produce street work guidelines
codifying all permitting of
underground construction

• Achieve a reduction in utility
cuts through improved
coordination of projects

DPW

• Create a database of utility work and
street cuts to establish a baseline
for the permitting process

Water and
Sewer

DDOT

PDD
DTE

• Review pricing for utility cut
permits and how funding sources
can best be used for street and
sidewa Ik state of good re pair

PLD/PLA
Other utility
providers
Wayne County
MDOT

Improve
maintenance
operations
by using
performancebased metrics

• Collect and develop standard
operating and performance
metrics for allocating
maintenance resources and
evaluating performance
• Create periodic review process
for evaluating maintenance
performance based on metrics

• Create performance management
dashboard for internal and public use.

DPW
DolT
CaRE

2 - Goal: Establish a management structure and staff capacity to support the City's transportation vision

Create a
clear point of
transportation
leadership

Develop one
centrally
coordinated
five-year Capital
Investment
Plan for all
transportation
projects

DPW

• Create a Chief of l ra nsportation
to oversee DPW, Transportation
Planning, Municipal Parking,
DDOT, and Mobility
• Coordinate major policy
decisions and projects under
the Chief of Transportation

PDD
MPD
DDOT
Mobility

• Move all capital investment
p lanning (including General
Fund, Street Fund, Parking Fund,
DWSD, and other sources) to
Budget Department to allow
for central decision-making

• Publish online tool that maps
and describes all capital
investments across the city

DPW

• Implement infrastructure
dashboard which displays real
time road construction projects

Mayor's Office

• Update five-year Capital
lnvestme nt Plan each year with
budget decision making

• All projects will have a defined
study, design, implementation
phase in a timeline that meets
all funding requirements

OCFO

DOIT

63

 Develop staff
and align
departments
to plan for and
implement
complex
tra nsportation
projects

• Hire Deputy Director for
Complete Streets to coordinate
all departments' implementation
of Complete Streets projects, and
fill other needed staff vacancies.
• Hire and train mid-level project
managers and engineers that can
lead multiple complex projects

• Project leadership delegated
to mid-level employees with
project management skill-set.

DPW
POD

HR
MPD
DDOT

• Train department staff on
new policies and targets

DTC
OCFO

• Codify coordination between
DPW, PDD, DDOT, MPD (and
other relevant agencies) in
all transportation projects
• Develop clear department
responsibilities for each
phase of a project.

Wayne County

3 - Goal: Establish a shared set of policies, principles and guidelines
to achieve the Administration's transportation vision
Establish targets
and assumptions
to produce
an urban
environment
that encourages
walking
and public
transportation

• Establish a working group to
d evelop new standards and
guidelines for traffic engineering
based on Complete Streets vision
• Update metrics used for
road projects that:

• Apply agreed-upon fundamentals
to Road Bond projects

DPW

• Apply Detroit targets and assumptions
to all new County and MDOT projects

DDOT

PDD

MDOT

- Increase non-vehicular
mode shar&;

Wayne County

- Have realistic growth
expectations;
- Encourage walking, cycling
and transit usage
- Use VMT trip
generation models
- Impact on neighborhood
roads;
- DDOT service provision
standards;
- Support corridor business
development
- Communicate new Detroit
targets to MOOT and County

Improve
developmentreview policies
to enhance the
public rightof-way while
promoting
economic
development

• Publish clear standards for
development review, including
traffic impact studies, curb cut
permitting, sidewalk Impacts, and
maintenance of the right-of-way
for all users during constructfon
• Establish transportation
and planning review in the
development review process
• Encourage community benefits
agreement process to consider
p ublic right of way Improvements

• Implement proactive requirements for
new development that support mode
shift and Complete Streets targets
• Encourage developers to have
transportation demand managemenl
programs for their companies
• Implement policy requiring
construction sites take into account
pedestrians, b icycles, transit and cars

BSEED
DPW

POD
DDOT
Mayor's Office
DEGC

DWSD
Utilities

64

 ::.tr,ncg,es

L'.. - y~~,,11" l:.i0.h: 1·1u1,:1 .

k-..

f)(~pl1nn1ent •)1
t.,,"I rt nt~rs

'

4 - Goal: Improve bus system management and operations
Improve
operational
efficiencies
and customerfocused tools to
make bus service
more reliable
and attractive
to more riders

• Launch DDOT technology
upgrade to improve on time
performance, scheduling
and c ustomer information
• Train DDOT employees on new
hardware and software packages
• Integrate HR processes with
technology upgrade

• Complete technology upgrade and
develop new evaluation metrics
• Provide real-time bus arrival time
data to customers and staff
• Complete 99 percent of scheduled
bus trips on a daily basis

DDOT
DolT

HR
OCP

• Achieve a 90 percent ontime arrival rate

Restructure
DDOT roles to
more effectively
provide
customerfocused service

• Evaluate structure of operations,
maintenance and customer
service departments to improve
responsiveness to customers

• Fully deploy modernized
operating model

DDOT

Invest in
replacing,
expanding and
overhauling the
DDOT bus fleet
to make service
more reliable

• Purchase 50 new buses in FY19

• Purchase 172 new buses by end
of FY22 which will bring the
average age of the buses to six

DDOT

Build new
Coolidge
Bus Terminal
to increase
connectivity

• Finalize financing plans
for Coolidge Terminal

• Invest $6M each year in
overhauling DDOT buses

• Engineering and site plans completed
for new Coolidge rerminal

DDOT

5 - Goal: Make Detroit a model employer by offering comprehensive
commuting solutions to City employees
Conduct survey
of employees
commuting and
repeat annually

• Develop survey and est ablish
baseIine cfty com muter statistics

Offer discounted
transit to City
employees

• Create human resources program
to improve employee access
to discounted trans it passes

• Collect year-over-year data to
meet non-single.accupancyvehicle mode split goal

HR
DDOT
SMART

• Establish a pre-tax program
for discounted transit
passes for employees

HR
DDOT
SMART

Provide car
sharing for
employees who
only occasionally
need to use a
vehicle for workrelated activities

• Develop interagency
payment mechanism to
operate shared fleet

• All departments use central pool
for occasional-use vehicles

GSD
OCFO
Municipal
Parking

65

 Ackno\Nledgments
Fall 2018
Brenda Jones, President, At Large

Mike Duggan

Mayor

Janee Ayers, At Large

David Massaron

James Tate, District l

Chief O perating Officer

Roy Mccalister Jr, District 2

Ron Brundidge
Director, Department of Public Works

Scott Benson, District 3

Angelica Jones

Andre L. Spivey, District 4

Acting Director, Detroit Department
of Transportation

Mary Sheffield, District 5
Raquel Castaneda-Lopez, District 6

Keith Hutchings

Acting Director, Municipal Parking Department

Gabe Leland, Dist rict 7

Maurice Cox

City Council

Director, Planning and Development Department

This strategic plan is the result of a collaborative
effort within the City of Detroit. Leadership and
staff from t he depart ments of Public Works,
Planning, DDOT, Police, Pa rking, Neighborhoods
and Mobility, worked together to develop and

Addit ionally, the following people and

d etermine the goals, strateg ies a nd benchmarks

organizations should be acknowledged

in this plan. These decision-makers included:

for t heir feedback:

Janet Attarian

Keith Hutchings

Paul Childs

Deputy Chief Elvin Barren

Sunny Jacob

Robert Cramer

Chief Ricky Brown

Angelica Jones

John Hertel

Ron Brundidge

Peter Kadushin

Tony Kratofil

Garry Bulluck

Ken Kucel

Lisa Nuszkowski

Alexa Bush

Dave Manardo

Kirk Steudle

Julio Cedano

Caitlin Marcon

Basil Cherian

David Massaron

Consulting Team:

Mark de la Vergne

Ashok Patel

Bloomberg Associates

Rich Doherty

Kevin Smith

Neil Greenberg

Nicole Stallings

Photo Credits:

Katie Hammer

Kim Tandy

Nick Hagen (page 26)

Jerrell Harris

Alexis Wiley

SmithGroup (page 31)

Jed Howbert

All other photos courtesy of City of Detroit

66

 .- v. 
. 
.. ..
I.

.41"

54"



a" 




4'

whirl-.1.

?11
.Al?n.

579-?

a 




13'Colem;in A. Young Mun;cipcil Center
2 Woodward Ave
Detroit, MichigJn

(313) 224-3400
detroitmi.gov
'II @CityofDetroit
(I facebook.com/CityofDetroit

.

 APPENDIX 
MAP: 2018 NEW BOND
ALL FACILITY IMPROVEMENTS

 

~-

•

-t

.

ENGIN!ili
■

... '

~

..· '

,.

/ - •

ar!GINE&f

.,.

~

I~

-

..

' !

:

IGE GOLF C!)URSE

,,-~
-

~6
,, l

•

7

.,

•

0·

2018 New Bond Projects• All City Facilities

([;
O 0.5

1

2

~

."'::.~

5

•Miles

•

DFD

-

•

GSD I REC

Ill SNF Neighborhoods

•

OPD

•

ODOT

•

MUSEUMS

AH Parks

 APPENDIX 
MAP: 2018 NEW BOND

FIRE DEPARTMENT FACILITY
IMPROVEMENTS

 

..

.

I

.,.

•

-'
•

2

l . , .ENGINE 19

~

(

I

I

L ·

,

...

.

ENGINEID

..E U

e ell4 e5'
r

· .

·

eN~INESi!

. ENGlf,jE 51I
5QUA05

.

GINE 30

ENG,INE SII

.....
.

ENGINE

.

ENGINE 52

ENGINE 57

.

.

ENGINEll

ENGJN.E55

...

:i::

e u.oDER12

.

IIEDICS

. EJ!OtllE 33

2018 New Bond Projects• Fire Facilities
•

CD

or-,___J
0.5 1

OFD

~ All Park5
SNF Neighborhoods

2

5JMiles

-....r'-....

 APPENDIX 
MAP: 2018 NEW BOND

GSDIRECREATION FACILITY
IMPROVEMENTS

 

-

-' II·
~

.,.

'

l

•

I

• ti•
I

•

1

I

'

Iii

-~

•

-

'\

,.

,....
8

I

■

~rl

TINOf\L REC

'')
@ NWACRlf ■

. .

~-

■

,.

.
- .~
-

•

,

I

3

~

t:

....

I,.

1

I ..

•

iii

.

"'\....

r--

-

RdUGEPARK

i- ROUG.E STABLES

I

J

i~

I

- ..; .IOAM BUTZ.El.

IEC -

.....,......... '\

'{V'"" \

-,

~

""

\\

,-,

-~

\ I~

. / (' dt1ANOLER GOLFC'OURSE

--

•

,~--

7'

1/
2018 New Bond Projects -GSD Recreation Facilities
All Parks

8

or-1--1
0.5 1

2

5

•Miles

GSDIREC

SNF Neighborhoods

 Office of the Auditor General
CITY OF

DETROIT

Coleman A Young Municipal Center
2 Woodward Avenue, Suite 216
Detroit, Michigan 48226
Phone: (3 l3) 224-3101
Fai.:: (313) 224-4091
www.dctroitmi.gov

Mark W. Lockridge, Auditor General

AUDIT MEMORANDUM
DATE:

November 1, 2018

TO:

Honorable City Council
Honorable Mayor Mike Duggan

FROM:

Mark W. Lockridge, CPA
Auditor General

RE:

THE CASINO DEVELOPMENT FUND
Michigan Black Chamber of Commerce Project

CC:

Glen Long, COO, DEGC/EDC
Dr. Kenneth L. Harris, President/CEO, National Business League, Inc.
Stephanie Washington, Esq., City Council Liaison
Daniel Arking, Attorney, Law Department
David Whitaker, Director, Legislative Policy Division
Casino Representatives

11t

Attached for your review is our audit memorandum on the Casino Development Fund
Michigan Black Chamber of Commerce project. This report contains our audit purpose,
scope, objectives, methodology and conclusions; background; our audit summary and
recommendation.
Responsibility for the installation and maintenance of a system of internal control that
minimizes errors and provides reasonable safeguards rests entirely with the Economic
Development Corporation.

t, I
I'
(

(
I
- J

'

Copies of all of the Office of the Auditor General reports can be found on our website at
https://www.detroitmi.gov/government/auditor-general.

 Casino Development Fund
Project: Michigan Black Chamber of Commerce

CONTENTS
Page

AUDIT PURPOSE, SCOPE, OBJECTIVES, METHODOLOGY
AND CONCLUSIONS

1

BACKGROUND

3

AUDIT SUMMARY AND RECOMMENDATIONS

10

 AUDIT PURPOSE, SCOPE, OBJECTIVES, METHODOLOGY AND CONCLUSIONS
AUDIT PURPOSE
The audit of the Casino Development Fund, Project: Michigan Black Chamber of
Commerce was performed in accordance with the Office of the Auditor General's (OAG)
charter mandate to conduct audits of the financial transactions, performance and
operations of City agencies based on an annual risk-based audit plan prepared by the
Auditor General, or as otherwise directed by the City Council, and report findings and
recommendations to the City Council and the Mayor.
City Council requested that the OAG perform an audit of the Casino Development Fund
in relation to a Legislative Policy Division report dated October 11, 2016.
AUDIT SCOPE
The scope of this audit was an independent review and assessment of the Michigan
Black Chamber Research project. Our audit was conducted in accordance with
Government Auditing Standards issued by the Comptroller General of the United
States, except for the completion of an external peer review of the Office of the Auditor
General within the last three years.
AUDIT OBJECTIVES
The overall audit objectives were:
•

To review financial reports and audited financial statements from each subgrantee to ensure the casino development funds are properly accounted for and
spent in accordance with program objectives and guidelines as stated in the
revised casino agreements, Economic Development Corporation {EDC)/City of
Detroit and EDC/sub-grantee funding agreements.

•

A performance audit of each sub-grantee to ensure the casino development
funds are effectively and efficiently received and spent in accordance with best
practices and in support of program objectives a:nd guidelines.

Project Objectives for Michigan Black Chamber Research
The project objectives and goals for the Michigan Black Chamber Research Project as
stated in the City of Detroit and EDC funding agreement were to:
•

Grant funds to the Michigan Black Chamber of Commerce to be used in a joint
research project with the University of Michigan to discover ways and means of
assisting Black Business Development efforts in the City of Detroit.

•

Specific program objectives and a budget to be negotiated by among parties.

AUDIT METHODOLOGY
To accomplish our audit objectives, our audit work included:
•

Reviewing the Casino Development Agreements, project funding agreements,
City Charter, the project budget reports, and organization charts.

•

Gathering policies and procedures of core operations and similar data.
1

 •

Conducting an audit-planning meeting to determine the scope and audit
objectives, and to determine the financial transactions and/or areas to audit.

•

Developing questions regarding the Casino Development Fund project's
transactions, controls, functions, records, and personnel.

•

Identifying risks relative to financial transactions and mitigating controls with
appropriate personnel.

•

Interviewing appropriate personnel, reviewing documentation, and making
observations to aid in developing audit programs.

CONCLUSIONS
As a result of our audit of the Michigan Black Chamber Research project, we have
concluded that:
Overall Audit Obiectives
•

Appropriate financial records were maintained for the Michigan Black Chamber
Research project completed by the Michigan Black Chamber of Commerce.

•

The Michigan Black Chamber of Commerce spent funds in accordance with the
project objectives.

Project Obiectives
•

The Michigan Black Chamber of Commerce completed the project objectives,
however it was not a joint research project with the University of Michigan; the
research project was completed with Michigan State University.

2

 BACKGROUND
Origination of Casino Development Fund
The Casino Development Fund is a commitment made by the three Detroit casinos
(MGM Grand Detroit, MotorCity, and Greektown) and the City of Detroit, to contribute
money for the purpose of assisting minority business development in a specified area
within the City. The assistance to business development focuses on: financing fa9ade
improvements, GAP financing, loan guaranties, rehabilitation, equipment and working
capital for existing and new businesses.
The City received $2.5 milllon from MotorCity Casino during the period of the initial
Casino Development agreements (1998-1999). The City received $30 million from the
three casinos ($10 million from each casino) in accordance with the revised Casino
Development agreements.

Economic Development Corporation (EOC)
EDC is a public body corporation created by the City Council of the City of Detroit by
enactment of Ordinance 120-H effective June 9, 1979. All services to be performed are
set forth in the "Scope of Services" section of the EDC/City of Detroit personal service
contract and is coordinated and performed by the DEGC. The DEGC is a private nonprofit 501c.4 organization and is an agent of the EDC that acts as a liaison between the
EDC and the City.
Michigan Black Chamber of Commerce (MBCC)
Headquartered in Detroit, Michigan, the MBCC strives, as its mission, to economically
empower and sustain African-American businesses as enterprises by advocating for
economic development through entrepreneurship, procurement, community
reinvestment, programmatic and professional development, and capitalistic activity
within the state of Michigan.
The MBCC is a nonprofit, nonpartisan, and nonsectarian enterprise dedicated to the
economic empowerment of African-American communities. The MBCC advocates for,
charters, develops, supports and empowers local Black chambers of commerce
throughout the state of Michigan in order to carry out its mission statement. The MBCC
operates Black chambers of commerce throughout the state's urban areas, including
Grand Rapids, Lansing, Pontiac, Southfield, Flint, Detroit, Ann Arbor/Ypsilanti, and the
Great Lakes Bay area. The chamber acts as a catalyst for economic change and
growth among Black-owned businesses, offering consumer patronage, programs,
benefits, and services.
The MBCC is Michigan's first statewide Black chamber of commerce and is the
culmination of efforts by a network of business organizations in southeast Michigan
called the African-American Business Alliance. In 2010, the alliance refocused its
advocacy efforts to establish and transition into the first African-American statewide
business organization: the Michigan Black Chamber of Commerce.

3

 On June 19, 2017, the Michigan Black Chamber of Commerce acquired and became
the National Business League Inc., founded in 1900 by Booker T. Washington. The
national organization relocated from Washington, D.C., to Detroit. This change will
provide black businesses with a national platform that has a 117-year history.
Funding Agreements
The original funding agreement, dated September 7, 2006; for the Black Chamber
Research project was between the Detroit Black Chamber of Commerce and the
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit. In that agreement, Article 111,
Recipient Activities, 3.01 requires:

The Recipient shall perform the following functions:
a. Provide project management services for the Project including a
Project Coordinator/Manager, and accounting and administration staff
as required for the proper completion of the Project.
b. Retain the University of Michigan to perform a study, the purpose of
which is to make recommendations with respect to furthering in the
purposes for which the Recipient was formed as set forth in its Bylaws.
The funding agreement between the Michigan Black Chamber of Commerce and the
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit dated June 12, 2012 requires:
Whereas, pursuant to that certain Assignment of Funding Agreement dated June
12th , 2012, attached hereto as Exhibit B, the DBCC (Detroit Black Chamber of
Commerce) assigned the Funding Agreement to the Recipient;
Through the signing of an assignment of funding agreement, the MBCC assumed the
responsibilities for the Black Chamber Research project from the DBCC.
In one (1) funding agreement with the DBCC, and in three (3) funding agreements with
the MBCC, the EDC distributed a total of $380,117. The following disbursements were
made by EDC:

i . •.-··1E
,.-..-•7i"'i'(....,,_
{.;'~•s-;-,~1,~~~ff"''""-:"Jr··• =r--~,~~--=-;-.:--:-·::,
----;.-~,
, (J•'·'
:,r • -l-:11:
,
'c . 1[• :·,
I
, 1!(•li1.1
-,,._._ ., ~-_,_- ~--' ~ --~_.L).~.Ll.!W~c!t"-=1.-._ __. ~''----"---·-·- . __ j
9/7/2006
'6/12/2012
3/22/2016
6/30/2016

DBCC
MBCC
MBCC
MBCC
TOTAL

$

78,200
156,400
78,200
67,317

$

380,117

There were no documents obtained that detailed how the DBCC utilized the $78,200
that they received from the EDC. The MBCC provided a spreadsheet and copies of
cancelled checks to detail how the $301,917 they received from the EDC was utilized.

4

 Overview of the Research Project Proposed by the Black Chamber of Commerce
(DBCC)
Sometime before the summer of 2003, the DBCC developed a report detailing the first
stage of their project. In that report, they had four (4) deliverables for stage one.
1. A production schedule for the directory of black businesses in southeast Michigan.
a. Identify the information sources that count businesses in southeast Michigan
and that identify the races of owners and operators.
b. Identify common variables across data sets so that we might merge them into
a larger dataset with more information on the characteristics of black
businesses, including location, industry, size and age.
c. Draw up a production schedule, including timelines, design recommendations
and resource needs.
2. An annotated list of resources for the resource room.
a. A survey of existing resource and services offered by Chambers of
Commerce around the country.
b. An analysis of the information and services that the Detroit Chamber of
Commerce does and does not provide for black businesses and how the
Black Chamber of Commerce can fill the void.
c. In consultation with the Black Chamber of Commerce, decide on content,
design and delivery mechanisms for the resource room.
d. Decide on long-term budgets, deliverables and timetables.
3. An annotated list of data resources for the analyses.
a. Create an annotated list of the available data sources on the black
businesses of southeast Michigan. The annotation will include an informative
description of the resources, including how it was collected, who collected it
and why, how frequently it is updated, and the precise nature and structure of
the information contained therein.
b. Decide, in conjunction with the Black Chamber of Commerce, the research
priorities in light of the available information resources. The annotated listing
of available resources will be coded in a way that will help the Black Chamber
decide which of the analyses listed under 3.b would yield the most bang per
buck.
c. Decide on long-term budget, deliverables and timetables.
4. A proposal for the structure of projects and procedures among CEDit, the University
of Michigan and the Detroit Black Chamber of Commerce. This includes letters of
intent and support from participating departments and colleges, conflict of interest
regulations, and the structure of internships.
No other information regarding the DBCC and their project efforts was received .

5

 Overview of the Research Project Proposed and Implemented by the Michigan
Black Chamber of Commerce (MBCC)
The MBCC detailed a three (3) phase process for the completion of the Black Chamber
Research project:

1. Phase I - State of the Black Business Economic Project Grant
Dates: January 2005-December 2006
The DBCC completed Phase I of the State of Black Business Economic Project in
December 2006. The first phase involved gathering the support of Black business
owners in Detroit through a series of panels, events, and programs to lift awareness
levels about Black economic development in the city of Detroit. The first phase set
the foundation for an empirical research study that was completed during Phase II of
the grant allocation.

2. Phase 11- State of the Black Business Economic Report Grant
Dates: July 2012-December 2013

The State of Black Business Economic Report for the African American and
Consumer Community in Detroit was completed in December 2013. The report
completed all aspects of the scope of work submitted. The research includes key
economic statistics for African American businesses and consumers, as well as the
African American workforce, while also identifying key economic parameters to help
develop Black business in Detroit and other urban communities throughout the state
of Michigan. A copy of the State of Black Business Study in PDF form can be
requested. The study will contribute to the success of Phase Ill of the project.

3. Phase Ill - State of the Black Business Mobile Smart Grant
Oates: March 2016-December 2016
The MBCC will build a 21 st-century, state-of-the-art Black business directory,
featuring several technological advances as part of a city-wide Black business
campaign to populate the database. The Black Business Directory (Mobile Smart)
will feature industry and sector businesses, as well as complete content necessary
to develop, expand and grow Black businesses, including:
a. Online Black Business Directory (Website) - state of the art online directory
b. Black Business (App)- mobile application
c. Black Business (Mobile Smart Business Plan) - mobile smart business plan
d. Black Business (Social Media Management Platform) -total marketing
solution with social directory, mobile and reputation management
e. Black Business (Mobile Smart Technology)- messaging system
f.

Black Business Campaign (E-Marketing, E-Advertising and E-PR Solutions)business drive to recruit and retain businesses, and populate the Black
Business Directory

g. Black Business Campaign (Project Management Consultant)- manage the
Black business drive
6

 h. Black Business (Customer Relationship Management (CRM) & MLM
Software) - software to help with business management
i.

Black Business (Online Newsletter) - newsletter partnership with the
Michigan Chronicle.

Status of Project Phases [, II and Ill
Research Project Phase I
Based on the above information, Phase I was completed by the DBCC, however, no
information was obtained for this phase.
Research Proiect Phase II
Phase II of the MBCC project focused on the development of a report titled "The State
of the Black-Owned Businesses in Michigan - A report on the state and future prospects
of African-American entrepreneurs in the State of Michigan," which was completed in
November 2014. This report provided a graphic and demographic profile of Blackowned businesses in Michigan. Sponsored by the Michigan Black Chamber of
Commerce, this effort was one of an array of projects and initiatives designed to bring
together and illuminate the successes, challenges, and opportunities faced by AfricanAmerican entrepreneurs and current business owners. The report focused on the latest
available information in the vast statistical databases on the U.S. Bureau of the Census
website with an eye toward making that information accessible and actionable.
Demographic portraits of Michigan's metropolitan areas provides a wealth of local
market data. However, whether one's aspirations and interests were local or global,
Black entrepreneurs can benefit from understanding the multiple paths to business
success well worn by those who came before them. Information may be "power" but
actionable information provides business opportunity.
The State of the Black-Owned Businesses in Michigan -A report on the state and future
prospects of African-American entrepreneurs in the State of Michigan covered the
following topics:
1. The state of black-owned businesses in Michigan
2. Comparative trends in the Michigan black business community
3. Characteristics of black business owners and their businesses
4. Local market profiles: black consumer economic power
5. Trends in Michigan's black workforce
6. Growth opportunities for entrepreneurs and black-owned businesses
7. Executive perspectives: results from the in-depth interviews
The key datasets used in the report came from the U.S. Bureau of the Census,
especially the Economic Census and the Survey of Business Owners. The current
Survey of Business Owners data in the report was from 2007. The report also contained
Census 201 O results, including demographic profiles and trends affecting black
consumer markets as well as overall population profiles of Michigan's metropolitan
7

 areas. Some data was used to make the analysis applicable to 2013. The Census
Bureau's population estimates program provided annual updates to key population
indicators. Data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics provided information on estimates
of household spending for products and services. This data was presented as updated
estimates for spending by black consumer households in key Michigan metro areas.
A copy of the report was provided to the EDC, and to the MBCC membership, other
economic organizations and agencies, the Detroit Black Business Community, the
Detroit City Council, and the Mayor's Office.
Research Project Phase Ill
Phase Ill of the MBCC project has not yet been implemented.

MBCC Project Budget and Expenditures
The table below shows the actual verses budgeted expenditures from the MBCC for
their research project. The MBCC stated that they did not receive any monies from the
DBCC upon the signing of the funding agreement, therefore the monies received from
the EDC and the CDF for the MBCC's project was a total of $301,917. Based upon the
table below, the MBCC expended an additional $80,125 of their own funds on the black
chamber research project.

ACTUAL TO BUDGET
Grant Implementation Consultants &
Contractors
Marketins:i, Advertisina, & Printina Services
Website, Online Solutions & Technoloqy
Membership Drive Proaram & Events

TOTAL

Actual

Budget

$247,087

$250,000

$(2,913)

26,146
43,248
65,561

27,000

(854)

38,000

5,248

66,000

(439)

$382.042

$381,000

$1,042

Variance

The MBCC had various membership drives and a golf outing to assist with the
fundraising for the research project. The membership drives and the golf outing allowed
the MBCC to engage individuals so that they could create a solid infrastructure to gather
information and be successful. The MBCC utilized four (4) contractors to assist in
completing the project tasks 1.

1

Copies of the four {4) contracts were not provided as requested.

8

 MBCC Status of Project Goals
Phase I - No information was received regarding this phase which required completion
by the DBCC.
Phase II - Completed. The State of the Black-Owned Businesses in Michigan-A report
on the state and future prospects of African-American entrepreneurs in the State of
Michigan.
Phase Ill
a. Online Black Business Directory (Website)- Currently under development.
Projected completion date of October 31, 2018.

b. Black Business (App)- Currently under development. Projected completion
date of October 31, 2018.

c. Black Business (Mobile Smart Business Plan) - Currently under development.
Projected completion date of October 31, 2018.
d. Black Business (Social Media Management Platform) - Currently under
development. Projected completion date of October 31, 2018.
e. Black Business (Mobile Smart Technology) - Currently under development.
Projected completion date of October 31, 2018.

f.

Black Business Campaign (E-Marketing, E-Advertising and E-PR Solutions)Currently under development. Projected completion date of October 31,
2018.

g. Black Business Campaign (Project Management Consultant) - Completed.
h. Black Business (Customer Relationship Management (CRM) & MLM Software)Currently under development. Projected completion date of October 31,
2018.
1.

Black Business (Online Newsletter) - newsletter partnership with the Michigan
Chronicle that is part of the MBCC's E-Marketing strategy and services.
Continuous. This online newsletter is provided to National Business
League members.

NOTE: According to the President/CEO of the National Business League, Inc.
(formerly the Michigan Black Chamber of Commerce, Inc.) stated that they will be
unveiling the full website which will include the above information.

9

 AUDIT SUMMARY AND RECOMMENDATION

The funding agreement between the EDC and the MBCC, gives the responsibility of
accomplishing the goals of the Black Chamber Research Project to MBCC. The project
objective per the funding agreement was to:
"Provide project management services for the Project including a Project
Coordinator/Manager, and accounting and administration staff as required
for the proper completion of the Project; and retain the University of
Michigan to perform a study, the purpose of which is to make
recommendations with respect to furthering in the purposes for which the
Recipient was formed as set forth in its Bylaws."
The MBCC provided documentation to support their expenditures of funds received
from EDC for the purpose of a research project. However, the project was not done in
conjunction with the University of Michigan as the initial agreement stated, because the
original agreement was initially issued to the Detroit Black Chamber of Commerce,
which dissolved before the completion of the project. Therefore, the MBCC reapplied
and was approved to complete the project with a different research firm, as noted in the
final report. According to the MBCC, they provided project management, accounting
and administration staff for the research project that was performed. MBCC did not
provide copies of contracts to substantiate the project management, accounting and
administration staff that they provided. In addition to the completion of a research
project, the MBCC has also taken initiative to create other resources through
private/public partnership sand raised additional funds outside of the grant that are
designed to assist Detroit black businesses and consumers.
The EDC stated that they were satisfied with the completion of the project.
Recommendation
We recommend that EDC keep City Council and the Administration apprised of the
progress of Phase Ill of the project by submitting reports on the status and completion
of the project.

10

 Da,•id Whitaker, Esq.
Director
Irvin Corley, Jr.
Executive Policy Manager
Marcell R. Todd, Jr.
Senior City Planner
Janese Chapman
Depwy Director

<!Cttp of metroft
CITY COUNCIL

r .l

LEGISLATIVE POLICY DIVISION
..
·:..
208 Coleman A Young Municipal Center
'•.•
Detroit, Michigan 48226
Phone: (313) 224-4946 Fax: (313) 224-4336

LaKisha Barclift, Esq.
M. Rory Bolger, Ph.D., AICP
Elizabeth Cabot, Esq.
Tasha Cowen
Richard Drumb
George Etheridge
Deborah Goldstein

Christopher Gulock, AICP
Derrick Headd
Marcel Hurt, Esq.
Kimani Jeffrey
Anne Marie Langan
Jamie Murphy
Kim Newby
Analine Powers, Ph.D.
Jennifer Reinhardt
Sabrina Shockley
Thomas Stephens, Esq.
David Teeter
Theresa Thomas
Kathryn Lynch Underwood

TO:

The Honorable Detroit Cit

FROM:

David Whitaker, D-irectoi:
Legislative Policy Di vi on (L D) Staff

DATE:

November 2, 2018

RE:

PA 84 of 2018, amending the "Local Government Labor
Regulatory Limitation Act"

On October 8, 2018, Council Member Ayers requested that the Legislative Policy Division (LPD)
provide an opinion on legislation recently signed into law by Governor Snyder, amending the
"Local Government Labor Regulatory Limitation Act", Public Act 84 of 2018.
The text of PA 84 is attached. On its face, it prohibits local governments in Michigan from
legislating so as to regulate information that an employer or potential employer "must request,
require or exclude on an application for employment or during the interview process from an
employee or potential employee." If this amendment applied to the existing Detroit "Ban the Box
Ordinance" (Sections 18-5-81 through 18-5-86 of the City Code for City contractors, and Secs.
13-1-11 through 13-1-14 for prospective City employees), it would bar such a local ordinance
prohibiting questions about criminal history on employment application forms, and allowing such
questions only during actual job interviews.
However, the compiler's note to PA 84 further states that "This Act applies to ordinance, local
policies, and local resolutions adopted after December 31, 2014." (emphasis added) Detroit's
Ban the Box ordinances were adopted in November 2011, and may therefore be grandfathered in
and not barred by the prospective preemption oflocal employment application procedures enacted
by PA 84 of 2018.

 The statutory compiler's note goes on - using 'on-the-one-hand, on-the-other-hand' language that
seems somewhat unusual compared to most similar clarifying statements, that it neither authorizes
nor invalidates any such pre-existing statutes or any litigation challenges to them. 1 The framers of
this preemption legislation apparently believe there are other rules of state law that might be used
to undennine local authority, even before passage of the preemption statute.
PA 84 of 2018, like PA 105 of 2015, which it amends, states the current Michigan State
Legislature's strong preemption policy against local governments regulating any aspects of
employment relationships. (See, e.g., LPD's previous report on this legislation, dated July 13,
2015, HB 4052, the "Local Government Labor Regulatory Limitation Act", attached) However,
presumably in order to obtain support within the legislature, this prohibition was made prospective
only, and on its face states that it does not apply to preexisting ordinances.
The potential impact of such state preemption legislation restricting local government authority is
of course not limited to either "Ban the Box" ordinances or employment relationships more
generally. The Michigan Municipal League has stated that "Preemption may be among the most
importan t policy issues facine: local governments." The National League of Cities has issued a
report, updated in 2018, tracking such state preemption legislation state-by-state. In the event that
control of the Michigan State Legislature changes after November 6, 2018, consideration should
be given to repealing such preemption statutes.
If Council has any other questions or concerns regarding this subject, LPD will be happy to provide
further research and analysis upon request.

1

"Nothing in this act shall be considered as an explicit or implicit authorization or recognition of the validity
of any ordinance, local policy, or local resolution adopted before January 1, 2015. Nothing in this act
authorizes a local governmental body to adopt an ordinance, local policy, or local resolution regulating the
employment relationship as to matters described in this act, and nothing in this act shall be construed as
an express or implied recognition of any such authority that may or may not exist elsewhere in state Jaw.
Whether a local governmental body had the authority, before January 1, 2015, to adopt an ordinance, local
policy, or local resolution regulating the employment relationship as to matters described in this act is a
separate question that this act does not address. This act is not intended to be construed to impact the
reasoning or outcome of pending litigation in any way, for or against any particular legal position."

 LOCAL GOVERNMENT LABOR REGULATORY LIMITATION ACT (EXCERPT)
Act 105 of 2015

123.1384 Information employer must request, require, or exclude on employment application
or during interview process; regulation by local governmental body prohibited.
Sec. 4. A local governmental body shall not adopt, enforce, or administer an ordinance, local policy, or
local resolution regulating information an employer or potential employer must request, require, or exclude on
an application for employment or during the interview process from an employee or a potential employee.
This section does not prohibit an ordinance, local policy, or local resolution requiring a criminal background
check for an employee or potential employee in connection with the receipt of a license or pennit from a local
governmental body.
History: 2015, Act 105, lrnd. Eff. June 30, 2015;-Am. 2018, Act 84, Eff. June 24, 2018.
Compiler's note: Enacting section 1 of Act 105 of2015 provides:
"Enacting section I. This act applies to ordinances, local policies, and local resolutions adopted after December 31, 2014. Nothing in
this act shall be ,onsidered as an explicit or implicit authorization or recognition of the validiry of any ordinance, local policy, or local
resolution adopted before January I, 2015. Nothing in this act authorizes a local government.al body to adopt an ordinance, local policy,
or local resolution regulating the employment relationship as to matters described in this act, and nothing in this act shall be construed as
an express or implied recognition of any such authority that may or may not exist elsewhere in state law. Whether a local governmental
body had the authority, before January I. 2015, to adopt an ordinance, local policy, or local resolution regulating the employment
relationship as to matters described in this act is a separate question that this acl does not address. This act is not intended to be construed
to impact the reasoning or outcome of pending Ji tigation in any way, for or against any particular legal position."

Rendered Friday, October 19, 2018

© Legislative Council, State of Michigan

Page 1

Michigan Compiled Laws Complete Through PA 341 of 2018

Courtesy of www.legislature.mi.gov

 David Whitaker, Esq.

Director
Irvin Corley, Jr.
Executive Policy Manager
Marcell R. Todd, Jr.

ScniorCity Planner
LaKisha Barclift, Esq.

M. Rory Bolger, PhD, AICP

~itp of iJ.Betroit
CITY COUNCIL
LEGISLATIVE POLICY DIVISION

208 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, Michigan 48226
Phone: (313) 224-4946 Fax: (313) 224-4336

Timoth)· Boscarino, AICP
Elizab'eth Cabot, Esq.

Jancsc Chapman
George Etheridge
Derrick Headd
Anne Marie Langan
Analine Powers, PhD
Sabrina Shockley
Thomas Stephens, Esq.
David Teeter
Theresa Thomas
Kathryn Lynch Lnderwood

TO:

The Honorable Detroit City Council

FROM:

David Whitaker, Director
Legislative Policy Division Staff

DATE:

July 13, 2015

RE:

HB 4052, the "Local Government Labor Regulatory Limitation Act"

As Council Members will probably be aware from extensive media reports, Governor Snyder
recently signed legislation prohibiting new local ordinances that purport to require tenns or
conditions of private employment within municipalities that are better or different than those
minimal standards established by state or federal laws, especially in connection with public
contracts. LPD is providing this summary of the legislation, emphasizing a concise analysis of
the extent to which it will likely be held to affect a Community Benefits Agreement Ordinance of
the type previously proposed for the City of Detroit. 1

HB 4052
The preamble to HB 4052 (attached) states that it is "AN ACT to limit the powers of local
government bodies regarding the regulation of terms and conditions of employment within local
government boundaries for employees of nonpublic employers." Sections 4 through 12 of the
statute are the operative terms. They expressly state that "A local governmental body shall not
adopt, enforce, or administer an ordinance, local policy, or local resolution" doing any of the
following things:

1

Council may recall passing the attached resolutions on January 30, 2015, and a second attached
resolution proposed by Council Member Castaneda-Lopez in opposition to previous versions of HB 4052.
It was formerly called the "local government employer mandate prohibition act". Those versions of HB
4052 were the State Legislature's second and third attempts to pass such legislation, after its first
introduction failed (HB 5977) during the lame duck session of December 2014.

 • Regulating information an employer or potential employer musl request, require,
or exclude on an application for employment from an employee or a potential
employee;2
•

Requiring an employer to pay to an employee a wage higher than the state
minimum hourly wage rate under the applicable state or federal law, whichever
is lower·,3

•

Requiring an employer to pay to an employee a wage or fringe benefit based on
wage and fringe benefit rates prevailing in the 1ocality;4

•

Regulating work stoppage or strike activity of employers and their employees or
the means by which employees may organize;

•

Requiring an employer to provide to an employee paid or unpaid leave time;

•

Regulating hours and scheduling that an employer is required to provide to
employees; 5

•

Requiring an employer or its employees to participate in any educational
apprenticeship or apprenticeship training program that is not required by state or
federal law;

•

Requiring an employer to provide to an employee any specific fringe benefit or
any other benefit fur which the employer would incur an expense, including, but
not limited to, those referenced above; or

•

Regulating or creating administrative or judicial remedies for wage, hour, or
benefit disputes, including, but not limited to, any benefits itemized above;

In a major concession that was reportedly critical to securing passage of the final version of the
legislation, it was made prospectively applicable only. Section l6 of the statute states: "This act
does not prohibit a local governmental body from enforcing a written agreement voluntarily
entered into and in effect prior to October 1, 2015 .... This act applies to ordinances, local

2 This section does not prohibit an ordinance, local policy, or local resolution reqLliring a crimjnal
backgroun<l check for an employee or potential employee in connection with the receipt of a license or
permit from a local governmental body.
3

Although proponents falsely claim that this legislation \Vas moth·ated by confomtity and avoiding an
alleged '·patchwork'' of di ffercnt local employment standards, the acLUal tcm1s of the statute on thei1· face
make it clear Lhat it is in facl the lowest standards, rather than any common or consistent standards, that
arc adopted and required.
4

This section does not apply to slate projects subject to 1965 PA 166, MCL 408.551 to 408.558,
providing for prevailing wages on state projects.
5

This section does not prohibit an ordinance, local policy, or local resolution that limits the hours a
business may operale.

2

 policies, and local resolutions adopted after December 31, 2014. Nothing in this act shall be
considered as an explicit or implicit authorization or recognition of tho validity of any ordinance,
local policy, or local resolution adopted before January 1, 2015." That is, it does not apply to
pre-existing local ordinances already "on the books" of Michigan municipalities before the
beginning of this calendar year. It prohibits such ordinances only in the future.
The statute also includes a few other exceptions to its prohibition of local legislation regarding
the employment relationship. They are:
•

The act does not prohibit a local governmental body from adopting or enforcing
an ordinance, policy, or resolution prohibiting employment discrimination;

•

Other than the specific tenns and conditions expressly carved out from local
authority as stated above, the act does not prohibit a local governmental body
from adopting, enforcing, or administering an ordinance, local policy, or local
resolution that provides for the tenns and conditions of a voluntary agreement
between an employer and the local governmental body in connection with the
provision of services directly to the local governmental body or in connection
with the receipt of a grant, tax abatement, or tax credit from the local
governmental body.

In sum, HB 4052 carves out virtually all new, substantive requirements for terms and conditions
of private employment from the universe of those things a Michigan municipality can legislate in
any way, other than enforcing state or federal st andards, and other standards voluntarily agreed
to between parti e~ to the emplo yment relationship. 6

Effects on Proposed Communitv Benefits Agreement Ordinance
A previous version of this legislation expressly barred local ordinances mandating community
benefits agreements in connection with major publicly funded development projects. That
language was removed from the final version that has now become law. 7 But in LPD's opinion

6

Forceful and cogent reasons were put forward by many knowledgeable advo,;ates of local government
authority and power • including City Council's attached resolution in opposition to HB 4052 on January
30, 2015 - supporting local officials' authority to determine the most fitting and appropriate conditions
for employment (among other contexts) within local communities, and especially in connection with
public projects that create jobs and associated social and economic benefits in our communities. But
those voices and reasons are not aligned with the philosophy or interests of the state legislative majority
in Lansing or the current governor, and so this rather invasive legislation is now law.
7

LPD believes there is an arg1.1ment that can be made based on this legislative history, that HB 4052 would not
invalidate any of the provisions of the proposed Community Benefits Agreement Ordinance, if the City were to
enact it. The original legislation expressly prohibited such an ordinance at a time when it was widely known to be
pending, but that provision was removed from the enacted statute. Therefore it is not intended to apply to the
Community Benefits Agreement context, where the terms of the agreement are voluntary and voluntary agreements
are not the target or subject matter of HB 4052. However, in LPD 's opinion a more likely plausible reading
(recognizing that predicting a given court's ruling in any specific case is inherently unreliable) would apply HB
4052 to invalidate any provisions of a Community Benefits Agreement Ordinance that specify or require any tenns
or conditions of private emplovment other than those required by state or federal laws..

3

 HB 4052 could partially invalidate the following provisions of the latest version of the proposed
Community Benefits Agreements Ordinance under consideration by Detroit City Council:
•

Provisions requiring that Community Benefits Agreements
"employment opportunities" [Sec. 14-12-3(a)(l )(b)(I)];

•

Provisions requiring
3(a)(l )(b)(2)];

e

Provisions providing that they can address a "first source hiring program"
[Sec. 14-12•4(a)(l )];

•

Provisions requiring a specific percentage of local contractors [Sec. 14-124(a)(2)];

•

Provisions providing that they can address "worforce development programs"
[Sec. 14-12-4(a)(3)]; and

•

Provisions providing that they can address "youth employment programs"
[Sec. l 4-12-4(a)(4)].

that they address "job training"

[Sec.

address

14-12-

In sum, while HB 4052 likely would require significant modifications of the existing draft
proposed Community Benefits Agreement Ordinance as itemized above, to eliminate all
references to tenns and conditions of employment, which would be a very significant limitation
ofthc scope of such an ordinance, it does not appear lo prohibit such an ordinance entirely.

If Council has any additional questions or concerns regarding this matter, LPD \Vould be pleased
to provide further research and analysis and report back regarding same.

4

 