

TESTIMONIAL

RESOLUTIONS

AND SPECIAL
PRIVILEGE

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

RESOLVED

 

money?!) [z

Jig/6.5.0.; Hiram,?

DETROIT CITY COUNCIL {0 










. I 


-.- - 


ALBERT L. FIELDS

Albert L. Fields joined the City of Detroit in 2002 and served under multiple Mayoral
Administrations. During his tenure. he served as an Executive and held a variety of key posts
including Deputy COO, Interim COO, Group Executive and Board Chair of the Detroit

Transportation Corporation; and

Albert L. Fields served the City of Detroit with dedication. During his tenure, he fully supported
the engagement and development of the Department of Public Works and Traffic Engineering. He
implemented road development, construction and citywide efforts on cleaning, sweeping and
maintaining the curb area for cycling. To slow traf?c and give cyclists a safe passage to enjoy on
Belle Isle he directed and empowered the Traf?c Engineering Division to implement bike lanes
with a ?Just do it? philosophy. The Belle Isle bike lanes were the ?rst and led to over 150 miles of
bike lanes throughout the City of Detroit. This change in strategic management benefited the City
of Detroit?s Department of Public Works and Traf?c Engineering. The departments began to view
the importance of cycling and gave ammunition to use the allocated 1?5% of Federal Road Funding
on Non-Motorized Transportation; and

Albert L. Fields building projects affected the public right of way and started to include bike lanes
in the designs. Under his leadership the City of Detroit updated its non-motorized transportation
plan. His plan became integral for neighborhoods, street designs and supported complete streets
and school safety initiatives; and

Albert L. Fields currently serves as an Executive Board Member for Southwest Housing Solutions
and President of the Board of Directors for the Greenway Coalition; and

Albert L. Fields is a devoted husband, father and grandfather. He is married to Rhoda Henderson
Fields and has two wonderful children; Alex and Elise. He looks forward to sharing the joy of safe
cycling with his precious granddaughter, Hadley; NOW THEREFORE BE IT

That the Of?ce of Councilmen Scott Benson congratulates Albert L. Fields on his 65th birthday
celebration. Thank you for putting citizens ?rst. May God continue to bless you and your family

throughout the years.

 

 

COUNCIL MEMBER

 

COUNCIL PRESIDENT


  

 

 

 

COUNC 
December 16, 2018

DATE

 

DETROIT CITY COUNCIL [72:) tit-Lam
October 3, 1946 ?November 17, 2018
In Memoriam
WHEREAS Loretta Benbow-Ukadike was born October 3, 1946 in Lansing, Michigan to the
union of John Robert Johnson and Laura Brim; and
WHEREAS Loretta Benbow-Ukadike graduated from Northern High School in 1962. Soon

afterwards she was blessed to start motherhood. She had two beautiful children
Siray Johnson Freeman and Edward Baxter Booth and

WHEREAS Loretta Benbow-Ukadike was gifted with an entrepreneurial spirit. She opened a
clothing store on the infamous Avenue of Fashion in Detroit by 1970. In 1974 she
began a successful career as a realtor. She was the ?rst African American woman
to open an of?ce with Realty in 1977; and

WHEREAS Loretta Benbow?Ukadike was also gift with the spirit of giving. Noticing a need
in her community she founded Exodus 321 a non-pro?t organization that ful?lled
the needs of those plagued with mental challenges and homelessness; and

WHEREAS It being the will of our Lord to call our beloved home after a long life of service,
Loretta Benbow-Ukadike transitioned from this life, from labor to reward on
November 17, 2018; THEREFORE, BE IT

RESOLVED That the Of?ce of Councilman Scott Benson and Detroit City Council
expresses their deepest condolences and share the sympathy in the loss of your
loved one, Loretta Benbow-Ukadike. Your loss is heaven?s gain. May God bless
and comfort you during this time and always.

 

  

COUNCIL ESIDENT

 

 

 

 

 

November 30, 201
DATE

 

-.-

