

PUBLIC HEALTH
AND SAFETY
STANDING
COMMITTEE

l?-l

MAYOR OFFI OORDINATOR REPORT

 

 

OVERALL STATUS (please circle): APPROVED DENIED NIA El CANCELED

 

 

Petition 583 EventNameDr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Legacy March

 

Event Date: January 211 2019

 

Street Closure: None

 

Organization Name. Detroit Public Schools Community District - MLK High School

 

Street Address. 3200 E. Lafayette Detroit, MI

 

 

Receipt date of the COMPLETED Special Events Application:

 

Date of City Clerk?s Departmental Reference Communication:

 

Due date for City Departments reports:

 

 

Due date for the Coordinators Report to City Clerk:

 

 

 

Event Elements (check all that apply):

Run/Marathon

Festival

Rally/Demonstration

 

I: Walkathon El Carnival/Circus Concert/Performance
Bike Race Religious Ceremony Political Ceremony
Filming Parade I: Sports/Recreation
Fireworks Convention/Conference Other:

24-Hour Liquor License

 

Petition Communications (include date/time)

Annual legacy march in honor of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. from 10:30am 1:00pm located at Martin

Luther King, Jr. Senior High School and surrounding streets.

 

 

ALL penm?ts and license requirements must be fulfilled for an approval status 

 

Date Department NIA APPROVED DENIED Additional Comments

 

DPD El 

DPD Assisted Event

 

No Permits Required

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

[j
EMS
No Permits Required
DPW 
Health Dept. I: NO Jurisdiction

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Date Department NIA APPROVED DENIED Additional Comments
DPD Assisted; No Permits Required
TED 
No Jurisdiction
Recreation I:
No Jurisdiction
Safety El I:
No Jurisdiction
Bus. License 
All Necessary permits must be obtained
Nag: I: prior to event. If permits are not obtained,
departments can enforce closure of event.
. . No Purchase of Parking Meters Required
MUHlCipal
Parking I:
DDOT No Impact on Buses

 

 

 



 

 

 

OFFICE
Signature: (1W

Date: E) 

 

QEitp at Eztrnit

Janice m. Winfrey OFFICE OF THE cm CLERK eaten W?st
City Clerk Deputy City 

DEPARTMENTAL REFERENCE COMMUNICATION

Tuesday, November 20, 2018

o: The Department or Commission Listed Below

From: Janice Winfrey, Detroit City Clerk

 

The following petition is herewith referred to you for report and recommendation to the
City Council.

In accordance with that body's directive, kindly return the same with your report in duplicate
within four (4) weeks.

 

OFFICE DPW - CITY ENGINEERING DIVISION
POLICE DEPARTMENT FIRE DEPARTMENT
BUSINESS LICENSE CENTER BUILDINGS SAFETY ENGINEERING
TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT MUNICIPAL PARKING DEPARTMENT

583 Detroit Public Schools Community District - Martin Luther King High School,
request to hold ?Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Legacy Walk: on January 
2019from 10:30 am to 1:00pm, Set up begins at January 2019from 5:00
am and Complete tear down at 2: 00 pm, with temporary street closures.

200 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center - Detroit, Michigan 48226-3400
(313) 224 3260 . Fax (313) 224-1466

 

City of Detroit Special Events Application

Successful events are the result of advance planning, effective communication and teamwork. The
City of Detroit will be strictly adhering to the special events guidelines, please print them out for
reference. You are required to complete the information below so that the City of Detroit can gain a
thorough understanding of the scope and needs of the event. This form must be completed and
returned to the City of Detroit Clerk?s Of?ce at least 60 days prior to the first day of the event. If
submitted later than 60 days prior, application is subject to denial. Please type or print clearly and
attach additional sheets or maps as needed.

Section 1- GENERAL EVENT INFORMATION

 

Event Name: Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Legacy March

 

Event Location: Legacy March Route: Lafayette, Mt. Elliot to Larned to Chene to Lafayette

 

Section 2- INFORMATION

 

Organization Name: Detroit Public Schools Community District Martin Luther King, Jr. Senior High School

 

Organization Mailing Address: 3200 E. Lafayette

Business Phone: [313i Business Fax [3131 261-9140

Federal Tax lD 

If registered as a non?pro?t, indicate non-pro?t ID number and attach a copy of the certificate.

Annlicant Name: Lawrence Fitz

Title/Role: Assistant Principal

 

Email Address: 

 

Mailing Address: 3200 E. Lafayette
Business Phone? Business Fax

Event On-Site Contact Person:
Lawrence Fitz

Mailing Address: 3200 E. Lafayette

 

Business Phone: (313) 494-7373 Business Fax: (313) 262-9140

 

 

List name/phone number of person(s) authorized to make decisions for the organization/event (indicate role/responsibility).
Dr. Deborah Jenkins, Principal (313) 494-7373 Lawrence Fitz, Assistant Principal (313) 494-7373 Leslie Spain. Teacher (313) 494-7373

 

 

 

List Event Sponsors:

 

 

Event Elements (check all that apply)

Walkathon Camival/Circus Concert/Performance

Run/Marathon Bike Race Religious Ceremony

Political Event Festival Filming

[X]Parade ]Sports/Recreation ]Ra11y/Demonstration

]Convention/Conference Fireworks Other: 

 

Provide a brief description of your event:

The 8th Annual Martin Luther King, Jr. Legacy March is a commemoration of Dr. King?s birthday and legacy uniting
community leaders, members, visitors and friends from local, national and international regions in honor of the legendary civil
rights leader.

What are the projected set-up, event and tear down dates and times (must be completed)?

 

 

Begin Set-up Date Time: 01/21/2019 at 5:00 AM Complete Set-up Date Time: 01/21/2019 at 9:00 AM
Event Start Date Time: 01/21/2019 at 10:30 AM Event End Date Time: 01/21/2019 at 1:00 PM
Begin Tearing Down Date: 01/21/2019 at 1:00 PM Complete Tear Down Date: 01/21/2019 at 2:00 PM

 

Event Times (If more than one day, give times for each day):

10:30 AM ?1:00 PM

 

 

 

 

ls this the ?rst time you have held this event in the City of Detroit? Yes No

lfno, what years has the event been held in Detroit? 2010, 201 1, 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016, 2016, 2017, 2018
When was the event last held in Detroit? 01/16/2018

Where was the event 1ast held in Detroit? Legacy March Route:

 

What were the hours last year?
11:00 1:00 PM

 

Project Attendance This Year (Minimum Maximum)? 250 - 1000

What is the basis t?nr vmir nmiected attendance" l?rr-vinnq u'nrq" nitmuinm?r' i'urn'nl umr'e turner lie!

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Please describe your anticipated/ target audience: Community leaders, members, visitors and friends from local, national and
international regions.

Is this going to be an annual event? Yes No

If yes, do you have a preferred/proposed for next year?

 

 

 

 

Yes
[fa parade is planned. Indicate elements (check all that apply):
People Balloons
Floats Animals
Vehicles Other
Bands
If animals included. specify type, number and how used.
Name of business supplying anima1(s):
Contact Person:
Address: Phone:

 

City/State/Zip:

 

   

Section 3- INFORMATION

Location of Event: Legacy March Route beginning at 3200 E. Lafayette, Detroit, Ml 48207

 

Facilities to be used (circle): Street Sidewalk Park City
Facility

Please attach a site plan which illustrates the anticipated layout ofyour event including the following:

-Public entrance and exit -Location of First Aid

-Location of merchandising booths -Location of ?re lane

-Location of food booths -Pr0posed route for walk/run

-Location of garbage receptacles -Location of tents and canopies

-Location of beverage booths -Sketch of street closure

-Location of sound stages -Location of bleachers

-Location of hand washing sinks -L0cation of press area

-Location of portable restrooms -Sketch of proposed light pole banners

Section 4- ENTERTAINMENT

 

What type of entertainment will be used? (check all that apply)

]Singers ]Magician
Musicians Story Telling
]Comedians ]Other:

 

 

 

 

 

Describe the entertainment for this year?s event: Martin Luther King, Jr. Senior High School Marching Band, additional invited marching
band

 

 

List proposed entertainers and/or bands performing at the event: Martin Luther King, Jr. Senior High School Marching Band

 

Will a sound system be used? Yes No

if yes, what type of sound system? Fender ampli?ers/speakers

 

Acoustic-audible, sound heard within natural range

Ampli?ed-augmented, sound increased to broaden range
The ampli?ed sound will be used: To enhance speaker?s voice and music range.

 

Will the event consist ofa musical concert? Yes No
If yes, what type of music? (check all that apply)
Live Recorded 

Describe speci?c power needs for entertainment and/or
music:

 

How manv gene-mum's will be used? none

How will the generators be fueled?

 

Name of vendor providing generators:

Contact Person:

 

Address: Phone:

 

City/State/Zip:

 

Section 5- STRATEGY

   

Check all applicable boxes that describe the type of promotion you plan to use to attract participants:
Radio (Specify stations): Detroit Public School Radio WDET

Television (Speci?c stations): Government Access Comcast Cable, Direct TV

Newspapers (specify papers): Michigan Chronicle, Detroit New, Detroit Free Press

mu, High-twirl,

 

Web site (identify web address): r_ 

Public Relations or Marketing Firm (Specify):

 

 

 

Contact info:
Raf?e (List Item(s)):

]Billboards
]Flyers
]Street Banners

Other (specify):

 

NOTE: All raf?es subject to laws of State/City.

Section 6- SALES INFORMATION

   

Will there be advanced ticket sales? Yes No
if yes. please describe:

Will there be on-site ticket sales? Yes No
Ifyes, list price(sl:

Will food be sold? Yes No
If yes, please pick up Special Events Vendor Packet in Suite 105:

 

 

Will merchandise be sold? Yes No
If yes, describe:

Yes No
Will a percentage of the proceeds be distributed to a charitable organization?

[fyush describe:

if the event is a fundraiser, identify charity or recipient of funds:

 

 

Will there be vending or sales? Yes No
If yes, check all that apply:

]Food ]Merchandise
Non-Alcoholic Beverages Alcoholic Beverages

Other (specify);

indicate type of items to be sold:

 

Will these be exclusive vendors or outside vendors? (please describe):

 

Section 7- PUBLIC SAFETY PARKING 

   

Name of Private Security Company: Existing park contract security will be used.

Contact Person:

 

 

 

 

Address: Phone:

 

City/State/Zip:

 

Number of Private Security Personnel Hired Per Shift:

 

Are the private security personnel (check all that apply)?

]Licensed ]Armed ]Bonded

 

 

Describe the emergency evacuation plan:
Describe the parking plan to accommodate anticipated attendance: School Parking Lot located at 3200 E. Lafayette

How will you advise attendees of parking options? Yes

 

 

Are you seeking a group parking rate? NM.

 

 

Section 8- IMPACT INFORMATION

   

How will your event impact the surrounding community pedestrian
traf?c, sound carryover, safety)?

Push-~41 rinn Irnl?l'u: will be ussisletl and monitored as tin: Legacy March mute has been carefully planned in accordance with zoning
ordinances and cummuniculcd Lu aulhurixcd personnel.

 

Have local neighborhood groups/businesses approved your event? Yes No

Indicate what steps you have or will take to notify them of your event:
Personal invitations, personal invitation contact follow up, television/radio/internet
advertisement.

 

Indicate contact names and phone numbers (for veri?cation) or attach approved letter(s):

 

 



Complete the appropriate categories that apply to the event.
Structure
How Many? 

Size/Height 

 

 

 

 

Booth 
Tent (enclosed on 3 sides) 

Canopy (open on all sides) 

Staging/Scaffolding 

Bleachers Elf;

Company: 

Grill

]Gas ]Charcoal ]Electrical ]Propane

Fireworks (Pyrotechnics)
]Aerial ]Stage

Provide Sketch:

Portable Restrooms:
Standard ADA Accessible

Vehicles

Type/ Weight:

 

Other:

 

NOTE: Speci?c requirements must be met and special approval must be received by the Detroit Fire Department.

Will additional electrical wiring need to be installed? Specify locations, voltage, amperage, and phase.

No

 

 

Will additional utility services be used (power, water, etc)? Please describe.

No

 

Do you plan a ?reworks display? List dates, time, location, vendor, and attach certi?cate of insurance.

No

 

 

 

 

 

   

Name of Sanitation Company collecting refuse and garbage?

Contact Person:

Section 10- ALL THAT APPLY

 

Address:

Phone:

 

City/State/Zip

 

Name of company providing emergency medical services?

Contact Person:

 

A
II.


unrul-

City/State/Zip:

 

Name of company providing porta-johns. 

 

Contact Person:

 

Address:

Phone:

 

City/State/Zip:

 

Name of private catering company? 

 

Contact Person:

 

Address:

Phone:

 

City/State/Zip:

 

SPECIAL USE REQUESTS

List any streets or possible streets you are requesting to be closed. Include the day, date, and time of requested closing and reopening.

Neighborhood Signatures must be submitted with application for approval.

Attach a map or sketch of the proposed area for closure.

 

 

 

 

STREET NAME: Ii. Latiwetle to Ml. Elliot to Lurncd 1n Cherie and Lafayette

 

FROM

 

 

 

 

Time: 1AM

 

 

Closure Dates: 01/21/2019
Beg. Time: 10 AM
End Time: II :3 0 AIM

Reopen Date: 01/21/2019

TO

 

STREET NAME:

 

 

FROM

 

TO

 

 

Closure Dates:

 

Beg. Time:
End Time:

 

Reopen Date:

 

Time:

 

STREET NAME:

 

 

 

FROM

 

TO

 

 

Closure Dates:
Beg. Time:

 

End Time:

 

Reopen Date:

 

Time:

 

STREET NAME:

 

 

 

FROM

 

TO

 

 

Closure Dates:
Beg. Time:

 

End Time:

 

Reopen Date:

 

 

Time:

Requested City Equipment

Provided ln: (year)

 

 

 

Current Request: (year)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Street Closures:

Posting no parking signs Light pole
Electrical Services Storage for Trailers/Trunks

Barricades are not available from the City of Detroit.

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

ls there any additional information that you feel is important to mention regarding your event or additional requests?

 

 

 

 

 

AUTHORIZATION AFFADAVIT OF APPLICANT

I certify that the information contained in the foregoing application is true and correct to the best of my knowledge
and belief that I have read, understand and agree to abide by the rules and regulations governing the proposed
Special Event, and I understand that this application is made subject to the rules and regulation established by the
Mayor or the Mayor's designee. Applicant agrees to comply with all other requirements of the City, County, State,
and Federal Government and any other applicable entity, which may pertain to Special Events. I further agree to
abide by these rules, and further certify that I, on behalf of the Event agree to be financially responsible for any costs
and fees that may be incurred by or on behalf of the Event, to the City of Detroit.

11f11/2018

 
  
 

f' 

//Signature of Applicant Date

NOTE: Completion of this form does not constitute approval of your event. Pending review by the Special Events Management Team, you
will be noti?ed of any requirements, fees, and/0r restrictions pertaining to your event.

 

 

 

11/16/2018

3200 Lafayette St, Detroit, MI 48207-3812 to 3200 Lafayette St Directions MapQuest



mu Park

   
 

 
 

Ralph Hunche
Cooperarive Park

 

 

  

re

RIVERTOWN

Book a hotel tonight and
save with some great deals!

(1-877-577-5766)

 

Car trouble mid-trip?
MapQuest Roadside
Assistance is here:

 

(1-888-461-3625)

2013-11-19 583

583 Petition of Detroit Public Schools
Community District - Martin Luther
King High School, request to hold
"Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Legacy
Walk: on January 21, 2019?om
10:30 am to 1:00 pm, Set up begins at
January 21, 2019?om 5:00 am and
Complete tear down at 2:00 pm, with
temporary street closures.

REFERRED TO THE FOLLOWING 

OFFICE DPW - CITY ENGINEERING DIVISION
POLICE DEPARTMENT FIRE DEPARTMENT

BUSINESS LICENSE CENTER BUILDINGS SAFETY
ENGINEERING

TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT MUNICIPAL

6'

David Whitaker, Esq. CITY COUNCIL Christopher Gulock, AICP
Director Derrick Headd

lrvin Corley, Jr. LEGISLATIVE POLICY DIVISION Marcel Hurt, Esq.
Executive Policy 208 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center Kimani Jeffrey

garage!" Detroit, Michigan 48226 Anne Marie Lang,"
5,2233%; $13,112:? Phone: (313) 224-4946 Fax: (313) 224-4336 Jami, Murphy

Janese Chapman Kim Newby

Deputy Director Analine Powers, 

Jennifer Reinhardt

La Kisha Barclift, Esq., Sabrina Shockley

M. Rory Bolger, 

AICP Thomas Stephens, Esq.
Elizabeth Cabot, Esq., David Teeter
Tasha Theresa Thomas
Richard Drumb
th 11 
George Etheridge a erwoo
TO: Council Member ane? Ayers, Chairperson

Budget, Finance Audit Standing Committee

   
  

FROM: David D. Whitake
Legislative Policy on Staff

DATE: December 20, 2018
RE: Watercraft Legislation

The Legislative Police Division was requested to provide a report regarding the City?s
authority over small watercraft such as kayaks. Without having any speci?c concerns that need to
be addressed regarding small watercraft, the following information is provided to give an outline
on the City?s general scope of authority.

The Michigan Natural Resources and Environmental Protection Act (the Act), Public

Act 451 of 1994, MCL 327.101 et. al,. was enacted to generally protect the environment and
natural resources of the state which includes regulating the use of lakes, rivers and other bodies of
waters within the state. Pursuant to the act, the Michigan Department of Natural Resources
is the enforcement agency which has speci?c authority over waterways. Pursuant to the
act, local units of government have limited jurisdiction over waterways within their jurisdiction
and may only enact local ordinances mirroring speci?c enumerated provisions contained within
the Act.1 The provisions cover the following areas:

0 The issuance of decals and fees related to operations of vessels. The term vessels is de?ned
as ?every description of watercraft used or capable of being used as a means of
transportation on water,? this would include canoes and kayaks;

- The establishment of educational programs including programs for boating and general
water safety and programs speci?cally targeted for youth boaters;

II The regulation of the operation of motorboats by youth; and

 

1MCL 324.80113

I The policing of waterways with the accompanying authority to adjudicate offender for
Violations.

The City of Detroit has already incorporated these provisions within the Detroit City Code
Chapter 23 Harbor, Wharves, Vessels and Marine Safety, Section 23?1?1 et. seq. At the present
time, the Detroit City Code does not have provisions particular to the use of kayaks. The enactment
of any additional regulation beyond What is speci?cally authorized by the Act is prohibited by any
local unit of government unless permission is obtained from the DNR for a special local
ordinance.2 To obtain a special local ordinance City Council would need to make a request of the
DNR to investigate the need for special rules for the use of vessels and watersport equipment on a
particular body of water or to address conditions particular to that water body.3 After an
investigation, the DNR will provide preliminary report outlining the need for a special rules and a
public hearing shall be held to obtain input from stakeholders.4 If determined necessary, the DNR
will then draft an ordinance with special local rules for City Council?s consideration.5 City Council
will have 60 days to approve the proposed ordinance.6

While local communities have limited authority to regulate activities in the waterways, the
State has created the seven-member Michigan State Waterways Commission (MSWC) to advise
the DNR regarding matters related to pubic recreational boating and related matters. The MSWC
works with the Department of Natural Resources on the use of dedicated funds, provided by
boaters, for the acquisition, development and maintenance of public harbors and boating access to
the state?s water resources through uniform statewide regulation, but to ensure the safety of all
citizens enjoy those resources.

If there are further questions, please advise.

 

2 MCL 324.80110 to 324.80113
3Ibid.

4 MCL 324.80110

5 Ibid.

6 MCL 324.80111

324.80108a Operation of airboat within certain distance of residence; limitation; exceptions.

Sec. 80108a. (1) A person shall not operate an airboat on the waters of this state within 450 feet of a
residence between the hours speed in excess of the minimum speed required to
maintain forward movement.

(2) Subsection (1) does not apply to any of the following:

The operation of an airboat in an emergency when necessary to protect public safety.

The operation of an airboat so as to free the airboat when it has run aground.

The operation of an airboat for a governmental purpose if the airboat is clearly marked and identi?ed as
being used for a governmental purpose.

History: Add. 2008, Act 152, Imd. Eff. June 5,2008.

Compiler's note: Former MCL 324.80l08a, which pertained to operation of airboat within certain distance of residence, was
repealed by Act 547 of2004, Eff. May l, 2007.

Popular name: Act 451
Popular name: Marine Safety Act
Popular name: NREPA

324.80109 Rules; subsection (1) inapplicable to special local rules.

Sec. 80109. (1) Except as provided in subsection (2), the department shall promulgate rules authorized by
this part. The department shall publish the approved rules in a convenient form.

(2) Subsection (1) shall not apply to special local rules adopted pursuant to sections 80110 and 80111.

History: Add. 1995, Act 58. Imd. Eff. May 24, 1995.

Popular name: Act 451

Popular name: Marine Safety Act

Popular name: NREPA

324.80110 Special rules for vessels, water skis, water sleds, aquaplanes, surfboards, or
other similar contrivances; investigations and inquiries; preliminary report; notice of
public hearing; presentation of views by interested persons; determination by department;
proposal for local ordinance; appeal; "water body" defined.

See 801 10. The department may initiate investigations and inquiries into the need for special rules for
the use of vessels, water skis, water sleds, aquaplanes, surfboards, or other similar contrivances on any of the
waters of this state to assure compatibility of uses and to protect public safety. If the department receives a
resolution pursuant to section 80112, the department shall initiate an investigation and inquiry under this
subsection.

(2) The department's investigation and inquiry under subsection (1) into whether special rules are needed
on a particular water body shall include a consideration of all of the following:

Whether the activities subject to the proposed special rules pose any issues of safety to life or preperty.

The pro?le of the water body, including local jurisdiction, size, geographic location, and amount of
vessel traf?c.

The current and historical depth of the water body, including whether there is an established lake level
for the water body.

Whether any identi?able special problems or conditions exist on the water body for the activities
subject to the proposed special rules, such as rocks, pier heads, swimming areas, public access sites, shallow
waters, and submerged obstacles.

Whether the proposed special rules would unreasonably interfere with normal navigational traf?c.

Whether user conflicts exist on the water body.

Complaints received by local law enforcement agencies regarding activities on the water body.

The status of any accidents that have occurred on the water body.

Historical uses of the water body and potential future uses of the water body.

Whether the water body is public or private.

Whether existing law adequately regulates the activities subject to the proposed special rules.

(3) Following completion of the department?s investigation and inquiry, the department shall prepare a
preliminary report that includes the department's evaluation of the items listed in subsection (2) and the
department's preliminary recommendation as to whether special rules are needed for the water body.

(4) Upon preparation of the preliminary report, the department shall provide a copy of the preliminary
report to the local political subdivision that has waters subject to its jurisdiction for which the proposed
Special rules are being considered and shall schedule a public hearing in the vicinity of the water body to

Rendered Wednesday, December 5, 2018 Page 5 Michigan Compiled Laws Complete Through PA 357' 8. includes
Initiated Law 1 of 2018

Legislative Council, State of Michigan Courtesy of 

gather public input on the preliminary report and the need for special rules. Notice of the public hearing shall
be made in a newspaper of general circulation in the area where the water body is located, not less than 10
calendar days before the hearing. At the public hearing, interested persons shall be afforded an opportunity to
present their views on the preliminary report and the need for special rules, either orally or in writing.

(5) Within 90 days following the public hearing under subsection (4), if the department determines that
there is a need for special rules for the water body, the department shall propose a local ordinance or
appropriate changes to a local ordinance. If the department determines that there is not a need for special
rules, the department shall notify the political subdivision that has waters subject to its jurisdiction and shall
provide the speci?c reasons for its determination.

(6) A determination by the department that there is not a need for special rules for a water body may be
appealed to the commission by the political subdivision that has waters subject to its jurisdiction. The
commission shall make the final agency decision on the need for special rules for a water body.

(7) As used in this section, "water body" includes all or a portion of a water body.

History: Add. 1995, Act 58, Imd. Eff. May 24, 1995;?Am. 2006, Act 237, Eff. June 26, 2006
Popular name: Act 451

Popular name: Marine Safety Act

Popular name: NREPA

324.80111 Proposed local ordinance; submission to governing body; approval or
disapproval; enactment; enforcement.

Sec. 80111. A local ordinance proposed pursuant to section 80110 shall be submitted to the governing
body of the political subdivision in which the water body subject to the proposed special rules is located.
Within 60 calendar days, the governing body shall inform the department that it approves or disapproves of
the proposed local ordinance. If the required information is not received within the time speci?ed, the
department shall consider the proposed local ordinance disapproved by the governing body. If the governing
body disapproves the proposed local ordinance, or if the 60-day period has elapsed without a reply having
been received from the governing body, no further action shall be taken. If the governing body approves the
proposed local ordinance, the local ordinance shall be enacted identical in all respects to the local ordinance
proposed by the department. After the local ordinance is enacted, the local ordinance shall be enforced as
provided for in section 801 13.

History: Add. 1995, Act 58, Imd. Eff. May 24, 2006, Act 237. Imd. Eff. June 26, 2006.

Popular name: Act 451

Popular name: Marine Safety Act

Popular name: NREPA

324.80112 Special local ordinances; request for assistance; form; receipt of resolution by
department.

Sec. 801 12. Local political subdivisions that believe that special local ordinances of the type authorized by
this part are needed on waters subject to their jurisdiction shall inform the department and request assistance.
All such requests shall be in the form of an official resolution approved by a majority of the governing body
of the concerned political subdivision following a public hearing on the resolution. Upon receipt of a
resolution under this section, the department shall proceed as required by sections 801 10 and 80111.

History: Add. 1995, Act 58, Imd. Eff. May 24, 1995;?Am. 2006, Act 237, Imd. Eff. June 26, 2006.
Popular name: Act 451

Popular name: Marine Safety Act

Popular name: NREPA

324.80113 Enforcement of local ordinances; existing rules; enactment of statutory
provisions as ordinance.
Sec. 80113. (1) State, county, and local peace of?cers shall enforce local ordinances enacted in accordance
with this part.
(2) All rules establishing special local watercraft controls promulgated under former 1967 PA 303 before
March 17, 1986 shall remain in effect unless rescinded pursuant to sections 80108, 80110, 80111, and 80112.
(3) Local political subdivisions may enact as an ordinance any or all of sections 80101 to 80104, 80122 to
80124, 80126, 80140, 80141, 80144 to 80153, 80155, 80164, 80165, and 80166 to 80173.

History: Add. 1995, Act 58, Imd. Eff. May 24. 1995;?Am. 2000, Act 215, Imd. Eff. June 27, 2000.

Popular name: Act 451
Rendered Wedneaday. December 5. 2018 Page 6 Michigan Compiled Laws Complete Through PA 357 8. includes
Initiated Law 1 of 2018

Legislative Council, State of Michigan Courtesy of wwaegislaturemigov

 IS NH (.1008 UT uroinances

Chapter 23 HARBOR, WHARVES, VESSELS AND MARINE SAFETY

ARTICLE - IN GENERAL

Sec. 23-1-1. - Definitions.

For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them
by this section:

Anchored rafts means all types of non-powered rafts used for recreational purposes that are anchored seasonally on
waters of this state.

Associated equipment means any of the following that are not radio equipment:

(1) An original system, part, or component of a boat at the time that boat was manufactured, or a similar

part or component manufactured or sold for replacement; or
(2) Repair or improvement of an original or replacement system, part, or component; or
(3) An accessory or equipment for, or appurtenance to, a boat; or

(4) A marine safety article, accessory, or equipment intended for use by a person on board a boat.
Boat means a vessel.
Boat/ivery means a business that holds a vessel for renting, leasing, or chartering.

Controlled substance means that term as defined in Section 7104 ofthe Michigan Public Health Code, being MCL
333.7104; 

Conviction means a final conviction, the payment of a fine, a plea of guilty or nolo contendere if accepted by the court, a
finding of guilt, or a probate court disposition on a violation of this chapter, regardless of whether the penalty is rebated or
suspended.

Dealer means a person and an authorized representative of that person who annually purchases from a manufacturer,
or who is engaged in selling or manufacturing, six (6) or more vessels that require certificates of number under Part 801 of
the Michigan Natural Resources Environmental Act, being MCL 324.80101 et seq. MSA 13A. 10101 et seq.

High speed boating means a speed at or above which a motorboat reaches a planing condition.
identification document means any of the following:

(1) Avalid Michigan operator's or chauffeur's license; or

(2) A valid driver's or chauffeur's license issued by an agency, department, or bureau of the United States,
the State of Michigan, or another state; or

(3) An official identification card issued by an agency, department, or bureau of the United States, the State
of Michigan, or another state.

(4) An official identification card issued by a political subdivision of the State of Michigan, or another state.

issuing authority means the United States Coast Guard, or a state that has a numbering system approved by the United
States Coast Guard.



llAldU It! UGIFOII, IVII pooe Ol' uroinances

Law ofanother state means a law, or ordinance, enacted by another state or by a local unit of government in another

state.

Length ofvesse/means the length ofa vessel or motorboat and is the distance from end to end over the deck, excluding
the longitudinal upward or downward curve of the deck, fore and aft, provided, that a pontoon boat shall be measured by the

length of its deck, fore and aft.

Lifeboatmeans a small boat designated and used solely for lifesaving purposes, and does not include a dinghy, tender,

speedboat, or other type of craft that is not carried aboard a vessel for lifesaving purposes.
Manufacturer means a person engaged in any of the following:

(1) The manufacture, construction, or assembly of boats or associated equipment; or

(2) The manufacture or construction of components for boats and associated equipment to be sold for

subsequent assembly; or

(3) The importation of a boat or associated equipment into the state for sale.

Marine Lawmeans Part 801 of the Michigan Natural Resources Environmental Act, being MCL 324.10101 et seq. MSA
13A.10101 et seq. or a rule promulgated by the state under Part 801, or any applicable provision ofthis Code.

Marine SafetyAct means the former Public Act 303 of 1967.

Marine safety program means marine law enforcement, search and rescue operations, water safety education, recovery

of drowned bodies, and boat livery inspections.
Motorboat means a vessel propelled wholly or in part by machinery.

Open boatmeans a motorboat with all engine and fuel tank compartments and other spaces to which explosives or
flammable gases and vapors from these Compartments may flow, open to the atmosphere, and so arranged as to prevent

the entrapment of gases and vapors within the vessel.

Operate means to be in control of a vessel while the vessel is under way and is not secured in some manner such as

being docked or at anchor.
Operator means the person who is in control or in charge ofa vessel while that vessel is underway.

Owner means a person who claims or is entitled to lawful possession of a vessel by virtue ofthat person's legal title or

equitable interest in a vessel.
Passenger means a person carried on board a vessel other than any of the following:

(1) The owner or his or her representative; or

(2) The operator.

Peace officer means any of the following:

(1) An officer of the City of Detroit Police Department; or
(2) A sheriff; or
(3) A sheriff's deputy; or

(4) A deputy who is authorized by a sheriff to enforce Part 801 of the Michigan Natural Resources

9191

lid/AU I?d IVII Ol' uroinances
Environmental Act, being MCL 324.1 01 01 etseq.; et seq., and who has satisfactorily
completed at least forty (40) hours of law enforcement training, including training specific to Part 801; or
(5) An officer of the Michigan State Police; or

(6) The director and the conservation officers of the Michigan Department of Natural Resources.
Pointmeans eleven and one-fourth degrees of the compass.

Politica/subdivision means any county, metropolitan authority, municipality, or combination of those entities in this
state.

Portmeans left, and reference is to the port side of a vessel or to the left side ofthe vessel.

Regatta, boat race, marine parade, tournament, or exhibition means an organized water event of limited duration that is

conducted according to a prearranged schedule.
Slow-no wake speed means a very slow speed whereby the wake or wash created by the vessel would be minimal.
Starboard means right, and reference is to the starboard side of a vessel or to the right side of the vessel.

Undocumented vesse/means a vessel that does not have, and is not required to have, a valid marine document issued

by the United States Coast Guard or federal agency successor to the United States Coast Guard.
Use means operate, navigate, or employ.

Vesse/means every description of watercraft, other than a seaplane on the water, used or capable of being used as a

means of transportation on water.
Waters ofthe city means the waters of the State of Michigan that are under the jurisdiction of the City of Detroit.

(Ord. No. 40-97, 1, 11-26-97)

Sec. 23-1-2. - Harbormaster.

it shall be the duty of the police department to enforce the provisions of this chapter and all other laws,
ordinances, or rules regulating and preserving the navigation on the waters of the city, and to issue and serve
notices, orders, and complaints for violations thereof. The chief of the police department may appoint a
member of his or her department as harbormaster. The harbormaster shall be responsible for coordinating
the enforcement of this chapter. 

The harbormaster shall have the authority to protect the owners and occupants of wharves and docks within
the city in the free and undisturbed use of the same and is authorized to regulate the anchorage of all vessels
lying within the city and to give such orders and directions relative to the location and change of station of
every vessel, as shall be in the interest of marine safety, navigation, or trade, having respect at all times to the
rights of occupants of wharves and docks. The harbormaster shall have full authority to go on board of and
move any vessel that may be occupying any dock or wharf within the city without authorization.

It shall be unlawful for any owner, captain, master, consignee, or other person having charge ofany vessel

within the city to refuse to comply with an order or direction of the harbormaster.

(Ord. NO. 40-97, 11-26-97)

Sec. 23-1-3. - Penalties.



IIAIZU I3 IVII bOOe 0T urolnances

Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof,
shall be punished, for each such offense, by a fine not exceeding five hundred dollars or by imprisonment for a

period not exceeding ninety (90) days, or by both such fine and imprisonment in the discretion of the court.



Secs. Reserved.

ARTICLE II. - MARINE SAFETY

DIVISION 1. GENERALLY

Sec. 23-2-1. - Motorboat operators; age restrictions; conditions for exemptions.

Except as otherwise provided for in subsection of this section, a person who is less than twelve (12) years of

age shall not operate a motorboat on the waters of the city unless both the following conditions are met:
(1) He or she is under the direct supervision of a person who is sixteen (16) years of age or older; and

(2) The motorboat he or she operates is powered by a motor or motors which totals no more than thirty-five

(35) horse-power.

Except as otherwise provided in subsection of this section, a person who is twelve (12) through fifteen (15)
years of age may operate a motorboat on the waters of the city only where that person complies with either of

the following:
(1) He or she is accompanied by at least one (1) person who is sixteen (1 6) years of age or olderpossession ofa boating safety certificate issued after he or she has satisfactorily

completed a State of Michigan approved course in boating safety.

A person who is twelve (12) through fifteen (15) years of age and operating a motorboat pursuant to
subsection shall present the boating safety certificate issued to him or her upon the demand of any

peace officer.

This section does not apply to the Operation ofa motorboat that is powered by a motor or motors which total

no more than six (6) horsepOWer.

(Ord. No. 40-97, 1, 11-26-97)

Sec. 23-2-2. Swimming and underwater diving; prohibitions.

A person shall not swim, bathe, or engage in underwater diving operations outside of buoyed and designated

swim areas, except when authorized by the city police department harbormaster.

This section does not preclude bona fide commercial salvage diving operations, and emergency and recovery

operations by any law enforcement agency.

(Ord. No. 40-97, 1, 11-26-97)

Sec. 23-2-3. - Unloading vessels at public wharves.

41/91

 It! UBIFOII, ?1009 0T uromances

No person shall unload any vessel at or on any ofthe public wharves or docks within the city or otherwise place or
deposit upon any such wharf or dock any stone, lumber, timber, firewood, or other material without permission from the

harbormaster.



Sec. 23-2-4. - Hours for waterskiing or sledding, surfboarding, or similar operations.

An operator of any vessel shall not have in tow, or otherwise be assisting in, the propulsion of a person on water skis or
on a water sled, surfboard, or other similar contrivance during the period of one (1) hour after sunset to one (1) hour prior to

sunrise.

(Ord. NO. 40-97, 1,11-26-97)

Sec. 23?2-5. - Towing of persons; application to ski schools; certain motorboats.

A person shall not operate a vessel on the waters of the city where he or she is towing, or otherwise assisting,
a person on water skis or on water sled, aquaplane, surfboard, or other similar contrivance unless such person
capable of communicating to the vessel operator the condition and needs of the person being towed, or

assisted, is on board the vessel and positioned to observe the person being towed or assisted.

Subsection of this section shall not apply to vessels used by duly constituted ski schools for giving
instructions or to vessels used in sanctioned ski tournaments, competitions, expositions, or trials. Such vessels
shall be equipped with a 170-degree wide-angle rearview mirrorthat is affixed in a manner which will permit
the operator to observe the progress of the person being towed.

This section shall not apply to a motorboat that is less than sixteen (16) feet in length, is actually operated by

the person being towed, and is constructed as to be incapable of carrying the operator in or on the motorboat.

(Ord. NO. 40-97, 1, 11-26-97)

Sec. 23-2-6. - Vessels in tow not to approach within five hundred feet of dock.

No tug or other vessel, while having one (1) or more vessels in tow, and no vessel while made fast to any other vessel by
lines, or otherwise, shall approach within five hundred (500} feet of any dock in the city, unless compelled to do so by
unavoidable accident, provided, that this section shall not be construed to prevent tugs from approaching other vessels to

take them in tow.



Sec. 23-2-7. - Motorboat sound levels; compliance with state law.

A person shall not Operate a motorboat on the waters of the city unless the motorboat is equipped and
maintained with an effective muffler or underwater exhaust system that complies with established state

motorboat sound level standards.

This section shall not apply to a motorboat tuning up, or testing, for a speed record or a sanctioned race

conducted pursuant to a permit issued by the city or the appropriate unit of government.



:17:

lid/4U It! IVII OT urolnances

Sec. 23-2-8. - Littering.
A person shall not place, discharge or throw any litter, rubbish or other material into the waters of the city.

(Ord. NO. 40-97, 1, 11-26-97)

Sec. 23?2-9. - indecent exposure.

A person shall not knowingly make any open or indecent exposure of his or her person or of the person of another while

in any vessel upon the waters of the city.

(Ord. No. 40-97, 1, 1i-26-97)

Sec. 23-2-10. - Operation of private mooring facilities.

A owner or Operator of any vessel shall not occupy or otherwise utilize any private mooring facility within the city without

the written permission ofthe person owning, leasing, or renting such facility.

(Ord. No. 40-97, 1, 11-26-97)

Sec. 23-2-1 i . - Weather conditions; use of docks and piers.

Whenever wind conditions on the waters of the city attain a magnitude whereby one-third 1/3 of the waves
resulting therefrom cause any public dock, pier, wharf or retaining wall to be awash, this shall constitute a

condition not conducive to the orderly and safe use and occupancy ofsuch structures.

Whenever a condition described in subsection of this section exists, the harbormaster or any peace officer,
or other authorized official, may rope off or barricade entry to these structures or post in a conspicuous
manner notices that entry thereon for the purpose of fishing, swimming or other recreational activity is
prohibited.

A person shall not knowingly enter or remain upon any public dock, pier, wharf or retaining wall for the

purpose of fishing, swimming or other recreational activity when the affected area is:
(1) Roped, cabled or otherwise barricaded in such a manner designed to exclude intruders; or
(2) Notice prohibiting entry is given by posting in a conspicuous manner; or

(3) Notice to leave or stay off is personally communicated to the person by the harbormaster, peace officer,

or authorized official of the city.
(Ord. No. 40-97, 1, 11-26-97)
Sec. 23-2-12. - Mooring to navigation aids; mooring and landing at water intake facilities.

A person shall neither moor nor fasten a vessel to a lawfully placed buoy or beacon, except mooring buoys, or willfully
move, remove or damage such buoy or beacon on the waters of the city. The mooring or fastening of vessels to water intake
facilities maintained by the city, and the landing upon such facilities by other than persons engaged in the authorized

maintenance or repair of such facilities is prohibited.

(Ord. NO. 40-97, 1, 11-26-97)

Sec. 23-2-13. - Accidents required to be reported.



Ill/4U IH UGIFOII, IVII L006 0T uromanoes

In the case of collision, accident or other casualty involving a vessel, the operator shall report the collision, accident, or

other casualty to the harbormaster or to the nearest peace officer.

(Ord. NO. 40?97, 1, 11-26-97)

Secs. 23-2-14?23?2?20. - Reserved.

DIVISION 2. - SPECIAL LOCAL CONTROLS

Sec. 23-2-21. - Detroit River, Rouge River, and waters within city limits.

On the waters of the Detroit and Rouge Rivers, and those canals and channels connected thereto, that are located within

the city limits:

(I) It shall be unlawful for the operator of a vessel to exceed a slow-no wake speed when within two
hundred (200) feet of any shore, dock, raft, buoyed or occupied swimming area, or vessel moored or at

anchor, except:

a. It shall be unlawful for the operator of a vessel to exceed a slow-no wake speed on the Detroit River
when within four hundred (400) feet of any shore, dock, raft, buoyed or occupied swimming area, or

vessel moored at anchor from the western City of Detroit corporate limits to the St. Aubin Marina;

b. It shall be unlawful for the operator ofa vessel to exceed a slow-no wake speed on that part of the
Detroit River between the mainland shore and the north shore of Belle Isle, commencing from the

St. Aubin Marina to a line from the most eastern point of Belle Isle to Conners Creek extended; and

c. It shall be unlawful for the operator ofa vessel to exceed a slow-no wake speed on that part of the
Detroit River when within four hundred (400) feet of any shore, dock, raft, buoyed or occupied
swimming area, or vessel moored at anchor from Connors Creek extended to the eastern City of

Detroit corporate limits.

(2) It shall be unlawful, at any time, to operate a vessel at a speed in excess of forty (40) miles per hour (64

kilometers per hour).

Secs. 23-2-22?23-2-30. - Reserved.

DIVISION 3. - OPERATION OF VESSELS ON CITY WATERS

Sec. 23-2-31. - Motorboat operation; slow-no wake speed conditions.

Subject to the exceptions described in subsection of this section, a person shall not operate at more than

slow-no wake speed where either of the following circumstances exist:

(1) A person is located on or in the bow of the motorboat, and that motorboat is not manufactured to

provide bow seating; or

(2) A person, or a portion of a person's body, extends beyond the exterior port or starboard walls of the hull

ofthe motorboat.

7/991

lid/4U I?d IVII OT urolnanoes

This section shall not apply to either of the following:
(1) A person engaged in the operation of a sailboat that is not being powered by a motor; or
(2) A person on board a vessel who is attempting to anchor, moor, dock, or otherwise secure the vessel.

(Ord. No. 40?97, 1, 11-26-97)

Sec. 23-2-32. - Passing and right-of?way rules, duty of due regard for others.

When vessels are being operated in such a manner so as to make collision imminent or likely, the following
rules shall apply:

(1) When two (2) vessels are approaching each other head-on, or nearly so, the operator of each shall cause
his or her vessel to pass on the port side of the other;

(2) When overtaking a vessel proceeding in the same direction, the operator of the overtaking vessel, unless
it is not feasible to do so, shall pass on the port side of the vessel ahead;

(3) When two (2) vessels are approaching each other at right angles or obliquely so as to involve risk of
collision, other than when one (1) vessel is overtaking another, the operator of the vessel which has the
other on his or her own port side shall hold his or her course and speed, and the operator of the vessel
which has the other on his or her own starboard side shall give way to the other by directing his or her
course to starboard so as to cross the stern of the other vessel or, if necessary to do so, shall slacken his
or her speed, stop or reverse;

(4) When a motorboat and a vessel under sail are proceeding in such a manner so as to involve risk of
collision, the operator of the motorboat shall give way to the other vessel under sail;

(5) When a motorboat and a vessel not propelled by sail or mechanical means are proceeding in such
manner as to involve risk of collision, the operator of the motorboat shall give way to the other vessel;
and

(6) When, by any of the rules provided for in this section, the operator of a vessel is required to give way to
the other, the operator of the other vessel shall maintain his or her direction and speed.

This section shall not relieve the operator of a vessel otherwise privileged by the provisions ofthis section

from the duty to operate with due regard for the safety of all persons using the waters of the city.

(Ord. No. 40-97, 1, 11-26-97)

Sec. 23-2-33. - Care in operating vessel; speed.

A person operating or propelling a vessel upon the waters ofthe city shall operate the vessel in a careful and
prudent manner and at such a rate of speed so as not to endanger unreasonably the life or prOperty of any

person.

A person shall not operate any vessel at a rate of speed greater than will permit him or her, in the exercise of

reasonable care, to bring the vessel to a stop within the assured clear distance ahead.

A person shall not operate a vessel in a manner so as to interfere unreasonably with the lawful use by others

of any waters of the city.

(Ord. No. 40-97, 1, 11-26-97)

Sec. 23-2-34. - Speed within one hundred feet of shoreline.

A person shall not operate a motorboat on the waters of the city at a speed greater than slow-no wake speed

R191

 l8 UGIFOII, IVII 01' 

or the minimum speed necessary for the motorboat to maintain forward movement when within one hundred
(100) feet of shoreline where the water depth is less than three (3) feet, as determined by vertical
measurement, except in navigable channels not otherwise posted. A person operating a motorboat contrary
to this shall be deemed to have engaged in the reckless operation of a motorboat and shall be subject to the
penalties as provided for in section 23-1-3 of this Code.

This section shall not be enforced when waived by the state or city for marine events authorized pursuantto
applicable state law or to Division 7 ofthis chapter.

(Ord. No. 40-97, 1, 11-26-97)

Sec. 23-2-35. - Operating vessel while under influence of intoxicants or controlled substances.

A person shall not operate a vessel upon the waters of the city where either of the following applies:
(1) The person is under the influence of intoxicating liquor or a controlled substance, or both; or

(2) The person has a blood alcohol content of 0.1 0 grams or more per 100 milliliters of blood, per 210 liters
of breath, or per 67 milliliters of urine.

The owner of a vessel or a person in charge or in control shall not authorize or knowingly permit a vessel to be
operated on the waters of the city by a person who is under the influences of intoxicating liquor or a
controlled substance, or both, or who has a blood alcohol content of 0.1 0 grams or more per 100 milliliters of

blood, per 210 liters of breath, or per 67 milliliters of urine.

A person shall not operate a vessel on the waters of the city, when, due to the consumption of an intoxicating
liquor or a controlled substance, or both, the person's ability to operate the vessel is visibly impaired. If a

person is charged with violating subsection ofthis section, a finding of guilty under this subsection may be
rendered.

(Ord. No. 40-97, 1, 11-26-97)
Sec. 23-2-36. - Reckless operation of vessels or other contrivances.

A person who operates any vessel, upon any of the waters of the city carelessly and heedlessly in disregard of the rights
or safety of others, or without due caution and circumspection and at a speed or in a manner so as to endanger or be likely

to endanger any person or property, is guilty of reckless operation of a vessel and shall be punished as provided for in
section 23-1-3 of this Code.

(Ord. No. 40-97, 1, 11-26-97)

Sec. 23-2-37. - Operation of vessels counter-clockwise.

Persons Operating vessels on the waters of the city in areas not marked by well defined channels, canals, rivers or steam

courses shall operate in a counter-clockwise fashion to the extent that it is reasonably possible.

(Ord. No. 40-97, 1, 11-26-97)

Sec. 23-2-38. - Operating vessel within area prohibited to vessels.

A person shall not operate a vessel on any of the waters of the city within a lawfully authorized restricted area clearly

marked by buoys, beacons, or other distinguishing devices as being prohibited to vessels.

0/91

 I?d IVII poae OT 

(0rd. NO. 40-97, 1, 11-26-97)

Sec. 23-2-39. - Positions of occupants of vessels, restrictions, exceptions.

Any occupant or operator of any vessel underway on the waters of the city shall not sit, stand or walk upon any portion
of the vessel not specifically designed for such purpose, except when immediately necessary for the safe and reasonable

navigation or operation of the vessel.

(Ord. No. 40-97, 5; 1, 11-26?97)

Sec. 23-2-40. - Diving buoys and boats at point of submergence. requirement; flag size, design, time, operations within one
hundred feet.

Any person diving or submerging in any of the waters of the city with the aid of a diving suit or other mechanical diving
device shall place a buoy or boat in the water at or near the point of submergence. The buoy or boat shall bear a red flag not
less than fourteen (14) inches by sixteen (16) inches with a three and one-half (31/2) inch white stripe running from one (1)
upper corner to a diagonal lower corner. The flag shall be placed only while actual diving operations are in progress. Avessel
shall not be operated within two hundred (200) feet of a buoyed diver's flag unless it is involved in tendering the diving

operation. A person diving shall stay within a surface area of one hundred (100) feet of the diver's flag.

(Ord. No. 40-97, 1, 11-26-97)

Sec. 23-2-41. - Peace officers; stopping vessel or permitting officer to come along side; information to be given; inspection; testing

of equipment; arrests without warrant.

Upon the direction ofa peace officer, the operator of a vessel moving on the waters of the city shall
immediately bring the vessel to a stop or maneuver it in a manner that permits the peace officer to come
beside the vessel. Upon the request of the peace officer, the operator of the vessel and any person on the

vessek
(1) Shall provide his or her correct name and address; and
(2) Shall exhibit the certification of number awarded for the vessel; and

(3) If the vessel does not bear a current state marine safety inspection decal, shall submit to a reasonable

inspection of the vessel and to a reasonable inspection and test of the equipment ofthe vessel.

A peace officer who observes a violation of the Marine Law by any person may immediately arrest the person

without a warrant, or may issue a written or verbal warning to the person.

(Ord. No. 40-97, 1, 11-26-97)
Secs. 23-2-42?23-2-50. Reserved.

DIVISION 4. - ABANDONED VESSELS

Sec. 23?2-51. - Vessels deemed abandoned.
For purposes of this division a vessel shall be deemed to be abandoned when:

It has remained at a public dock, harbor, marine or natural docking place for a period of forty-eight (48)

10/991

Ill/4U It! Detroit, MI DOUG Ol' urolnances
continuous hours or more, and from its condition and the surrounding circumstances, shall reasonably
appear to be unclaimed, discarded, deserted, or abandoned; or

(2) It has remained at a private dock, harbor, marine, club or natural docking place for a period of forty-eight
(48) continUOUS hours or more without the consent of the owner or lessee of the property, or for a period

of forty-eight (48) consecutive hours or more after the consent of the owner has been revoked; or

(3) It has remained unclaimed for a period of forty-eight (48) consecutive hours or more after it has been
found adrift or has been towed by the authorization of the chief of police, provided, that the registered

owner of the vessel has been notified; or

(4) It has remained unclaimed for a period of forty?eight (48) continuous hours or more after it has been
found adrift, or has been towed, by the authorization of the chief of police, and neither bears numbers as
required by Part 801 of the Michigan Natural Resources Environmental Act, being MCL 324.80101 et seq.;
MSA13A.10101 et seq., nor bears other means of identification from another state or country.

(Ord. No. 40-97, 1, 11-26-97)

Sec. 23?2-52. - Removal by chief of police.

Except as otherwise provided by federal law, the City of Detroit police department is hereby authorized to remove, or to

arrange for the removal, from the waters of the city any vessel that has been abandoned.

(Ord. No. 40-97, 1, 11-26-97)

Sec. 23-2-53. - Storage by the police department.

Where any abandoned vessel is removed by the authorization of the City of Detroit police department, it shall be stored

in a place designated for such purpose by the chief of police.

(Ord. NO. 40?97, 1, 11-26-97)

Sec. 23-2-54. - Fees for storage.

Storage fees may be assessed against any vessel taken into custody by the harbormaster section of the City of Detroit
police department. Such storage fees shall be identical to the daily transient well fees charged by the City of Detroit at its

marinas.

(0rd. NO. 40-97, 1, 11-26-97)

Sec. 23?2-55. - Disposition of abandoned vessels.

Abandoned vessels unclaimed for forty-five (45) days may be claimed by the city as its personal property and sold at
auction, provided, that notice ofthe city's claim to the vessel and proposed sale is advertised once a week for two (2) weeks
in a newspaper ofgeneral circulation and that the State of Michigan is notified as provided for in Part 801 ofthe Michigan
Natural Resources Environmental Act, being MCL 324.80101 etseq.,? MSA13A.10101 et seq., and provided, that ifa vessel,
when found abandoned, has a value of less than one hundred dollars the police department may dispose of it in
any manner consistent with the provisions of the 1997 Detroit City Charter and the 1984 Detroit City Code that govern the
disposition of city property.

(Ord. No. 40-97, E: 1, 11-26-97)

11/99.

 I3

UBIFOII, IVII OT Ul'CllnanCGS

Secs. 23-2-56?23-2-70. - Reserved.

DIVISION 5. - ASSOCIATED EQUIPMENT ON VESSELS

Sec. 23-2-71. - Applicability.

This section applies to vessels and associated equipment used, to be used, or carried in vessels used on waters of the

city, except:

(4)
(5)

Foreign vessels temporarily using waters subject to state jurisdiction.

Military or public vessels ofthe United States, except recreational-type public vessels.

A vessel whose owner is a state or political subdivision thereof, other than the State of Michigan and its
political subdivisions, that is used principally for governmental purposes and which is clearly identifiable
as such.

A ship's lifeboat.

Any vessel engaged in a race or regatta sanctioned by the state or by the city pursuant to section 23?2?

of this Code.

(Ord. No. 531-H, Ord. NO. 40-97, 1, 11-26-97)

Sec. 23-2-72. Reserved.

Editor's note? Ord. No. 40-97, 1, adopted Nov. 26, 1997, repealed former section 2344?; in its entirety which pertained to
definitions and derived from 

Sec. 23-2-73. - Navigation lights; intensity standards, placement, screening.

Navigation lights shall be of sufficient intensity so that the candlepower outside the lens is not less than that

amount corresponding to the required distance of visibility as indicated in table 1.

Table 1

 

Distance of
Visibility in

Nautical Miles

i
Ca ndlepower

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1 1.0

2 5.5

3 17.6
5 100.0

 

 

19/7"?

lid/AU I?d





IVII OT uroinances

The light intensity standards of this seCtion shall apply to new navigation lights installed and replacements of
existing lights made on and afterJanuary1, 1973.

Navigation lights required by this section shall be placed high enough that their light will not be obstructed by
persons or parts of the boat or its equipment and shall be screened as indicated in figure 1.

(Ord. No. 531-H, 12?2-82)

Sec. 23-2-74. - Personal flotation devices.





Personal flotation devices required by this division to be carried aboard vessels shall be of the following types:

(1) Type I, an approved device designed to turn an unconscious person in the water from a face downward
position to a vertical or backward position, and to have more than twenty (20) pounds of

buoyancy.

(2) Type II, an approved device designed to turn an unconscious person in the water from a face down

position to a vertical or backward position and to have at least fifteen point five (15.5) pounds of
buoyancy.

(3) Type an approved device designed to keep a conscious person in a vertical or backward
position and to have at least fifteen point five (15.5) pounds of buoyancy.

(4) Type IV, an approved device designed to be thrown to a person in the water and not worn. It is designed

to have at least sixteen point five (16.5) pounds of buoyancy.
Personal flotation devices required by this division to be carried aboard vessels shall be:
(1) Approved by the United States Coast Guard.
(2) Legibly marked with the approval number issued by the United States Coast Guard.
(3) Of an appropriate size for the person for whom it is intended.
(4) Readily accessible and immediately available.

(5) In good and serviceable condition.

(Ord. NO. 531-H, 12-2-82)

Sec. 23-2-75. - Fire extinguishing equipment.





All hand portable fire extinguishers, semiportable fire extinguishing systems and fixed fire extinguishing
systems required by this division shall be of a type approved by the United States Coast Guard.

Hand portable fire extinguishers and semiportable fire extinguishing systems are classified by a combination
letter and number symbol. The letter indicating the type of fire which the unit could be expected to extinguish,
and the number indicating the relative size of the unit.

For the purpose of this section, all required hand portable fire extinguishers and semiportable fire
extinguishing systems are of the type; that is, suitable for extinguishing fires involving flammable liquids,
greases, and so forth.

All hand portable fire extinguishers and semiportable fire extinguishing systems shall have permanently

attached thereto a metallic nameplate giving the name ofthe item, the rated capacity in gallons, quarts or

pounds, the name and address of the person or firm by whom approved, and the identifying mark of the

1119'?!

 IU







IVII OT Ul'Oll'lal'lCGS

actual manufacturer.

Vaporizing liquid type fire extinguishers containing carbon tetrachloride or chlorobromomethane or other

toxic liquids are not acceptable as equipment required by this division.

Hand portable or semiportable extinguishers which are required on their nameplates to be protected from

freezing shall not be located where freezing temperatures may be expected.

A dry chemical stored pressure fire extinguisher not fitted with pressure gauge or indicating device,
manufactured prior toJanuary 1, 1965, may be carried on motorboats so long as it is maintained in good and

serviceable condition. The following maintenance and inspections are required for such an extinguisher:

(1) When the date on the inspection record tag on the extinguisher shows that six (6) months have elapsed
since the last weight check ashore, the extinguisher is no longer accepted as meeting required
maintenance conditions until reweighed ashore and found to be in a serviceable condition and within

required weight conditions.

(2) If the weight of the container is one-fourth ounce less than that stamped on the container, it shall be

serviced.

(3) If the outer seals, which indicate tampering or use when broken, are not intact, the officer shall inspect
the extinguisher to see that the frangible disc in the neck of the container is intact; and if the disc is not

intact, the container shall be serviced.

(4) Ifthere is evidence of damage, use or leakage, such as dry chemical powder observed in the nozzle or
elsewhere on the extinguisher, the container shall be replaced and the extinguisher properly serviced or

the extinguisher replaced with another approved extinguisher.

A dry chemical stored pressure fire extinguisher without pressure gauge or indicating device manufactured

afterJanuaryi, 1965, shall not be carried on motorboats as required equipment.

When a fixed fire extinguishing system is installed, it shall be ofa carbon dioxide type approved and installed
as required by the United States Coast Guard.

The intent of this section is illustrated in figure 2 where fire extinguishers are required if any of the specified
conditions exist, and in figure 3 where specified conditions do not, in themselves, require that fire

extinguishers be carried.



Fire extinguishers are required if any ofthe following conditions exist:
a. Closed compartment under thwarts and seats where portable fuel tanks may be stored.
b. Double bottoms not sealed to the hull or which are not completely filled with flotation material.
c. Closed living Spaces.
d. Closed compartments in which combustible or flammable materials are stored.
e. Permanently installed fuel tanks.
(2) The following conditions do not, in themselves, require that fire extinguishers be carried:
a. Bait wells.
b. Glove compartments.
c. Buoyantflotation material.
d. Open slatted flooring.

e. Ice chests.

(Ord. No. 531-H, 12-2-82)

14/99.

l/Al?U I?d

IVII bOGe OT uromances

Cross reference? Fire prevention, Ch. 19.

Sec. 23-2-76. - Backfire flame control.







Every gasoline engine installed in a motorboat after April 25, 1940, except outboard motors, shall be equipped

with an acceptable means of backfire flame control.

Installations made before November 19, 1952, need not meet the detailed requirements of this rule and may

be continued in use as long as they are serviceable and in good condition. Replacements shall meet the

applicable conditions in this rule.

Installations consisting of backfire flame arresters bearing United States Coast Guard approval number

162.015 may be continued in use as long as they are serviceable and in good condition. Replacements shall

meet the applicable conditions of this section.

Installations consisting of engine air and fuel induction systems and given United States Coast Guard approval

number 162.015 may be continued in use as long as they are serviceable and in good condition. Replacements

shall meet applicable conditions of this section.

The following are acceptable means of backfire flame control for gasoline engines:

(I)

(3)

(4)

A backfire flame arrester constructed in accordance with specifications of, and approved by, the United
States Coast Guard. The flame arrester shall be suitably secured to the air intake with flametight

connections.

An engine air and fuel induction system which provides adequate protection from propagation of
backfire flame to the atmosphere equivalent to that provided by an approved backfire flame arrester. A
gasoline engine utilizing an air and fuel induction system, and operated without an approved backfire
flame arrester shall have the installation tested and labeled in accordance with the specifications of, and

approved by, the United States Coast Guard.

Any attachment to the carburetor or location of the engine air induction system by means ofwhich
flames caused by engine backfire will be dispersed to the atmosphere outside the vessel in such a
manner that the flames will not endanger the vessel, persons on board or nearby vessels and structures.
All attachments shall be of metallic construction with flametight connections and firmly secured to
withstand vibration, shock, and engine backfire. The installations do not require formal approval and
labeling, but will be accepted by the city police department harbormaster section and any other law

enforcement officers on the basis of compliance with this section.

Where manufacturers wish to produce vessels having an integrated engine-vessel design, a premarket
approval of an engine air induction system is available. An installation shall be tested and labeled in

accordance with the specifications of, and approval by, the United States Coast Guard.

(Ord. No. 53l-H, 12-2-82)

Sec. 23-2-77. - Ventilation.

All motorboats, except open boats, the construction or decking over of which is commenced after April 25, 1940, and

which use fuel having a flash point of one hundred ten (110) degrees Fahrenheit or less, shall have at least two (2) ventilator

ducts, fitted with cowls or their equivalent, for the efficient removal of explosive or flammable gases from the bilges of every

engine and fuel tank compartment. There shall be at least one exhaust duct installed so as to extend from the open

11:17}

 It!

UBIFOII, IVII OT Ordinances

atmosphere to the lower portion of the bilge and at least one intake duct installed so as to extend to a point at least midway

to the bilge or at least below the level of the carburetor intake. The cowl shall be located and trimmed for maximum

effectiveness and in such a manner so as to prevent displaced fumes from being recirculated.

(Ord. No. 531-H, 12-2-82)

Sec. 23-2-78. - Mufflers; cutouts.

The exhaust of all internal combustion engines used on any waters of this state within thejurisdiction of the city shall be

muffled effectively by equipment so constructed and used as to muffle the noise of the exhaust ofthe engine in a reasonable

manner. The use of cutouts, bypasses or similar devices is prohibited, except for vessels competing in a boat race or regatta

sanctioned by the state. A modern device, underwater exhaust system or a system discharging cold water through the

exhaust of an inboard engine, each of which is capable of muffling the noise of the exhaust of the engine in a reasonable

manner, shall be considered as meeting the requirements of this section.

(Ord. No. 531-l-l, 12-2-82)

Cross reference? Noise, Ch. 36.

 

Sec. 23-2-79. - Outboard motorboats less than sixteen feet in length.

An outboard motorboat less than sixteen (16) feet in length shall be equipped as follows.

(1)

(6)
(7)

lfthe motorboat is not an open boat, it shall be equipped with two (2) ducts fitted with cowls or their
equivalent as specified by section 23-2-3?7. 

One type I, II, or IV Coast Guard approved personal flotation device as specified by section 23-2-74 in
good and serviceable condition, for each person aboard. The devices shall be ready at hand and not

encased in plastic bags or other type containers.

If the motorboat is constructed so that it has decking or compartments where explosive or flammable
gases may be entrapped as illustrated in figure 2, it shall be equipped with one Bl type Coast Guard
approved fire extinguisher in good and serviceable condition and as specified WM. When a
fixed fire extinguishing system is installed in the machinery space, one less Bl type fire extinguisher is
required.

If underway between sunset and sunrise, the motorboat shall be equipped with an exhibit 1 white light
aft higher than the bowlight showing all around the horizon and visible two (2) miles and a combination
twenty-point bowlight forward, showing green to starboard and red to port, visible one mile or, in lieu of

this requirement, may display lights as specified by the international rules of the road.

If the motorboat is anchored between sunset and sunrise on the waters of this state within the
jurisdiction of the city and not in a special anchorage area, a white light shall be displayed on the forward

part of the motorboat so as to be visible to a boat approaching from any direction.
All lights shall be as specified by section 23-373.

A muffler as specified by section 23-2-7'8 for each motor.

(Ord. No. 531 -H, 12-2-82)

Sec. 23-2-80. - Outboard motorboats sixteen feet or over and less than twenty-six feet in length.



 I?d

OT Ordinances

An outboard motorboat sixteen (1 6) feet or over and less than twenty-six (26) feet in length shall be equipped as followsthe motorboat is not an open boat, it shall be equipped with two (2) ducts fitted with cowls or their
equivalent as specified in section 23-2-77.

One type I, II or Coast Guard approved personal flotation device as specified by section 23?2-74 in good
and serviceable condition, for each person aboard, plus one type IV throwable device. The devices shall

be ready at hand and not encased in plastic bags or other type containers.

On hand, mouth or power operated whistle, capable of producing a blast of two (2) seconds or more in

duration, and audible for at least one-half mile.

lfthe motorboat is constructed so that it has decking or compartments where explosive or flammable
gases may be entrapped as illustrated in figure 2, it shall be equipped with one BI type Coast Guard
approved fire extinguisher in good and serviceable condition and as specified by section 23-275. When a
fixed fire extinguisher system is installed in the machinery space, one less Bl type fire extinguisher is
required.

If underway between sunset and sunrise, the motorboat shall be equipped with an exhibit 1 white aft
higher than the bowlight showing all around the horizon and visible two (2) miles and a combination
twenty-point bowlight forward, showing green to starboard and red to port visible one mile or, in lieu of
this requirement, may display lights as specified by the international rules ofthe road.

If the motorboat is anchored between sunset and sunrise on the waters of this state within the
jurisdiction of the city and not in a special anchorage area, a white light shall be displayed on the forward
part of the motorboat so as to be visible to a boat approaching from any direction.

All lights shall be as specified by section 23?2-23.

A muffler as Specified by section 23-2-78 for each motor.

(Ord. No. 531-H, 12-2-82)

Sec. Outboard motorboats twenty?six feet or over and less than forty feet in length.

An outboard motorboat twenty-six (26) feet or over and less than forty (40) feet in length shall be equipped as follows:

(1)

(2)

(4)

(5)

If the motorboat is not an open boat, it shall be equipped with two (2) ducts fitted with cowls or their
equivalent as specified by section 23-2-22.

One type I, II or Coast Guard approved personal flotation device as specified by section 23?2?24 in good
and serviceable condition, for each person aboard, plus one type IV throwable device. The devices shall
be ready at hand and not encased in plastic bags or other type containers.

An efficient fog bell which when struck, produces a clear bell-like tone of full round characteristics.

One hand or power operated whistle, capable of producing a blast of two (2) seconds or more duration
and audible for a distance of at least one mile.

If the motorboat is constructed so that it has decking or compartments where explosive or flammable
gases may be entrapped as illustrated in figure 2, it shall be equipped with two (2) Bl type Coast Guard

approved hand portable fire extinguishers in good and serviceable condition and as specified by section

 

23-2-75. One type Coast Guard approved fire extinguisher may be substituted for two (2) Bl types.
When a fixed fire extinguishing system is installed in the machinery space, one less Bl type fire

extinguisher is required.

17/9?2

 It!

(6)

(8)
(9)

UGIFOII, IVII bOGe Ol' 

If underway between sunset and sunrise, the motorboat shall be equipped with an exhibit 1 white light
aft higher than the bowlight showing all around the horizon and visible two (2) miles, one white light

forward showing twenty (20) points and visible two (2) miles, a green light to starboard showing ten (10)
points and visible one time and a red light to port showing ten (10) points and visible one mile or, in lieu

of this requirement, may display lights as specified by the international rules of the road.

If the motorboat is anchored between sunset and sunrise on the waters of this state within the
jurisdiction of the city and not in a special anchorage area, a white light shall be displayed on the forward

part of the motorboat so as to be visible to a boat approaching from any direction.
All lights shall be as specified by section 23?2?11

A muffler as specified by section 23?2-78 for each motor.

(Ord. NO. 531-H, 12-2?82)

Sec. 23-2-82. - Outboard motorboats forty feet or over and not more than sixty-five feet in length.

An outboard motorboat forty (40) feet or over and less than sixty-five (65) feet in length shall be equipped as follows:

(1)

(2)

(8)
(9)

lfthe motorboat is not an open boat, it shall be equipped with two (2) ducts fitted with cowls or their
equivalent as specified by section 23-2-77.

One type I, II or Coast Guard approved personal flotation device as specified by section 23-2-74 in good
and serviceable condition for each person aboard, plus one type IV throwable device. The devices shall
be ready at hand and not encased in plastic bags or other containers.

An efficient fog bell which when struck, produces a clear bell-like tone of full round characteristics.

One power-operated whistle capable of producing a blast of two (2) seconds or more duration, and
audible for a distance of at least one mile.

If the motorboat is constructed so that it has decking or compartments where explosive or flammable
gases may be entrapped as illustrated in figure 2, it shall be equipped with three (3) Bl type Coast Guard

approved hand portable fire extinguishers in good and serviceable condition and as specified by section

 

One BII type Coast Guard approved fire extinguisher may be substituted for two (2) Bl types.
When a fixed fire extinguishing system is installed in the machinery space, one less BI type fire
extinguisher is required.

If underway between sunset and sunrise, the motorboat shall be equipped with an exhibit 1 white light
aft higher than the bowlight showing all around the horizon and visible two (2) miles, one white light
forward showing twenty (20) points and visible two (2) miles, a green light to starboard showing ten (10)
points and visible one mile and a red light to port showing ten (10) points and visible one mile or in lieu

ofthis requirement may display lights as specified by the international rules ofthe road.

If the motorboat is anchored between sunset and sunrise on the waters of this state within the
jurisdiction of the city and not in a special anchorage area, a white light shall be displayed on the forward

part of the motorboat so as to be visible to a boat approaching from any direction.
All lights shall be as specified by section 

A muffler as specified by section 23%?8 for each motor.





IILIAU It'l

IVll OT Ordinances

Sec. 23-2-83. - Inboard and inboard?outboard motorboats less than sixteen feet in length.

An inboard or inboard-outboard motorboat less than sixteen (16) feet in length shall be equipped as follows:

(1)

(2)

(4)

(7)
(8)

One Coast Guard approved backfire flame arrester as specified by section 23?2??6 on each carburetor of

all gasoline engines.
At least two (2) ducts fitted with cowls or their equivalent as specified by section 232-77.

One type I, ll, or IV Coast Guard approved personal flotation device as specified by section in
good and serviceable condition for each person aboard. The devices shall be ready at hand and not

encased in plastic bags or other containers.

One Bl type Coast Guard approved hand portable fire extinguisher in good and serviceable condition and
as specified by section 23?2?75. When a fixed fire extinguishing system is installed in the machinery
space, one less Bl type fire extinguisher is required.

If underway between sunset and sunrise, the motorboat shall be equipped with an Exhibit 1 white light
aft higher than the bowlight showing all around the horizon and visible two (2) miles and a combination
twenty-point bowlight forward, showing green to starboard and red to port visible one mile or, in lieu of
this requirement, may display lights as specified by the international rules of the road.

lfthe motorboat is anchored between sunset and sunrise on the waters of this state within the
jurisdiction of the city and not in a special anchorage area, a white light shall be displayed on the forward
part of the motorboat so as to be visible to a boat approaching from any direction.

All lights shall be as specified by section 23-2?73.

A muffler as specified by section 23?2-78 for each motor.

(Ord. No. 31-H, 12-2-82)

Sec. 23-2?84. - Inboard and inboard-outboard motorboats sixteen feet or over and less than twenty-six feet in length.

An inboard or inboard-outboard motorboat sixteen (16) feet or over and less than twenty-six (26) feet in length shall be

equipped as follows:

(1)

(2)

(3)

(4)

(6)

One Coast Guard approved backfire flame arrester as specified by section 23-2-7?6 on each carburetor of

all gasoline engines.
At least two (2) ducts fitted with cowls or their equivalent as specified by section 23?2-?7.
One type I, ll or Coast Guard approved personal flotation device as specified by section 23-2?74 in good

and serviceable condition for each person aboard, plus one type IV throwable device. The devices shall

be ready at hand and not encased in plastic bags or other containers.
One hand, mouth or power operated whistle, capable of producing a blast of two (2) seconds or more

duration, and audible for at least one-half mile.

One Bl type Coast Guard approved hand portable fire extinguisher in good and serviceable condition and
as specified by section 23?2??5. When a fixed fire extinguishing system is installed in the machinery

space, one less Bl type fire extinguisher is required.

If underway between sunset and sunrise, the motorboat shall be equipped with an exhibit 1 white light
aft higher than the bowlight showing all around the horizon and visible two (2) miles and a combination

twenty-point bowlight forward showing green to starboard and red to port visible one mile or, in lieu of

10/9?

llilAUIH

(7)

(8)
l9)

IVII Ol' Ul'Cllnal'ICGS

this requirement, may display lights as specified by the international rules ofthe road.

Ifthe motorboat is anchored between sunset and sunrise on the waters of this state within the

jurisdiction of the city and not in a special anchorage area, a white light shall be displayed on the forward

part of the motorboat so as to be visible to a boat approaching from any direction.
All lights shall be as specified by section 23-2-7?3.

A muffler as specified by section 23-2-78 for each motor.



Sec. 23-2-85. - Inboard and inboard-outboard motorboats twenty-six feet and over and less than forty feet in length.

An inboard or inboard-outboard motorboat twenty-six (26) feet or OVer and less than forty (40) feet in length shall be

equipped as follows:

(8)

(9)
(10)

One Coast Guard approved backfire flame arrester as specified by section 23?236 on each carburetor of

all gasoline engines.
At least two (2) ducts fitted with cowls or their equivalent as specified by section 23-2-71
An efficient fog bell which when struck, produces a clear, bell-like tone of full round characteristics.

One hand or power operated whistle, capable of producing a blast of two (2) seconds or more duration

and audible for a distance of at least one mile.

One type I, II or Coast Guard approved personal flotation device as specified by section 23?2-74 in good
and serviceable condition for each person aboard, plus one type IV throwable device. The devices shall

be ready at hand and not encased in plastic bags or other containers.

At least two (2) Bl type Coast Guard approved hand portable fire extinguishers in good and serviceable
condition and as specified by section 23?2-75. One type Coast Guard approved fire extinguisher may
be substituted for two (2) Bi types. When a fixed fire extinguishing system is installed in the machinery

space, one less Bl type fire extinguisher is required.

If underway between sunset and sunrise, the motorboat shall be equipped with an exhibit 1 white light
aft higher than the bowlight showing all around the horizon and visible two (2) miles, one white light

forward showing twenty (20) points and visible two (2) miles, a green light to starboard showing ten (10)
points and visible one mile and a red light to port showing ten (10) points and visible one mile or, in lieu

of this requirement, may display lights as specified by the international rules ofthe road.

Ifthe motorboat is anchored between sunset and sunrise on the waters of this state within the
jurisdiction of the city and not in a special anchorage area, a white light shall be displayed on the forward

part of the motorboat so as to be visible to a boat approaching from any direction.
All lights shall be as specified by section 23-2-73.

A muffler as specified by section 2342-?8 for each motor.

(Ord. No. 531-H, 12-2-82)

Sec. 23-2-86. - Inboard and inboard-outboard motorboats forty feet and over and not more than sixty-five feet in length.

An inboard or inboard-outboard motorboat forty (40) feet or over and not more than sixty-five (65) feet in length shall be

equipped as follows:

90/91

 IS

(1)

(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)

(6)

(7)

(8)

(9)
(10)

IVII LOGS OT 

One Coast Guard approved backfire flame arrester as specified by section 23-2-7?6 on each carburetor ofall

engines.
At least two (2) ducts fitted with cowls or their equivalent as specified by section 23?237.
An efficient fog bell which when struck, produces a clear bell-like tone of full round characteristics.

One power-operated whistle, capable of producing a blast of two (2) seconds or more duration and

audible for a distance of at least one mile.

One type II or ill Coast Guard approved personal flotation device as specified by section 23-2-74 in good
and serviceable condition for each person aboard, plus one type IV throwable device. The devices shall

be ready at hand and not encased in plastic bags or other containers.

At least three (3) Bl type Coast Guard approved hand portable fire extinguishers in good and serviceable
condition and as specified by section 23-2-76. One Bil type Coast Guard approved fire extinguisher may
be substituted for two (2) Bl types. When a fixed fire extinguishing system is installed in the machinery

space, one less Bl type fire extinguisher is required.

If underway between sunset and sunrise, the motorboat shall be equipped with an exhibit 1 white light
aft higher than the bowlight showing all around the horizon and visible two (2) miles, one white light

forward showing twenty (20) points and visible two (2) miles, a green light to starboard showing ten (10)
points and visible one mile and a red light to port showing ten (10) points and visible one mile or, in lieu

of this requirement, may display lights as specified by the international rules of the road.

lfthe motorboat is anchored between sunset and sunrise on the waters of this state within the
jurisdiction of the city and not in a special anchorage area, a white light shall be displayed on the forward

part of the motorboat so as to be visible to a boat approaching from any direction.
All lights shall be as specified by section 23-233.

A muffler as specified by section 23?2?78 for each motor.

(Ord. No. 53l-H, 12-2-82)

Sec. 23-2-87. - Sailboats without motor, less than sixteen feet in length.

A sailboat without a motor and less than sixteen (16) feet in length shall be equipped as follows:

(1)

One type I, II, or IV Coast Guard approved personal flotation device as specified by section 23-2-74 in
good and serviceable condition for each person aboard. The devices shall be ready at hand and not

encased in plastic bags or other containers.

If underway between sunset and sunrise, the sailboat shall be equipped with a lantern showing a white
light which shall be ready at hand and which shall be exhibited in sufficient time to prevent collision.
lfthe sailboat is anchored between sunset and sunrise on the waters of this state within thejurisdiction

of the city and not in a special anchorage area, a white light shall be displayed on the forward part ofthe

sailboat so as to be visible to a boat approaching from any direction.

(Ord. No. 531-H, 12-2-82)

Sec. 23-2-88. - Sailboats without motor, sixteen feet or over in length.

A sailboat without a motor, sixteen (16) feet or over in length shall be equipped as follows:



 IH IVII bOGe OT ordinances

(1) One type I, Ii or Coast Guard approved personal flotation device as specified by section 23-2-7 in good ai
condition for each person aboard, plus one type IV throwable device. The devices shall be ready at hand ant

plastic bags or other containers.

(2) if underway between sunset and sunrise, the sailboat shall be equipped with a lantern showing a white

light which shall be ready at hand and which shall be exhibited in sufficient time to prevent collision.

(3) lfthe sailboat is anchored between sunset and sunrise on the waters of this state within thejurisdiction
of the city and not in a special anchorage area, a white light shall be displayed on the forward part of the

sailboat so as to be visible to a boat approaching from any direction.

(Ord. No. 12-2-82)

Sec. 23-2-89. - Sailboats with motors.
A sailboat with a motor shall be equipped as follows;

(1) Personal flotation devices, backfire flame arresters, ventilation ducts and cowls, fire extinguishers,

whistles and bells and mufflers, as required by this section for motorboats of the same length.
(2) If underway between sunset and sunrise shall be equipped with and exhibit navigation lights as required
by this section for motorboats ofthe same length, except:

a. A sailboat twenty-six (26) feet or over in length under sail alone on the waters of this state within
thejurisdiction of the city between sunset and sunrise shall be equipped with and exhibit a green
light to starboard showing ten (10) points and visible one mile, a red light to port showing ten (10)
points and visible one mile and a lantern showing a white light which shall be ready at hand and

which shall be exhibited in sufficient time to prevent collision.

b. If the sailboat is anchored between sunset and sunrise on the waters of this state within the
jurisdiction of the city and not in a special anchorage area, a white light shall be displayed on the

forward part ofthe sailboat so as to be visible to a boat approaching from any direction.

In lieu of these lighting requirements sailboats may display lights as specified by the international rules of

the road.

(Ord. No. 531-H, 12-2-82)

Sec. 23-2-90. - Rowboats.

A rowboat shall be equipped with personal flotation devices as required by this section for a motorboat of the
same length.
If underway between sunset and sunrise, a rowboat shall be equipped with a lantern showing a white light

which shall be ready at hand and which shall be exhibited in sufficient time to prevent collision.

(Ord. No. 53l -H, 12-2-82)

Sec. 23-2-91. - Canoes and kayaks.

A canoe or kayak shall be equipped with one type I, ll, Ill or IV Coast Guard approved personal flotation device
as specified by section 23?2-74 in good and serviceable condition for each person aboard. The devices shall be

ready at hand and not encased in plastic bags or other type containers.
If underway between sunset and sunrise a canoe or kayak shall be equipped with a lantern showing a white

99/7?

HAMU pooe OT Ordinances

light which shall be ready at hand and which shall be exhibited in sufficient time to prevent collision.

(Ord. No. 531-H, 12-2-82)
Secs. 23-2-92?23-2-100. - Reserved.

DIVISION 6. - REGISTRATION

Sec. 23-2-101. - Registration; fee payments and numbering of vessels.

No person shall operate, or give permission to operate, any motorboat of any length, or any other vessel

twelve (12) feet in length or over, on the waters of the city unless:

(1) The fees prescribed by the state in any marine law for the motorboat or vessel have been paid and the

proper number or decal is placed on the motorboat or vessel in accordance with marine law; and

(2) The certificate of number awarded to the motorboat or vessel is on board and is in full force and effect,

and the identifying number or decal, or both, is displayed on each side of the forward half of the vessel.

This section shall not apply to owner ofany vessel exempted from fee payments and vessel numbering under
marine law.

(Ord. No. 40-97, 1, 11-26-97)
Secs. 23?2-102?23-2-1 10. - Reserved.

DIVISION 7. - RACES, WATER APPLICATION, CONTENTS

Sec. 23-2-111. - Authorization

The city may authorize the holding of regattas, motorboat or other boat races, marine parades, tournaments,

or exhibitions, or trials for other events, on the waters of the city.

Authorization pursuant to subsection of this section does not exempt a person from compliance with an
applicable federal law or regulation, and authorization by the city of the event shall not be construed to
require the securing ofa city permit if a permit for an event described in subsection has been obtained
from an authorized agency ofthe United States. In accordance with state marine law, the city in its permit may
waive the provisions of this chapter to the extent that the provisions apply to vessels participating in races,

regattas, or trials permitted by the city.
(Ord. No. 40-97, 1, 11-26-97)

Secs. 23-2-112?23-2-120. - Reserved.

9?11'9?2

   

3..


COLEMAN A. YOUNG 
2 WOODWARD AVE, FOURTH FLOOR

CITY or DETROIT DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226
BUILDINGS, SAFE i?Y ENGINEERING AND ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENT (3I3) 224?0484 . 



Date: November 27, 20l 8

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

RE: RECOMMENDATION FOR DEFERRAL
ADDRESS: 20311 Mound
NAME: Mili, LLC
Demolition Ordered: March 17, 2003

In response to the request for a deferral of the demolition order on the property noted above, the Buildings, Safety Engineering and
Environmental Department (BSEED) submits the following information:

A special inspection conducted on November 13, 2018 revealed that the building is secured and appears to be sound and repairable. The
owner has paid all taxes and is current. The proposed use of the property is owner?s use and occupancy. This is the 1't deferral request for

this property.

Therefore, we respectfully recommended that the demolition order be deferred for a period of six months subject to the following

conditions:

1.

6.

A permit for rehabilitation work shall be applied for within te_n (10) business days from the date of the City Council
decision.

BSEED will schedule a Progress Inspection within forty-five (45) colander days from the date of the rehabilitation
permit to determine whether substantial progress has been made. Thereafter, the owner must submit to BSEED
detailed inspection reports, with photos showing evidence of the work completed, every forty-five (45) calendar
M. for the duration of the rehabilitation work, to demonstrate that substantial progress has been made during
the approved time frame for rehabilitation.

The building shall have all imminently hazardous conditions immediately corrected, be maintained, and securely
barricaded until rehabilitation is complete. Rehabilitation work Is to be completed within six (6) months, at which
time the owner will obtain one of the following from this department:

0 Certificate of Acceptance related to building permits

0 Certificate of Approval as a result of a Housing inspection

I Certificate of Compliance, required for g? rental properties

The owner shall not occupy or allow occupancy of the structure without a certi?cate (as outlined above).
The yards shall be maintained clear of overgrown vegetation, weeds, junk and debris at all times.

Prior to seeking a permit extension, the owner must contact BSEED and request to extend the deferral period.

We recommend that utility disconnect actions cease to allow the progress of the rehabilitation.

At the end of the deferral period. the owner must contact this department to arrange an inspection to evidence that conditions of the deferral
have been satisfied and that there has been substantial progress toward rehabilitation. lfthe building becomes open to trespass or ifconditions
of the deferral are not followed, the deferral may be rescinded by the City Council at any time and we may proceed with demolition without

further notice. in ad

dition, pursuant to the Property Maintenance Code we will issue a Blight Violation Notice.

Any request exceeding three (3) deferrals must be made by petition to City Council through the Of?ce of the City Clerk.

Bus peel I 3.: so hmi 
I

1 tires Be] a;
)irector



cc: Mili. LLC.

 

tetl,


25527 Audrey AVE. Warren, MI 4808i

Al iN: Mohammed H. Miah

CITY CLERK 4 JFIH 2019 

.-. 'rl?i

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MI Ilei?AL CENTER

2 WOODWARD Ava, FOURTH FLOOR
CITY OF DFTROIT DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226
BUILDINGS, ENGINEERING AND ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENT (313) 224-0484 - 


 
 
 

Date: November 27, 2018

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL
RE: RECOMMENDATION FOR DEFERRAL
. ADDRESS: 6747 Michigan
NAME: Downriver investment Group, LLC
Demolition Ordered: October 19, 2015

in response to the request for a deferral of the demolition order on the property noted above, the Buildings, Safety Engineering and
Environmental Department (BSEED) submits the following information:

A special inspection conducted on November l3, 2018 revealed that the building is secured and appears to be sound and repairable. The
owner has paid all taxes and is current. The proposed use of the property is owner?s use and occupancy. This is the l" deferral request for

this property.
Therefore, we respectfully recommended that the demolition order be deferred for a period of six months subject to the following
conditions:

i. A permit for rehabilitation work shall be applied for within te_n (10) business days from the date of the City Council
decision.

2. BSEED will schedule a Progress inspection within forty-?ve (45) calendar days from the date of the rehabilitation
permit to determine whether substantial progress has been made. Thereafter, the owner must submit to BSEED
detailed inspection reports, with photos showing evidence of the work completed, every forty-?ve_ (45) calendar
days, for the duration of the rehabilitation work, to demonstrate that substantial progress has been made during
the approved time frame for rehabilitation.

3. The building shall have all imminently hazardous conditions immediately corrected, be maintained, and securely
barricaded until rehabilitation is complete. Rehabilitation work is to be completed within six (6) months, at which
time the owner will obtain one of the following from this department:

a Certi?cate of Acceptance related to building permits
0 Certi?cate of Approval as a result of a Housing inspection
I Certificate of Compliance, required for g] rental properties

4. The owner shall not occupy or allow occupancy of the structure without a certi?cate (as outlined above).

5. The yards shall be maintained clear of overgrown vegetation, weeds, junk and debris at all times.

6. Prior to seeking a permit extension, the owner must contact BSEED and request to extend the deferral period.

We recommend that utility disconnect actions cease to allow the progress of the rehabilitation.

At the end of the deferral period, the owner must contact this department to arrange an inspection to evidence that conditions of the deferral
have been satis?ed and that there has been substantial progress toward rehabilitation. If the building becomes open to trespass or if conditions
of the deferral are not followed, the deferral may be rescinded by the City Council at any time and we may proceed with demolition without
further notice. in addition, pursuant to the Property Maintenance Code we will issue a Blight Violation Notice.

Any request exceeding three (3) deferrals must be made by petition to City Council through the of?ce of the City Clerk.

Rt. submitted,

  
   

David Bell
Director



cc: Downriver investment LLC, l600 Clay ST, Detroit, MI 4821 
Dennis Kefallinos

CLERK 4 JFIH Elli? Frill-4?1

 COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUHICXCEN run
2 WOODWARD Ava, FOURTH FLOOR
CITY or DETROIT DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

BUILDINGS, ENGINEERING AND (3I3) 224?0484 - 

I 
ROI I 

Date: December 19, 2018

 
  

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

RE: RECOMMENDATION FOR DEFERRAL
ADDRESS: 2080 Clairmount
NAME: KNR LLC
Demolition Ordered: April 11, 2011

In response to the request for a deferral of the demolition order on the property noted above, the Buildings, Safety Engineering and
Environmental Department (BSEED) submits the following infonnation:

A special inspection conducted on December 14, 2018 revealed that the building is secured and appears to be sound and repairable. The
owner has paid all taxes and is current. The proposed use of the property is owner?s use and occupancy. This is the 1" deferral request for

this property.
Therefore, we respectfully recommended that the demolition order be deferred for a period of six months subject to the following
conditions:

i. A permit for rehabilitation work shall be applied for within till (10) business days from the date ofthe City Council
decision.

2. BSEED will schedule a Progress Inspection within tom-?ve (45) calendar davs from the date of the rehabilitation
permit to determine whether substantial progress has been made. Thereafter, the owner must submit to BSEED
detailed Inspection reports, with photos showing evidence of the work completed, every forty-?ve (45) calendar
da s, for the duration of the rehabilitation work, to demonstrate that substantial progress has been made during
the approved time frame for rehabilitation.

3. The building shall have all imminently hazardous conditions immediately corrected, be maintained, and securely
barricaded until rehabilitation is complete. Rehabilitation work is to be completed within six (6) months, at which
time the owner will obtain one of the following from this department:

0 Certi?cate of Acceptance related to building permits
0 Certificate of Approval as a result of a Housing inspection
0 Certi?cate of Compliance, required for all rental properties

4. The owner shall not'occupy or allow occupancy of the structure without a certificate (as outlined above).

5. The yards shall be maintained clear of overgrown vegetation, weeds, junk and debris at all times.

6. Prior to seeking a permit extension, the owner must contact BSEED and request to extend the deferral period.

We recommend that utility disconnect actions cease to allow the progress of the rehabilitation.

At the end of the deferral period, the owner must contact this department to arrange an inspection to evidence that conditions ofthc deferral
haVe been satisfied and that there has been substantial progress toward rehabilitation. lfthe building becomes open to trespass or it?comiizinns
ot?the deferral are not followed, the deferral may be rescinded by the City Council at any time and we may proceed with demolition illnout
l'unher notice. in addition, pursuant to the Propeity Maintenance Code we will issue a Blight Violation Notice.

Any request exceeding three (3) deferrals must be made by petition to City Council through the of?ce of the City Clerk.

 

David Bell
Director

D?zbkd

cc: KNR LLC, [65 E. Broadway. FL 3, New York, NY l0002
Ronald 0 Box 2822. Detroit, MI 48202

I3 CLERK. 4 PIN 2019 



.i COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CliN'l?l?R
2 WOODWARD FOURTH FLOOR
CITY or I, 48226

AND (3I3) 224?0484 - 

I ROI I MLGOV

   

Date: December 20, 2018

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

RE: RECOMM ENDATION FOR DEFERRAL
ADDRESS: 15884 Evergreen
NAM E: Gregory Paige
Demolition Ordered: October 16, 2017

In response to the request for a deferral of the demolition order on the property noted above, the Buildings, Safety Engineering and
Environmental Department (BSEED) submits the following information:

A special inspection conducted on December 19, 2018 revealed that the building is secured and appears to be sound and repairable. The
owner has paid all taxes and is current. The proposed use of the property is owner's use and occupancy. This is the l" deferral request for

this property.
Therefore, we respectfully recommended that the demolition order be deferred for a period of six months subject to the following
conditions:

1. A permit for rehabilitation work shall be applied for within 33.3110) business days from the date of the City Council
decision.

2. BSEED will schedule 11 Progress Inspection within fortv-i'lve (45) calendar days from the date of the rehabilitation
permit to determine whether substantial progress has been made. Thereafter, the owner must submit to BSEED
detailed inspection reports, with photos showing evidence of the work completed, every forty-Mg (45) calendar
days, for the duration of the rehabilitation work, to demonstrate that substantial progress has been made during
the approved time frame for rehabilitation.

3. The building shall have all imminently hazardous conditions immediately corrected, be maintained, and securely
barricaded until rehabilitation is complete. Rehabilitation work is to be completed within six (6) months, at which
time the owner will obtain one of the following from this department:

0 Certi?cate of Acceptance related to building permits
0 Certificate of Approval as a result of a Housing inspection
0 Certificate of Compliance, required for ELI rental properties

4. The owner shall not occupy or allow occupancy of the structure without a certificate (as outlined above).

5. The yards shall be maintained clear of overgrown vegetation, weeds, junk and debris at all times.

6. Prior to seeking a permit extension, the owner must contact BSEED and request to extend the deferral period.

We recommend that utility disconnect actions cease to allow the progress of the rehabilitation.

At the end of the deferral period, the owner must contact this department to arrange an inspection to evidence that conditions of the dell-Ira]
have been satis?ed and that there has been substantial progress toward rehabilitation. if the building becomes open to trespass or if conditions
of lhe deferral are not followed, the deferral may he re5cinded by the City Council at any time and we may proceed with demolition without
further notice. in addition, pursuant to the Property Maintenance Code we will issue a Blight Violation Notice.

Any request exceeding three (3) deferrals must be made by petition to City Council through the of?ce ofthe City Clerk.

Res. 1511 Lyesuhmitted, 

   

  

David Bell
Director



cc: Gregory Paige, 19l20 Grandview, Detroit, Ml 482l9
Gregory Paige, [6940 Winston ST, Detroit. MI 482l9

CLERK 4 MN ems Frail-4'1

1 COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPALCENTER

2 Woonwnuo AVENUE, SUITE 1026
r, MICHIGAN 48226
CITY OF DETROIT PHONE: 13 - 628-2158
OFFICE OF ma CI um: FINANCIAL Fax: 3 3 - 224 - 0542

E- a OFFICE 01: AND GRANTS 


November 13, 2018

The Honorable Detroit City Council
ATTN: City Clerk Office

200 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit MI 48226

RE: Request to Accept and Appropriate the FY 2018 Regional Transit Authority
(RTA) Sub-award from the Congestion Mitigation and Air Quality Improvement
Program (CMAQ) Grant

The Regional Transit Authority (RTA) has awarded the City of Detroit Department of
Transportation (DDOT) with the FY 2018 Regional Transit Authority (RTA) Sub-award
from the Congestion Mitigation and Air Quality Improvement Program (CMAQ) Grant,
for a total of $1,279,812.00. The RTA share is 80 percent or $1,279,812.00 of the
approved amount and a cash match requirement of 20 percent or $319,953.00. The
total project cost is $1,599,765.00.

The objective of the grant is to expand conidor express bus services. The funding
allotted to the department will be utilized to provide additional transit service on the
existing 17?Elght Mile bus route. This is a reimbursement grant.

if approval is granted to accept and appropriate this funding, the appropriation number
is 20612, with the match amount coming from appropriation number 00151.

I respectfully ask your approval to accept and appropriate funding in accordance with
the attached resolution.

Sincerely,

e.

Ryan Friedrichs
Director, Of?ce of Development and Grants

CC:
Katerli Bounds, Deputy Director, Grants
Sajjiah Parker, Assistant Director, Grants

FUNDING AGREEMENT
FOR EXPANDED MILE SERVICE

THIS FUNDING AGREEMENT is entered into as of the EiTective Date by and between the
CITY OF DETROIT, a Michigan municipal corporation acting through its Department of
Transportation and the REGIONAL TRANSIT AUTHORITY OF SOUTHEAST
MICHIGAN, a Michigan metropolitan authority for the purpose of providing funding
for the operation of expanded bus service along the l7-Eight Mile route (?EXpanded Eight Mile
Services"). DDOT and the RTA may each be referred to herein as a ?Party? or collectively as the
?Parties? to this Agreement, as applicable.

REC ITALS

Whereas, the RTA is the recipient of grant funding under the federal Congestion Mitigation and
Air Quality Improvement Program program (Grant No. Ml-2016-028-00); and

Whereas, DDOT operates public bus service throughout Detroit and neighboring communities,
including along Eight Mile Road; and

Whereas, DDOT and the RTA have previously entered into agreements, collectively covering
the period beginning September 5, 20 6 through April 20, 2018, during which the RTA agreed to
provide partial funding for, and DDOT agreed to operate, limited-stop, express ?Re?ex
Services? along Woodward Avenue until the scheduled discontinuation of Reflex Services on
April 20, 2018; and

Whereas, during its operation, the Re?ex Services provided a successful proof-of-concept for
RTA ?nding for Operation of expanded public bus service along designed routes; and

Whereas, RTA and DDOT desire to utilize remaining portions of its CMAQ grant funding to
provide partial funding for, and DDOT desires to operate, Expanded Eight Mile Services;

NOW THEREFORE, DDOT and the RTA agree as follows:

Section I: Services. DDOT will Operate Expanded Eight Mile Services, designated as Route
17, between Grand River 7 Mile and Moross Mack, serving all local bus stops, at service
levels set forth in Exhibit A to this Agreement. DDOT may modify the daily operational details
of the Expanded Eight Mile Services at its sole discretion for any reason beyond its control,
including but not limited to equipment failures, labor shortage, construction, road conditions, and
weather and other environmental factors. DDOT may not make any permanent modi?cation to
the services as described in Exhibit A without the written agreement of the RTA. DDOT shall
notify RTA as soon as practicable in advance of any revisions to the service details that are
expected to last longer than twenty-four (24) hours. DDOT shall notify RTA forty-?ve (45) days
in advance of any proposed revisions to the scheduled service. DDOT will operate the Expanded
Eight Mile Services utilizing City-owned buses and other vehicles of such types and in such
numbers as necessary to provide the appropriate service leVels. DDOT will operate the Expanded

Eight Mile Services utilizing trained and quali?ed City employees in such numbers as suf?cient
to provide the appropriate service levels.

The Parties acknowledge and agree that DDOT is solely responsible for, and that RTA has no
control over and is not responsible for, the operation of the Expanded Eight Mile Services,
including, but not limited to the operation and maintenance of vehicles and other equipment, and
maintaining security, as Well as employment matters, including conducting background checks
and hiring, training, supervising, disciplining and terminating employees. DDOT acknowledges
and agrees that the RTA will not be responsible for the acts of DDOT, or of DDOT employees,
agents, or servants, with respect to the Expanded Eight Mile Services, except as may be required
under Applicable Laws, as hereinafter de?ned.

Section 2: Funding. The RTA shall designate DDOT as a sub-recipient of a portion of its
CMAQ grant and provide funding from such grant in accordance with Exhibit to this
Agreement Funding Limit"). DDOT shall provide local matching funds to the extent
required under the terms of the CMAQ grant, in accordance with Exhibit to this
Agreement. DDOT agrees that total funding obligation will not exceed DDOT's
allocated portion of the CMAQ fund. The Federal Grant Agreement (Exhibit C) provides the
RTA with preaward grant authority.

Section 3: Reimbursement. DDOT shall submit invoices to the RTA on or before the
tenth (10m) day following the end of the period covered by the inVOice for funding to reimburse
DDOT for the costs to operate the Expanded Eight Mile Service during the term of this
Agreement. DDOT agrees that it will invoice the RTA for reimbursement of the Expanded Eight
Mile Service Net Costs, which will be calculated based on the actual number of Fixed Route
Revenue Hours multiplied by the Cost Per Fixed Route Revenue Hour, equal to $142 per hour.
To fund the operation of the Expanded Eight Mile Service during the term of this Agreement, the
RTA shall pay DDOT the Expanded Eight Mile Service Net Costs, less the annual LBO
contribution shown in Exhibit B. RTA will submit each invoice for reimbursement to MDOT
and/or FTA within seven days of receipt from DDOT. It is the goal to reimburse DDOT
within 30 days of submitting the invoice to MDOT and/or FT A.

Section 4: Service and Funding Assessment. DDOT and RTA will meet on a biannual basis
throughout the term of this Agreement to discuss the current Expanded Eight Mile Service, the
levels of existing funding, any new funding that may be secured, and the options for continuing
the service afier the April 19, 2019 end date of this Agreement, if necessary.

Section 5: Effective Date, Term, and Termination. This Agreement shall become effective
upon its execution by both the RTA and DDOT and its approval by the Detroit City Council
("Effective Date"). The term of this Agreement shall commence on April 20, 20I 8 and shall
conclude on April 2019.

In the event of either Party?s default or other material breach of this Agreement, the Party not in
breech may notify the breaching Party of the breach in writing. The breeching Party will have
thirty (30) days after such written notice to cure the breech. If the breaching Party fails to timely
cure, the Party not in breech may terminate this Agreement, effective ten (10) days a?er giving
notice of termination to the breaching Party. No failure or delay in performance of this

2

EXHIBIT A
EXPANDED EIGHT MILE SERVICE LEVELS

For the term of this Agreement, DDOT will operate additional transit service on its existing 17 
Eight Mile bus route. The route operates between Grand River 8r. Seven Mile on the border of
Detroit and Redford Township, and Moross Mack on the border of Detroit and Grosse Pointe
Woods. The route serves eleven 1) individual communities along the Eight Mile corridor,
including Detroit, Warren and South?eld. All additional trips will cover the full route, a distance
of approximately 24 miles end-to-end. Trips will serve all regular bus stops along the route.

Inclusive of the additional service, DDOT intends to operate the expanded l7 Eight Mile
service at these scheduled Service Levels:

WEEKDAY
- 24-hour span of service
- Peak period, every 15 minutes
- Mid-day period, every 25 minutes
Evening period, every 50 minutes
This service represents an additional 19 trips over the standard Weekday schedule.

SATURDAY
24-hour span of service
- Mid-day period, every 25 minutes
- Evening period, every 50 minutes
This service represents an additional 19 trips over the standard Saturday schedule.

SUNDAY HOLIDAY
24-hour span of service
- Mid-day period, every 35 minutes
0 Evening period, every 5060 minutes
This service represents an additional 28 trips over the standard Sunday Holiday schedule.

As presented to the riding public, additional trips will be integrated with standard trips. DDOT
shall place a special note in the printed Public Timetable to indicate that additional service is
funded by RTA.

DDOT intends to assign an additional three (3) vehicles to the route, for a total of fourteen 
vehicles Operating on the route during peak time periods. Buses will be drawn from the regular
DDOT ?eet.

DDOT may modify the daily operational details of the service at its sole discretion and/or for any
reason beyond its control, including but not limited to equipment failures, staf?ng shortage,
construction, road or traffic conditions and weather conditions.

DDOT shall not make any modi?cation to service levels described in Exhibit A without written
agreement DDOT shall notify RTA no fewer than 45 days before the effective date of

any proposed schedule changes.

 

Standard Service levels

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Revenue Revenue HOURS HEADWAY
Hours Miles Trips OF OPERATION Peak Base
Weekday 146.52 2,303.15 92 4:09a - 2:445 20 30
Saturday 100.20 1,677.94 67 4:51a- 1:42a 32
Sunder-1il 55.20 951.32 38 5:453 - 11:31:) 55
Senrice levels with CMAQ-Funded Improvements
Revenue Revenue HOURS HEADWAY
Hours Miles Trips OF OPERATION i Peak Base
Weekday 176.25 2,778.46 111 24 hours 15 25
Saturday 127.45 2,150.14 86 24 hours 25
Sunday 94.30 1,647.64 66 24 hours 35
Additional Service - Per Day
Revenue Revenue 
Hours Miles TriPs 
Weekday 29.73 475.31 19
Saturday 27.25 472.20 19
Sunday 39.10 696.32 28 
Additional Service - Annual
Revenue Revenue 
Hours Miles Trigs 7 i
Weekday 7,581.15 121,204.05 4,045 
Saturday 1,417.00 24,554.40 988
Sunday 40,336?6 1,524 -
Total 11,255.95 155,145.01 7,451 i

 

 

EXHIBIT 
ESTIMATED EXPANDED EIGHT MILE COST AND FUNDING
(April 20, 2018 April 19, 20l9)

 

 

 

 

 

 

TOTAL
FUNDING SDURGE FUNDS FEDERAL STATE
4 FEDERAL GRANT
CMAO. Grant: Corridor Express Bus $1,279,812 $1,279,812 
(PAIN Ml-2016-028-00)
LOCAL 
MDOT Comprehensive Transportation $319,953 $0 $319,953
Fund - Local Bus Operating (LBO)
TOTAL OPERATING $1,599,765 $1,279,812 $319,953

 

 

 

 

The local match for this grant is being provided by DDOT LBO funds.

 



Office of Development and Grants ?Tililill?llm?

 

RESOLUTION

Council Member

WHEREAS, the Detroit Department of Transportation (DDOT) is requesting authorization to
accept a grant of reimbursement from the Regional Transit Authority (RTA). in the amount of
$1,279,812.00. to provide additional transit service on its existing 17?Eight Mile bus route; now

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Director or Head of the Department ls authorized to
execute the grant agreement on behalf of the City of Detroit. and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Budget Director is authorized to establish Appropriation
number 20612, in the amount of $1,599,765.00, which includes a cash match coming from
Appropriation 00151. for the FY 2013 Regional Transit Authority (RTA) Sub-award from the
Congestion Mitigation and Air Quality Improvement Program (CMAQ) Grant.

Page 1 0H



COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER

2 WOODWAHD AVENUE. sum: l020
DETROIT. MICHIGAN 48226
CITY or DETROIT PHONE: 313 . 628-2l 53
Ol-Fle OF 11 IE CHIEF FINANCIALOFFICER FAX: 313 . 224 . 0542

OFFICE OF DEVELOPMENT AND CHAN Is 

November 15. 2018

The Honorable Detroit City Council
ATTN: City Clerk Office

200 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit MI 48226

RE: Request to Accept and Appropriate the FY 2019 Specialized Services
Operating Assistance Program Grant

The Michigan Department of Transportation (MDOT) has awarded the City of Detroit
Department of Transportation (DDOT) with the FY 2019 Specialized Services Operating
Assistance Program Grant for a total of $351,853.00. There is no match requirement.
The grant period is October 1. 2018 through September 30. 2019.

The objective of the grant is to coordinate with the East-side Community Network (ECN)
in order to provide rides to clients with disabilities. The funding allotted to the
department will be utilized to supplement and/or cover the cost of each ride provided at
a rate of $1.20 per mile and $4.07 per passenger. This is a reimbursement grant.

If approval is granted to accept and appropriate this funding, the appropriation number
is 20617.

I respectfully ask your approval to accept and appr0priate funding in accordance with
the attached resolution.

Sincerely.


yan Friedrichs

Director, Of?ce of Development and Grants

CC:
Katerli Bounds, Deputy Director, Grants
Sajjiah Parker. Assistant Director, Grants

Date: August 27, 2018
Agreement No.: 2017-0043
Authorization No.: P7
JobNo.: 204713
Agenda: COM

PROJECT AUTHORIZATION
CITY OF DETROIT
FY 2019 SPECIALIZED SERVICES
OPERATING ASSISTANCE PROGRAM

This information Is required by the Michigan Department of Transportation (MDOT) in order to
record agreement of utilization of iunds. The funds shall be used by the AGENCY in accordance
with the above referenced Master Agreement.

Authorization Effective Date: October 1, 2018
Authorization Expiration Date: September 30, 2019

The AGENCY shall enterinto contracts with all parties listed In this PROJECT AUTHORIZATION.
An executed copy of these third party contracts must be submitted to MDOT.

in accordance with Section of the Agreement, the dollar amount for third party contracts as
identi?ed in COMMISSION policy is 525,000. All agencies that are not self certi?ed must submit
third party contracts over 525.000 to MDOT for approval beicre payments will be processed.
Please refer to Section of the Agreement for competitive bidding requirements.

The AGENCY agrees to prepare and furnish to MDOT quarterly operating assistance reports via
the Public Transportation Management System (PTMS). Said reports are due within forty (40)
days after the end of each ?scal year quarter. Instructions for preparing the report are available
in the "Specialized Services Manual." The manual is available on the web at
by locating the resources box on the home page and opening the
item listed "AudiUAccounting Information."

Lt Activity Funding Maximum


A enc iSubrecl ienl Code Rate Fun din
1 Detroit Department of TranSportation 898 $1.201mile $106,300
2 Detroit Department of Transportation 898 $4.07Ipassenger 245.115;
5351.853

5 

FY 2019 SPECIALIZED SERVICES SERVICE DESCRIPTION

NAME of APPLICANT (Legal organization name): Warren Connor Development Coalition 
Community Network)

MDOT CONTINUATION FUNDS REQUESTED AND METHOD OF REIMBURSEMENT
(PER MILE OR PER PASSENGER. Please do not list volunteer drivers}.
Dollar amount requested: $46,800

.08 by passengers? (Circle one)
Estimated miles (Required): 39,000 miles per year

Estimated passengers (Required): 7800 per year

A. PROVIDE THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION FOR YOUR PROPOSED FY 2019 SERVICE

{Place on in the appropriate box below):
Regular service PAID driver

Volunteer driver service

tlonofse ie

 

Service area {Enter boundaries or community names, etc): City of Detroit. south of l-94 and
east of Mt Elliot

Schedule (Enter days and hours of operation):
Monday-Friday 8 am - 10pm
Saturday 9 am - 5pm
Type of service {Describe service, notice required, number to call, etc):

ECN will provide door to door services to those who contact our of?ce to schedule
transportation. Scheduling will be done by calling 313-571-2800. We expect to serve an average
of 28 clients per day. Riders would need to schedule transportation at least 48 hours in advance
of their trip. shorter term notice will be scheduled based on availability. Clients will be picked
up and transported via passenger van to their requested destination. Service greater than 15
miles one way will require an increased rider fee.

 

B. DESCRIBE TRAINING EFFORTS FOR AGENCY STAFF AND VOLUNTEER DRIVERS
Boarding equipment/assistance: ECN has acquired one vehicle. It Is a passenger van

that is able to accommodate 8 passengers. We expect to complete our acquisition in early
2018.

ECN shares its building with one of the Adult Well Being Services sites which has been
provides transportation to their clients with disabilities. ECN is in discussion with AWBS to have
them train ECN drivers on proper transportation of clients and equipment use.

Sensitivity: ECN is also planning to partner with disability awareness organizations to
insure the drivers, schedulers and other organization staff is adequately prepared to service the

elderly and disabled.

Other: Safety is of utmost importance to ECN. All drivers will be required to have a clean
driver's record and a chauffer's license in order to drive for the program. Ongoing training will
also be provided to drivers.

CONTACT PERSON TITLE DATE
Angela Wilson Directory of Economic Mobility Jan 25, 2018

 

 

 

 

 

g?

Office of Development and Grants run-ammo?

 

 

RESOLUTION

Council Member

WHEREAS, the Detroit Department of Transportation (DDOT) is requesting authorization to
accept a grant of reimbursement from the Michigan Department of Transportation (MDOT). in the
amount of $351,853.00. to coordinate with the East-side Community Network (EON) in order to
provide rides to clients with disabilities; now

THEREFORE. BE IT RESOLVED that the Director or Head of the Department is authorized to
execute the grant agreement on behalf of the City of Detroit: and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Budget Director is authorized to establish Appropriation
number 20617. in the amount of $351,853.00, for the FY 2019 Specialized Services Operating
Assistance Program Grant.

Page 1 0H

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIML CENTER
2 AVENUE. SUITE "126
DETROIT. 48226

CITY 0f Dmorr PI IONE: 313 . 628-2l Sit
OFFICE. OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER Fax: 313 . 224 0542

OFFICE or DEVELOPMENT AND GRANTS numov

 

December 10r 2018

The Honorable Detroit City Council
ATTN: City Clerk Office

200 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit MI 48226

RE: Request to Accept and Appropriate the FY 2018 Local Law Enforcement
Crime Gun Intelligence Center Integration Initiative Grant

The US. Department of Justice has awarded the City of Detroit Police Department with
the FY 2018 Local Law Enforcement Cn'me Gun Intelligence Center Integration Initiative
Grant for a total of $800,000.00. The Federal share is $800,000.00. There is no match
requirement. The total project cost is $800,000.00. The grant period is October 1, 2018
through September 30. 2021.

The objective of the grant is to create a comprehensive model of coordinated law
enforcement activity in order to reduce violent crime and illegal use of ?rearms within
the City of Detroit. The funding allotted to the department will be utilized to SUpport a
cross agency partnership by implementing a Crime Gun Intelligence Center and
response protocol. This is a reimbursement grant.

If approval is granted to accept and appropriate this funding. the appropriation number
is 20621.

I respectfully ask your approval to accept and appropriate funding in accordance with
the attached resolution.

Sincerel

Ryan Friedrichs
Director, Of?ce of Development and Grants

CC:
Kateni Bounds. Deputy Director. Grants
Sajjiah Parker. Assistant Director. Grants

This Request has been approved by the Of?ce of the Budget-

?12.

U.S. Department at Justice

Of?ce of Justice Programs

 

 

Of?ce or the Assistant Attorney Geneml "Ellington. c. 201::
October I. 20I8

Chief James E. Craig
City of Detroit

I Woodward Avenue
Ste. ?26

Dettoit. Ml 48226

Dear Chief Craig:

On behalf of Attorney General JetTerson Sessions til. it is my pleasure to inform you that the Of?ce of Justice Fragrant: has
approved your application for funding under the FY 18 Local Law Enforcement Crime Gun Intelligence Center Integration
initiative in the amount of $800,000 for City ol'Detroit.

EncloSed you will ?nd the Grant Award and Special Conditions documents. 11tis award is subject to all administrative and
?nancial requirements. including the timely submission ofall ?nancial and programmatic reports. resolution ol'all interim
audit ?ndings. and the maintenance oftt minimum level ot'cash-on-hand. Should you not adhere to these requirements. you
will be in violation of the terms of this agreement and the owanl will be subject to termination for cause or other administrative
action as appropriate.
If you have questions regarding this award. please contact:

Program Questions, Joseph Hosted. Program Manager at (202) 353-441 and

- Financial Questions. the Of?ce of the Chief Financial Ot?cer. Customer Service Center (CSC) at
(BOO) 458-0786, or you may contact the CSC at 

Congratulations. and we look forward to working with you.

Sin?mlyp

@7wa

Matt Dummermulh
Principal Deputy Assistant Attomey General

Enclosures

US. Department ofJust'lcc

Office of Justice Programs

 

Bureau of Justice Assistance

 

H'?lbin?fnm 0.6 2053!

Memorandum To: Of?cial Grunt File
From: Orbin Terry. NEPA Coordinator

Subject: Categorical Exclusion for City of Detroit

The FYIB Local Law Enforcement CGIC Integration lnitiativv. is a limited competition grant program that will
provide funding to address illegal ?rearm-related crime and forensics. This initiative furthers the Department?s
mission by assisting state, local and tribal law enforcement in responding to violent crime, and working with the
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives to utilize intelligence, technology, and community
engagement to swiftly identify crime guns, their sources, and effectively prosecute perpetrators. The Local Law
Enforcement Crime Gun intelligence Center Integration Initiative is part of the Project Safe Neighborhoods (PS N)
Suite of programs, which is focused on reducing violent crime. None of the following activities will be conducted
either under the OJP federal action or a related third party action:

I) New construction;

2) Any renovation or remodeling of a property either listed on or eligible for listing on the National Register of
Historic Places or located within a IOU-year ?ood plain;

3) A renovation which will change the basic prior use of a facility or signi?cantly change its size;

4) Research and technology whose anticipated and ?tture application could be expected to have an effect on the
environment; or

5) Implementation of a program involving the use of chemicals.

Consequently, the subject federal action meets OlP's criteria for a categorical exclusion as contained in paragraph
4(b) of Appendix to Part 61 of the Code of Federal Regulations. Additionally, the proposed action is neither a

phase nor a segment or :1 project which when viewed in its entirety would not meet the criteria for a categorical
exclusion.

gr: ?ffa?Tm?g? GRANT MEMORANDUM, PT. I: I
eco PROJECT SUMIWARY

Bureau oI'Juslicc Assistance
rant

 

PROJECT NUMBER
2013.Dc.amooa

Tlrii proj-ecr luppu?ad under FYI - MG Hearted Fund: Award - Cum: {Fun CI: [magnum] Tulle Infl?ubllcian (generally codi?ed
Ill 3-4 USC ell lDl}. Including werinn .505 {codi?ed at 3-3 USE ?1157): In aha 25 IJSC SJDCIE)

PAGE OF I

I. STAFF CONTACT (Nun: 8: telephone number) I 2 PROJECT DIRECTOR (Name. address telephone number)

Jnseph Slim-nice Farris
(201) 353?141! Execulluc Manager of Grant:
I 2 Woodward Ave

Dclmil. Ml 43226
(JIJ) 596-1381

Jn. TITLE OF THE PROGRAM 3b POMS CODE (SEE INSTRUCTIONS
. . . . . . I 0N REVERSE)
BIA FY I3 Local Law Gun Ccnler 

'l
I 4. TITLE OF PROJECT I

Delmil Police Department CGIC l?mjeel

City 0! Detroit
Woodward Avenue ?26
MI 48226

I
I 5 NAME ADDRESS OF GRANTEE 6 NAME ADRESS OF SUBGRANTEE

.-

7 PROGRAM PERIOD ll. BUDGET PERIOD
FROM: TC: 0980203 FROM TO: 09130001]

l0 DATE OF AWARD


9 AMOUNT OF AWARD
5 800.000

. 
l. SECOND BUDGET l2. SECOND BUDGET AMOUNT




THIRD BUDGET PERIOD l4. THIRD BUDGET AMOUNT

I5. SUMMARY DESCRIPTION OF (Sec on reverse}

11w Laeal Lew Enl'nreemeul Crime Gun letf lmegminn Inilinriuc. udmininmd by BIA in wirh uumnu Tatum.

. Firearm: End Eeplaeivu il a comp-elitist: pant program ?I??n'IlkI funding to stale and local uouemmenl .ene experiencing 

int-menu in gun crime In Implement comprehensive and bulimic men-deb 1a reduce viulen: crime Ind Ilh?: illegal use n5 ?renrmi within rhesrjurisdielium by ena'bTIna
Ihern In Inleante will: Ihclr local ATF CGIC The purpare lnilimive ill lo eneuurnge lo: ll jurisdiction: Work will: ll1esr ATF runner: to utilize inlelligcllee
leehnuluma. and eommunliy enpgemr In idemll'y ?rearm used unlawfully end their warmer. End ei?l?eelively pram-me perpetrator: manned in viulmr
crime. The CHIC lnllia?v: in pan I'rruecl 5:1 I: Ncigllborhoudl Suile ufrrulmnl, which is recti?ed on reducing i- inlL-nl The 
commits PEN. Emu-gins for Policing Imouliun. Innanlive I'mseeutlun Solu'limu. CGIC Initialive. Nn'liuual Public Eatery Innuwuun
l'ur Public Sll'efy. Encouraging Field Ininued. Ilium-Ilium in (Immunity-Bum! Crime- Reduell?un. and Community Bum! Violence 
Oernomunlinn. II: inilinlives will eunrdirme pmmively {mm in. The reipee'live diilticl of United Sluice Aunt-rm?: Dmee 

FORM 4000f} (REV 4-88)

enhance and Ille In reducing violenl aim: mun demonslrale 111i: eoordinnlion will: lheir USAO dim-int lenm
in their submission.

The Cily of Detroit will use the BIA funds in develop A Crime Gun Intelligence Center In deal with the precipilous inetensc in violcnl crime. Grant funds will focus
on hiring projeel manager In oversee project end a crime nnalys: who will munilor NIBIN lead: that are developed and conduct amlysis walk in
make the inlelligenee neu'nuahle l'or lnvesulgnm.

CAINCF



Office of Development and Grants 

 

 

RESOLUTION

Council Member

WHEREAS, the Detroit Police Department is requesting authorization to accept a grant of
reimbursement from the U.S. Department of Justice, in the amount of $800.000.00. to create a
comprehensive model of coordinated law enforcement activity in order to reduce violent crime and
illegal use of ?rearms within the City of Detroit; and

WHEREAS, this request has been approved by the Office of the Budget; now

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Director or Head of the Department is authorized to
execute the grant agreement on behalf of the City of Detroit, and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Budget Director is authorized to establish Appropriation
number 20621, in the amount of $800,000.00, for the FY 2018 Local Law Enforcement Crime Gun
Intelligence Center Integration Initiative Grant.

Page 1 of1

 A. YOUNG Mumcwm. 
2 AVENUE. sum: l026
DEI ROIT. MICHIGAN 48226

CITY or DETROIT PHONE: 313 . 628-2 I 58
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER FM: 3 I3 . 224 . 0542

OFFICE or DEVELOPMENT AND GRANTS may

 

December 10, 2018

The Honorable Detroit City Council
City Clerk Of?ce

200 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit MI 48226

RE: Request to Accept and Appropriate the FY 2018 Advancing Health Equity
Through Housing Grant

The Kresge Foundation has awarded the City of Detroit Buildings, Safety Engineering
and Environmental Department. in partnership with the Of?ce of Sustainability with the
FY 2018 Kresge Foundation Advancing Health Equity Through Housing grant for a total
of $100.000.00. There is no match requirement for this grant. The total project cost is
$100,000.00. The grant period ls December 1. 2018 through November 30, 2019.

The objective of the grant is to understand the unintended impacts of the rental property
ordinance and implications of other policies in the Detroit housing market. The funding
allotted to the department will be utilized to form procedures and develop best practices
to address ?ndings that impact landlords and tenants. and improve coordination
between City Departments providing support.

If approval is granted to accept and appropriate this funding, the appropriation number
is 20620.

I respectfully ask your approval to accept and appropriate funding in accordance with
the attached resolution.

Sincerely.
0
av
Ryan Friedrichs
Director. Of?ce of Development and Grants

CC:
Katerli Bounds. Deputy Director, Grants
Sajjlah Parker. Assistant Director, Grants

This Request has been approved by the Of?ce of the Budget.

23

DocuSlgn Envelope ID: 

THE

KRESGE

FOUNDATION

November 14. 20l8

Mr. Michael Dnggan

Mayor

City ochlIoit

Executive Ollice

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center 2 Woodward Avenue
Detroit, Mi 48226



Congmtulational We are delighted to con?rm that The Kresge Foundation has approved a grant to your
organimtion. and we are thrilled to partner with you on the Advancing Health Equity Through Housing
(HEH) Detroit?s Rental Regiatnr Ordinance: Linking Policy. Practice, and Healthy Equity project.

Katherine W. Program Of?cer, is your primary Kresge contact. You can reach Katherine at


For questions about the management of your grant?including our payment and reporting processes?you
may also contact our Program Operations and information Management Department at



This grant has been assigned grant number Please use this number when corresponding with
us about the grant.

This document is intended both to orient you to The Kresge Foundation and to serve as a legal Grant
Agreement. it explains what We expect from your organization, what you can expect from Kresge, and other
ways that we may be of assistance.

This document includes more infonnatioa about:

0 Connection to Krugc's Mission;

Grant Terms;

Schedule for Payment and Reporting;
Guidelines for Reporting;
Communications and Intellectual Property;
Grant Conditions and Requirements; and
Grant Acceptance.

Please review this agreement and let us know il?you have any questions or concerns. To ensure prompt
payment, we ask that you this Grant Agreement through DocuSign within 30 days of receipt.

. i; 'Iii'

The Kresge Foundation works to expand opportunitim in America?s cities through grantmulting and 
investing in arts and culture, education. environment. health, hinnan sawieaa, and enumtunity development in
Detroit.

This grant has been awarded in furtherance of Kresgc's Health Program, which seeks to help communities
overcome the environmmtal and social atages that contribute to poor health so that everyone has the
chance to enjoy productive. self-detcnniuetl litres. Within that Program. this grant supports our Community-
Driven Solutions focus area. To learn more about lCreagc's work in this area. please

visit: 

DocuSlgn Envelope ID: 

Show

This grant, in the amount is in support of the Advancing liealth Equity Through llottsing
Detroit's Rental Registry Ordinance: Linking Policy. Practice. and Healthy Equity project.

The grant period begins December I. 2018. and ends November 30. 2019. and use of Kresge grant dollars is
restricted to this time period. Any grant funds must be returned to Kresge within 30 days atler the
end of the grant period.

WNW
Assuming your organization ful?lls the Grant Conditions and Requirements outlined below, Kresge will make
grant payment(s) as follows:

Scheduled Date Amount
$100,000.00
We require the following grant neport(s) to be submitted through Kresge's Grantee Portal

Report Type Due Date
Interim Report June 28, 20l 9
Final Report January 31, 2020
El . Ii 1! i .

The Kresge Foundation is committed to strategic teaming and knowledge-sharing that builds on the insighta.
experiences and re?ections of our partners and advancea ottr mission. As part of that commitment, we look
forward to hearing about the progress ni'yottr work under this grant and icuming with you as it unfolds. We
are eager to hear how you are progressing with the wort-r. where you are succeeding. where you are ntnning
into challenges. what you are teaming. and how we can be thoughtful. responsive partners.

Each grant report mtutt include a nan-alive update and a copy of your organiration'a ?nancial statements that
include the reporting period and show how the funds were spent. We Welcome any supplemental information
you'd like to share and can accommodate information in actions ?le l'onnata (cg. .pdf. .xtax, .dnex}.

I Your narratiVe update should munmari'ac your progress toward achieving the goals of the project,
including major activities, project results, successes, and challenges.

I In addition to reporting progress on key objectives, please also respond to tlte following prompts:

I How have you increased decision tanking power and involvement including tenants
and landlords. in the implementation process?

I What opportunities exist to utilize these resident engagement practices in future policy
deVelnpment and implementation efforts in the city?

I Describe the partners and coordination of City Departments involved in the planning anticipated
implementation.

- Your ?nancial update should describe expenditures against the total project budget tits I 00.000.00,
which was submitted on October 5, 20l8.

In addition. you are required to notify your primary Kresge contact within 30 days of any signi?cant changes
in your organization's structure, purpose. leadership. ?nancial situation. or other circumstance that could
affect the terms of the grant or jeopardize your ability to successfully meet the grant objectives.

DacuSlgn Envelope ID: 

The Kresge Foundation is proud to have you as a partner. and we encourage you to promote this grant and the
work it will advance.

We have a variety of resources that may as you promote your grant Our Communications
Resources page on our website irrcludu links to the Kresge
boilerplate, overview materials, logos for download. and other information.

If you plan communication activities about your grant that will mention Kresge, please let us know in advance
by contacting your Program Officer and media@lrrcage.org. We may be able to provide a quote from a
Kresge atathneutber, help anticipate related inquiries, supplement your announcement, etc.

Please also let us know when we may help you spread your news through our newsletter andior through our
social media channels. We are particularly interested in pirates and stories about the ways in which your work
is making a difference. You can reach us on Facebook or Twitter
or by emailing media@lzrcagc.erg.

The Kresge Foundation is committed to providing public access to any materials generated with Kresge
support. Unless otherwise noted in the proposal for this great, We expect that your organization will own the
resulting iatelleemal property and will not talre any actions that limit free public access to those materials. If
applicable. your organization hereby grants Kresge a license to exercise all copyrights with respect to all work
products created and data generated under this grant in all media now known and later developed. This license
is non-exclusive, royaltyufree. paid up. worldwide. perpetual, incvocablc. sublicensablc, and transferable.

t' l" IE I

The Kresge Foundation will make payments on this grant?as outlined in the previous Reporting and Payment
Schedule?upon otrr receipt and approval of your signed acceptance of this Grant Agreement and any
required reports, provided year organisation has maintained its US. internal tteverrue Service tart status
as a public charity or governmental agency.

We reserve the right to cancel, modify, or withhold any payments that might otherwise be due under the
grant. to require a refund of any uaexpended funds. or both, if in ourjudgment any of the following occur:
grant ?rnds have been used for purposes other than those speci?ed by this Grant Agreement, such action is
necessary to comply with the requirements of any law or regulation affecting your organization?s or our
responsibilities under this grant or to avoid the imposition of penalties or excise taxes, or your organization's
perfonnanee under this grant has been unsatisfactory.

You are required to maintain ?nancial records and supporting documentation for capenditures and receipts
related to this grant for ?ve years after the grant end date. You also are required to permit us to have
reasonable access to your fries. records, and personnel during the term of this grant and for ?ve years
thereafter.

Under US. law, Kresge grant funds may be expended only for charitable, scientific, literary, religious, or
educational purposes within the meaning of the Internal Revenue Code of 1936, as amended (?tits Code").

his grant is to be expended solely in support of the objectives detailed in your proposal for this grant. as
amended or ampli?ed during the review process. Foundation grant funds may not he used to carry on
propaganda or any voter registration drive. or otherwise attempt to in?uence any legislation or election, within
the meaning of the Code.

By accepting this grant, you certify that, to the bestof your knowledge. your organization. members of your
governing body. your staff, and any consultants or contractors for your organisation do not advocate, plan,
sponsor, commit. threaten to commit, or support terrorism. By your acceptance of this grant, you agree to
provide us with required for us to comply with Executive Order 13224, the USA Patriot Act, and
other applicable laws. administrative rules, and executive ardent. By accepting this grant, you further agree
that all funds. including sub-awards to sub-recipian-r. will be used in compliance with all applicable
autiterrorist ?nancing and asset control laws, regulations, ruler, and executive orders. You also agree to take
reasonable steps to ensure that no person or entity expected to receive funds in connection with this grant is
designated on the Annex to Executive Order No. 13224.1ts amended or supplemented front time to time,
or the Lists of Specially Designated Nationals or Blocked Persons maintained by the Of?ce of Foreign
Assets Controls ofthe US. Department of the Treasury. Finally. you certify that you will not provide material
support or resources to on individual or entity that you krmw. or have reason to know, is acting as an agent for
any individual or entity that advocates, plans. sponsors. engages in, or has engaged in terrorist activity. or that

DocuSlgn Envelope ID: 

has been so designated, and will immediately cease such support if an entity is so designated alter the date of
this Grant Agreeman



By signing and returning a copy of this Grant Agreement, you are agreeing to the grant conditions as stated in
this Grant Agreement and con?rming that the project dates and referenced budget are correct. You also
con?rm that the project funded by this grant is under your comwcte control. You also conlinn that your
organization has and will exercise control over the process of selecting any secondary grantee or consultant.
that the decision made or that will he made on any such selection is completely independent of Kresge, and,
further. that them does not exist an agreement, written or are], under which we have caused or may cause the
selection of a secondary grantee or consultant. This letter contains the entire agreement between your

organization and The Kresge Foundation, and there are no terms or conditions, oral or written, governing the
use of the grant funds other than those contained in this letter. We may withdraw this grant if we do not
receiVe your acceptance within 30 days of the (late of this Grant Agreement.

Please this GmntAgreement online DocuSign. In countersigning this Grant Agreement,
you represent to us that you have the authority to sign this Grant Agreement on your organization?s behalf.

We look l'onmrd to working in partnership with you during the life ol?your grant and wish you much success
in your work.

For The Kresge Foundation For City of Detroit

f- Mitiulbi. 0W

?i?tapscn Minimums
President and Mayor

 

 

g?

Office of Development and Grants mama-t

 

RESOLUTION

Council Member

WHEREAS, the City of Detroit Buildings, Safety Engineering and Environmental Department. in
partnership with the Of?ce of Sustainability. is requesting authorization to accept a grant from the
Kresge Foundation, in the amount of $100,000.00. to understand unintended impacts of the rental
property ordinance and implications of other policies in the Detroit housing market; and

WHEREAS, this request has been approved by the Of?ce of the Budget; now

THEREFORE. BE IT RESOLVED that the Director or Head of the Department is authorized to
execute the grant agreement on behalf of the City of Detroit, and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Budget Director is authorized to establish Appropriation
number 20620. in the amount of $100,000.00, for the FY 2018 Advancing Health Equity Through
Housing Grant.

Page 1 ol 1

