NEIGHBORHOOD
AND COMMUNITY
SERVICES STANDING
COMMITTEE



OFFICE OF CONTRACTING
AND PROCUREMENT
January 8, 2019
HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL:

The Purchasing Division of the Finance Department recommends a Contract with the
following ?rm(s) or person(s):

6000241 100% City Funding 1 To Provide Portable Potty Stations for
Various Locations in City Parks. Contractor: Parkway Services, Inc. 
Location: 2876 Tyler Rd., Ypsilanti, MI 48198 Contract Period: Upon
City Council Approval through August 20, 2020 Contract Increase:
$50,000.00. Total Contract Amount: $80,000.00. GENERAL

SERVICES

Respectfully submitted,

Boysie Jackson, Chief Procurement Of?cer
Office of Contracting and Procurement

BY COUNCIL PRESIDENT PRO TEM SHEFFIELD

RESOLVED, that Contract No. 6000241 referred to in the foregoing communication
dated January 8, 2019, be hereby and is approved.

55'

18100 MEYERS

DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48235
CITY OF DETROIT (31 3) 224-1 I 00 - 
RECREATION DEPARTMENT (313) 224-3544
ADMINISTRATION OFFICE 

 

 

 

December 20, 2018

Honorable City Council:

Re: Authorization to accept a donation of park improvements from Brush Park Community
Development Corporation to be installed at John R. Watson Park.

Detroit General Services Department requests authorization from your Honorable Body to accept
a donation of park improvements from Brush Park Community Development Corporation to be
installed at John R. Watson Park. Park improvements will consists of the purchase and
installation of park benches. The estimated cost of $500 - $1,000 will be borne by Brush Park
Community Development Corporation.

Installation of the park improvements will take place in spring, 2019. The organization has
worked with community representatives to ensure the improvements are desired. As a way to
maintain the park improvements, Brush Park Community Development Corporation will inspect
the benches once a year and as needed will re-stain the benches to ensure proper maintenance.

We respectfully request your authorization to accept this donation of park improvements with a
Waiver of Reconsideration

Sincerely,

Janet Anderson
Director

 

Resolution

Council Member

 

Whereas, the General Services Department is requesting authorization to accept a donation of
park improvements from Brush Park Community Development Corporation to be installed at
John R. Watson Park.

Whereas, park improvements will consist of the purchase and installation of new park benches.
The estimated cost of $500 - $1,000 will be borne by Brush Park Community Development
Corporation, in addition, the organization will assist in maintaining the park improvements with
a yearly inspection and as needed will re?stain the benches

Resolved, the General Services Department is authorized to accept a donation of park
improvements from the Brush Park Community Development Corporation to be installed at John
R. Watson Park.


Fiat [Strits? Recreation Park Improvement

Department

n'rrul -

omen Authorization Form

 

 

18100 Me are Road. or Level
Today's Date: 1011/14? .. Dgtrolt. ?2:13:25

Requesting Organization Name: 99%? 0P0

 

 

 

 

 

Contact Name: DPRD Property Name: .IJHN 

Phone - Fax Property #1 District 

Address: EMS 3- 501* Property Address: 2-92, 
Mt Location of Improvement in Park:

 

Ema"; embolism a ammo-com W)

Information Included with Request Submission:
Cl Letter oi Request Site Plan Sketch

 

 

 

 

 

Cl Other

mm mm in PM gnomes man.
906:3

WWNW Cite-91mm in;



 

13.22: mm For? comm Des-16H-
Estimated Value of Improvement! Project: 5600 - l; 000

 

FUNDING SOURCE (Optional)

 

 

Have you already raised any money for this improvement?
El My group used a crowdfunding platform (see loby.orgldetroit for more information)
?3 We received a grant
My group collected donations from the community without using a digital platform
Other

 

If using a crowdtunding platform to fundraise for this Improvement. provide the URL for your campaign page below:

 

 



REQUIRED 
., cw owls -n tau-main ix oer-1m ovens memo.

 

 

General Services Dept. - Design Plan
El General Services Dept. - Mal 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

680 Project Coordinator 680 General Manager". 
Date}! {4?ng Date: 

I

lot2

By submitting this request liWeiOur Organization agree(s) to abide by all rules and policies of the City at Detroit
and the Detroit Recreation Department. IiWe also agree that all information submitted in this Park Improvement
Authorization Form is true and accurate to the best of mylour knowledge and little hereby request that the Detroit
Recreation Department consider myiour Project for approval. "We agree at myiour own expense to defend.
indemnify. save and hold harmless the City of Detroit. its of?cers. employees and agents against and from any
and all liabilities. obligations. damages, penalties. claims. costs. charges. and expenses (including without
limitation, fees and expenses of attorneys. expert witnesses and other consultants) which may be imposed upon.
incurred by or asSerted against myselfiue andior the City oi Detroit by reason at or resulting from myiour use of
the DRD Property named above and construction of this Project as described herein.

Signature: 1&le
Print Mia-1M
On behalf of Organization: BRUSH W0

 

Date: ?413"! 

 

FOR DETROIT PARKS 8- RECREATION DEPARTMENT USE ONLY 

B?Prolect Approved as Submitted El Project Denied
El Project Approved wl Changes (See Below)

Approved By DPRD Director: Date: ?lm} 0 i 

Requesting Group IHIIMHMWI hmaiuatiurequutad park oi Ire Pubd?ecren?en Depart-mime:

 

 

 

CHA RE PP 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

234 Winder Street


Detroit Ml48201
i Park We
COMMUHIW DEVELOPMENT CORPORAHON


W- 

 

November 16, 2018

Jan Anderson, Director

Detroit Parks and Recreation Division
General Services Department

18100 Meyer Rd

Detroit, Michigan 48235

Dear Ms. Anderson,

On behalf of the Brush Park Community Development Corporation (the I am writing to offer our
full assistance in purchasing and installing new benches in the John R-Watson Park, located at 202
Watson Street. The costs, approximately are being borne by the group mentioned above.
These improvements will take place in the spring of 2019 as weather permits. We have worked with
community representatives to ensure these Improvements are desired. We will re-stain the wood
benches one time per year, or more or less as needed, to ensure the benches are maintained
throughout the year.

Thank you for your time and consideration.

Since re Iy,

Alexandra Niehaus
Brush Park CDC Board Member

 

Brush Park Community Development Corporation

