2 - 

PLANNING AND
ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT
STANDING
COMMITTEE

22

OFFICE OF CONTRACTING
AND PROCUREMENT

February 12, 2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL:

The Purchasing Division of the Finance Department recommends a Contract with the
following ?rm(s) or person(s):

6001726 100% Federal Funding ?To Provide Safe, and Decent Emergency
Housing to Single Women, and Women with Children. Contractor:
Detroit Rescue Mission Ministries Location: 150 Stimson, Detroit, MI
48201 Contract Period: Upon City Council Approval through December
31, 2019 Total Contract Amount: $100,000.00. HOUSING AND
REVITALIZATION

Respectfully submitted,

Boysie Jackson, Chief Procurement Of?cer
Of?ce of Contracting and Procurement

BY COUNCIL MEMBER TATE

RESOLVED, that Contract No. 6001726 referred to in the foregoing communication
dated February 12, 2019, be hereby and is approved.

ZS

OFFICE OF CONTRACTING
AND PROCUREMENT

February 12, 2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL:

The Purchasing Division of the Finance Department recommends a Contract with the
following ?rm(s) or person(s):

6001796 100% Federal Funding To Provide Shelter for Domestic Violence
Homeless Individuals. Contractor: Neighborhood Service Organization 
Location: 882 Oakman Blvd, Ste. C, Detroit, MI 48238 Contract Period:
Upon City Council Approval through December 31, 2019 Total Contract
Amount: $85,000.00. HOUSING AND REVITALIZATION

Respectfully submitted,

Boysie Jackson, Chief Procurement Of?cer
Of?ce of Contracting and Procurement

BY COUNCIL MEMBER TATE

RESOLVED, that Contract No. 6001796 referred to in the foregoing communication
dated February 12, 2019, be hereby and is approved.

OFFICE OF CONTRACTING
AND PROCUREMENT

February 12, 2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL:

The Purchasing Division of the Finance Department recommends a Contract with the
following ?rm(s) or person(s):

6001804 100% Federal Funding To Provide Financial Assistance to Families with
Utility Bills in Arrears, at Risk of Shutoff, or have Eviction Notices. 
Contractor: The Heat And Warmth Fund Location: 607 Shelby #700,
Detroit, MI 48226 Contract Period: Upon City Council Approval
through December 31, 2019 Total Contract Amount: $100,000.00.
HOUSING AND REVITALIZATION

Respectfully submitted,

Boysie Jackson, Chief Procurement Of?cer
Of?ce of Contracting and Procurement

BY COUNCIL MEMBER TATE

RESOLVED, that Contract No. 6001804 referred to in the foregoing communication
dated February 12, 2019, be hereby and is approved.

25'

OFFICE OF CONTRACTING
AND PROCUREMENT
February 12, 2019
HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL:

The Purchasing Division of the Finance Department recommends a Contract with the
following ?rm(s) or person(s):

6001805 100% Federal Funding To Provide Counseling, Placement Financial
Assistance, and Legal Assistance to Prevent Homelessness. Contractor:
United Community Housing Coalition Location: 220 Bagley, Ste. 224,
Detroit, MI 48226 Contract Period: Upon City Council Approval
through December 31, 2019 Total Contract Amount: $350,000.00.
HOUSING AND REVITALIZATION

Respectfully submitted,

Boysie Jackson, Chief Procurement Officer
Of?ce of Contracting and Procurement

BY COUNCIL MEMBER TATE

RESOLVED, that Contract No. 6001805 referred to in the foregoing communication
dated February 12, 2019, be hereby and is approved.

20:

OFFICE OF CONTRACTING
AND PROCUREMENT

February 12, 2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL:

The Purchasing Division of the Finance Department recommends a Contract with the
following ?rm(s) or person(s):

6001807 100% Federal Funding To Provide Emergency Shelter, and Case
Management for Homeless Women with Children, and Single Women,
and Transition them to Permanent Housing. Contractor: Salvation Army
Location: 16130 Northland Dr., South?eld, MI 48075? Contract Period:
Upon City Council Approval through December 31, 2019 Total Contract
Amount: $100,000.00. HOUSING AND REVITALIZATION

Respectfully submitted,

Boysie Jackson, Chief Procurement Of?cer
Of?ce of Contracting and Procurement

BY COUNCIL MEMBER TATE

RESOLVED, that Contract No. 6001807 referred to in the foregoing communication
dated February 12, 2019, be hereby and is approved.

a?

OFFICE OF CONTRACTING
AND PROCUREMENT
February 12, 2019
HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL:

The Purchasing Division of the Finance Department recommends a Contract with the
following ?rm(s) or person(s):

6001810 100% Federal Funding To Provide Services of Intake and Assessment,
Housing Plans, Case Management, and Financial Assistance for Homeless
Individuals and Families. Contractor: Southwest Counseling Solutions 
Location: 5716 Michigan, Detroit, MI 48210 Contract Period: Upon City
Council Approval through December 31, 2019 Total Contract Amount:
$125,000.00. HOUSING AND REVITALIZATION

Respectfully submitted,

Boysie Jackson, Chief Procurement Of?cer
Of?ce of Contracting and Procurement

BY COUNCIL MEMBER TATE

RESOLVED, that Contract No. 6001810 referred to in the foregoing communication
dated February 12, 2019, be hereby and is approved.

23'

OFFICE OF CONTRACTING
AND PROCUREMENT

February 12, 2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL:

The Purchasing Division of the Finance Department recommends a Contract with the
following ?rm(s) or person(s):

6001811 100% Federal Funding To Provide Coordinated Assess Model, Assess
Needs, Referral and Data Collection for Shelter and of Homeless. 
Contractor: Southwest Counseling Solutions Location: 5716 Michigan,
Detroit, MI 48210 Contract Period: Upon City Council Approval
through December 31, 2019 Total Contract Amount: $125,000.00.
HOUSING AND REVITALIZATION

submitted,

Boysie Jackson, Chief Procurement Of?cer
Of?ce of Contracting and Procurement

BY COUNCIL MEMBER TATE

RESOLVED, that Contract No. 6001811 referred to in the foregoing communication
dated February 12, 2019, be hereby and is approved.

26!

OFFICE OF CONTRACTING
AND PROCUREMENT
February 12, 2019
HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL:

The Purchasing Division of the Finance Department recommends a Contract with the
following ?rm(s) or person(s):

6001111 100% Federal Funding AMEND 1- To Provide a Time Only Extension
for the Russell Woods/Nardin Park Neighborhood Design and
Implementation Plan. Contractor: Lorcan Oherlihy Architects 
Location: 5815 East Clark Rd., Bath, MI 48808 Contract Period: Upon
City Council Approval through March 1, 2019 Total Contract Amount:
$282,000.00. PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT (This Amendment
is to extend Time Only. Original Expiration Date December 31, 2018.)

Respectfully submitted,

Boysie Jackson, Chief Procurement Of?cer
Of?ce of Contracting and Procurement

BY COUNCIL MEMBER TATE

RESOLVED, that Contract No. 6001111 referred to in the foregoing communication
dated February 12, 2019, be hereby and is approved.

30

OFFICE OF CONTRACTING
AND PROCUREMENT

February 12, 2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL:

The Purchasing Division of the Finance Department recommends a Contract with the
following ?rm(s) or person(s):

6001112 100% Federal Funding AMEND 1? To Provide a Time Extension Only
for the Jefferson/Chalmers Neighborhood Design and Implementation
Plan Project. Contractor: Architecture and Landscape Architecture,
LLC Location: 374 Fulton St., 3rd Floor, Brooklyn, NY, 11201 
Contract Period: Upon City Council Approval through June 30, 2019 
Total Contract Amount: $382,826.00. PLANNING AND
DEVELOPMENT

Respectfully submitted,

Boysie Jackson, Chief Procurement Of?cer
Of?ce of Contracting and Procurement

BY COUNCIL MEMBER TATE

RESOLVED, that Contract No. 6001112 referred to in the foregoing communication
dated February 12, 2019, be hereby and is approved.

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, SUITE 500
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226-3437
PHONE 313?224-4550

CITY OF DETROIT 313-224-5505
LAW DEPARTMENT 

   

 

ME 0 RA 
DATE: February 7, 2019

TO: Honorable City Council [if

FROM: Lawrence Garcia, Corporation Counsel
Ericka Savage Whitley, Assistant Corporation Counsel
City of Detroit Law Department

RE: Proposed Amendments to the Community Benefits Ordinance

 

The Legislative Policy Division (LPD) has compiled a spreadsheet of proposed
amendments to the Community Bene?ts Ordinance (CBO), listed by Council Member. A
legislative staff work group was formed and met to analyze the proposed amendments. LPD has
updated the spreadsheet with the work group?s recommendations. City Council, through Council
Member Benson, has requested the Law Department provide a legal opinion on the proposed
amendments in conjunction with the recommendations made by the legislative work group. The
Law Department is responding to the proposed amendments by line item, as set forth in the
spreadsheet provided by LPD.

Background

The Community Bene?ts Ordinance is an initiative proposed by City Council
and approved by the voters of the City of Detroit in 2016. It applies to Tier 1 projects that:

Involve the investment of $75 million or more in value; and
. Receive $1 million or more in property tax abatements; or
0 Receive $1 million or more in value of city land sale or transfer.

It mandates the following:
Community Engagement Process for Public Meeting. Section 
0 requires at least one public meeting;
0 requires notice to Impact Area residents;
0 requires the Flaming Director to present the project;
0 requires City Council to appoint a liaison from 
0 does not specify that the NAC or Developer be present;

I does not specify how additional meetings are to be approved.
Neighborhood Advisory Council Section 
Engagement with Developer. Section 

53?13 


. 1-: ..-







 

I requires the Planning Director to facilitate at least one meeting between the NAC and the
Developer to allow the NAC to learn more details about the project and to provide an
opportunity for the NAC to make Developer aware of concerns raised by the NAC.

Community Bene?ts Report Section 14-12-3 
Development Agreement. Section 
Enforcement. Section 

ANALYSIS

The following line items relate to whether existing CBO provisions should be amended and/or new
provisions be added. ?Line Item? is the current CBO provision, ?Proposed Amendments? and
?Action? re?ect text copied directly from the spreadsheet prepared by LPD and inserted into this
document for ease of reference. The ?Opinion? section was prepared by the Law Department.

 

 

Line Item 1. Sec. 14?12-1. Purpose; Title - This article shall be known as the "Detroit
Community Bene?ts Ordinance.

 

Proposed Amendments:

I Change the title to Community Engagement Ordinance (LPD)

I Change the title to Community Engagement Ordinance (Shef?eld)
I Leave the title as Community Bene?ts Ordinance (McCalister)

I Leave the title as Community Bene?ts Ordinance (Lopez)

I Leave the title as Community Bene?ts Ordinance (Ayers)

I Leave the title as Community Bene?ts Ordinance (Benson)

I Leave the title as Community Bene?ts Ordinance (Spivey)

I Leave the title as Community Bene?ts Ordinance (Tate)

Action: The work group has withdrawn this line item from consideration, therefore a legal opinion
is not necessary.

 

 

Line Item 2. Sec. 14-12-2. De?nitions Tier 1 Development Project means a development project
in the City that is expected to incur the investment of Seventy-?ve Million Dollars ($75,000,000)
or more during the construction of facilities, or to begin or expand operations or renovate
structures, where the developer of the project is negotiating public support for investment in one
or both of the following 

 

Proposed Amendment:
I ?That the investment threshold under Section 14-12-2 as de?ned for a ?Tier 1? Development
Project be lowered from $75,000,000 to $50,000,0000.? (Shef?eld, McCalister, Jones,

Castaneda-Lopez)

Action: Per LPD, ?the work group recommended that the threshold amount for a Tier 1
Development be lowered from $75 Million to $50 Million based on the average investment amount

 

 

 

from 2013 to the Present. The $50 Million Threshold would result in approximately 10% of the
developments being subject to the CBO process.?

Opinion: Lowering the investment threshold is a matter of public policy and does not have any
direct legal implications. If the threshold is lowered, it is advisable to 1) determine the number of
projects that would qualify under the new threshold, 2) evaluate the feasibility of administering an
increased number of NACs in the future, and 3) consider the probable impact that an expansion of
the CBO would have on development activity.

 

 

Line Item 3. Sec. 14-12-2. De?nitions - Enforcement Committee means a committee led by the
City's Corporation Counsel and composed of representatives from the Planning and Development
Department, Law Department, Human Rights Department, and other relevant City departments as
determined by the Planning Director.

 

Proposed Amendments:

- Amend by adding: "The chair of each Neighborhood Advisory Committee shall be an ex-
of?cio member of the related Enforcement Committee." (Ayers)

Amend Sec. 14-12-2 by striking ?Human Rights Department" and inserting "Department of
Civil Rights, Inclusion and Opportunity." (Benson)

Action: The work group has recommended to adopt the proposed amendments.

Opinion: The amendment proposed by CM Benson is a matter of policy and does not have any
direct legal implications.

Law advises against the amendment proposed by CM Ayers because appointing the chair of a
NAC to the Enforcement Committee creates a con?ict of interest. Under Section 
the NAC is responsible for reviewing any allegations of violations of the Community Bene?ts
Provision provided to it by the community, and then reporting violations to the Enforcement
Committee for action. ?Upon receipt of written noti?cation of allegations of violation from the
MC, the Enforcement Committee sh_al_1 investigate such allegations and present their written
?ndings to the NAC. . Section (Emphasis added).

The Enforcement Committee is required to investigate the allegations and provide a written
report. It poses a con?ict for a NAC Member to also participate in the investigation. Even as an
ex-of?cio member of the Enforcement Committee, the NAC Member would be able to participate
in discussions that may include particular actions of the NAC.

 

 

Line Item 4. Sec. 14-12-2. De?nitions - Tier 2 Development Project means a development project
in the City that does not qualify as a Tier 1 Project and is expected to incur the investment of Three
Million Dollars ($3,000,000) or more, during the construction of facilities, or to begin or expand
operations or renovate structures, where the Developer is negotiating public support for investment
in one or both of the following forms:

 

 

 

(1) Land transfers that have a cumulative market value of Three Hundred Thousand Dollars
($300,000) or more (as determined by the City Assessor or independent appraisal), without open
bidding and priced below market rates; or

(2) Tax abatements that abate more than Three Hundred Thousand Dollars ($300,000) of City
taxes over the term of the abatement that inure directly to the Developer, but not including
Neighborhood Enterprise Zone tax abatements.

 

 

Proposed Amendments:

That Sec. 14-12-2 De?nitions be revised to read as follows: ?Tier 2 Development Project
means a development project in the City of Detroit that does not qualify as a Tier 1 Project and
is expected to incur the investment of Three Hundred Thousand ($300,000) dollars or more
during the construction of facilities, or to begin or expanding operations or renovate structures,
where the developer is negotiating public support for investment for investment in one or both
of the following:

(1) Land transfers that have a cumulative market value of Thirty Thousand Dollars ($30,000)
or more. . ..

(2) Tax abatements that abate more than Thirty Thousand Dollars ($30,000) of City of Detroit
Taxes over the term of the abatement that incur directly to the Developer, but not including
Neighborhood Enterprising Zone Tax abatements.? (McCalister)

?The tiers required for CBO participation should be lowered to projects with $300,000 of
public investment for Tier 2 Projects.? (Jones)

Action: Per LPD, ?the McCalister/J ones amendment to lower the Tier 2 threshold from $3 Million
to $300,000 was recommended for approval by the working group in a 5-4 vote.?

Opinion: Lowering the investment threshold is a matter of public policy and does not have any
direct legal implication. If the threshold is lowered, it is advisable to: 1) determine the number of
projects that would have quali?ed under the new threshold since the CBO was adopted, and 2)
consider the cost/bene?t analysis for investors to participate in the CBO process with a land
transfer or tax abatement valued at $30,000, and 3) consider the probable impact that an expansion
of the CBO would have on development activity.

 

Line Item 5. No current language to be amended. Proposes to add a new provision.

Proposed Amendment:
0 CBO report should document the ?nal results of the CBO process, which should be the

creation of a legally binding community bene?ts agreement signed by the developer and the
NAC. The CEO process should not be permitted to close until a community bene?ts agreement
is created through authentic negotiation between community members and developers which
includes speci?c and tangible bene?ts advocated for by the community.? (Jones)

 

 

Action: The work group has pinned this line item.

Opinion: The Law Department advises against the proposed amendment for multiple reasons.
First, creating a legally binding Community Bene?ts Agreement between the developer and the
NAC is expressly prohibited under the CBO. Section states that, ?the Developer
shall n_ot_ be required to enter into a legally binding agreement with any individual or organization
other than the City for the express purpose of ful?lling the requirements of this ordinance or other
City-mandated community engagement processes.? (Emphasis added).

Second, the NAC is not a legal entity authorized to enter agreements on behalf of the City. A NAC
is appointed on a project-to-project basis and maintains an advisory role to City Council by
engaging with the Developer and participating in the enforcement process. Nothing grants a NAC
the authority to act upon any recommendations to effectuate or formulate public policy. Only City
Council can approve Development Agreements on behalf of the City of Detroit. The CBO requires
that City Council receive a Community Bene?ts Report from the Planning Director with the issues
raised by the NAC for the project. The Planning Director is charged with developing methods to
address concerns, while recognizing that the concerns may not always be addressed. The
only mandate related to the CEO is that the Flaming Director must respond to the concerns.
The CBC does not empower the NAC to act independently with the Developer or implement
methods to address concerns. See Davis v. City of Detroit in. Review Team, 296 Mich App 568,
821 896 (2012) for a full analysis on how advisory boards are not ?decision? making
bodies.

Authorizing the NAC to enter into legally binding agreements on behalf of the City would create
a vast number of policy concerns susceptible to legal scrutiny. Please read the following excerpt
from a 2014 memorandum that Corporation Counsel (Melvin Butch Hollowell) provided to the
Flaming and Economic Development Committee regarding Community Bene?ts Agreements:

There has been extensive litigation surrounding CBAs, presently in
New York City and Sacramento) including lawsuits by negotiations with
the developer, with one of the legal theories being that one representative
of the community cannot bind another, or is in some way not truly
representative of the community, lawsuits by the developers for illegal
extractions and against developers for breach, and against the municipality
as a named defendant in almost every instance.

Other litigation pivots on accountability. Complaints have been ?led in
state and federal court regarding con?ict of interest, e. - how is the Host
Community de?ned and selected (neighborhoods often have multiple
census tracts); is there an election, and what are the rules; what is the
accountability of the Host Communities to the voters of the whole district
and the whole city; what is the liability of the city if the Host Community
negotiates a provision for the CBA which violates the charter, ordinance,
or state or federal law.

 

Further, to be valid, the CBA must be able to satisfy the ?consideration?
element required for all legally enforceable contracts. This becomes a
signi?cant legal hurdle as it is the city, not the Host Community that
provides the promise. A host community or member thereof has been held
to have no standing unless expressly granted that right by statute or
legislation. Branch v. Riverside Park, NY 2010); Alicea NYC (1988).

Then there is also the question of who drafts the legal documents for the
Host Community which the City is bound to enforce? How are they
compensated? If they are sued for malpractice or breach, is the city bound
to provide and pay for malpractice or breach, is the city bound to provide
and pay for the costs legal fees? Again, we assume a Plaintiff? lawyer will
name the Host Community and the City as well. Is the city contemplating
extending government immunity to the Host Community? Who pays the
cost of litigation when a Host Community member is individually sued for
a CBA provision negotiated when said provision is contained in a city
development agreement?

Requiring a developer to provide unrelated bene?ts in exchange for Host
Community Approval was ruled illegal by the US Supreme Court in
Nollan v. California Coastal Commission, 483 US. 825 (1987)

(Emphasis added.)

Third, the Community Bene?ts Provision is already legally binding because it is incorporated
into the Development Agreement. See Section The CBP is de?ned as ?the
agreement made by and between the Flaming Director and the Developer which speci?cally
addresses the issues raised by the See Section 14-13-2. The Planning Director is charged
with addressing the concerns in the CBP. City Council, as the deliberative body
authorized to approve development agreements on behalf the City, has the discretion to decide
whether the CBP is sufficient or if negotiations should continue. Additionally, Section 14-13-
states that ?City Council by a 2/3 vote of members present. . .may facilitate additional
meetings which the Developer, or the Developer?s designee, shall participate in as directed.?
Therefore, under the current law, City Council may facilitate as many meetings as necessary to
ensure that tangible community bene?ts are negotiated.

Lastly, the current CBO already includes enforcement mechanisms to uphold the terms of the
Community Bene?ts Report. So, in addition to being impermissible for reasons previously stated,
contractual agreements between NACs and Developers are not necessary for enforcement
purposes.

 

 

Line Item 6. Sec. 14-12-3. Tier 1 Projects. Prior to submitting to City Council a request for
approval of Land transfers or Tax abatements related to a Tier 1 Project, the Planning Director
shall hold at least one public meeting in the Impact Area as de?ned in this Section.

 

 

 

Proposed Amendments:

0 ?Section be revised to state that the number of required community meetings be
changed to ?no fewer than ?ve (5), unless a majority of the NAC deems otherwise.? (LPD)

0 ?Section be revised to state that the number of required community meetings be
changed to ?no fewer than ?ve (5), unless a majority of the NAC deems otherwise.?
(Shef?eld)

- ?The NAC should have ?no fewer than six (6) community meetings, unless a majority of the
NAC deems otherwise?? (Jones)

Action: The work group has recommended that ?Section be revised to state that the
number of required community meetings be changed to ?no fewer than ?ve (5), unless a majority
of the NAC deems otherwise.?

Opinion: The Law Department has no opinion as to the substance of the proposed amendments,
as it is a policy decision. However, the proposed amendments appear to intermingle different
provisions of the CBO, particularly Section and Section 

Section does not require that the NAC participate, or be appointed, prior to the
Community Engagement meeting. Therefore, the language ?unless a majority of the NAC deems
otherwise? is not a valid amendment unless the CBO is also amended to require: 1) that the NAC
be appointed prior to the Community Engagement Meeting, and 2) that the NAC facilitates the
Community Engagement meeting, instead of the Planning Director.

Increasing the number of Community Engagement Meetings under does not have
legal implications, as the number of required meetings is a policy decision. If the number of
required meetings is increased, Law?s recommendation would be to: 1) determine the various costs
and staff time associated with providing notice to residents of the Impact Area prior to each public
meeting, 2) evaluate the feasibility of administering an increased number of Community
Engagement Meetings, and 3) consider the probable impact that increased community meetings
would have on development activity if there are delays in scheduling meetings.

 

 

Line Item 7. Sec. - Engagement with Developer. At the public meeting, the
Plaming Director will present general information about the Tier 1 Project, discuss ways in which
the Tier 1 Project is anticipated to impact the local community, and ways in which the Developer
and the Flaming Director plan to address or mitigate these impacts.

 

Proposed Amendment:

I- ?In Section 14-12-3 strike and replace with, ?At the initial public meeting (Meeting 
the Plaming Director will present in detail on the CBO process, how the NAC ?ts within that
broader process, the responsibilities of the NAC and the proposed timeline for the NAC
meetings. The Plaming Department shall discuss previous NACs and share outcomes and best
practices learned from them. The meeting/workshop, shall allow for the community to ask
questions and learn about the upcoming CBO process. The Developer shall not be present at
this ?rst meeting.? (Castaneda-Lopez)

 

 

Action: The work group has recommended amending Section 14-12-3 to add language, ?At
the initial public meeting (Meeting the Flaming Director will present in detail on the CBO
process, how the NAC ?ts within that broader process, the responsibilities of the NAC and the
proposed timeline for the NAC meetings. The Plaming Department shall discuss previous NACS
and share outcomes and best practices learned from them. The meeting/workshop, shall allow for
the community to ask questions and learn about the upcoming CBO process. The Developer shall
not be present at this ?rst meeting.?

Opinion: The Law Department advises against excluding participants from the community
engagement process because it is a public meeting. Section 14-12-3 requires the City Clerk
to mail notice ?to all City of Detroit residents within three hundred radial feet of the Tier 1 Project.?
Additionally, Section requires the Plaming Director to work with City Council to
?ensure that local residents, businesses, and those expected to be directly
impacted by the Tier 1 project are informed of the public meeting.? Therefore, the spirit of the
Community Engagement Meeting is to include anyone impacted by the project, which may include
the Developer. In some instances the Developer, or an agent of the Developer, may reside in the
Impact Area and would be required to receive public notice.

Secondly, the NAC should propose the timeline for NAC meetings, not the Plaming Director. At
the time of the initial public meeting, the NAC may not be nominated or formed. The Law
Department advises that the Plaming Director solicit nominations to the NAC during the
Community Engagement Meeting(s).

Lastly, the proposed amendment assumes that there will be additional public meetings under
Section 14-12-3(a) for any given Tier 1 project. Currently the CBO only requires ?at least one?
public meeting.

Law Proposed Amendments:

0 At the initial public meeting, the Plaming Director will present the CBO process in detail and
how the NAC ?ts within that broader process. The meeting shall allow for the community to
ask questions and learn about the upcoming CBO process.

- At the initial public meeting or any subsequent public meeting, but prior to accepting
nominations for NAC Members, the Planning Department shall discuss the responsibilities of
the NAC, as well as previous outcomes and best practices learned from NACS.

 

 

Line Item 8. Sec. - Engagement with Developer. (1) In addition to the meeting
required in Subsection of this section, the Planning Director shall facilitate at least one
meeting between the NAC and the Developer to allow the NAC to learn more details about the
project and to provide an opportunity for the NAC to make Deve10per aware of concerns raised by
the NAC. (2) City Council by a 2/3 vote of members present or the Planning Director may facilitate
additional meetings which the Developer, or the Developer?s designee, shall participate in as
directed. (3) As part of community engagement the developer, or their designee, shall be required
to meet as directed.

 

 

 

Proposed Amendments:

Section 14-12-3(c) be revised to read as follows: ?At the ?rst meeting of the NAC, the
developer shall provide an overview of the community engagement process, and the details of
the proposed development. At the second meeting of the NAC, any proposed NAC Member(s)
nominated by residents shall be permitted to present their ideas and suggestions regarding the
community engagement process and the proposed development, before the members of the
NAC are elected.? (LPD)

Section 14-12-3 be revised to read as follows: ?At the ?rst meeting of the NAC, the
developer shall provide an overview of the community engagement process, and the details of
the proposed development. At the second meeting of the NAC, any proposed NAC Member(s)
nominated by residents shall be permitted to present their ideas and suggestions regarding the
community engagement process and the proposed development, before the members of the
NAC are elected.? (Shef?eld)

?During the ?rst meeting those that are interested in being NAC members should be identi?ed
and during the second meeting, those interested in being NAC members must come formally
prepared to state their interest in the NAC.

3(a) Residents who have competing af?liations or interests that may result in the perception or
the reality of an increased risk of bias or poor judgment in upholding the NAC Member
responsibility to prioritize the interests of community residents over the interests of city
of?cials and developers, should be restricted from serving on the NAC. This may include
current or past employment af?liated with the developer or the city. Residents who have
af?liations with entities that create competing responsibilities or threaten to jeopardize the
NAC Member responsibility to prioritize the interest of community residents over the interest
of city of?cials and developers, should also be restricted from serving on the (Jones)

Action: Per LPD, ?the work group has recommended to not move forward with this proposed
amendment because it is addressed by line item 6 to Section 

 

 

Line Item 9. Sec. - The Planning Director will accept nominations to the NAC
from any person that resides in the Impact Area.

 

Proposed Amendments: None. The spreadsheet has strikethrough language.

 

 

Line Item 10. Sec. - The NAC shall consist of nine members, selected as follows:
Two Members selected by residents of the Impact Area chosen from the resident nominated
candidates; Four Members selected by the Planning Director from the resident nominated
candidates, with preference given to individuals the Flaming Director expects to be directly
impacted by the Tier 1 Project; One Member selected by the Council Member in whose district
contains the largest portion of the Impact Area from the resident nominated candidates; and 
One Member selected by the At?Large Council Members from the resident nominated candidates.

 

 

 

 

Proposed Amendments:

- The NAC should be appointed by their community within their census track and not by
the city.? (Jones)

- The NAC should be appointed by their community within their census track and not by
the city.? (Castaneda-Lopez)

- ?That three members should be selected by the respective Council members, two At-
Large, one by the district Council member; three by the host community; three by the
administration, via the Plaming and Development Department.? (Tate)

Action: Per LPD, ?the work group has recommended to adopt the Tate amendment that the NAC
be selected by the Community, Council and the administration proportionately.?

Opinion: Amending how the NAC is selected is more a matter of public policy with no apparent
legal implications. All three of the proposed amendments reduce the Planning Director?s role in
the selection process. The amendments proposed by President Jones and CM Castaneda-Lopez
eliminate the City Council and Plaming Director from selecting NAC Members. The amendment
proposed by CM Tate increases the number of selections by the residents of the Impact Area from
two to three, and reduces the Plaming Director?s selection by one.

If adopted, the proposed amendments should use language consistent with the current provisions
in the CBO. The language ?three by the host community? should be replaced with ?three by
residents of the Impact Area.? And the language ?within their census track? should be replaced
with ?within the Impact Area.?

 

Line Item 10.5. No current language to be amended. Proposes to add a new provision.

 

Proposed Amendment:
- ?Should Council have the ?exibility to select NAC Members from outside of the list of
nominees?? (Jones)

Action: Per LPD, the work group recommends to adopt an amendment from CM Benson ?to allow
the administration in addition to Council to select NAC members from outside of the list of
nominees by a vote of 

Opinion: NAC Members are selected from a list of nominees within the Impact Area.
However, Section states that ?if the Plaming Director receives less than nine
nominations, the Plaming Director may seek out additional nominations from individuals that
live outside the Impact Area but within the City Council district or districts where the Tier 1
Project is located.? If the intent is to allow the City Council Member whose district contains
most of the project to also select a NAC Member from outside of the Impact Area, then that is a
policy decision that does not have any direct legal implications. However, it is advisable to be
speci?c and identify how selections may be made outside of the Impact Area even if nine or
more nominations are received. It also advisable to be speci?c and identify the priority for
selecting nominees outside of the Impact Area, in the event only one selection is available.

10

 

 

 

Line Item 11. No current language to be amended. Proposes to add a new provision.

 

Proposed Amendment:

0 ?There should be one alternate selected by the community. The person with the third highest
votes from the community should be listed as the alternate person. This person must agree to
be present at all meetings and will be noti?ed by the Planning Department when they are
needed to formally replace a NAC member.? (Jones)

Action: The work group recommends adopting this proposed amendment.

Opinion: Adding an alternate NAC Member is a matter of public policy and does not have any
direct legal implications. Section states that two Members of the NAC shall be
selected by residents of the Impact Area. Therefore, a third resident may be selected as an
alternate. However, the language ?with the third highest votes from the community? should be
amended to language consistent with the language in the CEO, ?from the Impact Area.?

The proposed amendment says an alternate ?should? be selected, indicating some discretion by the
residents of the Impact Area not to select an alternate.

If adopted, the proposed amendment should be less restrictive to allow a person ?with the next
highest votes who is able and willing to serve,? to serve as the alternate, in the event that the third
highest vote getter is not available.

Finally, if adopted, the proposed amendment to ?formally replace a NAC Member? should specify
whether the alternate replaces a NAC Member on a permanent basis, or on a case-by-case basis,
at the discretion of the NAC.

Law Proposed Amendment: The residents of the Impact Area may select a third person from
the resident nominated candidates to serve as an alternate NAC Member. The alternate should be
the person with the next highest votes who is able and willing to serve. The alternate must agree
to be present at all NAC meetings and will be noti?ed by the Planning Director when he or she is
needed to replace a NAC Member.

 

 

Line Item 12. Sec. l4-12-3(c - In addition to the meeting required in Subsection of this
section, the Flaming Director shall facilitate at least one meeting between the NAC and the
Developer to allow the NAC to learn more details about the project and to provide an opportunity
for the NAC to make Developer aware of concerns raised by the NAC.

 

Proposed Amendment:

0 Add the following at the end of Section ?The Developer must present to the
members of the NAC, at a minimum, how the proposed project will utilize green infrastructure,
create jobs for Detroiters, detail which tax incentives they are seeking with speci?c amounts,
and to what extent the project will feature housing and/or
commercial space.? (Castaneda-Lopez)

11

 

 

Action: Per LPD, the work group recommended to adopt the following by a 6-3 vote: ?The
Developer and the relevant city departments must present to the members of the NAC, at a
minimum, how the proposed project may utilize green infrastructure, create jobs for Detroiters,
detail which tax incentives they are seeking with speci?c amounts, and to what extent the project
will feature housing and/or commercial space. These
recommendations may include but are not limited to noise, traf?c, dust mitigation.?

Opinion: To the extent that the proposed amendment would require the Developer to provide
additional information to the NAC, and not necessarily to commit to any substantive community
bene?ts, then the proposed amendment is a matter of policy and does not have any direct legal
implications. The proposed amendment should not, however, be construed as requiring the
Developer to provide any speci?c community bene?ts without some guarantee ofsome nexus and
rough proportionality between such community bene?ts and the impacts of the Tier 1 project on
the community.

 

 

Line Item 13. Sec. - All residents over the age of 18 that reside in the Impact Area
are eligible for nomination.

 

Proposed Amendment:
?In Section which pertains to eligibility for serving on the NAC, strike ?18? and
replace with 6. (Castaneda-Lopez)

Action: The work group has recommended not to move forward with this proposed amendment.

 

 

Line Item 14. Sec. - All residents over the age of 18 that reside in the Impact Area
are eligible for nomination.

 

Proposed Amendment:

0 ?In Section add ?Any person who stands to receive a pecuniary bene?t from the
development or is otherwise employed by the Developer is ineligible to serve on the 
(Castaneda-Lopez)

Action: Per LPD, the work group has recommended to approve the following by a 9-0 vote, "any
person who is an agent, employee, or of?cial of the developer must disclose their relationship prior

to selection to the 

Opinion: Requiring NAC nominees to disclose any relationship to the Developer is a policy
decision. However, it is advisable to clarify whether being an agent, employee or of?cial of the
Developer automatically disquali?es a nominee from being selected.

Second, a NAC Member is a City appointee and would be subject to the City?s ethical standards
absent amendments to the CBO. Section 2?106.1 through 2-1065 of the 2012 Detroit City Charter
applies Ethical Standards of Conduct to all ?Public Servants including the Mayor, City Council
Members, City Clerk, appointive of?cers, appointees, employees and contractors.? Law

12

 

 

 

recommends providing each NAC Member with a copy of the City?s Ethical Standards of Conduct
when selected and/0r during the nomination process.

 

 

Line Item 15. Sec. 14-12-3 - If the Flaming Director receives less than nine nominations,
the Planning Director may seek out additional nominations from individuals that live outside the
Impact Area but within the City Council district or districts where the Tier 1 Project is located.

 

Proposed Amendment:

0 ?That Sec. 14-12-3 Neighborhood Advisory Council (4) be amended so that if the NAC
receives less than nine nominations, the City Council Member of the Impact Area may seek
out individuals that live outside the Impact Area but within the City Council District or
Districts where the Tier 1 Project is located.? (McCalister)

Action: The work group has recommended to adopt the proposed amendment by a vote of 9-0.

Opinion: This proposed amendment clari?es Line Item 10 by stating that less than 9 nominations
have to be received for City Council to select an individual outside of the Impact Area. Amending
how the NAC is selected is a policy decision, however the Law Department advises against the
proposed amendment, because currently, the CBO designates the Planning Director to accept
nominations from any person that resides in the Impact Area. The proposed amendment Shifts
responsibility from the Flaming Director to seek additional nominations to ?the Council Member
of the Impact Area,? but more than one City Council Member may represent the Impact Area. If
adopted, the language should be consistent with Section which states that the
Council Member ?whose district contains the largest portion of the Impact Area? may select a
NAC Member. The proposed amendment also does not consider at-large Council Members, who
may each select one NAC Member from the Impact Area.

Law Proposed Amendment: If the Planning Director receives less than nine nominations, the
Planning Director may seek out additional nominations from individuals that live outside the
Impact Area but within the City Council district or districts where the Tier 1 Project is located, in
coordination with Council Members who represent any portion of the Impact Area.

 

 

Line Item 16: Sec. - All actions of the NAC may be taken with the consent of a
majority of NAC members serving.

 

Proposed Amendments:

I ?That language be added to subsection stating: ?Attendance at all NAC meetings
by all elected and appointed NAC Members shall be mandatory. If a Member fails to attend
an NAC meeting, an alternative may be appointed by the NAC as a permanent replacement
member. (LPD)

I- ?That language be added to subsection stating: ?Attendance at all NAC meetings
by all elected and appointed NAC Members shall be mandatory. If a member fails to attend
an NAC meeting, an alternative may be appointed by the NAC as a permanent replacement
member.? (Shef?eld)

13

 

 

 

I ?That Section be revised to state that ?elected and appointed NAC members must
attend at least 75% of the scheduled meetings.? (McCalister)

- ?It is recommended that a NAC member not be absent for more than ?one? meeting. Additional
absences could disqualify one from further being a NAC member.? (Jones)

Action: The work group has recommended the following amendment, "Attendance at all NAC
meetings by all elected and appointed NAC members shall be mandatory, unless advance notice
is provided. More than one (1) absence could disqualify one from further being a NAC member.
If a member fails to attend an NAC meeting, an alternate may be appointed by the NAC as a
permanent replacement member, at the discretion of the 

Opinion: The proposed amendments to adopt attendance requirements are a matter of public
policy and do not have any direct legal implications.

The CBO does not currently regulate selecting an alternate. The proposed amendments by LPD,
President Pro Tem Shef?eld, and President Jones con?ict with Line Item 11, which proposes that
the alternate be the third highest vote getter from the nominated residents of the Impact Area and
noti?ed by the Flaming Director. This line item appoints an alternate at the discretion of the NAC.

The terms ?appointed? and ?elected? do not correspond with the current language of the CBO.
Section The term ?selected? should be used for consistency, unless the CBO is
amended to require that NAC Members are elected. The only reference to the term ?appoint? in
the CBO is in and states that City Council shall appoint a liaison from the Legislative
Policy Division to monitor the Community Engagement process and provide updates to the City
Council.

Law Proposed Amendment: NAC Members shall attend all NAC meetings, unless advance
notice is provided. If a NAC Member fails to attend more than one (1) meeting, an alternate may
be appointed as a permanent replacement, at the discretion of the 

 

 

Line Item 17. Sec. - City Council by a 2/3 vote of members present or the Flaming
Director may facilitate additional meetings which the Developer, or the Developer?s designee,
shall participate in as directed.

 

Proposed Amendment:

I ?That all essential documents to be provided and/or emailed to the NAC Members, District
and At-Large City Council members within 48 hrs. of the NAC selection. This will provide
the NAC greater transparency with adequate time for review. (Example of Relevant
Documents: Detroit Community Bene?ts Ordinance, development agreements between the
city and developer, details of project ?nancing/ project proforma, developer's RFP response,
all renderings related to the project, But/For Economic Analysis conducted by DEGC, all
environmental studies, documents related to brown?eld funding, etc.)? (Jones)

14

 

 

Action: The work group has recommended that the following amendment be adopted, ?The City
and the DEGC shall provide all essential documents to the NAC Members, District and At-Large
City Council members within 72 hrs. of the NAC selection including but not limited to the Detroit
Community Bene?ts Ordinance, development agreements between the city and developer,
projected revenue, developer's RFP response, all renderings related to the project, But/For
Economic Analysis conducted by DEGC, all environmental studies, documents related to
brown?eld funding, etc.?

Opinion: This proposed amendment would require certain document disclosures within 72 hours
of a NAC being selected, which is a matter of public policy that does not have any direct legal
implications to the extent that the documentation is available and rationally related to the
development project. It is not advisable to use ?the City shall provide? because the function of the
NAC and City Council is to act on behalf of the City. The Planning Director administers most of
responsibility under the CBO, therefore the language should specify who bears particular
responsibilities (Planning Director, DEGC, etc. . .), while understanding that some documentation
may come from the Planning Director and other documentation may come from DEGC.

Law Proposed Amendment: Within 72 hours of the NAC being selected, the Planning Director
and Detroit Economic Growth Corporation shall 

 

Line Item 18. No current language to be amended. Proposes to add a new provision.

 

Proposed Amendments:

0 That a new section be added, 14-12-3(7) that should read: ?If the proposed development
includes residential housing, then at least 20% of the units for a single site shall be
designated as affordable housing, de?ned as affordable by those earning at least 80% of Area
Median Income.? (LPD)

0 That a new section be added, l4-12-3(7) that should read: ?If the proposed development
includes residential housing, then at least 20% of the units for a single site shall be
designated as affordable housing, de?ned as affordable by those earning at least 80% of Area
Median Income.? (Shef?eld)

I ?Support Council President Pro Tem Shef?eld?s proposed amendment to add a Section 14-
12-3(7) which ends with ?de?ned as affordable by those earning at least 80% of Area Median
Income? and offer a friendly amendment to replace ?at least? with ?no more than.m
(Castaneda-Lopez)

Action: Per LPD, ?this item was pinned for a legal opinion on the Shef?eld recommendation. A
friendly amendment was accepted by Shef?eld's staff from RCL's staff that language be added to
the end of this section which reads: . . .for the period of the abatement.?

Opinion: The proposed amendments are improper for multiple reasons. First, as noted previously,

the NAC maintains an advisory role to City Council by engaging with the Developer and
participating in the enforcement process. Nothing grants the NAC the authority to act upon any

15

 

recommendations to effectuate or formulate public policy. Only City Council can approve
Development Agreements on behalf of the City of Detroit.

Second, the City is prohibited by state law from imposing rent control. Public Act 226 of 1988
limits the powers of the City to control the amount of rent charged for leasing private residential
property. Public Act 585 of 201 8, effective on March 28, 2019, speci?es that the City may
implement ?voluntary incentives? to increase the supply of moderate- or low-cost private
residential property available for lease. As such, the proposed language ?shall be designated as
affordable housing? is not advised. Under PA 585, the City would have to create a plan or
program that incentivizes voluntary participation, and not tie?bar affordable housing to the CBO
process. Arguably, the CBO would not qualify as a voluntary incentive because the developer
has no ability to opt out of the process if the project quali?es as Tier 1. See Section 14?12-
part of community engagement the developer, or their designee, shall be required
to meet as directed.? The CEO complies with state law by stating in Section that
?the Developer may voluntarily enter into any contract or agreement related to the Tier 1 Project
that does not pose a con?ict of interest with the City.?

Third, the proposed amendments do not differentiate between residential housing and leased
residential housing. PA 585 and the City?s Inclusionary Housing Ordinance (Detroit Municipal
Code Section 14-2?1 et. seq.) only apply to housing units for lease. A requirement that the City
Developers designate affordable housing for sale to people earning less than 80% Area Median
Income would be constitutionally suspect.

 

Line Item 19. No current language to be amended. Proposes to add a new provision.

Proposed Amendments:

0 That a new section be added, that should read: ?The Flaming and
Development Department shall create and maintain a page on the City?s web site detailing
the speci?cs of the development, along with a projected timeline, for each development
project subject to this article. The webpage shall also contain the contact information for the
PDD project manager and general contact information for the developer.? (LPD)

- That a new section be added, that should read: ?The Flaming and
Development Department shall create and maintain a page on the City?s web site detailing
the speci?cs of the development, along with a projected timeline, for each development
project subject to this article. The webpage shall also contain the contact information for the
PDD project manager and general contact information for the developer.? (Shef?eld)

Action: Per LPD, ?the work group has recommended not to move forward with the proposed
amendments because Planning and Development already maintains a page for each development.?

 

 

Line Item 20. - The City Clerk shall forward notice of the public meeting Via
First Class Mail no less than 10 days before such meeting to all City of Detroit residents within
three hundred radial feet of the Tier 1 Project.

 

16

 

 

Proposed Amendment:
I "The City Clerk shall forward notice of the public meeting via First Class Mail no less than
10 days before such meeting to all City of Detroit residents within three hundred radial feet

of the TieH?Prej-eet Impact Area.? (Jones)

Action: The work group has recommended to adopt the proposed amendment.

Opinion: Amending notice requirements of the public meeting is a policy decision and does not
have any direct legal implications. Section 14-12-2 of the CBO de?nes the Impact Area as ?an
area determined by the Planning Director that includes all census tracts or census block groups in
which the Tier 1 Project is located, and any other areas as determined by the Planning Director.?
The proposed amendment allows greater ?exibility for public notice requirements because the
Planning Director has discretion to determine the size of the Impact Area. Currently, the CBO
requires that public notice be mailed to Detroit residents within 300 hundred radial feet of the


 

Line Item 21. Not applicable. Per LPD, this line item has been withdrawn.

 

 

 

Line Item 22. Sec. The Community Bene?ts Report shall contain: A detailed
account of how notice was provided to organize the public meeting. A list of the NAC
members, and how they were selected. An itemized list of the concerns raised by the NAC.
A method for addressing each of the concerns raised by the NAC, or why a particular concern
will not be addressed.

 

Proposed Amendment:
I Per LPD, this line item has been withdrawn and ?it has been recommended that a ?best
practices manual? be created and this language be incorporated into the manual.?

 

 

Line Item 23. Sec. 14-14-3(e - All development agreements made between the Developer
and the City related to the land transfers or tax abatements associated with a Tier 1 Project shall
include the Community Bene?ts Provision, which shall include:

 

Proposed Amendment: The work group has recommended not to move forward with this
proposed amendment.

 

 

Line Item 24. Enforcement mechanisms for failure to adhere to
Community Bene?ts Provision, that may include but are not limited to, clawback of City?
provided bene?ts, revocation of land transfers or land sales, debarment provisions and
proportionate penalties and fees; and

 

Proposed Amendment:
0 That section be amended to state ?shall" instead of "may." (Spivey)

Action: The work group has recommended to adopt the proposed amendment.

17

 

 

 

 

Opinion: The proposed amendment creates a stricter requirement that enforcement mechanisms

for failure to adhere to the Community Bene?ts Provision be mandatory. The CBO currently

lists the mechanisms that ?may? be used to enforce, which is a policy decision. However, there

may be legal implications if the proposed language is interpreted that each of the listed
enforcement mechanisms be imposed for every violation of the CBP. It is advisable to require
that at least one enforcement mechanism be imposed when the CBP is violated.

Law Proposed Amendment: Enforcement mechanisms for failure to adhere to Community
Bene?ts Provision shall include, but not limited to, one or more of the following: clawback of
City-provided bene?ts, revocation of land transfers or land sales, debarment provisions and
proportionate penalties and fees; and

 

lime Item 25. No current language to be amended. Proposes to add a new provision.

 

Proposed Amendment:

0 Section l4-12-3(c) be revised to read as follows: ?At the ?rst meeting of the NAC, the
developer shall provide an overview of the community engagement process, and the details
of the proposed development. At the second meeting of the NAC, any proposed NAC
member(s) nominated by residents shall be permitted to present their ideas and suggestions
regarding the community engagement process and the proposed development, before the
members of the NAC are elected.? (Shef?eld)

Action: Per LPD, ?The language recommended by Shef?eld is being merged with the languag
On line item 8. If made available, this language should also be added to the best practices
procedures.?

6

 

Line Item 26. No current language to be amended. Proposes to add a new provision.

Proposed Amendment:
0 In Section 14-12-3(c) add a subsection (5) containing the following, ?The City and the

DEGC shall provide the NAC with all relevant information pertaining to any public subsidies

being sought by the Developer including but not limited to the speci?c abatements, dollar
amounts and duration of the subsidy, as well as the proposed abatement district maps.?

(Castaneda-Lopez)
Action: The work group recommended that this language be added to the best practices

procedures manual.

 

Line Item 27. Sec. 14-12-3 The Community Bene?ts Report shall contain: A detailed
account of how notice was provided to organize the public meeting. A list of the NAC
members, and how they were selected. (0) An itemized list of the concerns raised by the NAC.
A method for addressing each of the concerns raised by the NAC, or why a particular conce
will not be addressed.

 



 

18

 

 

Proposed Amendment:
I ?Add a new subsection detailing of community outreach strategies used to solicit
and record feedback.? (Castaneda-Lopez)

Action: The work group has recommended to adopt the proposed amendment.
Opinion: Requiring the Community Bene?ts Report to include a detailing of community

outreach strategies used to solicit and record feedback is a policy decision that does not have any
direct legal implications.

 

 

Line Item 28. Sec. The Flaming Director, where possible, shall provide a copy of
the Community Bene?ts Report to the NAC prior to submission to City Council.

 

Proposed Amendment:

I Upon receiving the proposal for community bene?ts from the developer, "The NAC will
have no less than one week to review the Community Bene?ts Agreement before being asked
by the City to vote or sign a letter in support of the proposed bene?ts." (Castaneda-Lopez)

Action: Per LPD, ?the work group recommended to adopt the proposed amendment with a ?one
week? review time with a 6-3 vote.?

Opinion: Section 14-12-3(d) regulates the Community Bene?ts Report that the Planning Director
is required to submit to City Council. The proposed amendment seems to impose two new
requirements, 1) that the NAC have at least one week to review the CBR, and 2) that the NAC will
vote or sign a letter in support of the CBR. Requiring that the NAC have a week to review the
CEO is a policy decision and does not have any direct legal implications. However the language
?before being asked by the City to vote or sign a letter? is not advisable because the CBO does not
require any deliberative action by the NAC. The proposed amendment also assumes that the City
will ?ask? the NAC to vote or sign a letter, which is also not a requirement. Rather, Section 14-
of the CBO requires the Planning Director to ?ensure an expeditious community
engagement process. . and ?work with City Council to assure that. . .all of the approvals required
of City Council may be considered simultaneously and subject to one approval vote.? Section 14-
If adopted, it is advisable to evaluate the feasibility of imposing deliberative action by
the NAC and consider the probable impact that it may have on development activity.

 

Line Item 29. Sec. A representative from the Human Rights Department.

 

Proposed Amendment:
- Strike ?Human Rights Department" and insert "Department of Civil Rights, Inclusion and
Opportunity." (Benson)

Action: The work group has recommended to adopt this recommendation.

19

 

 

Opinion: The amendment proposed by CM Benson is a matter ofpolicy and does not have any
direct legal implications.

 

 

Line Item 30. Sec. - If City Council ?nds that the Enforcement Committee
has not made reasonable efforts, City Council shall make speci?c ?nding to the Enforcement
Committee on the steps that need to be taken to comply with the Community Bene?ts Provision.
The Enforcement Committee shall provide City Council and the NAC updates on
compliance actions until City Council adopts a resolution declaring that the Developer is in
compliance with the Community Bene?ts Provision or has taken adequate steps to mitigate
violations. (ii) City Council may hold additional hearings related to enforcement of the
Community Bene?ts Provision as needed.

 

Proposed Amendment:

I Add, ?if the Council determines that the Developer is in noncompliance with the Community
Bene?ts Provision it may suspend all forms of public investment to the Developer by a
simple majority of Council after receiving at least three updates from the
Enforcement Committee as outlined in (Castaneda-Lopez)

Action: Per LPD, ?the work group has recommended to withdraw the proposed amendment,
considering that there are already claw-back provisions.?

 

 

Line Item 31. Sec. 14?12-5 - The requirements of this ordinance may be waived by resolution
of the City Council upon submission by either the Flaming Director or the Developer identifying
reasons that the requirements of this ordinance are impractical or infeasible and identifying how
the Developer will otherwise provide community bene?ts.

 

Proposed Amendment:
I That Sec. 14-12-5 Exemptions; Section 1 be stricken. (McCalister)

Action: The work group has recommended not to move forward with this proposed
amendment.

 

 

Line Item 32.

Tier 2 Development Project means a development project in the City that does not qualify as a
Tier 1 Project and is expected to incur the investment of Three Million Dollars ($3,000,000) or
more, during the construction of facilities, or to begin or expand operations or renovate structures,
where the Developer is negotiating public support for investment in one or both of the following
forms:

(1) Land transfers that have a cumulative market value of Three Hundred Thousand Dollars
($300,000) or more (as determined by the City Assessor or independent appraisal), without Open
bidding and priced below market rates; or

 

20

 

 

 

 

 

 

(2) Tax abatements that abate more than Three Hundred Thousand Dollars ($300,000) of City
taxes over the term of the abatement that inure directly to the Developer, but not including
Neighborhood Enterprise Zone tax abatements.

 

Proposed Amendments:
0 ?That language be added creating a subsection (3) which would require all proceeds from Tier
2 property sales be allocated to the Neighborhood Investment Fund.? (Spivey)

Action: Per LPD, ?the work group has recommended to adopt the proposed amendment with the
request that the 80% remaining from Tier 2 prOperty sales be evenly divided among the
Neighborhood Improvement Fund and the Skilled Trades Fund was approved in a 5?4 vote.?

Opinion: The Law Department advises against this proposed amendment. Substantive regulations
must not be included in de?nitional statutory language.

21

 

 COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, SUITE 908
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226
(313) 224-6380 - TTY2711

CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224-1629
HOUSING AND REVITALIZATION DEPARTMENT 

February 13, 2019

Honorable Detroit City Council
1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, MI 48226

RE: Amended Resolution Correcting the dates on an Obsolete Rehabilitation Exemption
Certi?cate, on Behalf of Temple Group Holdings, LLC at 640, 650, 660, 674 Temple Street,
Detroit, MI, in Accordance with Public Act 146 of 2000. (Related to Petition 1789)

Honorable City Council:

On October 25, 2018, a public hearing in connection with approving an Obsolete Rehabilitation
Exemption Certi?cate for the above-captioned property was held before your Honorable Body. All
interested persons and organizations were given an opportunity to be heard. No impediments to the
approval of this certi?cate were presented during the hearing. On October 30, 2018, your Honorable Body
voted to approve the certi?cate application for twelve years.

The original resolution contained a typo regarding the date by which rehabilitation shall be completed.
Initially the resolution states that the rehabilitation shall be completed by September 2, 2020; later the
resolution lists an incorrect date of January 1, 2020 for the completion of the rehabilitation. The amended
resolution simply provides the correct date in both locations within the resolution.

Respectfully submitted,
a? 



Donald Rencher
Director

DR/vf

cc: S. Washington, Mayor's Of?ce
M. Cox, PDD
D. Rencher, HRD
V. Farley, HRD

 

 

 

By Council Member

 

WHEREAS, Temple Group Holdings, LLC has ?led with the City Clerk an Application for an
Obsolete Property Rehabilitation Exemption Certi?cate, under Public Act 146 of 2000 (?the Act?) in City
of Detroit Obsolete Property Rehabilitation District in the manner and form prescribed by the Michigan

State Tax Commission; and

WHEREAS, This City Council is a Quali?ed Local Governmental Unit as de?ned by the Act; and

WHEREAS, this City Council on February 13, 2018 established by Resolution an Obsolete Property
Rehabilitation District in the vicinity of 640, 650 660, and 674 Temple Street, Detroit, Michigan, after a
Public Hearing held, in accordance with the Act; and

WHEREAS, the taxable value of the property proposed to be exempt plus the aggregate taxable value of
property already exempt under the Act and under Public Act 146 of 2000 does not exceed 5% of the total

taxable value of property in the City of Detroit; and
WHEREAS, the Applicant is not delinquent in any taxes related to the facility; and

WHEREAS, the Application is for obsolete property as that term is de?ned in Section 2(h) of the Act,
which property is owned by the Applicant; and

WHEREAS, commencement of the rehabilitation of the subject facility did not occur before the
establishment of the Obsolete Property Rehabilitation District; and

WHEREAS, the Application relates to a rehabilitation program that when completed constitutes a
rehabilitated facility within the meaning of the Act and which is situated within the aforesaid City of
Detroit Obsolete Property Rehabilitation District and

WHEREAS, completion of the rehabilitation is calculated to, and will at the time the Certi?cate is
issued, have the reasonable likelihood of increasing and/or retaining employment, increasing commercial
activity, revitalizing an urban area, or increasing the number of residents in the community in which the

facility is located; and

WHEREAS, the rehabilitation includes improvements aggregating 10% or more of the true cash value of
the property at the commencement of the rehabilitation as provided by Section 2 of the Act; and

WHEREAS, this City Council has granted until of September 1, 2020 for the completion of the
rehabilitation; and

 

 

WHEREAS, on October 25, 2018 in the City Council Committee Room, 13th Floor, Coleman A. Young
Municipal Center, Detroit, Michigan, a formal public hearing was held on aforesaid application, at which
time the Applicant, the Assessor, the general public, and representatives of the affected taxing units had
an opportunity to be heard; and

WHEREAS, notice was given by certi?ed mail to the Detroit Board of Education, the City of Detroit
Board of Assessors, the Wayne County Board of Commissioners, Wayne County Community College,
the Wayne County Intermediate School District, the Huron?Clinton Metropolitan Authority, the
Applicant, and by publication to the general public, informing them of the receipt of the Application, the
date and location of the Public Hearing, and the opportunity to be heard;

NOW THEREFORE BE IT

RESOLVED, That it is hereby found and determined that the granting of an Obsolete Property
Rehabilitation Exemption Certi?cate, considered together with the taxable value of Obsolete Property
Rehabilitation Exemption Certi?cates and Industrial Facilities Exemption Certi?cates if previously
granted and currently in force, will not have the effect of substantially impeding the operation of the local
governmental unit or impairing the financial soundness of any other taxing unit which levies an ad
valorem property tax with the City of Detroit; and be it further

RESOLVED, That it is hereby found and determined that the Applicant has complied with the
requirements of the Act; and be it further

RESOLVED, That the application of Temple Group Holdings, LLC for an Obsolete Property
Rehabilitation Exemption Certi?cate, in the City of Detroit Obsolete Property Rehabilitation District is
hereby approved for a period of Twelve (12), with the certi?cate beginning December 31, 2018 and
the certi?cate expiring December 31, 2030, in accordance with the provisions of the Act; and be it

?nally

RESOLVED, That the City Clerk shall forward said application to the Michigan State Tax Commission
as provided by the Act; and be it further

RESOLVED, That the rehabilitation of the facility shall be completed no later than September 1, 2020,
unless an extension of that time period is granted by this City Council, which extension shall be granted if
this City Council determines that the rehabilitation of the facility is proceeding in good faith and the
proposed extension is reasonable; and be it ?nally

RESOLVED, That the City of Detroit's Planning and Development Department and City Assessor's
Of?ce are hereby authorized to enter into, substantially in the form attached hereto, an Obsolete Property
Rehabilitation Exemption Certi?cate Agreement and attached Summary of Procedures for the purpose of
establishing the operating procedures for and implementing the aforesaid Certi?cates.

I

(t?o iguana Yotmzri bhmt??m" Clea} 
.. con?rm Ari-Ni; 1., 

DE not", Menu?? 33 
(31 111.4413?) - II

 

(3 re?ex?VIN WLQ

is: flh??al[fit/13

October 10, 2018

1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, MI 48226

RE: Resolution Approving an Obsolete Rehabilitation Exemption Certi?cate, on Behalf of
Temple Group Holdings, LLC at 640, 650, 660, 1574 Temple Street, Detroit, MI, in
Accordance with Public Act 146 of 2000. (Related to Petition 1789}

Honorable City Council:

On October 25, 2018, a public hearing in connection with approving an Obsolete Rehabilitation
Exemption Certi?cate for the above-captioned property was held before your Honorable Body. All
interested persons and organizations were given an opportunity to be heard. No impediments to the
approval of this certificate were presented during the hearing.

LLC has submitted satisfactory evidence that they possess the necessary

Temple Group Holdings
to develop this property in accordance with Public Act 146 of 2000 (?the

?nancial resources require
Act?) and the Development Agreement for the project.

Respect?illy submitted,

Donald Rencher
Director
DR/vf
cc: S. Washington, Mayor's Of?ce
M. Cox, PDD
D. Rencher, 
V. Farley, HRD

By Council Member Tab?)

WHEREAS, Temple Group Holdings, LLC has ?led with the City Clerk an Application for an
Obsolete Property Rehabilitation Exemption Certi?cate, under Public Act 146 of 2000 (?the Act?) in City
of Detroit Obsolete Property Rehabilitation District in the manner and form prescribed by the Michigan

State Tax Commission; and

WHEREAS, This City Council is a Quali?ed Local Governmental Unit as de?ned by the Act; and

WHEREAS, this City Council on February 13, 2018 established by Resolution an Obsolete Property
Rehabilitation District in the vicinity of 640, 650 660, and 674 Temple Street, Detroit, Michigan, after a

Public Hearing held, in accordance with the Act; and

WHEREAS, the taxable value of the property proposed to be exempt plus the aggregate taxable value of
property already exempt under the Act and under Public Act 146 of 2000 does not exceed 5% of the total

taxable value of property in the City of Detroit; and
WHEREAS, the Applicant is not delinquent in any taxes related to the facility; and

WHEREAS, the Application is for obsolete property as that term is de?ned in Section 2(h) of the Act,
which property is owned by the Applicant; and

WHEREAS, commencement of the rehabilitation of the subject facility did not occur before the
establishment of the Obsolete Property Rehabilitation District; and

WHEREAS, the Application relates to a rehabilitation program that when completed constitutes a
rehabilitated facility within the meaning of the Act and which is situated within the aforesaid City of

Detroit Obsolete Property Rehabilitation District and

WHEREAS, completion of the rehabilitation is calculated to, and will at the time the Certi?cate is
issued, have the reasonable likelihood of increasing andlor retaining employment, increasing commercial
activity, revitalizing an urban area, or increasing the number of residents in the community in which the

facility is located; and

WHEREAS, the rehabilitation includes improvements aggregating 10% or more ofthe true cash value of
the property at the commencement of the rehabilitation as provided by Section 2 (1) of the Act; and

WHEREAS, this City COuncil has granted until of September 1, 2020 for the completion of the
rehabilitation; and

 

WHEREAS, on October 25, 2018 in the City Council Committee Room, Floor, Coleman A. Young
Municipal Center. Detroit, Michigan, a Formal public hearing was held on aforesaid application, at which
time the Applicant, the Assessor. the general public. and representatives of the affected taxing units had

an opportunity to be heard; and

WHEREAS, notice was given by certi?ed mail to the Detroit Board of Education, the City of Detroit
Board of Assessors, the Wayne County Board of Commissioners, Wayne County Community College,
the Wayne County Intermediate School District, the Huron~Clinton Metropolitan Authority. the
Applicant, and by publication to the general public, informing them ofthc receipt of the Application, the
date and location ot?the Public Hearing, and the opportunity to be heard;

NOW THEREFORE BE IT

RESOLVED, That it is hereby found and determined that the granting of an Obsolete Property
Rehabilitation Exemption Certi?cate, considered together with the taxable value of Obsolete Property
Rehabilitation Exemption Certi?cates and Industrial Facilities Exemption Certi?cates if previously
granted and currently in force, will not have the effect of substantially impeding the Operation of the local
govemmental unit or impairing the financial soundness of any other taxing unit which levies an ad
valorem property tax with the City oi?Dctroit; and be it further

RESOLVED, That it is hereby found and determined that the Applicant has complied with the
requirements of the Act; and be it further

RESOLVED, That the application of Temple Grtiup Holdings, LLC for an Obsolete Property
Rehabilitation Exemption Certi?cate, in the City of Detroit Obsolete Property Rehabilitation District is
hereby approved for a period of Twelve (12), with the certi?cate beginning December 31, 2018 and
the certi?cate expiring December 31, 2030, in accordance with the provisions of the Act; and be it

?nally

RESOLVED, That the City Clerk shall forward said application to the Michigan State Tax Commission
as provided by the Act; and be it further

RESOLVED, That the rehabilitation of the facility shall be completed no later than January 1, 2020,
unless an extension of that time period is granted by this City Council, which extension shall be granted if
this City Council determines that the rehabilitation of the facility is proceeding in good faith and the

proposed extension is reasonable; and be it ?nally

RESOLVED, That the City of Detroit's Planning and Development Department and City Assessor's
Office are hereby authorized to enter into, substantially in the form attached hereto, an Obsolete Property
Rehabilitation Exemption Certi?cate Agreement and attached Summary of Procedures for the purpose of
establishing the operating procedures for and implementing the aforesaid Certi?cates.

ADOPTED AS FOLLOWS
COUNCIL MEMBERS

 

   

 

Janee

AYE RS

 

 

Scott BENSON

 

 

Raquel CASTANEDA-LOPEZ

 

 

 

 

Gabe LELAND

 

 

MCCALISTER, JR.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Roy

*Mary SHEFFIELD
Andre SPIVEY
James TATE

 

 

 

 

 

 

Tarenda PRESIDENT JONES

 

 

PRO TEM

 

Per motions before adjournment.

 

 

WWER OF 

  
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
   
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
   
 

 

 (titty at ZJBetrnit

Irvin Corley, Jr.

Executive Policy Manager CITY OUNC IL

g?larce" 3- LEGISLATIVE POLICY DIVISION
emor City Planner . .

Janese Chapman 208 Coleman A. Young Mun1c1pal Center

Deputy Director Detroit, Michigan 48226

Phone: (313) 224-4946 Fax: (313) 224-4336

John Alexander

LaKisha Barclift, Esq.

M. Rory Bolger, AICP
Elizabeth Cabot, Esq.

Tasha Cowen

Richard Drumb

George Etheridge

Deborah Goldstein


I

TO: The Honorable Detroit City?qzmcil

FROM: David Whitaker, Directo J) 
Legislative Policy Divismn Staff

DATE: February 12, 2019

RE: DECLARATION OF PARK LAND AS SURPLUS LAND

3?5

Christopher Gulock, AICP
Derrick Headd

Marcel Hurt, Esq.

Kimani Jeffrey

Anne Marie Langan

Jamie Murphy

Carolyn Nelson

Kim Newby

Analine Powers, 
Jennifer Reinhardt
Sabrina Shockley

Thomas Stephens, Esq.
David Teeter

Theresa Thomas

Underwood
Ashley A. Wilson

On Tuesday, February 12, 2019 the Of?ce of Councilman Gabe Leland submitted a
memorandum requesting that the Legislative Policy Division provide information pertaining to
previous council resolutions adopted regarding the replacement of park land when sold for

development purposes.

Attached please ?nd the July 27, 2007 resolution submitted by then Council President Pro Tem
Monica Conyers seeking to suspend the sale of park land unless suitable replacement parkland is

identi?ed.

Additionally, in January of 2007 the City Council Research and Analysis Division prepared a
report detailing the process and authority to place city-owned property up for bid or sale. In light
of resent developments and the renewed interest in developing surplus city lands for much
needed economic development and employment opportunities, staff thought it prudent that Your
Honorable Body be apprised of the procedures as spelled out in Chapter 14, Community
Development of the Detroit City Code. That report is attached for your review and consideration
along with pertainent parts of the City Code, and resolutions in which city properties were sold

for development purposes.

If you have any additional questions, please contact our of?ce directly.

 

Humi- L'd

City of Detroit

 

COUNCIL

GABE LELAND

COUNCIL MEMBER 
i

MEMORANDUM

  
   
 

    
 

I
TO: Da id Whitaker, Director

islative Policy Division

-THRU: The Honorable Council President Brenda Jones
FROM: Council Member Gabe Leland 5%
DATE: February 12, 2019
RE: Declaration of Park Land as Surplus Land

 

Please provide information pertaining to:

1. Previous Council resolutions adopted regarding the replacement of park land when sold
for development purposes.

Cc: Honorable Detroit City Council Members
Mayor?s Office, Stephanie Washington

GL/gal

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center 2 Woodward Ave, Suite 1340 Detroit, Michigan 48226
Office (313) 224-2151 Fax (313) 224?2155

 

30334 July27adj 11/7/07 10:37 AM p$ 2244

July 27 2244 2007

 

 

 

qualify for a Single Business Tax credit
pursuant to Act 228, Public Acts of
Michigan, 1975, as amended.

7. Hamlet. All resolutions and parts
of resolutions insofar as they conflict with
the provisions of this resolution be and
the same hereby are rescinded.

8. The City Clerk is requested to sub-
mit four (4) certified copies of this
Resolution to the DBRA, 500 Griswold
Street, Suite 2200, Detroit, MI 48226.

Adopted as follows:

Yeas Council Members 8. Cockrel.
Collins, Jones, Kenyatta, Reeves, Tinsley-
Talabi, Watson, Conyers, and President K.
Cockrel, Jr. 9.

Nays None.

RESOLUTION DENYING APPROVAL
FOR THE PROPOSED
CONSTRUCTION OF AN ANIMAL
CONTROL CENTER TO BE PLACED
ON LELAND AND ST. AUBIN
STREETS

By COUNCIL MEMBER COLLINS:

WHEREAS, The Detroit City Council
has placed a hold on the transfer of the
following properties: 1903-1927 Leland,
1961 Illinois. 1989 1997 Illinois,
2001 3803-05 St. Aubin, 3809 St.
Aubin, 3815 St. Aubin, 3823 St. Aubin,
3835 St. Aubin, 3843 St. Aubin, 3913 St.
Aubin, 3929 St. Aubin, 3935 St. Aubin,
3939-41 St. Aubin, from the Planning and
Development Department to the
Department of Health and Wellness; and

WHEREAS, In addition to the existing
hold by the Detroit City Council, the oper-
ation of an Animal Control Center is men-
tioned nowhere in the Zoning Ordinance
that currently exists in the City of Detroit;
and

WHEREAS, Section 61-10-79 and 61-
10-99 in the Zoning Ordinance of the
Detroit City Code states that all other
uses not prohibited by law or this code
and not specifically permitted elsewhere
in this Zoning Ordinance shall be consid-
ered as conditional uses in the M4 and
M5 zoning districts; and

WHEREAS. The Animal Control Center
at its current location of 3511 W. Jefferson
in the City of Detroit is properly zoned with
a designation of M4 in accordance with
the Zoning Ordinance of the Detroit City
Code; and

WHEREAS, The current proposed
location for the Animal Control Center has
an M3 zoning classification. NOW
THEREFORE BE iT

RESOLVED, That the Detroit City
Council through the approval of this reso-
lution gives official notice to the
Department of Buildings and Safety
Engineering that any issuance of build-
ings permits for the construction of an
Animal Control Center at the location bor-
dered by St. Aubin on the east, Mack on
the south, Dequindre on the West and

 

Canfield to the north is in violation of
existing Zoning Ordinances in the Detroit
City Code. and BE IT FURTHER

RESOLVED, That the Detroit City
Council not approve any transfer of prop-
erties as requested by the Planning and
Development Department to complement
the construction of this project.

Adopted as follows:

Yeas Council Members 8, Cockrel,
Collins, Jones, Kenyatta, Reeves, Tinsley~
Talabi, Watson, Conyers, and President K.
Cockrel, Jr. 9.

Nays None.

OF RECONSIDERATION
(No. 8) per motions before adjournment.

RESOLUTION BY DETROIT CITY
COUNCIL APPOINTING MEMBERS TO
THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE

EASTERN MARKET CORPORATION
By COUNCIL MEMBER COLLINS:

WHEREAS, The Eastern Market
Corporation is a non-profit corporation
organized for purposes including the
management, operation and improvement
of the City-owned public market known as
the Eastern Market; and

WHEREAS, The Eastern Market
Corporation?s governing board consists of
twenty-three members including seven
representatives of City and City-related
departments with interests in the Market,
as well as two members to be appointed
by the Detroit City Council; NOW THERE-
FORE IT IS

RESOLVED, That the Detroit City
Council appoints Council Member
Barbara-Rose Collins and Council
Member Kwame Kenyatta to the Board of
Directors of the Eastern Market
Corporation for a term concurrent with
their City Council terms, ending
December 31, 2009; and BE IT FUR-
THER

RESOLVED, That the Detroit City
Council directs the City Clerk to send a
copy of this approved resolution to the
Board of Directors of the Eastern Market
Corporation and Kate Beebe, Executive
Director of the Eastern Market
Corporation.

Adopted as follows:

Yeas Council Members 8. Cockrel,
Collins, Jones, Kenyatta, Reeves, Tinsley-
Talabi, Watson, Conyers, and President K.
Cockrel, Jr. 9.

Nays None.

RESOLUTION
SEEKING TO SUSPEND
THE SALE OF PARKLAND UNLESS
SUITABLE REPLACEMENT
PARKLAND IS IDENTIFIED
By COUNCIL MEMBER CONYERS:
WHEREAS, The Planning and
Development Department of the City of
Detroit routinely declares parkland to be
surplus property and proposes the sale of



30334 July27adj 11/7/07 10:37 AM PEEL 2345

July 27 2245 2007



parkland as a method of raising revenue
and/or to implement the goals of the
Detroit Recreation Department Strategic
Master Plan; and

WHEREAS, The Detroit Recreation
Department Strategic Master Plan specif-
ically states that proceeds from the sale of
parkland is to be used, amongst other uses,
to purchase repositioned or replacement
sites for parkland sold; and

WHEREAS, The Detroit Recreation
Department Strategic Master Plan specif-
ically states that a stated goal of the plan
is to maintain the same number of acres
currently used as parkland in the City; and

WHEREAS, Recent proposed sales of
parkland have not identified a location for
a suitable replacement parkland site; and

WHEREAS, The City of Detroit Master
Plan of Policies is the controlling docu-
ment as to the designation of land
parcels, and statutorily mandated amend-
ment procedures must be followed in the
event the Planning and Development
Department proposes to change the use
for a land parcel; NOW, THEREFORE BE
IT

RESOLVED, That the Honorable Detroit
City Council hereby declares a suspen-
sion on the approval of declarations of
parkland as surplus property or sales of
parkland unless the Administration pro-
vides a conceptual plan where a change
in land use pattern is significantly different
from the existing use and/or as indicated
in the Master Plan, and presents with each
proposal for sale a specifically identified,
suitable location for repositioned or replace-
ment parkland; AND BE IT FINALLY

RESOLVED, That the Detroit City
Council directs the City Clerk to forward
this approved resolution to the Honorable
Kwame M. Kilpatrick.

Adopted as follows:

Yeas Council Members Collins,
Jones, Kenyatta, Reeves, Tinsley-Talabi,
Watson, and Conyers 7.

Nays Council Member 8. Cockrel,
and President K. Cockrel, Jr. 2.

RESOLUTION TO CREATE A
SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON
INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS

By COUNCIL MEMBER CONYERS:

WHEREAS, The City of Detroit inter-
acts and conducts business with
International, Federal, State and County
Governmental entities that are City areas
of concern, and

WHEREAS, There is a need to coordi-
nate these activities for the benefit of the
people of Detroit, and

WHEREAS, Authority to create a
Detroit City Council Special Committee is
conferred under the Charter of the City of
Detroit Section 4-106 (6), BE IT THERE-
FORE

RESOLVED, That a Detroit City Council
Special Committee on Intergovernmental

 

Relations is hereby created, BE IT FUR-
THER

RESOLVED, That this Committee shall
be responsible for all matters that pertain
to City interaction on the County, State,
Federal and International level with elect-
ed bodies and other entities including but
not limited to International Waterways,
International Tunnels, International
Bridges, and Energy that deal in the for-
mentioned Committee areas of Concern,
BE IT FURTHER

RESOLVED, That line items and issues
pertaining to City Departments and
Agencies shall be directed to this Special
Committee where appropriate and as
needed.

Council Member Collins moved to
Suspend Rule #36 of the "Rules and
Order of Business of the City Council"
which motion prevailed as follows:

Yeas Council Members Collins,
Jones, Kenyatta, Reeves, Watson,
Conyers, and President K. Cockrel, Jr. 7.

Nays Council Members S. Cockrel,
and Tinsley-Talabi 2.

Council Member Collins then moved to
refer the matter to the City Council
Internal Operations Standing Committee
for further consideration, which motion
prevailed.

Adopted as follows:

Yeas Council Members 8. Cockrel,
Collins, Jones, Kenyatta, Reeves, Tinsley-
Talabi, and President K. Cockrel, Jr. 7.

Nays Council Members Watson,
and Conyers 2.

RESOLUTION REGARDING WAYNE
COUNTY COMMUNITY COLLEGE
DISTRICT
By COUNCIL MEMBER 
Joined By ALL COUNCIL MEMBERS:

WHEREAS, The growth and progress
of the Wayne County Community College
District is unprecedented in the
State of Michigan. District program offer-
ings are broader than ever, and student
enrollment is at a historic all-time high;
and

WHEREAS, The District?s enrollment
nearly quadrupled at its five campuses to
65,435 students in 2006-07 from 17,089
in 2001-02. The college has expanded its
educational programs, improved comput-
er technology, updated classrooms and
laboratory equipment, repaired and reno-
vated buildings at all of its campuses and
put up new buildings at the Western and
Downriver campuses; and

WHEREAS, provides the
highest quality of educational services to
their students and the overall community.
Through a deliberate, long-term strategy
they are focused on continuous improve-
ment in the quality of programs, courses,
services and student facilities. These dol-

 

31592 July22 12/12/08 11:25 AM P39552031

 

 

July 22 2031 2008
Provided, That such permission is RESOLUTIONS
granted with the distinct understanding RESOLUTION

that petitioner assumes full responsibility
for any and all claims, damages or
expenses that may arise by reason of
granting of said petition. and further

Provided, That the site be returned to
its original condition at the termination of
its use, and further

Provided, That this resolution is revoca-
ble at the will, whim or caprice of the City
Council.

Adopted as follows:

Yeas Council Members 8. Cockrel,
Collins, Jones, Kenyatta, Reeves, Tinsley-
Talabi, Watson, and President K. Cockrel,
Jr. 8.

Nays None.

Permit
Honorable Cityr Council: .

To your Committee of the Whole was
referred petition of Wash-O-Camb Block
Club (#2744), for block club party. After
careful consideration of the request, your
Committee recommends that same be
granted in accordance with the following
resolution.

Respectfully submitted,
JOANN WATSON
Chairperson
By Council Member Watson:

Resolved, That subject to the approval
of the Police and Public Works Depart-
ments, permission be and is hereby grant-
ed to the petition of Wash-O-Camb Block
Club (#2744), for ?4th Annual Block Club
Party", August 9, 2008; with temporary
street closures in area of Washburn
between Cambridge and Outer Drive.

Provided, That said activity is con-
ducted under the rules and regulations
of the concerned departments and the
supervision of the Police Department,
and further

Provided, That the sale of food and soft
drinks is held under the direction and
inspection of the Health Department, and
further

Provided, That the required permits be
secured should any tents or temporary
installations such as Liquefied Petroleum
Gas Systems be used, and further

Provided, That such permission is
granted with the distinct understanding
that petitioner assumes full responsibility
for any and all claims, damages or
expenses that may arise by reason of
granting of said petition, and further

Provided, That the site be returned to
its original condition at the termination of
its use, and further

Provided. That this resolution is revoca-
ble at the will, whim or caprice of the City
Council.

Adopted as follows:

Yeas Council Members S. Cockrel,
Collins, Jones, Kenyatta, Reeves, Tinsley-
Talabi, Watson, and President K. Cockrel,
Jr. 8.

Nays None.

 

By COUNCIL MEMBER KENYATTA:

RESOLVED, That in order to promote a
thorough discussion of all issues related
to the Synagro/Minergy Detroit LLC con-
tract, the Detroit City Council hereby
waives the attorney client privilege on a
report submitted by City Council's
Research and Analysis Division dated
July 16, 2008 entitled Rescinding
Synagro Contract.

Adopted as follows:

Yeas Council Members S. Cockrel,
Collins, Jones, Kenyatta, Reeves, Tinsley-
Talabi, Watson, and President K. Cockrel,
Jr. 8.

Nays None.

RESOLUTION
By COUNCIL MEMBER KENYATTA:

RESOLVED, That in order to promote a
thorough discussion of all issues related
to the Synagro/Minergy Detroit LLC con-
tract, the Detroit City Council hereby
waives the attorney client privilege on the
Law Department's memorandum dated
July 16, 2008 entitled Options For
Rescinding Or Terminating The Siudge
Disposal Contract With Minergy Detroit
LLC.

Adopted as follows:

Yeas Council Members 8. Cockrel,
Collins, Jones, Kenyatta, Reeves, Tinsley-
Talabi, Watson, and President K. Cockrel,
Jr. 8.

Nays None.

RESOLUTION T0 RESCIND THE
MORATORIUM ON THE SALE OF
RIVERFRONT AND PARK PROPERTY

By COUNCIL MEMBER 

WHEREAS, The Detroit City Council
voted to enact a Moratorium on the Sale
of Riverfront and Park Property; and

WHEREAS, A Moratorium by definition
is a temporary authorized period of delay
or waiting for the purpose of conducting
due diligence and taking corrective action
on a matter; and

WHEREAS, The current Moratorium on
the sale of riverfront and park property has
no sunset date; which, in and of itself is a
direct contradiction to a moratorium; and

WHEREAS, The Detroit City Council
has had to bare the undue burden of
waiving the current Moratorium on the
sale of riverfront and park property, which
has at times stifled much needed devel-
opment within the City of Detroit; and

WHEREAS. It is more prudent to take
each transfer of jurisdiction, resolution
authorizing property sale and develop
ment project on a case by case basis.
NOW THEREFORE BE IT

RESOLVED. That the Detroit City
Council voles to repel the current
Moratorium on the sale of Riverfront and
Park property within the City of Detroit?s
inventory and consider any request for
sale and/or transfer of jurisdiction for

31592 Ju1y22 12/12/08 11:25 AM Page-$032

July 22 2032 2003

 

Riverfront and Park property on a case by
case basis.

Adopted as follows:

Yeas Council Members S. Cockrel,
Collins, Kenyatta, Reeves, Tinsley-Talabi,
and President K. Cockrel, Jr. 6.

Nays ?u Council Members Jones, and
Watson 2.

OF RECONSIDERATION
(No. 14) per motions before adjournment.

Council Member 8. Cockrel left her
seat.

MEMBER REPORTS

President Kenneth V. Cockrel, Jr.
thanked Council Member Barbara-Rose
Collins for the wonderful Legislative
Staff picnic at her home on Saturday.

President K. Cockrel, Jr. indicated that
he'd provide funeral arrangement infor-
mation to Council for Rev. Barlow on
Friday night and Saturday.

 

Council Member Barbara-Rose Collins
stated that she loaned her house to the
Legislative Staff for one (1) day.
Member Collins stated that the every
aspect of the event was wonderful. She
stated that next year two (2) bouncies
may have to be rented because the
adults got into the bouncie at the end of
the day. Member thanked Council
Members and the staff who donated
monies. Member Collins stated that Liz
Irby donated 3 sheet cakes. She looks
forward to next year?s event.

 

Council Member Brenda Jones indicat-
ed that she?d provide a memo in writing
regarding the Jesuit Community having
problems with sewer back up to be
referred to the Public Health Safety
Standing Committee.

Member Jones informed everyone of the
Skilled Trades Task Force today from 4-
6:00 pm. in the 13th Floor Committee
of the Whole Room.

 

Council Member Martha Reeves stated
that some of the talent from Council
Member Kwame Kenyatta?s event was
presented at the Mayor?s Youth Day.
Member Reeves stated that some of
the talent from Member Kenyatta's
event should be presented at the 2009
NCAA event.

Member Reeves reported City Planning
Commission meeting on Wednesday,
July 23rd at Pasteur Elementary School
from 6-8:00 pm. The purpose of the
meeting is to receive comments on the
closing of Johnson Recreation Center.

Member Reeves reported that her family
reunion was nice on July 19th. Member
Reeves indicated that the Recreation
Department provided tents and chairs,
and thanked Belle Isle staff for their
commitment and service. She indicated
that some of her staff members attend-
ed the event, and enjoyed themselves.

Member Reeves reported that her birth~

 



day party was held at the Winder Inn on
Friday, July 18th. She indicated that the
facility was fabulous.

 

Council Member Alberta Tinsley-Talabi
reported on a request that she's send-
ing to Mr. Douglass Diggs relative to
Ahmose Math Academy. Member Talabi
stated that the property that they were
housed in was demolished, and is ask-
ing that they be given a property from
the city's inventory.

Member Tinsley-Talabi commended
Council Member Kwame Kenyatta for
his 13er ll" event held on Saturday at
the Music Hall. Talent across the City of
Detroit was highlighted. She stated it
was a wonderful event.

Member Tinsley-Talabi stated that Rev.
Joseph Barlow, Pastor of Mt. Zion
Missionary Baptist Church of Ecorse,
passed away. She stated he was a
tremendous asset to the Partnership for
a Drug-Free Detroit. President K.
Cockrel, Jr. stated he's preparing a res-
olution in Memorlam for Pastor Barlow.

 

Council Member Joann Watson re-
quested that following the closed ses-
sion on the Synagro issue President
Kenneth V. Cockrel. Jr. to consider an
Adjourned Session to vote to repeal the
contract.

Member Watson reported that a citizen
complained about unprofessional
Clerks at the DWSD E. McNichols
office.

Member Watson reported that the DWSD
office located on Greenfield is no
longer accepting personal checks to
pay water bills. She stated that the only
form of payment would be money
orders, cashier's checks, or cash.
Member Watson stated she has con-
cerns with departments handling cash.
Member Watson requested that the
department go back to accepting per-
sonal checks as a form of payment for
water bills.

Member Watson reported an abandoned
house at 11865 Evanston.The house is
open, abandoned, and across the
street from a school. The house is har-
boring criminal and illegal activity.

Member Watson reported massive street
flooding at 12050 Kilbourne near
Gratiot and Rosemary off of East Outer
Drive.

Member Watson reported that water has
been shut off at a senior citizen building
located at 2743 Hooker. The owner of
the property has an outstanding bill of
$395.56, and has indicated he's paying
it today. Member Watson requested that
the water be turned back on at the
property that houses senior citizens.

Member Watson reported citizen at
6112-4 Sheridan received a tax bill in
the name of her late husband who's
been dead for 12 years indicating there
was a balance of $800 due July 29th. If
payment is not received, a lien will be

 

Qtitp of Eetrnit

CITY COUNCIL

DAVID D. WHITAKER PEGGY ROBINSON
Director DIVISION or RESEARCH a ANALYSIS Deputy Director
(313) 224'494?5 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center (313) 22441946

2 Woodward Avenue, Suite 216
Detroit, Michigan ?18226
(313) 224-4946
FAX: (313) 224-0368

TO: The Honorable Detroit City Council

FROM: David Whitaker, Director MS 
City Council Research and Analysis Division Staff

DATE: January 16, 2007

RE: AUTHORITY TO PLACE CITY-OWNED PROPERTY UP FOR


 

Pursuant to Council Member Kwame Kenyatta?s request, the Research and Analysis Division
(RAD) researched whether the Administration has the authority to market and make available for
bids and/or sale City?owned property without Council?s approval.

Under Section 4-112 of the City Charter, the City may not sell or in any way dispose of any
property without the approval by resolution of the City Council. Further, the Detroit City Code
sets out a detailed sequence of events that must occur to sell real pr0perty in Chapter 14,
Community Development, Article Surplus Real Property and Property Used for Public
Purposes.

The Ordinance is attached to this memorandum for your reference, and provides in pertinent part
as follows:

1.) After a review at least once a year, the Flaming and Development Department 
recommends to the City Council parcels of property it has determined are not essential to the
City and that they be offered for sale. If the City Council approves the Department?s
recommendation, then the parcels shall thereafter be termed ?surplus real property.?

(See. 14-8-1 and 14-8-4)

2.) The Finance director and promote the sale of all surplus real property.
(See. 14-8?2)

3.) The is to obtain an estimate of the market value of surplus real property from the
Finance Director or from an independent appraiser approved by City Council. At least once

 

I The ordinance, as currently drafted, refers to the Community and Economic Development Department, which is
now known as the Planning and DeveIOpment Department.

every six months, the Department is to review each parcel having an original market value of
$2,000 or more, and shall revise the market value where advisable.
(Sec. 14?8?5)

4.) The City Council must then approve the estimated market value of surplus real property,
and then shall authorize that the property be advertised for sale, either with or without a
minimum bid price. If deemed to be in the best interests of the City, the City Council may
approve surplus property to be sold without public advertisement or the taking of bids.
(Sec. 14?8?6 and 14-8-10)

5.) If bids are not received that meet a minimum bid price set by City Council (optional), the
is to recommend other procedures for disposition of the property, for approval by City
Council. (Sec. 14-8-7)

6.) All sales of surplus real property shall be approved by the City Council and made in
accordance with the Charter. (Sec. 14?8-7)

7.) All bids-on surplus real property must be submitted to the City Council for approval or
rejection. The City Council reserves the right to accept or reject any bids. (Sec. 14-8?8)

(See Attachment A ?Article Surplus Real Property and Property Used for Public
Purposes?)

The language and sequential nature of the ordinance lends itself to two interpretations. One
interpretation is that the must obtain approval for each step in the process under the
respective section of the ordinance before proceeding to the next step. The ordinance is replete
with mandatory duties and actions, many of which are to be exercised after City Council
approval of a prior duty or action. Another interpretation, which has routinely been the practice
in City-owned land sales, is to bring a proposed transaction before the City Council for approval;
and, in one resolution, grant all the requisite approvals under the ordinance/7? The latter
interpretation is how the Camp Brighton transaction was presented to Council.

In letters dated November 9, 2006, Director Douglass Diggs stated that the Detroit
Recreation Department (DRD) has declared Camp Brighton, Parcels I and II, surplus to its needs
and that DRD requested the to assume jurisdictional control over the properties. The
transmittal letters further request that this Honorable Body approve the transfer of jurisdiction of
Parcels I and II to the and adopt the sale ofthe respective parcels.

The two resolutions presented by the Administration only request Council to: (1) authorize the
transfer ofjurisdictional control ofthe two parcels to the and (2) authorize the to
execute Quit Claim Deeds and other such documents necessary to perfect the sale of Parcels I
and II. However, as currently drafted, the resolutions are void of any language that Council

 

2 Attachment is several past resolutions adopted by City Council relative to the declaration ofland as surplus.

approves a recommendation that the parcels be termed ?surplus real property,? approves the
market value, or accepts the bids.3 (See Attaclunent C)

Accordingly, if this Honorable Body approves of the sale of Parcel I to Chaldean Catholic
Church; will need to revise the resolution to state City Council: (1) approves the 
recommendation that the parcel is surplus real property, (2) approves the market value of the
property, (3) accepts the bid, (4) approves the sale, and (5) assigns jurisdiction over the property
to in order to comply with the latter interpretation of the ordinance.4 At the very least,
the resolution should track the language used in past resolutions that have been approved by 'City
Council relative to similar land transfers.

We hope that the information provided in this memorandum will be of assistance to you. If?you
have any additional questions or concerns, please advise.

Attachments

 

3 Although the transmittal letters are cited in the resolutions as ?foregoing? communications, the letters could
not become a part of the of?cial record unless incorporated by reference or designated as exhibits.

4 As Council is aware, Howell Public Schools recently withdrew its offer to purchase Parcel 2.

ATTACHMENT A

ARTICLE SURPLUS REAL PROPERTY AND PROPERTY USED FOR Page 1 of3

ARTICLE SURPLUS REAL PROPERTY AND PROPERTY USED FOR PUBLIC
PURPOSES

Sec. 14-8-1. Listing.

At least once every year the ?nance director shall obtain and submit a list to the community and
economic develOpment department and a copy thereof to the city council of all real property owned by
the city. This list shall be in three (3) parts, as follows:

(1) Part I. All real property assigned to city departments and employed by the
departments to whom assigned for public purposes.

(2) Part II. All real property, whether or not assigned to a city department, which is
being held for future use for a public purpose.

(3) Part All other real property.
(Code 1964, 2-7?86)

Sec. 14-8-2. Promotion of sale of surplus real property an rental of property held for
future use.

It shall be the duty of the finance director and the community and economic development
department to promote the sale of all surplus real property as designated in section 14-8-4. It shall be
the duty of the community and economic development department to promote the temporary rental or
lease of all property being held for future use for a public purpose and of all surplus real property not
immediately salable.

(Code 1964, 2-7?87)

Sec. 14-8-3. Finance director to designate department to manage real property held for
future use.

It shall be the duty of the finance director, subject to the approval of the city council, to
designate the department to manage and to maintain real property which is being held for future pUblic
use and of all surplus real property not immediately salable.

(Code 1964, 2?7-88)

Sec. 14-8-4. Recommendation of sale of surplus property.

It shall be the duty of the community and economic development department to recommend to
the city council that those parcels of real property which it has determined are not essential to the city
be offered for sale, and when the department?s recommendation has been approved by the city council,
such pr'operty shall thereafter be termed "surplus real property."

(Code 1964, 2-7-89)

Sec. 14-8-5. Estimate of market value of surplus property; semiannual review ofsurplus

mnnInanp /mr?r?/nnPVIPur/I 0640/1 'rquanItirm 1/0/7007

. SURPLUS REAL PROPERTY AND PROPERTY USED FOR Page 2 of3

real property.

it shall be the duty of the community and economic development department to obtain an
estimate of the market value of such surplus real property from the finance director or from an
independent appraiser approved by the city council. At least once every six (6) months, the department
shall review each parcel of surplus real property, the original market value of which was estimated at
two thousand dollars or more, and shall revise or cause to be revised such market value

where advisable.
(Code 1964, 2?7?90)

Sec. 14-8-6. City council to authorize sale of surplus property; when sealed bids
required; deposit to accompany bids.

The city council, after approving the estimated market value of surplus real property, shall
authorize that the same be advertised for salefeither or without a minimum bid price. Except as
provided in this article, sealed bids shall be required on reasonable notice as determined by the

community and economic development department for the sale of any parcel of such real, property. Bids
received shall be opened at a stated time and place and must be accompanied by a ten (10) per cent

deposit.
(Code 1964, ?2~7~91)

Sec. 14-8-7. Sales of surplus property to be approved by city council; procedure when
bid price fails to reach established minimum.

All sales of surplus real property shall be approved by the city council and shall be made in
accordance with the Charter. Whenever a minimum bid price is established for the sale of any parcel of
surplus real property, and bids equal to or in excess of such minimum bid price are not received, the
community and economic development department shall recommend subsequent procedures for the
disposition of such real property as regards reoffering. reappraisal or withdrawal from sale, which
recommendations shallbe submitted to the city council for approval.

(Code 1964, 2-7-92)

Sec. 14-8-8. Bids on surplus property to be submitted to council; right of council to
reject all bids.

All bids on surplus real property shall be submitted to the city council for approval or rejection.
The city council reserves the right to accept or reject any bids. 

(Code 1964, 2-7-93)

Sec. 14-8-9. Sale of certain property to adjoining owner.

Whenever a parcel of surplus real property is so limited in size or shape, or is of such a nature
that it could only be put to its best use by an adjoining owner. public advertisement and the taking of
bids may be waived and such real property may be sold to the adjoining owner at a price approved by

the city council.
(Code 1964, 2-7?94)

m11n;?nr1r3 1/9/2007

ARTICLE SURPLUS REAL PROPERTY AND PROPERTY USED FOR Page 3 of3

Sec. 14-8-10. Sale without public advertising or taking of bids.

Whenever it is deemed in the best interests of the city, surplus real property may be sold without
public advertisement or the taking of bids, with the approval of the city council.

(Code 1964, 2-7?95)

Sec. 14-8-11. Article not applicable to property underjurisdiction of housing
commission.

The provisions of this article are not applicable to real property assigned to or under the
jurisdiction of the housing commission.

(Code 1964, 2?7?96)

1/9/2007

ATTACHMENT 

August 2

1945

2000

 

tam nrv-u?w? v? -

 

going communication to provide legal rep-
resentation to the following Employee or
Officer: Jimmie Lee Lockhart, Jr.
Approved:
A. JAMES
Corporation Counsel

Adopted as follows:

Yeas Council Members Cleveland,
K. Cockrel, Jr., 8. Cockrel, Everett, Hood,
Mahaffey, Scott, Tinsley-Talabi, and
President Hill 9.

Nays None.

OF RECONSIDERATION
(No.54) per motions before adjournment.

Law Department
July 28, 2000
Honorable City Council:
Re: Proposed Resolution For Kennedy
Square.

On December 8, 1999, your Honorable
Body adopted a resolution authorizing
execution of the proposed Development
Agreement (referred to herein as the
Development Agreement") by and
among Kern Woodward Associates,
L.L.C. the City of Detroit, and the
City of Detroit Downtown Development
Authority (the 

On December 8, 1999, your Honorable
Body adopted a resolution authorizing
execution of the pr0posed Development
Agreement '(referred to herein as the
?Original Compuware Development
Agreement") by and among Compuware
Corporation, the City, and the DDA. On
July 21, 2000, your Honorable Body
approved changes to the Original Compu-
ware Development Agreement and adopt-
ed a resolution authorizing execution of a
Restated Development Agreement by and
among Compuware Corporation, the City
and the DDA (referred to herein as the
?Restated Compuware Development
Agreement?).

As set forth in the KWA Development
Agreement, the City and the DDA have
certain obligations regarding preparing
the Kennedy Square Block for develop-
ment. Certain encumbrances to title, iden-
tified in Exhibit to the KWA Develop-
ment Agreement, must be eliminated.
Kennedy Square is currently under the
jurisdiction of the Recreation Department.
Attached to this communication is a copy
of a memorandum from Ernest Burkeen,
Jr., Director of the Recreation Depart-
ment, to Paul Bernard, Director of the
Planning Development Department,
declaring Kennedy Square surplus to the
Recreation Department's needs and
transferring jurisdiction of Kennedy
Square to the Planning Development
Department.

Under the KWA Development Agree-
ment, the DDA is to construct a new park-
ing garage under Kennedy Square Block,
which will replace the existing parking
garage. The existing Kennedy Square

 

Whamm- 

Parking Garage is owned by the City'of
Detroit Building Authority (the ?Building
Authority") in accordance with Contract of
Lease No. 2. the Building Authority has
taken action to remove the Kennedy
Square Parking Garage from its inventory
and reconvey it to the City. Such action is
effective upon adoption of a resolution by
your Honorable Body authorizing such
action.

Additionally, the Restated Compuware
Development Agreement obligates the
City and/or the DDA to coordinate the
completion of certain Infrastructure
Improvements (as that term is defined
therein), with the completion of construc-
tion of the Compuware headquarters
building. the Infrastructure Improvements
include the construction of the new
Campus Martius Park and the new
perimeter roads around the new Park. A
portion of these Infrastructure Improve-
ments will be constructed above the new
parking garage. In order to be able to
have the Infrastructure Improvements
properly coordinated with the construction
of the Compuware headquarters building,
it is imperative that the DDA be in a posi-
tion to commence construction of the new
parking garage as soon as possible.

Attached to this communication is a
resolution authorizing the reconveyance
of the Kennedy Square site from the
Building Authority to the City, approving
transfer of jurisdiction of the Kennedy
Square site from the Recreation Depart-
ment to the Planning &Development
Department, eliminating title encum-
brances, and authorizing the conveyance
of the Kennedy Square site from the City
to the DDA. The proposed resolution is
consistent with and enables the City to
implement its Policy 301?126 of the City
of Detroit Master Plan of Policies to "rede-
velop Kennedy Square block as an
office/retail site," as set forth in Revised
Master Plan Change #30 adopted by your
Honorable Body on May 4, 2000.The pro-
posed resolution, when adopted, will also
enable the City to carry out its obligations
under the KWA Development Agreement
and the Restated Compuware Develop-
ment Agreement.

It is respectfully requested that you
adopt the attached resolution with a waiv-
er of reconsideration.

Respectfully submitted,
A. JAMES
Corporation Counsel
Recreation Department
July 28, 2000
Honorable City Council:
Re: Transfer of Jurisdiction John Fitz-
gerald Kennedy Square 

On December 19, 1972 (J.C.C. pp.
3079-80) the City Council adopted a res-
olution assigning jurisdiction of John
Fitzgerald Kennedy Square to the
Department of Parks and Recreation for

August 2

1946 2000

 

park, recreation and other municipal pub-
lic purposes. You have advised us that in
order to permit the development of the
Campus Martius Project in accordance
with the KWA and Compuware develop-
ment agreements approved by City
Council on December 8, 1999, and the
Master Plan of Policies as amended by
Revised Master Plan Change #30, it is
necessary to transfer jurisdiction of John
Fitzgerald Kennedy Square from the
Recreation Department to the Planning 
Development Department.

In light of the anticipated development
of the Campus Martius Park, the
Recreation Department declares the
property lying west of Woodward Avenue,
south of Michigan Avenue, east of
Griswold Street and north of Fort Street,
officially known as "John Fitzgerald
Kennedy Square," and commonly known
as Kennedy Square, surplus to its inven-
tory. The Department transfers Kennedy
Square to the Planning Development
Department to facilitate in the develop-
ment of the Campus Martius Project.

Should you require further information,
please contacLAngela Bradby at 224-
1103.

Respectfully Submitted,
ERNEST W. BURKEEN, JR.
Director
By Council Member Mahaffey:

Whereas, the City of Detroit Building
Authority (the "Building Authority?) has
been duly created and incorporated as a
public authority and body corporate by the
City Council of the City of Detroit (the
"City") pursuant to the provisions of Act
31, Public Acts of Michigan, 1948 (First
Extra Session), as amended, for the pur-
pose of acquiring, furnishing, equipping,
owning, improving, enlarging, operating
or maintaining a building or buildings,
including but not limited to automobile
parking lots or structures, independently
or adjunct to other buildings, recreational
facilities, stadiums and the necessary site
or sites therefor, for the use of any legiti?
mate public purpose of the City; and

Whereas, the Building Authority and
the City previouSiy ent?ed into that cer-
tain Contract of Lease No. 2, dated as of
October 15, 1985, as amended and sup-
plemented on October 5, 1990, on June
11, 1992, on February 1, 1997', on July 1,
1998 and on October 1, 1999 ("Contract
of Lease No. pursuant to which the
Building Authority acquired from the City
certain municipal parking facilities defined
in Contract of Lease No. 2 as the initial
Project, consisting of Cobo Arena, Joe
Louis Arena and Joe Louis Arena Parking
Garage and the Kennedy Square Parking
Garage (hereinafter referred to as the
?initial Project?); (ii) leased the initial
Project back to the City; and financed
the acquisition of the initial Project
through the issuance of the Building

 

Authority?s Parking and Arena System
Revenue Bonds; and

Whereas, pursuant to resolution of City
Council dated April 3, 1978 (J.C.C. pp.
?52-53) the City conveyed the Kennedy
Square Parking Garage to the Building
Authority by deed dated April 18, 1980
and recorded April 28, 1980, in Liber
20846, Page 755, Wayne County
Records, Register Number and

Whereas, the Kennedy Square Parking
Garage is situated within the area gener-
ally bounded by Woodward, Fort,
Griswold, and Michigan, extending under
portions of each of these streets, as
described in the deed identified in the pre-
ceding paragraph (the ?Kennedy Square
Parking Garage Site?); and 

Whereas, in connection with the 1999
supplement to Contract of Lease No. 2,
the Building Authority issued and sold
revenue bonds in the aggregate principal
amount of 520,900,000 (the ?1999
Bonds") to finance the acquisition and
construction of a new 1100 space below-
grade parking facility to be located on
Woodward Avenue (at the site of the for-
mer Hudson's Building) in the City to
accommodate future above?grade
improvements that are expected to com-
prise a part of the Campus Martius
Project (the ?Campus i'vlartius Project"),
an economic development project being
undertaken by the City of Detroit
Dovrntown Development Authority (the
and

Whereas, on December 8, 1999, the
City of Detroit City Council (the "City
Council?) adopted its resolution authoriz-
ing the Director of the City of Detroit
Planning and Development Department
to execute that certain devel-
opment agreement (hereinafter referred
to as the Development Agreement?)
by and among the City, the DDA and Kern
Woodward Associates, L.L.C. 
which contemplates the transfer of those
certain properties comprising the Cam-
pus Martius Project, commonly known as
the Hudson Block, the Monroe Block, the
Kern Block, the Crowley Block and the
Kennedy Square Block, as those terms
are defined in the KWA Development
Agreement, to the DDA, for reconveyance
to and development by subject to
certain terms and conditions and rights of
the City: and (ii) emecute that certain land
transfer agreement (the Land
Transfer Agreement?) by and between the
City and the DDA for the transfer to the
DDA of the Monroe Block, the Kern Block,
the Crowley Block and the Kennedy
Square Block in accordance with the
KWA Development Agreement (A condo-
minium was previously created on the
Hudson Block comprised of two (2) units.
The Master Deed generally describes unit
1 as constituting the subterranean area of
the Hudson Block (?Unit and unit 2

August 2
mgr-A

 

.5. 

consisting of the parallelepiped air space
extending vertically upward from grade on
the Hudson Block {Unit As indicated
above. the Building r'ituthority currently
holds trite to and is constructing a below-
grade parking facility in Unit 1. The DDA
holds title in fee to Unit and

Whereas. also on December 8. i999.
the City Council adopted its resolution
authorizing the Director of to it}
execute that certain development agree?
ment by and among the City. the DDA and
Compuwara Corporation (Compuware'?r.
which development agreement contem?
plates the transter oi the Kern and Crowley
blocks to the DDA. tor reconveyance to
and development by Compuware of its
new corporate headquarters {the
"Compuware Development Agreement].
subject to certain rights of KWA pursuant
to the KWA Development Agreement; and
(if) execute certain land transfer agree-
ments (the Land Transfer
Agreements") by and between the City
and the DDA tor transfer to the DDA oi the
Kern Block and the Crowley Block. subject
to certain rights of HWA pursuant to the
KWA Land Transfer Agreement. and a por-
tion of Former Street. all in accordance
with the Compuware Development
Agreement; and

Whereas. on July 2t. 2000. the City
Council adopted a resolution approving
certain changes to the Compuware
Development Agreement and authorizing
the Director of to execute a
Ftesialed Compuware Development
Agreement containing such changes (the
"Restated Compuware Development
Agreement"); and

Whereas. the Restated Compuware
Development Agreement obligates the
City shorter the DDA to coordinate the
completion of certain infrastructure
improvements (as that term is defined
therein), with the completion of construc-
tion of the Compuware headquarters
building; and

Whereas. the creation of the perimeter
roads surrounding the new Campus
Martius Part: {the "Pant"; is among the
infrastructure improvements to be com?
pleted as provided above; and

Whereas. it is anticipated that certain oi
the perimeter roads and part of the Part:
will be developed over a portion of the
Kennedy Square Part-ring Garage Site.
and

Whereas. in connection with the KWA
Development Agreement and the
Restated Compuware Development
Agreement. the City has requested the
Building Authority to enter into a land
transfer agreement (hereinafter referred
to as the "Kennedy Square Land Transfer
Agreement") pursuant to which the
Building Authority will reconvey the
Kennedy Square Parking Garage Site to
the City. thereby removing the Kennedy

?i955?

 

 

 

2000

Fu-?r u?

Square Parking Garage from the City's.
municipal parking system; and

Whereas. Contract of Lease his. 2
authorizes the Building Authority to sell.
remove or dispose of any property consti-
tuting part of the municipal parking sys-
tem. provided that prior to any sale.
removal or disposal. there must be filed
with the Building Authority. the City and
the trustee for the bondholders a report
from the City?s parking consultant to the
effect that for each of the first five full
fiscal years following the date of such
sale. removal or disposition. the revenue
derived from the municipal parking sys-
tem halting into account such sale.
removal or disposal] will not fall below 
1759:: of the amounts needed to pay pri. 
cipal and interest and sinking fund
requirements for all outstanding bonds
and lb] amounts required to be paid-into
the debt service reserve account. the
operating and contingency reserve fund
and the operating and maintenance reim+
hursement fund; and

Whereas. the City's parking consultant
has filed such a report with the Building
Authority. the City and the trustee for the
bondholders confirming that the require-
ments for removed of the Kennedy Square
Parking Garage from the municipal park-
ing system have been satisfied; and

Whereas. Contract of Lease Mo. 2 pro
vides that upon the filing of the parking
consultant's report with the Building
Authority. the City and the trustee for the
bondhoiders. the property subject to sale.
removal or disposal shall no longer be
part of the municipal parking system and
the revenues derived therefrom shall no
longer be considered revenues dedicated
to support the operation of the municipal
parking system or pledged to the bond-
holders for that purpose upon passage of
a resolution to that effect by the City
Council; and

Whereas. Contract of Lease No. 2 fur-
ther provides that the Building Authority
may remove nroperty from the municipal
parking system with the approval of the
City by ordinance or by resolution; and

Whereas. on January 7. 2000. the
Board of Commissioners of the Building
Authority adopted its resolution authoriz-
ing the Building Authority to reconvey the
Kennedy Square Parking Garage Site to
the Czty and to remove the Kennedy
Square Parking Garage from the munici-
pal parking system of the City; and

Whereas. pursuant to the Kennedy
Square Land transfer Agreement. the City
desires to remove the Kennedy Square
I'arking Garage from the initial Project
under Contract of Lease No. 2. and reac-
quire the Kennedy Square Parking
Garage Site from the Building Authority;
Eli?tL'J

Whereas. in accordance with the 
Development Agreement. the City desires

August 2

to transfer the Kennedy Square Parking
Garage Site to the DDA so that the-DDA
may construct a new underground
parking garage on the Kennedy Square
Parking Garage Site, and (ii) transfer the
Kennedy Square Block to KWA for devel-
opment in accordance with the KWA
Development Agreement, the Restated
Compuware Development Agreement,
and the KWA Land Transfer Agreement
for the Campus Martius Project; and

Whereas, the City of Detroit Municipal
Parking Department shall oper-
ate and manage the Kennedy Square
Parking Garage as a public parking facili?
ty until the transfer of the Kennedy Square
Parking Garage Site to the DDA, provided
that the DDA shall give the MPD sixty-five
(65) days? notice of the need to transfer
the Kennedy Square Parking Garage Site;
and

Whereas;- in accordance with the KWA
Development approved by the Detroit City
Council on December 8; 1999, and in
accordance with the request of the
Recreation Department to transfer juris-
diction ?of the Kennedy Square to the
Planning Development Department, the
City Council desires to rescind the resolu-
tion adopted by City Council on
December 19, 1972 (J.C.C. pp. 3079-80)
assigning jurisdiction of John Fitzgerald
Kennedy Square to the Department of
Parks and Recreation for park, recreation-
al, and other municipal public purposes
for the purposes of rescinding any
express or implied dedication or declara-
tion of use of the Kennedy Square Block
for park, recreational or public open space
purposes and to declare the Kennedy
Square Block surplus to the City's needs
in order to permit the development of the
Campus Martius Project; and

Whereas, in accordance with the KWA
Development Agreement approved by the
Detroit City Council on December 8,
1999, the City desires to rescind the res-
olution adopted by the City of Detroit
Common Come? on December 3, 1963
(J.C.C. p.2946) requiring that the land
?lying west of Woodward Avenue, south of
Michigan Avenue, east of Griswold Street
and north of Fort henceforth
be known as FITZGERALD
KENNEDY to .permit the
development of the Campus Martius
Project; and

Whereas, the City Council has deter-
mined that repurchasing the Kennedy
Square Parking Garage Site from the
Building Authority and removing the
Kennedy Square Parking Garage from the
municipal parking system, and conveying
the Kennedy Square Parking Garage Site
to the DDA for construction of a new
underground parking garage and for con-
veyance by the DDA of the Kennedy
Square Block to KWA for development in
accordance with the KWA Development

 

1948 2000

Agreement and the Restated Compuware
Development Agreement, and assisting in
the development of the Campus Martius
Project, is in the best interest of the City,
will serve a valid public purpose and will
benefit the public by increasing employ-
ment opportunities within the City, pro-
moting the location, relocation, expansion
and retention of commercial enterprises
within the City, enhancing tourists ameni-
ties within the City, .preserving and
improving the aesthetic quality and eco-
nomic health of the City, and increasing
taxes and other revenues of the City;

Now, Therefore, Be It Resolved By The
City of Detroit City Council, as follows:

1. That the Director of the City of
Detroit Planning and-? Development
Department is authorized to execute the
Kennedy Square Land Transfer Agree-
ment with the Building Authority and
accept a deed from the Building Authority
of the transfer of the Kennedy Square
Parking Garage Site for One 
Dollar and other good and valuable con-
sideration.

2. That the Kennedy Square Land
Transfer Agreement shall be considered
confirmed when executed by the Director
of the City of. Detroit Planning and
Development Department, and approved
as to form by the Corporation Counsel.

3. That upon the execution of the
Kennedy Square Land Transfer Agree-
ment, the Kennedy Square Parking
Garage shall beideeme'cl removed from
the municipal parking system and the rev-
enues therefrom shall no longer be dedi-
cated to support the debt of the City?s
municipal parking system or pledged to
the bondholders for that purpose;

4. That the Kennedy Square Land
transfer Agreement shall be executed
effective as of the sixty-fifth (65th) day
after the DDA gives notice to the MPD
that it is necessary to close the Kennedy
Square Parking Garage for the purpose of
commencing the Infrastructure
Improvements.

5. That in accordance .with the request
of the Recreation Department to transfer
jurisdiction of John Fitzgerald Kennedy
Square to the Planning Development
Department, the resolution adOpted by
City Council on December 19, 1972
(J.C.C. pp. 3079?80) assigning jurisdiction
of John Fitzgerald Kennedy Square to the
Department of Parks and Recreation for
park, recreational, and other municipal
public purposes is rescinded, and any
express or implied dedication or declara-
tion of use of John Fitzgerald Kennedy
Square for park, recreational or public
open space purposes is vacated and
rescinded.

6. That the declaration of John
Fitzgerald Kennedy Square as surplus
and the transfer of jurisdiction of John
Fitzgerald Kennedy Square from the

August 2

1949 2000

 

 

iiecreation Department to the Planning 
Development Department is approved.

7. That in accordance with the KWA
Development Agreement approved by the
Detroit City Council on December ti,
1090, the resolution adopted by the City
of Detroit Common Council on December
3, i053 p. 2.045} requiring that the
land ?lying west oi Woodward Avenue,
south of lvticl'iigari Avenue. east of
Griswold Street and north of Fort
henceforth be known as
FITZGERALD KENNEDY
is rescinded

8. That the Director of the City of Detroit
Planning and Development Department is
authorized to transfer the l?ter'rnedy Square
Parking Garage Site. together with appro?
priate easements, to the DDA for One
Dollar and other good and valuable
consideration, and to execute a deed and
any other required documents to effectuate
such transfer in accordance with the terms
of this resolution.

9. That the deed and other documents
referred to in the preceding paragraph
shall be considered confirmed when exe?
cuted by the Director of the Planning 
Development Department and approved
as to form by the Corporation Counsel.

Adopted as follows:

Yeas Members Cleveland. 
Cool-trot, Jr., S. Cockrel, Everett, Hood,
Mahatiey, Scott. and
President Hill 0.

Nays None.

OF RECONSIDERATION
(No.55) per motions before adjournment.

Law Department
July 28, 2000

Honorable City Council:

He: Settlement with defendant Smith 
Wesson Corporation in Dennis W.
Archer c3 City of Detroit Arms
Technology, inc, et al., No. 99-
912658 NZ

We have reviewed the above-refer?
enced lawsuit, the facts and particulars of
which are set forth in a confidential mem-
orandum that is being separately hand-
delivered to each member of your

Honorable Body. From this review, it is our

considered opinion that settlement with

the defendant Smith Wesson

Corporation, on the terms set forth in that

certain "Settlement Agreement? dated

March 17, 2000 by and between Smith 81

Wesson Corporation, the US.

Department of Treasury, the US.

Department of Housing 8: Urban

Development and other state, city and

county parties. is in the best interest of

the City of Detroit. A copy of the

Settlement Agreement has been sepa?

rately hand delivered to each member of

your Honorable Body.

We, therefore, request approval of the
attached resolution which authorizes set-

 

tlement of the above-referenced lawsuit
only as to the defendant Smith Wesson
pursuant to the terms of the Settlement
Agreement. A waiver of reconsideration is
requested.
Respectfully submitted,
A. JAMES
Corporation Counsel

Ely Council Member Mahafiey:

Resolved. that in accordance with
Section 6?403 of the 199? Detroit City
Charter, the Detroit City Council consents
to settlement of the civil litigation cap-.
tioned Dennis W. Archer a City at Detroit
v. Arms Technology; the, at al., No. 90-
912658 NZ. only as to the defendant
Smith a Wesson Corporation, on the
terms of and pursuant to that certain writ?
ten "Settlement Agreement" dated March
2000. by and between Smith 8:
Wesson Corporation. the US.
Department of Treasury. the U.S.
Department of Housing 8? Urban
Development and other state, city and
county parties. -

AdOpted as follows:

Yeas Council Members Cleveland,
K. Cockrei, Jr.. 3. Cockret, Everett. Hood.
Mahaiiey. Scott, Tinsley-Talabi, and
President Hill 0.

Nays None.

OF 
(No. 56) per motions before adjournment.

Law Department
July 28. 2000

Honorable City Council:

He: Kimberly City oi Detroit,
at al., Case No: 99-924380Nl.
{Wayne County Circuit Court], Case
No: 99-74277 (U.S. District Coud).

i have reviewed the above-captioned
lawsuit, the facts and particulars of which
are set torth in 3 Con?dential memoran-
dum that is being separately hand-deliv-
ered to each member of Your Honorable
Body. From this review. it is our consid?
ered opinion that a settlement in the
amount of Forty-Five . Thousand
Dollars is in the best interest
of the City of Detroit.

I, therefore, request authorization to
settle this matter in the amount of Forty-
Five Thousand Dollars and
that Your Honorable Body direct the
Finance Director to issue a draft in that
amount payable to Kimberly 
and her attorney. Thomas H. Randolph ill.
to be delivered upon receipt of properly
executed Fteleases and a Satisfaction of
Judgment entered in Lawsuit No. 99-
[United States District Court) and
Lawsuit No. (Wayne
County Circuit Court} approved by the
Law Department.

Respectfully submitted.
JACK TIMMONY,
Special Assistant
Corporation Counsel

Engi-
raffic
fur-

3 

span-
Hurof

.?oner
hnent
span-
ionto
leHy
Iahns,
ise as
?ace-
tpub-

Iall be
'ons of
may
v; and


:Sl?lall
ssion
:ondi-
Ill be
nittee
a City
ected
isfac-
tment
it and

ad by
DPVV
Engh
lhthe
event

pon-
it of
way)
vying
:aLto
ir the
ys or
tittee
lpro-
ss,or
k?es;

lper-
osed,
lcon-
odes,
r?des
upon
shaH
ter

cabm

neby
es or
each-
thtee



February 22 429 1995

hm 

acquires no implied or other privileges
hereunder not expressly stated herein;
and further

Provided, That the petitioner shall
apply to and become a participating
member of the "Miss Dig? organization;
and further

Provided, The filing of the indemnity
agreement and the securing of the nec-
essary permits referred to herein shall be
construed as acceptance of this resolu-
tion by the permittee; and further

Provided, The the encroachment per-
mit shall not be assigned or transferred
without the written approval of the City
Council; and further

Provided, That the City Clerk shall
within 30 days record a certified copy of
this resolution with the Wayne CoUnty
Register of Deed; and be it further

Resolved, The petitioner ?Total Petro-
leum, Inc., owner of Total Retail Facility
#2554 at 10000 Plymouth Avenue" and/
or ?Enecotech Midwest (Environmental
Consultants), Inc.? shall submit "as built"
drawings sealed by a professional engi-
neer registered in the State of Michigan
to the City Engineering Division DPW
within 30 days after obtaining the neces-
sary ?encroachment" permit to install the
three preposed monitoring wells. Said
?as built? drawings shall furnish a com-
plete means of identifying and ascertain-
ing the precise position of every part of
the ?encroachment? with courses, dis-
tances, and depth throughout (contain-
ing City of Detroit datum), so that it may
be determined with certainty where any
portion of the ?encroachment" has been
built. Copies of the certified "as built"
maps and surveys shall be an ?appen-
dix? to this City Council resolution. Said
"appendix? shall be recorded by the City
Engineering Division DPW in the
Wayne County Register of Deeds.

Adopted as follows: .

Yeas Council Members Cleveland,
Cockrel, Everett, Hill, Hood, Ravitz,
Scott, Tinsley-Williams, and President
Mahaffey 9.

Nays None.

Recreation Department

February 2, 1995
Honorable City Council:
Re: Proposed Sale of Portion of Lipke
Playfield.

The Recreation Department has
received a request from Ozzad Property
Management, a Michigan company
doing business as Randazzo's Fruit and
Vegetable Market, to purchase a strip of
land 50 feet wide along the playfield's
eastern boundary. Randazzo's is the
business to the east of the playfield. The
land which the company wishes to pur-
chase is actually part of the Antwerp
Avenue right-of?way, 60 feet wide, which

 

was taken from the playfield in 1948.
However, at the directiOn of the City
Council, the right-of-way was barricaded
to prevent vehicle traffic in 1954. Vaca-
tion of the right-of-way would return the
area to the playfield. The Recreation
Department has reviewed this request
and feels that this sale would have no
effect on the recreational value of the
playfield, and assuming that the
Council vacates the right-of?way, return-
ing the area to the playfield hereby
declares the resulting east 50 feet of
Lipke Playfield surplus to the needs of
the department.

The Planning and Development
Department has reached agreement with
Ozzad Property Management to sell the
50-foot wide strip, totaling 13,842 square
feet or .3178 acres more or less, for the
sum of $5,500 (Five Thousand, Five
Hundred and 00/100 Dollars). Accord-
ingly, the Recreation Department and the
Planning 8. Development Department
request that your Honorable Body
approve the attached resolution, which
has two major elements:

1. Refers the proposed vacation of
Antwerp Avenue adjacent to Lipke Play-
field to the Department of Public Works
for investigation and recommendation,
and

2. If the investigation and recommen-
dation above result in the City Council
vacating the Antwerp Avenue right-of-
way adjacent to Lipke Playfield, declares
the eastern 50 feet of that area to be sur-
plus to the needs of the Recreation
Department, transfers jurisdiction of that
parcel to the Planning 8. Development
Department, authorizes the parcel's
sale,- and authorizes the deposit of the
sale proceeds into the Recreation
Department's revolving fund for land
acquisition and site development.

Respectfully submitted,
ERNEST W. BURKEEN, JR.
Director
Recreation Department
GLORIA ROBINSON
Director
Pianning a Development Department

By Council Member Cockrel:

Be It Resolved, That in accordance
with the foregoing communication, the
Department of Public Works is hereby
requested to investigate and make a rec-
ommendation to the City Council on the
vacation of the portion of the Antwerp
Avenue right-of-way adjacent to Lipke
Playfield, more particularly described 35:

Land in the City of Detroit, County of
Wayne, Michigan being the East 60 feet
of that part of the S.W. 1/4 of Section 3,
T.1S., R.12E., Hamtramck Township
lying West of the easterly line extended
of Antwerp Avenue, 60 feet wide, as plat-
ted in "DesGrandchamp?s Outer Drive

February 22 430 1995

 

Sub. of part of E. 1/2 of S.W. 1/4 of Sec.
3, T.1S., R.12E., Hamtramck Twp.", as
recorded in Liber 49, Page 24 of Plats,
Wayne County Records, and also platted
in the ?House Van Dyke-Seven Mile
Road Subdivision of part of S. 1/2 of the

-W., 1/4 890.8, T.1S., R.12E., Ham-
tr'amck Twp.", as recorded in Liber 49,
Page 26 .of Plats, Wayne County
Records, bounded on the North by the
South line - Of the said ?Des-
Grandchamp's ?Outer Drive Sub", rec?d.
L. 49, P. 24 of P.W.C.R. and on the South
by the North line of the said ?House Van
Dyke-Seven Mile Read rec'd. L.
49, P. 26 of c?o?ntaining 16,610
square feet er 0.3813 aores more or less.

And Be It Further Resolved, That in the
event the City Council subsequently
vacates the above described portion of
the Antwerp Avenue right-of?way and the
area is returned to Lipke Playfield, the
portion of Lipke Playfield described as
follows. .

Land in- the City of Detroit, County of
Wayne, Michigan being the easterly 50
feet of the follO'Wing described parcel
containing 13,842 square feet or 0.3178
acres more Or less: Parcel described as
being the East 60 feet of that part of the
S.W. 1/4 'of Section 3, T.1S., R.12E.,
Hamtramck Township lying West of the
easterly line extended of Antwerp Ave-
nue, 60 feet wide, as platted in
?DesGrandchamp?s Outer Drive Sub. of
part of E. 1/2 of S.W. 1/4 or Sec. 3, T.1S.,
R.12E-., Hamtramck Twp.", as recorded
in Liber 49, Page 24 of Plats, Wayne
County Records, and also platted in the
"House Van Dyke-Seven Mile Road Sub~
division of part of S. of the S.W. 1M
Sec. 3, T.1S., Hamtramck Twp.",
as recorded in Liber 49, Page 26 of Plats,
Wayne County Records, bounded on the
North by the South line of the said
"DesGr'andchamp?s Outer Drive Sub.",
rec'the
South by the North line of the said
"House Van Dyke-Seven Mile Road
Sub.", rec'd. L. 49, [3.26 oi P.W.C.R. con-
taining 16,610 square feet or 0.3813
acres more or less. 

ls hereby declared surplus to the
needs of the Recreation Department and
is transferred to the jurisdiction of the
Planning and Development Department,
and

Be It Further Resolved, That the sale
of this parcel to Ozzad Property Manage-
ment for the price of 500 (Five Thou-
sand, Five Hundred and 00/100 Dollars)
is hereby authorized, With the proceeds
of said sale to be deposited' In the Recre-
ation Department' revolving fund for
land acquisition and site development.

Adopted as follows:

Yeas Council Members Cleveland,
Cockrel, Everett, Hill, Hood, Ravitz,

 

Scott, Tinsley-Williams and President
Mahatfey 9.
Nays None.

RecreatIOn Department
Revised as per City Council Request

of February 21, 1995.

January 10, 1995

Honorable City Council:

Re: Establishment of Easements Within
Rouge Valley Parkway and Transfer
of Portion of Eliza Howell Park to
Water and Sewerage Department
for PUritan-Fenkell CSO Detention
Facility.

On March 16, 1994, the City Council -

adopted a "Resolution of Authority" for
the Detroit Water and Sewerage Depart-
ment (DWSD) to acquire properties,
easements and rights-of-way for the pur-
pose of constructing federally- mandated
Combined Sewer Overflow (CSO)
basins. To build one of the C80 facilities
the Puritan- Fenkell CSO Detention
Facility DWSD will require a perma-
nent 30 foot wide easement Within the
Rouge Valley Parkway for a new sanitary
sewer, a temporary sevver Construction
easement within the Parkway, and the
transfer of a 5.168 acre parcel within
Eliza Howell Park to DWSD's jurisdiction
for the 030 Detention Facility.

DWSD has met with members of the
community and with Recreation Depart-
ment staff .to determine improvements to
be made within Eliza Howell Park, as mit-
igation for the loss of recreation acreage.
DWSD will construct tennis courts, play
equipment, a comfort station and a park-
ing lot for Users of these facilities. We are
hereby asking your Honorable Body to
adopt the following resolution,- which
authorizes the establishment of the
easements and the transfer of jurisdic-
tion of the Eliza Howell Park acreage to
DWSD.

Respectfully submitted
ERNESTW. BURKEEN, JR.
Director
STEPHEN GORDEN
Director, Water and Sewerage Dept.
By Council Member Hood:

Resolved, That the Recreation Depart-
ment is authorized to grant the following
described Easements situated in the City
of Detroit to the Water and Sewerage
Department for the purpose of construct-
ing and maintaining a sanitary sewer to
be installed by the Water and Sewerage
Department, in conjunction with the con-
struction of a Combined Sewer Overflow
Facility.

Easements more particularly de-
scribed as follows:

A 30-foot wide permanent easement
for sanitary sewer, located in the south-
west of Section 16, Town 1 South,
Range 10 East, City of Detroit. Wayne

.. 3.1: .-


. 



weer?roqem?

. 







.-- I. 
ems-arr: t?rst??w. -re




Lu! 

. . 
.ip

  



1995

the fair
3 subject
I 602,000
d.

idl

.LLO
)irector

Finance
.orized to
tase and
:1 land in
tbilitation
Limited

sum of
the fore-
id the


be con-
'and exe-
:tor and
set as to

13 Park
ltichigan
Iendrie 
7 of the
vision of
recorded
Wayne
Lots 65
8 Hillger
of Henry
private
I in Liber
County
record-
Wayne
Lots 69
through
on No. 1
private
rs of H.
Page 38
also all
.rt of Lot
and 377
Lands
private
efferson
Page 58
ds; also
vision of
orded in
Wayne
particu~
bounds:
rsection
andrie 
in Liber
sterly of
'line of

November 9 2903 1995

 

the proposed Easterly line of New
Clairpointe; thence S. 25' 52' 48" E.,
1,239.97 feet along said line parallel with
and 79 feet Westerly thereof to a point
436.55 feet Northerly of the Northerly line
of Avondale Avenue, 60 feet wide, said
point being a point of curve; thence
465.84 feet along the arc of a curve conv

cave to the Northeast with a radius of 485 

feet, central angle of 55' 01' 56" and a
long chord bearing of S. 53' 23' 48" E.,
448.14 feet to a point of tangency; thence
S. 80? 54' 44? E., 313.07 feet to a point on
a park road; thence N. 25' 05' 04" E.,
112.41 feet, and N. 02' 20? 10" E., 80.86
feet along said road to the intersection of
the northerly line of Avondale Avenue,
and the Westerly line of Connor Avenue,
50 feet wide; thence H. 25? 53' 29" W..
300.00 feet along the said Westerly line of
Connor Avenue to the Northeasterly core
nor of Lot 377 of Grosse Pointe Lands Co.
Subdivision, as recorded in Liber 38,
Page 52 of Plats, Wayne County Records;
thence S. 83' 59' 07? W., 118.45 feet along
the Soulherly line of Lot 375 of Grosse
Pointe Lands Co. Subdivision to the West
line of public alley, 18 feet wide; thence N.
25? 53' 29" W., 60.00 feet along the
Westerly line of said public alley to the
Hortheasterly corner of Lot 288 of said
Hendrie 8 Hillger Subdivision No. 1, as
recorded in Liber 38, Page 59 of Plats,
Wayne County Records; thence S. 83' 59'
07'" W., 286.00 feet along the Northerly
line of Lots 288 and 283 of said subdivi-
sion to the Westerly line of a public alley
18' wide; thence N. 25' 53' 29" E.,
1,316.18 feet along said line to the
Northeast corner of Lot 89 of said subdi-
vision; thence S. 83' 59' 07" W., 208.38
feet along the Northerly line of said Lot 89
extended to the point of beginning, con-
taining 10.75 acres. Also parcel 
described with the following bounds:
beginning at the intersection of the
Northerly line of Freud Avenue, 80 feet
wide, and a line 27 feet Westerly of the
Westerly line of Ciairpointe Avenue;
thence N. 25' 52' 48" W.. 200.17 feet
along said line: thence N. 28' 44' 48" W.,
220 feet to a point 38 feet Westerly of the
Westerly line of Clairpointe Avenue:
thence N. 25' 52' 48" W., 180.08 feet
along said line 38 feet Westerly of the
Westerly line of Clairpointe Avenue, to the
Northerly line of Lot 33 of the Hendrie and
Hillger Subdivision, as recorded in Liber
27, Page 87 of Plats. Wayne County
Records; thence N. 83' 59' 07? E., 190.17
feet along said l?lortherly line of said Lot
33 and the t-tortherly line at Lot 20 of
Connor's Creek Subdivision, as recorded
in Liber 34, Page 34 of Plats, Wayne
County Records to the Westerly line of
public alley, 18 feet wide: thence S. 25' 53'
29" E., 800.00 feet along said Westerly

 

line of public alley to the Northerly line of
Freud Avenue; thence S. 83' 59' 07" W.,
179.29 feet along said Northerly line of
Freud Avenue to the point of beginning
and containing 2.542 acres. The public
rights?ot-way of Clairpointe Street, Essex
Street, Avondale Street and public alleys
within the bounds of the above described
parcel are intended to be vacated and
included in the parcel.

Adopted as follows:

Yeas Council Members Cleveland,
Cookrel, Everett, Ravitz, Scott, Tinstey-
Williams, and President Pro Tem. Hill 7.

Nays None.

Recreation Department
November 8, 1995
Honorable City Council:

Re: Surplus Declaration, Portion NE

Maheras Playfield

When Clairpointe and Conner Avenues
were reconstructed several years ago, a
small corner of Maheras Playfield was out
off from the main portion of the site by the
two new streets. This parcel is shown on
the Jefferson-Chalmers urban renewal
plan as a future housing site.l am hereby
declaring this parcel, which is 0.172 acres
in size, as surplus to the needs of the
Recreation Department. If your Honorable
Body agrees with this declaration,
attached is a resolution which will confirm
the surplus declaration and transfer juris-
diction of the parcel to the Planning 
Development Department.

Respectfully submitted,
ERNEST W. BURKEEN, JR.
Director
By Council Member Everett:

Resolved, That the portion of Maheras
Playfield described as follows:

A part of Private Claim 388, City of
Detroit, Wayne County. Michigan, being
more particularly described as:
Commencing at the northwest corner of
Avondale Street. 80 feet wide and Conner
Avenue, 50 feet wide, said point being
also the southeast corner of Lot 386 of
Grosse Pointe Land Company
Subdivision, as recorded in Liber 38,
Page 52 of Plats, Wayne County Records:
thence 53.99 feet along the arc of a curve
to the right. said curve having a radius of
59.10 feet. central angle of 52' 20' 49" and
a long chord bearing of S. 00' 18' 
52.13 feet; thence S. 26' 27' 20" W., 21.77
feet to the point of beginning on the west
line of Avondale Street, 60 feet wide;
thence S. 26' 27' 20" W., 75.43 feet;
thence 45.85 feet along the arc of a curve
to the left, said curve having a radius of
945.00 feet, central angle of 02' 46' 47"
and a long chord bearing of S. 25' 03' 57"
W., 45.84 feet; thence N. 80' 54? 44" W.,
129.99 feet to a point on the west line of

November 9

2904 1995

 

 

said Avondale Street, 60 feet wide; thence
N. 63' 59' 07" E., 201.83 feet to the point
of beginning and containing 0.172 acres.
ls hereby declared surplus to the needs
of the Recreation Department and is
transferred to the jurisdiction of the
Planning Development Department.

Adopted as follows:

Yeas Council Members Cleveland,
Cockrel, Everett, Ravitz, Scott, Tinsley-
Williams, and President Pro Tem. Hill 7.

Nays None.

SUSpension Of City Council
Rule No. 27

Council Member Everett moved that
Rule No. 27 of the ?Rules and Order
Business of City Council," which requires
that every ordinance previous to its intro-
duction, shall be approved as to form by
the Corporation Counsel, be suspended,
for this session only, for the purpose cf
introducing an Ordinance to amend
Chapter 61, by amending District Map No.
2 of the Official Zoning Ordinance, to
show PD classification where a B4 classi-
fication currently eXists on property gen?
erally bounded by Clinton, St. Antoine,
Macomb and [-75 Service Drive to allow
for the development of a new Juvenile
Detention Center, which motion prevailed.

Adopted as follows:

Yeas Council Members Cockrel,
Everett, Ravitz, Scott, Tinsley-Williams,
and President Pro Tem. Hill 6.

Nays Council Member Cleveland 1.

By Council Member Everett:

AN ORDINANCE to amend Chapter 61,
by amending District Map No. 2 of
Ordinance 390-G, the Official Zoning
Ordinance, as amended.

IT IS HEREBY ORDAINED BY THE
PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF DETROIT:

Section 1.That Chapter 61 of the 1984
Detroit City Code be amended by amend-
ing District Map No.2 of Ordinance 390-6?,
as follows:

That District Map No. 2 be amended to
show a PD zoning classification where a
B4 zoning classification is currently shown
for preperty generally bounded by Clinton,
St. Antoine, Macomb and the l-75 Service
Drive and more specifically described as:

Land in the City of Detroit, County of
Wayne, Michigan being Lots 1 through 4,
inclusive, on the South side of Clinton
Street (40 feet wide), Lots 1 through 4,
inclusive, on the North side of Macomb
Street (50 feet wide) and the East-West
vacated 20 foot alley contiguous to said
Lots, OF THE ANTOINE BEAUBI-
EN (RC. 2), as recorded in Liber 27
of Deeds, Pages 197 through 199, Wayne
County Records, Lots 1 through 7,

 

inclusive on the Southside of Clinton
Street (40 feet wide), Lots 1 through 7,
inclusive, on the North side of Macomb
Street (50 feet wide) and the East-West
vacated 20 foot alley contiguous to said
Lots, OF THE FRONT OF
CHARLES MORAN (RC. 5), as
recorded in Liber 10 Page 3 and 5 of City
Records, all more particularly described
as: Beginning at the intersection of
Northerly line of Macomb. Street, 50 feet
wide with the Easterly line of Saint Antoine
Street, 50 feet wide; thence along said line
of Saint Antoine Street, North 26 degrees
11 minutes 00 seconds West 230.56 feet;
thence along the Southerly line of Clinton
Street, 40 feet wide, North 59 degrees 52
minutes 09 seconds East 578.05 feet;
thence along the Westerly line of the
Walter P. Westerly Service Drive,
South 26 degrees 06 minutes 13 seconds
East 230.56 feet; thence along said
Northerly line of Macomb Street, South 59
degrees 52 minutes 00 seconds West
577.73 feet to the point of beginning.

For that portion of the development
located in an Urban Renewal Area, that
the Land Use and Development Plan and
the Declaration of Restrictions embodied
in the Development Plan for the Central
Business District No. 3 shall constitute the
Planned Development District regulations
and shall be duly recorded at the Wayne
County Registry of Deeds in accordance
with Detroit Zoning Ordinance Section
110.0102. -

And, that the City Council approves the
Development Proposal, Site Plan, and
Elevation Plan for the Charter County of
Wayne to allow the-property to be devel-
oped with a new 201,260 square foot
Juvenile Detention Center covering
3.055? acres described in the Application
for Development Proposal dated
September 14, 1995, the Site Plan by BEI
Associates, Inc. Architects and Engineers
dated September 12, 1995, and the
Elevation Plan by BEI Associates, Inc.
Architects and Engineers dated October
27, 1995, subject to the conditions that
landscaping plans and any signage on the
site be submitted to the Planning
Commission staff for review and approval
prior to the issuance of occupancy permits
and that the legal description of the sub
ject parcel be approved by the City
Engineering Office.

Section 2. All ordinances of parts of
ordinances in conflict herewith be and the
same are hereby repealed.

Section 3. This ordinance is declared
necessary forthe preservation of the pub-
lic peace, health, safety and welfare of the
people of the City of Detroit and is hereby
given immediate effect.

Approved:
TERRI L. RENSHAW
Corporation Counsel

Lea-tags; Ll-v-qr

  

. iL_._lLll_ll_lLll_

vocal-ID

 

Iai1992

five year
:ontains
at or 1.61

d.

irector

ce Direc-
:l to exe-
'i develop
Business
Bell at a
nonth in
ommuni-
in for the

Renewal
gan Ave.
.1d Ave.
Wayne
part of
rline of a
60 feet
platted
Plat No.
247, 55
Detroit,
orded in
Wayne
icularly
9 north-
above
ng the
90 feet
feet, to
a S. 22?
:utherly
35? E.,
1 North-
et wide
I S. 22?
line
thence
. to the
atwide;
feet, to
70,149
gr_le_ss.
subject
is, (for-
as
lat.

be con-
nd exe-
nd and
nselas

Butler,
Kelley.
- 8.

ATION
ijourn-

 







- 

nun-I- Wu v.4"



 

July 29

1717 1992

 

 

Community as Economic
Development Department
July 28, 1992

Honorable City Council:

Re: Lafayette Park Rehabilitation Pro?
ject. Land Disposition: Easterly Part
of Parcel 1 Zone B-4 Transfer of
Jurisdiction and Agreement to Pur-
chase and Develop Land with Michi-
gan Federation of Teachers.

The Recreation Department has
declared a portion of Parcel 1 in
Lafayette Park Rehabilitation Project
Containing approximately 20,11? square
feet surplus to its needs and has
requested that the Community 8: Eco-
nomic Development Department assume
jurisdictional control over the parcel.

On July 23, 1992, a Public Hearing in
connection with the proposed sale of the
captioned property in the Lafayette Parit
Rehabilitation Project to the Michigan
Federation of Teachers was held before
your Honorable Body. All interested per~
sons and organizations were given an
opportunity to be heard.

The proposed redeveloper has submit-
ted satisfactory evidence that it pos-
sesses the necessary financial
resources required to develop land in
accordance with the Development Plan
for the project.

We, therefore, request that your Hon-
orable Body approve the attached sur~
plus declaration and adopt the attached
resolution authorizing the transfer of

jurisdiction of a portion of Parcel ?1 from
the Recreation Department to the Com-
munity and Economic Development
Department, authorize and confirm the
sale of approximately 28,765 square feet
or 0.66 acres in Lafayette Park Reha-
bilitation Project to Michigan Federation
of Teachers in the amount of $71,913.00
and authorize the Finance Director to
execute an Agreement to Purchase and
Develop Land, the agreement to also
obligate the developer to landscape and
maintain the adjacent 11,400 square foot
Cityaowned easement area.
Respectfully submitted,
HENRY B. HAGOOD
Director
RecreatiOn Department
June 3, 1992
Honorable City Council:

B?e: Surplus Declaration, Lafayette


Entrance Park
The Recreation Department has
reviewed the above site and determined
that it is surplus to our needs. We are
hereby asking your Honorable Body to
adopt the attached resolution, concurring
with our surplus determination and trans-
ferringjurisdiction of the site to the Com-
munity and Economic Development
Deparment.
Respectfully submitted,
DANIEL H. KRICHBAUM

 

 

By Council Member Butler:

Resolved, That in accordance with the
foregoing communication and the
attached Surplus Declaration, transfer of
jurisdiction of the following described
property in Lafayette Park Rehabilitation
Project from the Recreation Department
to the Community 6 Economic Develop
ment Department is hereby approved:

Land in the City of Detroit, Wayne
County, Michigan, being the East .100
feet of the West 120 feet of Lot 12 in the
"South Lafayette Park Subdivision of
Parts of Private Claim 6, 181, 7, 12, 13, 8
and 17", as recorded on October 12,
1965 in Liber 88, Pages 61, 62,63 and
64 of Plats, Wayne County Records; said
parcel of land containing,20,117 square
feet or 0.4619 acres [more or less and

Resolved, That the City Finance Direc?
tor be and is hereby authorized to exe-
cute an Agreement to Purchase and
Develop the land described in attached
Exhibit in Lafayette Park Rehabilita-
tion Project with Michigan Federation of
Teachers in the amount of $71,913.00
and .

Resolved, That the agreement obli-
gates Michigan Federation of Teachers
to landscape and maintain the adjacent
City-owned easement area as described
in Exhibit and be it further

Resolved, That the agreement be con-
sidered confirmed when signed and exe-
cuted by the Finance Director and
approved by the Corporation Counsel as
to form.

Exhibit 
LAFAYETTE PARK 
REHABILITATION PROJECT
Part of Parcel 1
W. of Riopelle (Easement)
between Jefferson 8: Lamed

Land in the City of Detroit, County of
Wayne, Michigan being part of Lots 11 
12 of the ?South Lafayette Park Subdivi-
sion of parts of Private Claim 6, 161recorded on Octo-

?r 12, 1965 in Liber 66 of Piats, Page 61
thru 64, Wayne County Records:

Commencing at the northeasterly cor-
ner of said Lot 12, thence 
along the southerly line of Lamed Ave~
nus, 120 feetwide, 109.66 to the point of
beginning; thence along
said southerly fine of Lamed Avenue,
149.93 feet; thence 
201.22 feet; thence along
the northerly line of Jefferson Avenue,
120 feet wide, 136.00 feet; thence
along the westerly line of
public easement, 39.0? feet wide, 201.65
feet, to the point of begining containing
26,765 square feet, or 0.6603 acres

"July 29

Exhibit 
LAFAYETTE PARK
REHABILITATION PROJECT
Part of Parcel 1
E. Of Riopelle (Easement)
Between Jefferson and Larned

Land in the City of Detroit, County of
Wayne, Michigan being part of Lot 12 of
the ?South Lafayette Park Subdivision of
parts of Private Claim 6,181,7,12,13,8
and 17", as recorded on October 12,
1965 in Liber 88 of Plats, Pages 61 thru
64, Wayne County Records:

Commencing on the northeasterly cor-
ner of said Lot 12. thence
along the southerly line
of Larned Avenue, 120 feet wide, 60.00
feet to the point of beginning; thence
along said southerly line
of Larned Avenue, 49.66 feet; thence
along the westerly line of
a public easement, 39.07 feet wide,
201.65 feet; thence 
along the northerly line of Jefferson Ave?
nue, 120 feet wide, 63.66 feet; thence
along a line parellel to
the easterly line of said Lot 12, 201.15
feet to the point of beginning containing
11,400 square feet or 0.2617 acres more
_or less.

Subject to a public easement, 39.07
feet wide, on the westerly part of said Lot
12.

Adopted as, follows: .

Yeas Council Members Butler,
Eberhard, Everett, Hill, Hood, Kelley,
Ravitz, and President Mahaffey 8.

Nays None.

OF RECONSIDERATION
(No. 11) per motions before Adjourn-
merit.

Community 8. Economic
Development Department
July 28. 1992

Honorable City Council:

Re: Jefferson Chalmers Rehabilitation
Project Land Disposition: Part of
Parcel 4 Zone PD Riverbend
Plaza Limited Partnership, a Michi-
gan Limited Partnership.

On Tuesday, July 28. 1992, a public
hean?ng was held before your HonOrable
Body in connection with the proposed
sale of Part of Parcel 4 in Jefferson
Chalmers Rehabilitation project to River-
bend Plaza Limited Partnership, a Michi-
gan Limited Partnership. All interested
persons and organizations were given an
opportunity to be heard.

The proposed redeveloper has submit-
ted satisfactory evidence that it pos-
sesses the necessary financial
resources required to develop land in
accordance with the Development Plan
for the project.

We, therefore, request that your Hon-
orable Body authorize the Finance Direc-

 

1718 1992

tor to execute an agreement to purchase
and develop Part of Parcel 4 in Jefferson
Chalmers Rehabilitation Project to River-
bend Plaza Limited Partnership, a Michi-
gan Limited Partnership in the amount of
$138,184.00. This amoUnt is equal to the
re-use value based on a price of 65? per
square foot. The subject property con-
tains approximately 215,590 square feet
of land or 4.88 acres more or less.
Respectfully submitted,
HENRY B. HAGOOD
Director

By Council Member Butler:

Resolved, That the City Finance Direc-
tor be and is hereby authorized to exe-
cute an agreement to purchase and
develop land in Jefferson Chalmers
Rehabilitation Project as described in
Exhibit with Riverbend Plaza Limited
Partnership. a Michigan limited partner-
ship for the sum of $138,184.00 in
accordance with the foregoing communi-
cation and the Development Plan for this
project; and be it further

Resolved, That the agreement be con-
sidered confirmed when signed and exe?
cuted by the Finance Director and

approved by the Corporation Counsel as
to form.

Exhibit 
Jefferson Chalmers N.D.P.
Part of Parcel 4

Land in the City 'of Detroit, County of
Wayne and State of Michigan being all of
Lots 4 thru 7 and Lots 160 thru 173, and
part of Lots 3, and Lots 8 thru 23 of Block
also all of Lots 8 thru 19 and Lots 156
thru 166, and part of Lots 1 thru 7 of
Block of "Jefferson Park Subdivision of
the Jefferson Park Realty Company in
the. City of Detroit", as recorded in Liber
26, Page 93 of Plats, Wayne County
Records; also the reversionary interest in
that part of Drexel Avenue, 60 feet wide,
and public alleys 18 feet wide and vari-
able width, all lying within the bounds of
this parcel more particularly described as
follows:

Beginning at the intersection of the
southerly line of Jefferson Avenue, 120
feet wide, and westerly line of Coplin
Avenue, 60 feet wide; thence S. 28? 54'
along said westerly line of Coplin
Avenue, 451.76 feet to the southerly line
of said Lot156 of Block thence S.
along said southerly line of
Lot 156 of Block extended westerly a
distance of 408.28 feet; thence
along a line 12.92 feet
westerly of and parallel to the westerly
line of the north-south public alley, 18
feet wide, of above said Block B, ?Jeffer-
son Park Subdivision", a distance of
589.62 feet to the southerly line of Jeffer-
son Avenue; thence along
said southerly line of Jefferson Avenue a
distance of 200.61 feet; thence

- "Meier liar-,-

 

.5 




July

828'
of JE
May
then
sout
dedit

taini
acre.
to es

Ac;

Ebe
Ravi


(ATTACHMENT 

. ., 
- r' 
. 15? 2300 CADILLAC TOWER
., DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226
PHONE 313 -224 -6380
FAX 313-224-1629

CITY or DETROIT


PLANNING DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT

November 9, 2006

Honorable City Council
1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center

Detroit, MI 4 8226

RE: Transfer of Jurisdiction of Surplus Property
Parcel I-?Nortli and South Camp a.l<.a Camp Brighton (part of)

Honorable City Council:

The Detroit Recreation Department has declared the above-captioned property surplus to its needs and request that the Flaming and
Development Department assume jurisdictiOnal control over the proiicny, which is commonly referred to as' Parcel .I?North and
South Camp a.k.a Camp Brighton (part of).

Camp Brighton is a l99?acre recreation camp located in Genoa Township in Livingston County. The site is comprised on two

separate parcels. Parcel I is the North and South camp and Parcel II is a separate parcel located West of the camp. A til-acre lake
(Euler Lake) separates the North and South camp. Parcel I measures approximately 160 acres and is zoned PRF (Public and

Recreational Facilities District).
We are in receipt of a request from The Chaldean Catholic Church of the United States of America, a Michigan Ecclesiastical
Corporation to purchase the above-captioned property for the amount of $3,500,000.00. The purchaser intends on maintaining the

property as a camp. In addition, the Diocese will work with the City ofDetroit with respect to the idea of allowing pre-scheduled rises
of the Camp by children from the City of Detroit. Given the City?s ?nancial condition and in an effort to meet our land sales

projections we are recommending this sale.
We, therefore, request that your Honorable Body approve the attached resolution authorizing the Detroit Recreation Department to
transferjurisdiction ofParcel l?North and South Camp t1.l<.a Camp Brighton (part of) to the Planning and Development Department.

We, also, request that your Honorable Body adept the sale and authorize the Planning and DevelOpment Department?s, Director or his
authorized designee to execute a quit claim deed to the property and such other documents as may be necessary to effect the sale with
The Chaldean Catholic Church of the United States of America, a Michigan Ecclesiastical Corporation for the amount of

$3,500,000.00.

ltespe'ctp??y youw/

If
I 
. If 
Dou?ligs?sIWD'sgg 
Director
t?

cc: Kandia Milton, Mayor?s Office
Arese Robinson, Mayor's Office
Underwood, Planning Commission
Chris Gulock, Planning Commission
Law Department
Valerie Upshaw, Planning and Development
if.? .. 
. I, 
NOV 1? ?Jar??t; 


1'5? 

 
.Council Member

 

 

jurisdictional control of Parcel l?North and South Cam

RESOLVED. That in accordance with the foregoing communication The Detroit Recre
Flaming and Development Department.

:ttion Department is authorized to transfer
a.l<.a Camp Brighton (part of), more particularly described as follows, to the
Land in the Township of Genoa, County of Livingston, and State ofMichigan being the West of
the Northwest of Section 12, 'Town 2 South, Range 5 East; also the Ea
ofSection 1 Town 2 South, Range 5 East, containing 160 acres more 0

st of the Northeast 
less.
and be it further

RESOLVED, That in acCordoncc with the foregoing communication, the Planning and Dev
authorized designue is hereby authorized to execute :1 Quit Claim 
may be necessary to effect the sole with The Chaidt

elopment Department?s Director or his
Corporation for the amount 

:etl to the above-captioned properly and such other documents as
an Catholic Church of the United States of America, a Michigan Ecclesiastical

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE SUITE 808
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

(313) 224-1339 - TTY2711
CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224-1310
PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT 

 

February 12, 2019

Detroit City Council
1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, MI 48226

RE: Property Sale by Development Agreement
2240 and 2250 W. Grand Blvd., and 2700 Ferry, Detroit, MI 48208 (a/k/a Lee Plaza)

Honorable City Council:

The City of Detroit Planning and Development Department has received a
viable offer to rehabilitate and develop certain City-owned property at 2240 and 2250 W. Grand
Blvd. and 2700 Ferry Park, Detroit, MI, which includes a 15-story vacant building with a .36 acre
vacant lot to the east and a .79 acre vacant lot to the south (collectively ?Lee Plaza?).

Constructed in 1928 as a luxury apartment building with hotel services, Lee Plaza is a historic site
that is registered with both the State of Michigan and the United States National Register for
Historic Places. Since 1968, Lee Plaza was used as a senior citizens complex that continued to
decline in occupancy until it ?nally closed in 1997. More recently in 2015, the Detroit Housing
Commission as prior owner, tried to ?nd a credible developer with the requisite ?nancial
resources to address both historic and affordable housing components of developing the site. Such
efforts were ultimately unsuccessful and the only serious proposal received by DHC never moved
forward due to the inabilities of the prOposed developer to purchase the property.

In 2017, the City devised and instituted a multi-step approach to saving Lee Plaza that would not
only return it to productive use, but would also support additional affordable housing opportunities
at other locations within the City. Despite its notable state of abandonment and disrepair, the City
sees Lee Plaza as a tremendous opportunity for historic preservation and catalytic rehabilitation.
The City?s approach to saving Lee Plaza includes the following:

Step 1: City acquires Lee Plaza. The City acquired Lee Plaza from DHC in 2017, thus removing
over 200 unoccupied units from housing portfolio and increasing its occupancy rate. This
has led to an increase in project-based vouchers available to DHC for use at other sites and an
increase in Public Housing Assessment System score with the US. Department
of Housing Urban Development that provides DHC the Opportunity to qualify for
HUD incentives as a possible public housing high performer.

Step 2: City stabilizes Lee Plaza. The City made available to the Detroit Building
Authority to secure and stabilize Lee Plaza. To date, the City has: (1) secured all ?oors of the
building by board-up or installation of SecureVieW ClearBoarding, (2) performed extensive debris

 

removal on the ?rst 2 ?oors of the building and (3) evaluated other critical areas of the building,
such as the roof, and prepared an action plan to address certain de?ciencies.

Step 3: City sells Lee Plaza. Since 2017, the City has worked to ?nd a proven developer that
specializes in complex real estate and economic development projects with a demonstrated history
of securing suf?cient capital to properly rehabilitate a historic building of the scope and size of
Lee Plaza. After almost two years of reviewing and vetting proposals from developers following
a public request for proposals that did not result in the selection of a developer capable of
proceeding on the rehabilitation, the City feels it has identi?ed such a development team comprised
of the Detroit-based Roxbury Group and Ethos Development Partners. The Roxbury Group has
developed over one million square feet of properties in the City of Detroit, including a number of
iconic historic high-rises, and together with Ethos has a proven track record of receiving successful
funding awards from the Michigan State Housing and Development Authority for
affordable housing. Notable projects of The Roxbury Group and Ethos include The Auburn, David
Whitney Building, the Globe Trading Company Building, The Griswold, The Louis Kamper and
Stevens Buildings, the Building and The Metropolitan all in the City of Detroit. The
proposal received from The Roxbury and Ethos for Lee Plaza includes: (1) a unique phasing
strategy that addresses initial residential development of the building with approximately 180
units, re-activation of the building?s ?rst ?oor grand lobby and site/landscape improvements, (2)
a realistic project ?nancing strategy that includes 9% Low Income Housing Tax Credits through
MSHDA and (3) a commitment to rent at least 50% of the units for 30 years at affordable rates to
households with incomes of 80% AMI or less. All other proposals received by the City to date
from alternative developers were lacking in one or more aspects included in The Roxbury/Ethos
proposal, left too many ?nancial unknowns or seemed infeasible given the current state of the
market surrounding Lee Plaza.

To continue capitalizing on the City?s plan to return Lee Plaza to productive use, hereby
proposes to sell Lee Plaza by development agreement to Lee Plaza, LLC, a Michigan Limited
Liability Company associated with The Roxbury Group and Ethos, for the purchase price of Three
Hundred Fifty Thousand and 00/ 1 00 Dollars (the ?Purchase Price?). Due to the size
and historic attributes of the property, Lee Plaza, LLC will ?rst review and assess the
environmental, structural and historical conditions of the building over an initial year and half due
diligence period. During such period, Lee Plaza, LLC will be responsible for securing and
maintaining the building and site. The City will credit the actual costs of securing and maintaining
Lee Plaza during this time towards the Purchase Price.

Currently, the 2240 and 2250 W. Grand Blvd. portions of Lee Plaza are within an R6 zoning district
(High Density Residential) and the 2700 Ferry Park portion is within an R2 zoning district (Two-
Family Residential). Lee Plaza, use of the property shall be consistent with the allowable
uses for which the property is zoned.

 

For the reasons stated above, we hereby request that your Honorable Body adopt the attached
resolution to authorize the Director of to execute a development agreement, deed and such
other documents as may be necessary or convenient to effect a transfer of Lee Plaza by the City to
Lee Plaza, LLC.

Respectfully submitted,

   

Maurice D. Cox
Director

 

cc: Stephanie Washington, Mayor?s Of?ce .-

RESOLUTION

BY COUNCIL MEMBER: 

 

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that Detroit City Council hereby approves of the
sale by development agreement of certain real property at 2240 and 2250 W. Grand Blvd. and
2700 Ferry Park, Detroit, MI (collectively the ??Property?), as more particularly described in the
attached Exhibit A incorporated herein, to Lee Plaza, LLC (?Developer?), a Michigan limited
liability company, for the purchase price of Three Hundred Fifty Thousand and 00/100 Dollars
(the ?Purchase Price?), less a credit equal to the expected costs of securing and
maintaining the Property for a period of a year and a half from the date of the development
agreement, but in no case shall the Purchase Price be less than One and 00/100 Dollar and
be it further

RESOLVED, that the Director of the Planning and Development Department, or his authorized
designee, is authorized to execute a development agreement and issue a quit claim deed for the
sale of the Property, as well as execute such other documents as may be necessary or convenient
to effect the transfer of the Property to the Developer consistent with this resolution; and be it

further

RESOLVED, that the development agreement shall obligate the Developer to: (1) develop the
Property into a residential development with approximately 180 units, reactivate the building?s
?rst ?oor and complete site/landscape improvements and (2) lease at least ?fty percent of
the total rental units on the Property to tenants with an annual household income of eighty percent
AMI or less for a period of thirty (30) years; and be it further

RESOLVED, that the Director of the Planning and Development Department, or his authorized
designee is authorized to execute any required instruments to make and incorporate technical
amendments or changes to the quit claim deed (including but not limited to corrections to or
con?rmations of legal descriptions, or timing of tender of possession of particular parcels) in the
event that changes are required to correct minor inaccuracies or are required due to unforeseen
circumstances or technical matters that may arise prior to the conveyance of the Property, provided
that the changes do not materially alter the substance or terms of the transfer and sale; and be it
?nally

RESOLVED, that the development agreement and quit claim deed will be considered con?rmed
when executed by the Director of the Planning and Development Department, or his authorized
designee, and approved by the Corporation Counsel as to form.

(See Attached Exhibit A)

mm
LEGAL DESCRIPTIONS

Property situated in the City of Detroit, County of Wayne and State of Michigan described as
follows:

Parcel 1

GRAND BLVD LOTS 8 AND 9 WM HAMLINS SUB L10 P15 PLATS, 10/61
100 200

a/k/a 2240 WEST GRAND BLVD., Detroit, MI 48208 
Tax Parcel ID 10001037

Parcel 2

GRAND BLVD HAMLINS SUB L10 P15
PLATS, 10/61 80 200

a/k/a 2250 WEST GRAND BLVD., Detroit, MI 48208 I 12
Tax Parcel ID 10001035-6

- Parcel 3

FERRY PARK LOTS 35 THRU 42 WM HAMLINS SUB L10 P15 PLATS, 10/61
240 144.62
a/k/a 2700 FERRY PARK, Detroit, MI 48208 :1 

Tax Parcel ID 10000966-9

Description Correct
Engineer of Surveys



Bye 12%) 1? 

Basil Sarim,hP.S.
Professional Surveyor
City of Detroit/DPW, CED




ark? 
v. -. :27

X. 

 
 

 

 

City of Detroit
CITY COUNCIL
GABE LELAND
COUNCIL MEMBER MEMORANDUM
TO: Jan Anderson, Director

Detroit Parks Recreation Department

Brad Dick, Group Executive
Services Infrastructure Administrative Division

THRU: The Honorable Council President Brenda Jones
FROM: Council Member Gabe Leland?

DATE: February 12, 2019

RE: Park Land

 

Please provide information regarding the status of park lands in District 7 as follows: 1) Deemed
appropriate for continuous park land use, 2) Designated park improvements within the next 2
years, 3) Received park improvements within the last 5 years and/or, 4) Deemed no longer
appropriate to DPRD needs.

Please forward a list of park lands in District 7 that DPRD has declared surplus and transferred

jurisdiction to another department for development, sale and/or disposition beginning January
2014 to present.

Cc: Honorable Detroit City Council Members
Mayor?s Office, Stephanie Washington

GL/gal


i'l'f'L?L

.-

?5171"

I 
I 1 En.

T'Flhl .Hrgg iq. 



Coleman A. Young Municipal Center 2 Woodward Ave., Suite 1340 Detroit, Michigan 48226
Office (313) 224-2151 Fax (313) 224-2155

    

 

 

we
City of Detroit
CITY COUNCIL

GABE LELAND
COUNCIL MEMBER MEMORANDUM

TO: Alvin Horn, Assessor

THRU: The Honorable Council President Brenda Jones

FROM: Council Member Gabe Leland/?g

DATE: February 12, 2019

RE: Park Land District 7

 

Please provide a District 7 map that designates 1) park lands within the district, 2) the name of
each park and 3) its acreage (if known).

Cc: Honorable Detroit City Council Members
Mayor?s Office, Stephanie Washington

GL/gal

I I Coleman A. Young Municipal Center 2 Woodward Ave., Suite 1340 Detroit, Michigan 48226
Of?ce (313) 224-2151 Fax (313) 224-2155

37

 

City of Detroit
CITY COUNCIL

GABE LELAND
COUNCIL MEMBER MEMORANDUM

TO: David Whitaker, Director
Legislative Policy Division

THRU: The Honorable Council President Brenda Jones
FROM: Council Member Gabe Leland 6%

DATE: February 12, 2019

RE: Declaration of Park Land as Surplus Land



Please provide information pertaining to:

1. Previous Council resolutions adopted regarding the replacement of park land when sold
for development purposes.

Cc: Honorable Detroit City Council Members
Mayor?s Office, Stephanie Washington

GL/gal

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center 2 Woodward Ave, Suite 1340 Detroit, Michigan 48226
Office (313) 224-2151 Fax (313) 224-2155

