NEW
BUSINESS

TAKEN FROM THE TABLE

Council Member Benson on behalf of Council President Jones moved to take
from the table a Proposed Ordinance to amend Chapter 24 of the 1984 Detroit City Code,
Health and Sanitation, Article VI, Rodent and Pest Control, by amending Division 3,
Bed Bugs, by adding Section 24-6-32, De?nitions, to set forth de?nitions; Section 24-6-
33, Landlord Duties, to establish the responsibilities of landlords; Section 24-6-34,
Occupants Duties, to establish the responsibilities of occupants; Section 24-6-35, Cost to
control infestation, to address the cost of controlling an infestation; Section 24-6-36,
Disposal of furnishing, bedding, clothing or other materials infested with bed bugs, to
establish protocols for the disposal of infested materials; Section 24-6-37, Education, to
require informational materials be provided to occupants on the best practices to handle
and prevent a bed bug infestation; and Section 24?6-3 8, Violation, to provide penalties for

failure to comply with this ordinance, laid on the table May 5, 2018.

The Ordinance was then placed on the order of third reading.

THIRD READING OF ORDINANCE.

The title to the Ordinance was read a third time.

The ordinance was then read.

The question being ?Shall this Ordinance Now Pass??

The Ordinance was passed, a majority of the Council Members present
voting therefore as follows:

REVISED RESOLUTION TO CALL CLOSED SESSION

RESOLVED, that a closed session of the Detroit City Council is called in accordance with Section
8(a) of the Open Meetings Act, 1976 PA 267, MCL 15.268(a) at the request of Det. Jennifer Lee
Adams to consider the dismissal, suspension, or disciplining of, or to hear complaints or charges
brought against, or to consider a periodic personnel evaluation of, a public officer, employee, staff
member, or individual agent. The Law Department?s recommendation to deny indemni?cation of
Det. Jennifer Lee Adams in the matter of Keri-Yakei Morris v. City of Detroit, Civil Action
Number 17-013266-NO will be discussed with Law Department attorneys, representatives from
the Detroit Police Department, Det. Jennifer Lee Adams and counsel, representatives from the
Detroit Police Lieutenants and Sergeants Association, as well as attorneys from the Legislative
Policy Division. The closed session will be rescheduled from Wednesday, November 7, 2018 at
2:00 pm. to Tuesday, November 13, at 1:30 pm.

 

Notes: A 2/3 Roll Call vote of members elected and serving (6 votes) is required pursuant to MCL
5.26 

A person requesting a closed hearing may rescind the request at any time, in which case

the matter at issue shall be considered after the rescission only in open sessions pursuant to MCL
1 5 . 268 

Law Dept. Dated: October 26, 2018

RESOLUTION TO CALL CLOSED SESSION

RESOLVED, that a closed session of the Detroit City Council is called in accordance with
Section 8(h) of the Open Meetings Act, 1976 PA 267, MCL for the purposes of
discussing a privileged and con?dential memorandum titled Assumption of City Towing
Operations by the Detroit Police Department, dated October 22, 2018. This memorandum
is an attorney-client communication prepared by the Law Department and therefore is
exempt from disclosure under Section 13(g) of the Freedom of Information Act, MCL
Law Department attorneys, David Fink and Darryl Bressack from Fink 
Associates Law, representatives from the Detroit Police Department, as well as attorneys
from the Legislative Policy Division may be present. The closed session will be held on:

Wednesday, November 7, 2018 at 3:00 pm

 

Note: A 2/3 Roll Call vote of members elected and serving (6 votes) is required pursuant
to MCL 

Law Dept. Dated: October 26, 2018

PROCUREMENT

OFFICE OF CONTRACTING AND 

October 18, 2018
HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL:

The Of?ce of Contracting and Procurement recommends a Contract with the following ?rm(s) or
person(s):

6001676 100% City Funding To Provide BNP Residential Rehab at 2356 Wendell 
Contractor: Jozef Contractor Inc. Location: 11691 Klinger, Hamtramck, MI
48212 Contract Period: Upon City Council Approval through October 29, 2019
Total Contract Amount: $92,290.00. HOUSING AND REVITALIZATION

Respectfully submitted,

Boysie Jackson, Chief Procurement Of?cer
Of?ce of Contracting and Procurement

BY COUNCIL MEMBER BENSON

RESOLVED, that Contract No. 6001676 referred to in the foregoing communication dated
October 18, 2018 be hereby and is approved.

4r '10 Du  :3 If?- 3 1H.

4.

ENTERED no 2923181

PROCUREMENT

OFFICE OF CONTRACTING AND

October 18, 2018
HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL:

The Of?ce of Contracting and Procurement recommends a Contract with the following ?rm(s) or
person(s):

6001677 100% City Funding To Provide BNP Residential Rehab at 6548 Greenview 
Contractor: Jozef Contractor Inc. Location: 11691 Klinger, Hamtramck, MI
48212 Contract Period: Upon City Council Approval through October 29, 2019
Total Contract Am0unt: $102,850.00. HOUSING AND REVITALIZATION

Respectfully submitted,

Boysie Jackson, Chief Procurement Of?cer
Of?ce of Contracting and Procurement

BY COUNCIL MEMBER BENSON

RESOLVED, that Contract No. 6001677 referred to in the foregoing communication dated
October 18, 2018 be hereby and is approved.

ENTERED wow +6 the brow-?s: 45/53 KIA

)5

OFFICE OF CONTRACTING AND
PROCUREMENT 

October 18, 2018
HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL:

The Of?ce of Contracting and Procurement recommends a Contract with the following ?rm(s) or
person(s):

6001678 100% City Funding To Provide BNP Residential Rehab at 5242 Lumley 
Contractor: Jozef Contractor Inc. Location: 11691 Klinger, Hamtramck, MI
48212 Contract Period: Upon City Council Approval through October 29, 2019
Total Contract Amount: $93,390.00. HOUSING AND REVITALIZATION

Respectfully submitted,

Boysie Jackson, Chief Procurement Of?cer
Of?ce of Contracting and Procurement

BY COUNCIL MEMBER BENSON

RESOLVED, that Contract No. 6001678 referred to in the foregoing communication dated
October 18, 2018 be hereby and is approved.

ENTERED UL?IZQZ?t?ff-lcu if, it,?  {in

if"?  

PROCUREMENT

OFFICE OF CONTRACTING AND 

October 18, 2018
HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL:

The Of?ce of Contracting and Procurement recommends a Contract with the following ?rm(s) or
person(s):

6001688 100% City Funding To Provide BNP Residential Rehab at 4890 Three Mile
Drive Contractor: Allied Property Services, Inc. Location: 34150 Riviera
Drive, Fraser, MI 48026 Contract Period: Upon City Council Approval through
October 29, 2019 Total Contract Amount: $69,850.00. HOUSING AND
REVITALIZATION

Respectfully submitted,

Boysie Jackson, Chief Procurement Of?cer
Of?ce of Contracting and Procurement

BY COUNCIL MEMBER BENSON

RESOLVED, that Contract No. 6001688 referred to in the foregoing communication dated
October 18, 2018 be hereby and is approved.

ENTERED +0 Ma? Tim-ms. 16,0)374

Vol :10 

OFFICE OF CONTRACTING AND

PROCUREMENT 
October 18, 2018 

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL:

The Of?ce of Contracting and Procurement recommends a Contract with the following ?rm(s) or
person(s):

6001691 100% City Funding To Provide BNP Residential Rehab at 4111 Buckingham 
Contractor: Allied Property Services, Inc. Location: 34150 Riviera Drive,
Fraser, MI 48026 Contract Period: Upon City Council Approval through
October 29, 2019 Total Contract Amount: $37,400.00. HOUSING AND

REVITALIZATION

Respectfully submitted,

Boysie Jackson, Chief Procurement Of?cer
Of?ce of Contracting and Procurement

BY COUNCIL MEMBER BENSON

RESOLVED, that Contract No. 6001691 referred to in the foregoing communication dated
October 18, 2018 be hereby and is approved.

ENTERED our 292018 ?Mow +0 NW 561W - b? .

\jQ/ 

OFFICE OF CONTRACTING AND
PROCUREMENT



October 18, 2018
HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL:

The Of?ce of Contracting and Procurement recommends a Contract with the following firm(s) or
person(s):

3028290 100% City Funding To Provide Computer Refreshes for DPD Contractor:
Civitas IT, LLC. Location: 625 Kenmoor Ave S.E., Suite 301, Grand Rapids,
MI 49546 Contract Period: Upon City Council Approval through December 30,
2018 Total Contract Amount: $288,440.00. POLICE

Respectfully submitted,

Boysie Jackson, Chief Procurement Of?cer
Of?ce of Contracting and Procurement

BY COUNCIL MEMBER BENSON

RESOLVED, that Contract No. 3028290 referred to in the foregoing communication dated
October 18, 2018 be hereby and is approved.

ENTERED OCT 292018 How to $89 3?

it??

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 3, 2017 FORMAL SESSION (Public Health and Safety
Standing Committee)

Law Department

Benson, an Proposed Emergency Ordinance to amend Chapter 58, of the 1984 Detroit
City Code, Public Transportation, Article IV, Basses, Division 1, Generally, by
amending Section 58?4-7, Fares and charges for department of transportation bus
service, to provide for an update of the fare schedule. INTRODUCE

Benson, reso. setting a Public Hearing on November 19, 2018, for the foregoing
ordinance amendment.

Wreck/iced 11,- 

BY COUNCIL MEMBER

 

AN ORDINANCE to amend Chapter 58, of the 1984 Detroit City Code, Public
Transportation, Article IV, Busses, Division 1, by amending Section 58-4?1, De?nitions, and 58-
4?7, Fares and charges for department of transportation bus service, to lower the age in the
definition of senior citizen and to provide for an update on boarding and deboarding locations, and
an update of the fare schedule.

IT IS HEREBY ORDAINED BY THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF DETROIT
THAT:

Section 1. Chapter 58, Public Transportation, Article IV, Busses, Division 1, Generally,
of the 1984 Detroit City Code, be amended by amending Sections 58-4-1 and 58-4?7, to read as
follows:

CHAPTER 58. PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION
ARTICLE IV. BUSSES
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
Sec. 58-4-1. Generally.

For purposes of this article, the following terms shall have the meanings respectively
ascribed to them by this section:

Adult means a passenger who is nineteen?(19} years of age or older but less than six-ty?f-ive
(659 years of age, or who does not meet the criteria to obtain any senior citizen fare or any
student fare.

Authorized ticket distributor means an organization or agency authorized by DOT to

distribute bus tickets to its customers or clients and not to the general public.



f,

(X ?i
1



motorbus means a motor vehicle which is designed for transporting ten?(10) or more
passengers for compensation but does not mean a bus used for living or camping purposes, a
commuter van, a limousine, a luxury sedan, a taxicab, or a vehicle used exclusively for funeral
purposes.

Charter bus means a bus which transports passengers for hire on a rental or fixed charge
per bus basis, either by the hour or by the trip, and travels entirely or partly within the corporate
limits of the City of Detroit but does not mean either busses operating as package tours for affinity
or non?affinity groups whose itinerary may include the city as a designated temporary stop, or a
school bus operating a charter service for compensation, which transports passengers who are not
students traveling either to or from school or during school hours.

Disabled means a mobility disabled person who, by reason of illness, injury, age,
congenital malfunction, or other permanent or temporary incapacity or disability, including those
who are non?ambulatory wheelchair-bound and those with semi?ambulatory capabilities, is unable
without special facilities or special planning or design to utilize mass transportation facilities and
services as effectively as persons who are not so affected.

DOT means the City of Detroit Department of Transportation.

special fare identi?cation (disabled) pass means a valid 
disabled fare pass issued in accordance with SMART procedures to individuals defined as disabled
in this ordinance.

Infant means a passenger who is less than five 65) years of age and is not taller than ferty?

fe?dr?E44) inches.

Inter-city bus means a bus which transports passengers for a prescribed fare either from a
point or terminus outside the corporate limits of the city to any point or terminus within the
corporate limits of the city, or from any point or terminus within the corporate limits of the city to
any point or terminus outside the corporate limits of the city.

Intra-city bus means a bus which is a common carrier or utility and is operated with regular
route service, that does not extend more than ten?(109?pereent beyond the corporate limits of the
city.

Passenger means any individual who, upon payment of the prescribed fare or presentation
of a valid transfer, receipt or token, unless privileged or exempt, boards a public transportation
vehicle for the purpose of being transported from one location to another.

Public transportation vehicle means any vehicle utilized, either in whole or in part, as a
system of transportation which offers to transport the public as passengers for ?xed fares, including
an arrangement for transfers but does not mean motor vehicles hired on a rental or chartered basis.

Reduced fare means a fare that is promotional, is designed to encourage passengers to
utilize department of tranSportation bus services offered by the City of Detroit, and is a variance
with the fare required to be collected in accordance with this article.

Route consolidation means coordination of Detroit Department of Tran3portation fares,
services, schedules, schedules and routes within or outside the corporate limits of the City of
Detroit with another transportation system.

School bus means every motor vehicle, except station wagons, with a manufacturers rated
seating capacity of eight (89 or more children owned by a public, private or governmental agency
and operated for the transportation of students either full-time or part-time to or from school, or

privately owned and operated for compensation for the transportation of students to or from school,

provided, that this term shall not include busses operated by a municipally owned transportation
system or by a common passenger carrier certified by the Michigan Public Service Commission.

Senior Citizen means a passenger who is siert?y?five?E??} years of age or older.

Sightseeing bus means a bus which transports passengers for a prescribed fare, either within
the corporate limits of the city, or both within the corporate limits and outside the corporate limits
of the city, for the purpose of viewing points of interest.

SMART means the Suburban Mobility Authority of Regional Transportation.

Student means a passenger who is five $9 years of age or older but less than nineteen-(19)
years of age and is registered either at a primary or at a secondary school.

Sec. 58-4-7. Fares and charges for department of transportation bus service.

The fares and charges collected for Detroit Department of Transportation bus
service shall be at the following rates and the 4-hour Pass, 24-hour Pass, 7-day Regional Pass and
31?day Regional pass shall be accepted for use on both the Detroit Department of Transportation
bus service and the Suburban Mobilityr Authority for Regional Transportation (SMART)
bus service. Reduced fares shall apply to all eligible riders based on age. disability or student
min:

(1) Boarding and deboarding either within the corporate limits of the Cities of Detroit,

 Hamtramclg1 and Highland Park, Dearborn, Harper
Woods and Southfield (certain routs only). or within the premises of Eastland


a Elli? 3,1.

 

(2)

 

WSW

4?hour pass full fare 
4-hour pass reduced fare .. .50

24-hour pass full fare .. $5.00

 

24~h0ur pass reduced fare. . . 

my Regional man?hly pass fare  $70.00
31-day,r Regional pass reduced fare 
31?day DDOT Memhl?y pass am fare4?7?.00 $50.00

31-day DDOT pass reduced fare . . . $17.00

 

7-day Regional pass full fare .. $22.00
7?day Regional pass reduced fare  $l0.00

7-day DDOT Weekly pass fare . 

7-day DDOT pass reduced fau'e .. $8.00

 

Other fares and charges:



10

11

12

13

14

 

15 Student identi?cation card charge  $2.00

16 Senior citizen identi?cation card charge  $1.00

17 Disabled identification card charge. . $1.00

18 Charter service .. Cost per revenue hour

19 Rates for charter bus services provided by the Detroit Department of Transportation
20 shall be set annually pursuant to the regulations of the Federal Transit Administration of the United
21 States Department of Transportation, and to the guidelines promulgated by the Bureau of Urban

22 and Public Transportation of the Michigan Department of Transportation.

(1)

Upon approval by resolution of the Qity Qouncil, the Department of
Transportation may charge a reduced fare, as defined in section 58?4?1 of this Code, for a specified
day or for specified days within one lmndied?eight?lSO) days after adoption of said resolution.

Upon approval by resolution of the Qity Qouncil, the Department of
Transportation may charge a special fare, for a specified day during an event in the Qity, or a
special fare for a specified period during an event in the Qity, as specified in the resolution, within
a?eliu?elred?eigh-t-y?EISO) days after adoption of said resolution.

The Mayor and the Qity Qouncil shall provide for the preservation of the senior
citizen, student and disabled fares for the residents of Detroit contained in this ordinance under
any or all of the following conditions:

(1) Route consolidation between the Detroit Department of Transportation and
SMART or any other subsequent regional transportation authority created by state
law;

(2) The merger of the Detroit Department of Transportation with SMART or any other
subsequent regional transportation authority created by state law; or

(3) The management of the Detroit Department of Transportation by SMART or any
other subsequent regional transportation authority created by state law. 

The schedule of fares and charges collected for Detroit Department of
Transportation bus services shall be established and adopted by ordinance of the gity gouncil,
preceding the fiscal year for appropriation of such revenues, subject to the following conditions:

(1) That a public hearing on the proposed schedule of rates and charges shall be held

not less than ?ve business days before adoption of such ordinance;

(2)

(3)

(4)

(5)

(6)

That the Detroit Department of Transportation include in its gross and net revenue
projections for its annual budget request for the next fiscal year, the estimated
revenues to be derived from bus interior and exterior advertising space to be sold
in the next ?scal year;

That the Detroit Department of Transportation develop, maintain, and annually
report to the _(_3_ity Qouncil on its programs and devices implemented to reduce
fraudulent activities in the use of reduced or free fare cards, badges, tickets or other
devices, and other charges for access to bus services, submitting same not later than
April 13th of each year;

That the Detroit Department of Transportation develop, maintain and place on ?le
an annual ridership and service delivery improvement and marketing plan that
includes, as an achievable goal, an annual increase in ridership of not less than two
629 percent throughout the entire bus system; submitting same not later than April
13th of each year;

That the auditor general shall cause an independent audit of the Detroit Department
of Transportation by March 3lst of each year for years 2004, and 2005, and
thereafter every two 623 years, for the purpose of examining vehicle maintenance,
availability and cost of vehicle maintenance materials, and parts, and review of
inventory pr0cesses and procedures; and

That the Detroit Department of Transportation submit a cost-bene?t analysis,
proposed schedule of fares and charges, and budgetary recommendations to the city

council not later than April 13th annually.

Section 2. All ordinances, or parts of ordinances, that in con?ict with this ordinance
are repealed.

Section 3. This ordinance is declared necessary to preserve the public peace, health,
safety, and welfare of the People of the City of Detroit.

Section 4. This ordinance shall become effective May 1, 2019 in accordance with

paragraph 3 of Section 4-118 of the 2012 Detroit City Charter.

Approved as to form:

We of

Lawrence T. Garcia
Corporation Counsel

RESOLUTION SETTING HEARING

By Council Member Benson:

Resolved, That a public hearing will be held by this body in the Committee Room, 13th
Floor of the Coleman A. Young Municipal Center on Monday, November 19, 2017, for the
purpose of considering the advisability of adopting the foregoing Proposed Emergency Ordinance

to amend Chapter 58, of the 1984 Detroit City Code, Public Transportation, Article IV,
Basses, Division 1, Generally, by amending Section 58-4-7, Fares and charges for

department of transportation bus service, to provide for an update of the fare schedule.

lo? 

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 3, 2017 FORMAL SESSION (Public Health and Safety
Standing Committee)

Law Department

Benson, an Proposed Emergency Ordinance to amend 56, of the 1984 Detroit City Code,
Utilities, Article Sewers and Drains, by adding Division 4, Stormwater Management;
to include Section 56-3-101, Applicability; Section 56-3-102, De?nitions; Section 56-3-
103, Exemptions; Section 56-3-104, Stormwater Management Design Manual; Section
56-3-106, Post construction stormwater management requirements; Section 56?3-107,
Alternative compliance; Section 56-3-108, Performance bond; Section 56-3-109,
Maintenance required; Section 56-3-110, Operations and Maintenance Plan; Section 56-
3-111, Easements; Section 56-3-112, Record drawings and final approval; Section 56-3-
113, Right of entry for compliance inspections; Section 56-3-114, Period self-inspections
required; Section 56?3-115, Right of appeal; Section 56?3-116, Notice; Section 56-3-117,
Civil penalty; Section 56-3-118, Fines: Section 56-3-119, Additional remedies, and to
provide for storrnwater management at certain construction sites within the City of
Detroit. INTRODUCE

Benson, reso. setting a Public Hearing, for the foregoing ordinance amendment.

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, SUITE 500
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226-3437
PHONE 313-224-4550

CITY OF DETROIT FAX 313.224.5505

LAW DEPARTMENT 

October 12, 2018 

Detroit City Council Z.
1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, Michigan 48226

   

 

Re: Proposed Ordinances to amend Chapter 56, Utilities, of the 1984 Detroit City
Code

Honorable City Council:

Pursuant to the request of Council Member Benson, the above-referenced ordinance is
being submitted to Your Honorable Body for consideration. The proposed ordinance will amend
Chapter 56, of the 1984 Detroit City Code, Utilities, Article Sewers and Drains, by adding
Division 4, Stormwater Management; to include Section 56-3-101, Applicability; Section 56-3-
102, De?nitions; Section 56-3-103, Exemptions; Section 56?3-104, Stormwater Management
Design Manual; Section 56?3-105, Post Construction Stormwater Management Plan required;
Section 56?3-106, Post construction stormwater management requirements; Section 56-3-107,
Alternative compliance; Section 56-3?108, Performance bond; Section 56-3?109, Maintenance
required; Section 56-3?110, Operations and Maintenance Plan; Section 56-3-111, Easements;
Section 56-3-112, Record drawings and ?nal approval; Section 56-3-113, Right of entry for
compliance inspections; Section 56?3-114, Period self-inspections required; Section 56-3-115,
Right of appeal; Section 56-3-116, Notice; Section 56-3-117, Civil penalty; Section 56-3-118,
Fines; Section 56-3-119, Additional remedies, and to provide for stormwater management at
certain construction sites within the City of Detroit.

We are available to answer any questions that you may have regarding the proposed

ordinance. Thank you for your consideration.
Res ctfully Submitted,
if 

Tonj' . Long
Supervising Assistant Corporation Counsel

Enclosure

7 a9
151" I met-4d at 123:: am: 343313 ins

er? ?u ,i 30 
ENTERED if, Mao 151i; Co .L rhsoc i (M) i 
lira-"m3 - l/yH 

ENTERED our inma-



immune! or) (b/as? 3



BY COUNCIL MEMBER

AN ORDINANCE to amend Chapter 56, of the 1984 Detroit City Code, Utilities, Article
Sewers and Drains, by adding Division 4, Stormwater Management; to include Section 56-3-
101, Applicability; Section 56-3?102, De?nitions; Section 56?3-103, Exemptions; Section 56?3?
104, Stormwater Management Design Manual; Section 56-3-105, Post Construction Stormwater
Management Plan required; Section 56-3?106, Post construction stormwater management
requirements; Section 56?3-107, Alternative compliance; Section 56?3?108, Performance bond;
Section 56?3?109, Maintenance required; Section 56-3-110, Operations and Maintenance Plan;?
Section 56-3-111, Easements; Section 56-3-1 12, Record drawings and final approval; Section 56-
3?113, Right of entry for compliance inspections; Section 56?3?1 14, Period self-inspections
required; Section 56?3?115, Right of appeal; Section 56-3-116, Notice; Section 56-3?117, Civil
penalty; Section 56-3-118, Fines; Section 56-3-119, Additional remedies, and to provide for
stormwater management at certain construction sites within the City of Detroit.

IT IS HEREBY ORDAINED BY THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF DETROIT
THAT:

Section 1. Chapter 56, Utilities, Article Sewers and Drains, of the 1984 Detroit City
Code, be amended by adding Sections 56?3-101 through 56?3-119, to read as follows:

CHAPTER 56. UTILITIES
ARTICLE SEWERS AND DRAINS

DIVISION 4. STORMWATER MANAGEMENT

Sec. 56-3-10]. Applicability.

a) Subiect to Section 56-3-10?) of this Code, this division applies to all construction
activities that involve the replacement or creation of 21,780 square feet or more of impervious
surface.

This division shall also apply to any construction activity that is not subiect to
Subsection of this section, but may create a condition that would result in runoff that would:

(1) Exceed the safe capacity of the receiving public sewer or body of water as

determined by the Department:

 

(2) Cause undue channel erosion;

(3) Increase water pollution by scouring or transport of particulate matter;

 

(4) Endanaer property; or

Endanaer public safety.

Notwithstanding Subsection or Subsection of this section, the discharge from
a regulated construction activity may be determined by the Department to have previously been
authorized and to have incorporated stormwater control measures that are sufficient to satisfy the.
performance standards in this division. In such cases, the applicant may request a review by the
Department for a determination of whether additional stormwater management is required for the
development site.
See. seam; De?nitions.

For the purposes ofthis division, the following: words and phrases shall have the meanings
respectively ascribed to them by this section:

Alternative compliance measure means a stormwater control measure that treats

stormwater runoff from impervious surfaces that:

2

Were in existence as of the effective date of this division, and

Whose construction or reconstruction is not subject to the provisions of this

division.

Applicant means a person or persons acting as owners or operators of a regulated
construction activity on a develoDment site who is seeking approval of a Post Construction
Stormwater Management Plan under this division.

Buffer strip means a zone that is used for filtering direct stormwater and stormwater runoff
into a stormwater control measure, or watercourse and for providing maintenance access to a

stormwater control measure.

 

Common plan of development means a regulated construction activity, that is completed in
phases or stages when such phases or stages share:

One or more common Citv permits related to the regulation of land use, the

discharge of wastewater or a discharge to surface waters or groundwater. or

Common infrastructure such as, but not limited to. roadway access or utilities.

Construction activity means a human-made activity including, but not limited to, clearing,
grading, excavating, construction and paving, that results in a change in the existing cover or
topography of land, including an external demolition, modi?cation, or alteration of a site or the
footprint of a building, but does not include re-snrfacin of an asphalt, concrete or similar parking
lot that does not the 

Conveyance means any structure or other means of safelv conveving stormwater within a

stormwater management system including, but not limited to, a watercourse, closed conduit,

culvert, or bridge.

Demolition means the razing or destruction. in whole or in part. of an existing structure, or
the removal of existing impervious surfaces.

Department means the Detroit Water and Sewerage Department and its authorized agents.

 

Development site means the propertv on which a regulated construction activity takes
place. A development site mav include, but is not limited to, a component of a Common Plan of
Development, an individual lot as de?ned in the Citv Zoning Ordinance, or an aggregation ol'one
or more lots subject to a uni?ed plan for land use.

Disturbance means an activity. including a regulated construction activitv, that disturbs the
surface of land or underlying soils, including but not limited to, stripping, grading, grubbing,
trenching, excavating, transporting, and tillimg of land, but does not include the activities of

clearing, plowing. tilling soil, or harvesting for the purpose of crop production.

 

Drainage area means the land area from which stormwater runoff drains to a common
point, including anv area lving hevond the boundaries of a development site as defined in this
division.

Equivalent volume means the quantity of stormwater runoff that is presumed to be managed
through a {coin?lieu payment, an alternative compliance measure, or anv combination thereof,
including any adiustments or modifications set forth in this division and the Stormwater
Management Design Manual created pursuant to Section 56?3-104 of this code.

Extraordinarin difficult site conditions means those conditions present at a development
site that prevent or preclude the construction of stormwater control measures in any portion 01? a
development site.

Import-ions sin-?are means anv surface area that prevents or substantiallv impedes the entry
of water into the soil in the manner that such water entered the soil under natural conditions pre-

4

existent to development, or which cause water to run off the surface in greater quantities or at an
increased rate of flow than that present under natural conditions ore?existent of development.
including but not limited to roofs. parking lots. compacted gravel and dirt. drivewavs. sidewalks.
and storage areas.

infiltration rate means a measure of the speed at which water enters into the soil at the
surface.

Natural condition means the condition of land that is predominantlv covered in vegetation
that is sustainable without regular human maintenance, such as irrigation. mowing. or fertilization.
examples ol?which include natural cover. woodland. meadow. grassland. or shrubland.

Operation and Maintenance Plan means a document which outlines the required
maintenance activities and measures associated with an approved Post Construction Stormwater

Management Plan.

 

Pervioas surfacing means a material or materials and accompanving subsurface treatment
designed and installed specifically; to allow stormwater to penetrate into the material. 
reducing the volume of stormwaler runoff from the surfaced area.

Pris! Cons??irr'firm. Simon-rarer Mammalian?! Plan means a document set forth by the
Department that identifies all actions to be taken by an applicant in conjunction with a regulated
construction activity to complv with the requirements and standards set forth in this division.

Regulated area means the portion of a development site used as the basis to determine
compliance with the performance standards set forth in this division.

Regulated activity means construction activitv that is subiect to the provisions

of this division. a regulated construction activitv mav occupv all or part of a development site.

Regulator}.- uolnnie means the total quantiu,r of stormwater runoff that must be retained in
a stormwater control measure in order for a regulated construction activitv to comply with the
performance standards in this division.

Stormwater control measure means any structure, feature, or appurtenance that is designed,
constructed. operated, practiced, or adopted, to reduce the quantity, lower the rate, improve the
quality. or otherwise control stormwater runoff through retention, detention, infiltration, reuse, or
other stormwater management techniques.

Stormwater Management Design Manual means a document or documents promulgated
by the Department, which mav be amended, specii'ving criteria, standards, and procedures by

which an applicant may with the provisions of this division.

 

Water quality volume means the volume of stormwater runoff generated by the 90th
percentile storm over the regulated area of a development site.
Section 56-3-1113. Exemptions.

Notwithstanding Section 56-3-101 of this Code, the following activities shall be exempt

from the requirements of this division:

 

The improvement or construction of an individual single famin detached dwelling
as de?ned in this Code;

Emergech maintenance work performed for the protection of public health and
safety. A written description of the scope and extent of any such emergency
maintenance work performed shall be submitted to the Department within two
calendar davs following, its commencement. If the Department finds that the work

is not an emergency or if a written description is not timely submitted to the

Department, then the work shall cease immediater and the requirements of this
division shall be addressed as applicable; or
(3) A regulated construction activitv that discharges stormwater directlv to the Detroit
River or Rouge River via anv convevance not owned bv the City and is in
compliance with state and federal regulations governing such discharges.
Section 56-3-104. Stormwater Management Design Manual.
The Department shall implement, and may amend, a Stormwater Management Design

Manual which shall set forth speci?c procedures; criteria, minimum standards. methods and other

 

technical information to be utilized in determining compliance with the provisions of this division.
Section 56-3-105. Post Construction Stormwater Management Plan required.
No regulated construction activitv mav obtain site plan approval until the

Department has approved a Post Construction Stormwater Management Plan.

 

Prior to the approval of a Post Construction Stormwater Management Plan, the
applicant shall certify to the Department that the applicant has met or will meet all requirements
of this division and all other City, county, state, and federal requirements related to erosion and
sediment control, surface water resource protection, and stormwater management applicable to the
regulated construction activitv.

The Post Construction Stormwater Management Plan shall be developed by a
professional engineer or landscape architect properly: licensed to practice in the State of Michigan
and shall include:

(1) The discharge locationts) for all post-construction stormwater runoff which will

leave the development site, and the boundaries of the drainage area trihutarv to each

discharge location;

 

(5)







The boundaries of the development site. the common plan of development if
applicable, and the regulated construction activitv, clearly indicating areas of
disturbance, the boundaries of any no?build or non?disturbance areas, all points of
egress from the development site to a public right-of?wav, and all easements and

other encumbrances;

 

The required calculations establishing compliance with the post construction
stormwater management performance standards as set forth in Section 56%- 106 of

this Code'

 

The design speci?cations and calculations, construction details, and locations for

all proposed stormwater control measures, whether located on the development site

 

or elsewhere.
The locations and descriptions of all access drive easements necessary to allow for
construction, inspection, operation and maintenance of all proposed stormwater

C??ll?Ul measureS'

 

An Operation and Maintenance Plan containing all required information and
schedules as set forth in this division; and

A com! ofall applicable state and federal permits and notice olicovcrage related to
erosion and sedimentation control. water resource and stormwater management for
the regulated proiect.

One copy of the approved Post Construction Stormwater Management Plan shall

he kept on file at the site of the regulated construction activitv from the initiation of site preparation

until a certi?cate of occupach is issued For the development associated With the regulated

construction activitv.

 

Section 56-3-106. Post construction stormwater management requirements.

Stormwater control measures shall not be constructed within the Rouge River flood
plain or the Rouge River ?ood way as defined in Section 20?1-1 of this code, or within Michigan
Coastal Flood Hazard Zones.

A buffer strip with a minimum width of 25 feel shall he established and preserved
along the edge of anv surface water anti anv regulated wetland as defined bv the State of Michigan
PART 303. Exemptions mav be granted for construction activities that are within 25 feet of a
surface water and regulated wetland that remain consistent with the intent of the development.

The Department is authorized to require any additional stormwater control
measures necessarv to control the rate and volume of stormwater runoff discharged from the
development site in order to prevent drainage, flooding or water qualitv impacts upon public or
private property.

Performance standards for combined sewer areas.

I) Water dual itv:

 

a. The water quality volume shall be the 90th percentile annual non?
exceedance storm.

13. The regulated area for purposes of complving with the water qualitv

performance standard for combined sewer areas shall be de?ned as follows:

i. If the rggulated construction activity will disturb 50% or more of the

development site. the regulated area shall be defined as the entire

development Sift}; 01'

ii. If the regulated construction activitv will disturb less than 50% of
the development sitg the regulated area shall be defined as the area
of the regulated construction activitv.

c. The runoff volume and peak flow rate of stormwater runoff leaving the
regulated area post-construction shall not exceed the runoff volume and
peak ?ow rate leaving the regulated area under natural conditions.

d. The water qualitv volume shall be treated to remove a minimum of 80% of
the total suspended solids as compared to uncontrolled runoff. or to a

discharge concentration which does not exceed 80 milligrams per liter (6)

(ll

Combined sewer infrastructure protection.

E1.

b.

Performance standards for storm sewer areas.

total suspended solids.

 

For regulated construction activities discharging to the combined sewer
area, the entire development site shall be de?ned as the regulated area for

purposes of complving with the combined sewer infrastructure protection

standards.

The peak [low ratets] of stormwater runoff leaving the development site
shall not exceed the allowable discharge rates established in the Stormwater
Management Design Manual for the geographic location within the

combined sewer svstem where the discharge occurs.

Water qualitv:

a.

The water quality volume shall be based on the 90th percentile annual non-

exceedance storm.

10

The regulated area for purposes of complvina with the water oualirv
performance standard for separate sewer areas shall be the area of the

regulated construction activity.

 

The water oualitv volume shall be treated to remove a minimum of 80% of



the total suspended solids as compared to uncontrolled runoff, or to a
discharge concentration which does not exceed 80 milligrams per liter of

total suspended solids.

 

(2) Channel protection:
a. The regulated area for purposes of complvina with the channel protection

performance standards shall be the area of the re?lated construction

 

activity.

in. The runoff volume and peak flow rate of stormwater runoff leaving the

 

regulated area postconstruction shall not exceed the runoff volume and
peak flow rate which would occur under natural conditions for all storms up
to and including the two-year, 24-hour storm event.

c. Discharges from regulated construction activities that drain into anv portion

of the City?s storm sewer discharging directlv to the Detroit River or

 

of the Rouge River Turning Basin shall be exempt from the

channel protection performance standard.

 

Performance standards for local ?ood control in combined and separate sewer

areas:

The regulated area for purposes of complving with local flood control performance

standards shall he the entire development site.

 



For regulated construction activities for which the total of all drainage areas as
de?ned in this division, is less than 5 acres. the stormwater control measures shall
be designed to achieve a peak ?ow rate of ?fteen one?hundredths cubic feet per
second for the 10?Vear storm.

3) For regulated construction activities for which the total of all drainage areas, as
defined in this division, is 5 acres or greater, the stormwater control measures shall
be designed to achieve a peak flow rate of fifteen one hundredths cubic feet per
second (0.15 cfs)/acre for [00 ?vear storm.

Section 56-3-107. Alternative compliance.

An applicant mav apply: to the Department for review and approval of alternative
compliance measures for the development site if the applicant demonstrates the presence of
extraordinarilv difficult site conditions. as defined in this division and in written guidance set forth
in the Stormwater Management Design Manual.

I) Extraordinarily difficult site conditions include, but are not limited to, one or more

of the following:

a. The presence of sub-surface conditions, including soil contamination or
shallow depth to bedrock or groundwater, that present significant and
atvpieal technical requirements for mitigation. stormwater management
measure design or installation or create a likelihood for subsurface pollutant
?ume transport; or

b. Unique topographic or geologic conditions that would require site re-
grading or rc?contouring substantiallv different from tvpical and customary
practices for the installation of stortnwater control measures; or



Surface or subsurface conditions indicating a likelihood that basement
flooding on properties other than the development site are reason-am
foreseeable if stormwater control measures are installed; or

Conditions that would require pumping or other mechanical routing of

stormwater in order to meet the performance standards of Section 56-3-

 

106t'd11 i He}; or
Other conditions that, in the judgment of the Department, present a
substantial barrier to the safe and effective construction or operation of

COIltl?Ol measures.

 

 

 

 

(2) In all cases, the applicant shall demonstrate, to the satisfaction of the Department,
that the extraordinarily difficult site conditions cannot be overcome or mitigated
through reasonable re-design of the regulated construction activity, or without
substantial interference with the present or intended use of the development site.

Any such application for a finding of extraordinarily difficult site conditions shall:

 

 

 

 

 

a. Quantify the degree to which the speci?c provisions of the performance
standards set forth in Ute), as applicable, cannot be met on the
development site, using the analysis set forth in the Stot'lnwater
Management Design Manual;

b. Detail the stormwater control measure to be constructed on site, it' any, and

 

the water quality and detention volume to be met through alternative

compliance measures: and

13

Specify the off?site alternative compliance measure, or fee?innlieti pavment
proposed to satist the requirements of Sections 56-3?105td} or of this
section, as applicable, in accordance with the provisions of this section.

An applicant mav propose to use one or a combination of the following alternative

compliance measures:

(1) The coincident construction bv the applicant of the alternative compliance
measures approved by the Department under the procedures set forth in this
division and in the Stormwater Management Design Manual; or

The legal assignment bv the applicant of the equivalent volume from an existing,
approved alternative compliance measurets?); or

Pavment to the Department of a fee-in-lieu, in accordance with the procedures set
for in the Stormwater Management Design Manual, and subsequent certification by
the Department that sufficient equivalent volume has been assigned to the regulated
construction activitv to achieve compliance with the measurements of this division.

Anv person may make application to the Department for approval of the

construction of stormwater control measures on lands located within the City to be authorized as
alternative compliance measures, as defined in this division, subject to the Following procedures
and reg irements:

I) An applicant for such approval shall define the drainage area{s) to be treated by the
alternative compliance measure and shall provide all relevant information.
including demonstration of site control and an operation and maintenance plan,
required bv the Department as set forth in the Stormwater Management Design

ma

14

t4)

(6)

The design and construction of the alternative compliance measure shall meet all
relevant standards for materials. design. sat'etv, and other technical considerations

in the Stormwater Management Design Manual.

 

For each alternative compliance measure an applicant shall stipulate the amount of
equivalent volume, if any. that shall be reserved for the applicant?s own use or
assignment. and the amount of equivalent volume. if any, that may be made
available by the Department for assigned through fee-in?lieu pavment. In issuing
its approval. the Department shall state the amount of equivalent volume assigned
to the alternative compliance measure, the equivalent volume within the alternative
compliance measure reserved hv the applicant for the applicant?s own ptnposes.
and the eguivalent volume that may be available through fee-in-lieu payments.
The applicant shall obtain all relevant and applicable City, state and federal permits
as mav apply to construction of the alternative compliance measure.

Approval issued pursuant to this section shall be contingent upon the recording of
both an easement on the land on which the alternative compliance measure is
constructed, and on the operation and maintenance plan for the alternative
compliance measure. The operation and maintenance plan shall be fully consistent
with the standards set forth in the Stormwater Management Design Manual.

No portion of an alternative compliance measure may be utilized to satist?v the
requirements of this division for a regulated construction activitv unless explicitly

approved hv the Department in a post construction stormwatcr control plan.

15

discharge from a regulated construction activitv to a combined sewer area may

be mitigated bv the construction of an alternative compliance measure discharging to a separate

 

storm 

 

tel The Department shall maintain continuouslv. and make available for inspection, a
record of the volume equivalencv ol? alternative compliance measures assigned to alternative
compliance measures, whether constructed by the Citv or another applicant; all credits issued to
regulated construction activities; and the timing, amount, and disposition of all t?eewin-licu

[231! ments.

Section 56-3-108. Performance bond.

 

The Department shall have the authoritv to require a performance bontl or other
?nancial guarantee in the amount oi" the estimated cost of construction of the stormwater control
measures and all landscaping associated therewith for a duration of two years after the issuance of
the certificate of occupancy to ensure that all stormwater control measures have been established

and installed correctlv and function as designed and permitted.

 

The Department shall have the authoritv to require a performance bond or other
financial guarantee of a greater or lesser amount, or duration of time, where such an adjustment is
warranted to re?ect unique site conditions or to ensure the Function and performance of the
stormwater control measures in the Post Construction Stormwater Management Plan.

A final inspection and approval of the stormwater control measures bv the
D_epartment, the Buildings, Safetv Engineering and Environmental Department, or other

authorized agent shall be issued before the release of the performance bonds or other ?nancial

uarantcc.

16

Section 56-3-109. Maintenance required.
Anv stormwater control measure installed pursuant to this division shall be operated
and maintained in accordance with the requirements of the approved operations and maintenance

plan and associated provisions in the Stormwater Management Design Manual.

 

No area of land specified or designated to complv with the performance standards
in this Division shall be altered in a manner which reduces or alters its infiltration rate, unless the
Department approves an amendment to the previouslv approved Post Construction Stormwater
Management Plan for the site showing how the reduced or altered infiltration rate will be offset
to maintain compliance with the performance standards specified in this division.

Section Operations and Maintenance Plan.

a) . Prior to the conveyance or transfer of am portion of a development site to be served
bv a stormwater control measurels) pursuant to this division, the applicant shall provide the
Department with evidence of transfer of the associated Operation and Maintenance Plan.

The Operation and Maintenance Plan shall be binding on the record owner of the

property' or properties suhiect to the Post Construction Stormwater Management Plan and their

owners, heirs and assigns.

 

The Operation And Maintenance Plan shall be developed by a professional engineer
or landscape architect property: licensed to pl'actiCC in the State of Michigan and shall include
maintenance requirements and protocols for each stormwater control measure, including an
associated schedule of inspection and maintenance activities. and procedures and checklists for
each stormwater control measure consistent with the provisions in the Stormwater Management
Design Manual and a signed certification statement acceptina responsibility for the operation,
maintenance and inspection of the stormwater control measures.

17

Section 56-3-111. Easements.

A Post Construction Stormwater Management Plan shall include the preparation

 

and propertv recording of all easements, deed restrictions, reservation of rights-of?wav, or other
protective covenants as are required to ensure sufficient access for purposes of maintenance,
inspection, operation and repair or replacement of stormwater control measures, and to ensure that
anv future modi?cation of the site is consistent with the provisions of the approved Post
Construction Stormwater Management Plan. unless amendments or modifications to the Post
Construction Stormwater Management Plan are approved bv the Department.

The Post Construction Stormwater Management Plan and applicable Operation and
Maintenance Plan shall be referenced on a final plat, site plan or as?huilt drawing, and shall he
recorded with the Wayne County Register of Deeds Office upon ?nal approval. and shall be
provided to the Department within 14 days following receipt of the recorded document.

Section 56-3-1122. Record drawings and final approval.

Upon final stabilization of the site of a regulated construction activity, the applicant
or a professional engineer. or landscape architect dulv licensed to practice in the State of Michigan,
and acting on the applicant?s behalf, shall conduct a post?construction inspection and shall certifv
in writing that the completed proiect is in full compliance with the approved Post Construction

Stormwatcr Management Plan.

 

The applicant or applicant?s designee shall submit record drawings for all

stormwater control measures to the Department, within davs of ?nal stabilization of the site.

18

Section 56-3-113. Right el?entry for compliance inspections.

{at The Department, Buildings, Safety Engineering and Environmental Department or
other authorized agent may enter a property to inspect stormwater control measures during any
phase of construction and operation of approved Stormwater control measures.

The Department, Buildings, Safely En gineering and Environmental Depanmenl or

 

other authorized agent may enter a property when the Department or its designee has a reasonable
basis to believe that a violation of this division is occurring or has occurred, when necessary for
abatement of a public nuisance, and to confirm the correction of a Violation.

Section 56-3-114. Periodic self-inspections required.

Periodic inspections shall be conducted according to the Operation and

Maintenance Plan by the applicant or the applicant?s successors, heirs or assigns of the stormwater

 

control measurets) as set forth in the applicable Operations and Maintenance Plan.

 

An inspection report, certi?ed by a professional engineer or landscape architect
properly licensed to practice in the State of Michigan. shall be provided to the Department
according to the schedule in the operation and maintenance plan, commencing no more than twelve
months after the date of issuance of a certificate of occupancy for the regulated construction

activity, and occurring once every three years or stipulated period thereafter.

 

Section 56-3-115. Right of appeal.

 

a) Any person whose legal rights, duties, or privileges are determined by the
Department pursuant to this ordinance and who is aggrieved by the Department's determination,
may appeal to the DWSD Stormwater Appeals Board for relief of that grievance. An appeal shall

be made according to the procedure set forth in this chapter.

19



The DWSD Stormwater Appeals Board shall be appointed by the Director of the

Department and confirmed hv the Board of Water Commissioners and shall consist of 2 engineers

 

from the academic sector, 2 engineers from the private sector, and stermwater management
expert. Meetings of the DWSD Stormwater Appeals Board shall he in person and shall be open to
all interested parties.

(0) An appeal shall be in writing, addressed to the DWSD Stormwater Appeals Board

clothe Stormwater Management Group, and must be received within 30 days of the determination

 

that is the suhiect of the appeal. The appeal shall set forth the specific act or matter complained of
and in dispute, and shall include all documentation that supports the appellant?s position.

Within 30 davs of receipt of the appeal, the Stormwater Management Group, or its
designee, shall acknowledge such receipt in writing, and shall set a date and time for an app_ellate
hearing to be conducted in accordance with Department rules and procedures.

The decision of the DWSD Stormwater Appeals Board shall be final and
enforceable at law. A person agg?evetl bv a final decision of the DWSD Stormwater Appeals
Board may seek iudieial review of the decision bv the Wayne Countv Circuit Court. A petition for
indieia] review shall he filed not later than 60 days following the receipt of the ?nal decision of
the DWSD Stormwater Appeals Board.

An aggrieved person shall exhaust all administrative remedies provided in this
Chapter before seeking iutlicial review.

Section 56-3-116. Notice.

If anv stormwater control measure is found upon inspection to be arranged,
tlamt-igecl, clogged, or in such disrepair, as to impede, obstruct, or hinder the [low of surface water
in a manner which conflicts with acceptable engineering practices, or it? a planned and permitted

20

stormwater control measure has not been installed per an approved Post Construction Stormwater

Management Plan within 30 days ot'inspection, the certifving party shall give written notice to the

 

Department of the conditions found, the actions necessarv to bring conditions into conformance

 

with the approved Operation and Maintenance Plan, and the timel'rame for completion.

 

If anv condition referenced in Subsection of this section, is found by the
Department upon its own investigation, whether as a result of, or independent of, a period
inspection l?epott, the Department shall give written notice to the owner of the propertyr of the
?ndings specifving the problem, the actions necessaryr to bring conditions into conformance and

the timeframe for completion, as well as the potential for additional action under civil penaltv or

 

other penaltyr or remedy in Section 56?3?1 18 of this Code.

 

Section 56-3-1?. Civil penalty.

 

Whenever the Department has reasonable grounds to believe that anv person is violating,
or has violated, anvr requirement of this division, the Department mav commence a Civil action to
compei compliance in a court of competent iurisdiction to enioin said person from discharging, or
to obtain appropriate relief to remedy the violations. The Department or DWSD Board also mav
seek additional legal or equitable relief. The commencement of suit neither constitutes an exclusive
election of remedies nor prohibits the Department, Director, Board. or it},r of Detroit from
commencing action in federal court for discharges believed to he in violation of this division. state
or federal requirements contained in the Clean Water Act, the Cilv's NPDES permit, or other

applicable laws or requirements. In addition, the City mav recover the reasonable attorm [?ees,

 

court costs, court reporters' fees, and other unusual expenses related to enforcement activities or
litigation against the person found to have violated this division, or the orders, rules, regulations

and permits issued hereunder.

 

21

Section 56-3-118. Fines.

All ?nes, costs, and penalties which are imposed by any court of competent iurisdiction
shall be payable to the Detroit Water and Sewerage Department.
Section 56-3-119. Additional remedies.

a) The Buildings, Safety Engineering Environmental Department or other
authorized Agent may refuse to issue a certi?cate of occupancy For any regulated construction
activity on a development site and served by stormwater control measures until such time as the
applicant or other responsible person has taken remedial measures set forth in the notice of
violation or has otherwise cured the violations described therein.

The Buildings, Safety Engineering Environmental Department may suspend or
revoke any approvals granted for the development site upon discovery of the failure of the property
owner. applicant or developer to comply with the provisions of this division.

So long as a violation of this division continues and remains uncorrected. the
Department, the Buildings, Safety Engineering and Environmental Department or other authorized
agent may withhold, and the Department, the Buildings, Safety Engineering and Environmental
Department or other authorized agent may disapprove, any request for a permit or site plan
approval or authorization provided by this ordinance or the zoning, subdivision, or other building
regulations, as appropriate for the land on which the violation occurs.

The Department may institute an action in a court of competent iurisdiction for a
mandatory or prohibitory iniunction and order of abatement to correct a violation of this ordinance.
Any person violating this ordinance shall be subiect to the full range of equitable remedies

provided in the general statutes or common law.

22

10

11

If the violation is deemed dangerous or preiudicial to the public health or public
safety, the Department may cause the violation to be corrected and the costs to be assessed as a
lien against the property.

(fl By issuance of an order of restoration, the Department may require a person who
engaged in a regulated construction activity and failed to comply with this division to restore the
waters and land affected by such failure so as to minimize the detrimental effects of the resulting
pollution. The authority is in addition to any other civil penalty or injunctiye relief authorized
under this ordinance. If failure to comply is deemed dangerous or prejudicial to the public health
or public safety, the Department, may institute an action to cause the violation to be corrected and
the costs to be assessed as a lien against the property.

See. 56-3-120 ?56-3-149. RESERVED.

 

23

10

Section 2. All ordinances, or parts of ordinances, that in con?ict with this ordinance
are repealed.

Section 3. This ordinance is declared necessary to preserve the public peace, health,
safety, and welfare of the People of the City of Detroit.

Section 4. In the event that this ordinance is passed by a two-thirds majority of
City Council members serving, it shall be given immediate effect and become effective upon
publication in accordance with Section 4-118 of the 2012 Detroit City Charter. In the event that
this ordinance is passed by less than a two-thirds majority of the City Council members
serving, it shall become effective on the thirtieth (30) days after enactment, or on the first business

day thereafter, in accordance with Section 4-118 of the 2012 City Charter.

Approved as to form:

,Qwa?

Lawrence T. Garcia
Corporation Counsel

24

RESOLUTION SETTING HEARING

By Council Member Benson:
Resolved, That a public hearing will be held by this body in the Committee Room, 13th
Floor of the Coleman A. Young Municipal Center, for the purpose of considering the advisability

of adopting the foregoing Proposed Emergency Ordinance to amend 56, of the 1984 Detroit
City Code, Utilities, Article Sewers and Drains, by adding Division 4, Stormwater
Management; to include Section 56?3-101, Applicability; Section 56-3-102, De?nitions;
Section 56-3-103, Exemptions; Section 56-3-104, Stormwater Management Design
Manual; Section 56-3-106, Post construction stormwater management requirements;
Section 56-3-107, Alternative compliance; Section 56-3-108, Performance bond; Section
56-3?109, Maintenance required; Section 56-3-110, Operations and Maintenance Plan;
Section 56-3-111, Easements; Section 56-3-112, Record drawings and final approval;
Section 56-3-113, Right of entry for compliance inspections; Section 56-3-114, Period
self-inspections required; Section 56-3?115, Right of appeal; Section 56-3-116, Notice;
Section 56-3-117, Civil penalty; Section 56-3-118, Fines: Section 56-3-119, Additional
remedies, and to provide for stormwater management at certain construction sites within

the City of Detroit.

October 16, 2018 2

Re: Spirit Plaza; Petition No. 1773 The General Services Department in conjunction
with The Department of Public Works City Engineering Division, requests the
extension of the temporary closure of Woodward Avenue, from Jefferson Avenue to
Larned Street from November 17, 2018 through November 15, 2019, with an option for
an additional 12 month extension for the year 2019, for the purpose of continuing the
activation and evaluation of the Spirit Plaza, in a semi-permanent state.

Honorable City Council:

On June 12, 2017, the City of Detroit closed the referenced segment of Woodward to activate the
Spirit Plaza for an initial pilot period of 90 days.

On November 21, 2017, City Council originally approved Petition No. 1773, which provided for
extending the temporary closure of the above referenced segment of Woodward through the
spring of 2018, so that the evaluation period could continue through the fall and winter seasons.

GSD is now requesting City Counciliapproval to extend the temporary closure for a period to
culminate on November 15, 2019, upOn which time a recommendation with be brought back to
City Council for the Plaza?s optional additional year extension.

This extension, if authorized by Your Honorable Body, establishes GSD as the agency, with
support from DDP, who will take reSponsibility for ensuring that the Plaza is appropriately
maintained throughout the extended period. In addition, the extension will allow for coordinating
all outreach efforts to impacted stakeholders, as well as providing the mechanism for continued
planning for events and space programming, of Detroit?s Recreation Department and
Special Events team to will continue to operate with the established agreement outlining speci?c
responsibilities for each agency, thereby ensuring that the Plaza is being programmed in a manner
that maximizes its usage and is consistent with the vision of it being the ?People?s Plaza?. We
will continue to provide the opportunity to employ a more expansive outreach effort to
individuals that encounter the space on?a' daily basis, including all employees and regular visitors
to the CAYMC. The extension will also provide the opportunity to continue analyzing the impact 1
to traffic on surrounding streets prior to the end of the extended evaluation period, city agencies
(DPW, Planning, GSD, Special Events), along with DDP will summarize to City Council our
?ndings, which will be utilized in making a determination for the future use of the public space.

Provisions protecting all utility installations in the right-of?way have been made a part of the
attached resolution.

I am recommending the adoption of the attached resolution.

Respectfully submitted.--..lanet Anderson, Director? GSD
General Services Department

Murth Mus  ares a A6 

ENTERED 252013

lq/tv/ N06

Cc: Arthurjemison, Mayor?s Of?ce
Stephanie Washington, Mayor?s Of?ce
Maurice Cox, Planning Department
Brad Dick,, Group Executive
Jan Anderson, General Services Department
Linda Vinyard, Special Events

BY COUNCIL MEMBER

 

WHEREAS, the original trial period for the new ?Spirit of Detroit Plaza? enhanced the
downtown area with a new public space during the summers of 2017 and 2018, and the
initial evaluation determined that the closure. of the impacted segment of Woodward
Avenue, has not been detrimental to traf?c flow in the area, and the plaza was ?liked? by a
majority of individuals surveyed, and

WHEREAS, the temporary extension was granted through November 16, 2018, through
prior City Council actions and whereas a determination has been made to extend the existing
closure to a semi?permanent state for 1 year through November 15, 2019 to allow for
continued outreach to the impacted public and business communities as well as
programming events that include local artists, community groups and local organizations.

RESOLVED, The General Services Department with support from The City Engineering
Division ?is hereby authorized and directed to temporarily close Woodward Avenue, 190
feet wide, from Jefferson Avenue, 210 feet wide to Larned Street, 60 feet wide for a period
culminating on March 31, 2019 and being more particularly described as: Woodward
Avenue, 190 feet wide, lying westerly of and adjoining the westerly line of Lots 1, 63, and 64
?Plan of Section numbered one in the City of Detroit, in the Territory of Michigan
con?rmed by the Governor and judges on the 27th day of April, 1807 and ordered to be a
record and to be signed by the Governor and attested by the Secretary of the Board. Attest:
Peter Audrain, Sec?y.? as recorded in Liber 34, Page 550 of Deeds, Wayne County Records;
also lying easterly of and adjoining the easterly line of the west 30 feet of Lot 2 and the west
30 feet of Lots 63 and the west 30 feet of Lot 64 and the vacated alley adjoining said parts of
Lots 2 and 64 ?Plat of Section numbered two in the City of Detroit in the Territory of
Mchigan con?rmed unanimously by the Governor and Judges on the 27th day of April, 1807
and ordered to be a record and to be signed by the Governor and attested by the Secretary
of the Board. Attest: Peter Audrain, Sec?y.? as recorded in Liber 34, Page 549 of Deeds,
Wayne County Records; on a temporary basis (fOr a period of Five (5) years) to expire on
November 1, 2022;

PROVIDED, that no buildings or other structures of any nature whatsoever shall be
constructed on or over the public right-of?way. The City of Detroit retains all rights and
interests in the temporarily closed public right?of?way. The City and all utility companies
retain their rights to service, inspect, maintain, repair, install, remove or replace utilities in the
temporarily closed public right?of?way. Further, a speci?c condition is imposed to ensure
unimpeded 24~hour?per?day access to the City and utility companies; and

PROVIDED, that if there is still a need for access from any of the abutting property owners
to said temporary closed street, access shall and must be maintained for those properties;

and

PROVIDED, that the Detroit Water and Sewerage Department (DWSD) forces shall have
free and easy access to the water main and sewer facilities at all times to permit proper
operation, maintenance and if required alteration or repair of the water main and/ or sewer
facilities. Free and easy access shall mean that no structures or storage of materials will be
allowed upon the temporarily closed street to hinder the movement of maintenance
equipment; and further

PROVIDED, that where a fence is placed across the temporarily closed portion of a street
then a gate must be installed to permit access for DWSD staff. The gate shall remain
unlocked 24 hours a day, unless a guard is stationed near the gate to allow DWSD ingress
and egress at any time to and from the temporarily closed street. The minimum dimensions
of the gate or gates shall provide 15 feet vertical and 13 foot horizontal clearances for
freedom of DWSD equipment movement; and further

PROVIDED, that should the water main and/ or sewer facilities be broken or damaged as a
result of any action on the part of the petitioner or assigns, then in such event the petitioner
or assigns shall be liable for all costs incident to the repair of such broken or damaged water
main and appurtenances, and the petitioner waives all claims for damages, and further

PROVIDED, that at the expiration of the permit, all obstructions shall be removed at the
City?s expense. The public property shall be restored to a condition satisfactory to the
General Services City Engineering Division and

PROVIDED, that this resolution is revocable at the will, whim or caprice of the Detroit City
Council without cause. The petitioner waives the right to claim damages or compensation
for removal of encroachments. Further, the permittee acquires no implied or other privileges
hereunder not expressly stated herein. If this permit is continued through November 16,
2.018, the City Council may (upon written request and if the circumstances justify
aCCordingly) grant an extension thereto; and

PROVIDED, that this permit shall not be assigned or transferred without the written
approval of the Detroit City Council; and further

PROVIDED, That the City Clerk shall within 30 days record a certi?ed copy of this
resolution with the Wayne County Register of Deeds.

SPIRIT PLAZA

TELL US YOUR IDEAS ON HOW TO MAKE SPIRIT
PLAZA, THE PLAZA

HELP US BY ANSWERING 4 QUICK QUESTIONS ON THE BACK OF THIS CARD 



SPIRIT PLAZA

TELL US YOUR IDEAS ON HOW TO MAKE SPIRIT
PLAZA, THE PLAZA

HELP US BY ANSWERING 4 QUICK QUESTIONS ON THE BACK OF THIS CARD 

TCCQ?weolGie. ?table: \b/Iis??Ss (M66)

Spirit Plaza - Area Business Survey

1. What's the name of your business? 
2. Where is your business located? 

3. What is the busiest time for your business? 
Check all that apply.

Morning hours 7 am - 11 am

Lunch hours 11 am - 2 pm
Early afternoon 3 pm - 5 pm
Evening hours 4 pm - 7 pm

Late night 7 pm - midnight

Other:

4. Are you aware of Spirit Plaza? 
Mark only one oval.
Yes Skip to question 5.
No

Spirit Plaza is a public space pilot in front of the Spirit of Detroit that aims to encourage civic engagement
and celebrate Detroit's art and culture. Throughout the summer Spirit Plaza offered local food truck offerings
during weekday lunch hours and community based arts and culture programming throughout the week.

 

 

.The City of Detroit is interested in partnering with businesses surrounding Spirit Plaza. Which of

150 Cafe Lounge

24 grille

Acropolis Bakery

AK Takeaway
American Coney Island
Ml Deli

Athens Souvlaki
Avalon Cafe and Bakery
Bangkok Crossing
Beilecino?s

Big City Bar 8: Grill
Blue Star Cafe

Buhl Bar

Cadillac Square Diner
Calexico - Detroit
Carnival Fresh Mex
Caucus Club

Central Kitchen 4- Bar
Checker Bar

Cottage Inn Pizza
Delux Lounge

Detroit Water ice Factory

Detrolter Bar
Dime Store

 

DOWNTOWN

25 Domino's Pizza

26 Drive Table Tennis
Social Club

27 Drought

28 Fishbone's

29 Five Guys

30 Freshll

31 Gateway Deli Cafe

32 Grand Trunk Pub

33 Guardian Cafe

34 Ham Shop Cafe

35 Hard Red: Cafe

36 Jacoby's German
Biergarten

37 Jimmy John's

38 Jimmy John's

39 Lafayette Coney Island

40 Leeds Tex-Mex Grille

41 London Chop House

42 Lunchtime Global

43 Food Corner

44 Maru Sushi 8: Grill Detroit

45 Mike's Kabob Grille

46 Mr. Kabob Grille Catering

 

4? Niki?s Pizza

48 Orchid Thai Restaurant

49 Papa Romano's Pizza

50 Par:

51 POP Of?l'world

52 Fotbeliy Sandwich Shop

53 Prime and Proper

54 Ozine Cafe

55 Roasting Plant - Detroit

56 Shake Shack

57 Slices

58 Sterling Services Caieterle

59 Subway

60 Sweetwater Tavern

61 Terrace Cafe

62 Texas de Brazil

63 The Apparatus Room

64 The Boulevard Room

65 The District Bar Grill

66 The Guardian -
Zingennan's On Tap

67 Tim Horton's

68 Townhouse

69 Wala

the following potential initiatives would you be interested in: 

Check all that apply.

Vending in Spirit Plaza

Promoting my business on special local days

El Sponsoring an event

Other:

DINING

70 Westln Book Cadillac Coffee
71 Which Wich Superio Sandwiches
72 Woodward Coney Restaurant
73 Zoom Grill
14 Renaissance Center Restaurants

- Hahn Thai Xpress

0 Bo?i

- Burger King

-Forty-Two Degrees North

-Granite City Food 8: Brewery

- Gourmet Deli

-Gyro Land

-McDonaid's

-Piua Hut

- Rice Bowl Express

-Sbarro

-Subway

oSweet Lorraine?a Fabulous

Mac n? Cheezl
-That Sandwich Place
-Zoupl

 COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, SUITE l02t?a
DETROIT. MICHIGAN 48226

CIIY 0F DETROIT PHONE: 3L1 - 628-2158
OFFICE OFTHE CHIEF FINANCIALOFFICER FAX: 313 . 224 . 0542

OFFICE or DEVELOPMENT AND GRANTS 
September 24. 2018 I 3

The Honorable Detroit City Council
ATTN: City Clerk Of?ce

200 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit MI 48226

RE: Request to Accept and Appropriate the FY 2017 First Responders:
Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act Grant

The Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA). has
awarded the City of Detroit Health Department with the FY 2017 First Responders:
Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act Grant for a total of $998,441.00. There is
no match requirement for this program. The budget period is 09/30/2018 through

09/29/2020.

The objective of the grant is to train ?rst responders and key community sectors to
provide and administer naloxone for emergency treatment. The funding allotted to the
department will also be to establish processes, protocols. and mechanisms for
referral to appropriate treatment and recovery community services. This Is a
reimbursement grant.

lf approval is granted to accept and appropriate this funding. the appropriation number
is 20558.

I respectfully ask your approval to accept and appropriate funding in accordance with
the attached resolution.

Sincerely,
Ryan Friedrichs
Director, Of?ce of Development and Grants

 

CC:
Katerli Bounds. Deputy Director. Grants
Sajjiah Parker. Assistant Director, Grants

ENTERED OCT 292013; View iv MW [is/m9 5/5/0314ng

at??

Office of Development and Grants__ 

 

RESOLUTION

Council Member

WHEREAS, the Health Department is requesting authorization to accept a grant of reimbursement
from the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA), in the amount
of $998,441.00 to train ?rst responders and key community sectors to provide and administer
naloxone for emergency treatment, and to establish processes. protocols, and mechanisms for
referral to treatment and recovery community services; now

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Director or Head of the Department is authorized to
execute the grant agreement on behalf of the City of Detroit, and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Budget Director is authorized to establish Appropriation
number 20558 in the amount of $998,441.00. from the Substance Abuse and Mental Health
Services Administration for the FY 2017 First Responders: Comprehensive Addiction and
Recovery Act Grant.

Page 1 0H

 

Notice of Award

First Responders Issue Date: 09/19/2018
Department of Health and Human Services

Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration

Center for Substance Abuse Prevention

Grant Number: 1H795P080337-01
FAIN: H798P090337
Program Director: Kanzoni Asabigi

Project Title: Detroit Community Opioid Response Initiative (DCORI)

 

 

Business Address
Dr. Khaldun. Joneigh
Detroit Health Department
3245 E. Jefferson
Detroit. MI 48207

Grantee Address
DETROIT HEALTH DEPARTMENT
Detroit Health Department
3245 E. Jefferson, Suite 1000
Detroit. MI 48207

 

 

Budget Period: 09/30/2018 - 09/29/2020
Project Period: 09/30/2018 .- 09/29/2022

Dear Grantee:

The Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration hereby awards a grant In the amount of
$998,441 (see ?Award Calculation" in Section and ?Terms and Conditions" in Section ill) to DETROIT
HEALTH DEPARTMENT in support of the above relerenced project. This award is pursuant to the
authority of Section 546 of the Public Health and is subject to the requirements of this statute and
regulation and of other referenced. incorporated or attached terms and conditions.

Award recipients may access the SAMHSA website at Wiclick on "Grants" then SAMHSA
Grants Management). which provides information relating to the Division of Payment Management
System, HHS Division of Cost Allocation and Postawerd Administration Requirements. Please use your
grant number for reference.

Acceptance of this award including the ?Terms and Conditions" is acknowledged by the grantee when
funds are drawn down or otherwise obtained from the grant payment system.

If you have any questions about this award. please contact your Grants Management Specialist and your
Government Project Of?cer listed in your terms and conditions.

Sincerely yours.

Eileen Bermudez

Grants Management Officer
Division of Grants Management

See additional information below

Page-1

 

 

SECTION I - AWARD DATA - 
Award Calculation (US. Dollars)

Salaries and Wages

Fringe Bene?ts

Personnel Costs (Subtotal)
Other

Direct Cost
Approved Budget

Federal Share
Cumulative Prior Awards for this Budget Period

AMOUNT OF THIS ACTION (FEDERAL SHARE)

 

SUMMARY TOTALS FOR ALL YEARS

 

 

 

 

YR AMOUNT

1 5993.441
2 $495,875
3 $491104

$126,600

543.292
$169,892
$828,549

$998.441
$998,441

5998.441
$0

$998.441

?Recommended future year total cost support. subject to the availability of funds and satisfactory

progress of the proiect.

Fiscal information:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CFDA Number: 93.243

EIN: 130600460884

Document Number: 17SP80337A

Fiscal Year: 2018

to CAN Amount

SP 096V125 5998.441

12 . All! 2020 2021

SP cast" 25 $998,441 $495,876 94971104
SP at ve ta:

POO: FR-CARA I 00: 4145

 

 

SECTION II - PAYMENTIHOTLINE INFORMATION - 1 H795P080337-01

Payments under this award will be made available through the HHS Payment Management
System (PMS). PMS is a centralized grants payment and cash management system. operated by
the HHS Program Support Center (PSC). Division of Payment Management (DPM). Inquiries
regarding payment should be directed to: The Division of Payment Management System. PO Box

6021. Rockviile, MD 20852. Help Desk Support Telephone Number: 1-877-614-5533.

The HHS Inspector General maintains a toll-free hotline for receiving information concerning
fraud. waste. or abuse under grants and cooperative agreements. The telephone number is: 1-

BOO-HHS-TIPS (1-800-447-8477). The mailing address is: Of?ce of Inspector General.

Department of Health and Human Services, Attn: HOTLINE. 330 Independence Ave., SW,

Washington. DC 20201.

Page-2

 

SECTION - TERMS AND CONDITIONS - 

This award is based on the application submitted to. and as approved by, SAMHSA on the
above-title project and is subject to the terms and conditions incorporated either directly or by
reference in the following:

a. The grant program legislation and program regulation cited in this Notice of Award.

b. The restrictions on the expenditure of federal funds in appropriations acts to the extent
those restrictions are pertinent to the award.

c. 45 CFR Part 75 as applicable.

d. The HHS Grants Policy Statement.

e. This award notice, INCLUDING THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS CITED BELOW.

Treatment of Program income:
Additional Costs

in accordance with the regulatory requirements provided at 45 CFR 75.113 and Appendix XII to
45 CFR Part 75, recipients that have currently active Federal grants. cooperative agreements,
and procurement contracts with cumulative total value greater than $10,000.000 must report and
maintain information in the System for Award Management (SAM) about civil. criminal, and
administrative proceedings in connection with the award or performance of a Federal award that
reached final disposition within the most recent five-year period. The recipient must also make
semiannual disclosures regarding such proceedings. Proceedings information will be made
publicly available in the designated integrity and performance system (currently the Federal
Awardee Performance and Integrity lnfonnation System Fuil reporting requirements
and procedures are found in Appendix XII to 45 CFR Part 75.

 

SECTION IV SP Special Terms and Conditions 

REMARKS

New Matti-Year Award

1. Multi-Year Award

0 This Notice of Award is issued to inform your organization that the
application submitted through the funding opportunity SP 17-005 has been
selected for funding.

0 This award re?ects multi-year funding for two 12-month incremental periods within
the budget period. from 9/30/2018 - 9/29/2020. in the amount of $998,441.
Following this muIti-year funded period, the recipient may apply for annual
continuation funding for the next budget periods. Annual funding is based on
the availability of funds.

0 Further. this award has a special condition to submit a revised budget for the
amount authorized for the ?rst incremental period. 5828.549 of the award amount
has been placed within the "Other" budget cost category as restricted and may
not be used for any purpose until which time a revised budget is received and
approved by SAMHSA.

2. Multi-Year Grant Award Funding Amounts
0 Funding for each of the 12-month incremental period(s) is restricted and the
recipient organization may not expend more than the following:
- 91291201 9: $498,880
9/30/2019 9/29/2020: $499,561
'Remaining 12-month incremental periods
3. Key Staff
0 Key staff (or key staff positions. if staff has not been selected) are listed below:

Page-3

 

2 WOODWARD AVENUE. sums I026
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

PHONE: 313 - 

FAX: 3 I3 - 224 0542


CITY or DETROIT
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER

OFFICE OF DEVELOPMENT AND GRANTS

September 20, 2018

The Honorable Detroit City Council
ATTN: City Clerk Of?ce

200 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit MI 48226

RE: Request to accept an increase In appropriation for the FY 2018 HIV
Emergency Relief Grant

The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Health Resource and Services
Administration (HRSA). has awarded an increase in appropriation to the City of Detroit
Health Department for the FY 2018 HIV Emergency Relief Grant, in the amount of
$412,461.00. There is no match requirement for this program. This funding will increase
appropriation 20371 previously approved in the amount of $9,588,538.00. by council on
June 19, 2018. to a total of 810.000.999.00.

The FY 2018 HIV Emergency Relief Grant is a reimbursement grant. The objective of
the grant is to provide a comprehensive system of care that includes primary medical
care and essential support services for people living with HIV who are uninsured or
underinsured. This additional funding will enable the department to continue to provide

services under this grant.

I respectfully ask your approval to accept the increase in appropriation funding in
accordance with the attached resolution.

Sincerel .

Ryan Friedn?chs
Director. Of?ce of Development and Grants

CC:
Katerli Bounds. Deputy Director, Grants
Sajjiah Parker. Assistant Director. Grants

ENTERED on 292013 +10% +0 Mm (sum; {5,03 am

COLEMAN A. Youno MUNICIPAL CENTER 

14

sf

Office of Development and Grants mumm-

 

RESOLUTION

Council Member

WHEREAS, the Detroit Health Department is requesting authorization to accept an increase for
the FY 2018 HIV Emergency Relief Grant. from The U.S. Department of Health and Human
Services, Health Resource and Services Administration (HRSA). In the amount of $412,461.00. in
order to provide primary medical care and essential support services for people living with HIV
who are uninsured or unden?nsured. funding will increase appropriation 20371, previously
approved in the amount of $9,588,538.00, by council on June 19, 2018, to a total of
510.000.999.00;

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Director or Head of the Department is authorized to
execute the modi?ed grant agreement on behalf of the City of Detroit. and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Budget Director is authorized to increase the budget

accordingly for appropriation number 20371, in the amount of $10.000,999.00, for the FY 2018
HIV Emergency Relief Grant.

Page 1 of 1

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

091102010
3. SUPERSEDES AWARD NOTICE dated: 0512212018 
"mt that any ldditlonl or ?tinctan Irnpoud 1min In slut union spacinth 
4a. AWARD NO.: as. GRANT no; a. FORMER GRANT 
6 H09HA00021-26-03 HBQHA00021 NO.: NOTICE OF AWARD
BRHaggoz1 AUTHORIZATION (LegislationiRagulallon)
. Public Health Service Act. Title XXVI. Section 2003b
5' Eggfga'fggo'mmus", ammo? Public Health Service Act Section 2603(0). 42 05.0 3000-1302)
FY 2007 Title XXVI oi the PHS Act. 42 U.S.C. section 300-0-11 et
seq (as amended). Part A
Ryan While HIVIAIDS Treatment Extension Act or 2009 (Public Law
1r1-57)
Public Health Service Act. Sacitons 2601-2610
Public Health Service Act. Sections 2601-2010 (42 USC 300041 --
7. BUDGET PERIOD: 3000-20). as amended by the Ryan While HIVIAIDS Treatment
FROM: THROUGH: 022812019 Extension Act OI 2009 (Public Law 111-07)
Public Health Service Act. Sections 2601-2610. and 
(42 USC 3000.11 - 3000-20. and as amended
by the Ryan White I-IIVIAIDS Treatment Extension Act of 2009
(Public Law 111-87)
9. OF PROJECT (OR PROGRAM): HIV EMERGENCY RELIEF PROJECT GRANTS
9. GRANTEE NAME AND ADDRESS: 10. DIRECTOR: (PROGRAM DIRECTORIPRINCIPAL
DETROIT PUBLIC HEALTH DEPARTMENT 
1151 Taylor St Leanne Savoi
Detroit. MI 49202-1732 DETROIT PUBLIC HEALTH DEPARTMENT
DUNS NUMBER: 3245 E. Je?erson Avenue
603005542 Detroit. MI 48207
BUDGEthEchudes Direct Assistance) 12. AWARD COMPUTATTON FOR FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE:
[It] Grant Funds Only a. Authorized Financial Assistance This Period 510.000.999.00
Total project costs Including grant funds and 5! other ?nancial participation b. Lass Unobligated Balance Irom Prior Budget
a . Salaries and Wages $0.00 Pemds
I. Additional Authority 50.00
- Fringe Bene?ts $0.ll. Offset $0.00
2' Co a well-:80" as su'm c. Unawarded Balance oi Current Year's Funds 5000
on; coma d. Less Cumulative Prior Awards(s) This Budget 59.508.530.00
6. Equpmanl $0.00 Period
i . Suppliers $0.00 a. AMOUNT OF FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE THIS ?1 2.461.00
9. Travel $0.00 
. 13. RECOMMENDED FUTURE SUPPORT: {Subject to the
h' and Renovauon' ?'00 availability oi funds and satisfactory progress of prujecl)
I . Other 50.00 YEAR TOTAL cosrs
. ConsortiumICOhtracIual Costs $0.00 Not aPPIicabIe
I latedExe 5: 50.00
'3 nee Re 14. APPROVED DIRECT ASSISTANCE lieu oi cash)
I Twin? supends ?3'00 a. Amount OI Direct Assistance 50.00
Trainee Tuition and Fees $0.00 0. Less Unawarded Balance of Current Year's Funds $0.00
    

0. TOTAL DIRECT COSTS: 510.000.999.00 
p. INDIRECT COSTS (Rate: St: at SCWITADC) 50.00
. TOTAL APPROVED BUDGET 810.000.999.00

l. Less Non-Federal Share: $0.00

It. Federal Share: 810.000.999.00
15. PROGRAM INCOME SUBJECT TO 45 CFR 75.307 SHALL BE USED IN ACCORD WITH ONE OF THE FOLLOWING ALTERNATIVES:
A=Addltion B=Daductlon CICost Sharing or Matching 

Estimated Ptogram Income: 50.00

16. THIS AWARD IS BASED ON AN APPLICATION SUBMITTED TO. AND AS APPROVED BY HRSA. IS ON THE ABOVE PROJECT
AND IS SUBJECT TO THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS INCORPORATED EITHER DIRECTLY OR BY REFERENCE IN THE FOLLOWING:
a. The grant program legislation cited show. In. Tho grant program rsgulltlan cited above c. This aunt notln Including mm! and conditions. It any, nclod tutu undlr REMARKS. a. as CFR Part rs as
applicable. In the want Irm- 1r. contacting or pallet-I w" In punt. slam out" at precedence sir-II prov-I. Acceptance or In. gm? mm mm ?indium. I.
by IR. gram. when lands an: drum or ?Irwin obtalrlod tram trio glint "nun.

REMARKS: (Olhar Terms and Conditions Attached {It Was 

Prior Approval Request Tracking Number PA-00073809. Fri or Approval Request Type Can-000m

Electronically signed by Karen Mayo . Grants Management Of?cer on 09110I2018
17. OBJ. CLASS: 41.15 I10. CRS-EIN: 1396004006A2I19. FUTURE RECOMMENDED FUNDING: $0.00

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I'n Icl
A  manna?um Ityounudm
hmuxpuum mm

 OF AWARD (Continuation Shun)

Dale Issued: 9Il0120l8 l0'22148 AM
Award Number: 6 IIB9IMDOOZ I -26-03

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

sua
FY-CAN CFDA oocumsm no. AMT. FIN. ASST. AMT. ma. ASST. accouuT
sons
17 47717239 93.914 1377mm 523155500 50.00 FRML Him-18
17 4773233 93.914 513077590 50.00 HIV1-18

 

me:

 

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
1 2 AVENUE. SUITE I026
MICHIGAN 48226

PHONE: 3 l3 - 623-2 I58

FAX: 313 0 224 0542


CITY or Da?rnorr
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
OFFICE or DEVELOPMENT AND GRANTS

October 4. 2018

The Honorable Detroit City Council
City Clerk Office

200 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit MI 48226

RE: The Detroit Public Safety Foundation Request to accept a grant to support
the Detroit Youth Violence Prevention Initiative's Drive-to-Thrive Program

The Skillman Foundation has awarded the Detroit Public Safety Foundation with a grant
for a total of $150,000.00. This funding will be used to support the Detroit Youth
Violence Prevention lnitiative's Drive-to-Thrive Program.

The Skillman Foundation anticipates that the grant will enable Detroit Public Safety
Foundation to accomplish the following:

0 Assist applicants with securing legal documents. including social security cards
and birth certi?cates. required to obtain a driver's license

0 Work with Detroit Public Schools Community District to determine ways
to embed youth intervention systemically. coordinated with the current ongoing
instructional operations of the district. for the long-term sustainability of the
program

I respectfully ask your approval to accept and appropriate funding in accordance with
the attached resolution.

Sincerely.
4 . .
Ryan FrIedrIchs
Director. Office of Development and Grants

CC:
Katerli Bounds. Deputy Director. Grants
Sajiiah Parker. Assistant Director, Grants

ENTERED *0 TAM

 A

Office of Development and Grants CITYOFDETHOIT

 

RESOLUTION

Council Member

WHEREAS, the Detroit Public Safety Foundation is requesting authorization to accept a grant
from the Skillman Foundation. in the amount of $150,000.00. to support the Detroit Youth Violence
Prevention Initiative's Drive-to-Thrive Program; now

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Detroit Public Safety Foundation is authorized to
accept and execute a grant agreement on behalf of the City of Detroit.

Page 1 of 1

DomSign Envelope ID 
THE
I LLMAN
a FOUNDATION

September 5, 2013

Ms Patty Ktikula

Execut ve Director

Detro Public Safety Feundaticn
1301 Third Ave Ste 547

Detroit M148226

Re: Grant rt: 1800-2018000710
Dear Ms Kukula

i am pleased to inform you that the Skin-man Foundot=on has approved a grant to Detrout Public Safety
Foundation in the amount of $150 000 This grant will support a new prevention cernponent to Detroit
Youth Violence Prevention Initiatives Ceasefire platform "Drive to Thrive specifically designed to
reduce the number of young people that have premature With law enforcement and the criminal
system this grant has been assigned the number #1803 2018000710 Please include this number
in all future correspondence and reports concerning this grant

ln support of om shared the Foundation 

Assign a program officer to work Wt'lh you over the course of the grant protect to enswe that the
grant is successful Please contact Robert Thornton. at [313) 393 1164 or
rthornton@skillman org. ii you have any questions or concerns

- Make available to you information and technical assistance as appropriate and available, to
support your work

the Foundation antictpates that the grant \Nl" enable Detroit Publ Salety Foundation to accomplish the
followmg results

0 Assist app'icants With securing legal documents ncluding some security cards and birth
certificates, required to obtain a driver's license

0 Work With Detronl Public Schools Community District to determine ways to embed this
intervention system catty within the ongoing .nstruCtonal opt-rations of the district for
sustainability

0 Partner With Frednck Douglas Academy and Cody High School to select and enroll students based
up attendance avaidance and/or reduction in code viola: ons, and academic improvements

Partner With All Star Driver 5 Education School to prowde clasSroont and road instruction and
e-perience

- Assist participants obtaining summer and part Lme employment. and where appropr ate.
full-time employment for graduates

Docusign Envelope FD 

GRANT AGREEMENT

Detroit Public Salety Foundation
Grant "13052018000110
September 5. 2018

Thus grant will be cons dered a success lf Detroit Public Safety Foundation achieves the lollowmg
outcomes

I Sign?cantlv reduce number at students having' negative contact with law enforcement and
courts due to driving Without a license

- Provide free drtver's educauon to low Income students

- Improve school communttv culture and relationships between students and law enforcement

Provrde student participants supportive serv ces and case management

- Ptowde summEr and part time tabs for high school students

The enclosed Grant Agreement sets forth the terms and conditions of this grant including instructions for
payment at the grant reportng requirements and tips for publicizing your grant.

The Foundation makes e'eclronic grant payments Please complete the Grant Partner Electronic Payment
Authorization Agreement and return A With a veto check to  payment in the amount
ol 5150.000 in lu?lillment ol the grant ?rl be lorwarded to you upon receipt by the Foundation of a
prciperlv signed Grant Agreement Grant Partner Electronic Payment Authorization Agreement vo 
check and rev-.sed budget {if necessary)

Sincerely

005%

Tonya Allen
Presrdent and CEO

TA dc
Enclosures

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER.
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, surTE I026
Dmon?. MICHIGAN 48226

OF DETROIT

PHONE: 313 0628-2158
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER FAX: 3 l3 . 224 0542

OFFICE or DEVELOPMENT AND GRANTS I 

October 1. 201 

The Honorable Detroit City Council
City Clerk Of?ce

200 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit MI 48226

RE: Request to Accept and Appropriate FY 2019 Victims of Crime Assistance (VOCA)
Grant

The Michigan Department of Health and Human Services has awarded the City of
Detroit Police Department with the FY 2019 Victims of Crime Assistance (VOCA) Grant for a
total of $964,101.00. The State share is $964,101.00 of the approved amount. and there is a
cash match of $208,006.00. There is also a required in-kind match contribution of $33,019.00.
The total project cost is $1,205,126.00. The Grant was adopted in the current budget under
apprOpriation 20450, in the amount of $1,140,093.00. The grant was awarded for a higher value
than was budgeted. We are requesting an increase in appropriation for the FY 2019 adopted
budget for the grant. in the amount of $65,033.00. This will increase appropriation 20450,
previously approved in the amount of $1,140,093.00, to a new total budget amount to
$1,205,126.00. The grant period is October 1. 2018 through September 30. 2019.

The objective of the grant is to review and respond to police reports of sexual assault, domestic
violence. cases of homicide and missing persons, child abuse. and other assaultive crimes, in
the City of Detroit. The funding allotted to the department will be utilized to provide group andlor
individual counseling to all sexual assault, domestic violence, homicide or child abuse victims
andior family members requesting this service. This is a reimbursement grant.

If approval is granted to accept and appropriate this funding, the appropriation number is 20450.
with the match amount coming from appropriation number 00380.

I respectfully ask your approval to accept and appropriate funding in accordance with the
attached resolution.

Sincerely,

I

Ryan Friedrichs
Director, Of?ce of Development and Grants

CC:
Katerli Bounds. Deputy Director. Grants
Sajjiah Parker. Assistant Director. Grants

ENTERED on 292013 Mm i?o {5,05%th



Of?ce of Development and Grants cm-omeraon

 

 

RESOLUTION

Council Member

WHEREAS, the Detroit Police Department is requesting authorization to accept a grant of
reimbursement from the Michigan Department of Health and Human Services in the
amount of $964,101.00, to assist victims of sexual assault, domestic violence, child abuse, and
families of homicide and missing persons, and other victims of assaultive crimes; and

WHEREAS, the Michigan Department of Health and Human Services award amount is
$964,101.00, and there is a cash match requirement of $208,006.00, and there is an in-kind
match requirement of $33,019.00; and therefore. the total project cost is $1,205,126.00; and

WHEREAS, the Grant was adopted in the FY 2019 budget in the amount of $1,140,093.00. and
the Detroit Police Department is requesting that the budget be increased by the amount of
$65,033.00. to a new total budget in the amount of $1,205,126.00; now

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Director or Head of the Department is authorized to
execute the grant agreement on behalf of the City of Detroit, and

BE iT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Budget Director is authorized to increase Appropriation
number 20450, previously approved in the amount of in the amount of $1,140,093.00, to a total of
$1,205,126.00. which includes a cash match coming from Appropriation 00380, for the FY 2019
Victims of Crime Assistance (VOCA) Grant.

Page1oi1

gamma:



3. Authorized Of?cial

9?

E-Grants Help Desk
-lel

Agreement 
Grant Agreement Between
Michigan Department of Health and Human Services
hereinafter referred to as the "Department"
and
City of Detroit
4707 St. Antoine Suite M467 Box 407
Detroit MI 48201 1427
Federal 38-6004606. 137199266
hereinafter referred to as the "Grantee"
for
VOCA Crime Victim Assistance? 2019
Part I
1. Period of Agreement:

This agreement will commence on the date of the Grantee's signature or October 1.
2013;, whichever is later, and continue through September 30. 2019. No service will
be provided and no costs to the state will be incurred prior to October 1, 2018 or the
effective date of the Agreement, whichever is later. Through the Agreement, the date
of the Grantee?s signature or October 1, 2018. whichever is later, shall be referred to
as the begin date. This agreement is in full force and effect for the period speci?ed.

2. Program Budget and Agreement Amount:
A. Agreement Amount

 

The total amount of this agreement is $1,205,126.00. The Department under
the terms of this agreement will provide funding not to exceed $964,101.00.
The source of funding provided by the Department and approved indirect rate
shall be followed as described in Attachment 1 of this agreement, which is
part of this agreement through reference.

The match requirement of this agreement is 20.00% of the Department's

agreement amount. The Grantee's budgeted match amount is $241,025.00
and is identi?ed on Attachment B, Budget pages.

The grant agreement is designated as a:
Subrecipient relationship (federal funding); or
Recipient (non-federal funding).

The grant agreement is designated as:
Research and development project; or
Not a research and development project.

 

Contract if E20192301-00. Ch of Daimll. VOCA Crime Victlm Assistance- 2019, Date: DEIZDIZMB Page: 1 of 36

CITY OF DETROIT
BUDGET DEVELOPMENT
LEGAL BUDGET BY APPROPRIATION AND COST CENTER
EXPENDITURES

 

Agency 0 - Agency Name 2016-17

Approw'auan Name A?u? 2017-18 2010-19 2019-20 2020-21 2021-22

Adopted Recommended Forecast Forecast Forecast

 

CCii - Cost Center Name

 

371111 - Police Grants
20441 - MFA East Side ACTION Team FY 19
371111 - Police Grants
20442 - ATPA Oakland County Auto Theft Team FY 19
371111 - Police Grants
20443 - ATPA South East Auto Theft Team FY 19
371111 - Police Grants
20444 - ATPA Preventing Auto Theft FY 19
371111 - Police Grants
20445 - Strategic Traffic Enforcement FY 19
371.111 - Police Grants
20448 - Youth and Alcohol Enforcement FY 19
371111 - Police Grants
20447 - Justice Assistance Grant FY 18
371111 - Police Grants
20448 - Operation Stone Garden FY 18
371111 - Police Grants
20449 - Port Security Grant FY 10
371111 - Police Grants
20450 - Victims oi Crime Assistance FY10I19
371111 - Police Grants
20451 - Community Oriented Policing Services Hiring 10
371111 - Police Grants
20507 - COD Capital Projects 2019
372300- Office of Deputy Chief Technical Services Bureau
38 - Public Lighting Department
0012 - PLD Administration
380010 - General Administration
300030 - Inspection 8: Control
00121 - PLD Engineering
380090 - Engineering Administration
00120 - PLD Street Lighting
380150 - Supervision
380200 - Street Lighting Maintenance
13947 - PLO Decommissioning Reserve Appropriation
381100 - PLD Decommissioning Reserve
2032- PLA Revenue Bond?l'ransier
380385 - FLA - Lighting Improvements Transfer

[Unaudited]

10,206,573
265,374
206,246

59,120
124,759
124,759

17,090,441

?2,590)

17,901,039

31,561,262
392,426
340,299

44,127
153,013
153,013

10,410,023
292,500

18,126,323
497,000
497,000

12,500,000

12,500,000

210,632
210,632
90,154
90,154
07,344
07,344
2,723,601
2,723,601
275,000
275,000
60,000
60,000
900,000
900,000
10,000
10,000
250,000
250,000
1,140,093
1,140,093
770,005
770,005
2,196,625
2,196,625
31,765,656
276,117
232,590
43,519
61,607
61,607
10,430,052
246,299
10,164,553
497,000
497,000
12,500,000
12,500,000

210,700
210,700
90,200
50,200
07,400
87,400
2,705,600
2,705,600
275,000
275,000
70,000
70,000
900,000
900,000
10,000
10,000
250,000
250,000
1,140,100
1,140,100
770,000
778,000

31,665,656
276,117
232,590

43,519
61,607
61,607

10,330,052
246,299

10,004,553
497,000
497,000

12,500,000

12,500,000

210,700
210,700
90,200
90,200
07,400
07,400
2,705,600
2,705,600
275,000
275,000
70,000
70,000
900,000
900,000
10,000
10,000
250,000
250,000
1,140,100
1,140,100
770,000
770,000

31,665,656
276,117
232,590

43,519
61,607
61,607

10,330,052
246,299

10,004,553
497,000
497,000

12,500,000

12,500,000

210,700
210,700
90,200
90,200
07,400
07,400
2,705,600
2,705,600
275,000
275,000
70,000
70,000
500,000
900,000
10,000
10,000
250,000
250,000
1,140,200
1,140,100
770,000
770,000

31,665,656
276,117
232,590

43,519
61,607
61,687

10,330,052
246,299

10,004,553
497,000
497,000

12,500,000

12,500,000

C40

 

6%

ENTERED OCT 29 2018~Hom in ?Durham?- Rims/5);


a 5 COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE. suns 1026
DETROIT. MICHIGAN 48226
PHONE: 3 l3 0 628-2I58
FAX: 313 0 224 0 0542


CITY or DETROIT
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
OFFICE or DEVELOPM ENT AND GRANTS

September 24, 2018

The Honorable Detroit City Council
ATTN: City Clerk Of?ce

200 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit MI 48226

RE: Request to Accept and Appropriate the FY 2018 Transit Operations
Modernization and Technology Deployment (TOD-TD) Grant

The Federal Transit Administration has awarded the City of Detroit Department of
Transportation with the FY 2018 Transit Operations Modernization and Technology
Deployment (TOD-TD) Grant in the amount of $700,000.00. There is a required State
match, from the Michigan Department of Transportation (MDOT), in the amount of
$175,000.00. The total Federal and State award amount is $875.000.00. There is no
local match requirement. The total project cost is $875,000.00.

The objective of the grant is to prepare the Detroit Department of Transportation
(DDOT) for new technology. The funding allotted to the department will be utilized to
hire a small team of consultants to identify ways that DDOT can update its methods to
be compatible with modern technology systems. This is a reimbursement grant.

If approval is granted to accept and appropriate this funding. the appropriation number
is 20556.

I respectfully ask your approval to accept and appropriate funding in accordance with
the attached resolution.

Sincerely.

Ryan Friedrichs
Director. Of?ce of Development and Grants

CC:
Katerli Bounds. Deputy Director. Grants
Sajjiah Parker, Assistant Director, Grants 



 

38% no



Office of Development and Grants cm'ornmon

 

 

RESOLUTION

Council Member

WHEREAS, the Detroit Department of Transportation (DDOT) is requesting authorization to
accept a grant of reimbursement from the Federal Transit Administration, for the FY 2018 Transit
Operations Modernization and Technology Deployment (TOD-TD) Grant, in the amount of
$700,000.00, to hire a small team of consultants to identify ways that DDOT can update its
methods to be compatible with modern technology systems; and

WHEREAS, there is a required State match for the Grant. from the Michigan Department of
Transportation (MDOT). in the amount of $175,000.00; and

WHEREAS. the total Federal and State award amount is $875,000.00; now

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Director or Head of the Department is authorized to
execute the grant agreement on behalf of the City of Detroit. and

BE lT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Budget Director is authorized to establish Appropriation
number 20556. in the amount of $875,000.00, for the FY 2018 Transit Operations Modernization
and Technology Deployment (TOD-TD) Grant.

PagetcH

Date: June15. 2018
Agreement No.: 2017-0043
Authorization No.: P2
Job No.: 203406
Agenda: COM

PROJECT AUTHORIZATION
CITY OF DETROIT
FY 2018 SECTION 5303
STATE AND NON-METROPOLITAN
PLANNING AND RESEARCH PROGRAM

This information is required by the Michigan Department of Transportation (MDOT) in order to
record agreement of utilization of funds provided by the Federal Transit Administration. United
States Department of Transportation and MDOT. The funds provided shall be used by the
AGENCY in accordance with the above referenced Master Agreement.

Authorization Effective Date:
Authorization Expiration Date: Three years from the effective date of the authorization.
Fiscal Year of Effective Contract Clauses: 2018

The Federal grant associated with the PROJECT AUTHORIZATION is 
Award Year: 2018 Federal Item Number: W00160

The Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Number for the Federal Transit Administration
Statewide and Nonmetropolltan Planning Program is 20.505.

Project Description: A way to prepare the organization for new technology. The intent is to
engage a small. dedicated team of consultants for a three-year efferl. The consultant team will
Identify ways that DDOT can update its methods to be compatible with modern tech systems.
The result is a more ef?cient operation for sta? and a more reliable operation for customers.

Along with the request for reimbursement. submit a budget summary showing PROJECT to date
and current billings against individual budget items as shown in this PROJECT
AUTHORIZATION.

The AGENCY agrees to prepare and submit to MDOT quarterly reports using the 
Progress Report for State Planning and Research Programs" form (see attached sample). Upon
completion of the project deliverables. a comprehensive summary close-out report on the results
of the PROJECT, the conclusions reached. and the methods used must be submitted to MDOT.

Line Line
Item mm mm ?at; Total

1 Transit operations modernization and
technology deployment (T 44.24.00 $700,000 $175,000 $875,000

s.tFASStCommontSectlon Enulhorizslions doc

mm:
2019164000 $311,100 (F)

2013164000 5388.820 (F)
2018154000 5175.000 (S)

CITY OF DETROIT

 

Signature

 

Print Name and Title:

 

Signature

 

Print Name and Title:

MICHIGAN DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION

 

Title: Department Director

City of Detroit
Agreement No.: 2017-0043
Authorization No.: P2
Job No.: 203406
Page: 2 of 3

PRF No.: 2018-481

5303\FYIBVAuthodzalionsch

Period Covered:

MDOT Progress Report

PT A Section 5303

 

FT A GRANT NUMBER:
Nil-504100408

FISCAL YEAR APPROVED: 201 8

PROJECT TITLE Transit Operations Modernizallon and Technology
Deployment (TOD-TD)

SUBMITTED BY: City of Detroit 
Detroit Department of Transportation (DDOT)

 

 

 

Total Budget: $875,000
Cost to Date:

 

MDOT PROJECT MANAGER: PROJECT no: 203406 CONTRACT no; 2017-0043IP2
Tam EXPIRATION DATE:
BUDGEE

 

SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES:

SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES EXPECTED TO BE PERFORMED NEXT QUARTER:

 

STATUS AND COMPLETION DATE

Percentage of work completed to date:

 

 

 

 

 

 

Project is: on schedule behind schedule. explain:
Expected Completion Data:
Project Manager Unit Supervtsor

S'PASSICommonSectlon 5303\FY18IAtIlhonzalions doc

 

ENTERED OCT 29201

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 AVENUE, sums l026
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

PHONE: 3 l3 - 628-2l 58

Fax: 3 I3 - 224 - 0542


OF DETROIT
OFFICE OF THECHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
OFFICE OF DEVELOPMENT AND GRANTS

 

September 24, 201 

The Honorable Detroit City Council
ATTN: City Clerk Of?ce

200 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit MI 48226

RE: Request to Accept and Appropriate the FY 2018 Section 5339 Bus and Bus
Facilities Grant

The Federal Transit Administration has awarded the City of Detroit Department of
Transportation (DDOT) with the FY 2018 Section 5339 Bus and Bus Facilities Grant for
a total of $4,746,161.00. There is a required State match, from the Michigan
Department of TranSportation (MDOT), in the amount of $1,186,541.00. The total
Federal and State award amount is $5,932,702.00. There is no local match required.
The total project cost is $5,932,702.00.

The objective of the grant is to replace old buses that have passed their useful life, with
new buses. The funding allotted to the department will be utilized to replace up to seven
(7) 40?foot buses that are servicing DDOT's ?xed route service. Additionally, it allows for
the purchase ?ve (5) buses to replace four (4) 40-foot buses and one (1) 60-foot
articulated bus. This is a reimbursement grant.

If approval is granted to accept and appropriate this funding, the appropriation number
is 20557.

I respectfully ask your approval to accept and appropriate funding in accordance with
the attached resolution.

Sincerely,

9

Ryan Friedrichs
Director, Of?ce of Development and Grants

CC: .
Katerli Bounds, Deputy Director, Grants
Sajjiah Parker, Assistant Director, Grants

8, Ham +0  

'5

Of?ce of Development and Grants 

 

RESOLUTION

Council Member

WHEREAS. the Detroit Department of Transportation (DDOT) is requesting authorization to
accept a grant of reimbursement from the Federal Transit Administration. for the FY 2018 Section
5339 Bus and Bus Facilities Grant. In the amount of $4.746,161 .00, to replace old buses that have
passed their useful life. with new buses; and

WHEREAS, there is a required State match for the grant, from the Michigan Department of
Transportation (MDOT), in the amount of $1 .186.541.00; and

WHEREAS, the total Federal and State award amount is $5,932,702.00; now

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Director or Head of the Department is authorized to
execute the grant agreement on behalf of the City of Detroit. and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED. that the Budget Director is authorized to establish Appropriation
number 20557. in the amount of $5,932,702.00. for the FY 2018 Section 5339 Bus and Bus
Facilities Grant.

Page 1 of1

Date: July 9, 2018
Agreement No.: 2017-0043
Authorization No.1 P4
Job Nos.: 2028691203927
Agenda: COM

PROJECT AUTHORIZATION
CITY OF DETROIT

FY 2018 SECTION 5307 - LOCAL

TRANSIT FORMULA GRANTS PROGRAM
AND CONGESTION MITIGATION AND

AIR QUALITY IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM

FY 2018 SECTION 5339 - LOCAL

BUS AND BUS FACILITIES FORMULA PROGRAM

This information is required by the Michigan Department of Transportation (MDOT) in order to
record agreement of utilization of funds. The funds provided shall be used by the AGENCY in
accordance with the above referenced Master Agreement.

Authorization Effective Date:
Authorization Expiration Date: Four years from the effective date of the authorization

The Federal grant associated with the PROJECT AUTHORIZATION is Temporary No.
2107-2018-3IPermanent No. .

The Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Number for the Section 5307 Federal Transit
Administration Transit Formula Grants Program ls 20.507. The Catalog of Federal Domestic
Assistance Number for the Section 5339 Federal Transit Administration Bus and Bus Facilities
Formula Program is 20.526.

MDOT will not make payment until MDOT is provided a copy of the application and the awarded
Federal Transit Administration grant.

Timety Expenditure of Funds

MDOT will not extend this PROJECT AUTHORIZATION beyond the four years except for new
facility construction projects and unique circumstances as determined by MDOT. in making this
determination. MDOT will look at the progress to date on the project and the plans to complete
the project.

SZFASSWMIFCSIHTIDDOM I MIIGMZO 1 7-004 3-H Doc:

City of Detroit
Agreement No.: 2017-0043
Authorization No.: P4
Job Noe: 2028691203927

 

Page: 2 at 2
Item Fedora! State 19g
(202369]:
Eggnog vehicles:
1 Up to four 40 ft or more
replacement buses 804 $1,363,410 340.653 51.704.263
more
replacement articulated
bus 804 146,499 
Section Total 51.949.010 487.253 52.436283
Section (2033271:
Revenge vehicles:
3 Up to seven 40 ft or more
replacement articulated
buses 304 
Total $4.746.161 51.186.541 55.932.702
Funding source: PRF No.: 2018-668

2018187750" 120 $1.186,541 (8)

CITY OF DETROIT

 

Signature

 

Print Name and Title

 

Signature

 

Print Name and Title

MICHIGAN DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION

 

Title: Department Director

5 1 BtCapltat Doc:

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION
FEDERAL TRANSIT ADMINISTRATION

GRANT AGREEMENT
(FTA 6-24, October 1, 2017)

On the date the authorized U.S. Department of Transportation, Federal Transit
Administration (FTA) of?cial signs this Grant Agreement. FTA has obligated and
awarded federal assistance as provided below. Upon execution of this Grant Agreement
by the Recipient named below. the Recipient af?rms this FTA Award, enters into this
Grant Agreement with FTA. and binds its compliance with the terms of this Grant
Agreement.

The following documents are incorporated by reference and made part of this Grant
Agreement:

(1) "Federal Transit Administration Master Agreement.? October 1, 2017.


(2) The Certi?cations and Assurances applicable to the FTA Award that the Recipient
has selected and provided to FTA. and

(3) Any Award noti?cation containing special conditions or requirements, if issued.

WHEN THE TERM OR IS USED. EITHER IN THIS GRANT
AGREEMENT OR THE APPLICABLE MASTER AGREEMENT, ALSO
INCLUDES ALL TERMS AND CONDITIONS SET FORTH IN THIS GRANT
AGREEMENT.

FTA OR THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT MAY WITHDRAW ITS OBLIGATION TO
PROVIDE FEDERAL ASSISTANCE IF THE RECIPIENT DOES NOT EXECUTE THIS

GRANT AGREEMENT WITHIN 90 DAYS FOLLOWING AWARD DATE SET
FORTH HEREIN.

FTA AWARD
Federal Transit Administration (FTA) hereby awards a Federal Grant as follows:
Recipient Information
Recipient Name: Detroit, City Of

Recipient it): 2107
DUNS No: 021100409

Award Information

Federal Award Identi?cation Number: Mi-2018-013?00

Award Name: FY 201 8 Section 5307 CMAQ and Section 5339

Award Start Date: 8/29/2018

Award End Date: 11/29/2022

Award Executive Summgy; This grant provides $2,797,151 of Federal FY 2018
Section 5339 funds to replace up to seven 40-foot buses that have met or surpassed
their useful life with newer ones servicing DDOT's ?xed route service. Additionally, it
provides and $1,949,010 in Federal FY 2018 CMAQ to purchase ?ve buses to replace
four (4) 40-foot buses and one (1) 60-foot articulated bus that have met or surpassed
their useful life with newer, less polluting buses to be used on DDOT's ?xed route

service.

State match in the amount of $1,186,541 provided by the Comprehensive
Transportation Fund.

5339: TIP GPA 12722. Subproject 23963
CMAQ: TIP GPA #21880. Subproject 23647

Research and Development: This award does not include research and development
activities.

Indirect Costs: This award does not include an indirect cost rate.

Subailocation Funds: Recipient organization is suballocated these apportioned funds
and can apply for and receive these funds directly.

Pre-Award Authoritv: This award is using Pre-Award Authority.
Award Budget
Total Award Budoet: $5,932,702.00

Amount of Federal Assistance Ohiioated for This FTA Action (in US.
Dollars): $4,746,161.00

Amount of Non-Federal Funds Committed to This FTA Action (in US.
Dollars}: $1,186,541.00

Total FTA Amount Awarded and Oblioated (in LLS. Do?ars}: $4,746,161.00

Total Non-Federal Funds Committed to the Overall Award (in US.
Dollars): $1,186,541.00
Award Budget Control Totals

(The Budget includes the individual Project Budgets (Scopes and Activity Line Items) or
as attached}

 

 

 

Funding Source :fai?gg Of er Amount

 t? 5307 urban'ze? Area 5307-3 20507 $1,949,010
5339 Buses and Bus Facilities Formula 5339-1 20526 $2,797,151
Local $0
$0

State $1,186,541
StatelIn-Kind $0

Other Federal $0
Transportation Development Credit $0

Total Eligible Cost $5,932,702

 

 

 

(The Transportation Development Credits are not added to the amount of the Total
Award Budget.)

U.S. Department of Labor Certi?cation of Public Transportation Employee
Protective Arrangements:

Review Decision: DOL Concurs - Certi?ed

Original Certi?cation Date: 8/6/2018

Special Conditions

There are no special conditions.

FINDINGS AND DETERMINATIONS

By signing this Award on behalf of FTA, I am making all the determinations and ?ndings

required by federal law and regulations before this Award may be made.

FTA AWARD OF THE GRANT AGREEMENT

Awarded By:

Kelley Brookins

Deputy Regional Administrator

FEDERAL TRANSIT ADMINISTRATION

US. DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION
Contact Info: kelley.brookins@dot.gov

Award Date: 8/29/2018

EXECUTION OF THE GRANT AGREEMENT

Upon full execution of this Grant Agreement by the Recipient, the Effective Date will be
the date or the Federal Government awarded Federal assistance for this Grant
Agreement.

By executing this Grant Agreement. the Recipient intends to enter into a legally binding
agreement in which the Recipient:
(1) Af?nns this FTA Award,
(2) Adopts and rati?es all of the following information it has submitted to FT A:
Statements,
Representations,
Warranties,
Covenants, and
Materials.
(3) Consents to comply with the requirements of this FTA Award, and
(4) Agrees to all terms and conditions set forth in this Grant Agreement.

Executed By:
Angelica Jones
Interim Director
Detroit, City Of
8/30/2018

?r
COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
11 2 AVENUE. SUITE l026

Demon, MICHIGAN 48226
m0" PHONE: 313 - 628-2 I58
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER 3 I 3 . 2,4 . 054.,
OFFICE OF DEVELOPMENT AND Gums 

October 4, 201 

The Honorable Detroit City Council
ATTN: City Clerk Office

200 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit MI 48226

RE: Request to accept an increase in appropriation for the FY 2015 Consolidated
Youth Grant

The Community Health And Social Services Center (CHASS) has awarded an increase
in appropriation to the City of Detroit Police Department for the FY 2015 Consolidated
Youth Grant, in the amount of $21,600.00. There is no match requirement. This funding
will increase appropriation 20260, previously approved in the amount of $28,279.00, by
council on March 29, 2016, to a total of $49,879.00.

The FY 2015 Consolidated Youth Grant is a reimbursement grant. The objective of the
grant Is to conduct trainings to improve police response to youth survivors of dating and
sexual violence. This grant will enable the department to cover the costs of the
prevailing overtime rate for 4th Precinct Of?cers.

I respectfully ask your approval to accept the increase in appropriation funding in
accordance with the attached resolution.

Sincerely,



Ryan Friedrichs
Director, Office of Development and Grants

CC:
Katerli Bounds, Deputy Director. Grants
Sajjiah Parker, Assistant Director, Grants

ENTERED 0m 292018~ch +0 Duo times {30) RM

 5.51:0

hi.

3? 
.

at

Office of Development and Grants crrv_ornemmr

 

RESOLUTION

Council Member

WHEREAS, the Detroit Police Department is requesting authorization to accept an increase in
appropriation for the FY 2015 Consolidated Youth Grant. from the Community Health And Social
Services Center (CHASS). in the amount of $21,600.00. in order to conduct trainings to improve
police reSponse to youth survivors of dating and sexual violence; this funding will increase
appropriation 20260. previously approved in the amount of $28,279.00. by council on March 29.
2016. to a total of $49,879.00: now

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Director or Head of the Department is authorized to
execute the modi?ed grant agreement on behalf of the City of Detroit, and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Budget Director is authorized to increase the budget
accordingly for appropriation number 20260, in the amount of $21,600.00. for the FY 2015
Consolidated Youth Grant.

Page?loH

Community Health And Social Services Center

Southwest Fuhrer
5535 Fort St
Detroit. MI 48209
313 849 3920

333 349 0324

September 20. 2018

Re: Notice of grant award to Detroit Police Department - request for approval of
partnership documents and scape of services

Dear Chief Craig.

On September 19. 2018. the LA VIDA PartnershipICi-IASS Center was awarded a
Consolidated Youth Grant from the Department of Justice: Office on Violence Against
Women (award no. 2015-CY-AX-0006). As part of this grant. we collaborated with the
Detroit Police Department Fourth Precinct. We worked with Commander Walton to plan
activities during the proposal. We are seeking official approval of scope of services and
collaborative documents so that we can begin the work.

The amount awarded to the Detroit Police Department's Fourth Precinct is $21,600. This
amount budgets 512.000 to cover costs for the prevailing overtime rate for Precinct
Of?cers to be involved in the project during the life of the grant, conducting trainings to
Improve police response to youth survivors of dating and sexual violence. An additional
$9,600 was allocated to cover mandatory travel costs for the 4"1 Precinct Officers to
participate in training efforts to improve responses to youth survivors of dating and sexual
violence. Funding will last for a period of approximately three years and will begin once
the LA VIDA PartnershipiCHASS Center completes mandatory planning activities and the
budget is approved by the Department of Justice: Office on Violence Against Women.

As de?ned the in the grant application. the scope of services is listed below.

The Fourth Precinct will assist the CHASS Center/LA VIDA with referrals and connecting
youth victims to resources. DPD staff will assist in the planning and directing of activities
related to the CHASS Center?s Consolidated Youth Program. DPD will also participate in
trainings related to the needs of immigrant youth survivors of intimate partner violence.
Fourth Precinct Of?cers will work this project on overtime and assist in addressing the
needs of youth survivors of dating violence, sexual assault. stalking. and domestic
violence. Of?cers will participate in planning meetings and trainings and will organize
other police of?cers to support the speci?c needs of youth survivors in Southwest Detroit.
12 trainings of other police officers will be provided through this grant. Additional
responsibilities Include participating in national travel related to law enforcement and
youth survivors of dating and sexual violence.

We appreciate your assistance in facilitating approvals through the appropriate channels

in order to begin this important work. Please contact myself or Jessie Urban-Guzman.
Youth and Legal Program Manager at 313.849.3920 ext. 5059 if you have any questions.

Sincerely.

Dr. Felix Valbuena. Jr.
CEO

 Demon", MICHIGAN 48226

0" mo? PHONE: 313 - 628-2 I 58

OFFICE OFTIIE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER .

0 5 FAX. 313-224-0542
mm: or EVELOPM NT AND omvrmov

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER I 
2 Avenue. SUITE 1026 a 

 

September 28, 2018

The Honorable Detroit City Council
ATTN: City Clerk Office

200 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit MI 48226

RE: Authorization to submit a grant application to the Michigan State Historic
Preservation Of?ce for the FY 2019 Certi?ed Local Government (CLG) Program

The Historic Designation Advisory Board (HDAB) is hereby requesting authorization
from Detroit City Council to submit a grant application to the Michigan State Historic
Preservation Of?ce, for the FY 2019 Certi?ed Local Government (CLG) Program. The
amount being sought is $48,000.00. The State share is $48,000.00 of the approved
amount and there is a required cash match of $23,663.50. There is also an ln-kind
match in the amount of $8,336.50. The total project cost is $80,000.00.

The Certified Local Government (CLG) Program will enable the department to:

- Conduct an architectural and historical intensive-level survey of the Cass
Corridor in Detroit, Michigan.

If the application is approved, the cash and in-kind match will be provided from
appropriation 00269.

We respectfully request your approval to submit the grant application by adopting the
attached resolution.

Sincerely,

4%

Ryan Friedrichs
Director, Of?ce of DeveIOpment and Grants

.I

 cc:

Katerli Bounds, Deputy Director, Grants

 Parker, Assistant Director, Grants   

15::  I -r {r 
Cal I, 
 ENTERED nu. 2 1013 0135.46 l. t. 

r'ws 
LET-huh. 

Fern





Office of Development and Grants HTYorvhmon

 

RESOLUTION

Council Member

WHEREAS. the Historic Designation Advisory Board (HDAB) has requested authorization from
City Council to submit a grant application to the Michigan State Historic Preservation Of?ce for the
FY 2019 Certi?ed Local Government (CLG) Program, in the amount of $48,000.00, to conduct an
architectural and historical intensive-level survey of the Cass Corridor; and

WHEREAS, the Legislative Policy Division has $23,663.50 cash, along with $8,336.50 in-kind
staff services. available in its FY 2019 Departmental allocation in appropriation 00269 for the total
City match requirement of $32.000.00; now therefore be it

the Historic Designation Advisory Board (HDAB) is hereby authorized to submit a
grant application to the Michigan State Historic Preservation Of?ce.

Page i 0?

Cm' orDenrorr
OFFICE or me CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER

Ornce or Devewmlav'r aria Guam:

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 Avenue. surre l026
Dmorr. MICHIGAN ?226

Phase: 3 I3 0 628-2158

Fax: l3 - 224 - 0542


 

Grant Application Request Form (GARF)

In orderto secure the Office of Development and Grants (ODG) approval required under Section 18-4-2 of the

 

Detroit City Charter. this form is to be filled out by City Departments as soon as possible upon learning of an

opportunity that the Department would like to pursue. This form must be signed and submitted not later than

20 business days prior to the application deadline.

Please submit this form to the following ODG staff: Sa?iah Parker, Assistant Director, at

ParlrerSa?detraitmi.gav.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

City Department Hieimic Designation Mull-Dry Board
Date manure

Department Contact Narno Jem'ier Reinhardt

Department Contact Phone 2124-97?

Department Contact Ermll 

Grant Up?ftunlhf Title Certified Local Gowmmonl Brent
Grant Opportunity Fu Mic?gan sure Historic Preservation om
Web link to Opportunity information 9091mm

Award Amount [that Departmenth" apply for} 545.000

Application Due Date rumors

AntldEted Prizeser Budget Amnunt 580.000

Match Requirement Amount nan-no

 

Source of Match [include Appropriation
Number. Cost Center. and Object Code)

LWI MUM 

 

List of to be
funded and the Budget for each

Sample:

- ABC Afterschoal program: $150,000

- XYZ Youth leadership program: $100,000
- Salary/Bene?t: $95,000

Supplies: $5,000

Consultant Services - $71,653.50
Administration - $8336.50 (in kind)

 

Brief Statemant ol' Prioritlesi'i?urpose for are
Application

Sample: To support expansion of promising
youth dmlapment programs in ma
neighborhood.

To conduct an Intensive level architectural!
historical survey of the Cass Corridor.

 

Key Performance indicators to be Used to
Measure the Programs/Services/Activities
Sample:

it! of kids new enrolled in ABC and XYZ

96 from ABC who demonstrate

for pro red educational perform once

 

 

Every property within the de?ned baunderies will be identified no
evaluolod with regards to eligibility of mutational properties and
districts tor the National Register at Hiatorrc Places. The ?nal reach
I: intended to some as a basis for to the National
Register at Historic Places. Section 105 Review. hrsiaric tax credit
certi?cations. local historic district designations. and ?lnlrar

 

Janese Chapman
Director?s Name [Please Print)

 

 

 

preservation manning.
9/27/1 8

Date



 

 

A<f??j  213M ,aui'M
0- /y

RESOLUTIONS

'1
I

cur-110 4

.729

131W CLERK 2013

RESOLUTION

BY COUNCIL MEMBER: President Pro-Tempore Mary Shef?eld

RESOLVED, This Honorable Body hereby waives its privilege of con?dentiality on the Law

Departments memorandum opining on the Homeowner Property Tax Assistance Program dated
October 22, 2018.


RESOLUTION

BY COUNCIL MEMBER: President Pro-Tempore Mary Shef?eld

RESOLVED, This Honorable Body hereby waives the Rules of Order for the Detroit City
Council, Section 15.1 requiring the Corporation Counsel?s approval as to form with regard to the
proposed ordinance to amend Chapter 18 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, Finance and Taxation;
Article IX, Taxation Generally, by adding Division 9, Homeowners Property Tax Assistance
Program, to consist of Section 18-9-131 through 18-9-141.

4"

REVISED RESOLUTION TO CALL CLOSED SESSION

RESOLVED, that a closed session of the Detroit City Council is called in accordance with Section
8(a) of the Open Meetings Act, 1976 PA 267, MCL 15.268(a) at the request of Det. Jennifer Lee
Adams to consider the dismissal, suspension, or disciplining of, or to hear complaints or charges
brought against, or to consider a periodic personnel evaluation of, a public of?cer, employee, staff
member, or individual agent. The Law Department?s recommendation to deny indemnification of
Det. Jennifer Lee Adams in the matter of Keri-Yakei Morris v. City of Detroit, Civil Action
Number 17-013266-NO will be discussed with Law Department attorneys, representatives from
the Detroit Police Department, Det. Jennifer Lee Adams and counsel, representatives from the
Detroit Police Lieutenants and Sergeants Association, as well as attorneys from the Legislative
Policy Division. The closed session will be rescheduled from Wednesday, November 7, 2018 at
2:00 pm. to Tuesday, November 13, at 1:30 pm.

 

Notes: A 2/3 Roll Call vote of members elected and serving (6 votes) is required pursuant to MCL
5. 26 

A person requesting a closed hearing may rescind the request at any time, in which case

the matter at issue shall be considered after the rescission only in open sessions pursuant to MCL
5. 268(a).

Law Dept. Dated: October 26, 2018

7/9

4

RESOLUTION TO CALL CLOSED SESSION 

RESOLVED, that a closed session of the Detroit City Council is called in accordance with
Section 8(h) of the Open Meetings Act, 1976 PA 267, MCL for the purposes of
discussing a privileged and con?dential memorandum titled Assumption of City Towing
Operations by the Detroit Police Department, dated October 22, 2018. This memorandum
is an attorney-client communication prepared by the Law Department and therefore is
exempt from disclosure under Section 13(g) of the Freedom of Information Act, MCL
Law Department attorneys, David Fink and Darryl Bressack from Fink 
Associates Law, representatives from the Detroit Police Department, as well as attorneys
from the Legislative Policy Division may be present. The closed session will be held on:

Wednesday, November 7, 2018 at 3:00 pm

 

Note: A 2/3 Roll Call vote of members elected and serving (6 votes) is required pursuant
to MCL 

Law Dept. Dated: October 26, 2018

