('ch 0L 20/8
??61"de

BUD GET,
FINANCE, AND
AUDIT STANDING
COMMITTEE

OFFICE OF CONTRACTING
AND PROCUREMENT

October 24, 2018

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL:

The Purchasing Division of the Finance Department recommends a Contract with the
following ?rm(s) or person(s):

2890777 100% City Funding AMEND 2 To Provide eCivis User Software and
Counseling for Grants Management. Contractor: eCivis, Inc. Location:
418 N. Fair Oaks, Suite 301, Pasadena, CA 91103 Contract Period:
Upon City Council Approval through October 8, 2020 Contract
Increase: $162,760.00 Total Contract Amount: $477,150.00. OFFICE
OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER GRANTS (This
Amendment is for an Increase of Funds and Time.)

Respectfully submitted,

Boysie Jackson, Chief Procurement Of?cer
Of?ce of Contracting and Procurement

BY COUNCIL MEMBER AYERS

RESOLVED, that Contract No. 2890777 referred to in the foregoing communication
dated October 24, 2018, be hereby and is approved.

MARY SHEFFIELD

   

Qtity at ?etrm?t

CITY COUNCIL

 

COUNCIL PRESIDENT PRO TEM

DISTRICT 5

EMORANDUM

TO:

FROM:
TRHU:
DATE:

Janice Win?ey, Detroit City Clerk

Council President Pro Tem Mary She?iel
Council Member Ayers, Chair, Budget Finance Audit Standing Committee

October 24, 2018
Homeowners Property Tax Assistance Program (HPTAP) Ordinance

This is to request that the HPTAP Ordinance be referred to the Budget Finance Audit Standing
Committee for consideration. Please see the attached ordinance and supporting documents.

I, If:


LL



318 '2






17.?
1. 

 A 

AN ORDINANCE to amend Chapter 18 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, Finance and
Taxation; Article IX, Taxation Generally, by adding Division 9, Homeowners Property Tax
Assistance Program, to include Sections 18-9-131 through 18-9-141, to set forth the purpose of
the program; to establish ownership and occupancy of the property is required; to require an annual
application; to set forth the time of submissionpf the application; to set for the content of the
application and its availability; to remove the notary requirement of the application; to create a
short form af?davit; to require guidelines be promulgated; to provide the appropriate relief; to
require notice of the program be forwarded with annual assessment notices; to preserve the ability

of an applicant to appeal an assessment; and to set forth tax bill requirements.

17 i 

COUNCIL MEMBER

 

AN ORDINANCE to amend Chapter 18 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, Finance and
Taxation; Article IX, Taxation Generally, by adding Division 9, Homeowners Property Tax
Assistance Program, to include Sections 18-9-131 through 18-9-141, to set forth the purpose of
the program; to establish ownership and occupancy of the property is required; to require an annual
application, to set forth the time of submission of the application; to set for the content of the
application and its availability; to remove the notary requirement of the application; to create a
short form af?davit; to require guidelines be promulgated; to provide the appropriate relief; to
require notice of the program be forwarded with annual assessment notices; to preserve the ability
of an applicant to appeal an assessment; and to set forth tax bill requirements.

IT IS HEREBY ORDAINED BY THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF DETROIT THAT:

Section 1. Chapter 18 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, Finance and Taxation; Article IX,
Taxation Generally, be amended by adding Division 9, Homeowners Property Tax Assistance
Program, to consist of Sections18?9-131 through 18-9-141, to read as follows:

CHAPTER 18. FINANCE AND TAXATION
ARTICLE. IX. TAXATION GENERALLY
Division 9. 11011190? nors Tax Assistance Program
Sec. 18-9-131. Purpose.

To set forth the procedures and standards for the submission and review of applications for

propertv tax exemptions. in whole or in part. for persons who in the iudgment of the Board of

Review. by reason of poverty. are unable to contribute toward the public charges.

A18-07117 

Sec. 18-9-132. Ownership and occupancy rquired.
The Applicant must be an owner and occupV as a principal residence the property for which

the exemption is requested.

 

Sec. 18-9-133. Annual application required; time of submission.

The Applicant must submit a new app] ieation each year to qualil?i.r For the exemption

provided for in the Homeowners Properts? Tax Assistance Program.

lb} The application for an exemption shall tie-tiled after January 1 but prior to the last

day of the December Board of Review.
See. [8-9-134. Application for Homeowners Proper-tr Tax Assistance Program: availabiliw.

Homeowners Propertv Tax Assistance Program applications shall be available to

the general public at the Of?ce of the Assessor. City t' Detroit Recreation Centers, Department of
Neiahborhood Of?ces and on all lithe Citjs website under all wehpaaes that reference propertv
taxes or the pavment of proper-W taxes.

[1 The Ot?tiee of the Assessor shall post a notice near the Homeowners Propertr Tax
Assistance Proaram applications and on the Properti: Assessment Documents pose
that advises residents that the Applicant mar speak with a representative of the
Board of Review it?they have anv questions about the application.

The Board at Review shall maintain and provide upon request. a resource list oil
organizations that will assist in the completion of the Homeowners Property
Assistance Program application.

An application for Homeowners Propertv Tas Assistance Proaram made pursuant

. ?ii 1 . -
to 21 1.7u. shall be made bv the propertv owner on a term that is prended bv the Assessor?s

2 10-22-18NN



Of?ce as set forth in Subsection ta) ot?this section. in addition to other required information. the

application shall include a place to identifar the :t?ollowina:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1) Information regarding ownership of the property including:
a. Name of Applicant;
b. All names listed on the recorded document;
c. Address of the property: and
d. Parcel number of the property.
All Members at" the household including minor children residina at the address.
(3) Marital status of Applicant.
All sources ofineome.
Itemized assets.
L6) ltemiaed Debts.
A list of all tax credits and rebates.
An alternative contact person.
The Applicant shall produce with the application:
l) A deed. land contract. or any other recorded proof of ownership. including but not
limited to. a prohate order or iudament ofdivorce.
A valid driver?s license. or any mexpircd aorernment issued identi?cation so Iona
as it includes the applicant's picture and address.
Documentation providing. prool?of marital status which mav include a iut antent of

 

A1 8-07117

divorce. order of separation. order of desertion or a statement made bv the
Applicant attesting to the fact of the divorce. separation or descrtion and that the

spouse no longer resides with the Applicant. The Board retains the riaht to request

3 10-22?1 8NN

additional information from the Applicant in support of this statement of divorce.

separation or desertion.

Documentation that establishes the residency for all minors at the address including
but not limited to, federal or state tax returns. Department of Health and Human
Services statements. Friend of the Court statements. school report cards. school
transcripts and Social fziecurittar statements.

Complete federal and state income tax returns. includins schedules. for all adult or
the current vear.

a. Tax returns are not required for a person residingi_nthe principal residence
it~ that person was not required to tile a federal tax return in the tax vear in
which at the exemption is claimed or in the immediatelv preceding tax year.
instead. an af?davit on a form provided for by the state tax commission may
be accepted.

b. The Board of Review retains the ri uht to request additional documentation
if there is a reasonable basis to believe certain income is not re?ected on the
tax retum.

c. For Applicants who are not required to ?le a tax retum. the Board shall
accept W2 forms. Social Securitv statements. or any other reasonable proof
including. but not limited to. documents showing current enrollment in anv
proaram that has the same or lower income requirements.

to") Documents providing prool'ot? property tax credits. For those Applicants who are
not required to ?le tax returns. the Board of Review reserves the right to request

the Applicant to list all prioryear tax rebates or tax credits.

A18-O7117 4 

The Applicant shall not be required to provide utility bills to support the claim of
occupancy of the subiect property.

The application shall not include a requirement for notarization. but may include a
signing statement acknowledging the applicant?s submission under penaltv of Dcriurv and the
potential criminal liability for false or fraudulent applications and statement of prosecutorial i ntenl
with respect to false or fraudulent applications.

The application shall not include a deadline for submission. but shall state that all
applications will be considered it' postmarked or submitted in person prior to the last day of the
December Board of Review. The application shall state that the Board of Review ?stronalv
encourages homeowners to apply as soon as possible and that any application not submitted prior
to the last day of the December Board of Review cannot be considered for the current year.?

The application shall include a document checklist of all items needed for the
application to be considered by the Board of Review.

The application shall include a space for the Applicant to document extraordinary
circumstances and explain why then: are seeking an exemption.

Sec. 18-9-135. Short Form Af?davit.

 

 

An Applicant mav submit a short form af?davit if all the tbllou-ina requirements
are met:

(I) The Applicant has received a property tax exemption for three consecutive years:

The Applicants income for the most recent tax vear did not increase from the

 

previous tart year bcvond the applicable income guideline for the type of propertv

tax exemption that was granted;

Al8?07l l7 5 

The Applicants assets for the most recent tax vear did not increase from the
previous tax vear beyond the applicable asset threshold for the tvpe of propertv tax
exemption that was erantcd;

The Applicants ownership of the residential property has not changed from the
previous tan vear for which the property tax exemption was eranted; and

(5) The Applicant is either unable to complete the Citv of Detroit Board of Review?s
Homeowner Propertv Tax Assistance Application or doing so would be an undue
hardship for the Applicant.

In addition to other requested the short form af?davit shall require:

l) The applicant?s name and address;

(2) A copv of the Applicant?s current identi?cation;

(3) A copv of the recorded proof of ownership; and

(4) An attestation that the information that the information on the short form af?davit
is accurate.

to) The short form af?davit shall be ?led with the Office of the Assessor alone with

 

the petition prior to the last day of the December Board of Review for consideration for the current

tax vear.

Sec. 18-9-136. Guidelines.



City Council shall determine and make available to the public the policv and

guidelines that the C?itv uses for the emotion of exemptions.

[ll

A18-O7117

The guidelines shall include but not be limited to sneci tic income levels for property
tax exemption for the applicant. speci?callv, that Applicants seeking a full

exemption must have income at or below 138%: of the Federal Povertv Level and

6 10-22-18NN

Applicants seeking a partial exemption must have income at or below 160% ol?the
Federal Povertv Level.

(3) The guidelines shall include asset levels of the claimant and total household income
to be considered in the granting of a property tax exemption. Applicants who have
less than $11000 in assets need not list assets, instead they can provide an
affirmative statement attesting to the value of assets owned.

The Board of Review shall submit the preposed guidelines to City Council bv

October 15?? for consideration and adoption via resolution for the next tax vear.

The policv and guidelines shall include the appeal process for Applicants that are

denied reliel?.

The Board of Review shall not require applicants whose income falls below the
elioible threshold to document their expenses or dehts. Those whose income is ahove the eliaible
threshold mav list debts and expenses to offset their higher income.

As provided in MCL 211. 1 ct. scan. he General Propertv Tax slot. the Board of
Review shall follow the poliev and guidelines of the Citv in granting or rlenvim.T an esen?iption
unless the Board of Review determines there are substantial and compellina reasons why there
should be a deviation from the policy and guidelines and the substantial and compelling reasons
are communicated in writing to the claimant.

See. 18-9-137. Relief.
The Board of Review shall provide a partial. 50% tax exemption and up to a full. 100% tax

exemption. based on the guidelines referenced in Section 18-9?1313 of this Code.

A18-07117 7 

Sec. 18-9-138. Notice of the Homeowners Propertv Tax Assistance Program: outreach.

The Citv shall include on the Notice of Assessment mailed to homeowners the
second week in Januarv. that the Homeowners Propertv Tax Assistance Proerarn help is available
and contact in formation to request or obtain an application.

The Citv shall provide and maintain easilv accessible information on its? website
that describes the I--Ionieomiers Property Tax Assistance Freon-1m- the proaram auidelincs and the
process to applv.

Sec. 18-9-139. Decision letter.

All applicants for the Homeowners Propertv Tax Assistance Program shall receive
a written noti?cation ot'the Board?s decision within i 0 days after the close of the Board ol?Revieu'.

If the Board of Review denies an application the notice shall include the reasons
for denial and provide the process and timeline for the appeal.

the Board of Review fails to consider an application the notice shall include
information as to the inadequacv or untimeliness of the application.

See. 18-9-140. Appeal of assessment preserved.

A person is not prohibited from also appealing the assessment on the same propertv before
the Board ot? Review in the same vear il' are an Applicant for the Homeowners Propertv Tar.
Assistance Proaram.

Sec. 18-9-141. Tax bill.
Tax pavers that receive a partial or complete propertv tax exemption will be issued

a revised tax bill within 30 davs after the close of the ulv or December Board or review. whichever

is app licahle.

A18-07l l7 8 10-22-18NN

10

11

12

13

14

15

{bl Except for a partial exemption. the revised tax bill will re?ect the amount of the
reduced solid waste fee.
Secs. 18-9-142 18-9-150. Reserved.

Section 2. This ordinance is hereby declared necessary to preserve the public peace, health,
safety, and welfare of the People of the City of Detroit.

Section 3. All ordinances, or parts of ordinances, that con?ict with this ordinance are repealed.

Section 4. The division added by this ordinance has been enacted as comprehensive local
legislation. It is intended to be the sole and exclusive law regarding its subject matter, subject to
provisions of state law.

Section 5. In the event this ordinance is passed by two-thirds majority of City Council
Members serving, it shall be given immediate effect and become effective upon publication in
accordance with Section 4-118 of the 2012 Detroit City Charter. Where this ordinance is passed
by less than a two-thirds majority of City Council Members serving, it shall become effective
on the thirtieth (30) day after enactment, or on the ?rst business day thereafter, in accordance with
Section 4-118 of the 2012 Detroit City Charter.

Approved as to form:

 

Lawrence T. Garcia
Corporation Counsel

AIS-07117 9 10-22-18NN

HPATAP ORDINANCE REPORT

 

FOR MARY SHEFFIELD
DETROIT CITY COUNCIL PRO TEM

Contents

TI-IE NOTARIZATION 

II. LETTERS OF SUPPORT
1) ACLU

it) Quicken Loans Community Fund .. ..

United Community Housing Coalition Michigan Legal ..

iv) Detroit Action . ..

v) Neighbors 

v1) CentralDetroit .

ELIGIBILITY

.. 10

11

13

.. 15

16

I. REMOVING THE NOTARIZATION REQUIREMENT

MEMORANDUM

To: Hon. Mary Shef?eld

From: Coalition to End Unconstitutional Tax Foreclosures

Re: Notarization of the Homeowner Property Tax Assistance Program (HPTAP) Application
Date: October 10, 2018

 

QUESTION PRESENTED
Is the notary requirement necessary to prosecute individuals who provide false statements on the HPTAP
application or to otherwise deter individuals from making false statements?

SHORT ANSWER
No.

ANALYSIS

is not in I'L?i'ffl' rm '5 Morning

Unlike notarization, the ID requirement veri?es both identity and residency. For a notarial act,
a notary must establish a person?s identity before administering an oath. A person?s identity can be
established by: the notary?s personal knowledge of the person, (ii) an oath or af?rmation of a credible
witness known by the notary, presentation of a valid, government-issued photo identification with
signature, or (iv) an identity proo?ng service that is a part of a remote electronic notarization platform.
Sec MCL A notary can, in addition to non-documentary proofs, accept non-address bearing
government-issued IDs, e.g. passports or alien registration cards (?green cards?) to establish identity.
Thus, notarization does not require the presentation and examination of government-issued photo ID with
an address.

In contrast, HPTAP requires the production of a valid, government-issued photo ID with an address in all
instances. To receive such an ID, an applicant must have proved both identity and residency by presenting
proofs to the issuing agency. Therefore, the requirement to present an ID with an address alone
satis?es the City?s dual goals of identity and residency veri?cation. Further, the other
documentation requirements?tax returns and minor residency proofs?provide further veri?cation of
both an individual?s identity and address.

is Hui i0 tl??pfitftmi?i ii'im main: {Elise 

The General Property Tax Act has enforcement mechanisms for false or fraudulent claims.

MCL 211.120 provides up to four counts for each false or fraudulent statements in the HPTAP
application as well as the accompanying principal residency exemption application and property transfer
af?davit. The statute also provides for enforcement against anyone who aided or abetted in making the
false or fraudulent statements. Two of the counts are punishable by imprisonment of not more than one
year and punishable by a ?ne of not more than $5,000.00 or public service of not more than 1,500 hours,
or both; two are punishable by a ?ne of not more than $1,000.00 or public service of not more than 500
hours, or both.

MCL 211.120(3) establishes a count of perjury for a person who falsely or fraudulently ?swears to or
veri?es? an af?davit under MCL 211.7cc (principal residency exemption, which is necessary for the
PIPTAP). A simple signing statement?e. g. certify, under penalty of perjury, that the statements made
in this application are true and correct.? ?is suf?cient to satisfy the oath requirement for a charge of
perjury. See People v. Thompson, 193 Mich. App 58 (1992), overruled on other grounds.

Norm'izmion is not necesxrn'r Instant-11? the .5'i?i'iouwmss rif'h?n' undertaking.

One perceived bene?t of notarization is that the oath signals to the applicant that they are undertaking a
serious act and they can be prosecuted if they lie. One study examined the practices of 220 notaries in 22
cities in New York and concluded that ?91.7 percent failed to administer an oath of any form.? See Alfred
E. Piombino, Notary Public Handbook 71 (1996) at xxii. Consequently, there are more effective ways of
communicating the seriousness of the undertaking. What we recommend is the above-mentioned signing
statement presented in bold, all caps, and enlarged font with a restatement of penalties under MCL
211.120, and a statement of intent to prosecute.

CONCLUSION

The requirement to notarize HPTAP applications should be removed because it does nothing to deter the
submission of fraudulent applications nor does it strengthen the City?s ability to prosecute bad actors. In a
follow up submission, we will provide af?davits from several community organizations who have been
leading efforts to enroll Detroit residents in HPTAP, which attest to the unnecessary hardship that
notarization places on applicants.

II. LETTERS OF SUPPORT

I) A CL 

3.qu Hyadqum?uas twill-IMAM OWMW chhignn ?oral-Ill Of?cp
i' 
f?qr ILI - Iv . 4? 
"nil 6" ll 
Rut?- 
- I 
.l 

llxluh'r 14 

Hun hth?clI!

{L?In'itt 

helm: MI I?llh

rural NH uIlu-Iz's \vl.urj. 
I. ?up. shin-11M? 

Hun hymn-1.31.? ?plum u! hum Ilzc :u-m . "It. rm crt: l.1\
.I 'mn icr .zl?phunh I 
Il-r In ref-1:11: :lu' pm :51} I .. 
Luna?: ?huh um th- ~Innzluuz?

\tm tl In n?w 25.1; I.-: the rnum
.1u. .laill'l'Hs 1min!
I?m n-Iturj. pun-d I-uhd ".I'Itcr 4r. I 
?h'?'?nllid? luv ?ml nut; v.22?! gun! ml I '-cll Jl
111-.I25 -I .1 Imuf .1 Lulu} umum.
duty If. IIrnx- .- 2.: 'K'Ilci- Ihu 
Hint I lit ?st I In 515' J- {In}

.I71Ifl'isdl11 In It.? Him; r! run? 4.1a 

:fzt. a! ilu' 
yaw. Ihu.? A IN. Ih-Lm um L-r mum Iu' .I'l 
(Mg-157nm rcquncaz -.-. -1I.u!v 11's.. . 
I'lcurfc I I'Iin' :Inkll} I 7: HI: rh) .IIn-w u: H-qu zax.lu.?.:
mum .xllu Icl. Inn'- tin-u..-
Hun. pI-n. I usury: .z 

"Inn!? I'm pawn)" .It -I 21.: 

?wanicr. cllu??k Itvl?du'n Inn In I hm 1M5. mm ..-1 .I

t: - Imam 11m? .-: hum-7 11:;

 

mums?! :l 
In} he It". m'nw' 
Hum} xuquucmw :i-r .Ill .Irr'hcanh

II. I. .-.-: .. HzIlnsuscI .u 23.. 

 

 

 

 :8
7 MEL: 2 25:. .3 .35.. .2.

.: LEE.min:1.2.3273? :irbwn?nwz 1.79 :3 i. 
a: 5.: 3.. FT: 3.7.5: 7, 57. LEE: Er.
3323 5.: EH: 3 3.5a vrz?sciz 
552 ?423:7 f:



.r 2.. .157


2 
3; 

32:5. {Ha?5.5: #22:

.I I 

w. 

 A 

Nikki-21?s \u l-Lm JllL? NH \m Mimi 
5k. I a 1m LII: UN .x IHNN x-r 31-.
I. I IIH 

 

?rm In: {Hr pcrim'} 
\Hum?igJIm 

Lin 1m} Hun . umn l7..i In 
I?ln'sulm?d umlc: UT. 1 43.? 4nd llm? u'l'wu?ln! mumh ul wnl'. Plum-Luna! unis!
up] i ?44. "?.424 \Vtafnsculmyl mr h- 2. :1 permit ?As It. pnam?j. w. .m nut-vl-uvun
\Intumg?m la: n! ah: mud: n'rhui Hill] In I'm-Ill .11. nx'ldtj. vr 
LII tilt: ?ullchigun um: mm! {awning .5 mm? id-I'l: mi .1 ?lm! 

53 site: .Ipplwauun. .1 pct-?4?. unl damn-.1: rigs?, umkr \lt in: amply
?gum-.2 .l ?15? HI 11.1" rUI-ll'j- pl 3
Forum \u Rumm- I t'Ll?'

?6..er l. Hun nphullj. win-.101; \Iulngu' ."urm - 1! H: I'culm' 
.un! ulhul Ln? Hm! explanh . {41w cum sunk: "shah? 
u: .11 [1.1-3 nu: Il-c .mn' mph. 111:. Hi.? 
11\ pn-hhm .md ?dun-use! I A :11: mm; mm vi 
un?t" 11
4, 1 f.

In I'll: Lu?g'ldmah IL If rt 'Ilc -- -l.rt1'. I3
3: II .- .--.. ?1321: 

(run-1H?. .- =13) - ?n u?

who ?tutu?; nu an?. .31. "'.Illc' 1' 11-: \xl'w- 1m-
.milmruni v: lawn-J ?hilt: L?l LI, [H.n u?m? I- I11. 1:11 l.-I


lh.? hall unuld :ll: .r?w In 
nukes .a Lulu I-v ?4:153! Eggs". ung?'



lul. .: a .2 - 

I1. Huh. 5. ., 22Hunt". mt; Juli rcqurnd niblluusc chmlutiw :h1ul55is. SB (.183 (\mumhur 

Thu ht? ?as as In Ihc Michigan [?clml Ludc In a lic-
hen-red bill uduplmg Lnilbrm L'nsuom Foruign [k'x?ldrulmn Ac! [hut bill 

. - f'5.1li. 
?ung-m. In I v: ..- . '21, 
ruumhmi? uddcd}

Thu cniun m' I WEI-121. ?hid: :qudcd ulhwcuun (I I. mm remit. m.

11>leka .x

41: Any umhurixcd hf: a aluluau ul'llijs amt: In mix-c an Hull], ur an} [scrum
uhxhum :m umh itx required b1. Lm. shim n??u?dr?i lills-cly in rcgurd In an)
mailer or thing rcxpuuljng which the oath authorized or rcqun?ud is gunlay nl?
pun . I - 
1..-, 1?3. 
. Ax used in
Ilm \uh-wdiun;
I33 "Return!? nucnm? is jnu?rthm! un Llniglhic or
that is atom! in an nr is rciricxuhlc in
purccix able I'urm
(bl "Signed" mean?. 111.: purse" did anther ut? 1h?: t'uliumng In 
or udupl the rccurd;
[xxuanal or adopted a ?1:1th
ml .Miuchul In or Imam?). thu .m
symhul mumL ur prmn?n

\ttl I. 1! It'lnl?hdxis 

In what" undur thu cum-m ?mm-c, m1} \s I'm Hun fur Much
w?l?u: is uuthwrixcd or rcquim! to I.th am math lemi'wg'uhon I. Is guilu perjury it li'mt 
.-1 an uazh Huh-section ur ?gm. 1mm urn under ?the ul'

pcr?ury" huhacctinn 

Appbing Mfl. 7541435310ch um: commits the ul pcrjur} II-
flulscl)? in ks Ith Jn; prawcuulmyx .scl lurlh lhu Jul gm mung rm] 
tun-x. imluding Ihu nits

M11. [wrunn uhu nude] :1 ul'lhc Imp-Jun! I'l hf. .Iul
uililuH} mun: almll he guilt). or purjur}, .md mhjud In um. 

Further. Ihc mun. Izu cum tiuu 4'1 ,Iimlmn isumh-urucd bk lhu :ch .Suc "an! Ir. ?nr 'hc 0:711!? r.

Since smu- lav. pmhihils ?suturing" falsely on a pawn} uppiiculiun. and
sincc fur lhunc who duclunmnn undur pundit) 01'
penur} Ilcu ul'un (NHL lhusc ?ho ?5:11 a dcclernun arc. In lilul. gush:- nl'pcnur} il'lhu}
u. lu- nn pm :71} ix rm Inn-5n 4m
apphcum ~ign in the pruwnw ut'n :Il?lc: Ming: plucud umlur an um] unlh

B. Tu the extent federal um urnmunl has iurisdicliun In prmuculu applicants fur
false upplicutiuns. Ilulnrimtiun is not ruquircd for such prosecution;

Nulunmimn is um ruquircd Eur pmwumiun under pc?m') km a l?ndcr 2.8 
fulcrul Lm ruimrcx 0r pcnnil? mutlcr hf! mum] uulh. thu
mutter can also be supported by .1 ?uh language Ihc sum-mum. is
undcr fix-null} ndur [hlk Inn. .5 uhn 313,315 a r-iulclm'nl under
penal!) l?a subju't In the sums puma). churgux ax il'hc had mm]: mum muh. Kw.
(2g. {Jiz?kmsun "mm: rig-1H. (Ch I Id [1.94. 5. 195m. Huh?. HULIl?l/illiu? is inch-aim! In
ur no! um he pun-muted under ?ak-ml hm fur fulw ?ak-menu nudc gm

applicatinn.

Thur: rcmanm qucsuun of lhutu ix lu war-Lenin muncunc
uho ?Ct! m1 .111 in Mm: knmxingl} and
Illi'uEE) mud?; "m an) mam-r tin: ?1'le uwnzm c. lugialam c. ur unit-cm]
brunch ul'lhc Um 0! mm! 5mm Hummer. undcr lhl?n stuiu?lc. in
mm In numm lcuhmm] meaningHim! Sum .Nn M, 
I .?mr mas! [311w Tn ugcnc} uilhm ll-a
Min-J Shaw 1 Hum-r, Supp I) \llg?ll. 1?174! ull?d unlmut up.
Uta-mm I ?(luffia-mw. 52?} {In It (1 WWI In ulzuru 
as [)L'tmit iuh~ rug-Lem Funded h; :5 muh'ml vtg?nzxaliur1 111.2: mm :11 mm {undud bf.
{11c of ulnar]

The l'cdcrul mum iuw In! h! pruwculc pcrgur} T'v?r In .1
31:11: or mgmwuil In nah-:11 Ilium: mums .?urc l?undul bi. 111:: New] gmmuncm
Stu. r31." 30"] Supp 1h}. Lama. 523 IIW. I I It? 5.
I'Whr ?c an: nut L'crmn lhu rcu?nca Ht IL?xlc: :1l inndm; l'ur
In the CHEM ilkll'L'fV' l?luullni." rim-s :5 il mun; than ml
lhn: than? by [unwa'culud Lllzaiu I'd-km! 

it) Quicken Loans Community Fund

. .. 1050 Woodward.
@diili?gtt?i? (Loam Detroit,Mt48226
Community Fund 

To the Honorable Mary Sheffield Detroit City Council Pi esidont Pro Tom

The Quicken Loans Comm unity Fund recognizes the City of Detroit's Homeowners Property
Til! Assistance Program as a critical tool in the collective work to keen [lotrmt
homooviiners In their homes. and Out oi lax foreclosure We applaud recent efforts to make
the HPTAP accessible to mate Detroit restlrior?ilfi

While improvements to the HPTAP are welcomei our experience suggests that the need tor
applications to be notarized remains a difficult hurdle lor many eligible applicantsi and the
inclusion of the notarization requirement warrants turther connidoration.

Since December of 2017. the Quicken Loans Communlty Fund has soonsored 5t) workshops
across Detroit where homeowners can get help completing their HPTAP applicationo Those
30 workshops have helped more than 1.200 Delicit residents

At each workshop. we ensure a notary is on hand to notarizo completed lAiJ
applicatii'ms residents at these workshops are liequeritly missing a dominant or
two that make their application incomplete, and unable to be notarized

creates an added step: Residents must return to a workshop the following montr
lind notary service-s. at a bank, or go rfowntovm to have their application notarized All ot
these options tan cr-aate additioi-ai cost hardship, and reduce the likelihood that an
otherwise eligible resident is granted a lunch needed HP TAP exemption

Since: June 2018? 653 Detroit residents. New: attended Owciten Loans Continuity Fund-
workshops 35-1 residents. submitted completed: and ?Otaffbild
w?lile 2'32 applicaticci?is were missing dCilIUfl?lEl'ltb' trial prayer-ted i?iijitaiizi-?it?iijn

While every clioit is made to bring these react-ants back to a workshop tor notary serwces, it
is diilicult [or resident-5, especially those experiencmg poverty, to ma to, the at
time and resources that is neocleo to get back to a locatioi?v. But for the
notarization roquiroment mamr of these homeowners would be able to go home will: an
otherwise-complete application locale their missing documents, and immediately
mail their application

We hop-t that this intoniiation is useful to this honorable bony a5 you conzsniisr next step;
regarding the HPTAP requirements.

Thank you.

Li 2 gran: Pro . lefOUICk-Bf? Loans Community Fund

I
I ..
. m-?v .
1

Alex Alsunk?lroclor oi lousu'g Stability Quicken Loans Community Fund
- 

. -

 United Housing Coalition Legal Serviccs

10

it.) Detroit.? Act/$017. Corn/710mIliad/H7.

11

ACTION

I.


mgmuzing tu Imwur. a-iwllm.? JUbltC'.? a?cc?ul?ll'y

October 12.20"]

Dam (Sound Prestrlanl Pm Shel?utd'

We m: Inumbees cl Detroit Achm Inn-mail? an ougammtuon 0! wow {tntn? I300
Dulroilms most of thorn km I-Itcotnts.

We tmdarstand and Suppott'tlw Ctty's msponatbtuty tu make sun: that pewlu who apply for a
mamptton are truly Nimble for It But the Ctly ?11m has .1 to
make Sum lltal people who are eligible lot the are no: one. ?115 has been the
far groamr problem in Dalroit.

Many Dutmilnrs: have not gotten the tIIx emmptinn they're 0'19th hot. in
part bcmusc ltta applicahuvt process LL: :lIltutult Thumumdi. 0! them 
lust homes In lax an a m?ull. When. that It nut only hurts them. It
(mum mluhhodmml. and um mum: rtty

Tm: application?s adds an stup tn an already butdmmuttm
Many min-3. do nut It Many nm 
IJIstablml. or lad. ltunaportatmn. Tlmy hawn a hard enough 1InIa nonasszary
and compteltng the awpticalirm Item") llIr: ottnn reunite: them tu
travel lL?t of?ces for as?ismmzu thriller l'ttII'. and any; nu;
a barrlut that Itcca-ss tn the OKISHDNEH.

Wu 05* that mu (my of Datcot'tmmove tho taut?admtlon from the HPTAP

application. 
rm,
Yams truly.
I .
'l 

If" . Ilt?H?'tv "xx 
. '73,
l" viz-{12+ 4 Jr. 
.2, I 2,9,2,
i
I'H'mrt,"

$403 Imuo Gram: lit-wt Aw: Dent-r. MI #3208 VII-WI an}

uunon ncnow


la hunk! u+:mur_ advance Justice. firm-val? 


{4 tiff [Scum 
i] i ?H'Kiy?r


ll? 

(I?ll/f! . .- 
I - 1?(sf/ ?h 'rti'ki' . . 
. .. .4 
tum" 1 


If 
Il-lk?! [In I 

l. 1.4; 



A {i . . Ina.? 
1ft. "1

If I I [1 (V1 l'ix l4} Vinyl.
Htl? (3.4 if? ?2?4 "1 If"

. . 
um'lynxaE/? ff'T/ ,fil?JfJ-rtDuzmnmion Commonwmum 4mm Grar-d?-Vm Ave Hunt?? M1268 ?w?m??t?hmeilmmq

3

12

 Neighbors Buildi?g Br'ighlri-IOOIg?mb
.d




II-mhu gun

l.mulI II-th I I- I Inn. JHII-I I In II .lum;
Illrl't lrll'.? Il \ il I'l'll- I \ll'i?l Int"! 
'Ill II: lur~lu II-II I hang
pm I. 
I In I II i-IIi- I5 I II- I - 

?Lili-:gI lI-w-I 
IIXLII - I-II :l'r .x'I I :IIzl I II-I Ir- I33 

IHI1 IIIIH-I.IH TI Il?. II LIIIIHI .3.1. -.I I..r 
I I - 
Ill'fv-l II~I?I11uh'uh nu - a - I vI-Illa - II IJII -?II-nu?! .I
I .II- 1} .IrlleIl 1.11m 

14

(my: I mm: my In uni ulhh liumu ml lm-uu 
Itirulnul Ii! .ulhm Inlut II \ml I Lulu it [ill]: ?1 .Zyiu up Inn Ilu Ix?. Mn 
In u-ulrln'l I'llgun M11 lulu In mu ?Inlaugh! lap Ill "Hlml il" Ilmughl wluml- Inn with luau I nan-I ll' Mn ?4 ll 1:1?ng 151.? Al
mm ul-um Ilm  ! t1l an mm ell'- ?qu ulln
iiuln'l Puma II lulu: un -.IIHI ?in n, [In up 51:: um- ?,an

\le Hulzum mu In il' I II

?I?ll .1 Hull ;1.n  rl Hurl. . Lillulu ELI I?anull

K: nu mlw:
?"131 .Illil?hllHULIH [En n: Ill'll man In: 

W) Central Detroit Christian

October 11,2018

Councilwoman Mary Sheffield
Detroit City Council

CAYMC

1 Woodward Avenue

Suite 1300

Detroit, MI 48226

RE: Notarization Burden

Dear Councilwoman Sheffield:

I am writing you as a housing counselor for Central Detroit Christian CDC who is actively involved in
helping families with their Property Tax Exemption applications. The requirement ofthe application of
needing a notary is cumbersome for the applicant. Banks typically have notary services available, but
many if not most of our clients are not bankable and therefore cannot use the bank?s notary. Other

notary services require some type of fee and that is a burden as well.

We solicit your help and request that you release the requirement of a notary on the Property Tax
Exemption form.

Thank you in advance,

Dottie Foster
Lead Housing Counselor

15

 ADJUNCTIVE ELIGIBILITY

MEMORANDUM

To: Hon. Mary Sheffield

From: Coalition to End Unconstitutional Tax Foreclosures
Re: Allowing Adj unctive Eligibility for HPTAP

Date: October 14, 2018

 

Currently, anyone applying for the Homeowners Property Tax Assistance Program (HPTAP) who was
not required to file a tax return must demonstrate income by providing supporting documentation. Since
the City?s settlement with the ACLU, non-tax filing applicants can demonstrate income by submitting
W2s, Social Security Statements, or any other reasonable proofs. Besides accepting these proofs, the
Board of Review should also allow applicants to demonstrate their income eligibility by submitting
documentation showing current enrollment in any government program that has the same or lower income
requirements (for example, Medicaid or process known as adjimctive eligibility. Adjunctive
eligibility is a common, well-accepted practice that benefits the Board of Review by relieving
administrative burden, and bene?ts applicants by allowing for a more streamlined application process.

Adj unctive Eligibility is Common Practice

The Board of Review would not be unique in allowing adj unctive eligibility for HPTAP. Adj unctive
eligibility was originally adopted to increase enrollment in children?s health insurance programs, but since
then the practice has expanded to many government programs.1 For example, in order to streamline the
application process and reduce administrative errors and costs, Congress established adj unctive eligibility
for the Women, Infants, and Children (WIC) program in 1989, which allows applicants to demonstrate
eligibility by showing participation in Medicaid, Food Stamps, or TANF.2 In addition, 42 CFR 435.120
dictates that enrollment in Supplemental Security Income (SSI) automatically establishes a person?s
eligibility for Medicaid in most states?? Michigan?s courts also use adjunctive eligibility. Specifically,
demonstrating receipt of public assistance entitles a defendant to a rebuttable presumption of indigency
for the purposes of appointed counsel in a criminal case under MCL 780.991 and MCR and for
a waiver of court cost and fees under MCL 600.8371 and MCR Finally, many utility
affordability programs?such as the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program or 
Customer Assistance Program through the Public Utility Commission?also use adj unctive eligibility in
their application process.4

 

Colton, R. A Water i?ljj?Ordabi/itvt' Programfor the Detroit ii'ater and Sewerage Department (D WSD) (Rep).
Retrieved from My: til Detroit p. 8

2 Ibid; Carlson, S., Neuberger, Z., Rosenbaum, D. (2017, July 19). WIC Participation and Costs Are 
Retrieved for a detailed
description of how adjunctive eligibility works in Michigan's WIC program, see Appendix A.

3 Colton, R. A Water A?ora?ability Program for the Detroit Water and Sewerage Department (D WSD) (Rep).
Retrieved from him: . I?alagi?s72t1t15 til Detroit Watgm?f, p. 8

4 Ibid; Benefitsgov. Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program. Retrieved from
n23

15

Adj unctive Eligibility is Bene?cial for Applicants and the Board of Review

Clearly, adjunctive eligibility is bene?cial for the applicant. Instead of collecting and producing multiple
proofs of income, adjunctive eligibility would allow applicants to submit only one piece of
documentation, for example, a copy of proof of enrollment in Medicaid. Putting the applicant aside,

adj unctive eligibility has signi?cant administrative bene?ts for the Board of Review. As mentioned
above, other government agencies established adjunctive eligibility speci?cally to reduce errors and
relieve administrative burdens through decreased paperwork and lower resource expenditure on income
determination and fraud detection. This last point is particularly important for the Board of Review. By
of?oading income determination and oversight to the better resourced state or federal government, the
Board can focus its resources on determining eligibility and detecting fraud for the more unique and
challenging aspects of the application, such as con?rming home ownership and principle residency.

Conclusion

Given that adjunctive eligibility is a well-established and common governmental practice, and that it
creates signi?cant bene?ts for both applicants and the Board of Review, the City of Detroit should pass
legislation that establishes adjunctive eligibility for I-IPTAP.

17

APPENDIX A ADJ UNCTIVE ELIGBILITY FOR MI-WIC

MI-WIC POLICY Eligibility/Certmcation

2.0 I-lligihilil 3?I(?cr1l?caliun [gm-gm L- 1 1m? 531.?;
1.06 Adjuncl lncume liliulbilin

Iv allow adjunculm?iomulii; incumc for li' I?mgrzun um?ilxcunln?
In In: iumnw 

A. 
Wk." applicants are udliunuiiwl} incumc cligibh? il' Iliu} rucuiw um: ul'lhc i'ullmx ing

a. Scrxiccsx [rum l'ulluv. in; Mudicuid ng?rnmn:
Medicaid
ii Health} Kids
Mlt?hild
ix (Impatient Mudiull Scruws 
a. Health} Michigan l'lun {llMl'i
xi Emergency Scr?xicus {Jul} [li?i?l] Iic . Hmhlij. \llChild-


Nulu: Medicaid Deductible knuu as 
Bene?ciaries are Imi udjunclix cl} incumc eligible fur Ihclr
rncumc mus! bu uwd to determine 15cc Policy' 2 

luml I?rugrum ll M?l II . Supplunwnlal Nutrition
\l?Lv?Tuud Cumin?. l-itml [?l?slrilmlinn I'm-gram an
Indian [lit mu! 
(T A 

Emmi} lmlupundunm: l?ruprum ll ?l Stud} I umiliu
ilANl?i 

arc inmmu cligihlu Il'll1c3. an: an infant ul?n ?In:
Medicaid during her 

Applicants are adjunclixcl} income eligible il'lhcj. nfu llunil} lhat haw
unu: of l?ulltm 
.1 A unmun or infant ruccix in; \lcdimul
1? Fund l?mgrum II AP) bendin-

Family ll?l Emma?!?

4 Tu cligilsilit} on?; nl'lhc I'uliuu. ing 11mm ul'
wquircd

.1 Medicaid

 

Dtylurhm nr n! l? - u! 

18

MI-WIC POLICY

I 

Eligibih?tq/Ccrtification
huh \?llr-.: 
p?uv'lIIJIk!? I .- 

. ?.rtli ?i 

. Kns.L-l -111 I 
iI ?fr: I
l'pIll!
1~ - I 
..

19

20

MLWIC POLICY

Hw'l?h -

\l 

IL. :21 1

13quEbilitu/Certification

i

 

MEMORAND UM

TO: Mary Sheffield, Council Member Pro Tempore
FROM: Coalition to End Unconstitutional Tax Foreclosures
SUBJECT: Poverty Tax Exemption (PTE) Ordinance

DATE: August 16, 2018

 

 

 

 

The purpose of this memo is to propose an ordinance, which ensures that Detroit homeowners
have access to the City?s Homeowners Property Tax .--\ssistanee Program also known
as the Poverty Tax Exemption The Michigan Constitution states that no property should
be assessed at more than 51.] pereent of its marltet value.? From 2009 and 2015, between 55 and
85 percent of Detroit homes have been uneonstitutionally as:a:ssetl.j As a result, approximately 1
in 4 Detroit properties were foreclosed from 2011 to 2015, which resulted in massive
displacement of residents, an increase in blighted properties, and vastly reduced home values. In
2016, nearly 40,000 owner-occupied households or 32% of all Detroit homeowners qualified
for the hut the vast majority did not receive it either because they were not aware it
existed or because the process was too burdensome. This ordinance aims to codify the
requirements stipulated by the 2018 rlfomz'ngside v. Sabree settlement order (hereafter referred to
as the settlement), and propose additional changes that will prevent further hardship to Detroit
homeowners by ensuring the HPTAP is readily available, easily obtainable, and equitably
provided to all who qualify.

Part I: HPTAP Application Requirements

Below is the documentation the state of Michigan requires localities to collecr in order to grant
an exemption under MCL 211.711, the actual requirements currently present in the HPTAP
application, the changes introduced by the settlement, and the Coalition?s recommendation for
how to revise the requirements to ensure the application?s integrity is upheld without overly
burden ing applicants.

 

 

 

orineinal residenee
?Lega11y mandated by
the Michigan Tax Act.
MCL 

 

 

Property Transfer
Affidavit (PTA) and a
Principal Residence
Exemption (PRE)
Af?davit certified by
the City Assessor.

 

 

 

Legal Requirement Current HPTAP Settlement Changes Recommendation
('1wner-oeeupied, Applicants must have a \iot addressed in settlement. None.

 

 

Mich. Comp. Laws 211.7(u)
3 MICH. CONST. art. 1X, 3; Mich. Comp. Laws (2013).

Bernadette Atuahene Timothy R. Hodge, 91 CAL. L. REV. 263 (2018)
4 US. Census Bureau; American Community Survey (ACS), Five-Year Estimates (2012-2016), Tables 825118 and

B25010

 

 

Legal Requirement

Current HPTAP

Settlement Changes

Recommendation

 

Identi?cation-?

Discretionary under
the Michigan Tax Act.

Page 8 ofthe current
HPTAP application
requires an applicant to
submit a copy of his or
her driver?s license or
state?issued
identi?cation

The Board must accept ?ll
form of govt. issued ID as long
as it includes applicant?s picture
and address. This must be
explicitly stated in the
application. Settlement Order,
section 

The settlement change should
be codi?ed in the ordinance.
In addition, the 
application should list speci?c
examples of accepted IDs (eg.
Detroit Municipal ID, military
ID, Consulate ID, Tribal ID,
etc.)

 

I?ieeil production 
Discretionary under
the Michigan Tax Act.

Page 7 of the current
HPTAP application
requires the applicant
to submit a copy of the
recorded deed or other
evidence ofownership
(including land
contracts).

The Board must accept a_ny
recorded proof ofownership
(eg. deed, land contract,
probate order, or divorce
judgment). The application
must explicitly state that any
recorded proof is acceptable 
Settlement Order, section


The ordinance should state
that as long as the Chief
.L?tssessur requires a deed to
?le a PTA, the applicant does
not need to produce a deed.3
In anomalous cases where
additional proof 
may be necessary, the Board
ofReview can access it
internally from the Wayne
County Register ol? Denis.
Similarly. il" the Assessor stops
requiring a deed as part nl' the
HA. then the BUR can access
it intemally.

 

 

Utility bills?Not
legally required.

 

Page 7 ofthc I-IPTAP
application requires an
applicant to provide a
copy ofwater, gas, and
electric bills ?to
support [the claim of]
occupancy of the
subject property.?

 

\lot addressed in settlement.

 

The applicant should only
provide a DTIE bill that is
under the applicant?s name. It?
the DTE bill is under any
other person?s name, then the
applicant must provide an
explanatory statement.?l

 

 

 

5 To apply for HPTAP, an applicant must have a PTA on ?le. While a deed is not legally mandated when
?ling a PTA, Chief Assessors have routinely required a recorded deed to accompany the ?ling. It is
therefore redundant to require an applicant produce a deed again when ?ling for HPTAP.

6 Ifthe Board of Review ?nds the PRE insuf?cient to demonstrate occupancy, it can access the applicant?s

water bill internally.

 

 

 

Legal Requirement

Current HPTAP

Settlement Changes

Recommendation

 

for all residents?
Not legally required.

Page 8 ofthe HPTAP
application requires
the resident to provide
:1 current Driver?s

all adults over 18 in

the home.

The Board shall accept ?y
term of govt. issued ID as long
as it includes applicant?s picture
and address. This must be
License or State ID for explicitly stated in the
application Settlement Order,
section 

This should be codi?ed in the
urdinanee with explicit
examples ofaeceptable ID
listed.

 

 

 

This should be codi?ed in the

 

6, Minors in lieuselinld Page 8 ofthe HPTAP The settlement states that the
Not legally required. application requires Board may require applicants ordinance. Further, the
the resident to provide provide proof for the number of application should state that if
a report card, minors in the household, but it an applicant?s household
transcript, or other cannot ask for any speci?c type ineeme falls below the
government document ofproof. Instead, it may list a single-household poverty
liar any children under non?exhaustive list of guideline threshold, they need
18 in the home. acceptable proofs Settlement not provide any proof of
t'lrder, section minors living in the home.
7. Tax returns?Prior year The HPTAP currently Not addressed in settlement. None.

Federal and state tax
returns for all adults
residing in the home,
unless the party is not
required to
tile?Legally mandated
by the Michigan Tax
Act.

requires an applicant to
submit a copy
Federal
and State Tax Returns.
For all applicants or
residing persons who
are not required to ?le
income tax returns, the
requires a
signed IRS Form
4506-T and Michigan
Treasury Form 4988
Poverty Exemption

l?l'idavit.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Legal Requirement Current HPTAP Settlement Changes Recommendation

8, Povertv guidelines?An The HPTAP Blot addressed in settlement. The Board currently adopts
applicant must meet establishes maximum income guidelines that are
federal poverty income eligibility more generous than the 1
guidelines or whatever guidelines, beginning federal poverty guidelines."
guidelines the local at 16,660 for a The ordinance should codify
goveming body single?person the current standards the
adopts, so long as the household. The whole current guideline as
alternative guidelines table is found on page percentage ofthe federal
do not preclude anyone3 of the HPTAP guidelines) so that this relief
who meets the federal Application remains accessible to those
poverty guidelines living near, and notjust below,
Legally mandated by the federal poverty line.
the Michigan Tax Act.

9, Asset test? Page 7 of the HPTAP Applicants who have less than The settlement change should
There must be an asset application requires an $12k in assets no longer need to he codified in the ordinance.
test, but how this is applicant to list all list assets. Instead, they can Also, to avoid confusion, the
satisfied is assets and all debts. simply make an affirmative asterisks should be
discretionary: statement attesting to this fact. removed from the asset
Legally mandated by Settlement Order, section section of the application.
the h-lieliigairTax 

Commissien?
10. Listine debts Only Page 7 of the HPTAP The Board shall not require The settlement change should

an asset test and not a
listing of debts?legally
mandated by the
Michigan Tax
Commission

 

application requires an
applicant to list all
debts.

 

applicants hose income falls
below the eligible threshold to
document their expenses or
debts. Settlement Order,
section 

 

be codified in the ordinance.

 

 

 

7 For example: for a single?person household, the guideline for a full exemption is 137% of FPL and 158% for a
partial exemption. For a four-person household the respective guidelines are 103% and 112%, respectively

5 State Tax Commission Bulletin 6 of20l7 states that the local unit must include an asset test, and that it 
require claimants provide a list of assets? [emphasis added]. The permissive language allows the ?afl'irmative
statement? provision in the settlement to satisfy the asset test requirement.

 

 

 

Legal Requirement

Current HPTAP

Settlement Changes

Recommendation

 

I?rm'idirta' iast car?s

11.

   

mandated 

income?Not legally application, the

income for the past
year with
documentation.

wrovide all sources of 

Page 6 of the HPTAP The Board may continue to
require that applicants provide
1pplicant is required to proof ofincome for the prior

ear. While an applicant may

this requirement by
submitting their tax return, the
l-loard retains the right to

request additional
documentation if they have a
reasonable basis to believe
certain income is not reflected
at the return. For applicants
who were not required to file a
tax return, the Board shall
aet1e1.itW2 forms, Social
Security statements, or any
other reasonable proof?
Settlement Order, section


For applicants who are not
required to ?le tax return, the
Hoard shall allow applicants
to submit documentation that
shows they are currently part
of any government program
that has the same or lower
income requirements (cg. the
Supplemental Nutrition
.--\ssistance Program,
Temporary Assistance for
Needy Families, recent State
Emergency Relief (SER)
approval, Medicaid or
Supplemental Security Income
statement). No additional
documentation should be
necessary.

For applicants who file a tax
return, the ordinance should
stipulate that the Board shall
not request any additional
documentation.

 

 

12, Listing Credits and
Rebates?Legally
mandated under the
Michigan Tax Act.

Page 8 of the HPTAP
application requires an
applicant to list all tax
rebates and credits.

The HPTAP application may
request that applicants who are
not required to file tax returns
list all tax rebates and credits in
the prior year. Applicants who
submit their tax return shall not
he required to list rebates or
credits Settlement Order,

am 7) 
LULJ. HJJ.

van!-
[1th

 

 

 

For those not required to tile
tax returns, if necessary and
on a case by case basis, the
board shall reserve the right to
request that applicants list all
tax. rebates and credits in the
prior year.

 

 

 

9 This method to determine eligibility?known as ?adjunctive eligibility??is common practice in various
means tested government programs, including W1C.

 

UL

 

 

Legal Regairement Current HPTAP Settlement Changes Recommendation

 

Reference?Not legally Page 5 of the HPTAP The Board must not require The settlement change should
required. application requires an applicants to list a reference, bulbe codi?ed in the ordinance.
applicant to list a may request an optional
Detroit resident that ?alternative contact person? 
the Board may contact. Settlement Order, section 2,l<

 

 

. Notarization?Not Page 5 of the HPTAP The Board may require the The ordinance should remove
legally required. application contains a HPTAP application be the notarization requirement
notarization notarized, but if so shall allow from the application. Instead,
requirement. applicants to ful?l the the application will contain
requirement in two ways: 1) explicit language listing the
having the application maximum penalty for

notarized; or 2) declaring, under fraudulent misrepresentations.
penalty ofperjuiy, that having 0
the application notarized
presents a hardship due to their
advanced age, their limited
physical mobility, or because
they are a caretaker for a
dependent, a person of
advanced ofage, or a person
with limited mobility 
Settlement Order, section 2,m

 

 

 

 

 

 

Section 2,n, along with the permissive language in section 2,m, indicates that the settlement order poses
no barrier for removing the notarization requirement. There is no other legal obligation requiring
notarization. For a comprehensive legal argument for the removal of the notarization requirement, see the
Coalition?s Memorandum re: Notarization Requirement on PTE 

 

 

 

Legal Requirement

Current HPTAP

Settlement Changes

Recommendation

 

 

15.

Marital Status?Not
legally required.

 

 

Page 6 ofthe HPTAP
application requires an
applicant to disclose
his or her marital
status and submit a
Judgment of Divorce
0r Separation
Agreement ifthe
spouse is no longer
living in the residence.

 

The Board may continue to

of divorce, legal separation, or
descrtion, but must explicitly
state that acceptable forms of
pron 1? include: a divorce
judgement, order ofseparation,
order of desertion, or a
statement by the applicant 
Settlement Order, section 

 

require applicants provide proof

The settlement change should
he codified in the ordinance.

 

 

Part II: HPTAP Administration

Below are changes to HPTAP administration procedures that should be required by the
ordinance. These changes those introduced by the settlement, as well as additional
requirements that will ensure broader program access.

 

Legal Requirement

Current HPTAP

Settlement Changes

Recommendation

 

 

16.

lasteut ot? Rel iet'
(ll?l?ered It is legally
required that an
exemption be made
available to
owner-occupants who
meet federal
guidelines, but the law
allows the chief
assessor and board of
review discretion over
the extent ofthe relief
it offers.ll

 

The Board currently
offers a full (100%)
and partial 0/5)
exemptions, according
to income guidelines
specified on Page 4 of
the The solid
waste fee is not
subject to exemption.

 

 

Not addressed in settlement.

The ordinance should codify
the availability ofa full

100%) and partial 
exemptions, according to the
poverty guidelines addressed
in recommendation #8 ofthis
Itiemo.

 

 

 

 

Mich. Comp. Laws 21 states ?The principal residence ot?persons who, in ofthe supervisor
and board ofreview, by reason ot?poverty, are unable to contribute toward the public charges is eligible for
exemption in whole or in part from taxation under this act.?

 

 

 

Legal Requirement

Current HPTAP

Settlement Changes

Recommendation

 

17.

Homeowner
Outreach?Not legally

required.

In 2018 the City
mailed a flyer
describing the HPTAP
to each delinquent
homeowner in the
City.

The settlement requires that the
City shall mail a flyer within 30
days alter the Board accepts the
assessment roll to every
taxpayer with a residential
homestead ("homeowner"),
whose taxable value is $95,000
or below, describing the HPTAP
program. The ?yer shall refer
the homeowner to call or visit
the City of Detroit?s website for
more information about the
exemption. The statement to be
used is attached as Exhibit A of
the settlement.

The settlement change should
be codi?ed in the ordinance.
If the statement provided as
Exhibit A of the settlement
must be changed, the
ordinance should require that
the revised statement be
reviet 'ed by community
members prior to mailing so
that it the language is clear
and accessible to residents.

 

 

18.

_Website Reform?Not

legally required.

Aside from a short
description at

http: any..deu'nunii.
gm 

 

Property??newsman.-
ms there is no page
that describes the
program and
the process to apply

 

The settlement requires that,
within 28 days of the order, the
City shall create and maintain a
separate page on the City?s
website that describes the
HPTAP, the program guidelines,
and the process to apply. The
page should include links to
download the current year?s
HPTAP application, as well as a
list of free services that are
available to assist homeowners
in completing the 
application such as, but not
limited to, the United
Community Housing Coalition


The settlement change should
he codi?ed in the ordinance,
which should also ensure that
the page is easily located on
the City?s website. Under the
http. to
Luigi domain, there should
be a link on the left?hand side
speci?cally for ?Property Tax
Assistance?. The HPTAP
information page will appear
by entering 

"pm erty exemption?
"property tax help? ?property
tax assistance? or other
relevant statements into the
search option.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Legal Requirement Current HPTAP Settlement Changes Recommendation
19_ App] ieatien Accessible Hard copies of the The settlement requires that The settlement change should
at Of?ce ofthe HPTAP application HPTAP applications must be be codi?ed in the ordinance.
Assessor. Unline a at can be requested by available to the public for pick Additionally, it should
District Center?seNot mail, by phone, or up in the Office of the Assessor require that the application be
legally required. in?person at the with no prerequisites or made available at each of the
Assessor?s of?ce. The requirements and that the City seven neighborhood District
HPTAP application is shall post a sign near the Centers.
also available online HPTAP applications that
at encourages homeowners to
littp: ?an nitletmiuni. speak with a representative of
Pmperi the Assessor?s of?ce if they
have questions about the
cuts. application. It also dictates that
the application continues to be
available online under the
Property Assessment
Documents portion of the city?s
website or other similarly
located page.
20. .--\pplieatien .a?tssistanee The City does not .?iot addressed in settlement. The ordinance should require

 

Available at District

_t?enters~Not legally

required.

 

currently advertise or
offer direct assistance
to residents with the
application. In the
absence of these
services, non-profit
organizations
throughout city take
on this responsibility.

 

 

that the Department of
Neighborhoods promote the
and offer designated
eflice hours for regular
application assistance at each
District Manager?s of?ce.

 

 

 

 

 

Legal Requirement

Current HPTAP

Settlement Changes

Recommendation

 

21.

Application
Mailed to Previous
5M1 ilicants anil

Delinr uent
HomeownerseNot

legally required.

applications
are automatically
mailed to individuals
who received a
poverty exemption in
the previous year.

The settlement requires that the
lilTliAP application is
automatically mailed to
tndividuals who applied for a
poverty exemption in the
previous year, whether or not
they were granted the
exemption, on or before
February 15th of each year. it
also requires that the application
be mailed to homeowners that
are delinquent for the tax roll in
a given tax year.

The settlement changes
should be codified in the
ordinance, which should also
specify that the application be
mailed to delinquent owners
on or before September 15th.

 

 

Trained Officials
Available for
Assistance?Not legally
required.

 

 

The Board currently
holds trainings with
staff, but no standards
are publicly available

 

 __:xhibit of the settlement
outlines general guidelines used
to conduct trainings ofany staff
in the Assessor?s Office
involved in the exemption
process, and requires that no
new hires be permitted to
interact with customers until
they have been trained.

The settlement change should
he codified in the ordinance,
which should also specify
that all Tax Assessor
personnel, BOR members,
and BOR support staff
engage in an annual training
program that provides an
update on any application
changes and enables them to
answer any questions that
taxpayers may have about the
application process. In
addition, the BOR will also
he required to conduct an
annual forum where
community members and
organizations can ask
questions and interact
directly with officials.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Legal Requirement

Current HPTAP

Settlement Changes

Recommendation

 

23.

Actual Due Dates Used
on Application Not
legally required, but
the application for an
exemption shall be
tiled after January 

but before the last day
of the board of review.

 

after the application is

Hard copies ofthe
application
request that the
application be

The settlement requires thal the

application does not
include a deadline. and shall

state that all applications will lac

returned by a il?pustmarl{ed or

date that is before the
next BOR sitting but

issued.

submitted in person prior to the
last day of the litllt.

The application may encourage
homeowners to apply two
weeks in advance of the March,
July, and December BOR
sittings, as well as language

?strongly encouraging?
homeowners to apply as soon as
possible, and emphasize that
applications that are not
considered at the December
BOR meeting cannot be
considered for the current year.

The settlement change should
be codi?ed in the ordinance,
which should also require
that the specific dates of each
review period are provided in
the application, including the
latest possible date the
application maybe received.

 

24.

Document checklist
included with

a Not
legally required.

 

The 
Application Guide and

but is not in the format
of a checklist.

Document
Requirements,?
specifies necessary
supporting paperwork

Not addressed in settlement.

The ordinance should require
that the application includes a
clear ?document checklist? of
the items needed for the
application to be considered.
This can allow applicants to
Itccp track of their progress,
reduce the number of
incomplete applications that
are submitted, and facilitate
more efficient processing of
applications.

 

 

Not

Space in the
Application to Explain

Personal

legally required.

 

 

The 
allows a space for

document
extraordinary
circumstances and
explain why they are
seeking an exemption.

Statement orm"

individuals to

 

Not addressed in settlement.

The ordinance should codify
the Board?s current practice.

 

 

 

 

 

 

Legal Requirement

Current HPTAP

Settlement Changes

Recommendation

 

26.

A i ilieatinn Tracking
and Review
Procedures N0 legal
requirement.

   

Standards for the
Board?s internal
procedures are not
publicly available.

Exhibit ofthe settlement
specifies procedures and
timelines for tracking when and
for whom applications are
requested, mailed, returned, and
assigned to a BOR committee
for review and decision. It
dictates standards for contacting
residents if information is
missing or follow-up is needed.
It requires that review be
limited to whether the applicant
has submitted all of the required
documentation and meets the
relevant income threshold for a
partial or complete exemption,
and. if not, whether any
extenuating circumstances exist
to support a decision to deviate
from the guidelines and grant an
exemption. It also dictates
timelines and tracking
procedures for submitting
recommendations to the full
NOR. recording BOR decisions,
and printing and mailing

I-.-

decision letters.

The settlement change should
be codified in the ordinance.
Timelines and procedures for
requesting and reviewing
additional information should
be specified (ie. number of
attempts to contact resident,
letter used to request
information, how to track
information that is received).

 

Short Fririri A lil'itlaLil
Used For t?iualilyine
l-{esidents? Not legally
required, but applicants
must file a claim on a
form provided by the
local assessing unit for
each year the
exemption is sought.

 

A known subset of
vulnerable residents
who have received the
exemption for three
consecutive years may
complete a ?Short
form af?davit,? an
abridged application
that requires minimal
documentation (proof
ofownership, ID).
Notarization is
mandatory.

 

 

\lot addressed in settlement.

 

The ordinance should codify
the Board?s current practice
but also extend the
opportunity for a Short Form
Affidavit to all taxpayers who
are on a fixed income and
have been approved for three
consecutive years. Current
papemork and notarization
requirements should be
removed.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Legal Requirement

Current HPTAP

Settlement Changes

Recommendation

 

28.

Communicating BUR

 

Decisions to
Applicants?No legal
requirement.

Persons with
exemptions granted at
the March BOR
receive a March
Board ofReview
Decision Letter, and
persons with
exemptions granted
after July are
communicated to
residents by a
numerical code issued
on the City?s
?Correction of
Af?davit? form,
which can be dif?cult
for residents to read
and understand.

The settlement requires that
individuals who apply for the
exemption receive a written
noti?cation of the Board?s
decision by mail within ten days
after the close of the BOR. If
the BOR denies a homeowner?s
application, this notice will
include the reasons for denial
and provide the process and
timeline for appeal.

The settlement change should
be codi?ed in the ordinance.
In addition, the ordinance
should require that approval
letters be easy for residents to
comprehend. In instances
where no decision is
rendered, this must also be
communicated to residents in
writing.

 

 

29.

Accurate Tax Bills

Reflectingr

legally
required.

 

Persons with
exemptions granted at
the March BOR
receive an accurate
summer tax bill that
re?ects the exemption.
Persons with
exemptions granted in
after July receive tax
bills that do not reflect
the exemption.

 

The settlement requires that
taxpayers who are granted an
exemption at the March BOR
receive a tax bill for that year
that retlects the exemption. This
bill will have the amount of the
reduced solid waste fee on it
(unless the taxpayer is issued a
partial exemption). Taxpayers
who are granted an exemption
at either the July or December
BOR will receive a tax bill at
the full ad-valorem value. An

The settlement change should
he codi?ed in the ordinance.
in addition, the ordinance
should require that updated
tax bills be issued within two
weeks from when the
exemption was granted. This
will clarify that their tax bills
have been of?cially reduced,
eliminating confusion and
delinquent tax payments.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

.rc .

 

STATE OF MICHIGAN
WAYNE COUNTY CIRCUIT COURT

MORNINGSIDE COMMUNITY
ORGANIZATION, ct al.,

Plaintiffs,
v.
ERIC SABREE, et al.,

Defendants.

Case No. 
Hon. Robert J. Colombo, Jr.

STIPULATION AND ORDER OF
SETTLEMENT AND DISMISSAL

 

 

Counsel for Plaintiffs:

Michael J. Steinberg (P43085)

Daniel S. Korobkin (P72842)

Mark P. Fancher (P56223)

Kimberly Buddin (P79126)

Bonsitu Kitaba (P78822)

AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION FUND
OF MICHIGAN

2966 Woodward Avenue

Detroit, MI 48201

(313) 578?6814

Marne Lenox?

NAACP LEGAL DEFENSE AND EDUCATIONAL

FUND, INC.
40 Rector Street, 5th Floor
New York, NY 10006
(212) 965-2200

Coty Montag*
Ajmel Quereshi*

NAACP LEGAL DEFENSE AND EDUCATIONAL

FUND, INC.
1444 I Street NW, 10th Floor
Washington, DC 20005
(202) 682-1300

Cozmselfor Defendants Eric Sabree and
Wayne County:

Zenna Elhasan (P6796l)

Wayne County Corporation Counsel
Davidde A. Stella (P69948)

Jacob S. Ghannam (P30572)
Assistant Corporation Counsel

500 Griswold St, 30th Floor
Detroit, MI 48226

(313) 224?5030

Counsel for Defendants City of Detroit and
Detroit iti:ens Board ofReview:

Charles N. Raimi (P29746)

City of Detroit Law Department

2 Woodward Ave, Suite 500
Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, MI 48226-3437

(313) 237-5037

Sonal H. Mithani (P51984)

Miller, Can?eld, Paddock and Stone, P.L.C.
101 North Main Street, Seventh Floor

Ann Arbor, MI 48104

(734) 663-7786

HJIZU Id 31:15 AM MEIIHBW JUHHSUH

16-008807-CH FILED IN MY OFFICE Cathy M. Garrett WAYNI: i 

Shankar Duraiswamy* Lara Kapalla-Bondi (P67667)

Donald J. Ridings, Jr.* James L. Woolard (P77493)

Sarah E. Tremont (P73809) Miller, Can?eld, Paddock and Stone, P.L.C.
Amia L. Trigg* 150 W. Jefferson, Suite 2500

Jason Grimes* Detroit, MI 48226

Wesley Wintermyer* (313) 496-7573

Marta Cook*

Luis Urbina*

COVINGTON BURLING LLP
One CityCenter

850 Tenth Street NW
Washington, DC 20001?4656
(202) 662-6000

*Admitted pro hac vice

AND ORDER OF SETTLEMENT AND DISMISSAL

Plaintiffs and Defendants City of Detroit and Detroit Citizens Board of Review (the ?City
Defendants?) (together, ?the Parties?), have, through this Stipulation, reached a mutually?
agreeable resolution, subject to the approval of the Detroit City Council, addressing the disputed
claims asserted against the City Defendants in the Second Amended Complaint, and the Court
finds that this Stipulation sets forth proper terms and conditions of settlement and dismissal.

NOW, THEREFORE, upon the Parties? agreement, IT IS HEREBY ORDERED as
follows:

1. This Court has subject matter jurisdiction over this action and personal
jurisdiction over the Parties.

2. The City Defendants shall make the following changes to the City?s
administration of the Homeowners Property Tax Assistance Program formerly
known as the poverty tax exemption program:

a. The City has informed Plaintiffs that in 2018 it mailed a ?yer describing the
HPTAP and the availability of an exemption from payment of property taxes by

reason of poverty (the ?poverty exemption? or ??exemption?) to each delinquent


I

LIILJUI 



homeowner in the City. Every tax year, beginning with the 2019 tax year, the

City shall mail a ?yer to every homeowner with a residential homestead
(?homeowner?) with a taxable value of $95,000 or below describing the HPTAP
program within 30 days after the Board of Review accepts the assessment roll.
The ?yer shall refer the homeowner to call or visit the Assessor?s of?ce, or the
City of Detroit?s website, for more information about the exemption. The
statement to be used is attached as Exhibit A.

Within 28 days of the entry of this Order, the City Defendants shall create and
maintain a separate page on the City?s website that describes the HPTAP, the
program guidelines, and the process to apply. The same description of the
program used in Exhibit A shall be used to describe the program on the City?s
website. The page on the City?s website shall include links to download the
current year?s HPTAP application, as well as a list of free services that are
available to assist homeowners in completing the HPTAP application such as, but
not limited to, services provided by the United Community Housing Coalition


The City Defendants shall continue to automatically mail HPTAP applications to
the previous year?s poverty exemption recipients.

Beginning with the 2018 tax year, the City Defendants shall automatically mail
HPTAP applications to homeowners who applied for a poverty exemption in the
previous year but who did not receive an exemption.

Beginning in the 2018 tax year, the City Defendants shall mail HPTAP

applications to homeowners on the delinquent tax roll for that tax year.

 JUHI mun

Id H.123 

16-008807-CH FILED IN MY OFFICE Cathy M. Barrett WAYNI: I Citrus

f. Within 7 days of the entry of this Order, the City Defendants shall make the

HPTAP applications available to the public for pick up in the Assessor?s of?ce
with no prerequisites or requirements. The City Defendants shall post a sign near
the HPTAP applications that encourages homeowners to speak with a
representative of the Assessor?s of?ce if they have any questions about the
application.

The guidelines attached as Exhibit shall at all times govern the manner in which
staff in the City of Detroit?s Assessor?s Of?ce manage the HPTAP application
process. The City of Detroit shall provide to Plaintiffs a report of how the
Assessor?s Of?ce is tracking and managing the HPTAP application process on an

annual basis for the ?rst three years after the entry of this Order.

. The City Defendants shall use the guidelines attached as Exhibit to conduct

trainings of any staff in the Assessor?s Of?ce involved in the exemption process.
The City Defendants shall not permit new hires to the Assessor?s Of?ce to
interact with customers until they have been trained on the guidelines attached as
Exhibit B.
Beginning with the 2019 HPTAP application, the City Defendants shall not
require applicants to submit any supporting documents with their poverty
exemption application other than the following:

(1) Homeowner?s Identi?cation: The City Defendants shall accept any form

of government-issued identi?cation as long as the identi?cation includes

the applicant?s picture and address. The HPTAP application shall state

that any government?issued identi?cation with the applicant?s picture
and address will be accepted.

(2) Proof of Ownership: The City Defendants shall accept any recorded
proof of ownership such as the recorded deed, a land contract, a probate
order, or a divorce judgment. The HPTAP application shall state that
any form of recorded proof of ownership will be accepted.

(3) Identi?cation for Property?s Residents Over the Age of 18: The City
Defendants shall accept any form of goverrunent-issued identi?cation as
long as the identi?cation includes the resident?s picture and address.
The HPTAP application shall state that any government?issued
identi?cation with the resident?s picture and address will be accepted.

(4) Proof of the Number of Dependents in the Household: The HPTAP
application may includc a statement informing applicants that they are
required to identify the number of residents under the age of 18 living in
the household, and to provide proof of that number. The application
shall not require any speci?c type of proof, but may list a non-
exhaustive list of acceptable documentation.

(5) Proof of Income: The City Defendants may require HPTAP applicants to
prove the household income. For applicants whose incomes exceed the
maximum income eligibility guidelines, the City Defendants shall permit
such applicants to list appropriate expenses and debts, along with
supporting documentation, which may be used to offset their income.

The City Defendants shall not require HPTAP applicants whose incomes

fall below the income level qualifying them for a full poverty exemption
to provide documentation of their expenses or debts. However, the
HPTAP application may state that the Board of Review retains the right
to request additional information from the applicant to support their

statement of income.

314:3 JUHIIBUII

(6) Proof of Past Year?s Income: The City Defendants may require the
applicant to provide proof of the household income for the prior year.
HPTAP applicants may provide tax returns to establish proof of income;
however, the City Defendants retain the right to request additional
documentation to prove the prior year?s household income if they have a

reasonable factual basis to conclude that certain income is not re?ected

WAYNI: LLEKK

in the tax return. For applicants who are not required to ?le tax returns,
the City shall accept W2 forms, Social Security statements, or any other
document that provides reasonable proof of the prior year?s household
income.

(7) Proof of Assets: For HPTAP applicants who have less than $12,000 in
assets, the City Defendants shall permit such applicants to satisfy the
asset requirement with an affirmative statement attesting to this fact.

(8) Proof of Divorce, Legal Separation, or Desertion: The HPTAP
application may require the applicant to provide proof of divorce, legal
separation, or desertion if applicable. The application shall state that
acceptable forms of proof include: a divorce judgment, order of

separation, order of desertion, or a statement by the applicant attesting to

FILED IN MY OFFICI: Cathy M. Garrett

1T1.

uosuue

the fact of the divorce, separation, or desertion and that the spouse no
longer resides with the applicant. The HPTAP application may state that
the Board of Review retains the right to request additional information
from the applicant to support their statement of divorce, separation or
desertion.
The HPTAP application may state that applicants who are not legally required to
?le taxes are required to list tax rebates and credits received in the prior year.
Applicants who do provide tax returns shall not be required to list all tax rebates
and credits received in the prior year.
The City Defendants shall not require applicants to list a reference but may
request applicants to list an optional Alternative Contact Person.
The HPTAP application shall not include a deadline. Instead, the application
shall state that all applications will be considered if postmarked or submitted in
person prior to the last day of the Board of Review (pursuant to MCL 21 1.7u 
and that homeowners are encouraged to apply two weeks in advance of the
March, July and December Board of Review sittings. The application may also
contain language strongly encouraging homeowners to apply as soon as possible,
and emphasizing that applications that are not considered at the December Board
of Review meeting cannot be considered for the current year.
The City Defendants may require HPTAP applications to be notarized, but if so
shall allow applicants to fulfill the requirement in one of two ways: 1) having the
application notarized; or (2) declaring, under penalty of perjury, that having the

application notarized presents a hardship because of their advanced age, their

 -

IUVV

I IJILU IO 3.15:7 HIVI

16-008807-CH FILED IN MY OFFICE Cathy M. Barrett WAY NI: CUUN I bLEr?Zn

3.

limited physical mobility, or because they provide caretaker services for a
dependent, a person of advanced age, or a person with limited physical mobility.
The City Defendants will also include a statement in the Application Guidelines
informing applicants that if they are unable to have their application notarized
elsewhere, the Assessor?s Office can provide notary services. The City
Defendants may list additional places an HPTAP applicant may go to obtain

notarization services.

. Nothing in this stipulated order would prevent the City and the Board of Review

from eliminating the notary requirement for all HPTAP applicants in the future.
If the Board of Review denies a homeowner?s HPTAP application, the City
Defendants shall use the template denial letter attached as Exhibit to
communicate the decision by mail.

The City Defendants will provide Plaintiffs? counsel with a copy ofthe 2019

HPTAP application, and the Parties will work together to ensure that the 2019 application

complies with the terms of this Order before it is printed for distribution.

4.

In an effort to provide relief to low-income homeowners who were affected by the

prior HPTAP process, the City of Detroit shall exercise its right of first refusal authority under

state law in 2018, 2019, and 2020 to purchase foreclosed residential properties in the City of

Detroit, subject to the following conditions:

a. The City of Detroit?s obligation under this paragraph applies to qualifying

residential properties, defined as follows:

(1) The deed?holder occupies the home;

(2) The deed?holder could have quali?ed for the HPTAP exemption in
2014, 2015, 2016 and/or 2017, but did not receive the exemption in one
or more of those years;

(3) The deed?holder was assessed property taxes for the year(s) in which he
or she quali?ed for the HPTAP exemption, and some or all of those
taxes were not paid; and

(4) The deed-holder either:

1. Received an HPTAP exemption one or more times between 2014
and the year the City of Detroit exercises its right of ?rst refusal;

2. Quali?es for an HPTAP exemption in the year that the City of
Detroit exercises its right of ?rst refusal and completes and
submits the af?davit attached as Exhibit or

3. Establishes that they could have quali?ed for the HPTAP
exemption in 2014, 2015, 2016 and/or 2017, and they could
have quali?ed for the HPTAP exemption for at least one additional
year between 2014 and 2017, inclusive, by submitting the af?davit
attached as Exhibit D. For purposes of this subsection, a deed-
holder may establish that they could have quali?ed for the HPTAP
exemption in at least one of2014, 2015, 2016, and/or 2017 by
submitting an HPTAP application and the required supporting
documents to establish their eligibility for the exemption in at least
one of those years, to a non-pro?t organization approved by the

City. The non-pro?t organization will then review that deed-

HJIZUTU Bf?? AM mannew JOHNSON

16-008807-CH l?lLtL) IN MY Cathy M. Garrett WAYNI: ULCHK

holder's documentation and submit it to the City, along with a
recommendation as to whether the deed-holder would have
quali?ed for the HPTAP exemption in at least one of those

years. The City of Detroit will then make a ?nal determination as

to the deed-holder's eligibility.

b. The City of Detroit shall purchase qualifying residential properties through its

right of ?rst refusal to the full extent that third-party funding is available to a non?
profit organization jointly approved by the parties, to purchase such properties
from the City of Detroit for the amount the City expended to exercise its right of
first refusal.

The City of Detroit shall transfer title of the residential properties it purchased
through its right of ?rst refusal in 2018, 2019, and 2020 to a non?pro?t
organization within those respective years provided that third-party funding is
available to that non?pro?t organization to purchase such properties and the non?
profit organization agrees to transfer title of such properties to the original deed-
holder for a fee of $1000.00 to be paid by the deed?holder at the time of transfer
or in installments agreed upon by the non-pro?t organization and the deed?holder.
If an individual deed-holder owes less than $1000.00 to the County in fees and
taxes, the deed?holder shall be charged no more than the amount owed.

In 2018, the City of Detroit shall contribute two hundred seventy ?ve thousand
dollars to a non?pro?t organization to facilitate the re-purchase of
property outlined in the previous two paragraphs and shall not require the non-

pro?t organization to repay that amount at any point.

10

e. The Parties shall make good faith efforts to continue to raise third?party funding
to enable a non-pro?t organization to purchase the residential properties from the
City of Detroit in 2018, 2019, and 2020 to bene?t as many low-income City of
Detroit deed?holders as possible.

f. Within 28 days of the entry of this Order, the City shall mail a ?yer describing the
Michigan State Housing Development Authority?s Step Forward Michigan
program to every homeowner in the City who is delinquent on their tax payments.
Within 30 days after the close of the March 2019 and March 2020 Boards of
Review, the Of?ce of the Assessor shall mail to all residential homeowners who
were delinquent in their prior year property taxes information regarding the
Michigan State Housing Development Authority?s Step Forward Program.

5. Within 45 days of the entry of this Order, the City Defendants shall pay $5,000 to
each of the ?ve individual Plaintiffs named in section IX of the Second Amended Complaint.

6. This Stipulation shall become effective, binding and enforceable upon it being
approved, signed and entered by the Court, but subject to the approval of the Detroit City
Council. The City will use all possible efforts to present the settlement for approval at the
Detroit City Council?s July 3, 2018 session. This Stipulation is subject to applicable state and
federal law.

7. Subject to and as consideration for the terms, conditions and promises set forth
above, Plaintiffs stipulate to dismissal, with prejudice and without costs or fees, of the claims
asserted in their Second Amended Complaint, and as such it is the order of the Court pursuant to
MCR that this action shall be dismissed immediately upon the ?ling of notice from

the City?s counsel that the Detroit City Council has approved the settlement.

ll

 IBW lbUIl?

{(23de BLAH HIVI

16-008807-CH FILED IN MY Cathy Ljarrert WAYNE LJLJUN I ?r oerrm

L9

8. This Court retains jurisdiction to enforce the terms of this Stipulation and
Order, or (ii) modify or amend its terms either by further stipulation of the parties, or pursuant to
MCR Absent such modi?cation or amendment, the Order shall terminate ?ve years
after its entry, except for paragraph 2, which shall terminate after eight years. In the event of an
alleged violation of this Stipulation and Order by the City Defendants, plaintiffs shall provide
written notice of the alleged violation. The parties shall engage in good faith negotiations to
resolve the alleged violation prior to commencement of any court proceeding.

This is a ?nal order that disposes of the last pending claim and closes the case.

IT IS SO ORDERED.

7/3/2018 RobertJ. Colombo, Jr.
Wayne County Circuit Judge

Date:

 

We stipulate to the above terms and to the entry of the above order.

 

 

?ik?cilael Steinberg Charles N. Rain'ti (by consent)
Michael J. Steinberg (P43085) Charles N. Raimi (P29746)
American Civil Liberties Union Fund City of Detroit Law Department

of Michigan 2 Woodward Ave, Suite 500
2966 Woodward Avenue Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, MI 48201 Detroit, MI 48226-3437
(313) 578-6814 (313) 237-5037

raimic@detroitmi. gov
Attorney for Plaintiffs
Attorney for Defendants City of
Detroit and Detroit Citizens Board of Review

Dated: July 2, 2018 Dated: July 2, 2018

12

David Whitaker, Esq.
Director

Irvin Corley, Jr.
Executive Policy Manager
Marcell R. Todd, Jr.
Senior City Planner
Janese Chapman

Deputy Director

Qtitp of Detroit

CITY COUNCIL

LEGISLATIVE POLICY DIVISION
208 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, Michigan 48226

Phone: (313)224?4946 Fax: (313) 224-4336

LaKisha Barclift, Esq.

M. Rory Bolger, AICP

Elizabeth Cabot, Esq.

Tasha Cowen

Richard Drumb

George Etheridge

Deborah Goldstein

TO: Detroit City Council 
FROM: David Whitaker, Director!"
Legislative Policy Division
DATE: October 22, 2018
RE: Report on Gaming Tax Revenue through September 2018

3

Christopher Gulock, AICP
Derrick Headd

Marcel Hurt, Esq.

Kimani Jeffrey

Anne Marie Langan

Jamie Murphy

Kim Newby

Analine Powers, 
Jennifer Reinhardt
Sabrina Shockley

Thomas Stephens, Esq.
David Teeter

Theresa Thomas

Underwood

For Council?s review, the attached schedules present the gaming tax revenue activity through

September 2018 and prior ?scal years.

In the third month of the ?scal year the casinos reported a combined gross gaming receipts
increase of 39% compared to the third month of the prior ?scal year. The ?rst quarter shows a
3.17% increase over the same period in the prior year. Broken out by casino, gross
receipts are up by 4.20%, Motor City?s are up by 1.66% and Greektown?s are up by 3.50%,

compared with the ?rst quarter of the prior ?scal year.

In the third month of the ?scal year, the City collected $14.2] million in gaming tax revenue,
which was 20.96 lower than September 2017, as re?ected in Chart 1. This is a result 

reaching the target of$400 million in the prior month and receiving the reven

us a month earlier.

Chart 2 Detroit Gaming Tax Collections" through a twelve-month moving average
trend line shows a decrease ot?0.40% since last September among the combined casino tax
revenues. Based on existing data. there is projected to be surplus of 14 million for the ?scal
year for a gaming revenue total million, a 3.32% increase over last year.

Adjusted gross casino gaming receipts were reported at $115.22 million for the month of
September 2018 as shown in Chart 1A. This represented a 1.39% gain compared with

September 2017. Chart 2A Detroit Gaming Receipts? through a twelve
average trend line shows growth of 1.81% among the combined casino receipts.

ReicnudGaminchpon I doc

-month moving

MGM and Motor City are each paying 12.9% of gross gaming receipts to the City, while
Greektown Casino is paying 11.9% of gross gaming receipts and is broken out as follows. By
state law, all casinos are now paying 10.9% of gross gaming receipts to the City as wagering tax.
The casinos also have an additional 1% payment because of the 2002 amended development
agreement with the City. Additionally, if a casino reaches $400 million in receipts in a calendar
year, like MGM and Motor City, then an additional 1% is paid to the City per the amended
development agreement of 2002.

There is not a complete one-to-one relationship between the adjusted gross receipts and the tax
revenue collection increases when comparing prior years, due to two factors. First, there is the
fact that MGM and Motor City casinos began paying the City 1% less due to the permanent
casinos opening on October 3 and November 29 of 2007. This reduction to the City is part of
state Public Act 306 of 2004, when the legislature amended Public Act 69 of 1997, which was
the original casino gaming legislation. PA. 306 increased the wagering tax by 6% of which 2%
went to the City of Detroit. P.A. also allowed that when the permanent casino had been certi?ed
by the state gaming board as having operated for 30 consecutive days and once the City
determined the project was complete, 5% of the 6% additional wagering tax would be
eliminated, with the remaining 1% allocated to the City where the casino is being operated.
Greektown continued to pay the 6% additional wagering tax 4% to the state, 2% to the City 
until its permanent status was agreed to by the Administration and approved by the State Gaming
Commission, which occurred on March 9, 2010.

Second, the amended development agreement of August 2002 between the City and the casinos,
which is separate from the state law, has all casinos, beginning in January 2006, paying an
additional 1% over the state law, plus another 1% when the casino reaches $400 million in gross
receipts in a calendar year. For the thirteenth year, MGM and Motor City are projected to
exceed $400 million in the calendar year and increase gaming tax collections by $10.6 million
between September and December. MGM reached $400 million in August a month earlier than
prior years and Motor City is projected to do so in October also a month sooner than prior years.

Attachments (5)

cc: Auditor General
John Hill, CFO
John Naglick, Finance Director
Tanya Stoudemire, Budget Director
Renee Short, Budget Manager
James George, Agency CFO
Stephanie Washington, Mayor?s Of?ce

Rucnu?GaminchponlILO') doc

Chart 1

Comparison
Detroit Gaming Tax Collections
By Fiscal Year

$20.0 . 

 

 

Revenue Collections

$18.0 YTD

 

FY 18-19 5 46,875,618
FY 17-18 $178,982,277

 

$16.0

FY 15-16 $174,291157
FY 14-15 $172,501,265
FY 13-14 $167,795,735

FY 12~13 $174,593,123

 

 

$14.0

$12.0

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

$10.0

 

2018-2019
FY 2017-2018

 



$8_0 FY 2016-2017
FY 2015-2016

 

$6 0 FY 2014-2015
FY 2013?2014 

FY 2012-2013

 

$4.0

 

 

 

 

$2.0

 

 

 

1 1 of 5 1011812018

Chart1A

Comparison
Adjusted Gross Casino Gaming Receipts
By Fiscal Year

 

 

$160.0 4

 

Cumulative Re 
$140.0 YTD cap 5

FY 18-19 355,061,345
FY 17?18 31.414.067.617

 

$120.0

FY 15-16 31.376.408.437
FY 14-15 $1.365.041.620
FY 13-14 31.324.236.621
FY 12-13 51.377.704.417

 

 

 

$100.0

 

 

 

FY 201e2019
FY 2017-2018

 

$80.0

FY 2016?2017



FY 2015-2016
FY 2014-2015

 

$60.0

FY 2013-2014
FY 2012-2013

 

 

 

 

 

 

2 of 5 1011812018

Chart 2

Detroit Gaming Tax Collection History

 

 

$18 46

518.03

 

 

$17.63

 

 

 

$17.95

$18.58

 

 

 

 

 

 

$18.29
1

 

 

$23.14

0

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

11.?

$10.25
99

 

 

 

$25.00

 

 

 

 

 

 

$20.00

?$15.00

$10.00
$5 00

uomm)

 

12?Month Moving Average

Revenues



30f5

09\Chart 2

Chart 2A

Adjusted Gross Casino Gaming Receipt History

 

 

$160.00 4 - 

213533 $138.62
$152.31 $134.76 $131.20 1

$127.26 
$123.72 $124.93123_90 a; mask IL

$123.7
1 m, %1 30.03 A

 

$140.00

 
  

     

 

 

$120.00

    

$115.23

$102.35 $103.345101
9 a .

c- 1 

 

 

$100.00

   




(H

.O

SUOI

 

$80.00 



N)

 

$60.00 - 

$45.25
$40.00

 

 

$20.00

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1 Revenues ?12-Month Moving Average I

 

 

2A 4 of 5 10l18l2018

Table 1

Wagering Tax History and Tax Projections - All Casinos

 

July
?999$
September
October
No?ea?nber
December
Januaryr
Februan,r
M61611
April



June

TOT RECE1PT5 thru FY

Receipts thru Cal Yr.

Wagering Tax 1112912004 {State
Wagering Tax- post 012004 [State
We ering Tax-0061112000 ?11217.

7.: ?lL?l Ldl?liu?l 

5400 {0217. Agrmt]
?23191 II lg
after permanent opens
Wagering Tax FYTD

Ill:-

Imt 1672.1 1111.1: . au uay:

A001 1% after casino reaches

B40061 during calendar year (Dev

Ag 6111]
Total Revenue FYTD

 

F1051

L351

Ratio 61? 3 Month to 9 Months

3 Month's Receipts
0 Months' Receipts

est last 9 months' receipts
est total annual recerpts

Flscal Year?s Wagering Taxjest}

Budget
Surplulee?oit

Receipts

FY 13-14 
112.324.111.14
5 112.493.452.02.
100. 340.200 54.
5 1QB 324. 015 12.
111. 541. 04.2.. 09
107. 124.733.9111
5 BB. 040. 307. 53
110. .B1B. 45
5 124. 9:10.604. 16.
5 1.12 443. 83
114 508.405.9131
5 109.007.020.90
5 1.324.236.6212?




1.00%
11.90%

prior year

0.29%
0.45%
6.73%


40.90%!

9.40%
3.54%
43.02%

7291?:
0.47%?

.7312-
4.96%
3.08%

4.75% 


5



. .5
111.621.644.76
6
s.





3 Total Adjusted Gross -Chng. overi Total Adjusted Gross

Receipts

FY 14-15 
111.335.020.03 .
112.062.900.77.
103 111. 649. 21
11137513517
11.10.772.730 55
110.134.341.40

114.422.244.27
123. 903 966. 42
1.2.6 546. 676.. .91
1'19 616152134
169. 930. 191 66
1.3.65 '641. '629. 23
1.332.732.569.59 

12.90%
1 00%1
11.90%

unng.
over prior 



70.35%
0.21%
4.04% 
5.63%
4.53%
10.23% .
?1 5.59% 
3.45%
0.5399:
7 .3751:
4.53%
0.05%
3.00%
-1 271%

Total Adjusted Gross








_s
6






Receipts
FY 15-16 
114 773 540. 90 .
10.? 4.54 B3218. .
10?. 556.002.3231 
112.029.250.36
100.079.663.64 .
125. 463. 271. 7?5
10.0. 11
11B 400. 992. 94
124.940.116.00
122. 9.01. :15.
118.534.750.40 .
108 012 340.75

'1 275.927.627.65
1.376.403.43535 .

12.90%
1.00%i
11.90%:

157.594.1577 93 102.439.952.01

10.211.576.03
167.795.734.76 

4.08% 
4.09%

10.061.311 75
172.501.204.50 

-1 47%
2.30%

 

(All

?163.925.756.722?

10.405.401.23
174.291.107.45 

331.502.763.70-
992.673.657.67 

mull-hm

299.39%

176.666.666.66
12.264.265.241 

inn-H

43 34%


.6 327.110.164.61
6 1.637.931.435.62'

317.30%1

5 
5 41.501.254.50 

~1 3450

:1



in



329.783.934.50 .

1.040.903.09255

317.45%

1 09.042.005.00
51.249.152.45

bring.

1 over pnor

lunar

3. 09%
41.52%
4.31%
?0.47% 
1 73%
0.20%
*1 75% 
1.73%
0.84% 
1.50%
-1 07%
-1 20%
0.35%
3.27%

 

0.35%

4.02%
1 04% 

0 82%



Total Adjusted Gross 

Receipts
FY 16- 11'
11B 402. 5.4.4. 
115,-. 1.9.0.2.. .952. 
112. 161'. BB

111.562.632.31

112. 004. 791. 29
117. 241.02.31.04

120. 997 54.0 75
119. 945. 980. 90

12.9672

1 00%

1190%_

?6 166.617.676.91

5 177.217.504.40
5
5

346.663.661.62 
1.053.615.404.4B 

304.04% 

I?lh

116.737.995.60 
116.967.7171 .16.

1:11. 263. 676. 63'

1367366716
1.646 0.140.545.50'
1.365 ."..66176663j

175.200.000.00 
2,017,504.40 

10an.
over prior

Imar

321%

o;
420%
4.86%-

2.00%
43.32%
2.69%
0.72%

5.01%

1 28%

1.6674.

5 03%

Total Adjusted Gross

Receipts
FY 17-1 8

119.625.164.52.
111.475.141.33
113. 6'56. 376. 92 .

3



5

5 112067 582.55
113.004.415.00
5 116.165. 313.30
111. 494. 00374
5 110.000. 01.070
9

5

5



5

5

136.616.493.36
124.62.29.9141.
124.659. 2'70] .12.

11911814551
1.41 4.007.151 6.92

1.400.536.0813 

12.96% 
1.00% .

11.9.07.
5 166.274.646.36

3 10.700.230.40

 

178.902.270.84 

5
344.150.004.77
5

1.069.910.9131 .05

310.99%

77.780.000.00

5 1702.27.11.44 .

0669.
over prior 1

nam-

0.47%
-3g. 02?79
1 .32'70
'l .7476
1 .42 

6.627.]
040%

-0 10%"

1h

1 .02%
0.995312

0.69%

69

who us

Total Adjusted Gross Ch.ng ove

Receipts
77 13-19.
119.352.2151 .03

126.461.260.32 
115.227.614.66 

355. 061 1-345 40


u, mm 61.1.4 07.69.44.177?

12.00 66

1.00%.

11.90%
42.252.300.10

4.023.317.48

312.42%

'4 1 H105 237,471.66
6 1



180.779.000.00

41.141.612.77 

1..063 0591000. 23 I.

413.376.517.59 

355.061.345.40 

464.646.916.46 
164.926.612.77 

pnoryea

0.277
309?
1.39

466.617

466.617

400.00?



-100.00'

400.617



466.66

-100.'00'

7?17?

 

Wagering Tax Proj - All Casinos

50f5

101'18/2018

David Whitaker, Esq.
Director

Irvin Corley, Jr.
Executive Policy Manager
Marcell R. Todd, Jr.
Senior itv Planner
Janese Chapman

Deputy Director

City at Eetrnit

CITY COUNCIL

LEGISLATIVE POLICY DIVISION
208 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, Michigan 48226

Phone: (313) 224-4946 Fax: (313) 224?4336

LaKisha Barclift, Esq.

M. Rory Bolger, AICP

Elizabeth Cabot, Esq.

Tasha Cowen

Richard Drumb

George Etheridge

Deborah Goldstein

4

Christopher Gulock, AICP
Derrick Headd

Marcel Hurt, Esq.

Kimani Jeffrey

Anne Marie Langan
Jamie Murphy

Kim Newby

Analine Powers, 
Jennifer Reinhardt
Sabrina Shockley

Thomas Stephens, Esq.
David Teeter

Theresa Thomas

Underwood

TO: Honorable Detroit City (amen i"
FROM: David Whitaker, [Jim-mag?? 
Legislative Policy Division Staff



DATE: October 22, 2018

RE: Resolution (1) Authorizing the Issuance of Not to Exceed $255,000,000 in
Unlimited Tax General Obligation Bonds, Series 2018 for the Purpose of Paying the
Costs of Certain Public Improvements; and (2) Authorizing the Issuance of Not to
Exceed $500,000,000 in Limited Tax General Obligation Refunding Bonds for the
Purpose of Refunding All or a Portion of the City of Detroit?s Outstanding Financial
Recovery Bonds, Series 2014B, Financial Recovery Income Tax Revenue and
Refunding Bonds, Series 2014A, and Financial Recovery Income Tax Revenue and
Refunding Bonds, Series 2014B

Introduction

The Of?ce of the Chief Financial Officer (OCFO) proposes issuing up to $255 million in
Unlimited Tax General Obligation (UTGO) bonds1 to finance capital projects and make
investments that help improve the quality of life for Detroiters and spur the City?s economic
growth. The UTGO bonds would be issued under voter-authorized UTGO capacity from 2004
and 2009.

In addition, the OCFO proposes issuing up to $500 million in Limited Tax General Obligation
(LTGO) bonds2 for the purpose of refunding or refinancing all or a portion of the City?s

 

Unlimited tax general obligation (UTGO) bonds are voter-authorized bonds paid off from property taxes based on
the City ofDetroit?s property tax debt millage.

2 Limited tax general obligation (LTGO) bonds are non-voter bonds and paid for out of the general fund and are n_ot
paid for out of property taxes based on the property tax debt millage. LTGO bonds are generally supported by the full
faith and credit of the City. However, to make the City?s LTGO bonds more attractive to bond investors, the City has
pledged revenue streams such as distributable state aid (DSA) state revenue sharing) and income taxes as added
security to certain LTGO bonds.

outstanding LTGO bonds. The City?s outstanding LTGO bonds include: $245 million of income
tax bonds, $360 million of l5t and 3"d lien DSA bonds and $632 million ofB Notes.

Attachment I represents the bond resolution currently before City Council regarding the
aforementioned bonds. Exhibit A on page A-l of Attachment I represents the list of capital
projects the UTGO bond sale would ?nance.

Attachment II represents the presentation to City Council on the UTGO ?nancing and
LTGO debt restructuring. Attachment represents the presentation to Council on the
voter authorization categories approved by voters in 2004 and 2009, bond authorization available,
suggested usage and recommended capital projects over ?ve ?scal years: 2018?19, 2019?20,
2020-21, 2021-22 and 2022-23.

The Legislative Policy Division (LPD) submitted a number of questions regarding the
aforementioned bond sales. Attachment IV represents our list of questions with reSponses. We are
extremely appreciative receiving these responses to our questions from the OCFO. Where
apprOpriate, LPD will reiterate or speak to responses throughout this report.

Need for UTGO Bond Sale for Capital Projects
UM Genera! Obligation Bond Duffurs

LPD recalled City Council approving the re-programming of approximately $50 million in old
general obligation bond dollars (these were UTGO bond dollars) for capital projects about two
years ago. According to the Administration, all of the approximate $50 million in old general
obligation bond dollars has been spent or programmed to be spent on capital projects, and that
these capital projects do not overlap with the capital projects being preposed for the new UTGO
bond sale. Attachment represents $33.5 million in capital projects that have been funded from
the approximate $50 million in old general obligation bond dollars. Council may want to request
from the Administration a list of the approximate $16.5 million in capital projects that have been
programmed by the Administration that are not on the list represented by Attachment V.

fin"! Fitti?tnt'inq Uflifi' 

Similarly, LPD recalled the City has spent almost $233 million in exit ?nancing/quality of life
(QOL) dollars on various capital projects (LPD understands that $27.5 million has been set aside
in a debt service reserve account3 and that only approximately $4 million is remaining to be
programmed to be spent). According to the Administration, the capital projects funded by QOL
dollars do not overlap with the capital projects being proposed for the new UTGO bond sale.
Attachment VI represents the list of capital projects that have been funded from QOL dollars.

 

3 It is typical for a City issuing bond debt to establish a debt service reserve account or fund from the bond
transaction. Funds amounting to six months or one-year?s debt service (principal and interest) on the bonds are placed
in a debt service reserve fund to be applied to pay debt service if pledged revenues are insuf?cient to satisfy the debt
service requirements. The monies in a debt service reserve account could be used for additional capital projects when
the bonds are paid off.

Ix.)

 umepmed UTGO Bond Safe and the may to rc?t'mcr {fir bruit! mark! as a
stand? alone credit

The OCFO proposes issuing UTGO bonds to pay for capital projects otherwise funded from the
general fund in order to improve the City?s fund balance and free up money for other City needs
while improving the quality of life for the City of Detroit?s citizens. The OCFO ?thher explains
that not borrowing for capital is viewed as a sign of weakness by the rating agencies and given the
amount of capital needs that most Cities have, depending solely on budget surpluses or fund
balance is not a viable long-term strategy and potentially compromises the budget process. In
addition, rating agencies are concerned that in a future recession, City revenues could drop and
deferring capital spending has long-term negative consequences.

The OCFO feels the City of Detroit can make a strong case as to why it should re-enter the bond
market to issue UTGO bonds unenhanced as a stand-alone credit for the following reasons:

I The City of Detroit has made signi?cant strides in improving its ?nancial condition by
incurring budget surpluses, exiting heavy state oversight, and funding a plan to tackle a
looming hike in pension contributions.

0 Given the current volatility in the stock market, there is demand among bond investors in the
municipal bond market place for high yield investments (?high yield? meaning below
investment grade credit requiring higher interest rates). Also due to the volatility in the stock
market, investors may seek to cash out and invest in bonds. The ?nancial advisor
has advised that although the credit markets have seen a rise in interest rates amid the general
market volatility, the market still remains attractive for the City to access. 2018 has seen
strong demand amid lower supply especially in the higher yielding markets (which the
City?s UTGO would be accessing). The City?s credit fundamentals have improved markedly
since the exit from bankruptcy, providing a strong base from which to re-launch into the
public markets.

I The OCFO feels it has robust marketing program to reintroduce the City to the bond markets.
The credit?consortium that will be marketing the City?s bonds includes Goldman Sachs, City
bank and Siebert.

As articulated in a June 2018 Bond Buyer artic1e4, the OCFO feels the City of Detroit?s ability to
achieve bond market access without the support of state aid or some other mechanism is the next
big step for the junk-rated city to signal it has come full circle from its historic 2013 Chapter 9
bankruptcy ?ling. The OCFO noted when the City exited bankruptcy in late 2014, it had the cash
needed for capital projects from its exit ?nancing, grant dollars, and other secured sources to
show the rating agencies it could fund capital needs, but the day has come in the not-to-distant
future where the City bond for capital like any other normal government. The OCFO further
noted that market access on its own is eventually needed to relieve pressure on the general fund
which will be relied on to cover higher pension contributions which begin in 2024 and a $25
million spike in debt service in 2025.

 

4 Bond Buyer article entitled ?How a bond market return would seal Detroit?s comeback?, by Nora Colomer, date
June 26, 2018.

Although now the City is almost at the half way point in the 10 year Plan of Adjustment coming
out of bankruptcy, given the reasons articulated above, coupled with recent
establishment of strong ?nancial and budgetary policies and procedures and a new forecasting
and economic modeling unit within the OCFO that will help the City in its revenue consensus
process and long range ?nancial planning process, LPD agrees with the assessment that
now is a good time for the City of Detroit to access the municipal bond market as a standalone
credit for the issuance of new UTGO bonds. With the Federal Reserve increasing interest rates
and the outlook for higher bond interest rates, the City must issue the new bonds soon (time is of
the essence) to obtain favorable rates.

Proposed Capital Projects to be funded 191/ Proposed (a?TGt?f) Bond Sale

 

Attachment VII represents the Administration?s recommended capital projects to be funded by the
proposed UTGO bonds over ?ve ?scal years: 2018-19, 2019?20, 2020-21, 2021-22 and 2022-23.
This list of recommended projects is the same list that is a part of Exhibit A of the proposed bond
resolution (Attachment I). OCFO indicated that these capital projects fall within already approved
2004 and 2009 voter bond authorizations.

The up to $255 million in UTGO bonds would fund a total of $235. 4 Smillion 1n recommended
capital projects over the ?ve year period as indicated 1n Attachment VII.S Of the $235. 4 million, a
series of $109 4 million in bonds would be issued 1n 2018 and a second series of $126.0
million would be issued at a later date. The OCFO indicates that municipalities frequently
authorize multiple series of bonds under a single bond resolution, particularly when there is a
known set of projects to be ?nanced over a period of years. In this case, the bonds authorized
under this resolution are essentially a single ?nancing, layered over a period of years and is a
component of the City's overall capital plan.? This approach is also done to ensure that the City
has adequate funding to ?nish projects it starts and so the City can, at closing of any series of
bonds, certify that it intends to spend 85% of the proceeds within three years of issuance (a
Federal tax requirement).

The Administration indicates it explored alternative funding sources for some of the
recommended capital projects. For example, the insurance proceeds are insuf?cient to cover the
full costs of rebuilding the Detroit Department of Transportation (DDOT) Coolidge Terminal
facility which suffered from a large ?re in 2017 and the proceeds from the new bond sale would
cover the funding gap for the Coolidge facility.

In determining the recommended capital projects, the Administration used the following process:

All of the projects ?rst had to align with the voter approved purposes. The Administration
used a thorough process to recommend projects for the UTGO bond resolution. This
included collaboration among the OCFO, Operations, General Services Department (GSD),
Detroit Building Authority (DBA), Department of Innovation and Technology (DOIT),

 

5 The OCFO indicates that the approximate difference of $20 million between the $255 million not to exceed UTGO
bond sale amount and the $235 million in capital projects is not intended to be just bond issuance costs (legal,
underwriters, bond insurance- ?if purchased, auditing). It is also intended to provide a cushion which may also be
applied to capitalized interest or original issue discount, if appropriate when selling the bonds

0 The OCFO indicates that the recommended projects to be funded by the 11p to $255 million bond sale will be a part
of the Capital Agend 1 that will be presented by the Administration to Council on or before November 1 2018.

4

Public Safety, Jobs and Economic Team (JET), Planning and Development Department
(PDD) and other Operating departments. The Administration looked at a number of factors to
determine the need for funding through the UTGO bond authorization:

0 Facilities ranked for highest need improvement/repair by both the operating
departments, GSD and DBA.

0 Crime reduction initiatives that require capital investment, such as expansion of the
successful green light program.

- Opportunities to leverage significant outside investment and provide a
transformative impact on neighborhoods such as park projects.

0 Economic development and jobs for Detroiters.

. Return on investment opportunities such as the lease consolidations or reduction of
energy use.

0 Improvements to cultural facilities serving Detroiters, such as the Charles H. Wright
Museum of African American History and the Aretha Franklin Park.

The facilities steering committee reviewed and approved the ?nal list of facilities projects.
The Vehicle Steering Committee has developed the FY 2019 vehicle replacement list and
will continue to review prioritization.

The OCFO also considered known Council capital improvement priorities when establishing
the capital projects list.

Some Councilmembers have expressed their desire to have the opportunity to modify the list of
recommended projects that is a part of the bond resolution so that the list of capital projects
would be more re?ective of Council?s priorities before Council?s vote on the bond resolution.
John Hill, CFO, provided LPD the following regarding this issue:

There are two tests to make sure that projects are in accord with borrowing. They have to ?t
both the purposes of the voter authorization and the requirements of capital in the IRS
regulations. To price the bonds we have to match the length of bonds to the useful life of the
projects and this is a real balancing act that has already been done for these projects. If we
issue bonds under this authority and then change out projects it can be done but a lot of work
will have to go into making sure the new or substitute projects meet the three requirements.
We simply do not have the time to do that and make a Dec 31 date which is important for all
the reasons we provided earlier.

The approval of the resolution would not lock in projects for the next 2 years. However some
of these projects are multi year and we would not want to start them if we did not know we
had the authority to ?nish them. The rating agencies and investors will be looking for those
assurances as well.

The council has a couple of opportunities to affect the projects that are worked on. Clearly
they will have the Capital Agenda in front of them on Nov 1 and are able to express their

support or priority for various projects during that process7. They also have control over all
the Contracts that come out of the bond sale as they will have to be approved by the body. We
heard the Council prior to this process and accordingly included a number of projects the
Council expressed concern with our ?nding funding to support. We did that because of the
lead time necessary to validate the projects as I have explained above. I believe the process
that was used incorporated a number of different priorities and was respectful to concerns of
the Council.

There is money left over in bond authorizations for Council priorities.
Need for a Budget. .Ai?mendmem

LPD recalls when the Administration in the past sold general obligation bonds on a regular basis,
after the bonds were sold, the capital projects for a given ?scal year were either already a part of
the budget for that given ?scal year, or the Administration had to present a budget amendment to
Council to budget the capital projects and the proceeds of the bond sale as the source of the
capital projects.

The FY 2019 budget does not contain any capital projects being funded by a general obligation
bond sale. The $52.2 million that is in the FY 2019 budget for capital projects is being funded by
general fund surplus dollars. In addition, the proposed bond resolution does not contain any
language that appropriates capital dollars being funded by the proceeds of the proposed UTGO
bond sale.

If Council approves the bond resolution and the proposed UTGO bonds are sold by
December of this year, then LPD feels it is necessary for the Administration to provide a
budget amendment to Council subsequent to the sale of the bonds to appropriate the list of
capital projects amounting to $48.2 million for FY 2019 that are on the capital project list
(Attachment VII) with proceeds from the proposed UTGO bond sale as the source of those
capital projects.

When the budget amendment is before you, then City Council could modify the list of capital
projects that are designated for FY 2019, keeping in mind as Mr. Hill indicated previously, that
any capital project that is added to substitute a current one on the list ?rst, ?ts the purpose of the
voter authorization, secondly, meets the requirements of capital in the IRS regulations, and
thirdly, ensures that the life of the capital project matches the useful life of the bonds.

In addition, when the Mayor presents his proposed FY 2020 budget to Council in March of 2019,
that budget would need to contain his proposed capital projects that would also be funded by the
proceeds of the UTGO bond sale for Council?s consideration and deliberation. Again, any project
Council substitutes for one proposed by the Mayor would need to meet the three requirements
previously mentioned.

 

7 It is important to remind the Council that the Capital Agenda is a planning document and not a capital budget.

3 Attachment indicates there would be approximately $28.9 million remaining in bond authorization for public
safety and type capital projects, if Council approx es the proposed bond resolution
currently before you.

Ruprogi'rmmu'ng Projects funded in Buffers in Year '5 Budget

Section 1002 of the proposed bond resolution that is before Council does contain speci?c
language authorizing the Administration to amend the FY 2019 budget by decreasing
appropriation 20507 COD Capital Projects 2019 by $13,099,618 and increasing appropriation
20253 Blight Remediation by $13,099,618 due to the fact that a portion of the recommended
capital projects (Attachment VII) were previously funded with appropriation 20507 Capital
Projects 2019 using general fund surplus dollars. Attachment represents the capital projects
that are being funded by surplus dollars in the current year?s FY 2019 budget via appropriation
20507.

Attachment IX represents the list of approximately $13 million in capital projects the
Administration looks to fund from the proceeds of the proposed UTGO bonds instead from
surplus dollars, if Council approves the proposed bond resolution.

LPD feels it would be premature for the Administration to process the budget amendment
per Section 1002 of the proposed bond resolution without first providing City Council with
a budget amendment to appropriate the $48.2 million in capital projects for FY 2019 being
funded by proceeds of the proposed UTGO bond as discussed previously, if Council
approves the bond resolution and the bonds are successfully sold by December. If Council
were to modify the list of projects in the budget amendment for FY 2019, then the budget
amendment per Section 1002 of the proposed bond resolution may not work.

When LPD inquired about the need for more dollars for blight remediation and whether or not
this money would be used for blight remediation in addition to Detroit Land Bank Authority
(DIBA) blight remediation projects, the OCFO indicated that the Demo team has successfully
increased the rate at which they are demolishing residential and commercial buildings. At their
current rate, the Administration projects that the City will commit the remaining Hardest Hit Fund
dollars in 2019. While that will be a signi?cant accomplishment, the City will still have residential
and commercial structures in need of demolition. The City will need to continue to invest its own
resources in demolition at an increasing rate to continue to meet the residents? needs. In addition,
this money would be used for both residential and commercial blight remediation. The commercial
blight remediation would target commercial corridors in the neighborhoods.

Features of the Proposed UTGO Bond Sale
Report-Hem Source for Proposed UTGO Bonds

The debt service (principal and interest) payments associated with the proposed UTGO bonds
would be paid from property taxes based on the property tax debt millage and therefore will not
impact the City?s general fund. The OCFO informed LPD that the issuance of the ?rst and second
series of these bonds would raise the debt millage from the 7 mills to around 9.5 mills. The City?s
debt millage rate was 9.5 mills in 2016; 8.24 mills in 2017; and 7 mills for 2018. The OCFO
would like to maintain UTGO borrowing and the debt millage at around 9.5 mills.

LPD inquired what impact would the increase in the debt mills from 7 to 9.5 mills would have on

the average homeowner in the City of Detroit. The OCFO indicated that the City?s debt millage
was 9.5 mills in 2016 and as a result of the City?s debt restructuring approved by City Council,

7

the City was able to lower the debt millage. One mill equates to $1 of tax for each $1,000 in
taxable value of the property owned by the homeowner. So, a home with $40,000 in assessed
value would result in a taxable value of $20,000. A debt millage of 9.5 mills would increase the
homeowners? annual tax bill by approximately $50.00.

Interest Rate associated with Proposed Bonds

Knowing that the 10 year Plan of Adjustment period hasn?t ended yet, and the fact that the Plan
of Adjustment excludes new money bonds for capital improvements, LPD wondered if the City
would pay an exorbitant interest rate on any new money UTGO bonds at this time. The
document presented to LPD shows the City would presently pay 5.50 to 6.00% on the proposed
UTGO bonds, and LPD wondered is that considered an excessive interest rate range at this time
in the market.

The OCFO indicated this rate range would not be considered excessive given the nature of the
proposed UTGO offering (non? investment grade ratings and ?rst unenhanced offering post-
bankruptcy). The interest rate that the City will pay on these bonds will be determined on the
day of pricing and will depend on the overall investor demand for the bonds. The current [30-
year] MMD (municipal market data) long term interest rate was 3.41% last week. Given
that the City is not rated the City will have to pay a signi?cant spread above this rate. In
addition, LPD should also note that the Plan of Adjustment assumed much lower pension
contributions starting in FY 2024. As a result, the City has had to fund pensions via the
Retirement Protection Fund now in order to prepare for pension contributions beginning in FY
2024 that were higher than the Plan of Adjustment assumed. The City would have had more
available funding for capital projects if the pension contributions were not higher than what the
Plan of Adjustment assumed.

The OCFO indicated that the interest rate would be ?xed and issued on a tax-exempt basis.
Selling taxable bonds would be costly to the City and, currently, it is more economical for the
City to use fund balance for capital projects that would be considered taxable.

Proposed Bonds

According to the proposed bond resolution, the proposed bonds would mature based on the
weighted average of the useful life of the capital projects, but not to exceed 30 years.

Ermruzcmnem of'Pr'oposcrf UTGO Bum-ts

The OCFO indicated no credit enhancement, such as letters of credit, bond insurance, and other
public or private credit enhancements would be used to improve the marketability of the proposed
UTGO bonds. The OCFO also feels no additional security, such as distributed state aid (state
revenue sharing) or income taxes, is needed to ensure debt service payment.

("it 1! Debt Puffer and Duh! r1 ferries

 

The City issues bonds in accordance with its Debt Policy. Attachment represents a copy of the
Debt Policy.

The City?s Debt Policy speaks to debt affordability. LPD inquired what is the City?s current: 1)
overall debt as a of assessed valuation (total debt should be about 1.5% of full market value);
2) debt service as a of the general fund (required annual debt service expenditures should be at
about 10-15% of the City?s general fund); 3) overall debt per capita (real debt per capita should
not rise signi?cantly); 4) ten-year payout ratio (a faster payout is considered a positive credit
attribute); and 5) per capital to per capita income (total debt outstanding and annual amounts
proposed should not cause the ratio of per capita to per capita income to rise signi?cantly above
approximately How would the proposed UTGO bond sale impact these ratios?

Attachment XI represents the updated metrics as a result of the ?rst UTGO new money bond
issuance provided by the OCFO. The benchmarks in the CFO Directive is what the City should be
targeting over the long-term and is benchmarked to a credit rating higher than the credit rating the
City has today.

It appears the issuance of the ?rst series in proposed UTGO bonds will not have a signi?cant
impact on key debt metrics. The ratio of outstanding direct debt over operating revenues is
alarming however, and this metrics needs to be periodically monitored.

Risks associated with ?If Proposed hands

LPD inquired as to the risk associated with the proposed UTGO bonds. The responses
are provided.

1. The bonds may price higher than anticipated due to rising interest rates.

0C response: We have a generous spread already factored into our analyses to take this into
account. To be clear, we have been modeling the new UTGO debt service under a stress case
scenario (+75 higher)

2. There may not be the level of bond investors available to purchase these bonds.

response: The market has a very large demand. While there are no guarantees, the
team of Goldman Sachs, Citibank and Siebert project that there will be considerable interest in
this deal and expect to be oversubscribed.

 

3. As a result of the two previous points, the bond sale for the ?rst series may be smaller than
anticipated.

0C response: Doubtful, as the underwriting team projects they will be oversubscribed which
should push the rate down. The market for storied and improving credits (such as Detroit) has
tremendous appetite. And in the event something were to occur that leads to a smaller transaction,
the difference could be made up in the next Series.

4. Not being able to access the market could be a trigger to bring the PRC back. However, the fact
that the City sold exit ?nancing and refunding bonds two years ago, albeit with an income tax

pledge on the exit ?nancing and a DSA pledge on the refunding bonds, demonstrated the City?s
ability to access the market, correct?

responses: The State Treasurer and City CFO both certi?ed access to the market upon
exit from FRC active oversight. We have already satis?ed this FRC condition multiple times. We
sold the exit ?nancing in the summer of 201 5, did a refunding in the summer of 2016 and
did a private placement of ACT 51 bonds in the summer of 2017.

 

LTGO Refunding Bonds

The OCFO has indicated that the rating agencies have been concerned about the City of Detroit?s
debt cliff with debt service requirements going up signi?cantly from FY 2024 to FY 2025. The
OCFO feels the reason this is signi?cant now because the City will have to incorporate FY 2025
in upcoming budgets in a couple of years. The OCFO feels that restructuring the debt that comes
due over the next 10 to 15 years will create a more manageable debt service pro?le as other City
liabilities are concurrently increasing.

The OCFO indicated there may be an opportunity to repurchase and re?nance a portion of
outstanding City LTGO bonds. The OCFO hopes the sale of 2018 LTGO refunding bonds will
generate economic savings, address the debt cliff in FY 2025, put the City in a better position to
absorb higher pension costs, demonstrate continued management focus on long-term challenges,
and set the stage for additional rating agency upgrades.

The City?s LTGO debt service spikes in FY 2025 since for the ?rst ten years coming out of
bankruptcy the City was required to pay interest only with payment of principal and interest
starting in FY 2025. LTGO debt is paid out of the general fund, so this impacts the general fund.

The proposed bond resolution and the City?s Debt Policy requires the City to achieve net present
value savings to sell the LTGO refunding bonds.

Sur'm'r'n' for the puma-"m oft/re gv'ugmsuri? LTGO urinating bruirfs

The proposed bond resolution anticipates these bonds will be secured by a lien on DSA (state
revenue sharing) revenues. The LTGO refunding bonds would be issued through the Michigan
Finance Authority (MFA). The OCFO indicates that State law provides that bonds secured by
DSA issued through the MFA have the bene?t of statutory protection and credit enhancements
that are important for investors and marketing of bonds.

Maturity of proposed LTGO re?mdirzg bonds
The OCFO does not intend to ?kick the can further down the road? by extending the maturity date

of the outstanding LTGO bonds beyond FY 2044, through the up to $500 million LTGO
refunding bond sale.

Recommendation

The OCFO believes that the resolution serves the purpose of amending the budget for the bond
appropriation and the capital projects to be 'l?unded.?I As a result, there will he no budget
amendment in FY 2019 for the new bonds and the capital projects to be funded. City Council
needs assurance from the Law Department or Bond Counsel that the list of recommended capital
projects that is represented by Exhibit A of the proposed bond resolution does not require an
amendment to the City?s FY 2019 budget, and that a budget amendment should be forth
coming from the Administration to Council to appropriate the FY Zt'll?) portion of the capital
projects, if Council approves this bond resolution and after the bonds are successfully sold. LPD
strongly advocates that the Administration amend the FY 2019 budget for the new bond proceeds
and capital projects to be funded.

If Council is satis?ed with this assurance, then LPD recommends that your Honorable Body
approve the proposed bond sale authorizing resolution.

Please let us know if we can provide any more information.
Attachments

cc: John Hill, Chief Financial Officer
John Naglick, Chief Deputy CFO/Finance Director
John Hageman, Chief of 
Tanya Stoudemire, OCFO-Deputy CFO, Budget Director
Stephanie Washington, Mayor?s Office

 

9

Per the OCFO's response to our question: If Council approves the new money UTGO bond sale, will the
OCFO present to Council a budget amendment to appropriate the bonds in the City?s FY 2019 budget and
show the impact on the four-year financial plan? The Resolution itself serves this purpose.

ll

Attachment I

Bond Resolution Authorizing up to $255 Million UTGO Bond Sale and up to $500
Million LTGO Refunding Bond Sale

  
 

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL. CENTER

2 Ava. SUITE 1 [00
*2 DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226
I PHONE: 3 [3-224-3203
CITY OF DETROIT FAX: 313-224-2135
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER 

October 12, 2018

The Honorable Detroit City Council
Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
2 Woodward Avenue

Detroit, MI 48226

Re: Bond Authorizing Resolution UTGO Bonds, Series 2018 and Refunding Bonds
Dear Honorable Detroit City Council Members:

The Of?ce respectfully submits the proposed Bond Authorizing Resolution UTGO
Bonds, Series 2018 and Refunding Bonds. The City?s credit pro?le has been improving and
there are strong market conditions that support a return to the capital markets at this time. A
UTGO ?nancing will provide the City with the necessary capital to make needed investments
that will improve the quality of life for Detroiters and help spur economic growth. In addition,
there may be an Opportunity for the City to repurchase and re?nance a portion of outstanding
LTGO bonds that will create savings and help the City proactively address rising debt service
costs.

Should you have any questions, please do not hesitate to contact me or my of?ce.

Best regards,

.- .- .-I
. 
. {ur?f??lJohn W. Hill
Chief Financial Of?cer

Att: Bond Authorizing Resolution UTGO Bonds, Series 2018 and Refunding Bonds

Cc: Mayor Michael E. Duggan
David P. Massaron, Chief Operating Of?cer and Senior Counsel to the Mayor
Katie Hammer, Deputy Chief Operating Of?cer
John Naglick, Chief Deputy CFO/Finance Director
John H. Hageman, Chief of Staff to the Chief Financial Of?cer
Tanya Stoudemire, Deputy CFO/Budget Director
Christa McLellan, Deputy CFO/Treasurer
Stephanie Washington, City Council Liaison

RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF DETROIT,
COUNTY OF WAYNE, STATE OF MICHIGAN: (1) AUTHORIZING THE
ISSUANCE OF NOT TO EXCEED $255,000,000 UNLIMITED TAX
GENERAL OBLIGATION BONDS, IN ONE OR MORE SERIES FOR THE
PURPOSE OF PAYING THE COSTS OF CERTAIN PUBLIC
(2) AUTHORIZING THE ISSUANCE OF NOT TO
EXCEED $500,000,000 FINANCIAL RECOVERY REFUNDING BONDS IN
ONE OR MORE SERIES FOR THE PURPOSE OF PAYING THE COSTS OF
REFUNDING ALL OR A PORTION OF THE OUTSTANDING
FINANCIAL RECOVERY BONDS, SERIES 2014B, FINANCIAL RECOVERY
INCOME TAX REVENUE AND REFUNDING BONDS, SERIES 2014A, AND
FINANCIAL RECOVERY INCOME TAX REVENUE AND REFUNDING
BONDS, SERIES 2014B (FEDERALLY (3) AUTHORIZING THE
REPURCHASE BY TENDER OR NEGOTIATED PURCHASE OF SUCH
PRIOR FINANCIAL RECOVERY (4) AUTHORIZING AND
DELEGATING TO THE AUTHORIZED OFFICERS THE AUTHORITY TO
MAKE CERTAIN DETERMINATIONS AND TO TAKE CERTAIN ACTIONS
IN CONNECTION WITH THE REPURCHASE OF SUCH PRIOR FINANCIAL
RECOVERY (5) AUTHORIZING EXECUTION OF DOCUMENTS
AND AGREEMENTS NECESSARY TO EFFECTUATE THE ISSUANCE OF
AND SECURITY FOR SAID AND (6) AUTHORIZING AND
DELEGATING TO THE AUTHORIZED OFFICERS THE AUTHORITY TO
MAKE CERTAIN DETERMINATIONS AND TO TAKE CERTAIN ACTIONS
IN CONNECTION WITH THE SALE AND DELIVERY OF SAID BONDS.

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Page
ARTICLE I DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATION 4
Section 101. De?nitions . 4
Section 102. Interpretation 8
ARTICLE II DETERMINATIONS 9
Section 201. UTGO Bonds: Finding, and Declaration of Need to Borrow 9
Section 202. Refunding Bonds: Finding, and Declaration of Need to Borrow 9
ARTICLE AUTHORIZATION, REDEMPTION AND ASSIGNMENT OF THE
BONDS 10
Section 301. Authorization of UTGO Bonds; Unlimited Tax Pledge; Security 10
Section 302. Authorization of Refunding Bonds; Pledge; Security 11
Section 303. Tax Exempt Bonds; Taxable Bonds. 11
Section 304. Designations, Dates, Interest Rates, Maturities, Redemption and
Other Terms of the UTGO Bonds 11
Section 305. Designations, Dates, Interest Rates, Maturities, Redemption and
Other Terms of the Refunding Bonds 13
Section 306. Execution, Authentication and Delivery of Bonds 15
Section 307. Mutilated, Destroyed, Stolen or Lost Bonds 16
Section 308. Form ofthe UTGO Bonds 16
Section 309. Form of the Refunding Bonds 21
Section 310. The Depository 26
Section 311. Sale of Refunding Bonds to Underwriters or Direct Purchaser 26
Section 312. Act 279 Approvals of the Refunding Bonds 26
ARTICLE IV SPECIAL COVENANTS 26
Section 401. Tax Exemption Covenant for Tax-Exempt Bonds 26
Section 402. Arbitrage Covenant 26

-1-

TABLE OF CONTENTS

(continued)
Page

ARTICLE FUNDS AND DISPOSITION OF BOND PROCEEDS 27
Section 501. Establishment of Accounts and Funds 27
Section 502. UTGO Debt Retirement Fund 27
Section 503. UTGO Bond Issuance Fund 27
Section 504. Construction Fund 28
Section 505. Investment of Monies in the UTGO Bonds Funds and Accounts 28

ARTICLE VI REFUNDING BONDS FUNDS AND DISPOSITION
OF REFUNDING BOND PROCEEDS 29
Section 601. Establishment of Accounts and Funds 29
Section 602. Refunding Bonds Debt Retirement Fund 29
Section 603. Refunding Bond Issuance Fund 29
Section 604. Repurchase Escrow Fund 29
Section 605. Investment of Monies in the Refunding Bonds Funds and Accounts 30
ARTICLE VII REPURCHASE OF THE PRIOR BONDS 30
Section 701. Method of Repurchase 30

Section 702. Authorization to Enter into Repurchase Agreement

Approval of Initial Repurchase Agent 31
Section 703. Authorization of Actions in Connection with Repurchase 31
ARTICLE DEFEASANCE 31
Section 801. Defeasance . 31
ARTICLE IX REIMBURSEMENT PROVISIONS . 31
Section 901. Advancement of Costs of the Projects 31
Section 902. Reimbursement Declarations 32
ARTICLE OTHER PROVISIONS OF GENERAL APPLICATION 32

-Il-

TABLE OF CONTENTS

(continued)
Page
Section 1001. Credit Enhancement; Remarketing Agreement 32
Section 1002. Approval of Other Documents and Actions; Treasury Approval 32
Section 1003. Continuing Disclosure Undertaking 33
Section 1004. Delegation to the Authorized Of?cers 33
Section 1005. Approving Legal Opinions with ReSpect to the Bonds 34
Section 1006. Negotiated Sale; Award 34
Section 1007. Delivery of Bonds 35
Section 1008. Of?cial Statement 35
Section 1009. Appointment of Bond Counsel; Engagement of Other Parties 35
Section 1010. No Recourse Under Resolution 35
Section 1011. Severability 35
Section 1012. Cover Page, Table of Contents and Article and Section Headings 35
Section 1013. Con?ict 36
Section 1014. Governing Law and Jurisdiction 36
Section 1015. Resolution and Sale Order are a Contract 36
Section 1016. Effective Date 36
EXHIBIT A PROJECTS A?l
EXHIBIT FORM OF CONTINUING DISCLOSURE UNDERTAKING B-1

?11i-

RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF DETROIT,
COUNTY OF WAYNE, STATE OF MICHIGAN: (1) AUTHORIZING THE
ISSUANCE OF NOT TO EXCEED $255,000,000 UNLIMITED TAX
GENERAL OBLIGATION BONDS, IN ONE OR MORE SERIES FOR THE
PURPOSE OF PAYING THE COSTS OF CERTAIN PUBLIC
(2) AUTHORIZING THE ISSUANCE OF NOT TO
EXCEED $500,000,000 FINANCIAL RECOVERY REFUNDING BONDS IN
ONE OR MORE SERIES FOR THE PURPOSE OF PAYING THE COSTS OF
REFUNDING ALL OR A PORTION OF THE OUTSTANDING
FINANCIAL RECOVERY BONDS, SERIES 2014B, FINANCIAL RECOVERY
INCOME TAX REVENUE AND REFUNDING BONDS, SERIES 2014A, AND
FINANCIAL RECOVERY INCOME TAX REVENUE AND REFUNDING
BONDS, SERIES 2014B (FEDERALLY (3) AUTHORIZING THE
REPURCHASE BY TENDER OR NEGOTIATED PURCHASE OF SUCH
PRIOR FINANCIAL RECOVERY (4) AUTHORIZING AND
DELEGATING TO THE AUTHORIZED OFFICERS THE AUTHORITY TO
MAKE CERTAIN DETERMINATIONS AND TO TAKE CERTAIN ACTIONS
IN CONNECTION WITH THE REPURCHASE OF SUCH PRIOR FINANCIAL
RECOVERY (5) AUTHORIZING EXECUTION OF DOCUMENTS
AND AGREEMENTS NECESSARY TO EFFECTUATE THE ISSUANCE OF
AND SECURITY FOR SAID AND (6) AUTHORIZING AND
DELEGATING TO THE AUTHORIZED OFFICERS THE AUTHORITY TO
MAKE CERTAIN DETERMINATIONS AND TO TAKE CERTAIN ACTIONS
IN CONNECTION WITII THE SALE AND DELIVERY OF SAID BONDS.

BY COUNCIL MEMBER: 

 

WHEREAS, at elections held on November 2, 2004 (the ?2004 Election") and
February 24, 2009 (the ?2009 Election," and together with the 2004 Election, the ?Prior
Elections?), the quali?ed electors of the City of Detroit, County of Wayne, State of Michigan
(the ??City?) authorized the issuance and sale of unlimited tax general obligation bonds of the
City to ?nance certain public improvements of the City as more particularly described herein;
and

WHEREAS, pursuant to the authorizations provided by the 2004 Election, the City
Charter, Act 279, Public Acts of Michigan, 1909, as amended (?Act 279?) and Act 34, Public
Acts of Michigan, 2001, as amended (?Act the City issued certain unlimited tax general
obligation bonds (collectively, the ?Prior UTGO Bonds?); and

WHEREAS, as a result of the issuance of the portion of the Prior UTGO Bonds, the City
has $58,288,829 of remaining authorization pursuant to the 2004 Election (the ?2004
Authorization?) to issue its unlimited tax general obligation bonds for purposes described in the
2004 Ballot Proposals (the ?2004 Voter Authorized Purposes?); and

WHEREAS, the City has $228,000,000 of remaining authorization pursuant to the 2009
Election (the ?2009 Authorization," and together with the 2004 Authorization, the ?Voter

-1-

Authorization?) to issue its unlimited tax general obligation bonds for the purposes described in
the 2009 Ballot Proposals (the ?2009 Voter Authorized Purposes,? and together with the 2004
Voter Authorized Purposes, the ?Voter Authorized Purposes?); and

WHEREAS, the Council deems it advisable and necessary at this time to authorize the
issuance of bonds in one or more series (hereinafter de?ned as the Bonds?) to ?nance
certain of the Voter Authorized Purposes in accordance with the Voter Authorization, including
reimbursement of funds spent by the City prior to the issuance of the UTGO Bonds, in an
amount not to exceed $255,000,000 (the Bonds Maximum Principal Amount?), bearing
interest as determined by an Authorized Of?cer (as de?ned herein) within the parameters of this
Resolution and con?rmed at the time of sale of such bonds in a UTGO Sale Order (as de?ned
herein); and

WHEREAS, on March 1, 2013, the Governor of the State of Michigan (the ?State?)
determined that a ?nancial emergency existed within the City pursuant to the Local Government
Fiscal Responsibility Act, Act 72, Public Acts of Michigan, 1990, as amended; and

WHEREAS, on July 18, 2013, the Emergency Manager of the City (the ?Emergency
Manager?) ?led on behalf of the City a petition for relief pursuant to Chapter 9 of title 11 of the
United States Code, 11 U.S.C. Sections 101-1532 (as amended, the ?Bankruptcy Code?) in the
United States Bankruptcy Court for the Eastern District of Michigan (the ?Bankruptcy Court?);
and

WHEREAS, on October 22, 2014, the Emergency Manager ?led on behalf of the City an
Eighth Amended Plan of Adjustment of the Debts of the City of Detroit (now and as
subsequently amended, the ?Plan of Adjustment?) in the Bankruptcy Court to provide for the
adjustment of the debts of the City pursuant to and in accordance with Chapter9 of the
Bankruptcy Code; and

WHEREAS, on December 10, 2014, in accordance with the Plan of Adjustment and
pursuant to Section 36a of Act 279, the City issued $631,964,145 of its Financial Recovery
Bonds, Series 2014B (the ?Series 2014B Bonds?) secured by and payable from the limited tax
pledge of the City, $134,725,000 of its Financial Recovery Income Tax Revenue and Refunding
Bonds, Series 2014A (the ?Series 2014A Income Tax Bonds?), and $140,275,000 ofits Financial
Recovery Income Tax Revenue and Refunding Bonds, Series 2014B (Federally Taxable) (the
?Series 2014B Income Tax Bonds,? and together with the Series 2014B Bonds and the Series
2014A Income Tax Bonds, the ?Prior Bonds?)); and

WHEREAS, Act 182, Public Acts of Michigan, 2014 amended Act 279 by creating the
position of Chief Financial Of?cer with certain powers, including but not limited to the power to
supervise all ?nancial and budget activities of the City, and coordinate the City?s activities
relating to budgets, ?nancial plans, ?nancial management, ?nancial reporting, ?nancial analysis
and compliance with the budget and ?nancial plan of the City; and

WHEREAS, the Council deems it advisable and in the best interest of the City to
authorize the repurchase of all or a portion of the outstanding Prior Bonds and the issuance of the
Refunding Bonds (as de?ned herein) in one or more series in the aggregate principal amount of
not to exceed Five Hundred Million Dollars ($500,000,000) (the ?Refunding Bonds Maximum

Principal Amount?), bearing interest at rates within the parameters of this Resolution and
determined at the time of sale of such bonds in a Refunding Sale Order (as de?ned herein) for
the purpose of providing funds for the repurchase of all or a portion of the outstanding Prior
Bonds; and

WHEREAS, the Council deems it advisable and necessary at this time to authorize, at a
time and in an amount to be determined by the Chief Financial Of?cer of the City: the
extension of an invitation to the holders of the Prior Bonds to tender such Prior Bonds to the City
for repurchase, or the negotiation of one or more private repurchases from such holders of such
Prior Bonds (such Prior Bonds actually repurchased by the City pursuant to a tender or private
purchase, collectively, the ?Repurchased Bonds?), (ii) the repurchase by the City of the
Repurchased Bonds, and the issuance of the Refunding Bonds to provide funds to pay all or
a portion of the costs of repurchasing the Repurchased Bonds; and

WHEREAS, based on the recommendation of the Chief Financial Of?cer ofthe City, the
Council has determined to sell the UTGO Bonds by negotiated sale to the Underwriters (as
defined herein) pursuant to one or more bond purchase contracts between the City and the
Underwriters and (ii) the Refunding Bonds by negotiated sale either to the Michigan Finance
Authority, which will sell its bonds (secured by the Refunding Bonds) to the Underwriters or 
directly to the Underwriters pursuant to one or more bond purchase contracts between the City
and the Underwriters; and

WHEREAS, the Council desires to authorize the submission of disclosure information in
connection with the distribution of one or more preliminary official statements (together with
any supplements each a ?Preliminary Of?cial Statement?) and ?nal of?cial statements
(together with any supplements thereto, each an ?Of?cial Statement") in connection with the
offering for sale of the Bonds.

WHEREAS, the Underwriters will require, as a condition precedent to purchasing the
Bonds or the MFA Bonds (as de?ned herein), that the City agree to provide continuing
disclosure as required by Section of Rule 15c2-12 promulgated by the Securities and
Exchange Commission under the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; and

WHEREAS, the Council desires to delegate to the Authorized Officers the authority to
make certain determinations with respect to the Bonds, if necessary, within the parameters of this
Resolution and to take such other actions and make such other determinations as may be
necessary to accomplish the delivery of the Bonds and the transactions contemplated by this
Resolution, as shall be con?rmed in one or more UTGO Sale Orders and/or Refunding Sale
Orders.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY
OF DETROIT, WAYNE COUNTY, MICHIGAN, PURSUANT TO THE CHARTERFOLLOWS:

ARTICLE I
DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATION

Section 101. De?nitions. The words and terms de?ned in the preambles and recitals
hereof and the following words and terms as used in this Resolution shall have the meanings
ascribed therein or herein to them unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:

?2004 Authorization? means the $58,288,829 of remaining authorization pursuant to the
2004 Election.

?2004 Ballot Proposals? means the ballot proposals included in the 2004 Election
identi?ed on the ballot as Proposal N, Proposal S, Proposal and Proposal T.

?2004 Election? means the election held in the City on November 2, 2004.

?2004 Voter Authorized Purposes? means the purposes described purposes described in
the 2004 Ballot Proposals.

?2009 Authorization? means the $228,000,000 of remaining authorization pursuant to the
2009 Election.

?2009 Ballot Proposals? means the ballot proposals included in the 2009 Election
identi?ed on the ballot as Proposal C, Proposal N, Proposal and Proposal T.

?2009 Election? means the election held in the City on February 4, 2009.

?2009 Voter Authorized Purposes? means the purposes described in the 2009 Ballot
Proposals.

?2009 Voter Authorized Purposes? means

?Act 34? means Act 34, Public Acts ofMichigan, 2001, as amended.
?Act 80? means Act 80, Public Acts ofMichigan, 1981, as amended.
?Act 181? means Act 181, Public Acts of Michigan, 2014.

?Act 284? means Act 284, Public Acts of Michigan, 1964, as amended.
?Act 279? means Act 279, Public Acts of Michigan, 1909, as amended.

?Additional Security? means, individually, collectively or in any combination,
Distributable State Aid, Income Tax Revenues, any other source of additional security pledged
for the payment of principal of and interest on the Bonds.

?Authorized Officers? means the Mayor, the Chief Financial Of?cer and the Chief
Deputy CFO/Finance Director of the City, and ?Authorized Of?cer? means any of them.

?Ballot Proposal? means a 2004 Ballot Proposal or 2009 Ballot Proposal, and shall be
used herein in connection with provisions which apply to any of the 2004 Ballot PrOposals or
2009 Ballot Proposals.

?Board? means the Local Emergency Financial Assistance Loan Board established
pursuant to Act 243

?Bond Counsel? means Miller, Can?eld, Paddock and Stone, P.L.C., attorneys of Detroit,
Michigan, or such other nationally recognized ?rm of attorneys experienced in matters
pertaining to municipal bonds and appointed to serve in such capacity by the City with respect to
the Bonds.

?Bondholder?, ?Bondowner?, ?Owner? or ?Registered Owner? means, with respect to
any Bond, the person in whose name such Bond is registered in the Bond Registry.

?Bond Insurer? means the issuer of a Municipal Bond Insurance Policy with respect to
the Bonds, if any, named in the Sale Order.

?Bond Purchase Agreement? means each purchase contract between the City and the
Underwriters providing for the terms and conditions of the purchase of the Bonds.

?Bond Registry? means the books for the registration of Bonds maintained by the
applicable Transfer Agent.

?Bonds? means, collectively, the UTGO Bonds and the Refunding Bonds.

?Charter? means the Home Rule Charter of the City, as amended from time to time.
?Chief Financial Officer? means the chief financial of?cer of the City or his/her designee.
?City? means the City of Detroit, County of Wayne, State of Michigan.

?Code? means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.

?Constitution? means the Constitution of the State of Michigan of 1963, as amended.

?Construction Fund? means the fund so designated and established under Section 501
hereof.

?Council? means the City Council of the City of Detroit, Michigan.
?Distributable State Aid? has the meaning given it in Act 80.
?Fiscal Year? means the ?scal year of the City as in effect from time to time.

?Income Tax Revenues? means revenues collected by the City from a levy of an excise
tax on income pursuant to Act 284 or pursuant to any other applicable State or local law.

?Initial Refunding Issuance? the initial series of Refunding Bonds issued pursuant to this
Resolution.

?Initial UTGO Issuance? the initial series of UTGO Bonds issued pursuant to this
Resolution.

?Mayor? means the mayor of the City or the designee thereof.

means the Michigan Finance Authority, as successor to the Michigan Municipal
Bond Authority.

Bonds? means bonds issued by the MFA, secured by the Municipal Obligation.

?Municipal Bond Insurance Policy? means one or more policies of municipal bond
insurance, if any, issued by the Bond Insurer insuring the payment when due of the principal of
and interest on the Bonds determined to be insured as set forth in a Sale Order.

?Municipal Obligation? means the Refunding Bonds, in the event any of the Refunding
Bonds are sold to the MFA.

?Non-Arbitrage and Tax Compliance Certificate? means each Non-Arbitrage and Tax
Compliance Certi?cate of the City regarding rebate requirements and other tax responsibilities of
the City relating to the Bonds under the Code.

?Prior Bonds? means, collectively, the Series 20MB Income Tax Bonds, the Series
2014B Bonds and the Series 2014A Income Tax Bonds.

?Projects? mean those projects set forth in Exhibit A hereto and any additional projects
constituting Voter Authorized Purposes.

?Purchase Contract? means the purchase contract between the City and the MFA
providing for the terms and conditions of the delivery of the Municipal Obligation to the MFA in
connection with the refunding of the Repurchased Bonds.

?Refunding Bond Issuance Fund? means the fund so designated and established under
Section 601 hereof.

?Refunding Bonds? means the City?s Financial Recovery Refunding Bonds, authorized
by Article of this Resolution.

?Refunding Bonds Interest Payment Date? has the meaning given such term in Section
305.

?Refunding Bonds Maximum Interest Rate? means a rate of interest not to exceed the
maximum rate permitted by law.

?Refunding Bonds Maximum Principal Amount? means an amount not to exceed Five
Hundred Million Dollars 

?Refunding Sale Order? means the order or orders executed by both the Mayor and the
Chief Financial Of?cer approving the sale of any series of Refunding Bonds and making certain
determinations and/or con?rming the ?nal details of such Refunding Bonds upon the sale thereof
in accordance with the parameters of this Resolution and the terms of the Bond Purchase
Agreement.

?Regular Record Date? has the meaning given such term in Section 304.
?Repurchased Bonds? has the meaning given such term in Section 202.

?Repurchase Agent? means any broker?dealer, dealer-manager, tender agent, repurchase
agent or similar party facilitating the repurchase of the Repurchased Bonds.

?Repurchase Agreement? means, collectively, one or more repurchase agreements,
broker-dealer agreements, dealer-manager agreements, tender agent agreements or equivalent
agreements executed by both the Mayor and Chief Financial Of?cer in connection with the
repurchase of any Repurchased Bonds.

?Repurchase Escrow Agreement? has the meaning given such term in Section 604.

?Repurchase Escrow Fund" means the fund so designated and established under Section
601 hereof.

?Repurchase Escrow Trustee" has the meaning given such term in Section 604.
?Resolution? means this Resolution, as supplemented by one or more Sale Orders.

?Sale Order? means a Refunding Sale Order or a UTGO Sale Order, and shall be used
herein in connection with provisions which apply to either a Refunding Sale Order or a UTGO
Sale Order.

?Series 2014B Bonds" means the City?s Financial Recovery Bonds, Series 2014B, issued
on December 10, 2014 in the original principal amount of $63 1,964,145.

?Series 2014A Income Tax Bonds? means the City?s Financial Recovery Income Tax
Revenue and Refunding Bonds, Series 2014A, issued on December 10, 2014 in the original
principal amount of$134,725,000.

?Series 2014B Income Tax Bonds? means the City?s Financial Recovery Income Tax
Revenue Bonds, Series 2014B (Federally Taxable), issued on December 10, 2014 in the original
principal amount of $140,275,000.

?State? means the State of Michigan.
?State Treasurer" means the Treasurer of the State.

?Transfer Agent? means a bank or trust company to be selected by the City to serve as
the transfer agent or paying agent, or as trustee if any of the Bonds shall be sold through the
MFA, for each series ofthe Bonds.

?Trustee? means US. Bank National Association or such other bank or trustee company
selected by the City to serve as trustee for any series of Bonds sold to the MFA.

?Underwriters? means Goldman Sachs Co. LLC, as representative on behalf of itself,
Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and Siebert Cisneros Shank Co., or such ?nancial
institution or institutions as shall be determined by an Authorized Of?cer to serve as underwriter
or underwriters for any series of the Bonds.

Bond Issuance Fund" means the fund so designated and established under
Section 501 hereof.

Bonds? means the City?s Unlimited Tax General Obligation Bonds authorized
by Article of this Resolution, or bonds bearing such other designations as determined by an
Authorized Of?cer, evidencing the unlimited tax full faith and credit general obligation of the
City, authorized to be issued pursuant to Act 279, Act 34, this Resolution and the Sale Order
relating thereto.

Bonds Interest Payment Date? has the meaning given such term in Section 304
hereof.

Bonds Maximum Interest Rate? means a rate of interest not to exceed the
maximum rate permitted by law.

Bonds Maximum Principal Amount? means the amount not to exceed
$255,000,000.

Sale Order? means the order or orders executed by both the Mayor and the Chief
Financial Of?cer approving the sale of any series of UTGO Bonds and making certain
determinations and/or con?rming the ?nal details of such UTGO Bonds upon the sale thereof in
accordance with the parameters of this Resolution and the terms of the Bond Purchase
Agreement.

?Voter Authorized Purposes? means, collectively, the 2004 Voter Authorized Purposes
and the 2000 Voter Authorized Purposes.

Section 102. lmemrctatirm. Words of the feminine or masculine genders include the
correlative words of the other gender or the neuter gender.

Unless the context shall otherwise indicate, words importing the singular include
the plural and vice versa, and words importing persons include corporations, associations,
partnerships (including limited partnerships), trusts, ?rms and other legal entities, including
public bodies, as well as natural persons.

Articles and Sections referred to by number mean the corresponding Articles and
Sections of this Resolution.

The terms ?hereby, ?hereof?, ?hereto?, ?herein?, ?hereunder? and any similar
terms as used in this Resolution, refer to this Resolution as a whole unless otherwise expressly
stated.



ARTICLE II
DETERMINATIONS

Section 201. UTGO Bonds: Finding. and Declaration of Need to Borrow. The
Council hereby ?nds and declares that it is necessary for the City to borrow hereunder such sum
as shall be determined by an Authorized Officer not in excess of the UTGO Bonds Maximum
Principal Amount, provider] that the amount thereof allocated In Projects authorized by the 200?1
Voter Authorized Purposes shall not exceed the 2110-1 Authorization, and the amount thereof
allocated to Projects authorized by the 2009 Voter Authorized Purposes shall not exceed the
2009 Authorization, and to evidence such borrowing by the issuance of the UTGO Bonds not in
excess of the UTGO Bonds Maximum Principal Amount, in minimum denominations of $1,000
or such greater minimum denominations as determined by an Authorized Of?cer, pursuant to
and in accordance with the provisions ofAct 34 and Act 279, for the purposes of providing funds
to ?nance the Projects, including reimbursement to the City for amounts spent prior to the
issuance of the UTGO Bonds and capitalized interest, if any, to pay for a Municipal Bond
Insurance Policy, if necessary, and to pay legal, ?nancial, advisory, accounting, printing and
other expenses related to the issuance of the UTGO Bonds, all as finally con?rmed by an
Authorized Of?cer in the UTGO Sale Order.

Bonds Declaration of Borrowing. The City shall borrow, under this Resolution
on the authority of and in accordance with the provisions of the Charter, Act 34 and Act 279, a
sum not to exceed the UTGO Bonds Maximum Principal Amount and the UTGO Bonds shall
bear interest on a ?xed and/or variable rate and tax?exempt or taxable basis as provided herein
and in the UTGO Sale Order, and the City shall issue the UTGO Bonds as hereinafter provided
and as ?nally con?rmed by an Authorized Of?cer in the UTGO Sale Order, secured by the
unlimited tax full faith, credit and resources of the City which will be payable from ad valorem
taxes levied on all taxable property within the City without limitation as to rate or amount, to
provide funds for the purposes stated herein.

Section 202. Refunding Bonds: Finding, and Declaration of Need to Borrow. The
Council hereby ?nds and declares that it is necessary for the City to borrow hereunder such sum
as shall be detemiined by an Authorized Of?cer not in excess of the Refunding Bonds Maximum
Agoregate Principal Amount and to evidence such borrowing by the issuance of the Refunding
Bonds not in excess, in aggregate principal amount, of such Refunding Bonds Maximum
Aggregate Principal Amount, in minimum denominations of $1,000 or such greater minimum
denominations as determined by an Authorized Of?cer, pursuant to the Charter and in
accordance with the provisions hereof, for the purposes of providing funds to repurchase
through tender or otherwise and refund all or portions of the outstanding Prior Bonds (such Prior
Bonds to be repurchased and refunded, the ?Repurchased Bonds?); and (ii) to pay legal,
?nancial, advisory, brokerage, accounting, printing and other expenses related to the issuance of
the Refunding Bonds and the repurchase of the Repurchased Bonds, all as finally con?rmed by
an Authorized Of?cer in the Refunding Sale Order.

Refunding Bonds Declaration or Borrowinit- The City shall, under this Resolution on
the authority of and in accordance with the provisions of the Charter, Act 80, Act 181, and Act
279, issue the Refunding Bonds in a sum not to exceed the Refunding Bonds Maximum
Aggregate Principal Amount; each series of Refunding Bonds shall bear interest on a ?xed
anal or i-ariuhle rate and tax?exempt or taxable basis as provided herein and in the Refunding Sale

.0.

Order; and the City shall issue each series ol' Refunding Bonds as hereinafter provided and as
?nally con tinned by an Authorized Of?cer in the Refunding Sale Order, secured by the limited
tax full faith. credit and resources of the City which will be payable from ad valorem taxes levied
on all taxable property within the City, subject to applicable constitutional, statutory and Charter
tax rate limitations.

ARTICLE 
REDEMPTION OF THE
BONDS

Section 301. :?kutliorizatian Bonds: Unlimited Tax Plcdae; Security. The
City hereby authorizes the issuance of the UTGO Bonds in such series and in such principal
amounts as shall be con?rmed in the Sale Order, not in excess of the remaining Voter
Authorization and UTGO Bonds Maximum Principal Amount. The City hereby pledges its
unlimited tax full faith and credit for the prompt payment of the UTGO Bonds. All proceeds
from taxes levied for the UTGO Debt Retirement Fund established under Section 501 hereof
shall be deposited into the UTGO Debt Retirement Fund as collected. Commencing with the
year 2019 (or such other year as shall be necessary to ?rst levy taxes to pay debt service on any
series of the UTGO Bonds), there shall be levied upon the tax rolls of the City for the purpose of
the UTGO Debt Retirement Fund each year, in the manner required by the provisions of Act 34,
Public Acts of Michigan, 2001, as amended (?Act an amount suf?cient so that the
estimated collection therefrom will be suf?cient to pay, when due, the principal of and
interest on the UTGO Bonds becoming due prior to the next annual tax levy; provided, however,
that if at the time of making any such annual tax levy there shall be other funds available or
surplus moneys on hand in the UTGO Debt Retirement Fund for the payment of principal of and
interest on the UTGO Bonds, then credit therefor may be taken against such annual levy for the
UTGO Debt Retirement Fund. The rights or remedies of bondholders may be affected by
bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent conveyance or other laws affecting creditors? rights generally
now existing or hereafter enacted and by the application of general principles of equity including
those relating to equitable subordination.

UTGO Bonds of the City in the aggregate principal amount of not to exceed the
UTGO Bonds Maximum Principal Amount shall be issued for the purpose of ?nancing certain
portions of the costs of the City relating to the Voter Authorized Purposes and allocated to the
2004 Ballot Proposals and 2009 Ballot Proposals as shall be set forth in the Sale Order; provided,
that the Initial UTGO Issuance shall not exceed One Hundred Thirty-Five Million Dollars


Each Authorized Of?cer is hereby authorized to allocate the proceeds of the UTGO
Bonds to ?nance those Projects or portions thereof as he may determine, and to make such
changes or cause such changes to be made in the allocation of the amount of the proceeds of the
UTGO Bonds requrrcd for the respective purposes of the Projects as may become necessary and
are permitted by law within the limitations 01' the authorizations of the Prior Elections and
subject to previous or future appropriations of Council or both.

-10-

Section 302. Authorization ul'Refuniling Bonds: Pledge; Security. The City hereby
authorizes the issuance of the Refunding Bonds in such series and in such principal amounts as
shall be con?rmed in a Sale Order not exceeding the Refunding Bonds Maximum Principal
Amount. The City hereby pledges its limited tax full faith and credit for the payment of the
principal of and interest on the Refunding Bonds, including the proceeds of an annual levy of ad
valorem taxes on all taxable property in the City, subject to applicable constitutional, statutory
and Charter tax rate limitations.

As additional security for the payment of principal of and interest on the Refunding
Bonds, the City may pledge pursuant to the authorization provided in Act 227, Distributable
State Aid payments that the City is eligible to receive, with such priority of lien and pursuant to
such terms as shall be determined in each Sale Order; (ii) pursuant to Section 36a(7) of Act 279,
Income Tax Revenues with such priority of lien and pursuant to such terms as shall be
determined in each Sale Order and any Additional Security.

Each Authorized Of?cer is hereby authorized to negotiate and execute any indenture or
indentures, or agreements for the pledge and intercept of Distributable State Aid, or such other
agreements as shall be deemed necessary by an Authorized Of?cer and con?rmed in a Sale
Order for and on behalf of the City with US. Bank National Association, Detroit, Michigan, as
Trustee, and, as applicable, the MFA and the State Treasurer, to provide for the pledge of
Additional Security to secure payment of the Refunding Bonds.

Section 303. Tart Iii-tempt Bonds: 'l'axable Bonds. The Authorized Of?cers are each
hereby authorized and directed to determine whether all or any portion of the Bonds shall be sold
as: bonds the interest on which is excluded from gross income for federal income tax purposes
(?Tax-Exempt Bonds?), or (ii) bonds the interest on which, if any, is included in gross income
for federal income tax purposes under the Code (the ?Taxable Bonds"), or any combination
thereof.

Section 304. Designations. Dates. Interest Rates. Maturities. Redemption and Other
Terms of the UTGO Bonds.

 

The UTGO Bonds shall be issued in one or more series to be designated as
TAX GENERAL OBLIGATION The UTGO Bonds shall further bear
a series designation corresponding to the year of issuance and other necessary identifying
information as shall be provided in the UTGO Sale Order; shall be issued in fully registered form
as serial bonds, term bonds, a combination thereof, or as single instrument bond, as provided in
the UTGO Sale Order. Each series of UTGO Bonds shall be dated and issued in Authorized
Denominations all as determined in the UTGO Sale Order.

In making the determinations set forth in this Resolution with respect to the
UTGO Sale Order, the Authorized Officers shall be limited to the parameters as follow:

(I) The ?rst maturity date or mandatory sinking fund redemption date
for each series of the UTGO Bonds shall not be later than ?ve (5) years from the
date of issuance, and the ?nal maturity dates for the UTGO Bonds shall not be
later than the earlier of the last year of the weighted average estimated period

-11-

of usefulness of the improvements being ?nanced through such series or (ii) 30
years from their dated date.

(2) The compensation to be paid to the Underwriters in connection
with the Initial UTGO Issuance shall not exceed 0.75% of the original principal
amount thereof, and for any series of UTGO Bonds thereafter, shall not exceed
0.85% of the original principal amount of the such series of UTGO Bonds.

(3) To the extent permitted by applicable law, each series of the
UTGO Bonds may be sold with an original issue premium in an amount as
determined by an Authorized Of?cer.

(4) The maximum rate of interest on the UTGO Bonds shall not
exceed the UTGO Bonds Maximum Interest Rate.

The UTGO Bonds shall mature on such dates and shall bear interest at such rates
on a ?xed and/or variable and tax?exempt or taxable basis not in excess of the legal limit, and
payable on such dates (each a Bonds Interest Payment Date?), all as shall be provided in
the UTGO Sale Order. Unless otherwise provided by an Authorized Of?cer in a Sale Order,
interest on the UTGO Bonds shall be calculated on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of
twelve 30-day months. The UTGO Bonds shall be payable as to principal and interest in lawful
money of the United States of America.

Except as may be otherwise provided by an Authorized Of?cer in a Sale Order,
interest on the UTGO Bonds shall be payable on each UTGO Bonds Interest Payment Date to the
Registered Owner of record as of the 15th day of the month, whether or not a Business Day (a
?Regular Rccord Datc?), prior to each UTGO Bonds Interest Payment Date. Interest on the
UTGO Bonds shall be payable to such Registered Owners by check or draft drawn on the
Transfer Agent on each UTGO Bonds Interest Payment Date and mailed by ?rst class mail or,
upon the written request of the Owner of $1,000,000 or more in aggregate principal amount of
UTGO Bonds (with complete wiring instructions no later than the Regular Record Date for such
Interest Payment Date), by wire transfer by the Transfer Agent to such Owner. Such a request
may provide that it will remain in effect with respect to subsequent UTGO Bonds Interest
Payment Dates unless and until changed or revoked at any time prior to a Regular Record Date
by subsequent written notice to the Transfer Agent.

The principal of the UTGO Bonds shall be payable to the Owners of the UTGO
Bonds upon the presentation of the UTGO Bonds to the Transfer Agent at the principal corporate
trust of?ce of the Transfer Agent.

The UTGO Bonds may be subject to redemption and/or tender for purchase prior
to maturity or shall not be subject thereto, upon such terms and conditions as shall be provided
by an Authorized Of?cer in the Sale Order delivered in connection with the UTGO Bonds,
provided that any premium payable in connection with the optional redemption of the UTGO
Bonds shall not exceed 

Unless waived by any Registered Owner of the UTGO Bonds to be redeemed, of?cial
notice of redemption shall be given by the Transfer Agent on behalf of the City. Such notice

-17-

shall be dated and shall contain at a minimum the following information: original issue date;
maturity dates; interest rates; CUSIP numbers, if any; certi?cate numbers, and in the case of
partial redemption, the called amounts of each certi?cate; the redemption date; the redemption
price or premium; the place where the UTGO Bonds called for redemption are to be surrendered
for payment; and that interest on the UTGO Bonds or portions thereof called for redemption
shall cease to accrue from and after the redemption date.

In addition, further notice shall be given by the Transfer Agent in such manner as may be
required or suggested by regulations or market practice at the applicable time, but no defect in
such further notice nor any failure to give all or any portion of such further notice shall in any
manner defeat the effectiveness of a call for redemption if notice thereof is given as prescribed
herein.

Section 305. Designations. Dates. Interest Rates. Maturities. Redemption and Other
Terms of the Refunding Bonds .

The Refunding Bonds shall be issued in one or more series to be designated as
RECOVERY REFUNDING The Refunding Bonds shall further bear a
series designation corresponding to the year of issuance and other necessary identifying
information as shall be provided in the Refunding Sale Order; shall be issued in fully registered
form as serial bonds, term bonds, a combination thereof, or as single instrument bond, as
provided in the Refunding Sale Order. Each series of Refunding Bonds shall be dated and issued
in Authorized Denominations all as determined in the Refunding Sale Order.

In making the determinations set forth in this Resolution with respect to the
Repurchase Agreement and Refunding Sale Order, the Authorized Of?cers shall be limited to the
parameters as follow:

(1) The compensation to be paid to the Underwriters in connection with the
Initial Refunding Issuance shall not exceed 0.50% of the original principal amount
thereof; and for any series of Refunding Bonds thereafter, shall not exceed 0.60% of the
original principal amount of the such series of Refunding Bonds.

(2) The compensation of the Repurchase Agent shall not exceed 0.25% of the
principal amount of the Repurchased Bonds.

(3) To the extent permitted by applicable law, the Refunding Bonds may be
sold with an original issue premium in an amount as determined by an Authorized Of?cer
and con?rmed in the Refunding Sale Order.

(4) The maximum rate of interest on the Refunding Bonds shall not exceed
the Refunding Bonds Maximum Interest Rate.

(5) The issuance of the Refunding Bonds shall produce a net present value
savings.

The Refunding Bonds shall mature on such dates and shall bear interest at such
rates on a ?xed and/or variable and tax-exempt or taxable basis not in excess of the legal limit,

-13-

and payable on such dates (each a ?Refunding Bonds Interest Payment Date?), all as shall be
provided in Refunding Sale Order. Unless otherwise provided in a Sale Order, interest on the
Refunding Bonds shall be calculated on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve, 30 day
months. The Refunding Bonds shall be payable as to principal and interest in lawful money of
the United States of America.

Except as may be otherwise provided in a Sale Order, interest on the Refunding Bonds
shall be payable on each Refunding Bonds Interest Payment Date to the Registered Owner of
record as of the 15th day of the month, whether or not a Business Day (a ?Regular Record
Date?), prior to each Re?inding Bonds Interest Payment Date. Interest on the Refunding Bonds
shall be payable to such Registered Owners by check or draft drawn on the Transfer Agent (or
the Trustee if the Refunding Bonds are sold to the MFA) on each Refunding Bonds Interest
Payment Date and mailed by first class mail or, upon the written request of the Owner of
$1,000,000 or more in aggregate principal amount of Refunding Bonds (with complete wiring
instructions no later than the Regular Record Date for such Interest Payment Date), by wire
transfer by the Transfer Agent (or the Trustee if the Refunding Bonds are sold to the 
such Owner. Such a request may provide that it will remain in effect with respect to subsequent
Refunding Bonds Interest Payment Dates unless and until changed or revoked at any time prior
to a Regular Record Date by subsequent written notice to the Transfer Agent (or the Trustee if
the Refunding Bonds are sold to the MFA).

The principal of the Refunding Bonds shall be payable to the Owners of the
Refunding Bonds upon the presentation of the Refunding Bonds to the Transfer Agent (or the
Trustee if the Refunding Bonds are sold to the MFA) at the principal corporate trust of?ce of the
Transfer Agent (or the Trustee if the Refunding Bonds are sold to the MFA).

g) The Refunding Bonds may be subject to redemption and/or tender for purchase
prior to maturity or shall not be subject thereto, upon such terms and conditions as shall be
provided in the Refunding Sale Order.

Unless waived by any Registered Owner of the Refunding Bonds to be redeemed, official
notice of redemption shall be given by the Transfer Agent (or the Trustee if the Refunding Bonds
are sold to the MFA) on behalf of the City. Such notice shall be dated and shall contain at a
minimum the following information: original issue date; maturity dates; interest rates, CUSIP
numbers, if any; certi?cate numbers, and in the case of partial redemption, the called amounts of
each certi?cate; the redemption date; the redemption price or premium; the place where the
Refunding Bonds called for redemption are to be surrendered for payment; and that interest on
the Refunding Bonds or portions thereof called for redemption shall cease to accrue from and
after the redemption date.

In addition, further notice shall be given by the Transfer Agent (or the Trustee if the
Refunding Bonds are sold to the MFA) in such manner as may be required or suggested by
regulations or market practice at the applicable time, but no defect in such further notice nor any
failure to give all or any portion of such further notice shall in any manner defeat the
effectiveness of a call for redemption if notice thereof is given as prescribed herein.

In connection with any sale of the Refunding Bonds to the MFA, the following
additional provisions shall apply:

-14-

(1) Each series of Refunding Bonds shall be in the form of a single
fully?registered, nonconvertible bond in the denomination of the full principal
amount thereof, dated as of the date of delivery of the Refunding Bonds, payable
in principal installments serially as ?nally determined at the time of sale of the
Refunding Bonds and approved by the MFA and an Authorized Of?cer. Final
determination of the principal amount of a series and the payment dates and
amounts of principal installments of a series of Refunding Bonds shall be
evidenced by execution of a Purchase Contract between the City and the MFA
providing for sale of the Refunding Bonds, and an Authorized Of?cer shall
negotiate the terms of, approve the form of and to execute and deliver the
Purchase Contract when it is in ?nal form and to make the determinations set
forth above. An Authorized Of?cer shall approve of a series designation with
respect to each series of Refunding Bonds.

(2) The Refunding Bonds or principal installments thereof will be
subject to prepayment prior to maturity in the manner and at the prices and times
as provided in the form of the Refunding Bonds contained in this Resolution or as
may be approved by an Authorized Of?cer at the time of sale of the Refunding
Bonds or by the MFA at the time ofprepayment.

(3) The Refunding Bonds shall bear interest at the rates speci?ed in
the Purchase Contract and approved as evidenced by execution of the Purchase
Contract, and an Authorized Of?cer shall deliver the Refunding Bonds in
accordance with the delivery instructions of the MFA.

(4) The Refunding Bonds shall not be convertible or exchangeable
into more than one fully?registered bond. Principal of and interest on the
Refunding Bonds shall be payable as provided in the Refunding Bond form in this
Resolution as the same may be amended to conform to MFA requirements.

(5) The Transfer Agent (or the Trustee if the Refunding Bonds are
sold to the MFA) shall record on the registration books payment by the City of
each installment of principal or interest or both when made and the cancelled
checks or other records evidencing such payments shall be returned to and
retained by the City Treasurer.

(6) Upon payment by the City of all outstanding principal of and
interest on a Refunding Bond, the MFA shall deliver the respective Refunding
Bond to the City for cancellation.

Section 306. Execution. Authentication and Deliverv of Bonds. The Bonds shall be
executed in the name of the City by the manual or facsimile signatures of the Mayor and the
Finance Director and authenticated by the Transfer Agent, or a trustee if an indenture is executed
in connection with the issuance of the Bonds, and the seal of the City (or a facsimile thereof)
shall be impressed or imprinted on the Bonds. After the Bonds have been executed and
authenticated for delivery to the original purchaser thereof, they shall be delivered to the
purchasers thereof upon receipt of the purchase price.

-15-

Section 307. Mutilated, Destroyed. Stolen or Lost Bonds. Subject to the provisions
of Act 354, Public Acts of Michigan, 1972, as amended, and any other applicable law, if any
mutilated Bond is surrendered to the City, and the City receives evidence to its satisfaction of the
destruction, loss or theft of any Bond and (ii) there is delivered to the City such security or
indemnity as may be required by it to save the City harmless, then, in the absence of notice to the
City that such Bond has been acquired by a bona ?de purchaser, the City shall execute and
deliver in exchange for or in lieu of any such mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Bond, a new
Bond of like tenor and principal amount, bearing a number not contemporaneously outstanding.

 

If any such mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Bond has become or is about to
become due and payable, the City in its discretion may, instead of issuing a new Bond, pay such
Bond.

Any new Bond issued pursuant to this section in substitution for a Bond alleged to
be mutilated, destroyed, stolen or lost shall constitute an original additional contractual
obligation on the part of the City, and shall be equally secured by and entitled to equal
proportionate bene?ts with all other Bonds of like tenor issued under this Resolution.

Section 308. Form of the UTGO Bonds. The UTGO Bonds shall be in substantially the
following form with such insertions, omissions, substitutions and other variations as shall not be
inconsistent with this Resolution or permitted by the Sale Order or as approved by an Authorized
Officer and Bond Counsel:

?16-

[Form of Bond]

United States of America
State of Michigan
County of Wayne

CITY OF DETROIT
UNLIMITED TAX GENERAL OBLIGATION BOND, SERIES 2018

 

Interest Maturity Date of
Rate Date [)riumal Issue CUSIP
1, _4 ,2018

Registered Owner:

Principal Amount: Dollars

The CITY OF DETROIT, County of Wayne, State of Michigan (the "City"),
acknowledges itself to owe and for value received hereby promises to pay to the Registered
Owner speci?ed above, or registered assigns, the Principal Amount Speci?ed above, in lawful
money of the United States of America, on the Maturity Date speci?ed above, unless prepaid
prior thereto as hereinafter provided, with interest thereon (computed on the basis of a 360?day
year consisting of twelve 30?day months) from the Date of Original Issue speci?ed above or
such later date to which interest has been paid, until paid, at the Interest Rate per annum
speci?ed above, ?rst payable on 1, 20_ and semiannually thereafter. Principal of
this bond is payable at the corporate trust of?ce of 

or such other transfer agent as the City may hereafter designate by notice
mailed to the registered owner not less than sixty (60) days prior to any interest payment date
(the ?Transfer Agent?). Interest on this bond is payable to the registered owner of record as of
the ?fteenth (15th) day of the month preceding the interest payment date as shown on the
registration books of the City kept by the Transfer Agent by check or draft mailed to the
registered owner of record at the registered address. For prompt payment of this bond, both
principal and interest, the full faith, credit and resources of the City are hereby irrevocably
pledged.

-17-

[This bond is one of a series of bonds aggregating the principal sum of
issued for the purpose of paying [a portion of the cost of acquiring,
constructing and installing improvements paying
capitalized interest] and paying costs incidental to the issuance of the bonds in pursuance of a
vote of the quali?ed electors of the City voting thereon at certain elections duly held on
November 2, 2004 and February 24, 2009.]

 

Bonds of this issue maturing in the years 20_ to inclusive, shall not be
subject to redemption prior to maturity. Bonds or portions of bonds of this issue in multiples of
$5,000 maturing in the year and thereafter shall be subject to redemption prior to
maturity, at the option of the City, in any order of maturity and by lot within any maturity, on
any date on or after 1, at par and accrued interest to the date ?xed for
redemption.

 

[Insert any term bond provisions, if applicable]

In case less than the full amount of an outstanding bond is called for redemption, the
Transfer Agent, upon presentation of the bond called in part for redemption, shall register,
authenticate and deliver to the registered owner of record a new bond in the principal amount of
the portion of the original bond not called for redemption.

Notice of redemption shall be given to the registered owner of any bond or portion
thereof called for redemption by mailing of such notice not less than thirty (30) days prior to the
date ?xed for redemption to the registered address of the registered owner of record. A bond or
portion thereof so called for redemption shall not bear interest after the date fixed for redemption
provided funds are on hand with the Transfer Agent to redeem said bond or portion thereof.

This bond is transferable only upon the registration books of the City kept by the Transfer
Agent by the registered owner of record in person, or by the registered owner?s attorney duly
authorized in writing, upon the surrender of this bond together with a written instrument of
transfer satisfactory to the Trans fer Agent duly executed by the registered owner or the registered
owner?s attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon a new registered bond or bonds in the
same aggregate principal amount and of the same maturity shall be issued to the transferee in
exchange therefor as provided in the resolution authorizing this bond and upon the payment of
the charges, if any, therein prescribed.

This bond, including the interest thereon, is payable out of the City?s Debt Retirement
Fund for this issue and the City is required to levy ad valorem taxes on all taxable property in the
City for the payment thereof, without limitation as to rate or amount.

It is hereby certi?ed and recited that all acts, conditions and things required by law to be
done, precedent to and in the issuance of this bond and the series of bonds of which this is one,
exist and have been done and performed in regular and due form and time as required by law,
and that the total indebtedness of the City, including this bond, does not exceed any
constitutional, statutory or charter debt limitation.

This bond is not valid or obligatory for any purpose until the Transfer Agent?s Certi?cate
of Authentication on this bond has been executed by the Transfer Agent.

-18-

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the City of Detroit by authority of its City Council, has
caused this bond to be signed for and on its behalf and in its name by the manual or facsimile
signature of the Mayor of the City and the manual or facsimile signature of its Finance Director
and the of?cial seal of the City to be impressed hereon, all as of the Date of Original Issue.

CITY OF DETROIT
County of Wayne
State of Michigan

By.

Its Mayor

(SEAL)

 

Its Finance Director

-19-

Certi?cate of Authentication

This bond is one of the bonds described in the within-mentioned resolution.

 

. Michigan
Trans fer Agent

B?v?

 

- Its: Authorized Signature

Date of Authentication: . 2018

 

Section 309. Form of Refunding Bonds. The Refunding Bonds shall be in substantially
the following form with such insertions, omissions, substitutions and other variations as shall not
be inconsistent with this Resolution or permitted by the Sale Order or as approved by an
Authorized Of?cer and Bond Counsel:

[Form of Refunding Bond]

BE REVISED IF REFUNDING BONDS NOT ISSUED TO 

United States of America

 

 

State of Michigan
County of Wayne
CITY OF DETROIT
FINANCIAL RECOVERY BOND
SERIES 20__

REGISTERED OWNER: 
PRINCIPAL AMOUNT: Dollars 
DATE OF ORIGINAL ISSUE: 20

The CITY OF DETROIT, County of Wayne, State of Michigan (the "City"), for value
received, hereby promises to pay to the Michigan Finance Authority (the or registered
assigns, the Principal Amount shown above, in lawful money of the United States of America,
unless prepaid prior thereto as hereinafter provided. Capitalized terms used herein, but not
de?ned herein, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the Resolution, as hereinafter

de?ned.

The Principal Amount shall be payable on the dates and in the annual principal
installment amounts set forth in Schedule A attached hereto and made a part hereof, or if a
portion of the Principal Amount is prepaid as provided below, with interest on said principal
installments from the [Date of Original Issue] shown above, until paid at the rate [of interest as
set forth on the attached Schedule [of percent per annum]. Interest is
?rst payable on 1, 20_, and semiannually thereafter on the ?rst day of
and of each year thereafter, and in the amounts, as set forth on Schedule A.

Notwithstanding any other provision of this bond, as long as the MFA is the owner of this
bond, this bond is payable as to principal, premium, if any, and interest at the corporate trust
of?ce of US. Bank National Association, Lansing, Michigan, or at such other place as shall be
designated in writing to the City by the MFA (the Depository?); the City agrees that
it will cause the Trustee to deposit with the MFA's Depository payments of the principal of,
premium, if any, and interest on this bond in immediately available funds at least ?ve business
days prior to the date on which any such payment is due, whether by maturity, redemption or
otherwise; and written notice of any redemption of this bond shall be given by the City and
received by the MFA's Depository at least 40 days prior to the date on which such redemption is
to be made.

Additional Interest

In the event of a default in the payment of principal or interest hereon when due, whether
at maturity, by redemption or otherwise, the amount of such default shall bear interest (the
"additional interest?) at a rate equal to the rate of interest which is two percent above the MFA's
cost of providing funds (as determined by the MFA) to make payment on the bonds of the MFA
issued to provide funds to purchase this bond, but in no event in excess of the maximum rate of
interest permitted by law. The additional interest shall continue to accrue until the MFA has
been fully reimbursed for all costs incurred by the MFA (as determined by the MFA) as a
consequence of the City's default. Such additional interest shall be payable on the interest
payment date following demand of the MFA. In the event that (for reasons other than the default
in the payment of any municipal obligation purchased by the MFA) the investment of amounts in
the reserve account established by the MFA for the bonds of the MFA issued to provide funds to
purchase this bond fails to provide sufficient available funds (together with any other funds
which may be made available for such purpose) to pay the interest on outstanding bonds of the
MFA issued to fund such account, the City shall and hereby agrees to pay on demand only the
City?s pro rata share (as determined by the MFA) of such deficiency as additional interest on this
bond.

This bond is a single, fully?registered, non-convertible bond in the principal sum of
issued pursuant to and in accordance with Act 80, Public Acts of Michigan, 1981, as
amended, and Act 279, Public Acts of Michigan, 1909, as amended, Act 227, Public Acts of
Michigan, 1985, as amended (?Act 227") and pursuant to and in accordance with a Resolution
duly adopted by the City Council of the City on . 2018 and a Sale Order of the
Authorized Officer of the City issued on (together, the ?Resolution?). The Bonds
are issued for the purpose of refunding [a portion of] the City?s outstanding Financial Recovery
Bonds, Series 

[Optional and/or Mandatory Redemption provisions, as applicable]

Security

This Bond is payable out of the City?s Debt Retirement Fund for this issue (which will be
held by the Trustee), and the City is obligated to levy annually ad valorem taxes to provide for
the payment of the principal of and interest on the bonds of this issue as they mature on all
taxable property in the City, subject to applicable constitutional, statutory and Charter tax rate
limitations.

[Additional Security provisions as applicable]

This bond is transferable only upon the registration books of the City by the Registered
Owner of record in person, or by the registered owner's attorney duly authorized in writing, upon
the surrender of this bond together with a written instrument of transfer satisfactory to the City
duly executed by the Registered Owner or the Registered Owner's attorney duly authorized in
writing, and thereupon a new registered bond or bonds in the same aggregate principal amount
and of the same maturity shall be issued to the transferee in exchange therefor as provided in the
resolution authorizing this bond and upon the payment of the charges, if any, therein prescribed.

It is hereby certi?ed and recited that all acts, conditions and things required by law to be
done, precedent to and in the issuance of this bond and the series of bonds of which this is one,
exist and have been done and performed in regular and due form and time as required by law,
and that the total indebtedness of the City, including this bond and the series of bonds of which
this is one, does not exceed any constitutional, statutory or charter debt limitation.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the City of Detroit by authority of its Mayor, has caused this
bond to be signed for and on its behalf and in its name by the manual or facsimile signature of
the Mayor of the City and the manual or facsimile signature of its Finance Director and the
of?cial seal of the City to be impressed hereon, all as of the Date of Original Issue.

CITY OF DETROIT
County of Wayne
State of Michigan

135?

 

Its Mayor
(SEAL)

By

 

Its Finance Director

SCHEDULE A

Debt Service Payment Schedule

Section 310. The Depository. Notwithstanding any other provision herein to the
contrary, as long as the MFA is the owner of the Refunding Bonds, the Refunding Bonds are
payable as to principal, premium, if any, and interest at the corporate trust of?ce of US. Bank
National Association, Detroit, Michigan, or such other quali?ed bank or ?nancial institution as
shall be designated in writing to the City by the MFA (the Depository?). The City will
deposit, or cause the Trustee, to deposit with the MFA's Depository payments of the principal of,
premium, if any, and interest on the Refunding Bonds in immediately available funds at least
?ve business days prior to the date on which any such payment is due whether by maturity,
redemption or otherwise. Written notice of any redemption of the Refunding Bonds shall be
given by the City and received by the MFA's Depository at least 40 days prior to the date on
which such redemption is to be made.

Section 311. Sale of Refunding Bonds to Underwriters or Direct Purchaser.
Notwithstanding the provisions of this Resolution setting forth the conditions and requirements
of a sale of the Refunding Bonds to the MFA, any series of Re?inding Bonds may, if deemed
appropriate by an Authorized Of?cer, be sold to the Underwriters pursuant to a bond purchase
agreement or (ii) a bank or other ?nancial institution quali?ed by law to purchase and take
delivery of such Refunding Bonds for its own investment, pursuant to a purchase contract, in
which case (A) such purchaser shall deliver an investor letter in a form acceptable to an
Authorized Of?cer and (B) the City?s obligations hereunder relating to the Preliminary Of?cial
Statement, Of?cial Statement and Undertaking shall not apply.

Section 312. Act 379 :Mmrovnls of the Refunding. Bonds. The Refunding Bonds shall
neither be issued nor delivered unless and only so long as the issuance of the Refunding Bonds
as provided herein shall have been authorized and approved by the Board and the State Treasurer
in accordance with Section 36a of Act 279.

ARTICLE IV
SPECIAL COVENANTS

Section 401. Tax Exemption Covenant for Tax?Exempt Bonds. The City covenants that
it will not take any action, or fail to take any action required to be taken, if taking such action or
failing to take such action would adversely affect the general exclusion from gross income of
interest on any Tax-Exempt Bonds, from federal income taxation under the Code.

Section 402. Arbitrage Covenant. The City will not directly or indirectly (1) use or
permit the use of any proceeds of any Tax-Exempt Bonds or other funds of the City or (2) take or
omit to take any action required by Section 148(a) of the Code in order to maintain the exclusion
from gross income of the interest on any Tax-Exempt Bonds for federal income tax purposes.
To that end, the City will comply with all requirements of Section 148 of the Code to the extent
applicable to the Bonds and the requirements set forth in the Non-Arbitrage and Tax Compliance
Certi?cate of the City.

Without limiting the generality of subsection above, the City agrees that there
shall be paid by the City from time to time all amounts, if any, required to be rebated to the

United States pursuant to Section 148(f) of the Code. This covenant shall survive payment in
full or defeasance of the Tax-Exempt Bonds.

Notwithstanding any provision of this Section, if the City obtains an opinion of
Bond Counsel to the effect that any action required under this Section is no longer required, or
that some further action is required, to maintain the exclusion from gross income of the interest
of any Tax-Exempt Bonds for federal income tax purposes pursuant to Section 103 of the Code,
the City may conclusively rely on such opinion in complying with the provisions hereof.

ARTICLE 
UTGO BONDS FUNDS AND DISPOSITION OF UTGO BOND
PROCEEDS

Section 501. Establishment of Accounts and 1" unds. The City hereby establishes and
creates the following special, separate and segregated accounts and funds which shall be held for
and on behalf of the City by a bank or banks or other ?nancial institution which an Authorized
Of?cer or City?s Deputy Chief Financial Of?cer-Treasurer designates as depository or trustee of
the City:

A. UTGO Debt Retirement Fund;
B. UTGO Bond Issuance Fund; and
C. Construction Fund.

Each Authorized Of?cer is hereby authorized to establish such accounts, subaccounts or
funds as shall be required for the UTGO Bonds, if any, to accommodate the requirements of such
series of UTGO Bonds, including, but not limited to, such accounts, subaccounts or funds
necessary to facilitate the allocation and use of bond proceeds to finance the Projects or the
purchase and payment of variable rate bonds. Each Authorized Of?cer is hereby authorized to
allocate any net original issue premium, if any, received upon the sale of the UTGO Bonds to
such accounts and in such amounts as permitted by applicable law and the Code.

Section 502. UTGO Debt Retirement Fund . From the proceeds of the sale of the UTGO
Bonds there shall be set aside in the UTGO Debt Retirement Fund the accrued interest, if any,
received from the purchasers of the UTGO Bonds at the time of delivery of the UTGO Bonds,
together with capitalized interest. Proceeds of all taxes levied pursuant to Section 301 hereof and
any amounts transferred from the Construction Fund under Section 504 hereof shall be used to
pay the principal of and interest on the UTGO Bonds when due. The foregoing amounts shall be
placed in the UTGO Debt Retirement Fund, and so long as the principal of or interest on the
UTGO Bonds shall remain unpaid, no moneys shall be Withdrawn from the UTGO Debt
Retirement Fund except to pay such principal and interest. Any amounts remaining in the
UTGO Debt Retirement Fund after payment in full of the UTGO Bonds shall be retained by the
City to be used for any lawful purpose.

 

Section 503. UTGO Bond Issuance Fund. From the proceeds of the UTGO Bonds there
shall be set aside in the Bond Issuance Fund a sum sufficient to pay the costs of issuance of the
UTGO Bonds. Moneys in the Bond Issuance Fund shall be used solely to pay expenses of
issuance of the related series of UTGO Bonds. Any amounts remaining in the Bond Issuance
Fund after payment of issuance expenses shall be transferred to the Construction Fund. The

-37-

UTGO Sale Order for each series of UTGO Bonds shall set forth the allocation of proceeds of
the UTGO Bonds set aside in the Bond Issuance Fund among the applicable 2004 Ballot
Proposals and 2009 Ballot Proposals.

Section 504. Fund. After making the deposits required by Sections 502
and 503, the proceeds of the UTGO Bonds shall be deposited into the Construction Fund in a
manner that provides for the tracking of the allocation of proceeds of the UTGO Bonds among
Ballot Proposals corresponding to the applicable Projects.

Except for investment pending disbursement and as hereinafter provided, moneys
in the Construction Fund shall be used by the City solely and only to pay the costs of the Projects
as such costs become due and payable, capitalized interest, if necessary, and, if necessary and
upon the advice of Bond Counsel, moneys in either Construction Fund shall be used by the City
to rebate arbitrage earnings earned on moneys deposited in the related Construction Fund, if any,
to the United States Department of Treasury as required by the Code.

Each Authorized Of?cer is hereby authorized to expend money from the
Construction Fund and the accounts thereof established hereunder, for costs of the related Voter
Authorized Purposes, including reimbursement to the City for moneys previously expended on
the Projects, to the extent reimbursement for such expenditures has been properly induced by
resolution of the City Council in accordance with the Code, if required.

Gross proceeds or disposition proceeds, as de?ned in the regulations under Code
Sections 141 and 148, respectively, resulting from any sale of any portion of the Projects
?nanced with the proceeds of Tax?Exempt Bonds shall be deposited in separate accounts
established in the Construction Fund and used in the discretion of an Authorized Of?cer to pay
additional costs of such Projects or transferred to the Debt Retirement Fund and used to pay the
principal of or interest on the Bonds. An Authorized Of?cer shall assure that such gross
proceeds or disposition proceeds are invested and expended in accordance with the requirements
speci?ed in Section 505 hereof and in the Non-Arbitrage and Tax Compliance Certi?cate.

Upon payment of all costs of the Projects, any balance in the Construction Fund
shall be transferred to the UTGO Debt Retirement Fund or used in any other manner which in
the opinion of nationally recognized bond counsel is permitted by law and which in the case of
such balance allocable to Tax-Exempt Bonds will not cause the interest on any Tax?Exempt
Bonds to become includible in gross income for federal income tax purposes.

Section 505. Investment of Monies in the UTGO Bonds Funds and Accounts. An
Authorized Of?cer shall direct the investment of monies on deposit in the Funds and Accounts
established hereunder.

Monies on deposit in the funds and accounts established under this Article may
be invested in such investments and to the extent permitted by applicable law.

ARTICLE VI
REFUNDING BONDS FUNDS AND DISPOSITION OF REFUNDING
BOND PROCEEDS

Section 601. Establishment of Accounts and Funds. Each Authorized Of?cer is
hereby authorized to establish such accounts, subaccounts or other funds as shall be required for
the Refunding Bonds, including but not limited to:

A. Refunding Bonds Debt Retirement Fund;
B. Refunding Bond Issuance Fund; and
C. Repurchase Escrow Fund.

Each Authorized Of?cer is hereby authorized to establish such accounts, subaccounts or
funds as shall be required for the repurchase of the Repurchased Bonds and the issuance and
delivery of the Refunding Bonds, if any, to accommodate the requirements of such series of
Refunding Bonds, including, but not limited to, such accounts, subaccounts or funds necessary to
facilitate the purchase and payment of variable rate bonds. Each Authorized Of?cer is hereby
authorized to allocate any net original issue premium, if any, received upon the sale of the
Refunding Bonds to such accounts and in such amounts as permitted by applicable law.

Section 602. Refunding Bands Debt Retirement Fund . From the proceeds ofthe sale of
the Refunding Bonds there shall be set aside in the Refunding Bonds Debt Retirement Fund the
accrued interest, if any, received from the purchaser of the Refunding Bonds at the time of sale
and delivery of the Refunding Bonds. Any general funds of the City and proceeds of all taxes
levied pursuant to Section 302 hereof deposited in the Refunding Bonds Debt Retirement Fund,
monies constituting Additional Security, and any amounts transferred from the Repurchase
Escrow Fund under Section 604 hereof shall be used to pay the principal of and interest on the
Refunding Bonds when due. The foregoing amounts shall be placed in the Debt Retirement
Fund and held in trust by the Trustee, and so long as the principal of or interest on the Bonds
shall remain unpaid, no moneys shall be withdrawn from the Debt Retirement Fund except to
pay such principal and interest. Any amounts remaining in the Debt Retirement Fund after
payment in full of the Refunding Bonds shall be retained by the City to be used for any lawful

purpose.

Section 603. Refundinu Bond Issuance Fund. From the proceeds of the Refunding
Bonds there shall be set aside in the Bond Issuance Fund a sum suf?cient to pay the costs of
issuance of the Refunding Bonds. Moneys in the Refunding Bond Issuance Fund shall be used
solely to pay expenses of issuance of the Refunding Bonds. Any amounts remaining in the
Refunding Bond Issuance Fund after payment of issuance expenses shall be transferred to the
Re?mding Bonds Debt Retirement Fund.

 

Section 604. Repurchase Escrow Fund. If the repurchase of the Repurchased Bonds
necessitates the establishment of an escrow fund, then after making the deposits required by
Sections 602 and 603, there shall be deposited from the remainder of the proceeds of the sale of
the Refunding Bonds and any moneys transferred by the City at the time of delivery of the Bonds
from the debt retirement funds for the Repurchased Bonds, into the Repurchase Escrow Fund
(which shall be maintained in cash or invested in direct obligations of or obligations guaranteed
by the United States of America, not redeemable at the option of the issuer), an amount, as

-39-

hereinafter described, suf?cient to pay the principal of and interest on the Repurchased Bonds as
they become due and, except as otherwise herein provided, shall be used only for such purposes.
The Repurchase Escrow Fund shall be irrevocably held by US. Bank National Association,
Detroit, Michigan as repurchase escrow trustee (the ?Repurchase Escrow Trustee?) in trust
pursuant to a repurchase escrow deposit agreement between the City and the Repurchase Escrow
Trustee (the ?Repurchase Escrow Agreement?), which Repurchase Escrow Agreement shall
irrevocably direct the Repurchase Escrow Trustee to take all necessary steps to pay the principal
of and interest on the Repurchased Bonds when due and to provide for the City?s repurchase of
the Repurchased Bonds in whole or in part, as and when speci?ed in the Repurchase Escrow
Agreement. The amounts, including the investments thereof, held in the Repurchase Escrow
Fund shall be such that the cash and investments and income received thereon will be suf?cient,
without any reinvestment, to pay the purchase price of the Repurchased Bonds as required by
this Section. Any balance remaining in the Repurchase Escrow Fund after payment in full of the
purchase price of the Repurchased Bonds shall be transferred to the Refunding Bonds Debt
Retirement Fund.

The Repurchase Escrow Trustee means and includes any company into which the
Repurchase Escrow Trustee may be merged or converted or with which it may be consolidated
or any company resulting from any merger, conversion or consolidation to which it shall be a
party or any company to which the Repurchase Escrow Trustee may sell or transfer all or
substantially all of its corporate trust business, provided such company shall be a trust company
or bank which is quali?ed to be a successor to the Repurchase Escrow Trustee as determined by
an Authorized Of?cer, shall be authorized by law to perform all the duties imposed upon it by
this Resolution, shall be the successor to the Repurchase Escrow Trustee without the execution
or ?ling of any paper or the performance of any further act, anything herein to the contrary
notwithstanding.

The Council hereby authorizes each Authorized Of?cer to approve the form of and to
execute the Repurchase Escrow Agreement with the Repurchase Escrow Trustee for and on
behalf of the City.

Section 605. Investment of Monies in the Refunding Bonds Funds and Accounts. An
Authorized Of?cer shall direct the investment of monies on deposit in the Funds and Accounts
established hereunder, and the Transfer Agent and the Repurchase Escrow Trustee, upon written
direction or upon oral direction con?rmed in writing an Authorized Of?cer, shall use
its best efforts to invest monies on deposit in the Funds and Accounts in accordance with such
direction.

Monies on deposit in the funds and accounts established under this Article VI
may be invested in such investments and to the extent permitted by applicable law.

ARTICLE VII
REPURCHASE OF THE PRIOR BONDS

Section 701. Method of Repurchase. Each Authorized Of?cer is hereby authorized to
effect the repurchase of the outstanding Prior Bonds by means of one or more tenders, direct or
indirect open market repurchases, exchanges of debt (including but not limited to exchanges
involving some or all of the Bonds), other means of repurchase or any combination of the



foregoing. The repurchase of the outstanding Prior Bonds may be accomplished using the
proceeds of the Refunding Bonds, funds on hand of the City, or both, in the discretion of an
Authorized Of?cer.

Section 702. Authorization to Enter into Repurchase Agreement; Approval of Initial
Repurchase Agent. In connection with the repurchase of all or any portion of the outstanding
Prior Bonds, the Mayor and Chief Financial Officer are authorized to enter into one or more
Repurchase Agreements with the Underwriters, which are hereby approved to serve collectively
as the Repurchase Agent under the Repurchase Agreement for the initial repurchase of the
Repurchased Bonds. Each Authorized Of?cer is to take all actions necessary to carry out the
obligations of the City thereunder. The authorization to enter into the Repurchase Agreement
and approval of the Repurchase Agreement shall not be construed to limit in any way the ability
of the City to enter into subsequent or contemporaneous agreements with other parties related to
the repurchase of any of the outstanding Prior Bonds.

Section 703. Authorization of Actions in Connection with Repurchase. Each Authorized
Officer is hereby authorized to approve and deliver any and all notices, solicitations and
disclosures (including but not limited to invitations to tender and related information statements),
(ii) negotiate, execute and deliver any and all agreements, ?le any and all documents with
state or federal agencies, (iv) seek any and all approvals and (iv) take all other actions necessary
or appropriate to accomplish the repurchase of the Repurchased Bonds as contemplated by this
Article VII.

ARTICLE 
DEFEASANCE

Section 801. Defeasnnee. Bonds shall be deemed to be paid in full upon the depos1t in
trust of cash or direct obligations of, or obligations the principal of and interest on which are
unconditionally guaranteed by, the United States of America, or any combination thereof, not
redeemable at the option of the issuer thereof, the principal and interest payments upon which,
without reinvestment thereof, will come due at such times and in such amounts, as to be fully
suf?cient to pay when due, the principal of such Bonds and interest to accrue thereon, as
con?rmed by a veri?cation report prepared by an independent certi?ed public accountant. Such
cash and securities representing such obligations shall be deposited with a bank or trust company
and held for the exclusive bene?t of the Owners of such Bonds. After such deposit, such Bonds
shall no longer be entitled to the bene?ts of this Resolution (except for any rights of transfer or
exchange of Bonds as therein or herein provided for) and shall be payable solely from the funds
deposited for such purpose and investment earnings, if any, thereon, and the lien of this
Resolution for the bene?t of such Bonds shall be discharged.

ARTICLE IX
REIMBURSEMENT PROVISIONS

Section 901. Advancement of Costs of the Projects. The City may advance certain costs
of the Projects from the City?s general fund prior to the issuance of the UTGO Bonds. The City
intends to reimburse itself for any costs of the Projects paid or incurred by the City prior to the
issuance of the UTGO Bonds with proceeds of the UTGO Bonds. The Internal Revenue Service
has issued Treasury Regulation Section 1.150?2 pursuant to the Code. governing proceeds of tax-

-31-

exempt bonds used for reimbursement, pursuant to which the City must declare official intent to
reimburse expenditures with bond proceeds as provided in Section 902 below.

Section 902. Reimbursement Declarations. The City makes the following declarations
for the purpose of complying with the reimbursement rules of Treas. Reg. Section 1.150-2
pursuant to the Code:

The City reasonably expects to reimburse itself with proceeds of the Bonds for
certain costs of the Projects which were paid or will be paid from funds of the City subsequent to
sixty (60) days prior to the date hereof.

The maximum principal amount of debt expected to be issued for the Projects,
including issuance costs, is $255,000,000.

A reimbursement allocation of the capital expenditures described above with the
proceeds of the UTGO Bonds will occur not later than 18 months after the later of the date on
which the expenditure is paid, or (ii) the date the Projects are placed in service or abandoned, but
in no event more than three (3) years after the original expenditure is paid. A reimbursement
allocation is an allocation in writing that evidences the City?s use of the proceeds of the Bonds to
reimburse the City for a capital expenditure made pursuant to this resolution.

ARTICLE 
OTHER PROVISIONS OF GENERAL APPLICATION

Section 1001. Credit Enhancement. There is hereby authorized to be obtained 21
Municipal Bond Insurance Policy or other credit enhancement or a combination thereof to secure
the payment of all or part of the Bonds, if, and provided that, it shall be determined by an
Authorized Officer that such cost of such Municipal Bond Insurance Policy or other credit
enhancement or a combination thereof is less than the interest rate savings therefrom or
otherwise that it is in the best interest of the City. In the event a commitment for a Municipal
Bond Insurance Policy is obtained or a commitment for other credit enhancement is obtained,
each Authorized Of?cer is hereby authorized to approve the terms, perform such acts and
execute such instruments that shall be required, necessary or desirable to effectuate the terms of
such commitment and the transactions described therein and in this Resolution and the Sale
Order provided that such terms are not materially adverse to the City.

Section 1002. Approval of Other Documents and Actions; Treasury Approval. The
Authorized Officers, the City Clerk and any other officers or employees of the City are hereby
authorized and directed on behalf of the City to take any and all other actions, perform any and
all acts and execute any and all documents that shall be required, necessary or desirable to
implement this Resolution, including amending the Fiscal Year 2018-2019 budget by decreasing
appropriation 20507 C0D Capital Projects 2019 by $13,099,618 and increasing appropriation
20253 Blight Remediation by $13,099,618 due to the fact that a portion of the Projects were
previously funded with appropriation 20507 COD Capital Projects 2019. The Bonds shall neither
be sold nor issued unless and only so long as the issuance of the Bonds as provided herein shall
have been authorized and approved in accordance with the applicable provisions of Act 34 and
Act 279.

Each Authorized Officer is hereby authorized to ?le applications with and to pay the
related fees, if any, to the Michigan Department of Treasury (the ?Department?) at his discretion
under Act 34 for an Order or Orders of Approval to issue all or a portion of the Bonds; to ?le
applications with the Department for a waiver of the refunding bonds savings requirement and a
waiver of the investment grade rating requirement; to enter into a supplement to or amendment
of that certain Debt Millage Deposit Escrow Agreement between itself and U.S. Bank National
Association, as escrow trustee, dated August 11, 2016, and to enter into one or more dealer-
manager agreements, remarketing agreements, indentures, letters of credit and reimbursement
agreements, agreements for the pledge and intercept of Distributable State Aid, and such waivers
or other Treasury approvals as necessary to implement the sale, delivery and security for the
Bonds, and as required by the Michigan Department of Treasury and Act 34. Each Authorized
Of?cer is hereby authorized to pay any post-closing ?ling fees required by Act 34 to the
Michigan Department of Treasury or other specified agency, as a cost of issuance or from other
legally available funds.

Section 1003. Continuing Disclosure Undertaking. The City shall enter into a continuing
disclosure undertaking pursuant to Rule 15c2-12 promulgated by the Securities and Exchange
Commission (the ?Rule?) for the bene?t of the holders and bene?cial owners of the Bonds (or, in
the case of the Refunding Bonds, holders and bene?cial owners of the MFA Bonds) as to which
the Rule is applicable, as more speci?cally set forth in Exhibit hereto (the ?Undertaking?);
provided, however, that the terms of the Undertaking are subject to completion and modi?cation
prior to delivery of the Bonds to such extent as an Authorized Of?cer shall deem necessary to
comply with law or market requirements of the Underwriters. Each Authorized Of?cer is hereby
authorized to execute and deliver the Undertaking after completion and modi?cation as provided
in this Resolution and the Sale Order.

Section 1004. Delegation to Authorized Of?cers. Prior to the sale date or dates for
the Bonds, an Authorized Of?cer shall cause the preparation and approve the form and
distribution of necessary City disclosure for any Preliminary Of?cial Statement or Official
Statement and other offering materials to be used in conjunction with the sale or offering of the
Bonds, and an Authorized Of?cer shall deem the City?s disclosure ??nal? for purposes of Rule
1502-12 of the Securities and Exchange Commission. An Authorized Officer shall also make
such information available to the Repurchase Agent for use in solicitation materials in
connection with the repurchase of the Repurchased Bonds.

Pursuant to the authority of Section 315(1)(d) of Act 34, each Authorized Of?cer
is hereby authorized to make the following determinations with respect to the Bonds within the
parameters of this Resolution: to determine the principal amounts of the Bonds to be issued on
a ?xed or variable interest rate basis and tax exempt or taxable basis, (ii) to determine the
interest rate provisions, tender and other requirements for Bonds issued on a variable rate basis;
to determine and allocate the amount of proceeds of the UTGO Bonds to the various
Projects; (iv) to negotiate the terms for the sale of the Bonds to the Underwriters or MFA, as
applicable; to cause the Preliminary Of?cial Statement and the ?nal Official Statement for
the Bonds to be prepared and circulated; (vi) to ?le an application or applications to the
Department for prior approval to issue the Bonds, to ?le an application with the Department for a
waiver of the refunding bonds savings requirement, to ?le an application with the Department
for a waiver of the ratings requirement and to make such other ?lings with and to pay any post

-33-

issuance fees to the Department as required by Act 34; (vii) to request approval from the
Treasurer of the State and the Emergency Loan Board established under Act 243, Public Acts of
Michigan, 1980, as amended; and to take such other actions and make such other
determinations as may be necessary to accomplish the sale and delivery of the Bonds and the
transactions contemplated by this Resolution, as shall be con?rmed in the Sale Order.

Each Authorized Of?cer is hereby authorized to do and perform any and all acts
and things with respect to the Bonds which are necessary and appropriate to carry into effect,
consistent with this Resolution, the authorizations therein and herein contained, including
without limitation, the securing of ratings by bond rating agencies, if cost effective, the
negotiation for and acquisition of bond insurance and/or other credit enhancement, if any, to
further secure the Bonds or any portions thereof, the acquisition of an irrevocable surety bond to
ful?ll the City?s obligation to fund any reserve account, the printing of the Bonds and the
incurring and paying of reasonable fees, costs and expenses incidental to the foregoing and other
costs of issuance of the Bonds including, but not limited to fees and expenses of bond counsel,
?nancial advisors, accountants and others, from Bond proceeds or other available funds, for and
on behalf of the City.

Except as otherwise provided herein, all determinations and decisions of an
Authorized Of?cer with respect to the issuance and sale of the Bonds as permitted or required by
this Resolution shall be con?rmed in a Sale Order or Sale Orders, and such con?rmations shall
constitute determinations that any conditions precedent to such determinations and decisions of
any Authorized Of?cer have been ful?lled.

Section 1005. .iumrmrina Legal Opinions with to the Bonds. Sale ofthe Bonds
shall be conditioned upon receiving, at the time of delivery, the approving opinion of Bond
Counsel, approving legality of the Bonds and, with respect to Bonds determined by an
Authorized Of?cer to be issued on a tax-exempt basis, the exclusion from gross income of the
interest paid thereon from federal and State income taxation only.

Section 1006. Negotiated Sale; Award. Pursuant to Section 309(1) of Act 34 the
Council determines to sell the Bonds at a negotiated sale. The UTGO Bonds shall be sold by
negotiated sale to the Underwriters pursuant to a Bond Purchase Agreement, at prices and on
terms and conditions provided in the Bond Purchase Agreement approved by an Authorized
Of?cer within the parameters established hereby, and con?rmed in the Sale Order. Except as
provided in Section 311, the Refunding Bonds shall be sold by negotiated sale to the MFA, all as
determined by an Authorized Of?cer in the applicable Purchase Contract, at prices and on terms
and conditions provided in the Purchase Contract approved by an Authorized Of?cer within the
parameters established hereby, and con?rmed in the Sale Order delivered in connection with
such series of Bonds.

The reasons for choosing a negotiated sale instead of a competitive sale include the belief
of Council based on recommendation of the Chief Financial Of?cer that a negotiated sale will
allow the Bonds to be offered to investors in the most efficient manner possible while also
allowing suf?cient ?exibility to adjust to market structuring and timing demands in order to
result in the lowest possible borrowing costs for the City.

-34-

Section 1007. Delivery of Bonds. Subject to the provisions of the Sale Order, each
Authorized Of?cer is hereby authorized to deliver the Bonds to the Underwriters or MFA, as
applicable, upon receiving the purchase price therefor in lawful money of the United States.

Section 1008. Of?cial Statement. Each Authorized Of?cer is hereby authorized to
execute the Of?cial Statement or other offering materials with respect to the Bonds in the form
approved by him with such changes as an Authorized Of?cer may authorize. Such Of?cial
Statement or other offering materials to be used in conjunction with the sale or offering of the
Bonds are hereby authorized to be printed and used by the Underwriters in connection with the
sale of the Bonds (or the MFA Bonds) to the public. Circulation of the Preliminary Of?cial
Statement, if any, or other preliminary offering materials by the Underwriters is hereby
approved.

Section 1009. Appointment of Bond Counsel: Engagement of Other Parties. The
appointment of the law ?rm of Miller, Can?eld, Paddock and Stone, P.L.C. of Detroit, Michigan,
as Bond Counsel for the Bonds is hereby rati?ed and con?rmed, notwithstanding the periodic
representation by Miller, Can?eld, Paddock and Stone, P.L.C., in unrelated matters of other
parties and potential parties to the issuance of the Bonds. The fees and expenses of Miller,
Can?eld, Paddock and Stone, P.L.C. as Bond Counsel and other accumulated bond related fees
and expenses shall be payable as a cost of issuance from proceeds of the Bonds or other available
funds in accordance with the letter of such ?rm on ?le with the City.

Each Authorized Of?cer is hereby authorized to engage other consultants, ?nancial
advisors, or other parties as he deems necessary and appropriate in connection with the sale,
issuance and delivery of the Bonds and to pay the fees and expenses thereof from the proceeds of
the Bonds or other available funds.

Section 1010. No Recourse Under Resolution. All covenants, agreements and
obligations of the City contained in this Resolution shall be deemed to be the covenants,
agreements and obligations of the City and not of any councilperson, member, of?cer or
employee of the City in his or her individual capacity, and no recourse shall be had for the
payment of the principal of or interest on the Bonds or for any claim based thereon or on this
Resolution against any councilperson, member, of?cer or employee of the City or any person
executing the Bonds in his or her of?cial individual capacity.

Section 1011. Severahilitv. If any one or more sections, clauses or provisions of this
Resolution shall be determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or ineffective
for any reason, such determination shall in no way affect the validity and effectiveness of the
remaining sections, clauses and provisions hereof.

Section 1012. Cover Page. Table of Cruiteuts and Article and Section Headings. The
cover page, table of contents and Article and Section headings hereof are solely for convenience
of reference and do not constitute a part of this Resolution, and none of them shall affect its
meaning, construction or effect.

 

Section 1013. Conflict. All resolutions or parts of resolutions or other proceedings of the
City in con?ict herewith shall be and the same hereby are repealed insofar as such con?ict exists.

-35-

Section 1014. GoverningI Law and Jurisdiction. This Resolution shall be govemed by
and construed in accordance with the laws of the State.

Section 1015. Resolution and Sale Order are a Contract. The provisions of this
Resolution and the Sale Order shall constitute a contract between the City, the Bondholders
(including in the case of MFA Bonds, the MFA), and the Bond Insurer, if any.

Section 1016. Effective Date. This Resolution shall take effect immediately upon its
adoption by the Council.

-36-

EXHIBIT A
PROJECTS
(Listed by applicable Ballot Proposals)

Recreation {leU4 Proposal R: 200?) Proposal 
I Improvements to catalytic parks, CIP parks, and soccer hubs
I Joe Louis Greenway completion
I Computer replacement at recreation centers
I Recreation center capital improvements
I Belle Isle water line replacement and improvement
I Charles H. Wright Museum roofreplacement
I Improvements to City golf courses
I Adams-Butzel Recreation Center
I Northwest Activities Center
I Heilmann Recreation Center
I Patton Recreation Center
I Williams Recreation Center
I Henderson Park
I Rouge Park Horse Stables
I Tindal Recreation Center - City share (partnered with Healthy Kidz, Inc.)
I Aretha Louise Franklin Amphitheatre and Park
I Studies for Riverside Henderson Marinas, St. Jean Boat Launch, Hart Plaza, Spirit Plaza
I Spirit Plaza improvements
I Library reading rooms at recreation centers

Public Sal'etv (2110?) Proposal 3}
I Public Safety vehicle purchase plan
I Health PC Replacements
I Police PC Replacements technology upgrades
I Fire PC Replacements
Relocation of Fire Apparatus garage
Fire facilities improvements energy efficiency upgrades
Inventory management system
Public Safety IT
I Police light duty vehicles
I Fire vehicles (light duty, apparatus, and EMS)
I Replace existing mobile clinic expand ?eet to 3
I New animal control trucks
I Teen pregnancy clinic
I Lease Elimination Plan Part 1 - 13335 Lyndon renovation
I Lease Elimination Plan Part 2 - 11631 Mt. Elliott renovation
I Construct new armory
I 20 Atwater renovations
I Grant match funds for camera expansion
I Expand RTCC to accommodate camera expansion
I Stand up two on east and west sides of City
I Bulletproof vest replacements
I Unmanned aerial vehicles

Economic Derelopmenl [211114 Proposal N: 291)!) Proposal 
I Land acquisition and preparation for future industrial development projects

Transportation Facilities Proposal T: 2009 Proposal T)
I Coolidge facility rebuild

A-l

EXHIBIT 
CONTINUING DISCLOSURE UNDERTAKING

This Continuing Disclosure Undertaking (the ??Undertaking?) is executed and delivered by
the City of Detroit, County of Wayne, State of Michigan (the ?City?) in connection with the issuance
of its (the ?Bonds?). The City covenants and agrees for the bene?t of the
Bondholders, as hereinafter de?ned, as follows:

Definitions. The following terms used herein shall have the following meanings:

?Audited Financial Statements" means the City?s audited ?nancial statements prepared by an
individual or ?rm of independent certi?ed public accountants as required by Act 2, Public Acts of
Michigan, 1968, as amended, which presently requires preparation in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles.

?Bondholders? shall mean the registered owner of any Bond or any person with the
power, directly or indirectly, to vote or consent with respect to, or to dispose of ownership of, any
Bond (including any person holding a Bond through a nominee, depository or other intermediary) or
treated as the owner of any Bond for federal income tax purposes.

?City" means the City of Detroit, County of Wayne, State of Michigan.

?Disclosure Representative? means the CFO of the City or his designee, or such other of?cer,
employee, or agent as the City shall designate from time to time in writing.

shall mean the Electronic Municipal Market Access System.
means the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board.

?Rule" means Rule 15c2?12 promulgated by the SEC pursuant to the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, as amended.

means the United States Securities and Exchange Commission.

?Unaudited Financial Statements? means the same as Audited Financial Statements, except
that they shall not have been audited by an individual or ?rm of independent certi?ed public
accountants. 

Continuing Disclosure. The City hereby agrees, in accordance with the provisions of
the Rule, to provide or cause to be provided to the MSRB through EMMA, on or before the last day
of the ninth (9th) month following the end of the ?scal year of the City, commencing with the ?scal
year ended June 30, 2018, in an electronic format as prescribed by the MSRB:

(1) Certain annual ?nancial information and operating data reasonably available to
the City in form and substance similar to the information appearing in the
sections or tables in the [Main Body and Appendix of the Of?cial
Statement relating to the Bonds as described below:

BE (INFORMED T0 HEADIN GS USED IN APPLICABLE OFFICIAL STA TEWIEN 

a. Historical Income Tax Rates;
b. Historical Income Tax Levies and Collections;

B-l

Historical Income Tax Revenue;

Revenues and Expenditures of the General Fund;
Distributable State Aid;

City of Detroit Two Year Budget Summary

State Equalized Valuations and Taxable Valuations;

Tax Rates and Levies;

Tax Levies and Collections;

Ten Largest Property Taxpayers;

Legal Debt Margins Subject to State Limitations;
Statement of Direct Tax-Supported and Revenue Indebtedness;
Direct Debt;

Annual City Contributions to the Retirement Systems; and
Largest Principal Employers.

SEW-?emit? rm 9-9

(2) The Audited Financial Statements. Provided, however, that if the Audited Financial
Statements are not available by the date speci?ed above, they shall be provided
when available and unaudited ?nancial statements will be ?led by such date and
the Audited Financial Statements will be ?led as soon as available.

(3) Such additional ?nancial information or operating data as may be determined by
the City and its advisors as desirable or necessary to comply with the Rule.

Such annual ?nancial information and operating data described above are expected to be
provided directly by the City or by speci?c reference to other documents available to the public through
EMMA or ?led with the SEC, including of?cial statements of debt issues of the City or related public
entities.

If the ?scal year of the City is changed, the City shall send notice of such change to the MSRB
through EMMA prior to the earlier of the ending date of the ?scal year prior to such change or the ending
date of the fiscal year as changed.

(0) Notice ofFailm?c r0 Disclose. The City agrees to provide or cause to be provided, in
a timely manner, to the MSRB through EMMA, notice of a failure by the City to provide the Annual
Financial Information with respect to the City described in subsection above on or prior to the
dates set forth in subsection above.

Occurrence ofEL'ents. The City agrees to provide or cause to be provided in a timely
manner to the MSRB through EMMA, notice of the occurrence of any of the following events listed
in of the Rule with respect to the Bonds, if applicable, if material (each a ?Material
Event?):

(1) principal and interest payment delinquencies;

(2) non?payment related defaults;

(3) unscheduled draws on debt service reserves re?ecting ?nancial dif?culties;
(4) unscheduled draws on credit enhancements re?ecting ?nancial dif?culties;
(5) substitution of credit or liquidity providers, or their failure to perform;

(6) adverse tax opinions or events affecting the tax-exempt status of the Bonds;
(7) modi?cations to rights of holders of the Bonds;

(8) Bond calls;

(9) defeasances;

(10) release, substitution, or sale of property securing repayment of the Bonds; and
(1 1) rating changes;

(12) bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership or similar event of the Issuer, which is
considered to occur when any of the following occur: the appointment of a
receiver, ?scal agent or similar officer for the Issuer in a proceeding under the
US. Bankruptcy Code or in any other proceeding under state or federal law in
which a court or govemmental authority has assumed jurisdiction over
substantially all of the assets or business of the Issuer, or if such jurisdiction has
been assumed by leaving the existing governing body and of?cials or of?cers in
possession but subject to the supervision and orders of a court or governmental
authority, or the entry of an order con?rming a plan of reorganization,
arrangement or liquidation by a court or govemmental authority having
supervision or jurisdiction over substantially all of the assets or business of the
Issuer;

(13) the consummation of a merger, consolidation, or acquisition involving the Issuer
or the sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Issuer, other than in the
ordinary course of business, the entry into a de?nitive agreement to undertake
such an action or the termination of a de?nitive agreement relating to any such
actions, other than pursuant to its terms, if material; and

(14) appointment of a successor or additional trustee or the change of name of a
trustee, if material.

BONDS ISSUED ON OR AFTER FEBRUARY27, 2019 ONLY, INSERT:

(15) incurrence of a ?nancial obligation of the issuer or obligated person, if material,
or agreement to covenants, events of default, remedies, priority rights, or other
similar terms of a ?nancial obligation of the issuer or obligated person, any of
which affect security holders, if material; and

(16) default, event of acceleration, termination event, modi?cation of terms, or other
similar events under the terms of the ?nancial obligation of the issuer or obligated
person, any of which re?ect ?nancial dif?culties]

Afateriality Determined Under Federal Securities Laws. The City agrees that its
determination of whether any event listed in subsection is material shall be made in accordance
with federal securities laws.

Termination QfReporting Obligation. The obligation of the City to provide Annual
Financial Information and notices of Material Events, as set forth above, shall be terminated if and
when the City no longer remains an ?obligated person? with respect to the Bonds within the meaning
of the Rule, including upon legal defeasance of all Bonds.

Bene?t ofBondholders. The City agrees that its undertaking pursuant to the Rule set
forth in this Section is intended to be for the bene?t of the Bondholders and shall be enforceable by
any Bondholder; provided that, the right to enforce the provisions of this Undertaking shall be
limited to a right to obtain speci?c enforcement of the City?s obligations hereunder and any failure
by the City to comply with the provisions of this Undertaking shall not constitute a default or an
event of default with reSpect to the Bonds or under the Resolution.

Amendments to the Undertaking. Amendments may be made in the speci?c types of
information provided or the format of the presentation of such information to the extent deemed

B-3

necessary or appropriate in the judgment of the Disclosure Representative on behalf of the City,
provided that the City agrees that any such amendment will be adopted procedurally and
substantively in a manner consistent with the Rule, including, any interpretations thereof by the SEC,
which, to the extent applicable, are incorporated herein by reference. Such interpretations currently
include the requirements that the amendment may only be made in connection with a change in
circumstances that arises from a change in legal requirements, change in law, or change in the
identity, nature, or status of the City or the type of activities conducted thereby, the undertaking,
as amended, would have complied with the requirements of the Rule at the time of the primary
offering of the Bonds, after taking into account any amendments or interpretations of the Rule, as
well as any change in circumstances, and the amendment does not materially impair the interests
of Bondholders, as determined by parties unaf?liated with the City (such as independent legal
counsel), but such interpretations may be changed in the future. If the accounting principles to be
followed by the City in preparing the Audited Financial Statements are modified, the Annual
Financial Information for the year in which the change is made shall present a comparison between
the financial statements as prepared on the prior basis and the statements as prepared on the new
basis, and otherwise shall comply with the requirements of the Rule, in order to provide information
to investors to enable them to evaluate the ability of the City to meet its obligations. A notice of the
change in accounting principles shall be sent to the MSRB through EMMA.

Additional Information. Nothing in this Undertaking shall be deemed to prevent the
City from disseminating any other information, using the means of dissemination set forth in this
Undertaking or any other means of communication, or including any other information in any Annual
Financial Information or notice of occurrence of a Material Event, in addition to that which is
required by this Undertaking.

Municipal Advisory Council ofthe ilficlzigmi. The City shall also file by electronic or
other means any information of notice required to be ?led with the MSRB through EMMA pursuant
to this Undertaking in a timely manner with the Municipal Advisory Council of Michigan.

Governing Law. This Undertaking shall be construed and interpreted in accordance
with the laws of the State of Michigan (the ?State"), and any suits and actions arising out of this
Undertaking shall be instituted in a court of competent jurisdiction in the State; provided, that to the
extent this Undertaking addresses matters of federal securities laws, including the Rule, this
Undertaking shall be construed in accordance with such federal securities laws and official
interpretations thereof.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the City has caused this Undertaking to be executed by its
authorized of?cer.

CITY OF DETROIT
County of Wayne
State of Michigan

By

 

Its

Dated:

 

33101007 I 022765-0023

Attachment II

Presentation to City Council on UTGO Financing and LTGO Debt
Restructuring

 

UTGO Financing
and Debt Restructuring

Office of the Chief Financiai Offiter

Cionditions Are Favorable for a Reintroductio of

3 D3etroit?s Credit to the Market lace

DETROIT

 

Improvbd3 City Credit Profile :1

 

I Positive credit trajectory (rating exceeds March 2012) Moderate supply In the municipal market coupled with
healthy demand

 

I City management has acted to improve finances

Credit spreads have compressed, particularly for

FY15 FY18 executed balanced budgets, FY19 lower rated credits

expected
a Investors continue to search for municipal bonds with

Strong fund balance yield

Gro'vIIing economy highlighted by large and tangible
and major philanthropic/business investment

 

  

. . an: Maw 

3 I

exitmaifrm ?33? 3? 3-133 '33" WWI ?34534?? 3.1.3.1

.- . 

 

e1 Authorization of $255 million of Unlimited Tax General Obligation Bonds 
Projects in first Issuance in 2018 total approximately $110 million

I Robust marketing program to reintroduce the credit

Consortium includes Goldman Sachs, Citi and Siebert
I Expect significant interest from investors

I Current estimated all-in borrowing costs of 5.50?6.00%

Office of the Chief Financial Officer

 

 

UTGO Financing Has Important Benefits

DETROIT 

 

- Citizens already provided authorization
Bonds to be issued under voter-authorized UTGO capacity from 2004, 2009

- Provide capital to make investments that help improve the quality of life for
Detroiters and spur the City?s economic growth

- Pay for projects othen/vise funded from the General Fund
Improve the City?s fund balance and free up money for other needs

- Demonstrate to the rating agencies that the City has access to the capital markets
Help set groundwork for further ratings improvement

Lay out the City?s long-term capital plan

Resulting debt millage consistent with historical amounts, no material increase




Office ofthe Chief Financial Officer

FY

CITY OF

DETROIT 

Pro Forma UTGO Debt Service ($000)

Outstanding
Debt Service

Series 201 8
Debt Service1

Future Series
Debt Service2

Total
Debt Service

 

2019

47,201

5,297

 

2020
2021

46,493
45,745

9,630
9,631

6,128

3102098
56A23
61,504

 

2022

37,595

9,632

11,144

 

2023

33,773

9,634

 

2024
2025

29,029
20,708

9,630
9,631

11.146

_11,147



58,372
54553

40306
4L486

 

2026

15,460

9,631

 

2027

15,457

9.634

 

2028

15,450

9,630

_11,145
11,145
11,143

36,236
36,236
36,223

 

2029

9.828

9,632

 

2030

9,824

9,631

11,147

_131147

 

2031
2032

9,826
9,829

9,631

11,147

 

9,634

11046

 

2033

9,825

9,630

11,146

30,608_
30,603
30,604

30,609

30,600

 

2034
2035
?2036
2037
3985

9,824
9,827
9,825

9,632
9,632
9,634
9,633
9,632

11,147
11,143
11,142
11,144
11,144

 

2039
2040

Note: Doiiars in thousands
Current estimate based on approximately $112 Series 2018 issuance

.11,147

11,146



30,603
30,602
30001
20;777
1x147 
11A46

$75,000

$60,000

$45,000

$30,000

$15,000

$0

 

O)




Aggregate UTGO Debt Service [Profile ($000)

0

C)


5390? 



C)







 






2 Assumed Series 2020 issuance of remaining authorized amount ($126 mil/ion project fund) based on 2018 tax-exempt interest rates

 

caste-e



'4


I

17302

9303

 

 

II Pro Forma Remaining Authorized UTGO Bonds
Preliminary Series 20181UTGO Bonds
I Outstanding Debt Servi?e

(DOC)

DOD


 


(V)





I

i






71-; :1

8803

V803

9803

9803

?803

 

 

CITY OF

DETROIT

 

The City?s annual General Fund debt service includes the following borrowings:
$245 million of Income tax bonds (LTGO)

$360 million of ist and 3rd Lien DSA bonds (LTGO)

$632 million of notes (LTGO)

- This excludes UTGO debt that does not impact the City?s General Fund budget
and $173 million of Public Lighting Authority (PLA) bonds

- Annual debt service spikes beginning in FY2025
- In addition, higher pension payments will commence in FY2024

- In October 2020, the City will need to begin budgeting for the debt service cliff in
the four-year plan covering FY 2022 FY 2025

- Restructuring debt that comes due over the next 10 to 15 years will create a
more manageable debt service profile as other liabilities are concurrently
increasing

Office of the Chief Financial Officer

 Qity?s Current_ __TGO Debt

 

CITY OF

pnnorr

General Fund Debt Service
in millions)

 

$120 I
$107.1 
$10413 $102.9 $102.0

$100

$21.0 $212
21.4
$88.1 $88.4 $88.7 $21.7 $213 $222
$83.1

$78.5
$80 $75.2 '51? $10.4 $10.4 $772 $78.0
1 . - $10.4 $10.4 $10.4

$543 $33.8 $33.9 $34.2 310-4 $10.4
$33.3

$60 $18.8

$133 $18.8

$24.0 .
s. $10.4 $10.4 $10.4 $10.4 $44.9
reev- - . $43.0
510:4 $39.2
$40 4 132:; $373 $35.4
$18.8 $18.8 $18.8 $13.8

$46.8

I . $33.5
$14.1
$55.9 $55.6 $54.3 $53.1

$51.8 $50.6 $49.3 $48.0 $46.3 $45.5

$20

$50-5 $48.7
$46.8 $44.9 $43.0 $41_1 $392 $373

. I $354
$25.3 $25.3 $25.3 $25.3 $25.3 $25.3



1

15334.B-Notes 1st Lien DSA ..3rd Lien DSA Exit Financing

+99

'95




0, 03
(LADEUCE. Oi {int-5 phi?i 


-- 



 

cm or
DETROIT 

 

- Approving and preparing for a restructuring transaction now would allow the City

to

execute on this strategy swiftly if conditions are right

- Potential benefits:

Generate economic savings

Address the debt cliff beginning in FY2025

Put the City in better position to absorb higher pension costs
Demonstrate continued management focus on long-term fiscal pressures

Set the stage for additional rating upgrades

- The City will make the decision to proceed only if it can meet its financial
goals

?21' 1, 
ILJch-e. Di {Hr} p-ill? Claim}! 

Attachment 

Presentation to City Council on Voter Authorization Categories, Bond
Authorization Available, Suggested Usage and Recommended Capital Projects by
Fiscal Years 2018-19 through 2022-23

 

Voter Authorization

Authorization Available

Suggested Usage

Remaining

 

Public Safety

104,714,819

103,484,819

1,230,000

 



97,000,000

69,310,628

27,689,372

 

Economic Development

26,072,161

26,072,161

 

Transportation

36,501,849

36,501,849

 

 

TOTAL

 

264,288,829

 

28,919,372

 

 

235,369,457

Recommended Projects by Fiscal Year

 

Voter Authorization

FY18-19

FY19-20

FY20-21



FY22-23

 

Public Safety

16,947,264

32,633,300

23,938,300

26,615,955

3,350,000

 



5,132,628

28,578,000

13,050,000

12,550,000

10,000,000

 

Economic Development

26,072,161

 

Transportation

18,000,000

18,501,849

 

 

EOTAL

 

 

48,152,053

 

61,211,300

54,988,300

 

 

57,667,804

13,350,000

 

 

First series

Page 1 of 3

109,353,353 

Second Series

125,006,104 

 

 

Authorization

Departmen?s)

Project

FY18-19

FY19-20

FY20-21

FY21-22

FY22-23

5 Year Total

 

Public Safety

Police 81 Fire

Public Safety vehicle purchase plan

8,000,000

8,000,000

 

Public Safety

Health

Health PC Replacements

80.464

80,464

 

Public Safety

Police

Police PC Replacements 8: technology upgrades

2,196,526

2,196,526

 

Public Safety

Fire

Fire PC Replacements

390.000

390.000

 

Public Safety

Fire

Relocation of Fire Apparatus garage

4,712,655

3.000.000

7,712,655

 

Public Safety

Fire

Fire facilities repairs 8r energy efficiency upgrades

3,675,000

3,000,000

3,000,000

9,675,000

 

Public Safety

Fire

Inventory management system

1.500.000

1.500.000

 

Public Safety

DolT

Public Safety IT

2,565,274

4,380,800

4,080,800

4,080,800

15,107,674

 

 

Public Safety

Police

Police light duty vehicles

7.400.000

6,425,000

6,650,000

20,475,000

 

Public Safely

Fire

Fire vehicles (light duty, apparatus, and EMS)

7,562,500

6,717,500

6,267,500

20,547,500

 

Public Safety

Heahh

Replace existing mobile clinic expand fleet to 3

300.000

600,000

900,000

 

Public Safety

Health

New animal control trucks

165.000

165,000

165,000

55.000

550.000

 

Public Safety

Heanh

Teen pregnancy clinic

1.000.000

1.000.000

 

Public Safety

Police

Lease Elimination Plan Part 1 - 13335 Lyndon renovation

2,000,000

1,500,000

3,500,000

 

- Public Safety

Police

Lease Elimination Plan Part 2 - 11631 Mt. Elliott renovation

2.000.000

1.700.000

3.700.000

 

Public Safety

Police

Construct new armory

500,000

500.000

 

Public Safety

Police

20 Atwate renovatio ns

800.000

800.000

 

Public Safety

Police

Grant match funds for camera expansion

1.100.000

1.100.000

 

Public Safety

Police

Expand RTCC to accommodate camera expansion

2.000.000

2.000.000

 

Public Safety

Police

Stand up two on east and west sides of City

2,000,000

2,000,000

 

Public Safety

Police

Bulletproof vest replacements

350,000

350.000

350.000

350.000

1.400.000

 

Public Safety

Police

Unmanned aerial vehicles

350.000

350.000

 

Economic Dev

PDD

Land preparation for future industrial development projects

26,072,161

26,072,161

 

Recreation

650

Improvements to catalytic parks, parks, and soccer hubs

700,000

8,400,000

8,300,000

17,400,000

 

Recreation

PDD

Joe Louis Greenway completion

10,000,000

10,000.000

20,000,000

 

Recreation

DolT 8i GSD

Computer replacement at recreation centers

246,528

246,528

 

Recreation

650

Recreation center capital improvements

1,686,100

1,686,100

 

Recreation

GSD

Belle Isle water line replacement and repair

500.000

500.000

 

 

Recreation

Charles H. Wright

Charles H. Wright Museum roof replacement

1,000,000

700,000

1,700,000

 

Recreation

(350

improvements to City golf courses

2,000,000

2,000,000

4,000,000

 

lRecreation

GSD

Adams-Butzel Recreation Center

3.450.000

3.450.000

 

[Recreation

GSD

Northwest Activities Center

3,750,000

3,750,000

 

!Recreation

GSD

Heilmann Recreation Center

1,000,000

2,000,000

3,000,000

 

IRecreation

GSD

Patton Recreation Center

750.000

750.000

 

lRecreation

650

Williams Recreation Center

2,550,000

2.550.000

 

Recreation

650

Henderson Park

2,250,000

2,250,000

 

Recreation

650

Rouge Park Horse Stables

190.000

190.000

 

I Recreation

650

Tindal Recreation Center City share (partnered with Healthy Kidz, Inc.)

338.000

338.000

 

[Recreation

650

Aretha Louise Franklin Amphitheatre and Park

1,000,000

4,000,000

5,000,000

 

Recreation

GSD

Studies for Riverside 8L Henderson Marinas. St. Jean Boat Launch, Hart Plaza. Spirit Plaza

1,000,000

1,000,000

 

Recreation

650

Spirit Plaza improvements

1,000,000

1.000.000

 

Recreation

 

GSD

Library readiiE rooms at recreation centers

500,000

500,000

 

 Transportation

 

DDOT

 

Coolidge facility rebuild

 

 

 

18,000,000

 

18,501,849

 

36,501,849

 

 

 

Authorization Remaining

BaHotLanguage

 

Public Safety (2004)

32,714,819

"for the purpose of paying the cost of acquisition, construction, renovation, or rehabilitation of public safety
projects relating to Police (including projects required by the Department ofJustice Consent Decree), Fire,
Emergency Medica: Services (EMS), and Health facilities"

 

Public Safety (2009)

72,000,000

"for the purpose of paying the cost of acquisition, construction, renovation, or rehabilitation of public safety
projects relating to, Police, Fire, Emergency Medical Services (EMS), Health facilities and other municipal
facilities public safety improvements"

 

Mus/Lib/Rec/Other (2009)

97,000,000

?for the purpose of paying the cost of acquisition, construction, renovation, or rehabilitation of City of Detroit
Museums, Detroit Public Library Facilities, Recreation, and other Cultural facilities"

 

Econ Dev (2004)

1,072,161

"for the purpose of paying the cost of improvements to various neighborhood redevelopment and housing
rehabilitation programs, and for economic development projects"

 

Econ Dev (2009)

25,000,000

"for the purpose of paying the cost of improvements to various neighborhood redevelopment and housing
rehabilitation projects, and for economic development projects"

 

Transportation (2004)

24,501,849

"for the purpose of paying the cost of acquisition, construction, renovation, or rehabilitation of
Detroit transportation facilities, and the procurement of vehicles?

 

 

 

Transportation (2009)

12,000,000

 

"for the purpose of paying the cost of acquisition, construction, renovation, or rehabilitation of
Detroit transportation facilities"

 

 

Attachment IV

Questions Regarding the Proposed UTGO Bond Sale and LTGO Refunding
Bond Sale

October 15, 2018

Questions from the Legislative Policy Division on the Upcoming Bond Issuance

The OCFO responses are below and are noted in bold and red.

Questions on the proposed new money bonds:

About two years ago Council approved the re-appropriating of $50 million in old general
obligation bond dollars for capital projects. Have all of these bond dollars been spent or
programmed to be spent? If not, could any of the remaining dollars be used to fund any of the
capital projects on the list of capital projects that would be funded by the proceeds from the
proposed $255 million unlimited tax general obligation bond sale? Yes, all of the $50m
in old GO bond dollars for capital projects has been spent or programmed to be spent.

If available, please provide a list of capital projects that have been funded from the re-
appropriating of $50 million in old general obligation bonds for capital projects. The question here
is if recent capital projects have been funded from these dollars, or will be funded by these dollars,
is there still a need do some ofthe capital projects on the list of capital projects that are projected
to be funded from the proposed $255 million UTGO bond sale proceeds? Attached is a list of
capital projects that have been funded from the $50m. There is no overlap with the projects
being proposed for the new UTGO bond sale.

The City has spent almost $233 million in exit financing/quality of life (QOL) dollars (LPD
understands there?s only about $5 million remaining in unspent QOL dollars) on various capital
projects. Similarly to the previous question, if recent capital projects have been funded from QOL
dollars, is there still a need do some of the capital projects on the list of capital projects that are
projected to be funded from the proposed $255 million UTGO bond sale proceeds? The list of
projects being proposed for the new UTGO bond sale does not overlap. For instance, QOL dollars
were used to purchase police scout cars. Yet, on the list of capital projects that would be funded
from the proposed $255 million UTGO bond sale proceeds, $8 million would be allocated to a
public safety vehicle purchase plan. Does the City really need to spend $8 million on this plan
when police scout cars were purchased within the last four years using QOL dollars? Has the life-
cycle on the police scout cars purchased from QOL dollars already has ended, or is about to end?
Of course, this scenario could be used for various types of capital projects. Yes, the City needs to
spend approximately $8m per year on public safety vehicles in order to meet a replacement
cycle that is consistent with best practices.

What process did the Administration use to determine the real need for the capital projects that
are on the list of capital projects that would be funded from the proposed $255 million UTGO

 

1 Unlimited tax general obligation (UTGO) bonds are voter-authorized bonds paid off from property taxes based on
the City of Detroit?s property tax debt millage.

bond sale proceeds? Were agencies interviewed? Which steering committees were used in this
process? Is there a matrix available showing capital projects that were recently funded by old
general obligation dollars, QOL dollars, and the need for the capital projects on the list of capital
projects that would be funded from the proposed $255 million UTGO bond sale proceeds? All of
the projects first had to align with the voter approved purposes. The Administration used a
thorough process to recommend projects for the UTGO bond resolution. This included
collaboration among the OCFO, Operations, GSD, DBA, Public Safety, JET, Planning and
other operating departments. The Administration looked at a number of factors to determine
the need for funding through the UTGO bond authorization:

0 Facilities ranked for highest need improvement/repair by both the operating
departments, GSD and DBA.

0 Crime reduction initiatives that require capital investment

0 Opportunities to leverage significant outside investment and provide a transformative
impact on neighborhoods such as park projects.

0 Economic development and jobs for Detroiters.

a Return on investment opportunities such as the lease consolidations or reduction of
energy use.

0 Improvements to cultural facilities serving Detroiters.

The facilities steering committee reviewed and approved the final list of facilities projects. The
Vehicle Steering Committee has developed the FY19 vehicle replacement list and will continue
to review prioritization.

Will the upcoming Capital Agenda assume this new money UTGO bond sale? Yes.

The proposed new money UTGO bond sale is not to exceed $255 million. It is anticipated that the
actual usage would be $235.4 million, leaving almost $20 million for bond issuance cost. This
seems excessive, please explain. Specifically, what are the anticipated issuance costs (for 
legal, underwriters, bond insurance, auditing) for the proposed new money UTGO borrowing?
The approximate $20 million difference is not intended to be just bond issuance costs. It is also
intended to provide a cushion which may also be applied to capitalized interest or original issue
discount, if appropriate, when selling the bonds. The estimated bond issuance costs are
provided below for the initial offerings:

New Money Tender/Restructuring
- Man'gt Fee bond bond
- Avg. Takedown $5.04/51000 Bond $4.25/51000 Bond
- Syndicate expenses $1.3lS/B0nd $0.182/1000 Bond
- Tender-Manager Fee - 0 - Bond
- Bond Counsel Fees $204,000 $261,000
- Financial Advisor $126,500 $270,000

- Ofthe $235.4 million of actual usage from the proposed new money UTGO bond sale, a first series
ofS109.4 million in bonds would be issued in 2018 and a second series ofS126.0 million in bonds
would be issued at a later date. LPD does not recall a bond resolution authorizing the Finance
Director to issue bonds a multiple amount of times without having to come back to Council for
approval. If it is anticipated that the second series would not be issued until a later date, like a
year later, then the second series should come to Council under a separate bond resolution.
Please explain. Municipalities frequently authorize multiple series of bond under a single bond
resolution, particularly when there is a known set of projects to be financed over a period of
years, identified sources of voter authorization, and a basic set of economic parameters
established at the outset. In this case, the bonds authorized under this resolution are essentially
a single financing, layered over a period of years and is a component of the City?s overall capital
plan. This approach is also done to ensure that the City has adequate funding to finish projects
it starts and so the City can, at closing of any series of bonds, certify that it intends to spend
85% of the proceeds within three years of issuance (a Federal tax requirement).

- Has the Administration/OCFO explore alternative sources of funding for some of the capital
projects that are a part ofthe list of capital projects that would be funded by proceeds from the
proposed new money UTGO bond sale? For instance, couldn?t insurance proceeds from the fire
insurance associated with the Coolidge facility be used for the rebuild of that facility and reduce
some of the anticipated $36 million capital cost for the rebuild project? Yes, the Administration
has explored alternative funding sources and the insurance proceeds are insufficient to cover
the full costs. The proceeds from the new bond sale will cover the funding gap for the Cooledge
facility.

- In September 2017, a Bond Buyer article indicated ?In its bankruptcy plan of adjustment the city
did not assume the need for market access in a traditional and predictable way, without added
security layers, for at least ten years. That assessment remains the same as the city approaches
the third anniversary of its exit from Chapter The article quotes John Naglick saying:
?Everything that we have been able to do since exiting bankruptcy has an attached revenue
stream to it. You secure it and bond lawyers agonize over how that will be protected in the unlikely
event of another bankruptcy because everyone has to ask the question now. Then there is a
strong intercept mechanism that goes to a trustee like U.S. Bank where the bondholders now
know this is absolutely secure."2

Remarkably, in June 2018, a Bond Buyer article indicated ?With Detroit?s budget solidly in the
black, its exit from state oversight complete, and a funding plan in place to tackle a looming hike
in pension contributions, Detroit is beginning to a return to the bond market on its own.
?Achieving bond market access without the support of state aid or some other mechanism is the
next big step for the junk-rated city to signal it has come full circle from its historic 2013 Chapter

 

Bond Buyer article entitled ?Why Detroit still can?t access the bond market as a standalone borrower", by Nora
Colomer, dated September 26, 2017.

9 bankruptcy filing? said the city?s chief deputy chief financial officer and finance director, John
Naglick, Jr.?3 (Emphasis added)

The June 2018 Bond Buyer article continues, ?When the city exited bankruptcy in late 2014 it had
the cash needed for capital projects from its exit financing, grant dollars, and other secured
sources to show the rating agencies it could fund capital needs, 'but the day has to come in the
not-to-distant future where we bond for capital like any other normal government,? Naglick said
in an interview after a panel discussion at The Bond Buyer?s Midwest Municipal Market
Conference last week?.4 (Emphasis added)

The June 2018 Bond Buyer article continues, "Market access on its own is eventually needed to
relieve pressure on the general fund which will be relied on to cover higher pension contributions
which begin in 2024 and a $25 million spike in debt service in 2025. ?If we can't bond for capital
it?s going to be a drag on the general fund because obviously in the future the general fund is
going to have to cover existing debt and pension contributions,? Naglick said. 'We need to get
back to bonding for capital.?5 (Emphasis added)

Lastly, the June 2018 continues, "?As Chicago Public Schools' recent sale showed, there is an
appetite out there for yield even if it means buying debt that you are well aware is speculative
in nature and carries public ratings well outside of investment grade territory,? said Tom
Schuette, a partner at Gurtin Municipal Bond Management. think investors who jump in on any
future Detroit bonds that don?t carry some sort of state intercept mechanism need to do so with
eyes wide open about the risks that those bonds carry absent a broad economic and demographic
recovery for the city.?CPS carries three junk ratings but saw strong demand in a $560 million May
deal.?6 (Emphasis added)

LPD also recognizes the conundrum the City faces: the need to set aside from surpluses monies
into the Retiree Protection Trust Fund when those monies could be used for reinvestment and
service improvement for the City. in addition, as future surplus dollars shrink, the City?s ability to
fund one-time capital spending with these dollars may also lessen.

The Office of the Chief Finance Officer (OCFO) presented a document to LPD entitled ?Conditions
Are Favorable for a Reintroduction of Detroit?s Credit to the Marketplace?, which echo many of
the comments in the June 2018 Bond Buyer article referenced previously. Based on this
document, LPD raises the following questions on the City?s return to the bond market on its own:

1. Why do rating agencies frown upon a City?s inability to issue new money UTGO bonds for
capital purposes? Not borrowing for capital is viewed as a sign of weakness and given the
amount of capital needs that most Cities have, depending solely on budget surplus or fund

 

3 Bond Buyer article entitled ?How a bond market return would seal Detroit?s comeback?, by Nora Colomer, dated
June 26,2018.

4 Ibid
5 Ibid
5 lbid

balance is not a viable long-term strategy and potentially compromises the budget process.
In addition, rating agencies are concerned that in a future recession, City revenues could
drop and deferring capital spending has long term negative consequences.

The OCFO feels the following ?Strong Market Conditions? warrant the City?s return to the
bond market: 1) moderate supply in the municipal market coupled with healthy demand; 2)
credit spreads have compressed, particularly for lower rated credits; and 3) investors continue
to search for municipal bonds with yield. Although LPD is fairly convinced it is now the time
for the City to reenter the bond market given the size ofthe potential capital projects that is
needed, we would appreciate the City?s bond counsel and/or financial advisors elaborating
some more on the three previous points. The recommendation takes into
consideration advice from the City?s Financial Advisor and the Underwriters; it is not Bond
Counsel?s role to provide market advice. Although the credit markets have seen a rise in
interest rates amid the general market volatility, the market still remains attractive for the
City to access. 2018 has seen strong demand amid lower supply especially in the higher
yielding markets (which the City?s UTGO would be accessing). The City?s credit
fundamentals have improved markedly since the exit from bankruptcy, providing a strong
base from which to re-launch into the public markets. Knowing that the 10 year Plan of
Adjustment period hasn?t ended yet, and the fact that the Plan of Adjustment excludes new
money bonds for capital improvements, LPD wonders if the City would pay an exorbitant
interest rate on any new money UTGO bonds at this time. The document presented to LPD
shows the City could pay 5.50 to 6.00% on the proposed new money UTGO bonds-is that
considered an excessive interest rate range at this time in the market? The OCFO would like
to correct one point made by LPD ?the document presented to LPD shows the City presently
would pay 5.50 to 6.00% on the proposed new money UTGO bond. This rate range would
not be considered excessive given the nature of the proposed UTGO offering (non-
investment grade ratings and first unenhanced offering post-bankruptcy). The interest rate
that the City will pay on these bonds will be determined on the day of pricing and will
depend on the overall investor demand for the bonds. The current [30-year] MMD
(municipal market data) long term interest rate was 3.41% last week. Given that the
City is not rated the City will have to pay a significant spread above this rate. In
addition, LPD should also note that the Plan of Adjustment assumed much lower pension
contributions starting in FY2024. As a result, the City has had to fund pensions via the RPF
now in order to prepare for pension contributions beginning in FY2024 that were higher
than the Plan of Adjustment assumed. The City would have had more available funding for
capital projects if the pension contributions were not higher than what the Plan of
Adjustment assumed.

Would the interest rate associated with the new money UTGO bonds be a fixed interest rate?
Would the interest be tax-exempt? Why would it be advantageous to sell the new money
UTGO bonds on a tax exempt basis as a way to make them more marketable/attractive to
bond investors? The interest will be fixed and issued on a tax-exempt basis. Selling taxable
bonds would be costly to the City and, currently, it more economical for the City to use fund
balance for projects that would be considered taxable.

Why would a robust marketing program to reintroduce the City?s credit to the bond market,
led by a consortium including Goldman Sachs, Citi and Siebert (Goldman Sachs Co. LLC,
Citigroup Global Markets Inc., and Siebert Cisneros Shank Co. LLC, defined as the City?s
?underwriters? in the proposed bond resolution) be necessary to issue the new money UTGO
bonds? Being the City?s first foray back into the public markets on an unenhanced basis
since bankruptcy and the first unenhanced GO in a decade, a proactive marketing plan to
tell the City?s story will be important to attract the broadest interest from the investor
community. Having multiple firms market its bonds, the City?s goal is to have an expanded
outreach to municipal bond investors that are both familiar and unfamiliar with the City
since bankruptcy. For a transaction of this type, it is conventional to have more than one
firm to ensure that the City reaches the greatest possible number of potential interested
investors including conventional investor types as well as those who may view the City as
an attractive way to meet their investment goals. The overall goal is to be oversubscribed
by obtaining more orders for the bonds than we have available to sell, thereby minimizing
the potential cost of the debt.

Why do the financial advisors expect significant interest from investors on the
City?s new money UTGO bond deal? See responses above. In addition, the City?s financial
progress since bankruptcy has generated a lot of positive interest across the financial sector.

Is the City currently able to access the bond markets on its own without help from the
Michigan Financing Authority Yes.

Would there be a state intercept feature to make the new money UTGO bonds more
attractive to investors? A state intercept is not envisioned. Since the debt service on the
UTGO bonds will come from the dedicated debt millage collected by the City, those funds
are required by law to be sequestered and only used to pay the debt service on the UTGO
bond.

Will a security interest to ensure debt payment such as revenue sharing be necessary for the
issuance of the new money UTGO bonds? No, this is not anticipated. If so what is the
anticipated security source income tax)?

The debt service (principal and interest) payments associated with the new money UTGO
bonds would be paid from property taxes based on the property tax debt millage and
therefore will not impact the City?s general fund. OCFO informed LPD that the issuance ofthe
first and second series of these bonds would raise the debt millage from the 7 mills to
approximately 9 mills. Specifically, LPD understands The City?s debt millage rate was 9.5 mills
in 2016; 8.24 mills in 2017; and 7 mills for 2018. The debt millage rate is expected to be back
up to 9.5 mills with the new borrowing. The OCFO would like to maintain UTGO borrowing
and the debt millage rate at around 9.5 mills. The City of Detroit citizen?s have already voted
to authorize the types of projects the City can issue this debt for. In addition, issuing debt is
a result of a City?s capital needs, not a desire to impose a certain debt millage rate. The

OCFO conveyed to LPD that, as a result of a City?s regular issuance for its capital needs, the
level of debt mills usually stays fairly constant. What impact would the increase in debt mills
to 9.5 mills would have on the average homeowner in the City of Detroit? The City?s debt
millage was 9.5 mills in 2016 and as a result of the City?s debt restructuring approved by
City Council, the City was able to lower the debt millage. One mill equates to $1 of tax for
each $1,000 in taxable value of the property owned by the homeowner. So, a home with
$40,000 in assessed value would result in a taxable value of $20,000. A debt millage of 9.5
mills would increase the homeowners? annual tax bill by approximately $50.00.

10. Will the City have to pay a premium to UTGO debt, which results in less dollars for capital
projects? The City expects to pay a spread over the interest rate an rated obligation
would yield - this is already factored into our analysis of the amount that will be available
for capital projects. The higher level of interest rates (above the rates) does not
reduce the amount of bond proceeds available for capital projects; but does, of course,
increase the annual debt service costs.

11. Would a credit enhancement (such as letters of credit, bond insurance, cash or bond funded
reserves, or other public or private credit enhancements) be used to improve the
marketability of the new money UTGO bond sale? No.

12. If Council approves the new money UTGO bond sale, will the OCFO present to Council a
budget amendment to appropriate the bonds in the City?s FY 2019 budget and show the
impact on the four-year financial plan? The Resolution itself serves this purpose.

LPD understands that if Council approves the new money UTGO bond sale, the City in
connection with the bond sales will amend the FY 2019 budget to move approximately $13.1
million from appropriation 20507 (Capital Projects) to appropriation 20253 (Blight
remediation). Please explain the need to move more money for blight remediation. Would
this money be used for blight remediation in addition to Detroit Land Bank Authority (DLBA)
blight remediation projects? The Demo team has successfully increased the rate at which
they are demolishing residential and commercial buildings. At their current rate, the
Administration projects that the City will commit the remaining Hardest Hit Fund dollars in
2019. While that will be a significant accomplishment, the City will still have residential and
commercial structures in need of demolition. The City will need to continue to invest its
own resources in demolition at an increasing rate to continue to meet the residents? needs.
Would this money be used for both residential and commercial blight remediation? Yes, both
commercial and residential.

0 What is the projected amount of surplus the City could use for upcoming capital/infrastructure
projects? Consistent with years past, the amount that could be used for capital projects will be

determined after the City?s audit is complete and during the budget development process.

Questions on the proposed refunding (refinancing) bonds:

 The OCFO proposes to issue a refunding bond not to exceed $500 million to look at opportunities
to repurchase or refinance a portion of the outstanding City limited tax general obligation (LTGO)
bonds.7 Specifically, there are $245 million in outstanding exit financing income tax bonds (LTGO),
$360 million in outstanding 1St and 3rd lien distributable state aid (DSA) bonds (LTGO) and $632
million in outstanding notes (LTGO) that could be partially repurchased or refinanced to achieve
interest savings or restructure the repayment streams. Since the annual debt service on the LTGO
bonds spikes in FY 2025, what are some strategies the OCFO will explore to reduce this spike
through the refunding bonds? The first part of the strategy will be to repurchase bonds from
their current owners at a price attractive to the City that would generate savings. The second
part of the strategy is to then finance the required amount of'money to repurchase the bond
via a new LTGO debt issue secured by Distributable State Aid (DSA), to obtain the lowest interest
rate possible. The City?s DSA backed debt is rated as investment grade by both Moody?s and
The City will apply savings in a manner that reduces this spike.

- According to CFO directive No. 2018?101-007 entitled ?Debt Issuance and Management? (Debt
Policy), the aggregate new present value savings (on a refunding bond issuance) should achieve a
level of 3% or above. The Debt Policy also indicates the CFO will consider a refunding only when
one or more of the following considerations are met: 1) lower interest rates resulting in debt
service cost savings; eliminate restrictive or burdensome bond covenants; or 3) when there is a
financial benefit to the City as determined by the CFO. Please provide any information on what
the 2018 refunding bonds could achieve in aggregate new present value savings, including 
expectation of interest rates the City can achieve on the upcoming refunding bonds. The Bond
Resolution requires a net present value savings. The OCFO would be glad to further discuss the
impact of the proposed restructuring with LPD.

I Would the refunding LTGO bonds be tax exempt ortaxable bonds? Wouldn?ttaxable bonds charge
a higher interest rate? If so, what would be the advantage oftaxable LTGO refunding bonds? The
Internal Revenue Code requires that the bond will be taxable if repurchasing taxable bonds and
tax-exempt if repurchasing tax-exempt bonds. It is true that taxable bonds have a higher
interest rate than tax exempt bonds for a similar credit.

- Why does the OCFO feel the bond market is relatively appealing, thus making it a good time to
sell DSA refunding bonds? Please see prior responses.

0 Currently, the City?s outstanding LTGO bonds mature in FY 2044. Would the OCFO extend the
maturity date beyond FY 2044 increase the payback period of the current LTGO bonds)
through the refunding bonds? No, the plan is to not extend the term.

 

7 Limited tax general obligation (LTGO) bonds are non-voter bonds and paid for out of the general fund and m1: paid
for out of property taxes based on the property tax debt millage. LTGO bonds are generally supported by the full
faith and credit of the City. However, to make the City?s LTGO bonds more attractive to bond investors, the City has
pledged revenue streams such as distributable state aid state revenue sharing) and income taxes as added
security to certain LTGO bonds.

Will a security interest to ensure debt payment such as revenue sharing be necessary for the
issuance of the refunding bonds? If so what is the anticipated security source DSA, income
tax)? The Bond Resolution anticipates these bonds to be backed by DSA revenues.

Will these proposed refunding bonds be issued through the Michigan Financing Authority 
Yes. If so, why does MFA make the proposed refunding bonds more attractive? State law
provides that bonds secured by DSA issued through the MFA have the benefit of statutory
protections and credit enhancements that are important for investors and marketing the bonds.

Would there be a state intercept feature to make the LTGO refunding bonds more attractive to
investors? The City plans to secure the LTGO refunding bonds with DSA on an intercept basis,
which adds to the security in a significant way.

What are the anticipated issuance costs (for legal, underwriters, insurance, auditing) for the
proposed LTGO refunding borrowing? Please see prior response.

Questions on the bond authorization resolution that will formally be before Council during Formal
Session on Tuesday, October 16h:

A document presented to LPD indicates the authorization available from 2004 and 2009 elections
is $264.28 million. However, the second and third whereas clauses indicate $286.28 million in
remaining bond authorization. Please explain. The Bond Resolution total of $286.29 million
includes the public lighting voter authorization category ?there are no proposed projects within
that voter authorization category.

Section 201. Does the City anticipate using any ofthe bond proceeds from the sale ofthe new
money UTGO bond sale to reimburse itself for amounts spent on capital projects prior to the
issuance of the 2018 UTGO bonds? Not at this time; however, this is a common clause in line
with best practice that gives the City financial flexibility in the event the City has to advance
operating funds unexpectedly.

General questions on the proposed bond sales:

Regarding the City?s process for the new money and refunding bonds, LDP understands OCFO
wants to present the new borrowing to the Committee on Wednesday, October 17, 2018
and have it voted on. Than they would like it to go before the Formal Council on October 23,
2018. The borrowing will be announced by the City on November 19, 2018. The City?s Capital
Agenda is expected to be issued on November 1,2018. The CAFR is expected to be issued by the
deadline date of December 31, 2018. The OCFO would like to close on the new bonds around the
middle of December 2018. Is that correct? Yes, that is the plan.

The City?s Debt Policy speaks to debt affordability. What is the City?s current: 1) overall debt as a
of assessed valuation (total debt should be about 1.5% of full market value); 2) debt service as
a ofthe general fund (required annual debt service expenditures should be at about 10-15% of

the City?s general fund); 3) overall debt per capita (real debt per capita should not rise
significantly); 4) ten-year payout ratio (a faster payout is considered a positive credit attribute);
and 5) per capital to per capita income (total debt outstanding and annual amounts proposed
should not cause the ratio of per capita to per capita income to rise significantly above
approximately How would the proposed new money UTGO bond sale and the refunding
LTGO bond sale impact these ratios? Attached are the updated metrics as a result of the first
UTGO new money bond issuance. The benchmarks in the CFO Directive is what the City should
be targeting over the long-term and is benchmarked to a credit rating higher than the credit
rating the City has today. The OCFO would be glad to discuss the impact of the proposed
restructuring with LPD.

What is the City?s current legal debt margin and total amount available that can be borrowed?
Please see attached.

Is the bankruptcy issued debt and any subsequent defeasment/refinancing exempt from the legal
debt margin requirements? Financial recovery bonds are exempt from the 10% limit and subject
to their own limit.

ls it.lega  in the State of Michigan to issue UTGO (Unlimited Tax General Obligation) bonds to fund
non-capital purposes such as the defeasment/refinancing of any ofthe outstanding LTGO bonds?
If so, please explain the pros and cons of using UTGO issued bonds to refinance any of the
outstanding LTGO bonds? Please discuss the need for Voter approval of UTGO bonds, legal debt
margin limitations, high millage tax rates and time constraints to obtain favorable interest rates.
it may be legal to do so, but at a minimum would require a voter authorization to do so. The
benefit of issuing UTGO bonds is that the debt service is paid through a debt millage levied on
property owners as opposed to LTGO debt which is paid through a general fund appropriation.

10

 

Prior GO Bond Projects

 

New/additional bus shelters improvements to Rosa Parks Transit Center

 

 

Young, Farwell, Williams Recreation Centers Capital Improvements 2018-2019

 

Precincts 6, 10, and 11 Capital Improvements 2018-2019

 

Fire Facilities Capital Improvements 2018-2019

 

Park Lighting Improvements

 

 

Capital Improvements to Thirteen Parks 2018-2019

 

Animal Control Facility Capital Improvements 2018-2019

 

 

TPP Clinic Buildouts

 

Detroit Historical Museum Capital Improvements

 

Bridging Neighborhoods Contribution

 

Uniroyal Riverfront Promenade - City of Detroit Contribution

 

 

Rosa Parks/Clairmount Neighborhood Plan

 

 

Islandview/?Greater Villages Neighborhood Plan

 

 

Northwest/Grand River Neighborhood Plan

 

 

Livernois/McNichols Neighborhood Plan

 

West VernorfSouthwest Neighborhood Plan

 

 

East English Village Neighborhood Study

 

Greater Corktown Neighborhood Study - G.O. Bond - Neighborhood

 

 

DPSH Buildouts - Arson Interview Rooms

 

3th Precinct Capital Improvements (incl. annex]

 

 

Merrill Plaisance Capital Improvements

 

Charles H. Wright Museum facilities improvements - roof, facade, electrical

 

City of Detroit
Debt Metrics as of 6/30/18

Reported pursuant to CFO Directive No. 2018-1014707 Debt Issuance and Management
- With Estimated Impact of Proposed $117 Million UTGO Bond Issue

MEASURES OF KEY (Section 5.10.3)

FULL VALUE PER CAPITA

City of Detroit 2018 Assessed Value

City of Detroit Population - 2017 Estimate1
Assessed Value Per Capita

FUND BALANCE AS PERCENT OF REVENUES
General Fund Balance - Estimatez
General Fund Revenues - Estimate:

General Fund Balance as Percent of Revenues

NET DIRECT REVENUES
Principal Outstanding
Les: MTF Bond: .ind HUD 105i Outstanding, at 5-30-13

General Fund Revenues - Estimate2
Net Direct Debt as Percent of General Fund Revenues

NET DIRECT VALUE
Net Direct Tax-Supported Debt
City of Detroit 2018 Assessed Value

Assisisog201a
MM

3,103,041,000

573,104
5 12,046
5 135,000,000
5 1,057,900,000

13%

1,588,396,146
(83,567,000)

5 1,504,829,146
1,057,900,000

142%

1,504,829,146
8,108,041,000

Estimated impact of
Proposed 

Bond issue -

5145551157 +751: 5: 1

A5 Df6f301'2013

MEASURES OF DEBT AFFORDABILITY (Section 5.4.3) {Unauditedl

OVERALL DEBT A5 PERCENT OF ASSESSED VALUE

Net Direct Tax-Supported Debt '5 1,504,829,146 1,621,759,146
City of Detroit 2018 Assessed Value2 '3 8,108,041,000 8,108,041,000
Net Direct Tax-Supported Debt as Percent of Assessed Value 18.56% 20.00%
CFO Directive: ?Total debt should be kept at about 1596 offuii market value" 
DEBT SERVICE AS PERCENT OF GENERAL FUND
Debt Service for Net Direct Debt Paid During Fiscal Year 5 100,905,848 3 106,202,973
General Fund Revenues - Estimate2 5 1,057,900,000 1,057,900,000
Net Direct Tax-Supported Debt Service as Percent of General Fund Revenues 9.54% 10.04%
CFO Directive: "Required annual debt service expenditures should be kept at about 10-15% of
the City's General Fund?
OVERALL DEBT PER CAPITA
Net Direct Tax~Supported Debt '5 1,504,329,146 1,521,759,146
City of Detroit Population - 2017 Estimate1 673,104 573,104
Net Direct Tax-Supported Debt/Capita 5 2,236 5 2,409
CFO Directive: ?Total debt outstanding and annual amounts issued should not cause real
debt per capita to rise signi?cantly"
TEN YEAR PAYOUT RATIO
Percent of Principal (Net Direct Debt) Paid over Next Ten Fiscal Years 47.90% 47.17%
CFO Directive: ?The rate of repayment of bond principal should be kept at highest a??ordabie
level possible given other budget priorities?
PER CAPITA DEBT TO PER CAPITA INCOME
Net Direct Tax-Supported Debt/Capita 5 2,236 2,409
Income Per Capita Estimates 5 40,110 5 40,110
Per Capita Debt to Per Capita Income 5.57% 6.01%

CFO Directive: "Total debt outstanding and annual amounts proposed should not cause the
ratio of per capita to per capita income to rise significantly above 

1Source: us Census 2017 Population Estimate

2Source: 8-15-18 OCFO Financial Report for the Twelve Months ended June 30, 2018. For GF Revenue Estimate, used total ($1,283 7M) Tess Adjust for
Prior Year Carry-forward (5120 BM) less Use of Fund Balance for one time spending ($105 0M) For GF Balance Estimate, used FY18 Est. unassugned fund balance

3Includes $117 million tax-exempt bonds to be repaid over 20 years. 75 basis points are added to a base case interest rate scenario as "stress test"

4A typographical error in the CFO Directive stating instead of is being corrected by the OCFO in accordance with established policies and procedures

5Using Income Per Capita (Wayne County, 2016) Source: US Bureau of Economic Analysis, Local Area Personal Income

CFO D-rective 2015.101 Dent Viemc: esoteric-13

 

 

MEASURES OF KEY INDICATORS (Section 5.10.3)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

FY17 FY16 FY15
FULL VALUE PER CAPITA 
City of Detroit Assessed Value 7,441,692,233 7,372,078,752 7,593,512.803
City of Detroit Population1 675,480 678,250 681.499
Assessed Value Per Caplta 11,017 10,869 11,142
FUND BALANCE AS PERCENT OF REVENUES 
Unassigned General Fund Balance 163,966,674 143.047.758 70,922,574
General Fund Revenues 988,938,222 1.065.117.770 1,059,791,820
General Fund Balance as Percent of Revenues 17% 13% 7%

 

 

 

REVENLE

 

 

 

Net Direct Tax-Supported Debt

 

1,474,360,733

 

1,531,060,530

1,511,809,817

 

General Fund Revenues

938,933,222 

1,065,117,770

1,059,791,820

 

Net Direct Debt as Percent of General Fund Revenues

149ml

 

144% .

152%

 

 

NET DIRECT VALUE

 

 

Net Direct Tax-Sunoorted Debt

1,474,360,733

1.531.060.530 i

1,611,809,317

 

City of Detroit Assessed Vaiue

 

7,441,692,233

7,372,078,752

7,593,512,803

 

Net Direct Tax-Supported Debt/Assessed Value

20%

 

21%

21%

 

 

 

12016, 2015 and 2014 estimates from US Census 2017 Population Estimates.

 

 

 

 

 

Clly of Detroit. 

Lcu?l Debt Muruln lIIl'urm?ll??"
Lilst Ten Flscal Years
(Dollars In Thousands)

 

 

 


Flstal Year
lel? 2017 2016 HMS 30H 20? ml: 20:] ZIHIJ 200?)

limit 1.771914  .Tl6.39?) [?57,704- [558,064 l.ll33.nlt) 1.113, [47 
'Tnlul nu: (Ichl applicable lo Hm? -m LIEHN-I 9l?i.650 
Lugnl Lluhl margin -i I ?hm-?um I "-Ir ?ii 4. ?In? 75 as: 134,914 5 299 567.3%
nul (Ichl npplicuhlu lu lhu lilnil

as :1 puruunlugcnl'LlL-b: limil 35 33 45% 34 49% 56 65.17% 66 60% 92.65?. 34 75.46"; 59. 

?Nulcs: Only UTGO uml LTGO DSA humls :Irl: uppliuuhlu (luhl Ruqun'l rulmhum'muul by Michigan pcluliug.

City ol? - OCFO. Ol?cu nl'tllu Truu'ury

Attachment 

List of Capital Projects funded by the Approximate $50 Million in Old General
Obligation Bond Dollars

 

Prior GO Bond Project

Project Description

Project Budget

 

transportation 

3 new DDOT coaches.- new garbage cans at Noithland; to Rosa Parks Transit Center upgrades, exterior site Iniprownienls'l

2,467,742

 

'rnuii. . h?iiwell, Williams Recreation Centers Capital Improvements 2018-2019

Fire alarm system upgrades

200,000

 

?ecincts llJ_ E: 11

ntanlrap doors, glass upgrades, renovation of lobby, renovation of locker rooms, flooring replacement, air system balancing, upgrade of HVAC controls, gate
3. fence Improvements, parking lot Improvement, Interior lighting upgrade, electrical circuit upgrade, general plumbing upgrades, security system installation, Niagara
budding control system, sewer line renovation of old gun range at 11

3,700,000

 

Fire Faculties Capital Improvements 2018-2019 (see note below]

Capital improvements include: masonry tuck pointing, sewer line replacement, generators, roof repairs, electrical system improvements including lighting and
additional circuits, renovate restrooms and showers, replace untoriot doors, bay door rep-Ills. ACM abatements as needed

3,000,000

 

Park Improvements

funding available for additional lighting in an estimated 30 City park-t for increased salety for residents

2,557,705

 

to Thirteen Parks 2018-2019

O'Halr. Palmer, layne Playfivld, Main-res, PingiL-e, Ills-em -. Romanowski, Rouge, Stoepel No 2, Butzel Family, Clark, Tulan, and Chandler

8.367.338

 

{animal Control Capital Improvements 2013-2019

?ulli?iinH expansion and major system upgmde. to accommodate expansion, will allow for more kennel 

1,385,025

 

TPP Clinic Buildouls

span.- buildout in Health Department clinics to eapaiid teen pregnancy prevention and wellness programs

204_460

 

Detron. Historical Museum Capital Improvements

 

?replace HUAC chiller, repair loading doclr. public address system, renovate 3rd floor restroom

430,087

 

BI t-iirighbtii tiuuds Contribution

Additional City contribution to Bridging program for Gordie Howe Bridge related relocations

1,500,000

 

Ulliiu,? .I Riverfront Piumeriade - City of Detroit Contribution

City shim.- ol Uniroyal?s riverfront promenade protectthat will connect the east riverfront to the main rIverwalk

250.000

 

PJIhhy?Ci?llmuunt Neighborhood Plan

City tunds for irn plemeriling Rosa Parl- sfclairmount SNF prawn"

500,000

 

thlages Neighborhood Plan

City funds for implementing Islandvlem??reater VILlags-isSNF projects

500,000

 

ilurthwesI?Srand River Neighborhood Plan

Qty funds for implementing Northwestftirand River SNF projects

500,000

 

Livurrioisr' Nemhborhuo? Plan

City funds for Implementing UvernuisJ'M ci'ilichois SNF 

500,000

 

Wes ?Jernarfinuthwest Neighborhood Ptari

City funds for liliplementing West Vernor/Southwast SNF printer-L1.

500,000

 

Additional Park improvement Funds

PDD transferred these protect 1114105 to GSD for soppleniental funding for the above mentioned pailn

500,000

 

East tiiglisti Village Neighborhood Study

Study to determine nelghburho orl needs for future Strategic Neighborhood work

400,000

 

Greater Corktown Neighborhood Study

Study to determine neighborhood needs for future Siraiegic Heighboihaod work

100.000

 

DPEH Buildouts - Arson Interview Rooms

Builduul of additional space for Fire Dec-amnion! to conduct arson interviews and arson InvEsligatIun operations

 

Precinct Capital Improvements iincl annex;

C'Jir'lpl?llnl'l of the 8th Precinct cupiul Inciudini: improvements to the annex building reqult?d by the historical desigiiatimi

520,200
3,552,555

 

Plaisance Lupitat nts?

office spec:- buildouts to pull Police operations out of ieased_faCIli es

 

 

I. t-urIi-s Wright Museum facil ies Improvements

 

int 8: facade repairs electrical improvements

 

 

1,546,749
171,?98

 

 

Revised Prior GO Bond Project Budget Total

Fire facil: Ies: Engine 9, Engine 31, Engine 40, Engine 42, Engine 52, Engine 53, Engine 59, Engine 17, Squad 3, Ladder 14, and Ladder 22

33,504,160

Attachment VI

List of Capital Projects funded by the Approximate $233 Million in Exit
Financing/Quality of Life Dollars

wvoz I1: modular

1VI1N30HNOD

 



 

 

 

mm?tt

 

?amt



 

 

 

museum-I1

 

 

 



 

 

 



 

ES sa?ots

 

 



 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

vrus'sas

 

m:

 

 

mn?r?s

 

 

 

 

gnsr'ns

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



 

 



 

 

 

minim

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



 

W11:

 

mm?

 

 

(Hum;
ma) Firms
Papuawvem


 

trs?EnE't
t! rso?ws

rum:
tss?sn?v
s?tcv'nz?t
urttv?uls
wnw'oos
59 (can?t
Em'ste't
no'lzu'nl'r
In 

El: m?u
m?sso?z
was: ?ll
at en?s"
wvm'tsr
tr tss'sn
sesame

Iu'ln'r

5011699:

PE 
DUMPED:

oz zlz'lrs't
6: m'sn't
aware

it ?I've
00 mm?
on 00013051
srzm'rss
us us'sst'l
rtsm?sn
Z1: lyi?au'E
(Jr?90012!
on su?u
As?us'bm?:
zruu'nz
uI mus':
?55515

In tlt'vsv't
2: ?6169's
00 ao'sos's
srvn'ms'n
5: run

on tza'sna
tnts?tn
n?mms':
it ros'tLv't
as'un'ssn?l

 



 

 

 

 

"3130 Danna DDIE plr'l pro?

 

 

 

?n It HIP an HMS: I'I'vuna unrdua us or": m: mull-1,; (F
SHZSE (?Ill?w 3mm3 anmul 001E u. rl

rut-MSW immiluII-w "Il'd?ld 5m m1; m2 r159?,
I- Eh'v'vl soles: ill-Flam: nous ma mun-unvuq um g:

l- v" u: .1175; aquarium Ian-ammo) ml: r0 [Ilualuunv?an unu gr

rliEE sn'r (mist out: I: Inna-mph? um; g;

F5 fir Iril Imd uwuaia am: tn 
H11 ml l'l'lZSE I'm-um "luv-9 ml: rw Lr
mm: Imulmunw m1: 0/ 1'00 1:
RI rm (mist Puma-I ammnu-JIUI Ila-mu =1 110:] 
n- tun II in: Era Enos: uni-u unlrmu outzzn?zqr moss mum?s-Nu) 001: (1130 {a
rurmr ?cross muruv [sewn not: I: one it

nun 5: runs: wIMIn-mw DDIE 0130 52

no Wu i Brut-3E 1U=m?wlrbu Iu-Iudnha 91 can" we in; rz
on no :05 vet's one In 0:00 El
(Elms mqr] Sunny-mug ml? [a 05,0 E:

n? -: [Elms Sump-1 ml; .r=I 0130 E2

EEIME Sum-Eu maniuunmnwu ml: 1-: 1:00 IE

rr ma :rr aununom mun Buununnuu mlE rn mm 9:

run Un?t :0qu? In r1130 9:

run 191-! unnsE Mnmu mm in 0130 

u; IFF cm ?mgr luv-.0 I riuu (InlE 1'1 ODD SI

as: snow tum-u; npumfu-u mu "?me gm: u-I 1-1

Irma: "Hmong/1: on? r9 =?Iun5151!wcg

Han 10205? mm In rn 0:00 

nu ma war ma [aauezmw Illa-Him? cm} (1930 

as HMS not: So 0430 '90:29: twin" note no (1335a 51
an Sf! 090 NE m5 NIL-link: 00!: I-n 31H 
mum'om (Lam: PIE mzwuuamIW-wnma :2 Fauna m:
onzss ll??mud PIE 1N3W0N3WVIWIIPFIIMJ awn out: r: aallna LE

07 5a mr?wa must we Luawanawvlumvpma Mm out: 7: azuod L:
Isn?rza 5500;: IIJIE IE 059 n-

no rm?mu'u ms I'Mlu'u 0016 LION SE

smE mic sr Hull! "Bum-I 5:

?t 1? =31 m-rl art-'1 Buns: ?apt?dn ?mus mm It .LIOO IE
mrwr'n: rs1rurnaura 9900:; Mum-Paw) m1: rr ?lad LE

1900;: ?Ili'll?l'd nan 'a ?"an om: rr "Hind LE

u: rm saw-35 ImamJams: Wwa OOIE Ir H:

II an a sum; lulu-4 ?ma mt! Fr rz

u-u  rv Isms: 'va?u und notsous: ?Amanda" mu DOIE L: ?Inca LE
on 0mm? r9015: arr-mm-uwu not: 91'er 1:
sq as; its 9900;: Izlunaw nut-9 bwalman not: r159 (.17
51 [is 5  um wrl'r moose aall? mum. ml: man at
(If t5 5600s: HF: I mul- ml: 00!: or 059 or
Zl gar IE1. 9:105: can I 059 "We: ?nu-m out: 059 u-
Nuns DUKE 0w n-

on Sr: (9 team mun-minimal": out; n? Ll-

{.96 N0 95005: ImruaIu-m 101 I'm931 95005: ummul?loau Iu?w 12-" out: RI (159 n?

unw: at or 650 06:! am: am tho-alum out: 059 
US at: isms: '1'an M'w Knunmo DUKE 059 ll-
truss Swans mum-9 was cut: tr 059 u-

ran 5mm: unmamvan 1er DOIF 059 u-
at an; an: mom: I mum-'1? mm I om: l1 rz
arms; ml: t1 =JHrz
Era rum-z um: liar; not: H:
:w 5500;: NH rI-Iuvd I'lAzl DUKE rz

on HE 609 oats a HH at

cm'mr rmm? 910056 ours I UN 5:
In swan I qt rt; [61 Mum-nuclwu-Imuna ?an DUIE canon mwpuwrv Inn-An 001E one El

66 uo?ese a [90055 urn-mill) mu: 7 0530 g:

our? t: Iu-Iurw-Iw rt

Jami) m3 uondyana an: puni "r3 nun.

   

 



.H ETJJ

 





 

- 

  

 

?9190 133!01d oats puns

 01:11 moziLt/ot

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

man - ulna mlma not: 5" pm?
Etm?if??i?i ?mum 01 MI 5 urn-6MB OUTS iulpun4 pllv?oueun

arm?ius'lz'l asmeELn 9 warm? ant: 75101
WMWL rs Dumbo": 00 MIN aim-? Maryann] nor ml; lumpd 
wm?mns mum,? - --1-rns- use LI-
?115'! [r nc'u umwanag GE
m?m'bns?t m: mun?: now EDIE g;
- 9: ?'B'un'd l?"lul idd OOIE [1530 El
ms ?mum-Imam wimmw 001: 0530 E2
Hm l-Ir'H: uru'nl'r I'll-mu: mono: ll?ll t'n'n'wr am: 1000 OZ
urn unste'bm's on m'oet alum ?Elwin-?e ml: wt 059 
54115 nu?ouu'esa't mum I oloosr Ina-tuning"; wing 15-? 00" (at uoN 55
in?rm-u mantis 66 553mm Golf aallnd 
an": nat'u-z mums mums unu DOIE Doc ts
- mourn law?) lull-Ida Ila-ha MIE In: 0530 :2
Lu: no'uz?tst 7 1-:1 moot: "can nIna) Inn-?do "ultra cm: In 0530 El
numn'ulz?l morn or? alnmz ?lm?ldh?l-?PUN W'Wl?'v [?lm-u umr UH 05:00 E7.
warm I na'm'utz (m ml arms: amum-I "mun-chi an! mu Ming 5 :nAPw EE
mm?! mm: In SEIDEZ wanna nan-a 0530 5:
no (511er no zu'rlrl'r rum-r11! rims: Jami) "1mm HT 0530 E:
gainful! n- arch" ?n 6H mr I?md I-Its?I-m-n am: Mdt] GI
wom?ooc?u 00 H0 W6 If? 104 UOIF 059 4r
- - nuts: I and Dn?mw 1nd out: PI use (I:
w: our: 0-11 MOO TE
w'll'm?: "muff; 'ml (.5 
I . laud!) Eugzmado mun: ma uu?ma Purl; - 
01.5) 1a?png - - 
PBFUBP-IV and
WINNIE

mm!?

"mam



 

"Elan Dalmd ODIE puns

Attachment VII

List of recommended Capital Projects to be funded by the proposed UTGO Bond
Sale over ?ve ?scal years 2018-19 through 2022-23

 

Authorization

Department(s]

Project

FY18-19

FY19-20

FY20-21

FY21-22

FY22-23

5 Year Total

 

Public Safety

Police Fire

Public Safety vehicle purchase plan

8,000,000

8,000,000

 

Public Safety

Heanh

Health PC Replacements

80,464

80,464

 

Public Safety

Police

Police PC Replacements technology upgrades

2,196,526

2,196,526

 

Public Safety

Fire

Fire PC Replacements

390,000

390,000

 

Public Safety

Fire

Relocation of Fire Apparatus garage

4,712,655

3,000,000

7.712.655

 

Public Safety

Fire

Fire facilities repairs energy efficiency upgrades

3,675,000

3,000,000

3,000,000

9,675,000

 

Public Safety

Fire

Inventory management system

1,500,000

1,500,000

 

Public Safety

DOIT

Public Safety IT

2,565,274

4,380,800

4,080,800

4,080,800

15,107,674

 

Public Safety

Police

Police light duty vehicles

7,400,000

6,425,000

6, 650,000

20,475,000

 

Public Safety

Fire

Fire vehicles (light duty, apparatus, and EMS)

7,562,500

6,717,500

6,267,500

20,547,500

 

Public Safety

Heahh

Replace existing mobile clinic expand fleet to 3

300,000

600,000

900,000

 

Public Safety

Heahh

New animal control trucks

165,000

165,000

165,000

55.000

550,000

 

Public Safety

Heahh

Teen pregnancy clinic

1,000,000

1,000,000

 

Public Safety

Police

Lease Elimination Plan Part 1 - 13335 Lyndon renovation

2,000,000

1,500,000

3,500,000

 

Public Safety

Police

Lease Elimination Plan Part2 - 11631 Mt. Elliott renovation

2,000,000

1,700,000

3,700,000

 

Public Safety

Police

Construct new armory

500,000

500,000

 

Public Safety

Police

20 Atwater renovations

800,000

800,000

 

blic Safety

Police

Grant match funds for camera expansion

1,100,000

1,100,000

 

Public Safety

Police

Expand RTCC to accommodate camera expansion

2,000,000

2,000,000

 

Public Safety

Police

Stand up two on east and west sides of City

2.000.000

2,000,000

 

Public Safety

Police

Bulletproof vest replacements

350,000

350,000

350,000

350,000

1,400,000

 

Public Safety

Police

Unmanned aerial vehicles

350,000

350,000

 

Economic Dev

PDD

Land preparation for future industrial development projects

26,072,161

26,072,161

 

Recreation

GSD

improvements to catalytic parks, CIP parks, and soccer hubs

700,000

8,400,000

8,300,000

17,400,000

 

Recreation

PDD

Joe Louis Greenway completion

10,000,000

10,000,000

20,000,000

 

Recreation

DolT GSD

Computer replacement at recreation centers

246,528

246,528

 

Recreation

GSD

Recreation center capital improvements

1,686,100

1,686,100

 

Recreation

GSD

Belle Isle water line replacement and repair

500,000

500,000

 

Recreation

Charles H. Wright

Charles H. Wright Museum roof replacement

1,000,000

700,000

1,700,000

 

Recreation

GSD

improvements to City golf courses

2,000,000

2,000,000

4,000,000

 

Recreation

GSD

Adams-Butzel Recreation Center

3,450,000

3,450,000

 

Recreation

GSD

Northwest Activities Center

3,750,000

3,750,000

 

Recreation

GSD

Heilmann Recreation Center

1,000,000

2,000,000

3,000,000

 

Recreation

GSD

Patton Recreation Center

750,000

750,000

 

Recreation

GSD

Williams Recreation Center

2,550,000

2,550,000

 

Recreation

GSD

Henderson Park

2,250,000

2,250,000

 

Recreation

GSD

Rouge Park Horse Stables

190,000

190,000

 

Recreation

(350

Tindal Recreation Center - City share (partnered with Healthy Kidz.

338,000

338,000

 

Recreation

GSD

Aretha Louise Franklin Amphitheatre and Park

1,000,000

4,000,000

5,000,000

 

Recreation

GSD

Studies for Riverside Henderson Marinas, St. Jean Boat Launch,

1,000,000

1,000,000

 

Recreation

GSD

Spirit Plaza improvements

1,000,000

1,000,000

 

Recreation

GSD

Library reading rooms at recreation centers

500,000

500,000

 

 

Transportation

 

DDOT

 

Coolidge facility rebuild

 

 

 

18,000,000

 

18,501,849

 

 

36,501,849

 

Totals

48,152,053

61,211,300

54,988,300

57,667,804

13,350,000

235,369,457

 

Attachment 

List of Capital Projects that are funded by the surplus dollars in the current ?scal
year 2019 budget

FY 2019-2022 FOUR-YEAR FINANCIAL PLAN City Of Detroit, Michigan

CITY OF DETROIT
FY18 BUDGET AND FOUR- YEAR PLAN
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS

   

 

 

 
 
 

  
 
 

     
      
    
 

 

:?Di??rnmm'rw?? 3:311:51va 1'73: "5 .r 

1:61:044 Yul 16:31? 51% 5:3 I:
IT Kuhn 3333-3?? - 
l?l. 'Ly-?Tllijiqa? .

. 3'3"

DEPARTMENT OF INNOVATION 81 TECHNOLOGY

$d__6,009000 $__3,250,000 5 12,500,000

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Enterprise Document Management System 500 ,000 2,500,000 "5 0,00, 000
2500000 "2500000
"539:6:37 2,153,748"
T-e?EFInology Upgrades so??Nare - I li?ib?242 ?m 
Acquisition- - 2150000 - 
CItyw1de PCReplacement 5.036008 ?mm-330,000mm ?35201000.
510,704,174 5 12,419,637 7,169,687 4,669,637 5 1,419,687 $25,678,748
EASTERN MARKET
5 ..--225.. 5_ - 5.. 
FIRE
Technology Improvement 1390009} ?390%
FLEET MANAGEMENT
5. 315000.990
GENERAL SERVICES DEPARTMENT
CityServIceYardsImprovements 3 - 5 6,715,485 ?3 4,715,435
3 
Election Improvements - lm 387, ?000.
'Belle Isle -I3WSD 1? 500,000
Median Renovations-Street Fund . ?hm-?M - -
593,000 5 9,733,535 5 - 5 5 - 5 7,733,585
PLANNING DEVELOPMENT
5 1,150,000 5 5,345,000 - - . 5 1,345,000
TotaIPlanning& Development 5 1,150,000 5,345,000 - - - 1,345,000
POLICE
31,111,531 Replacement 4 2,196,625 - - 2,196,625
Total Police 2,111,531 2,196,625 - - . 2,196,625
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS - STREET FUND
Equipment 5 1,516,000 3,002,000 1,,500000 5 1,500,000 5 1,500,000 5 7,,502000
HighwayBridgeS 1,977,000 2,025,750 4002-750
if 500,000? _500,000 500, 000 500,000 500, 000 2,,000 000
A 9,335 474 $10 373,709" 13 605-005 
TEafficContrOIImprovements .- 3,,307 000 2,536_000__ 2050000 "?3050000 2,050,000 5,736,000-
:TT?ificCOntrDIlmprovements- State: 1,633,000" 4000 000 1,0,00000 7,633,000
?42.559009?..- 5,773,000: ?hi-3,511,000 3,350,000 3,350,000 15,323,000
-- .1- 1205,7'5'5 13 731 
5 23139174 5 27,605,464 5 30,263,693 5 _s136,717,443

 

A42

FY 2019-2022 FOUR-YEAR FINANCIAL PLAN City of Detroit, Michigan

CITY OF DETROIT
FY18 BUDGET AND FY19-22 FOUR-YEAR PLAN
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS

    

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
  
 

 

   

..


-.II?la

AIRPORT

Aviation FAA- Engineering Study B0 .000 . - 

BUILDINGS, SAFETY ENGINEERING ENVIRONMENTAL

Buildout for Development Resource Center - One Stop Shop _633 - 5 - 5 -

DETROIT DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION

Fixed-Route Vehicle Replacement/Expansion - 9" 3, 013, 565" 018-, 565 ?1,164, .732 m5 1,443,998 8, 650, 860

Non- Revenue Vehicle Replacement/Expansion -. L-.- 161, 534" 165 ,572 169, _711__ 173, 954 6.70, 771

Mid? life VehIcIe . .. .. - 5 ,169_075 5: e93. 302 7.26, 222 24, 209, 330

Facility improvements .. 5,169,075 _5 169', _075_ 5,169, 075 5,169,075_ 20; 676, 300

Information Technology .-. - 2591900: 250, 000 250,000 250,000 1,000,000

Operations Equipment - 1 ?00,000? 1, 000, 000" - - 2,000,000
Total 5 - 5 14,768,249 14,901,514 13,768,249 13,768,249 57,206,251

DETROIT WATER 8t SEWERAGE DEPARTMENT- RETAIL

WATER

Water Field Services ?67, 200, 000- :5 74, 086, 000: S: 5_8, 97-0. 000 :41, 00-0, :000 37 ,500; 000 5211, 556,000

ivIeterIng__ 4 000 000 ,000" 4, 000 ,000' 4_ 000 000 4, 000 000 15, 000, 000_

_General Purpose - 2, 000, 000 2,000, 000 2,000,000 _2 ,000, 000" 2,000, 000 8,000, 000

Water Central Services. Fleet- . 2, 000, 000 2, 000, 000 2, 000, 000? 000, 000" 2, 000; 000 000, 000?

Wanter Central Services Facilities . 2, 500, 0_0_0 500 ,000? 000 2, 000 ,000 9, 000, 0-52-00

Water Central Services. Information Technology 875,000 793,000 "1,993,000 120, 000 1,000,000 3,906,000
Total DWSD Water 5 78,575,000 5 85,379,000 71,463,000 51,120,000 48,500,000 $256,462,000

SEWER

Sewer Field 5er_ui_c_es 42, _500, _000 47, _500, 000 5_7 000 5 37, 500, _000 ?5 500, 000 5130, 0'00, 000

Green Infrastructure 12, 22' "00 14 ,350, 000 6, 000 000 10,000, 000 10,000,000 40,350,000

Pump Stations; 

Sewer Centralized Services: Fleet 000, 000" 2,000,000_ .2. ,000, 000 2, 000, 000 2,000,000 000, 000"

Sewer Centralized Services: Facilities 2,500,000 500, 000 2, 500, 000 2, 500, 000? 10, 000, 000

Sewer Centralized Services: Information Technology 875,000 793,000 1,993,000 120,000 1, 000, 000 3,906,000
Total DWSD -5ewer 5 60,100,000 5 67,143,000 5 69,993,000 5 52,120,000 5 53,000,000 $242,256,000

'Ji'i 3:0? 
City of Detroit Capital Share 5 - 5 3,060,103 - - 5 3,060,103
Transportation Improvements-District 3 - 5 4,000,000 - 5 4,000,000
- ?1.5.15; ?ux-.00 112-; "furl

?4 with}; ??4514. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

REVENUES:
Revenues from Operations . $133, 575 000 152,522,000 9141, 455 000.3103 240 000_ _91011500, 000 5493, 713, 000
'Federai and State Grant Funds . 4 .,_214 797 14,768, 249 14 901, 514 "15-753 249 13, 768, 249 57 ,205, 251
General Fund Prior Years' Surplus-TCapitai 2 0,000, 000 52,200,000 . 
Street Fund Reimbursement: Gas. 0 Weight. Taxes .. 3'52. 174' 27 505,454) 130.253 593 38110-001 40,133,239? 135, 71.7, 443

 
 
 

 

'lwlc

3% 3.12%" 1.1:.ij Jag-f]


. Lp

  


h!
rs,-

E:
?in
4:
II

'7

?35?
3.

  

grants are awarded after the City's budget development period Capital proiecta for the current and proposed fi-iml yeir are submitted as .1 budget
amendment upon receipt of the grant award

A43

Attachment IX

List of $13 Million in Capital Projects that would be funded by proceeds of the
proposed UTGO bond sale instead of from surplus dollars in the current ?scal year
2019 budget

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Authorization Department(s) Project FY18-19
Public Safety Police Fire Public Safety vehicle purchase plan (FY19 Fund Balance swap) 8,000,000
Public Safety Health PC Replacements (FY19 Fund Balance swap) 80,464
Public Safety Police PC Replacements technology upgrades (FY19 Fund Balance swap) 2,196,526
Public Safety Fire PC Replacements (FY19 Fund Balance swap) 390,000
Recreation GSD Computer replacement at recreation centers (FY19 Fund Balance swap) 246,528
Recreation GSD Recreation center capital improvements (FY19 Fund Balance swap) 1,686,100
Recreation GSD Belle Isle water line replacement and repair (FY19 Fund Balance swap) 500,000

 

13,099,618

 

Attachment 

The City of Detroit?s Debt Policy

City of Detroit
Debt Metrics as of 6/30/18
Reported pursuant to CFO Directive No. 2018-101-007 Debt Issuance and Management
- With Estimated Impact of Proposed $117 Million UTGO Bond Issue

so 2013

 

MEASURES OF KEY INDICATORS (Section 5.10.3) 
FULL VALUE PER CAPITA

City of Detroit 2018 Assessed Value 8,108,041,000

City of Detroit Population - 2017 Estimate1 673,104
Assessed Value Per Capita 12,046
FUND BALANCE AS PERCENT OF REVENUES

General Fund Balance - Estimate2 5 135,000,000

General Fund Revenues - Estimate2 5 1,057,900,000
General Fund Balance as Percent of Revenues 13%
NET DIRECT REVENUES

Principal Outstanding 1,588,396,146

Less MTF Bond; and HUD 108 Loans Outstandmgit 630-18 (83,567,000l

5 1,504,829,146

General Fund Revenues Estimate2 1,057,900,000
Net Direct Debt as Percent of General Fund Revenues 142%
NET DIRECT VALUE

Net Direct Tax-Supported Debt 5 1,504,829,146

City of Detroit 2018 Assessed Value 5 8,108,041,000

muted Impact of
Proposed 5111M
11,5 9f Bond Issue -

MEASURES OF DEBT AFFORDABILITY (Section 5.4.3) (aim! smess nesrmsagsi?
OVERALL DEBT AS PERCENT OF ASSESSED VALUE

Net Direct Tax-Supported Debt 5 1,504,829,146 5 1,621,759,146

City of Detroit 2018 Assessed Value2 5 8,108,041,000 '3 8,108,041,000
Net Direct Tax-Supported Debt as Percent of Assessed Value 18.56% 20.00%
CFO Directive: ?Total debt should be kept at about 15% offull market value?
DEBT SERVICE AS PERCENT OF GENERAL FUND

Debt Service for Net Direct Debt Paid During Fiscal Year 5 100,905,848 '5 106,202,978

General Fund Revenues - Estimate2 5 1,057,900,000 1,057,900,000
Net Direct Tax-Supported Debt Service as Percent of General Fund Revenues 9.54% 10.04%
CFO Directive: "Required annual debt service expenditures should be kept at about 10?15% of
the City's General Fund?
OVERALL DEBT PER CAPITA

Net Direct Tax-Supported Debt 5 1,504,829,146 1,621,759,146

City of Detroit Population - 2017 Estimate1 673,104 573,104
Net Direct Tax-Supported Debt/Capita 5 2,236 5 2,409
CFO Directive: "Total debt outstanding and annual amounts issued should not cause real
debt per capita to rise significantly"
TEN YEAR PAYOUT RATIO
Percent of Principal (Net Direct Debt) Paid over Next Ten Fiscal Years 47.90% 47.17%
CFO Directive: "The rate of repayment of bond principal should be kept at highest affordable
level possible given other budget priorities"
PER CAPITA DEBT T0 PER CAPITA INCOME
Net Direct Tax-Supported Debt/Capita is 2,236 2,409
Income Per Capita Estimate5 5 40,110 5 40,110
Per Ca pita Debt to Per Capita Income 5.57% 6.01%

CFO Directive: "Total debt outstanding and annual amounts proposed should not cause the
ratio of per capita to per capita income to rise significantly above 5% 

1Source: US Census 2017 Population Estimate

2Source: 8-15-18 OCFO Financial Report for the Twelve Months ended June 30, 2018. For GF Revenue Estimate, used total less Adjust for

Prior Year Carry-forward less Use of Fund Balance for one time spending For GF Balance Estimate, used FY18 Est. unaSSigned fund balance

3Includes $117 million tax-exempt bonds to be repaid over 20 years. 75 basis paints are added to a base case interest rate scenario as "stress test?
JA typographical error in the CFO Directive stating instead of is being corrected by the OCFO in accordance With established policies and procedures.

5Using Income Per Capita (Wayne County, 2016). Source: US Bureau of Economic Analysis, Local Area Personal Income
CFO Direclne Suiti- IUI. Di'bl Muir.cs .Is 1i '3 30-11

Attachment XI
The City of Detroit?s Debt Metrics as ofJune 30, 2018

 

 

MEASURES OF KEY INDICATORS (Section 5.10.3)

FULL VALUE PER CAPITA
Value

Ciw of Detroit. Pecurrlulation1
Assessed Value Per Capita

FUND BALANCE .43 PERCENT REVENUES
Unassigned General Fund Balance
General Fund Revenues

G_e_neral Fund Balance as PeEerLt pf Revenues

 

DIRECT REVENUES
Net Direct Tax-Supported Debt
General Fund Revenues
Net Direct Debt as Percent of General Fund Revenues

NET DIRECT VALUE

Net Direct Tax-Supported Debt

City 91? Detrmr Assessed Value__r .
Net Direct Tax-Supported Value

 

37.016. 2015 and 2014 estimates from US (Len 511-. 301? Populatien 

FY17

7,441,692,233

675,480
11,017

168,966,674
988,938,222
17%



988,938,222
149%

1,474,360,733
7,441,692,233
20%

5

F16

7,372,078,752
678,250

my 

143,047,758
1,065,117,770
13%

"1.531351%? .

1,055,117,770
144%

1,531,060,530
7,372,078,752
21%







.1




FY15

7,593,512,803
681,499
11,142

70, 92 2, 5 74
1,059,791,820
7%

1,611,309,817
1,059,791,820
152%

1,611,809,817
7,593,512,803
21%

 

 

5

Deborah Goldstein

vaid Whitaker, Esq. alt? of menu It Christopher Gulock
Director Derrick Headd
Irvin Carley,?Jr. CITY COUNCIL Marcel Hurt, Esq.
Executive Policy Manager ff
Marcell Todd, Jr. LEGISLATIVE POLICY DIVISION Am?; '3
SeniOICity Planner 208 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center we ?gs?

Detroit Michigan 48226 Jam? 
LaKisha Barclift, Esq. Analine Powers, 

M. Rory Bolger, AICP

Phone: (313) 224-4946 Fax: (313) 224-4336

 

Sabrina Shockley

   

Timothy Boscarino, AICP Thomas Stephens, Esq.
Elizabeth Cabot, Esq. David Teeter
Janese Chapman Theresa Thomas
Tasha Cowen Underwood
Richard Drumb
George Etheridge

TO: Detroit City Council

FROM: David Whitaker, Direct

Legislative Policy Div"
DATE: October 24, 201 8
RE: Report on Homeowner Property Tax Assistance Program

The Legislative Policy Division (LPD) has been requested by City Council President Pro-
Tempore Mary Shef?eld to report on the legal necessity of having a notary requirementl within
the newly drafted amended ordinance regarding the application form of the Homeowner Property
Tax Assistance Program 

Before directly addressing the question, it is important to consider the placement of the notary
block on this hardship application. Just above the current notary block on the signature page of the
HPTAP application is the following language:

Any person who knowingly makes a false statement, omission, or
misrepresentation may not be considered for this assistance program and may be
prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law. Any/All applications are subject to
random home inspection for compliance with the City of Detroit Guidelines.

 

1 A notary public is an of?cer commissioned by the Michigan Secretary of State to serve as an unbiased and
impartial witness. The most common function of the notary is to prevent ?'aud by attesting to the identity of a person
signing a document. Notarization on a document certi?es that the person whose signature is entered on the
document personally appeared before the notary, established his or her identity, and personally signed the document
in the presence of the notary.

2 A similar question presented was addressed by Coalition to End Unconstitutional Tax Foreclosures (Coalition): Is
the notary requirement necessary to prosecute individuals who provide false statements on the HPTAP application
or to otherwise deter individuals ?om making false statements? (See attached) The answer that the Coalition
provided will be discussed below.

I, say under penalty of perjury that the statements made in this
application are true and that I/we have no money, income or assets other than that
mentioned here, and grant the Board of Review permission to review all Federal,
State or City of Detroit income tax records and further grant permission to contact
all ?nancial institutions and creditors regarding account balance in order to process
this application.

Consequently the applicant when signing the application (with/without the notary block)
currently states under penalty of perjury that the information provided in the application is true.
The application then provides a notary signature block in which a notary certi?es that the person
signing has presented the requisite information to af?rm they are the person signing the document.
At issue is whether the language requiring the signature be notarized is legally required?

LPD has looked into the question presented. LPD has not been able to identify any law requiring
the signature on the HPTAP application be notarized per se. With regard to the criminal
prosecution of individuals who provide false statements on the application, LPD has af?rrned that
under Public Act 206 of 1893, General Property Tax Act MCL only the attorney
general or the prosecuting attorney of each county have been granted the power to enforce the
Act:

(5) The attorney general and the prosecuting attorney of each county of this state
have concurrent power to enforce this act.

As set forth in the statute, it is the attorney general and the county prosecutor who can bring
criminal prosecution for fraudulent acts under the Act. Because the authority of the Board of
Review to provide a tax exemption is provided pursuant to the General Property Tax Act and the
Act enumerates who can enforce its provisions, the City of Detroit?s Law Department is exempt
from taking actions for criminal prosecution.3 The decision of whether to undertake the criminal
prosecution of the fraudulent act is left to the discretion of those two enumerated agencies. Any
civil prosecution for providing false or misleading statements on the HPTAP application may be
handled by the Law Department?s authority pursuant to the City Charter Section 7.5-203 Civil
Litigation.

It is understandable that the Law Department would want to preserve all the evidentiary tools
necessary to best effectuate the case in both civil and criminal prosecutions, and may be the
rationale for their opposition to removing the notary requirement. As indicated by the Michigan
Secretary of State, the most common function of the notary is to prevent fraud by attesting to the
identity of a person signing a document. It is the ability of the notary to testify as to who signed
the document before them that is of value in the prosecution and prevention of fraud.

However, there can be rosecutions for fraud4 and erjury where the underlyin document IE


 

3 LPD notes that if the State had authorized other local municipalities with the ability to undertake prosecutions for
fraud under the Act the Law Department would be able to take on criminal prosecutions pursuant to the City Charter
7.5-204, Penal Matters, (1) Institute and conduct, on behalf of the people, all cases arising from the provisions of
this Charter or city ordinances and, when authorized to do so by law, cases arising under state law.?

4 In Michigan, the general rule is that to constitute actionable fraud it must appear: (1) That defendant made a
material representation; (2) that it was false; (3) that when he made it he knew that it was false, or made it

2

not been notarized. Cases of perjury can be brought under Public Act 328 of 1931, MCL
750.423 (2). A person who signs a document under penalty of perjury is subject to prosecution
whether notarized or not.5 The statute does not require the signed record or document be
notarized. In either instance (Public Act 206 or Public Act 328) it is not whether the prosecution
can be undertaken without the notarized document, but what proofs are put forth to show the
person being held responsible is the person who executed the document. While this burden of
proof can be established by the notary, testifying as to the manner in which they identi?ed the
person who signed the document and that the person is the respondent, there are certainly other
reasonable ways to meet this burden.

The decision as to whether the notarized signature is required appears to be more of a policy
decision rather than a legal one. The issue is whether the burden placed upon the indigent seeking
tax relief having to go through the dif?culty of ?nding and/or obtaining a notarized signature to
submit their application, is greater than the convenience of being able to establish the proof that
a person submitted a fraudulent application by using the notary?s testimony to identify the person
as the signer. If there are a large number of fraudulent cases being prosecuted then consideration
of maintaining the notary requirement may be justi?ed as a policy decision.6 If not, maybe the
better policy decision would be to do away with the requirement and rely on other means of proof
to effectuate the prosecution of fraudulent claims.

LPD reviewed the Coalition?s memorandum dated October 10, 2018, signifying that the
notarization of the applicant?s signature is not necessary to verify an applicant?s identity. The
Coalition indicates that in order for a notary to act, the notary must ?rst establish the identity of
the person before administering the oath in which the person swear or af?rms who they are. The
notary can establish identity in the manner set forth by law under MCL The

 

recklessly, without any knowledge of its truth and as a positive assertion; (4) that he made it with the intention that it
should be acted upon by plaintiff; (5) that plaintiff acted in reliance upon it; and (6) that he thereby suffered injury.
Each of these facts must be proved with a reasonable degree of certainty, and all of them must be found to exist; the
absence of any one of them is fatal to a recovery. U. S. Fidelity and Guaranty Co. v. Black 412 Mich. 99, 114, 313
77 (1981).

5 MCL 750.423 provides: (1) Any person authorized by a statute of this state to take an oath, or any person of whom
an oath is required by law, who willfully swears falsely in regard to any matter or thing respecting which the oath is
authorized or required is guilty of perjury, a felony punishable by imprisonment for not more than 15 years. (2)
Subsection (1) applies to a person who willfully makes a false declaration in a record that is signed by the person
and given under penalty of perjury. As used in this subsection: "Record" means information that is inscribed on a
tangible medium or that is stored in an electronic or other medium and is retrievable in perceivable form. 
"Signed" means the person did either of the following to authenticate or adopt the record: Executed or adopted a
tangible symbol. (ii) Attached to or logically associated with the record an electronic symbol, sound, or process.

6 LPD notes that at the time of this report LPD was unable to identify any HPTAP prosecutions on behalf of the city
by the Michigan Attorney General, the Wayne County Prosecutor, or the Law Department; however, policy
considerations are the province of the City Council to both reckon with and to decide.

7 MCL 55.285(6) provides: A notary public has satisfactory evidence that an individual is the individual whose
signature is on a record if that individual is any of the following: Personally known to the notary public. 
Identi?ed upon the oath or af?rmation of a credible witness personally known by the notary public and who
personally knows the individual. (0) Identi?ed on the basis of a current license, identi?cation card, or record issued
by a federal or state government that contains the individual?s photograph and signature. With regard to a notarial
act performed under section 26b, identi?ed and veri?ed through an identity proo?ng process or service that is part
of a remote electronic notarization platform approved under section 26b(1), and the person presents an identity

3

Coalition?s position is that the HPTAP identi?cation requirement veri?es both identity and
residency in requiring the production of a valid, govemment-issued photo ID with an address in
all instances, in addition to the production of tax returns and minor residency proofs. The
Coalition also indicates that the notarization is not necessary to prosecute applicants who make
false claims because the law has established misdemeanor penalties for such actions. MCL
211.120 provides misdemeanor penalties for anyone who intends to falsely or fraudulently obtain
or attempts to obtain an exemption; knowingly swears to or veri?es an af?davit with a false or
fraudulent statement with the intent to aid and abet or assist in the fraud being perpetrated. The
Coalition further believes the notarization is not necessary to signal to applicants the seriousness
of the undertaking and that by presenting a signing statement in bold and conspicuous letters with
the restatement of the penalties under law and a statement of the intent to prosecute, the message
will be sent. The Coalition?s memorandum is supported by the ACLU, Michigan Legal Services,
and other organizations that support its position. As indicated above, LPD can not dispute the
rationale offered by the Coalition in its memo.

If we can be of further assistance, please advise.

Attachment:

 

document described in subdivision (0) that is veri?ed through a credential analysis process or service that is part of a
remote electronic notarization platform approved under section 26b(1).

4

HPATAP ORDINANCE REPORT

 

 

 

FOR MARY SHEFFIELD
DETROIT CITY COUNCIL PRO TEM

Contents

THE NOTARIZATION REQUIREMENT 2
ii) Quicken Loans Community Fund 9
United Community Housing Coalition Michigan Legal Services 10
iv) DeiroitAciion Commonwealth 11'
v) Neighbors 13
Vi) CentralDerroii Christian 15

- ADJUNCTIVE ELIGHSILITY 16

I. REMOVING THE NOTARIZATION REQUIREMENT

MEMORANDUM

To: Hon. Mary Shef?eld
From: Coalition to End Unconstitutional Tax Foreclosures

Re: Notarization of the Homeowner Property Tax Assistance Program (HPTAP) Application
Date: October 10, 2018

 

QUESTION PRESENTED
Is the notary requirement necessary to prosecute individuals who provide false statements on the HPTAP
application or to otherwise deter individuals from making false statements?

SHORT ANSWER
No.

ANALYSIS

Notarimtion is not necesmn' to varifi' an applicant '3 Riemann

Unlike notarization, the ID requirement veri?es both identity and residency. For a notarial act,
a notary must establish a person?s identity before administering an oath. A person?s identity can be
established by: the notary?s personal knowledge of the person, (ii) an oath or af?rmation of a credible
witness known by the notary, presentation of a valid, government-issued photo identi?cation with
signature, or (iv) an identity proo?ng service that is a part of a remote electronic notarization platform.
See MCL A notary can, in addition to non-documentary proofs, accept non-address bearing
government~issued IDs, e.g. passports or alien registration cards (?green cards?) to establish identity.
Thus, notarization does not require the presentation and examination of government-issued photo ID with
an address.

 

 

In contrast, HPTAP requires the production of a valid, government-issued photo ID with an address in all
instances. To receive such an ID, an applicant must have proved both identity and residency by presenting
proofs to the issuing agency. Therefore, the requirement to present an ID with an address alone
satis?es the City?s dual goals of identity and residency veri?cation. Further, the other
documentation requirements?tax returns and minor residency proofs?provide further veri?cation of
both an individual?s identity and address.

Notnrimtinn is not traces-saw to prosecute applicants who main: ?113.: claims.

The General Property Tax Act has enforcement mechanisms for false or fraudulent claims.

MCL 211.120 provides up to four counts for each false or fraudulent statements in the HPTAP
application as well as the accompanying principal residency exemption application and property transfer
affidavit. The statute also provides for enforcement against anyone who aided or abetted in making the
false or fraudulent statements. Two of the counts are punishable by imprisonment of not more than one
year and punishable by a ?ne of not more than $5,000.00 or public service of not more than 1,500 hours,
or both; two are punishable by a ?ne of not more than $1,000.00 or public service of not more than 500
hours, or both.

MCL 211.120(3) establishes a count of perjury for a person who falsely or fraudulently ?swears to or
veri?es? an af?davit under MCL 211.7cc (principal residency exemption, which is necessary for the
HPTAP). A simple signing statement?e. g. certify, under penalty of perjury, that the statements made
in this application are true and correct.? ?is suf?cient to satisfy the oath requirement for a charge of
perjury. See People v. Thompson, 193 Mich. App 58 (1992), overruled on other grounds.

Norrtrizcttiort is no! to signer! to the seriousness oftite imo?ertm?cmg.

One perceived bene?t of notarization is that the oath signals to the applicant that they are undertaking a
serious act and they can be prosecuted if they lie. One study examined the practices of 220 notaries in 22
cities in New York and concluded that ?91.7 percent failed to administer an oath of any form.? See Alfred
E. Piombino, Notary Public Handbook 71 (1996) at xxii. Consequently, there are more effective ways of
communicating the seriousness of the undertaking. What we recommend is the above-mentioned signing
statement presented in hold, all caps, and enlarged font with a restatement of penalties under MCL
211.120, and a statement of intent to prosecute.

CONCLUSION

The requirement to notarize HPTAP applications should be removed because it does nothing to deter the
submission of fraudulent applications nor does it strengthen the City?s ability to prosecute bad actors. In a
follow up submission, we will provide af?davits from several community organizations who have been
leading efforts to enroll Detroit residents in HPTAP, which attest to the unnecessary hardship that
notarization places on applicants.

 

II. LETTERS OF SUPPORT
ACLU

   

 

sm- Humsqua?qn Gift-.9. Won Regional Of?51E Sulul 
'Jl Shh-'1: Pdcu1's {9543*}
.o - I :31' J33 17m 5133=13 Email a 
?1 -.. - -

Dumber 14. H.

Ham Mary ?hc?i-uld

Dmmit Cir.) (Tunnuil

?knwduurd :?ucnuu. Suite 
Ml =18:fo

Ry." [maul be. Ill-"1 
Illuua? (?L'Iulzuilu Shuf?ulul

been ask ed nt'hc-ls llh.? mmrj, rcquircmum ll?n: In
uppliualiun pawn burner for quali?ed .appliqamh. 5m; kmm? the .Vl??1.l ?when!
liar 51% em! )czum tu rcl'nrm lax prt?mrsh. Including litlgulmg the.
I: Sum-cu lawsuit. hich than :aunuucn

Alter speaking Mal?: largc ml." DL'lmit as. hi) warn: For 1h: pawn}
as well mun} Mu mules, ?hu- amm- (??73.16 mm: M31. mnrludml
mm min: Imlaln' ruquirurmm Foiled a Huh??mml EU accessing :1 ping-mm [hm muld haw
maul tlmusmudu .rx mull c: cnupleyu! :uul. il?
[hwy ?cm. hardly any N?llmn marked fur :m cumin) :lmt had :1 norm-j. ?mile. [Inluku man}:
L'umnmnilic?s? l'cu.? uf'thu uh-gihl: [Jetrv?il :1qu litml in near .1 bank ?am has {m
duly. The nmjmitu cal?cligmlc laclml In drlw: uhcrc Jhc; 
haw thuir ducumcms untamed, numbers lzyl?cllgi?nlc v. are und?v-r had
dhubilil?y and haul. In an area puhlw trumpi-r'eunun v- 43 slum

nhuut 2mm; inm ah: u: "m 
=cu5c. lib: panics awn- Jhk? to Lamar: remain-mum. fur snmuu. HUI. all clzgih-lc
curl" In 111:: now-r, xx :15 nmlr: l'u1' gutugurm ul'
pcuplu 1 1 Llh: chic: lg? n? 2t 13!: ptuamnll} .1sz: =1 tlmau Mann; ?huh,-
I: dul'liwl: 31g: the :Iq?ylliu; :mn Bulletin!" 11.1. m1: nl'n. Human-.1. nun Mm jnlu aim-1c
muld dung-nau- it]: Iliu' nutsry h} sump angmn; .1 
the .sl'pcrqujL," llzun 1h: rm] uranium inns-Ll .1 

1km user, ell-?1519 hmncuuxncr; when do nut till] cry: macgnrim L'th'llZV-L ithnut 
wmnm] ul'lhfux it nu mun-.2: hm. 5C1 urc lhcar hm} .an no. 111.19? lulu much ?If :1 Elm:
[?10th ruquu?i'l'ncm calms In 12's.. IN It: - ?all? Ihc f; 11} Itmul Mll: 
Hour-?3 rcxgulunwnl li-r :le ?Thumbs

Elk. Ix r-n: ?x .- In: Hwy: l' . HI: vl:_Lilalt?. - :Lu x-l I. Hull

.. .. .. .. . . - I 
llnH'at?st'l mum-:31 Lil: .la. l-I. 

Includw 'rlu: :upplugmrw sign?; mimic? "pct-uh} prunurfy-? Ilzc
ix guuhy (BIT: cum: 1hr 131;; Hm: flu.

in sham git um Ihc barman aha mil-M"; punch slur man} upphuanrs? uml,
gixcn {hut there in; Icgull rum?: to Jmpusc this. ruqmr?anunt. strum-5 } mppurt L's-niacin; 111::
[marry requirement 9. it]: a rcqujrcsucn: [?1.11 the nppiiuunt. 4itcsl to the m" the. stalmucms. in
1111: under permit? Q1 

I?lm?m l-L?Lri {Wt 111 ?min-M5 ?1?31.th In". 4115 quu?stwm

?9 cry {mi} 31mm.


n? - -


Michael 
.M?mliuzm fin] Lilwnwe I ?muu 
Woodirmrd 

Dx??l?nii. Michigan 45:10!



.. I. . I ..
"mu. pl. 

 

 

 

APPENDIX .-M

15 5.0 ION REQL 
BEHALSE Llli THEIR ME BE
IIE. HIRING 

-M i-Mpplimnls ?In! ?it: an their appliculiuni can be punctured fur puriur} under
Michigan lam.

Miuthigani IIW. mu types Ii] murtt-~ Much is
primwutcii under 756.422; and 1km! siLlthiQ? nt'wuri. xi incl: In pruwuuigui ?mm
?3541413. Pi-upi'ui Jemima, 4m .?s?wh 43-1; 2d 511"}. 52-1 4 1938) [Ii-1m .
dissenting] Prim? in 1. :1 Miami u. :15 um :JLJlilij- prjlii'} in animu-nf-cuiirl:
unlms he or 511.: men-Him?; Hindi: v.1 I. crhul mil: in [mm LIT .1 mmr). ur uilicr 
of?cial. As the Michigan Suprcmu Cuur: minim! in is com nl?u mun Min [1ch z:
?lisL? El?n?: applicaiiun, :1 dill nut rmju'rj. undcr MILK i. "it? 413 [Lax simply
higiting a statement a?'urniing 1h?: ai??nmng the ul'thu .ipplwutmu "under pundit? ul'
pa'tjury." Sm: hymn. Mic-Ii ill 355 minim-m1 wfilw 

The (?Ki-Mi L'iiurl caplwiil}? di?ti?ngiilxhud Michigan [acriurx statutc il?dcr'il hm
unit niIii-r mm: inure"I 11ml cxpiiuztl} ui'ir'nizmiitrii fills?: ?Minimum Higncil "lmdui' 
ui'pcrjury" an. ??t?i?Fu Ilimuwr. the cum-1 mphcilE} Iciigml that Eih.? cgirelicurc wuld
?x 113:: Fiszliilum 1A hit 111.: (?lth hl. apcuitying the mere signing <51? an application.
that tin: signing; is Lind-M tin: [icing-Incas of per-inf} . mmtiiums. the offense ut' pct?jm?y at


[n 2011- the." 'LCgi-siaiun: accepts} the imit.nmn 15m fi?mrms mutt h}
amending ,Mlt?fL 755113.423 thmugh PA 36? in :11: hlfi': angst, its mniiu ulmr

Lk' :mlimmud mull-n Huh: hm ml?; 31; (Lilli nr rcigi?iirud in gin 5n.
Mm {Lilian}. wuurx (ninth in :?uguni to. .311} 01' Ii?Iingi; rmruc?ug which lilu
pill3mm

FELL- Lilli Ji?l?l- a. Li LLhi 
makes :1 fats-c dcuhzmlinn in :i I'L?Cillfd that ii? siu?n-ud ?m Hm: anon under
nmha?ix?ms

[m EmiliuL :Jiilluf'JJ N1: .md .i
lib: ?mw L. i - liquid 

1-, In psi-7w?Iilull.ii'?1.111mm 1 SB t-M u; MM. carimtr 15. $1.122} JIJLIQLI
'1 he. hull v. us .1 ?umnpi?cIIJ-cHIM-j. .uncudmml" In 111.: MIL'l'nj;un P-thll L'udc m. a 
barred 1111?. min 11:12 the iw'lruun 111.1: 'mii .5
. -. 

prucuhlw If!) Wham .1 putt-ran Irving ur ?turn-21c or li?h: med Mum?s. uh.? must sign LI
gn-?NL! :aLc 131.? 
I.'.Ilh '4 

The mini: uf Hi I Mil-:11. Low maxim m-


in in} :lulhurmcd h} .1 ulflhin lu MM :11] math. any 
of xulmm an ni-mh hf: Em. Mm 9. Hill: shuns: :L?wig. in rugtrd in any
mucr ur thing which Eh?: oath 5.5 -luElz-zmzud m" {minted in gmlij, of

yummy. I'L'lma'; pumalmhlu fur nut mar: gums.

ILZI I .u'plhh Ia .11u'1'sixth-wzal! Itr'r. 1113-ch I a: u: 'l

 

 

9.11.3? :w ?f'jlcii Eh. :mmhh perm; Ex 11!.
?lm aulnwutlun
1m1uwmuiuu a: lliu'lf?ibgt! m: .l nmdultt?: ur
13m [5 sturud in an ul' mm' medium .?Lnd 1.1' rclricx-ub'iu in
pun": :shl?: l'urm
mam ihc pawn dul Cithcf w?'lhs: [:15 la? .JutJu-t'muulc
ur Adopt the 
liwcuicd p-r nun-rm! a ngJbIc 33.121le
1m .Kltuchud I31 Hr Liai?uwntcii 'n UPI 11h: Munnl an
ulcunwrm unit-11!, ~.nm1d prmruma

?sh \i?uil I. minim!)

[n olhcr ?unli. HIRELTT lhu L?Lil'i'fnl Humtc. 2m} 1?:an ['20 11's? i1] .1 which
nr Luluim? misc 2.121 math 1 in guiisi. est?purjurj. 
and takes. an mm 1 sign.? ?dcuknutmn? undur "?312 par-.4113. m'
In Huh-4min 

la): 11h; yrs?cm .L zv-Im-mty the. gum-J g?criqr} Io
2w- mr in connection .1113. H31: .m pm. rm] mm

?i?ll

Ehc rm"- 'r1jg, in": mun?urlI-m mum!? ?ght-.151. NH . MINI pm". him.

in; perv-Am 01111.: gm if. 

illfullg anicn: be E'inlf} u: .md an 

Fug-11m. mu [>21 mm: a: .1 are?. 

1 3  3 .l

Sun-1c smu- quu: pruhihils ?wearing" 1311:5213. Ul?; puma-rig Jpphuaium, 11ml
ml' thaw Mm 21.34.21 dcclurtnl-nn pundit: ul?
penur} 111; ?cu an mih lhuzau Mm declaratum um, H: mm- 1.3mm. arm
\xL?Il'lfu?g' l?c m1 :1 pm. m1} ?0:11pm" I'lmln: l'n rm Emma :n rlmi an
?ign in. Illc mun-mm! m? :1 Hour} busing plmtud under um um] mull:

B. tlu: extent the futlera? gm has; jurisdictiun tu pruwwiu applicants I'm"
false applications. nutnrilalion is not requiru? for such pmwcullun.

Numrunimn is mt ruquircd .?Lnr pmacuut?un under 5:1]qu perjury. lam; L?ndcr ES 
1 Hr). hen-cw. ur federal hm rcqujrca'm punnils ?1 mullur be suprxartcd by :suwm nuth, {he
by .1 urinatncm lungungc lhz'? ?ulL?DlC?t Is
nut-Jr under penalty ol?pvmiry 131*.th this In?. a who ?gure a thlnu under
penalty offacrjury 1:5 subject Ln tin: mm: perjury as; it?lu: ms mimic a vamm uzuh. 5w.
u' L-E . Fimmi'r?r??m (3'16 5. Huh. unlalrm?inr?l irru?c?vunl l1"
uhctlucr no! a cam he umicr Mk?'?i km- 1'i>r sL-Henlnt?n Hulda? in am
I applicminn

There z: quenimn at that 1H wmmnac
Mm hud an 1.584;} mm criminality; [disc meuugly and
??1thin nude: ?in any manur I'm: quLMI-an'mn whim ?maniac. I'cgim??utivc. ur pudlckul
brunch nt'thc uft'm.? [?lled Swim" Ham 2% cr. under ihm slut-um- ?jurisdiction" in:
ma: hm?cd m: narrow ur luchmcul "waning. . 811 mu 1' mm! Swim. US 64. 5
355+ i .Nnt?muat l'uiz-c mug-mm bu mad: dll'?illf- f'cdm! ugcnu} Full with?: 
jurimilulinnu Su? {Cum-Hf 1 ?mm; Sup? Mich. 1974i. zai'FJ willow. (3p.
Hun-n: I W75 9 mastiun Inqunsb Mtum dul?cndum
det?mudcd prugmm b3. a mammal mgm?mliun that ?45: in turn funded bf.
[11c 

The federal mum haw {mun-J prmcuulc perjury fur mud: an L1
sun: or urgnnimtium 111m cnmics arc fund-at! b3 the fudcrul 
Sac. H: ?mm; 1" Supp 1363; mm 5. [.ngv. 533 I?ld i330. IBM [1 ll HER. 5.
We are nut cundin hcihcr 111,; funding: nr uLhcr l'mdmElm- Um?. If": undur LN

it) Quicken Loans Community Fund

Quicken Loans Liaisons:

Community Fund 

To the Honorable Mary Sham-alt! Detroit Ciry Council P1 asident Pm Term.

The Quicken Lcats Comm unrw Fum recognize-1 the My of Dulroit?s Pr?perw
Tax Assistance Progmrn. as f: annual m4 tn me cell-Ewe work In mm [)9th
homeewners in main? homes. and an! of tax foreclosure We applaud recent ems-m to make
the amessibie to mom Detroit remnant;

Whiie impmvern rants to the- are: wefcmme? our experience suggests that 1310 need for.
applica?uns to be nmanzed remains a dlf?CUll hurdle jar many eligible applicanis am: the
inclusion cf are notarizaticn requirement warrants Purther cansideratinn

Since Gecamher of 2017;. the! Quicken Lnans Fund has sponsored workshops
amass Hermit where can 5e: he?p cumplemg their applacaiions Those
80 workshops have heiped than 1,230 Daron resujen 3

A1 each. workshop: we msurea a rim-Law Franc:- n: mzular'fzs. ccmpirJL-m HPTAP
appliualinns However. residents. at these are. massing a (luau-men: or
two then make their HPTAP- applisaticn and unabie to be noianzed

This crsalss an added step Residents return tr:- 3. the mum-mg month.
Had notary services at a bar-Ix. us-r go themes-m t0 have their anphcatisn 01
these opticns can cream addimaaf mus; hardsh?pi and reduce my. Iikelihcnni are.
otherwise e?gihte resides! is granmd a much needed HPTAP exemption

Since June 2018. 653 Detroit maiden-Es nave intended. Dumber: Lcens Cerrtun-?Iy Fund~
351 residqms completed; and naming?

appiicmigns wk. Na:- sre missing dmzun'uants that crammed notarization?

While every effmt IS made tn bring these residems back, tr: a swamp Horas; sew ass, 13.
is di?icslt {or residents. especiale rose experiencing cove: 1y. ta make, the irweslman: 
rim-1+" and rescuccs that is need-941m gs: back is a Wiles-41.3; Ice-anon. But for the
notarizauon requirement many :21 Ibex}: 'aru -- 
loame mew missing arguments, and immediate-[y
mai?: their HP appirtaticn

 

We 3?09"? th a1 this mfonnatior: is useful :has may as ycu can side: next megs.
regarding the rsquimrm?n?ts,
T'f? 1m: gcu.

lJ_.ra President of Quaker LCJSE Fund
. -- DI. Nsunuljlr-?urhzr I lelZ'IW Out?t-3n Lin-1:19 Famed
. 1 I. 
..

 



10

United Community Housing Coalition Michigan Legal Services

i i} .1.

. r.
$5!fo

?ve?

,1 LEGAL
A: SERVICES

Huh. l'uz? if. ii
Councii President Pro Mary Sheffiehi

an: ruin-L.I 2v Add our mic-.- pl?: gun'sJ 1.: runnzw the: 
Lin.- PM 1.1-. marl vumm Rpm-1: n: in: 

Hvuau?lg ("minim (l a Ind (11:53:; my? "Bcniccx? 

A5 30:1 Jamie?. 111.111 wcw? mom-:mds of [m mcm'c year um! an: 
appiimnun: each year :22: um dauntx. nah-1;, k: ?5mm ?can m: 311:1}? mum.- tjnc} cannon
?ch application: Uzcir (i umpiutiu; the I) .1 cimiicngc for our
of?ce in terms 0.7 ?ms and olher rennin.? V. hm had :?run: :ii'fm?iu'i on gm? In. mm. 3 Fr?!

KM: ?nd Hm nun) M?nur chant.? would luv-c fur pin-inns 1w.? 5 but did nut new?:
9.: ice! Ihan nplurimtinn in mm: than rudumh Thu izkclihwd that qtmi??cd Mli
succeed In hm. in; their cmnpuun gamma! Man; 1m? ?nu-emu residuum do no! ham .5 resource for
free Ihc most lmublmg smmim?m uncle .u an Iv.- arc the aims of
"101:: 1th incl?. 

We wish lu mak: 5pm.}! mm: ol'rhc 12w} In remcw rm.- nizunmrinn m: fut mnmui uzr
shim-form appircaticm. the} ruqmr: rm: Ihcrv .ar; wr) rare undcr cum-n: me.
but we ham: and expect for their use I: expand Jim-mar harms: lite} ?Host. a we for
seniors. uhn arc mm: Mei} Emu: :mhilug, mum I'm: the numrwuhum 9.0 be dilT-auit

W: not: that the 51.1w in? dire; nut requzrc n-?larwaimn :n [in Jpphuiiu 11. .md there mm mm} 0131c?


.res\umpticm waismuncni wqucun' Ur \?lhcr hunts

\k 1109-: [11.11 the m} 3mm: sun! warn-u: 32m rmpurmeM

(re-m tin: Hl'l AP fw Ihc futureUnited Cammuml?,? Housing 0:3an 3: Erhcr-{g-anw'v'hn'r .th ?Huff? . 

iv) Detroit/lotion Commonwealth

[mull: pt'mur axlvar'rlta Juana-:3. pic-Irma 

Octabnr 12? 20 la

Dam Cnu?ncll Pruuidcnl Tenl Slml?uld:

We are manners Ul Delmil Actim 2m mganlzallm of more than 5.1300
must of them haw-?mauve.

wag underslanrd and suppml the Lilly's; lu: make Sum mat. peuplla who apply a
propa?yllax are lmly eligibfa far It. Bu: llte Cily also has a ruspunaibility lo
make. sum Illal people who are eligible: for lhl: ener'npliur. elm. mat denied um: This. has been the
far gmalar pmblem ln 

Many [Julmil?-rs haw gallon lha pram-?y lax mempllon eligible for, in
part mt: proccas Is needlessly dif?cult, Thou-3:111:11; of haw:
Inst their flamers ta l?reclosulra :15 a res-mt. When lhal hamuns. it not only hunt; them. It
hurts rm ants?m and amine city.

The requ?runtent adds an unnecessary 51m In an already burdensome
prom-1353' Many? Michigan ultima- do rnqniru ll. Many law-incumw hrmmowrmm an: elderly,
disabled, or lack The? a hard enough time mmpitlng Hm mans-saw
ulcwmenls and mmplelil?lg the application helm the.- which often requlrrara them: 14::
lrav-ral l9 varlnus o?lces for ccmnilcarm Ihiss and ads as
'a barrier that res?lricls lo lhe 

Wu ask that the CH): of Detroit remove the nou?zallon from the HPTAP

 

 

application I17.)
., .1 ?it
'l ~ ll {__Lzlf - 
1" ?s I f-?r
(I _l a I-lrI 15[3'J-r? I'i'I?I??vllriiE 1 l-i'lLi'Ile'! irr?u?LIE, 
Iu' 

 
   
 

Twin 

'3in 
v) Neighbors Building Brightmoor

I II I I 

[h l' fuunn II If PM [I?m 5235 

I-Irymumn Int-nu II!lIli~ 55:41.5: mm! Hm: ~a rm Ian-nu I- I Hm: ulna: that?;
fin: I Irrtr-wl arr-uh; IIZIH II I I- aim

firm ~..5151? I

1.51% 
pnunmnl:mum-:1: I5 
Ln I Imam; ha mm: In?: In II In. I ~15mr mulch-mm 55ml I ?IyIIs-Imsn

1? 

Irc' .l I I II :52: 
I ILHIN ?2:51-4:55 If. I IIJJIH I-..- In 525. 3h 

. 

1
I
A

3'5'515 Imqu 
5- II I II vallyIr I. HM LII I, II HIT: Iinju
mums] IIZII MI :rnix I II 1555 rig-In I I. Ifr. LI ?rI I'lilna', His.? 

lml: Ilwirr-iri-?r? II 

3N5 I: I Lm lziI;L_u 5.?.ng Inn-13.: :Im? 55 M451: ?1.5m, 
- l- I

n: Iill' nm a: .?iI I :1 5w 

?unqjlu II IIEI.

-.. main 5~ 
MIMI:

'n I-II11 siIl -I I?Imrll In-n Inr =1 IIin I'irull

lefw Hill 5-: II 11"1l1l. .. an inn 
:i-wIJ. ant-1553154: -II I :th
Ln?m lIllHILII I II. 3 II HI lhi luau Iliu?hu: 

,uiul I'm. -L 

I?l: 

Lil - .. 1" II I;liI 53.. LI I II: . I IIllwl 

II. 'I'I'll --I LII-LI am I
55 min I .I. II: 55:15 -. nahv.15! I. II II {Kill 5.4Itil?Jll It I'rnIu Ia. . I.: 1 1: mm: r-I'Iw 1 II Imam
I

II

I alz-I nut. up 1hr i?ic .ulilm :Ir'i, ?lls?l'l I .Iungg. ?1 .?iiI II I II

t-szz .JII. Hum qu

ulnn'l I15: Lin 

 



I ?12;;th IHI 'mumn nun-?nIr. Hum; 13 ?Is? . IxrnItiI. I. .m HI In [Iran

.II ,1 rum 

I. LLIUIIHIlu??ull

II 

Hung-1L ~lull 

?u



I a. up, I554 .mu' I?.v 15:: I, 5. 

 

w) Central Detroit Christian

CENTRAL DETROIT CHRISTIAN

October 11,2018

Councilwoman Mary Sheffield
Detroit City Council

CAYMC

1 Woodwa_rd Avenue

Suite 1300

Detroit, MI 48226

RE: Notarization Burden
Dear Councilwoman Sheffield:

lam writing you as a housing counselor for Central Detroit Christian CDC who is actively involved in

helping families with their Property Tax Exemption applications. The requirement of the application of

needing a notary is cumbersome for the applicant. Banks typically have notary services available, but

many if not most-3ft: ur'cl'i'ents are not?banks! hie?and'th'erefo?r?ahnot 
- notary services require some type of fee and?that isa burden as we?ll." 

 

We solicit your help and request that you release the requirement of a notary on the Property Tax
Exemption form.

Thank you in advance,

Dottie Foster
Lead Housing Counselor



15

 ADJ UNCTIVE ELIGIBILITY

MEMORANDUM

To: Hon. Mary Shef?eld

From: Coalition to End Unconstitutional Tax Foreclosures
Re: Allowing Adj unctive Eligibility for HPTAP

Date: October 14, 2018

Currently, anyone applying for the Homeowners Property Tax Assistance Program (I-IPTAP) who was
not required to ?le a tax return must demonstrate income by providing supporting documentation. Since
the City?s settlement with the ACLU, non-tax ?ling applicants can demonstrate income by submitting
W23, Social Security Statements, or any other reasonable proofs. Besides accepting these proofs, the
Board of Review should also allow applicants to demonstrate their income eligibility by submitting
documentation showing current enrollment in any government program that has the same or lower income
requirements (for example, Medicaid or process known as adjtinctive eligibility. Adj unctive
eligibility is a common, well-accepted practice that bene?ts the Board of Review by relieving
administrative burden, and bene?ts applicants by allowing for a more streamlined application process.

Adjunctive Eligibility is Common Practice

The Board of Review would not be unique in allowing adj unctive eligibility for HPTAP. Adj unctive
eligibility was originally adopted to increase enrollment in children?s health insurance programs, but since
then the practice has expanded to many government programs.1 For example, in order to streamline the
application process and reduce administrative errors and costs, Congress established adjunctive eligibility
for the Women, Infants, and Children (WIC) program in 1989, which allows applicants to demonstrate
eligibility by showing participation in Medicaid, Food Stamps, or TANF.2 In addition, 42 CFR 435.120

persona;?
eligibility for Medicaid in most states.3 Michigan?s courts also use adjunctive eligibility. Speci?cally,
demonstrating receipt of public assistance entitles a defendant to a rebuttable presumption of indigency
for the purposes of appointed counsel in a criminal case under MCL 780.991 and MCR and for
a waiver of court cost and fees under MCL 600.8371 and MCR Finally, many utility
affordability programs?such as the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program or 
Customer Assistance Program through the Public Utility Commission?also use adjunctive eligibility in
their application process.4

 

Colton, R. A Program for the Detroit Water and Sewerage Department (D WSD) (Rep).
Retrieved from MT. 1. new l'suoniiuecmn donnlyads bye-:1: 2005 01 Detroit Hillielhp?', p. 8

3 [bid,? Carlson, S., Neuberger, Z., Rosenbaum, D. (2017, July 19). WIC Participation and Costs Are 
Retrieved liitnsri researeli'fond-assistance for a detailed
description of how adjunctive eligibility works in Michigan's WIC program, see Appendix A.

3 Colton, R. A Water A?ordability Program for the Detroit Water and Sewerage Department (D WSD) (Rep).
Retrieved from  _1_ttn' com Detroit Kim Elli; p. 8

4 [birt- Bene?tsgov. Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program. Retrieved from

lanalitm :2 lien. ILL {13?

 

 

16

Adjunctive Eligibility is Bene?cial for Applicants and the Board of Review

Clearly, adjunctive eligibility is bene?cial for the applicant. Instead of collecting and producing multiple
proofs of income, adjunctive eligibility would allow applicants to submit only one piece of
documentation, for example, a copy of proof of enrollment in Medicaid. Putting the applicant aside,

adj unctive eligibility has signi?cant administrative bene?ts for the Board of Review. As mentioned
above, other government agencies established adj unctive eligibility speci?cally to reduce errors and
relieve administrative burdens through decreased paperwork and lower resource expenditure on income
determination and fraud detection. This last point is particularly important for the Board of Review. By
of?oading income determination and oversight to the better resourced state or federal government, the
Board can focus its resources on determining eligibility and detecting fraud for the more unique and
challenging aspects of the application, such as con?rming home ownership and principle residency.

Conclusion

Given that adjunctive eligibility is a well-established and common governmental practice, and that it
creates signi?cant bene?ts for both applicants and the Board of Review, the City of Detroit should pass
legislation that establishes adjunctive eligibility for HPTAP.

 

17

APPENDIX A ADJUNCTIVE ELIGBILITY FOR MI-WIC

M14130 POLICY EIig?Iitu/Certi?cation

I?liimhiliiyf??cr??wtiun Mus: (in: {km 3 3*
1m Immune l?iligitmily

Ri?im?: Io .ifhm ndiunct.muuzmliu lair upplzualnlw
In 15.: ummau 

PUHIIW
J11: itwm'uc ulngiblc il.? {Ix-u} rum-.1: mu: uHhc :b?ukuuiuy

.1. Scrviccsn. 111-: 
MMINJJ
II-cullh'y Kids
151 Midfinhl
Mlaiunriig ?mutual; \hscizcal 
w. Michigan 
?ul Sum Only Ii . ?th11; ENE-53M). Mai l?sild-


Nut: [chucLEblc I: :15 I
Bcnuli'lciuncs ur-c lam adjunuuwlj. inmmc ciigiblc for ['hcu?
incumc mum: 2w med to: ?in: Edit} 

E?md l?rugrum Haw; Immi'iah .Suppimwnm Mm?rldn
Prune-rim 03? l" b'l-lmd Slurm?x. Fumd Dismhmim: I?rt??gruan In:
l'ng?nn I Thu: Fi?v-d 


Family hidcmsudumrc lu- T?wud} I 


 

 

 

I adjurcfn :12: ?11! Mum?: Min
Hcdimid Lhn'ntg ?nct' 
3? Applicant; an: dLUljlluth?L'li- ?Hume uligible H'lhcy an .t all: lltruil'y 11m luau-e
mm thu il?llm'n ing.
A ?1:14:11, waning Holy. mi
I?an l- 
13mm} 
4 uh; 13w 1 Mums-Int 1- um 

i~ 

til-f.

 

18

MI- EH 2222:: ibil' try/Certi?catian
22 2-2 I. 

8212?: . '2 
22 .M!.22.2.222i Elli 222222221

.2 JL

22. 2222'. 22222:: 22. H- 222' .?222'2'122': .222'- I'm-2253221:
I

2' 022.22 5222222: :2 29625222222 
I 2 52222222226222

222 232.2222: 

2 (222721115. 2'21 \2'32222 22.. 2221 22'" 2.2 2.232 22:222.:
12 lI2 2321213.: .2121F?2?f .2'.Ir 2122'

22: 2.222222 52212.2 3122122224. 22222222221222 2222222225
2522' 

2.222221} 2'1'222143222221l'i?'2' 22:2222?2222222.222222.- 22 2.2 ?.li2l'2. I.I 2' 2 222-. .. 2.II. 22222 222'222'2'2: 222222-2222: 
[222' 2222122]:
2'22 (321222512222? 

252:2.? 5

("12212122222 75222.22 22] ?2122922 222222 HIS 22222222222

2 22222 2' .2l2 2- 2.2122222 .22qu 2. 22". 2 222 .I2

22222I22l :2'lfI2"? 2'32 .I 2 2 2.16.22! .2. 2.2] 2222'.Ir 5L

22:221'I2'2z2 :22'22'rI2222IIr2l 2.22I 22I 32.2.22: 22 .2125; --2I.-.I 2. 222.2! 2222'

222 222.2 - 22:2

122? .

 

 

 

 

2222' I2 2.. 3222222. .222722': II. 222.2 2522.225: 2222::
2222?222222? 2:222' ?122-22222? 2222?. 2.2
fi. (iuidnm't?

I T222- 2121l2222I2?22; 9222222 222 All-12222:: .2221 22'. 2.2223222!? 22 2

I . ..2. 
II..I.

22222 12.2215.
22 2.22124.? 

222 .2222. 2? -. ?25' 2.2 2.2 HP

 

19

20

POLICY

Eligibility/Carti?cutian
.: 49:1!th guru-hm gm L13
\il .. 

L.



?mull-H [Iul'n-i-J: HI I pht'm' Mn! 

(nu-[1151.] fdl'i'] 1. I . - 
Hie-mu: merg "?51?le Eli Print Fi?-w?

ll." ?kuijunu'. Inn-rm: 

in'drcn 

I Hut) :1 DIN-1 llJLI?Jltn: a E'rl 1.14m: 

 

