M603 
Ulzo/W

TESTIMONIAL

RESOLUTIONS

AND SPECIAL
PRIVILEGE

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

RESOLVED,

 

DETROIT CITY COUNCIL esters-to ?Iii-t. (ll BX ?95 (Lari! 0m

In Memoriam

MRS. AVIS HOLMES

We, the members of the Detroit City Council. solemnly pause today to recognise and bestow homage upon the late, MRS. AVIS
SARAH ERNESTINE HOLMES, who made her heavenly transition on November 2. 2018. AVIS HOLMES was born on November
1, 1926 in Powhatan County, Virginia. She was the third of ?ve children born to the late 1v'oll Paul Green Sn, and Alice Virginia Dabney
Greene. Her siblings include Holman, Voll Jr., Patty (who preceded her in death} and her baby brother. Reuben. AVIS accepted Chrisr
at an early age and later became a dedicated member of Allen Temple AME Church. After her father?s death, the family moved to
Richmond, Virginia. AVIS attended Richmond Public Schools and graduated early at the age of sixteen. She met and married Andrew
James Burnette. From this union three children were born: Andrea, Fatty and Andrew It. In [951. the family relocated to Detroit,
Michigan, where AVIS worked several jobs. She was an amazing wife and mother. In spite of working full-time, she always cooked full
course meals for breakfast and dinner for her family. AVIS was an excellent cook and her cakes, pies and rolls were legendary. Her
doors were always open to visitors and once she accepted someone as a friend, they became part of the family. AVIS and Andrew
divorced in 1961; and

While campaigning for John F. Kennedy?s presidential bid, AVIS met David S. Holmes Jr., who was a member of the Michigan House
of Representatives. Later. David was elected as a State Senator. They were united in marriage in November [962. AVIS and David
embarked on many adventures together. including campaigning, attending political conventions and hosting an ?Annual Friends of
Holmes Scholarship Fund? for aspiring students. Their home on East Boston became the center of lavish parties. meetings and
fundraisers for the Democratic Party?s political elite, the Michigan Black Caucus (founded by Sen. Holmes), community groups and
members. The couple were an integral part of the Civil Rights Movement and participated in Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.?s Detroit March
in June 1963. With the help of her husband, MRS. HOLMES founded the Detroit Non-Pro?t Housing Corporation in 1971,
becoming its Executive Director. She also completed her B.A. in Political Science from Wayne State University in 1973. 
specialized in providing safe and affordable housing for people with low and moderate incomes. MRS. HOLMES was passionately
dedicated to securing HUD approved contracts for the citizens of Detroit. She was especially devoted to protecting senior citizen?s
legacy of home ownership in the North End community. was like another child to her. For many years, MRS. HOLMES kept
the agency a?oat out of her own pocket: nurturing and lighting for its goals until the age of ninety-one. She never retired. During those
decades of service, MRS. HOLMES trained and mentored dozens of people who continued her legacy in the housing industry; and

Words alone cannot describe the life that AVIS HOLMES lived. She was intellectually brilliant. well-traveled, and could converse on a
wide variety of subjects, especially politics and current events. In addition to being an incomparable mother to her own children, MRS.
HOLMES mothered her grandchildren, great-grandchildren and great-great grandchildren. She and her sister Patty, raised and took
guardianship of her grandsons Malik and Jimmie and her great-granddaughter, Khadijah. Often mistaken as twins, AVIS and Patty were
inseparable. As adults they lived together for forty- four years and every holiday was spent at the home they built together. There was
always room at the table for family and friends on any occasion. whether a holiday or not. MRS. AVIS HOLMES was the matriarch
and jewel of her family. She put her heart and soul into her family, the agency and serving the people of the North End
community and the City of Detroit. She is survived by her brother Reuben lGreene (Lillian); her children Andrea, Patty (Lester). Andrew
In. Marcia (Paul) and Patricia Ann: grandchildren Malik (Akilah). Jimmie (Tonya), Christopher (Raisa), Elizabeth. Alexis. Amari and
Amati: great-granchildren Khadijah, Sandra Ann, Gabriella, Moses, Emmah, Rosely, Zane and Kinsley, great-great-grandchildren
Gianna and Elizah; and a host of cousins, nieces. nephews and friends. MRS. AVIS HOLMES has ensured that her impact would be
forever embedded in the hearts of those she cherished for years to come. NOW, THEREFORE BE IT

That the Detroit City Council and office of Council President Brenda Jones, hereby joins with family and friends to honor the life
and legacy of MRS. AVIS HOLMES and thanks her for making a tremendous difference in countless lives.

hA-n.

 

5?,me


db
1
cou"

 

ogm?t PP: 134"

COUNCIL Milli

 

 

 

EMBE 

 

    

 

EMEEFI

No ?mber 17, 2018

DATE

 

