BUD GET,
FINANCE, AND
AUDIT STANDING

COMMITTEE -

David Whitaker, Esq.
Director

Irvin Corley, Jr.
Executive Policy Manager
Marcell R. Todd, Jr.
Senior City Planner
Janese Chapman

Deputy Director

ditty at Eettnit

CITY COUNCIL

LEGISLATIVE POLICY DIVISION
208 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, Michigan 48226
Phone: (313) 224-4946 Fax: (313) 224-4336
LaKisha Barclift, Esq.
M. Rory Bolger, AICP
Elizabeth Cabot, Esq.
Tasha Cowen
Richard Drumb
George Etheridge
Deborah Goldstein

TO: The Honorable City Council
FROM: David Whitaker, Direcmng/(f
Marcel] Todd, Director,? rig/Planning Commission

Legislative Policy Division Staff

DATE: January 11, 2019

Christopher Gulock, AICP
Derrick Headd

Marcel Hurt, Esq.

Kimani Jeffrey

Anne Marie Langan

Jamie Murphy

Kim Newby

Analine Powers, 
Jennifer Reinhardt
Sabrina Shockley

Thomas Stephens, Esq.
David Teeter

Theresa Thomas

Underwood

RE: CAPITAL AGENDA FISCAL YEARS 2019-20 THROUGH 2023-24

The Detroit City Charter, Sec, 8-202, requires the submission of a proposed Capital Agenda
for the next ?ve (5) ?scal years, on or before November 1 of each even numbered year. The

Capital Agenda shall state:

- All physical improvements, related studies and surveys, all permanent property,
and all equipment for any improvement that will be ?nanced during the next 5
years, in whole or in part from funds subject to control or appropriation by the City,
including information on the necessity for the improvements, property and

equipment;

a Capital expenditures planned for each of the next 5 ?scal years;

0 Estimated annual cost of operating the facilities to be constructed or acquired;

0 Amount and source of funding intended to be spent during each of the next 5 ?scal

years for each separate purpose, project, facility or other property;

0 Other information pertinent to the evaluation of the Capital Agenda.

The Honorable City Council
Capital Agenda, 2019-20 through FY 2023-24
January 11, 2019

Page 2

The Charter states that the City Council shall publish in at least one (1) daily newspaper
of general circulation, a general summary of the proposed capital agenda, indicating times and
places copies of the Capital Agenda are available for public inspection. The newspaper notice
shall also state the times and places, not less than 2 weeks after publication, for a public hearing
on the proposed Capital Agenda.

The City Council may delete projects from the proposed Capital Agenda; but Your
Honorable Body may not otherwise amend the capital agenda, as submitted, until the
recommendations of the Planning and Development Director have been requested; City
Council is not bound by the recommendations and may act without the recommendations if not
received within thirty (30) days from the date requested.

The City Council shall approve the 5-year Capital Agenda by March 1 of the following
year after its submission. If the City Council fails to take action by March 1, the proposed
Capital Agenda shall be deemed approved, as submitted.

The proposed Capital Agenda was submitted by the Mayor by November 1, 2018. It is
our recommendation the City Council adopt a resolution by January 22, 2019, with City
Council?s proposed changes to the Capital Agenda, and a request for recommendations from the
Planning and Development Director, as required. Noti?cations and a public hearing can be
scheduled in February. Following the 30 days required for Mr. Cox, to submit his
recommendations, City Council may take action to approve the Capital Agenda, with any
amendments, at the regular session of February 26, 2019.

A capital agenda is an important tool, used by local government, for planning major
infrastructure building projects, identifying the costs, and setting priorities for those projects.
The required project costs and the source of funding are important components of a capital
agenda, but the focus of a capital agenda should be on the projects themselves. A capital
agenda is an opportunity for the government leaders to provide a vision for the City, identify
projects that will attract investment, improve the operations of government, and generally
improve the quality of life for the citizens.

An effective capital agenda can be a used by investors/developers to identify areas of
expansion, assist a business owner on where to expand, communicate a vision and excitement
to citizens about the future of their neighborhoods and their city. A capital agenda can move a
city to the latest technology or even plan for technology to be developed. The capital agenda
needs to be based on solid ?nancial information and reality, but it is also an opportunity to
envision a city of the future.

The Honorable City Council
Capital Agenda, 2019-20 through FY 2023-24
January 11, 2019

Page 3

The proposed Capital Agenda for ?scal years 2020 through 2024 is a signi?cant
improvement from what is initially submitted two years ago. This proposed Agenda has
grouped departments under ?Capital Categories? that provide a more logical and holistic
perspective for projects in the different categories. Capital Categories include:

Housing and Economic Development
Open Spaces and Recreation

Health and Public Safety
Transportation

Government Infrastructure



In addition to identifying projects of the various City Departments, the proposed Agenda also
includes the ?Af?liated Entities? that are responsible for a signi?cant proportion of the
construction and rebuilding in the City. Af?liated entities include:

1. Detroit Building Authority

2. Detroit Economic Growth Corporation, including
Economic Development Corp. and Tax Authorities

Detroit Housing Commission

Detroit Land Bank Authority

Detroit Riverfront Conservancy

Wayne County Port Authority

99:55?

The proposed Capital Agenda provides much good information, however, it may also be
signi?cant for what is not included. These are projects or potential projects that City Council
may wish to question further.

1. The Airport does not include any long range projects or planning beyond the

$4,000,000 that was recently approved by City Council for the current ?scal year.

2. Transportation Department states the Central/Administration building is to be closed
within 5 years. There is no project identi?ed for a new administration building.

3. Charles Wright Museum does not include any projects beyond the 2019-20 ?scal
year.

4. Recreation does not include any planning for a new Recreation Center in District 4.

5. Recreation does not include any projects for improvements to the golf courses.

The Honorable City Council
Capital Agenda, 2019?20 through FY 2023-24
January 11, 2019

Page 4

On Thursday, January 10, 2019 the City Flaming Commission received a presentation of
the proposed Capital Agenda from Renee Short and Donnie Johnson of the Budget Department.
Also participating were Planning and Development Department Director, Maurice Cox, and Mr.
Corley and Mr. Teeter of LPD.

The Budget Department representatives provided valuable information regarding the
preparation of the proposed Capital Agenda the underlying organizational structure that has been
established to support the City?s capital improvement program. Consistent with the approach
inaugurated in 2016 with the last Capital Agenda, the Administration has develops committees
with subject matter experts corresponding to the categories to guide efforts thereunder. A staff
unit with the Budget department has also been established to provide ongoing management of the
program. This structure centralizes capital program management and provides for real-time
reporting and addressing of capitals needs and changing circumstance. The new capital program
also moves certain equipment, such as heavy machinery, vehicles, computers and other devices
from the City?s Operating budget to the capital budget for greater continuity and coordination of
agency needs and projects.

LPD and CPC staff note that these changes provide for a better system whereby to meet
and manage the City?s capital program. The system as it evolves also may need to be more
visionary, in our estimation, in order to address desires and aspirations along with necessities.
Staff also notes that while this new system is an improvement over past models, it is somewhat
divergent from the structure that appears to be anticipated by the City Charter. The Charter
seems to place the Planning and Development Department Director in a key position directing
and coordinating projects. The new systems shifts and shares that responsibility across the above
referenced committee structure. This is not a major problem as the divergence can be reconciled,
but it further highlights a preexisting need to update and revise the Charter language governing
the Capital Agenda.

This matter is to return before the CPC at its next meeting on Thursday, January 17th. A
report with the Commission?s recommendations will be generated and submitted thereafter.

@itm Eetroit 34

Emr cou NCII
COUNCIL PRESIDENT BRENDA JONES

MEMORANDUM
TO: David Whitaker, Director
Legislative Policy Division
FROM: Council President Brenda Jones 4506/
DATE: January 11, 2019
RE: Resolution Request 

 

Please draft resolutions in support of HB 4033 and HB 
4002.

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center 2 Woodward Avenue Suite 134-0 0 Detmit. Michigan 48226
(313) 224-1245 Fax (313) 224-4095



