2 Vu?a?i?ir?7


PLANNING AND
ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT
STANDING
COMMITTEE

3C9

OFFICE OF CONTRACTING
AND PROCUREMENT

January 8, 2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL:

The Purchasing Division of the Finance Department recommends a Contract with the
following ?rm(s) or person(s):

6000221 100% Federal Funding To Provide Project Management and/or
Construction Management Services. Contractor: Economic
Development Corporation of the City of Detroit Location: 500 Griswold
Ste. 2200, Detroit, MI 48226 Contract Period: July 29, 2016 through
December 31, 2019 Contract Increase: $0 Total Contract Amount:
$2,593,500.00. HOUSING AND REVITALIZATION (Amendment is
to Extend the Period of Performance from 3/31/18 to 12/31/19, No
Funding is being added.)

Respectfully submitted,

Boysie Jackson, Chief Procurement Of?cer
Of?ce of Contracting and Procurement

BY COUNCIL MEMBER TATE

RESOLVED, that Contract No. 6000221 referred to in the foregoing communication
dated January 8, 2019, be hereby and is approved.

3?1

(?iitp of Entruit
CITY COUNCIL

HISTORIC DESIGNATION ADVISORY BOARD
218 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center, Detroit, Michigan 48226
Phone: 313. 224.3487 Fax: 313. 224.4336
e-mail: historic@detroitmi.gov

January 9, 2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

RE: Petition #577: Third New Hope Baptist Church requesting that the intersection of Plymouth
Road and Steel Street be assigned the secondary street name Dr. Edward L. Branch.

The Historic Designation Advisory Board (HDAB) staff has reviewed the documentation submitted to the
City Clerk?s of?ce by the petitioner for the establishment of a Secondary Street Sign. Upon review of the
documentation submitted (see attachment) staff has determine that reasonable grounds has been provided
and therefore has concluded that the petition meets the criteria for Secondary Naming of Street in
accordance with Article VII Sections 50?7-31 through Sections 50-7-50 of the 1984 Detroit City Code.

Criteria

As stated in Chapter 50 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, Streets, Sidewalks and Other Public Places, Article
VII, Opening, Closing, Extending, Widening, Vacating, Naming and Renaming of Streets and Assigning
Secondary Names t0 Streets. A secondary street name designation may be sought to recognize a person
who achieved prominence as a result of his or her signi?cant, position, contributions to the City of Detroit,
State of Michigan, the United States of America, or the international community.

1. Sites, buildings, structures where cultural, social, spiritual, economic, political, architectural
history of the community, city, state or nation is particularly reflected or exempli?ed.

2. Sites, buildings, structures, which are identi?ed with historic personages or with important
events in the community, city, state or national history.

Staff is available to answer any questions and or concerns you may have.

Respectfully submitted,

anese Chapman, Deputy Director
Historic Designation Advisory Board
/Attachrnents

RESOLUTION

BY COUNCIL MEMBER

 

Resolved, That a public hearing will be held by the Detroit City Council Planning and
Economic Development Standing Committee in the Committee of the Whole Room, 13th
Floor of the Coleman A. Young Municipal Center on Thursday, 2019
at for the purpose of considering the petition of Joe Ann Walker, on
behalf of Third New Hope Baptist Church, requesting the secondary street name in honor
of Dr. Edward L. Branch in the area of Plymouth Road and Steel Street to ?Dr. Edward
L. Branch.?

titty of Entrnit

Janice M. Winfrey OFFICE OF THE CITY CLERK Caven West
City Clerk Deputy City Clerk/Ch ief of Staff

DEPARTMENTAL REFERENCE COMMUNICATION

Monday, November 05, 2018

To: The Department or Commission Listed Below

From. Janice Winfrey, Detroit City Clerk

 

The following petition is herewith referred to you for report and recommendation to the
City Council.

In accordance with that body's directive, kindly return the same with your report in duplicate
within four (4) weeks.

 

PUBLIC LIGHTING DEPARTMENT PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT
LEGISLATIVE POLICY DIVISION LAW DEPARTMENT
DPW - CITY ENGINEERING DIVISION

577 Third New Hope Baptist Church, request to a?ix a secondary street name in
honor of Dr. Edward L. Branch at the corner of Plymouth and Steel.

200 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center 0 Detroit, Michigan 48226-3400
(313) 224 3260 ?0 Fax (313) 224-1466

 

Uetition number:

City oi'Detroit

Secondary Street Sign Application

In order to honor people who have made signi?cant contribution to our community, the City of Detroit has
provided the opportunity for those to be honored on Secondary Street Signs per Ordinance Chapter 50,
Sections 50-7-21 tlu'ough Sections 50-7-50. The petitioner is required to complete the said application for
consideration ofereeting a Secondary Street Sign. Required documentation includes Z/ers of residents and
businesses within Jill) linear ft of the proposed signage are in approval and a written statement explaining the
significance of the honoree, along with a letter ol'concurrence from either the honoree?s surviving or living
descendants, if applicable. A Six-hundred sixty??ve dollar ($665) fee must be paid to the order of the City of
Detroit Treasurer prior to submission. ii' sign is approved, the petitioner will be required to pay two-hundred
dollars (5200) per sign to the Department of Public Works street fund prior to installation. Please return all

supporting documentation to the Of?ce oi'the Detroit City Clerk.

 

I. APPLICANT 

Please type or print information clearly:

lug? II. 

Contact name: 
. . . i 
Name oi the i. 
. . 
MailingAddress: l, 
I 

City/State/Zip Code: .1 

- - 
Film". 
Phone: @151 65:42" 2?11 L?i__w E-Maii: i (ii - .. .

lt' registered as a non-profit. please indicate your non-pro?t status identi?cation number and
attach a cop-x ol'll'c rte Non-pro?t identit'aclion


Willamegf)?: :le .H



PETITION FOR HONORARY SECONDARY STREET NAME

Detroit, MI

20 lg

TO THE HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL:

We, the undersigmg owners oi?the property within 300 linear feet ofthe below listed intersection
. 
. 

{i mg I It 



Location of Intersection

do respectfully petitioner your Honorable Body to af?x a secondary street name in honor of

Dr. Edward _Limeocch__

Nzime ot'llonnretimam/4m

 

- . . 5? I
SPONSORING PETITIONERJJ l. I Ll lxl: .

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(Name) (Address) (Phone No.)

Signature of Deed I Signature ofSp?ous; Jr _h?Atldres-s - _Thte
?older I Other Co?Owner

m? .22" .i "Ply MWw??3337? 
l?M x: some.

?05; qu?i SLIM MI (16357;? 
gym-9%? 

 

 

{_Ilgmou-r 

3 1" . 77?? ML aim; we

?m MGM (bell. SECONDARY STREET NAME
INFORMATION

What will the name on the Secondary Street Sign be?
__QLEoler?d a Bron 

Where will the Sign be located?

.
Li l-m'ki? _a



til .1

 

(Please list the intersection where the signs are being requested to be installed.)

Proposed installation (late of the Signpetition for a secondary street name shall hejilerl with the o?t'ee u't?the City Clerk not less than one hundred
eighty days prior to the proposer! date of installation of the secondary street .s'ienm.)

Purpose ol'Seeondary Street Sign?



(Please attached a written narrative describing the honoree who has achieved prominence as a result of his or
her .s?ignijiean, positive eontribatirms to the City of Detroit, State of .ilichiean, the United States of. lnteriea, or
the internatimml cotton unity.)

(0) Is this located on a Michigan State Trunk Line or Wayne County Road (See
attached for State Trunk Lines and Wayne County Roads)? 

CERTIFICATION

certify that the information contained in the foregoing application is true and correct to the
best oftny knowledge and beliefthat have read, understand and agree to abide by the rules and
regulations governing the proposed Secondary Street Sign. i understand that this application is
made subject to the rules and regulations as outlined in ordinance Chapter 50, Sections 50-7-2!
through Sections 50- 7-50. .lpplicant agrees to comply with all other requirements ol'the City,
County. State and any other applicable entity, which pertains to Secondary Street Signs.

'l'he undersigned applicantm agrees to abide by the provides set by the City ofDetroit and Sign

Ordinance.
?vi l,l . 1 

 

l?p/ieant Signature [Jury

1016l2018 Third New Hope Dr. Branch - Main Campus

Facobook Youtubo iTurros App Volurrlcor Horcl Calendar 

Third New Hope Baptist Church One Church . One Family . Multiple Locations

Home Pastor?s Books Pastors Prayer Requests Prayer Caiendnr 3 ire-arming e-Giving Heritage Center Membership

Dr. E. L. Branch, Senior Pastor
Sunday. Worship Times: . . 
Wednesday, BIbIeZLife (Bible Study): 7:00 PM

Main Campus: 12850 Plymouth Road, Detroit. MI 48227

Dr. Branch - Main Campus
Dr. Hatcher - West Campus

DPicture
Edward L. Branch is a native of Chicago iL. having served as Minister of Music for

the New Mt. Sinai Baptist Church through his teen years. He relocated to Detroit in
1975 and served the New Jemsalem Baptist Church as assistant pastor to Rev. Lawrence J.
London. then became associate minister of the New Bethel Baptist Church in 1976 under the late
Rev. C.L. Franklin. In 1977 he was called as pastor of the Third New Hope Baptist Church where
he has now served for forty years.

EDUCATION: Pastor Branch holds a Master of Arts degree and a Master of Divinity degree from
the Ashland Theological Seminary. In 2012 Ashland Seminary bestowed an honorary Doctor of
Divinity degree upon Pastor Branch in acknowledgement of his years of service as Adjunct
Professor and Advisory Board Member.

DENOMINATION SERVICE: Pastor Branch served as president of the Baptist. Missionary and
Educational Convention of Michigan (1996-2004). the Council of Baptist Pastors of Detroit and
Vicinity (1999-2001) and the Kingdom Building Pastors and People International (2002-2005). He
served as a member of the board of directors of the Sunday School Publishing Board of the
National Baptist Convention. USA. Inc. (2009-2014).

COMMUNITY SERVICE: Pastor Branch's community service began with the Detroit Compact, a
collection of community leaders working with the Detroit School Board. He joined the board of
Black Family Development in 1980; serving also on the board of Detroit Youth Foundation. United
Way of Southeastern Michigan. the Arts League of Michigan. and Crime Stoppers of Michigan.

Pastor Branch serves as a chaplain with the Wayne County Sheriff's Of?ce since 2013. While
functioning as an adjunct professor for Ashland Theological Seminary. Pastor Branch gave
leadership to the ATS-D Board of Advisors. He went on to become an Advisory Member of the
ATS Board of Trustees.

ADDITIONAL HIGHLIGHTS: Pastor Branch founded the Heritage Center for Religious Studies In
1986 on the main campus of Third New Hope Baptist Church. Pastor Branch's ministry has
reached more than twenty countries on ?ve continents. He boldly embraces Luke 4:18 as his
personal mission statement: "The Spirit of The Lord Is upon me for he has anointed me to preach
the His ministry is one of justice and iiberatr'on for all people. Pastor Branch is
committed to making the wounded whole.

Pastor Branch and Sister Lanell are celebrating more than forty-two years of marriage. They have
one daughter. Nikkiya. who Is an attorney.

DID YOU Pastor Branch is a Finisher in 14 Half-Marathons over the past six years and
wears a Brown Belt in Isshinryu Karate. He plays Piano, Organ and Guitar. Pastor Branch is also
an avid Golfer.

 
   
 

Pastor Branch and Lady Lanell

1 12

201 5-02-27 577

577 Petition of Third New Hope Baptist
Church, request to affix a secondary
street name in honor of Dr. Edward L.
Branch at the corner of Plymoth and
Steel.

 

REFERRED TO THE FOLLOWING 

PUBLIC LIGHTING DEPARTMENT PLANNING AND
DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT

LEGISLATIVE POLICY DIVISION LAW DEPARTMENT
DPW - CITY ENGINEERING DIVISION

QEitp at Eetrnit 3%

CITY COUNCIL

HISTORIC DESIGNATION ADVISORY BOARD
218 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center, Detroit, Michigan 48226
Phone: 313. 224.3487 Fax: 313. 224.4336
e-mail: historic@detroitmi. gov

January 9, 2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL:

RE: Council President Brenda Jones, requested that the intersection of East Jefferson Avenue and
St. Aubin Street be assigned the Secondary Street name Emanuel Steward in honor of legendary
boxer, trainer, commentator and 1963 National Golden Glove winner Emanuel Steward.

On July 14, 2017, Council President Brenda Jones directed the Historic Designation Advisory Board
(HDAB) staff to review documentation submitted to the City Clerk?s of?ce by the following petitioners:
Hilmer Kenty (WBA/Kronk 1St World Champion), Thomas Hearns (WBC, WBA, WBO, IBF World
Champion), Milton McCrory (WBC, NABF World Champion), Jimmie Paul (IBF, USBA World
Champion), Sylvia Steward-Williams (Kronk Boxing, CEO) and Marie Steward (wife) for the
establishment of a Secondary Street sign for Emanuel Steward.

Shortly after the submission of the request for a Secondary Street Sign, the original Kronk location
suffered a catastrophic ?re, resulting in the property being razed. It has taken until now for the petitioners
to agree on a suitable location for the requested secondary street sign given the honorees? extensive
history and multitude of contributions to the City of Detroit.

Emanuel Steward, celebrated as being the greatest boxing trainer of all time, took a small basement 
in Detroit and put it on the map as the place where champions were made. Detroit?s Kronk Recreation
Center is known world-wide as one of the greatest producers of world-class professional boxers. The
narrative began in the 1971 when Emanuel Steward was asked to work part-time at Kronk with the
boxing program. Emanuel Steward along with Floyd Logan and Walter Smith established the Kronk
Boxing Club and began training Golden Gloves boxers out of the Kronk inside a city-owned
recreation center located on McGraw at Junction. Soon promising boxers from all over the city were
making their way to Kronk, wanting to be trained by ?the best,? Emanuel Steward.

By the 1980s, Emanuel Steward and his team had built the Kronk Boxing Team into a world powerhouse,
mystifying boxing experts worldwide who marvel at the Detroit club?s accomplishments. Steward trained
more than 50 amateur champions, over 120 titles, three Olympic gold medalists and ?ve World
Champions.

In 1981 Steward was featured in People Magazine, concerning the Hearns and Leonard September 16,
1981 ?ght. In 1987 Steward appeared on the front cover of the Wall Street Journal representing Detroit
in Sports; and in 1996 he was inducted into the International Hall of Fame. A year later in 1997, Steward
was featured in the September 15th issues of Sport Illustrated in an article entitled; ?Mr. Fix It Emanuel
Steward Boxing?s Guru, has created a Mecca for Fighters In Need Of Repair.?

In addition to being recognized as a boxing guru and trainer of champions? Steward was also an
entrepreneur and venture capitalist. The 1940 Chop House originally under the management of longtime
restaurateur Don Vargo who owned and ran this popular restaurant through the 1980s on East Jefferson
Avenue, ultimately closed and sold this iconic landmark to former boxing manager Emanuel Steward in
1993 after an attempt to boost sales by hiring scantily clad wait staff failed. During the reopening of this
mainstay restaurant Steward ensured that Detroiter?s were hired to operate and manage the facility.

Emanual Steward became a Boxing Commentator for the HBO Network until his passing October 25,
2012.

Upon review of the documentation submitted by the petitioners, staff has concluded that the petition does
meet the criteria for Secondary Naming of Street in accordance with Article VII Sections 50?7-31 through
Sections 50-7-50 of the 1984 Detroit City Code.

Criteria

As stated in Chapter 50 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, Streets, Sidewalks and Other Public Places,
Article VII, Opening, closing, Extending, Widening, Vacating, Naming and Renaming 0f Streets and
Assigning Secondary Names t0 Streets. A secondary street name designation may be sought to recognize
a person who achieved prominence as a result of his or her significant, position, contributions to the City
of Detroit, State of Michigan, the United States of America, or the international community.

1. Sites, buildings, structures where cultural, social, spiritual, economic, political, architectural
history of the community, city, state or nation is particularly re?ected or exempli?ed.

2. Sites, buildings, structures, which are identi?ed with historic personages or with important
events in the community, city, state or national history.

Attached for you review and consideration is a resolution which will authorize the establishment of a
Secondary Street Name in honor of Emanual Stewart upon the conclusion of a favorable public hearing,
which must be held in accordance with Section 50-7-35 of the Detroit City Code.

Staff is available to answer any questions you may have.

Respectfully submitted,

anese Chapman, Deputy Director
Historic Designation Advisory Board

RESOLUTION

BY COUNCIL MEMBER

 

Resolved, That a public hearing will be held by the Detroit City Council Planning and
Economic Development Standing Committee in the Committee of the Whole Room, 13th
Floor of the Coleman A. Young Municipal Center on Thursday, 2019
at for the purpose of considering the petition of Hilmer Kenty
(WBA/Kronk 1St World Champion), Thomas Heams (WEBC, WBA, WBO, IBF World
Champion), Milton McCrory (WBC, NABF World Champion), Jimmie Paul (IBF, USBA
World Champion), Sylvia Steward-Williams (Kronk Boxing, CEO) and Marie Steward,
requesting the secondary street name in honor of Emanuel Steward in the area of E.
Jefferson Avenue and St. Aubin Street to ?Emanuel Steward Blvd.?

LPD Staff Assignment

. - Date: '7l [Bl ?7
pf 1391?? Assigned To: Gearc?r 
cm COUNCIL 

Cnucu I?Rtsn?av?r Baum 11 MD

 

MEMORANDUM

TO: David Whitaker, 
Legislative Policy Division

FROM: Council President Brenda Jones

DATE: July 14, 2017

RE: Secondary Street Name Request

 

lam requesting that the intersection at 33"d and McGraw be assigned the street name
"Emmanuel Steward Way" in honor of legendary boxer Emmanuel Steward.

Cs?lcman A 1 Ion.- Munmral x-Jumd Anna: 3w.- H-k Dun Slithiam Julio
21-5 Lu i1]; 11-94%?


. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Dear Honorable Council President Brenda Jon es and the Honorable Detroit City Counci .

Historical events are recorded and celebrated often times by the sheer w: l of a sing indivduai This
individual changed the future tor a multitude of people who could not do so for themselves. One such man.
Emanuel Steward. let his desire and determination guide his j0urney to legendary status Mr Steward not
only gave his gift of will to the City of Detroit. he also gave Detroit four World Champions .Thomas Hearns.
Hilmer Kenty. Milton McCrory and Jimmy Paul and laid the foundation not any for himself. but tor the many
he trained to believe in themselves and their incredible abilities.

He loved Detroit. and help placed Detroit on the map when it pertains to bOXlng

. 1955 Eddie Jenkins represented Detroit by winning the National Golden Glove. after that we not
have anyone representing Detroit until 1963 thats when Emanuel Steward won the Nationai Golden Gloves
and continued his life oi lame

CITY OF DETROIT

2 WOODWAFID AVENUE
SUITE 1126

DETROIT. MI 48226

1971 He was asked to work part-time at Kronk Recreation Center with their boxing program
- In 1980 Hilmer Kenty was his ?rst Champion under Kronk

- In the 80's he had developed 5 World Champions from Detroit and 4 ct them are here today One of the
Greatest is Thomas Hearns.

1980's Emanuel trained gold medals Olympics under Kronk representing Detrort.

1981 Emanuel was leatured in People Magazine: About the Hearns and Leonard upcoming light
- 1987 Emanuel was on the front cover ofWali Street Journal representing Detrort in sports

- 1996 International Hall ot? Fame

He trained 3 champions on Marx Street in Detroit. Milton McCrory. Steven McCrory and Jimmie Paul
Around the cornerlrom Marx street. he produced anotherWorld Champion Duane Thomas

0 Sep 15, 1997 Sports Illustrated Mr Fix IT Emanue" Steward Boxing's Guru. has created a Mecca for
Fighters In Need Of Repair.

2001 HBO Commentator until his passing.

Noted as being the greatest boxing trainer of all time. Emanuel Steward took a small basement based
in Detroit and put it on the map. The Kronk Boxing is now hailed as the most champion producing
in the world He trained over 45 World Champ one He built Kronk into a International name 
continues on today For all of his accomplishments Frank Graza presented Emanuel wife with a WHO belt,
which has Emanuei's photo on it. Marie unsel?shly contanues to keep the open Monday through Friday

Mr. Steward was inducted into the Sports Hall of Fame Detrot where his portrait hung along srde many

See Beck

9520 Mettzecal - Detro t, ch gee: 48227

 

 



 

 

 

 

 

12? Hwy?,

I 11 

 

 

 



 

 

 

David Whitaker, Esq. 01:11:? at 

Director
CITY COUNCIL
Marcell R. Todd, Jr. LEGISLATIVE POLICY DIVISION
Senior City Planner 208 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
JDanese gl?apma? Detroit, Michigan 48226

Phone: (313) 224-4946 Fax: (313) 224-4336

LaKisha Barclift, Esq.

M. Rory Bolger, AICP
Elizabeth Cabot, Esq.

Tasha Cowen

Richard Drumb

George Etheridge

Deborah Goldstein

TO: The Honorable Detroit

 
   

FROM: David Whitaker, Directo
Legislative Policy Divi 0

DATE: January 8, 2019

39

Christopher Gulock, AICP
Derrick Headd

Marcel Hurt, Esq.

Kimani Jeffrey

Anne Marie Langan

Jamie Murphy

Kim Newby

Analine Powers, 
Jennifer Reinhardt
Sabrina Shockley

Thomas Stephens, Esq.
David Teeter

Theresa Thomas

Underwood

RE: Report on Senate Bill 110 of 2018 amending Public Act 226 of 1988

The Legislative Policy Division (LPD) has received a request from Council President Pro-Tem
Mary Shef?eld to draft an amendment to the Inclusionary Housing Ordinance to include the
receipt of tax abatements as a trigger for the affordable housing requirements set forth in the
current ordinance. LPD has attached a copy of the draft amendment for submission to the Law
Department for review and approval as to form. In addition, the President Pro-Tem also requested
that LPD report on the effects of the recent action by the Michigan Legislature?s amendment to
Public Act 226 of 1988 and how it relates to the City of Detroit?s ability to pursue a rent control
ordinance that ?would limit rent increases and the amount of rent charged by entities receiving
voluntary public incentives?.

The Inclusionary Ordinance provides a plan to increase affordable rental residential units for the
leased private property effected by its provisions. Ms. Shef?eld?s proposed amendment to the
ordinance provides that a for lease private property owner/developer may voluntarily agree to
accept tax credits, incentives or abatements in exchange for limiting the amount charged for rent.
The newly passed amended statute would allow for the proposed ordinance amendment. It would
not run afoul of the prohibition against controlling rents set forth in Subsection (2).

The Senate Bill 110 of 2018 in question amends Public Act 226 of 1988, Leasing of Private
Residential Property, MCL 123.411, which provides as amended:

Sec. 1.
(1) As used in this section, ?local governmental 'uIrW?means a political subdivision
of this state including, but not limited to, a county, city, village, or township,

if the political subdivision provides local government services for residents in
a geographically limited area of this state as its primary purpose and has the
power to act primarily on behalf of that area.

(2) Subieet te Subsections (3) and a local governmental unit shall not enact,
maintain, or enforce an ordinance or resolution that would have the effect of
controlling the amount of rent charged for leasing private residential property.
(Emphasis added)1

(3) This section does not impair the right of any local governmental unit to manage
and control residential property in which the local governmental unit has a
property interest.2

(4) This section does not limit the power of a local governmental unit to adopt an
ordinance or resolution to implement a plan to use veluntarv incentives and
agreements to increase the supply of moderate er lew-eost private residential
available for lease. (Emphasis added)3

The main thrust of the statute is set forth in Subsection (2). The provision prohibits governmental
units such as the City of Detroit (City) from taking actions that ?would have the effect of
controlling the amount of rent charged for leasing private residential property?. The exception to
that rule is provided in Subsection (3) and (4). Subsection (3) allows a governmental unit to
manage and control residential property in which it has a legal property interest, in essence, the
City has the right to manage the rents of property it has legal control over.

Subsection (4) is the newly added exception to the general prohibition of controlling rents of
privately leased residential property. This provision allows the City to adopt an ordinance or
resolution that implements a plan designed to increase the supply of moderate ?or low-cost
(affordable) private residential property available for lease. The exception is allowed in cases
where the ordinance or resolution provides for a private property owner to voluntarily undertake
an incentive or agreement in exchange for providing moderate- or low-cost private residential
property available for lease. The newly added section to the statute allows for the City to include
in the Inclusionary Housing Ordinance, the receipt of tax incentives, credits or abatements as
voluntary incentives utilized to increase the supply of affordable housing in the Detroit.

 

1 The statute was amended by making the general prohibition of governmental units passing an ordinance or
resolution subject to subsections (3) and (4).

2 The statute originally contained subsection (3) which was a part of subsection (2). Under the current Inclusionary
Housing Ordinance, Tier 1 and Tier 2 Qualifying Transactions were triggered by the City providing real property it
owned for less than the true cash value or direct monetary support of at least $500,000. Both methods of support
would give the City a property interest which would provide the City the ability to regulate rents without violating
the statute.

3 Subsection (4) was added and gives governmental units the ability to control rent as part of a designed plan to
increase the supply of moderate-or low-cost residential leased units when voluntary incentives are provided. The
City?s Inclusionary Housing Ordinance is a designed plan to increase the number of affordable (moderate-or low-
cost residential) leased units. However, the original ordinance could not include voluntary incentives such as tax
credits, incentives or abatements as a basis for controlling rent. The amended statute would allow the ordinance to
include such public assistance.

Except as set forth in Subsections (3) and (4) of the statute, the City cannot pass any
ordinance or resolution that has the effect of controlling the amount of rent charged for
leasing private residential property. That prohibition is still in effect. LPD notes the
amendment provides that the provisions will take effect 90 days after it is enacted into
law. It was signed by the Governor on December 28, 2018.

If we can be of further assistance please call upon us.

SUMMARY

AN ORDINANCE to amend Chapter 14 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, Community
Development; by amending Article XII, Inclusionary Housing Requirements, Sections 14-12-2
De?nitions; to provide for the term Qualified Transaction to include ?nancial assistance provided

by the City of Detroit in the form of tax credits, incentives or abatements for the development of

residential housing units.

COUNCIL MEMBER

 

AN ORDINANCE to amend Chapter 14 of the 1984 Detroit City Code,
Community Development; by amending Article XII, Inclusionary Housing Requirements,
Sections 14-12-2 De?nitions; to provide for the term Qualified Transaction to include means of
assistance provided by the City of Detroit in the form of tax credits, incentives or abatements for

the development of residential housing units.

IT IS HEREBY ORDAINED BY THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF DETROIT

THAT:

Section 1. Chapter 14 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, Community Development,

Article XII, Inclusionary Housing Requirements, Section 14-12-2 De?nitions; to read as follows:

Sec. 14-12-2. Definitions.

For purposes of this article, the following words and phrases shall have the meaning
respectively ascribed to them by this section:

Affordable means, as generally de?ned by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development, housing for which the occupants are paying no more than 30% of their income for
gross housing costs, including utilities.

Area Median Income (AMI) means the median family income for the Detroit-Warren?
Livonia Metropolitan Statistical Area, as published by the U.S. Bureau of Census and the U.S.
Department of Housing and Urban Development.

Consumer Price Index or CP/means the United States Department of Labor Bureau of
Labor Statistics Consumer Price Index for all Urban Consumers for the Detroit metropolitan

area, or some other comparable index stated in the guidelines established by the department in

2

accordance with Section 14-12?9.

Department means the housing and revitalization department.

Developer means the legal or bene?cial owner or the representative thereof, of a parcel of
land proposed for inclusion in a development, including the holder of an option or contract to
purchase. The developer performs the functions necessary to obtain land control and ?nancing to
construct or rehabilitate a property and expects to assume the risks and rewards upon completion
of the project. For purposes of this article, developer does not include a governmental entity or a
commercial lending institution other than a commercial lending institution af?liated with the
developer.

Development or develop means the division of a parcel of land into two or more parcels:
the construction, reconstruction, conversion, structural alteration, relocation, or enlargement of
any residential buildings: any use or change in use of any buildings or land: any extension of any
use of land or any clearing, grading, excavation or other movement of land, for which permission
may be required pursuant to the City of Detroit zoning ordinance.

Dwelling means a building or portion of it designed for or occupied in whole or in part as
the home, residence, or sleeping place of one or more individuals, either continuously,
permanently, temporarily, or transiently. Dwelling does not include a hotel, motel, bed and
breakfast, hostel, or 15 other lodging facilities.

Dwelling unit means a building or portion of it designed and used for residential
occupancy by a single household and that includes exclusive sleeping, cooking, eating and
sanitation facilities.

Eligibility criteria means, with respect to rental housing, at the time of the ?rst rental or

any subsequent lease renewals or extensions, 20% of the dwelling units required to be affordable

households earning up to 80% of the AMI.

Fund means the Detroit Affordable Housing Development and Preservation Fund
established under Sec. 14-12-7.

Qualz??zing transaction means any of the following:

(1) Type 1 - The sale or transfer of City-owned real property at less than true cash value
which is intended to be developed for a residential housing project: or

(2) Type 2 - Direct monetary support from the City of at least $500,000, adjusted
annually based on changes in the CPI, for a residential housing project; antlior ?nancial
assistance provided by the City in the form of a voluntarv tax credit. incentive or
abatement for the development of residential housing units that will include affordable
housing units: or

(3) Type 3 - Commitment of Community Development Block Grant funds of the US.
Department of Housing and Urban Development controlled by the City of at least $500,000,
adjusted annually based on changes in the CPI, for a residential housing project: or

(4) Type 4 - Commitment of HOME Investment Partnership Program funds of the US.
Department of Housing and Urban Development controlled by the City of at least $500,000,
adjusted annually based on changes in the CPI, for a residential housing project: or

(5) Type 5 - Commitment of funds of at least $500,000, through an as yet unidenti?ed
State of Michigan or Federal housing development program.

Residential housing project means one or more buildings that collectively contain at least
16 dwelling units offered for rent on one or more tax parcels or lots marketed as a single or
unified project or sharing common elements. This includes, but is not limited to, dwelling units

within a mixed use development or in a planned development district as set forth in the City of

Detroit zoning ordinance.

Section 2. All ordinances or parts of ordinances in con?ict with this ordinance are
repealed.

Section 3. This ordinance is declared necessary for the preservation of the public
peace, health, safety, and welfare of the people of the City of Detroit.

Section 4. If this ordinance is passed by a two-thirds majority of City Council
members serving, it shall be given immediate effect and shall become effective upon
publication in accordance with Section 4-118 of the 2012 Detroit City Charter; if passed
by less than a two-thirds majority of City Council members serving, it shall become
effective no later than thirty (30) days after publication in accordance with Section 4-118
of the 2012 Detroit City Charter; if this ordinance specifies a certain date to become
effective, it shall become effective in accordance with the date

Approved as to form:

 

Lawrence T. Garcia
Corporation Counsel

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE SUITE 808
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

(313) 224-1339 - 
CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224-1310
PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT 

January 4, 2019

Detroit City Council
1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, MI 48226

RE: Sale of Real Property at 2621 S. Fort
Honorable City Council:

The City of Detroit Planning and Development Department has received an offer
from Peter Moore (?Offeror?) requesting the conveyance by the City of Detroit of real preperty
having a street address of 2621 S. Fort, Detroit, MI 48217 (the ?Property?). The Property
consists of a 725 square foot garage located on an area of land measuring approximately 1132
square feet and zoned B4 (General Business District).

entered into a Purchase Agreement dated September 27, 2018 with the Offeror. Under the
terms of the Purchase Agreement, the Property would be conveyed to the Offeror by Quit Claim
Deed (the ?Deed?) for One Thousand Seven Hundred Fifty and 00/100 Dollars (the
?Purchase Price?).

The Offeror proposes to utilize the garage as storage for his adjacent thrift shop located at 2625
S. Fort. This use is permitted by right in a B4 zone.

We, therefore, request that your Honorable Body approve the sale and authorize the Director of
the Flaming and Development Department, or his authorized designee, to issue a quit claim deed
to the Property and such other documents as may be necessary to effectuate the sale, with

Peter Moore for the amount of $1,750.00.

Res -t?:li Submitted,

aurice Cox
Director
Flaming Development Department

 
    




.4
Stephanie Washington, Mayor?s Of?ce

 

By Council Member

 

WHEREAS, The City of Detroit Planning and Development Department has
received an offer from Peter Moore (?Offeror?) requesting the conveyance by the City of Detroit
of real property (the ?Property?) at 2621 S. Fort more particularly described in the attached

Exhibit and

WHEREAS, the Property consists of a small garage situated on an area of land
measuring approximately 1132 square feet located in a B4 (General Business) district; and

WHEREAS, entered into a Purchase Agreement dated September 27, 2018
with Offeror. The Offeror proposes to utilize the garage as storage for his adjacent thrift shop
located at 2625 S. Fort, which is permitted by right in a B4 zone;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that in accordance with the Offer to
Purchase and the foregoing communication, the Director of the Flaming and Development
Department or his authorized designee, be and is hereby authorized to issue a quit claim deed to
the Property, as more particularly described in the attached Exhibit A, and such other documents
as may be necessary to effectuate the sale with Peter Moore for the amount of One Thousand
Seven Hundred Fifty and 00/100 Dollars and be it further

RESOLVED, that customary closing costs up to One Hundred and Ten Dollars
($110.00) and broker commissions of Eighty Seven and 50/100 Dollars ($87.50) be paid from
the sales proceeds under the City?s contract with the Detroit Building Authority; and be it further

RESOLVED, that a transaction fee of One Hundred Five and 00/100 Dollars
($105.00) be paid to the Detroit Building Authority pursuant to its contract with the City; and be
it further

RESOLVED, that the Director of the Planning and Development Department, or his
authorized designee, be and is hereby authorized to execute any required instruments to make or
incorporate technical amendments or changes to the deed and such other documents as may be
necessary to effectuate the sale (including but not limited to corrections to or con?rmations of
legal descriptions, or timing of tender of possession of particular parcels) in the event that
changes are required to correct minor inaccuracies or are required due to unforeseen
circumstances or technical matters that may arise prior to the conveyance of the Property,
provided that the changes do not materially alter the substance or terms of the transfer and sale;

and be it ?nally;

RESOLVED, that the deed and such other documents necessary to effectuate the sale,
will be considered con?rmed when signed and executed by the Director of the Flaming and
Development Department, or his authorized designee, and approved by Corporation Counsel as
to form.

EXHIBIT A

LAND IN THE CITY OF DETROIT COUNTY OF WAYNE AND STATE OF MICHIGAN
BEING FORT PART OF LOTS 82 83 DESC AS BEGINNING AT A POINT DIST 20.65
FT SOUTHWESTERLY ALONG LINE FORT ST 204 FT WIDE 27.57 FT
SOUTHEASTERLY TO A POINT BEING 20.49 FT SOUTHWESTERLY OF EASTERLY
LINE SAID LOT 82 THENCE CONTINUING SOUTHEASTERLY 62.32 FT TO A POINT IN
SOUUTHERLY LINE SAID LOT 82 BEING 20.14 FT SOUTHWESTERLY OF
SOUTHEASTERLY CORNER SAID LOT 82 THENCE SOUTHWESTERLY 20.38 FT
ALONG SOUTHERLY LINE SAID LOTS 82 83 THENCE NORTHWESTERLY 27.80 FT
TO A POINT BEING 19.50 FT NORTHEASTERLY OF WESTERLY LINE SAID LOT 83
THENCE AT RIGHT ANGLE NORTHEASTERLY 8.50 FT THENCE NORTHWESTERLY
9.95 FT TO A POINT BEING 28.05 FT NORTHERLY OF WESTERELY LINE SAID LOT
83 THENCE AT RIGHT ANGLE SOUTHWESTERLY 2.70 FT THENCE AT RIGHT ANGLE
NORTHWESTERLY 7.50 FT THENACE AT RIGHT ANGLE SOUTHWESTERLY 5.70 FT
THENCE NORTHWESTERL 18.18 FT TO A POINT BEING 19.53 FT NORTHERLY OF
WESTERLY LINE SAID LOT 83 THENCE NORTHERLY 13.98 FT TO A POINT BEING
27.57 FT SOUTHERLY OF SOUTHERLY LINE FORT ST THENCE NORTHERLY
PARALLEL TO SOUTHERLY LINE FORT ST 6 FT TO POINT OF BEGINNING HARRAHS
FORT ST SUB L30 P53 PLATS, 20/424 19.98 IRREG

2621 S. FORT
WARD 20 ITEM 015057.001

DESCRIPTION CORRECT
ENGINEER OF SURVEYS





45:-

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE SUITE 808

 


DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226
(313) 224-1339 - 
CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224-1310
PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT 
November 26, 2018
Detroit City Council

1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, MI 48226

RE: Sale of Real Property at 15919 Petoskey

Honorable City Council:

The City Of Detroit Flaming and Development Department is in receipt of an offer
from Carolann Lanetta Sanders (?Offeror?) to purchase the above captioned property, 15919
Petoskey (the ?Property?), for the amount of One Thousand Eight Hundred and 00/100 Dollars

(the ?Purchase Price?).

The Property consists of a single family residential dwelling, located on an area of land
measuring approximately 3000 square feet and zoned R2 (Two Family Residential District). The
Offeror proposes to continue the use of the property as a single family residential dwelling. This
use is permitted by right in a R2 zone.

We, therefore, request that your Honorable Body approve the sale and authorize the Director of
the Planning and Development Department, or his authorized designee, to issue a quit claim deed
to the Property and such other documents as may be necessary to effectuate the sale, with
Carolann Lanetta Sanders for the amount of $1,800.00.

Res ectfully Submitted,

 
 
  

 

    

Ma '06 Cox
Director
Planning Development Department



fi?g/IC/ajm

33c: Stephanie Washington, Mayor?s Of? 

By Council Member

 

WHEREAS, the City of Detroit Planning and Development Department has
received an offer from Carolann Lanetta Sanders (?Offeror?) requesting the conveyance by the
City of Detroit of real property (the ?Property?) at 15919 Petoskey, more particularly described
in the attached Exhibit and

WHEREAS, the Property consists of a single family residential structure situated on an
area of land measuring approximately 3000 square feet located in a R2 (Two Family Residential
District) zone; and

WHEREAS, the Offeror proposes to continue the use of the property as a single family
residential dwelling, which is permitted by right in a R2 zone;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that in accordance with the Offer to
Purchase and the foregoing communication, the Director of the Flaming and Development
Department or his authorized designee, be and is hereby authorized to issue a quit claim deed to
the Property, as more particularly described in the attached Exhibit A, and such other documents
as may be necessary to effectuate the sale with Carolann Lanetta Sanders for the amount of One
Thousand Eight Hundred and 00/100 Dollars and be it further

RESOLVED, that the Director of the Flaming and Development Department, or his
authorized designee, be and is hereby authorized to execute any required instruments to make or
incorporate technical amendments or changes to the deed and such other documents as may be
necessary to effectuate the sale (including but not limited to corrections to or con?rmations of
legal descriptions, or timing of tender of possession of particular parcels) in the event that
changes are required to correct minor inaccuracies or are required due to unforeseen
circumstances or technical matters that may arise prior to the conveyance of the Property,
provided that the changes do not materially alter the substance or terms of the transfer and sale;

and be it ?nally;

RESOLVED, that the deed and such other documents necessary to effectuate the sale,
will be considered con?rmed when signed and executed by the Director of the Planning and
Development Department, or his authorized designee, and approved by Corporation Counsel as
to fomi.

EXHIBIT A

Land in the City of Detroit, County of Wayne and State of Michigan being Lot 378; Ford View
Subdivision of Lot 5, Plan of the East 1/2 ofthe Southeast ?11, the Southwest and the West V2 of
the Southeast of Section 15Greenfield Township, Wayne County, Michigan.

Rec?d L. 29, P. 63 Plats, W.C.R.

Description Correct
Engineer of Surveys



a/k/a 15919 Petoskey

Ward 12 Item 012976

